Digitized by the Internet Archive 

in 2007 with funding from 

IVIicrosoft Corporation 



http://www.archive.org/details/dangeroustradeshOOolivuoft 



DANGEROUS TRADES 






Dangerous Trades 



THE HISTORICAL, SOCIAL, AND LEGAL 

ASPECTS OF INDUSTRIAL OCCUPATIONS 

AS AFFECTING HEALTH, BY A NUMBER 

OF EXPERTS 

EDITED BY THOMAS OLIVER, MA., M.D., F.R.C.P. 

MEDICAL. EXPERT ON THE WHITE LEAD, DANGEROUS TRADES, POTTERY, AND 

LUCIFER MATCH COMMITTEES OF THE HOME OFFICE ; PROFESSOR 

OF PHYSIOLOGY, UNIVERSITY OF DURHAM ; PHYSICIAN TO 

THE ROYAL INFIRMARY, NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE 



WITH ILLUSTRATIONS 




LONDON 

JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET 

1902 



TO 
The Right Hon. WILLIAM HENRY ASQUITH, K.C., M.P. 

AND 

The Right Hon. VISCOUNT RIDLEY 

TO WHOM, AS HOME SECRETARIES, THE EDITOR IS IN A VERY SPECIAL 
MANNER INDEBTED FOR THE MANY OPPORTUNITIES AFFORDED 
HIM OF ACQUIRING THAT PRACTICAL KNOWLEDGE WHICH 
HAS ENABLED HIM TO BRING TOGETHER THE 
INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THE FOL- 
LOWING PAGES, THIS BOOK IS, WITH 
GRATITUDE AND RESPECT, 
DEDICATED 



PREFACE 



This is the first occasion on which, on the special lines indicated 
in this book, any adequate attempt has been made in this or 
any other country to deal with the conduct of trades and other 
occupations in respect to the dangers to life and health to 
which the workers are liable. 

The subject is year by year engrossing more of the attention 
of the public, and this has been evinced in many ways, e.g., in 
the amount of space devoted by the Press to the subject of 
leadless-glaze in pottery, and to the manufacture of matches 
without phosphorus, etc. 

The increasing interest displayed by the public in social 
affairs has led to a corresponding desire for accurate information 
as to the condition in which their fellow-men and women live 
and work. This volume is a response to a widely-expressed 
demand for a true and authoritative statement on this important 
subject — a subject which concerns thousands upon thousands of 
our fellow country-people. 

The field covered by " Dangerous Trades and Occupation 
Diseases" is a very wide one, and, as there is no one person 
competent to deal adequately with the whole, it has been found 
desirable to engage the co-operation of experts on the various 
trades with which the volume treats. 

In carrying out this scheme, an enormous amount of infor- 
mation which has hitherto been unrecorded or inaccessible has 
been brought into focus and made available for reference. 

The language employed has been kept as free as possible 
from technicalities. It is confidently believed that this volume 

vii 



viii PREFACE 

will be of considerable value, not only to medical men, whose 
practice brings them into contact with the working classes, to 
Certifying Factory Surgeons, Factory Inspectors, and employers 
of labour, but also to the educated public and to professional 
men interested in the hygienic side of industrial problems and 
in occupation diseases. It is hoped also that it will be of 
assistance to members of both Houses of Parliament. 

Whilst congratulating myself on my good fortune in secur- 
ing the assistance of many distinguished and able specialists, 
I take this opportunity of expressing my warmest thanks to 
Dr Whitelegge, Dr Morison Legge, Miss A. M. Anderson, and 
especially to Commander Hamilton Smith, R.N., of the Factory 
Department of the Home Office, for their help in various ways, 
and to all my contributors for their ready acquiescence and loyal 
support. 

THOMAS OLIVER. 



Newcastle-upon-Tyne, 
March 1902. 



LIST OF CONTENTS 

CHAPTER I 
Introduction. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., 



CHAPTER II 

Historical Sketch of the Development of Legislation for 
Injurious and Dangerous Industries in England. By- 
Miss A. M. Anderson, H.M. Priiwipal Lady Inspector of 
Factories^ ........ 

Special Rules for Injurious Occupations — Appendix. 



24 



CHAPTER III 

Regulation of Injurious or Dangerous Occupations in Fac- 
tories AND Workshops in some of the Chief European 
Countries. By Miss A. M. Anderson, . . ... 



44 



CHAPTER IV 

Principles of Prospective Legislation for Dangerous Trades. 
By H. J. Tennant, M.P., Chairman late Dangerous Trades 
Committee^ ........ 



63 



CHAPTER V 

Infant Mortality and Factory Labour. I.— By Mrs H. J. 
Tennant. II.— By George Reid, M.D., D.P.H., Medical Officer 
of Healthy Staffordshire County Council^ .... 



CHAPTER VI 

Child Labour. By Miss Margaret M'Millan, Member of School 
Board, Bradford, ....... 



90 



CHAPTER VII 



Home-Work. By A. Ballantyne, 

iz 



98 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER VIII 

PAOB 

v/ The Physiology and Pathology of Work and Fatigue. By 

Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., 104 

CHAPTER IX 
^ Mortality of Occupations. By John Tatham, M.A., M.D., 

F.R.C.P., General Register Office^ Somerset House^ London, . 118 

CHAPTER X 
Dust-Producing Occupations. By John Tatham, M.A., M.D., 

F.R.C.P., General Register Office, Somerset House, London, . 134 

Potter, Earthenware, China Manufacture— Cutlers, Scissor- 
makers — File-cutters — Glassmakers — Copper-workers — Iron 
and Steel Workers — Zinc-workers — Lead-workers — Stone 
Quarriers^Brass-workers — Gunsmiths — Chimney Sweeps, Soot 
Merchants — Textile-workers — Wool, Worsted Manufacturers 
— Other Workers in Dusty Trades — Effects of Breathing Foul 
Air : Bookbinders, Printers ; Musicians ; Hatters ; Hair- 
dressers ; Tailors ; Drapers, Manchester Warehousemen ; 
Shoemakers — The Mining Industry : Coal Miners ; Ironstone- 
mining; Copper Miners ; Tin Miners — Mortality of Unoccupied 
and Occupied Men. 

CHAPTER XI 

The Diseases of Soldiers at Home and Abroad. By John R. 
DODD, M.D., F.R.C.S., D.P.H., Lieutenant-Colonel Royal Army 
Medical Corps, ........ 166 

CHAPTER XII 

Health in the Marine Service. By William Collingridge, 
M.A., M.D., F.R.C.S., D.P.H. (Camb.), Medical Officer of Health, 
City of London, formerly (i 880-1 901) Medical Officer of Health, 
Port of London, ....... 182 

Diseases due to their Employment — Diseases caused by the 
Habits of Seamen — Diseases of Climate — Diseases due to 
Insanitary Conditions and Environment. 

CHAPTER XIII 

Railways. By Henry H. Cunynghame, C.B., Assistant Under- 
Secretary, Home Department, . . . . . .190 

CHAPTER XIV 

Safe-Guarding of Machinery. By H. S. Richmond, H.M. 

Superintending Inspector of Factories, .... 203 

Prime Movers — Steam Engines — Gas and Oil Engines — Other 
Prime Movers — Electrical Generators — Mill-Gearing — Mill- 
Gearing Construction — Access to Shafting — Fencing of Low 
Shafting, etc. — Pulleys— Driving Belts — Shipping of Belts — 



CONTENTS 



Chapter XIV — Continued. 

Belt Poles — Protection of Belts — Bevel Wheels — Means of 
Stopping Machinery — Machine Tools — Fencing of Dangerous 
Machinery — Set-screws — Toothed Wheels — Shaft or Spindle 
Ends — Loose Pulleys and Strap Forks — Plate Wheels — Hoists 
— Teagles — Cranes, Winches, etc. — Self-acting Mules — Looms 
— Circular Saws — Planing Machines— Power Process. 

CHAPTER XV 

Agriculture, Horses, Cattle. By D'Arcy Power, F.R.C.S., 
M.A. (Oxon.), Senior Surgeon^ Victoria Hospital for Children; 
Assistant Surgeon^ St Bartholomew's Hospital j Assistant Professor 
of Physiology., Royal Veterinary College., London., 

Agriculture : Labourers ; Gardeners — Horses : Ostlers, Stable- 
men, and Cartmen — Cattle : Butchers, Slaughterers, and 
Tanners ; Cowmen and Dairymaids ; Shepherds ; Pig-keepers. 

CHAPTER XVI 

Electric Generating Works. By Hamilton P. Smith, Retired 
Cojnmander R.N.J and one of H.M. Inspectors of Factories., . 

CHAPTER XVII 

Dust as a Cause of Occupation Disease. By Thomas Oliver, 
M.D., F.R.C.P., ....... 

General View of the Subject — Skin Diseases of Flax-workers — 
Diseases of Nails in Furriers — Lung Diseases due to Dust — 
Gastro-intestinal Lesions, 

CHAPTER XVIII 
Dust Women. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., 

CHAPTER XIX 
Lead and its Compounds. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., 
Lead Mining and the Health and Surroundings of the Miner — 
Lead-smelting — Red Lead, Lead Oxide, Litharge, Massicot, 
Minium — White Lead : Carbonate of Lead (Ceruse, Fr^ — Lead 
Poisoning — Treatment : Preventive and Curative — Chromate 
of Lead : Dye Works — Calico Printing — Enamelling of Iron 
Plates and Hollow Ware — Electric Accumulator Works and 
Lead Poisoning — Motor Cars — Electric Tramways — Soldering, 
Typefounding,Printing,Typesetting, Linotyping — Precautions — 
Plumbing — House Painting — Coach Painting — Glass Polishing 
— File-cutting — Use of Lead in Potteries — Chromo-lithographic 
Works and Transfer-making — Tile-making and Manufacture of 
Porcelain Stoves — Washing of Leadworkers' and Painters' 
Clothes — Lead Foil Manufacture — Shoe-finishing and Staining 
by Lead Compounds — Lucifer Matches containing Lead — Buff- 
ing of Brass Cocks and Plumbism. 



232 



250 



267 



278 



282 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XX 

PAGE 

Electrical Treatment in Cases of Lead Poisoning. By H. 
Lewis Jones, M.D., Medical Officer in charge of Electrical 
Department^ St Bartholomew's Hospital^ .... 373 

The Elimination of the Metal — The Electrical Treatment of the 
Paralysis caused by Lead. 

CHAPTER XXI 

Arsenic. By Malcolm Morris, F.R.C.S., Lecturer on Dermatology^ 

St Mary's Hospital^ London^ ...... 378 

Symptoms — Treatment and Prophylaxis. 

CHAPTER XXII 

*L/ China and Earthenware Manufacture : Potters' Rot. By 

Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., ..... 382 
Symptoms — Prevention. 

CHAPTER XXIII 
Basic Slag. By John Hedley, M.D., Middlesborough^ . . 390 

CHAPTER XXIV 

Canister Crushing. By Hamilton P. Smith, Retired Commander 

R.N., and one of H.M. Inspectors of Factories, . . . 396 

Report on Portions of Lung from a Canister Miner — Microscopic 
Examination — Chemical Analysis. 

CHAPTER XXV 

v/ Millstone Building : French Buhrstone. By Thomas Oliver, 

M.D., F.R.C.P., . . . . . . .405 

CHAPTER XXVI 

Steel Grinding. By Sinclair White, F.R.C.S., Lecturer on 

Surgery, University College, Sheffield, .... 408 

Grinding — Glazing — Polishing — Lapping — Racing the Stone. 

CHAPTER XXVII 

,/ Phosphorus and Lucifer Matches. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., 
F.R.C.P., 

Phosphorus Necrosis — Prevention of Phosphorus Necrosis — 
Treatment of Phosphorus Necrosis. 



417 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

Dangers in the Use of Mercury and its Salts. By T. 
MORISON Legge, M.D., H.M. Medical Inspector of Factories^ 

Introduction — Historical — Mode in which Poisoning is brought 
about — Symptoms — Recovery from the Ore — Making of Ther- 
mometers — Incandescent Electric Lamps — Electrical Meters 
— Gold and Silver Extraction — Water-gilding — Silvering of 
Mirrors — Hatters Furriers' Processes — Preparation of Mercurial 
Compounds — Preventive Measures — Rules to be observed in 
the Manufacture of Mercurial Preparations. 



434 



CHAPTER XXIX 

The Lesions resulting from the Manufacture and Uses 
OF Potassium and Sodium Bichromate. By T. Morison 
Legge, y\..T>., H.M. Medical Inspector of Factories, . . . 447 

Nature of the Perforation — Ulceration of the Skin. 

CHAPTER XXX 

Copper and Brass. By Robert M. Simon, B.A., M.D. (Cantab.), 
F.R.C.P., Physician, General Hospital, Birmingham; and 
Seymour H. Knyvett, M.A. (Oxon.), 07ie of H.M. Inspectors of 
Factories, . . . . . ■ . . .455 



CHAPTER XXXI 

Indiarubber — Dangers Incidental to the Use of Bisulphide 
of Carbon and Naphtha. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., 
F.R.C.P 



470 



CHAPTER XXXI I 

The Effects of Dinitrobenzine and other Nitro-substitu- 
TiON Products of the Aromatic Series on the Workmen 
employed in the Manufacture of High Explosives. By 
Robert Prosser White, M.D., Surgeon, Roburite Explosives 
Company; Hon. Medical Officer, Royal Albert Edward Infirmary, 
Wigan, ......... 

Poisonous Dose — Acute Poisoning — Sub-acute Poisoning — 
Chronic Poisoning — Muscular System — Nervous Symptoms — 
Eye Affections — Urinary Affection — Urine — Pathology : The 
Blood — Prognosis — Precautions. 



475 



Dry Cleaning by Means of Benzine. 
M.D., F.R.C.P., 



CHAPTER XXXIII 

By Thomas Oliver, 



491 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XXXIV 

PAGE 

^*s/ Use of Inflammable or Spirit Paints. By Thomas Oliver, 

M.D., F.R.C.P., 494 

CHAPTER XXXV 

Acetylene and its Dangers. By Hamilton P. Smith, Retired 

Commander R.N.^ and one of H.M. Inspectors of Factories^ . 497 



CHAPTER XXXVI 
%/^ Flour Mills. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

CHAPTER XXXVII 



505 



Mining. By Henry Louis, M.A., A.R.S.M., F.I.C., F.G.S., Professor 

of Minings Durham College of Science^ Newcastle-upon-Tyne^ . 508 

CHAPTER XXXVIII 

The Air of Mines. By John Haldane, M.D., F.R.S., Fellow 

of New College^ and Lecturer on Physiology^ UniversUy of Oxford^ . 540 

Black-damp — Carbonic Acid — Fire-damp — After-damp — Smoke 
— White-damp, Gob-stink, Fire-stink — Gases from Explosions. 

CHAPTER XXXIX 

Quarries. By John Brown, M.D., D.P.H., M.O.H., Borough of 
Bacupj and T. N. Kelynack, M.D., M.R.C.P., London, Assistant 
Physician to Mount Vernon Hospital for Consumption and Diseases 
of the Chesty Hampstead and Northwoodj late Pathologist and 
Medical Registrar, Manchester Royal Infirmary, etc., . . 557 

Introduction — Definitions — Varieties of Quarries — Methods of 
Working — Pathology — Etiology — Quarry Accidents — Diseases 
— Affections of the Respiratory Organs — Cardio- Vascular 
Disease — Cutaneous Lesions — Digestive Disturbances — Ear 
Affections — Eye Affections — Osteo-arthritis — Septic Infection 
— Tetanus — Legal Provisions — Prophylaxis and Treatment 
— Preventive Measures — Treatment of Accidents and Ailments 
occurring in Quarries. 

CHAPTER XL 

The Chemical Trades. By A. P. Laurie, M.A., Principal, Heriot- 

Watt College, Edinburgh, . . . . . .568- 

Introductory Remarks — The Le Blanc Process — Alkali Manufac- 
ture, other Methods — The Chemical Worker — Hours of Work 
in Alkali Manufacture — The Administration of the Alkali Act — 
Output Method of Paying Wages — Bichromate of Potash Manu- 
facture — Coal Tar Products — Bisulphide of Carbon — Phos- 
phorus — Health of Chemical Workers as shown by Statistics. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XLI 

PAGE 

Explosions and Explosives. By A. Cooper Key (Major, late 

K.K.), H,M. Inspector of Explosives, ..... 599 

Introductory — Accidents in Manufacture and Use — Products of 
Combustion ; Fumes — Explosives in Coal Mines. 

CHAPTER XLII 

Anthrax. By W. H. Hamer, M.D., F.R.C.P., Assistant Medical 

Officer of Health, City of London, . . . . . 62 1 

Hides and Horsehair — History of the Disease — Anthrax Statistics 
— Outbreaks Recorded during Recent Years — Anthrax Notifica- 
tion — Grouping of Anthrax Cases — Grouping of Cases con- 
sidered in relation to Preventive Measures — Disinfection and 
Other Measures of Precaution. 

CHAPTER XLIII 

Anthrax : Its Relation to the Wool Industry. By John 
Henry Bell, M.D., Consulting Medical Officer, Bradford Royal 
Infirmary J Consulting Surgeon, Bradford Eye and Ear Hospital, . 634 

Cutaneous Anthrax — Erysipelatous Anthrax : Symptoms ; Diag- 
nosis ; Prognosis — Pulmonary Anthrax : Symptoms ; Duration 
of Illness ; Diagnosis ; Prognosis ; Incubation — Pathological 
Changes : External ; Internal — Intestinal Anthrax — Distribu- 
tion of the Bacilli — Preventive Measures — The Precautionary 
Regulations — Treatment. 

CHAPTER XLIV 

Rags and their Products in Relation to Health. By John 
A. E. Stuart, L R.C.S. (Edin.), Medical Officer of Health, Batley, 
Yorkshire, ........ 644 

Rag-Sorting, Rag-Grinding, Shoddy, Mango, Flocks, Carbonising 
or Wool-Extracting — Effects of Rag-Sorting on Health — Car- 
bonising — Recommendations. 

CHAPTER XLV 

Blanket Stoving. By John A. E. Stuart, L.R.C.S. (Edin.), 

Medical Officer of Health, Batley, Yorkshire, . . . 64^ 

CHAPTER XLVI 
Jute. By B.h^^\ ].V^il.SO^,Ofie of HM. Inspectors of Factories, . 650 

CHAPTER XLVI I 

Laundry Workers. By Lucy A. E. Deane, one of H.M. Inspectors 

of Factories, . . . . . . . . 663. 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER XLVIII 



Fish-Curing and Fruit-Preserving. By Mary M. Paterson, 

one of H.M. Inspectors of Factories^ ..... 673 

CHAPTER XLIX 

Women's Labour in Tinplate Works. By Rose E. Squire, 

one of H.M. Inspectors of Factories^ . . . . .681 

Opening — Washing — Pickling — Tinhouses. 
I 

CHAPTER L 

Women's Labour in Aerated Water Works. By Rose E. 

Squire, one of H.M. Inspectors of Factories., . . .687 

CHAPTER LI 

Flax and Linen. By Henry S. Purdon, M.D., Certifying 
Factory Surgeon; Consulting Physician., Hospital for Skin Diseases., 
Belfast., ......... 691 

Historical, Manufacturing, Hygienic, and Medical. 

CHAPTER LII 

Manufacture of Cotton. By Jas. Wheatley, M.D.,B.Sc. (Lond.), 

Medical Officer of Health., Blackburn., .... 702 

CHAPTER LHI 

Rabbit Down. By Rose E. Squire, one of H.M. Inspectors of 

Factories., ........ 724 

CHAPTER LIV 

Diseases due to Working in Compressed and Stagnant Air. 

By Thomas Oliver, M.A., F.R.C.P., . . . .728 

Caisson Disease : Treatment — Dangers Incidental to the Making 
of, and Working in. Tunnels — Underground Railways — Divers' 
Paralysis. 

CHAPTER LV 

Diseases due to Diminished Atmospheric Pressure : Pure 

AND Impure Gases. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., . 749 
Mountain Climbers —Military Balloonists. 

CHAPTER LVI 

/ Effects of Concussion of the Air. By Thomas Oliver, M-.D., 
' F.R.C.P., 752 

Boilermakers— Riveters— Shipwrights, etc. 



1 



CONTENTS 



CHAPTER LVII 

PAGE 

Iron and Steel Industries. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., 756 
Exposure to High Temperatures, and Severe Muscular Strain — 
Blacksmiths and Forgemen — Use of Converters in Steel Works 
— Nail and Chain Making. 

CHAPTER LVIII 

Eye Diseases and Eye Accidents in relation to Industrial 
Occupations. By Simeon Snell, F.R.C.S. (Edin.), Ophthalmic 
Surgeon, Royal Infirmary; and Professor of Ophthalmology, Uni- 
versity College, Sheffield, . . . . , .761 
Diseases due to Occupations involving prolonged use or excessive 
ij strain of the Eyes, such as Nystagmus in Miners and others — 
Diseases due to Occupations jnvolving the use of certain Poison- 
ous Substances, such as Dinitrobenzol, Bisulphide of Carbon, 
Tobacco, Lead, etc. — Diseases due to Occupations involving 
exposure to excessive Light or Heat, or both, such as Burnishers, 
Steel Melters, Electric Welders, etc. — Exposure to Electric 
Light — Injuries or Accidents amongst Grinders, Iron and Steel 
Workers, Masons, Coal Miners, Weavers, etc. — Bursting of 
Water Gauges on Boilers. 

CHAPTER LIX 
— /" Miscellaneous Trades. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., . 788 
Silicate of Cotton — Upholsterers' Occupation — Joiners and Car- 
penters : Workers in Sequoia Wood — Manufacture of Celluloid 
— Tobacco and Cigar Manufacture — Engine-Drivers and Rail- 
way Employes — Drivers of Public Vehicles — Cooks — Confec- 
tion Makers — Domestic Servants and Housemaids, etc. — 
Barmen and Dealers in Alcoholic Drinks — Sewing-Machine 
Workers — Label-licking — Glass Manufacture : Glass-Blowing 
— Glazed Ware Poisonous from other causes than Lead: 
Cyanide of Potassium — Coal-Heaving, Coal-Trimming, and 
Chimney-Sweeping — Manufacture and Use of Emery Wheels. 

CHAPTER LX 

\/ Occupation Diseases due to Excessively Repeated Muscular 

Actions. By Thomas Oliver, M.D., F.R.C.P., . . .815 

Fatigue Neuroses : Scriveners' Spasm, or Writers' Palsy ; Tele- 
graphists' Spasm, or Cramp ; Pianoforte Players' Cramp, etc. ; 
Shoemakers' Spasm — Boot and Shoe Making. 

Appendix : Special Rules. By Hamilton P. Smith, Retired Com- 
mander R.N. ,atid one of H.M. Inspectors of Factories, . . 827 



LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS 



1. Strong's "Standard Guard" for Engine Fly-wheels, 

2. Safety Starting-gear for Gas and Oil Engines, 

3. Coupling with Dangerous Projecting Bolt-heads, 

4. Safety Coupling with Countersunk Bolt-heads, 

5. Collar with Dangerous Projecting Set-screw, . 

6. Collar with Countersunk Set-screw, 

7. A Safe Form of Set-screw, 

8. For Use with Screwdriver, 

9. Halstead's Patent Unbreakable Square-hole Solid-ended Grub 

Screw, ...... 

10. Incomplete Guards for Spur Wheels, . 
ir. Spur Wheels with Suitable Guards, 

12. A Good Form of Guard to Cover Bevel Wheels 

13. A Method of Covering Shaft Ends with a Sheet-metal Cap, 

14. Knowles' Improved Safety Hoist, 

15. Morgan's Patent Safety Catch, 

16. Wadsworth's Self-landing and Delivering Hoist, 

17. Self-acting Mules. Shows Unsatisfactory Guard, 

18. Shows a Guard which Completely Covers the Band round Pulley, 

19. Self-acting Mules, 

20. Hargreave's Mule Carriage Wheel Guard, 

21. Hargreave's Mule Carriage Wheel Guard, 

22. Safe-guards for Ends of Looms, 

23. Shuttle Guard, . 

24. Elvatka Guard, . 

25. Longmore's Guard, 

26. Victor Guard, 

27. Woodhouse and Mitchell's Guard, 

28. Campbell and Greenwood's Guard, 

29. Power Presses, . 

30. Treatment of Persons apparently Killed by Electricity, 

31. Treatment of Persons apparently Killed by Electricity, 

32. Mild Form of Dermatitis in Flax-spinner, 



PAGE 
207 
208 
209 
209 
209 
209 
215 
215 

215 
216 
216 
217 
217 
219 

221 
222 
223 
223 
224 
225 
225 
226 
227 
227 
228 
228 
229 
229 
230 
264 
265 
268 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



FIOS 

33- 

34. 
35- 
36. 
37. 
38. 

39- 
40. 
41. 
42. 
43- 
44- 
45. 
46. 
47- 
48. 

49. 
50. 

51- 

52. 

53- 

54- 
55. 
56. 

57. 
58. 

59. 
60. 
61. 
62. 
63. 
64. 
65. 
66. 
67. 
68. 
69. 
70. 
71. 

72. 
73- 
74- 



Medium Degree of Dermatitis in Flax-spinner, 

Severe Form of Dermatitis in Flax-spinner, 

Severe Form of Dermatitis in Flax-spinner, 

Disease of Finger Nails in Hide-dressers, 

Severe Type of Disease of Finger Nails in a Hide-dresser, 

Human Lung in Health, 

Lead Miner's Lung, 

Steel Grinder's Lung, 

Coal Miner's Lung, 

Cement, . 

Sandstone, 

Granite, . 

Lead Dust from Printing Shop, and Type-casting, 

Gilchrist-Thomas' Slag, 

Needle Grinding, 

Mother-of-Pearl, 

Sawdust, 

Flax, 

Hemp, 

Jute, 

Cotton, 

Silk, 

Horn, 

Ivory, 

Felt Manufacture, 

Dust from Fur Brushing Machine, 

Dust from Rag Cleaning, 

Bone Meal, .... 

Dust from Wheat Cleaning, 

Ordinary Slag, ... 

Basic Slag, . " . 

Canister, ' . 

Dust from Fork Grinding on Dry Stone, 

Powdered Flint, 

Glaze Cleaned off Ware, 

Lead Mine, . . , 

Other View of Lead Mine, 

A "Blue" Bed in a White Lead Factory, 

Female Carrying Basins Filled with Washed 

to Stoves, 
Interior of Stove for Drying White Lead, 
Section of Caisson Used in Rebuilding Redheugh Bridge, 
The Simplon Tunnel Operations at Iselle 



White Lead from Vat 



ILLUSTRATIONS 



75. Section of Simplon Tunnel, showing Difference in Levels between 

North and South Ends ...... 

76. Section of Simplon Tunnel, showing Cross Gallery by Means of 

which Air is Transmitted from Ventilating Passage to Head of 

Tunnel where the Men are Working, 

']']. Interior of Bath-house and Vestiary for the Miners at the Simplon 

Tunnel, Iselle, ..... 

78. Bottom Hohng, ...... 

79. Bottom Holing. (To show Position of Head and Eyes), 

80. Deputy Examining Roof, , . 

81. Grinders. Edge-tool Grinding, . . . 

82. Men Engaged in Chipping, .... 

83. Chipping against a Screen. Men Wearing Protectors, 

84. Protectors, ...... 

85. Glass-blower when in Normal Condition, 

86. A later Photograph of Glass-blower in Fig. 85, showing Relaxed 

Condition of Cheeks, .... 

87. German Sweep's Costume, .... 

88. Belgian Sweep's Costume, .... 

89. Shoemakers' Chest, ..... 



739 



739 

740 
762 
762 
764 
778 
780 
780 
782 
806 

806 
810 
810 
823 



LIST OF AUTHORS 



Anderson, Adelaide M. 

Ballantyne, a. 

Bell, John Henry, M.D. 

Brown, John, M.D., D.P.H. 

Collingridge, William, M.D., Etc. 

Cunynghame, Henry H., C.B. 

Deane, Lucy A. E. 

DoDD, John R., M.D., Etc. 

Haldane, John, M.D., F.R.S. 

Hamer, W. H., M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Hedley, John, M.D. 

Jones, H. Lewis, M.D. 

Kelynack, T. N., M.D., M.R.C.P. 

Key, a. Cooper, Major^ late R.A. 

Knyvett, Seymour H., M.A. (Oxon.) 

Laurie, A. P., M.A. 

Legge, T. Morison, M.D. 

Louis, Henry, M.A., A.R.S.M., 
F.LC, F.G.S. 

M'Millan, Margaret. 



Morris, Malcolm, F.R.C.S. 

Oliver, Thomas, M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Paterson, Mary M. 

Power, D'Arcy, F.R.C.S. 

Purdon, Henry S., M.D. 

Reid, George, M.D., D.P.H. 

Richmond, H. S., B.A. 

Simon, Robert M., B.A., M.D. 
(Cantab.), F.R.C.P. 

Smith, Hamilton, P., Retired Com- 
mander R.N. 

Snell, Simeon, F.R.C.S. (Edin.). 

Squire, Rose E. 

Stuart, John A. E., L.R.C.S. (Edin.) 

Tatham, John, M.A., M.D., F.R.C.P. 

Tennant, H. J., M,P. 

Tennant, Mrs H. J. 

Wheatley, James, M.D., B.Sc. 

White, Robert Prosser, M.D. 

White, Sinclair, F.R.C.S. 

Wilson, Harry J. 



DANGEROUS TRADES 



CHAPTER I 

INTRODUCTION 

The commencement of the Twentieth Century finds us discussing 
problems and elaborating plans for the amelioration of the life of 
the people. The last few years have witnessed an unexampled 
awakening of the public to a sense of its responsibility in regard 
to conditions of labour and unhealthy trades. The question is not 
should men and women work, but how do particular trades affect 
individuals, physically and morally ? Like human life itself, indus- 
trial occupation has been a passage from the simple to the com- 
plex, a process of evolution wherein each succeeding stage of 
industrial development has been attended by labour problems, 
social difficulties, and diseases particularly its own. An attempt 
has been made to include within this book special knowledge, and I 
have preferred that each contributor should express his or her own 
opinions unfettered by editorial requirements, since the object 
sought is not the promulgation of the views of a particular 
school, but enlightenment, so that the lot of our working classes 
may be improved, industrial hygiene promoted, and higher ideals 
if possible attained. Living in a democratic age, we hear much 
of the claims of the right to live, right to work, and the right of 
workers to a larger share of the produce of their labour. These 
are not the subjects dealt with in the following pages. There 
are certain side issues that deserve consideration, but which can 
only be mentioned here. Social advancement and commercial 
prosperity, while creating fresh desires, often increase the difficulty 
of satisfying natural wants. The growth of large towns and the 
concentration of people in the crowded homes of our great cities 
are limiting the amount of pure air necessary to the life of those 
collected there. Drinking water has to be brought from distant 
sources and at great expense. The removal of the waste or refuse 

1 A 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



of human activity is often as difficult a problem as the convey- 
ance of the necessaries of life. It is not, however, with such 
problems as these we are concerned, but rather with the condi- 
tions under which labour is carried on and its effect upon the 
people. Manual labour and handicrafts exercised for the purpose 
of gain were in a measure formerly controlled by family interests, 
subsequently by guilds, and to-day they are largely regulated by 
trade unions. By trade unions an attempt has been made, not 
only to sell labour in the highest market, but to artificially restrict 
output by objecting to the use of machinery, by requiring that 
machines shall run at a speed lower than their full capacity, by 
demanding one day's holiday during the working week, claim- 
ing in many instances a uniform wage alike for the skilled and 
the less skilled workman, and a reduction of the working hours 
without a corresponding reduction of wages. Such methods 
in the long run cannot but be disadvantageous to the workers 
themselves, for they discourage industrial energy and enterprise, 
without which the wage-fund must inevitably fall. Instead of 
mutual co-operation there is an unnecessary conflict between 
labour and capital. The demands of organised labour already 
mentioned have called forth a marshalling of the forces of capital. 
Industrial competition concerns the sale of labour as well as that 
of products. Some persons maintain that in the bargaining that 
goes on capital has the advantage over labour. Without express- 
ing an opinion upon this point, it is apparent that only organised 
capital is capable of holding its own against organised labour. 

The change from the domestic system of industry to the modern 
methods of production by machinery and steam power forms what is 
known as the Industrial Revolution, and marks an important epoch 
in the history of the world. Within the last one hundred and thirty 
years the changes produced in the social and intellectual condition 
of the people have been enormous. Ever since the Industrial 
Revolution in our own country there has been gradually coming 
a greater demand for knowledge on the part of those workpeople 
who may subsequently acquire the control of industries and direct 
the manufacture of machinery. There has been created, if not 
immediately, certainly by degrees, a need both for general educa- 
tion throughout the country and a special education for those who 
wish to become leaders. On the one hand it has been felt desirable 
to counteract the cramping effects of machinery and to diminish 
the dwarfing influences of the division of labour upon the intellect 
of the workpeople by giving them the benefits of a wider educa- 



H 



I.] THE WORKING CLASSES AND FACTORY LEGISLATION 3 

1 

tion. As knowledge has been gained by the artisan classes, their 
aspirations have naturally risen. With improved constitutional 
means for the redress of grievances there has been in many 
instances a gradual supplanting of methods that involve acts of 
violence and intimidation, which years ago disgraced our large 
industrial centres. Thus is it that while in the early decades 
of last century, shortly after the Industrial Revolution and before 
labour had become organised, factory legislation was promoted by 
the wealthier classes for the benefit of the workers, the latter at the 
present time, with their improved education and personal know- 
ledge, can themselves bring to bear upon the legislature demands 
for reform that are deserving of careful consideration, especially 
when these are not extravagant and do not far exceed the limit of 
experience. Factory legislation, while it embodies the opinions of 
Members of Parliament who have studied labour problems theo- 
retically, and of a few who have practical knowledge, is a State 
direction of our industries so far as relates to the safety, health, 
and moral condition of the people, and which embraces to-day, 
more than in any other epoch, the opinions of the workers them- 
selves. The story of factory life in Britain, of the long hours of 
toil spent by children in the mills, and the physical suffering they 
endured, remains a blot upon the pages of British history. Britain 
was the pioneer of factory legislation — does she still lead the way ? 
Her commercial supremacy, we are told, is questioned, and the 
position she has long held is being threatened by increasing 
competition. Despite this fact there is a disinclination on the part 
of British manufacturers to admit the necessity of learning any- 
thing from their Continental or American friends. Is our country, 
both as regards methods of production and factory legislation, 
abreast of the times and of other nations ? Instead of manu- 
facturers hugging themselves into a state of industrial lethargy 
which our insular position and national prejudices encourage, it 
would be well if they sent their sons and heads of departments 
abroad to see what other nations are doing. 

Several things have prevented factory legislation being as far 
forward as it ought to be. In our country no Government, how- 
ever strong, can hope to successfully introduce social legislation 
largely affecting personal interests until public opinion has been 
educated to the belief that the remedies proposed are really 
necessary. The facts likely to carry conviction can only be 
produced after years of careful study and investigation, conse- 
quently factory legislation has to some extent progressed 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



slowly. It is, however, fair to say that when certain trades' 
organisations or representative bodies combine to secure amend- 
ments to Bills which, in their opinion, appear necessary, there 
is a tendency on both sides of the Houses of Parliament 
to drop party considerations, and to give facilities for well- 
considered legislation likely to benefit the community. At this 
stage of our inquiry it may therefore be not inopportune to refer 
to the Factory Act recently passed (August 1901), the framing of 
Special Rules, and the means of securing their observance. 

In matters industrial the Home Secretary is not endowed 
with authority equal to that enjoyed by similar officials on the 
Continent. The arbitrary powers granted by foreign Govern- 
ments for the .regulation of factories do not commend them- 
selves to English politicians, and this was borne in mind by the 
framers of the clauses in the Factory Act of 1891 relating to 
Special Rules and requirements, when each and every occupier 
could demand that a matter of difference between himself and 
the Secretary of State should be referred to arbitration. This 
system may be said to have answered fairly well when dealing 
with small trades, but certainly not in regard to extensive 
industries, such, for instance, as the manufacture of pottery. In 
this particular trade litigation has gone on for many years, and 
the questions at issue, at the time of writing, are not yet settled. 
The methods now proposed should not only secure fair-play to 
the manufacturer and the worker, but should obviate loss of time 
and unnecessary labour. Under the Act of 1891 the Secretary of 
State could not be held responsible to the House of Commons, or 
to the country, for the final word rested with an irresponsible arbi- 
trator. Under the more recent provisions the ultimate decision 
will rest, as it undoubtedly should, with Parliament. Having certi- 
fied that in his opinion any manufacture, machinery, process, or 
description of manual labour used in factories or workshops is 
dangerous, the Secretary of State may (subject to the provisions 
of the Act) make such regulations as appear to him reasonable 
and practicable. He must publish the proposals, with informa- 
tion as to where copies of the suggested regulations can be 
obtained, and the time within which objections may be made 
by, or on behalf of, the persons affected. He is bound to con- 
sider their objections, and may, if he thinks fit, amend the draft 
regulations, but where he does not amend or withdraw these 
draft regulations, he is required to direct an inquiry by a com- 
petent person, to be held in public, and the chief inspector, any 



11 



I 



I.] THE FA CTOR Y ACT AND A RBITRA TION 5 

. . — . . J ^ 

objector, or any other person affected, may appear either in person, 
by counsel, or solicitor or agent. The witnesses may be examined 
on oath. The proposed regulations may apply to all factories and 
workshops in which the manufacture, machinery, process, or 
description of labour certified to be dangerous is used, or to any 
specified class of factories or workshops. The regulations may 
provide for the exemption of any specified class of factories or 
workshops, either absolutely or subject to conditions. They may 
prohibit the employment, and modify or limit the period of 
employment, of all persons or any class of persons in any process 
certified to be dangerous. They may prohibit the use of any 
material or process, and modify or extend any special regulations 
for any class of factories and workshops contained in the Factory 
Acts. The regulations made under the new provisions shall not 
come into force until they have been laid for a period of six weeks 
before both Houses of Parliament. In the London Gazette must be 
published notice of the regulations made, and an announcement of 
the place where copies of these can be procured. 

The right of arbitration conceded to manufacturers has 
been sometimes regarded as one of the means whereby the 
benefits of factory legislation have been diminished. No 
person considers it desirable for industrial liberty to be crippled 
by Acts of Parliament, or industrial progress checked by Home 
Office interference, and yet the dictates of humanity demand 
that no labour shall exceed the limits of endurance of the 
workers, and that all occupations shall be made as healthy as 
possible. The history of factory legislation is a record of 
attempts made to better the conditions of labour, improve 
the health of workers, and control the disposing power of 
employers over their workpeople. Those who blame State 
interference as the cause of the doubtful decline of our industrial 
supremacy, and who believe that it is checking enterprise, are 
not making a sufficiently serious attempt to grapple with the 
question by sifting all the facts carefully. It can be demon- 
strated that legislation has not paralysed but has improved trade 
as well as the conditions of labour. 

At a meeting of the chemical industry in Glasgow, on 24th 
July 1901, Mr Joseph Wilson Swan remarked that "two causes are 
contributing to our loss as a nation in the chemical and metal- 
lurgical industries. One is the supplanting of old methods of 
manufacture by newer, e.g.^ the application of electricity. The 
electro-chemical and electro-metallurgical industries of the future 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



are grouping themselves around large water-power stations, — 90 
per cent, of the power thus used being obtained on the 
Continent from waterfalls. We have no such available water- 
power in Britain, but we possess instead an abundance of 
cheap coal. The other cause is the lack of scientific training, 
and the indifference of our leaders of industry to the results 
of scientific research. They are contented *with the methods 
of production of a bygone age. Their plant is old." It is 
circumstances such as these that explain, for example, the decay 
of the chemical industry on Tyneside, and its transference to 
other localities at home and abroad. As regards the causes 
that are threatening our industrial supremacy, apart from the 
serious attempts made by countries possessing the raw materials 
to complete the finished products on the spot, thus hitting hard 
our textile and iron industries, I would emphasise the higher techni- 
cal education of the men who are heads of departments in factories 
abroad compared with those in similar positions at home. They 
are on the Continent a superior class of men. I am not for a 
moment contending that the German or French workman is, as 
a workman, superior to the average British artisan similarly 
employed. In many respects I think our own is the more capable 
man ; but the foreigner is better directed, owing to the fact that 
the managers' assistants and principal foremen have been highly 
instructed ; several of them have had a University training, and 
they thus possess a theoretical as well as a practical knowledge 
of the particular industry. Besides, it is well known that in 
Germany at least, large firms employ men well trained in chem- 
istry and physics to do nothing but research work, with the view 
of not only finding out new products, but of improving them and 
cheapening their manufacture. Industrial methods, in a word, 
are more scientifically studied on the Continent than at home, 
so that while such labour troubles as strikes, and the higher wages 
paid to English workmen, are to some extent responsible for 
the loss of some of our manufactures and their transference to 
the Continent, the cheapening of methods of production has 
not been without its influence. As international competition 
becomes keener, and our manufacturers endeavour to produce 
more cheaply by increasing the speed of their machinery, there 
will be imposed upon the workpeople greater tension during the 
hours of labour. Will this circumstance, also the rising rents of 
houses and the consequent overcrowding in our large towns, im- 
prove the physique of future workers ? A study of the prospects 



.] PHYSIQUE OF THE WORKING CLASSES 



U 
I 



of the artisan classes is of necessity many-sided, since it must deal 
not only with the effect of work upon their health, but take into 
consideration the influence of their home life and surroundings. 
Our large industries, excluding mining, have scarcely existed long 
enough for us to realise to the full the physical changes they 
are inducing in the workpeople. Hitherto there has been 
no great difficulty in obtaining strongly - built men of good 
muscular development for hard manual labour. Many of 
these have been taken from rural districts. As these districts 
are becoming depopulated, they will cease to be the source of 
supply they have been in the past. It is not altogether idle 
to ask how far the second and third generations of the town- 
bred poorer working classes will possess the necessary physical 
powers for hard toil. Overcrowding and poverty are exercising 
a degenerating influence upon the rising generation ; besides, 
industrial occupation as carried on in several of our large textile 
districts is preventing rather than encouraging development, 
especially when children are employed at too early an age. 
There is something in the air of such factories, it may be the 
excessive heat and moisture, or the animal products given off 
during perspiration and breathing, that interferes with the nutri- 
tion of the body and checks its growth. 

Half-timers, fortunately, are becoming fewer and fewer. 
Experience has shown that they are not equal in physique to 
their classmates who are allowed to remain all day at school. 
When healthy country children have been taken into the factories 
of large towns, it has been found that their normal rate of growth 
has been checked, so that after two or three years' work in the 
mills, they are observed to be of shorter stature than their former 
playmates left at home and allowed to rusticate. There is a 
limit to each person's capability of doing work, and when this is 
passed, the results are harmful. We should not ask from any 
person more than his powers will enable him to accomplish. For 
mechanical as well as manual labour there is a determined number 
of hours beyond which the worker cannot proceed without physical 
suffering on his part, while industrially with each succeeding hour 
occupied there is a diminishing production. It is knowledge of 
this fact, apart from economic considerations, that is used as a 
lever by the working classes to obtain parliamentary sanction to 
limit still further the hours of labour. Our attention, for example, 
is directed to Australia, where, since 1856, the hours of toil have 
been reduced to eight per day with a satisfactory result. In the 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



coal mines, as well as in the factories of Sydney, the week's work 
is forty-four hours. The eight-hours' day has also been instituted 
in Tasmania, Victoria, and New South Wales. A few years 
ago an eight-hours' day was conceded to the men employed in 
Woolwich Arsenal, and as this turned out to be satisfactory, 
the Admiralty, in July 1894, took a similar step. There are 
many writers who maintain that to a reasonable diminution in 
the number of hours devoted to work there corresponds a qualita- 
tive and quantitative increased production. There is a maximum 
beyond which production is not profitable. The produce of one 
particular period of the day cannot always be compared with 
that of another. While the reduction from twelve to ten hours' 
labour may have been beneficial, and may even have improved 
production, it does not necessarily follow that a reduction from 
nine to eight would be followed by a corresponding result, and 
a reduction from eight to seven hours by one still better. On 
this and other points the facts detailed further on in this book 
by Mr A. P. Laurie, in his paper on Chemical Trades under 
the heading " Health of Chemical Workers, etc.," will be found 
interesting. Too long hours are certainly a cause of accidents 
in factories. Experience alone can settle the question of the 
number of hours to be worked, and that number must clearly be 
not the same for every occupation. Common sense, too, must 
dictate the minimum limit of working hours. Men and women 
are conscious when their occupation exceeds their strength ; but 
the demands of the machinery they tend are exacting, and so no 
difference is made between the strong and feeble workmen. A 
few years ago, Messrs Mather & Piatt, iron manufacturers, Salford, 
reduced the number of hours worked in their factory from fifty- 
three to forty-eight per week without reducing the wages of the 
men, and this regulation is still, I believe, in force. P2mployers 
have frequently questioned the value of the work done by the 
men between 6 A.M. and 8 A.M. Mr Mather holds the opinion 
that the first two hours before breakfast are hardly worth the 
trouble and disarrangement which they cause alike to the em- 
ployers and the workers. Not only are these two hours ineffective 
from a productive point of view, but their effect upon the physical 
and mental condition of the men is to diminish their vigour and 
spirits and their interest in what they are doing. 

Coal mining is one of those industries from which an answer 
to this question of the effectiveness of work in the early morn- 
ing hours might be expected, for the men work in two relays, a 



I.] COMPARISON OF NIGHT AND DA V SHIFT WORK 9 

"fore" and "aft" shift, and they change every fortnight. When 
working in the fore shift the miners enter the pit about 3 A.M., 
and when in the aft at 10 A.M., each working in the North of 
England about six and a half hours. Mr Ralph Young, Secre- 
tary to the Northumberland Miners' Mutual Confident Associa- 
tion, informs me, in answer to questions addressed to him on 
this point, that the present method of working coal mines 
scarcely allows of a satisfactory reply being given as to whether 
more work is done during the fore or aft shift. There is a 
feeling among some of the miners themselves that they can 
do more work in the fore shift, i.e., between 3 A.M. and 10 
A.M., but they attribute this circumstance not to the particular 
hour of the day in which work is carried on, but to the fact 
that the air in the coal mine is fresher and purer then than 
later on in the day. In other occupations it is equally difficult 
to get at the real facts of the case. To questions of a similar 
character addressed to twenty foremen and men working in a 
large iron and steel factory on Tyneside, I received the follow- 
ing answer — that more work is done in the hours 9 to 1 1 a.m. 
than 6 to 8 a.m., and that a man does more work after than 
before his breakfast. As regards the influence of day and night 
shift, they all agreed that less work was done on the night shift 
compared with the same number of hours of the day, but it is 
difficult to express this in terms of percentages. Some of the 
men stated that the amounts varied from 10 to 20 per cent. 
Against this, it is only right to mention that some of my In- 
firmary patients working in the same factory have told me that 
they believed after a time they did as much work on the night 
as on the day shift. It was entirely a matter of habit. 

The Workmen's Compensation Act, which was so strongly 
opposed by many employers on the supposed ground that it 
would ruin the industries of this country, has had apparently no 
effect in that direction. Although it has theoretically increased 
their financial liability, as a matter of fact many employers have 
been less out of pocket than formerly. The Act has cleared the 
industrial atmosphere, made employers more careful in their 
selection of workmen, more willing to safeguard machinery, and 
do all they reasonably can to prevent accidents. It pays them to 
do so. 

Until July 1898, when the Workmen's Compensation Act of 
the previous year came into force, in the case of all accidents 
coming under either the common law or the Employers' Liability 



lO 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



Act 1880, the basis of the action was negligence or wrongful act 
on the part of the defendant, or of some person for whom the 
defendant was responsible. Since 1898 it matters little how the 
accident was caused, the employer is held liable by the Act of 
1897. Certain trades only are included under the Act, e.g., rail- 
ways, factories, docks, laundries, mines, buildings 30 feet high, 
and any building in which machinery is driven by mechanical 
power. So far as compensation for injury is concerned, the 
workman must be incapacitated for more than two weeks as the 
result of the injury before he can receive any benefit under the 
Act. After a fortnight a weekly payment is secured to him of one 
half of his weekly wages during his period of incapacity, or for six 
months, after which the employer can claim to have his liability 
redeemed by paying a lump sum fixed by agreement or arbitration. 
In the case of death the employer is liable to the extent of three 
years' wages, or 156 times the average weekly earnings of the 
deceased workman during his period of employment, the amount 
to be not less than £\^o and not more than ^300. 

When the Workmen's Compensation Bill was introduced it 
was strongly opposed, as already stated, on the grounds that it 
would injure trade and ruin many employers. So far, events 
have not justified this suspicion, but have shown that these fears 
were more or less groundless. In providing compensation for 
injured workmen, Britain was only doing what other nations on 
the Continent, especially Germany, had already accom.plished. It 
was thought at the time that the operation of the Workmen's 
Compensation Act would very materially affect the output and 
price of coal as well as the wages of the miners. There is no 
clear evidence that it has increased the price of coal. The cost 
of compensation paid in Northumberland and Durham does not 
exceed one halfpenny per ton, while the cost under the Act for 
the United Kingdom is under three farthings per ton. This is 
a small sum compared with the threepence we were informed 
would be added to the price of each ton of coal. One way in 
which the Act might indirectly increase the price of coal would 
be by restraining timid capitalists from investing money in coal 
mining through fear of being ruined by some great accident or 
explosion ; but this is a remote probability, and a contingency that 
could be met by insurance. Nor can it be shown that the Work- 
men's Compensation Act has had any effect upon the miner's wages. 
Theoretically the wages of miners should fall pro rata with the 
benefits received under the Act, but as the benefits will not be more 



I.] WORKMEN'S COMPENSATION ACT AND COAL MINERS ii 

than I \ per cent, of the wages, any readjustment would be small. It 
cannot be said that in coal mining the Act has had any noticeable 
effect one way or the other, so far as the number of accidents is 
concerned. For several years prior to 1898, owing to newer and 
more scientific methods, the number of accidents in coal mines had 
been diminishing. It would appear from the reports of Mr Hedley, 
H.M. Inspector of Mines for Northumberland, Cumberland, and 
North Durham, that during 1899 there were 84 lives lost, and in 
1900 the number was 105, or a ratio of i death for every 784 
persons employed, against i for every 924 in 1899 ; in 1898 the 
ratio was i in 1053, and for the five years 1893-97 the ratio was i 
in 895.* 

Mr Ralph Young has abstracted from the annual reports of 
the Northumberland and Durham Miners' Permanent Relief Fund 
the following facts, showing the number of fatal and non-fatal 
accidents, with the percentages of non-fatal accidents, spread over 
ten years in the North of England. 

MINERS' PERMANENT RELIEF FUND. 



Year. 


Membership. 


Fatal Accidents. 


Non-Fatal 
Accidents, 


Percentage of 
Non-Fatal 
Accidents. 


1890 

189I 

1892, 

1893 

1894 

1895 

1896 

1899 

1900 


107,997 
113,126 
114,326 
115,361 
121,133 
121,944 
122,257 
124,920 
127,564 
130,552 
137,073 


158 
167 
149 
177 
166 
168 
163 
204 

159 
197 
198 


16,000 
16,500 

i3,ooo(rt) 

16,400 

17,000 

17,450 

19,200 

20,000 

19,511 
19,484 
18,470 


14.9 

12.24 
14.21 

14.42 

15-7 

16.01 

15.28 

14.8 

13.4 



(a) Dinhatii Strike, 90,000 members idle for 13 -weeks. 

The Workmen's Compensation Act came into force in 1898, 
but it cannot be said, looking at the foregoing figures, that it has 
had any material influence upon the number of accidents in coal 
mines, nor, as was anticipated, has it so far displaced many of the 
older miners by younger men. There is a remarkable constancy 
in the number of pit accidents. I have tried to ascertain whether 
there is any decade in a miner's life during which accidents are 
more numerous than another, but statistics do not support the 
supposition. There is a personal and age element that must not be 

* See also Prof. Louis' paper, " Coal Mining," where this subject is dealt 
with at greater length. 



INTRODUCTION 



[chap. 



lost sight of, also one of fatigue. The older miners have experience 
and caution ; the younger, if rash and less experienced, are more 
alert and can get out of danger quicker. 

As bearing upon this part of our inquiry, the annual reports of 
the Chief Inspector of Factories ^wq the following information : — 



Industry. 


Accidents Reported to Certifying Surgeons, and also 
TO Inspectors. 




Fatal. 


Non-Fatal. 


1900. 


1899. 


1898. 1 1897. 


1900. 


1899. 


1898. 


1897- 


Textile Total, . . 
Non-Textile Total, 


70 

975 


52 
819 


59 
668 


43 
615 


4,647 
22,012 


4,332 
17,568 


3,786 
14,714 


3,565 
11,762 


Grand Total, . . 


1045 


871 1 727 j 658 


1 
26,659 1 21,900 


18,500 


15.327 



In reference to these figures Dr Whitelegge states that there 
has been an increase in the numbers of reported accidents since 
1 897, the year previous to the coming into effect of the Workmen's 
Compensation Act. Many considerations other than the Work- 
men's Compensation Act have to be taken into account, e.g., the 
better reporting of accidents, activity of trade, and classification of 
industries. From these figures of the Chief Inspector of Factories 
no definite conclusion can be drawn as to the influence of the Act 
in preventing accidents. As a contrast it should be mentioned that 
in some large factories where an " Accident Compensation Fund " 
previously existed under the Employer's Liability Act, to which 
employers and employed contributed in the ratio of 2 to i, and 
out of which all accidents were compensated, statistics show a 
remarkable falling off in the number of reported accidents under 
the Workmen's Compensation Act. In some works these are now 
only one-third of what they were. This reduction is probably 
explained not by any change in the methods of production, nor 
by better safeguarding of machinery, but by the fact that while 
previously all accidents, however trivial, were reported and com- 
pensated, accidents under the Act of 1897 must be of such 
severity as to prevent the individual following his employment for 
two weeks before he is entitled to compensation. 

Although difficult to prove by actual statistics, there is a 
feeling that the Act has on the whole been beneficial alike to 
employer and workmen. It is this circumstance that has induced 



I-] 



COMPENSATION ACT AND DANGEROUS TRADES 



some Members of Parliament to press for an extension of the Act 
so as to include a larger number of industries, and particularly 
those regarded as Dangerous Trades. One of the principal features 
of the Workmen's Compensation Act is that it fixes the liability 
upon the employer, so that where an accident causes injury to 
health or the death of a working man the individual himself or his 
relatives receive compensation. If the circumstance solely of ill- 
health or of death caused through work, and not violence or the 
manner in which either of these has been induced, were made the 
principle that ought to underlie the operations of the Act of 1897, 
there would be found many persons who, taking effects alone into 
consideration, would recognise no difference between ill health 
the result of an accident in a factory, and ill health brought 
about by working at a particular trade known to be dangerous. 
Ought dangerous trades, therefore, to be brought within the 
scope of the Workmen's Compensation Act? Many advocate 
their inclusion. The law recognises that trade shall be made 
as healthy as possible, and it takes steps to secure this, both by 
providing regulations and penalising those who transgress these 
regulations. Will it go further, and impose a burden upon the 
employer by making him compensate a workman injured in 
health when it can be shown that, even where all precautions have 
been taken, ill health has followed ? Occupation ought to be the 
opportunity whereby an individual, in return for work done, should 
receive sufficient wages to enable him to live, and not, as it occa- 
sionally is when he is employed in a dangerous trade, the means 
whereby he becomes the subject of ill health at an early age, and 
is thrown as a burden upon the ratepayers for the remainder of 
his life. No high wages paid to men to undertake work in a 
dangerous trade, even if it were always the case that such were 
paid, can adequately compensate the affected workman for the loss 
of health caused by following a dangerous occupation. Many 
dangerous trades are far from being highly paid. The class of work- 
people who are affected by these industries are usually very poor, 
their occupation is often interrupted, and they are not organised 
into Unions, so that they neither contribute to the funds of, nor do 
they receive benefits from, a Friendly Society. The Workmen's 
Compensation Act makes accident the sole circumstance that 
enables an individual to receive compensation. As the Act stands 
at present it is clearly meant to distinguish between accident and 
disease. It is a disputable point, for example, how far a fatal 
disease like anthrax caught in a wool-combing factory is not as 



14 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



much an accident beyond the control and expectation of the indivi- 
dual workman as the fatal burns caused by the sudden ignition of 
some spirit paint in a shipyard. A similar line of argument might 
be made to apply to other trades. The man who gets his arm 
broken by a piece of machinery in motion or by a barrel falling 
off a trolley in a colour factory receives a weekly allowance from 
his employers ; but another man who becomes paralysed in both 
hands as a consequence of having filled the barrels with white lead 
in the same factory does not receive any part of his wages at all 
when off ill. It is said that the Act only recognises the fact of 
external injuries, but it goes beyond this, for a workman may die 
as a consequence of shock without any sign of external injury and 
yet his relatives receive compensation. It is the fact of personal 
and not external injury that underlies the Act. Is phosphorus 
necrosis, which is a purely personal malady, an accident ? The Act 
answers — No. 

There is considerable difficulty in defining what is meant by 
industrial disease. It would be well if we could have some clearer 
conception of what is implied both by " industrial disease " and 
" dangerous trades," for there is scarcely any trade or occupation 
that is not attended by some risk or another. It is admitted 
that certain occupations involve exceptional risks. Theory cannot 
determine what these trades are, but experience and inquiry can. 
As an illustration, I might mention that of 22 trades suggested as 
dangerous, and given by the Home Secretary to the Dangerous 
Trades Committee to investigate, careful inquiry showed they 
could not all be included in this category. 

In the case of an accident there is usually the history of 
a violent cause in operation, and there is the fact of an injury 
received. Yet even with accidents there are certain contribut- 
ing factors, e.g.^ the length of the working day, the previous 
ill health of the workman, and his state of debility anterior to 
the accident. Old age, too, aggravates the harmful effects of an 
accident. It is accessories such as these that have made legisla- 
tion difficult and tied the hands of Governments. The subject is 
one to which at home Mr H. J. Tennant, M.P., Sir Charles Dilke, 
Bart, M.P., Sir John Stirling Maxwell, Bart, M.P., Mr John Burns, 
M.P., and other members of the House of Commons have given 
considerable study, and to which among others on the Con- 
tinent, Mr Arthur Verhaegen, member of the Belgian Superior 
Council of Labour, drew the attention of members at the Congres 
International des Accidents du Travail in Brussels in 1897. 



I.] WHAT IS AN INDUSTRIAL DISEASE? 15 

Several writers have defined industrial disease. Dr Van der 
Borght says : " Industrial diseases are those maladies which arise 
as the result of the prolonged action of harmful influences in 
certain occupations, and which consequently and exclusively 
occur in persons working in these trades, or at least more fre- 
quently than in other persons in general." Dr Glibert, Medical 
Inspector of Labour, Belgium, says : " Every disease recognised 
as particularly frequent in a profession ought to be considered 
as an industrial disease to the extent that it is clearly due to 
the risks in the trade." By the term occupation or industrial 
disease we mean, briefly, disease the direct effects of a particular 
trade in which a person is engaged. In many instances there 
are also included maladies that are the result of pathological 
alterations of structure, indirectly induced by the occupation. Colic, 
for example, might be regarded as a direct effect of working in 
lead, and yet this is unaccompanied by structural alteration in the 
wall of the intestine ; on the other hand, kidney disease in the file- 
cutter is very slowly developed, and although, as regards its pro- 
duction, there are other causes in operation than lead, still the 
kidney lesion is believed to be a remote or indirect consequence 
of plumbism. As artisans are liable to the ordinary ailments of 
humanity, it is necessary to carefully sift statements so as to 
eliminate all causes other than those related to the particular 
industry in question. To the production of occupation disease, 
several factors contribute. Even in the causation of such an indis- 
putable malady as industrial lead poisoning, it is well to remember 
how important is the part played by individual idiosyncrasy, while 
in the badly ventilated state of one factory compared with 
another, the home life and surroundings of the workpeople, 
poverty, heredity, age, and sex are to be found conditions 
that favour its production, and are therefore not to be ignored. 
Usually it is a gradual deterioration of health that is pro- 
duced. There is nothing of the nature of an acute illness 
in industrial disease comparable with an accident. The only 
occupation disease that approaches accident in the suddenness 
of its development is anthrax, and even here the prospects of 
recovery are influenced by the channel of invasion, the severity 
of the attack, the vital resistance and idiosyncrasy of the 
affected individual. Take another example : it is not always 
easy to draw a distinction between potters' phthisis due to the 
inhalation of dust when at work, and a broncho-pneumonia 
which has become tuberculous, and yet potters' consumption in 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



the early stages may be as much the result of the trade at which 
the person has worked as is the paralysis of the file-cutter. 

In order to make an employer liable for an occupation disease 
there would have to be a stated limit as to the length of time an 
individual had worked in a particular factory, and as in some of 
the dangerous trades the workpeople change frequently from factory 
to factory, it would be difficult to prove under which employer the 
malady was caught. Carelessness on the part of the employed, 
through ignorance or intention, would also have to be disproved. 
In the case of workpeople who spend practically the whole of their 
life in one factory, say a white lead works, and who at the end of 
twenty or thirty years' service find themselves the victims of an 
incurable form of plumbism, humanity and good feeling alike 
should indicate to the employer his obligation to the affected 
workmen. Yet even here the question might be raised, did the 
workman fully attend to all the regulations when in the factory as 
regards personal cleanliness, and were his habits, when not working, 
those of a temperate man ? Mr Verhaegen gives illustrations of 
the difficulty of exactly defining occupation disease. A workman 
becomes the driver of a public vehicle, and in the course of time, 
having developed rheumatism, he is obliged to give up work. To 
the individual thus crippled by rheumatism, is the employer 
financially liable? One can scarcely think so, for the simple 
reason that while exposure to inclement weather may be a cause 
of rheumatism, certain persons are by heredity predisposed to it, 
and would develop the malady irrespective of what their calling in 
life might be. Besides, are delicate men and imprudent drivers to 
be placed on the same footing as robust and careful men ? Ver- 
haegen recognises the inexactitude, and states that if we would but 
limit the term occupation disease to conditions of ill health due to 
poisoning caused by coming into contact with certain chemical 
and other agents used in such industries as lucifer match 
making, colour grinding, etc., the difficulty would be materially 
lessened. It would still not always be easy to assign to one 
particular factory, especially when it was known that the workman 
had moved from place to place, the blame for having caused ill 
health. Even in cases of " phossy jaw," in which it is generally 
admitted that exposure to the fumes of yellow phosphorus is its 
cause, there is yet some doubt as to whether the necrosis of bone is 
entirely due to this circumstance, or partly to it and the operation 
of micro-organisms. Take, too, the diseases of Italian miners and 
of the colliers of Belgium, particularly ankylostomiasis. Dr Kuborn 




.] DIFFICULTY OF RECOGNISING OCCUPATION DISEASES 17 



of Seraing, in discussing this question, maintains that the maladies 
special to mining have their origin very largely in the kind of life 
the men lead, their inattention to the rules of ordinary hygiene 
both in their home and person, excesses of various kinds, imperfect 
feeding and clothing, etc., causes to the influence of which want 
of education greatly contributes. In some industries there are 
inherent dangers, and yet with care these can be diminished \{ not 
removed. Ventilation of British coal pits, for example, has practically 
abolished pulmonary consumption in our miners. Experience shows 
that there is scarcely a dangerous trade from which, with extreme 
care and attention to regulations, the dangerous influences cannot 
l^bbe largely removed. There is no occupation so risky to life as the 
■^manufacture of the high explosives. I have had the opportunity 
of visiting the largest explosives works in the kingdom, and can 
bear testimony to the healthiness of the employment and its com- 
parative safety owing to the careful training and discipline of the 
workers, scrupulous cleanliness and attention to the minutest details. 
Occupation disease, it must be remembered, is not always 
easy of recognition. There is no difficulty in diagnosing a 
malady to be plumbism when there are double wrist drop 
and a history of exposure to the metal when at work ; but where 
there is only complaint of abdominal pain and vomiting, the 
diagnosis cannot be always so clearly established, even in the 
presence of a well-marked blue line on the gums. Several cases 
have been recorded in the medical journals of acute abdominal pain 
occurring in painters, which had been regarded as lead colic ; 
but when the patients died, the post-mortem examination showed 
that death was due to a small ulcer of the bowel or to 
inflammation limited to a particular portion of the intestine 
known as the appendix, which a surgical operation might 
have cured ; while, on the other hand, workers exposed to 
lead and with similar symptoms have been operated upon by 
careful surgeons for appendicitis when the malady was lead 
colic. If this is the difficulty experienced by competent surgeons 
and careful medical observers, it shows us some of the pitfalls 
parliamentarians might easily drop into by including industrial 
diseases under the Workmen's Compensation Act. Verhaegen is of 
opinion that the matter would be more easily settled by accumulat- 
ing a larger number of statistics of disease occurring in occupations ; 
but this inquiry would have to be extended over a lengthened 
period, there would have to be some degree of uniformity in the 
conditions under which the people worked, there would also have to 

\ 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



be taken into consideration the hygienic conditions of the factories, 
the situation of these buildings, the number of hours worked 
per day, and the influences that would follow a prolonged strike 
of the workpeople, such as poverty. To be exact, too, the work- 
people would have to be medically examined before entering upon 
the particular industry, and re-examined months afterwards so as 
to ascertain what effects, if any, the trade had produced. Some of 
the difficulty would be got over by limiting the definition of 
industrial disease to maladies that are the direct consequence of 
occupation, and in which as a result there is a well-ascertained 
lesion of the organism. Verhaegen, as already mentioned, illustrated 
his argument by alluding to the driver of a public vehicle who 
in good health to commence with, and notwithstanding his 
obedience to the laws of prudence yet becomes rheumatic, and 
to another man who, under similar conditions as regards health 
and carefulness, undertakes work in either a lucifer match 
or a white lead factory, and suffers from phossy jaw or wrist 
drop. The malady is in either of the latter instances regarded 
as a disease of occupation, in the former it is not, the explana- 
tion of the difference being that as regards the first illustration 
rheumatism is not confined to the occupation of coach driving ; 
also while it is admitted that out-of-door occupations expose 
the individual to all kinds of weather and predispose to 
rheumatism, the same out-of-door Hfe led by other people is 
in them an explanation of the good health they enjoy. In the 
case of the match and white lead maker, had it not been 
for exposure to the fume of phosphorus or the inhalation of 
lead dust the workman would not have become the victim of 
phossy jaw or of wrist drop. 

Although many workpeople in the factory incur the same risk, 
yet all do not equally suffer. Some men are more susceptible than 
others. It would be regarded as an interference with the liberty 
of the subject if an attempt were made to prevent people going 
to work in a factory. It is known, for example, that engravers 
are more liable to lose their eyesight at an earlier age than men 
engaged in out-door occupations. Should a man with feeble sight 
be allowed to undertake this kind of work? On commencing 
his industrial career, unless he voluntarily seeks the advice of an 
oculist, who is to say to him nay ? There cannot be, although it 
is accomplished in certain dangerous trades without much opposi- 
tion, a medical examination of all persons undertaking work. 
The dangers of particular occupations ought, however, to be 



I.] INCLUSION OF DANGEROUS TRADES UNDER ACT 19 

pointed out to all applicants for work, after which these should state 
that they are prepared to accept certain risks. At present many 
workpeople incur risks without knowledge of the danger or of 
the means of preventing it. There are occupations that are not 
of themselves unhealthy, and yet owing to the strain which 
they impose upon the body, the weak spot of the organism, so 
to speak, is found out, and for this the occupation itself cannot 
altogether be held responsible. Take what is known as rupture 
or hernia, which occurs with greater frequency in persons whose 
work obliges them to be long upon their feet, and who are 
exposed to sudden strain, the lifting of heavy weights, etc. 
What is said of it applies equally to varicose veins in 
the legs. Both of these may be partly the result of the 
position assumed by the individual when at work or the strain 
he is exposed to, and yet it would scarcely be right to make the 
occupation responsible for an affection the result of an inherent 
weakness of the abdominal wall which allowed a portion of 
intestine to protrude, giving rise to rupture, or for an ill-nourished 
condition of the walls of the veins in the legs whereby the 
blood-vessels became distended and deformed. To secure com- 
pensation, the workman would have to establish that the hernia 
was solely the result of his work. Life is for all of us very much 
a game of chance, and we have to run ordinary risks. For 
a disease to be regarded as industrial, and capable, therefore, of 
being brought within the scope of the Workmen's Compensation 
Act, it would have to be placed upon the same narrow limit as an 
accident. It would require to be shown that it was the sole 
result of the occupation, and that there had been produced a 
definite pathological lesion of the body. Adopting this view, the 
maladies that could be included in the category would be, among 
others, anthrax, poisoning by lead, mercury, phosphorus, and 
bisulphide of carbon ; but with the exception of anthrax, in 
which the disease is often suddenly induced, and as rapidly runs 
to a fatal termination, there is not as a rule the same exacti- 
tude in the incidence of disease as is the case in accident. 
There might be little difficulty in including anthrax under the 
Act of 1897. The inclusion of some of the other dangerous 
trades would ^w^ rise to frequent litigation, but it would make 
employers more careful in the selection of their workpeople, and 
in the means adopted to prevent industrial poisoning. This 
latter fact is one of the objects aimed at by those who are in 
favour of an extension of the Workmen's Compensation Act, not 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



omitting, where it can be clearly proved, the financial liability 
of the employer to compensate the affected workman. In the 
case of a fatal accident occurring in a factory, a post-mortem 
examination shows perhaps the body to be healthy, and therefore 
the accident to have been the sole cause of death, or there are 
certain signs of disease present which may have caused or 
hastened the fatal termination. In the latter instance the law 
takes no cognisance of the previous disease. It takes for granted 
that but /or the accident the individual would have gone on 
following his occupation. In industrial poisoning, would a similar 
legal opinion be entertained? In acute lead poisoning, when 
the post-mortem examination and chemical analysis of the 
internal organs conclusively prove that death was due to lead, 
it might be a comparatively easy thing to fix the liability upon 
an employer ; but the presence of signs of previous disease in 
the body, which probably contributed to the fatal termination of 
the illness, would make it extremely difficult to assign to each of 
the two circumstances its proper share in causing death. 

It is facts such as these that doubtless led to the rejection 
by Parliament in 1897 of the proposal to extend the scope of the 
Workmen's Compensation Bill so as to include industrial diseases, 
and place them on the same footing as accidents occurring at 
work. There is, however, a common sense view of the matter 
which should not be overlooked, and it is this. Where a person 
suffers in health, or loses his or her life through neglect of the 
employers to comply with the legal requirements of the Factory 
Acts, surely the employer under these circumstances ought to pay 
full compensation. In the case of accidents the question of neglect 
does not arise under the Act of 1897. The injured person is 
compensated, and that is the difference between the Employers' 
Liability and the Workmen's Compensation Act. The question 
that calls for an answer then is rather this : Where an employer has 
followed out to the full all the regulations required by the Home 
Office, and it is shown that he has done all that common sense and 
humanity dictate, and yet industrial poisoning has occurred, is the 
employer under these circumstances to be considered liable? In 
France, where the match industry is a State monopoly, the Govern - 
rrvent admitted its liability by paying to the workmen who suffered 
from the effects of phosphorus a stated indemnity, Bryant & 
May's firm has always recognised its liability by paying a weekly 
allowance to the workpeople off ill through phosphorus necrosis. 
Other firms in other trades probably do the same. It is for the 



I.] INDUSTRIAL EVOLUTION 21 

public, therefore, to say whether humane deeds like these, which 
are purely voluntary in this country, should be made compulsory 
by an extension of the Workmen's Compensation Act, or be simply 
dealt with through the medium of mutual trade insurance societies.* 
Collectively, occupations may be likened to a huge organism. 
Industries are the functions that indicate the life and prosperity of 
a nation, and like the higher forms of life they have grown in pro- 
cess of time from simple beginnings to highly complicated combi- 
nations, the controlling and to some extent directing agent of which 
is parliamentary legislation, keeping pace with the inventiveness 
of man and human requirements. In many ways is the resemblance 
between the industrial and human organism demonstrated. Na 
man can use unrestricted freedom with his own body. There is a 
physiological limit to which he must bow. An over-worked brain 
or group of muscles sooner or later tells its own tale, unbridled 
licence causes degeneration of the nervous system, and excess 
in wine or at table is checked by the diseases it produces. 
Perfection is what we ought to strive for, and this can only be 
obtained by submission to nature's laws. So, too, in the industrial 
organism it is recognised that production should be kept within 
limits, reckless bargaining should be curtailed, that each man 
should put his very best into the work he is doing, and that there 
should be more sympathetic communication between employer and 
employed. Trades, like human beings, are influenced by their sur- 
roundings. They do not thrive well away from coal fields and 
centres of human activity. Competition or the struggle for exist- 
ence is as keen in the world of industry as in that of biology, and 
there occurs the same weeding out in both. Thwarted by local 
conditions and hampered by scarcity of labour, overburdened by 
excessive taxation or ground rents, industries will languish in one 
place, while with fewer restrictions they will flourish in another. 
New trades are constantly developing, and new methods of manu- 
facture keep replacing those that are old. Everything is tending 
towards improvement. Many circumstances are operating to direct 
the industrial evolution of to-day. Human wants and man's in- 
ventiveness play their part so that those manufacturers alone of 

* As an outcome of suggestions made at the Pottery Arbitration at Stoke- 
on-Trent (November 1901), a scheme is being formulated by a committee of 
employers, representatives of the operatives, and the Ocean Accident Insurance 
Company, under which all workers in dangerous processes in potteries will be 
able to insure against lead poisoning, the premiums to be supplemented by 
contributions from the manufacturers. 



INTRODUCTION [chap. 



their commercial confreres are successful who, recognising the 
spirit of the age, make an attempt to meet its demands. 

Admitting that factory legislation has for the last century been 
gradually bringing into line industrial undertakings of all kinds, 
and that the Government has by enforcing regulations exercised 
a disciplining influence upon masters and men, it is only recently 
that it has taken up a strong and decided attitude in regard to the 
effects of particular trades upon health. Public health as a science 
is still in its infancy ; it owes its origin mainly to the rush of people 
into the large towns. Its theories and facts have been brought by 
municipalities to bear upon the conditions of life in our homes and 
persons. Modern factory legislation, so far as industrial hygiene 
i^ concerned, is an extension of the ordinary laws of health to 
those workers who in many instances cannot frame rules of guid- 
ance for themselves. Law restricts as well as regulates individual 
freedom. The Public Health Acts have interfered with the liberty 
of the subject by insisting upon closing unhealthy dwellings, the 
removal of refuse, the notification of infectious diseases, and the 
compulsory removal from the home of members of a family who 
are suffering from some infectious malady, and by doing so have 
secured a larger measure of health for the community. Factory 
legislation similarly aims at improving the health of the workers. 

Every man tries to get as much out of life as possible. Ideally 
he ought to contribute his best to it. A workman, while obtaining 
for his labour the largest wages possible, ought to put into his 
labour the best of his thought and energy so as to improve the 
character of the work he is engaged in. While the immediate 
object of labour is to obtain the wherewithal to live, the character 
of the work performed is unconsciously shaping the destiny of 
labour and building up through individuals the national reputation. 
The end of work is progress, and just as human life is perfected 
through suffering and experience, so is the industrial. 

There are many ways by which the hygiene of trades may 
be promoted. The notification of industrial diseases to the 
Chief Inspector of Factories has, although it has only been in 
existence a very few years, already placed the Home Office in 
possession of facts and statistics which enable the Factory 
Department at once to realise v/hen a particular industry is 
becoming prejudicial to the health of workers, and how it may 
be met. The good effects of notification are observed in 
the trades in which lead, mercury, and phosphorus are used. 
The power granted to the Home Secretary, which enables him to 



I.] HOW' INDUSTRIAL HYGIENE MIGHT BE PROMOTED 23 

schedule a trade as dangerous on sufficient information being 
given to him, is, so long as it is judiciously applied, a step in the 
right direction. It is desirable that accurate information should 
be obtained from all sources, from employers as well as employed, 
and from experts, chemical and medical. The formation of a 
consultative body or of an industrial council composed of the 
Home Secretary and members of the factory staff, employers, a 
few educated workmen, chemists, medical men, and electricians, 
for the purpose of discussing with the Home Secretary terms of 
Special Rules and prospective legislation has been recommended, 
and might be helpful. On the Continent such industrial councils 
exist, a description of which will be found in Miss Anderson's 
paper on " Regulations of Injurious or Dangerous Occupations 
in Factories and Workshops in some of the Chief European 
Countries." In Britain there might be some difficulty in including 
upon a permanent consultative body gentlemen capable of deal- 
ing with the numerous technical questions that constantly arise, 
but the difficulty would be no greater there than in France. 
Within the last few years the Home Secretary has, whether 
for direct advice or to serve upon committee, occasionally called 
in the assistance of recognised experts or authorities upon 
particular points under consideration. This system has worked 
well, and might with advantage be extended. Industrial hygiene, 
too, so far at any rate as dangerous trades are concerned, could 
be promoted by small International Committees meeting to 
improve the sanitation of labour rather than to discuss economic 
problems of production. By many it is believed that the cause of 
industrial hygiene would be furthered by the establishment of a 
Ministry of Labour. It seems an anomalous circumstance that 
a country like ours, whose reputation has been built upon 
commerce, should be without a department specially devoted to 
labour and labour problems. The Home Office has the necessary 
machinery and possesses all the information, but its jurisdiction 
covers too extensive a field. The Factory Department ought to 
form a separate and distinct branch of the Home Office to be 
directed by a Secretary or Under-Secretary of State. Year by 
year the work of the Department and its scope increase, and 
surely among the many Departments of the State there can be 
none of greater importance than that which watches over the 
millions of persons engaged in factories and workshops in the 
United Kingdom. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER II 

HISTORICAL SKETCH OF THE DEVELOPMENT OF LEGISLATION 
FOR INJURIOUS AND DANGEROUS INDUSTRIES IN ENGLAND 

" Now, since both the Ages of Antiquity and that we now live in shew 
Laws .... calculated for the good Order and Reputation of Tradesmen, 
'tis but reasonable that Physick should contribute its quota for the Benefit 
and Comfort of those of whom the Law has been so tenderly careful, and 
display itself in a particular manner (that has been hitherto neglected) for 
the safety of Tradesmen, that they may follow their Trades without injuring 
their Health." — Ramazzini : Treatise of the Diseases of Tradesmen. English 
Edition, 1705. Italian Edition, Modena, 1670. 

"Year after year, as far forward as any present judgment would willingly 
speculate, the same terrible waste of adult life must, with no great mitigation, 
continue, unless the Legislature see fit to provide by special enactment for 
more wholesome conditions of labour .... The canker of industrial diseases 
gnaws at the very root of our national strength. The sufferers are not few 
or insignificant. They are the bread-winners for at least a third part of our 
population .... That they have causes of disease indolently left to blight 
them amid their toil .... is surely an intolerable wrong. And to be able 
to redress that wrong is perhaps among the greatest opportunities for good 
which human institutions can afford." — Report of the Medical Offt.cer {Dr., 
afterwards Sir fohn Simon) to the Privy Council., i86r. 

From the benevolent and learned Italian physician of the 
seventeenth century, in touch with every available source of 
information of his own and preceding ages, searching for 
mitigation of the diseases of workmen which he believes to be 
" incurable," to the English State physician of the nineteenth 
century seeking to persuade men that the diseases must not be 
allowed even to arise, is indeed a long way. The way is long 
in all that concerns knowledge of the causes and treatment 
of disease, no less than in circumstances and organisation of 
industry. It is doubtful, however, whether the transformation 
of ideas in either is so great as in the general attitude of civilised 
society towards protection of labour and promotion of industrial 

24 



I' 



CHAP. II.] SOCIAL ILLS AND THEIR AMENDMENT 25 

health. The change cannot be accounted for, completely, either 
by change in the methods and organisation of industry, or by 
increased knowledge, medical, economic, or social. Nor can the 
increased breadth of conception be attributed solely to that 
increased intensity and quantity of human suffering which 
inevitably accompanied concentration and growth of industry. 
In all ages there have been physical, moral, and economic 
evils which fell to the lot of the labourer, probably differing 
from time to time on the whole more in degree than in kind, 
and doubtless felt at each stage by the sufferers, and sometimes 
by onlookers, with an intensity which relatively was great, and 
which with adequate discernment of a remedy and the duty or 
expedience of applying it, would have led to legislative action. 

In the great civilisations of antiquity, whether in the East, 
West, or in Europe generally, there was sufficient concentration 
of the forces of labour to produce the intensest forms of the 
maladies classed by Pliny as the " diseases of slaves." Some of 
the most injurious processes known to us now are extremely 
ancient. To mention but a few : lead and quicksilver mining, 
the potters' craft, and the textile processes of preparing and 
weaving asbestos and flax. 

The long history, in another department of social ills, of 
legislation and organised guild efforts for protection of buyers 
from dishonest manufacture and dishonest trading in adulterated 
products, or again, of efforts to regulate supply of labour and to 
enforce honest service from workers, affords many illustrations 
of the action that could be taken in Middle Age and Renaissance 
l^urope, where an evil was both recognised and also believed to 
be remediable. It is to be noted how few the indications are 
that the strivings after social improvement of handicraftsmen 
and labourers were in those times inspired by any clear vision of 
the physical safety and health of individuals as part of the well- 
being to be sought. Illustrations might indeed be gathered 
from records of craft guilds and municipal organisations, of pro- 
visions and regulations that tended to results similar to those 
expressly aimed at by modern sanitary regulations. This is 
especially true of England, where the masses of manual workers 
came earlier than in other countries of Modern Europe to 
comparative physical comfort. We must, however, avoid the mis- 
take of reading into past events, however interesting, ideas that 
are consciously at work in practical affairs only in our own 
times. 



26 HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

Of much later date are the first documents that I have been 
able to trace expressly dealing with the nature and results of 
industrial occupation in dangerous or injurious processes. These 
are in the Transactions of the Royal Society of England^ and are 
of the theoretic and reflective character that is appropriate to 
their setting. Belonging to the same century as Ramazzini's 
most human treatise (1670 and onwards), touching both 
manufacture and mining in Europe (e.g., manufacture of white 
lead, silvering of mirrors by mercury, lead mining, coal mining), 
they would take an important place in a general history of 
European thought and action on this question. The vivid 
descriptions by the Italian as well as by the English writers of 
the effects on the worker of lead,* of mercury,t of silk dust,{ 
of explosions in mines,§ give one a sense n-ow of the kinship 
of past labour with present, and a clearer perception of the 
magnitude and the worth of the object that this generation has 
set itself — to remove such causes of suffering from the path of 
the labourer. 

In those papers, however, we are still far from any practical 
preventive treatment of industrial diseases. My task in this 
paper is to trace out in England, that is in the foremost industrial 
community of recent times, the history of tentative, halting 
efforts, almost wholly within living memory, to engraft on the 
earlier legislative movements of the nineteenth century towards 
hygienic and moral reforms in industry, that special, applied regu- 
lation of injurious manufactures for which Sir Edwin Chadwick |1 
and Sir John Simon were the earliest and most distinguished 
advocates. In this history itself, I think, is found the nearest 
attainable explanation of the wide difference between the general 
attitude of our day towards care of the health of the adult labourer 

* For example : " The accidents which happen to the workmen are : 
Immediate pain in the stomach, with exceeding contortions in the guts, and 
costiveness that yields not to cathartics ; . . . . next a vertigo or dizziness in 
the head with continual great pain in the brows, blindness, stupidity, and paralytic 
affections ; loss of appetite, sickness and frequent vomiting to the extremest 
weakness of the hody. —Trafisactions of the Royal Society^ Abridged Edition, 
vol. ii., p. 576 ; paper by Sir Philberto Vernati). 

t The same volume, papers by Dr Walter Pope and Dr Ed. Brown. 

X Ramazzini : see passages I have quoted, with comparisons, in the Annual 
Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories for 1898, pp. 17 1-2. 

§ Tra77sactions of the Royal Society^ vol. ii. 

II See especially, Report on an Inquiry into the Sanitary Condition of the 
Labouring Population of Great Britain. Printed by W. Clowes & Sons for Her 
Majesty's Stationery Office, 1842, pp. 256-261, 409-444, etc. 



II.] INDIFFERENCE TO THE HEALTH OF WORKPEOPLE 27 

at his trade, and that of any previous age, when the diseases 
accompanying industry were the subject of scientific observation. 
In it is to be seen the gathering momentum which could so com- 
pletely sweep away age-long modes of regarding the worker at his 
bench as merely a means to the ends of others than himself and 
his family, that the legislature and administration could at length 
treat the promotion of the physical security of each individual 
labourer as a worthy end for the State no less than the labourer. 
Lord Londonderry, when he railed in Parliament in 1848 against the 
"hypocritical humanity" which sought by protective legislation 
to save the lives and limbs of the miners of Great Britain, repre- 
sented but a singularly extreme though not isolated survival of 
the older assumption of legislators that the health of the 
masses of people, as of individual labourers, might be left to take 
care of itself, if indeed it was worth thinking about at all. Even 
the learned and humane contributors in the seventeenth century 
to the Transactions of the Royal Society on dangers of mining 
and means of overcoming them, can tell without a thought of 
irony how a ventilating tube was first placed in a dangerous 
mine after an accident from fire-damp, resulting in the loss not 
only of men but of a " gentleman of quality." There is indeed a 
long series of laws, extending back to before the time of Eliza- 
beth, for the protection of the poorer wage-earner in making his 
contract so that he should not be cheated by extortionate charges 
or unfair payments in goods. The real contrast in the normal 
attitude of the centuries before our own towards the persons of 
workers is nevertheless well seen in Macaulay's wondering notice of 
the fact that in the latter end of the seventeenth century it was 
possible for an eminent philanthropist to exult in the thought that 
in Norwich, the centre of the clothing trade, where " a little creature 
of six years old was thought fit for labour," boys and girls of 
"very tender age created wealth exceeding what was necessary 
for their own subsistence by ;^ 12,000 a year." Greater degrada- 
tion than any shadowed there had to be achieved, in England at 
least, before the first legislative foundations could be laid, on which 
afterwards was to be engrafted the special trade legislation with 
which we are here concerned. Out of the desecration of child- 
life and womanhood, underground and in factories and workshops, 
recorded in the Blue Books of the earlier part of last century, came 
the needed force for the beginnings of a State control in England 
of special conditions of health and security, which in some other 
European countries had been for long, at least in mines, partially 



28 HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

maintained through the operation of a more or less definite theory 
of State or Imperial ownership.* 

Although I refer necessarily to the general sanitary and 
social protective measures, the development of which belongs to 
the great humanitarian movements of the first half of the Victorian 
age, I must at this point make it clear that I exclude here their 
history, so far as concerns purely the control of economic and 
moral abuses, which were not inherent in manufacturing and 
mining industry itself We are not directly concerned with 
physical sufferings which, owing to the apathy of the community, 
in fact accompanied the earlier developments of the factory 
system, nor with the barbarities which culpable ignorance too 
long allowed to survive, from rougher and harder times, under- 
ground in mines. Our concern is with those material risks in 
any industry which, when reasonably good methods of working 
have been developed by the necessary help of law, remain as 
ordinary accompaniments of the occupation itself, either because 
of the nature of the substance used, or because of the appliances 
necessary to the processes carried on. Some special regard for 
classes of persons employed is also necessary in so far as they 
are specially affected by risks on account of tender years or 
physical constitution, but not because Parliament was first and 
foremost compelled by unnatural conditions to safeguard young 
workers and women, nor because the force of law remains, 
and, humanly speaking, will continually remain necessary in 
competitive manufacture to maintain for them good normal 
conditions. 

We must remember that applied scientific protection of all 
workers against industrial injury was from the outset introduced 
step by step into two distinct sets of Acts of Parliament, the Mines 
Acts and the Factory Acts, both with primarily social aims, each 
acting and re-acting on the other throughout, both in Parliament 
and in the Department administering them. This compels study 
of the stages of development in those Acts, as distinct from the 
movements which produced them, in order to arrive at any com- 
prehension of the nature of the now resulting form of control of 
injurious trades. 

In a complete history of this subject a long section would be 
devoted to the development of the later-initiated lav/ relating to 

* See more particularly. Special Reports on Mines Legislation in Germany, 
France, Belgium, by Her late Majesty's Mines Inspector, Mr Tremenheere, in 
1848 and 1849. 



II.] SANITARY ACT AND ITS DEFICIENCIES 29 

• 
Public Health, to the origins of the two great Sanitary Com- 
missions of 1843-5 ^^'^^ 1869-71 and their reports, and adequate 
recognition would be possible of one main cause of gradually 
quickened public and official understanding of the need of special 
precautions for health in injurious industries. This cause was 
the introduction into the service of the State, first as special 
commissioners, later as permanent officials, of scientific investi- 
gators and medical officers, whose work brought to light 
not merely new facts bearing upon industrial disease, but also 
new and broad ideas as to their origin and effects, and whose 
reports secured in some instances attention far beyond the 
boundaries of England. It is difficult for a modern Factory 
Inspector to realise all that is implied in the brief allusions 
of a former Chief Inspector, Mr Redgrave, in one of his annual 
reports, as late as 1868, to the fact that cleanliness, ventilation, 
and prevention of disease generally, in factories, were then 
regulated only so far as they were provided for at all in the 
" Sanitary Act," and applied by local medical officers — where 
there were any — without effective central control or organisation. 
What it meant in loss of life and injury to the bread-winners of 
the masses of the nation was only too clearly set forth in the 
accumulated evidence in Dr Simon's and Dr Greenhow's reports 
to the Board of Health and to the Privy Council on the sanitary 
state of the people of England from 1858 onwards. The words I 
quote at the head of my paper indicate Sir John Simon's idea of 
the magnitude of the evil at that time. In many passages he 
showed his view of the worthlessness of such general powers 
as then could be applied to the more general classes of 
evil.* In prolonged special investigations, guided by the danger 
signals of mortality statistics, he traced out the preventible 

* " Defects of ventilation are in theory dealt with under the Nuisance 
Removal Act. ... In practice these powers are hitherto almost unapplied ; 
partly because tlie magnitude of the evil is but most imperfectly appreciated 
either by local authorities and justices, or by the slowly suffering artisans 
themselves ; and perhaps still more . . . for another reason. In any proceed- 
ings ... an official complainant should be ready to state in precise terms what 
remedy he asks the justices to apply. Now, to describe suitable ventilation for 
a workplace there must be a fair amount of intelligence and discrimination. . . , 
An average inspector of nuisances cannot dictate ventilation off-hand, as he 
would direct the clearance of a dust-bin. Justices acting without skilled advice 
cannot themselves order in detail particular means of ventilation. . . . Thus it 
seems, the evil is left unabated. . . . Against the other sources of disease to 
which the report has referred, no law yet pretends to make provision." — Fourth 
Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Coimcil^ 1861, p. 29. 



30 HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

injuries going on steadily in half-regulated or wholly unregulated 
dangerous trades. '* Certain industrial establishments," he said, 
writing in 1 862, " are subject to Government inspection, and some 
to a very limited extent are regulated by Act of Parliament. . . . 
Is there any sufficient reason why these precedents should not 
be followed in other industrial establishments. . . . There is 
abundant causation of premature death in mines which are 
neither coal mines nor ironstone mines,* and potters, grinders, 
carders, hacklers, not to mention hosts of other artisans, may, any 
of them, show the same claim as miners — the claim of grievous 
physical suffering — to have the special circumstances of their 
industry subjected to Government supervision." -|- These observa- 
tions were not based on vague description or casual inquiry into 
the circumstances of industry, but on systematic notes of conditions 
of employment in selected localities where mortality due to given 
diseases — for example, tubercular phthisis or irritative disease of the 
lung — was three, four, or even six times as high as in other parts of 
England. The evidence for this need of supervision by centrally 
directed specialists, working under a specialised legislation, had 
been already repeatedly touched on in Reports of Royal Com- 
missioners primarily appointed to inquire into employment of 
children and women. Far more had to be later said and 
written before the first steps could be taken in some of these 
manufactures to remove causes of injury which, later, the Com- 
missioners of 1878 referred to as a "public scandal," and for 
which no basis of control existed until 1891. 

What, then, are the first beginnings of special legislation ; 
and how did the succeeding steps follow each other in the 
Factory and the Mines Acts respectively ? First, it must be pointed 
out that whereas the particular kind of legislative weapon (the 
provision for " Special Rules "), which was destined to be forged 
for use against dangerous trades, was first planned in connec- 
tion with regulation of mines, it reached its most elaborate 
form in connection with regulation of manufacturing industries, 
that is, in the earlier and more fully regulated industries,, 
under the Factory Acts. 

It is now almost incredible that one of the most dangerous 
of all groups of industry — mining — should have been free in 

* Except for prohibition of underground employment of women and girls, 
and limitation of employment of boys (1842), metalliferous mines were unregu- 
lated until 1872. 

t Fourth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1862, p. 31. 



II.] EARL Y FA CTOR Y A CTS 3 1 

England from any form of protective legislation until 1842,* 
when women and girls were excluded from underground work- 
ing, and that it was not until 1855 that any comparatively 
useful safeguards of health, life, and limb were prescribed by 
law. It is still more difficult to realise that before 18 14 it was 
not customary to hold inquests on deaths of miners killed by 
accidents in mines. With the exception of regulations against 
truck, there was no provision except such as protected the 
colliery owner — and of that kind there were many — against 
injury to his property by miners. 

Meanwhile the landmarks from the present standpoint 
in factory regulation had been the Acts of 1802 and 1833. 
The first, aiming only at the preservation in cotton mills of 
the " health and morals " of apprentices, further laid down 
that "visitors," to be appointed by justices in every county 
for repression of contraventions, were empowered to "direct 
the adoption of such sanitary regulations as they might on 
advice think proper." The Act of i833,f regulating first the 
labour of children and young persons in textile factories 
generally, replaced those "visitors" of the Act of 1802 (who 
had seldom been appointed, and still more seldom had acted) 
by "inspectors" with similar powers of entry, and of calling 
to their aid expert advisers, but with additional powers : to 
administer oaths and to make such " rules, regulations, and 
orders" as were necessary for the execution of the Act, and 
to convict offenders and impose penalties under the Act, as if 
they were Justices of the Peace. In 1844 an Act applying 
similarly only to textile factories repealed these remark- 
able powers of Factory Inspectors to make rules, orders, and 
regulations, and to act as Justices of the Peace ; at the same 
time it organised the Inspectorate, with institution of an office in 
London, on lines comparable to those of our own time. Certifying 
surgeons were then first provided primarily for the purpose of 
examining young workers under sixteen years of age as to 
their fitness for employment, and granting certificates of age 
and ordinary strength ; but further also, for re-examination of 
such workers at the instance of an inspector where there was 
reason to believe that injury would be caused by continued 

* When legislation followed the terrible revelations of the Royal Commission 
of 1 84 1. 

t Intervening Acts had extended the general principle of protection to 
young workers in cotton mills other than apprentices. 



32 HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLA TION [chap. 

employment. The Acts were now extended to women, and 
for the first time special provisions for health and safety (as 
distinct from general provisions for cleanliness of the factory) 
began to make their appearance. Workers in wet spinning 
became entitled to sufficient means against being wetted and 
against unnecessary escape of steam into the room if young 
persons or children were employed there ; but far more im- 
portant were the new attempts to reduce accidents by provid- 
ing for the safer use of machinery, inquiry into causes of accidents, 
and penal compensation to workers for accidents due to 
machinery remaining unfenced after notice from the inspector 
that it was "deemed to be dangerous." These provisions em- 
bodied a few of the recommendations made in Special Reports 
of the Inspectors of Factories, presented to Parliament in 1 841, 
and the recommendations of the Select Committee of the 
House of Commons presented in the same year ; with them, 
however, was also introduced the principle of Arbitration on 
the objections raised by an occupier. The inspector might 
give notice of dangerous machinery to be fenced, but for 
fourteen days the right remained with the occupier to require 
the appointment of arbitrators "skilled in the construction 
of the kind of machinery" to which the notice referred. 
Each party, the occupier and the inspector, was then to nomi- 
nate his arbitrator, and the two arbitrators were to proceed 
to examine the machinery " alleged to be dangerous " within 
fourteen days. If they could not agree, they were together 
to appoint as umpire a third arbitrator "possessing a similar 
knowledge of machinery." When the ultimate decision 
supported the occupier's objection, the inspector's notice as 
to danger was annulled, and even if an accident thereafter 
occurred, penal compensation could not be obtained for an 
injured worker. Not until the Act of 1891 did this principle, 
later so greatly extended in application to matters of health 
as well as safety, cease to control the fencing of dangerous 
machinery (other than mill-gearing) in factories, and it still 
remains for all dangers in mines not expressly covered by any 
other provision. As regards this first introduction into the Factory 
Acts of penal compensation for preventible injuries, it appears 
to have been the outcome of a discussion by w^itnesses before 
the Royal Commission on Labour of Young Persons in Mines 
and Manufactures in 1841. This was the "trade charge or 
insurance payable b}^ the branch of industry liable to the 



It 



II.] LEGISLATION FOR MINES 33 

accidents," which has been at length secured to the worker only 
at the end of the nineteenth centiir}- by the Compensation Acts. 
In the year in which these considerable steps had been 
taken in factory legislation (1844), the Mines Inspector under 
Lord Ashley's Act published his first report. Even two years 
later women were still to be found in considerable numbers 
underground. Progress nevertheless was being yearly made — 
through the reports on safety and ventilation of special scientific 
commissioners (including Lyell, Faraday, Playfair), by the action 
of associations of miners, by spread of knowledge of the 
dangers of mining, and not least, by the recurrence of appalling 
accidents which ever increasingly shocked the pubhc con- 
science — came the first tentative measure for general safety 
in coal mines — the Act of 1855.* In 1854 the Select Com- 
mittee on Accidents had reported, adopting among other 
recommendations a suggestion of the Inspectors for legislative 
extension of the practice of several colliery owners, of framing 
special safety rules for working in mines. The Act, in addition 
to specifying seven general rules binding on owners and agents 
of collieries for safety, relating to : (i) adequate ventilation to dilute 
and render harmless noxious gases ; (2) fencing of disused shafts ; 
(3) fencing of pumping pits when not at work ; (4) secure 
lining of shafts ; (5) proper means of signalling ; (6) indicator 
and break for machine raising or lowering persons ; (7) proper 
gauges and valve for steam boiler, provided for the framing 
and enforcement of special rules, to be submitted by owners 
for approval of the Secretary of State, at every colliery. These 
special rules, when established, were to Tiave the force of law 
both for owners and miners, but were enforceable only by 
penalty in the case of owners, by penalty or imprisonment with 
or without hard labour (maximum three months) in the case of 
miners. This latter distinction occasioned considerable bitter- 
ness at the time, but the provision which was most generally 
criticised was the elaborate one for arbitration in case of objection 
on the part of the owner to any alteration or addition to 
special rules made by the Secretary of State. Within twenty- 
seven days the owner had power to nominate three or more 
"practical mining engineers or other competent persons of 
experience in the district," not "interested in or employed in 
the management of ... . the colliery," and the Secretary of 

* The principles of organised inspection and reporting of fatal accidents had 
been already secured by a short Act of 1850. Both this and the Act of 1855 
were to continue for five years only in force ; later Acts were permanent in form. 

C 



34 



HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLATION [chap. 



State might appoint " one or more " such persons " to determine 
the matter in difference." In case of the owner not exercising 
this power within the time specified, arbitration could be organ- 
ised on lines very similar to those provided by the Factory 
Act of 1844, with the difference that in the case of special 
rules in mines one of the parties to the arbitration was the 
Secretary of State instead of the inspector. In the framing 
of special rules following on this Act, it was common for groups 
of collieries working under similar conditions to adopt one set 
of special rules, but sometimes individual owners drew up their 
own special rules, and occasionally attempted to introduce 
remarkably irrelevant matter, such as attendance at " Divine 
Service at least once on the Lord's Day," for the regulation 
of the conduct of miners. 

Five years later the law relating to mines was extended, and 
in some ways strengthened, several disastrous accidents and ex- 
plosions, entailing loss in the aggregate of thousands of lives, 
having in the meanwhile occurred. At several of the inquests 
strong evidence was given of incompetent management and neglect 
of rules in addition to disregard of inspectors' suggestions for im- 
provement of ventilation in the interests of safety ; in one case 
the coroner's jury returned a verdict of manslaughter against the 
manager, the overman, and the fireman of the colliery, though this 
was subsequently followed by acquittal at the assizes. The Act of 
1 860 touched on several new points, besides extending the law to 
include ironstone mines ; wages and education sections were first 
introduced, but a demand for certificated managers of coal mines 
was not met until 1872. The chief advances in the direction of 
increased safety were, by extension of the general rules to include 
provision for places of refuge on engine planes, use of covers over- 
head in lowering or raising persons in every pit, fencing of fly- 
wheels of every engine, maintenance of boreholes to prevent 
inundations, by empowering an inspector to propose additional 
safeguards for dangers not covered by any rules (but in case of 
objection by the owner, the matter was to go to arbitration) ; by 
raising the age of those entrusted with charge of steam engines to 
eighteen years. 

In the meantime the course of factory legislation continued to 
illustrate the strength of the original motive — rescue of young 
workers and women in textile factories from monstrously long 
hours and overwork — rather than intelligent and steady assimila- 
tion by the community of the evidence of need of special control 




MANUFACTURERS AND SPECIAL RULES 35 

of drainage, ventilation, use of deleterious substances, and other 
matters affecting health in a large number of non-textile industries. 
Such evidence was first strikingly presented by the Report of the 
1 1| Commission on Mines and Manufactures, published in 1843, but 
later in greater detail as regards the injurious industries of lucifer 
match and pottery making in the Report of the Children's Employ- 
ment Commission of 1862. A long and fierce battle had to be 
waged over the form and degree of limitation of hours in textile 
works before the gradual extension of the principle of regulation 

IK could begin and proceed from trade to trade. It was in the Act 
B of 1864, which added the largest number of these, including earthen- 
ware and lucifer match works, that the fruit of the labours of expert 
commissioners began to appear in explicitly sanitary measures, 
applicable to all classes of factories under the Acts.* In this Act 
we first find the idea of ventilation applied in order to render 
harmless " gases, dust, or other impurities generated in the course 
of manufacture that may be injurious to health." And here we 
find the first fleeting attempt to introduce the "special rules " system 
from the Mines Acts, on the employers' initiative, but without 
the arbitration clauses. Manufacturers were empowered to draw 
up special rules binding on workers, after approval by the Secretary 
of State, "for compelling the observance ... of the conditions 
necessary to ensure the required degree of cleanliness and ventila- 
tion, and to annex to any breach of such rules a penalty not 
exceeding one pound." These powers were extended to many 
other trades, including indiarubber works, letterpress printing 
works, blast furnaces, and iron mills, by the Act of 1867, and were 
soon unfavourably reported on by inspectors, as throwing too 
heavy a burden on the workers, " the onus of being a principal 
under the Act," to use Mr Baker's words. In 1868 he reported 
that special rules were in force in most of the iron works in his 
district, which gave the employer " power over his workpeople who 
sub-employ in his works," by holding them responsible for various 
sections of the Acts relating to employment of young persons ; a 
purpose which we can now readily see to have been foreign to the 
general intention of such legislation. By the Act of 187 1 penalties 
for breach of these rules were made recoverable by summary 
proceedings, but the provisions for framing such rules disappeared 
when the law was consolidated by the Act of 1878. The Work- 

* It should be noted that in 1862-3 skilled observations were being made 
and valuable reports presented by Dr Bristowe and others, under the Medical 
Officer to the Privy Council, on industries in which lead, phosphorus, arsenic, 
andjmercury were used, and the precautions necessary for health. 



36 HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

shop Regulation Act of 1867, amended in 1870, practically com- 
pleted the application of the general law to all workplaces in 
which manual labour was exercised for gain, in the making or 
finishing of articles or parts of articles for sale. The " Sanitary 
Act" of 1866 had provided for cleanliness, ventilation to remove 
injurious gases and dust, and for freedom from overcrowding in 
any workplace not under the operation of any of these Acts. The 
Factory Acts of 1864 and 1867 prohibited the taking of meals in 
certain workrooms where dangerous processes are carried on, e.g.y 
lucifer match making, earthenware dipping, china scouring, glass- 
making (mixing, grinding, cutting, polishing), and the application 
of power to the extraction of injurious dusts was furthered by 
introduction of provision for a " fan or other mechanical means," 
approved from time to time by the Secretary of State, in case of 
grinding, glazing, polishing on a wheel, or " any other process in 
which dust is generated or inhaled by the workmen to an injurious 
extent." The Act of 1878, in consolidating all previous Factory and 
Workshop Acts, re-cast some special safety provisions (for example, 
those relating to prohibition of certain workrooms for meals), in 
such a form as to empower the Secretary of State to extend the 
prohibition to other industries, a power which was exercised in a 
considerable number of industries. Employment of young workers 
was also prohibited in certain dangerous processes, and power was 
taken to extend such prohibition. Nothing was done, however, at 
the time of this great measure — which was primarily for better 
administration of existing provisions, and was accompanied, on the 
recommendation of the Commissioners of 1875, by a thorough 
reorganisation and extension of the inspectorate — towards securing 
more detailed regulation of methods and conditions of working in 
dangerous trades, in spite of a recommendation to that effect by 
Mr Redgrave. The first decisive step in that direction was taken 
in 1883 in the case of one of the most deadly of lead industries, the 
manufacture of white lead, whose effects had been recorded for 
centuries, and in France had been the object of special inquiry 
followed by regulation early in the century under the direction of 
the Conseil de Salubrite. It is rather remarkable to read in a 
report of the Chief Inspector, 1882, that although "employment in 
dangerous occupations has on several occasions been brought under 
the notice of the legislature, until recently special attention has not 
been drawn to the manufacture of white lead." * Now, however, 

* In the Report of the Commissioners of 1875, this industry was especially 
named as needing closer regulation. 



II.] EXTENSION OE SPECIAL RULES TO MINES . 37 

the evils pressed for remedy, and the '* Mines Acts as to general 
precautions and special rules " were adopted as a " precedent " to 
be applied to white lead works.* 

Before touching further on this new departure and tracing 
out its sequel, a brief reference must be made to the course 
of Mines legislation since i860. While political conditions 
had been unfavourable to additional legislation for some time 
after the Act. of that year, the conditions in the coal industry 
had been developing steadily, both as regards extent and 
methods of getting mineral on the one hand, and as regards 
association amongst miners on the other, in such a way as to 
make a complete law possible when it inevitably came. Scientific 
knowledge as to mechanical means of ventilation and other 
provisions for safety became at the same time incomparably 
wider spread. Greatly increased public discussion brought out 
far more clearly the objects and desires both of masters and 
men, and the determination of the latter to obtain certificated 
and competent management, extension of the system of 
"general" safety rules, improvement of the method of forming 
" special rules," and increased inspection, had its effect in the 
consolidating and amending Act of 1872. The number of 
general rules was more than doubled, matters formerly left 
to the chances of special rules were permanently transferred 
to the general law, which now included compulsory use of safety 
lamps where needed, regulation of use of explosives in blasting, 
securing of roofs and sides, daily examination of the state of 
the mine, facilities for inspection by representatives of the miners. 
Special rules became more clearly defined as intended for the 
guidance, safety, and proper discipline of the miners at work, 
and they might only be transmitted for the Secretary of State's 
approval after they had been posted in the mine for two weeks 
with a notice that objections to them might be sent by any 
person employed to the inspector of the district. Wilful neglect 
or contravention of any provision of a kind likely to endanger 
safety became punishable, in the case of employers as well as 
miners, by imprisonment with hard labour. The machinery of 
arbitration on any questions of safety under the Acts was made 
considerably clearer. In all these matters f the great advance 

* Report by Alexander Redgrave, Esq., C.B., on white lead poisoning, 
November 1882, p. 12. 

t I set aside entirely consideration of the otherwise important educational, 
wages, and employment sections of this code, as beyond the scope of this 
article. 



38 HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

was by way of development of previous ideas. The entirel}- 
new departure lay in the six sections relating to daily control, 
and supervision of every mine by a manager holding a certificate 
of competency from the Secretary of State, after examination 
by a board of examiners appointed by the latter, power being 
retained to the Secretary of State to cause inquiry, if necessar}-, 
later into the competency of the holder of the certificate, 
cancellation or suspension of the certificate being possible in 
case of proved unfitness. There is little room for surprise 
that so great an advance in the law should have given wide- 
spread satisfaction to the miners, and that for a considerable 
time efforts of their associations were directed to securing 
vigorous enforcement rather than extension of the law. In 
the same year the question of health and safety in Metalliferous 
Mines * received its first treatment in a separate code (which 
remains in force to the present time), of similar scope to the 
Coal Mines Act. A Royal Commission had been appointed in 
1862, and had reported in 1864. The great excess of mortality 
and sickness among metalliferous miners, " mainly attributable 
to the imperfect ventilation of the mines " and inhalation of 
gritty particles, to excessive physical exertion in climbing up 
and down ladders of great length, to the great changes of 
temperature, and exposure to wet, were brought out in the 
report and made the subject of recommendations. It was 
also shown that accidents were of frequent occurrence from 
falls from ladders, falls of the rock or stuff, carelessness in 
blasting, defective gear, and sudden irruptions of foul air and 
water. The method of regulation adopted for Metalliferous Mines, 
by general rules for safety, special rules for conduct and guidance 
of miners, and the requirements as to notice of accidents, coroners' 
inquiries, fencing of abandoned mines, being similar to those for 
Coal Mines, details are unnecessary for the purpose of the present 
essay. In 1881 the Coal Mines Acts were strengthened in 
regard to the use of explosives underground, in 1886 the Secretary 
of State was empowered to direct a formal investigation of any 
explosion or accident and of its causes and circumstances to 
be held (a provision embodied by reference in the Factory 
Acts in 1895). In 1887 the Coal and Ironstone Mines Acts 

* Hitherto touched only by the employment limitations of Lord Shaftes- 
bury's Act of thirty years before, and the first five sections of the Act of i860 
relating to age and certificates of boys, and prohibition of employment of 
youths under eighteen in charge of machinery for raising and lowering 
persons at the pit. 



CONSOLIDATION OF MINES ACT 



39 



were again consolidated with amendments strengthening the 
already existing provisions. By General Rule 4 more stringent 
provision for inspection of working parts of mines before com- 
mencing and during shifts, and the distinction between mines 
in which inflammable gas had been found within the preceding 
twelve months and those in which it had not, disappeared. By 
Rules 8, 9, 10, II, construction and use of safety lamps became 
much more detailed and stringent than in the former Rule 7, 
which they replaced. By Rule 24 the age of competent male 
persons in charge of machinery for raising and lowering persons 
at the mine was raised to twenty-two. By Rule 34 provision 
of ambulances or stretchers with splints and bandages ready 
for immediate use at the mine became compulsory. Other 
main provisions of the Act strengthened were those relating 
to distance and height of communications between the two 
shafts required in mines ; daily personal supervision of the 
mine by the certificated manager ; notice of opening or abandon- 
ing seams. Arbitration on special rules and other matters 
was modified so that while the qualification of being a practical 
mining engineer was retained for the two representative 
arbitrators, the umpire, if any, is bound to be a county court 
judge, a police or stipendiary magistrate, a recorder of a borough, 
or a registrar of a county court. 

Turning again to the Factory and Workshop Act of 1883, 
which forms the first distinct attempt to regulate a dangerous 
manufacturing industry, we find, in its unamended form, a remark- 
able parallel to the method of mines regulation, not merely in the 
requirement that every occupier of a white lead factory shall 
frame and submit for approval to the Secretary of State special 
rules * which have been affixed in the factory with a notice to 
the workers of their power to send objections to the Chief 
Inspector; but also in the prescribing of six general conditions 
for obtaining a certificate to carry on the dangerous industry. 
These include provision for ventilation of stoves and stacks, means 
of maintaining personal cleanliness, and proper room for meals. 
The special rules, however, were not in the original statute liable 
to any process of arbitration, merely to full consideration by the 
Secretary of State, who had power to make modifications after 
hearing the occupiers' objections, if any, to his modifications. 

* " Such special rules for the guidance of the persons employed ... as 
may appear best calculated to enforce the use by them of the requirements 
provided under this Act, and generally to prevent injury to health in the course 
of their employment," 46 and 47 Vict., ch. 53, sect. 7. 



40 HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

This procedure was considerably modified when by the Act of 
1 89 1 provision was made for establishment of special rules in any 
industry (not being a domestic industry) certified by the Secretary 
of State to be dangerous or injurious to health, or dangerous to 
life or limb. Then the initiative in drafting the " special rules or 
requiring the adoption of such special measures as appear to the 
Chief Inspector to be reasonably practicable, and to meet the 
necessities of the case " was transferred from the occupier to the 
Factory Department, but a counterbalancing force was provided 
by addition of the arbitration clauses wherever the occupier 
persisted in objections to the proposed special rules, and the 
Secretary of State could not see the way to accepting modifica^ 
tions asked for by the occupier. At the same time the share of 
the worker in framing the rules, by his legal right to make objec- 
tions before they were established, entirely disappeared. It was 
not until the Act of 1895 that this loss was imperfectly com- 
pensated, by a right to representation on the arbitration on condi- 
tions prescribed by the arbitrators which was then secured to 
workmen interested, or any class of them. In 1896, in the Mines 
Acts that privilege was superadded to the other. The general 
tenor of the Factory Act of 1891, following as it did on the 
important work of the House of Lords' Committee on the Sweat- 
ing System, and the Berlin International Conference, was one of 
development of sanitary organisation, particularly with regard to 
workshops, and of closer regulation of dangerous and injurious 
trades. It had been preceded in 1889 by an Act with special 
reference (like the Act of 1883) to a single class of factories, in this 
case the cotton cloth factories, in which excessive heat and 
humidity produced by artificial means seriously affected the health 
and comfort of operatives. The Act not only limited the tempera- 
ture of workrooms and amount of moisture in the atmosphere, 
but also provided for tests and records of the same, and fixed a 
standard minimum volume of fresh air, 600 cubic feet, to be 
admitted in every hour for every person employed. Power was 
retained for the Secretary of State to modify by order the 
maximum limit of humidity of the atmosphere at any given 
temperature, and a short Act of two sections in 1897 extended 
this power to other measures for the protection of health recom- 
mended by a Departmental Committee appointed to inquire into 
the working of the Act of 1889. Without doubt, the most 
important measures adopted under this Act in 1898 were those 
tending to purify the air of workrooms by prescribing a CO 



II.] STANDARD PURITY OF AIR IN COTTON FACTORIES 41 

standard of ventilation ("during working hours in no part of 
the Cotton Cloth Factory shall the proportion of carbonic acid 
in the air be greater than nine volumes of carbonic acid to 
every ten thousand volumes of air"), and by prohibiting use of 
impure water for production of artifical humidity. One other 
point of historical interest in connection with the Act of 1889 
must be touched on. It contained a general provision enabling 
an inspector, where he considered that dust was inhaled by the 
workers to an injurious extent, to serve a notice on the occupier 
of the factory to adopt mechanical or other means for its removal, 
but subjecting the notice in case of objection by the occupier 
to the same process of arbitration as the notice of fencing for 
dangerous machinery provided in the Act of 1844. In both cases 
the power of the employer to send the notice to arbitration was 
repealed by the Act of 1891, and, consequently, the ordinary pro- 
cedure for the inspector to enforce such notices was by establish- 
ment of the evidence in support of his requirement in the ordinary 
courts. For the first time some provision was made in 1891 for 
means of escape in case of fire in factories and workshops. Certi- 
fying surgeons were now called upon to report annually as to the 
persons inspected and the results of inspection. 

On the Act of 1891 followed a period of greatly increased 
administrative activity with the new powers to initiate detailed 
regulation for promotion of special hygiene in factory and work- 
shop life. No fewer than sixteen trades, including the majority 
of those referred to in the reports of Royal Commissioners and 
special medical experts of the earlier and middle parts of the 
century, were certified, under sections, by the Secretary of State, 
as dangerous or injurious within four years of the passing of the 
Act* The Act of 1895, extending greatly in several directions 
the sanitary control of industrial life, followed on this period of 
increased activity, after the Royal Commission on Labour had 
reported on the results of its wide survey of industrial conditions, 
after two important Departmental Committees had reported on 
lead and phosphorus industries, and after two successive annual 
reports had embodied reports and recommendations from the 
women inspectors who in 1893 wxre first added by the Home 
Office to the staff of factory inspectors. In the year in which 
this Act came into force, medical knowledge was established 

* Mention may be made of manufacture of lucifer matches, extraction of 
arsenic, manufacture of earthenware, enamelhng of iron plates, quarries, 
chemical works, lead smelting, flax mills, and linen factories. 



42 HISTORICAL SKETCH OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

as a guiding factor in the permanent administration of the De- 
partment. Probably no more important step towards control of 
use of poisonous substances in manufacture has been taken than 
that contained in the provision for reports to the Chief Inspector 
from every medical practitioner attending in certain cases of 
poisoning contracted in any factory or workshop. Complementary 
to this is an extension of the province of certifying surgeons ; it 
included now not only examination of workers under sixteen, but 
also the duty of inquiry and report in certain cases of industrial 
disease and accident, and, under special rules, where required, 
periodical re-examination of workers. In the general provisions 
of the Act appear for the first time the questions of reasonable 
temperature, requirement of lavatories where poisonous substances 
are used, formerly only touched by special rules ; it became pos- 
sible by order of a court of summary jurisdiction to secure prohi- 
bition of use of dangerous structures or a dangerous machine until 
the necessary steps had been taken to remove the danger by the 
occupier of the factory or workshop. The field of factory regula- 
tion was extended by the inclusion of certain conditions of health 
and safety in " laundries," and of general and special conditions of 
safety in every dock, wharf, quay, and warehouse. In the special 
rules it became possible for the Secretary of State, subject to the 
award of arbitrators if objection were raised, to introduce pro- 
visions prohibiting or limiting employment of any classes of 
persons in the industries scheduled as dangerous, a power which 
has been exercised in the case of white lead works (prohibition 
of women's employment in the most dangerous processes), vulcan- 
ising of indiarubber by bisulphide of carbon (limitation of hours 
of adults), and lead smelting works (limit of spells in cleaning 
flues). 

A few words must be said about the dangerous industry of 
quarrying in open quarries (as distinct from underground quarries 
under the Metalliferous Mines Act). These were nominally 
under the Factory Acts by section 93 of 1878, but it was not 
until special rules could be introduced under the Act of 1891 that 
any practical steps could be taken at all to enforce the particular 
measures of safety applicable to the conditions. These proved 
inadequate, and in 1894, on the recommendations of a Special 
Committee appointed in 1893 to inquire into the whole matter, 
a special Quarries Act was passed which, while retaining those 
provisions of the Factory Acts that were suitable, such as fencing 
and regulation of employment, applied also those provisions of the 



IT.] QUARRIES ACT .43 

Metalliferous Mines Acts which from the nature of the industry 
rendered them better adapted for control of its peculiar dangers ; 
at the same time the administration passed to the Mines Depart- 
ment, and in a few years it was reported that special rules for 
safety had been established in over 2000 quarries with satis- 
factory results. 

Much remains to be said of the methods of regulation of 
injurious and dangerous industries since 1896 ; * of the steps taken 
by inquiries and action of the permanent staff, with its increas- 
ingly expert character ; of inquiries by Departmental Com- 
mittees and by specially appointed advisers on scientific and 
technical aspects of processes ; of endeavours, successful and 
unsuccessful, to frame and carry through special rules without 
resort to arbitration to meet the risks to the life and health 
of whole classes of workers ; of the results of arbitration in two 
of the most injurious industries, manufacture of earthenware and 
china, and of lucifer matches, where white or yellow phosphorus 
is used. All this, however, belongs so much to current history and 
controversy that its true meaning and tendency can best be 
brought out later, and perhaps by a more detached observer. 
At the very time when the proofs of this sketch leave my hands, 
an important Bill is passing to report stage in the House of 
Commons from the Grand Committee on Trade, where opinion 
has been shown to be practically unanimous in regard to the 
substitution of a better method of establishing special rules for 
the precarious and clumsy method of arbitration ; power has been 
taken to prohibit, limit, or control use of any material or process 
in industry ; and, where fruitful extension has been made of the 
principle of legislating, for details in matters of health by means 
of departmental orders. Enough has, I trust, been said to illus- 
trate the rise and growth in the last hundred years of the still 
new ideas of the claim of the industrial worker in a civilised 
country to reasonable, practical measures to secure his immunity 
from needless suffering, of the claim of the community that the 
profits of manufacture shall not be bought at the expense of the 
life and health of citizens, in whose individual well-being the true 
wealth of the community lies. 

Adelaide M. Anderson. 

* For example, by control of structural conditions, ventilation and cleanli- 
ness of workrooms, and of modes of handling dangerous substances, and con- 
dition of appliances and machinery used ; of provision for cleanliness of 
workers, and maintenance of their general health by periodical examination 
and suspension ; and, not least important, by exclusion of young workers. 



CHAPTER III 

REGULATION OF INJURIOUS OR DANGEROUS OCCUPATIONS IN 
FACTORIES AND WORKSHOPS IN SOME OF THE CHIEF 
EUROPEAN COUNTRIES. 

In the historical sketch of the development in England of factory 
and workshop hygiene, I have endeavoured to indicate the ground- 
work on which special regulations for dangers arising out of the 
nature or the organisation of particular processes rest. Compre- 
hension of the meaning of regulations for industrial health in other 
countries would be greatly increased for the student of this branch 
of comparative legislation and administration, if there were know- 
ledge of the historical development of these institutions not only in 
one but in all the countries touched on. But then, equally so would 
there be gain in acquiring practical administrative experience in 
all those countries. Although both kinds of knowledge are not 
equally impracticable of attainment by one individual, the limits of 
space and time in such a chapter as this prohibit any attempt to 
enter on either field so far as details are concerned, and it is only 
possible to take the absolutely necessary step of entering a warn- 
ing against over-estimation of the value of comparative surveys of 
systems of factory law and schemes of administration which are not 
followed by further research. With a view to such further research 
I trust that the slight survey attempted here may be of value. 

While fully appreciating the need of supplementing study of 
the law relating to factory hygiene in an}- country by reference to 
the system of local government and the law relating to public 
health, I am compelled by the limits already touched on to con- 
centrate attention on the one branch of law — factory legislation 
proper. 

England stands in a special position, with its own qualities and 
own defects. Having entered long before most other European 
countries on the path of control of employment in factories owing 
to the earlier need of such regulation, and having admittedly also 



CHAP. III.] ENGLAND LAGGING BEHIND IN LEGISLATION 45 

led the way in the task of building up a complete and precise 
sanitary code for regulation of public health, England has shown 
in the later stages of the part of the work which touches industry 
too little interest in the later efforts, on different lines of other 
countries. This slowness is traceable in part to the same causes 
as those which have retarded in England the general study of 
comparative legislation and administration, of which foremost, no 
doubt, stands the necessity of developing on national lines our 
own safeguards, yet it seems probable that the country which in 
a singular degree stimulated European progress in Public Health 
by the justly famous " Report on the Sanitary Condition of the 
Labouring Population," 1838, and its immediate fruits, has latterly 
retarded its own progress in industrial hygiene by too close an 
adherence to its own methods. However this may be, it is clear 
that whereas Continental thinkers have already begun to utter 
warnings as to the limits of the value of comparative study of 
labour legislation, we in England are still waiting for sufficient 
material and accurate information on which to base any com- 
parisons at all. Even for those who have time to do little more 
than mould their opinions by reading the daily and weekly papers, 
still more for those who desire to devote more time to these 
subjects, it would be well if we had continually accessible, in con- 
venient form, current documents which would enable us to estimate 
more exactly what we have to learn from other countries, and what 
are the ideas applied there which are capable of application here 
under different circumstances of social and administrative tradition 
and legislative groundwork.* And to understand any one branch 
of factory legislation, even the sanitary, engineering, and 
medical side of prevention of industrial diseases and accidents, 
knowledge must be acquired of other sides, the economic one of 
limitation of hours and times of work, and protection of workers 
in making their contract, no less than the social side of propriety of 
arrangements in the workplace, and direct or indirect protection of 
women, home life, and children's training. The time has come, 
however, when there is a new readiness for the interchange of 
ideas between this country and others on the question of general 
provision for sanitation and special regulation for dangerous, 
unhealthy, and injurious occupations. As I have said elsewhere, 
" with the rise and development of new methods and even entire 
industries in new places, old and new dangers and diseases are 

* For example, such publications as the Bulletin de V Inspection du Travail 
of France, and the Annuaire de la Legislation du Travail of Belgium. 



46 COM PARA TIVE SURVEY OF LEGISLA TION [chap. 

rapidly becoming clearer. The international interest in applying 
science at an equal pace to the development and to the sanitation 
of injurious industries is at once more equal and more urgent than 
in the indirectly hygienic questions of hours and holidays for 
industrial workers. At the same time the difficulties of regula- 
tion are far less prominently economic, legal or social, and more 
especially questions for treatment by expert scientific advisers." 

In order to estimate with an approach to accuracy the 
value of special measures adopted in other countries, it is 
necessary to obtain some idea of the ordinary scope of factory 
legislation, and of the degree in which the laws are made 
operative by methods of administration, and by sanctions 
attached to contraventions. The regulations for ordinary 
health and safety, which " at first blush " bear considerable 
resemblance to each other, are found on closer examination 
to have widely differing effectiveness, owing perhaps in one 
case to lack of precise definition or to special limitation of 
the class of workplaces covered ; m another to the powers 
conferred both on local and on central authorities to sanction 
exceptions either to the Industrial Code, or orders made under 
it ; in another to local variations in economic organisation of 
industries affected. For example, on the first point, more 
cases of disputed application of the code, which contains no 
definition of the term "factory," have in Germany come before 
the courts than in England, and in Germany the special 
restrictions as regards hours and health for women and young 
workers apply only in "factories." The various decisions, on 
particular instances, of the Supreme Court lay stress now on 
one feature, now on another, of what is understood as a factory, 
such as numbers employed, size of the building, subdivision 
of labour, active personal share of the employer in the processes. 
Application of mechanical power to manufacture by machinery 
generally brings a workplace under the scope of the factory 
regulations, but power is retained for the Federal Council to 
exempt even from this rule any special undertaking. The 
Austrian Industrial Code does define the term "factory," but 
very much on the lines threshed out by the decisions of the 
German Reichsgericht. In both these countries there is much 
less control of conditions of labour in workshops than in 
factories, although Austria makes rather less distinction than 
Germany between the two. Whereas England distinguishes 
these two classes of workplace only by relegating general 




RISE OF FACTORY INSPECTION 47 

sanitary control of the workshops to the local authority, not 
by differing requirements, France makes none of the distinc- 
tion between factory and workshop which in one form or 
another is found in other European countries. In both these 
countries the general protection of the law covers alike factory 
and workshop employe ; in Germany the Code has not gone 
further than to empower the Federal Council to extend the 
factory regulations, if cause should be found, to workshops. 
" Domestic workshops " are entirely exempt from regulation 
of labour in Germany and Austria. England stands alone 
in defining limits in domestic workshops for the labour of 
children and young persons, but hitherto has not taken the 
power of applying special sanitary regulation,* which both 
France and Belgium possess, for protection against dangerous 
or unhealthy occupations carried on in them. From even so 
brief a review of the classes of workplaces covered, it easily 
appears how in the past in some countries the domestic work- 
shops in dangerous industries, e.g.^ lucifer match making 
(unknown except in factories in England), have furnished a 
disproportionate number of victims of industrial disease. 

While the first question necessarily is, what are the work- 
places covered by the regulations? the second and equally 
important is, what is the system of inspection? In most 
countries, as in England, the institution of a special inspectorate 
has followed, not accompanied, the enactment of measures of 
protection, even though in some countries the idea of sanitary 
regulation has preceded limitation of hours for women and 
minors. In Belgium, Holland, and Sweden the institution 
dates from 1888-9; in Switzerland, and some of the German 
States, beginning with. Prussia, it dates from 1878; in Austria, 
from about 1887; France, from 1874; Denmark, 1873. About 
1892 to 1893 both France and Belgium undertook the re- 
organisation of their inspectorate, which corresponds to the 
thorough reconstruction that in England followed the Royal 
Commission on Factory Legislation in 1876. 

In several of these countries, all of which had originally 
to some extent looked to the far earlier example and experi- 
ence of England in enforcement of the law, the important step 
was taken, considerably in advance of England, of bringing into 
the factory service medical, engineering, and chemical expert 

* A matter first dealt with by section 12 of the Government Factory Bill, 
which passed its second reading June 1901. 



48 COM PARA TIVE SURVEY OF LEG I SLA TION [chap. 

knowledge. No doubt in England, the delay in this matter 
is directly traceable to the character stamped on the institution 
by the educational, moral, and social origin of our Factory Acts, 
and to the very recent beginnings of development (i 883-1 891) 
of a special basis of factory hygiene. The delay in England 
was probably further increased by the introduction (referred to 
in my historical sketch) of tentative investigations of industrial 
diseases under the aegis of an entirely separate Government 
Department, concerned with local government and administra- 
tion of the law relating to public health. This delay as com- 
pared with Germany was, however, more than compensated, 
when the Act of 1891 had introduced special means of control of 
injurious trades, by the centralised, organised character of the 
English inspectorate. Although the German Federal Council can 
make regulations for injurious industries throughout the Empire 
which over-ride special state or local rules, still each state has 
hitherto appointed its own inspectors, and when appointed these 
inspectors in order to enforce the rules must ordinarily report 
infringements to the local police authority, who may or may not 
dways take action. Thus in Germany uniformity of administra- 
tion in such matters outside the boundary of any state, so far as 
it depends on centralised supervision, can hardly be looked for. 
Much more closely knit is the Austrian inspectorate, v/ith its chief 
inspector, who has some expert advisers on his staff, and power 
himself to take part in final decisions on cases brought up, on 
appeal, to the industrial authority of third and final instance at 
the Ministry of the Interior. Only in Austria, so far as I know, 
is it obligatory in fixing a penalty for a contravention to take 
into account both the amount of advantage the offender might 
expect from the infringement and the amount of harm that the 
worker may suffer. The latter consideration would be weightiest 
in questions of health and safety, and since the fines have to be 
paid into local provident funds for workers, would correspond to 
the penal compensation in case of injury through neglect to fence 
machinery possible under English law. Medical and chemical 
reports are less prominent in the Austrian inspectorate than the 
German, and it has been distinctly laid down that the inspectors 
are not so much engineering and sanitary experts as a special 
institution for the protection of labour ; since 1876 the supervision 
of dangerous and unhealthy industries has been one of the 
functions of the provincial authorities for public health. Although 
in France the inspectorate has been organised on lines, so far as 




CONTINENTAL FA CTOR V INSPECTORA TE 49 

territorial divisions are concerned, similar to those in England, i.e., 
with district and superintending inspectors, it is without a chief 
inspector, and works under the general supervision of a commission 
{^Commission superieure dti Travail dans I' Industrie). This system 
has been declared by one of the oldest superintending or divisional 
inspectors to work most unsatisfactorily in the matter of control of 
dangerous industries where the great need is that the circumstances 

I not of a locality, but the country as a whole, should be considered 
B- by a chief having under his directions both expert officials and an 
organised staff. The special expert character of the central 
Belgian inspectorate is determined by the fact that the earliest 

IHk inspectors were appointed ( 1 889) under the law relating to sanitation 
^^ and safety in dangerous or unhealthy industries, and not under the 
law limiting hours of labour for women and children. The latter 
were first appointed in 1 891, and the whole service organised as one 
in 1895. O^ ^^ Scandinavian countries Denmark has had the 
most definitely constituted inspectorate, but here the central autho- 
rity has hitherto been divided (as it was before 1876 in England) 
between two principal inspectors. This is now altered. An Act 
which came into force on ist January 1902, not only amends and 
strengthens the law relating to factories, but also centralises 
the control by providing for a single chief or director with 
two expert secretaries, one trained in economic questions, the 
other in technical questions. Of the remaining European countries 
Hungary possesses an organised and centralised inspectorate of 
the English type. In Russia control of the methods of inspectors 
is by a system of Provincial Boards under the supreme super- 
vision of the Chief Factory and Mining Board, presided over by 
the Minister of Finance, who places some of the principal 
inspectors on the Board. 

I may turn from the field of application of the laws and 
methods of organising inspection to the methods of securing 
general sanitary conditions and security in workplaces. Eng- 
land stands alone in both delegating certain sanitary powers 
to local authorities, and at the same time retaining power to 
the Government inspectors to intervene in these matters in case 
of default of the local authority, and yet we have nothing 
quite comparable to the powers of health authorities in Belgium, 
Germany, and Austria, to lay down in certificates of authorisa- 
tion for large numbers of workplaces, conditions aimed kt 
securing the health of the workers as well as the public health. 
In some cases, particularly in Belgium, this power extends 

D 



50 COMPARATIVE SURVEY OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

beyond the trades here classed as noxious or offensive, and 
includes amongst many trades recognised as injurious to 
workers even laundries, one of the last of the great manual 
industries to be regulated in this country. Quite early in the 
nineteenth century we find laundries appearing in French lists 
of noxious or offensive trades under two classes, {a) as requiring 
authorisation for establishment near dwellings, {U) as requiring 
internal supervision on account of decomposing soap and 
water. In Germany and Austria, lists of trades subject to 
preliminary authorisation are shorter than in Belgium, but 
there is nothing in other countries equivalent to the absolute 
duty placed upon German local authorities, apart from all 
initiative of numerous Government inspectors, to visit every 
industrial establishment where protected persons are employed 
at least once in six months, in order to apply the provisions 
of the industrial code in all matters relating to safety, sanita- 
tion, and propriety of arrangements. Further, we have in 
England nothing comparable to the powers of the separate 
State Authorities in Germany to call in the advice of the 
Accident Assurance Associations under the Accident Insurance 
Laws in order to restrict hours of labour in dangerous occupa- 
tions, or to carry into effect the general requirements of the 
Code relating to safety and health. In general, in comparing 
special rules against dangers in industry as between England 
and Germany, due weight must be given to the consideration 
that for many years in Germany there has been insurance for 
workers both against accident and sickness; also it must be re- 
membered that the Civil Code lays a positive obligation on 
every master to secure for his servants arrangements for health, 
safety, and morality in their employment such as are also re- 
quired in the Industrial Code. We are, moreover, in Austria 
and Germany reviewing countries in which traces of the old 
guild organisation of industry survive both in law and fact, and 
the industrial codes, while defining the duties of employers to 
workers, expressly require obedience and fidelity from the worker 
to his employer. Discipline thus is a far easier matter in a 
German than an English workplace, a factor of very consider- 
able importance in regulation of dangerous trades. 

It would not be difificult to demonstrate in tabular form that 
England and Germany stand easily first among the European 
countries in respect of detailed attempts to regulate unhealthy 
industries by special Government rules, but it must suffice 



III.] VENTILATION AND LIGHTING OF FACTORIES 51 

presently to set forth the trades so regulated in these two, while 
touching on some of the salient features of special rules in other 
countries. First, however, it must be indicated how the various 
countries stand to each other in such general matters as ventila- 
tion and lighting of workrooms, temperature, provision of meal 
rooms, cloak rooms, lavatories, drinking water, arrangements for 
sanitary accommodation, reporting and prevention of accidents. 

As regards ventilation, until the Bill of 1901 to amend the 
P'actory Acts was introduced by the Government, England stood 
almost alone in requiring removal of air from workrooms only so 
far as injurious dust, gases, and vapours arose from the manu- 
facturing process. The laws of Germany, Austria, and Belgium 
recognised much earlier the need of ample ventilation in a work- 
room, quite apart from the special question of removal of poisonous 
or injurious products of manufacture, although for those too suffi- 
cient provision had been made. In Belgium, general ventilation 
of workrooms was one of the special conditions of authorisation 
of unhealthy trades under a decree of 1886, but in 1894 it was 
jDarticularly laid down for all workshops that means of securing 
renewal of the air equal to at least 30 cubic metres per hour per 
worker should be provided, and that where unhealthy processes 
were carried on, the removal should be equal to 60 cubic metres. 
" The inlets for fresh air and outlets for vitiated air shall be so 
placed as to cause no inconvenience to workers." On this followed 
the further provisions for exhaust ventilation for steam, gases, and 
dust. A French decree of the same year is rather less exacting 
in the matter of general ventilation, but more precise as to the 
measures necessary for removing or preventing injurious dusts, 
gases, and steam. In Austria and Germany, in addition to the 
general proviso that workrooms are to be maintained in such a 
condition as to secure the health of workers, both general ventila- 
tion and special provision for removing dust and fumes are re- 
quired. These requirements are of much earlier date than the 
French and German decrees referred to. General ventilation 
and removal of dust from workrooms are required in Hungary 
by the law of 1893, and will be in Denmark by the law to 
come into force in 1902. 

As regards lighting of workrooms, a condition of health almost 
as important as ventilation, several of the more important industrial 
countries have provisions, although England has hitherto left the 
matter untouched. Germany by section 128, and Austria by 
section 74, of their respective industrial codes recognise sufficient 



5 2 COM PARA TIVE SURVEY OF LEG I SLA TLON [chap. 

light as an essential condition of health in factories. In France 
provision is made for proper lighting of workrooms and also of 
passages, staircases, and other accessory parts of factories and work- 
shops. In Belgium and Denmark lighting has hitherto been 
required as a measure of safety, not of health. On the other hand, 
the important sanitary question of temperature is more carefully 
provided for by the general law now in England than in the 
codes of other countries. 

Suitable dining-rooms, which can only be required in danger- 
ous industries under special rules in England, may by the 
German code be ordered wherever it seems desirable by the 
local authority, who may also require that they shall be heated 
in cold weather. In France, although it is laid down that all 
workrooms must be cleared, and the air entirely renewed during 
meal hours, the law is silent as regards provision of meal 
rooms ; consequently, as in certain cases in England, inspectors 
report difficulties in enforcing the evacuation of workrooms 
during meal hours. It is frankly admitted in the latest annual 
report that the law has hitherto only been strictly applied 
where the nature of the manufacturing process makes the re- 
striction essential for protection of the health of the worker : 
mostly in trades classed in this country as injurious. The Belgian 
law does not in this matter go quite so far as the French, the 
restriction applying only to rooms in which poisonous substances 
are handled. Suitable lavatories, cloak-rooms, and drinking water 
are required in all factories and workshops in France by the decree 
of 1894, a requirement going far beyond those of other countries, 
for example Germany, where provision of lavatories and cloak- 
rooms depend on their being required by the nature of the work, 
and where a detailed order must be made to that effect by the 
police authority for specified classes of workplaces. As in the case 
of meals in workrooms, it appears from the official reports that in 
France the provision of washing appliances is enforced only in 
chemical works, workplaces where poisonous substances are 
handled, rag-sorting shops, tobacco factories, and a few other 
classes of workplace, where the nature of the work makes it im- 
portant that such protection should be given. 

The French and the Belgian laws are as yet the only ones 
which attempt to define precisely a standard, independent of local 
conditions, for sufficient and suitable sanitary conveniences. The 
German code makes a general requirement as to sufficiency and 
suitability, having regard to number and sex of workers, and 



III.] FACTORY EMPLOYMENT AND CHILD-BIRTH 53 

leaves details to police regulation. In Belgium the number 
must be one convenience at least for every twenty-five workers, in 
France for every fifty workers, and in neither country may there 
be direct communication with workrooms. It is clearly stated in 
inspectors' reports that in France the conditions in sanitary 
respects are far from being fully enforced, although the general 
limit of one in fifty is not infringed. These two countries again 
have general provision for the very important matters of drainage 
of floors and frequent cleansing of workrooms, and prompt removal 
from them of organic matter. " The floor shall be cleansed, 
thoroughly, at least once a day before or after the period of 
employment," in the French decree of 1893, is a provision which 
appears to be well enforced and is applicable to all industries. 
The inspectors are specially instructed to draw attention to the 
hygienic value of a cleansing which takes place before the entry of 
workers. The sanitary value of such a practice, whether in dusty, 
poisonous, or ordinary workshops, cannot possibly be overrated. 

Glancing for a moment at general regulations to protect 
women and young workers, as distinct from adult workers, two 
points only can be touched on, protection of young workers 
against overstrain, and women from accidents and from too 
early employment after child-birth. The brevity of this article 
makes it impossible to compare in detail the limits of age for 
child labour in the different countries, but some special safeguards 
under the French law cannot be passed by : [a) careful detailed 
regulation of the weights that may be pushed, lifted, carried by 
girls and boys under eighteen years of age ; (/^) prohibition of 
employment of girls under sixteen at machines driven by 
treadles ; {c) prohibition of emplo3/ment of young workers in a 
large number of processes scheduled as unhealthy ; id) cleaning 
of machinery in motion is prohibited not only for young workers 
but also for women. The German Industrial Code especially 
insists on the peculiar responsibility of employers to take every 
possible step to protect young workers from risks of all kinds. 

The limitations as regards employment of women after child- 
birth may be briefly summarised as follows : — 

Belgium. — " Women must not be employed in industry within 
four weeks after child-birth " (sect. 5 of Law of 5th December 1889). 

Sivitzerland. — " A total absence from employment in factories 
of women during eight weeks before and after child-birth must be 
observed, and on their return to work proof must be tendered of 
an absence since birth of the child of at least six weeks " (section 



54 COM PARA TIVE SUR VE Y OF LEGISLA TION [cha p. 

15 of the Federal Law of 23rd March 1877). An order of the 
Federal Council, 1897, indicates a further abstinence from employ- 
ment before confinement (the length of time unspecified) in certain 
dangerous occupations, e.g., in processes in which fumes of white 
phosphorus are produced ; or in manipulation of lead or lead 
products; or where mercury or sulphuric acid are used; in dry 
cleaning works ; in indiarubber works ; any processes involving 
lifting or carrying heavy weights, or risk of violent shocks. As 
the limit of the period is undefined, and means of enforcing the 
prohibition unspecified, it is difificult to see how the regulation 
does more than outline an excellent theoretical protection. 

Holland. — "Women must not be employed in factories or 
workshops within four weeks after child-birth" (Law of 5th May 



Denmark. — "Women must not be employed within four weeks 
of child-birth except on production of a medical certificate showing 
that the mother's employment will not be injurious to herself or 
the child" (Law of ist July 1901). 

Germany. — The Industrial Code contains the same absolute 
prohibition of employment during four weeks as the Dutch law, 
but extends it to six weeks if a medical certificate cannot be pro- 
duced approving employment at the end of four weeks. 

Austria. — The Industrial Code lays down the same prohibition 
as the Dutch law. 

Spain, by a law of 13th March 1900, prohibits employment of 
women within three weeks of child-birth, but lays a further obliga- 
tion on employers to allow one hour at least in the ordinary period 
of employment (for which there must be no deduction from wages) 
to nursing mothers to nurse their infants. This hour may be 
divided into two separate absences of half-an-hour, and may be 
fixed at pleasure by the mother, whose only obligation is to 
notify the times she chooses to the overlooker. 

Turning to accidents and their prevention in factory and 
workshop employment, it is probable that only in Germany and 
Austria, through the operation of the long-established insurance 
laws, is there anything approaching the completeness of informa- 
tion with regard to occurrence and causes of accidents secured in 
England by the duty of reporting so precisely defined in the 
Factory Acts. On the other hand, through the operation of the 
same insurance laws, the fencing and other precautions against 
occurrence of accidents, necessarily tend to be far completer than 
in any country where this motive has only recently arisen (as in 



HI.] ACCIDENTS IN FACTORIES, AND TRADE ASSOCIATIONS 55 

France and England). It is indeed expres.sly stated in the last 
annual report of the French inspectors, that the statistics of 
accidents are very far from indicating the real state of affairs, 
and that it cannot be known until the law of employers' liability 
for accidents, of 1898, has come fully into operation. Possibly to 
the admittedly ineffectual control by Government in France of the 
causes and prevention of accidents is due the formation and 
steady growth of Employers' Associations with the object of 
reducing industrial accidents by careful fencing and organisation 
of work. Details as to methods adopted in the various countries 
for guarding machinery and reducing risk of accidents would be 
too elaborate and technical for this article. So far as the various 
laws, distinguished from administrative regulation, are concerned, 
none contain so complete a series of provisions as the English 
Factory Acts, though Belgian and FVench decrees contain some 
excellent safeguards. In Germany, as can be readily verified by 
reference to any volume of Government inspectors' reports, much 
of the detailed work of enforcing use of safeguards is done by the 
Trade Accident Associations, often acting in co-operation with the 
State inspectors. Not only are rules relating to safeguards — for 
example, the elaborate ones in aerated water works — drawn up by 
the Trade Associations, but they are enforceable by penalty both on 
employers and employed after they have been duly authorised 
by the Imperial Insurance Office. Employers neglecting the 
rules may be condemned to pay double their ordinary contribution 
to the Trade Association, and the fines imposed on workers are 
payable to the Sick Insurance Fund. 

Turning now to governmental regulation of specially, un- 
healthy or injurious occupations by more closely applied and 
more easily amended rules than are possible in a general code, 
I must revert again to the observation made above, that only 
in England and Germany can a clear comparison be made 
of " special rules " ; this applies both to the method of formulat- 
ing such rules, and to the number and variety of trades so 
regulated. Other countries have in their general factory law 
powers to make somewhat similar regulation, but have relied 
in a greater degree on control of injurious occupations by local 
authorities concerned with the law relating to public health, or 
have endeavoured, especially in France, to lay down in a single 
administrative decree general requirements as to exhaust ventila- 
tion for dust and fumes, washing appliances, meal-rooms, etc., 
which would be likely to cover the special risks in many indus- 



56 COM PARA TIVE SURVEY OF LEGISLA TION [ch ai>. 

tries. In Belgium, where special rules for safety of workers in 
dangerous industries (such as manufacture of lucifer matches 
by means of white or yellow phosphorus) have been drawn 
up, both in pursuance of the general law regulating factories 
(1889) and of the laws relating to noxious industries, under 
control of local authorities, there is an increasing tendency 
for sanitary regulation of workplaces to pass into the control 
of the central factory inspectors.* There we find in the decree 
of 1894, relating to general precautions in unhealthy industries, 
very similar provisions to those in the French decree of the 
same year ; but the Belgian decree is declared in its preamble 
to be a codification of the conditions liable to be attached to 
certificates of authorisation by the local authorities, whereas 
in the French decree we clearly find the first step in an attempt 
to apply the general law of 1893, relating to hygiene in 
factories and workshops. An exceedingly interesting commen- 
tary on the incomplete and unsatisfactory effect of this latter 
method is found in the summary to the annual report of the 
French inspectors for 1899. I gave a translation of the terms 
of the decree in my annual report for 1894 to the Chief 
Inspector of Factories, and need not repeat them here. The 
difficulties since complained of in France are twofold — {a) 
judicial, as to interpretation in the courts of some of the 
exceedingly vague terms employed, {U) technical, owing to 
the inappropriateness in some of the industries of rules which 
are admirable in others. There is a growing demand, likely 
to be met after completion of current investigations in various 
unhealthy industries, for more detailed and precise rules, 
applicable to special processes or to classes or allied groups of 
industries. Such special rules were clearly originally intended to 
be the outcome of the law on hygiene, 1893, but in only one case, 
the manufacture of emerald or Schweinfurth green, have special 
rules binding both on employers and workers been applied 
(decree of 29th June 1895) to the peculiar risks of the 
processes. " Does that mean," says the official report of 1900, 
" that it is only in this branch of manufacture that the need 
for special protection of workers against the injurious effects 
of the processes has appeared ? No. The Government have 
had under consideration a certain number of draft rules for 
application to particular industries ... for example, industries 

*See Report prefacing the Royal Decree of 27th December 1886, for the 
beginning of this tendency. 



III.] 



COMMITTEE AND SPECIAL RULES IN FRANCE 



57 



in which lead and lead compounds, mercury, arsenic, or 
arsenious acid, and varnishes with an alcoholic base are used." 
In the meantime the result of their considerations has been 
that draft rules for electric accumulator works, vulcanisation 
of indiarubber, laundries (against danger from infectious 
diseases), horn and woollen factories, handling of foreign hides 
and skins, were referred to the Committee of Public Hygiene, 
for an opinion to guide the Minister of Commerce and Industry 
before he finally issues the decrees, embodying the rules. It 
appeared, however, that the statutory powers of this Committee 
do not go beyond the framing of recommendations applicable 
to industries in general, and the Minister of Commerce and 
Industry appointed, therefore, in December 1900 a special Danger- 
ous Trades Committee, composed of nine members, under the 
Presidency of M. le Docteur Napias, Member of the Academic de 
Medecine. The aim in selecting the members of the Committee 
was to secure the technical and scientific knowledge necessary 
for preparation of special rules suitable to particular classes of 
industry, processes, or modes of working. In addition to expert 
members such as M. Bouquet, M. P'ontaine, and Professors of 
Chemistry, Economics, and Representatives of Employers and 
Employed, four other members may be appointed for the special 
technical considerations belonging to each trade or class of work 
to be regulated. 

As regards poisonous processes, in all but the deadliest, where 
the frequency and severity of illness (as, e.g., amongst white lead 
workers) long ago led to inquiry followed by special local precau- 
tions, inquiry must be greatly handicapped in France, as it has 
been in Germany, by the lack of complete statistics of industrial 
poisoning such as have been secured in England. In no other country 
has the step been taken of laying both on the occupier of a factory 
or workshop and on every medical practitioner the duty of report- 
ing to a chief inspector of factories, or the central authority, indi- 
vidual cases of industrial poisoning. The lack of information 
would possibly have been earlier felt in all its seriousness in 
both France and Germany had there been the centralised re- 
sponsibility that followed the appointment of a single chief 
inspector in England. Although in France the attention of the 
Minister of Commerce and Industry has been repeatedly drawn 
to the effects of lead poisoning in potteries, and special precau- 
tions are recognised as necessary, it is difficult, as Dr Oliver 
pointed out in his report of 1899 to the Home Secretary, 



58 COMPARATIVE SURVEY OF LEGISLATION [chap. 

" to estimate the amount of lead poisoning that occurs in the 
potteries in France," owing to the incompleteness of statistics. 
In Germany, where considerable information can be obtained in 
some districts, through the records kept under the Sickness 
Insurance Laws, the incompleteness and uncertain character of 
the information supplied is the subject of frequent report by the 
factory inspectors. In the Potsdam district, where there are 
innumerable glazed-tile stove factories, great service was done by 
the action of a sick fund doctor, who reported that in the dipping 
department nearly every worker suffered, more or less, from lead 
poisoning. Energetic precautionary measures were taken by the 
local authority, and great improvement in health of workers was 
soon reported by the doctor. In other districts, on the other hand, 
comments are frequent from the inspectors on the lack of effective 
assistance from sick funds and their doctors in tracing the origin 
of industrial diseases. 

In spite of this defectiveness in statistics of industrial disease, it 
is with the German Imperial Regulations (Orders of the Federal 
Council made in pursuance of section 120 of the Industrial Code) 
that the English method of regulating dangerous trades can be 
best compared.* Some years before it was possible in England 
under section 8 of the Factory Act of 1891 to schedule as danger- 
ous or injurious any process, machinery, or particular description 
of manual labour in a factory or workshop, the Federal Council 
of the German Empire, or the central authority in any one of 
the Federal States, was empowered to draw up special rules to 
guard against risks of injury to life, health or limbs of workers, 
and to limit hours of adults as well as of minors. Such rules, 
bearing date 1888 and 1889, are still in force. This power was 
strengthened by an amendment in 1891 to the Industrial Code, 
applying to protected persons, which empowered the Federal 
Council to forbid entirely the employment of women or young 
workers, or to make it dependent on very stringent conditions in 
occupations dangerous to health or morality. At no time has 
there been under the German Code a power reserved to 
employers, similar to that in force in the English law until 
1 90 1, of compelling such objections as they can sustain to pro- 
posed rules to be settled by arbitration. It has been repeatedly 
remarked by competent observers that special hygiene in 
German factories, particularly chemical factories, has far sur- 

* Similar, though much fewer in number, are the special regulations in 
Austria and in Hungary. 



III.] 



COMPARISON OF SPECIAL RULES 



59 



passed the standards obtaining until recently in England. This 
is not surprising when the greater facilities in Germany for giving 
effect by administrative measures to expert recommendations 
are remembered ; but the readiness of workers to submit 
to regulations, to which I have referred already, is certainly a 
factor of importance. It is remarkable that, in spite of the 
difference, more or less stringent special rules have been established 
in twenty-four classes of unhealthy industries in England, as 
compared with fifteen similar sets of rules in Germany ; it must be 
observed that in some of the latter more than one class of works is 
included, as, for example, in the special rules of January 1899, 
which cover both horse - hair spinneries and brush - making 
works. 

It is of interest to compare as follows the classes of industries 
included, and the date of the regulations : — 

SPECIAL RULES FOR INJURIOUS OCCUPATIONS. 



England. 



Industry or Process. 

Bichromate works, 
Bottling of aerated water, . 
Brass and alloy mixing 

and casting, . 
Bricks, glazing of, by lead, . 
Chemical works, . 



Date of 
Schedule. 
. 1892 
. 1896 



1892 



6 Earthenware and china, 1892 & 1898 

7 Enamelling of iron plates, . 1892 

8 Electric accumulator worlcs, 1894 

9 Explosive works in which 

dinitrobenzole is used, . 1892 

10 Flax spinning and weaving, 1894 

1 1 Lead (red and orange) works, 1 894 

12 Lead (white) works, 1883 & 1893 

13 Lead (yellow) works, . . 1892 

14 Lead smelting works, . . 1894 



Industry or Process. Schedule. 

15 Lead, yellow chromate 

of, 1895 

16 Lucifer match factories, . 1892 

17 Paint and colour works, 

and extraction of arsenic, 1892 

18 Skins and hides, sorting, . 1898 

19 Tinning and enamelling of 

iron hollow ware, . . 1894 

20 Tinning and enamelling of 

metal ware, . . . 1894 

2 1 Transfers (lithographic) Tor 

decoration of china, 

etc., . . _ . . 1898 

22 Vulcanising of indiarubber, 1896 

23 Wool sorting, . . . 1896 

24 Wool combing, . . . 1899 



Germany. 



Date of 
Regulation. 

• 1899 
. 1897 
. 1892 



Industry or Process. 

1 Basic slag works, 

2 Bichromate works, 

3 Brick works, 

4 Brushmaking works and 

horse-hair spinning, . 1899 

5 Cigar factories, . . . 1893 

6 Chicory works, . . . 1892 

7 Electric accumulator works, 1898 

8 Glassworks, . - . .1892 



T J . r. Date of 

Industry or Process. Regulation. 

Hackling and preparing 
rooms in textile fac- 
tories, .... 1893 

Lead, colour and acetate 

of lead works, . . . 1893 

Letterpress printing works, . 1897 

12 Lucifer match works, 1884 & 1893 

13 Sugar refineries, . . . 1892 

14 Vulcanising of indiarubber, 1888 

15 Wiredrawing mills, . . 1892 



10 



II 



6o COM PARA TIVE SURVEY OF LEGISLA TION [chap. 

It must not, however, be forgotten that some dangers for which 
no apparent provision is made in the list of German rules are to 
some extent covered by other means — for example, mercurial 
poisoning among thermometer makers by rules of the Accident 
Insurance Associations, or earthenware works by regulations of 
local authorities or by action of separate State authorities. 

On first comparison of the two sets of special rules in detail, 
it would appear that whereas white lead works, earthenware works, 
and indiarubber works, are far more stringently regulated in 
England than in Germany, other industries, for example, electric 
accumulator works, letterpress printing works, are subject to 
closer control than any here. In the German rules for electric 
accumulator works we find prohibition of employment of women 
and girls, limitation of hours for men, detailed conditipns as to 
construction and cleansing of premises and floors, in addition to 
the more common regulations for baths, lavatories, medical 
examination, sick registers ; whereas in the English rules there 
are only provisions for baths, lavatories, respirators, and gloves, 
no restrictions on employment beyond the ordinary factory limits, 
and no medical examination. It must be noted that the enforce- 
ment of these rules does not rest solely in the hands of the 
Government inspector, and that before action is possible, the 
matter must be referred to the local police authority, whose 
powers in Germany, however, are considerable. The special rules 
for letterpress printing works are so interesting and typical that 
I append a translation herewith for comparison with similar 
English regulations. It seems clear that some of the rules are 
directed as much against propagation of tubercular disease as 
against risks of lead poisoning. 

In closing this brief survey, reference must not be omitted 
to the experiment that has been made in three European coun- 
tries — Switzerland, Holland, and Belgium — of limiting in a single 
instance (in the interests of the health of workers) the use of 
a poisonous material in industry. I refer to the use of white 
phosphorus in the manufacture of lucifer matches. In Switzer- 
land and Holland the use of the material in this industry has 
been prohibited ; in Belgium its use has been limited to a maximum 
of 8 per cent, in the paste. 

Adelaide M. Anderson. 



LETTERPRESS PRINTING WORKS IN GERMANY 



6i 



Appendix to Chapter III. 

Order of the Federal Council of July 31, 1897, regulating 
Letterpress Printing Works and Type Foundries in pursuance 
of section 120^ of the Industrial Code. 



I. In rooms in which persons are employed in setting up type or manu- 
facture of type or stereotype plates the following provisions apply : 

1. The floor of workrooms must not be sunk deeper than half a metre (1.64 
feet) below the ground. Exceptions may only be granted by the higher 
administrative authority where hygienic conditions are secured by a dry area 
and ample means of lighting and ventilating the rooms. 

Attics may only be used as workrooms, if the roof is underdone with lath 
and plaster. 

2. In workrooms in which the manufacture of type or stereotype plates is 
carried on the number of persons must not exceed such as would allow at least 
15 cubic metres of air space (529.31 cubic feet) to each. In the rooms in which 
persons are employed only in other processes there must be at least 12 cubic 
metres of air space (423.450 cubic feet) to each person. 

In cases of exceptional temporary pressure the higher administrative 
authority may, on the application of the employer, permit a larger number in the 
workrooms for at the most 30 days in the year, but not more than will allow 
10 cubic metres of air space (352.87 cubic feet) for each person. 

3. The rooms must be at least 2.90 metres (8.528 feet) in height where a 
minimum 1 5 cubic metres are allowed for each person, in other cases at least 3 
metres (9.84 feet in height). 

The rooms must be provided with windows which are sufficient in number 
and size to let in ample light for ever)' part of the work. The windows must be 
so constructed that they will open and admit of complete renewal of air in 
workrooms. 

Workrooms with sloping roof must have an average height equal to the 
measurements given in the first paragraph of this section. 

4. The rooms must be laid with a close fitting impervious floor which can be 
cleared of dust by moist methods. Wooden floors must be smoothly planed, 
and boards fitted to prevent penetration of moisture. 

All walls and ceilings must, if they are not of a smooth washable surface or 
painted in oil, be lime-washed once at least a year. If the walls and ceilings are 
of a smooth washable surface or painted in oil, they must be washed at least 
once a year, and the oil paint must, if varnished, be removed once in ten years, 
and if not varnished, once in five years. 

The compositors' shelves and stands for type boxes must be either closely 
ranged round the room on the floor so that no dust can collect underneath, or 
be fitted with long legs so that the floor can be easily cleaned of dust 
underneath. 

5. The workrooms must be cleared and thoroughly aired once at least a day, 
and during the working hours means must be taken to secure constant 
ventilation. 

6. The melting vessel for type or stereotype metal must be covered with a 



62 COMPARATIVE SURVEY OE LEGISLATION [chap. hi. 

hood provided with exhaust ventilator or chimney with sufficient draught to 
draw the fumes to the outer air. 

Typefounding and meking may only be carried on in rooms separate from 
other processes. 

7. The rooms and fittings, particularly the walls, cornices, and stands 
for type, must be thoroughly cleansed twice a year at least. The floors 
must be washed or rubbed over with a damp cloth so as to remove dust, 
once a day at least. 

8. The type boxes must be cleansed before they are put in use, and 
again as often as necessary, but not less than twice at least in the year. 

The boxes may only be dusted out with a bellows in the open air, and 
this work may not be done by young persons. 

9. In every workroom spittoons filled with water, and one at least for every 
five persons, must be provided. Workers are forbidden to spit upon the floor. 

10. Sufficient washing appliances with soap, and at least one towel a 
week for each worker, must be provided as near as possible to the work 
for compositors, cutters, and polishers. 

One wash-hand basin must be provided for every five workers, with an 
ample supply of water laid on. 

The employer must make strict provision for the use of the washing 
appliances by workers before every meal, and before leaving the works. 

11. Clothes put off" during working hours must either be kept outside 
the workroom, or hung up in cupboards, with closely fitting doors or 
curtains, which are so shut or drawn as to prevent penetration of dust. 

12. Artificial means of lighting which tend to raise the temperature 
of the rooms must be so arranged or provided with counteracting measures, 
that the heat of the workrooms shall not be unduly raised. 

13. The employer must draw up rules binding on the workers, which 
will ensure the full observance of the provisions in sections 8, 9, 10, and 
II. 

II. A notice must be affixed, and a copy sent to the Local Police 
Authority, showing : {a) the length, height, and breadth of the rooms ; 
{b) the air space in cubic measure ; {c) the number of workers permitted 
in each room. 

A copy of rules i to 13 must be affixed where it can be easily read by 
all persons affected. 

III. Provides for the method of permitting the exceptions named 
above in sections 2 and 3, and makes it a condition of reduction in cubic 
air space for each person employed as typefounder or compositor, that 
there shall be adequate mechanical ventilation for regulating temperature 
and carrying off" products of combustion from workrooms. 



CHAPTER IV 



PRINCIPLES OF PROSPECTIVE LEGISLATION FOR DANGEROUS 

TRADES 

" Quot manus atteruntur ut unus niteat articulus." — Pliny. 

Natural History^ Book II., chap. Ixiii, 

He who attempts to deal with the future of industrial legislation 
is confronted at the outset by two obstacles. The one is inherent 
in most endeavours which relate to prospective law-making. The 
barque which sets forth into the sea of futurity should, if its 
voyage is to terminate in the safe anchorage of a fair haven, steer 
clear of those currents which only too easily carry it upon the 
shoals and quicksands of controversial politics. Once launched, it 
is scarcely possible to avoid stranding upon the sterile shore of 
party. And even a successful cruise must bring it perilously near 
the Scylla and Charybdis of government and opposition. The 
effort of this chapter will be to steer as even a course as possible 
between these opposing forces. 

The second difficulty is more of a particular than general 
nature : particular to the subject under consideration. A study of 
what has gone before, especially of the historical chapter preceding 
this, must force the conclusion that what has up to now been 
achieved seems to have been more the result of accident, or of 
some extraneous agitating forces, than of any carefully considered 
or preconceived plan. How piecemeal the work has been, and 
how intricate a fabric ! Upon what lines can so patchy a structure 
be developed? Upon what principle applicable to the whole code 
can our industrial legislation, already a congeries of partially con- 
nected details, proceed ? 

Students of the British Constitution will be tempted to draw an 
analogy from their favourite example ; and indeed there is much 
at first sight in common between the histories of the Factory 
Acts and the British Constitution. The structure of each is com- 



64 PRINCIPLES OF PROSPECTIVE LEGISLATION [chap. 

pounded of small accretions, contributed by what seemed the 
necessity of the moment. But in the one case, in spite of the 
seemingly haphazard nature of the work, judged by the manner in 
which it has been performed, the British Constitution is firmly 
established upon a solid foundation, the independent blocks have 
fitted well into their time-assigned places, and have become 
welded together into a sound, cohesive whole in the process 
Mr Walter Bagehot has admirably called "the cake of custom." 
How far has this been the case with the Factory Acts ? Certain 
warring elements have gradually become adjusted ; incongruous 
items have in certain cases been made to harmonise. The best 
example of this is to be found in the Consolidating Act of 1878, 
by which many inconsistencies were corrected. But even this 
admirable piece of work left the door open to the re-creation of the 
incongruities and anomalies. In many cases the loopholes have 
been but too freely utilised, and exemptions and exceptions have 
been widely extended. These have largely tended to weaken the 
law and to create confusion. 

This want of homogeneity in the base work suggests problems 
of procedure difficult of solution. In view of the danger that any 
weighty superstructure would threaten foundations thus composed, 
it might be urged that our first care should be to remodel the 
foundations that the base may be secure. Such a course would 
involve the inevitable risk of disturbing what is already firmly 
rooted, and the true answer is that only a few reforms in the 
foundation work are required. These reforms, successfully 
executed, would produce a basis upon which the most elaborate 
fabric might rest secure. 

A glance at the general nature of the work, which has been 
ably described, reveals the fundamental doctrine that protection 
is necessary, protection of the wage earner against cruelty 
or harsh treatment, against fraud, against accident, against 
poisoning, even against himself. There is a small and rapidly 
diminishing school of thinkers, who hold that any protective 
law is wrong unless it be applied equally to men and women. 
But as men and women are not equally subject to the same 
risks and dangers, it is idle to argue that they can be treated 
in the same way. Those who are sceptical of the value of pro- 
tective law would do well to remember that it was during the 
heyday of the Manchester School, when freedom of action, and of 
trade, and non-interference generally were at the zenith of their 
popularity, that some of the earliest Factory Acts were passed 



IV.] SPECIAL RULES AND ARBITRATION 65 

into law. If the necessity for the regulation of the labour of 
women and children was recognised at a time when such restric- 
tions were eminently repugnant to the public mind, that necessity 
must have been great indeed. Is it suggested by the opponents 
of protective measures, that although such a necessity did exist 
in the past it has been dealt with and no longer exists? The 
facts go to show that the need continues, and even increases, with 
the volume of trade. 

Statistics make it abundantly clear that there is much 
sickness and mortality engendered by industrial occupations, 
and that a large proportion of this is preventable. The method 
of prevention is the subject which has to be considered, and 
before doing so, it is desirable for a moment to refer to the 
historical chapter preceding this. There it is shown that there 
is a multitude of injunctions laid upon manufacturers in the 
form of rules known as "special rules." The imposition of 
these rules is limited to such trades as are certified by the 
Secretary of State to be dangerous or injurious. The rules 
are all imposed with one end in view, the safety of the worker, 
and though they deal with an infinity of matters, the cleanli- 
ness of the operative is one of the objects most commonly 
designed. To effect this many forms of words have been 
drafted and are at present in use. In these varying forms 
the duty of providing and maintaining the means for cleanli- 
ness is laid upon the manufacturer, and the duty of availing 
himself of those means is laid upon the operative. Not only 
does this injunction vary in form in different trades, but 
different codes embracing different standards are found in 
separate factories in the same trade. It will be asked how 
did this come about? How could a sane legislature or an 
administration outside Bedlam permit one law for the good 
employer and another for the less sensitive in conscience, 
though more sensitive in pocket? How could such a system 
creep into any code of law? As a matter of fact, it is the 
creation of that hysterical fear of compulsion, that nervous 
concern for the liberty of the subject, which has carried its 
mischievous influence into many spheres of activity. The 
plea that the employers' grievances should be heard has 
gradually developed into an argument that each employer 
should be allowed to object, and objecting, he has eventually, 
by a process called " arbitration," been enabled to procure a law 
to his own liking. 



66 PRINCIPLES OF PROSPECTIVE LEGISLATION [chap. 

It is scarcely necessary to demonstrate the great incon- 
venience and injustice which arise from such a system. Two 
men carry on the same trade; two standards of efficiency are 
demanded by the law. One manufacturer is required to set 
up and keep in good repair an apparatus, which is as nearly 
perfect as human ingenuity can devise. The other, perhaps 
sceptical of the advantages of such an apparatus, or more often 
for the sole reason that he objects to the cost and trouble of 
erecting it, is permitted to provide something less efficient. 
This system, happily described as ** the creation of industrial 
Alsatias," is open to five obvious objections: (i) As between 
the two employers it is a substantial injustice ; (2) it is not 
less unjust to the operative, compelled in his need to accept 
worse conditions than his comrade ; (3) it puts a premium 
upon resistance, in that the objecting employer is rewarded ; 
(4) it imperils the dignity of the law ; and lastly, (5) it embar- 
rasses those who administer it. 

The situation then demands redress. How can this best be 
effected ? Two reforms, one already indicated, suggest themselves as 
most ripe for decision. The first is the consolidation of the special 
rules and the direct enactment of such of them as are common to all 
or many of the dangerous trades. Of this class consideration has 
already been given to washing appliances. Such other matters as 
the provision of a dining-room, the prohibition of taking meals in 
dusty workplaces, the provision and maintenance of mechanical 
apparatus for withdrawing fumes, gases, or dust, the prohibition 
of certain classes of persons from working in certain places and 
processes, might each and all be embodied in the general Acts with 
specific reference to particular industries. And indeed they do find 
a place in the general Acts, but owing sometimes to capriciousness 
of reference and sometimes to vagueness in form, their inclusion 
has failed to effect that simplicity and uniformity in the law which 
is so much to be desired. By such a consolidation the multiplica- 
tion of codes of special rules would be avoided, and even in some 
cases their elimination would be secured. But not only so : an 
immense gain would result from the uniformity which could be 
achieved. If the sporadic and capricious incidence of these 
obligations could be abolished, the gain would be indeed 
enormous. 

Not less simple is the reform which is called for in the 
employer's power of objection and the system of arbitration. The 
working of the existing system has long been condemned. Nobody 



IV.] FULL INQUIRY WHERE TRADES ARE DANGEROUS 67 



m 

B in the House of Commons is found to defend it ; and yet, like other 
friendless doctrines, such as that of " common employment " in the 
law of Employers' Liability, it has lived into the twentieth century. 

I Last year an attempt was made to alter the law. Although this 
attempt would have been a step in advance of the present situation, 
it was so slight a step that it was not greeted with enthusiasm by 
those for whose benefit it was intended. The proposal was to 
substitute a system of reference for that of arbitration. Some 
advantages were claimed for this proposal in that uniformity would 

I be secured. But the uniformity would have been at the expense of 
a thorough and stringent code of rules, which might have been 
acceptable to some of the employers. The referee's court would 
have inevitably toned the rules down to suit the objectors. Evil as 
is the existing system, no alteration would be a gain which, while 
it purchased uniformity at such a cost and amended the procedure 
to so trifling an extent, postponed a radical and effective change to 
the Greek Kalends. 

Full inquiry into the alleged dangers of a trade and full hear- 
ing of the manufacturers' case are carefully designed by the present 
system. This design might well be satisfied, these effects be yet 
retained, and without revolutionary change additional advantages 
be secured ; the advantages of a decision of the Secretary of State, 
unjeopardised either by arbitration or by reference, given after 
consultation not only with employers but with workpeople, and 
subject only to the control of Parliament. Legal provision should 
be made for full inquiry (such as it is now the practice to make by 
departmental committees) into the special conditions of the trade 
alleged to be dangerous ; if, on the conclusion of the inquiry, 
regulation by Special Rules be recommended, and the Secretary of 
State certify the trade to be dangerous, he should issue to the 
manufacturers, and by public notice in the factories or workshops 
to the workpeople, a copy of the rules he proposes to make. The 
manufacturers and workpeople should be entitled to make objection 
in writing to the rules, or any of them, within one month of the 
receipt of such notice. Then the Secretary of State, in consultation 
with the Chief Inspector of Factories and the recom menders of the 
rules, should consider any objections so made, and the rules as 
drawn up after such consideration should be laid on the Table of 
both Houses for forty days, and have the force of law if during 
that period no objection to them be raised. It might often be 
desirable that the rules should be considered individually by 
Parliament, and provision for such consideration should be made. 



68 PRINCIPLES OF PROSPECTIVE LEGISLATION [chap. 

Under this scheme the clumsiness and delay now inevitable would be 
averted, and with proper safeguards for his interest being retained the 
nxanufacturers' power of rejection would be transferred to Parliament. 

Other reforms in the regulation of dangerous trades demand 
mention. It is true of most poisonous substances in use in 
dangerous trades that adults whose constitution is fairly established 
can resist their danger more easily than can young persons. This 
is especially true of lead, whose insidious character has often been 
dwelt upon by scientists and statesmen ; the inevitableness of its 
action is now recognised, and wherever risk of poisoning by this 
agency is established, there are to be found regulations and restric- 
tions of a more or less effective nature. But it is also true of other 
substances, the absorption of which is injurious, and in all cases 
where much dust is generated, as in the manufacture of flax or 
hemp, or in trades where steam is given off in considerable volume, 
the labour of persons of immature years should be prohibited. 
This would be one reform. 

Again, there are other trades in which the degree of danger is 
peculiarly influenced by the continuity of the exposure to it. Such, 
for example, is the use of inflammable paints, where continuous 
employment during the normal period of five hours inflicts injury 
appreciably in excess of that caused by exposure of the same 
duration but broken in its continuity. Shortened spells of work 
were recommended by the Dangerous Trades Committee in the 
indiarubber trade, where carbon bisulphide is used, and in the 
painting of ships with inflammable paints. The special rules apply- 
ing to indiarubber works embodied this recommendation, and there 
should be no great difficulty in extending the principle to other 
trades where it is obvious that the danger of employment is 
increased by long periods of exposure to these deleterious in- 
fluences. Such trades as bronzing in lithographic works, in wall- 
paper, and in paper-staining works would greatly benefit by such a 
provision. 

Another reform was recommended by the Dangerous Trades 
Committee, which made its final report in 1899. All officials who 
have had occasion and opportunity to investigate the subject are 
convinced that many deaths occur which are primarily due to 
some industrial occupation, but are never so classified or reported. 
Diseases of occupation are so numerous and varied in character, and 
liable to disclose themselves in such diverse symptoms, that the initial 
cause of illness is often lost sight of, or still oftener never discovered. 
It consequently arises that the statistics of illness and death from 




CAREFUL WORDING OF RULES -NECESSARY 69 

industrial causes are most imperfect. Any improvement in the 
manner of obtaining such statistics and eventually of striking at 
the causa causans would be valuable. All cases of death where 
the person has worked in a certified dangerous trade, or in a trade 
to which any of the consolidated special rules are applicable, 
within a prescribed period before death, should be reported to the 
coroner, who would, if he thought fit, conduct an inquiry into the 
circumstances of the case. 

No chapter dealing with the future government of dangerous 
trades would be complete without an appeal for drastic and 
thorough measures. Loose wording in the rules, or, still worse, 
small omissions, may involve mischief out of all proportion to 
their apparent significance or to the value of the compromise 
effected. Numerous instances of the injury caused by the 
admission of small concessions to protesting manufacturers could 
be given. Possibly none is more striking than that of the 
bottling of aerated waters. Conducted under proper conditions 
there is no reason why the operatives should be subject to any 
but unimportant and minor casualties, but conducted as it often 
is, grave accidents occur with a persistent and alarming regularity. 
Many cases of persons losing their eyesight, and even cases of death, 
from injuries received by the bursting of bottles could be quoted. 
The rules as originally outlined by the Dangerous Trades 
Committee contained provisions for the protection of all persons 
engaged in the labelling of bottles, but in the rules as finally 
issued to and accepted by the manufacturers, persons engaged in 
labelling bottles standing in cases were exempted from the 
safeguards. From this simple omission, many accidents and 
much suffering have resulted. One is tempted to ask how, in 
the first place, this apparently small precaution was omitted, and 
when its importance was discovered, why the defect was not 
remedied. The answer to the first question is probably that the 
manufacturers demurred as to its necessity, upon which for the 
sake of peace and economy of time and temper their view was 
adopted. This is but a surmise. The explanation of the 
subsequent inaction requires no surmise. After the danger had 
been established. Sir Matthew White Ridley, in answer to a 
question upon the occurrence of one of these accidents, said in the 
House of Commons : — " I have not the power at pleasure to 
make or alter special rules. They must be settled either by 
arrangement with the employers or by arbitration, and in the 
present case I cannot regard the occurrence of a single accident, 



70 PRINCIPLES OF PROSPECTIVE LEGISLATION [chap. 

much as I regret it, as sufficient reason for re-opening a question 
which has just been settled, after long and difficult negotiations." 
From this answer the importance of thoroughness in translating the 
recommendations of committees into special rules becomes obvious. 

Nor is it sufficient to hope that by persuasion or agreement 
with employers rules suggested by the Factory Department or 
the Secretary of State will be effectually carried out. In some 
cases they may be, in others they will not. The same unfortunate 
results proceed from such a course as are to be traced to the 
existing system of arbitration. It has been shown how that 
system is unjust both to employers and workpeople, how it 
encourages the careless and irresponsible employer, how it 
derogates from the dignity of the law and embarrasses its 
administrators. This is true of persuasion. 

As in human nature there is every gradation of sensitiveness 
of conscience, so must there be in the factory, it reliance be placed 
on the forces of moral suasion alone, a corresponding gradation 
of conditions from excellence and thoroughness to indifference and 
neglect. Uniformity in these matters is an urgent necessity ; 
and uniformity is incompatible with the substitution of persuasion 
for compulsory powers. 

Let thoroughness, then, be the watchword of those whose 
prerogative it is to frame these protective measures. Let the 
loopholes for escape from the provisions of the rules be closed up ; 
let the channels for contracting out of just obligations be care- 
fully dammed ; and do not let small pretexts of irksomeness, or 
the endployer's scepticism, or the manager's contempt, or the 
workpeople's want of care, weigh in the balance for a moment 
against the health, the well-being, and the lives of masses of 
working men and women. 

For a strong Government and a humane House of Commons, 
the few reforms indicated would be but a light undertaking. They 
would put no undue strain upon the executive or the legislature ; 
and they would, directly and indirectly, prevent a large amount 
of suffering, now patiently borne by a lowly and an inarticulate 
portion of the community. If simplicity, uniformity, and thorough- 
ness be established in the government of the trades which carry 
grave risk to those engaged in them, the national conscience will 
be relieved of an oppressive burden, sometimes perhaps but dimly 
realised, but always real, and assuredly its removal will enhance the 
security and confidence with which this generation entrusts to its 
heirs the great destinies of our race. 



IV.] RESPONSIBILITY OF SECRETARY OF STATE 71 

Note. — The year 1901 has witnessed the efforts of the Govern- 
ment and the House of Commons to amend and consolidate the 
law relating to Factories and Workshops. In this effort, so far as 
dangerous trades are concerned, certain changes have been effected. 
There is a prohibition of eating meals in factories and workshops 
where lead, arsenic, or other poisonous substance is so used as to 
cause dust or fumes. Power, too, is granted to the Secretary of 
State to prohibit, limit, or control the use of any material or pro- 
cess ; but although he had not this power before, he could practically 
exercise it under section 28 of the Act of 1895. Electrical gener- 
ating works, and those railways which connect factories with each 
other and the main lines, are now brought within the law for certain 
purposes ; and dangerous trades conducted in domestic factories 
or workshops can now be regulated. 

But the most important alteration is that which transfers the 
responsibility for the special rules from an arbitrator or umpire to 
the Secretary of State. Under the new law the Secretary of State 
may frame regulations, and if they are not accepted, modified, or 
withdrawn, he must (unless the objection to them is withdrawn, or 
is, in his opinion, frivolous) order a public inquiry to be held by " a 
competent person." The Chief Inspector, and any person affected 
by the draft rules, may appear at the inquiry either in person or by 
counsel, solicitor, or agent. This inquiry will take the place of the 
present arbitration, and the person holding the inquiry has, unlike 
the arbitrator or umpire, no power of adjudication. He will report 
to the Secretary of State, who is not bound to adopt his recom- 
mendations. The responsibility for the rules will rest with the 
Secretary of State, subject only to the control of Parliament (the 
rules will lie on the table for forty days), and in this lies the main 
advance effected. This advance may, however, prove more theo- 
retical than practical, for it is unlikely that the Secretary of State 
will reject the advice of the person whom he has specially selected 
to advise him. The Government insisted on retaining the com- 
petent person, in spite of the contention of the reformers that 
reliance should be placed in the Committee of Inquiry, in whose 
minds all the circumstances and evidence taken would still be 
fresh, and in the Secretary of State's permanent official advisers. 

After full credit has been given for the transference of the final 
responsibility, the question arises : Are the two main defects of the 
present system remedied ? Can uniformity be said to have been 
achieved, when we find that the new regulations " may provide for 
the exemption of any specified class of factories or workshops either 



72 PRINCIPLES OF PROSPECTIVE LEGISLATION [chap. iv. 

absolutely or subject to conditions " ? And is it satisfactory that we 
should have still with us, in the form of the " competent person," 
in one of the most important advisory positions in the State, 
"the man in the street," "the irresponsible outsider" so properly 
described by Mr Ritchie in his introductory speech on 28th March 
1 901? 

H. J. Tennant. 



CHAPTER V 

INFANT MORTALITY AND FACTORY LABOUR 

I 

" What is not good for the bee-hive cannot be good for the bee." 
A better appreciation of this truth and there had been less cause 
for this chapter. But in so grave a degree is a demonstrated danger 
to the race tolerated in the pursuit of an imagined profit to the 
individual, that it cannot be impertinent to recall the general truth 
and to point its specific application. 

That there is danger to the race in the engagement in factory 
life of the mothers of young children, should be beyond challenge : 
always danger to the child, often danger to the mother ; and 
sacrifice of infant life, failure of infant promise follow, have 
followed, and must follow, as surely as leaves fall to frost. 
Statistics abound, but for the most part they have received 
their lot of Bluebook burial ; and the purpose of this article 
is, in the main, to rescue from the obscurity of the past its 
array of facts and its store of warnings. Upon the statistical 
evidence of the present there is less need to dwell. Dr Reid, 
in his admirable chapter, has dealt fully with the striking 
results of an inquiry conducted by him as Medical Officer to 
the Staffordshire County Council ; and an inquiry instituted 
throughout England, upon similar lines, by the Parliamentary 
Bills Committee of the British Medical Association, supported, 
Dr Reid tells us, " in a remarkable way the conclusions drawn from 
the Staffordshire figures." These are the Staffordshire figures : — 

. Deaths of Children under i year in Three Classes of Artisan Towns 
in Staffordshire per looo births. 

Class I. Class II. Class III, 

Many Women Fewer Women Practically no Women 

engaged in work. engaged in work. engaged in work. 

I o years (1881-90) . 195 166 152 

9 years (1891-99) . 210 177 168* 

* The result of another year's inquiry is given on p. 87 by Dr Reid. 

73 



74 INFANT MORTALITY AND FACTORY LABOUR [chap. 

At all moments they are figures to command concern, at this 
moment they compel alarm. On the one hand is the infant death- 
rate steadily rising, on the other the birth-rate steadily falling ; * 
and to the rising death-rate maternal neglect gives impetus, 
while the State inattentively takes note. But though statistical 
speech is eloquent of death, it says nothing of withering injury 
to life ; nothing of injury to the mother who, herself affected in 
health, produces less fitting children ; nothing of those children 
who escape death to endure life, crippled in body and in 
mind, drugged and starved in infancy, neglected in childhood. 
What dare we ask of their womanhood and their manhood ? What 
service of citizenship have we any right to demand, any reason 
to expect ? We must seek our answer from within our reformatories 
and our asylums, from our hospitals, our workhouses, and our prisons. 
For the feeble in body and dwarfed in mind there is no room in 
the struggle for industrial supremacy. Their drifting place is among 
criminals, in the lowest ranks of industry, or in the homes of charity. 

Every deadly industry has its octogenarian ; and so, too, under 
this system there are those who escape, or escape at least 
its greatest evils of physical and mental disability. For the girl- 
children full escape seems impossible. Victims in their ignorance 
of home, they become vehicles to perpetuate the system ; without 
knowledge of the sacred, the helpful, even the elementary elements 
of home life, they in their turn, in their own married life, seek 
mill employment as did their mothers before them. It is, in fact, the 
only occupation they know. Baking, washing, sewing, are dead arts ; 
and in these children of mothers, "to a grievous extent denaturalised 
towards their offspring," f the deepest forces of nature seem asleep. 
So from generation to generation the service of the mother to her 
child is entrusted to a stranger, whose introduction as substi- 
tute housewife, substitute mother is not withoul its cost. The 
net gain is sometimes in money a few shillings : in influence 
and training there is always loss ; even in money sometimes loss. 
In evidence given to the Royal Labour Commission, a Yorkshire 
employer quotes a case "in which the woman drew los. a-week 
in wages, and paid I2s. a-week for the care of her home." J 
The case may indeed be exceptional, but an abundance of 
other cases may be found where the actual gain in money is but 
slight. The companion to this picture of the mother in the factory 

* See Annual Report of the Registrar-General of Births, Deaths, and 
Marriages for 1899. 
t See infra, ^-77' 
X See Report of Lady Assistant Commissioners, 1893. 



v.] MORTALITY LESSENED BY MATERNAL NURSING 75 

and the paid stranger in the home, is that of the mother drudge 
who, neglecting her duty to her children, placing it perhaps in 
pathetically inadequate child hands, yet tries to fulfil it to her home. 
She may have worked in the factory from six in the morning to six 
or eight in the evening ; but worker in the factory, she is worker 
too in the home. For her the day is never done, and through her 
youth of unending labour she is hastening to old age. There are 
advocates of such freedom to labour who can be convinced of 
hardship to the mother, who yet claim benefit for the child. 
Better far, they urge, the mother's laboured addition to the family 
fund than scanty meals ; home care and influence are necessary 
enough, but without bread what are they ? 

To this argument the answer comes from homes bread-starved 
during the cotton famine in Lancashire, during the great depres- 
sion of trade in Coventry, and during the siege of Paris. " During 
the Lancashire cotton famine, while privation increased the actual 
death-rate, the infant death-rate was greatly lessened owing to 
mothers being compelled to suckle their infants. During the siege 
of Paris also, while the general mortality was doubled, the infant 
mortality fell 40 per cent, from similar causes." * And, writing 
of the effect in Coventry of the prostration of trade in 1861, the 
Registrar-General says : — " The care of the mothers of Coventry 
has, it would seem, counteracted some of the effects of privation, 
so that neglect of their homes by mothers at work in factories is 
apparently more fatal than starvation." 

In the comparative figures given by the Registrar-General for 
the ten years (1859-68), the reduced infant mortality during the 
three cotton famine years (1862-64) is strikingly shown. 

Deaths of Infants under i year of age per 1000 Births in Lancashire^ and 
in the whole of England and Wales ^ 1859-68. 

Year. 
1859 
i860 
1861 
1862 
1863 
1864 
1865 
1866 
1867 
1868 

* See Report in the British Medical fournal oi 17th November 1894 of the 
Deputation organised by the Parliamentary Bills Committee of the British 
Medical Council, which waited upon Mr Asquith to urge greater legislative 
restriction of the employment of mothers in factories. 



ancashire. 


England and Wales 


176 


153 


169 


148 


184 


153 


168 


142 


171 


149 


174 


153 


189 


160 


200 


160 


185 


153 


187 


155 



76 INFANT MORTALITY AND FACTORY I^ABOUR [chap. 

The Registrar of Little Bolton held that the decrease of 
deaths was mainly due to a greater amount of domestic superin- 
tendence, and other registrars united in similar conclusions. The 
slight rise in 1863 and 1864 was apparently due to the pre- 
valence of small-pox, scarlatina, typhus, and measles, caused by 
overcrowding in workhouses and bad sanitary conditions. 

Comparison between privation and maternal care on the one 
hand, and good cheer and maternal neglect on the other, to the 
advantage of the meaner diet and the greater care must, as the 
Registrar-General admits, be within limits. Under the stress of 
absolute starvation, no mother could provide nourishment for her 
child. But the obviousness of the limitation cannot diminish the 
significance of facts, and evidence, official evidence of convincing 
weight and appealing eloquence is, if we look for it, at our hand. 
It is easy to realise in its light, why the mother, even though 
poorly fed herself, is a better mother than the mother who earns 
a certain keep-money for her child. 

Sir John Simon,* writing in 1897 of the inquiries conducted 
between 1859 and 1872 by the Medical Department of the Privy 
Council, of which he was Medical Officer, says of one : — " In 
addition to .showing on a very large scale those sanitary wrongs of 
certain sorts of industry, we had also shown as an industrial 
influence of very wide operation, that in proportion as adult women 
were taking part in factory labour or in agriculture, the mortality 
of their infants rapidly increased ; that in various registration 
districts, which had such employment in them, the district death- 
rate of infants under one year of age had been from two and a 
quarter to three times as high as in our standard districts ; and 
that in some of the districts more than a few of the infants were 
dying of ill-treatment which was almost murderous." Considering 
the subject in greater detail, in his fourth report to the Privy 
Council, he recalls the report f made to the General Board of 
Health in 1^58, in which he drew attention to the fact that in 
different districts of England there were enormous differences of 
infantile mortality : " Such differences, that children in some 
districts die at perhaps four or five times the rate of children 
in other districts." These wide differences of death-rate he 
attributed " to the varying prevalence of two local causes : — first, 
to differences of degree in common sanitary defects of residence ; 
and secondly, to occupational differences among the 

* English Sanitary Institutions, p. 298. 

t Papers relating to the Sanitary State of the People of England, 1858. 



v.] MATERNITY AND FACTORY LABOUR 77 

inhabitants ; there being certain large towns where women are 
greatly engaged in branches of industry away from home ; where, 
consequently, the home is ill kept ; where the children are little 
looked after ; and where infants who should be at the breast are 
improperly fed or starved, or have their cries of hunger and 
distress quieted by those various fatal opiates which are in such 
request at the centres of our manufacturing industry." An inquiry 
was conducted by Dr Greenhow into the second of these influences, 
and commenting upon his report. Sir John Simon says : " It gives 
a very sad picture of suffering and demoralisation, caused by the 
present circumstances of female employment in factories. It 
corroborates very exactly the opinion above expressed as to the 
probable causes of the high mortality of infants in places of female 
factory occupation. And it shows that, while the infants perish 
under the neglect and mismanagement which their mothers' 
occupation implies, the mothers become to a grievous extent 
denaturalised towards their offspring." 

The following quotations. Sir John Simon continues, tell the main 
facts of the case : — " Factory women soon return to labour after their 
confinement. The longest time mentioned as the average period of 
their absence from work in consequence of child-bearing was five or 
six weeks ; many women among the highest class of operatives in 
Birmingham acknowledged to having generally returned to work at 
the expiration of a month.* . . . Mothers employed in factories 
are, save during the dinner-hours, absent from home all day long, 
and the care of their infants during their absence is entrusted either 
to young children, to hired nurse-girls, sometimes not more than 
eight or ten years of age, or perhaps more commonly to elderly 
women, who eke out a livelihood by taking infants to nurse. 
Young girls, aged seven or eight years, are frequently removed 
from school for the purpose of taking charge of younger children 
while the mother is absent at work, and are sometimes said to 
return; on the death of the child, evidently rather pleased that this 
event has released them from their toil. . . . Pap, made of 
bread and water, and sweetened with sugar or treacle, is the sort 
of nourishment usually given during the mother's absence, even to 
infants of a very tender age ; and in several instances, little 
children not more than six or seven years old were seen preparing 
and feeding babies with this food, which in such cases consisted 
only of lumps of bread floating in sweetened water. . . . Illness 

* This is the period of abstention from work prescribed since 1891 under the 
Factory Act. 



78 INFANT MORTALITY AND FACTORY LABOUR [chap. 

is the natural consequence of this unnatural mode of feeding 
infants. . . . Children who are healthy at birth rapidly 
dwindle under this system of mismanagement, fall into bad 
health, and become uneasy, restless, and fractious. To remedy 
the illness caused by mismanagement various domestic medicines 
are administered, more particularly some kind of opiate such as 
Godfrey's cordial or laudanum. Wine, gin, peppermint, and other 
stimulants are often given, for the purpose, as alleged, of relieving 
flatulence, the actual effect being, however, rather to stupify the 
child. The quantity of opiates sold for the purpose of being 
administered to infants in some of the manufacturing towns is 
very large. . . . Indeed, there seems to be no doubt that the 
habitual administering of opiates to infants must be included 
among the causes of a high infantile mortality in certain manu- 
facturing towns, not only on account of an overdose being 
given, but also because infants kept in a state of continual 
narcotism will be thereby rendered disinclined for food, and be 
but imperfectly nourished. . . . Parents who thus entrust 
the management of their children so largely to strangers become 
more or less careless and indifferent about them, and as many 
of these children die, the mothers become familiarised with the 
fact, and speak of the deaths of their children with a degree 
of nonchalance rarely met with among women who devote them- 
selves mainly to the care of their offspring. . . . Abundant 
proof of the large mortality among the children of female factory 
operatives was obtained during the inquiry. An operative of the 
better class in Birmingham reported that he collects money for 
the expenses attendant on the deaths of children among the 
workers in a factory where 1 50 women were employed, and that 
he believed ten out of every twelve children born to the married 
women in this factory died within a few months after birth. 
Many married women were questioned, as opportunity served, 
in the several factories visited regarding their families, the number 
of children they had borne, the number that survived, and the 
manner in which they were brought up. The evidence of these 
women tallied exactly with that of other persons. ... It was 
frequently found that two-thirds or three-fourths of the children 
borne to these women had died in infancy." In his report, which 
appears in the Appendix,* Dr Greenhow continues : " And on 
the other hand, it was remarkable how, in other instances, the 
majority of the children were reared when the mothers did not 
* Fourth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council. 



v.] IMPERFECT FEEDING AND DRUGGING OF INFANTS 79 

work in factories, or discontinued doing so whilst nursing, or when 
the infant's supplementary food consisted partly or chiefly of 
milk." It the same report Dr Greenhow states that " all the 
medical men who gave evidence on the subject of the present 
inquiry, besides several clergymen, ladies who are accustomed to 
visit the poorer classes at their dwellings, scripture readers, reliev- 
ing officers, and other persons who have paid attention to the 
subject, unhesitatingly expressed an opinion that the system under 
which the mothers of young children are employed at factories and 
workshops away from home is a fruitful cause of infantile sickness 
and mortality." 

Among the most interesting figures in the report are those 
which relate to the sale of Godfrey's cordial. It appears that 
in Coventry alone at least 12,000 doses weekly were admini- 
stered, and "even a larger quantity of opiate, in proportion to the 
population, is said to be sold in Nottingham than in Coventry." 
In conclusion, Dr Greenhow reports: "The results of the inquiry 
may be stated as follows : — 

" \st. The infantile death-rate bears no definite relation to the 
general death-rate, but their comparative proportions to each other 
vary in different districts. 

" 2nd. The infantile death-rate bears the largest proportion to 
the general death-rate in districts where the infantile population 
is specially exposed to unwholesome influences, as in Coventry, 
Nottingham, and other manufacturing towns. 

" ird. The unwholesome influences to which infants are exposed 
in the manufacturing towns comprised in the present inquiry may 
be attributed mainly to the industrial employment of the married 
women, which leads them to consign the tendance of their infants 
at a very early age to young children or strangers. 

"4///. That infants thus deprived of the mother's care are 
habitually fed on diet ill adapted to their digestive powers, and 
are very frequently drugged with opiates, in order to allay the 
fractiousness arising from the illness induced by improper food. 

" 5///. That infants in manufacturing towns where women are 
much engaged in factory labour are likewise exposed to other 
causes of sickness, proceeding from the ignorance or carelessness 
of the mothers or nurses, such as deficiency of exercise, and 
exposure to inclement weather." 

There is constant reference in public inquiries to the excessive 
use of opiates. Mr Ernest Hart, giving evidence in 1871 before 
the Select Committee on the Protection of Infant Life, says : — 



8o INFANT MORTALITY AND FACTORY LABOUR [chap. 

"... We wish also to take measures to prevent the 
habitual drugging of children in those day-nurseries. You will 
get evidence easily from the manufacturing districts that opiates 
are sold by gallons by druggists there. The sale of opiates for 
that purpose forms a very large part of the trade of many of the 
druggists in those districts." Later, Dr Lyon Playfair (afterwards 
Lord Playfair), a member of the same Committee, in examining a 
witness, refers to " the evidence of three druggists in Deansgate, 
who state that they supply 1260 families per week with opiates," and 
to the experience of " Mr Ransome, a distinguished surgeon who 
lived in Manchester, . . . that out of the children who attended 
his dispensary, about one-half he found to be drugged with 
opiates." 

Mr Curgenven, another surgeon witness before the Committee, 
speaking of the high death-rate among insured children, says : — 

"... They know that if they put their children out with 
their neighbours, as it is said, to be nursed, brought up by hand, 
while they are at work in the factories, there is very great chance 
that they will die, and therefore they calculate that the sum which 
they receive from the burial club will more than cover the expense 
of the burial. And the deaths amongst the children of the 
operatives in the manufacturing towns amount to about 40 to 56 
per cent, because they are left by their mothers at an early age, 
when they are only a few weeks old, and are placed in the hands 
of women to be brought up. They are drugged frequently with 
Godfrey's cordial- and other opiates to keep them quiet. They are 
fed upon bread and water with very little milk, so that they are 
half-starved. The consequence is that more than half of them 
die." 

And again : — " . . . The infantile mortality has decreased so 
far as the mothers were enabled to remain at home to nurse their 
children. It is only when they are employed in the factories, away 
from their homes, leaving their children to be brought up by hand 
by their kind neighbours, that they die." 

Turning to another inquiry, we find Mr Foulkes, a certifying 
surgeon, giving evidence before the Factory and Workshops Acts 
Commission of 1875, and pleading for a prohibition upon the 
return of mothers to their employment within six months of their 
confinement. "... Many of the women are at work wathin a 
month after they are confined ; the result is that the child is left 
at home, and it is invariably fed upon the same thing, bread, water, 
and sugar, and the children dwindle away, and that has a great 



.] MOTHERS AND FIELD WORK: EFFECTS ON INFANTS 8] 



deal to do with the infant mortaUty of the place. What is done 
with the children in this district generally when the mothers are at 
work ? They are often left with the other children ; there is no 
provision made, and they are very badly treated and sadly 
neglected. . . ." 

Before the same Commission, Mr Baker, first a surgeon in 
practice at Leeds and then joint chief of the Factory Department 
with Mr Redgrave, gives it as his experience that " very consider- 
able mischief arises with women going to work, not only to the 
mother, but also to the child." He is then asked by the Chairman 
Sir James Fergusson : " We may take it for granted that it is not 
theoretically desirable that women should go to daily work im- 
mediately after confinement, leaving the child all day to somebody 
else ; but, practically speaking, do you think from your experience 
of this matter, that if Parliament interfered with it, it could be en- 
forced with uniformity and without hardship?" And his answer 
is : " Yes, I think it might. I think that by the visitation of certi- 
fying surgeons it might be enforced decently, and delicately, and 
sufficiently, so as to make it very useful." 

One more reference to Sir John Simon shall almost close this 
array of quotations from buried reports. In this last instance the 
inquiry was conducted in agricultural districts : — 

" The discovery that an enormous infantine mortality was pre- 
vailing in several purely agricultural districts, suggested at first 
sight that perhaps in these districts some third * sort of destructive 
influence was at work. The result of this new inquiry, however, 
has been to show that the monstrous infantine death-rate of the 
examined agricultural districts depends only on the fact that there 
has been introduced into those districts the influence which has 
already been recognised as enormously fatal to the infants of 
manufacturing populations — the influence of the employment of 
adult women. * The opinions ' (says Dr Hunter) ' of about seventy 
medical practitioners, with those of other gentlemen acquainted 
with the condition of the poor, were obtained. With wonderful 
accord, the cause of the mortality was traced by nearly all these 
well-qualified witnesses to the bringing of the land under tillage — 
that is, to the cause which has banished malaria and has substi- 
tuted a fertile though unsightly garden for the winter marshes and 
summer pastures of fifty or a hundred years ago. It was generally 
thought that the infants no longer received any injury from soil, 

* For the first two influences see quotation on p. 76, from the Report made 
to the General Board of Health. 



82 INFANT MO RT A LIT Y AND FA CTOR V LA BO UR [chap 



climate, or malarious influences, but that a more fatal enemy had 
been introduced by the employment of the mothers in the field.' 
On this agricultural employment of women there follow identically 
the same results as have already been traced to result from the 
employment of women in manufacture." 

This, then, is the finding of skilled inquirers, the teaching of 
half a century's statistics : that, for the child, the employment of 
the mother in the field is " a more fatal enemy " than malaria ; 
and her employment in the factory, " apparently more fatal than 
starvation." And what is our answering record of effort ? A 
pathetic capacity for inquiry. Not certainly because we lack 
facts, or because the need for action has passed ; for, on the 
contrary, it becomes cumulatively more acute. In Dundee, for 
example, in 1881, 19.4 per cent, of married women were employed 
in its mills and factories; in 1 891, 24 per cent, were so employed, 
and the infantile death-rate rises accordingly. In the following 
table, prepared by Dr Templeman, Dundee's able medical officer 
of health, this death-rate can be seen for a period of twenty-eight 
years : — 

Average General Deatli-rate of Infantile 

Death-rate. Children. Death rate. 

1860-69 . 30.4 per icx)o Not ascertained Not ascertained 

1870-79 . 25 „ 81 per 1000 153 per 1000 births 

1880-89 . 22.2 „ 63 „ 155 n 

1890-97 . 20.8 „ 68 „ 176 

First among the causes Dr Templeman puts " Industrial Con- 
ditions : " first, too, this recognition should be in the conscience of 
the parent, in the conscience of the employer, in the conscience 
of the State. Of all who are responsible, the State has least 
acknowledged the responsibility. The examples may be rare, it 
is true, of parents who make sacrifices themselves that their 
homes and children may have benefit, but yet there are examples. 
The efforts of employers of labour may, too, be rare, but still they 
are appreciable, notably in Yorkshire ; more frequent are the 
efforts of philanthropy : there is one effort by the State ; * not 
to save the life of the child, for that admittedly it does not do, 
one effort, barely calculable in its result, to protect the health of 
the mother. 

All credit to those who, singly as employers, or collectively as 
philanthropists, have endeavoured to save life and preserve efficiency 
for the nation. But such effort of necessity is ineffective. It can 
never be complete, and the abstention of a few mill owners in a 

* The prohibition of employment within a month of childbirth, enacted in 1891. 



v.] THE CRECHE : ITS PROPER SPHERE 83 

. ^ a 

district is sufficient to annul the effort of the majority. The help- 
lessness of such a position was so strongly felt by one mill owner 
in Yorkshire, that his rule prohibiting the employment of married 
women was abandoned : " Other mills being open to married 
women, the rule failed to serve the purpose for which it had been 
designed — that of keeping the women at home." * 

The attempt of philanthropy to establish day nurseries, dis- 
couraging as it has been, would even in apparent success serve 
but as a prop to an evil system, as an anaesthetic to the manu- 
facturer's conscience. It can but alleviate, it cannot cure ; and its 
condemnation many years ago, for the involved exposure of the 
infant to unsuitable hours and inclement weather, holds equal 
force to-day. Better than the drug-nursery, but bad in itself, 
for the most excellently managed creche might well provoke the 
situation described by Dr Greenhow, in Coventry f : — " Women 
being obliged to attend at the factory at an early hour are 
always hurried in the morning, and may be seen on their way 
to the mills, hastening along the street with their children only 
half dressed, carrying the remainder of their clothes, and their 
food for the day, to be left with the person who has charge of the 
child during its mother's absence ; and this ofttimes on a cold 
winter's morning in the midst of sleet or snow;" 

Widows without children of earning age may, as part of their 
burden, be forced to imperil the welfare of their infants in one 
direction while they seek it in another. And here philanthropy 
has just scope, for, save in exceptional cases, the creche is the 
only practicable form of aid to the mother. Better, then, this 
care of her infant than its abandonment to a child, itself a candi- 
date for the nursery, or to the elderly woman who confesses un- 
fitness for all other employments. But this is the smallest section 
of the whole. In its widest aspect it is not a question for the 
make-shift, though devoted, benevolence of philanthropy ; it is a 
problem for the State in its responsibility to the nation. What are 
the terrors that lie in its handling ? The dread of a barrier raised 
before the freedom of employment : the fear that the prohibition 
of employment within say six, or even three, months after child- 
birth might embarrass a large class in its endeavour to earn a 
living. But the freedom to labour is no sacred right when its 
exercise involves injury to others ; it is not even so held when it 

* Royal Commission on Labour. Reports of Lady Assistant Commissioners, 
p. 102. 

t Fourth Report of the Medical Officer of the Privy Council, 1861. 



84 INFANT MORTALITY AND FACTORY LABOUR [chap. 

clearly threatens injury to ourselves. The worker in a dangerous 
trade is suspended from employment on the verdict of the certifying 
surgeon during such period as he considers to be necessary : in certain 
departments in a white-lead factory the employment of women and 
girls is altogether prohibited. There is therefore no inviolate right. 
Is there in this case necessity ? What is the motive-power which 
drives the mothers of young children into factories ? Commonly, 
ignorance of home duties, and the consequent unattractiveness of 
the home ; the companionship of factory life, where the com- 
panionship of children has no meaning ; often, fashion ; least 
often, true poverty. There is poverty in Glasgow and in Paisley, 
as in Dundee, but its cure is not felt to lie in the employment of 
mothers. The father accepts the obligation of bread-winner; he 
is ashamed that his wife should work outside his home. " If a 
Glasgow lad wearies o' work, he must marry a Dundee lassie." 
There poverty conjures excuse, and a man is not ashamed to claim 
his wife before her time in the hospital is over, that she may come 
out and earn his bread. Exceptional, it must be hoped, are such 
cases, but at least the system which breeds them is not, and what 
some towns claim as a necessity, others will not tolerate, in their 
rejection disproving the need. 

Within the space of this chapter it has been impossible to 
consider arguments to which place would otherwise have properly 
been given. It is left only to suggest a comparison of the possible 
evils which lie in action, and the certain evils which have come of 
inaction. The principle of regulation is already accepted in our 
laws, and in the laws of other countries, as Miss Anderson's 
deeply-interesting chapter shows ; it but needs extension to render 
it effective. The State holds the scales : difficulties on the one 
side, not light it is true ; but on the other, forces weighted already 
with accomplished evil, charged with greater evil to come : on the 
one side, the fancied interests of the individual ; on the other, the 
deepest interests of the nation. " It cannot be too distinctly recog- 
nised," says Sir John Simon, "that a high local mortality of chil- 
dren must almost necessarily denote a high local prevalence of 
those causes which determine the degeneration of the race." 

May Tennant. 
II 

Although a steady decline has taken place in the general 
mortality of the country coincident with, and, no doubt, in the 



ARTIFICIAL VERSUS BREAST-FED CHILDREN »5 

main, consequent upon sanitary progress, it cannot be said that 
the infant mortaHty has diminished in Hke proportion, and among 
the many factors which contribute to the maintenance of a lament- 
ably high death-rate among infants, not the least important is 
improper feeding, the result of ignorance on the part of mothers. 
If by some means the simple fact could be brought home to 
mothers that milk, and preferably human milk, is the only per- 
missible diet for infants, the natural instincts of motherhood would 
prevail in the majority of cases, and thousands of otherwise healthy 
infants who do not now survive the first few months of life would 
reach an age when greater license in diet is permissible, and the 
chances of living are immensely greater. But, in a humanitarian 
sense, the saving of life which would thus be effected is of small 
moment when compared with the mitigation of the pain and misery 
which infants now have to suffer, and which has to be borne, not 
only by those whom death ultimately relieves, but by the still 
larger number who manage to survive the ordeal, and who thus 
have to suffer for a longer period. 

From inquiries made some years ago, Dr Hope of Liverpool 
came to the conclusion that among the artisan classes in that town 
upwards of 50 per cent, of infants during the first three months of 
life are entirely breast-fed, 35 per cent, are reared on other food in 
addition to breast-milk, and 1 5 per cent, are entirely artificially fed. 
Analysing upon this basis a large number of deaths from diarrhoea, 
he found that for every death attributed to that cause among 
entirely breast-fed infants under three months' old, 15 occurred 
among the mixed class, and that for every death which occurred 
among the breast-fed and mixed class combined, 22 occurred 
among the entirely artificially fed class. He also found that among 
infants aged from three to six months, for every death from diarrhoea 
among the partially breast-fed, 6 occurred among the entirely 
artificially fed class. Other observers who have devoted attention 
to this matter bear out Dr Hope's conclusions, and it is a well- 
known fact that in countries where artificial feeding of infants is 
largely practised, the mortality is very high compared with other 
countries where natural feeding prevails. 

Now the practice as regards the feeding of infants varies in 
different districts according to circumstances which will presently 
be referred to, and no one can dispute the fact that, other things 
being equal, infants reared for the first few months entirely on 
breast-milk have a far better chance of survival than either of the 
other two classes. No doubt this is very largely due to the gross 



86 INFANT MORTALITY AND FACTORY LABOUR [chap. 

ignorance which prevails, especially among the artisan classes, as to 
the only permissible substitutes for breast-milk ; but we must deal 
with circumstances as we find them, and, up to the present at any 
rate, our efforts to bring about a better order of things have proved 
unavailing. When we ultimately succeed, as we must do, in getting 
the teaching of elementary hygiene introduced as a compulsory 
subject in all elementary schools, the more rational feeding of 
future generations of infants must follow as a natural consequence, 
and then, even ' if the proportion of breast-fed infants is not in- 
creased, the difference in the death-rates among the different classes 
(entirely breast-fed, partially breast-fed, and entirely artificially fed) 
will be greatly lessened, for the artificial food administered will 
more nearly approach nature's requirements. 

From what has been said, it follows that if from any cause the 
proportion of entirely artificially fed infants in a district were 
abnormally large, in the absence of any counteracting influences 
the infantile death-rate of the district would compare unfavourably 
with that of other districts in which circumstances did not prevail 
which disturbed what may be called the normal grouping of the 
children according to the methods of feeding. If, for example, 
taking Dr Hope's figures, instead of 15 per cent, only of the infants 
under three months being entirely artificially fed, the number, from 
disturbing causes, more nearly approached say 85 per cent, the 
remaining 15 per cent, only being either partly or entirely breast- 
fed, it would certainly be surprising if the effect were not apparent 
in a greatly-increased mortality among infants. 

Some twelve years ago, when, in my capacity as County Medical 
Officer, I first had occasion, among other duties, to inquire into the 
mortality returns of the various districts; in Staffordshire, I was 
greatly impressed by a very marked dissimilarity in the infant 
mortality of the two groups of populous artisan towns, one in the 
north and the other in the south of the county, a dissimilarity 
which I subsequently found could not be accounted for by any 
apparent difference in the sanitary surroundings of the northern 
and southern towns. In view of the fact, however, that, generally 
speaking, the trades carried on in the southern group of towns did 
not afford much employment for women, whereas in the northern 
group the conditions in this respect were different, it occurred to 
me that in this was to be found the explanation of the high infant 
mortality of the northern compared with the southern towns. In 
order to test the accuracy of this conclusion, with the help of the 
District Medical Officers of Health, and from information obtained 



v.] MARRIED WOMEN WORKERS IN FACTORIES 87 

___^ . A 

from manufacturers regarding the proportion of married women 
workers, I classified the purely artisan towns in the county into 
three groups, and obtained the infant mortality figures for previous 
years, in order to allow of more reliable conclusions being drawn. 
Since then 1 have continued to record the figures according to the 
same plan annually, and I have now records covering a period of 
20 years, and relating to artisan towns only, with a mean total 
population of about 529,000. One may fairly claim, allowing that 
the home conditions in the towns in question, in other respects, 
apart from the proportion of artificially-fed infants, are practically 
identical, that records from such a large population and for so long 
a period may legitimately be used for our purpose from a statistical 
point of view, provided care is exercised in the classification of the 
towns in accordance with the number of young married women 
workers employed away from home, and who are thus prevented 
from suckling their children. 

In the classification of the towns it was found impossible to 
arrive at the actual number of married women workers, but one was 
able to divide them into three groups, as follows : — 

(i) Many Married Women Workers. 

(2) A good number of Married Women Workers. 

(3) Practically no Married Women Workers. 

Adopting this classification, the figures of infant mortality in the 
different groups of towns are set forth in the following table : — 

Deaths in Children under One Year per Thousand Births in Three Classes 
of Artisan Towns in Staffordshire. 

Class I. Class II. Class III. 

Many Women Fewer Women Practically no Women 

engaged in work. engaged in work. engaged in work. 

10 Years (1881-90) . 195 166 152 

10 Years (1891-1900) 211 177 167 



The figures speak for themselves, and it will be noticed that 
while there has been a general increase in the infant death-rate, 
practically the same relative proportion has been maintained 
between the three groups of towns. 

As the outcome of a paper I read before the Public Health 
Section of the British Medical Association, at the Annual Meeting 
held at Nottingham in 1892, the question was taken* up by the 
Parliamentary Bills Committee, with a view to securing some 
legislative remedy, and an inquiry was instituted throughout 
England on similar lines to the Staffordshire inquiry. Returns 



88 INFANT MORTALITY AND FACTORY LABOUR [chap. 

were thus obtained from a large number of artisan towns, and these 
returns bore out in a remarkable way the conclusions drawn from 
the Staffordshire figures. 

It appears, then, to be a fact that the State is permitting a 
practice to be followed which is directly responsible for the deaths 
of thousands of infants annually. Deliberate cruelty on the part 
of parents is a punishable offence, and in a strict sense starvation 
comes within this category ; it does not seem to matter, however, 
what sort of food is provided, so long as, theoretically, some pro- 
vision is made for the care of the infant during the absence of the 
mother. Possibly, in many cases, owing to ignorance and other 
causes, the infant might not receive any better care at home, but 
there, at least, the natural food would be available, and in the 
majority of instances it would be given. It is true we cannot 
legislate as to how mothers shall feed their infants, but surely it 
is not too much to ask that the legislature shall not allow any 
deliberate disregard of parental responsibilities. 

The law at present does provide some amount of protection, by 
making it illegal for a mother to return to work under one month 
after the birth of her child ; but although this restriction is valuable 
from the point of view of the mother's health, it can hardly benefit 
the child, for, if factory work is to be engaged in after a month's 
interval only, it is not likely that the mother will commence suck- 
ling her child. The period of restriction should undoubtedly be 
extended, and the shortest serviceable time is probably three 
months. The probability is that if such an extension of time 
limit were enforced the mother would suckle her child until she 
returned to work, and thus the most precarious period in the life 
of the child would be tided over, and its chances of survival would 
be considerably increased. 

In many cases the wife — it may be from choice, or because of 
improvident habits on the part of the husband — goes to work, 
while at the same time the husband is earning ample wages. In 
Lancashire it is common for a man to receive 25s. a week while 
his wife earns from 15s. to 20s., and in Staffordshire, when the 
potting trade is ordinarily prosperous, the weekly wages of a man 
and his wife amount to 30s. and 12s. respectively. These figures 
represent ^ fair average, but many of the men workers receive 
much higher wages. 

In seeking for a solution of the question, we may learn some- 
thing from other countries. In Switzerland, for example, a period 
of absence from work of eight weeks is enforced on mothers, the 



v.] 



STATE CONTROL 



89 



time to be counted from two weeks before confinement ; and in 
Germany, by a process of compulsory assurance, the working 
woman, while prevented from working owing to child-birth, receives 
a sum equal to half her ordinary daily wages. In the former case 
the period, for reasons already given, is not long enough, and the 
latter expedient could hardly be made applicable to economic 
conditions in this country. However, a way out of the difficulty 
ought to be found, and it would seem that it should be sought for 
in "the direction of State control. 

George Reid. 



CHAPTER VI 

CHILD LABOUR 

The half-time system is dying. The age of the full-timer in the 
mill or factory is being steadily raised. But as long as poverty 
exists children must feel the pinch of it. They must help also to 
bear the burdens of their parents, and share their anxieties and 
cares. One would be very wrong, however, in supposing that the 
most anxious and harassed parents and children are to be found 
at the bottom of the social ladder. At the bottom of the social 
ladder will be found little care and much movement — a tourbillon 
of change — marriages, accidents, tragedies, crimes, all succeeding 
each other pell-mell, and obliterating one another. The parents 
and the children of the slums are occupied, not with thoughts of 
to-morrow, but with thoughts of to-day. Here, for example, is a 
large Board School in a slum district of a big northern city. It 
is difficult for the head teacher to keep the register, for large 
numbers of children are always flowing through the school like 
a shoal of mackerel on a tide. Families arrive, and encamp in 
the fair ground close by, or find shelter in the poor lodging 
houses of the neighbourhood. The children attend school for a 
short time, pick up a smattering of the three R's., and then 
disappear. There are of course regular residents, and the 
children of such people are much better attenders. But they 
have this in common with their migratory neighbours, that 
their lives are varied by exciting and gruesome events, which 
they do not take to heart too seriously. A certain unfortunate 
mother of ten loses several of her children in succession. Then 
suddenly her husband, who is a drunkard, falls down some steps 
and is killed. There is a tragic gathering of friends at the house 
on the eve of the funeral. A few months later the widow marries 
again. But the second husband turns out to be a scamp. She 
leaves him and takes refuge with a married daughter. The 
children change homes, take the ups and downs of their rocky 
life, and attend school pretty regularly. Some children are 

90 



CHAP. VI.] CHILDREN AS BREAD-WINNERS 91 

deserted, and go into neighbours' homes. The strong ties of kin- 
ship are dispensed with ; and other ties, equally strong, for the 
hour at least, take their place. 

Apart from the family drama, the children have their own 
struggles and adventures. They have to help to earn the living. 
In some families a child is the bread-winner. In many, children 
are important co-helpers with the parents. How does a child 
earn money? In provincial towns, also in London, the news- 
paper offices are responsible for a great deal of out-of-door 
child labour. A crowd of boys rush every afternoon to the 
"offices." Some of these children are already employers of 
labour. They engage a smaller or less lucky comrade to deliver 
some of the papers, and pay him twopence or threepence, accord- 
ing to his success. They — the small employers — may earn 6s. 
per week and even more at times. Besides the newsboys there 
are the errand boys, and those who help shopkeepers. These 
form a large contingent of the children's army of labour. And 
so, alas ! do the vagrant sellers of chips, flowers, etc., who have to 
cultivate the beggar's as well as the vendor's art. At a Confer- 
ence in April 1900 between the School Board and Board of 
Guardians of Bradford, a return was presented showing that 91 
children — 84 of whom were of school age — were found begging 
and hawking in the streets in the course of three evenings of 
December 1899. 

The domestic toilers in such a district as that which we are 
now considering would be mainly nurses. Little cooking and less 
washing is done in some of the homes. There are no regular 
meals, no regular duties, and the elder children are useful therefore 
mainly in taking charge of the younger ones, or earning pence in 
the street. Taking their roving habits into account, it is strange 
to learn that such children suffer from lack of proper exercise. 
Yet such is the case. About a year ago Dr Kerr, the medical 
adviser of the Bradford School Board, made an examination of 
the children attending a school situated in an *' insanitary area." 
He found that nearly all the children were ill-nourished. And 
this ill-nutrition was not simply the result of insufficient food. 
" Lack of exercise," he writes, " has a very large share in it. And 
the exercise required is not careful gymnastics, but coarse work, 
such as running round the playground." 

There are many kinds of physical exercise, just as there are 
many kinds of food, and one order of exercise does not take 
the place of another. Moreover, the same kinds of movements, 



92 



CHILD LABOUR 



[chap. 



executed under different conditions, have quite different effects. 
This is the important fact which is lost sight of by those who 
declare that the child can rest from the labours of the school 
by engaging in the labours of the mill. It is ignored also, 
or forgotten, by those rural educationists who believe that six 
hours of weeding or potato-picking mean the same thing for a 
child as six hours of free play. But the fact remains that work 
does not take the place of play, not even when that work is very 
easy, and involves walking or running. Here in this school of 
the slum, "careful gymnastics" are not required. And we may 
safely add that running about the streets, and the carrying of 
milk-cans and babies, are not required. For the children have 
had a good deal of this kind of physical exercise, and are suffer- 
ing, nevertheless, from defective circulation and want of muscular 
tone. Only movements that imply the removal of tension from 
the nervous system are required. There is no real substitute for 
such free, natural movements in any factory, schoolroom, nor even 
we may add in any gymnasium in the world. 

Let us turn from those whom we may call the "casuals" of 
the child-labour world, to the State-recognised little toilers who 
work in factories or mills. These form still a large contingent 
of the child-labour world, numbering as they do over a hundred 
thousand children, one-third of whom work in Lancashire cotton- 
mills. A goodly proportion, too, work in Yorkshire, the seat of 
the woollen and worsted trades. The rate of decline of the half- 
time system among factory and non-factory child-workers may be 
seen from the following figures, compiled in Bradford. 

Number of half-time cases in Bradford in each year for the past 
twelve years : — 



Year. 


Factory. 


Non-Factory. 

Domestic Errand 

Boys, etc. 


Total granted in 
each year. 


Number on 
School Roll. 


1889 


3.194 


679 


3.873 


7.046 


1890 


2.567 


575 


3.142 


6.490 


1891 


2.129 


703 


2.837 


6. 151 


1892 


1.838 


728 


2.566 


5-624 


1893 


1.653 


540 


2.193 


5.097 


1894 


1.434 


655 


2.089 


4.178 


1895 


1.887 


580 


2.467 


4309 


1896 


1.509 


306 


I.815 


3.276 


1897 


I.451 


250 


1. 701 


2.564 


1898 


1.329 


314 


1.643 


2.2II 


1899 


1. 187 


193 


1.380 


1.869 


1900 


1.444 


129 


1-573 


2.198 



VI.] DECADENCE OF THE HALF-TIME SYSTEM 93 

_ a 

The half-time system is dying fast in some towns, more slowly 
in others — but it is passing away even in Lancashire. No one 
appears to be more indifferent than the masters. It is not even 
fair to say that the masters are indifferent, for many of them have 
tried to hasten the end. And yet forty or fifty years ago the 
masters, as a class (there were, of course, honourable exceptions) 
opposed the raising of the age. Even ten years ago some masters 
showed concern when it was proposed to raise the age of half- 
thners to eleven. " Younger children," they said, "■ have special 
aptitudes which the elder ones have lost." The wails of regret 
came usually from masters who could remember long bye- gone 
days. " Ah ! " they cried, letting their thoughts drift back into the 
dim past, " when the children came to us very young, say at five 
or six years old, a great deal was possible that has since become 
quite impossible ! It is of no use to speak of that now." No, it is 
of no use to speak of it, since the age had been raised, and raised 
again. And with every rise the commercial value of the child in 
the labour world has diminished. And now you may hear a 
manager say, " The child who comes at twelve years old is more 
dexterous than the one who comes at thirteen," but the masters 
are evidently of opinion that so far as they are concerned the 
matter is no longer worthy of discussion. That the children come 
a year earlier or later makes little difference when the minimum 
age is raised to twelve. 

The masters' claim that the younger children had special 
aptitude, undoubtedly rests not upon fiction but upon fact. Every 
physiologist knows that the various sensory centres of the brain 
are plastic in early childhood, and that this period of plasticity is 
very short. It begins to wane already in the seventh year. 
Previous to this age, however, every human being is in a peculiarly 
receptive and responsive state. So that, during the first six or 
seven years " a great many things," as the silk manufacturers said, 
" are possible." For example, the sense of touch may be developed 
within very narrow limits, and complex and specialised movements 
may be learned so well that they become automatic. This can be 
done. It can be done only at great cost. (Probably the employers 
did not know the actual cost.) It implies the atrophy of many 
cells, the impoverishment of the whole life. It is a kind of psychic 
mutilation. But it can be done, and it has to be done quickly, 
since the spring tide of opportunity soon wanes. Alas ! for the 
old adage, " It is never too late to mend." The mending, and 
making, and altering time is over for a great many people at the 



94 CHILD LABOUR [chap. 

age of eight, and of this employers were well aware, thanks to their 
opportunities for observation and experiment So as the age 
of the half-timer was raised the masters' interest in him declined, 
and the latter-day champion of the half-time system stepped 
forward in the person of the half-timer s own father, — his father, 
not his widowed mother. For the "poor widow," who looms so 
large in the consciousness of controversialists on the half-time 
question, is seen and known wonderfully little in the school 
attendance rooms, where applications for half-time are con- 
sidered. The applicants belong very largely to the better class 
of working people. Mechanics, engineers, railway men, overlookers, 
and, now and again, a mill operative. Of course these various 
trades represent a great variety of wages. Some applicants earn 
but £\ per week, or even less, and out of this support a large 
family. But many earn from 30s. to £2 or £'^ per week. Indeed, 
men with £/i^ and upwards per week coming in have been known 
to apply, though these are exceptional cases. It is certain that the 
average working-man champion of child-labour to-day is not a 
thriftless, irresponsible person. He is, very often, a man with 
money in the bank, with ambitions and views of his own, also 
with a will of his own, and a strong Trades organisation behind 
him, through which he can express that will. Neither is he a 
person lacking in parental susceptibility and ambition. It is 
almost impossible to overrate the influence which custom has 
on sentient beings. The caterpillars of the Bombyx Hesperus 
feed in a state of nature on the leaves of the cafe diable. 
Yet Darwin found that certain caterpillars of the Bombyx 
family, having been reared on another variety, refused to touch 
the leaves of cafe diable. They preferred to die of hunger. 
Thus caterpillars can become, in a sense, unnatural. Kind- 
hearted people, too, may follow a course of conduct with their 
own offspring which appears monstrous to the stranger. In 
certain districts where child-labour is a tradition and custom, 
the very idea of associating it with inhumanity does not occur 
to the people. " Why, they mun be all clean off their heads," 
cried a Yorkshireman, who had been hearing of poor parents 
who sent their sons to school till they were fifteen or sixteen 
years old. He had gone to " t' miln " at seven, and it seemed 
to him that all " workin' foaks " children should do the same. 

It is not then to the parent you must go in order to learn what 
the effect of half-time is on the young. Nor need you turn with 
very confident hopes to the statistician. It is, indeed, a little dis_ 



I 



VI.] HALF-TIMERS AND ARRESTED MENTAL DE VELOPMENT 95 

couraging to reflect how little the statistician can help us in estab- 
lishing the most obvious ill effects of child-labour. The effect of 
half-time exemption a little while ago was to filter off a number of 
mentally sharp children who passed their standards rapidly and 
were ready to go to work at eleven. These bright children were a 
continual stumbling-block to the statistician. For example, it was 
proposed to test the vision of the half-timers and other children 
with a view to finding out the effect of the mill life on this impor- 
tant sense. Now the stupidest boys and girls are those who have 
most defective visual acuity. They are also the deafest* And 
the bright children who went to the mill at eleven, are, of course, 
the children gifted with the keenest senses. By the time these 
bright young half-timers had got to full time, the duller ones 
came on as half-timers, and by their transference appeared to 
increase the percentage of defective vision with age in half- 
timers and diminish it among the non-half-timers. Thus defec- 
tive vision apparently increased with the age of half-timers, only 
because those kept back by defective brain or eyes alone were 
half-timers at the age of twelve. This is but one example of the 
great difficulty of collecting reliable evidence to establish even the 
most reasonable assumption. 

But it is hardly an "assumption" that children suffer in 
England through half-time labour, and unregulated toil out of 
school hours. You cannot put tired eyes, pallid cheeks, and 
languid little limbs into statistics, and yet when you see them they 
are more convincing than figures. And in many schools you can 
receive this kind of evidence. The younger children who work 
out of school hours have undoubtedly the worst time of it. They 
come to school looking dull and heavy-eyed. Some are irritable 
and restless, others so languid that they appear almost oblivious 
of everything around them. " It seems as if they haven't the force 
to work through the school day," said a young master in a school 
of very poor children. " They may be bright enough children, but 
they haven't the strength to show it." 

The factory half-timers are doubtless more fortunate than the 
younger casuals ; for the former have arrived at an age when 
many of the critical turnings of child life have been passed. And 
yet the child of twelve no sooner enters a mill than the teacher 

* The deafness of a stupid boy or girl is not usually the result of a defect in 
the organ— but rather of brain-organisation. It requires intelligence and often 
training to hear well— that is to say, to receive impressions and interpret them 
rapidly.. 



96 CHILD LABOUR [chap. 

begins to see a deplorable change in him. He loses interest in 
his school work, his manners become rougher. Manners are 
forms of mental expression, so the teacher may presage from this 
fact alone a certain decline of brain power. But there are many 
other indications of decline. The other day a teacher showed me 
the copy-books of children who had been at the mill foi'- one tveek, 
and allowed me to compare these with the work done by the same 
children while they were whole-day scholars. As full-day scholars 
they all did creditable work. Their sums were correct, their writ- 
ing good, and books were kept perfectly clean. Yet in the course 
of one week the progress of months seemed to be cancelled : for 
the half-timers' sums were all marked with a " W." The writing 
was careless, the pages soiled and blotted. The children had 
changed and their work had changed. Their achievements had 
slipped from their grasp as a waggon slips back when driver and 
horse are arrested suddenly on a steep hill. 

Indeed, though the factory child suffers less in some ways than 
the "casual," he appears to be under certain great disadvantages 
from which the latter is exempt. Ask any master of an element- 
ary school and he will tell you that the characteristic of the factory 
child is dulness. The casual is not dull. Not at all, he is glad to 
talk to you about his " business," and the chances of his work- 
a-day life in the street. Not so the young factory hand. After 
the first fortnight in the mill he is a disillusioned person. He 
does not want to talk about his work or his prospects. He loses 
interest not only in others but in himself. 

What is the secret of this subtle change? Why does the 
factory boy of twelve become so torpid ? It is because in the mill 
growth and development are arrested. At the age of twelve a 
boy or girl is still a child, not an adult. It is true he has passed 
already through certain stages of growth, but the whole period of 
growth and development has not come to an end. His sensor)- 
organs are as acute, rather more acute, indeed, than a full-grown 
man's, and yet in the matter of sight and hearing he is inferior. 
It is through psychic development that the full harvest of the 
sensory and motor powers is reaped. This is why, at the age of 
twelve, if growth is to continue, the boy or girl should enter an 
atmosphere of varied mental interests and activities. The richer 
the forces of human life the more intricate will be the means b\' 
which they can be put into operation. The mill does not provide 
an atmosphere in which the new order of human development due 
at this hour can take place. " Still the mill-child is not always dull," 



VI.] 



CHILD LABOUR AND REACTION 



97 



)'ou will say, " sometimes he is very noisy." Yes, at " loosing time " 
the mill-yard and streets ring with loud talk and laughter. But the 
noise itself proves the same thing as the torpor of the mill child. 
In the jostling and shouting of the youth or mill girl the scientist 
sees not a vice but a reaction. In the desire for alcohol, the 
feverish love of betting and gambling, we behold the revolt of 
nascent human powers. These human powers, so varied and so 
subtle, are dammed up all day long, without possibility of exer- 
cise or escape. So the wild torrent of life surges free at last 
round the mill-gates, and escapes in the voice and glance of the 
excited lads who learn to love gambling and betting to the despair 
of good people. " A weak or insensible limb is certain of rough 
usage," said Donaldson, for, obeying a natural instinct, its owner 
will insist on having a sensation through it. If the whole nature 
is dwarfed or blunted, only violent pleasures can be appreciated. 

It is said that the poor " have no room to live " ; what is even 
as serious — they have no time to grow. As long as such is 
the case we may be sure that, despite all the efforts of educa- 
tionists and philanthropists, there will be a great many un- 
developed persons. Meantime the scientist advances, taking' 
account of all, and stating all fearlessly. Year by year the 
processes of growth and development become clearer, and the 
conditions of human progress more defined. And although we 
cannot at once remove even the more obvious causes of arrested 
development and weakness, yet it must be evident to all that the 
future belongs to the nations who permit and enable their 
children to come to full human stature. 



Margaret M'Millan. 



CHAPTER VII 

HOME-WORK 

There is perhaps no section of industrial life regarding which 
so much misconception prevails as out-work, or, as it is popularly 
called, home-work. 

To many persons the name home-work is synonymous with 
the idyllic term cottage industries, and this again calls up the 
picture of the model villager in the model village. The clean 
and tidy widow, so dear to the heart of the philanthropist and 
of the district visitor, is the favourite type. She dwells in an 
ivy-clad cottage surrounded by all the accessories of highly 
picturesque poverty, the kettle sings on her well-burnished 
hob, and geraniums bloom perennially on her window sill. 

How does this picture compare with the grim realities of 
home-work in our city slums? We shall see from the cases 
which I quote further on, and which have been revealed by the 
investigations of the Scottish Council for Women's Trades, and 
the Women's Industrial Council of London. 

The reason why the popular conception of home-work has 
lagged so far behind actual fact is, that this is practically the 
No Man's Land of the industrial world. Here treads not the 
foot of the labour agitator, for the home-workers are composed 
largely of " casuals " — dreary phantoms, who come and go, whence 
and whither no man can tell, and no organising secretary of 
any trade union, however enterprising, would waste time or 
effort in inducing them to join its ranks. Each worker is a 
sort of industrial Ishmael, working only for his or her own 
hand. 

Nor has the home-worker been much better off in respect of 
Government protection. For while the factory and workshop 
hand has had the conditions of her work regulated by law, the 
home-worker has been treated as a step-child by the State, and 
has been left outside the protecting pale of the Factory Acts. 

Apart from the points of starvation wages and excessive 



CHAP. VII.] NOT CONTROLLED BY FACTORY LEGISLATION 99 

hours, one of the main facts brought out by recent investigations 
into home-work is the grave danger to the health of both the 
worker and the community at large arising from the making of 
garments, etc., in disease -infected and otherwise insanitary houses, 
and public opinion has been gradually ripening to the conclusion 
that legal regulation of some kind is necessary as a protection 
to public health. Further, it is beginning to be recognised that 
the application to out-work of the laws that regulate labour in 
the factory is a perfectly reasonable and logical extension, as 
out-work, in the modern expression of it, is practically an 
extension of factory work, or it may be more properly described 
as its back-wash. Out-workers are employed mainly on the 
surplusage of the factory orders — the unskilled, poorly paid 
work that the workshop hand rejects, or that the pressure of 
a big order prevents her wholly overtaking. The low degree 
of skill required for the most part, and the consequent low 
earnings, have their inevitable result in placing this section of 
the industry in the hands of the very class of workers whose 
conditions most need supervision and control. 

Previous to the passing of the Factory and Workshop Act 
of 1 89 1, some agitation with respect to the conditions of home- 
work had begun to make itself felt, and in recognition of this 
a provision was made in that Act giving the Secretary of 
State power to require employers to keep lists of all the out- 
workers they employed. These lists were to be open to the 
inspection of the Factory Inspector and the Sanitary Inspector. 
This was carried a step further by the Act of 1895, in which it 
was decreed that copies of these lists should be sent twice a 
year to the Factory Inspector. But while the latter may 
visit the homes of the out-workers, he has no power to remedy 
any defects he may find there ; all he can do is to report in- 
sanitary conditions to the Local Sanitary Authority ; except, of 
course, in the case of out-workers who employ others to help 
them, and whose premises thus become a workshop within the 
meaning of the Factory and Workshop Acts, and are accordingly 
subject to their provisions. But these after all form a com- 
paratively limited class ; consequently the great majority of out- 
workers are left entirely outside the scope of these Acts. 

The following cases will convey some idea of the actual 
conditions under which out-work is carried on : — 

I. Is the wife of a labourer, who is sick and in the infirmary ; 
works from twelve to sixteen hours per day finishing trousers ; 



HOME-WORK [chap. 



is paid 4jd. and 5d. per pair ; earns 2s. per day ; supplies thread 
and twist, which cost about 8d. per week ; works in a very 
untidy, dirty kitchen. Has no time to clean up except once 
a week. Children carry the work to the workshop. 

2. Is a widow living alone ; finishes trousers ; is paid 2|d. and 
2|d. per pair; earns 9jd. per day of nine and ten hours, and 
provides thread, which costs about 9|d. a week. Her earnings 
are supplemented by 2s. 6d. a week from the parish. 

3. Married woman, husband out of work ; finishes shirts ; is 
paid 2|d. per dozen, and earns about 7|d. per day of eighteen 
hours; supplies thread, which costs about 8d. per week. When 
work is brisk she can earn 4s. 8d. a week by getting up at 
three and four in the morning. 

4. Is the wife of a bricklayer ; she works eight to nine 
hours a day making matchboxes ; is paid 2jd. per gross, and 
earns about is. 4d. a day. A girl of eight out of school hours 
helps the mother, who has to supply paste and hemp, which 
costs about 6d. a week. 

5. Is the wife of a porter ; works ten to twelve hours a day 
making matchboxes; earns is. 3|d. per day, and her little 
boy, who is four years old, helps her by folding the paper after 
it is pasted over the cardboard. 

6. Is a married woman ; makes bead trimming ; is paid |d. 
to \\<\. per yard, and earns from is. to is. 6d. per day, 
working twelve to fifteen hours. Little boy of eight helps 
out of school hours. 

7. Two girls work at fur-pulling eleven hours a day, and 
earn about 8s. 6d. per week each. Three girls sleep in work- 
room in one filthy bed. Elder girl said her chest was bad, 
but she was accustomed to this. 

8. Is the wife of a labourer in irregular employment ; finishes 
shirts, and works from 5 A.M. to 11 P.M.; is paid 2jd. to 5d. 
per dozen; pays about id. out of every is. earned for thread. 
The highest wage she ever earned was 4s. lod. a week, "work- 
ing late and early." The eldest girl does the housework. 
House in filthy condition ; work piled upon the floor. 

9. Two single women living together, the daughters of a 
city missionary deceased ; work about ten hours a day finish-i 
ing children's shirts and making pinafores, and earn from 4s. 
to 6s. per week each. On the day visited, one had worked 
seven hours and had made /d. Her wages-book for ten con- 
secutive weeks showed 2s. 4d., 4s. 4d., 5s. 8d. (week and half). 



VII.] OUT-WORK A MENACE TO PUBLIC HEALTH loi 

7s. ojd, 3s. i^d, 3s., 2s. 3d., 3s. 9d., 3s. id., and 5s. House, 
attic room, beautifully clean, rent 8s. per month. 

10. Is the wife of a labourer irregularly employed ; has 
three young children ; " makes shirts throughout and finishes 
them," earns 5s. to 6s. per week, working twelve to fourteen 
hours per day. She pays is. 6d. per week for machine, and 
4d. per six dozen for thread. Occupies house of two rooms, 
very dirty and almost destitute of furniture. 

11. Is a widow; lives in one-roomed house, which is very 
dirty ; " finishes " woollen shirts ; is paid from 2|d. to 6d. per 
dozen, according to the amount of work put upon the garments. 
Her average earnings are from 5s. to 6s. per week. Two 
children were lying ill in the room, and were covered up with 
the shirts on which the mother was employed ; she could not 
tell what was the matter. 

12. Is the wife of a surfaceman earning i6s. a week; makes 
aprons, pinafores, and chemises, and earns about 5s. per week. 
She is in delicate health ; has had eight children, only one of 
whom now survives. 

And so on, through this dreary tale "of poverty, hunger, 
and dirt." 

The evidence collected in respect to out-work by expert 
investigators in these and other cases seems to prove conclusively 
that it is usually accompanied by very low wages, inordinately 
long and irregular hours, and distressingly insanitary conditions. 
With the matter of wages British legislators have not yet seen fit 
to deal directly, and it is obvious that any regulation of hours 
for work carried on by workers in their own homes would be 
extremely difficult to enforce. What remains is the sanitary 
condition of the house and of the worker. And there is the double 
ground for interference here, in that the making of clothing and 
other articles for public use in insanitary dwellings is not only a 
danger to the workers themselves, but also to the public 
generally. 

How does the law on this point at present stand ? Perhaps 
the most important legislation we have had dealing with out-work 
is to be found in sections 5 and 6 of the Factory Act of 1895, 
which contain the following provisions : — 

Sec. 5. (i) "If an inspector gives notice in writing to the occupier of a 
factory or workshop, or to any contractor employed by any such occupier, that 
any place in which work is carried on for the purpose of or in connection 
with the business of the factory or workshop is injurious or dangerous to the 



HOME-WORK [CHAP. 



health of the persons employed therein, then, if the occupier or contractor after 
the expiration of one month from receipt of the notice gives out work to be 
done in that place, and the place is found by the court having cognizance of 
the case to be so injurious or dangerous, he shall be liable on summary 
conviction to a fine not exceeding ten pounds, 

(2) " This section shall apply in the case of the occupier of any place from 
which any work is given out as if that place were a workshop. 

(3) " Provided that this section shall not apply except in the case of persons 
employed in such classes of work, and in the case of persons giving out 
employment and employed within such areas, as may from time to time be 
specified by the Secretary of State by order made in accordance with section 
65 of the principal Act, and no such order shall be made except with respect to 
an area where, by reason of the number and distribution of the population or 
the conditions under which work is carried on, there are special risks of injury 
or danger to the health of the persons employed and of the district. 

Sec. 6. " If any occupier of a factory or workshop or laundry or of any place 
from which any work is given out, or any contractor employed by any such 
occupier causes or allows wearing apparel to be made, cleaned, or repaired in 
any dwelling-house or building occupied therewith, whilst any inmate of the 
dwelling-house is suffering from scarlet fever or smallpox, then, unless he proves 
that he was not aware of the existence of the illness in the dwelling-house, and 
could not reasonably have been expected to become aware of it, he shall be 
liable to a fine not exceeding ten pounds." 



I have no doubt sub-section i of section 5 might have gone a 
long way to improve the sanitary conditions under which out- 
workers are employed, and reduce the danger to the public, had it 
not been for the restriction imposed by sub-section 3, which makes 
it practically inoperative. 

Notwithstanding the many over-crowded and insanitary 
districts in our large cities, I am not aware that a single area has 
been specified to which the section should apply. The reason for 
this will probably be found in the difficulty to prove the existence 
of " special risks of injury or danger to the health of the persons 
employed and of the district." And in any case the month's 
notice to be given would simply mean that by a system of 
removing — which would be nothing unusual with the class of 
workers concerned — the purpose of the Act could be successfully 
evaded. 

It would seem to be the desire of the legislature to place all 
responsibility for compliance with the law upon the employer, or 
the person giving out the work, but it stops short at providing 
him with the means of ascertaining whether the law is being 
complied with. 

The limited space at my disposal will not allow me to deal 



VII.] 



EFFECT OF HOME-WORK UPON WAGES 



103 



with the many economic issues involved in the question of out- 
work, I can only make a brief reference to its possible effect on 
wages. 

Many of the more intelligent workers in the factories and 
workshops speak very strongly against it on the ground that the 
long and irregular hours tend surely, if indirectly, to lower wages, 
and workshop hands in some cases, even where the total earnings 
were very low, have on principle refrained from taking work home 
to finish after the workshop hours, through fear of thus producing 
an artificial standard of wages. Out-workers are often used as a 
lever for reducing rates of wages. They are not restricted by any 
law to a specified number of hours per day as in factories, and 
they are often found working from early morning till late at night. 
With the help of some other members of the family, a fair wage 
may be earned, in consequence of which the employer is inclined 
to make comparisons which show the factory hands at a dis- 
advantage. Subsequently rates are reduced for everybody. 

It may be interesting to note that a large number of out- 
workers met with during these inquiries were in receipt of parochial 
relief, although they were working full time for their employers. 
Attention has been directed to this subject from time to time in 
the official reports of the Factory Department, and various 
suggestions have been put forward as to the best methods for the 
efficient regulation of home-work ; but sooner or later the Govern- 
ment will be obliged to deal with this question, and as the matter 
will therefore be in the hands of the Home Office it would be 
unwise of me to anticipate the manner in which they might treat 
the subject. 

A. Ballantyne. 



CHAPTER VIII 

THE PHYSIOLOGY AND PATHOLOGY OF WORK AND FATIGUE 

There is a limit to man's power of doing work. This varies in 
different individuals. In an ordinary way work is conducive to 
health, and even under abnormal circumstances work is often the 
main factor that tends to prolong life. Mental not less than 
physical occupation has been known to raise men and women 
above worries that otherwise would have crushed them and lifted 
them above the depressing influences of an incurable malady. In 
itself work is a good thing. It is when we come to consider the 
effects of overwork and fatigue in an age when all is hurry and 
excitement, when every one is pressed, and work is undertaken 
under such unhealthy conditions as exist in some overheated, over- 
crowded, and ill-ventilated factories, that one of the worst sides of 
excessive toil is seen. In order to understand more fully the evils 
of overwork and fatigue, physical and mental, let us learn some- 
thing of the physiological conditions under which muscular work 
is performed. 

We are frequently reminded that the human body resembles a 
steam-engine. From the circulation within the body of the 
absorbed products obtained from digested food are evolved those 
chemical and mechanical forces which direct all work, physical 
and mental. The human body differs from the steam-engine in 
being able to transform some of the food products into living- 
tissue, whereby during work it calls upon its stored-up energy 
and loses weight. Human life can only be supported by 
oxygen and the ingestion of foods of vegetable or animal origin. 
In the internal laboratory of the human body chemical changes 
are continually taking place, resulting in the formation of such 
waste products as carbonic acid, water, and urea. These have to 
be removed by the lungs, the kidneys, and skin. A pure atmo- 
sphere, healthy surroundings, and an adequate supply of water and 
proper food, are therefore required in order to introduce into the 
system the ordinary necessaries of life. Health can only be 

104 ^ 



CHAP, vjii.] MEANS FOR MEASURING MUSCULAR WORK 105 
— — V 

maintained by a normal functional activity of the emunctories, 

whereby waste products are eliminated. 

All organs when in a state of greater functional activity than 
usual draw to them, by a kind of automatic arrangement of the 
nervous system, a larger supply of blood. The demand upon the 
muscles of the labourer is met by an increased flow of blood at 
the time, therefore, when most required, and when changes within 
his muscular system are most active. In a similar fashion, a 
quickening of the cerebral circulation occurs during the processes 
of thinking and mental attention. We are, however, at this parti- 
cular part of our inquiry concerned rather with that large army of 
workers, men, women, and young persons, who are either day 
or weekly wage earners, whose life is one of hard toil, and who 
in reaching home of an evening are frequently tired out with the 
day's labour. Work while physiologically making for health may, 
if pushed too far so as to induce fatigue, ultimately unfit the 
individual for his allotted task. 

By means of an instrument known as the ergograph, physiolo- 
gists can estimate the amount of muscular work done. We 
can thus learn something of the laws of muscular activity 
and of fatigue in man. Work is only done by muscle when 
it is contracting. By means of the ergograph we can register 
the character, the frequency, and rhythm of these contrac- 
tions, and estimate the weight of a load lifted, or the amount 
of work accomplished, in a given time. In addition to the 
physical work accomplished, heat is also generated within the 
muscle, and certain waste products are formed which escape by 
the veins and lymphatics. A healthy fresh muscle responds 
practically at once to an electrical stimulus, but when it has been 
over stimulated so that the individual muscular contractions 
follow each other too rapidly, the tissue becomes fatigued and 
no longer responds to the induction shocks. The ergograph shows 
us the manner in which we become fatigued. Professor Mosso, of 
Turin University, found that the instrument registers very much 
the same results in the same people over a period of years, allow- 
ing for certain minor modifications depending upon the conditions 
of the organism, the state of health at the time, diet, sleep, and 
the amount of intellectual fatigue present at the moment. We are 
all familiar with the influence of volition upon muscular con- 
traction. By a strong effort of will we can force our jaded 
muscles still to accomplish work, but in doing so we often add 
to the muscular tiredness a sense of brain fatigue as well. There 



io6 WORK AND FATIGUE [chap. 



is a marked difference in the character and amount of work 
done by muscles that have been gradually trained compared with 
that done by those not so prepared. Professor Aducco found 
that at the end of a month, after having practised a few hours daily 
with the ergograph, he could perform twice the amount of muscular 
work than he could at the commencement. A moderate amount of 
work, physical and mental, is attended by a feeling of pleasurable 
satisfaction. It is when work is carried too far, and when a man's 
daily labour becomes too hard, or makes lengthened and unusual 
demands upon his strength, that there is experienced a sense of 
extreme weariness and fatigue. When a muscle has become 
fatigued its irritability is lessened. It no longer contracts with the 
same vigour, less energy is set free, and the muscle relaxes and 
regains its original form less quickly. Under any circumstances 
energy is only liberated at the expense of the nutriment stored up 
within the muscle and the oxygen absorbed from the blood. A 
process akin to oxidation takes place within the muscle during its 
contraction whereby waste products are formed that act as poisons 
to the muscle protoplasm. Muscle is only capable of doing work 
so long as energy holding explosive compounds are formed within 
it and the waste products are excreted. 

What, then, causes fatigue ? Since during muscular contraction 
oxygen is absorbed, and carbonic acid and other waste materials 
are formed, fatigue might in the first instance be considered as 
dependent upon processes of a chemical nature, and be due to the 
non-removal of the harmful substances formed by muscle when 
doing work. That fatigue is largely the result of this is shown by 
passing some simple saline solution through the blood-vessels of a 
limb removed from a recently killed animal, and where the muscles 
of the limb have been thrown into a state of fatigue by excessive 
stimulation. As the liquid percolates through the muscles and 
washes out the waste products, fatigue disappears, and the muscular 
contractions on stimulation become again as vigorous as they were 
before. Over-use of muscles obliges us to breathe more frequently. 
By increased frequency of respiration the temperature of the body 
is lowered owing to evaporation of water from the interior of the 
lungs. Add to this the cooling influence of the air inspired, for it 
is of lower temperature than that within the lung. Respiration too 
is the medium through which we throw off the excess of carbonic 
acid from the blood. As long ago as 1845, Helmholtz, a German 
physiologist, demonstrated that when a muscle is in a state of 
repose it contains very few substances that are soluble in alcohol. 



^1 

I 



VIII.] FATIGUE DUE TO TOXIC SUBSTANCES IN BLOOD 107 

For the sake of comparison we shall name this amount i. In 
fatigued muscle the quantity of these soluble substances rises to 
1.3. Healthy muscle in repose has an alkaline chemical reaction, 
fatigued muscle is acid. Some of the substances formed during 
muscular contraction possess distinctly poisonous properties and 
are toxic to the individual himself. While fatigue is induced by 
local conditions in the muscles, the sense of tiredness which we 
experience is the result of general rather than local causes. 
During the course of a long walk, or a day's hard toil, the muscles 
are constantly forming waste products which it is the function of 
the internal organs to throw out of the system. It is not depriva- 
tion of food, for example, that is the cause of fatigue, although it 
may be contributory. The real cause is the circulation in the 
blood of fatigue products. These act upon the nerve-endings in 
muscle and paralyse them, and they also act upon certain portions 
of our brain, and create the sense of fatigue. Ranke made an 
aqueous extract of fatigued but otherwise healthy muscle, and 
taking the poisonous substances he injected them into a living 
muscle that had been removed from a recently killed animal, with 
the result that its power of doing work at once diminished. Were 
it not for the watcliful activity of our emunctory organs, e.g., the 
liver, kidneys, skin, and bowels, the human body would soon be 
poisoned by the toxic substances formed within the system. The 
sensation of fatigue is due to the temporary retention of these 
harmful substances. The blood of a fatigued animal is more 
poisonous than that of a healthy one which has been in a state of 
quietude for some time previously. When some of this blood is 
injected into a healthy animal, it induces the phenomena of fatigue. 
If, for example, the blood of a fatigued dog is injected into a 
healthy one, the receiving dog will shortly afterwards show signs 
of fatigue, creep into a corner and go to sleep. The effect 
of hard work upon the blood is also shown in a diminu- 
tion of its haemoglobin or colouring matter. When we are 
mentally tired, it would seem as if the sensation of fatigue was 
located in or depended upon certain conditions of particular 
portions of our brain, for if we change the subject of meditation or 
take up some game that requires even a great amount of thought, 
e.g., chess, the sensation of tiredness often disappears. It is 
difficult to prove whether brain or muscular work is the more 
fatiguing. It depends upon the training, the occupation, and 
constitution of the individual. The personal element is a 
factor in fatigue that cannot be ignored. Prima facie, owing to 



io8 WORK AND FATIGUE [chap. 

nerve tissue being the more highly organised, this circum- 
stance suggests that the brain would be the more easily fatigued. 
Against that must be placed the fact that the muscles form a 
much larger portion of the body by weight than the nervous 
system, and consequently within them must be formed a 
much larger amount of poisonous waste material. Some people 
we know are more easily tired than others, both mentally and 
physically. There is for each person apparently a definite 
rate of muscular contraction essential to the amount of work 
accomplished in a given time. If this is true for the muscular, it 
is none the less so for the nervous system. People who have 
inherited a weak nervous system become readily exhausted, even 
with very little work, and they recuperate slowly. They are 
said to suffer from neurasthenia, or nerve weakness. In addition 
to muscular work being accompanied by the production of toxic 
substances, it should be remembered that the individual is perhaps 
standing all day at work in a heated factory, and as a consequence 
of the fatigue the circulation becomes languid, and his feet swell. 
Muscle can after all do only a limited amount of work, and in 
order to recover from fatigue there must be a period of repose 
or relaxation. This raises the question of the number of hours 
per day a man should work, also the length of the break for the 
mid-day meal. On the Continent the mid-day break is in some 
factories longer than it is in this country, but the work is carried 
on further into the evening. It is admitted that in iron works 
and factories, where the hours of labour have been unusually long, 
say ten and eleven hours, the work done in the latter part of the 
day is not so good as that done in the forenoon, and managers 
say that where the experiment has been tried, the men have 
turned out in eight hours an amount of work equal to what 
was previously done in nine. The problem can only be solved by 
experience. It is right to mention that fatigue does not always, 
or necessarily, depend upon the amount of work done. A good 
deal depends on the state of the body at the time. We know 
that good work can never be done by a tired brain or fatigued 
muscles, and that the amount of work accomplished is always 
greater where the limit of exhaustion has never been reached. 
If we are tired and feel that we have to make a fresh spurt to 
accomplish something, the end, it is true, may be gained, but it 
is by using up a certain amount of reserve force stored away in our 
muscles, and by making an additional demand upon our nervous 
system. The physical fact of muscular fatigue has its psychical 



VIII.] BRAIN WORK AND BRAIN FATIGUE 109 

• ■ 

counterpart in the sensation of tiredness. When muscular work is 
Hght and of short duration there may be only a sense of weight, 
but if the labour has been hard there may be a sensation of actual 
pain which continues for a time. Intellectual work when carried 
on too long and without sufficient recreation, interferes with the 
innervation of the heart and blood-vessels. In cerebral fatigue 
there are often languor, or its- opposite restlessness ; the pulse may 
be small and excitable ; the head hot, the feet cold, and there 
may be noises complained of in the head. The nervous control 
of the blood-vessels is destroyed, so that while the extremities are 
cold and their blood-vessels small and contracted, those of the 
brain may be dilated and overfilled. Protracted brain work is 
followed by irritability of temper, by inability to concentrate the 
attention and to reason out problems. It becomes an effort to 
think. There is headache, for the brain is, in a similar manner 
to the muscles, affected by the circulation through it of 
waste products. These at first, like alcohol, may stimulate 
and excite the brain, but they end by paralysing it. It is an 
interesting fact that while the brain is particularly sensitive 
to the action upon it of poisonous substances and of an altered 
circulation, as seen, e.g., in bilious headache, the headache of 
kidney disease, plumbism, etc., the surface of the brain is insensi- 
tive to touch, as is demonstrated in cases of injury to the skull 
where the brain is protruding. The brain can be gently touched 
without any sensation being experienced ; if there is any at 
all, it is certainly not one of pain ; any effects that follow are 
the result of pressure. While insensitive to a great extent to 
touch, the surface of the brain will respond to an electrical 
stimulus. Levy {British Medical Journal, 13th September 1900), 
after stimulating the motor areas of an animal's brain by electricity, 
found that fatigue was rapidly induced, and when this occurred, 
that the brain failed to respond to fresh stimulation until after 
a period of rest. When interruptedly stimulated, so that there 
are periods of rest, the brain does not become readily fatigued, 
but is rendered capable of expending a greater amount of 
energy. 

Hodge {Journal of Morphology, 1892) has studied the effects of 
work upon nerve structures. He found after prolonged electrical 
stimulation of spinal nerves certain structural alterations in the 
cells of the ganglion on their posterior root. When the nerves 
were over-stimulated the cells became shrunken, their protoplasm 
crenated and vacuolated. The amount of shrinkage was propor- 



WORK AND FATIGUE [chap. 



tional to the length of stimulation, e.g., if it was continued 
for— 

I hour there was 22 per cent.^i ^i • 1 • , 

^ r hQUj-s ^ J bhnnkage in volume 

-5 " ; " i of the nuclei of the 

^ » " -^ " stimulated cells. 

10 » » 44 „ ^ 

Hodge's experiments demonstrate that there is a relation 
between the amount of structural change in nerves and the length 
of time during which the stimulus has been applied. The influ- 
ence of rest in restoring the cells to their normal size was equally 
apparent. In order to determine how far these changes were 
really dependent upon work, Hodge examined the nerve-cells of 
birds and bees after a day's work and after a night's rest. At the 
beginning of the day, when the animal had rested over night, the 
nerve-cells were found to be large and turgid, and with prominent 
nuclei, but after a day's work, the contents of the cells were 
vacuolated and shrunken, and their nuclei altered in shape. 

Dr Guido Guerrini {Lancet, 21st October 1899, and loth 
November 1900) confirms the statement just made, that as a 
result of fatigue the nerve centres exhibit certain alterations of 
structure. Beyond being more vascular than usual, a fatigued 
brain does not exhibit anything special to the naked eye. Guerrini 
caused dogs to run a certain mileage every day, but it was not 
until they had covered a distance varying from 22 to 61 miles 
that they appeared fatigued. On examining their brain micro- 
scopically, he found the lymphatic spaces around the cells dis- 
tended, the chromatin network of the brain-cells changed, 
and the pigment disintegrated, while the protoplasm exhibited 
numerous vacuoles, the outline of the nucleus was irregular, and 
its contents vacuolated. These changes were always propor- 
tional to the amount of fatigue undergone by the animal, and 
were most pronounced in those parts of the brain known as the 
motor areas, i.e., those which innervate the muscles. The cause of 
these alterations of structure in nerve-cells in fatigue is the circula- 
tion in the blood of waste products formed during work. The 
presence of this waste material in the blood not only creates a 
sense of fatigue, but so alters the structure of nerve-cells that 
they require a lengthened period of repose before they become 
quite recuperated. Additional changes were found by Guer- 
rini in the liver and kidneys. On examining these organs 
in fatigued dogs, he found that there were changes in the cells of 
the convoluted tubules of the kidney, and in the loops of Henle. 
The cells were observed to be larger and more brittle than in 



VIII.] INFLUENCE OF DOMESTIC AND SOCIAL CONDITIONS 1 1 1 

_ _ J 

health, so that they readily disintegrated and filled the tubules 
with debris, in the midst of which the liberated nuclei could be 
seen. The liver cells too were found to be enlarged, and the seat 
of cloudy swelling, which is always one of the earliest indications 
of pathological change occurring in cell protoplasm. 

In considering the question of work and fatigue, there are in 
addition certain other factors that cannot be ignored, for example : 
(i) the social conditions in operation upon the individual at birth, 
and during his upbringing ; (2) habits such as the use of alcojiol ; (3) 
the atmosphere in which his work is carried on ; and (4) the nature 
of his employment, and the number of hours per day spent at it. 

Roughly speaking, the working classes may be divided into 
artisans, the majority of whom make good wages, are well housed, 
well clad, and well fed ; and into labourers, who do unskilled work, 
whose occupation is irregular, and who, when out of work, are not 
well fed. 

To some even of the regularly employed labouring classes, 
when the family is large and the wages small, or where work is 
interrupted on account of recurrent ill-health, life is a hardship, and 
the children are occasionally more or less deprived of their proper 
food ; while in the case of the textile industries where women are 
employed in the factories, the infants, bereft of maternal attention 
and proper nutriment, necessarily suffer. The children born in 
the alleys of our large towns cannot, as they grow to manhood, 
be possessed of that well-developed bodily frame required to fit 
them for undertaking hard muscular work. The offspring of 
parents, both of whom work in textile or jute factories, are inferior 
in size and general physique to children born under healthy sur- 
roundings and under more normal conditions. When these grow 
up and enter the factory as half-timers, their rate of growth lags far 
behind that of children of their own age who still remain at school. 
The trend of civilisation is for hard manual labour to be more 
and more replaced by machinery in all industries. By some social 
economists, however, as we shall see later on, this is not always re- 
garded as an unmixed benefit. When a child commences work and 
earns a weekly wage he is to that extent more able to procure 
the additional food his growing frame requires. From this point 
of view the object is good ; and if only the physical labour is 
gradually undertaken, is not too long, and is tempered to the 
strength of the juvenile worker, the training, like the muscular 
exercises alluded to in the earlier part of this paper, may 
be beneficial than otherwise. It is not always thus, however. 



WORK AND FATIGUE [chap. 



with children who go into factories. Children brought from the 
country, and with good physique to start with, will be found after 
two years' work in a mill in a large town to exhibit a smaller rate 
of growth than those who engage in out-door work. The children 
of the poorer classes commence life at a great disadvantage com- 
pared with those of the well-to-do. There is more sickness, and 
the death-rate among them is higher, owing very largely to bad 
feeding, exposure, and neglect. Pagliani found as a consequence 
of women continuing to do hard muscular work when enceinte, 
and commencing their industrial duties again too soon after 
their confinement, even though giving their infants the breast, 
that the children were of shorter stature and of feebler force 
than those not similiarly treated. A fairly reliable test of the 
effect of severe manual labour upon children in Continental 
countries is seen in the large number of conscripts rejected 
from military service on account of some physical disquali- 
fication. In no place perhaps more than in Sicily are the harm- 
ful effects of fatigue and exhaustion on young people so 
apparent. An excessive proportion of the conscripts who 
had been in their earlier years engaged in carrying heavy 
baskets of sulphur out of the mines near Catania are found 
to be physically feeble, ill-developed, and unfit for military 
service. Is a similar condition of things, although to a minor 
degree, not taking place in our own country? The standard of 
height and of chest measurement required of recruits is not 
rising but falling. The improper feeding, bad housing, imperfect 
clothing, and absence of pure air in the home, which are the lot 
of an increasing number of the poorer working classes, are not the 
conditions that favour the development of such healthy labouring 
people as are required to enable us as an industrial community 
to compete with other nations, perhaps more favourably circum- 
stanced. The point is, whether in this respect other nations 
do not come under the same ban as ourselves. 

After work there must be relaxation, in order that an oppor- 
tunity may be given for the muscles to recuperate, and for waste 
products to be removed. For working men, physical rest and 
recreation, sleeping in good air amid healthy surroundings, are 
desiderata, and yet how few there be who find these. With the 
toil of the day over, home reached and supper finished, there is 
little in the immediate dingy surroundings that is attractive, and 
so the working men saunter out to the nearest street corner to 
converse with their comrades, or adjourn to a public-house, where 



VIII.] FATIGUE AND THE USE OF ALCOHOL 113 

in an over-heated bar and ill-ventilated rooms the remaining hours 
of the evening are spent. Nor is the married working woman 
much better off, so far as rest is concerned, for after her day's 
work in the factory she attempts to overtake, often unaided, 
her neglected maternal and domestic duties. It is desirable that 
healthy recreation for our working classes should be provided to 
a greater extent than it is. In this matter employers could do a 
great deal. The proper housing of the working classes is even 
a greater need. How can the poorer working men have good 
health, good morals, and be long lived, when they do not have 
in their homes and surroundings those conditions that enable 
them, during periods of relaxation, to sleep well, and to eliminate 
by their lungs and skin the waste materials formed during toil. 
After all, we are each of us, physically and mentally, very much 
what the circumstances of life make us. Personal, not less than 
national character, is partly moulded by external surroundings. 

The habits of the poorer working classes, too, as regards alcohol 
are not without their bearing upon this important question. It is 
a subject, therefore, upon which there should be some definite 
expression of opinion, especiall}- since both at home and abroad 
there is a belief that alcohol is a necessity for the working classes. 
This matter has been recently brought to the front in France by 
the socialist leader, M. Fourniere, in an address delivered to working 
men, the gist of whose argument is, that alcohol is a hydrocarbon, 
capable of supplying during combustion within the body the 
necessary elements for muscular work, and that therefore it is a 
food. Among foods of the hydrocarbon type Fourniere places 
alcohol in the first rank. He maintains that the insufficient food 
of the workman imposes upon him the necessity for alcohol ; his 
hard work creates a desire for it. Alcoholism as a social infirmity 
is therefore regarded as a direct consequence of the excessive 
demands made upon the muscular system by present-day labour. 
This is dangerous teaching to working men, and cannot be allowed 
to pass unchallenged. The insufficient food of the working man 
is in many instances the result of his small wages and uncertainty 
of employment, but it is a monstrous evil for any political leader to 
recommend him to spend more of his wages upon drink. Money 
purchases less alcohol than food ; besides, what is spent upon alcohol 
is consumed by the individual himself, leaving less of the wages, 
therefore, to be spent on food for his wife and family. It is 
pandering to selfishness, and the teaching tends to encourage the 
idea that what a man produces by his labour he has a sole right 

H 



14 WORK AND FATIGUE [chap. 



to spend upon himself, leaving to Society the care of those who 
are naturally his own. But quite apart from this side of the ques- 
tion, what is the teaching of physiology?* It can be shown that 
the administration of alcohol in more than moderate doses is 
followed by a diminution of muscular energy, which fresh doses 
of the stimulant do not readily compensate ; that to the period of 
excitement there succeeds one of depression, so that in a given 
time the amount of work accomplished under alcohol is less than 
that done without it. I think I may safely say that no literary 
man ever did his best work under the influence of alcohol. In 
moderate quantities alcohol stimulates the brain for a brief period, 
and quickens the flow of ideas, but this is followed by a reaction of 
depression. In a paper read before the Academic des Sciences, 
January 1901, M. A. Chauveau detailed the results of his ex- 
periments upon alcohol and muscular work. He set himself this 
problem : how far a man who works and whose blood is saturated 
with alcohol obtains from the combustion of alcohol the energy 
necessary for the functional activity of his muscles? In order to 
estimate this he measured the "respiratory quotient," that is to 
say, the relation existing between the volume of carbonic acid 
excreted and the amount of oxygen absorbed. His conclusions are 
drawn mostly from dogs. In an ordinary way meat and sugar were 
administered to these animals, and subsequently for 84 grammes of 
sugar 48 of alcohol were substituted. Under the normal feeding 
the mean respiratory quotient was 0.963, but during the period of 
the administration of alcohol it only reached 0.922. Chauveau 
proved by this and other means that alcohol is not utilised as 
potential energy either for the execution of physiological functions 
acting together in a state of repose or for muscular work during 
states of activity. In substituting alcohol for sugar he found in a 
given time — (i) a diminution of muscular work; (2) loss of body 
weight, and (3) increased expenditure of energy relative to the 
amount of work accomplished. We are familiar with the fact of 
the large quantities of stout consumed by the London dock 
labourers, who, either as the result of experience or imagination, 
have come to look upon malt liquor as a necessity and as a food. 
Without denying the fact of stout in small quantities when taken 
with food supplementing, through its hydrocarbons and the sugar 

* The question as to whether alcohol is a food is too large to discuss here. There is 
nothing to show that alcohol itself contributes to the building up of the body. Breaking 
down in the system into carbonic acid and water, it supplies warmth, thereby aiding the 
vital force ; and by sparing the fat which should perform this function, and allowing it to 
be deposited in the tissues, it adds to the body weight, and is therefore indirectly a food. 



VIII.] SUGAR AND ALCOHOL AS MUSCULAR FOODS ii% 

it contains, muscular energy, it can only to a limited extent con- 
tribute to those combustion processes from which the muscular 
system derives the necessary energy for its functional activity. 
Reverting for the moment to Chauveau's experiments, it was found 
that during the period of normal feeding a dog ran a distance of 
23.924 kilometres every day in two hours, and that its weight 
increased 1.245 kilos. ; but during an equal length of time when it 
was taking alcohol instead of sugar, the distance coursed in the 
two hours daily was only 18.666 kilometres, and its weight fell 115 
grammes. It is true that we cannot apply in toto the results of 
this experiment to man, but they are not without their meaning. 
Sugar is a well recognised muscle food. The experiment shows us 
that in dogs, when alcohol is substituted for sugar, the result is not 
to the advantage of the individual. There is a diminution in the 
amount of work done. More than this, alcohol tends, and the 
more impure it is the greater the tendency, to load the blood with 
harmful substances, and to induce pathological changes in such of 
the eliminating organs of the body as the liver and kidneys. Even 
admitting that it may contribute to the production of muscular 
energy, it imposes upon these organs a greater burden than a 
proportional quantity of food, and thus it happens that as a con- 
sequence of the circulation within the body of the toxic substances 
formed in muscle during work and of those derived from alcohol, 
also the fact that alcohol checks the power of the liver and kidneys 
to throw off the toxic material circulating in the blood, there are 
induced at an early age in working men who are intemperate, 
pathological changes in the liver, kidneys, and nervous system, 
structural alterations which play a very large part in the causa- 
tion of the high death-rate of the poorer working classes. 

In considering the question of fatigue of working people we 
must not overlook the nature of their employment, the rooms in 
which the labour is carried on, and the number of hours daily 
spent in work. When the air in a factory is close, and is not 
renewed frequently enough, there is an impediment to the escape 
of carbonic acid from the lungs, and when the air is over-heated 
and moist, the natural cooling of the body through respiration can- 
not occur. Labour carried on under these conditions entails an 
additional tax upon the strength of the workers and burdens their 
system with impurities. We live in an age that creates, because 
there is a demand for, labour-saving machinery. The introduc- 
tion of steam has revolutionised industry. Manufacturers keep 
increasing their production and throwing goods in larger quantity 



1 1 6 WORK AND FA TIG UE [chap. 

and at lower price upon the market. Machinery acts with un- 
erring uniformity. At times so simple is its mechanism that 
a child can almost guide it, yet how exacting are its demands. 
While machinery has in some senses lightened the burden of 
human toil, it has not diminished fatigue in man. All through 
the hours of work in a factory the hum of the wheels never 
ceases. Requiring constant attention, to stop the machinery run- 
ning is to lose money, and so men and women are obliged to 
wrestle with the forces of steam and mechanical ingenuity. While 
the machinery pursues its relentless course and is insensitive to 
fatigue, human beings are conscious, especially towards the end 
of the day, that the competition is unequal, for their muscles 
are becoming tired and their brains jaded. In many factories 
the system of double shifts allows the work to be carried on 
by night as well as by day. It is not urged that where double 
shifts of men are employed and the work conducted in well- 
ventilated factories, the shifts alternating every fortnight (night 
being the ordained period for man's rest) with no Sunday labour 
and Saturday afternoons off, that the double shift system is neces- 
sarily prejudicial to health. But what shall we say of double shifts 
that practically never know of any interruption? A short while 
ago I visited a large iron works on the Continent where steel rails 
were being made. By means of a day and night shift the work 
went on continuously. On the occasion of my second visit to the 
works at eleven o'clock at night I met with a strange sight. 
The men were working almost naked ; they were only wearing 
loose, coarse cotton garments like shortened nightdresses, and 
even in these they were bathed in perspiration. As they flitted 
about in the darkness, lit up by the lurid glare of the furnaces, 
they looked more like demons than men. For nearly seven 
years had the furnaces been going almost without cessation. 
From the first day of one year to the commencement of that 
following, Sunday, Saturday, and Christmas Day, the men 
had worked their particular shift, never knowing what twenty- 
four hours' respite from labour was unless when off ill. The 
company pensioned the men when they were too ill or too old 
to work, and gave them a house with a small garden and 
pasturage for a cow ; but what availed these when the best 
years of the workmen's lives had flown and the enfeebling 
influences of old age had fallen upon them ? The men were old 
at the age of forty, and many of them were broken down in 
health. It is the continuous demands made by machinery that 
are so trying, there being no time left for relaxation. Present- 



viii.] EFFECTS OF MACHINERY ^ 117 

day factory labour is too much a competition of sensitive human 
nerve and muscle against insensitive iron, and yet, apart from an 
appropriate shortening of the hours of labour, it is difficult to 
see how this can be remedied. The greater the number of hours 
machinery runs per day the larger is the output for the manu- 
facturer, but the feebler are the human limbs that guide it. To 
the machine time is nothing ; to the human being, each hour 
that passes beyond a well-defined limit means increasing fatigue 
and exhaustion. There are some social economists, Marx among 
others, who maintain that while machinery has diminished the 
price of products it has made the lot of the worker worse, since 
by disregarding human strength it has introduced into factories 
a larger number of women, thereby reducing wages and diminish- 
ing the number of men required ; so that, while there has followed 
a diminution in the number of hours of employment, the tension 
when at work is greater, and the output larger, thus resulting 
in more work being done. Machinery, too, by obliging man to 
do and to keep at one particular detail of work, is reducing him 
to a mere unit, and causing him to be ignorant of the other pro- 
cesses of manufacture, and to be less and less the handy man of an 
age now all but past. It remains to be seen how far this en- 
forced relegation of man's labour to the production of one par- 
ticular product is for his own ultimate good and that of Society. 

There is, it seems to me, too great a tendency even on the 
part of working men themselves to insist upon uniformity in 
regard to the number of hours they shall be employed. This is 
seen in the attempt to nationalise an eight hours' day for coal- 
miners, when it is known that in Northumberland and Durham 
they do not work eight hours from bank to bank. There are 
local and social conditions that cannot be ignored, and before 
which the leaders of working men must bow. As regards 
dangerous trades, it goes without saying that the number of 
hours spent daily in a factory should be fewer than in healthy 
trades or in outdoor occupations ; and a similar remark applies 
to those industries in which the work is hard and makes severe 
demands upon the muscular system of the labourers. It was 
surely never meant that work should be other than invigorating 
to man, and educive of all that is best within him. Healthy 
persons, therefore, should work to keep healthy ; those who do 
not work, miss one of the greatest charms of life and stimuli 
to health. Fatigue is not due to work but to overwork, and 
excess of every kind is injurious, 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER IX 

MORTALITY OF OCCUPATIONS 

Having undertaken, at the invitation of the editor of the present 
work, to contribute a section on the mortahty of occupations, I 
think it just to him and to my readers to premise that inasmuch 
as the results of the forthcoming census cannot possibly be avail- 
able for a considerable timie to come, the statistical data on which 
I shall have to base my present observations must inevitably 
be those which were collected some years ago for the purposes of 
the second volume of my previous work.* And, seeing that those 
data were to a large extent exhausted in the preparation of the 
work referred to, it follows that I can offer comparatively little 
that is actually new in the remarks which I am now about to 
submit. The best that I can hope to accomplish is to select from 
the mass of statistical matter that was compiled for my larger 
work such particulars as may seem appropriate for the present 
article, adding from time to time such explanatory comments 
as a careful review of my previous book may show to be 
desirable. 

Before entering on a discussion of the special subject with 
which the present essay is concerned, it may be well to offer a 
few preliminary remarks on the variations of mortality in general, 
as affected by conditions other than those of occupation, and in 
different parts of the country. 

In a paper read before the Royal Society in 1859, my distin- 
guished predecessor, Dr Farr, produced evidence to show that in 
sixty-three of the registration areas of England and Wales, which 
he designated "Healthy Districts," the death-rate in 1845-50 
did not exceed 17 per 1000 persons living. Improvement in 
the health conditions of England and Wales has now made it 
practicable to establish a higher standard for healthy districts : 
for whereas in 1845-50 less than 6 per cent, of the total popula- 

* Decennial Supplement to the ^^th Report of the Registrar-General, Part 
II. By John Tatham, M.A., M.D. Eyre and Spottiswoode. 

118 



CHAP. IX.] INTRODUCTORY 119 

tion lived in localities where the death-rate was 17 per 
1000, we are now able to state that in the years 1881-90 
not less than 25 per cent, of the people lived in districts 
where the death-rate ruled below 17 per 1000, includ- 
ing a proportion of 4.5 per cent, in districts where the death- 
rate did not reach 15 per 1000. At the same period the 
general death-rate of England and Wales was 19 per 1000 
living : about one-fourth part of the English population 
experienced a death-rate of from 12 to 16 per 1000, 
one-half were subject to death-rates ranging from 16 to 
22 per 1000, whilst one-fourth part of the population 
experienced death-rates varying from 22 to as many as 
36 per 1000 living, or more than double the rate ob- 
taining in the healthy districts. It is not of course suggested 
that these enormous differences of mortality are to be accounted 
for exclusively by circumstances of locality, or even by cir- 
cumstances of occupation and locality combined. The true causes 
of excessive local mortality are for the most part well known to 
the sanitary authorities who are responsible for the health and 
well-being of the communities among whom such unfavourable 
conditions prevail ; in any case, these causes cannot be specially 
discussed here. 

The foregoing remarks, with respect to fluctuations in general 
mortality, may have little obvious bearing on the subject in 
hand, namely, the mortality of occupations. But I adduce them 
in order to assist in explaining what will be further emphasised 
later on, i.e., the fact that even in the same industry the workers 
in various places experience wide differences in their mortality — 
differences which can only be accounted for on the theory 
that conditions of environment determine, to a greater degree 
than is usually believed, whether the mortality of a given industry 
shall be favourable or the reverse. 

In connection with each of the last four census enumera- 
tions, and with the aid of the death registers for the several 
intercensal periods, attempts have been made to ascertain the 
influence of occupation on the health and vitality of the people. 
The results have been published in successive " Decennial 
Supplements," and to these works reference must be made on 
points of detail. The earlier investigations of Dr Farr, which 
were based on the census populations and the deaths in 1861 
and 1 87 1, were limited to the mortality from all causes incidental 
to men engaged in certain well-defined occupations — account 



I20 MORTALITY OF OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

being taken only incidentally of the diseases to which that 
mortality was due. This omission, however, was supplied by 
Dr Ogle in the third Decennial Supplement, which dealt with 
occupational mortality in 1880-2. On that occasion Dr Ogle 
undertook the laborious task of abstracting and analysing large 
numbers of deaths in combination with ages, causes, and occupa- 
tions, and thus succeeded in preparing the valuable series of 
tables concerning " causes of death in different occupations " 
which illustrate his work. 

For the last decennial supplement I am myself responsible. 
In Part II. of that work the calculations were based on the 
population, as enumerated at the census of 1891, and the deaths 
registered in the three years 1890-2. Details of age, occupa- 
tion, and cause of death, with respect to every male over fifteen 
years of age who had died during these three years, were 
abstracted from the registers and entered on separate slips 
of paper : these slips, more than half a million in number, were 
then examined by specially selected clerks, who had been 
employed in classifying occupations for the census reports, and 
each slip was distinctively marked with the heading under 
which the occupation should fall. 

In the course of the work it speedily became apparent that 
the mortality of men employed in the several occupations is 
seriously affected by the surroundings in which they work, and, 
as before mentioned, these surroundings vary considerably, even 
for the same occupation, in different parts of the country. In 
order to ascertain, if possible, the extent to which the mortality 
of certain occupations was modified by these conditions, the 
following plan was pursued : the slips belonging severally to 
London, and to certain groups of districts the populations of 
which are mainly engaged either in industrial, in agricultural, 
or in mining pursuits, were counted separately from those 
belonging to the remaining parts of England and Wales, and 
the mortality of the same occupations was ascertained in each of 
these areas. 

The group of Industrial Districts was constituted as follows — 
The county of Lancaster was selected as the seat of the cotton 
industry ; the towns of Huddersfield, Halifax, and Bradford, as 
that of the woollen industry; Wolverhampton, Birmingham, 
Leeds, and Sheffield, as that of the iron and steel industry ; and 
Leicester as concerned in the manufacture of boots and hosiery. 

The Agricultural Group contained all those counties of England 



IX.] INTRODUCTORY 



and Wales in which at least one-third of the occupied males over 
ten years of age were returned at the census as farmers and farm 
labourers ; to these were added parts of counties in which, after 
exclusion of some of their principal towns, a like proportion of the 
population was found to consist of farmers and their labourers. 
In order to avoid possible confusion, as between different grades 
of labourers, it may be mentioned that all those who were 
described simply as " labourers " in these agricultural districts 
have been reckoned here as "farm labourers." For comparison 
of the mortality among coal miners in different parts of the 
country, separate statistics for this industry were compiled for the 
following six local areas : (i) Durham and Northumberland, (2) 
Lancashire, (3) The West Riding of Yorkshire, (4) Derbyshire 
and Northamptonshire, (5) Staffordshire, and (6) Monmouthshire 
with South Wales. 

The extracts from the death-register were limited, for the 
purpose of my Decennial Supplement, to facts concerning males 
aged fifteen years and upwards. Hitherto no attempt has been 
made to deal with the occupational mortality of females. The 
uncertainty attaching to the statement of occupations in the case 
of females has been urged as a reason against such an attempt. 
Much importance has also been held to attach to the fact that 
only 38 per cent, of the women aged between fifteen and sixty- 
five years were returned at the census as following any definite 
occupation, whereas 94 per cent, of the men at the same 
ages were so returned. Having regard, however, to the vastly 
increased attention which is now devoted to female industries, 
especially those which are carried on under the control of the 
Factory Acts, it is much to be desired that the mortality of the 
more important of these industries, at any rate, should be subjected 
to careful statistical investigation at the earliest possible oppor- 
tunity. 

The choice of an occupation by a labouring man is not 
always, nor is it mainly, determined by personal caprice. It is 
matter of common observation, that in industries of the more 
laborious type, such as those of railway navvy, engine fitter, boiler 
maker, blacksmith, etc., only men in the prime of life, or of more 
than average physique, are to be found. The operatives in these 
industries are selected men, quite as much so as are soldiers or 
sailors, but the process of selection is a different one. They can 
continue their arduous toil only so long as their bodily strength 
remains at its best : and when, from sickness or from advancing 



122 MORTALITY OF OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

age this gives way, they are forced to relinquish their labour. 
They then either turn to some employment which makes less 
exacting demands on their energy, or else fall out of the ranks 
of definite employment entirely, and descend to the sad lot of 
those who are described as of no settled occupation. It follows, 
therefore, that the men in actual work in the laborious occupa- 
tions above mentioned enjoy a special advantage over the workers 
in less arduous trades ; and their mortality, although high in spite 
of that advantage, appears far lower than it would do if every 
individual could be traced from the time of his entry on the 
occupation to the end of life. But what of the men who, after 
trial of a laborious calling, perhaps for the best years of their 
lives, are forced by ill-health or other infirmity to relinquish it? 
Very many of these will be found struggling to eke out a living 
either as cab-drivers, omnibus guards, or messengers, and being 
for the most part broken down in health as well as careworn and 
ill-nourished, they must further increase the already high apparent 
mortality of these workers. Failing this, they will go to swell the 
ranks of the classes indefinitely known as costermongers, dock 
labourers, street sellers, hawkers, and general labourers, or less 
fortunate still, they will drift into the yet lower grade of the 
unoccupied, whose terrible mortality I shall shortly have to 
describe. 

The mortality prevailing in a given industry from time 
to time can only be regarded as, at best, a rough measure 
of the healthfulness of that industry. The reason for this 
will be explained presently. It is, however, beyond question 
that when the public mind becomes sufficiently appreciative 
of the economic value of human life, and of the wastefulness 
of ill-health, to demand a registration of sickness corresponding 
with that which is now in force with regard to mortality, we 
shall be in a position to measure with a near approach to 
accuracy the amount of damage done by the several industries 
to the health and vitality of the workers, although it may not be 
practicable to suggest in all cases a remedy for the waste and 
the suffering so caused. 

Meantime it is desirable to indicate briefly some of the 
chief reasons which detract from the value of mortality 
statistics as criteria of the healthfulness of occupations. And 
first with regard to the data concerning the living in the 
various industries. It might seem at first sight a simple 
matter to sort out the units of an industrial community 



IX.] INTRODUCTORY 



according to their occupations as stated in the census schedules : 
but even a superficial study of the experience of those responsible 
for the conduct of past censuses will show that even this 
initial process is, in reality, a highly complex and difficult one. 

The number of names of more or less distinct avoca- 
tions in England is enormous ; at the last census it was about 
12,000, but at the present time it is probably far greater 
than this. The vast additions that have accrued to our 
nomenclature of occupations is due in a great measure to the 
circumstance that new branches of industry have sprung up 
amongst us in recent years, and that with advancing times, 
old trade processes have undergone more and more minute 
subdivision. Nevertheless a large number of more or less 
obsolete names are still of necessity retained in the list of 
occupations, for the guidance of the abstractors, although 
many of those in current use are scarcely more than ephemeral 
nick-names, which are of but rare occurrence in the schedules. 

In recent years the industries of the English people have 
come to be very minutely subdivided, each group of workers 
in the several subdivisions being known by a special name ; 
and what is worse, the same name frequently indicates one 
thing in the north of England, and another thing in the 
south. Nay, more, it frequently happens that these arbitrary 
names give no clue whatever to the character of the industry 
to which they are assigned. Perhaps the most serious and 
perplexing difficulty met with in connection with classification 
is the fact that very frequently one and the same name is 
used to indicate totally dissimilar occupations. Thus, for 
example, the term joiner in some places is used to designate 
a carpenter, but in others it means a maker of lace. By 
clothier is sometimes meant a cloth-maker, in others it stands 
for a dealer in clothes. By jobber is understood in some 
cases merely an artisan, whilst in others it takes a more 
definite meaning in connection with the exchange of money 
(stockjobber). A drummer is either a soldier or a blacksmith's 
striker. A miller is either a dealer in corn or a stone mason. 
An engineer may be either a maker or a driver of machinery. 
A placer may be either a potter or an iron manufacturer. In 
the above-mentioned cases the confusion is only between two 
occupations, but there are other instances far more numerous 
and much more troublesome, in which one particular name 
is used in common for a similar process in a considerable 



124 MORTALITY OF OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

number of different trades. For instance, there are spinners, 
weavers, warpers, winders, etc., alike in cotton, silk, wool, 
and flax factories, and when an operative is returned under 
one or other of these names, without further distinction, it 
is impossible to decide to which of the several manufactures 
he ought to be assigned. Nor is the worker necessarily to be 
blamed for this ; for he, failing to see the importance of precision, 
and perhaps ignorant of the use in other industries of a 
designation similar to his own, not unnaturally returns him- 
self under some such familiar heading, without further question. 
Nevertheless it will readily be understood that the existence 
in the returns of such indefinite headings as " miner," 
"labourer," "artisan," makes it difficult to estimate the precise 
number of workers in any industry, if, indeed, it does not in 
certain cases seriously reduce the value of such estimates. 
Fortunately, however, the numbers of workers thus vaguely 
returned at the census are small when compared with the 
enormously greater aggregates of those employed in the more 
important industries, and whose exact occupations are definitely 
known : so that, with respect to these principal industries, at 
any rate, the numbers can be ascertained with sufficient 
accuracy for practical purposes. 

Thus far a few of the difficulties and possible errors connected 
with the returns of the living in the several industries having 
been considered, we now come to speak of the other factor of 
relative mortality, viz., the deaths occurring in the several occupa- 
tions, and their classification according to age and probable cause. 
The difficulties encountered in relation to estimates of population 
have already been shown to be considerable ; and yet they are not 
only fewer in number, but also less serious than those we shall 
now have to notice. The vagueness with which occupations are 
too often stated in the schedules has already been referred to, but 
unfortunately even greater vagueness is discoverable in the death 
returns. In proof of this the large group of men, some six 
hundred thousand in number, who are designated "agricultural 
labourers," may be taken as a case in point. In the census 
returns of the living these men are doubtless correctly described, 
but in the death registers they are in many cases entered simply 
as "labourers," without qualification of any kind. Consequently 
there is danger lest these men, who for the most part are 
remarkably healthy, sober, and well-conducted, should be con- 
fused with " general labourers," a sadly unhealthy, degenerate set 



IX.] INTRODUCTORY 



of men, whose occupation is uncertain, who Hve from hand to 
mouth, and whose mortality is nearly double that of agricultural 
labourers. Coal miners, again, are a class of workers who are 
likely to be differently entered in the census returns on the one 
hand, and in the death registers on the other. In consequence of 
the very commendable efforts which are made to secure accurate 
returns of the living at each census, it is probable that for the 
most part miners are classified accurately according to the mineral 
in which they work, but in the death registers coal miners 
and iron miners, tin miners and copper miners, are alike in many 
cases classed simply as " miners," without further distinction, and 
thus much uncertainty results as to the exact class of workers to 
which a particular death should be assigned. 

In his Decennial Supplement for the period 1871-80, Dr Ogle 
dealt with this subject very thoroughly ; and inasmuch as his 
opinion is deserving of great weight, I make no apology for 
quoting here the following extract from that work. Speaking of 
the difficulties which occasion flaws in the calculations of occupa- 
tional mortality, he says : — " There are many trades and occupations 
which require a considerable standard of muscular strength and 
vigour to be maintained by those who follow them ; such occupa- 
tions, for instance, as those of a blacksmith, of a miner, and the like ; 
and so soon as from any cause the health and strength of a man 
fall below this standard, he must of necessity give up the occupa- 
tion, and either take to some lighter form of labour, or, if his 
health be too much impaired for this, retire altogether from work. 
And even in those industries where no excessive amount of 
muscular strength is required, there must nevertheless be always 
a certain time beyond which continuance in the business becomes 
an impossibility. The weaker individuals, and those whose health 
is failing them, are thus being drafted out of each industrial 
occupation, and especially out of those which require much 
vigour ; and the consequence is that the death-rates in these latter 
occupations are unfairly lowered, as compared with the death- 
rate in occupations of an easier character, and still more, as com- 
pared with the death-rates among those persons who are returned 
as having no occupation at all. A very considerable proportion 
of those who are forced to give up harder labour take to odd 
jobs of a more or less indefinite character, and are returned both 
in the census schedule and eventually in the death registers as 
general labourers, as messengers, or as costermongers, street 
sellers, etc. ; and thus it comes about that the death-rates of 



126 MORTALITY OF OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

general labourers, of messengers, and of street sellers . . . appear 
to be of appalling magnitude, as also do those of persons returned 
as of no occupation. Under these headings, however, are com- 
prised the broken-down and the crippled, who have fallen out 
of the ranks from all the various industries, as well as those who 
have been throughout life debarred, by natural infirmities or 
other causes, from following any definite occupation. Another 
very serious flaw in these death-rates, when taken as measures of 
the relative healthiness of different industries, is due to the fact 
that these several industries do not start on equal terms as 
regards the vitality of those who follow them. A weakling will 
hardly adopt the trade of a blacksmith, a miner, or a railway 
navvy, but will preferentially take to some lighter occupation, such 
as that of a tailor, a weaver, or a shopman. This defect in the 
death-rate gives an unfair advantage to such industries as demand 
much strength or activity in those that follow them. Such 
industries are in fact carried on by a body of comparatively 
picked men ; stronger in the beginning, and maintained at a high 
level by the continual drafting out of those whose strength falls 
below the mark." 

In comparing the mortality of occcupations at different and 
perhaps remote periods of time, it is important to ascertain 
whether any epidemic or pandemic diseases have been seriously 
prevalent among the general population during either of the 
periods compared ; for in that case considerable allowance will 
have to be made for this fact, if anything like accuracy of result 
is aimed at. Thus, for example, in any comparison that may 
be instituted between the mortality of 1891 and that of 1881, 
it is necessary to take into account the far-reaching effects of 
the influenza epidemic which exceptionally and with great severity 
prevailed throughout the more recent period. It is unquestion- 
able that the fatality of diseases not only of the respiratory but 
of the nervous and circulatory systems also was seriously 
increased by this complication, and that the value of any 
comparison between the mortality statistics of the two periods 
has been considerably diminished as a consequence. 

The foregoing are a few of the more important defects 
which are unavoidably present in the data from which com- 
parative statistics of occupational mortality are prepared. They 
are serious and far-reaching. In using such statistics as a 
means of distinguishing between different industries with respect 
to their healthfulness, it is necessary to recognise the existence 



IX.] IN RE LA TION TO AGE 127 

of these defects, and to make suitable allowances for them. 
Nevertheless when this has been done, it is beyond question 
that the rates of mortality furnish reliable measures of the health- 
fulness of different occupations, especially of those in which the 
number of %vorkers is sufficient to furnish trustworthy rates, and 
the period of investigation is adequate for the purpose. 

Dr Farr has indicated the period of life between the twenty- 
fifth and the sixty-fifth year as that in which "the influence of 
profession is most felt." Dr Ogle, in his Decennial Supplement 
to the 45th Report, adopted the same view, supporting it by the 
argument, that in the earlier periods the effect of occupation 
is not as yet fully developed : and that the last age period (sixty- 
five and upwards) is that which is more especially affected by 
the retirement from the industry of such men as have become 
too weakly to follow it. My own inquiries having tended to 
confirm these opinions, I have retained in my recent work the 
same interval, namely, that of the forty years between the twenty- 
sixth and sixty-sixth birthdays, as marking the period of life 
during which the effects of occupation are most conspicuous. In 
the majority of industries this is generally held to be the term 
of years which most accurately corresponds with the period of 
man's greatest capacity for effective labour. There are, however, 
several occupations in which this is not so. Instances may readily 
be adduced of occupations in which the actual task of bread- 
winning both begins and ends at an earlier age than it does 
in most other industries ; so that it would be impossible to 
specify any limit of age which should apply equally well to all 
occupations in this respect. Inasmuch, however, as it is necessary 
for our present purpose to select some one interval for general adop- 
tion, the age twenty-five to sixty-five is that which has been adopted 
as the " main working period of life " in the following pages. 

The mortality of any given occupation is influenced very 
decidedly by " the age and sex distribution " of the workers. The 
examples following will show how great is this influence : the 
figures indicate the rates of mortality in each thousand males 
living in groups of ages: (i) among men in general, (2) among 
farmers as a class (see table on next page). 

From this table it will be seen that the mortality of farmers is 
below that of males in general at every age-group, and that from 
the first stage of life to the last it averages from 50 to 60 per 
cent, of the mortality of males generally. If, however, the total 
deaths of farmers above fifteen years be calculated on the total 



128 



MORTALITY OF OCCUPATIONS 



[chap. 



number of farmers living above fifteen years, and without further 
distinction of age, the mortality of farmers would be represented 



Ages 


General Male 


Farmers. 


Mortality of Fanners to that of Males 


(Years). 


Population. 


generally, the latter taken as loo. 


15-20 


4.14 


1.30 


31 


20-25 


5.55 


2.40 


43 


25-35 


7.67 


4.29 


56 


35-45 


13.01 


7-03 


54 


45-55 


21.37 


11.20 


F 


55-65 


39.01 


23.97 


61 


65 and upwards 


103.53 


87.81 


88 



by a rate of 19.58 per 1000, or 0.84 per lOOO above that 
of males in the aggregate. It therefore appears that although 
farmers do not die so fast as other men at each of the age-groups 
here specified, nevertheless farmers in the aggregate, i.e., without 
distinction of age, die faster than other men. This apparent 
contradiction will, however, be explained when the differences in 
age constitution are taken into account between farmers on the 
one hand and males in the aggregate on the other. Reference to 
the census report will show that there are nearly three-fourths as 
many farmers above sixty-five years old, when the mortality is 
88 per 1000, as there are at ages between twenty-five and fifty- 
five, when it is only 4 J per 1000 : whilst among the male popu- 
lation generally the number living at ages above sixty-five years, 
when the mortality exceeds 103 per 1000, is less than one-third of 
the number between twenty-five and thirty-five, when it does not 
exceed 8 per 1000. From the foregoing example, then, which is 
by no means a solitary one, it is clear that crude rates of mor- 
tality, i.e., rates computed without reference to age differences of 
population, are untrustworthy as a means of comparing one occu- 
pation with another on the score either of health or of longevity. 

In dealing with the occupational mortality of 1880-2, Dr 
Ogle adopted the plan of " deaths in standard population," which 
fairly represents the mortality of a given occupation as compared 
with the general mortality. The same plan has been followed 
{inutatis mutandis) in the present work. It may be thus 
explained. The standard population here used is the number 
of men between the ages of twenty-five and sixty-five years in 
the population of England and Wales, amongst whom 1000 
deaths would occur in a single year; the population in 1891 
and the deaths in 1890-2 being taken as the basis. The 



IX.] 



IN RELATION TO AGE 



129 



comparative mortality figure, therefore, is the number- of deaths 
that would occur in a year, according to the death-rates ascer- 
tained for a given occupation among 61,215 men of standard 
age constitution: it represents very fairly the mortality in the 
given occupation as compared with that among males generally. 

Out of 61,215 men aged from twenty-five to sixty-five at the 
census of 1891 there were enumerated : — 



and 



2,2,586 at the age-group 25-35 years 

17,418 „ „ 35-45 „ 

12,885 „ „ 45-55 „ 

8,326 „ „ 55-65 „ 



In order to ascertain the number of deaths that would occur 
among 61,215 men engaged in a particular industry, all that is 
necessary is to apply to these four totals the corresponding rates 
of mortality occurring in that industry : the resulting sum of 
deaths will be the comparative mortality figure for that industry ; 
and if the calculated deaths in each of the four age-groups be 
distributed proportionally according to the causes of death in 
such age-group, the parts of the comparative mortality figure 
that are due to the several causes will be obtained. By means 
of the tables which follow in the letterpress, and which have 
been prepared according to this principle, the mortality of men 
engaged in the stated occupations may be studied. I now 
proceed to illustrate, by means of a particular example, the 
manner in which dissimilar rates may be used for the purpose 
of comparing the mortality of men engaged in different occupa- 
tions. In my larger work it was shown that in the three years 
1890-2 there occurred among gardeners and nurserymen, between 
the ages before mentioned, 3462 deaths out of 339,225" years of 
life. If the age constitution among gardeners had been the same 
as that among the general English male population, the mortality 
of 61,215 males taken (i) from among the general male popula- 
tion, and (2) from among gardeners, would stand as follows : — 



Age in years. 


General Male Population. 


Gardeners and Nurserymen. 


Numbers 
Living. 


Deaths. 


Mortality 
per 1000. 


Mortality 
per 1000. 


Deaths. 


25-35 

35-45 
45-55 

55-65 


22,586 

17,418 

12,885 

8,326 


173 
227 

275 
325 


7.67 
13.01 
21.37 
39.01 


4.14 

6.59 

11.63 

23.29 


94 
"5 

150 , 
194 


25-65 


61,215 


1000 






553 



I30 MORTALITY OF OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

The true ratio of mortality among gardeners to that among the 
general male population is thus seen to be 553 to 1000, and this 
may be expressed by designating 553 the "comparative mortality 
figure " for gardeners. 

Unhealthy Trades. — A simple and rational classification was 
that of the late Dr Guy, the accomplished physician of King's 
College Hospital, by which occupations were divided into (i) 
indoor, and (2) outdoor. It is matter of common knowledge, at 
least among medical men, that outdoor occupations are, for the 
most part, more healthful than indoor ; which is tantamount to 
the statement that a life of labour in the open air, in spite of the 
danger of exposure to inclement weather, is more conducive to 
health /and longevity than is indoor labour, with its ordinary 
(though by no means necessary) concomitants of foul air, 
sedentary habits, and want of exercise. 

Having ventured to estimate, with the sole assistance of 
mortality statistics, the amount of damage to health, as well as 
of waste of life, which is encountered by workmen of different 
grades, as a result of their employment, it is of course necessary, 
in limine^ to determine the maladies whose inordinate fatality is 
to be regarded as evidence that mischief has resulted from any 
particular trade process. The organs which are affected, not 
only earliest, but also most seriously, by dusty air and by air 
which is organically impure, are the lungs : and we naturally 
look to these organs as being those which will probably exhibit 
the chief indications of injury. Here, however, we are met by 
an initial difficulty. Unfortunately, the returns of death, as 
registered, do not in all cases furnish the means of discriminating 
between the various kinds of ailment. For example, medical 
experience shows that under circumstances frequently existing, 
especially amongst the poor, it is difficult to distinguish accur- 
ately between one form of lung disease and another, and there 
is reason to believe that a considerable number of deaths actually 
caused by simple inflammatory diseases of the lungs and air 
passages are erroneously returned in the registers, and conse- 
quently in the classified tables, as due to tubercular phthisis. 
In remote parts of the country, where the populations are for 
the most part ill-provided with medical attendance, it is the 
fashion to attribute to what is locally termed " consumption " or 
"decline," all cases of illness that are accompanied by cough, 
expectoration, or shortness of breath. It must, however, be 
remembered that deaths are not in all cases certified as to 



I 



IX.] UNHEALTHY TRADES ^ 131 

cause by medical men : many of them are attested by coroners, 
and a certain proportion are registered without certificate of any 
kind. This is exceptionally the case in certain parts of Wales, 
where the mortality ascribed to phthisis is very high, and where 
the proportion of persons who die without medical attendance 
is likewise excessive. 

Having regard to the tendency which not infrequently exists 
to confuse tubercular with non-tubercular affections of the lungs, 
it is probable that the most reliable evidence derivable from the 
registers as to the evil effects, on the one hand of irritating 
atmospheric dust, and on the other of organically contaminated 
air, will be attained by the adoption of the late Dr Headlam 
Greenhow's plan, which was to include the deaths from phthisis 
under the same heading with those of the respiratory system. 
This plan has accordingly been adopted here, and in the follow- 
ing tables the order of occupations has been determined by their 
combined mortality from these diseases. The mortality figures, 
however, from phthisis as well as those from other lung diseases 
are separately shown in the tables. 

In my larger work on occupational mortality the varying 
incidence of phthisis and of respiratory diseases among certain 
classes of workers, in different localities, was treated of in 
considerable detail. I must here revert somewhat briefly to this 
subject, in order to explain what follows at a later stage. In the 
work referred to I showed that among occupied males as a class be- 
tween the ages of twenty-five and sixty-five the mortality figure from 
respiratory diseases exceeds that from phthisis by about one-fifth 
part : among unoccupied males, on the contrary, the mortality 
from phthisis greatly exceeds that from respiratory diseases. The 
main causes of this difference are probably: (i) that occupied 
males who are attacked by phthisis are especially prone to drift 
into the unoccupied class ; and (2) that certain portions of the 
unoccupied class — the insane, for example — suffer a very high 
mortality from phthisis. The normally prevailing excess of 
mortality from respiratory diseases over that from phthisis does 
not obtain among occupied males in all parts of the country. 
In the industrial districts that excess is very clearly marked, but 
London and the agricultural districts are exceptions to the rule, 
their mortality from phthisis being greater than that from 
respiratory diseases. In London the mortality from respiratory 
diseases is high, but that attributed to phthisis is higher still ; in 
the agricultural districts, on the other hand, the mortality ascribed 



132 MORTALITY OF OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

to phthisis is low, but that ascribed to respiratory diseases is still 
lower. Turning to the separate groups of occupations, it appears 
that about one-third part of these groups, containing about the 
same proportion of the occupied male population at ages above 
fifteen years, differ from occupied males generally, in this respect, 
that they encounter higher mortality from phthisis than they do 
from respiratory diseases. This third part of the occupational 
groups may be arranged in two sections : the first section 
comprising those occupations which deviate from the general rule 
because of a special tendency among the workers to succumb to 
phthisis ; the second section comprising those occupations which 
deviate from the rule for the reason, that the workers enjoy 
unusual immunity from death by respiratory diseases. 

The first section may be subdivided thus : — 

{a) Occupations which are carried on in close and confined air 
— commercial clerks, bookbinders, tailors, and tin-miners 
afford examples of this kind. 

{b) Occupations in which excessive mortality from phthisis 
appears to be associated with alcoholic intemperance — 
as in the case of law-clerks, inn-servants, and coster- 
mongers. 

The second section may be subdivided as follows : — 

id) Occupations in which relative immunity from respiratory 
mortality appears to depend on the circumstance that the 
workers are protected from inclemency of the weather — 
instances of this kind are furnished by barristers, school- 
masters, and domestic servants. 
id) Healthy outdoor occupations characterised by low mor- 
tality from both descriptions of lung disease — this sub- 
section consists of farmers and labourers in agricultural 
districts, and of gardeners ; it is probable, however, that the 
excess of mortality from phthisis above that from respira- 
tory diseases among these workers is, wholly or in part, 
only apparent. 

The above remarks must be understood to apply only to such 
occupations as depart from the rule, which is that the mortality 
from respiratory diseases exceeds that from phthisis. Among the 
occupations which conform to this rule, there are some in which 
either impure or dust-laden air is one of the conditions of 



I 



IX.] STANDARD OF HEALTHFULNESS . 133 

working ; and there are others in which either alcoholic excess or 
exposure to weather is accompanied by enormous mortality from 
respiratory diseases. On the other hand, there are also included 
some occupations in which the workers experience low mortality 
from respiratory diseases, and still lower mortality from 
phthisis. 

With respect to the standard by which the healthfulness of the 
several industries is to be determined, only a few words are 
necessary. The standard should be a high, but for obvious 
reasons it should be an attainable one, and the men composing it 
should be of a class not widely different from that of those with 
whom they are placed in comparison. The men engaged in 
agricultural pursuits form a group numbering more than a million, 
and consisting of farmers, graziers, gardeners, and farm labourers. 
They are for the most part a hard-working and healthy body of 
men, who spend the greater part of their time in the open air of 
the country : they may therefore be considered typical of that 
section of the population which suffers injury in the least degree 
from the inhalation either of dust-laden air or of air contaminated 
by organic effluvia. For these reasons agriculturists have been 
chosen as the class with which the occupations now to be specified 
shall be compared, so as to render appreciable the serious waste of 
life which is still experienced by the workers in certain selected 
occupations. 



CHAPTER X 

DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS 

That the constant inhalation of dust as a necessary condition 
of daily labour results sooner or later in the appearance of 
grave and characteristic lesions which lead to premature break- 
down and death among the workers, is matter of common medical 
experience. Through the instrumentality of the Factory Depart- 
ment the conditions of labour in these industries have recently 
been greatly improved : this has been achieved by the general 
introduction of ventilating fans and of other expedients for pre- 
venting the inhalation of irritating particles by the operatives. 
Nevertheless the returns of mortality still show that several of 
these occupations produce a terrible amount of suffering and 
disablement, whilst they unquestionably shorten the lives of those 
who follow them. 

In the subjoined table will be found a list of those industries 
in which the labourers suffer exceptionally from the presence of 
dusty particles or other irritating matters in the air of the apart- 
ments in which their work is carried on. In this table the mortality 
of the several dust-producing occupations is contrasted with that 
of agriculturists, who have been shown to suffer from the effects 
of dust to a less degree than any other workers. It is not asserted 
or believed that the whole of the difference between the respira- 
tory mortality of certain unhealthy trades and that of this more 
favoured class is to be accounted for by dust irritation alone. 
There are almost certainly present other contributory factors also, 
the effects of which it would be difficult to show separately : 
nevertheless, there is no doubt that an atmosphere constantly 
charged with mechanical impurities of this kind is the main cause 
of the excessive mortality indicated in the table. 

The aggregate death-rate from tubercular phthisis and diseases 
of the respiratory system is shown in this table, as also are the 
figures relating to each affection separately. Columns 3 and 4 
give the combined mortality from these diseases among the 

134 



CHAP. X.] 



THEIR RELATIVE MORTALITY 



135 



several classes of workers in comparison with that of agriculturists. 
In the fourth column the mortality of the latter is taken as 100 
and that of the other workers is shown proportionally to that 
figure. 



Comparative Mortality from 


Specified 


Causes in 


certain Dusty Occupations. 




Comparative 

Mortality 

Figure 

(all Causes). 


Phthisis and Diseases of 
Respiratory System. 


Mortality Figure. 


Occupation. 














Mortality 
Figure. 


Ratio. 


Phthisis. 


Diseases of 
Respiratory 

System. 


Diseases of 

Circulatory 

System. ' 


Agriculturist . 


602 


221 


100 


106 


115 


88 


Potter, Earthenware 














manufacturer . 


1702 


lOOI 


453 


333 


668 


227 


Cutler . 


1516 


900 


407 


382 


518 


167 


File-maker . 


1810 


825 


373 


402 


423 


204 


Glass-maker . 


1487 


740 


335 


295 


445 


157 


Copper-worker 


1381 


700 


317 


294 


406 


186 


Gunsmith 


1228 


649 


294 


324 


325 


153 


Iron and Steel 














manufacturer 


1 301 


645 


292 


195 


450 


162 


Zinc-worker . 


1 198 


587 


266 


240 


347 


126 


Stone-quarrier 


1 1 76 


576 


261 


269 


307 


137 


Brass-worker . 


1088 


552 


250 


279 


273 


126 


Chimney sweep . 


1311 


551 


249 


260 


291 


142 


Lead-worker . 


1783 


545 


247 


148 


397 


272 


Cotton manufac- 














turer 


1 141 


540 


244 


202 


338 


152 


Cooper and wood 














turner 


1088 


526 


238 


250 


276 


137 


Rope-maker . 


928 


486 


220 


219 


267 


118 


Bricklayer, mason . 


lOOI 


476 


215 


225 


251 


130 


Carpet manufac- 














turer . 


873 


471 


213 


226 


245 


87 


Tin-worker , 


994 


451 


204 


217 


234 


124 


Wool manufacturer 


991 


447 


202 


191 


256 


131 


Locksmith 


925 


428 


194 


223 


205 


104 


Blacksmith . 


914 


392 


177 


159 


233 


136 


Baker, confectioner 


920 


392 


177 




207 


130 



It thus appears that there are 22 industries in each of which 
the mortality from tubercular phthisis and respiratory diseases 
together is more than double that of agriculturists ; and further, 
that these 22 occupations include 8 (giving employment to more 
than 100,000 men) in which the total mortality from these 
diseases ranges from three times to as much as four and a half 
times that of the agricultural class. 

Potter, Earthenware, China Manufacture. — "The earthenware 
manufacture is one of the unhealthiest trades in the country. At 
the age of joining it is low : but the mortality after the age of 



136 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap, 

thirty-five approaches double the average : it is excessively high ; 
it exceeds the mortality of publicans. What can be done to save 
the men dying so fast in the potteries and engaged in one of our 
most useful manufactures?" Thus wrote Dr Farr in 1871, with 
regard to the pottery manufacture of that day. And Dr Ogle, 
writing ten years later, confirmed this statement, adding that the 
mortality of these workers at all ages from twenty-five to sixty- 
five had increased since 1871. He further stated that at that time 
(namely, in 1881) their comparative mortality figure was no less 
than 1742, which was only exceeded by the figures for coster- 
mongers, Cornish miners, and inn and hotel servants. In the three- 
year period 1890-92 things had only slightly improved: the 
mortality in this occupation from all causes remaining almost 
unchanged ; and although phthisis claimed fewer victims than in 
1 88 1, lead poisoning had become more than twice as fatal since 
the previous record, and diseases of the circulatory and urinary 
systems had seriously increased in fatality. The excessive 
mortality of these workers is mainly due to phthisis and diseases of 
the lungs and heart. Of their entire mortality figure (1706) from 
all causes, not less than looi is contributed by phthisis and 
other diseases of the lungs. The mortality of potters from 
bronchitis is more than four times as high, and that from other 
respiratory diseases is three times as high as the mortality of 
occupied males in the aggregate. 

Potters succumb to non-tubercular disease of the lungs much 
more rapidly than they do to tubercular phthisis ; and it is certain 
that much of the so-called potters' phthisis ought properly to be 
termed cirrhosis of the lung. Deaths from this affection should 
never be included under the head of phthisis, which term is now 
restricted, by universal consent, to the tubercular malady of 
that name. 

The mortality figure of potters from lead poisoning is 17, 
and comes next to that of plumbers, as fourth highest in the 
list of industries liable to plumbism. The mortality figures, due 
to diseases of the nervous and urinary systems, in these two occupa- 
tions, exceed the standard for occupied males by 54 and 50 per 
cent, respectively. 

The term "potter" is a very comprehensive one, and is 
ordinarily understood to mean any workman employed in a 
pottery. But Dr Arlidge, the author of the best essay of modern 
times on the ailments of this class of workers, has shown how widely 
the operations in pottery manufacture differ from one another in 



X.] CUTLERS, SCISSORS-MAKERS \yr 

their effect upon health. Speaking of the manufacture of earthen- 
ware generally he says: "This manufacture stands foremost among 
those wherein the employment is distinctly chargeable with the 
production of disease ; and the principal materials to which its 
unenviable character is due are the clays and the flint used in it. 
However, these minerals are not the only agents that render the 
fictile trade one so highly injurious to health, for lead also is 
largely used for glazing and colour-making, and is a frequent 
cause of plumbism among the artisans. Again, it is a manufacture 
having many departments, between several of which no common 
characters can be said to exist. This holds good of the two 
principal departments, viz., (i) the making of the articles from 
potter's clay; and (2) their ornamentation by painting and gilding. 
They are often spoken of as the "clay" and the "finishing'^ 
departments. It is with the former that we are in the first 
instance concerned, because in it the production of dust ... is 
pre-eminently the cause of disease." * 

Cutlers, Scissors-makers. — The mortality among cutlers is 
enormous ; at all ages it is very high, but at ages beyond thirty- 
five years it exceeds the standard among occupied males generally 
by from 64 to 72 per cent. The comparative mortality figure for 
cutlers at ages from twenty-five to sixty-five years is 15 16, which 
is higher than the average of other occupations by 59 per cent. 
Cutlers, although in this respect they have an advantage over 
potters, are nevertheless among the occupations which suffer 
excessively from "pulmonary" disease. Their mortality figure 
for phthisis is 382, and for respiratory diseases is 518, against 106 
and 115 respectively, the figures for agriculturists. Taking these 
diseases together, cutlers sustain a mortality in excess of that of 
other occupations by 122 per cent. It has been shown by Dr 
Headlam Greenhow and others that the great mortality among 
cutlers and grinders arises from the irritation caused by the 
mechanical particles produced during the process of manufacture,, 
and received into the lungs with the air of respiration. 

Cutlers suffer slightly from lead poisoning; their mortality from 
this cause being represented by 3. The occurrence of lead 
poisoning among cutlers is a novel feature in the mortality returns 
for 1890-92, Dr Ogle having found no deaths from that cause in 
the sample of these workers examined by him in preparing his 
supplement for 1881. In the mortality figures for diseases of the 
urinary system there is, among cutlers, an excess of 37 per cent, 
* Hygiene and Diseases of Occupations, by Dr Arlidge, p. 306. Percival & Co, 



138 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

as compared with the standard among occupied males. From 
diseases of the nervous system the excess of mortality among these 
workers is ii per cent. Taking together the mortality ascribed 
to alcoholism and to liver disease as a rough measure of the 
mischief caused by intemperance, there is a slight excess among 
these workers as compared with the standard. 

Since the previous record the mortality among cutlers has 
increased ; and this not only at the higher ages, as appears to 
have been the rule in most other occupations, but also among 
men under forty-five years of age. Their mortality attributed 
directly to alcoholism, which had been much below the average in 
1 88 1, has risen above the average in 1891, but there has been no 
corresponding increase under the head of liver diseases. Since 
the former period the mortality of cutlers from heart disease has 
increased by 58 per cent, from lung diseases other than phthisis 
by 38 per cent, and from tubercular phthisis by 9 per cent 

File-cutters. — Judged by their general death-rate, file-cutters 
are the least healthy men included in our list of occupations, with 
the exception of publicans (in certain districts) and of dock 
labourers — their comparative figure being 18 10, or three times as 
high as that of agriculturists. As compared with the standard 
mortality of occupied males, that of file-cutters is in excess by not 
less than 90 per cent At each of the age-groups of the working 
period of life the mortality among file-cutters is appalling, and this 
is especially the case at ages above thirty-five years, when the 
death-rate exceeds the average by from 93 to no per cent 

As with cutlers, so with file-cutters — their great mortality 
appears to depend on the irritation caused by particles of 
stone or of metal which find their way into the air passages with 
the respired air. Dr Headlam Greenhow, writing so long ago as 
1858, stated that file-cutters owe their enormous mortality from 
lead poisoning to the circumstance that the files are cut on 
blocks of lead : their mortality figure for plumbism, in 1890-2, was 
no less than 75! 

Diseases of the urinary system cause a mortality among file- 
cutters which is above the average by 1 54 per cent, and diseases 
of the nervous system a mortality in excess by 159 per cent 

Intemperance does not seem to be especially rife among file- 
cutters, but they are addicted to suicide in about double the 
normal proportion. 

The comparative mortality figure of file-cutters has increased 
considerably since 1871 : the increase being relatively greatest 



II 



X.] FILE-CUTTERS, GLASS-MAKERS, COPPER-WORKERS 139 

since 1881. At the age-group 45-65 the increase in the death- 
rate has been steady throughout the entire period of twenty 
years, but at ages under forty-five, although between 1871 and 
1 88 1 there had been a fall in the death-rate, this has been followed 
since the latter year by a rise of considerably greater amount 

The mortality from tubercular phthisis, which had been 407 
in 1881, has still further increased to 414 in 1891. According to 
recent experience, file-cutters die from diseases of the circulatory 
and respiratory systems even more rapidly than they did in 
1881. 

Glass-makers. — The making, blowing, and engraving of glass 
occupies a prominent place among unhealthy trades, for several 
reasons. In the first place, the workers are exposed to extreme 
variations of temperature — in some processes, that of glassblow- 
ing especially, the operatives are constantly exposed to the intense 
heat of the furnace, as well as to that which radiates from the pots 
of molten glass which they are engaged in blowing. The intense 
heat and profuse sweating naturally induce painful thirst, which 
the workmen evidently allay by excessive drinking : this is shown 
by the fact that their mortality from alcoholism and from nervous 
disorders is nearly double that experienced by operatives in other 
trades. In the next place, glass-makers are subject to plumbism, 
their mortality figure attributed to this cause being no less than 
12, or sixth highest in the list of industries subject to this com- 
plaint. According to Dr Arlidge, who has contributed much 
valuable information on this subject, it is in the cutting and 
engraving of glass that the operatives are exposed to contact with 
lead. In these processes "putty powder," which is a compound 
of lead and tin, is constantly used, and as the men are careless as 
to ventilation and cleanliness, often taking their food with 
unwashed hands, it is easy to understand how lead finds its way 
into the system. 

The coniparative mortality figure for glass-makers is 1487, 
and is, therefore, in excess of the average by 56 per cent. 
Phthisis and diseases of the respiratory system are especially 
fatal to workmen in this industry, and they suffer more severely 
than other occupied males from diseases of the circulatory, 
digestive, and urinary systems, as well as from cancer. Since 
1 88 1 the mortality of glass-workers has increased considerably, 
and this is true of the younger as well as the older workers in 
this industry. 

Copper-workers. — As the number of operatives engaged in the 



I40 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

working of copper is small (scarcely exceeding 8000), only general 
remarks can be made concerning their health. 

At all ages the mortality of copper-workers exceeds that of 
other occupations ; their comparative mortality figure is 1381 ; 
it is therefore considerably above that of metal-workers generally, 
and is also above the standard for occupied males in the aggregate 
by 45 per cent. That copper-smelting is an injurious occupation 
is proved by the pallid, sickly appearance of the workers. It 
has been noticed by Dr Arlidge, as a result of personal experience, 
that the hair of copper-smelters (especially where this was originally 
fair or white) becomes much discoloured ; but this discoloration 
is caused, not by absorption of the metal, but simply by adhesion 
of copper particles to the hair. Nevertheless, he thinks that 
cupreous salts do eventually find their way into the circulation, 
and when this is the case the characteristic symptoms of colic, 
vomiting, and purging with extreme prostration are produced. 
A greenish or purplish red line is also noticed in the gums, in the 
same position as that which is occupied by the blue line in cases 
of lead poisoning. The operations of filing, turning, and polishing 
of copper are especially injurious to the workmen, and like other 
dust-inhaling processes, lead to fatal results by interference with 
the respiratory functions — lung diseases being much more 
common among these operatives than the average, whilst their 
mortality from pulmonary phthisis is in excess by 59 per cent. 
Copper-workers die much more rapidly than other operatives from 
diseases of the circulatory, digestive, and urinary systems, their 
mortality from all these forms of disease being greatly in excess 
of the average among workers in metals generally. 

Iron and Steel Workers. — At the census of 1891, more than 
200,CXX) workers in iron and steel, above the age of fifteen years, were 
enumerated, but the number had decreased since the preceding 
census by 2 per cent. The labour of iron and steel working is 
heavy and exhausting. The operatives, whether at the blast 
furnaces or at the rolling mills, whether puddlers or moulders, are 
exposed to intense heat, as well as to great vicissitudes of weather, 
for most of their work is done in the open air, or at any rate in out- 
door sheds unprotected from cold and draughts. The men are for 
the most part sturdy and of powerful build : the arduous nature of 
their occupation making it impossible for any but the most vigorous 
to follow it. In spite of these natural advantages, however, statistics 
show that iron and steel workers are by no means so healthy and 
long-lived as they ought to be. 



I 



X.] WORKERS IN IRON, STEEL, TIN, LEAD 141 

The death-rates of these operatives are higher than the corre- 
sponding rates among occupied males generally, and also higher 
than the rates of other metal workers, at all stages of life up to 
sixty-five years. They have a comparative mortality figure of 
1 301, which is higher than that of occupied males, as a standard, by 
37 per cent. Iron-workers suffer more severely than do other 
occupied males from influenza and from diseases of the nervous, cir- 
culatory, respiratory, digestive, and urinary systems ; their mortality 
figure from diseases of the lungs being more than double the 
standard figure, and that from phthisis also greatly exceeding 
the average. 

Since 1881 there has been a considerable increase in the 
mortality of iron and steel workers : the increase has affected 
both divisions of the working period of life, but has been far 
the greatest among men over the age of forty-five years. 

Zinc-workers. — The number of men engaged in this industry 
is small, although it has increased by 50 per cent, within 
the last decennium. Nevertheless, the vital statistics of zinc- 
workers are important, as showing excessive mortality from all 
the diseases enumerated in the table on page 135. The evidence 
is conflicting as to the evolution of noxious matter during the 
process of extracting zinc from the ore ; but the workmen are 
exposed to great heat, and to the inhalation of irritating particles, 
in consequence of which they are said to suffer exceptionally 
from digestive and respiratory troubles. Zinc is coming more 
and more into use in the process of galvanising sheet-iron, so as 
to protect it from rust ; and in this operation the workmen are 
exposed to the fumes of sal-ammoniac and to other substances 
which are said to produce a form of nervous derangement that is 
apparently peculiar to this process. 

Zinc-workers are subject to a mortality considerably above 
the average. Their comparative mortality figure is 1198, andat 
ages beyond middle life they die more rapidly than occupied males 
generally. Their mortality from respiratory diseases and pulmonary 
consumption together is more than double the standard figure, 
and they die faster than the average from diseases of the 
circulatory system. 

Lead-workers. — The occupation of lead-working is pursued by 
but very few in this country ; only about 2000 men above the 
age of fifteen years having been thus returned at the census of 
1 89 1, and even this number is rapidly decreasing. But the in- 
jurious effects of lead-working are by no means limited to the 



[42 



DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS 



[chap. 



operatives designated lead-workers in the census returns. In the 
Hst of one hundred occupations prepared for my larger work on 
occupational mortality, not fewer than thirteen were selected as 
showing unmistakable evidence of plumbism. These occupations 
are as follows (the figures represent the comparative mortalit}' 
figures from lead poisoning in the several trades) — 



Lead-worker 


211 


Coach-maker . 


7 


File-maker . 


75 


Gasfitter, Locksmith 


6 


Plumber 


21 


Lead-maker . 


5 


Painter and Glazier 


. i8 


Printer . 


3 


Potter 


17 


Cutter . 


3 


Glass-maker 


12 


Wool manufacturer 


3 


Copper-worker . 


■ 8 


Occupied males 


I 



The above occupations are arranged in order according to 
their mortality from lead poisoning, as shown in the tables. A 
little consideration, however, will show that these figures represent 
but very imperfectly the relative damage sustained by the several 
operatives as a result of their occupations. If, for the sake of 
example, we compare the mortality figure of lead-workers with 
that of potters, it would appear, by the table, that the former 
workers die from plumbism more than twelve times as rapidly as 
do the latter. But, on closer examination, we find that whilst 
the whole body of lead-workers are constantly in contact with 
lead as a necessary condition of labour, not more than a twelfth 
part of the potters are so circumstanced. It is the dippers and 
the glost-placers among potters who are the chief, if not the 
only, serious sufferers from lead poisoning ; but as these workers 
are not distinguished in the census returns from other potters, 
their deaths are distributed over the whole class of potters, and 
thus a false impression is conveyed as to the amount of mischief 
done by absorption of lead, in those branches of the industry 
where the workers are actually exposed to contact with this 
metal. Again, when the figures for painters and glaziers are com- 
pared with the figure for file-cutters, a great disparity becomes 
evident ; the file-cutters suffering apparently more than four 
times as severely from plumbism as do the painters and 
glaziers. But on inquiry, we find that whilst, on the one hand, 
file-cutters handle lead continuously in the course of their work, 
on the other hand, painters and glaziers are by no means so 
constantly exposed to this danger — much of their time being 
spent on labour which does not involve contact with lead, or 
inhalation of particles or fumes of that metal. If the death-rates 



X.] LEAD-WORKERS, STONE-QUARRIERS 143 

____^ - — — — ■ ■ 

attending those processes in the occupation of potters and of 
painters which are continuously subject to lead poisoning could 
be separately ascertained, there is no reason to doubt that they 
would show results quite as unsatisfactory as those experienced 
by lead-workers. 

Although lead-working is known to be a very unhealthy trade, 
it is evidently impossible to deduce from the vital statistics of only 
2000 workers more than very general conclusions. Speaking 
generally, however, the mortality returns warrant the statement 
that, in the main working period of life, these operatives 
sustain a mortality which is about 90 per cent, above that of 
other workers, on the average. Their comparative mortality 
figure from all causes is no less than 1783, and is therefore nearly 
three times that of agriculturists. Of the total deaths occurring 
among lead-workers, one-third are from "pulmonary disease," 
i.e., from tubercular phthisis and diseases of the respiratory 
system taken together, and one-eighth are from lead poisoning. 
As compared with the standard for occupied males, the mor- 
tality among lead-workers is excessive from diseases of the 
urinary, nervous, circulatory, and digestive systems, in addition 
to the causes above specified. 

Stone-Quarriers. — The aggregate of men above the age of 
fifteen years returned under this heading, at the last census, 
amounted to nearly 50,000, but the numbers had decreased by 
about 3 per cent, since the previous enumeration. The comparative 
mortality figure of quarrymen is 1176, which, as compared with 
the figure for occupied males, is in excess by 25 per cent. At all 
stages in the working period of life the death-rate of these 
labourers exceeds that of other occupations in the aggregate. 
As stone - quarrying is an outdoor industry, and consequently 
the workers are not exposed to the unhealthy conditions of 
sedentary work, the vital statistics of this class should obviously 
be compared with those of agriculturists, rather than with those 
of males of all occupations. So compared, we find that stone- 
quarriers experience a mortality from all causes which is little 
short of double the standard figure. From respiratory diseases 
and also from tubercular phthisis, their mortality is at least 
two and a half times as high as the standard, and from diseases 
of the circulatory system they die faster than agriculturists by 50 
per cent. At ages between twenty-five and forty-five years the 
mortality of stone-quarriers has fluctuated considerably during 
the last twenty }'ears ; but at ages from forty-five to sixty-five 



144 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

it has steadily increased throughout that period. Since 1881 
the increase has been principally under the head of pulmonary 
and circulatory diseases. During the same interval the mortality 
of quarriers from phthisis and also from digestive diseases, as well as 
that from alcoholism and from diseases of the liver, has decreased 
considerably, and so likewise has their liability to fatal accident. 

Brass -workers. — At the 1891 census there were enumerated 
33,000 persons over fifteen years of age under the head of brass- 
workers, braziers, etc., the number having increased since the 
previous enumeration by little short of one-third. 

If death returns alone be relied on, there is little in the 
mortality of brass-workers that does not apply equally to other 
.allied industries ; but from the investigations of Dr Headlam 
Greenhow in 1858, and more recently those of Dr Simon and 
Dr Hogben of Birmingham, we learn that brass-workers suffer 
A'ery seriously from ailments which are not experienced by the 
workers in copper or in zinc, the chief metals of which brass is 
an alloy. The disease to which these workers are exceptionally 
subject is known locally as " brass-founders' ague," which, accord- 
ing to Greenhow and some other authorities, is caused by the 
inhalation of oxide of zinc, whilst others of equal repute attribute 
it to copper poisoning. That brass-workers are exposed to 
-conditions inimical to health is fully recognised by employers 
and employed alike, who agree in describing the trade as a 
most unhealthy one. Dr R. Simon (in a thesis for his degree 
.at Cambridge) says that brass-workers rarely attain old age, 
and that formerly provident sick societies either altogether 
refused to enrol them in their lists, or accepted them as members 
at greatly increased rates. The workers who deal with molten 
metal — the founders, the mixers, and the casters — are those 
who are exceptionally liable to " ague." The " mixers," who 
luring together the two metals, suffer most severely. The copper 
is first molten, and the zinc is then added to it. When the 
metals come into contact the zinc deflagrates, and some of it, 
•combining with oxygen, flies off in dense white clouds of oxide 
of zinc. This, of course, is of necessity inhaled by the operatives 
who, experiencing discomfort from the process, tightness of the 
chest, and other respiratory troubles, attempt to avoid it by 
<:overing the mouth and nostrils with a handkerchief 

Although, as has been previously stated, the deaths registered 
afford little evidence of the exceptional unhealthiness of brass- 
workers as compared with the workers in other metals, never- 




li 
I 



BRASS- WORKERS— G UNSMITHS— COPPER- WORKERS 145 

theless we find that they sustain a mortahty from "phthisis" 
which is in excess of that of " occupied males " by 50 per cent, 
whilst they die more rapidly than the average from diseases of 
the nervous, urinary, and respiratory systems. Brass-workers as 
a class are, like copper-makers, pallid, ill-nourished, and unhealthy- 
looking : they suffer from anaemia, dyspepsia, constipation, colic, 
and other digestive troubles. Happily, however, these symptoms 
do not permanently injure their health, for on changing their 
occupation, as they commonly do, for a less unhealthy one, the 
above symptoms rapidly subside, and their usual health is soon 
restored. 

Gunsmiths. — The only remaining metal-workers in the list 
whose mortality exceeds the average for the class are the gun- 
smiths. Their comparative mortality figure is 1228, and is 
exactly 100 in excess of that of metal workers in the aggregate. 
Gunsmiths die faster than the average of metal-workers at ages 
from twenty-five to forty-five, but less rapidly both before and 
after that period of life. 

On reference to the extended tables in my larger work, it 
will be found that gunsmiths die from alcoholism about two and 
a half times as fast as do other workers in metal. Most of the 
processes in which gunsmiths engage are of an unhealthy nature, 
and the workers are exposed to the harmful effects of metallic 
and flinty dusts which set up in the lungs very similar disorders 
to those which have been noticed in connection with the Sheffield 
" grinding " trades. This industry demands expert workmanship 
and high finish, especially in the later processes, and involves a 
great deal of filing and polishing of metal, and these operations 
are frequently carried on in workshops which are ill-ventilated 
and otherwise unsuited for the purpose. As a consequence, 
the mortality of gunsmiths from phthisis (much of which is 
probably fibroid) stands at 324 against 206, the figure for metal- 
workers generally, and 185, the standard figure for all occupied 
males. From other diseases of the respiratory system and from 
diseases of the heart, gunsmiths sustain a mortality which exceeds 
the standard for occupied males by 47, and by 21 per cent, 
respectively. During the last twenty years, and especially during 
the more recent half of that period, the mortality of gunsmiths 
has increased considerably, and this is true whether we consider 
their mortality during the earlier or during the later half of the 
main working period of life. 

Chimney Sweeps^ Soot Merchants. — Recent statistics agree 



146 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

with those of earlier records in attributing to this industry a 
very unsatisfactory position in the scale of health. Compared 
with those of other occupations, the death-rates of chimney 
sweeps are excessive at all ages below the sixty - fifth year. 
Their comparative mortality figure amounts to 131 1, and is 
therefore higher than the standard by more than one-third part. 

Chimney sweeps are, by the nature of their calling, much 
exposed to the inhalation of particles of soot and of other irritat- 
ing matters which seriously affect the respiratory functions. 
They die more rapidly than the average from pulmonary tuber- 
culosis, and from other diseases of the lungs, as well as from 
diseases of the heart and urinary organs. Their mortality 
from suicide is also more than double the average, and their 
figure for intemperance is more than four and a half times 
that of occupied males generally. But it is in regard to their 
extreme liability to malignant disease that chimney sweeps 
are deserving of special consideration. Their mortality from 
different forms of cancer amounts to 156 as compared with 44, 
the figure for occupied males in the aggregate. In the list 
on p. 135 there is no other occupation in which the ravages 
of cancer at all approach those to which chimney sweeps are 
subject. Of the 512 deaths from all causes among chimney 
sweeps, as many as 61, or about i in 8, were from cancer, and 
18 of the 61 were returned as from chimneysweeps' cancer. Of 
these 61 deaths 3 were ascribed to sarcoma, and the rest to 
carcinoma or other forms of malignant disease. In the course 
of the last twenty years the mortality of these workers has 
decreased considerably. Between 187 1 and 1881 their mortaHty 
figure, modified for purposes of comparison, had fallen by 11 
per cent, the fall in the death-rate having been common to 
both divisions of the main working period of life, but much 
greater at ages under than at ages over forty-five years. 
In the interval between the two last censuses, on the 
contrary, the fall has been greater at ages above forty - five 
years. Although chimney sweeps still die from cancer in 
enormous over - proportion, there has happily been a great 
abatement in their fatality from this disease since the previous 
record. In 1880-82 the mortality figure had been 290, whilst 
in 1890-92 the figure, modified to allow of comparison, was 
157, showing a reduction of nearly half within that interval. 

Textile workers. — In the accompanying list there still remain 
several dust-producing occupations in which the mortality from 



X.] TEXTILE WORKERS 147 

pulmonary diseases is in excess of the average, notwithstand- 
ing that the workers are not exposed to the action of metallic 
irritants. Of these there are four which may be taken to 
represent the textile trades — viz., the manufacture of cotton, 
wool, rope, and carpets — in all of which the mortality figure 
from respiratory diseases is not only vastly in excess of the 
figure for agriculturists, but is also considerably above that 
of other occupied males. Among textile workers, cotton opera- 
tives (especially those of Lancashire) are the most unhealthy. 
Their mortality figure from all causes is higher than that of 
occupied males generally, by from 20 to 23* per cent, whilst 
from diseases of the respiratory system exclusive of phthisis, 
their mortality is in excess by proportions varying from 53 
to 65* per cent. The workers in cotton mills suffer severely 
from the presence, in the air, of "fluff" and "flue" that escapes 
from the cotton, especially in the preparation of the yarn. The 
amount of this and the degree of irritation to which it gives 
rise when inspired, varies with the quality of the material used ; 
inferior and brittle cotton, being more liable to breakage in 
the course of manufacture, gives off more dust than do the 
finer kinds, and requires for its successful working a warmer 
and moister air. The workers in the lower-class cottons therefore 
suffer more seriously in health, and require more perfect arrange- 
ments for ventilation than do those who deal with materials of 
higher quality. Cotton spinners have to work all the year 
round in a very warm and humid atmosphere, and accord- 
ingly suffer from debility and exhaustion caused by profuse 
sweating. The temperature and moisture of the sheds are main- 
tained at a high standard both night and day, in order to 
prevent brittleness in the cotton fibres, and as a consequence 
the operatives become peculiarly sensitive to chills, brought about, 
perhaps, by injudicious exposure to draughts. From personal ex- 
perience in Manchester, for a period of twenty-five years, I can 
testify that these workers are exceptionally liable to acute rheu- 
matism, and this statement may be confirmed by reference to 
the mortality tables in my larger work, which show that the 
mortality of cotton spinners from this disease exceeds the average 
by not less than 70 per cent. The operation of "sizing," pre- 
paratory to the weaving of cotton, introduces a new element of 
danger. The size contains, in addition to flour or farina, a very 

* These figures relate exclusively to Lancashire, which is the seat of the 
cotton industry. 



148 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

large proportion of china clay, which finds its way into the air 
passages, and there produces its well-known mischief. It is 
pleasant to record that cotton operatives do not add to the evils 
of their occupation by undue recourse to alcohol : their mortality 
from intemperance being below the average by 23 per cent. 

Wool^ Worsted Manufacturers. — Wool - workers suffer much 
less severely from their occupation than do cotton operatives. 
In the weaving of woollen materials, a lower and drier tempera- 
ture is required than in the case of cotton - weaving, and the 
mischief caused by "sizing" with china clay and other irritants 
has no place in woollen manufacture. Nevertheless, in certain 
of the processes, especially where inferior foreign wools are 
manufactured, a good deal of dust is disengaged, and this produces 
its ill-effect on the lungs of the workers. It is also in connec- 
tion with dirty or blood-stained foreign wools that the majority of 
cases of anthrax or wool-sorters' disease have been observed from 
time to time, which have been the subject of inquiry in past years 
by the Medical Department of the Local Government Board. 

It is worthy of notice that wool-sorters are even more care- 
less as regards exposure to cold and draughts than are even 
cctton workers, and their mortality from rheumatic fever is 
much higher, being double that experienced by agriculturists 
as a class. Wool - workers have a comparative mortality figure 
from all causes, which is somewhat above the average for 
occupied males generally, but is below that of other textile 
trades. Workers in wool appear to be remarkably free from 
intemperance, their mortality figure being less than one - fourth 
of the average. From diseases of the digestive system other 
than the liver, wool -workers die half as fast again as do 
occupied males generally, whilst from diseases of the nervous, 
respiratory, and urinary systems, as well as from cancer, the 
mortality of these workers is from 10 to 22 per cent, in excess 
of that standard. 

Other Workers in Dusty Trades. — The accompanying list 
includes a few industries, the workers in which have not yet 
been alluded to as regards their health : such as the rope-makers, 
carpet-makers, coopers, bricklayers, bakers, etc. These industries, 
although not remarkable for the production of other serious 
forms of illness, have this feature in common, that being essen- 
tially dust-producing processes, they one and all induce among 
the workers excessive suffering from pulmonary affections. 
Although the mortality of these workers from phthisis and other 



X.] 



DANGERS OF FOUL AIR 



149 



lung diseases is considerably below that of metal-workers, never- 
theless it is in every case inordinately high, exceeding the mortality 
of agriculturists by proportions varying from yy to 120 per cent. 

EBTECTS OF BREATHING FOUL AIR. 
In my larger work on occupational mortality, detailed vital 
statistics are given respecting those workers whose occupation is 
not in itself necessarily unhealthy, but who are the victims of 
unwholesome conditions of labour, either self-inflicted, or else 
caused by the ignorance or the parsimony of persons in authority. 
The evils here alluded to are the result partly of the accumulation 
of respiratory and other impurities in the air breathed, from 
neglect of suitable methods of ventilation, and partly of the 
cramped posture adopted in certain cases (notably by tailors 
and shoemakers) in their sedentary indoor labour. Considerations 
of space preclude the insertion here of a complete list of these 
occupations ; but in the following table a selection has been 
made of those industries in which the workers are liable, in the 
greatest degree, to damage from the inhalation of foul air in 
the course of their employment. For each of these occupations 
the figures indicating the mortality from phthisis and from 
diseases of the respiratory and circulatory systems are separately 
shown, and in another column the combined mortality of the 
several occupations from the first two of these forms of disease 
is compared with that of agriculturists, the latter being taken 
as 100. The occupations have been arranged in the descending 
order of their mortality from tubercular phthisis and respiratory 
diseases tos^ether. 



Comparative Mortality from several causes in certain unhealthy occupations. 






Phthisis and Diseases 




1 


Occupation. 


Comparative 

Mortality 

Figure 


of 
Respirator)' Organs. 


Mortality Figure. 














(all Causes). 


Mortality 
Figure. 


Ratio. 


Phthisis. 


Respiratory 
Diseases. 


Circulatory 
Diseases. 


Agricultiirists . 


602 


221 


100 


106 


115 


83 


Bookbinder . 


1060 


543 


246 


325 


218 


115 


Printer . 




1096 


540 


244 


326 


214 


133 


Musician 




1214 


522 


236 


322 


200 


191 


Hatter . 




1 109 


511 


231 


301 


210 


141 


Hairdresser 




1099 


489 


221 


276 


213 


179 


Tailor . 




1 989 


466 


211 


271 


195 


121 


Draper . 




1 1014 


441 


200 


260 


181 


135 


Shoemaker 




920 


437 


198 


256 


181 


121 



ISO DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

From this table it will be seen that, roughly speaking, the 
combined mortality from phthisis and respiratory diseases varies 
from twice to two and a half times that of agriculturists. It 
may further be stated (although the figures are not given in 
the table) that the workers in four of the above-mentioned 
occupations die from these diseases alone more rapidly than 
farmers in the agricultural districts die from all causes put to- 
gether. Contrary to the experience of two-thirds of the occupied 
male population of England and Wales, tubercular phthisis is more 
fatal than are diseases of the respiratory organs other than phthisis, 
to all the workers in the table, except agriculturists. 

Bookbinders^ Printers. — Writing in 1881 of the sanitary 
condition of these workers, Dr Ogle speaks of both of them in 
common as "carrying on their industries under notoriously 
unhealthy conditions,, in ill-ventilated rooms, and in an atmo- 
sphere unduly heated by engines, stoves, and flaring gas-lights." 
The decline in the death-rates, as compared with the earlier 
records, he attributes to the improvements effected by the 
Factory Inspectors since these trades came under their super- 
vision. Further on he writes, with respect to their mortality : 
" Excepting costermongers . . . and those industries in which 
the workman is exposed to the inhalation of dusts, such as file- 
makers, potters, and Cornish miners, there is no industry in the 
table in which the mortality from phthisis approaches to that of 
printers." " As for bookbinders," he writes, " so far as can be 
judged from the jy deaths of which the causes are recorded, in 
this industry also the high mortality is due to phthisis, for of the 
TJ deaths no less than 30 were caused by this disease." * 

In both of these trades the conditions of work have still 
further improved under the supervision of H.M. Factory 
Inspectors since the above was written. Taking bookbinders 
first — The returns show that their death-rates are still considerably 
above those of agriculturists, and, indeed, above those of other 
occupied males at most of the ages in the working period of 
life, their comparative mortality figure being above the first- 
named standard by ^6 per cent. Bookbinders still die very 
rapidly from pulmonary consumption, their mortality figure 
from that disease being no less than 325, or more than three times 
as high as that of agriculturists. Their mortality from cancer 
and from diseases of the respiratory, circulatory, and urinary 

*Dr Ogle's Decennial Supplement to the 45th Report of the Registrar- 
General. 



X.] BOOKBINDERS—PRINTERS— MUSICIANS 151 

systems also shows excess. Bookbinders are more addicted to 
suicide than are agriculturists, in the proportion of 26 to 10. 
Ever since 1871 the mortality of bookbinders has steadily 
decreased, and there has been a fall in the death-rates at ages 
under as well as above the forty-fifth year. 

Printers experience a death-rate at the various age-groups 
which is above the standard at all the age-groups dealt with in 
the table. Their mortality figure is 1096, as against 953 for 
all occupied males, and 602 for agriculturists. Like bookbinders, 
printers die very rapidly from phthisis, and probably for a 
similar reason — namely, because of the excessively unhealthy 
conditions under which their work is carried on — their mortality 
from diseases of the respiratory organs other than phthisis is, 
however, below the average, but from diseases of the nervous, 
circulatory, digestive, and urinary systems it is above the 
average. Printers suffer only about one-third as much from 
fatal accident as do other workers, but they are somewhat more 
addicted to suicide. Their mortality figure from lead poisoning 
is represented by 3. In the course of the last twenty years the 
mortality of printers from all causes together has decreased 
considerably. Both the age divisions in the main work time of 
life have shared in the fall, but in unequal proportions. As 
compared with that of 1881, the mortality of these workers from 
alcoholism in 1891 has fully trebled, and that from suicide has 
more than doubled. The most important decrease occurs in the 
case of phthisis, the mortality from which has fallen, since 1891, 
by one-sixth part of the former rate. 

Musicians. — The mortality of the class of men who, by a 
euphemism, are styled " musicians," is very high. At all ages in 
the working period of life it greatly exceeds that of agriculturists, 
and also exceeds that of the working population in the aggregate. 
Their comparative mortality figure amounts to 1 2 14, or more 
than double the figure for agriculturists, and is about one-third 
part in excess of that of occupied males generally. Compared with 
both these standards, musicians die more rapidly from alcoholism 
and from diseases of the liver. Their mortality figure from phthisis 
is enormous, amounting to not less than 322, or fully three times 
that of agriculturists, and almost double that of male workers in 
the aggregate. 

In addition to the above, musicians sustain very heavy 
mortality from diseases of the nervous, circulatory, digestive, and 
urinary systems, and their mortality figure from suicide is 23, as 



152 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

compared with lo for agriculturists and 14 for other occupied 
males. From these statistics it is certain that many of those 
who are included in this class are sadly addicted to intemperance, 
whilst others suffer from want of the bare necessaries of life. 
"It must be remembered," writes Dr Ogle in 1881, with refer- 
ence to the mortality of this class, " that under this heading are 
comprised all sorts and conditions of men, and that a large 
portion of them are organ-grinders, ballad-singers, and street 
musicians generally, many of whom are of intemperate habits, 
and exposed by their mode of life to cold and want, while no 
few have merely taken to the occupation as a refuge, after their 
health has broken down in more regular occupations." 

Within the last twenty years the mortality of musicians has 
declined very considerably, both at the earlier and at the later 
ages. Their comparative mortality figure in 1891 was lower 
than it had been in 1871 by more than one-fifth part: never- 
theless, their vital statistics still continue to be very unsatisfactory, 
and their nomadic habits are a serious hindrance to improve- 
ment. 

Hatters. — As compared with agriculturists, the mortality of 
hatters is enormously greater at all stages of the working period 
of life, and their comparative mortality figure from all causes is 
in excess of that standard by 84 per cent. At ages under thirty- 
five years, hatters experience a death-rate which barely exceeds 
the average among occupied males, but at each subsequent age- 
group their mortality is greatly in excess. As far as we know 
there is little in the employment of hat-makers which of 
necessity acts prejudicially to their health. Their work, however, 
like that of too many other trades, is frequently carried on 
in over-crowded and ill-ventilated apartments, and the men suffer 
accordingly. Thus we find from the tables that hatters die from 
tubercular phthisis about three times as rapidly as do agri- 
culturists, and that their mortality from this complaint consider- 
ably exceeds the average in other occupations. Hatters appear 
to be much addicted to intemperance, their mortality figure from 
alcoholism, and also from liver disease, showing serious excess. 
Their mortality from suicide stands at 28, as compared with 10 for 
agriculturists and 14 for other occupied males. Among hatters 
under the age of forty-five years there has been a decline in 
mortality within the last twenty years, but at ages from forty-five 
to sixty-five there has been but little change. 

Hairdressers. — The mortality of hairdressers is higher than 



X.] HAIRDRESSERS— TAILORS 153 

— — ^ 1 

that of other occupied males at each of the age-groups of the 
working period ; it is, consequently, greatly in excess of that of 
agriculturists. Their mortality figure from all causes at ages 
twenty-five to sixty-five is 1099, and, therefore, exceeds that of the 
standard last rnentioned by 82 per cent. The life of a hair- 
dresser is for the most part a town, or at least a village, life ; the 
work being carried on indoors for long hours together, in an 
atmosphere heated and polluted by gas. In addition to this, the 
occupation is a dusty one, and the men are exposed to the effects 
of particles of hair and other irritants which find their way into 
the lungs. Their mortality figure from alcoholism, liver diseases, 
and gout, as well as from pulmonary tuberculosis, shows serious 
excess ; it therefore appears that hairdressers, as was the case in 
1 88 1 also, are still excessively addicted to intemperance. They 
fall victims to suicide almost as rapidly as do even the least 
fortunate workers included in the list of occupations. Hair- 
dressers experienced almost the same rate of general mortality at 
the census periods of 1871 and 1881, but since the latter year 
there has been a fall in their mortality to the extent of about 
one-seventh part. 

Tailors. — The occupation of tailors is a typically sedentary 
one. The men work for the most part in over-crowded, ill- 
ventilated, and over-heated rooms, and consequently suffer in 
general physique and appearance, as well as in health. In recent 
years the introduction of machinery, whilst in some respects an 
advantage, has produced its counterbalancing ill-effects by render- 
ing it possible for any man or woman who can work a sewing 
machine to take the place of the regularly skilled tailor, and thus 
to depreciate the market value of his labour. In consequence of 
this the tailor and his family are only too frequently reduced to 
great poverty, if not to a state approaching starvation. The 
mortality of tailors at the several age-groups does not greatly 
differ from that of other occupied males. Tailors die more 
rapidly than agriculturists at ages between twenty-five and sixty- 
five, but at ages below and above these limits their mortality does 
not greatly exceed this standard. 

Although in past times tailors have been considered an 
intemperate class, the figures for 1890-92 lend little support to that 
opinion. Their mortality figure from alcoholism as well as from 
liver disease scarcely differs from that of occupied males generally, 
although, of course, it considerably exceeds the low figure of 
agriculturists. 



154 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

The mortality of tailors from tubercular phthisis is greatly in 
excess of that of other occupied males, and is more than two and 
a half times as high as the mortality of agriculturists ; it is also 
worth mention that they die more rapidly than other workers 
from diseases of the nervous system. On the other hand their 
mortality from influenza and from diseases of the respiratory 
organs, and of the heart, is in each case below the average. 
During the last twenty years there has been a notable increase 
in the mortality of tailors at ages from forty-five to sixty-five years, 
and an equally notable decrease at ages from twenty-five to forty- 
five. Although the mortality directly ascribed to alcoholism is 
now slightly higher than it was in 1881, nevertheless the mortality 
from diseases of the liver and other digestive organs has under- 
gone a more than equivalent reduction, so that the total mischief 
caused by intemperance has probably decreased since 1881. The 
mortality of tailors from gout as well as from phthisis, and from 
diseases of the nervous system, has fallen since the same year. 

Drapers, Manchester Warehousemen. — The large body of men 
included under this heading appear to enjoy but poor health, 
when allowance is made for the fact that the greater part of them 
are under twenty-five years of age. Drapers and Manchester 
warehousemen, who are here grouped together because of the 
similarity of their occupation and mode of life, are credited with 
a mortality which is higher than that of any other occupation 
save one in the category of shopkeepers. Their comparative 
mortality figure from all causes is 1014, which, as compared with 
that of agriculturists, is in excess by 68 per cent. Even when 
compared with the low standard of "occupied males," drapers are 
subject to a mortality which is considerably above the average. 
Confinement in close, ill-ventilated shops for very long hours 
together, and an almost exclusively indoor life, is the unlucky fate 
of these workers. They are exposed to the heat and fumes of gas 
and cotton "fluff" and dust which escapes from the bales of goods 
in process of sale, and their health suffers accordingly. Their death- 
rate from tubercular phthisis exceeds that of other occupations by 
not less than 41 per cent, and is more than two and a half times as 
high as that of agriculturists ; but the fact previously mentioned, that 
drapers' assistants are for the most part youths or young men, may 
account to some extent for their exceptional liability to this scourge. 
Drapers die faster than the average from influenza, rheumatic 
fever, and diabetes, as well as from alcoholism, diseases of the liver 
and nervous system, and from suicide. During the main working 




DRAPERS— SHOEMAKERS 1 5 5 

period of life, the mortality of drapers has decreased somewhat 
since the earliest record. In the first twenty years of this 
period, i.e., from twenty-five to forty-five years of age, their death- 
rate has fallen considerably since 1 87 1 ; whilst at ages from forty- 
five to sixty-five years, although it had fallen between 1871 and 1881, 
it has since returned to its former level. Since 1881 the mortality 
of drapers from all causes has increased by 18 per cent. Between 
1 88 1 and 1891 their mortality from phthisis remained stationary, 
whilst that from other lung disease and heart disease showed a 
considerable increase. Their mortality from suicide has increased 
threefold since 1881, and that from alcoholism has increased by 
nearly two-thirds. 

Shoemakers. — Although the contrary is generally held to be the 
fact, shoemakers are shown by the figures now at our disposal 
to enjoy a degree of health which is at least equal to that of the 
average working man. 

As the occupation of shoemaking is an indoor one, involving 
sedentary labour for many hours together, in closely confined and 
ill-ventilated apartments, the workers suffer inordinately from those 
ailments which are commonly associated with such environment. 
Up to the thirty-fifth year of age shoemakers die faster than other 
occupied males, but more slowly at later ages. Compared with 
agriculturists the mortality of shoemakers at all ages is in excess 
by 53 per cent. 

Shoemakers die much less rapidly than the average from lung 
diseases (except phthisis) as well as from accident, and their 
mortality from intemperance is remarkably low. Cancer and 
pulmonary consumption, however, play sad havoc among shoe- 
makers, their mortality from the first-mentioned disease being 
in excess of the average by 14 per cent, and from the last- 
mentioned, by 38 per cent. Throughout the three decennia, 
commencing with 186 1, the mortality of shoemakers above the age 
of forty-five years has steadily increased, whilst below that age it 
has steadily decreased ; the balance showing a slight increase in 
the total mortality figure. Under the head of alcoholism their 
mortality has increased since the earlier record, although that 
from liver disease has decreased. Shoemakers die as rapidly as 
ever from pulmonary consumption, and more rapidly than ever 
from diseases of the lungs and heart. Their mortality from 
diseases of the nervous system has, however, shown a decided 
improvement, and they are at the present time less addicted to 
suicide than was formerly the case. 



156 



D UST-PROD UCING OCCUPA TIONS 



[chap. 



THE MINING INDUSTRY. 

At the census of 189 1 more than half a million men above the 
age of fifteen years were returned as miners, their number having 
increased since the previous census by more than a fourth part. 
As the proportion is still probably increasing, we may safely 
calculate that at the present time one in every 17 males between 
the ages of twenty-five and sixty-five years is a miner. In round 
numbers it may be stated that of the 524,000 miners in England 
and Wales, 482,000 work in coal, 18,000 in ironstone, 9000 in tin, 
6000 in lead, 2000 in other minerals, and 1000 in copper ; whilst the 
remaining 6000 are classed under the head of " mine service." 
With a few noteworthy exceptions, miners are not, as a whole, an 
unhealthy body of men, but from the nature of their employment 
they are necessarily more exposed than are other workers to 
certain forms of violent death. The various groups of miners, 
however, have, of course, this feature in common, that most of their 
time, for a great part of their life, is spent underground. Accord- 
ingly their work is carried on under conditions of heat, moisture, 
etc., which are exceptionally artificial, and for this reason it is 
desirable that their mortality should be studied with especial 
care. The following table shows the death-rates of miners at several 
ages, compared with the corresponding rates of occupied males. 
The figures in each column represent proportions of the standard 
figure, the latter taken in each case at 100. 





15— 


20— 


25- 


35— 


45- 


55- 


65 and 
upwards. 


Occupied Males. 


100 


100 


100 


100 


100 


100 


100 


Mining Industry . . 


148 


112 


87 


78 


95 


121 


147 


Coal miner .... 


150 


III 


86 


77 


94 


119 


143 


CO ^Durham and Northumberland 


154 


III 


75 


66 


79 


97 


152 


g Lancashire .... 


163 


107 


88 


94 


no 


140 


150 


£ J ^^^*' Riding 


115 


92 


76 


77 


89 


126 


138 


.- 1 Derby and Notts . 


93 


68 


69 


59 


73 


96 


118 


Staffordshire 


95 


109 


82 


70 


95 


135 


180 


^ vMonmouth and Wales . 


227 


141 


118 


97 


117 


140 


129 


Ironstone miner .... 


134 


90 


82 


66 


^l 


91 


144 


Copper miner .... 




158 


129 


146 


118 


127 


170 


Tin miner ..... 


116 


139 


III 


"5 


161 


180 


178 


Lead miner .... 


118 


127 


130 


109 


116 


182 


240 


Mine service .... 


127 


264 


129 


98 


95 


113 


155 



The table shows that at ages from fifteen to twenty, and from 
twenty to twenty-five, as well as at both the age-groups above fifty- 



X.] 



THE MINING INDUSTRY 



157 



five years, miners in the aggregate die more rapidly than do other 
occupied males, whilst at intervening ages they die less rapidly. 
Miners, however, are a picked class of men in a more especial sense 
.than are the toilers in most other industries. Their labour is so 
arduous that those only who possess exceptional physical endurance 
are able to continue it, and this may account for the fact that when 
they are barely past the prime of life many of them become 
enfeebled, and subject to a mortality which is considerably in 
excess of that incidental to other occupations. 

On attempting to trace the causes of mortality in the various 
groups of miners, and to compare those industries, in this respect, 
with one another and with other occupations, it readily appears that 
a large, though very inconstant, proportion of the total mortality is 
contributed by " accident." It is accordingly desirable to isolate this 
factor, so that we may arrive at a fair judgment as to the loss of 
life by disease alone occurring amongst these workers in their 
several fields of labour. This has been done in the following table, 
where the comparative mortality of the various groups of miners is 
given {a) from all causes except accident, (Jj) from certain prevalent 
diseases, {c) from accident or violence, and {d) from disease and 
accident together. 





« 




« 










c 






i 
1 


S 


.i 


II 


I 

5 




if 




% 


< 


ij:^ 


0, 


fgO 




< 




<u 










n 




< 


Mining Industry . 


800 


4 


18 


109 


267 


19 


185 


935 


Coal miners .... 


784 


4 


17 


97 


269 


18 


141 


925 


CO 


'Durham & Northumberland 


678 


5 


23 


94 


156 


15 


96 


774 


«3 

n 


Lancashire .... 


914 


5 


17 


102 


389 


17 


155 


1069 


'S- 


West Riding 


798 


4 


16 


123 


288 


16 


114 


912 




Derby and Notts . 


638 


2 


18 


69 


159 


8 


89 


727 


1 


Staffordshire 


817 


2 


8 


83 


319 


22 


135 


95^ 





, Monmouth and Wales . 


902 


7 


16 


107 


345 


27 


243 


1 145 


Ironstone miners 


688 


4 


20 


90 


204 


15 


86 


774 


Copper miners .... 


"95 




28 


331 


347 


68 


35 


1230 


Tin miners .... 


1361 


4 


28 


508 


377 


29 


48 


1409 


Lead miners . . 


1267 


5 


34 


380 


325 


33 


43 


1310 


Mine service .... 


946 


6 


42 


114 


216 


20 


75 


102 1 


Farm labourer 


590 


4 


13 


"5 


129 


12 


42 


632 


Occupied males .... 


897 


13 


27 


185 


221 


27 


56 


953 



This table shows that miners, as a class, are a temperate body 
of men ; their mortality directly attributed to alcoholism being less 
than one-third, and that from liver disease being only two-thirds. 



158 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

of that of occupied males generally. In this respect they scarcely 
differ from farm labourers ; their mortality from alcoholism is the 
same, and that from liver disease is only slightly higher. 

Miners, as a class, suffer less than other occupied males from 
phthisis, as well as from cancer and diabetes, their mortality from 
the first-mentioned disease being below the average by 41 per cent., 
from the second by 16 per cent, and from the last by 29 per cent. 
Among miners, diseases of the nervous, circulatory, and urinary 
systems are less fatal than the average, but, with few exceptions, 
respiratory diseases are more fatal. 

Coal Miners. — As a class, colliers compare favourably with men 
in most other occupations on the score of health. During the first 
thirty years of the main working period of life their mortality 
is substantially lower than is the mortality in other industries, 
although at ages under twenty and over fifty-five they die faster 
than the average. 

The excessive mortality of colliers under twenty years of age 
may be accounted for by the fact that from 40 to 50 per cent, of 
the total deaths are due to violence, caused by the waggons and 
" tubs " in which coals are conveyed from the underground work- 
ings to the shafts. This form of accident falls mainly to the lot 
of the younger and less experienced colliers who are employed in 
'' tramming " and " hurrying " the coals. When their mortality 
from accident is deducted, the residual death-rate of colliers 
under twenty years of age does not greatly differ from the 
average. 

The comparative mortality figure of colliers, without distinction 
of age, from all causes including accidents, averages 925 ; but 
whilst on the one hand it does not exceed 727 among the colliers 
of Derbyshire and Nottingham, and 774 among those of Durham 
and Northumberland, on the other hand it ranges upwards to 
1069 among colliers in Lancashire and 1145 in Monmouthshire 
and South Wales. 

It is not easy to explain why it is that colliers in the several 
coalfields, working as they do in the same material, and spending 
an equal portion of the day underground, should differ so widely 
from one another in their mortality. For example, on reference 
to the accompanying table we see, with regard to miners under 
twenty years of age, that whilst on the one hand, among colliers 
in the counties of Derby and Nottingham, and also in Stafford, 
the mortality is lower than among " occupied males " by 7 and 5 
percent, respectively; on the other hand, among colliers in Durham 




COLLIERS 159 

and Northumberland, the mortality exceeds that standard by 54 per 
cent, in Lancashire by 63 per cent, and in Monmouthshire and 
South Wales by not less than 1 27 per cent Again, in the counties 
of Derby and Nottingham colliers between their fifty-fifth and 
sixty-fifth years die less rapidly than the average by 4 per cent, 
but colliers of the same age in Staffordshire die more rapidly than 
the average by 35 per cent, and in Lancashire and Monmouthshire 
more rapidly by 40 per cent 

Various theories have been advanced to account for the great 
disparity just alluded to in the local death-rates among colliers. 
In the first place, we know that coal-pits differ greatly in geological 
character, in depth, in the grittiness or dustiness of the rock which 
has to be worked in order to get at the coal, in the amount and 
composition of gas present, in the quantity of water permeating 
the strata, in the thickness of the coal seams, in the temperature 
of the workings ; and last, but most important, in the perfection or 
otherwise of the ventilation of the coal-pit Again, it is known 
that the habits and consequently the health and comfort of coal 
miners vary extremely according as the colliery is situate in a 
country district, or, as is frequently the case especially in the 
Lancashire coalfields, in what is practically an urban district, 
perhaps bordering on a large town. These variations in the 
circumstances of life are certainly sufficient to account for wide 
differences in the health and longevity of coal miners. 

Aged colliers, wherever they are employed, sustain a mortality 
which is considerably in excess of the standard ; yet even among 
them the mortality varies greatly with locality. For whereas in the 
counties of Derby and Nottingham the mortality of colliers aged 
sixty-five years and upwards exceeds that of occupied males by 1 8 
per cent, the excess amounts to 50 per cent in Lancashire, 52 per 
cent in Durham and Northumberland, and 80 per cent in Stafford- 
shire. 

In the list of principal causes of death amongst colliers there 
are two diseases which have been the subject of exceptional 
comment, both in this country and abroad — namely, pulmonary 
phthisis on the one hand, and ordinary inflammatory diseases of 
the lung on the other. Almost all writers on the subject, whether 
in recent or in earlier years, agree in attributing to colliers an 
unusually low mortality from tubercular, and a correspondingly high 
mortality from non-tubercular, disease of the lungs. The accom- 
panying table, which gives statistics for the years 1 890-92, confirms 
the general opinion. Thus, taking coal miners in the aggregate 



i6o DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

we find that their mortality ascribed to phthisis is only about half 
of that to which other occupied males are subject, whilst their 
mortality from respiratory diseases exceeds the same standard by 
21 per cent. If we take farm labourers as a standard by which the 
mortality of colliers should be judged, we find that whilst colliers 
suffer from fatal phthisis in the proportion of 97 as against 115 for 
farm labourers, colliers die rather more than twice as rapidly from 
diseases of the respiratory system other than phthisis. Although, 
as has already been stated, colliers as a class enjoy special 
immunity from pulmonary phthisis, nevertheless the disease 
prevails amongst them very unequally. The highest mortality 
figures from phthisis among colliers are 123 in the West Riding 
of Yorkshire and 107 in Monmouthshire, whilst the figures do 
not exceed 83 in Staffordshire and 69 in Derbyshire. In no 
English county does the mortality of colliers from phthisis even 
approach 185, which is the figure for occupied males in the aggre- 
gate. 

In the West Riding of Yorkshire the mortality of colliers from 
phthisis has increased since 1881 by one-fifth part ; but in other 
counties it has decreased by proportions in some cases as high as 
one-third of its former amount. Non-tubercular diseases of the 
lungs are excessively fatal to the colliers of Monmouthshire and 
South Wales, and still more so to those of Lancashire, where the 
mortality from these diseases is 76 per cent, above that of occupied 
males generally, and is more than double of what it is among 
the colliers of Northumberland, Durham, Derby, and Nottingham. 
These diseases have very considerably increased in fatality since 
1 88 1 in all the coalfields of England : the increase being equal to 
two-thirds of the former amount among the colliers of Lancashire, 
and to more than one-half among those of the West Riding 
of Yorkshire. Colliers nowhere appear to readily fall victims to 
intemperance. In Derby and Nottingham, as well as in Stafford- 
shire, the colliers are especially free from that vice, their mortality 
from alcoholism being only half the low figure for colliers generally. 
Even in Monmouthshire and South Wales, where the figure for 
alcoholism is the highest, only 7 of the colliers die of this disease 
for every 13 that die from it in other occupations. Since 1881 the 
mortality due to intemperance has slightly increased among the 
coal miners of Lancashire, but has decreased in all other counties 
respecting which comparison is possible. 

Ironstone mining. — This is one of the industries that are 
declining in this country. Miners of ironstone numbered barely 




IRONSTONE MINERS i6i 



18,000 at the last census, and were fewer by nearly one-third part 
than at the census of 1881. More than half of these workers are 
to be found in the counties of Cumberland and York, and about an 
eighth part more are scattered over the counties of Stafford and 
Northampton. Speaking generally, iron-workers are a healthy 
body of men. They experience rates of mortality which are lower 
than those of " occupied males " at all periods of life between 
twenty years and sixty-five, and also lower than the rates for 
coal miners at the same ages. Both ironstone miners and colliers, 
however, suffer a much higher mortality than other workers at ages 
under twenty and over fifty-five years ; the reason for this has not as 
yet been satisfactorily explained. It has been shown by Dr Ogle and 
other writers that the vital statistics of ironstone miners bear a 
general resemblance to those of coal miners. Recent investiga- 
tions confirm this statement thus far, that in both cases the 
mortality from tubercular phthisis and from all other diseases 
except those of the respiratory system are below the average, and 
even this reservation does not apply to the statistics of 1 890-2. 
Their comparative mortality figure from all causes is 774, and 
therefore considerably below that of coal miners in the aggregate. 
From disease alone (excluding accident) their mortality is slightly 
higher than that of colliers in Northumberland and Durham, 
but they suffer somewhat less severely from accident. Ironstone 
miners are a temperate body of men, their mortality figure from 
alcoholism being practically the same as that of colliers. 

The extended tables of causes of death in my larger work show 
that ironstone miners suffer more severely than the average from 
influenza and from accident, but that under all other headings 
their mortality is below that of other occupations. 

As compared with miners generally, the only diseases which 
show an excess among these workers are influenza, cancer, 
diseases of the liver, and suicide. Since 1881, the mortality of 
ironstone miners has decreased ; but, as in the case of many other 
occupations, the improvement is limited to the lower ages, the rate 
having slightly increased at ages above forty-five years. Since 1 881 
the mortality of ironstone miners from alcoholism has decreased 
by more than half There has also been a substantial decrease in 
their mortality from pulmonary consumption, and a slight decrease in 
that from other diseases of the lungs and air passages. Diseases 
of the nervous, circulatory, digestive, and urinary systems are, 
however, more fatal than formerly amongst these workers, and 
they are now more addicted than they were to suicide. 



i62 DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS [chap. 

Copper Miners. — The number of men engaged in this industry is 
so small that it is scarcely safe to express an opinion as to their 
healthiness or otherwise, especially when, as in the present case, 
the period covered by the statistics does not exceed three years. 
At the last census scarcely more than looo copper miners above 
fifteen years were enumerated, their number having dwindled 
to less than a third part of what it had been at the preceding 
census. 

If one may hazard an opinion from so small a number of 
deaths, it would appear that copper miners are an unhealthy body 
of men: their comparative mortality figure is 1230, or 295 above 
that of miners in the aggregate. Pulmonary consumption and 
other lung diseases appear to be very destructive to these workers, 
and the survivors certainly do wisely in endeavouring to find a 
healthier field for their labour by emigrating to other and more 
prosperous regions. At the next census it is probable that the 
copper-mining industry in England will have practically ceased to 
exist. 

Tin Miners. — This is another unhealthy occupation ; it is limited 
almost exclusively to the counties of Devon and Cornwall. The 
miners of tin at the last census numbered rather fewer than 
10,000, and as the deaths in the course of three years did not 
exceed 336 in all, no very detailed observations on their mortality 
would be profitable. In consequence of the very general emigra- 
tion of tin miners in recent years to South Africa and elsewhere, 
the age constitution of tin miners as a class has become exceed- 
ingly abnormal. Adults in the prime of life having left their 
homes in search of more profitable work abroad, the tin miners 
who are left at home are the least robust and healthy of their 
tribe, and this fact has a considerable effect on their mortality. 
Reference to the table on page 156 shows that tin miners 
sustain rates of mortality which are excessive at all ages. 
Their comparative mortality figure is 1409, or nearly half as high 
again as the average. Tin miners die two and three-quarter 
times as fast from phthisis, and one and three-quarter times as 
fast from other lung diseases as do occupied males generally ; 
their mortality from cancer and from diseases of the nervous and 
urinary systems is also in excess of the average. 

MORTALITY OF UNOCCUPIED AND OCCUPIED MEN. 

In my previous work on occupational mortality, the death- 
rates of unoccupied men were compared, in considerable detail, 




MORTALITY OF THE UNOCCUPIED 



[63 



II 



with those of men following various occupations, in different 
parts of the country. A brief summary of what was then 
advanced at much greater length may fitly close the present 
section. 

At the census of 1891 the number of unoccupied males living 
between the ages of twenty-five and sixty-five years was returned 
as 208,857. Of these, 35 per cent, were classed as "retired from 
business," 6 per cent, as pensioners, and 23 per cent, as " living on 
their own means," whilst 21 per cent, were referred to the class 
of "unoccupied persons," including an unknown proportion of 
paupers and prisoners. Careful investigation of the facts leads 
to the surmise that somewhere between one-third and one-half 
•of the unoccupied males, as above defined, experience a 
mortality which probably does not exceed that of occupied 
males at the same ages. If this be so, it follows that the 
mortality of the remaining two-thirds, or one-half, as the case 
may be, must greatly exceed even the high rates of unoccupied 
males in the aggregate. In the following table the rates of un- 
occupied males are contrasted with those of occupied males at the 
several stages of life. 



Age- 
Groups. 


Occupied 
Males. 


Unoccupied 
Males. 


"Unoccupied" Rates 

per cent, of 
" Occupied " Rates. 


15-20 
20-25 
25-35 

35-45 

45-55 
^ 55-65 
Over 65 years 


2.55 

5-07 
7.29 

20^66 

36.66 

102.32 


35-86 
29.58 
27.05 
35-71 
37-77 
59-44 
105.86 


1406 

583 
371 
287 
183 
162 
103 



The comparative mortality figures of occupied and of un- 
occupied males between twenty-five and sixty-five years of 
age are 953 and 2215 respectively. In other words, the number 
of males of definite age constitution, within these limits, that 
would give 1000 deaths among the general population, and 679 
deaths in the healthy districts, would give 953 deaths among 
occupied, and 2215 among unoccupied, males. The compara- 
tive mortality figure of unoccupied males, therefore, exceeds that 
of occupied males by 132 per cent. The following table shows 
ihe chief causes of death that go to make up the compara- 



[64 



DUST-PRODUCING OCCUPATIONS 



[chap. 



tive mortality figures for occupied males and unoccupied males 
respectively. 



Cause of Death. 


Occupied 

Males. 


Unoccupied 
Males. 


Excess of Mortality 

of Unoccupied over 

Occupied Males. 


All Causes . . . . 
Diseases of Nervous System . 

Phthisis 

Diseases of ileart . 
Influenza and Respiratory 

Diseases .... 

Cancer 

Diseases of Urinary Organs 
Alcoholism and Liver Diseases 
Accidents, including Lead 

Poisoning .... 
Suicide ..... 


185 
126 

254 
44 
41 
40 

57 
14 


2215 
630 
448 
240 

350 

t 
76 

81 
28 


1262 
548 
263 
114 

96 
52 
41 
36 

24 
14 



It thus appears that nearly two-thirds of the enormous excess 
in the mortality of unoccupied as compared with occupied men is 
due either to diseases of the nervous system, or to phthisis. The 
heavy mortality from both these diseases would appear to partly 
depend on the circumstance that the unoccupied class includes a 
large proportion of insane persons who are exceptionally prone 
to phthisis. Among other causes of death, diseases of the heart 
account for 114, and influenza (with respiratory diseases) accounts 
for 96 of the excess in the mortality figure of unoccupied men. 

The mortality attributed to cancer is double, and that 
attributed to intemperance and liver disease, to diseases of 
the urinary system, and to suicide, is about double as heavy 
among the unoccupied as it is among the occupied class. The 
excess of mortality from accident among unoccupied males 
possibly results from the addition to their ranks of men who, 
having been permanently disabled whilst at work, drift into 
the unoccupied class, and finally die from their injuries. 

At the census of 1891 London contained 1,230,010 occupied 
males aged fifteen years and upwards, while the industrial dis- 
tricts contained 1,833,295, and the agricultural districts contained 
1,246,156 at the same ages. More than half of the occupied males 
in England and Wales are therefore included in these three 
sections of the population. 

The mortality of occupied males exhibits very wide variations 
in different parts of the country. These variations are exem- 



II 



II 



X.] MORTALITY OF THE OCCUPIED 165 

plified severally by London, by the group of districts representing 
Industrial England, and by the areas representing Agricultural 
England. 

At each of the seven age-groups, between fifteen and sixty- 
five years, the highest death-rates occur in the industrial, and 
the lowest in the agricultural, districts, London occupying an 
intermediate position. 

The comparative mortality figure among occupied males, 
at ages from twenty-five to sixty-five years, is 1 147 in London, 
1248 in the industrial districts, and 6%^ in the agricultural 
districts ; these figures being respectively 20 per cent, above, 
31 per cent, above, and 28 per cent, below, the figure for all 
occupied males. 

Phthisis and respiratory diseases are more fatal than any 
other causes of death to occupied males, both in London and 
in the industrial districts. In London these two headings contri- 
buted almost equally to the mortality figure. The industrial 
districts, on the other hand, show less mortality than does 
London from phthisis, but the difference is more than made 
up by the heavy death-roll from respiratory diseases. In the 
agricultural districts the mortality figure for phthisis is less 
than half of that of London, and the figure for respiratory 
diseases is still lower. After due correction for age consti- 
tution, these two classes of disease in the aggregate cause 
48 per cent, of the total mortality among occupied males in 
London, 47 per cent, in the industrial districts, and 36 per 
cent, in the agricultural districts, against 43 per cent, for all 
occupied males within the same age limits. 

John Tatham. 



CHAPTER XI 

THE DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AT HOME AND ABROAD 

The soldier is liable, like other members of the community, to 
various diseases due to his occupation and surroundings, although 
at the present day the hygienic conditions of barracks and military 
duties are so carefully supervised that he is, when on home service, 
placed under much more favourable circumstances than men of 
his own class in civil life. It is, therefore, somewhat disappoint- 
ing to find that under these circumstances, knowing soldiers 
to be more or less picked men, they are not, judging from 
tables of mortality, more healthy than their civilian brethren of 
the same age. It is a matter of common observation that the 
army ages a man quickly ; the old soldier of a regiment, who is 
looked upon more or less as a privileged individual, and gener- 
ally given some sort of employment which relieves him from 
"sentry go" and the more arduous duties of his profession, is 
seldom over forty years of age, and ought to be therefore at his 
best ; but partly from the monotony of his existence, and partly 
from excessive smoking, drinking, and night duty, the private 
of twenty years' service is, as a rule, a worn-out machine, his 
mental faculties blunted, and his body, if not the seat of actual 
disease, aged and almost useless. These effects are still more 
marked when a man, as is generally the case, has spent a great 
part of his service abroad, for to the effects of hot climates and 
the diseases incidental thereto must be added, in a greatly en- 
hanced degree, the enforced ennui and idleness which are the bane 
of the soldier's existence in all stations in times of peace, and 
especially in the tropics. We all know how much more likely 
we are to rust out than wear out, and the enforced idleness which 
the soldier, especially in the infantry, has to encounter, leads to 
sluggishness of the functions of the body, while in many, drunken- 
ness, increased smoking and debauchery, exercise an injurious influ- 
ence upon health, apart altogether from the actual diseases to which 

166 



CHAP. XL] MILITARY CONTRASTED WITH CIVIL LIFE 167 

they may give rise. An old soldier, for these reasons, can seldom 
eat his rations, and his system seems to be in that receptive 
condition that he readily falls a victim to epidemic disease 
prevalent in the neighbourhood, and this the more owing to 
his tendency to haunt the lowest and most insanitary parts 
of the town near which he may be quartered. This is seen 
more particularly abroad, where the native quarters are in 
marked contrast to the clean and sanitary military cantonments, 
so that medical officers have come to regard it as almost 
certain that the soldiers will soon suffer when an epidemic 
breaks out among the civil population. Statistics prove that 
the longer soldiers serve, the greater is the proportional mortality 
among them. 

After these preliminary remarks we will proceed to discuss the 
peculiar health conditions under which soldiers exist, and their 
effects as regards their duties, habits, surroundings, and dress : 
firstly, at home ; secondly, abroad, with special reference to hot 
climates, both dry and damp, and the diseases from which they 
suffer in such climates ; thirdly, the special dangers to health 
incidental to active service. 

The peculiar conditions of military as contrasted with civil life 
are that the soldier must perforce (in most cases) remain un- 
married, that his daily wants are all provided for by the State, 
so that his pay, though small, is practically all pocket money, 
which may, if he is so inclined, be all spent on drink and 
debauchery ; that his personal liberty is a good deal restricted, 
tending to irritability and low spirits in many temperaments ; 
that he has no privacy, living as he does in rooms common to 
him and many others ; that he has to dress in clothes in which 
hygienic principles are sometimes overruled by the necessity for 
ornamentation and smartness; and that his duties frequently 
entail great exposure to varieties of temperature and loss of 
sleep. 

As regards the first of these points, it is known from statistics 
that married men, as a rule, live longer than the unmarried, apart 
altogether from the dangers of venereal diseases. This is not 
difficult to understand, seeing that tho married man has more 
solid comforts, and is not tempted to spend his evenings abroad, 
also that he has that incentive to steady work and moderation in 
all things which the celibate has not. Again, the average soldier 
has undoubtedly more pocket money than the average civilian of 
his class ; he has no incentive to save ; he is tempted by numerous 



i68 DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AT HOME AND ABROAD [chap. 

companions of both sexes to excess of all kinds, and spends most 
of his evenings abroad, consuming more drink and tobacco than 
is good for him. Vanity and desire to be smart frequently cause 
him to dress in garments much too thin for the state of the weather. 
Discipline has, no doubt, a very depressing effect upon the health 
of some men. Restraint and the petty tyranny of superiors exer- 
cise a bad effect upon their spirits, causing loss of sleep, and often 
leading -to drinking. In spite of the great improvement in the 
treatment of the men which has been effected in our army in 
recent years, suicides are still too ccmmon, though not nearly so 
frequent as formerly, or as they are in other armies. 

As regards the herding together of men in barrack rooms, this 
is an evil which is almost unavoidable without great increase of 
expense, but if it could be altered it would certainly make the 
army more attractive to the better class of men. Formerly there 
was great overcrowding and consequent sickness, but at the 
present day, in almost all barracks, each man has at least 6oo 
cubic feet of space, a larger amount than men of that class 
usually enjoy in civil life. Before the need for fresh air was so 
fully recognised as it is now, there was great mortality in the 
army from chest complaints, especially from consumption, as also 
in the navy ; but now the regulations are very strict, the number of 
men to be accommodated in each room, so as to give each his 600 
cubic feet, is painted on the barrack-room doors, and any over- 
crowding, beyond the regulated numbers, must be reported upon 
and explained by the officers, regimental and medical. The public 
are now, generally speaking, fully alive to the need for fresh air 
and ventilation, but disregard of the necessity is still a very fertile 
cause of disease in civil life, especially when to lack of fresh air is 
added the fact that such air as there is is laden with dust or other 
solid matter, as in mines or workshops. In former years the large 
amount of lung disease in the army and navy was in exact propor- 
tion to the amount of overcrowding, but now the soldier and the 
sailor do not suffer more from these diseases than do the civil 
population. In the first ten years of the late Queen's reign, the 
deaths from lung diseases in the army per 1000 of strength were 
at the rate of y.d>2^ but in 1898 there were only 2.5 cases per 
1000 admitted to hospital, of whom a very small proportion 
died, the majority being invalided or cured. Apropos of this I 
need only remark that the latest plan of treating consumptives is 
to keep them day and night in the open air. Cold fresh air is no 
longer so much dreaded as formerly. That it is not the cause of 




XI.] ABOLITION OF TIGHT-FITTING UNIFORMS _ 169 

consumption can be abundantly proved from army statistics. From 
these statistics one may learn how, in the old days of overcrowd- 
ing, pulmonary consumption was much more prevalent among the 
troops serving in the delightful climate of the West Indies than in 
England, or in Canada, owing to the scandalous manner in which 
the barracks in those islands used to be kept overfilled. Now, 
except when yellow fever appears and carries off the men, the 
West Indian station is the healthiest quarter of the British army, 
not excepting even the home stations. 

As regards the dress of the soldier, there was formerly in the 
army a good deal of disease of the heart and great blood-vessels. 
This was undoubtedly caused by restriction to the circulation from 
tight clothing, and from the pressure on the chest of the straps 
which supported the knapsack and accoutrements. At the present 
day the tendency is to do away with everything tight : the 
stock has disappeared, the tunic is made to fit more loosely, and 
the weight to be carried is so arranged that there is no pressure 
on the chest. The dress for hard work is made of light material, 
serge or drill, allowing free transpiration from the skin, and even 
the stick-up collar of the tunic is being done away with, at all 
events for the campaigning dress, and is being replaced by a turned- 
down collar, as may be noticed in pictures of officers on active 
service in South Africa. One wonders that any men survived the 
active service in India in the old days of the tightly-fitting, thick 
cloth clothes, insufficient head-dress, and straps supporting the 
knapsack and ammunition pouches crossing over the chest. The 
fighting at the Alma was in full-dress uniform, and there is no 
doubt that there was a great deal of unnecessary suffering and 
mortality from this cause. Instit;ict and common sense alike urge 
against doing hard work and lon^ marches in tight clothes, which 
overstrain the heart. We still hear every now and then of serious 
consequences, both in England and on the Continent, from hold- 
ing fatiguing field days in hot weather. Doubtless we must attri- 
bute part of the trouble to excessive smoking and drinking. 
" Soldier's irritable heart " is attributed to the uniform and 
to men having to stand for long periods in a constrained 
attitude ; but I am disposed to blame beer and tobacco for part 
of the mischief: tobacco especially, I believe to be a cause of 
heart trouble among soldiers, though many authorities doubt it, 
seeing that Continental soldiers smoke more than ours do and 
suffer less. Our men, however, as a rule, smoke and chew much 
stronger tobacco than other people ; they indulge in it in the early 



I/O DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AT HOME AND ABROAD [chap. 

morning on an empty stomach, and at all other times, and I have 
known a man who was anxious to be invalided out of the army 
produce the most marked cardiac symptoms by the surreptitious 
use of strong cake tobacco. The men of the navy, who have 
always had a looser and more workmanlike dress than the army 
men, do not suffer to the same extent from heart troubles. 
Such complaints are more prevalent in that corps of the army 
which has the hardest work and the tightest clothes, viz., the 
Artillery. With more rational ideas prevailing at the present 
time, the amount of heart complaint has diminished, and there 
is now proportionally only one-third the amount which existed 
about the time of the Indian Mutiny. In making this statement 
we must, however, bear in mind that our soldiers are younger 
than the men of those days, and in such the effects of these 
diseases are less likely to manifest themselves. However, 
there is no doubt that not only in respect of cardiac, but 
of all other maladies, the army is much healthier than it used 
to be since reforms in dress and the general treatment of the 
soldier have been instituted. Old medical officers say that they 
never see the same class of diseases they used to. Walks round 
military burial-grounds, especially abroad, tell terrible tales of 
mortality among troops in former years. In the " Happy 
Valley" in Hong Kong may be seen a monument erected to 
over 500 men of one regiment who perished there from disease. 
Of the duties of the soldier that have a prejudicial effect 
upon his health, the most injurious is night guard. The 
medical authorities are charged to make representations to the 
authorities whenever in their opinion the turn of men for this duty 
is becoming so frequent as to be liable to cause illness. To the 
civilian mind it may seem a trifle that each man should come 
on guard not oftener than say once in five days, but when we 
consider the long hours of monotonous standing or walking about 
in the cold and darkness, perhaps too in rain, which this duty entails, 
one can understand how this prematurely ages the soldier, and can 
sympathise with the latter's ambition to get a billet which gives him 
all his nights " in bed." This is altogether apart from the great 
risks of inflammation of the lungs or rheumatic fever caught in this 
way, especially as the intervals of " sentry go " are, in the winter, 
usually spent in a superheated guardroom, from which the 
soldier passes to his cold and solitary vigil. I have known among 
cavalry in cold weather an immense amount of sickness caused by 
the men, after getting very hot while grooming their horses in the 



XI.] LIFE IN HOT DRY CLIMA TES 1 7 1 



m 

B hot stables, leading them out to water in their shirt sleeves. Either 
from lack of time, desire to save their clothes, carelessness or 
reluctance to appear " molly coddles," the neglect to put on their 
jackets frequently resulted in attacks of pneumonia, quinsy, etc., 
etc., which the distribution of woollen jerseys subsequently did 
much to prevent. Those who imagine that soldiers lead a lazy 
life little realise how hard a young cavalry or horse artillery 
soldier has to work before he becomes master of his craft. 
What with learning to use his weapons, his drill, riding and 
the care of his horse, clothes, and accoutrements, the recruit, 
if not well fed and cared for, is very prone to break down 

(under hardships. 
To turn now to causes of sickness among ' soldiers abroad. 
This is so largely a consideration of the whole question of the 
effect of hot climates on the European constitution, that I can 
only briefly treat of it here. The first points to note are that, 
owing to the impossibility of the troops working in the sun, and to 
the provision of native servants to do many of the things which 
the soldier does himself at home, the men have much more spare 
time ; the climate causes a great craving for drink, and the great 
activity of the skin renders the system more liable to sudden 
chills. It is a curious and remarkable fact that whereas most 
severe illnesses at home are due to chest troubles, the abdomen 
is that part of the body which suffers most severely in the tropics ; 
hence it has been well said that tropical disease generally "hits 
below the belt." 

Let us consider first the conditions of life in a hot, dry 
climate, such as Egypt and India in the warm weather, and 
next, in a moist climate like Ceylon or the West Coast of Africa 
The great difference between Egypt and India is in that in 
the former the nights are comparatively cool owing to the rapid 
radiation of heat from the sand as soon as the sun goes down in 
the cloudless sky, while in Northern India in hot weather, the 
nights are almost as hot as the days. Only those who have had 
experience can realise the power of the sun in those climates; 
to go out into the sunlight without a hat, even for a few minutes, 
is to be struck down, or to get a splitting headache for the 
remainder of the day ; the skin is burned, and the lips cracked by 
the hot wind, so that even when driving at midnight one turns away 
his face as from the open door of a furnace ; while to sleep, except 
under a constantly waving punkah, is almost an impossibility for 
most Europeans. Bungalows are kept closed up to exclude the 



172 DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AT HOME AND ABROAD [chap. 

hot wind except at one or two windows, where it is allowed 
to enter through grass mats kept constantly saturated with 
water. The air is only changed by throwing the house open 
for an hour or so at dead of night, after which all openings 
are again closed so as to bottle up, as it were, a supply of com- 
paratively cool air before sunrise. Hence exercise in the open air 
is an impossibility except before sunrise and after sunset. In the 
military stations in India soldiers can be seen sitting all night 
about the cantonments, unable to sleep in their beds on account 
of the heat of the barrack bungalows, which, like all buildings, 
retain the heat of the sun far into the night. When we think of 
the effect of such a life on the private soldiers, without a taste 
for reading or other resources within themselves, can we wonder 
that their health suffers, and their spirits become depressed, or 
that the raging thirst such heat engenders should lead to drink- 
ing? If the temptation to indulge in alcohol be yielded to, the 
liver, already in an irritable condition from the heat, and from the 
digestion of a diet of meat much too heating for the climate, soon 
becomes congested, or even suppurates ; or the nerve centres 
which control the temperature of the body, already overworked, 
break down completely, and heat apoplexy supervenes. It is a 
remarkable fact that a temperate man rarely suffers from heat 
apoplexy, for the body in health can adapt itself to enormously high 
temperatures. On the other hand, I have been much struck by the 
distress caused by the heat among beer-drinking soldiers, compared 
with the immunity experienced by the more temperate officer, doing 
the same work on a march. The measures to mitigate the effects of 
such a climate are to get as much exercise as possible during the 
comparatively cool hours of the morning and evening, and to be 
as much in the open air as possible at night ; to have a diet as 
cooling as possible — fruit, vegetables, fish, etc. (all of which are 
unfortunately vefy difficult to procure at that season), and to try 
to interest the men with books, lectures, and indoor occupations, 
such as woodcarving, bootmaking, etc. Also to let them have plenty 
of temperance drinks — tea, lemon juice, etc., etc. Sleeping in the 
open air is the pleasantest at these times, but unfortunately 
sudden' storms are apt to arise in the night which cause annoying 
breaks in one's rest, and again one has to retire indoors at break 
of day, just when the air is coolest and sleep most refreshing. 
The alternative is to sleep under a punkah indoors, but the 
punkah-pulling in soldiers' barracks is frequently most unsatis- 
factory, and the broken rest from the heat and mosquitoes is a 



I 
li 



H 



XI.] LIFE IN HOT MOIST CLIMATES 173 

serious cause of deterioration of health in the soldier. To the 
educated officer with books, and perhaps music and painting to 
while away the long, hot hours, the life in the hot weather is not 
unpleasant, dinner is not taken till perhaps 9 P.M., and social 
intercourse passes the time till long past midnight, then a few 
hours of sleep in the coolest time of the twenty-four hours, 
supplemented by a siesta in the daytime. All open-air work is 
over by 9 A.M. The more closely the life of the soldier is made 
to resemble that of his officers, the better will be his health. A 
word of warning is necessary about the swimming-bath, which, 
though it gives the most delightful form of exercise, is somewhat 
dangerous, for the bath being generally under cover, the water is 
much colder than the outer air, and lengthened immersion is very 
apt to cause liver and other internal congestions, the commence- 
ment of grave tropical disease. 

Contrast with the above description that of a moist, hot 
climate. The air, instead of being hot and dry, is ladened with 
moisture, the slightest exertion causes profuse perspiration, which 
renders all the garments damp and clinging ; the moisture of 
the atmosphere renders evaporation from the body and consequent 
lowering of the temperature much slower ; there is experienced 
a total lack of energy, but as there is no hot wind, the houses can 
be kept open all day long ; there are frequent showers, and vegeta- 
tion is abundant, and affords plenty of shade for those who care 
to remain out-of-doors all day. There is not, therefore, in a 
climate like this the same amount of confinement indoors, but 
the constant heat and perspiration are very enervating, and 
soon lead to marked pallor in Europeans. The great danger 
in such a climate is from the damp clothing ; the skin being so 
active is full of blood, and a sudden cooling from sitting in 
a draught in damp clothes drives the blood to the internal 
organs, causing congestion of the liver and spleen, dysentery, etc. 
To avoid this it is most important always to wear flannel next 
the skin and to change after exercise. By doing this the risks 
of such a climate are much mitigated. In two years in Ceylon 
I never had a day's illness, and the good health of the 
army in the Ashanti expedition of 1895-96 must in a great 
measure be attributed to making the men carry a dry shirt 
on the march, into which they changed at once on arriving 
at the halting place. The most important disease of those 
climates is malaria, due to a minute organism in the blood, 
now proved to be generally communicated by the bites of 



174 DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AT HOME AND ABROAD [chap. 

mosquitoes. The obvious preventatives are to avoid being bitten 
by mosquitoes, to destroy the breeding places of these insects 
by draining the pools in which their larvae develop, to avoid 
going out at night, when these insects are most active, 
and to keep them off by mosquito curtains. Smearing the 
exposed parts of the body with carbolic oil will repel these 
pests. There is no reason why soldiers in tropical barracks 
should not be supplied with mosquito curtains, when it is not 
hot enough to demand the use of punkahs, which also keep off 
the insects ; and I have no doubt this will be done in all feverish 
stations as the result of recent teaching. 

In sleeping under a punkah, and in fact at all times in the 
tropics, where the individual retires to bed bathed in perspiration, 
one of the best means of avoiding chill of the abdominal organs 
is to wear a long silk scarf (kummerbund) or a flannel " cholera 
belt " round the body. 

One of the older theories about malaria was that it was 
due to some miasma arising from the ground, and especially 
from ground which had been recently disturbed. However 
erroneous this idea may be in theory, in practice many instances 
are on record of its apparent truth. I can never forget the 
results of sending men to a so-called sanitorium which had been 
made in the far East by levelling the top of a mountain and 
building barracks thereon. Almost every man who went got an 
attack of malarial fever, and this is in accordance with the 
experience and superstition of the Chinese. They say that the 
" Fung Shui," or genius loci, of a place is a dragon who lives in 
the ground, and if you disturb the soil you irritate him, with 
the result that he avenges himself by spreading fever among 
his aggressors. Therefore the soil about barracks and encamp- 
ments should be disturbed as little as possible, and all shallow 
pools of water should be drained or treated with a small quantity 
of paraffin oil to kill the larvae of mosquitoes. 

Other scourges of the tropics which cause sickness and 
mortality among our soldiers are liver disease and dysentery 
(generally due to chill as above described) ; and those diseases 
due to contaminated water, e.g., enteric or typhoid fever, cholera, 
and some forms of dysentery. This is so large a subject that I 
cannot say more on it than to indicate that the germs of the 
disease may, while almost invariably matured in water, be taken 
into the system with milk, water, or food, and the best precau- 
tions are rigid prevention of adulteration of the milk (to be 



XI.] CONTAMINATED DRINKING WATER 175 

secured, if necessary, by having the cows milked before a re- 
sponsible European), boiling suspected drinking water, and the 
most perfect cleanliness in the preparation of all food. Not- 
withstanding the greatest care and expenditure in obtaining 
the best water for our large Indian stations, enteric fever 
seems rather to increase than diminish, but that is due, I fear, 
to the carelessness of the soldiers in drinking from contaminated 
sources in the bazaars, or in their walks abroad. The well-water 
of India and the native made aerated waters are almost invariably 
open to suspicion, and ordinary filters are, I fear, only a delusion 
and a snare. I am acquainted with at least one terrible out- 
break of cholera distinctly traced to the use of filters. The 
bacterial filters of Berkfeld and Pasteur-Chamberland are reliable, 
but are so difficult to work and keep in order that it is much 
better to trust to boiling the water. In a tropical climate, when 
soldiers on the march acquire an intense thirst, it is practically 
impossible to make them wait till water can be boiled and 
cooled before quenching their thirst, and we have had recently 
a terrible example of the effects of foul drinking water in the 
outbreak of enteric fever among our troops in South Africa. 
My own practice in India when out shooting was to carry boiled 
water or cold tea, but to slake my thirst as much as possible by 
sucking a lemon or lime, a practice which most travellers and 
(generally) soldiers also could follow with advantage. Another 
use of these fruits is to squeeze a little of the juice into water 
which is not above suspicion, as it is known that acids kill the 
germs of cholera, and also possibly of enteric fever. I may add 
that limes are very abundant and cheap in most tropical climates, 
and could generally be served out to the troops. 

I have already stated that heat apoplexy is most likely to 
attack those addicted to alcoholic excess, and is not likely to 
be prevalent among temperate men in the airy dwellings of 
Europeans in the tropics ; but any great overcrowding, such as 
occurred in the Black Hole of Calcutta, would be likely to 
cause fearful mortality. Great and sustained exertion in the 
hot sun of Egypt or India might cause heat apoplexy or 
sunstroke in the most temperate. It is marvellous, however, 
what an amount of exercise temperate men can take when 
" pig-sticking," for instance, in the hottest weather in India, with 
impunity. 

The Europeans in India, who live in roomy and clean dwell- 
ings, suffer remarkably little from the plague, which is now 



176 DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AT HOME AND ABROAD [chap. 

threatening our shores, but has so far not obtained a foothold 
owing to rigid sanitary precautions. 

A very troublesome complaint among soldiers in the tropics 
is "Dhobie itch," a form of ringworm locating itself under the 
arms and between the legs, where the skin is always moist from 
perspiration. In one regiment I had charge of, about 75 per 
cent, of the men had it, causing a considerable amount of 
suffering and inefficiency. The disease is spread by inoculation 
from dirty clothes, or such as have been washed in impure 
water, and the best preventative is the use of clean and fre- 
quently changed underwear. 

By the adoption of the measures above indicated it is possible 
for Europeans to enjoy good health in the tropics, but in war it 
is impossible to observe many of these precautions. It is well 
known that in all climates the ravages of disease are infinitely more 
fatal than the weapons of the enemy. The existence of hostilities, 
with the hard work and privations thereby entailed, usually puts all 
health considerations into the background. In the Crimean war 
three times as many of our men died of sickness as at the hands of 
the Russians, and the proportion will be found even greater in the 
present war in South Africa, in spite of the deadly accuracy of 
modern weapons and of the fact that the theatre of operations is 
one of the most salubrious regions in the world. And it is not 
difficult to understand why this should be so when we reflect upon 
what active service means — the prolonged and intense exertion, 
the loss of rest, deficiency of food, which at the best is coarse, un- 
palatable, and badly cooked — in a word, starvation ; the bad water, 
the fouling of the camping grounds by the excreta of thousands of 
men and animals, the heat by day and the cold by night, the clothes 
alternately saturated by perspiration and frozen by the bitter night 
wind, also the clothes becoming dirty and infested by vermin 
owing to their wearers being unable to change them for weeks. 
In the stress of campaigning men have become ill from want 
of time and opportunity to secure the daily evacuation of 
the bowels, which is so necessary to health. These are a 
few of the conditions incidental to active service, and when 
we reflect it is not difficult to understand that not only 
are there many diseases induced by campaigning proper, but 
that if a man have one weak point about him, such hard- 
ships are bound to find it out. We have only to glance at 
the casualty lists published in the newspapers every morning, to 
see how various are the causes of death among our men at the 



XL] DISEASES OF CAMPAIGNS 177 

^ . — — — « 

front. So well is this recognised that every man is medically 
examined before going on active service, and all with any defect 
of constitution are rejected. Here I may incidentally remark 
that the prevention of venereal diseases in the army is a matter 
of national importance, for the men who are thereby unfitted 
to endure the privation of a campaign are many, and all reason- 
able measures for the prevention of such diseases should therefore 
Phave the support of patriotic people. 
It is well known that excessive fatigue alone will cause a 
feverish condition of the body, leading to weakness and loss of 
appetite, and when that is induced the body is in a favourable 
condition for the reception of the germs of specific diseases. 
Service conditions obviously predispose to such diseases as pneu- 
monia, rheumatism, quinsy, frost-bite, etc., etc., and in hot coun- 
tries to heat apoplexy and sunstroke. 

The commonest specific diseases of campaigns are dysentery, 
enteric fever, cholera, and malarial fevers. Dysentery has always 
been the great scourge of armies in the field in almost all climates, 
and the causes may be briefly summed up as bad food, bad air, 
bad water, and chills. The unwholesome food may cause disease 
in two ways: owing to its coarseness and being badly cooked, 
it may give rise to inflammation and irritation of *the bowels, 
or it may be deficient in those still imperfectly understood con- 
stituents which are necessary to prevent scurvy. It is unneces- 
sary to dilate further on the food question, the points of which 
are obvious, but as regards scorbutic dysentery I may say that 
it is very liable to appear among soldiers in the field, and our 
authorities endeavour to ward it ofl" by giving, whenever possible, 
rations of fruit, vegetables, jam, and lime juice. As regards bad 
air, the condition of camping-grounds whereon large numbers. of 
men and animals have lived even for a few days must be seen to be 
realised, and when to that is added the stench of dead bodies of 
men, horses, and cattle, as on a battlefield, it can be easily under- 
stood how frequently the air which men have to breathe on active 
service must be such as to give rise to bowel complaints. Again, 
in some countries where our troops have to operate, such as in 
the West African jungles, the air reeks with the smell of decaying 
vegetation in the stagnant depths of the primeval forest, and. such 
air is most unwholesome. 

Bad water is the principal cause of dysentery, but whether a 
man can acquire true dysentery thus, unless the water has been 
fouled by the discharges of a previous case of the disease, is 



178 DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AT HOME AND ABROAD [chap. 

not quite certain. Generally, such fouling is not difificult to 
establish. The drinking of water in which are immersed the 
rotting carcases of men and animals, and other nameless abomi- 
nations — such water as our soldiers drunk at Paardeberg — is, as 
might naturally be expected, likely to cause diarrhoea running 
into dysentery, especially when all the other causes of that 
disease exist also. Chill I hold to be an exceedingly common 
cause of dysentery, having contracted the disease myself from 
that cause alone after leaving the tropics. It is most important 
to avoid sudden cooling of the surface of the abdomen by 
changing into dry flannels immediately on halting, and keeping 
that region warm, especially at night, by a thick woollen or silk 
covering. Unfortunately such precautions are generally impracti- 
cable on active service. 

Enteric or typhoid fever has only been recognised as a distinct 
disease apart from typhus fever since the researches of Sir Wm. 
Jenner in the late Queen's reign, and therefore, whether it used 
formerly to be as great a scourge in the past as it is now, it 
is impossible to say. At the present day it is without doubt 
by far the most fatal disease to which our soldiers are liable 
either in peace or war, and experience in Egypt, India, and South 
Africa, where it seems to become more and more fatal in spite of 
all that science can do to check it, almost causes us to despair. 

Protective inoculation on the same principle as vaccination is 
the latest plan, tried extensively in South Africa, but the reports 
to hand so far do not show that it has had any marked success as 
a preventative, though it is hoped that it will prove to mitigate 
the severity of the attack. The disease is most prevalent and 
fatal among young men, which is a strong argument against the 
employment of very young soldiers ; but on the other hand many 
middle-aged men, whose deaths the country is even now deploring, 
have lately succumbed. There is little doubt that, in England 
and other temperate climates this disease is almost invariably 
due to bad water, but in India and other very dry climates, where 
it has continued to spread in spite of the most rigid precautions, 
the opinion is gaining ground that the germs may often be spread 
by the wind carrying them about into food and drink from the dry 
excreta of previous sufferers, deposited on the ground. Flies also 
are suspected of bringing about the same effect. Even in India 
and South Africa, however, it is remarkable how often epidemics 
are associated with contaminated water — for instance, Paardeberg 
and Bloemfontein (where the enemy cut. off the regular water 



XL] BOW ENTERIC FEVER MA V BE SPREAD 179 

supply), and when one has had experience of the way in which 
the ground is fouled by the natives of Africa and India, there is 
little wonder that the water supply suffers. It seems certain 
that people can drink sewage contaminated water with compara- 
tive impunity, but the germs of enteric once admitted into the 
water, an epidemic is almost certain. The Hindoos always wash 
their buttocks after defsecation, and hence generally perform that 
act near water, and in the hills in India often when I have been 
tempted to drink from an apparently pure mountain stream, I have 
noticed, just in time, the evidence of this disgusting practice. 
Again natives generally build their huts near a water supply, 
and hence nearly every rivulet is contaminated. In a hot country 
it is therefore most difficult to prevent men quenching their 
raging thirst with obviously polluted water. The Boers are 
reported to be very filthy in their habits, and as enteric fever is 
rife among them, it is not difficult for us to understand how so 
many of our men have contracted the disease in such a thirsty 
land, where I am informed even doctors, well aware of the risks, 
could not resist the temptation of drinking the dirty water by the 
roadside. The only safeguard with suspicious water is to boil it ; 
filters only give a false sense of security, but wells can be purified 
■w^th Condy's fluid and acids, and of course rain water, if carefully 
collected and stored, or a stream, if guarded from its source, may 
be trusted, as also wells sunk at the time by the Royal Engineers. 
Many observers think that enteric fever may be caused by excessive 
fatigue and exposure to the sun, with absorption of poisons from 
the bowels, especially if they are overloaded with decomposing 
excreta due to constipation from heat, hard work, unwholesome 
food, and want of time and opportunity to secure a regular evacua- 
tion. In the navy, where condensed water is largely used for 
drinking purposes, enteric fever is rare, except when contracted 
ashore ; but as soldiers cannot, as a rule, be supplied with con- 
densed water, we must rely on the above precautions as regards 
water, cleanliness in the preparation of food, care in the disposal 
of excreta (and it is important to remember that enteric urine is 
as dangerous as stools), and constant supervision of natives and 
camp followers. 

Cholera is like enteric fever, generally a water-borne disease, 
and much the same remarks apply to both. On active service, 
tea, coffee, and cocoa should be drunk in preference to water, as 
far as time and the supply of fuel will allow, and all drinking 
water should, if possible, be boiled. When green cocoanuts can 



i8o DISEASES OF SOLDIERS AT HOME AND ABROAD [chap. 

be procured each will furnish nearly a pint of deliciously cool 
and perfectly wholesome " milk." 

I have said enough to show what a vital po;nt the water 
question is on active service, how the health of an army in the 
field is largely dependent upon obtaining pure drinking water ; 
and while all officers, regimental and medical, must never weary 
in their endeavours to secure such a supply, the men themselves 
ought to be instructed and exhorted to exercise the necessary 
vigilance and self-restraint, and, if necessary, punished when they 
fail to do so. 

Malaria is always a great danger to soldiers on active service, 
not only in tropical regions, but also at times in our own latitudes, 
as was seen in the Walcheren Expedition. Though our theories 
as to the cause of the disease have lately been altered by the 
discovery as to the agency of mosquitoes in disseminating it, the 
old rules of not disturbing the ground, sleeping on raised platforms 
(as was done in the Ashanti Expedition of 1895-96), avoiding the 
neighbourhood of marshes and jungly ravines, preventing chill 
by changing into dry flannels on halting, never starting off in the 
morning without a cup of cocoa or something of that kind, and 
taking a daily dose of quinine, should on account of their proved 
utility still be followed. To keep off mosquitoes in the absence of 
curtains and punkahs, the face and other exposed parts of the 
body should be smeared with carbolic oil. 

Sunstroke and heat apoplexy are causes of mortality on active 
service, and even at home in hot weather we have had lamentable 
results from overworking our soldiers in improper clothing and 
head-dresses. The obvious precautions are, the avoidance of 
overcrowding and overloading the men, the wearing of a suit- 
able head-dress, loose porous clothing, the provision of plenty 
of non-alcoholic drinks, and marching in as open order ' as 
possible, so as to give every man enough fresh air. The 
greatest precaution of all, viz., avoidance of work in the sun, 
cannot, of course, be generally adopted on active service. 

Sore and tender feet cause a great deal of inefficiency on 
active service, though our army boots are generally very good, 
with plenty of room and low heels, but a less rigid sole would 
be an improvement. The socks should be woollen and not too 
thin or loose, the feet should be kept clean and well soaped 
immediately before putting on the sock, and blisters should be 
carefully treated. 

Many of the above suggestions may appear incapable of being 



XL] COST TO THE CO UNTR Y OF THE EFFICIENT SOLDIER 1 8 1 

■ 

carried out in the stress and hurry of active service, but, of course, 
anything which will prevent disease contrives "a double debt to 
pay"; it keeps the men in the fighting ranks, and prevents their 
becoming not only useless but a burden and trouble to their healthy 
comrades. Every soldier is said to cost the country about ;^I50 
before he can be placed in the field as efficient, therefore sickness 
entails very heavy pecuniary loss to the country, and all reasonable 
precautions will ever receive the earnest attention and support of 
capable leaders. In fact, without due regard to many of them 
it would be impossible in some countries for white men to remain 
in the field at all, and the Ashanti Expeditions of 1873 and 1895 
have well been called " doctors' wars." 

In conclusion, if my remarks have given rise to the impres- 
sion that the soldier is a drunken or unreliable creature, such is 
far from my intention. He only presents, and that in a degree 
mitigated by discipline and respect for authority, the faults of his 
class. My experience of the average working man, which is large, 
is that the majority cannot refrain from drinking so long as they 
have money in their pockets, regardless of the consequences to 
themselves and their families, and that to offer a man drink is 
their ordinary way of showing kindness and good - fellowship ; 
while their general want of self-restraint is very disappointing, 
considering the educational advantages they have enjoyed com- 
pared with their fathers. 

J. R. DODD. 



CHAPTER XII 

HEALTH IN THE MARINE SERVICE 

Although from time to time there have been energetic workers 
in the cause of marine sanitation, there is probably no other 
department in which the great advances in hygiene have produced 
so Httle good result. 

It must be conceded at the outset that the seamen's lot is 
by no means an enviable one, and that his sanitary environ- 
ment falls considerably short of modern requirements. Legis- 
lation is slow, and the lack of knowledge by the public of 
the requirements of the Mercantile Marine is no doubt in 
great measure responsible for this. At a first glance it might 
naturally be supposed that a life at sea was a healthy one ; 
living in fresh air, and removed from the unhealthy conditions 
of large towns, it might be expected that the general health of 
seamen would bear favourable comparison with the correspond- 
ing class of the community on shore. But there is another side 
to this picture. In the first place there is practically always local 
overcrowding on board ship, and in dealing with this question 
the hands of port sanitary authorities and their officers are tied 
by the Shipping Acts. By the Merchant Shipping Act, the 
minimum space allowed per head is only 72 cubic feet, and in 
this space a man has not only to sleep, but to feed and live 
when not engaged on duty. It has been contended that inas- 
much as one-half of the crew is always at work, the forecastle 
provides double this amount of space. But this is entirely a 
fallacy, for while half the men are always off duty, there is 
practically continuous occupation, and therefore no opportunity 
of opening doors, skylights, and other ventilators, to admit of 
free perflation. Another serious difficulty to contend with is 
the presence of moisture. Nearly all forecastles are badly venti- 
lated, and the greatly increased use of steel and iron in modern 
vessels leads to the condensation of moisture, or " sweating " due 
to change of temperature. It is no uncommon thing to find the 



CHAP. XII.] THE FOOD AND HABITS OF SEAMEN 183 

bunks and bedding in the crew's quarters saturated with water 
from this cause. 

While it can scarcely be stated that any special diseases are 
associated with the sailor's calling, there are undoubtedly many 
which are caused by the conditions under which he performs his 
duty. His work is intermittent, consequently his intervals of rest, 
broken by sudden and severe exertion, throw undue and violent 
strain upon the circulatory and respiratory organs. In steam 
vessels the changes of climate are rapid, and their influence trying 
to the system. In spite of all the improved methods of storing and 
preserving food for long periods, there is still much to be desired 
both in the actual dietary of the sailor, and still more in the rough 
and inefficient manner in which it is cooked for him. The loss 
of life from drowning and other accidents connected with casual- 
ties to the vessel is large. Again, the habits of the seaman must 
be taken into account. From the mere fact of his being for long 
periods confined on shipboard, without any amusements except 
those provided by his fellows, it is perhaps not surprising that 
on arrival in port he should give way to full indulgence in 
pleasure. Unfortunately, moreover, the parts of sea towns 
frequented by sailors are generally the lowest, and the tempta- 
tions of the worst kind. This explains the frequency of alcohol- 
ism and venereal disease among our Mercantile Marine, and in 
addition the tendency to contract the diseases to be met with in 
such localities. 

The principal diseases to which seamen are liable are : — 

r. Those due to the special character of their employment, 
such as aneurism, emphysema, hernia, and heart disease, 
and in steamships, heat apoplexy (stokers). 

2. Those due to their habits, viz., venereal disease and 

alcoholism. 

3. Diseases of climate, liver disease, malaria, yellow fever, 

dysentery, cholera, plague, etc. 

4. Diseases influenced mainly by immediate environment and 

insanitary conditions, such as rheumatism, phthisis, bron- 
chitis, and various forms of lung disease, under which must 
also be included scurvy and beriberi. 

There is unfortunately no reliable record of sickness in the 
Mercantile Marine. 

The returns of the Board of Trade show the mortality rate 
from all causes in 1898-99 to have been 9.60 per looo in the 



[84 



HEAL TH IN THE MARINE SER VICE 



[chap. 



Merchant Service, while the Corresponding rate in the Royal 
Navy was, for the year 1899, 4.91 per 1000, or practically one- 
half. 

The returns of the Mercantile Marine show that of the 9.6 
per 1000, 7.4 were from injury, and 2.2 from disease ; the 4.91 per 
1000 of the Royal Navy being made up of 3.56 from disease, and 
1.35 from injury. 

The following table shows the disease and accident mortality 
incidence in sailing-vessels as compared with steam-vessels. 



1898. 


Sailing. 


Steam. 


Total. 


Percentage. 


Wrecks and Casualties 
Accidents other than Wrecks and 
Casualties .... 
Disease 


129 
149 


607 
249 


1032 
286 


•58 

.16 
.22 


Total 


703 


IOI3 


1716 


.96 



I. Diseases due to Employment. — The violent exertions called 
for at times of emergency fully account for the frequency of 
heart disease, especially of cardiac hypertrophy, and also of 
hernia, while the occurrence of aneurism may be assigned to 
the same cause, though doubtless greatly aided by the influence 
of syphilis. With the large increase in size of sailing-vessels 
and the consequent introduction of labour-saving appliances, this 
class of disease is showing a decided tendency to decrease. 

Injuries are more common on sailing-vessels than on steam- 
ships, owing to the greater amount of work aloft, and the more 
laborious efforts involved in working the sails. 

The "heat stroke" of stokers requires special notice. It is 
far more common in vessels of the Merchant Service than in those 
of the Royal Navy. Stokeholds in the navy are better ventilated, 
and forced draught, if necessary, tends to a freer supply of air. 
The " fireman's frenzy " appears to be caused by the continued 
high temperature, coupled with insufficient ventilation, and often 
associated with alcoholism. Much can be done to diminish heat 
stroke by due attention to the ventilation of stokeholds and 
confined spaces in connection with them. The utmost advan- 
tage should be taken of the up-draught caused by the heat of 
the furnaces to remove foul and vitiated air. Men engaged in 
this class of work should be freely supplied with oatmeal water, 
as this is the most wholesome method of replacing the large 



XII.] HABITS AND CLIMATIC DISEASES OF SEAMEN^ 185 

quantities of fluid lost by perspiration. The same class of men 
are, moreover, specially liable to diseases of the eye caused by 
the glare of the furnaces, and the constant irritation produced 
by particles of coal and dust. 

2. Diseases caused by the Habits of Seamen. — Of these the two 
most common are alcoholism and the various forms of venereal 
disease. The irregularity of a sailor's life, especially in these days 
of rapid transport, sufficiently explain without justifying his fail- 
ings. A man whose home life is interrupted by voyages across 
the sea, who is thrown upon his own resources in foreign ports, 
and who is from the nature of his calling almost of necessity 
confined to the shipping quarters (invariably the lowest) of the 
towns he reaches, is not unlikely to seek for amusement where 
it is most easily obtained, and wine, women, and music occupy 
a considerable part of his spare time under such circumstances. 
Much has been done by the Board of Trade and voluntary 
associations to protect the sailor, by taking care of his money when 
first paid off (when the temptation to squander it is strongest), and 
enabling him to draw it at his own home, by arranging for his 
being sent by rail to his destination, by protecting him from 
" crimps " and unauthorised agents, and by providing Sailors' 
Homes, where he can live at a reasonable cost, without being 
plundered by unscrupulous persons, but there is still much to be 
desired in this direction. 

3. Diseases of Climate. — To a great extent these can scarcely be 
avoided. Seamen suffer much from tropical diseases. No doubt 
their careless habits and unwillingness to take reasonable precau- 
tions in unhealthy climates are in some measure responsible for 
this. Simple rules for the preservation of health, greater care in 
dieting, and, above all, limitation of indulgence in alcohol, would be 
of undoubted value, and a recent suggestion to afford information 
on such subjects to seamen through the medium of Sailors' Insti- 
tutes and Homes would doubtless lead to good results. Diarrhoea, 
so common a disease in hot climates, is mainly caused by the inges- 
tion of improper articles of food and drink. Seamen do not realise 
the importance of the source and purity of drinking water. One 
common cause of this disease is the carriage of water in casks 
and tanks on deck, or in places where it is easily affected by the 
temperature of the sun. Any simple arrangement for reducing 
by evaporation or other method the temperature of the water 
supply has considerable effect in this direction. Dysentery, so 
far as prevention is concerned, can be guarded against in the 



i86 HEALTH IN THE MARINE SERVICE [chap. 

same manner as diarrhoea — water, however, being the main agent 
in causation. Cholera, yellow fever, and plague call for no special 
comment. Where these diseases are known to exist, shipmasters 
should be careful to warn their crews as to the danger, and 
explain how best to avoid them. Men should be kept on board 
as much as possible during the stay of the vessel in an infected 
port, and especially should they be required to return at night. 
A careful watch should be kept for any suspicious sickness, and 
medical advice sought at an early stage of any illness. The 
sanitary condition of the vessel itself must be the special care 
of the master. Malaria, now known to be due to a specific 
organism, conveyed by means of the bite of a species of 
mosquito, is much under the control of the master of a vessel, 
who should prevent his crew from remaining on shore in a 
malarial country during the night, or in the evening, when special 
danger exists. 

4. Diseases due to Insanitary Conditions and Environment form 
a long and important series. These are essentially the diseases 
which can be controlled, if not altogether prevented. 

Rheumatism and its allies are mainly due to cold and ex- 
posure, and still more to the difficulty of obtaining dry clothing 
on board ship, and the constantly wet condition of bedding, etc., 
from the sweating of iron vessels. These causes can be avoided. 
The condensation can be prevented by the universal use of sheath- 
ing over iron decks and of a non-conducting lining over and around 
bunks, the proper provision of heating stoves, and the free ventila- 
tion of forecastles. There is further no reason (especially in steam- 
vessels) for not providing facilities for dry clothing, and preventing 
it being taken into the sleeping bunks. These two precautions, 
together with the free use of woollen underclothing, would tend to 
greatly reduce the "sailors' curse," rheumatism. Lung diseases 
are very common, and are caused chiefly by the close aggregation 
of men in confined and ill-ventilated quarters. The difficulty of 
the system of watches prevents the proper airing of a forecastle, 
and men coming off duty enter an atmosphere already fouled 
and polluted by those who have previously occupied it. The 
cubic space per head should be largely augmented. The Royal 
Commission on Labour has recommended that 120 cubic feet 
should be the minimum, and bearing in mind the special difficul- 
ties, this would seem to be a moderate figure. The present 72 cubic 
feet is ridiculously inadequate, and only remains the legal minimum 
by reason of the proverbial ignorant conservatism of the sailor. 



I XII.] SCURVY AND BERIBERI . 187 

Scurvy happily, under ordinary circumstances, is almost un- 
known in its acute form. During the last twenty years our ideas 
as to its causation have undergone considerable change, and it is no 
\ longer possible to assert that the one essential for its production is 
m the use of salt meat, and the absence of vegetable food. In one of 
f the recent Arctic expeditions, owing to the loss of all the stores, the 
crew lived for more than twelve months exclusively on fresh meat, 
and no symptoms of scurvy made their appearance. There is little 
doubt that the condition of the blood producing the symptoms we 
call scurvy is caused by the ingestion of food in an incipient stage of 
decomposition, although a free supply of natural vegetable acids will 
tend to delay its appearance. Slight manifestations of scurvy are 
still common among sailors, and there is one point of great practical 
importance in connection with this. More care is required in the 
examination of tinned meats, the date of packing should in all 
cases be stamped or indelibly marked upon the tin, and those tins 
that are found on examination to be in any degree defective, should 
be destroyed under official supervision, and not be allowed to pass 
into the hands of unscrupulous dealers. 

Beriberi is a common disease among certain natives on board 
ship. The disease has the habit of remaining dormant in a vessel, 
also of recurring from time to time when conditions for its develop- 
^ ment are favourable. Though it has been ascribed at different 
times to malarial influences, to a deficiency of nitrogenous food, 
and to a definite microbe, these explanations have failed to satisfy 
all the requirements of the conditions under which it appears. 
Manson believes that it is due to a toxine, produced by a 
saprophyte living outside the body, and that as the soil or ship 
becomes infected, man is poisoned therefrom. It occurs invariably 
on board ship in connection with moist, overcrowded, and heated 
forecastles, where ventilation is deficient, and may therefore in this 
sense be said to be a disease caused by want of sanitation. 
Further, as favouring this view is the fact that patients removed 
to hygienic surroundings, and properly fed, rapidly recover. To 
prevent beriberi all that is necessary is to keep a vessel clean and 
dry ; to see that there is no accumulation of bilge water or foul 
matter under the flooring of the crew's quarters, and that these are 
properly ventilated and not overcrowded.* 

Enteric fever is undoubtedly the most common disease to which 
seamen are liable. Thus in the port of London, out of 791 cases of 

* There is also the opinion that beriberi is nothing else than arsenical 
poisoning, but this awaits confirmation. T. O. 



HEALTH IN THE MARINE SERVICE 



[chap. 



infectious disease occurring on board ship from 1895 to June 1900, 
no fewer than 590 were enteric fever. The figures are as 
follows: — 



Year. 


Cases of 
Enteric Fever. 


No. of Cases 

of Infectious 

Diseases. 


Percentage 

of 

Enteric Fever. 


1895 .... 

1896 .... 

1897 .... 

1898 . . .- . 

1899 .... 

1900 (6 months only) . 


31 

53 
54 

II 

114 


129 
145 
179 
121 
160 
187 


24.0 
35.1 
30.1 

45.4 
41.2 
60.31 


Total 


373 


921 


40.49 



The large proportion during 1900 is due to the number of 
cases brought from South Africa. 

The causes of the large number of cases of enteric fever are 
three : — 

1. The congregation of seamen in the unhealthy quarters of 
foreign ports. 

2. Want of care in the selection of sources of water supply. 

3. Improper methods of carriage and storage of water. 

Most of the infected or dangerous sources, of water supply are 
known, and great benefit would result if consuls and other repre- 
sentatives of this country abroad were instructed to warn ship- 
masters of the special danger. Water should always be stored 
on board ship in galvanised iron water tanks, which should be 
carried in such places that they can be easily reached for clean- 
ing purposes. They should be provided with large manholes so 
situated that where possible natural light can penetrate to the 
bottom of the tanks when the covers are removed. They 
should be periodically emptied, cleaned, and coated with a 
cement wash. 

Lastly must be mentioned the digestive troubles so common 
in seamen. The insufficient and monotonous dietary is of itself 
sufficient to cause this, and when one further considers the 
unsatisfactory way in which such food is ofttimes cooked, it will 
be at once seen how serious a matter this may become. There 
is no compulsory diet scale, nor theoretically is it wise that there 
should be. It is felt that if such were laid down by law it would 
speedily become a minimum beyond which the owner or master 
would not care to go. The Merchant Shipping Act requires that 



XII.] SHIPS' COOKS SHOULD BE PRACTICALL Y INSTRUCTED 189 

a diet scale shall be produced when men are engaged, and shall 
form an essential part of the contract, any departure from which 
shall constitute a breach of the agreement on the part of the 
employer. Several improvements on the old scale (still usually 
in vogue) have been made, but in practice these are scarcely ever 
adopted. In the present day there are far better opportunities 
for giving men fresh meat and vegetables, while the use of pre- 
served foods should obviate to a large extent the necessity for 
salt meat. It can be clearly shown that a reasonable dietary can 
be provided at a less cost than the antiquated one generally 
in use, while the advantages from the improved health of the 
crews and the consequent increased discipline and work are 
beyond dispute. But even if the dietary be good, the cooking is 
generally bad. Here legislation is needed. At the present time 
the master and certain other officers of a ship are required to 
hold certificates, granted after training and examination, and it 
is equally necessary that in the case of the cook, some definite 
standard of knowledge of the work he undertakes should be 
required before appointment. In the majority of cases. a man 
is rated as " cook " because he so describes himself, or has acted 
in a similar capacity before. There is no difficulty in organising 
a system of instruction and examination for ships' cooks in large 
centres, and the result of such would be to the advantage of 
shipowners as regards economy of food, as well as increased 
efficiency on the part of their crews. This work has already 
been initiated in several ports, notably London, Liverpool, North 
Shields, and Glasgow, but the question still demands the most 
careful attention. 

Much ill-health and disease would be avoided if more care 
were exercised in the selection of men for the Mercantile 
Marine. The Merchant Shipping Act (sect. 10) provides for the 
medical inspection of seamen if required, but as a matter of 
fact, this provision is practically a dead letter, and men are 
allowed to "sign on" without any inquiry as to their physical 
fitness for their occupation. 

W. COLLINGRIDGE. 



CHAPTER XIII 

RAILWAYS 

There is not much to be said respecting the nature of the 
injuries sustained by those at work on raihvays. The occupation 
cannot be described as unhealthy. A very large proportion of 
the work is done in the open air, and the normal lives of the 
men appear in every way up to the average. 

The accidents that occur are mainly what would be called 
surgical. A large proportion consists of crushed hands and 
fingers. Instead, therefore, of entering into details respecting 
the character of these injuries and the manner in which they 
are received, it will be more useful to give a short account of 
the progress of legislation in respect to accidents upon railways. 

The Mines and Factories Acts had their origin in the desire 
to preserve children from overwork and bodily injury. The 
protection thus accorded was gradually extended to women. 
The next stage was the inclusion of men in many of the factory 
provisions, and finally the Acts which had originally been 
intended only for the protection of health began to be timidly 
and cautiously extended to other and wider objects. But the 
movement for the prevention of accidents on railways com- 
menced by aiming at the safety of passengers, and it was only 
in the last year of the nineteenth century that railway servants 
were included in the category of protected trades. Limits of 
space prevent my attempting to trace the movement in detail, 
nor indeed is it necessary. I shall therefore only mention certain 
epochs which have marked its progress. 

As most people are aware, the railway movement began 
about the year 1830, the year Huskisson was killed, and pro- 
ceeded until in 1840, there were nearly 1000 miles of railways 
in the United Kingdom. But about this time the importance 
of railways became so recognised that in 1840 they were placed 
under Government supervision. In 1841 a Bill was brought 

190 



CHAP. XIII.] LORD SEYMOUR'S ACT ' ^ 191 

into Parliament to give the Board of Trade powers to issue 
regulations for the prevention of accidents upon railways, 
and referred to a Special Committee, presided over by Lord 
Seymour, and with Sir Robert Peel, Sir James Graham, and 
others as members. 

The arguments for and against the proposal were exactly the 
same as they have always been upon the subject of State inter- 
ference in matters of trade. On the one hand, the Board of 
Trade Inspector-General, Sir Frederick Smith, contended that 
the power was necessary. The railway companies said that by 
interfering with the responsibility of railway officials more harm 
than good would be done. Those who are acquainted with the 
general trend of public opinion upon factory questions in those 
days will not be surprised to learn that the proposal was con- 
sidered likely to " disturb the amicable spirit which then existed 
between the Board of Trade and the railway companies," and 
" to engender on the part of the railway companies a desire of 
concealment and feelings of jealousy which would not otherwise 
arise." The Committee therefore limited its recommendations to 
empowering the Board of Trade to suggest improvements. 
These recommendations were carried into effect by an Act known 
as Lord Seymour's Act, which provided for the appointment of 
inspectors of railways, the reporting of accidents, and the 
punishment of engine - drivers, guards, porters, or other 
servants of the company who were guilty of negligence. It was 
urged against the railway companies that expense was no 
object where life was concerned ; to which Mr Brunei, the cele- 
brated engineer, retorted on behalf of the railway companies by 
asking why the Government did not have a large force of men 
on the Serpentine when it was frozen, to prevent accidents to 
skaters. He submitted that in considering the question of safety 
it might be considered as a question of cost also. On the other 
hand, it is interesting to note that George Stephenson con- 
sidered it would be advantageous that the Board of Trade 
should have power to make regulations. Coming from such a 
man, himself a large railway proprietor, the opinion is of great 
weight. 

The next time the question came before Parliament was in 
1857, during Lord Derby's administration, when the matter 
was referred to a Select Committee. The Committee was against 
interference with railway companies, except as regards the times 
of trains, with respect to which they thought that the public 



192 RAILWAYS [chap. 

should have some means of obtaining prompt and cheap redress 
in the recovery of penalties in every case of want of punctuality. 
They also made a few minor recommendations. The subject 
was again discussed by a Royal Commission appointed in 
1865. But the times were not ripe for the adoption of State 
interference. The laisses /aire system was in full force, and the 
Committee recommended that the railway companies should not 
be interfered with. Meantime the management of the railway 
companies seems steadily to have deteriorated. The year 1872 
was a year of considerable commercial activity, marked by a 
great rise in the price of coal, and by an increase in the number 
of railway accidents. In those days it was estimated that several 
railway accidents to trains took place every week, sometimes as many 
as four were reported on a single morning. In fact, as stated in 
the Annual Register for nth September 1872, "Railway accidents 
are now becoming of such frequent occurrence that, unless a 
number of people are killed or seriously injured, no notice is 
taken of them." The number of accidents to individuals was 
also very great. In that year no less than 1145 persons were 
reported killed, and 3038 were injured. Some of the accidents, 
too, were of an appalling character. At Wigan in August 1873 
a portion of a railway carriage, with a lady in it, was hurled over 
a wall and through the slated roof of a foundry. The rest of the 
carriage was smashed to pieces. 

In order to secure more precise returns of accidents by check- 
ing those made by the railway companies, it was provided in the 
Railways Regulation Act of 1873 that coroners should make 
returns to the Secretary of State of all deaths occurring on 
railways. 

The public feeling which these accidents excited led to the 
appointment of another Royal Commission in 1874, during Mr 
Disraeli's administration. It was presided over by the Duke of 
Buckingham. The Committee sat for three years and heard 
evidence at great length. They ended by recommending that 
the Board of Trade should have power to make requirements as 
to siding and station accommodation, and as to defects in rolling 
stock, permanent way, and works. They declined to recommend 
that general powers should be given to the Board of Trade to 
make general changes calculated to secure the safety of the 
railway servants, but they thought that servants ought to receive 
compensation for injuries in all cases of negligence of the com- 
panies' officials, but not for the negligence of their fellow-servants. 



XIII.] THE BLOCK S YSTEM AND A UTOMA TIC CO UPLINQS 1 93 

In the evidence that was given it seems to have been admitted 
that overwork was not universal or even general on railway lines, 
but a good many remarkable instances of overwork were adduced. 
Thus Captain Tyler, a Board of Trade Inspecting Officer, gave 
evidence that at Wakefield in 1 864, a man had been regularly on 
duty as a signalman 25 hours a day every third week, and 37 hours 
every thirteenth week. The man had made this arrangement 
in order to get extra time off duty ; and in another case, in 
1874, a signalman had actually averaged 17 hours work a day 
regularly. 

Nearly all the witnesses complained of the coupHngs as a 
fruitful source of danger. Captain Tyler recommended automatic 
couplings as then used in America. 

The next Act of importance regarding accidents upon 
railways was that passed in 1889, when Sir Michael Hicks-Beach 
was President of the Board of Trade. The principal objects of 
the Act were to secure the adoption of the block system of 
running trains, to cause points and signals to be interlocked, and 
to enforce the use of an improved brake. The principal object of 
the Bill was to promote the safety of passengers ; there was a 
clause dealing with automatic couplings, but the clause was 
ultimately withdrawn from the Act. 

During all these years, however, repeated recommendations 
were made by the Board of Trade officials to the railway 
companies to adopt various means of saving life. The companies 
were not obdurate or unreasonable ; in particular instances and 
small points they repeatedly gave way and adopted suggestions. 
But in the main they declined to introduce automatic couplings, 
or other life-saving appliances on a large scale. Their refusal was 
based chiefly on the ground of expense ; but they also defended 
their action on the ground that the proposed appliances were not 
suitable or practicable, and that if adopted they would not 
produce beneficial results. 

Before narrating the next steps which were made in the 
direction of securing safety when Mr Ritchie became President 
of the Board of Trade, it will be of use to examine in outline the 
condition of railway service as regards accidents, and the means 
by which the number of deaths and other injuries is ascertained. 
Reports of accidents on railways exist from the year 1848 
onwards ; but in forms which render them very difficult to compare 
with accidents in more recent times. It was not until the passing 
of the Regulation of Railways Act of 1871 that the reporting of 



194 RAILWAYS [chap. 

accidents was placed on its present footing. By section 6 of that 
Act it was provided that accidents should be reported to the 
Board of Trade, in such form and with such particulars as the 
Board of Trade should prescribe. In earlier years the report- 
ing of accidents was not very systematically done, and in 
1872 the inspector reported that "accidents to servants do 
not appear in many cases to have been reported by certain of 
the railway companies ; and their numbers would, if the whole 
truth could be ascertained, be very considerably increased." 
Moreover, no uniform standard of injury was prescribed, so that 
various companies adopted various standards of reporting. Some 
reported all accidents, even trivial ones ; others reported only the 
serious ones. But in the year 1895 an order of the Board of 
Trade was made during the permanent Secretaryship of Sir 
Courtenay Boyle, by which the standard of accident to be reported 
was assimilated to the standard already in force for the reporting 
of accidents in factories and workshops, namely, that all fatal 
accidents should be reported, and all non-fatal, whenever they 
incapacitated a man from work for five hours on any one of] 
three days next after the accident. The advantage of this 
order was that it at once established a basis of comparison 
between the dangers of work in factories and in railways. 
But there is ground for thinking that the standard was a 
little low. A trifling finger cut may prevent a man from 
working in some trades for an afternoon. The reporting of] 
every trivial accident tends also to obscure the graver ones, and 
in some cases to make dangerous trades appear less dangerous 
than they really relatively are. In any case, however, it is desir- 
able to have one standard of reporting, and it is a matter fori 
regret that there is no standard of reporting non-fatal accidents 
in mines, so that it is, still impossible to compare mines withi 
factories or railways as to the non-fatal accidents that occur in 
them. 

The numbers of persons employed on railways largely 
increases from year to year. Returns of these numbers are now 
furnished every three years. We have therefore not at hand the 
means of working out the percentage of accidents in every year 
exactly ; but without the danger of grave inaccuracy we may 
assume that the increase in the numbers employed is uniform 
during each period of three years, and thus we may by a process 
of proportion arrive very nearly at the numbers of men employed 
at any particular period. On looking at the figures for any 



xiii.J RAILWAYS A DANGEROUS OCCUPATION 195 

year, say for the year 1898, we find them set out in two 
tables, one showing those due to the movement of trains 
and vehicles, the other to those which occurred otherwise than 
\ by moving trains. They are divided up so as to show 41 
different occupations of the persons killed and injured. From 
these tables we find that, in 1898, 522 railway servants were 
killed and 12,826 injured, out of a total of 534,000. This would 
give I in 1000 killed, and 24 in 1000 injured each year. When we 
reflect that this figure is about the same as the numbers killed 
and injured in mines, it might perhaps be argued that the figures 
are not very large, for it must be admitted that service on rail- 
ways must always be considered rather a dangerous occupation. 
But an analysis of the risks to various branches of railway labour 
dispels this illusion.* For in these figures are reckoned numbers 
of men whose duties are not of a manual character, such as 
53,000 clerks, who hardly ever meet with death or accident 
except from causes common to the whole community. Besides, 
about 70,000 mechanics are employed in building engines and 
locomotives, and work in factories, which are under the Home 
Department, and, strictly speaking, are not railway servants at 
all. 

In railway service there are three occupations which from the 
number of accidents reported appear to present special dangers, 
namely, plate-laying and repairing of lines, shunting and 
managing goods trains. When plate-layers (of whom there 
are 63,000) sustain an accident, it is generally by being run 
over, and in more than one case out of every three they 
are killed outright. Out of every thousand 2 yearly meet their 
death, and 3 are injured. Of goods guards and brakesmen, 
nearly 15,000 in number, 3 out of 1000 are yearly killed, and 
48 of 1000 are injured. But the business of a shunter 
presents the gravest dangers. The number of shunters is 9244, 
and with the exception of the calling of a seaman it is the 
most perilous trade known. For no less than 5 men are yearly 
killed and 66 are injured out of every 1000 employed. And from 
this it follows that if the average duration of a man's service be 
from the age of twenty to forty, the balance of probability is 
against his leaving the trade without a violent death or injury. 
This is not satisfactory. It has been pointed out that this yearly 
death risk of 5 in 1000 per annum is greater on the average than 

* Note that in all cases I have given the nearest round figures in order to 
avoid encumbering the figures with fractions. 



196 RAILWAYS [chap. 

that to which soldiers are exposed, taking one year with 
another, and war with peace. This is probably true, but the 
risk is far less than that of soldiers in a campaign. It has 
been estimated that the year's loss from October 1899 to 
October 1900, of the troops serving in South Africa, has been 
19 per thousand privates, and 72 per thousand officers killed, in 
addition to 30 per cent, of officers and privates who have died 
of disease. Thus of the officers engaged about i in 10 has 
died, and of the men i in 20. 

But any figures of deaths due to accidents in industry are too 
large if they are preventable, and it is too much that in ten years 
a railway servant should run the same risk as a private in a year 
of a campaign. 

The work of shunting is necessary to rearrange, or, as it is 
called, to marshal the trains. At a large goods depot a number of 
trains laden with trucks come in destined for various localities. 
The trains have to be dissected, and all the trucks re-sorted, and 
made up into fresh trains to be sent off in various directions. 
Hence, therefore, it is necessary for an engine to draw the waggons 
on to a line of rails, and then to shunt or direct them on to sidings 
in different directions in order to sort them into their right places. 
This involves the coupling and uncoupling of the waggons. 
Passenger waggons have a screw coupling by means of which they 
are screwed up together, so that the buffers press firmly together, 
and thus jolting is avoided. But goods waggons have no such 
luxurious appliances, nor have they in all cases spring buffers. 
The coupling is simply a ring hitched into a hook at the end of a 
three-link chain, and on the starting or stopping of a goods train 
any one may hear the succession of slams with which the waggons 
clash together. When it is necessary to shunt, an engine pulls 
the waggons along to the place where they are to be detached. 
While the tension is on, of course, it would be impossible to 
unhook, therefore the engine stops suddenly. For an instant the 
waggons by their momentum go forward, bumping up against 
the engine and one another. For that instant, and until the 
rebound takes place, the hooks are free, and a skilful man, 
generally with a pole, and but rarely running in between the 
waggons, neatly slips the ring off the hook. This is all done while 
the waggons are in motion, so that he has to run alongside the 
train, skipping over the signal wires and hopping over the cross 
rails, keeping his eye always on the coupling, and sometimes 
encumbered with a pole in one hand, and at night with a lamp 



r 



XIII.] AUTOMATIC COUPLINGS , 197 

in the other. If he does not look out he may fall between the 
wheels, or be run down by the engine. And while engaged in his 
work express and other trains come tearing down the main line, 
exposing every one to the risk of being run over. Therefore in 
all goods sidings it is desirable in the interests of safety that the 
through traffic should be as small as possible, that there should be 
plenty of room between the lines of rails, that wires and other 
obstacles should be boarded over where possible, and that there 
should be a good light at night. But many sidings are greatly 
crowded ; the work has to be got through rapidly, and accidents are 
the result. On the other hand, in the private sidings of collieries 
operations are leisurely ; no express trains come along the line, 
there is no night labour, and consequently the accidents are very 
few. In America until lately the means of coupling waggons 
were more imperfect than those in England ; many accidents 
therefore occurred, and the trains frequently broke asunder. 

In order to expedite work and promote safety, experiments 
were made in 1868 with automatic couplings which should close 
like a snap-lock. American waggons differ from those in use 
in England, in that they are longer and larger, and have a central 
buffer. In 1874 the public attention was called to the great number 
of railway accidents, and in the more civilised states, such as 
Massachusetts, a movement arose for the compulsory employment 
of automatic couplings. Finally a coupling was devised, very like 
a hand with the fingers bent, and a hinge at the knuckles. When 
two waggons were brought together the hand caught automati- 
cally into a similar hand on another waggon, and could be released 
by withdrawing a pin. At first these couplings were badly made ; 
gradually, however, they improved, and are now on the fair road 
to perfection. They were gradually introduced upon one railway 
after another. The rich eastern States took the lead, the wild 
west was more slow ; but curiously in proportion as the couplings 
were adopted, so did railway accidents become less. It would be 
wrong to conclude that therefore the whole of the diminution 
of accidents was due to the adoption of couplings. But it is a 
fair inference from the state of railway management in the east 
and west of America to conclude that with careful management 
and State-imposed regulations, accidents can be very materially 
reduced. 

This was the state of the problem in 1898, in which year Mr 
Ritchie, then President of the Board of Trade, determined to make 
an effort in favour of safety. For this purpose he commissioned 



198 RAILWAYS [chap, 

Mr Hopwood, the Assistant Secretary of the Railway Department, 
to visit America and examine the system of coupling there in use, 
and its effects in preventing accidents. In December 1898 Mr 
Hopwood presented his memorandum. He says (quoting the 
Railway Times), " Our Railway Companies' Association still lacks 
the moral force, to say nothing of the initiation which characterises 
its sister body across the Atlantic. . . . This view fairly reflects 
the opinion I formed that the progress made in the United States 
is greatly due to the fact that the American Association has taken 
great trouble, and the railroads have not spared expense in order 
to give a trial to promising inventors," and he concludes by 
recommending that Parliament should be asked for powers to be 
given to the Board of Trade to order the use of a suitable coupling. 
In accordance with the recommendations in this very able report, 
the President of the Board of Trade introduced a Bill providing 
for the compulsory use of steam brakes for engines, and auto- 
matic couplings for carriages and waggons, also brakes on both 
sides of waggons, and labels on both sides of waggons, but giving 
to the companies two years and five years respectively to intro- 
duce these improvements. 

The Bill was introduced by Mr Ritchie on 27th February 
1899. He said, *' I am afraid that whatever we do, a number 
of accidents amongst railway servants will continue to happen. 
They are engaged in extremely dangerous operations, and 
necessarily many accidents must and will continue to occur. But, 
sir, if it is possible by legislation or otherwise to take means 
to reduce the number of accidents, I think it is the bounden duty 
of Parliament to take those means." Of course this announce- 
ment caused considerable agitation in the railway world, and 
on 1 6th March a deputation of the private waggon owners of 
the United Kingdom pressed upon the President of the Board of 
Trade the necessity for further inquiry. Mr Ritchie endeavoured 
to meet the current of opposition which his proposals had 
aroused, by offering to make it clear that the portion of the Bill 
dealing with automatic couplings should not come into operation 
until a satisfactory coupling was found, but he ultimately decided 
to withdraw the Bill and refer the whole question to a Royal Com- 
mission. He determined, however, that the inquiry should be an 
effective one, and therefore he enlarged its scope, and referred 
to the Commission not merely the question of coupling, 
but the whole question of accidents to railway servants and 
the means of preventing them. This action had very important 



xiii.J PREVENTION OF RAILWA V ACCIDENTS 199 

consequences, as will presently be seen. He selected as Chair- 
man Lord James of Hereford, who had already done excellent 
work as the mutually - accepted arbitrator in various disputes 
between capital and labour, and whose disinterestedness and 
fairness could be relied on. The Commission was composed 
of members of the House of Lords and Commons, representa- 
tives of the railway companies, private waggon owners, and 
railway servants, experts and Government officials. It was 
supposed in some quarters that the question had been com- 
fortably shelved for at least three or four years. But the 
Chairman took a very different view of the position. With 
almost unexampled energy, he assembled the first meeting on 
1 6th June 1899, a fortnight after the warrant appointing the 
Commission had been signed. The last witness was heard on 
3rd August, and the report was presented to Her late Majesty 
the Queen on 20th January 1900. 

From the very mixed character of the Commission, it might 
have been expected that views would differ, and that it would 
have been difficult to draw a report that would be signed both 
by the railway companies' representatives and by the repre- 
sentatives of the men. But the report was unanimous, and 
what was more remarkable still, it went far beyond the 
proposals of Mr Ritchie for couplings, and dealt not only with 
these, but proposed a means of preventing all accidents what- 
ever. The principle that lay at the whole root of the report 
was the assimilation of means to prevent railway accidents to 
those already adapted for the prevention of similar accidents 
in factories and mines. 

In the Coal Mines Regulation Act, i860, a procedure had 
been adopted of special rules in mines. The rules were to be 
agreed upon by the Secretary of State and the mine owners. 
If they could not agree, then arbitrators were to be named 
who were finally to settle them. This procedure was adopted 
in all successive Acts relating to coal mines. Being found 
useful, it was adopted into the Factory Acts in 1891 in all 
cases of specially dangerous trades, among others the cases of 
industries where lead poisoning, phosphorus poisoning, and other 
dangers are experienced. But by the Factories Act, 1901, an 
order of the Secretary of State, after hearing the parties, is now 
substituted for arbritration. 

When the Royal Commission sat, the first question that arose 
was whether the accidents to railway servants were so numerous 



RAILWAYS 



[chap. 



as to constitute it a dangerous trade. Figures soon settled this 
point, and appear from the following table : — 



Description of Labour. 



Killed from all 

Causes per 
looo employed. 



Injured from all 

Causes per 
looo employed. 



Railway Servants in general, excluding Contrac 

tors' Men. Clerks, and Mechanics 
Goods Guards and Brakesmen 
Permanent-way Men or Platelayers 
Shunters ..... 
Men Porters (railways) 
Seamen (merchant service) . 
Coal Miners (underground) 



Coal Miners (surface) .... 

Metalliferous Mines (underground) 

Metalliferous Mines (surface) 

Factories — Textile (males) . 
„ Textile (females) 

„ Non-textile (males) 

., Non-textile (females) . 

„ Extraction of Metals (males) 

„ Shipbuilding (males) . 

Dock Labourers . 



1.24 
2.92 

1.9 

5.08 

I-I5 

5.2 

1.37 



0.92 
1-34 
0.43 
0.1 

0.2 

I.I 

0.5 
1.4 



31.0 
61.0 
16.0 
78.0 
63.0 
Not known. 
No figures avail- 
able for purpose 
of comparison. 
Ditto 
Ditto 
Ditto 
6.2 
2.7 
13.8 
2.0 
16,4 
39-3 
57.0 



From this it will be seen that while on the average work 
on railways is almost as dangerous as mining, yet where 
particular branches of it are considered, such as shunting, it 
is far more dangerous, and those who advocated a policy of 
non-interference found it impossible to explain their position 
consistently with the admission of the expediency of the 
existing factory and mine laws. It is impossible to put the 
matter more clearly than in the following short interrogation 
of one of the principal witnesses on behalf of the railway 
companies by the Chairman. 

Q. 6374. Do you approve of a dangerous trade being in- 
spected ? — Yes. All dangerous trades ? — Yes. For instance, 
merchant - shipping ? — Yes. Mines? — Yes. Factories? — Yes. 
Textile and non-textile ? — Yes. Machine shops on your railway ? 
— Yes. The witness, however, contended that the case of rail- 
ways was different from that of mines and factories, because 
railways were more amenable to public opinion. 

Another witness who held these views was compelled to 
admit that the force of public opinion had not on all lines 
secured punctuality of trains. On the other hand, an argu- 
ment was brought forward by Mr Gibb, the General Manager 



w 



XIII.] RAILWAY COMPANIES AND STATE INTERVENTION 201 

of the North Eastern Railway Company, which deserves 
attention, because it exhibits a phenomenon that is frequently 
observed in industries. By a table he showed that the accidents 
on railways since 1872 had been decreasing in a ratio 
almost as fast as the decrease in mining and factory accidents. 
At first sight this would appear to show that accidents decrease 
as fast without legislation as with it. But it must be remembered 
that the Mines and Factories Acts had been some years in 
operation, and had already before this date effected their principal 
results, and that the accidents were far fewer than in the dangerous 
branches of railway service. Moreover, the reports of previous 
Royal Commissions on Railways had been followed by legislation, 
and by increased vigilance on the part of the companies. It was 
proved also that this decrease had not taken place in the dangerous 
branches, and that the number of deaths of men engaged in shunt- 
ing had actually increased. 

The position taken up by the railway companies deserves 
attention. Their representatives were confronted with a vista of 
increased wages, increased cost of coal, and a fall in profits. It 
was asking much to expect them to apply the knife to their own 
throats and vote that restrictions should be imposed upon them. 
As a rule, although we all believe in the necessity of compelling 
others to do right, few people can be brought to believe that it is 
needful that the same principle should be applied to themselves. 
And yet, to the everlasting credit of the railway companies, it 
must be said that as soon as they were convinced that a case for 
intervention had been made out, they acquiesced in it. And the 
waggon owners, although the accidents on private lines were ex- 
ceedingly few, withdrew their objections. In the result a report 
was unanimously signed, recommending that in the case of all 
dangerous trades of railway service the Board of Trade should 
have power to propose regulations which in case of dispute were to 
be settled by the Railway Commissioners. 

The question of the possibility of automatic couplings was 
discussed before the Commission. If it had been fully gone into, 
the question would have taken years to consider, and, without 
experiments, no conclusions could ever have been arrived at. But 
with great tact Lord James determined that unimportant issues 
should be eliminated. He referred the question to a strong sub- 
committee, and before the Commission had gone far it was seen- 
that it was quite possible to deal practically with railway accidents, 
without first determining whether or no there was a practical 



202 



RAILWAYS 



[chap. XIII. 



automatic coupling. No definite opinion on this question was 
expressed by the Commission. 

To give effect to these recommendations Mr Ritchie introduced 
a Bill into the House of Commons. It was taken charge of by 
Lord James of Hereford in the House of Lords, and with some 
amendments it passed both Houses without opposition. The effect 
of this Bill is to bring dangerous processes on railways under 
regulations similar to those which can be made in the case of 
dangerous processes in factories and mines. No particular opera- 
tions are specified ; there are powers to meet all dangers as they 
arise. It is too much to say that this Bill will not need amendment, 
but it must be a source of satisfaction to the late President of the 
Board of Trade and his officials to have inaugurated, and success- 
fully carried through with the unanimous consent of all interested 
parties, a scheme of legislation which brings railway labour within 
the circle of protected industries, and which establishes a funda- 
mental principle so wide as probably to dispense with the 
necessity for further legislation upon the subject for many years. 



Henry Cunynghame. 




CHAPTER XIV 

SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY 

Amidst the variety of dangers which attend those who are employed 
in factories none occupies so prominent a position as that arising 
from machinery moved by mechanical power ; others, such, for 
instance, as periodical outbreaks of industrial poisoning or the 
occurrence of disastrous explosions, may from time to time attract 
public attention more vividly, but we have only to refer to the 
statistics issued annually by the Home Office to perceive how ever 
present and ever recurrent are the risks incurred by factory workers 
from machinery. From these statistics it appears that during the 
year 1899 there occurred in factories 301 fatal and 19,321 non- 
fatal accidents, all attributable to machinery moved by mechanical 
power. Beyond, however, stating that the numbers are the highest 
yet recorded in any one year, no useful purpose would be served 
by comparison with former years, or by inquiry as to the reasons 
of the increase in spite of legislative and executive requirements 
for safe-guarding. The Factory and Workshop Act of 1895 intro- 
duced such an entirely new element by the inclusion of every 
dock, wharf, warehouse, laundry, etc., in the definition of the term 
"factory," that any comparison would be entirely misleading, 
whilst the facilities afforded in recent years by the introduction 
of, and improvements in, gas engines have added largely to the 
number of small factories using mechanical power, and therefore 
to the number of persons brought into direct contact with 
machinery. The statistics quoted are, however, in themselves 
sufficient to establish the importance of the subject of safe-guards 
and the prevention of accidents. 

In searching for the causes of such a large number of annually 
occurring accidents they are found to be various, but after enume- 
rating several, such as carelessness on the part of operatives, 
unsuitable clothing, insufficient lighting, etc., there remains a 
very considerable proportion directly attributable to the absence 
of proper safe-guards. It is with this cause that this paper 
proposes chiefly to deal. 

203 



204 SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY [chap. 

With a view to prevention of such a distressing number of 
accidents, Parliament has, from time to time, passed enactments 
requiring certain steps to be taken for safe-guarding machinery, 
and the appointment of Inspectors has been made for the purpose 
of seeing that these provisions are duly carried out. Much, how- 
ever, still remains to be done, not only through further legislation, 
but also by enforcing the requirements of the law as it at present 
stands. The latter course at first sight might appear to be feasible 
enough, but in reality it is a Herculean task, as difficult to accom- 
plish as the destruction of the many-headed hydra of ancient fable, 
and is due to the fact that as fast as the requirements of the law 
are insisted upon and carried out in the case of machinery already 
existing in factories, so fast do makers of machinery send out 
new machines in a similarly defective condition. If the desired 
finality is to be arrived at, it must be by pressure brought to bear 
upon machine makers. At present machinery does not come 
within the provisions of the law as to safety till it is in actual use, 
when the attention of the user is perhaps first drawn to its defects 
by the occurrence of an accident. Much, no doubt, could be done 
were purchasers in all cases to insist on due regard being paid to 
this point by makers, but experience shows that this is done in 
very few instances. Whilst some parts of prime movers and mill- 
gearing must necessarily be fenced after being placed in position, 
there is no reason whatever why the effectual guarding of cog- 
wheels, the counter-sinking of set-screws, the provision of loose 
pulleys and strap forks, and the substitution of plate wheels for 
exposed arm wheels, which are all intrinsic parts of machines, 
absolutely necessary for ordinary safety, should not be dealt with 
in the first instance by makers who can provide more effective and 
neater guards at a much less cost than the user. 

The subject of safe-guarding machinery is such a wide one that 
it will be impossible, within the limits of this paper, to do more 
than briefly touch upon the more salient points which naturally 
present themselves to one accustomed to inquire into the causes of 
machinery accidents. For this purpose it will be most convenient 
to deal with machinery under the four following headings : — 

1. Prime movers. 

2. Mill-gearing and belts. 

3. Machines for manufacturing purposes. 

4. Hoists and other lifting tackle. 

Each of these divisions is separately dealt with by the provisions 
of the Factory Acts, but it should be pointed out that whereas belts 



xiv.] FENCING OF MACHINERY 205 

, „ s 

have herein been coupled with mill-gearing, yet by Section 37 of 
the Factory Act of 1891, all *' driving straps and bands" are 
expressly included in the term " machinery " and are therefore 
subject to the provisions laid down for the third division.* They 
are, however, so intimately connected with mill-gearing as more 
properly to belong to that class, and they will therefore be more con- 
veniently dealt with in connection with mill-gearing, between which 
and the machine tools themselves they are the connecting link. 

Prime Movers. — Prime movers are of various kinds, consisting 
of heat engines, such as steam, gas, and oil engines, electric and 
hydraulic motors, water-wheels, turbines, and wind-mills. Of these, 
those most commonly found in factories are steam and gas engines. 
The provisions of the Factory Acts as to safe-guarding prime 
movers are absolute. No matter what its position, every part of 
an engine moved by mechanical power is required to be securely 
fenced, and such fencing must be constantly maintained. Thus : — 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 10. — "Every fly-wheel directly connected with the 
steam, water, or other mechanical power, whether in the engine-house or not, 
and every part of any water-wheel or engine worked by any such power, shall 
be securely fenced." 

"Every wheel-race, not otherwise secured, shall be securely fenced close 
to the edge of the wheel-race." 

Such absolute provisions, if strictly carried out, should be amply 
sufficient to prevent almost all accidents arising from prime 
movers ; but the danger lies in the fencing being in the first 
instance insufficient, or not properly and constantly maintained, 
in accordance with Sec. 10 {d) of the Factory Act of 1901. 
Accidents caused by prime movers are, of course, restricted in 
number, partly owing to the fact that they are usually in the sole 
charge of one man, and partly because, in the case of steam 
engines at least, they are generally placed in a house or com- 
partment set apart for them, but it will be noted that the words 
" whether in the engine-house or not " are expressly used for the 
protection of the engine attendant himself 

Occupiers of factories, owing to their absolute obligation to 
fence securely every part of a prime mover, and to their liabilities 
for any neglect to do so, should be specially careful to see that 
the law is fully carried out before an engine is put into use ; 

* By the addition of the words "or other appliance" to the definition of 
"mill-gearing," the Act of 1901, Sec. 156, would now appear to include all 
belts by which the first moving power is communicated to any machine in 
the expression "mill-gearing." 



2c6 SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY [chap. 

whilst no exception should be tolerated for a moment by those 
whose duty it is to enforce the requirements of the law. 

The necessity of fencing being thus absolutely enjoined for 
every portion of a prime mover, the only point that remains is 
as to what constitutes secure fencing. Types of engines, however, 
are of so various a character, and the local surroundings so distinct, 
that it must suffice for the purposes of this paper to point out 
what parts of an engine are most liable to cause accidents, and, 
generally, the most approved steps which should be taken for 
their prevention. 

Steam Engines. — As regards steam engines, all parts on the 
floor or platform level, such as fly-wheels and fly-wheel pits, crank 
and crank-pits, crank shafts, connecting rods, cross-heads, etc., 
should be securely fenced by means of rail fencing, whilst in the 
case of large vertical or beam engines, all stairs, platforms, and 
stagings should be efficiently guarded in similar manner. The 
fencing adopted should consist of double rails, the upper one 
being not less than 3 feet in height, whilst in many instances a 
skirting board 5 to 6 inches in depth should be added ; single 
rails are either so high that persons may slip under them, or so 
low that they may fall over them. Care should also be taken 
that no railing be placed within a foot of the moving parts, the 
placing of such rails too close thereto being a source of great 
danger ; whilst, on the other hand, the practice of leaving so much 
space between any moving part and the guard as to allow of a 
passage between them is equally to be condemned ; moreover, 
the keeping of oil-cans, tools, etc., or the hanging up of clothes 
within the space fenced in accordance with statutory obligations 
should be absolutely forbidden. Other parts of steam engines 
requiring fencing which may be mentioned are piston rods pro- 
longed through the end covers of cylinders, governor balls encroach- 
ing on a passage, and pinion wheels operating the governors. 

Gas and Oil Engines. — The use of prime movers of the gas 
engine type has enormously increased of late years, adding 
greatly to the number of small factories as distinct from work- 
shops. The safe-guarding of these, though they are relatively 
much smaller than the generality of steam engines, is none the 
less essential, for whereas the latter are usually placed in an 
engine-house specially built and separated from the factory 
itself, the former are in numerous instances placed within the 
factory, in some cases with a wooden compartment erected round 
them, and in others with nothing but the statutory fencing 



XIV.] 



GAS ENGINES AND THEIR DANGER 



207 



separating them from the rest of the works. Where these com- 
partments are large enough, similar railing to that described 
above for steam engines will be found sufficient, but in many 
instances they are so confined as to necessitate more complete 
fencing in order to comply with the requirements of the Acts as to 
fencing securely any fly-wheel, whether in the engine-house or not. 
Wherever possible gas engines should be placed in a room 
set apart for them, so as to be isolated from the approach of 
unauthorised persons ; those situated in the machine room of a 
factory are not only a source of danger to those employed 
therein, but so contaminate the atmosphere as to necessitate 
the provision of a fan to remove the fumes. In many cases, 
owing to the confined space of the engine compartment, or to 
the fact that the fly-wheel is in an exposed position facing into 
the machine room, a complete wirework guard should be 
provided ; these can be made either to slide, swing, or to be 




Fig. I.— Strong's " Standard Guard " for engine fly-wheels. 

lifted so as to suit local surroundings; an illustration of such 
guards is shown in Fig. i. Shaft ends projecting into passages 
should be fitted with metal caps so as to avoid the danger of 
clothing being caught. The common practice of starting a gas 



2o8 



SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY 



[chap. 



engine by hand, by pulling round the fly-wheel, is also attended 
with risk, but this can be avoided by the use of a starting handle, 
Fig. 2. 




Fig. 2.— Safety starting-gear for gas and oil engines. The gear can be attached to 
either end of the shaft. 

Other Prime Movers. — Very similar rail-fencing to that 
described above for steam and gas engines may be applied in 
the case of other prime movers where electricity or water provide 
the moving power. As regards water-wheels, it should be noted 
that, although situated in a wheel-house, the same obligation to 
guard securely prevails as in the case of a steam engine, and in 
every instance the wheel-race must be fenced close to its edge. 

As for turbines and wind-mills, the most dangerous parts requir- 
ing to be fenced will be found to be toothed gearing and shafting. 

Electrical Generators. — The special risks attendant on electrical 
generators from shocks scarcely perhaps come within the scope of 
this paper. Ordinary rail-fencing may be relied upon for protection 
of moving parts, though the railings should be made of some non- 
conducting material such as wood. 

Mill-Gearing. — Mill-gearing is defined by Section 156 of the 
Factory and Workshop Act, 1 901, as comprehending — 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 156, — "Every shaft, whether upright, oblique, or 
horizontal, and every wheel, drum, or pulley, by which the motion of the first 
moving power is communicated to any machine appertaining to a manufactur- 
ing process." 

The provisions of the Factory Acts bearing on mill-gearing 
enact that : — 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 10 {c). — "Every part of the mill-gearing shall 
either be securely fenced, or be in such a position, or of such construction, as 
to be equally safe to every person employed or working in the factory, as it 
would be if it were securely fenced." 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 13 (3). — "The cleaning of mill-gearing whilst in 
motion is, moreover, prohibited for women, young persons, and children." 

Accidents caused by mill-gearing and belts are not only 
amongst the most numerous, but certainly amongst the most 



:iv.] 



MILL-GEARING 



209 



serious of all those to which persons employed in factories are 
subject, and yet nearly all such may be avoided by strict observ- 
ance of the precautions proposed to be set forth herein. 

Mill-Gearing. — First, as to construction and position, whilst 
the distance between the bearings which support a shaft must 
^ary with the weight of the shaft and pulleys, and tension of 
the belts, it should never exceed 13 feet, and in order to comply 
dth the requirement of the law quoted above, both shafting and 
mlleys should, wherever possible, be not less than 7 feet above 
the floor, otherwise the obligation to fence prevails. Shafting of 
;onsiderable length is composed of separate parts connected by 
couplings. These couplings should always be near a pedestal 
and not in the middle of a span, and should invariably present 
a perfectly smooth surface, free from bolts or screws, which 
are liable to catch the clothes of workmen — the old-fashioned 
couplings with projecting heads of bolts and screws (Fig. 3) are 





Fig. 3. — Coupling with dangerous 
projecting bolt-heads. 



Fig. 4. — Safety Coupling with counter- 
sunk bolt-heads. 



the worst possible form ; there are many kinds without any pro- 
jections whatever (Fig. 4). Ends of keys fixing the pulleys or 
bevel wheels on to the shafting should either be cut off or pro- 





FlG. 5. — Collar with dangerous 
projecting set-screw. 



Fig. 6.— Collar with 

countersunk set-screw. 



tected by a key cover. All set-screws fastening collars to the 
shafting should be countersunk (Figs. 5 and 6). In fact it should 



SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY [chap. 



be an absolute rule that projections of every kind should be 
removed from shafting. The dangers of shafting, however, do not 
cease with projections : it is an established fact that perfectly 
smooth shafting is highly dangerous ; should the shaft be greasy 
or his clothing damp, a workman may be caught by a perfectly 
smooth shaft. That being so, no one should ever be allowed to 
come into direct contact with shafting in motion : cleaning or 
lubricating should only be done when it is at a standstill. 

Access to Shafting. — Where shafting is of the requisite height 
named above, no further protection is required round the shafting 
itself, but seeing that it is necessary at times to reach it, proper 
and secure means of access should be provided. This can be 
done either by a service platform, when the shafting is very high, 
or by ladders adapted for the purpose. A service platform, whilst 
providing easy access to shafting, should keep the attendant at a 
safe distance from it, and at the same time guard against his 
falling. With a view to this it should be provided with a hand- 
rail not less than 3 feet in height, and a skirting board of 5 to 6 
inches in depth to stop the foot in case of slipping. Ladders 
should invariably be supplied with hooks at the upper ends and 
spikes at the lower, the latter where the nature of the flooring 
permits. In no case, however, should an attendant be allowed to 
fix a ladder against a wall so as to place himself between the 
shafting and the wall. 

Fencing of Low Shaftings etc. — Where, however, shafting and 
pulleys are not of the desired height above the floor, the obliga-| 
tion to fence both arises. When shafting is near the floor it] 
should be completely covered by a sheet-iron or wooden casing,! 
and the pulleys fenced so as to afford a safe passage for workmen ' 
by either stepping over the casing or crossing it by means of steps 
according to the height from the floor. Shafting from 3 to 6-. 
feet above the floor should be protected by a secure rail prevent-] 
ing access to it except by passages so arranged and boarded as to] 
prevent any contact with the shafting. Vertical shafts should in every ' 
case be surrounded by a sheet-iron or wooden sheath firmly fixed. 

Pulleys. — Whenever driving pulleys are so situated that a 
workman has reason to pass near them, they should be securely 
fenced by means of boards or metallic netting, and it is desirable 
to fill up the pulleys with a disc of wood or sheet-iron fastened 
to the arms by means of screws. Loose pulleys should not be 
placed on the shafting itself ; lest they grip the shaft and carry the 
belts round with them, but should be mounted independently. 



:iv.] DRIVING, SHIPPING, AND PROTECTION OF BELTS 211 

Driving Belts. — Driving belts are a constant source of 
accidents. When a belt has been thrown off its pulley it should 
never be allowed to rest upon the shaft ; when in that position it 
is liable to be wound rapidly round the shaft, carrying with it 
anything with which it comes into contact. This danger is easily 
avoided by means of a belt rest or hook fixed according to avail- 

Iable surroundings. Another fruitful source of accidents through 
belting is the method in which they are joined ; one should always 
}be selected which presents no projections capable of catching 
clothing or dealing severe blows. Accidents have frequently 
occurred in both ways ; hence the necessity of avoiding all pro- 
jections on belting. 

Shipping of Belts. — Accidents constantly occur during the 
shipping of belts. Workmen should be absolutely forbidden to 
put a belt on to a pulley by hand whilst the shaft is in motion 
at its full speed. It should be stopped altogether, or at least be 
greatly reduced in speed, in which latter case a man should 
be ready to complete the stoppage at once in case of danger 
occurring. 

Belt Poles. — Where it is desired to avoid stoppage of the engine 
or shafting, belts should in all cases where possible be put on to 
the pulleys by means of a belt pole. It should be carefully borne 
in mind, however, that a short belt pole is in itself a source of 
danger, owing to its liability to deal a severe blow in case of the 
pin of the pole becoming in any way entangled ; fatal accidents 
have occurred in this way, and therefore it is most important that 
the length of the pole should be nearly equal to the distance of the 
shafting from the floor, thus forcing the workman to hold it at his 
side instead of in front of him. In cases where, for some reason 
or other, a belt pole cannot be used, the necessity of stopping the 
shafting in order to put on the belt by hand may be avoided 
by means of an appliance . termed a belt shipper, of which there 
are a number of types, and which enable a workman to ship 
a belt with the shafting in motion whilst he is standing on the 
floor. 

Protection of Belts. — Owing to the danger arising from clothing 
being caught by belts, it is desirable in many cases to protect them ; 
thus belts passing through floors should in all cases be surrounded 
with a casing of wood ; oblique or horizontal belts should, be pro- 
tected by a railingjpreventing access to them, or by a trough below 
the belt securely fixed ; the same remarks will apply to driving 
ropes, whilst the splicings of the latter should be frequently 



2 1 2 SAFE- G UARDING OF MA CHINE R Y [chap. 

examined, owing to their liability to break and cause serious 
accidents in falling. 

Bevel Wheels. — Bevel wheels on shafting should be encased 
with sheet-iron cover, with one of its faces opening for purposes 
of oiling. 

Means of Stopping Machinery. — Many of the most serious 
accidents through mill-gearing and belts might be avoided if 
means existed for stopping the machinery quickly. When it is , 
necessary to go to the engine-house to warn the engine driver to 
stop the engine, the mischief is done before this can be effected ; 
some means, therefore, should be at hand to stop the machinery 
at once. In choice of the method by which disconnection is to be 
accomplished, preference should be given to one which brings it 
into play from many parts of the factory by mechanical or 
electrical means, whilst in some cases a brake acting upon a special 
pulley is provided and brought into play at the same time by the 
same means. The stoppage of the engine or the disconnection of 
the main shaft is attended by the disadvantage of stopping the 
whole of the machinery in the factory, and it is better, therefore, to 
disconnect each driving shaft individually, thus stopping the 
machinery in one room only. The disconnecting arrangements 
which are open to selection are numerous, but mainly consist of 
two classes, viz., toothed and friction clutches ; of these preference 
may be given to friction clutches for various reasons. 

Lastly, with regard to mill-gearing, its care should be entrusted 
to special and experienced men, and no one else should be allowed 
to interfere with it. Attendants should, as far as possible, only 
approach it when it is at a standstill, and their clothing should 
invariably consist of tight-fitting jackets or jerseys, with nothing 
whatever loose about them. 

Machine Tools. — Having thus disposed of the two first main 
branches of our subject, viz., prime movers which supply the 
motive power, and mill-gearing and belts which transmit it, it 
remains for us to deal with the vast number of machines to which 
the motive power is communicated and by which the manufactur- 
ing processes are carried out. These are so numerous that it 
would be useless to attempt to deal with them individually in this 
paper. It will, however, be possible to set forth certain rules which 
should invariably be observed in order to minimise the risks which 
at present unnecessarily present themselves to those whose duty 
it is to attend to machine tools. Whilst the danger of accidents 
from prime movers and mill-gearing is greatly restricted owing 



:iv.] PROVISIONS OF THE FACTORY ACTS . 213 



ic 



o the fact that they are, or ought invariably to be, in the sole 
charge of a limited number of experienced persons, the machines 
themselves are attended to by large numbers of men, women, 

oung persons, and even children. There is, therefore, the greater 
necessity for taking every precaution possible to prevent the 
occurrence of accident thereby. 

I The provisions of the Factory Acts with regard to machine 
tools are as follows : — 



Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 10 (c). — "All dangerous parts of the machinery shall 
either be securely fenced, or be in such a position, or of such construction as 
to be equally safe to every person employed or working in the factory, as it 
would be if it were securely fenced." 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 10 (d) — "All fencing shall be constantly maintained 
in an efficient state whilst the parts required to be fenced are in motion or 
use." 



By these provisions it will be observed that machine tools are 
placed on the same footing as mill-gearing, but with the additional 
precaution that — 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 13. — "A child shall not be allowed to clean any part 
of the machinery in a factory while the same is in motion by the aid of steam, 
water, or other mechanical power." 

In connection with this latter provision it is important to 
notice that in the case of Pearson v. Belgian Mills Co., (1896), 
I Q. B. 244, it was held that the words " the same " in the section, 
refer to the machinery as a whole, whether fixed or in motion, and 
not merely to such parts of it as are in motion ; the employment, 
therefore, of a child to clean the fixed part of machinery in motion 
constitutes an infringement of the Act. 

Further enactments for safety in connection with machines are 
that— 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 12 (3). — "A child, young person, or woman shall not 
be allowed to work between the fixed and traversing part of any self-acting 
machine while the machine is in motion by the action of steam, water, or other 
mechanical power." 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 12 (i). — "In a factory erected after the commence- 
ment of 1896, the traversing carriage of any self-acting machine shall not be 
allowed to run out within a distance of eighteen inches from any fixed structure, 
not being part of the machine, if the space over which it so runs out is a space 
over which any person is liable to pass, whether in the course of his employ- 
ment or otherwise." 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 12 (2). — "A person employed in a factory shall not 
be allowed to be in the space between the fixed and traversing portions of a 
self-acting machine, unless the machine is stopped with the traversing portion 



214 SA FE-GUARDING OF MA CHINE R Y [chap, 

on the outward run, but for the purpose of this provision the space in front of 
a self-acting machine shall not be included in the space aforesaid." 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 156. — "The expression 'machinery' shall include any 
driving ' strap or band,' which are therefore subject to the same provisions as 
to safety as mill-gearing and machine tools." 

The Acts also give powers to deal with dangerous machinery j 
or parts thereof: — 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 17 (i). — "By application to a Court of Summary 
Jurisdiction for an order prohibiting the use of a machine dangerous to life or 
limb until it is duly repaired or altered." 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 13 (2). — "By notifying it as dangerous, in which] 
case it becomes illegal for young persons to clean such parts in motion." 

Fencing of Dangerous Machinery. — With respect to the fencing 
of machinery in a factory, the importance of the words "all 
dangerous parts of the machinery," which were superadded by 
Sect 6 (2) of the Factory Act of 1891 to Sect. 5 (3) of the Act 
of 1878, should be carefully noted. Formerly there was absolute 
obligation to fence only in respect of prime movers and mill- 
gearing, whilst in the case of other machinery which an inspector 
considered dangerous, he was required by Sect. 6 of the 1878 Act 
to serve notice to fence on an occupier, who was empowered, i 
he thought fit, to have the matter determined by arbitration. 
Now the obligation to fence extends to all dangerous parts of 
the machinery, and, the question whether it is dangerous or not 
has to be decided by the Court in each case. In connection 
with this it should be noticed that in the case of Hindle v. Birtwistle 
(1897) the Court of Queen's Bench held that the enactment applies 
to all machinery from which, in the ordinary course of working, 
danger may arise by reason of carelessness on the part of the 
workmen, or of external causes. It should therefore be sufficient, 
in order to prove the dangerous character of any part of a machine, 
to show that accidents are frequently caused thereby. 

In propounding certain rules for safety, which should be care- 
fully carried out in the construction of all machines, it may be 
pointed out that these are not based upon mere opinion, but on 
the experience and statistics of many years. 

Set-screws. — It has been one of the most pernicious habits of 
almost all machine makers in this country to send out their 
machinery bristling with projecting set-screws, etc., which are 
not only unsightly, but also the frequent source of accidents 
through catching clothing. They are often situated either on or 
in close proximity to shafts, spindles, collars, or cog-wheels, 



XIV.] 



DANGERS OF PROJECTING SET-SCREWS 



whereby the dangers attendant on these are greatly enhanced. 
Hence our first rule, which should be absolute respecting all 
machinery, should be: (i) No projectioiis shall be allowed on any- 




FlG, 7. — Shows a safe form of set-screw {s)^ which is deeply recessed, and can only be 
adjusted by a box key (i). 




For use wiih screwdriver. 







Fig. 9, — Halstead's Patent Unbreakable Square-hole Solid-ended Grub Screw. For 
use with square-ended key, similar to railway carriage key. 

thing that revolves. There are various methods of avoiding such 
projections by countersinking or otherwise, of which illustrations 
are given above (Figs. 7 to 9). 



2l6 



SAFE^GUARDING OF MACHINERY 



[chap. 



Toothed Wheels. — Toothed wheels are probably the cause of 
more accidents than any other portion of a machine, and their 




Fl3. lo. — Incomplete guards for spur wheels. (The points of danger are marked A, A 
and B, B respectively.) 




Fig. II. — Spur wheels with suitable guards (G, G). (The arms of wheels may be covered 

with discs if needed). 

protection has been and is still sadly neglected. They are 
frequently sent out by makers either with no guard whatever, or 



XIV.] 



GUARDS FOR TOOTHED WHEELS 



217 



with such an inefficient guard as only to partially cover the 
wheels, thereby doubling the danger to be met by forming two 
points of junction between the wheels and the guard instead of 
one only presented by the wheels themselves (Figs. 10 to 12). 

D 





Fig. 12.— Shows a good form of guard (D, D) to cover bevel wheels (E, E). 



Our second rule should therefore be : (2) All toothed wheels shall be 
so effectually covered as to leave no danger between the guard and the 
wheels. 

Shaft or Spindle Ends. — Machine makers frequently leave 
projecting shafts or spindles at each side of a machine so as to 
allow of choice in the arrangement of pulleys. These are 
frequently a source of serious accidents, and our third rule 
should be : (3) All exposed shaft ends shall be securely covered. 
This can easily and simply be done by means of a metal 
cap fitting sufficiently close to revolve with the shaft, but which 
will instantly stop on clothing, etc., being caught by it (Fig. 13). 




Fig. 13. — Shows a method of covering shaft ends with a sheet-metal cap (G). 

Loose Pulleys and Strap Forks. — Most machines are now supplied 
by makers with loose pulleys and strap forks, but exceptions can 



2i8 SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY [chap. 

be found, more especially in the manufacture of cotton, in the 
case of carding engines and drawing frames ; on the former, 
though loose pulleys are invariably supplied, strap forks are in 
most instances absent, thus necessitating the moving of the 
belt from one pulley to the other by hand or by a stick, a very 
dangerous proceeding, causing frequent accidents. The most 
dangerous point is where the belt first touches the driving 
pulley, and this is guarded where a well-arranged strap fork is 
provided. In the case of drawing frames both loose pulley and 
strap fork have generally been omitted, with the result that 
the undershaft cannot be stopped for cleaning without throwing 
the belt off by hand, causing additional danger in replacing 
the belt on the pulley. Our fourth rule, therefore, should 
be : (4) Loose pulleys and strap forks shall be provided for all 
machines. 

Plate Wheels. — Arm wheels running at high speed are 
frequently the cause of accidents. Such are specially found in 
the balance wheels of power looms, the rim pulleys of self- 
acting mules, and the speed wheels of platen printing machines. 
These wheels can in almost all cases be made safe, and our last 
rule should be : (5) Plate wheels or wheels filled in shall be 
substituted^ wherever possible^ for arm wheels running at high 
speed {Fig. 22). 

Each of these rules relate to intrinsic parts of the machines, 
and should therefore be dealt with by the makers themselves, 
who can carry them out with little or no extra cost at the time 
of making. Unfortunately, however, it has been in many instances 
the practice to have one type of machine for the home, and 
another for the foreign market, the latter with much more 
efficient guards, owing to the stricter laws which prevail in certain 
countries as to the occurrence of accidents. 

Hoists. — We now come to the last head of our subject, viz., 
the safe-guarding of hoists and other lifting tackle. The require- 
ments of the Factory Act as to these are absolute. 

Factory Act, 1901, Sec. 10 (a). — "Every hoist or teagle shall be securely 
fenced." 

The importance of this enactment may be gathered from the 
fact that in 1899 there occurred 27 fatal and 315 non-fatal 
accidents from hoists alone, whilst other lifting tackle was respon- 
sible for 66 fatal and 1497 non-fatal. Parliament has fully recog- 



XIV.] 



IMPROVED SAFETY HOIST 



219 




Fig. 14. — Knowles' Improved Safety Hoist. 



SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY [chap. 



nised the dangers arising from this class of machinery by the 
omission, in the Factory Act of 1 891, of the Hmitation contained 
in the Act of 1878, "near to which any person is liable to pass or 
be employed," thus placing hoists on precisely the same footing 
as prime movers, the fencing of which, as shown above, is abso- 
lutely compulsory. 

Cage hoists are most frequently found in factories, and in these 
the cage should invariably be roofed over, whilst each side of the 
cage should be cased in, except that used for exit, thus avoiding 
danger from anything falling down the hoist-way, and also from 
projecting obstacles therein. On each floor the hoist-way should 
be guarded by doors not less than 5 J to 6 feet in height. The 
single bar or chain which used so frequently to be found is a 
constant source of danger from persons looking down the well 
and being trapped between the bar and the bottom of the cage. 
Falls down the hoist-way through absence of any protecting gate, 
through the latter being carelessly left open, or owing to the cage 
being moved to another floor without warning, frequently occur. 
For perfect safety hoists should be in the sole charge of a special 
attendant, whose duty it should be to travel with the cage, 
opening or shutting the doors at each landing as required, the 
fastenings of which should be accessible only from the inside. 
Otherwise, automatic gates may be used, so adjusted as to open 
on the arrival at, and close on the departure of the cage from, each 
landing ; it should not be practicable to open these from the out- 
side, and where there is not sufficient headway for a gate six feet 
in height, it may be made to telescope. 

There are several patent hoists which answer to this descrip- 
tion in greater or less degree, but we must content ourselves here 
with an illustration and description of one of the best methods of 
safe-guarding hoists, viz., by means of the Knowles safety locking 
gear for cage hoists (Fig. 14). 

Careful attention should be paid to the gear for suspending 
the cage, in order to prevent accidents from the breaking of the 
ropes and the precipitation of the cage to the bottom of the hoist- 
way. For greater safety two wire ropes should be used, which 
should be periodically and systematically examined. Some one 
of the various safety gears for arresting the fall of the cage should 
also be adopted ; in this connection we give an illustration (Fig. 
15) of "Morgan's patent safety catches," which sustain the cage 
in case of the hoisting ropes breaking through some mishap. In 
the matter of safe-guarding hoists, also, we are far behind other 



XIV.] 



T EAGLES, CRANES, AND WINCHES 



countries where the law compels employers to provide safety 
catches and doors for every cage hoist. 

Teagles. — Hoisting of goods is often performed by means of a 
teagle either outside the buildings of the factory, or inside through 

openings in the floors. In the 
latter case these openings in 
each floor should be securely 
railed ; whilst in the former 
the attendant should invari- 
ably be supplied with a safety 
belt, strong enough to suspend 
him in the air should he fall. 
In case, however, of an out- 
side teagle, the dangerous and 
laboriouswork of swinging the 
^ goods into the room can be 
^ avoided by the use of a self- 
^ landing and delivering hoist 
^ (Fig- 1 6), which will not only 
c liftgoodsofl"thelorry and take 
rt them into the room, but will 
-^ also pick them up inside the 
Sc room, travel with them outside 
% the doorway, and lower them 
y^ on to the lorry. 

Cranes^ Winches, etc. — Al- 
\£, though the Factory Acts deal 
specifically only with " hoists " 
and "teagles," yet the numer- 
ous accidents mentioned above 
as attributable to other lifting 
tackle, plainly point to the 
urgent need for safe-guards, 
and care in its use. The pro- 
visions of the Acts as to hoists 
are of long standing, and 
were enacted when the term 
" factory " did not embrace 
every dock, wharf, quay, warehouse, and building in course of erec- 
tion. Great care, however, should be taken to securely fence all bevel 
wheels of cranes, winches, etc., and periodical examination of all 
chains, ropes, etc., should be strictly carried out. It should be 




222 



SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY 



[chap. 



remembered that steam cranes partake of the nature of the two 
first divisions of our subject, viz., engines and mill-gearing. 




In the preceding pages some pains have been taken to set 
forth certain regulations which should equally apply to all 



■ 

Jxiv.] Sy 



SA TISF ACTOR V AND UNSA TISFA CTOR V G UARDS 223 



machinery. It has been shown that the provisions of the law 
as to fencing prime movers and hoists are absolute, and equally 
so those applying to mill-gearing unless it be in such a position 
and of such construction as to be equally safe, as if it were fenced, 




Fig. 17.— Self-acting Mules. Guards for the drawing-out band, and pulley at the out 
end of frame. Shows unsatisfactory guard (A). 



^^^^^^^^^^^^^^sss 




-^^^.^^^^^^^^^^^.^^g^ 




Fig. 18. — Shows a guard which completely covers the band round pulley (C, D). 

whilst the machines by which the manufacturing processes are 
carried out are dealt with by means of the general instruction 
that " all dangerous parts of the machinery shall be securely 
fenced," subject to the same reservation as to position and con- 



524 



SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY 



[chap. 



struction as in the case of mill-gearing. Except in the instances 
of grinding in tenement factories, chaff-cutting machines, and 
perhaps it may be added, of self-acting machines, the law has not 
yet entered into any details as to safe-guarding machine tools. 
Apart, however, from general rules applicable to all, there remain 
certain machine tools which, owing to the nature of their con- 
struction and use, are peculiarly liable to the occurrence of 
accidents. For these special guards are necessary, and their 
invention and use have been spurred on by the liabilities of 
employers under the Compensation Acts. It would not be 
possible here to illustrate a tithe of these machines and the 
most approved guards invented for them, but it is proposed to 
select a few machines which are shown by statistics to be the 
most frequent cause of accidents, and the means by which these 
accidents may, in part at any rate, be obviated. 




Fig. 19. — Self-acting Mules. Elevation — Foot-guard for carriage wheels. The 
guard (G) is fixed to the bracket (B), and surrounds the wheel (W) at a slight distance 
above the slip or rail (S). 



XIV.] 



SELF-ACTING MULES 



225 



li 



Self-acting Mules. — Dealing first with our great textile indus- 
tries, and specially with that of cotton, it will be found that by far 
the greatest number of accidents occurs in the mule-rooms. Owing 
to the complicated nature of their construction no one illustration 
could exhibit all the necessary guards for self-acting mules, but 




Fig. 20. — Hargreave's Mule Carriage Wheel Guard. 

an analysis of the accidents caused by them shows that the parts 
which are the most fruitful source of injuries to workers are : — 

1. Scroll or draw bands and pulleys. 

2. Carriage wheels and slips. 

For the first, incomplete and approved guards are shown in 
Figs. 17 and 18; whilst for the second, two types of guards in 
common use are illustrated in Figs. 19 to 21. 




Fig. 21. — Hargreave's Mule Carriage Wheel Guard. 



Looms. — Next to mules, power looms are the most frequent cause 
of accidents in a cotton mill. These present an excellent specimen 
of the dangerous character of exposed arm wheels running at 
high speed alluded to above. An illustration of safe-guards for 
the ends of looms will be found in Fig. 22. During 1899 ^v'^^^ 

p 



226 



SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY 



[chap. 



shuttles were the cause of i fatal and i6i non-fatal accidents. 




Shuttle guards, of which an example is given in Fig. 23, are either 



XIV.] 



SHUTTLE AND CIRCULAR SAW GUARDS 



227 



rigid or semi-automatic, but in either case great care has to be 
taken that they are not fixed too high on the slay cap. 




Fig. 23 



Turning to non-textile machinery, probably no three classes 
of machine tools show so large an array of accidents as : — 

1. Circular saws. 

2. Planing machines. 

3. Power presses. 




Fig, 24. — Elvatka Guard. 

Each of these classes present dangers peculiar to itself, and 
therefore needs special safe-guards. 

Circular Saws. — Circular saws during the year 1899 were 
responsible for 1289 accidents, of which 9 proved fatal. The 



228 



SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY 



[chap. 



purposes for which they are used are so various that no one 
universal guard is practicable, but in all cases a riving knife 
should be provided at the back of the saw, whilst as much of 




Fig. 25. — Longmore's Guard. 




Fig. 26. — Victor Guard. 



the top and front should also be covered as circumstances will 
permit. Figures 24 to 27 show illustrations of a few guards 
which appear best to fulfil these requirements. 



XIV.] 



GUARDING OF PLANING MACHINES 



ii() 



Flailing Machines. — Accidents through planing machines are 
of frequent occurrence. They are often of such a severe nature 




Fig. 27. — Woodhouse and Mitchell's Guard. 

that no planing machine should be permitted to be used without 
an efficient guard, of which an illustration is given in Fig. 28. 




Fig. 28. — Campbell and Greenwood's Guard. 

Power Presses. — Power presses like circular saws are put to 
so many uses that various forms of guards are needed to suit 
the variety of work. They are usually put into motion in one 
of two ways : either the plunger is released by means of a foot 
treadle or by a hand lever. Of these the latter naturally presents 
the fewest elements of danger, owing to the necessary position 
of one hand whilst using the lever. Additional safety has 
recently been imparted by the introduction of machines furnished 
not only with hand levers, but also fitted with slides obviating 
any necessity for either hand to approach the die. 



230 



SAFE-GUARDING OF MACHINERY 



[chap. 



Fig. 29 illustrates an approved guard for an ordinar}' tin 
stamping or cutting press. 




Fig. 29. — Power Presses. 



I 



XIV.] ADDENDA , 231 



ADDENDA. 

Fig. 14. — Description of Knowles's Improved Safety Hoist. 

The rod A, which extends the full depth of the hoist well, is attached at its upper end 
to the lever B, the latter carrying the lever C with the stop or projection D, which drops 
into the toothed rim S on the side of the starting pulley E, and locks the hoist when 
a door is open, as in Fig. i. Each door is provided with the lever H, mounted on the 
centre I, one end being coupled to the rod A by the arm K and rod L, the other end 
being fitted with the bolt or draw-bar X. To the lever C is attached the hook T 
extending over the lever B, by which the stop or projection D, on the lever C, is lifted 
out of gear with the tooth rim S in making an upward movement, caused by dropping 
the bolt or draw-bar X. When the lever B drops, by the action of opening one of the 
doors, the stop or projection D on the C is pressed or forced into the toothed rim S 
by the spring V, as shown in Fig. 2. This apparatus operates as follows : — When the 
attendant desires to work the hoist, he simply closes the door and drops the bolt or 
draw-bar X into the hole or slot N in the threshold O, which lifts the levers B and C 
by the upward movement of the rod A, and moves the stop or projection D from the 
toothed rim S, as in Fig. 3, at which point it remains until one of the levers H is 
operated from the inside by the attendant, when it is locked, as shown in Fig. 2. When 
the stop or projection D is removed from the toothed rim S, the starting band or chain 
P is at liberty to be operated in the requisite direction at will. To prevent the hoist 
being started when a door is open, the lever H is latched into the catch or fixing R. 
It is impossible to start the hoist until the attendant has both closed and bolted the 
doors. 

Fig. 15.— Morgan*s Patent Safety Catch. (An improved safety gear for colliery 
cages, hoists, lifts, etc.) 

To sustain the Cage, in case through any mishap the Hoisting Ropes break. — In the 
arrangements of these catches, two strong steel colliery rods are stretched from top to 
bottom of the hoist well, and the cage is fitted with two or more cams, across the face 
of which grooves are made to«K:orrespond with the strands of the steel guides. 

The cams are fitted in a steel casing, through which the guides pass, so that should 
the hoisting ropes break, the steel guides are at once gripped by the cams, which hold 
the .cage suspended- 

H. S. Richmond. 



CHAPTER XV 

AGRICULTURE ; HORSES ; CATTLE 

Agriculture 

(i) Labourers. — The manifold occupations included under the 
general term of tilling the soil, exercises a beneficial effect on the 
husbandman as regards mere length of days, for he often lives far 
beyond the allotted span, although he rarely comes to the end of his 
career a hale and hearty old man. His operations are carried out 
for the most part in the open air, leisurely, and in a greater or less 
degree of isolation. His condition, therefore, has its drawbacks as 
well as its advantages. As one of the oldest occupations of man- 
kind it has been very largely adopted as a means of gaining a liveli- 
hood, and, until recently, the supply of farm labourers has exceeded 
the demand. It is badly paid ; the farmer, at least in England, has 
many anxieties, disappointments and losses in his crops and 
stock ; the labourer receives but small wages, and has perforce to 
put up with scanty living and poor accommodation. The living is 
made worse by the ignorance of cooking and domestic economy, 
which is so general amongst the wives and daughters of the labour- 
ing class. Field work begins early in the morning, and leads to 
exposure in all weathers. It is usually so monotonous, that 
it is unattractive to the better intellects amongst the lower 
orders; it is sometimes very hard, as during hay-making and 
harvest, and it is occasionally dangerous, as in hedging and 
ditching. 

" Rheumatic " affections are foremost amongst the bodily ills of 
field workers, not often as acute rheumatism, but rather in some of 
the protean forms which affect the connective tissues. Osteo- 
arthritis, sciatica, lumbago, and valvular heart lesions are commonly 
met with. Indeed, the rheumatic affections of old age have been 
known for so long a time that Scapula, in his great lexicon, says, 
with doubtful, though picturesque, etymology, " Vepwv, the Greek 
word for an old man, has been derived by some irapa to ek yrjv 



m 

■ CHAP. XV. 




XV.] STOOPING GAIT AND RHEUMATIC JOINTS , 233 

opav, because old men by their stooping look towards the earth ; 
though others, with more probability, derive it from the same stem 
as Fe/oa?, on account of the reverence due to age." The etymology, 
whether right or wrong, draws attention to the stooping habit 
which is typically a senile kyphosis, though it is accentuated by 
occupation, and is found early in middle life in agricultural 
labourers, as often as in tailors, cobblers, clerks, Swiss mountain 

orters, and, latterly, in some bicyclists. True senile kyphosis or 
stooping arises from simple weakness and wasting of the tissues, 
with absorption of the intervertebral discs, and is not necessarily 

ue to rheumatism. But amongst agricultural labourers, it is 
usually associated with osteoarthritic changes, which tend to unite 
the individual vertebrae by bridges of. bone, whilst it thickens the 
spines and hardens the ligaments. The stage of anchylosis is often 
preceded by a period of inflammatory softening, which leads to 
more or less deformity of the vertebral column, for lateral curvature 
is nearly as common as the forward stoop to which the name 
kyphosis is given. 

The same factors of hard manual labour, often in constrained 
attitudes and under unfavourable conditions of weather, produce 
other "rheumatic" affections, such as pains in the limbs, aching 
in the bones and stiffness in the joints, which disturb the comfort 
without lessening materially the wage-earning power of the rural 
population. No one can have attended the local fair or feast 
without noticing the peculiar shuffling walk, and the knock-knee 
of the ploughboy, the results respectively of flatfoot and over- 
growth, aided by badly fitting, uncouth boots, and a habit of 
walking over uneven surfaces. 

The palmar fascia of the hand often becomes contracted — Dupuy- 
tren's contraction — a condition whose cause is unknown, though it 
has been variously attributed to such predisposing causes as gout 
and rheumatism, or to habits and occupations necessitating pressure 
in the palm and flexion of the fingers, as in digging. The contrac- 
tion usually begins in that portion of the fascia which is continued 
on to the sheath of the flexor tendon of the little finger, afterwards 
attacking the portion extending to the ring finger, and sometimes 
the remaining fingers. The fingers are thereby flexed and drawn 
down towards the palm, with which they may even be fixed in 
contact. This form of contraction may be distinguished from that 
due to a contracted tendon, by the puckering of the skin in con- 
sequence of its adhesion to the fascia, and by the contracting band 
bifurcating to be inserted upon either side of the flexor tendon, 



234 AGRICULTURE; HORSES; CATTLE [cha^. 

whilst the contracted tendon is placed centrally, and can be traced 
under the annular ligament. 

The kindness of the late Dr Tinley, and Dr Granger at 
Whitby, and of my brother-in-law Mr G. H. Fosbroke, the County 
Medical Officer of Worcestershire, has lately allowed me to 
examine the death returns of two typically rural districts. The 
chief causes of death are bronchitis, including pneumonia and 
pleurisy ; heart disease, a very vague term covering a multitude 
of pathological conditions ; and phthisis. The deaths from 
bronchitis and heart disease, in a period of ten years, are nearly 
equal in number, whilst those from phthisis were only half as 
many as either of the other two. 

Typhoid fever is endemic in many districts, owing to the im- 
proper disposal of excrement, and from the use of polluted water 
in surface wells. 

Some of the older countrymen living in the fen districts east of 
Cambridge still take opium regularly to keep off ague, and I have 
a working hypothesis that these same dwellers in districts which 
were once highly malarious are now more subject to cancer than 
persons who live in towns where the soil is drier and insects are 
fewer. Be this as it may, however, gardeners and those who have 
to handle soot in the course of their work are liable to develop 
epitheliomatous ulcers of the hand and wrist more often than 
those who are free from such source of local irritation. 

Lunacy is increasing markedly amongst the rural population 
in some parts of the country, and notably in Ireland. This is 
probably due to the tide of emigration carrying away the more 
highly endowed and enterprising, whilst it leaves the old and 
those who are enfeebled in body and mind. 

Agricultural labourers do not, on the whole, fare very 
badly. Even with low wages and bad sanitary surroundings, the 
social condition of the English farm hand compares most 
favourably with that of the peasantry in many European 
countries. The absence of the three great diseases epidemic 
amongst those who are reduced to the lowest depths of misery 
by chronic starvation, is a proof of this superior position. The 
three diseases are ergotism from the use of spurred rye ; pellagra 
due to bad maize ; and lathyrism caused by the consumption of 
the chick-pea. 

Ergotism is rife amongst the rye-eating inhabitants of 
Germany, Bohemia, Sweden, Russia, and the central provinces of 
France. It occurs especially after rainy seasons, and the bread 




^ 



MALADIES DUE TO EATING DISEASED GRAIN . 235 



made from the diseased rye is violet in colour, and of a disagree- 
able taste and smell. It is usually badly made and badly baked. 
The symptoms of ergot poisoning are either acute or chronic, 
he acute form begins with giddiness, headache, lassitude, and 
disturbances of sight and hearing, which have led to its being 
called " ergot intoxication." The chronic poisoning is ushered in 
with symptoms of ergot intoxication, but the later stages are 
either convulsive or gangrenous. The convulsive form is marked 
by intermittent clonic spasms of the limbs, with dilatation of the 
pupil, delirium, and coma, which soon ends in death, without any 
appearance of gangrene. The mortification in the gangrenous 
form is preceded by pain in the part, with intolerable " creeping " 
feelings, followed by diminished sensibility, which ends in dry 
gangrene, and finally in separation of the affected tissues. The 
patients suffer occasionally from vomiting of blood, or from 
passing blood in the urine, the bleeding being as difficult to arrest 
as in h.nemophilia. 

Pellagra from the consumption of bad maize, truly known as 
the malattia della miseria, is epidemic in parts of France, Spain, 
Italy, Africa, and Brazil. It requires for its full manifestation a 
most wretched peasantry. Pellagra is characterised by headache, 
depression of spirits, sleeplessness, cramps, palsies, giddiness, 
and dyspepsia. There are vague but often severe pains in the 
spine and joints, and there is a skin eruption, which begins in 
April or May, and goes from bad to worse, until it begins to 
improve in July or August. The eruption is an erythema of the 
parts exposed to the sun. The skin becomes swollen and tense, 
with petechiae and bullae, which leave indolent ulcers when they 
break. The attacks recur in the spring of each year, until in 
time the skin becomes thickened and of a light sepia colour. 
The nervous symptoms culminate in a settled melancholia. The 
spinal cord appears to be definitely affected both in ergotism 
and pellagra, the posterior columns suffering chiefly in ergot 
poisoning, the lateral columns in pellagra. 

Lathy rism results from the use of the chick-pea {Lathy rus 
sativus, cicer, or cly7nenum) as an article of diet. Like ergotism 
and pellagra, it is associated with extremely wretched conditions 
of life, and has been observed in France, in the Abruzzi, at 
Allahabad, and in other parts of India. Oxen, horses, pigs, and 
geese are attacked as well as men. The symptoms point to an 
affection of the lower part of the spinal cord, and are manifested 
by a sudden inability to use the legs in the ordinary manner. 



236 AGRICULTURE; HORSES; CATTLE [chap. 

The legs are so stiff that when the patient walks he is obliged to 
throw his body into a succession of curves, so that he describes a 
screw or figure of eight as he proceeds. There is much hyper- 
sesthesia of the lower extremities, which may be followed by loss 
of sensation, though the patient complains of the same tingling 
sensations as are felt in ergotism. The onset is usually sudden, 
and is coincident with the advent of cold weather, but the 
symptoms take four or five weeks to reach a maximum. 

The increasing use of machinery in ploughing, reaping, thresh- 
ing, and other farming operations leads necessarily to a greater 
number of machine accidents than was formerly the case when 
labour was abundant and machines were few. Even small 
farmers now possess a chaff-cutter, and injuries to the hands and 
arms produced by its cog-wheels are correspondingly frequent. 
Much more serious injuries are caused by the large threshing and 
reaping machines, which are sometimes tended by unskilled 
persons, as they are often let out on hire. Overstrain from the 
lifting of loads in awkward positions during harvest is no 
uncommon cause of hernia in those who are otherwise pre- 
disposed to this condition. Poisoned wounds of the hand, and 
penetrating wounds of the eye, are often sustained in the 
occupation of hedging and ditching, a form of labour which 
is also the cause of rheumatism. Occasionally, too, an agri- 
cultural labourer presents himself with a viper bite, for vipers 
are still indigenous in several parts of England. He complains 
of a burning pain at the part bitten, the limb swells and becomes 
discoloured within an hour or two, there is great prostration 
marked by sweating, vomiting, feeble pulse, and restlessness. 
The more acute symptoms usually pass off in the course of 
twelve to twenty-four hours, but in unhealthy persons the 
swelling increases ; there may be suppuration, and the bite then 
ends in a severe attack of inflammation of the tissues, known as 
cellulitis. 

In like manner stings from bees, wasps, hornets, and gnats, 
which are usually of small importance, may become serious, either 
from the bad condition of the patient's health, or from the 
position of the sting, as when the mouth or conjunctiva is 
affected. A tolerance is established for bee-stings and gnat- 
bites, as is shown by the very slight reaction which takes place 
in bee-keepers and the inhabitants of mosquito countries, as 
compared with the sufferings of a town-bred man who is stung by 
either of these insects. 



:v.] GARDENERS AND CANCER 



237 



In mushroom-poisoning the poisonous constituent is muscarin, 
a nitrogenous body allied to cholin. It causes vomiting, diarrhoea, 
and prostration, with convulsions and contraction of the pupil. 
Death may occur from syncope and failure of respiration, but 
such an ending is rare, except in children, because the vomiting 
)romotes the evacuation of the poison. Atropin is the physio- 
logical antidote, and a subcutaneous injection of as much as ^V 
to iV of a grain may be given hypodermically, whilst diffusible 
stimulants are administered by the mouth. 

(2) Gardeners appear to suffer from many of the affections 
:ommon to farm-labourers, except that as they receive higher 
[wages they are better clothed, better fed, and better housed, and 
iare thus able to withstand climatic changes more successfully. It 
l^is said, on the other hand, that gardeners are somewhat more liable 
to phthisis. Their work in hothouses causes them to catch cold 
more easily, and may thus increase any predisposition to infec- 
tion by the tubercle bacillus. The handling of such plants as the 
Primula obconica sometimes produces a very troublesome 
erythema of the skin, whilst constant contact with fresh soil 
allows greater opportunities of contracting tetanus. 

The Museum of St Bartholomew's Hospital contains an 
interesting specimen, showing that the epitheliomatous form of 
cancer sometimes follows the irritation produced by gardening. 
The specimen consists of the hand and part of the forearm 
removed on account of a growth covering nearly half the surface 
of the skin. The growth is warty, very vascular, superficially 
ulcerated, and with an everted sinuous edge. It bears a close 
resemblance to an ulcerated cancer of the scrotum in chimney 
sweepers. The patient was forty-nine years old. Five years 
before the amputation of his hand he was employed as a gardener 
in strewing soot over the ground for several mornings in succes- 
sion ; a warty growth then formed, and it increased and ulcerated 
in the spring of both the following years, whilst he was similarly 
employed. After this, though he was no longer in contact with 
soot, the disease increased until the limb was removed. He 
recovered completely after the operation. The case is related by 
Sir James Earle in his edition of Percivall Pott's works. 

Dupuytren's contraction of the palmar fascia is by no means 
uncommon in gouty and rheumatic gardeners as they become 
advanced in years. It is best treated by dissecting out the con- 
tracted bands, if this can be done without suppuration, the result- 
ing scar being afterwards kept supple by daily massage. 



238 AGRICULTURE; HORSES; CATTLE [chap. 

Horses. 

(3) Ostlers, Stablemen, and Cartinen. — This class of men, from 
their close attendance in stables, necessarily contract the diseases 
which are transmissible from horses to ourselves. Foremost 
amongst these diseases are glanders and farcy, of which I have 
seen several cases in veterinary students ; and tetanus, whose 
bacillus is said to live in the horse's intestines. 

Glanders, in its acute or generalised pya^mic form known as 
farcy, attacks grooms, ostlers, coachmen, knackers, and veterinary 
surgeons, because they are brought into contact with diseased 
animals. It has also been seen as a result of accidental infection 
in the pathological laboratory during the preparation of mallein ; 
in surgeons who have operated upon glandered patients, and even 
in washerwomen who have washed the clothes of those affected. 

Glanders occurs in an acute form which kills in eight to fifteen 
days, and a chronic form said to last as long as eleven years. 

Acute glanders in man has an incubation period of three to 
eight days, though the symptoms are occasionally delayed for 
three weeks, or they may appear within twenty-four hours, and 
suppuration may occur at the end of the second day. The 
patient complains of a general feeling of ill-health with headache, 
and such vague pains in the muscles and joints as lead him to 
think that he is about to have acute rheumatism. The symptoms 
increase in severity, and there is often sufficient gastro-intestinal 
disturbance associated with deafness and stupor to lead to an 
erroneous diagnosis of typhoid fever. The pulse is full and soft, 
beating 90 to 100 in a minute ; the skin is dry ; the mouth foul, 
and epistaxis is frequent. Swellings — " the farcy buds " — soon 
appear in the intermuscular planes near the joints on both sides 
of the body. The swellings are at first hard, but they quickly 
soften, point, burst, and leave large foul ulcers, which eventually 
contract into sinuses if the patient survive. The case may then 
be looked upon as one of chronic pyaemia, especially as rigors 
are numerous and severe, but all doubt as to the true nature of 
the disease is set at rest when the face becomes affected. The 
skin over the nose is reddened and swollen, whilst the mucous mem- 
brane is injected and discharges a foetid secretion, clear at first, but 
soon becoming yellow, purulent, viscid, and finally blood-stained. 
Ulceration of the nasal mucous membrane occurs less frequently 
in man than in the horse. The conjunctivae are often affected in 
a manner similar to the nasal mucous membrane, and the inflam- 




GLANDERS 239 



II 



matory condition spreads to the pharynx, palate, and glottis. 
Dyspnoea, with pleuritic pain, may be a marked symptom of the 
disease, extensive gangrene may occur, and death follows. 

Glanders is generally inoculated through a wound or abrasion, 
but the bacilli are able to penetrate to the uninjured lymphatics 
of the skin by way of the hair follicles, and in the case of two 
veterinary students who have been under my care the infection 
was directly traceable to their being sneezed over by a glandered 
horse they were examining. If a wound be the seat of infection 
it may heal, but in a day or two it becomes swollen and painful, 
an eruption of vesicles often appears round it, and the lymphatics 
become swollen and painful, though the glands are rarely affected. 
The skin, in some cases of farcy, shows erythematous patches like 
those of erysipelas or erythema nodosum. The patches become 
pustular or phlyctenular, or a pustular rash without umbilication 
may first be noticed. The latter form of rash is said to be of 
very grave significance, for recovery seldom if ever takes place 
when it makes its appearance. 

Glanders affects many animals besides horses, mules, and 
donkeys. It has been seen in lions, leopards, tigers, and bears 
in various menageries ; field-mice, guinea-pigs, and hedgehogs are 
highly susceptible. Infection may result not only from direct 
contact with the sick animal and its nasal discharge, but also from 
the pus, saliva, and milk. Food and drink may convey bacilli 
directly into the alimentary canal, which is thus affected primarily, 
the nasal mucous membrane becoming involved as part of a 
secondary process. 

Chronic glanders may last for years, the patient suffering from 
acute but intermittent attacks of fever, in one of which he may 
die, or from which he may wholly recover. The skin in these 
cases is often the part chiefly affected. It becomes swollen and 
cedematous, with nodules, which only appear in one part and 
break down into indolent ulcers. The ulcers heal and leave scars 
which, with the destruction of the septum of the nose and the 
ulceration of the pharynx and soft palate, sometimes raise a 
suspicion of syphilis. 

The disease depends upon the presence of the bacillus mallei 
and the toxic substances produced during its growth. The bacillus 
may be isolated from the abscesses, blood, enlarged skin follicles, 
and the ulcers. They are more easily recognised in properly 
stained ** smear preparations " than in sections, and are readily 
cultivated in three to five days on acid potato media at a 



240 AGRICULTURE; HORSES; CATTLE [chap. 

temperature of 35° to 37° C. as a brownish, moderately thick 
and opaque growth. The active principle of the growth is 
"mallein," which can be obtained as a syrupy fluid. Mallein 
injected into a glandered animal produces an inflammatory 
swelling at the seat of inoculation. The tumour is tense, 
painful, and very extensive. The lymphatics from the seat of 
inoculation to the neighbouring lymphatic glands become 
inflamed, and are painful, swollen, and sinuous. The local 
tumour increases in size for twenty-four to thirty-six hours, 
but does not suppurate unless septic organisms have been 
introduced at the time of the inoculation. It subsides slowly 
in eight to ten days. Inoculation is followed by a general 
reaction, which appears within eight hours of the time of injec- 
tion, reaches a maximum in ten to twelve hours, and lasts 
twenty-four hours. The animal shivers and sometimes has 
well-marked convulsions. The test is a very valuable one for 
latent glanders in horses, and as mallein diluted with ten times 
its volume of* a \ per cent, solution of carbolic acid preserves 
its qualities unimpaired for many months, it is now largely 
used in all parts of the world. A healthy horse either does 
not respond at all to a much larger dose of mallein than will 
affect a sick animal, or else a small swelling appears at the seat 
of inoculation, which only lasts for twenty-four hours. Glandered 
men, in the few cases where it has been employed, show the 
same reaction to mallein as glandered horses. The Straus 
test is also valuable in the diagnosis of glanders. It consists 
in diluting the suspected secretion with sterile water, which is 
then injected into the peritoneal cavity, and beneath the skin of 
male guinea-pigs. The testes appear to swell two or three 
days after the injection, and the animal dies in four to fifteen 
days with acute inflammation of the tunica vaginalis, the testicles 
and epididymis being only rarely affected. 

Acute farcy is very fatal, but 50 to 60 per cent, of the 
patients affected with chronic farcy recover. The treatment 
at present is most unsatisfactory. Stimulants and tonics must 
be given liberally. Every abscess must be opened and dis- 
infected as soon as possible, and benzoate of soda may be 
administered in drachm doses three or four times a day. In 
chronic cases marked improvement is said to have taken place 
after the continued injection of mallein in doses of 4-^ to ^^ c.c. 
at intervals of two or three days. 

Tetanus, often called lockjaw, is due to the poison produced 



XV.] TETANUS AND ITS MICRO-ORGANISM 241 



I 



by certain bacilli, which were first isolated by Kitasato, Tizzoni, 
and Cattani, in 1889. The micro-organisms are delicate threads 
with somewhat rounded ends, which reproduce by sporing. 
When the bacilli are about to spore one end becomes enlarged, 
and the organism resembles a pin or a drumstick. The spores 
are extremely* tenacious of life, they resist the effect of high 
temperatures for an unusual length of time, they survive a 
temporary immersion in strong antiseptic solutions, and they 
have been known to retain their vitality for more than twelve 
months if they are protected from light and air. The parent 
bacilli are widely distributed in garden earth, in dust, and in 
the excrement of animals, especially in those of the horse, for 
this animal seems to be their natural host. They have been 
found, therefore, in stables and in manured fields, and they 
have the power of growing outside the body. 

During their growth the baciUi produce a powerful poison, 
which is formed so slowly that it may take two or three 
weeks to produce its full effects. This poison is formed at the 
seat of inoculation, for the bacilli do not seem to travel far from 
the place where they are introduced, and it is generated more 
rapidly and abundantly in suppurating than in aseptic wounds. 
It produces its effect by a definite action upon the nervous 
system, and probably travels through the circulation, though 
there is still some doubt whether it does not reach the spinal 
cord by way of the nerves, so definite are some of its early 
effects. Tetanic symptoms can be produced by the inoculation 
of toxins, which have been purified of bacilli, and mice appear 
to be especially susceptible to the disease thus produced. 

It will be clear from what has been said that tetanus is by 
no means rare. It may ensue from a wound at any part of 
the body, the wound varying in severity from a total crush to 
a slight abrasion which has passed unnoticed, and the case is 
then looked upon as one of spontaneous origin. It is especially 
frequent after injuries of parts which are usually dirty, and is 
consequently somewhat more common after wounds of the hands 
and feet. Though gardeners, horse keepers, and agricultural 
labourers often suffer, I have repeatedly seen cases in people 
who have been run over, and inoculated with the foul mud of 
an ill-kept London street. Horses, sheep, and cattle are also 
liable to infection. But on the whole tetanus has become less 
frequent, since an attempt has been made to keep wounds 
aseptic, or at any rate to shorten the process of suppuration. 



242 AGRICULTURE; HORSES j CATTLE [chap. 

The onset of the disease is usually marked by a feeling of 
general uneasiness and depression, unless the wound is too 
severe to allow of this manifestation. The first symptoms 
usually consist of a feeling of stiffness or soreness about the 
jaws and throat, with some tonic contraction of the platysma- 
myoides, causing the risus sardonicus, which is particularly well 
marked when the patient is asked to protrude the tongue. 
Spasms of greater or less severity then occur in the voluntary 
muscles, the pain varying greatly in different patients, though 
it is usually less than that of ordinary cramp. The muscles, 
especially those of the abdominal wall, are in a state of persistent 
tension in the intervals between the attacks, the tension being 
reduced to a minimum during sleep or anaesthesia produced by 
artificial means. The intellect remains undisturbed unless there 
is much fever. Death takes place from exhaustion as early as the 
third day in acute cases, but it is often postponed for a fortnight 
or three weeks. 

The prognosis seems to vary with the rapidity of onset, for 
the mortality is great when the incubation is under ten days, 
whilst nearly half the patients recover if the symptoms do 
not appear for more than a fortnight after the injury. 

The treatment is largely prophylactic. A wound contracted 
under suspicious circumstances, as when other cases of tetanus 
have occurred in the same village or stable, should be immedi- 
ately rendered aseptic by a process of thorough cleansing. 
This is preferable to the use of the actual cautery, which leads 
to suppuration, and thus tends to increase the growth of the 
bacillus. When the initial symptoms appear, the injured part 
must be removed, as the wound is a local factory for the pro- 
duction of the nerve poison. Doses of antitoxin must be 
administered by hypodermic injection, and I prefer to do this 
by injecting it deeply info the gluteal muscles rather than 
into the brain or subarachnoid space, as is now the custom. 
The maximum dose of Tizzoni's antitoxin is 40 c.c, which is 
equivalent to 2,500,000 units. This large dose may be given 
at once, 5 c.c. injections being afterwards given two or three 
times a day until the tonic contraction of the muscles has 
disappeared. The antitoxin appears to cure the slighter cases, 
and it produces a temporary relief in the most severe, but all 
the severe cases I have seen have died in spite of treatment. 

Hydrophobia, the rabies of animals, is another form of 
poison acting upon the spinal cord, to which huntsmen and 



XV.] HYDROPHOBIA AND THE PASTEUR TREATMENT 243 

stablemen are peculiarly liable from the nature of their occu- 
pations. The pathology of the disease, however, is much less 
clearly understood than in the case of tetanus. Dogs, foxes, 
wolves, and cats ; horses, cows, and deer, may contract rabies 
and transmit it to man by the saliva, or more rarely by the 
milk ; whilst monkeys, rabbits, and guinea-pigs are susceptible 
to infection. The latent period appears to vary enormously, 
as its limits have been given as fourteen days to five years, 
though the ordinary incubation period seems to be from three 
to six weeks, the length of time depending upon the ease 
with which the poison reaches the nerve sheaths, and passes 
along them to the nerve centres in the medulla and upper 
part of the spinal cord. There is no doubt, however, that the 
poison of rabies can be absorbed from the uninjured mucous 
membranes of the body, especially from the conjunctivae and 
the nasal mucous membrane. 

In the cases which I have seen the symptoms have been 
preceded by two or three days of mental agitation and appre- 
hension without apparent cause. Hiccough and difficulty in 
swallowing were the earliest signs of the disease, and these 
slight symptoms of undue reflex irritability gradually increased 
until the whole body became convulsed, the patient's sufferings 
being increased by the viscid saliva, which he has attempted in 
vain to expectorate. Death took place suddenly either from 
cardiac failure or from spasm of the glottis. 

The Pasteur treatment offers the best chance of a cure to 
a person who has been inoculated with rabies. Its success 
depends upon the fact that the spinal cord of a rabbit dying 
of rabies contains the poison, which becomes progressively less 
virulent after death, if the cord be protected from decomposition 
by exposure to pure dry air, until on the fifteenth day it is 
harmless, and a solution of the cord may be injected into a 
susceptible animal without producing any effect. Successive 
inoculations of an animal already infected show that it is 
possible to establish a condition of complete tolerance, even 
for a strong dose of the poison previously introduced, though 
the process of inoculation has not been begun until five days 
or longer after the bite. The Pasteur treatment at the present 
time consists of a series of simple inoculations lasting fifteen 
days, during which emulsions from cords of fourteen to three 
days' desiccation are injected in doses of 3 to 2 c.c. at a time 
under the skin of the abdomen. There is also an "intensive" 



244 AGRICULTURE; HORSES; CATTLE [chap. 

method, for more serious cases, such as the bite of a mad wolf, 
or when the wounds have been on the face. In this method 
the number of injections which are usually spread over five 
days is compressed into three days, the whole duration of 
the treatment being twenty-one days, a fresh series of injec- 
tions being recommenced on the fourteenth day. Certain modi- 
fications of Pasteur's method have been adopted, notably the 
use of an antirabic serum from the dog, prepared by Babes 
of Bucharest, and an attenuated vaccine by a process of peptic 
digestion, recommended by Tizzoni and Centanni. 

As anthrax or charbon, sometimes known as splenic fever 
or malignant pustule, is considered elsewhere in this work, 
it is only necessary to state that the disease is due to the Bacillus 
anthracis^ which is readily communicated from domestic animals 
to man. It is met with in the following classes : (i) those who 
come into contact with living animals suffering from anthrax, 
as drovers, shepherds, farmers, farriers, and veterinary surgeons ; 
(2) those who touch the carcasses of animals that have died of 
anthrax, as knackers, slaughterers, and others ; (3) those who 
handle the offal, skins, hoofs, horns, hair, wools, and other deriva- 
tives from such diseased animals, as tanners, fell-mongers, wool- 
workers, hair-workers, horn-workers, rag-sorters, plasterers, furriers, 
felt-workers, brush-workers, mattress-makers, and so forth ; (4) in 
those who have a less direct connection with infective materials ; as, 
for instance, those who live in the neighbourhood of such manu- 
factories or occupations, for the disease may be carried by animals 
and insects ; (5) anthrax has been transmitted from person to 
person by accidental contact, and may be contracted at a post- 
mortem examination upon a patient or animal who has died 
of the disease. There is some reason for supposing that small 
meat-eaters are more susceptible to anthrax than those who are 
accustomed to much animal food. 

Influenza has long been known to occur in horses, and in 
several epidemics the disease has been observed to spread 
from these animals to their attendants. Mr Youatt first pointed 
out that influenza attacked horses in very local epidemics, so 
that the majority of horses on one side of a yard might be 
attacked, whilst there was not a single sick horse on the other 
side. These prevalences and exceptions are altogether un- 
accountable, but the probability of the disease is in tenfold 
ratio to the number of horses inhabiting a stable. Two or 
three shut up in a comparatively close stable would escape. 



XV.] CA VALR VMAN'S LEG AND RIDER'S SPRAIN ■ 245 

and out of thirty distributed through ten or fifteen little 
stables, not one would be affected. But in a stable contain- 
ing ten or twelve horses, although proportionately larger and 
better ventilated, the disease would assuredly appear, and when 
it enters one of the largest stables almost every horse is 
affected. Horsekeepers may also suffer from horsepox or " grease," 
a specific eruption transmissible from the horse to man, of 
which further details are given at page 246. 

Much riding early in life may produce a condition of knock- 
knee or bowed legs quite apart from rickets. Later in life, the 
tendon of the adductor longus muscle at its point of origin 
below the spine of the pubes, and more rarely the tendon of 
the adductor magnus, may become partially calcified, leading to 
the condition known as "cavalryman's leg," whilst the calcified 
portion is known as "rider's bone." A wrench or sprain of the 
adductors, "rider's sprain," is not an uncommon accident in 
the hunting-field. It leads to a very troublesome form of 
chronic inflammation, which may quite prevent riding exercise, 
and has proved the starting-point of a " rider's bone." " Rider's 
bursae" are described as occurring in the fold of the groin and 
on the inner side of the knee. They are probably enlargements 
of the ilio-psoas bursa or of the bursae situated between the 
semi-membranosus and semi-tendinosus tendons, or beneath the 
inner head of the gastrocnemius muscle, but I have never seen 
cases of either occurring in riders, though they are common 
enough in tuberculous patients. Popliteal aneurism is said to 
be somewhat more common in jockeys and grooms than in 
other persons, and these occupations lead also to an increased 
liability to fractures and dislocations. 



Cattle. 

(4) Butchers^ Slaughterers^ and Tanners. — Butchers and 
slaughterers suffer from an undue tendency to diseases of the 
throat and chest, because their occupation, at any rate in London, 
entails very early rising to attend market, their shops are usually 
quite open, and they are some of the few tradesmen who still cry 
their wares. Their wounds are very likely to become poisoned, 
and as they are often overfed and gross in habit, erysipelas is 
a common sequel of slight injuries. Many porters from the 
Metropolitan Meat Market apply annually at St Bartholomew's 
Hospital for the relief of hernia and ruptured muscles, which 



246 AGRICULTURE; HORSES; CATTLE [chap. 

they attribute to the strains produced by carrying heavy carcasses 
and to slipping on greasy pavements. The hospital practice 
seems also to contain a considerable proportion of cases of 
aneurism amongst the same class of men. 

It is said that the habit of eating tiny bits of raw meat from 
the chopping block sometimes causes butchers to become infected 
with the various parasitic worms, which can be transmitted in 
this way. Their meat-eating and beer-drinking habits, coupled 
with a sedentary occupation, must be held accountable for their 
obesity and for the frequency with which they suffer from gout. 

I do not know whether tanners are liable to any special 
diseases except anthrax, but in the business of leather-dressing 
which is carried on in connection with tanning, the various 
eruptions produced by aniline dyes are not uncommon, and there 
is some danger of arsenical poisoning from the use of orpiment. 

(5) Cowmen and Dairymaids. — Cowmen and dairymaids in 
those counties where they are brought into direct contact with 
cows as milkmaids, are liable to several diseases by reason of 
their occupations. Foremost amongst these, and of the greatest 
historical interest, is vaccinia or cowpox, though it is quite a 
rare complaint in English dairy farms. 

Vaccinia is a specific disorder occurring in epidemics amongst 
bovine animals. It is transmissible to the goat, dog, ass, camel, 
rabbit, guinea-pig, monkey, and with greater difficulty to the 
sheep. It is characterised in the cow by a local eruption almost 
exclusively confined to the udder and teats. The eruption passes 
through the successive stages of papule, vesicle, and pustule, the 
number of pocks always being few, and there is considerable 
constitutional disturbance. The lymph from the vesicles of a 
cow suffering from pox is sometimes inoculated on the hands 
of the milkers, when inflamed spots appear more particularly 
about the joints and tips of the fingers. The spots become 
vesicular, with a swollen, hard, and inflamed base. The axillary 
glands become inflamed, and the disorder is attended with some 
constitutional disturbance. An analogous condition in the horse 
is called "grease" or horsepox, and inoculation of the horse 
with cowpox will produce "grease." Cowpox in bovine animals 
and "grease" in horses can also be produced by inoculation 
with human smallpox. Both "grease" and cowpox are trans- 
missible to man by inoculation, both diseases render him to a 
certain extent immune to smallpox, and both render him less 
liable to a second attack of cowpox or horsepox. It appears 



XV.] INFECTIOUS DISEASES IN COWS . 247 

therefore that smallpox, cowpox, and horsepox are very 
closely allied to each other. They may be identical, the features 
being modified by transmission through different animals, or 
they may be descended from a common disease which was more 
akin to cowpox than smallpox. 

Tuberculosis is so common a disease in cows that it is no 
wonder if phthisis in their attendants sometimes derives its 
origin from a diseased animal. The disease, however, is much 
more often carried by the milk, and it is therefore a wise pre- 
caution to boil every drop of cow's milk for three minutes before 
it is given to a child or to one who is predisposed to consumption. 
I have seen local tuberculosis of the skin in one or two cases 
contracted by veterinary surgeons in the course of their duties. 
Free excision of the affected part has always been followed by 
prompt healing, and I have never known of any generalisation. 

Diphtheria is sometimes carried by milk, the infection being 
derived either by accidental contamination or from the cow itself. 
The symptoms of diphtheria in the cow are those of "chapped 
teats," viz., rise of temperature and an eruption on the udder and 
teats. The eruption begins as vesicles, which pass rapidly into 
pustules, scabs, or ulcers. When the disease is transmitted in this 
manner the cream and skim milk appear to be more dangerous 
than the new milk, probably because the organisms have a longer 
time to grow. Pigeons, turkeys, and cats have also been credited 
with the power of conveying diphtheria, and in the case of cats 
the accusation is proved. 

There is good reason, too, for thinking that cows suffer from 
scarlet fever, and that the disease is transmitted by their milk, for 
in no other way is it possible to account for local epidemics of 
scarlet fever which have been traced to large dairy farms. 

Cows certainly suffer from ringworm, and the tinea is trans- 
ferred to those who lean their heads against them in the act of 
milking. 

Foot and mouth disease is highly contagious amongst ruminants 
and pigs. It has often been transmitted to man, usually by the 
milk of cows suffering from the disease, sometimes by the butter, 
but most often by direct contact with diseased beasts. Milkmaids, 
cowmen, shepherds, and veterinary surgeons are thus especially 
liable to infection. The disease, as it occurs in man, is ushered in 
by rigors, diarrhoea, and some rise of temperature. On the second 
or third day a vesicular eruption appears on the gums and tongue, 
and it may also occur on the fingers or other seat of inoculation. 



248 AGRICULTURE; HORSES; CATTLE [chap. 

Fortunately the disease as it occurs in man is not serious, and 
recovery usually takes place spontaneously in the course of a 
fortnight. 

Actinomycosis. — This disease is sometimes derived by inocula- 
tion from cattle affected with the fungus, but it comes more often 
from infected grain. The symptoms are those of a chronic 
abscess affecting the skin, mucous membranes, or viscera, 
especially the lungs, liver, and ileo-caecal portion of the intestine, 
where it is liable to be mistaken for appendicitis. It appears on 
the skin in the form of numerous globular masses, which are soft 
and spongy, and have an indurated erythematous base. Pus 
which contains the yellow granules characteristic of the disease 
exudes from the ulcerating points. The disease runs a very 
chronic course, which is shortened, and the patient cured by 
enormous doses of iodide of potassium. Doses of a drachm may 
be given three or four times a day, and the patient not only shows 
no symptoms of iodism, but improves markedly in general health. 

(6) Shepherds suffer by reason of their occupation in two ways. 
They are of necessity closely associated with dogs, and are thus 
more liable to hydatids and rabies, whilst from the sheep they 
obtain flukes, and in the process of dipping they may suffer from 
arsenical poisoning. 

A hydatid is the asexual and cystic form of the Tcsnia 
echinococcus, a small tapeworm consisting of three segments, 
found in the intestines of dogs and wolves. The fertilised ova are 
swallowed with impure water or with uncooked vegetables, like 
lettuce and watercress, fouled by the excreta of infected dogs. 
The hydatid cyst develops slowly in any part of the human body. 
It is most common in the liver and intermuscular connective 
tissues, but it is not unusual to find a hydatid cyst in the lungs, 
kidneys, pelvis, and brain, and I have seen specimens in which the 
vertebrse and os innominatum were involved. The symptoms 
are very obscure, and are usually dependent upon the amount of 
pressure exercised by the tumour. There is sometimes a char- 
acteristic hydatid thrill, but its absence does not invalidate the 
diagnosis. For practical purposes the cyst is composed of two 
layers, an external or adventitious covering formed by irritation 
from the tissues of the host, and the soft and white but tough 
internal cyst, filled with a limpid fluid, containing the characteristic 
hooklets. The inner lining of this cyst develops daughter cysts 
by a process of budding, though it is sometimes sterile. 

The treatment is essentially surgical. Whenever it is possible 




SHEPHERDS' DOGS AND PARASITIC WORMS ■ 249 

the tumour should be freely exposed, the fibrous cyst opened, the 
fluid contents removed, and the whole endocyst withdrawn. The 
edges of the ectocyst may then be sutured, and the external wound 
closed if union by first intention can be practically guaranted. But 
if there is any doubt as to the probability of securing asepsis it is 
better to free the edges of the outer cyst from its attachment to 
the surrounding organs, and then suture it to the sides of the 
external opening without including the skin. The cavity usually 
has to be plugged after the removal of a hydatid from the liver. 

It is not supposed that the liver fluke, or Distonia hepaticuin, 
is transmitted from the sheep to man, as is the hydatid from the 
dog to the man, but it is probable that the shepherd has become 
the involuntary host of the distoma in the same way as the sheep, 
by drinking water containing the amphibious snail {Limnceus 
trunculatus)^ which is the true intermediate host of the liver fluke 
in the sheep. This trematode worm has been found in subcu- 
taneous abscesses more often than in the human liver. The 
treatment, when possible, consists in opening the abscess and 
thoroughly scraping out its contents, for they show a great 
tendency to refill. 

Pig-keepers. — It does not appear that pig-keepers suffer from 
any particular diseases by reason of their occupation. It is possible 
that where only a few animals are kept and are afterwards eaten 
by the owners there may be some increased liability to trichini- 
asis, which is an inflammatory state of the voluntary muscles due 
to the irritation produced by the presence of the nematode worm, 
Trichina spiralis. I recently saw a young lady who was suffering 
from a chronic trichinosis. She had numerous hard masses 
beneath the skin of her legs, which were locally irritable when 
they first appeared, though they soon ceased to give trouble. At 
first it was thought that the tumours were multiple fibromata, but 
on cutting one out and submitting it to microscopic examination 
it was found to contain encapsuled trichinae. 

D'Arcy Power. 



CHAPTER XVI 

ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS 

This article is simply an attempt to apply expert knowledge to 
the practical purpose of safeguarding those employed in electrical 
works. The writer was a member of the Home Office Committee 
on Dangerous Trades, and of necessity much that now appears is 
a repetition of what was presented by that Committee in its Second 
Interim Report in 1897. It is satisfactory to record that many of 
the suggestions offered by the Committee have been accepted 
without hesitation and acted upon. 

The generation and distribution of electrical energy, so far as 
it relates to the health and safety of the workers, may be con- 
sidered under the following heads : — 

{a) The risk of shock by accidentally coming in contact with 
conductors at high pressure, whether in generating or transformer 
stations. 

{b) The fencing of all mill-gearing and machinery used for the 
conversion of mechanical into electrical energy. 

(c) The health of the operatives. 

Before dealing with these specific points it may be desirable to 
state in general terms what is meant by " generating and trans- 
former stations." A generating station is a place in which, by the 
aid of steam, gas, water, or other source of power, mechanism is used 
for driving dynamos, which are machines for converting mechani- 
cal into electrical energy, whether for producing light, driving 
machinery, running railways, tramcars ; for depositing metals, 
plating, welding, heating, etc., etc., or for charging storage batteries. 

Transformer stations vary in size from buildings of considerable 
proportions to mere cellars, or even boxes too small for entry. In 
such places are found appliances for the conversion of small cur- 
rent at high pressure to large current at low pressure, or vice versa. 
Stationary transformers are used for alternating currents, while 
rotary converters or transformers, requiring more room and 
attention, are necessary for direct currents. 




CHAP. XVI.] ELECTRICAL CURRENTS • 251 

To appreciate the risks hereafter described, a statement in the 
most elementary terms now follows, showing how mechanism can 
produce the foregoing results. 

A conductor of electricity, e.g., a piece of copper wire made to 
traverse a magnetic field (that is, the space between the poles of a 
magnet), has an electro-motive force, or difference of electric 
pressure, set up in its ends, which depends upon its length in the 
field, its velocity, and the strength of the field, being in fact 
proportionate to the product of these three. As the move- 
ment cannot continue in a limited field in one direction 
indefinitely, it must be reversed, thus causing a reversal in 
the electrical state of the ends. If the ends slide on station- 
ary conductors, these too will share the electrical state of 
the ends, and alternating current will pass between these 
stationary conductors if they are joined by a conducting wire. 
This current will be greater as the difference of pressure is 
greater and as the electrical resistance of the conducting 
circuit is less. In order to increase the effect of a moving 
conductor, its length may be increased by suitable windings, 
the arrangement of which, however, cannot be described in 
these pages. The effectiveness, moreover, is enormously in- 
creased by winding over a laminated iron core, which greatly 
increases the magnetic force. If, instead of connecting the 
ends to sliding contact rings from which an alternating 
current is taken off by stationary contact brushes, the ends of 
a number of coils are joined to a series of insulated commutator 
bars, it is possible by suitable connections so to arrange that 
all the coils remain in action and that the points of the 
commutator rubbed by the fixed conducting brushes do not 
change in their electrical pressure, so that a direct {i.e., non- 
alternating) current is the result. This is desirable for arc 
lighting, and is essential for charging batteries and generally 
for effecting chemical change. 

Dynamos of many forms are made. Sometimes the field 
magnets revolve, the armature being stationary, but usually 
the reverse is the case. In some machines there are two poles 
only, in others, many. The main principle, however, is the 
same in all. 

When the direction of the current is not commutated, it 
will, in consequence of the rapid revolution of the armature, 
alternate or change its direction very frequently, 100 alter- 
nations in a second being not uncommon. The currents produced 



252 ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS [chap. 

may be classed as low pressure, high pressure, and extra high 
pressure. Currents at low pressure distributed from generating 
stations are invariably direct. High pressure currents are 
distributed either as direct or alternating. One, if not more, 
extra high pressure station in Great Britain supplies alternating 
current. 

Opinions differ as to the pressure at which these currents 
become dangerous. The recommendation made by the 
Committee before referred to was to the effect that currents 
should be considered dangerous at 700 volts direct, and 350 
alternating ; and that all metal conductors carrying a current 
equal to or greater than this should be deemed to be at high 
pressure. It is from currents at high pressure that we may 
expect special danger to life from shocks caused by parts of 
the body coming in contact with conductors differing con- 
siderably in pressure, not necessarily metal conductors, for 
one contact may be with earth, especially if the ground is 
damp. American experts have laid down that the pressure 
which may be relied upon to cause death is 1500 volts. 
According to this standard, the Home Office Committee would 
appear to have erred on the side of extreme caution. Subse- 
quent events, however, have proved that this is hardly the 
case. Possibilities fore-shadowed in section 19 of its report 
have almost literally been realised in a large factory at 
Bradford, where a lad, aged nineteen, engaged in doing 
repairs, came in contact with a frame of an arc lamp. He 
was working in a warm cellar, his boots were damp, and, 
unhappily, he stood upon an earthed metal plate. The frame 
of the lamp accidentally touched formed part of the circuit. 
A leakage from the positive brush to the dynamo-frame, 
which was earthed, created a short circuit between the frame 
of the dynamo and the frame of the lamp, the man forming 
a part of the circuit. A direct current, of 250 volts only, 
passed through his feet, probably through his heart, causing 
death. It is much to be regretted that artificial respiration, 
as recommended by eminent authorities and described in the 
report of the Committee, was not attempted. An article 
published in Nature of 23rd August 1900, gives in detail 
a description of experiments carried out by Professor H. F. 
Weber, of the Zurich Polytechnic, to decide what pressure 
is dangerous on electric railways with overhead trolley wires. 
These experiments were undertaken owing to a dissension. 



r 

f XVI.] 



PROFESSOR WEBER'S PERSONAL EXPERIMENT 253 



between a firm of electrical engineers and the Baden authori- 
ties, as to the proper pressure to be used for two electric 
railways to be worked by the 3-phase alternating current 
The details showing the physiological effects on the human 
body are highly interesting, Professor Weber allowing himself 
to be the medium of the experiments, and constituting himself 
the measuring instrument. Two series of experiments were 
made. In the first, a person seized the two bare leads with 
both hands simultaneously, or both of the leads fell upon a , 
bare part of the human body. In the second, a bare part of 
a person standing on the railway, or on a car, came into 
contact with one of the leads. Professor Weber draws the 
following conclusions : — 

"A simultaneous touching of both of the poles of an alternating current 
circuit is dangerous as soon as the pressure exceeds 100 volts ; and since it is 
impossible to set one's self free, the case must be regarded as fatal whenever 
immediate help is not at hand." 

" These results," continues the article, " are consistent with 
several disasters which have happened in practical life. 

"In 1896, in Horgen (Switzerland), a man, to prevent himself 
falling from a ladder, seized with both his hands two non- 
insulated leads with a P.D. of 240 volts between them, and 
was immediately killed. In a mine in Silesia, a workman seized 
in the same manner some non-insulated leads and was killed, on 
account of his being unable to release them, the P.D. being 300 
volts. In the Electric Central Station in Olten, a workman, 
desirous of proving to his companions that a pressure of 500 volts 
was quite safe, seized both of the leads and was killed instantly. 
From this it is obvious that the general opinion of a pressure 
of 500 volts not being dangerous does not hold good, the limit 
being much lower. In spite of the great number of disasters which 
have already happened, the danger does not seem to have been 
generally appreciated, and workmen and erectors are often 
seen to deal with leads and apparatus of relatively high pressures 
in the most careless manner. That disasters have not taken 
place oftener may be due to the fact that in most cases help 
has been readily at hand." 

In the second series of experiments the person is supposed 
to stand on one of the poles itself, namely, the earth, being 
rather well insulated by means of his shoes. In this case the 
conclusion arrived at is that — 

" To touch one of the poles is not dangerous as long as the pressure does 



254 ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS [chap. 

not exceed about looo volts ; the intense stinging which appears at the first 
slight touching serves as a protection against the danger, for the hand is 
instinctively drawn back rapidly. 

" The main result of these experiments is, then, that all pressures between 
I GO and I GOO volts must be regarded as equally dangerous, and consequently 
there is no reason for not using the higher pressures between 5GG and igog 
volts, especially as they lead to greater economy in the working of the electric 
railway. Further, there is only a very little chance of the passengers or other 
persons coming into contact with both of the leads. To this danger the 
employes only are exposed, and being generally people with some electric 
training, they are acquainted with the danger, and may be supposed to be 
sufficiently careful." 

It is of interest to note that the authorities, after the 
investigation, decided upon allowing a working pressure of 
750 volts. Both series of experiments relate to alternating 
currents. 

There is perhaps no better method of impressing upon 
people the dangers of electric shock than by stating briefly, 
as under, some of the fatal accidents that have happened during 
the last few years in electrical stations, factories, and other 
places in the United Kingdom. Fatalities in transformer stations 
will be separately noticed. The voltages in most cases were from 
2000 to 2400; in one case 1000, and in another (a high 
pressure station) 10,000: — 

1. Touching exposed terminals when manipulating a switch 
at a generating station. 

2. Accidentally grasping an insufficiently protected volt meter 
wire. 

3. When up a ladder in a central station, deceased accidentally 
came in contact with a highly charged metal conductor. 

4. When oiling the bearing of an alternating machine, and 
using a metal can, the can came in contact with a highly charged 
conductor. Deceased had one hand on a metal rail intended 
for the protection of the machinery. The current passed through 
the metal can, through his body, and thence to earth. 

5. When doing repairs at the back of a switch at a central 
station, deceased accidentally touched two metallic connections 
varying greatly in pressure. 

6. When a workman was carrying an iron ladder in a factory 
the ladder touched a highly charged conductor in an arc lamp 
circuit, the current passing to earth through the body of 
deceased. 

7. Whilst performing test operations at an electrical station. 



1 



XVI.] FA TALITIES CA USED B V ELECTRIC IT V ^ 255 

8. An operative was putting some capping on a casing in an 
electric lighting works. Inadvertently he drove a screw through 
the insulation of a cable then " dead." The current was turned 
on. The operative touched the screw head and at the same 
time an adjacent water-pipe. The current passed from the screw 
through his body and the water-pipe to earth. (A brother 
of this man was killed in a transformer chamber.) 

9. An operative, when at work in a factory, accidentally 
stumbled, and seized hold of a wire stay supporting a pole 
of an arc lamp. There must have been a defect in the insulation, 
and this stay was highly charged, the man being killed 
instantaneously. 

10. When covering wires leading to a switch, deceased fell 
across the terminals of one of the machines. 

11. By accidentally touching a synchronising switch in a 
generating station when doing repairs. The current passed 
through deceased's body to an iron column that he happened to 
be touching at the same time. 

12. A boy employed in a large steel factory accidentally came in 
contact with the frame of an arc lamp lowered for the purpose of 
recarbonising. 

1 3. An operative employed in iron-works accidentally touched a 
wire used for raising and lowering an electric arc lamp. He was 
found on his back in a weighing-cabin. Another workman 
thought that he was in a fit, and went to his assistance. Both 
men received fatal shocks. 

14. At an extra high pressure generating station an operative 
was found dead on the floor. Medical evidence tended to show 
the difficulty of stating with certainty whether the man died 
from shock or from heart disease. The coroner's jury, however, 
found that death was due to asphyxia produced by electric 
shock. 

Our attention may now be turned to fatalities in transformer 
stations, or boxes in which alternating currents at high pressure 
are converted to large currents at low pressure. A dangerous 
pressure is found in the main conductors, this being reduced by 
causing induced current in the consumer's circuit, the strength 
depending upon the proportion of the windings in the primary 
and the secondary circuits, the secondary being in no way 
metallically connected with the high pressure main. Under these 
circumstances, and under normal conditions, the safety of the 
consumer should be secured. That, unhappily, cannot be said so 



2 56 ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS [chap. 

far as relates to the workers, whose duties take them near the 
transforming apparatus. It is undesirable to give names, places, 
or dates, but the following brief summary of fatal accidents that 
have happened during recent years in transformer stations may be 
relied upon as being generally accurate. Many non-fatal accidents 
have happened, but these are not noticed. 

1. Attempting to assist a servant of an electrical company, 
who was working in a cellar on the consumer's premises, and who 
received a severe but not fatal shock. 

2. Killed when pulling back the slack of a main wire in a 
street surface-box. 

3. Accidental contact with undischarged and unfenced omnibus 
bar in high pressure distributing station. 

4. A second accident of the same kind as the last foregoing, 
and at the same station. 

5. Killed when dusting a high pressure fuse in a cellar 
transformer. 

6. Contact with dangerously placed terminals at a transformer 
chamber in a cellar. 

7. Accidentally touching a high pressure terminal when 
cleaning or repairing in a street transformer chamber. 

8. Touching a highly charged transformer frame in a street 
chamber. Defective insulation in the main conductor led to 
leakage and to the frame becoming highly charged. 

9. When descending by an iron ladder to a street transformer 
chamber, the operative came in contact with a highly charged 
frame of a transformer. 

10. Two workmen were removing a transformer from a 
corporation sub-station. They accidentally put on a wrong 
switch. The exposed ends of the cable, which were in contact 
with the transformer frame, caused the frame to become highly 
charged. Two men touching the frame were killed, others were 
seriously injured. 

11. A workman, when making a connection in a corporation 
sub-station, came in contact with the bared ends of a highly 
charged cable. 

12. Killed by grasping an imperfectly insulated connection in 
a street transformer pit. 

Such accidents are not confined to operatives. The following 
are known to have been due to electric shock. At Bournemouth, 
'bus horses outside a hotel fell down dead. At Norwich, dogs that 
passed a certain spot uttered an unearthly howl. At Hartlepool 






XVI.] DETAILS OF FATAL ACCIDENTS ^ 257 

an overhead wire broke, killing a horse. Two cabmen who 
came to the rescue received severe shocks. The Matin of 27th 
January 1897 describes how two horses were suddenly struck 
down by the current from a subterranean cable used for running 
an electrical tram. In Dublin a gentleman was standing close to 
an electric lamp in the street, which he states paralysed him, 
causing him to fall " like a lump of lead." Others going to his 
assistance received shocks similar to those of the two cabmen at 
Hartlepool. The Melbourne Argus records a fatality to a young 
man who climbed a pole supporting a heavily charged wire, 
which he touched. "This," says the Argus, "is not the first 
terrible accident which has happened in connection with the 
lighting of the city and suburbs. At the Richmond works of the 
New Australian Electric Light Company, whose wires were con- 
cerned in Saturday's fatality, a workman or overseer was killed in- 
stantaneously through touching a " live " wire. Another, who was 
engaged in the A. U. Alcock works in the city was more fortunate. 
He seized a wire with one hand to prevent himself from falling, 
and was so seriously shocked by the current that he could not let 
go. Another workman, observing his predicament, cut the wire, 
and he fell to the ground. A third and even more remarkable 
case than the others occurred some time ago in Russell Street. 
There had been a violent storm, and a post carrying electric 
lighting wires had been blown to the ground. In the fall some 
of the wires broke and trailed across the footway. A pedestrian 
idly picked up the end of one of the broken wires. In a moment 
he was kicking and plunging upon the ground, unable to release 
his hold of the wire. Another pedestrian, who saw the accident, 
and who recognised that it was a struggle with death, hastened to 
the rescue, and attempted with all his strength and both his hands 
to drag the first man into safety. His good heart cost him his 
life." 

Enough has been said to show that a shock, whether from a 
direct or an alternating current at high pressure, is highly 
dangerous to life, many authorities being of opinion that the 
alternating is the more deadly current of the two. 

Where a direct current is transformed, it is done by 
mechanical appliances. The risks to operatives in such a case 
include those that are incurred where machinery is left 
unguarded ; but in dealing with alternating currents no mechanism 
is used, and the risk is confined to the danger from shock. The 
cases quoted show, better than detailed explanations, the manner 

R 



258 ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS [chap. 

in which these shocks are received, and it cannot be out of place 
to urge the importance of insisting on all known precautionary 
measures for the protection of those whose duties take them into 
transformer stations. The number of such places increases year 
by year, and they are likely to increase to a greater extent in 
these days, when induction motors, driven by alternating currents, 
are so rapidly coming in favour for running machinery in 
factories. Modern science has shown that the alternating current 
can be used in this manner, and that by substituting the alternat- 
ing for the direct current, power may be economically conveyed 
for considerable distances, the advantages of the alternating 
current being the ready conversion of high to low pressure, and 
hence the saving of copper in the conducting wires, the further 
saving of the cost of brushes and commutators, whilst the absence 
of "sparking" lessens the risk of fire, and the non-har^dling of 
brushes, etc., reduces the danger of shock. These advantages 
were referred to and summarised in the report of Mr Bremner 
Davis, reproduced in the Report of the Chief Inspector of 
Factories for the year 1898. 

Science has not yet explained what is the mystic force known 
as " electricity." Its effects, however, are known. How the human 
system is affected by contact with a conductor charged with 
electricity at high pressure has been fully considered by eminent 
scientific men, such as Drs D'Arsonval, Goelet, Hedley, and Lewis 
Jones, to whom the public are indebted for suggestions on which 
were based the excellent rules published by the Electrical Review, 
for dealing with apparent death from electric shock. A copy of 
these suggestions is appended, and one should be found and 
understood in all places where electricity is used. 

The highly interesting question as to how death from electric 
shock is caused, is ably dealt with by Professor Thomas Oliver, 
who in an article published in the British Medical Journal of 
15th January 1898, placed the public in possession of knowledge 
gained by experiments and long and careful study. He believes 
that electricity kills either by suddenly arresting respiration, or by 
stopping the heart's action. A series of experiments carried out 
by him showed that in most instances the effect of the electric 
shock was felt principally by the heart. This organ immediately 
ceased to beat where very high pressure currents were used, whilst 
breathing might continue a few minutes longer. Within the last 
few months, Drs Prevost and Battelli, of the Geneva University, 
have instituted a fresh series of experiments, and they have found 



I 



XVI.] CAUSE OF DEATH FROM ELECTRIC SHOC^ 259 

that whether the direct or the alternating current is used, death 
comes, practically speaking, in the manner stated by Dr Oliver, 
viz., by paralysis of the heart. Dogs were in this way immediately 
killed, and yet the breathing continued for a few minutes after- 
wards. When fairly high voltages were employed, e.g. 550 volts, 
these experimenters found that the heart was suddenly arrested 
by one shock, and that, while the breathing was at the same time 
suspended for a few seconds, respiration gradually returned in a 
feeble and superficial manner, and soon finally ceased. 

After all, the main question is, how to avoid death from electri- 
city ; and the obvious reply is, avoid shock. This is no simple 
matter, but to some extent a solution is found in the recom- 
mendations made by the Home Office Committee, which were 
largely based upon the opinions of Professor C. V. Boys (a 
member of the Committee), and other eminent electricians. 
These recommendations are here reproduced in appendix form. 
In the light, however, of fresh experience showing that an artisan 
w^orking in a factory was killed by direct current at 250 volts, 
prudence may hereafter suggest that precautions should be taken 
in places where the voltage is lower than that named by the 
report. 

The operatives engaged in electrical works do not appear to 
be subject to any exceptional risks so far as health is concerned ; 
but those who work where plates for storage-batteries are manu- 
factured, or who subsequently manipulate the plates, are liable to 
suffer from plumbism. Special Rules founded upon the recom- 
mendations of the Home Office Committee appointed in 1893, ^^^^ 
known as the " White Lead Committee," were issued by the Home 
Office. These apply to electric accumulator works, and require the 
provision of bath and lavatory accommodation, hot and cold water, 
soap, brushes, towels, respirators, and over-all suits for persons 
employed in mixing dry red lead and dry litharge, and gloves and 
aprons for persons engaged in " rubbing," that is, rubbing red lead 
into the interstices of the lead plates. 

Rooms in which accumulator batteries are found are always 
well-ventilated, preventing any undue accumulation of oxygen 
and hydrogen gas given off during the charging process, but in 
electric launches or tramcars, where the accumulator cells are 
shut up in confined spaces, dangerous explosions have taken 
place. 

So far as the fencing of machinery and mill-gearing used in the 
generation of electricity is concerned, common sense points to 



26o ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS [chap. 

precautions being taken, such as are required in all factories. All 
dangerous mill-gearing, such as cranks and fly-wheels of engines, 
shafting, wheels, drums, pulleys, etc., for communicating the first 
moving power to the machines, should be securely fenced. In 
doing this, however, special care should be observed lest in remov- 
ing one source of danger another may be created. In ordinary 
factories fencing-rails are almost universally of metal. These rails 
in generating stations should be of wood or other insulating 
material ; for should, perchance, an operative make an accidental 
contact with metal at high pressure in the circuit, at the same time 
touching any part of a metal rail, the current would pass through 
his body to earth, always assuming that the rails are not sufficiently 
insulated from the earth. Such accidents have happened, and are 
liable to occur again, to men engaged in oiling bearings, adjusting 
brushes, cleaning commutators, collector-rings, etc., the risk of 
course being increased should any defect in insulation cause the 
current to run to frame. Terrible fatalities due to unfenced 
machinery have occurred in generating stations, as in other works, 
none more painful perhaps than one that happened to an engine- 
driver at an Electric Supply Company's works, who, when examin- 
ing bearings, fell into some part of the machinery driven by a 
7000 horse-power engine, and was torn to pieces. 

As time goes on, there appears to be a fuller realisation of the 
dangers incurred, and it is not too much to expect that those in 
positions of responsibility will heartily co-operate with public 
officials in taking precautions suggested by prudence and 
common sense. 



APPENDIX I. 

The following recommendations were made by the Dangerous 
Trades Committee of the Home Office. For the purposes of 
these regulations a station where the direct current generated is 
at 700 volts or any higher number, or where the alternating 
current generated is at 350 volts or any higher number, shall be 
considered a "high pressure station," and all metal conductors, 
whether they be on the dynamos, the switchboard, the mains, or 
any other part of the station carrying a current at a pressure equal 
to or greater than that above mentioned, shall be deemed to be at 
" high pressure." 

The Committee recommend that the following regulations 




I 



XVI.] REG ULA TIONS OF DANGERO US TRADES COMMITTEE 26 r 

should be applied in all those cases mentioned in paragraph i 
where electricity at high pressure is in use. It is not intended 
that they should be applied to low pressure systems : — 

1 . The frames and bed plates of all generating machines shall be efficiently 
connected to earth. 

2. The rails fencing dynamos, or other generating machines, shall be made 
of wood or other non-conducting material. 

3. All terminals, collecting brushes, main connectors, parts of dynamos, 
motors or other appliances, to which neither Regulation No. (6) nor No. (7) 
applies, shall be so placed, covered, or fenced with non-conducting materials, 
that no person can touch accidentally, either with his body, clothing, or any 
conducting tool, two parts differing from each other by an amount which con- 
stitutes a high pressure. This rule is to be read in connection with No. 4. 

4. The floors of all places where it would be possible to make connection 
with metal at high pressure shall be covered with an insulating mat of suitable 
material and kept in a state of efficient insulation. 

5. The material use for wiping or cleaning the commutator strips or collector 
rings of dynamos, motors, or rotary converters of any form shall be applied by 
means of an insulating handle. 

6. In switchrooms and on the front of switchboards, the main switches, 
main fuses, main terminals, omnibus bars, and all other metallic parts shall be 
insulated or arranged in such manner as to render it impossible for any person 
by accident or inadvertence to touch them. 

7. The backs of all switchboards shall be kept closed, except for the purpose 
of alterations or repairs. When such work has to be carried on either at the 
back or at the front of switchboards, the following regulations shall apply : — 

{a) No person except a skilled electrician, or a workman under his personal 
and immediate supervision, shall be employed when any part is at 
high pressure. 

{b) No extensive or serious repairs shall be executed upon metal which is 
at high pressure. 

(c) Where the alterations or repairs are not of an extensive or serious 
character, all metallic parts at high pressure shall be covered with an 
insulating cap or protected by some form of insulating covering, only 
one part, or several at the same pressure, to be exposed at any one 
time. 

8. All switchboards erected after the application of these Rules shall have, 
at the back, a clear space of at least four feet. This space shall not be utilised 
as"a store room or lumber room, or be obstructed in any manner. 

9. Any person at work upon a cable or portion of the mains under high 
pressure shall wear indiarubber gloves on both hands. 

10. All aerial high pressure conductors in factories or workshops shall either 
be insulated over their entire length, and supported at such frequent intervals 
that, in the event of breakage, they shall not come within reach at places where 
persons are liable to pass or to be employed, or shall be so placed and arranged 
as to comply with the requirements relating to such wires in streets enjoined by 
the Board of Trade. 



262 ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS [chap. 

11. The gloves shall be supplied by the occupier, and it shall be the duty of 
the manager to see that they are in a proper state of repair, and are worn by the 
workpeople. 

12. No examinations, repairs, or alterations necessitating the handling of 
mains, wires, machines, or other apparatus, shall be carried on except in cases 
of urgent necessity while such parts are under high pressure, and all such work 
shall be done under the personal supervision of an electrical engineer or com- 
petent manager or foreman. 

13. Where operations are being conducted upon mains from which the 
current has been cut off, the switch shall be locked and precautions taken that 
it shall not be unlocked except by the person in charge of the station on his 
being satisfied that the danger is at an end. 

14. Every vessel used for lubricating purposes shall be so constructed that 
it cannot act as a conductor between the hand and anything touched. 

15. Metal transformer boxes shall be efficiently connected to earth, and so 
constructed that in the event of " running to frame " the earth connection will 
not be broken by the removal of the fuse box or any other part of the box. 

16. Transformer cases, iron ladders, and all permanent metallic parts con- 
tained within the transformer chamber, and not forming part of the electric 
circuit, shall be metallically connected together. 

17. All holes in transformer cases, through which high pressure conductors 
pass, shall be lined or bushed with suitable and effective non-conducting 
material. 

18. All high pressure connections within a transformer chamber shall be so 
protected with insulating material that it shall be impossible to touch them. 

19. Switches which can be conveniently operated from the outside for 
cutting off both the high and low pressure connections of the transformers shall 
be fitted in all transformer chambers erected after the application of these 
Rules, and in all existing chambers, unless it is proved to the satisfaction of 
Her Majesty's Chief Inspector of Factories that such an arrangement would be 
attended by special difficulty. 

20. Each post or support where series arc lighting is employed shall be 
provided with means for completely disconnecting the arc lamps from the 
mains, without disturbing the action of the other lamps. 

21. All persons engaged in electrical works shall be made fully aware of the 
dangerous parts of the machinery, cables, and their connections, and shall be 
practically instructed in methods of artificial respiration — that known as 
Sylvester's is both simple and efficacious. Rules for artificial respiration, and 
for the restoration of persons apparently killed or injured, shall at all times be 
kept affixed in the station. All persons engaged in the works shall thoroughly 
understand these rules and be capable of putting them into practice. In the 
event of a person being rendered unconscious by an electric shock, artificial 
respiration shall, on the careful removal of the body from its electrical contact, 
be at once resorted to, and a qualified medical man immediately summoned. 

22. All accidents occurring in generating stations or transformer chambers 
shall be notified according to the provision of section 18 of the Factory and 
Workshop Act, 1895. 

The Committee feel that any set of special rules framed for the safety of the 
workpeople in this industry must imperfectly realise their object if a specially 



xvi.j TREATMENT OF PERSONS APPARENTLY KILLED 263 

qualified person be not retained to advise the Secretary of State or Her 
Majesty's Chief Inspector of Factories on matters requiring technical know- 
ledge of electricity. 

H. J. Tennant. 

May Tennant. 

Thomas Oliver, M.D. 

C. V. Boys. 

H. P. Smith. 



APPENDIX II. 

The " Electrical Review's " Suggestions for dealing with Apparent 
Death from Electric Shock. 

The following suggestions are based on the recommendations 
of Drs D'Arsonval, Goelet, Hedley, and Lewis Jones, for the 
treatment of persons apparently killed by electricity : — 

Apparent Death. — In many cases where persons receive ^ectric shocks, 
death is only apparent, and animation may be restored if efforts at resuscitation 
are not too long delayed. 

Method of Remscitation. — The method of resuscitation resorted to should be 
that known as artificial respiration. 

Efforts to induce respiration should not be relaxed until breathing is fully 
and normally restored, or until it is absolutely certain that life is extinct. 

Danger of Seizing t?ie Victivi's Body. — If the accident has been due to con- 
tact with a " live " or faulty cable, the injured person may retain a grasp of it. 
When the injured person retains his hold of the cable it is dangerous to seize 
any part of him, even the parts of the body covered by clothes.* 

Perspiration may make the clothes damp and render them good conductors, 
especially under the armpits, which would be the part most likely to be seized. 

In such a case the person who goes to the assistance of the victim should 
protect his hands, whenever possible, with indiarubber gloves. 

Where gloves are not available, a thick layer of dry rags might be used to 
cover the hands, or a coat or any other garment, if made into a thick pad, 
might be used when pulling the victim away from the cable or machinery. 

Send for a Medical Man at once. — No time should be lost in sending for a 
qualified medical man, but in the meantime the following efforts should be made 
to restore animation. 

Hoiv to Place the Body. — The body should be at once placed upon the back 
and the clothes loosened. A roll made of a coat or anything else convenient 
should then be placed under the shoulders. It should be sufficiently large to 
prop up the spine so that the head drops backward (see Fig. 30). 

* To show the importance of following this injunction, it is only necessary to mention 
an accident recorded in the Electrical Review. While a man was cleaning an electric 
street lamp at Boston he received a shock and was killed, his body being suspended from 
the wires. A man who endeavoured to remove the body came in contact with it, and 
was dashed to the ground with such violence that he died shortly afterwards. 



264 



ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS [chap. 




XVI.] TREATMENT OF PERSONS APPARENTLY KILLED 265 




266 ELECTRIC GENERATING WORKS [chap. xvi. 

Position of the Operator. — The operator should kneel behind the subject's 
head, in the manner shown in the illustrations. He should then grasp the 
elbows and draw them well over the head, so as to bring them almost together 
above it, and hold them there for two or three seconds. Then he should carry 
them down to the sides and front of the chest, firmly compressing the chest by 
throwing his weight upon the arms. 

After two or three seconds the arms should be again carried above the head, 
and the operation repeated at the rate of about i6 times per minute. 

Additional Means of Resuscitation. — In addition to the foregoing, if there 
be an assistant at hand, the tongue should be seized by a cloth or handkerchief 
and drawn forcibly out during the act of inspiration, i.e.^ when the arms are 
extended above the head ; when the arms are brought down, the tongue should 
be allowed to recede. This operation should be repeated with the same 
regularity as the movement of the arms. 

Stimulants to be Avoided. — According to Dr Hedley the efforts of the 
bystanders to pour stimulants down the throat of the victim should be resisted 
until a medical man arrives. 

Necessity of Deliberation. — It should be borne in mind that to be successful 
the foregoing operations should be carried out deliberately and methodically. 
There should be no haste, but the operations should be executed vigorously. 

In many respects the treatment suggested above is similar to the method of 
treating apparent death by drowning. 

Hamilton P. Smith. 



p 



CHAPTER XVII 

DUST AS A CAUSE OF OCCUPATION DISEASE 

General View of tJie Subject. 

Were it not for dust, fume, or gas, there would be little or no 
disease due to occupation except such as might be caused by- 
infection, the breathing of air poisoned by the emanations of 
fellow-workmen and exposure to cold after working in over- 
heated rooms. Dust plays such a prominent part in the causa- 
tion of occupation disease that I have thought it advisable to 
discuss the subject in a general way apart from the various 
industries detailed by separate writers. The harmful effects of 
dusty trades have long been known. As far back as the end of the 
seventeenth century, Ramazini, who was the Professor of Medicinqi 
in Modena, and subsequently at Padua, had drawn attention to this 
subject. He showed in his treatise, the Diseases of Artificers^ how 
ill-health was caused by the inhalation of subtle particles that were 
offensive to human nature, and its aggravation by the unnatural 
postures of the body assumed in certain occupations. He also 
pleaded for the introduction of such contrivances as would lead 
to the safety of the workmen and the necessity for their being 
medically inspected. In these senses, therefore, he was the 
pioneer of the State Medicine of our time. 

Apart from anything inherently poisonous in the dust that 
is given off in a particular trade, dust itself, mechanically speak- 
ing, is prejudicial to health. A considerable length of our 
respiratory passages is lined with a layer of ciliated epithelial 
cells, i.e.^ cells from the free end of which project numerous hair- 
like processes that execute a rhythmic bending movement, like 
a field of wheat when a current of wind passes over it, and whose 
function it is, owing to the cilia actively bending in an outward 
direction, to prevent dust getting into the lungs, and to favour 
its expulsion should it have gained access to the smaller bronchial 
tubes. Nature, anticipating that dust would be drawn into the 

267 



268 DUST AS A CAUSE OF OCCUPATION DISEASE [chap. 

lungs in inspiration, has therefore provided this means for making 
its access as difficult as possible, and of effecting its removal when 
the breathing of the dust is intermittent. When animals are 
exposed for a period to a sooty atmosphere and are subsequently 
killed, their lungs are found to be perfectly black, but if other 
animals, after similar exposure, are allowed freedom in the open 
air, the lungs after death exhibit few dark patches. One of 
the effects of recurrent inflammation of the bronchial tubes is to 
bring about detachment and removal of this ciliated epithelium^ 
and with its disappearance an important safeguard to the lungs is 
lost. 

Dust affects the body by being deposited 'upon the skin, hair, 
eyelids, and the oro-nasal passages. Through the mouth and 
nose it is aspirated into the lungs during respiration, or it 
reaches the alimentary canal through the saliva or with the 
food. 

When the skin becomes affected through an individual working 
at a dusty trade, the lesions thus caused are called dermatoconioses^ 
similar affections of the lungs constitute pneu?/iocomoses, while those 
of the gastro-intestinal tract are known as enteroconioses. Although 
the intestine, as in plumbism, is one of the most important and 
frequent channels by which industrial poisoning occurs, yet, patho- 
logically speaking, the lesions of this canal are the least definite. 

So far as derinatoconioses or inflammatory affections of the 
skin are concerned, it is mostly in industries in which dry dust 
is given off that these are met with, as, for example, in dry 
bronzing, but certain fumes also cause them, as is seen in the 
smelting of antimony. No portion of the skin is free from the 
possible contamination by dust, but it is upon the hair, beard, 
eyelids, under the nails, upon the lips, and inside the nostrils, 
upon any uncovered part of the body when the individual is at 
work, or where the clothing loosely meets the skin, also in such 
flexures of the body as the armpits and the groins, and where 
the garters fix the stockings, that the effects of dust are mostly 
observed upon the skin. When the factory is warm, or the work 
heavy, and the individual perspires freely, the dust mingling with 
the products given off by the humid skin either falls off in muddy 
drops of sweat, or it cakes and forms crusts. As a consequence, 
there is a variety of lesions, e.g., simple irritation or itchiness, 
known as pruritus ; inflammation or erythema proceeding to 
eczema ; or, as in the case of antimony smelters, vesicles that 
become pustular, and in arsenic grinders, ulceration. Since dust 





4J0 









aTij 


Cii 


"il 


w 


Sfl 


^ 


1 1 


2; 


CO o 




s 


CO 


C5 




e 


X 




< 




_! 




fXH 




fe 




o 




oi 




W 


.. 


Ol 


^ 


< 


o 


W 


5 -~> 


c« 






s_| 


Q 






.S2o 


•z 






S5 


;^ 






an 



CO 



[To face page 268. 



^n- 





^ftTJ 




-S S^a> 




<L ,(j 




lit 








log 




■^ « 




ib.2 




H o-fi 




•||| 












E-^'^-e 




«ll£ 




:i^s 




:;3 0:=^. Jh 




i-^^a 




sgs . 




fe >»^^ 








^S 53 








s §8 






"SS^g 




oi-rt'S^ 




Sever 
n age 
calk 
• Van 


c/5 


Ig^Q 


^ 


^is%- 


;z; 


S 


g 


CO 


p^ 






><; 




< 




J 




kn 


S so: 
:S S o 


fct, 


ass 


o 


O o O 




.tfS 


CO 

W 
CO 


^9" 


<t1 


OT3 2^ 


W 


x: 13 03+:j 


m 


met 
uch 
leu 
iber 


Q 


-^^3 


g 


■ 2 ^ c4 fci 






2 

C/2 






S £ aj 2 



S.3 






[To /ace pofi'e 268. 



II 



XVII.] SKIN DISEASES OF FLAX WORKERS . 269 

that of itself is harmless can induce disorders by mechanically 
blocking the pores of the skin and the excretory ducts of 
glands, so, too, can harmful dusts act, but they produce in addi- 
tion certain irritating and poisonous effects proper to the peculiar 
character of the dust. Some dusts are crystalline or sharp-pointed, 
and penetrate readily and deeply, while others have a distinct 
caustic action, and erode or eat away the tissues, as is the case 
with the bichromate compounds. Some forms of dust again 
are composed of soft particles that of themselves inflict little 
local damage, and only become harmful like flour in forming 
plugs ; while attached to some forms of animal products, such 
as horsehair used in brush-making, are micro-organisms that 
become a source of danger. It is unnecessary to mention the 
various skin affections or deriiiatoconioses produced by dust. 
They are all more or less the result of inflammation. In 
many of the erythematous forms of skin eruption the redness 
of the skin may simply be the result of the mechanical action 
of the dust, or the dust may be absorbed. One consequence 
of local irritation may be the formation of vesicles. Sometimes 
the itchiness becomes so great that scratching is resorted, to and 
there follows eczema. Where the vesicles become pustular, this is 
generally due to the action of metallic poisons of an acrid 
character, or to poisons of an animal nature, as in anthrax. Ulcera- 
tion of the skin, on the other hand, is the result of such caustic 
action as that induced by arsenic and the chrome compounds. 
The accompanying Photographs show various forms of dermatitis 
that occur in flax spinners, also of diseases of the finger nails in hide 
dressers. They are introduced here not as illustrating the harmful 
effects of dust, for they occur in the wet processes of an industr}-, 
but as indicating what is meant by the term dermatoconioses. 

Skin Diseases of Flax Workers. 

It is through the kindness of Dr Glibert, Medical Inspector, 
Labour Office, Belgium, that I am able to show in the accom- 
panying Photographs these particular lesions of the skin. The 
four Photographs in which the palmar surface of the hand is 
shown, are taken from flax workers. They indicate varying 
degrees of erosion, due to the frequent contact of the hands of 
the female worker with the irritating materials contained in the 
liquid used for spinning. At the commencement of the malady, 
as is well shown in the Photographs, the lesion is limited to an 
exfoliation of the epidermis, and this is not accompanied either 



270 DUST AS A CAUSE OF OCCUPATION DISEASE [chap. 



by pain, pruritus, or functional trouble of any kind. Later on 
the dermis itself, or true skin, becomes involved at certain 
places, usually very few, and at these spots there exists consider- 
able irritation, also a sensation of painful pricking, especially 
pronounced after working, and when the wounds are brought into 
contact with the air. As a rule, the malady does not proceed 
beyond this stage, but in some rather rare cases, met with mostly 
-during severe weather, the ulceration tends to pass into the deeper 
tissues of the skin, and to assume an appearance which, to an un- 
skilled observer, recalls the lesions met with in syphilis. There is 
nothing, however, in the flax workers' dermatitis to confirm this 
suspicion. It is necessary to remark that there is never produced 
■erythema, the formation of vesicles or a vesico-pustular eruption, 
and still less the glossy and bright appearance of the skin of the 
hand observed in eczema of a lichenoid character. Dr Glibert has 
frequently met with this form of eczema, to which Dr Leloir and 
his pupil Lefebvre have drawn attention, but the ulcerative type 
of dermatitis indicated in the accompanying Photographs is 
absolutely distinct from these, and must not be confounded with 
them. It is only right to mention that although dermatitis has 
been observed in Belgian flax spinners, Belfast operatives similarly 
employed do not, according to Dr Purdon, suffer. 

Diseases of Nails in Furriers. 

The two Photographs showing the back of the hands of work- 
men who scrape rabbit and hares' skins used in the manufacture 
of artificial furs exhibit an affection of the nails, to which Dr 
•Glibert of the Belgian Labour Office drew attention in the 
Annual Report of the Inspection of Labour, 1896. The work 
■of separating the layer of aponeurosis, which occurs on the under 
surface of the hide, causes in the dresser a special disease of the 
nails of the fingers. The groove under the nail becomes deeper, 
the nail is subsequently detached from the finger and falls off, 
either by some peculiar pathological process unaccompanied by 
ulceration, or by one of an inflammatory nature akin to what 
-occurs in whitlow. The malady may attack all the fingers of the 
two hands, but it seizes by preference the thumb, the middle and 
ring fingers of the right hand. It is a common affection in fur-, 
pullers in Belgium. Dr Glibert is the only writer I know who 
has described it. Of 22 workmen whom he examined, it was 
present in 18. He regards the lesion as distinctly microbic. 



I 




I 









'. 1^ 




"S O 









[To face page 270. 



272 DUST AS A CAUSE OF OCCUPATION DISEASE [chap. 

coal-miner's lung, for example, there can be observed small 
masses of cells deeply laden with carbon particles surrounded by 
a hardened zone of altered lung, numerous black streaks under- 
neath the pleura or covering of the lungs, ink-like dots in the walls 
of the small bronchi, and enlargement with pigmentation of the 
bronchial glands. The special pathological changes in the lungs in 
the various pneumoconioses are peribronchitis, and a great increase 
of the fibro-connective tissue, whereby the lung becomes converted 
into a hard and almost solid organ, incapable of carrying on the 
work of respiration. Hence are explained the difficulty and short- 
ness of breath in people thus affected with what is called fibrosis 
of the lung. On examining microscopically a portion of lung that 
has undergone this change, there can be seen imbedded in the 
thickened fibrous tissue, particles of grit which exactly correspond 
in shape and size with those found on examining the dust removed 
from the mine in which the person works, or from the factory, 
in the case of steel-grinders' lung. The identity of the particles of 
grit in the lung and those in the dust of the factory can be addition- 
ally confirmed by chemical examination. Such, in a few words, is 
the effect upon the lung caused by inhalation of the dust generated 
in a dusty occupation. The newly formed fibro-connective tissue 
is of low vitality, and is badly supplied with blood-vessels, and yet 
it goes on increasing and encroaching more and more upon the 
lung tissue, which it replaces. Although it seldom tends to break 
down, the consolidated tissue notwithstanding shrinks, the chest 
becomes smaller, cough more harassing, and emaciation progressive. 
The affected workman is regarded as the victim of consumption, 
but the disease is not necessarily tuberculous. Under these cir- 
cumstances, where a lung has become altered in structure and its 
vital resistance diminished, it becomes an easy matter for true 
tuberculosis, as the result of its specific bacillus, to be grafted on 
to a pneumoconiosis, or dust lung disease. In people who have 
worked in a thick atmosphere there is therefore found a form of 
consumption due to the inhalation of dust, and another the result 
of the tubercle bacillus, but in old-standing cases the two are 
generally found combined. The tendency of modern pathology 
is to look upon all pulmonary phthisis or consumption as tuber- 
culous, but the fact remains that phthfsis can be caused by dust. 
Pneumoconiosis differs from the tuberculous type of lung disease 
in being more amenable to treatment in the early stage, also 
in the fact that while both lungs are affected, it is the bases 
rather than the apices that suffer. If the workman, for example, 



1 




Fin. 38.— Human Lung in health. 




Fig. 39.— Lead Miner's Lung. 
X 70 diameters. (T. O.) 










Fig. 40.— Steel Grinder's Lung. 
X 70 diameters. (T. O.) 




Fig. 41. — Coal Miner's Lung. 
X 70 diameters. (T. O.) 



[To face page 272. 



XVII.] TYPES OF INDUSTRIAL LUNG DISEASE * 273 

leaves his dusty employment, especially in the early stages of 
his illness, the malady may be arrested. Usually the march 
of the disease in this form is slower than the tubercular. It is 
an old idea, yet one that many seek to palm off as modern, 
that pulmonary consumption is an infective disease. In factories 
where many persons are at work, there are almost sure to be 
some who are tuberculous, and who cough and expectorate upon 
the floor. The expectoration dries, is trodden under foot, and, 
mingling with the dust, it rises into the atmosphere and is 
inhaled. Infection from consumptive fellow-workers must there- 
fore play a part in the propagation of industrial phthisis, but the 
bulk of such cases do not assume the character of the occupation 
form of fibrotic phthisis to which we have just alluded, and which is 
known to occur frequently in men employed in dusty trades con- 
ducted in the open air, e.g., in masons and French millstone 
builders, in whom infection is less likely to prevail, and where 
the breathing of close and impure air can play no part. 

There are four recognised types of pneumoconioses or 
industrial lung disease : (i) Chalicosis or silicosis, due to stone dust 
and siliceous material, as in masons' phthisis ; (2) siderosis, due 
to metallic dust ; (3) anthracosis or coal-miners' phthisis ; and (4) 
byssinosis, caused by inhalation of cotton particles. 



G astro-Intestinal Lesions. 

The enteroconioses or gastro-intestinal lesions induced by dust 
are less well-defined pathological entities than the affections of the 
skin and lungs, and yet they play an important part in poisoning 
by such metallic dusts as lead, arsenic, and mercury. Apart from 
such symptoms as vomiting, diarrhoea, and colic, which these 
cause, there are the well-marked physical signs of poisoning 
present in the gums, as, for example, the " blue line " in plumbism, 
and the loose teeth and ulcerated gums in mercurial poisoning. 

The attention of the reader is directed to the accompanying 
series of Microphotographs as illustrations of some of the forms 
of dust seen through the microscope, to which workpeople in 
various trades are exposed. Apart from the poisonous character 
of any particular kind of dust, e.g., that of lead and arsenic, the 
presence of chemical irritants inherent in the dust itself, as in 
bichromate compounds, and the clinging of micro-organisms to 
such animal products as horsehair and wool, there is an opinion 

s 



74 



DUST AS A CAUSE OF OCCUPATION DISEASE [chap. 



entertained by pathologists that the actual form of the particle 
of dust and its hardness are responsible for much of the damage 
inflicted upon the lungs of workmen engaged in dusty trades. 
Mineral and metallic particles of dust are hard and often sharp- 
pointed. Theoretically, therefore, it is expected of them that when 
they reach the lining membrane of the respirator}^ passages they 
will inflict greater damage than particles of dust that are softer 
and rounder. How far pathological experience supports this 
expectation I am not prepared to say. The dust that is given 
off in various occupations may be mineral, metallic, vegetable, 
or animal. I have reproduced some Microphotographs taken 
from Dr Migerka's monograph, Staubarten in Wort und Bild, 
Vienna, 1895, and have added a few taken by Dr R. A. Bolam 
and myself, of dust from various industries, supplied by H.M. 
Inspectors of Factories. Some of these Microphotographs may 
be briefly described : — 

Fig. 42, cement dust. Under the microscope are seen a few 
sharp-edged little plates and amorphous masses like small 
clumps. The particles are not of themselves so dangerous as 
might at first sight appear. Although cement workers suffer 
from pulmonary disease, they do not do so to the great extent 
that might be expected. Probably the harmful effects are largely 
due to the hygroscopic character of the particles and their alka- 
line reaction. Hirt gives the following percentage statistics of 
diseases for comparison : — 





Phthisis. 


Bronchial 
Catarrh. 


Emphysema. 


Pneumonia. 


Porcelain Makers . 

Masons 

Cement Makers . 


16 

12.9 

8 to 10 


15 

10.4 

15 to 17 


'■1 

... 


5 1 
4.4 1 

' 1 



Comparing Figs. 43 and 44, smidstone and granite, it will be 
observed that the granite dust is lightish-grey in colour, with 
black specks, and contains numerous flat, transparent splinters of 
quartz. Sandstone dust, on the other hand, is a finer powder, 
it is yellowish, and equal in colour throughout ; it is rather an 
amorphous powder ; in some samples a few sharp-edged plates 
of quartz can be seen. From microscopical appearances it might 
be a<3sumed that granite dust would be very much more hurtful 
to the workmen than sandstone, and yet, according to Arlidge, 
Diseases of Occupations, p. 303, who made special inquiries into 



"& 



4. 


















.*::^' 






# 



'*!'• 



Fig. 42.— Cement. 



Fig. 43.— Sandstone. 




Fig. 44.— Granite. 










Fig. 45. — Lead Dust from Printing Shop, and 
Type casting. 



Microphotographs of Dusts developed in Dusty Trades. The first twenty are 
reproductions after Migerka : the last six after Bolam and Oliver. 



[To face page 274. 



XVII.] 



ABERDEEN GRANITE WORKERS 



275 



this subject, the workmen employed around Aberdeen in the 
cutting, dressing, and polishing of granite, are seldom the 
victims of pulmonary disease attributable to their occupation. 
This circumstance may be due to the igneous character of 
the rock, and the small quantity of dust that is thrown off, 
especially in the act of chiselling. Besides, as the particles of dust 
are of considerable size, they would, if inhaled, be caught in the 
upper part of the respiratory passages, and therefore not have 
the opportunity of inflicting damage upon the lung. The fact 
remains that while Aberdeen granite workers suffer from chronic 
bronchitis, they are remarkably free from the pulmonary fibrosis 
to which stone masons and French millstone builders are liable. 

In Fig. 45, lead dust, as obtained from a printer's shop, the 
particles are seen to vary in size and form. The particles are for 
the most part round, and not unusually sharp. This dust is not 
harmful on account of its form so much as dangerous through 
being absorbed into the blood. The dust that is given o^\w file- 
making contains particles of iron as well as lead and charcoal (see 
p. 342), and this is productive of a large amount of pulmonary 
disease in men and women engaged in this trade. But with file- 
cutters as with printers and typographers generally, the unhealthy 
and close workrooms in which they follow their avocation are to 
some extent also responsible for the lung diseases. As bearing 
upon this subject, the annual reports of Benefit Societies are not 
without interest. The reports of the Benefit Societies of the 
printers and type-casters of Vienna, from 1889- 1892, give the 
following percentage, of illnesses : — 





Typists. 


Printers. 


Casters. 


Assistant 
Workers. 


Female 
Printers, 


Female 
Casters. 


Tuberculosis .... 
Diseases of Respiratory Organs 
Disorders, etc., of Digestive ,, 


2.8 

II.4 

7.5 


1.7 

7.5 

5-1 


1.6 

10.8 

7.1 


1.5 
7.5 
4.0 


1.7 
9.0 

8.5 


2.8 
II. I 
18.0 



It is the typist and caster who suffer most from diseases of the 
respiratory organs, while among the printers and their assistants, 
the average is just above the normal. So far as diseases of the 
digestive organs are concerned, the printers suffer less than the 
others, but there is a preponderating amount of sickness among the 
females in nearly all branches of the industry. When the amount 
of general sickness in these trades is examined, it is found that the 
averages of total sickness are as follows: typists, 44.7; male casters, 



276 DUST AS A CAUSE OF OCCUPATION DISEASE [chap. 

41.2 ; female casters, 91.2 ; while printers are only 27.9, and assis- 
tants 28.5. These remarks are introduced here to emphasise the 
fact that in the printing trades it is not alone the dust that is 
injurious, but the lead poisoning which it causes, and they also 
strengthen an opinion expressed in other parts of this book, viz., 
that females are more liable to plumbism than males, as the follow- 
ing figures also show. The percentage of plumbism in male casters 
in Vienna is 8 per cent. ; in female casters it is 22.7 per cent. 

In Fig. 47, dust developed during needle-grinding, the particles 
of dust are frequently hook-like in appearance and sharp-edged. 
Lying among these are also observed particles of quartz with 
edges that are more or less sharp. 

Fig. 48 represents dust from mother-of-pearl grinding, Hirt 
regarded this trade as extremely dangerous. He found that 1 5 to 
16 per cent, of the men engaged in this trade died from phthisis. 
According to Guggenbauer, turners of mother-of-pearl are said 
to suffer from a peculiar affection of the bones (osteomyelitis) 
owing to absorption of carbonate of lime from particles of the shell 
that have been inhaled. It is said that obscure rheumatic-like 
pains subsequently occur, and that the bones ulcerate. I have 
visited mother-of-pearl grinding shops in Sheffield and interrogated 
the workers there, but have been unable to find any evidence to 
support Guggenbauer's contention. The grinding in Sheffield is 
done by the wet process, and none of the men seem to suffer in the 
manner alluded to. 

Flax dust, Fig. 50, is injurious to the worker. It contains mineral 
particles, vegetable cells, and broken stalks — so too does hemp. 
Fig. 51. In the teasing and spinning of cotton. Fig. 53, there is 
a considerable amount of dust raised in which fine fibres of 
cotton are found. Jute, Fig. 52, shows vegetable fibres which are 
often torn and ragged, and therefore with difficulty detached from 
the bronchial mucous membrane. In the figures representing dust 
obtained from felt-making, fur-brushing, and rag-cleaning, may be 
observed various forms of hairs and vegetable structures, with 
numerous foreign particles adherent to and encircling them. 
Some of these particles are of animal origin and may carry micro- 
organisms. The dust obtained during wheat-cleanifig, Fig. 61, 
contains pointed vegetable hairs and numerous particles of organic 
and inorganic material, and would, if inhaled, be particularly irri- 
tating to the bronchial mucous membrane. 

It is a well-known fact that some forms of basic slag are more 
injurious than others. From a microscopical examination of the 



Fig. 46.— Gilchrist - Thomas Slag. 




Fig. 47.— Needle Grinding. 







Fig. 48. — Mother-of-Pearl. 




[To /ace page 276. 










Fig. 50.— Flax. 





^ 



:/%- 



'J- 



|.Vfc 



Fig. 52.— Jute. 



Fig. 53.— Cotton. 



\To face page 276. 




/ !• ^ 




Fig, 54.— Silk. 



Fig. 55. — Horn. 





.*■ 



Fig. 56.— Ivory. 



Fig. 57. — Felt Manufacture. 



[To face page 27 





Fig. 58. — Dust from Fur Brushing Machine 



Fig. 59.— Dust from Rag Cleaning. 



















Fig. 60.— Eone Meal. 



Fig. 61.— Dust from Wheat Cleaning. 



ITo face page. 276. 





Fig. 62.— Ordinary Skig. Consett Iron 
Works. 



Fig. 63.— Basic Slag. North Eastern 
Steel Works, Middlesbrough. 





Fig. 64.— Ganister. Messrs Grayson 
Lowood & Co., Middlesbrough. 



Fig. 65.— Dust from Fork Grinding 
on dry stone. Sheffield. 





Fig. 66.— Powdered Flint. Earthen- 
ware Works, Stoke-on-Trent. 



Fig. 67.— Glaze cleaned off Ware. 
Stoke-on-Trent. 



Microphotographs of Dusts, high-power. (T. Oliver and R. A. Bolam). 



[To face 'page 276. 



XVII.] BASIC SLAG DUST * 277 

various dusts sent to me by Commander Hamilton Smith and 
Mr H. J. Wilson, H.M. Inspectors of Factories, and others (see 
Microphotographs, Figs. 62-67, by Dr Bolam and myself), I do 
not find sufficient evidence, judging by its appearance alone, to 
explain why one kind of basic slag manure is so very much more 
harmful than another. There may be chemical as well as physical 
causes at work in the production of pathological changes in the 
bronchial mucous membrane of those who work in basic slag. 
Some slags, for example, contain larger quantities of lime than 
others. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XVIII 

DUST WOMEN 

Many readers are probably not aware that there is such a 
recognised employment for women as the sifting and sorting of 
the refuse of our houses. Any one wishing to observe how this 
work is carried on can see it daily in the dust-yards and wharves 
of London. In these places there are women who are actually 
spending their lives handling all the obnoxious waste that a great 
city produces. Dust-carts bring load after load of refuse to the 
yards. The drivers tip the contents of the carts before the women, 
who are drawn up in line and whose duty it is to sieve and sift 
this refuse, and then to sort into the different baskets that are 
standing close by, such things as rags, bones, string, cork, boots, 
paper, coal, broken glass, etc. It is a dirty and dusty occupation, 
and as a rule the women have their clothing covered and per- 
meated by the dust, and their hair laden with it too, notwithstanding 
the handkerchief or shawl that covers their head. Wrapped with 
a piece of old sacking round their skirts and cloth bands round 
their legs, they lean over their work and inhale the unsavoury dust 
that has gone forth from the houses and the shops of the cit}'. 
In one sense it is fortunate that this unpleasant operation is con- 
ducted in the open air, for therein to a large extent lies the com- 
parative harmlessness of the employment. From time to time 
the hands of the women get cut by broken glass, and there is 
incurred the risk of festering wounds and the danger of blood 
poisoning. 

The story of dust women is told by Miss Emily Hobhouse in 
the Economic Journal^ September 1900, p. 411, from whose interest- 
ing report I have drawn largely for the information supplied 
in this article. Miss Hobhouse naturally raises the question 
as to how far the sifting and sorting of refuse is a fitting and 
sanitary employment for women. Theoretically it cannot be a 
pleasant one, considering what the refuse may and does contain, 
and yet from the organic and inorganic materials, the dead and 

278 



CHAP. XVIII.] REFUSE PICKING AND WAGES . 279 

dying organised heaps that leave our houses as refuse, these women 
pick out certain things that are sent to manufacturers and reappear 
for sale in the form of glue, soap, bottles, and paper, while even 
such a thing as broken glass is rescued, transported to Sweden, 
and comes back to this country in the form of emery paper for 
polishing steel. 

The employment of dust women is dwindling, and must perforce 
disappear owing to the multiplication of destructors, the expense 
of dealing with the ever-increasing refuse by means of sifters and 
sorters, and the growth of public opinion, which is certainly opposed 
to regarding this work as a proper employment for women. It 
is a well-known fact that if a woman takes to refuse picking early 
in life she becomes almost utterly unfit for any other employment. 
At the present time the destructors do much of the work that has 
hitherto been done by men and women, but these furnaces can 
only destroy certain things in the refuse, and consequently leave 
a residue that has still to be got rid of The question of removing 
the increasing amount of refuse from London and our large towns 
is a difficult one to solve. It has an economic side which cannot be 
ignored. In some of the vestries of London the clinker and fine 
ash that are removed from the destructor are converted into 
mortar, and the steam that is generated by the destructor is used 
for driving the machinery for grinding the mortar and clinker. 
It has been ascertained by sanitary engineers that town refuse has 
about \ the heating power of coal, and that in a large city like 
London it can be destroyed for 2s. 5d. per ton, a less sum than it 
costs to barge it away. Some of the Boards of Works dispose 
entirely of their refuse by destructors, while others only do so 
partially ; some again have their own yards or wharves, but not in 
all of them are women employed. Twenty-six of the vestries let 
out the work to contractors, many of whom, on account of the 
cheaper labour, employ women. In London alone there are at 
least 300 women employed as dust sorters. The wages given by 
the vestries, and the conditions of labour found under them, are 
much superior to those under contractors. The vestries pay the 
women 15s. a week, each day's work, except Saturday, extend- 
ing from 5 o'clock A.M. to 5 P.M., but 7s. to 8s. a week is all that 
can be obtained from the contractors. The broken-down appear- 
ance of the women who work for contractors, and who are sweated 
beyond all bounds, causes them to compare most unfavourably with 
the dust sorters for the vestries. 

The evidence obtained from officials, contractors, and the 



28o DUST WOMEN [chap. 

women themselves rather went to show that the general health of 
the men and women working in the dust-yards was good. Owing 
to being so much in the open air the women seemed hale and 
well-coloured, and they contrasted most favourably with those 
who were working in the factories or at home. Occasionally such 
troubles occur among them as sore throat, ophthalmia or " blight," 
poisoned wounds, and among the elderly women recurrent attacks 
of cold on the chest, due to exposure to severe weather and the 
wet. On the whole, however, it would seem as if the open air life 
agreed with the women. In some of the yards the sifting is done 
by machinery, and the women only do the sorting. In these yards 
the women complain of finding it hard to keep pace with the 
machinery and of having to lift too heavy loads. 

Under all circumstances dust-sorting is dirty and disagreeable 
work. It is generally undertaken by women of the lowest class. 
The only zest that is given to the occupation is the prospect of 
finding money. Occasionally a copper, silver, or gold coin is 
found, and in most of the yards the money belongs to the finder. 
Such a piece of good luck, however, seldom benefits the individual, 
for it is made the excuse for a drunken spree that often lasts for 
days. The work is hard and exposed. It not only unfits women 
for other employment, but even for the ordinary duties of house- 
wife and motherhood. It destroys the best instincts of maternity. 
The work takes the mother away from her children, who are conse- 
quently ill-tended and often die from neglect. Although several 
children may be born of these women, in many instances none of 
them live beyond a few months, not by the employment affecting 
the children through the mother, but because maternal duties are 
totally disregarded. For these reasons, therefore, it is scarcely 
desirable work for women under thirty years of age. It is with 
dust women as with many of the laundry women in London ; 
they form a class by themselves, and so the work becomes more 
or less hereditary. 

As to the occupation being unsanitary, medical opinion is 
divided. Dr Thomas of Limehouse does not think it increases the 
death-rate, and Dr Dudfield reports that he has not observed any 
bad effects upon the health of the women. On the other hand, 
Dr Priestley states that while he has not observed any actual 
injury to health from the sorting of refuse, he thinks there can- 
not be any doubt that the trade is dangerous to health, and on 
this ground he recommends its discontinuance. The occupation 
is one which theoretically might be expected to be prejudicial 



XVIII.] 



NECESSITY OF SUPERVISION 



to health, and yet experience indicates that the women become 
hardened to the work and immune to its possible evil effects. 
It is an undesirable employment for women all the same. If it 
is to continue, it ought to be brought under the supervision of the 
Factory Department of the Home Office, and as the conditions 
of labour under a private contract system are in this instance 
worse than when conducted and controlled by municipal author- 
ities, Vestries or Boards of Health should retain the management 
of dust-yards in their own hands. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XIX 

LEAD AND ITS COxMPOUNDS 

Of all the metals employed in the arts and industries, none lends 
itself to such general applicability as lead. In its metallic state 
it is so plastic that it can be readily moulded. It forms com- 
pounds which for colour and persistence have enduring properties 
superior to most of the metals. There are few articles of manu- 
facture that have not been directly or indirectly brought into con- 
tact with lead, and in many of the newer industries the association 
is extremely close. The census for 1891 showed that there were 
132,010 persons employed in lead processes. Of these, 123,829 
were painters, 2431 workers in leaden goods, and 5750 were lead- 
miners. If we add to these the numbers employed in the potteries, 
electric accumulator works, etc., it will be at once seen that a very 
large proportion of the artisan class is brought into contact with 
lead. It is this wide use of the metal, the extremely poisonous 
character of its compounds, and the peculiarly subtle manner in 
which they act upon the human organism, that make lead a 
dangerous substance. Besides, it is frequently present in the 
water, the aerated beverages, and the wine we drink ; the food 
we eat may be contaminated by having been cooked in common 
earthenware or in cheap enamelled pots, or by tinning as in 
canned goods. The acid juices of fruits or foods may dissolve 
out the lead in the solder. The clothing we wear may have been 
dyed by lead compounds, and thus not only industrially but in our 
domestic and personal lives we are daily running the risk of 
plumbism. 

Lead-mining and the Health and Surroundings of the Miner. 

Professor Louis, in his article on Mining, p. 538, has briefly 
alluded to lead-mining. As in the following pages the subject 
of lead generally is dealt with, I feel that the reader will have a 
fuller grasp of all the points relating to lead and its history, \i I 
slightly amplify what he has said by throwing a little side-light 



CHAP. XIX.] BRITISH LEAD-MINING DEC A YING • 283 

upon the medical and social aspects of the lead-miner's life. Lead- 
mining in this country is an extremely old industry. Bars of 
pig-lead have been found in Derbyshire stamped with the im- 
perial arms of Rome, indicating that the Romans worked our 
mines and smelted the ore. Since 1401 lead-mining has been 
carried on in the North of England, and has given employment to 
many families in the remote dales of Cumberland and Durham. 
It was formerly a source of very great wealth, but the mines have 
been gradually closing, owing to the importation of cheaper lead 
and of ores richer in silver than those that exist in this country. 
To-day it is rather a decaying than a prosperous industry. At 
present only 15,000 tons of lead are melted annually on Tyneside. 
Most of it is foreign pig-lead. During 1895 there were 250,000 
tons of ore converted into pig-lead in this country. It is per- 
haps more to the poverty of silver in the native ore than to the 
cost of production of the raw material that the diminished out- 
put of recent years is to be ascribed. It hardly pays the pro- 
prietor to extract the silver when it is present in small quantity. 
English pig-lead contains a very small percentage of silver, seldom 
more than from 8 to 10 ounces to the ton. Foreign ores vary as 
regards the amount of silver held. In Spanish ore there may 
be as much silver as 40 to 80 ounces to the ton, and in Greek 
80 ounces. Australian ores show very great variations. In some 
of the veins the ore contains 60 ounces to the ton, while in other 
samples there may be 500 ounces or even more. 

So far as lead-mining in the North is concerned, the methods 
adopted for obtaining the ore are antiquated. Owners are 
apparently afraid to risk money in the enterprise, and as a 
consequence the means by which lead is mined are much inferior 
to those for getting coal. Lead mines, too, are not under the same 
Government regulations as collieries. Their ventilation is bad, the 
roadways are ill kept, and the mines are often damp, while the 
means of descent into, and ascent from, the mines, by a series of 
ladders, are arduous for the workers. So far as the mining of the 
ore is concerned, there is in this country practically no risk to the 
miner from lead poisoning, for he is dealing with almost a pure 
ore, viz., galena, which is a sulphide. Metallic lead is harmless 
compared with its compounds, the oxide and carbonate. It is 
this circumstance that explains why lead-miners at Broken Hill 
in Australia suffer so severely from colic and convulsions, while 
their confreres in England escape. The ore at Brocken Hill is 
very largely a carbonate. The English lead-miner runs the 



284 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

ordinary risks to life and limb from accidents, and in a special 
manner his health is endangered by pulmonary consumption and 
rheumatism, largely the result of exposure when returning from 
work heated and fatigued, also of the barrack system in vogue in 
certain places for housing the miners. 

There is not much lead-mining carried on in France, but 
where it is there is freedom from plumbism among the miners 
as in our own country, with the exception of an outbreak of colic 
that occurred among the men who were working in the veins 
at Asprieres (Aveyron), where the mineral was found, like the 
Australian ore, to be composed mostly of cerusite or carbonate of 
lead. It is to a similar condition of the ore in the lead mines of 
Sierra de Gador that are attributed the 400 to 500 cases of colic 
annually observed by Dr Bayer among 12,000 miners— a malady 
to which the crushing of the cerusite in the dry state no doubt 
very largely contributes. {Poisons Industriels, Paris, 1901, p. 14.) 
The dales of Durham in which lead-mining is carried on are 
sparsely populated : they are bleak, and swept by cold winds for 
the greater part of the year. In many instances the miners live a 
considerable distance from their work, and as railways have not yet 
penetrated into these remote corners of England, the men have to 
cover the ground on foot. Lead-miners are brought very little 
into touch with the outer world. They form a class by themselves, 
and cling with affection to their homes on the hillsides : they 
closely intermarry, and thus form not only one family socially 
but industrially as well. Their wages are small, seldom more 
than ten to twelve shillings a week, and yet, unless compelled 
through sheer necessity to renounce their badly paid and not too 
healthy occupation, they will not leave the district for the more 
lucrative work of coal-mining. As a class they are thrifty, intelli- 
gent, temperate, and religious. They are not long-lived. Pulmon- 
ary phthisis is extremely prevalent among lead-miners. In close 
proximity to some of the mines large " lodging shops " or " bar- 
racks " have been erected, where many of the workmen stay during 
the week. In one district, Dr William Robinson of Sunderland, 
formerly of Stanhope, found that 166 miners occupied one of these 
shops during three or four days and nights in the week. Often the 
barracks are in a filthy condition, for they are badly kept. As the 
sleeping accommodation is limited, the bedrooms are crowded to 
excess. In one room, 16 feet by 13 J and 9f, there were 20 miners 
accommodated, />., at the rate of 124 cubic feet of air per man, while 
the model regulations of the Local Government Board require not 










[To /ace ^af/e 284. 



XIX.] HOW LEAD-MINERS BECOME CONSUMPTIVE 285 

less than 400. Most of the rooms have no fireplaces : the windows 
are fixed, and consequently there is no means of ventilation. As 
large numbers of men have to be accommodated, the beds are crowded 
together in two tiers 3 feet 6 inches from each other, so that there is 
barely space to pass between them. Since the rooms are occupied 
by different sets of miners working alternate shifts, the beds are 
hardly cooled before being again occupied, while in consequence of 
the air of the rooms not being renewed, the stench is overpowering. 
Bad as the sleeping accommodation is, the day rooms are not any 
better. The closet accommodation, too, is scanty and often badly - 
placed. In his lodgings as well as at his work many a lead-miner 
is exposed to the influence of very unwholesome atmospheric con- 
ditions, the results of which are seen in his deteriorated constitution 
and diminished resistance to disease. The air of the lodging-shops 
is heavy with the effluvia from the bodies of their occupants. 
Sooner or later lead-miners suffer from asthma and pulmonary 
catarrh, the end of which is often tubercular consumption, and as 
the men expectorate upon the floors of the sleeping-room, the 
tubercle bacilli find in the badly-lit and ill-ventilated rooms the 
conditions which favour their multiplication. In this manner, and 
apart from his work, the lead-miner is brought under the influence' 
of the microbe of pulmonary phthisis. The excessive amount of 
carbonic dioxide in the mines, the unconsumed products given 
off by the burning candles and those given off by explosion of 
gunpowder, render the atmosphere of the mine for the greater 
part of the twenty-four hours unhealthy. By the workman who 
lives a few miles from the mines, and who has to walk home 
across a bleak and wind-swept moor, tired and heated after a hard 
day's work and wearing wet clothes, colds on the chest are readily 
caught and not readily got rid of Out of these repeated pul- 
monary catarrhs consumption is prone to develop. Commencing 
work in the open air as a crusher and washer of ore, the son of a 
lead-miner — for the occupation is largely hereditary — will for health 
compare most favourably with any young artisan, but he has only 
to work a few years in the mine when he becomes short-winded. 
Once this defect is induced it gradually increases, and so at the age 
of forty to forty-five the lead-miner is old for his years : an 
asthmatic, he is the subject of wheezing cough and expectoration, 
and is often obliged to give up work entirely before the age of fifty. 
Life, however, may be prolonged for years, for the summer months 
bring abatement of the symptoms ; the improvement, however, is 
only temporary, for the cold winds of winter and spring again light 



286 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

up the chest affection. Since in the mine the air is dusty, and the 
worker inhales particles of grit, pathological changes in the lungs 
are established similar to those mentioned in the chapter on Dust 
and Disease. The lung of one lead-miner that I have is almost solid 
from excess of fibrous tissue, and it feels as hard as stone, see Fig. 39. 
On microscopical examination the alveolar structure of the lung is 
found to be replaced by dense fibro-connective tissue. In the 
expectoration of some of the lead-miners I have found tubercle 
bacilli. The pulmonary disease of lead-miners, therefore, like that 
of workers in dusty trades, may be either a simple form of fibrotic 
phthisis due to inhalation of grit, or it may be a truly tubercular 
lesion grafted on to the less formidable fibrosis. The average age 
at death of lead-miners is about fifty. Nearly 50 per cent, of them 
die from chest diseases. In the dales around Stanhope, in the 
county of Durham, the death-rate from phthisis among a secluded 
population of lead-miners was 4.7, while in another part of the 
same Union composed of farmers it was only 0.6. 

Lead-smelting. 

While the miners in this country do not suffer from lead 
poisoning, the same cannot be said of the men who smelt the ore. 
I have seen several smelters die from plumbism. In a few instances 
I have witnessed son after son in a family thus carried off before 
the age of thirty. The fume that escapes from the flue of the 
smelting shop contains oxide and sulphate of lead, and it is the 
inhalation of this that causes plumbism. Usually the lead fume 
is conducted into a long flue, 5 feet high and 3 feet wide ; in some 
places the flue is carried up the side of a hill for a mile or two 
before it terminates in the chimney. This allows of the deposition 
from the fume of some of the oxide and sulphate of lead which 
is recoverable. At one large smelting works which I visited 
along with my colleagues on the White Lead Commission, we 
found that recovery of the deposited lead by men entering the 
flues was attended by such serious symptoms that we recommended 
two hours at a stretch as the maximum time for men to work in 
cleaning out the flues. Twenty cases of plumbism in lead-smelters 
were reported to the Home Office in 1900. 

Although British galena contains usually but a very small 
quantity of silver, this can be profitably extracted when present 
in the ratio of even 2 of silver to 1000 of lead. Frequently the 
amount of silver present in foreign ores is so large that manu- 




[ To face page 286. 



XIX.] DESILVERING OF LEAD . 287 

facturers prefer to extract the more valuable metal only. Desilver- 
ing of lead ore is generally carried out by the Pattinson process, 
introduced in 1829. Until that date silver was not extracted 
from galena. The ore had to be converted into an oxide in 
order to separate the silver, and the oxide resmelted to recover 
the lead, but unless the lead contained 8 to 1 1 ounces of silver 
to the ton it did not pay to extract it. While its removal has 
increased the production of silver, its extraction is by some 
authorities believed to have improved the quality of the lead. 
On the other hand it is stated that lead pipes made from 
desilverised ore are, when used for conveying drinking 
water into our houses, found to be too soft. They are more 
readily acted upon by water, and become consequently a more 
frequent cause of plumbism than the harder pipes made from 
British galena, from which the silver has not been extracted. The 
introduction of the Pattinson process has caused silver extraction 
to become a special industry. The process depends upon the 
formation of an eutectic alloy of silver and lead.* It is unneces- 
sary to describe the Pattinson process, since it is detailed in all 
text-books on metallurgy and chemistry. Suffice it to say that 
the desilvering plant usually contains five pots made of cast iron 
and set in masonry, and by a series of melting and skimming, 
cooling and transferring the separated silver and lead to a series 
of pots in succession, all the silver, practically speaking, can be 
removed from the lead. Although I have frequently examined 
men engaged in desilvering lead I have rarely found them the 
subjects of plumbism. Two cases of lead poisoning were reported 
to the Home Office in 1900 as having occurred in silver-smelters. 



Redhead; Lead Oxide ; Litharge; Massicot; Minium. 

Lead oxide, the yellow and red, is got by melting metallic 
lead in a furnace exposed to atmospheric air. By means of a 
long iron rabble a workman keeps raking the molten liquid so 
that it is brought into intimate contact with the oxygen of the 
air. When removed from the furnace and cooled, the product 
assumes a red or yellowish colour according to the amount of 
oxygen it contains, and is known as the red oxide of lead and 
minium, or as massicot. During the operation of melting and raking 
the lead a certain amount of fume escapes from the open mouth 
of the furnace. The fume ought to be removed by a strong 
* Metals^ Huntington and M'Millan, p. 124. 



288 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

upward draught through a hooded chimney. Where this is not 
done and the men approach too near the mouth of the furnace, 
fume is inhaled, with the result that the workmen suffer from 
. plumbism. A fairly large number of red-lead makers become 
anaemic and suffer from colic and wrist-drop. Great as is the 
risk run by the red-lead worker through inhaling the fumes from 
the molten metal, it is less than that incurred during the crush- 
ing and packing of the finished product. The substitution of 
mechanical agitation of the molten lead in the furnace for that 
done by hand by the workman would diminish the danger, since 
it would allow the doors of the furnace to be closed, except 
during the charging of the interior. The packing of casks with 
red lead should be conducted in closed spaces provided with a 
hood and such means as will create an effective draught. The 
workmen ought to wear overalls, have frequent baths, and be 
inspected at least every fortnight b}' a doctor. Men can work 
longer in red than in white lead without losing their health. 
There is no truth in the statement that they are absolutely free 
from the severer forms of plumbism. As a rule, I have found 
the symptoms of lead poisoning in massicot makers on the 
average milder than those observed in white-lead workers ; but 
the result depends upon the proximity and length of exposure 
to lead compounds rather than upon the particular nature of the 
compound itself — always, of course, remembering that the more 
soluble the lead compound the greater the danger. Some 
physicians have had quite other experience. Layet, for 
example, in a paper read before the Congress of Hygiene at 
Turin, 1880, stated that minium is more dangerous than white 
lead, and that the form of poisoning is just as severe, if not 
more so. He had found red-lead makers more liable to what is 
known as encephalopathy, i.e., the cerebral type of Saturnism, than 
white-lead workers. 



White Lead ; Carbonate of Lead (^Ceruse, Fr.) 

All the soluble salts of lead are capable of inducing plumbism, 
and of these the carbonate is perhaps the most prolific cause of 
lead poisoning. In Britain most of the white lead of commerce 
is made by the old Dutch process. Thin sheets of metallic lead 
(wickets) are taken to the stacks or blue beds. The floor of the 
stack is covered by a layer of tan, and on the tan is arranged a series 
of earthenware pots containing dilute acetic acid. Upon the pots 




Fig. 70.— a "Blue" Eed in a White Lead Factory, showing tan iu lowest part, and resting on it rows of 
earthenware pots containing acetic acid. Resting upon the pots in left hand corner can be seen thin 
sheets of metallic lead. 



[To face page 




[To face page 



XIX.] ''BLUE'' AND ''WHITE'' BEDS OF A LEAD EAQTORV 289 

are placed the sheets of lead. Boards are laid over these, and thus 
the first layer is formed. Tan is thickly strewn over the boards, 
and when this has reached a sufficient thickness, other rows of pots 
partially filled with dilute acetic acid and covered over by thin 
sheets of lead are arranged on the tan, and the whole is covered over 
by boards. This second layer is followed by others similarly con- 
structed, until by a succession of tiers the ceiling is reached, when 
the doorway is built up by boards and kept closed for a period 
varying from ten to fifteen weeks, during which the conversion of 
blue into white lead by corrosion takes place. The stacks are 
ventilated by means of a shaft at each corner. Once the " blue " 
beds are made up and the doorway closed, the tan begins to get 
warm and evolve carbonic acid. In consequence of this heat the 
acetic acid becomes volatilised, and through the interaction between 
the lead and acetic acid on the one hand, and the carbonic acid 
on the other, chemical changes of a nature not thoroughly under- 
stood occur, which ultimately end in the production of the basic 
carbonate of lead, or what is popularly known as white lead. When 
this conversion is believed by the manufacturer to have taken 
place, the stack is opened. It is then no longer spoken of as a 
" blue " but as a " white " bed. Workpeople enter the white bed to 
strip it of the corroded lead. What was originally placed in the 
blue bed as a thin layer of metallic lead has become converted, if the 
corrosion has been satisfactory, into a much thicker plate made up 
of a white crisp incrustation of lead carbonate, which often conceals 
from view very thin pieces of unaltered metallic lead. In stripping 
the white lead off the unchanged metal a considerable amount of 
dust is given off, the inhalation of which was previously much more 
frequently a cause of plumbism in the workpeople than now, owing 
to the fact that present regulations require that the white beds must 
be watered by means of a " rose." The carbonate and unaltered 
lead removed from the white beds used formerly to be taken direct 
to the rollers, crushed and washed, so as to separate the two. 
After washing, the white lead is placed in earthenware vessels 
and taken to the stoves to be dried. The emptying or drawing of 
stoves has been the cause of a larger number of severe and fatal 
cases of lead poisoning than any other department in a white lead 
factory. Until 1898 the filling and emptying of stoves was very 
largely done by women, young and middle-aged, but the work was 
found to be so detrimental to female life that the White Lead 
Commission recommended that no woman or girl should be 
allowed to work in the stoves. I have known young women die 

T 



290 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

from plumbism within three months after entering a white lead 
factory and working in the stoves. It takes from three to five days 
for the white lead to become thoroughly dried in the old form of 
stoves, after which it is packed into casks. Since the White Lead 
Commission published its Report there have been many improve- 
ments in stoves. There are many now in use which will tend 
still to diminish plumbism. In some factories wagons ladened 
with basins of moist white lead are run on rails into the drying 
chamber, while in others the white lead is made to fall mechani- 
cally on to a series of large revolving discs in a closed chamber 
heated by air. Packing is often a dusty and dangerous process if 
it is not conducted in a confined space ventilated by a shaft and 
fan. The white lead is mixed with oil and converted into paint. 
When visiting the white lead works in Paris of Messrs Expert- 
Besan9on et Cie., a short while ago, I found that while the old 
Dutch method of manufacture was in use there was an immunity 
from plumbism among the employes that created a favourable 
impression upon me. That freedom I found was in the main due 
to the following circumstances : (i) no female labour was employed ; 
(2) stoving was practically done away with ; (3) the white lead was 
taken direct from the stacks to the rollers, where it was crushed 
and washed ; then (4) passed through a series of rollers and mixed 
with oil, which gradually displaced the water,* so that a perfectly 
finished paint escaped from the last roller, practically free from, 
or containing only a very small percentage of water, and was 
passed automatically into casks, thus abolishing some of the 
dusty and dangerous processes as well as the handling of 
the white lead ; (5) careful personal supervision of the workers, 
and attention to cleanliness ; (6) regular medical inspection ; 
and (7) alternation of employment. I reported to the Secre- 
tary of State upon these facts, with the result that they were 
laid before the white lead manufacturers of this country, many of 
whom adopted in a modified form the practice observed in Besan- 
con's works. English makers have since then informed me 
that it not only saves labour and therefore cheapens production 
(the product itself not suffering in quality), but has materially 
diminished the number of cases of lead poisoning in their factories. 
White lead can be made by other methods. In what is known 
as the chamber process strips of lead are suspended over parallel 
bars in a chamber, which is heated by steam, and into which 

* This process is more fully described on p. 313. 




Fig. 72.— Interior of Stove for drying White Lead. 



[To face page 290. 



XIX.] DIFFERENT METHODS OF MAKING WHITE LEAD 291 

carbonic acid is passed, while acetic acid is present in pans on the 
floor. The result is the same, viz., formation of white lead by a 
process of corrosion, only the conversion is much more rapid, being 
four or five weeks as against the ten to fifteen required by the stack 
process. The subsequent treatment of the white lead is the same 
in both cases. Much of the white lead manufactured in Germany 
is made by the chamber process, and in that country emptying the 
chamber is regarded as dangerous to health. 

By the old Dutch process an excellent and very pure white 
lead is no doubt produced. The drawbacks to the method are 
that it is tedious, and that some parts of the process are extremely 
dusty, and therefore dangerous. There have been various attempts 
to manufacture lead carbonate by quicker methods, and of these 
the method of obtaining white lead by the action of acetic acid 
and glycerine upon the red oxide may be mentioned. In it the 
first step consists in reducing metallic lead to litharge by placing 
pig-lead in a furnace and allowing a jet of steam to play upon 
the vapour of the molten metal. The lead oxide is subsequently 
crushed into a fine powder. This, as I saw it, can be a very dusty 
and dangerous process. The red oxide is placed in large revolving 
barrels along with acetic acid and glycerine, and the churning is 
allowed to go on for about two hours. A greenish-white liquid is 
the result, and this is allowed to escape from the barrels into 
storage vats, from which it is conveyed into large cylinders called 
carbonators. Into these carbonating tanks carbonic dioxide ob- 
tained from burning coke and lime is conveyed, and the gas is 
allowed to bubble through the mass for about an hour, when 
carbonate or white lead is formed. After running off the super- 
natant liquid, the deposited lead carbonate is removed through 
pipes to the presses, where it is washed and any acetate that may 
cling to it is removed. After this it is taken to the stoves, into 
which it is run on a series of long narrow wagons, the workmen 
not entering the stove at all. By the third day it is sufficiently 
dried to be ready for packing or mixing with oil to make paint. 
This method of manufacture is known as the precipitation process. 
In it there is no handling of the white lead until it reaches the 
presses. The dangerous parts of the process are: (i) the grinding 
of the lead oxide : this is dusty ; (2) the pressing : in this the 
men handle the white lead, and as a consequence I have observed 
in young workmen marked anaemia, tremor of muscles, colic, and 
the presence of a deep blue line on the gums ; and (3) filling the 
barrels with the finished white lead, when danger arises from 



292 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

inhalation of dust. In some works ammonia is substituted for 
glycerine. Conducted as an experiment, white lead manufactured 
on the lines just detailed is extremely satisfactory, but financially 
it is not very successful. Although the precipitation process is 
more rapid it is more costly, and as a consequence factory after 
factory which has adopted this method has been obliged to 
close. 

In the manufacture of white lead by the Bischof process the 
first stage consists, after converting metallic lead into litharge, in the 
reduction of the litharge to suboxide in gas-tight cylinders by 
means of water gas at a temperature of about 300° C. The 
suboxide is moistened in mechanical mixers with water, and 
converted into hydrate. By means of carbonic acid, dilute acetic 
acid and glycerine, the hydrate is converted into w hite lead in a 
gas-tight apparatus, and after separation of the liquid and washing 
of the sludge, the aqueous white lead is mixed with oil by 
mechanical means, and becoming thus ordinary white lead paint, 
it is packed ready for the market. No female labour is employed 
in the factory. The manufacture of white lead by the Bischof process 
at the time of writing is still to a large extent experimental, but 
it gives promise of commercial success. As the work is done 
by machinery, and is for the most part wet, there is no dust given 
off. The only possible unhealthy part of the process I observed 
was the mixing of the suboxide of lead with water, but where 
this is done mechanically, as I presume it can be in chambers 
provided with ventilating shafts, all danger can be averted. 

In white lead factories the dangerous processes are emptying 
the white beds, washing the incompletely converted metallic lead 
plates, crushing, grinding, sifting, filling the pots with white lead 
for the stoves, emptying the stoves and packing the barrels with 
the dry white lead. It is the continual absorption into the body 
of very minute quantities of lead compounds either by the pul- 
monary or digestive tract that causes plumbism. The skin, too, 
offers another channel by which it may enter the system. Although 
it is usually in the form of dust that lead enters the body, it can 
also enter it in the form of fume, and possibly, too, mixed with steam 
in which the particles of lead are either dissolved or suspended. 

Lead carbonate is an extremely fine white powder, and is 
largely sought after as a pigment by house painters, by plumbers 
for searing joints, and by pottery manufacturers for making the 
glazes in which the ware is dipped. As a pigment it is said by a 
large number of house decorators to be superior to any other. 



XIX.] /S THERE A SUBSTITUTE FOR WHITE LEAD? 293 

There is a decided preference in the trade, too, for that made by 
the stack process. It always commands a higher price, the 
reason being that it is beHeved to have much greater covering 
power than white lead made by some of the other processes. On 
account of white lead being such a dangerous product, both in its 
manufacture and manipulation, the question of finding a suitable 
substitute has often been raised. This subject was carefully gone 
into by the White Lead Committee a few years ago. 

Zinc white, for example, was recommended, but the opinion 
come to was that while zinc oxide was practically free from the 
dangers incidental to lead carbonate, and answered well for internal 
decoration, for covering purposes and endurance in all kinds of 
weather there was no pigment equal to white lead. It is this 
widespread belief among house painters generally that makes 
white lead such a valuable commercial product. 

The question of finding a substitute for white lead has not been 
confined to Britain alone. One hundred and twenty years ago, 
Courtois presented to the Academy of Dijon some zinc white, which 
was remarkable on account of its permanence, and in 1783 Guyton 
de Morveau recommended, from hygienic motives and on account 
of its chemical properties, zinc oxide for lead carbonate. Ten 
years ago a small representative committee reported to the Com- 
mission des Logements Insalubres of the city of Paris upon zinc 
white as a likely substitute. As far back as 1849 the Minister of 
Public Works ordered that all the Government buildings in France 
were to be painted with zinc oxide instead of lead carbonate, 
and although in 1852 the Minister of the Interior followed with 
a similar request to the various prefects, the resolution remained a 
dead letter. It was indicated to a fresh committee, appointed in 
1 89 1, that from an economic and industrial point of view, zinc 
white was inferior to white lead, that it had no great covering 
power, little durability, that it cost more, and that therefore 
the painting of State buildings by it would entail an un- 
justifiable expense. Some persons, on the other hand, held the 
belief that zinc white possessed just as good covering properties, 
so long as it was mixed with a larger proportion of oil and less of 
turpentine, and that the painter gave a sufficient amount of atten- 
tion to his work so as to make the coating flat, also that it was not 
so readily blackened by sulphurous vapours. As for the increased 
expense, it was to be remembered that if zinc white costs more, it 
is also less heavy, and therefore weight for weight gives a larger 
body of material. The Commission, taking into consideration 



294 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

the hygiene of dwellings, the health of the workers, and the interest 
of landlords, and having the choice of two substances before it, of 
which one is almost harmless, and the other a strong poison, 
adopted the following resolutions : (i) the employment of zinc white 
to the exclusion of white lead will be specified in all the orders 
for painting ; (2) the Commission renews the wish expressed in 1880 
in regard to the exclusion of white lead in all public works. No 
special action followed these recommendations. Within the last 
few months the question has again been raised in France, and on 
this occasion more vigorously than before. The operative painters 
met in congress, and passed resolutions denouncing the use of lead 
in the manufacture of paint, and demanding that the law for com- 
pensation for accidents should be extended to include cases of 
plumbism. To the painters' representatives the Minister of Com- 
merce, at a personal interview, while admitting that the law on 
accidents was imperfect, stated that it was too soon to hope for 
its amendment. He undertook to do all he could to enforce the 
decree of 1 849, that no more lead should be employed in painting 
and decorating State buildings. In France zinc sulphide, oxysul- 
phide, and oxide have all been tried as substitutes for white lead, 
but although there is a belief that these can replace lead carbonate, 
there is an unwillingness on the part of architects and house- 
painters to discontinue the use of lead. In Britain other chemical 
compounds in addition to the above have been tried, e.g. sulphate 
of barium, but although this is a beautifully white substance, it 
does not mix so well with oil nor has it the covering power of 
white lead. The surface of the object painted can be seen through 
the coating of barium sulphate, a circumstance probably due to 
the fact that the barium salt exists in a more highly developed 
crystalline form than the lead compound. 

In March 1901 the Comite Consultatif d'Hygiene of France 
reported upon this subject,* that the manufacture of white lead 
has become less and less the harmful industry it was owing to 
the Expert-Besancon process of grinding and mixing the white 
lead in water, with the subsequent addition of oil as it passes 
through the rollers, careful medical examination of the work- 
men employed, and the removal from the works of those who 
seem to be susceptible to plumbism, or are inclined to the free use 
of alcohol. The Committee of Hygiene recognises that in house 
painters, want of cleanliness, also the excessive use of alcohol and 
absinthe, are responsible for much of the lead poisoning, and there- 
BiiUctiii de f Inspection dii Travail., 190I5 No. I., p. "jj. 



XIX.] CAN ZINC OXIDE REPLACE WHITE LEAD? 295 

fore, since it is impossible to regulate and control the habits of 
these men, they ought to be provided with paints which do not 
contain such an injurious substance as white lead. In zinc white 
the committee is of opinion that a proper substitute can be found 
for lead for most purposes. Many architects and builders still 
object to the use of zinc white, but there are many, on the other 
hand, who claim for it the same advantages as regards covering 
power and endurance, and who maintain that when exposed to 
sulphuretted vapour it forms a sulphide which is white compared 
with the black sulphide similarly obtained from lead. The zinc 
coating dries more slowly, and there is therefore some loss of 
time ; the work of laying on, too, may be a little more difficult, 
and for polishing purposes zinc mastics do not harden so well. 
Zinc is not so good in calico-printing as white lead. There are 
some things therefore, the committee admits, that lead may be 
better for than zinc. It is also admitted that even zinc oxide 
may be accidentally contaminated by small quantities of arsenic 
and lead, also that it is slightly more expensive — for example, it 
costs 0.0152 franc more for each metre of work done. The com- 
mittee concludes its report by stating that both in the manu- 
facture of zinc white and in its application as a paint it is free 
from the dangers incidental to lead, and therefore it is worthy 
of a lengthened trial as forming the basis of colours for house 
painting, since there is a considerable amount of educated opinion 
to show that it can be substituted for white lead. The French 
Government is asked to set the example by having the public 
buildings painted with oxide of zinc. 

No industry, unless, perhaps, it be that of pottery manufacture, 
has caused so much plumbism as the manufacture of white lead, 
and yet in none has strict attention to regulations and personal 
hygiene been so productive of good as in these two industries.* 
The bulk of the work is unskilled labour. In Newcastle and 
neighbourhood, until the last three years, most of the work in the 
dangerous processes was performed by women who led rather a 
casual life, and who took to the trade as a last resource, owing to 
the idleness, illness, or death of their parents or husbands. They 

* According to the Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories for 
1897, there were 370 cases of plumbism reported as having occurred during 
1 897 in white lead works. The average number of persons employed in such 
works was, in 1896, 2499, and of these some were engaged in the manufacture 
of red and yellow lead. One person out of seven of those employed in white 
lead works suffered from plumbism during that year. For 1898 the statistics 
as indicated below did not show any abatement, a circumstance which led to a 



>96 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 



were mostly of the poorest class, and were often ill-fed and ill-clad. 
After a few weeks or, at the most, a few months of pretty regular 
employment in a lead factory, particularly if much of the time was 
spent in stripping the white beds or emptying the stoves, young 
women would suffer severely from plumbism. As already stated, I 
have known young women who were strong and healthy when 
they entered a white lead factory, die from Saturnine poisoning 
within three months. In one instance a young woman had, to 
my knowledge, only worked forty days, spread over a period of 
nine weeks, when she succumbed to lead poisoning. I am firmly 
convinced that women, especially young women, are much more 
susceptible to plumbism than men. The predisposition to lead 
poisoning is in both sexes doubtless spread over all periods of 
life, but so far as occupation exposure to lead is concerned, 
my opinion is (i) that women are more susceptible than men; 
(2) that while female liability is greatest between the ages 
of eighteen and twenty-three years, that of men is later ; 
and (3) that while females rapidly break down in health 
under the influence of lead, men can work a longer time in the 
factory without suffering, their resistance apparently being greater. 
In addition to a sexual predisposition to plumbism there is also an 
individual and a family tendency as well. It is difficult to explain 
this susceptibility of certain persons to lead poisoning. As to the 
fact, however, there is no doubt. It is partly a constitutional, and 
it may be partly a temporary and accidental condition. We find 
illustrations of constitutional predisposition to certain maladies in 
the greater liability of some people, for instance, to contract in- 
fectious diseases than others, in the readiness, for example, with 
which they catch typhoid fever and suffer severely from it. We 
have similar illustrations of the influence of age in the early years 
of adult life being those in which enteric fever is most severe. As 



communication being sent from the Home Secretary to the manufacturers as 
to the desirability of replacing the old stoves by others of newer design, and 
the introduction of other mechanical and structural arrangements with effective 
precautions. 



Month. 


Males. 


Females. 


Total. 


Month. 


Males. 


Females. 


Total 


January 


14 


31 


45 


July . 


28 


9 


37 


February . 


22 


14 


3b 


August 


31 


5 


36 


March 


13 


24 


37 


September 


67 


I 


68 


April 


14 


19 


33 


October 


38 


2 


40 


May . 


18 


28 


46 


November 


34 


I 


3S 


June . 


21 


9 


30 


December 


46 


I 


47 



This table shows the transference of the incidence of plumbism from female 
to male operatives. Since the introduction of new stoves for drying, also other 
methods of mixing white lead, plumbism has considerably decreased. 



XIX.] DISPLACEMENT OF FEMALE BY MALE LABOUR 297 

an indication of how susceptibility to plumbism may be accident- 
ally and temporarily developed, I would instance the influence 
of poverty, which, by preventing the purchase of wholesome and 
abundant food, allows the gastric juice probably to dissolve out 
more of the lead that has been swallowed. No doubt much of the 
greater prevalence of plumbism hitherto observed in women who 
have worked in white lead factories is to be explained by the fact 
that they have until recently worked in larger numbers than the 
men in the dangerous processes, for since June 1898, the date in 
which the Home Office required that male should replace female 
labour in these processes, the number of cases of plumbism in the 
men has increased, and correspondingly decreased among the 
women. Taking for example my own district, the number of 
cases of plumbism notified to the Home Office from Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne for the two six months' periods preceding and suc- 
ceeding June 1898, the date of the displacement of female by 
male labour, is as follows : — 

Notifications. Fatal Cases. 

Males. Females. Males. Females. 

ist December 1897 to 31st May 1898 .19 66 i 4 

ist June to 30th November 1898 . . 82 12 o 2 

94 2 

Between January and October 1898, Dr M. Legge states that 
there were received at the Home Office from certifying surgeons, 
192 reports of plumbism. Of these the stoves supplied ^6 patients 
and the white beds 31. The ages of the workers being — 



'nder 20 yrs. 


20 to 30. 


30 to 40. 


40 to 50. 


50 to 60. 


Over 60 yrs. 


7 


84 


58 


24 


15 


I 



In three instances the patients had worked less than one week 
in the factory. In four-fifths of the total cases the lead poisoning 
took the form of colic, in the remaining one-fifth paralysis and 
cerebral symptoms. 

Next to the susceptibility of women generally, and of young 
women in particular, I would say that all young adult life offers 
less resistance to plumbism than mature and middle age. In the 
House of Commons, 17th February. 1898, the Home Secretary 
stated that there had been 37 cases of lead poisoning in factories 
and lead works among boys under eighteen years of age which 
had proved fatal. 

Looking back upon the tables just presented, it will be observed 



298 



LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS 



[chap. 



that when males undertake the work hitherto discharged by 
females in white lead factories they develop plumbism in a 
ratio which might raise doubt in the mind of the reader as to 
the susceptibility of women to plumbism being greater than that 
of men. Admitting for the moment that the susceptibility is 
equal in the two sexes, and the fact, too, that in both the ill- 
ness may be severe, still I unhesitatingly assert that in the 
main the symptoms are neither so severe in men, nor does the 
malady run so rapidly to a fatal termination as it does in women. 
In a word, females contract lead poisoning more readily, the 
symptoms are usually more acute, they suffer more severely, 
and they succumb to it more quickly than males. In women 
acute lead poisoning is more prone to assume the cerebral type 
than in men. We have, it is true, only the experience of the last 
three years to enable us to form an opinion as to the abolition 
of female labour in the dangerous processes of white lead manu- 
facture having been a wise recommendation on the part of the 
White Lead Commission, but limited as the time is, the records 
of the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Royal Infirmary are not devoid of 
interest on this point. 

LEAD POISONING. 

In-patients admitted into Royal Infirmary, Newcastle-on-Tyne. 



Year. 


Total. 


Recoveries. 


Deaths. 


Remaining 
on Books. 






Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 




1892 


44 


15 


27 


2 




2 


1893 


32 


5 


25 


... 


... 


2 


1894 


31 


7 


20 






4 


1895 ' 


35 


II 


18 






5 


1896 


38 


12 


22 


... 




2 


1897 


21 


7 


12 


I 






1898 


36 


22 


12 


... 


... 


2 


1899 


20 


19 


I 


... 






1900 


14 


14 






... 





It will be observed that the number of deaths is equal for the two sexes. 



A decade ago the Newcastle Infirmary wards were scarcely 
ever clear of a case or two of lead poisoning. At present weeks or 
months may pass without one being in the wards. Beyond male 
labour having been substituted for that of females in the dangerous 
processes in the factories, and the circumstance that men are 
believed to do more work than women, I am not aware that 



XIX.] DIMINUTION OF LEAD POISONING IN NEWC4STLE 299 

there has been any reduction * in the number of people 
engaged in white lead manufacture on Tyneside that will explain 
the smaller number of cases of plumbism coming into the 
Infirmary, nor beyond the workhouses is there any other insti- 
tution in this neighbourhood, other than the Royal Infirmary, 
to which patients suffering from plumbism could go. During 
1898, the year in which men exchanged places with the women 
in the dangerous departments in white lead factories, the number 
of cases of plumbism admitted into the Infirmary was slightly 
greater than for one or two of the previous years, a circumstance 
possibly explained by the greater irregularity of work on the 
part both of the men and women, and the fact that the 
men were of a casual class and had not become accus- 
tomed to the work. Immediately after the abolition of female 
labour, not only is there observed a marked fall in the number 
of female admissions, but there is this astonishing feature, 
that while during 19CX) only 14 cases, all males, were admitted, for 
the first time in the history of the Newcastle Infirmary within 
our memory a whole year passed without even one female 
being received. During the last three years, as also during 
1 893- 1 894, no death from acute lead poisoning took place in the 
Infirmary. There has been, too, a remarkable absence lately in 
the Newcastle daily press of announcements of coroner's inquests 
having been held upon fatal cases of lead poisoning in the dis- 
trjct compared with what there was a few years ago. Nothing 
could be stronger testimony to the wisdom of the Home Office in 
having enforced the recommendations than these facts. Although 
the manufacturers at the time strongly resisted the recom- 
mendation of the White Lead Committee, I believe they now 

* Number of Persons, male and female, employed in white lead manufacture 
in the Newcastle-upon-Tyne district during two years previous to the 
abolition of female labour, 1898, and two years since. Supplied by 
Mr H. J. Wilson, H.M. Inspector of Factories. 



1896. 


1897. 


1898. 


1899. 


19CX). 


Males. 
328 


Females. 


Males. 
329 


Females. 


Males. Females. 
648 350 

998 


Males. 


Females. 
227 


Males, j Females. 
769 1 231 

1000 


893 


900 


968 



Instead, therefore, of the number of hands employed in the white lead 
industry in this district having diminished since the aboHtion of female labour 
in the dangerous processes, the total number employed is greater now than five 
years ago. 



300 . LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

admit that it was a proper step, also that work under the present 
system is better done than formerly, and that there is less sick- 
ness among the employes. The difficulty of substituting male 
for female labour, which manufacturers anticipated and which 
was their principal objection, has not been realised ; the men 
do more work, and therefore the cost of production has not 
been increased, although wages have been higher ; the men, 
too, are more cleanly. Improved methods of manufacture and 
diminished handling of products have doubtless contributed also 
to this satisfactory result. As the men have come to recognise 
the dangerous character of their occupation, and have made 
up their minds to follow it until they can get something better, 
they have become more careful, and therefore suffer less in 
proportion from plumbism. Casual work and irregularity of 
employment certainly play a not unimportant part in causing 
lead poisoning. The casual labourer is often ignorant and care- 
less. As these pages are passing through the press, a man who 
had been stripping a white bed in a factory on Tyneside was 
found eating food with hands unwashed and covered with dust, 
while his face and beard showed only too plainly the presence 
of the same material. He stated that he had not been informed 
of any danger, and that no regulations had been read out to 
him. How easily, therefore, lead poisoning may be caused and 
almost as easily prevented. Dr Morison Legge found that of 1463 
persons employed off and on in white lead works, the incidence 
of lead poisoning was 6 per cent, of the average number regularly 
employed, and in those with casual employment 39 per cent. 
Taking the whole number of hands passing through white lead 
factories in a year, the difference between these two, however, is 
less marked than at first appears, the numbers being 5 per cent, 
for the employed and 8.3 for the casual workers. Out of thirteen 
factories with regular employment four of them had no cases of 
plumbism to report at all, even although in one of these factories 
1 10 persons were employed, whereas from two factories in which 
there was a large amount of casual employment 50 cases of 
plumbism were reported. The reasons why casual hands suffer 
more than those regularly employed are to be found in their 
carelessness and want of personal cleanliness, intemperate habits 
as regards alcohol, tobacco-chewing when at work, and unwilling- 
ness to wear respirators. During 1900 there were reported to the 
Home Office 356 cases of plumbism in white lead workers, but 
Dr Legge says, if two firms, one in Newcastle and the other in 



XIX.] LEAD POISONING AND PREGNANCY . 301 

London, were excluded from the 18 firms, the total would fall 
to 175. 

I have dwelt at considerable length on female labour and casual 
employment in lead works, and I hope have shown that the abolition 
of women's work in white lead factories has been followed by 
marked improvement both in the conditions of labour and in the 
reduced number of cases of plumbism. Female labour, however, is 
still very largely employed in other trades where lead compounds 
are used. It may therefore be expected that I should offer some 
explanation of the attitude I have assumed in regard to this im- 
portant industrial question. Where the two sexes are as far as 
possible equally exposed to the influence of lead, women probably 
suffer more rapidly, certainly more severely than men. To a 
certain extent the reason is to be found in the fact that lead 
exercises an injurious influence upon the reproductive functions 
of women. It deranges menstruation. Usually there is an exces- 
sive loss at the monthly periods, which causes women to become 
anaemic ; in a few instances, on the other hand, the loss is scanty. 
It is upon pregnant women that the metal exercises its worst 
effects. The ecbolic or abortifacient action of lead is be}'ond 
dispute. It is knowledge of this fact that has caused women 
of the lower classes when pregnant to resort to diachylon pills, 
which contain a small quantity of lead, for the purpose of pro- 
ducing miscarriage. When a white lead worker becomes preg- 
nant it is almost impossible for her to go to the end of term 
if she continues to follow her employment. As a rule she mis- 
carries, but if, perchance, she goes to term, the child is either 
born dead, or dies shortly after birth from convulsions. In the 
liver and kidneys of still-born children of female lead workers 
that I submitted to Professor Bedson for chemical analysis, there 
were found minute quantities of lead. Chemical analysis, there- 
fore, confirms clinical experience as regards the cause of death 
in these children. As to the injurious influence of lead upon 
maternity I shall give a few illustrations taken from my own 
and others' experience. Mrs H., aged thirty-five, worked in a 
white lead factory for six years, before which she had four children 
born at full time. Since going to the lead works she has had 
nine miscarriages in succession and no living child. Mrs M., aged 
thirty, has had seven children and three miscarriages. The last 
two children were born and all the miscarriages took place after 
entering the lead factory. Mrs F. has had three miscarriages 
since taking up lead work. Mrs K., aged thirty-four, had four 



302 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

living children before going into the lead factory, and two living 
children afterwards. Still following her occupation, she had six 
miscarriages in succession, became the subject of plumbism, and 
was under my care in the Infirmary for a few months on account of 
colic and paralysis ; she made a good recovery, but did not return to 
the lead factory ; next pregnancy she went to term and had a living 
child, which survived. I f additional medical testimony were required 
to support the opinion I have put forward as to the pernicious 
influence of lead upon maternity, it is to be found in that of M. 
Constantin Paul, a French physician, who has published in detail 
his experience of 1 5 pregnancies of 4 women working in a type 
foundry. Ten of these pregnancies ended in abortion, 2 in pre- 
mature labour, i in a still-birth, and i in a living child, who died 
a few hours after birth. In another series the facts are just as 
instructive. Five women before working in lead had borne 9 
children without one abortion. After exposure to lead there was 
a total of 36 pregnancies. Of these, 26 ended in abortion, i in 
premature labour, 2 in still-births, while 5 of the children born 
at full time died within one year after birth. Constantin Paul, 
grouping together a large number of pregnancies, viz., 123, found 
that of these, 64 ended in abortion, 4 in premature confinement, 5 
children were born dead, and 20 of the infants died within the first 
twelve months. Of 1000 pregnancies reported by Tardien, 609 
ended in abortion {Poisons Indus triels, Office du Travail, Paris 
1901, p. 5). In the potteries Miss Paterson and Miss Deane, 
two of H.M. Inspectors of Factories,* found that "out of the 77 
married women reported as suffering from lead poisoning during 
this period (the year ended 31st March 1897) 15 have been child- 
less and have had no miscarriages ; 8 have had 2 1 still-born chil- 
dren, 35 have had 90 miscarriages, and of these, 15 have had no 
child born ; '^6 have had loi living children, of whom 61 are still 
alive, the great majority of the 40 who are dead succumbed to 
convulsions in infancy." Dr J. F. Arlidge,i- Certifying Surgeon for 
Stoke, has published his experience of 239 married women work- 
ing in lead processes in the china and earthenware industry. Of 
the children born before the mothers worked in lead 40.4 per cent, 
died. Of each 100 pregnancies there were 7.0 miscarriages, while, 
during or after lead employment, of the children born only 36.5 
per cent, died, and the percentage of miscarriages was 1 1.8. Of the 

* Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Factories, 1897, p. 53. 

t Journal of Hygiene, vol. i., p. 104, quoted by Dr Morison Legge. 



XIX.] HIGH MORTALIT Y OF CHILDREN OF LEAD WORKERS 303 

239 women there were 71 who had had no children prior to work- 
ing in lead. These 71 women had subsequently 302 children (of 
whom 1 14 died) and 38 miscarriages ; that is, for every 100 chil- 
dren born 37.7 died, and ii.i of every 100 pregnancies resulted 
in miscarriage. Dr J. F. Arlidge's statistics show that in female 
pottery workers employed in lead processes the percentage of 
miscarriages is higher than in those engaged in other departments 
but neither is this nor the death-rate of children born under these 
circumstances so great as M. Paul, Tardien, and I have found. 

If lead exercises a prejudical effect upon the reproductive 
powers of women it is also capable, although to a less degree, 
of diminishing the virility of men. Children of female lead 
workers almost invariably die of convulsions shortly after birth 
or during the first twelve months. If a child is the offspring of 
parents, both of whom are lead workers, it is puny and ill- 
nourished, and is either born dead, or dies a few hours after 
birth. The power of lead not only to kill the offspring but to 
destroy for the time being the child-bearing powers of woman 
is remarkable, and it is this circumstance, along with the fact 
that women suffer more readily and severely from lead poison- 
ing, that are the main arguments for keeping them out of the 
dangerous processes in any industry in which lead compounds 
are used. It is through the intermediary of the temporary 
structure known as the "after-birth" that the poison is trans- 
mitted to the foetus in utero. Roques {Mouvement Medical, 1872), 
is of opinion that a mother working in lead conveys through her 
milk to the child she is suckling the metallic poison, and that there 
is produced a slow and progressive deterioration of the infant's 
constitution. Prof. Bedson has analysed for me the milk of 
suckling lead workers without finding any trace of lead therein. 
Whether or not lead is only occasionally present in the mammary 
secretion, it is undesirable that women who have an infant at the 
breast should work in the dangerous processes. 

Lead is a subtle poison. Most of its salts have in small 
doses no unpleasant taste nor odour, they are very soluble, and 
they produce their baneful effects sometimes in such an insidious 
manner that the health of the operative becomes so gradually 
undermined that he is often precipitated into a serious ill- 
ness without any warning. In most instances, however, there 
are prodromata, for lead causes colic or severe pain in the 
abdomen. Usually this is one of the earliest symptoms to 
cause a lead worker to seek medical advice, while in others, as 



304 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

just mentioned, there is such a gradual deterioration of health 
that it is not until the system is thoroughly impregnated with 
lead and pathological changes have been established in the in- 
ternal organs that the individual comes for relief Lead poison- 
ing is widespread owing to the large number of industries into 
which lead in some form or other enters, and the accidental 
contamination of our food and drink. The metal gains an 
entrance into the system through the respiratory passages, the 
digestive canal, and very occasionally through the skin. It has 
been demonstrated clinically that the injection of acetate of lead 
up the nostril has resulted in the absorption of the salt by the 
nasal mucous membrane, and the production of paralysis. How 
far very fine white lead dust falling upon the eyelids may be 
dissolved in the lachrymal secretion and be absorbed, I am not 
at present in a position to state. Inhaled as impalpable dust, 
it is drawn into the respiratory passages, where it is dissolved 
and passes into the blood, or it is suspended in the saliva 
in the mouth and swallowed. On reaching the stomach it is 
acted upon by the hydrochloric acid of the gastric juice, con- 
verted into a soluble salt, and absorbed. Elsewhere * I have 
given in detail a series of experiments showing the solubility 
of white lead in the juices of different parts of the digestive 
tract, which, while confirming, at the same time explains the 
important fact already known to managers of white lead 
factories, viz., the great danger of employes commencing work 
in the factory in the morning without having breakfasted. As 
lead is a direct poison to the system, nature does her best to 
eliminate it by the faeces and through the kidneys. 

The symptoms of plumbism are manifold. Usually easy of 
recognition, they are sometimes so obscure as to render the 
malady difficult of detection even by a careful physician. One of 
the earliest signs is pallor of the countenance. There is developed 
a degree of anaemia which gradually increases until the features 
become altered and expressionless, a form of bloodlessness which 
since it is characteristic of lead poisoning, is spoken of as Saturnine 
cachexia. This becomes very pronounced, so that it is easy to 
recognise lead workers by sight. A few weeks' work will 
transform a healthy-looking, florid young woman or man into a 
pallid and listless individual. During the time that pallor is 

* " Lead Poisoning." Gulstonian Lectures, delivered at Royal College of 
Physicians, by Thomas Oliver, M.D. Published by Young J. Pentland, 
Edinburgh. 



XIX.] SYMPTOMS OF LEAD POISONING . 305 

developing, the individual often complains of a disagreeable 
metallic taste in the mouth, especially on rising in the morning, 
and of a distaste for- food, so that he proceeds to his work in the 
morning without breaking his fast. There is no more certain way 
of courting plumbism than for any one to work in a factory 
where lead compounds are handled without having food on his 
stomach. This is a fact which the digestive experiments alluded 
to in my Gulstonian Lectures have placed beyond all question. 
It was therefore not only a humane action, but it was a wise step, 
from a white lead manufacturer's point of view, when the employers 
gave a free breakfast to their hands before beginning work each 
morning in the factory, and it was a short-sighted policy that led 
them to abandon it. 

Two forms of lead poisoning are met with, the acute and chronic. 
It is with lead as with many other poisons. One individual may 
work for several months or years without suffering, while another 
may succumb to its harmful influence in as many weeks. The 
manufacture of white lead is one of the industries that will not 
allow of familiarity breeding contempt. The most careful worker 
may suffer, so too may the oldest who has passed unscathed for 
years. Alcoholic excess predisposes to plumbism. Why colic is 
such a common and early symptom of Saturnine poisoning is 
because the alimentary canal is one of the principal channels by 
which lead enters the system, and lead is known to have a special 
affinity for muscular fibre and nerve tissue, and to induce spasm. 
Colic is often attended by vomiting and by obstinate constipation. 
The pain is of varying degrees of severity. Sometimes it is so 
mild that the individual is able to follow his occupation but in 
discomfort. At other times it is so severe that he rolls about in 
agony, and is with difficulty kept in bed. Occasionally relieved by 
pressure of the hand upon the abdomen, it is under other circum- 
stances often aggravated by it. The pulse is slow, small, and 
feeble during the attack, although at times it is found to be hard 
and showing high tension. In severe colic the individual is 
collapsed — the face wears an anxious expression — there is sleep- 
lessness, and the function of the kidneys is seriously impaired. 
Notwithstanding the severe nature of the pain in lead colic and the 
general derangement of internal functions, the symptoms by degrees 
yield to treatment. After recovery most of those who have been 
ill return too early to their employment. One attack of plumbism 
unfortunately predisposes to another. On examining the mouth 
of a lead worker there is usually to be seen a bluish line along 

u 



3o6 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

the margin of the gums close to the teeth. The gums are 
ulcerated, and in the case of old lead workers they are retracted, 
and thus expose a considerable length of the fang. Although 
a valuable help in diagnosis, the presence of the blue line on the 
gums must not be regarded as an indication that the individual 
possessing it is at the time suffering from lead poisoning, for the 
line may be present for months without there being either any 
complaint or any symptom of ill-health. It tells the tale that the 
individual has been exposed to lead, and that the metal is present 
in his system, so that when associated with certain other signs and 
symptoms the presence of the blue line on the gums clenches the 
diagnosis of plumbism. The line itself is due to a deposit of 
sulphide of lead in the epithelial cells of the gum or in the large 
connective tissue cells present along the ulcerated edges. The 
blue line is met with under two different circumstances. It may 
be observed on the sound gums of white lead workers who have 
recently entered a factory, and who have been employed for a 
few hours in emptying a stove. If the mouth is rinsed with water 
it disappears, a circumstance which shows that this line is simply a 
deposit of lead on and not in the gum. The other is much more 
permanent : it persists for months despite the use of mouth washes 
and the administration of medicine internally. I know of no 
mouth wash, tooth paste, or drug that is capable of removing the 
blue line from the gum under from eight to twelve weeks. 

It is upon the nervous system that the worst effects of lead are 
seen. Usually after having experienced one or more attacks of 
colic, but sometimes without these, a lead worker suddenly or 
gradually loses power in his hands and fingers. His hands become 
paralysed, hang powerless by his side, and the patient is said to be 
suffering from " wrist drop." This renders him unable to feed or 
dress himself Both hands are usually affected, but not in equal 
degree. Bilateral paralysis is always suggestive of some form of 
metallic poisoning. In "wrist drop" the extensor muscles of the 
fingers and wrists rapidly waste. As a rule the affection is painless, 
but in some instances the loss of power is preceded by muscular 
tenderness. The muscles of the shoulders and upper arm, too, may 
be affected, or the weakness affects the muscles of the foot, and 
causes " ankle drop." When the malady is of a more pronounced 
type the muscles of the trunk become paralysed. In this form 
the individual is perfectly helpless : he lies like a log, unable to 
turn or move himself in bed, and for the time being his condition 
is usually one of danger. It is characteristic of lead paralysis 






CEREBRAL TYPE OF LEAD POISONING 307 



even in such minor forms as " wrist drop," that it not only com- 
pletely unfits the individual to earn his living, but to attend to 
his own personal wants. The paralysis is slow to disappear even 
when medicine, massage, and electricity are used. 

One of the worst forms of acute plumbism is what is known as 
acute lead encephalopathy^ and to this women seem to be more 
predisposed than men. A female lead worker has perhaps been 
observed by her friends to have been getting paler and paler, and to 
have lost her appetite. She complains on getting up in the morn- 
ing of severe headache which prevents her taking food, but not- 
withstanding these she goes to work, and is probably not more 
than an hour or two in the lead factory when she is seen to fall on 
the floor in convulsions. She is unconscious, and the convulsions 
come and go. In this condition she is taken home or to an in- 
firmary, where within the next two days she dies, never having re- 
gained consciousness ; or by the third day consciousness returns, 
but she keeps moaning on account of severe pain in her head. It 
is now noticed that she is blind ; she loathes her food and is often 
sick. Recovery is slow. The power of vision may be gradually 
restored, or it remains permanently lost, and thus it happens that, 
at a comparatively early age, a young woman who has only 
worked in the dangerous processes of a white lead factory for a 
few weeks or months, and who has suffered from acute encephalo- 
pathy, not only swims for her life during the seizure, but may be 
rendered permanently blind, and thereby completely unable ever 
afterwards to earn her living. In the form of lead encephalopathy 
that I have just portrayed, there is usually some premonitory 
headache before the individual is struck down in convulsions, but 
in not a few instances the warning is of another kind, and of such 
a nature that it may be overlooked even by experienced medical 
men. I refer to symptoms of hysteria occurring unexpectedly in a 
young female lead worker. The patient does not seem ill. There is 
rather an exaltation than depression of her mental faculties and her 
feelings, and yet out of what appears to be ordinary hysteria the 
patient may pass into a state of coma, with or without convulsions, 
and die within three or four days. Under any circumstance it is 
a very fine line that divides functional from organic disease of the 
brain, and in lead poisoning this is particularly the case. To toxic 
hysteria^ therefore, which often masks a deeper malady and is apt 
to throw both the friends of the patient and the medical attendant 
off their guard, I attach considerable importance as a premonition 
of acute lead encephalopathy. We have seen that after recovery 



3o8 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

from acute encephalopathy a patient may remain temporarily or 
permanently blind, and there may or may not be paralysis, but in 
some instances the mind is so shattered by the illness that com- 
plete consciousness is never regained. The patient passes into a 
state of acute mania, which is usually fatal, or the symptoms are 
subacute, recovery is incomplete, and the individual passes the 
remainder of his or her days in an asylum. 

The question of insanity in lead workers has been very ably 
dealt with by Dr Robert Jones,* the Medical Superintendent of 
the London County Asylum, Claybury, Essex. Taking the pro- 
portion of I lead worker, in the broad sense of the word, to every 
58 of the adult population, there ought to be in Claybury 18 male 
patients belonging to that class. As a matter of fact, however, out 
of 1050 males in the asylum, there are 35 who have been lead 
workers, plumbers, painters, and glaziers, but excluding pottery 
workers and miners. In examining the histories of 3500 male 
patients admitted into Claybury, Dr Jones found that of these 133 
were artisans, who in their trade had possibly become impreg- 
nated with lead ; their occupation was as follows : — 



Painters 


75 


Decorators . . . . 


13 


Plumbers 


18 


Gasfitters . . ' . 


13 


Labourers in lead works 


6 


Grainers 


3 


Gasmeter Makers 


2 


Colour Grinder . 


I 


File Cutter . 


I 


Tea Lead Roller . 


I 



J33 

Of these, 19 had signs of lead poisoning upon admission, such 

as paralysis, colic, and blue line on gums, while in 22 there was 

a history of convulsions (encephalopathy), headache, giddiness, 

and paralysis. Of the 133 cases the following is the analysis 

of their mental condition : — 

Mania 37 

Melancholia • • • • 33 

Dementia . . . . 19 

Dementia with Epilepsy . . 10 

Dementia with General Paralysis 24 

(?) General Paralysis . . 7 

Alcoholic Mania ... 3 

133 

* British Medical Journal^ 22nd September 1900. 



XIX.] LEAD POISONING AND INSANITY . 309 

"The proportion of general paralytics among these possible 
lead cases is 1 8 per cent. : the average yearly percentage of 
general paralytics to the total average number of male patients 
admitted into asylums for the five years 1893-97 was 13.1, and it 
appears to me there is a strong presumptive evidence that lead 
may be a factor in the cause of general paralysis of the insane." 
Elsewhere * I have drawn attention to the association of lead 
poisoning and general paralysis, and indicated that as there is in 
the plumbic form a larger percentage of recoveries than in general 
paralysis proper, the probability is that the malady is not exactly 
of the same nature, but is rather a pseudo-general paralysis. Dr 
Jones summarises his conclusions thus: (i) that lead poisoning 
is a contributory factor to insanity ; (2) that the mental symptoms 
may be grouped among one or other of the following varieties: 
(a) toxaemia, with sensory disturbances, which tend to get well ; 
{b) hallucinations of sight and hearing, usually chronic and irre- 
coverable ; {c) general paralysis with tremors, increased knee-jerks, 
inco-ordination, listlessness, and dementia, which tend to get well. 

So far I have depicted the acute rather than the chronic form 
of lead poisoning. There still remains that form in which the 
individual, after having been exposed for a lengthened period to 
the influence of lead, and having experienced one or more' attacks 
of colic, indicating that his system is becoming impregnated with 
lead, is never well ; he is profoundly anaemic, is the subject of 
frequent headache, imperfect vision, and incomplete wrist drop. 
Albumen is present in the urine, and there is a slight degree of 
dropsy of the face, hands, and feet, physical signs that point with 
these just mentioned to structural alterations having occurred in 
the kidneys, liver, heart, and blood-vessels, retina, and nervous 
system. Life drags on from day to day, only to end in a lingering 
illness, or it is brought to a sudden close either by uraemic convul- 
sions, or in consequence of rupture of a blood-vessel in the brain. 
At the post-mortem examination in chronic cases the kidneys 
and liver are found to be hard and their secreting structure 
replaced by a low form of connective tissue, while in acute lead 
encephalopathy the brain may be dry on its surface and retracted, 
on section hard and dry, or watery and pale, the blood-vessels 
being congested. On microscopic examination very delicate 
changes have been found in some of the large nerve-cells of the 
brain and spinal cord, and also in the structure of the liver and 
kidneys. What, then, is the cause of death in acute lead encephalo- 
* Oliver, in Allbutt's System of Medicine^ vol. ii., " Lead Poisoning." 



3IO LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 



pathy? In most of my own fatal cases, lead was detected in the 
liver, kidneys, muscles, and brain, etc. To the fact that lead has 
been found in the brain, and has probably formed some complex 
chemical compound with it, may be attributed the convulsive 
seizures, insanity, and possibly, too, death. At the most it has 
always been a very minute quantity of lead that has been found 
in the brain after death. In one of my patients Professor Bedson 
found on chemical analysis only 0.779 grain in a brain and 
cerebellum that together weighed 51.5 ounces: while from another 
brain and cerebellum that weighed 48 ounces, he obtained only 
0.634 grain of lead. From another brain Professor Bedson 
removed 4.04 milligrammes of lead, while in a case reported by 
Mr Wynter Blyth there were 99.7 milligrammes of sulphate of 
lead found in the brain and 17.4 in the cerebellum, A brain 
whose nerve-cells have become poisoned by lead cannot function- 
ate as in health, but as in some of the rapidly fatal cases of 
encephalopathy, occurring in young female lead workers hitherto 
healthy, no trace of the metal was detected in the brain on care- 
ful chemical examination, death must have been caused by some 
other circumstance than the hypothetical presence of lead in the 
brain. The human body is a laboratory, wherein even in health 
animal products are hourly being formed, and which if retained 
in the system would poison the individual. Were it not for the 
activity of such eliminating organs as the kidneys and bowels, 
life would be constantly menaced by this auto-intoxication. 
Lead in some people rapidly induces structural changes in the 
liver and kidneys, or it quickly interferes with the functional 
activity of these organs, so that poisonous materials generated 
by the individual himself are not removed. It is the circula- 
tion of these in the system and their action upon the brain, 
aided probably by the presence of a soluble compound of lead 
in the blood, that is the cause of the convulsions and death in 
some cases of acute lead encephalopathy. Occasionally lead 
workers are admitted into hospital suffering from convulsions 
and delirium, which are not due to lead, or at any rate to 
lead alone. In many of these cases there is a strong alcoholic 
history, that it is difficult to say how much is due to lead and 
how much to alcohol. Alcohol we know predisposes to plumbism. 

Treatment — Preventive and Curative. 

Of precautionary measures requiring mention I would allude 
to the avoidance of excess of all kinds on the part of the work- 



I 



XIX.] LEAD P01St)NING IN PARIS , 311 

people, including the use of alcohol ; to the need of nutritious food, 
plenty of milk, and the avoidance of acid fruits ; attention to 
personal cleanliness as secured by frequent washing, change of 
working clothes, good ventilation of the workrooms, and the 
wearing of respirators. 

A year ago, M. Armand Gautier presented to the Prefect of 
Police in Paris a report in which he showed that in Paris alone 
there were upwards of 30,000 persons exposed to the fumes, dust, 
and combinations of lead, and that the hospital treatment of the 
working people whose illness was due to lead poisoning cost the 
municipality a very large amount of money every year. In an 
earlier report presented to the Council d' Hygiene, and dealing 
with the admissions into the hospitals between 1870-80, he showed 
that this expense corresponded to a residence of 11,140 days in 
these institutions. In 1 881 the French Government appointed a 
Commission to inquire into the prevalence of lead poisoning, and 
to draw out regulations. The enforcement of the rules was 
followed by a decided improvement in the number of cases. From 
1 88 1 to 1883 the number of patients fell from 552 to 421, and the 
number of days spent by patients in the hospitals fell one-half. 
This satisfactory decrease, however, was not maintained, despite 
the fact that the Clichy white lead works, which used to contribute 
nearly 50 per cent, of lead cases, was closed, and new methods of 
production had been introduced. So far as white lead works are 
concerned, there is not the least doubt that the substitution of the 
moist for the dry method of dealing with lead carbonate materially 
diminished the amount of ill-health among the workpeople, and 
yet, while this improvement was taking place, the number of cases 
of plumbism rose all over Paris, owing to an increase in the 
amount of lead used in other trades, which had not attended to 
hygienic requirements. The number of fatal cases also of lead 
poisoning in Paris rose. Of 552 patients ill between 1877 and 
1880, 5 died; of 248 ill between 1887 and 1889, 16 died; of 302 
ill between 1890 and 1893, ^5 died; while of 314 ill between 1894 
and 1897, 17 died. The fact therefore remains that since 1881, 
when fresh and more stringent regulations for French white lead 
workers were introduced, the number of patients suffering from 
lead poisoning, and dying from it, in Paris, has risen. The 
explanation of this anomaly is to be found in the fact that the 
victims of plumbism are no longer supplied by the white lead 
works in the same proportion as formerly, but that they come 
from other industries that have not yet been brought under the 



312 LEAD AND ITS^COMPOUNDS [chap. 

regulations. Of these industries house painting has contributed 
the largest number of patients. This trade, along with colour 
grinding, supplied no less than 223 patients during the years 1894 
to 1898. The proof that improvement in methods of manufacture, 
e.g. the substitution of the wet for the dry method, has been satis- 
factory, is shown by the fact that before the introduction of the 
regulations of 1881, white lead operatives occupied the second line 
on the list of dangerous trades, to-day they occupy the sixth. 
It is in consequence of the increasing prevalence of Saturnine 
poisoning in house painters that the agitation at present going 
on in Paris against the use of white lead as a pigment, and alluded 
to in previous pages, has reached such dimensions. 

A few years ago the white lead works at Clichy furnished for 
a long period nearly one-half of the cases of plumbism admitted 
into the hospitals of Paris. Demolition of this factory was followed 
by a rapid diminution in the number of cases of lead poison- 
ing seeking admission. This circumstance shows that in some 
factories the conditions under which the work is carried on are 
more unhealthy than in others. On Tyneside we are not without 
a similar experience. There are some white lead works in which 
there is always more plumbism than in others, and the explanation 
is that either the works are older and the ventilation worse, or that 
the general management is in some way or other not so good. 
It is the same class, often the same people, who work in all the 
factories, for they occasionally migrate from one to another, and 
yet there remains the undesirable fact of a larger amount of sick- 
ness among the hands in some of the works than in others. As an 
illustration, take for example the lead-poisoned patients admitted 
into the Royal Infirmary, Newcastle-upon-Tyne, from October 
1890 to March 1893 — 



Factory A 


52 cases 


„ B 


15 5> 


„ C 


8 „ 


„ D 


5 » 


» E 




Other factories . 


8 „ 



Of 88 patients, one factory, not the largest, supplied nearly 
two-thirds of the total admissions. As illustrating the prevent- 
ableness of industrial white lead poisoning, it is worth mention- 
ing that in one of the largest and best conducted factories in 
the Newcastle district, there has only been one fatal case of lead 




XIX.] MANUFACTURE OF WHITE PAINT 313 



poisoning within the last twenty years, and since the enforcement 
by the Home Office of the recommendations of the White Lead 
Committee, the factory that sent 52 out of the 88 cases stated in 
the preceding table to the Infirmary in two and a half years, at 
present scarcely sends one patient per annum. Lead-poisoned 
females are now practically never met with in Newcastle, and 
male patients are becoming every year rarer. As long ago as 
1849, Combe proposed that instead of washing, then drying the 
white lead in stoves, and subsequently packing it in barrels for 
sale, it would be safer from a worker's point of view, since it 
would rid the atmosphere of dust, if the lead carbonate on its 
removal from the white beds were ground and washed at once 
in water, then forced to travel through a series of rollers and 
washers into oil under rollers. The oil displaces the water, and 
as a consequence the white lead escapes from the last roller as 
finished paint* In order to obtain the white lead as a paint, the 
soft paste as it comes from the grinding stones, and which contains 
15 to 20 per cent, of water, can be at once mixed and incorporated 
as it passes through the rollers with increasing fractions of 10 per 
cent, of oil. The water is thus gradually eliminated from the paste, 
so that the product as it escapes from the last roller contains 
hardly i per cent, of water, can be packed, and is ready for the 
market. Mr T. H. Leathart of Newcastle-on-Tyne, who has adopted 
this method in his works,-|- informs me that the paint is, practically 
speaking, free from water, there being not even .5 per cent, of it in 
the finished product. By the adoption of this method of manu- 
facture there has not only been a saving of labour, but better 
health among the workmen, owing to the absence of dust. This 
small change in the method of manufacture has had a wonderful 
influence on health. The grinding and packing of all dry white 
lead should be conducted in hermetically-sealed compartments. 
Even to this there is the drawback that as time goes on, owing to 
the vibration of the machinery, the joints of the wood and iron 
become loose and the dust escapes. The defect, however, can be 
easily remedied. 

In 1899 the Chief Inspector of Factories issued special rules 
for white lead works, which were an advance upon those of previous 
years, and which have undoubtedly diminished plumbism in this 
industry. It is unnecessary to reproduce these rules here, but the 
main points included in them are that plans for new works or 

■^ Combe's method in use in Paris, see p. 290. 
t Messrs Locke, Blackett & Co. 



314 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

structural alteration of old factories must be submitted to the Chief 
Inspector of Factories ; white beds must be watered when being 
emptied ; drying stoves are to be ventilated, and no person is 
allowed to draw a Dutch stove on more than two days in any 
week ; no women are allowed to work in the white beds, rollers, 
washbecks or stoves, or in any place where dry white lead is packed, 
or in other work exposing her to white lead dust ; there must be 
weekly medical examination of every person employed in a lead 
process, with suspension in the case of illness, and medical re- 
examination before returning to work ; suitable respirators, overalls, 
and head-coverings must be provided by the occupiers ; adequate 
washing appliances are required, with cessation of work ten minutes 
before each meal-time and the end of the day's work for the purpose 
of washing. The duties of persons employed are similarly defined, 
and any person obtaining employment under an assumed name or 
on any false pretence is liable to a penalty. It is enacted, too, 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, sections 9 and 11) that the rules 
shall be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory, so that 
they can be conveniently read by the persons employed. Any 
person who is bound to observe the rules and fails to do so, or acts 
in contravention of them, is liable to a penalty. In such cases the 
occupier also is liable to a penalty unless he proves that he has 
taken all reasonable means by publishing, and to the best of his 
power, enforcing the rules, to prevent contravention or non-com- 
pliance. To extreme temperance in the use of alcohol, and to a 
weekly or fortnightly alternation of employment for the workpeople 
in the factory, I attach great importance as preventive agents. 

A sanitary drink has to be provided for the workers by the 
employers. It is usually composed of Epsom salts and lemon 
juice, or some other acid, dissolved in water. The provision of 
an acidulated drink for persons employed in white lead works is 
a subject to which the members of the White Lead Commission 
gave considerable attention, but I candidly confess that the Com- 
mittee never attached any great importance to it as a means of pre- 
venting plumbism. The theory upon which its administration is 
based is that the sanitary drink converts any lead which may have 
been swallowed into the rather insoluble sulphate, and that thereby 
the risk of plumbism is diminished. When the drink contains a 
slight excess of acid, then instead of being a safeguard it may become 
the reverse. Besides, after all, lead sulphate is not very much less 
insoluble in gastric juice than lead carbonate, and the men who go 
to the barrel to obtain the sanitary drink are not careful enough to 



1 



XIX.] TREATMENT OF PLUMB ISM ^ 315 

rub their moustache clean before drinking. Within Hmits, when 
carefully prepared and not too acid, the sanitary drink possesses 
certain advantages on account of its being a mild aperient, but 
beyond this it is only doubtfully a preventive. The workpeople 
should be given to understand that there is no real antidote to 
lead poisoning, and that they must be constantly on their guard 
against it. Personal cleanliness is, I repeat, of the greatest impor- 
tance. Such drinks as the acid lemonade just described, milk and 
coffee, etc., however useful they may be of themselves, cannot alto- 
gether prevent lead poisoning, and it is unwise therefore to allow 
the workpeople to shelter themselves under this belief. 

Curative. — During the attack of colic, warm applications to 
the abdomen, and the administration of a mild aperient, such as 
magnesium sulphate or castor oil, especially if there is constipa- 
tion, and there is the prospect of the medicine being retained on 
the stomach. Occasionally a warm bath may be called for, or if 
pain is severe, the administration of a hypodermic injection of 
morphia. In milder cases, or when the immediate urgency of 
the colic has passed away, iodide of potassium is a good elimi- 
nant, but the internal administration of this drug in plumbism 
requires caution, since it may dissolve out lead that has been 
deposited in the tissues, flush the blood with a soluble lead salt, 
and thereby aggravate, and often dangerously too, the symptoms 
of lead poisoning. For paralysis the internal administration of 
iodide of potassium with nux vomica, and the use of massage will, 
in most cases, succeed, but recovery is usually slow and often 
incomplete. Electricity gives encouraging results, and as practised 
in the manner suggested by Dr Lewis Jones (see p. 375), has been 
productive of a great amount of good. For acute lead encephalo- 
pathy the subcutaneous injection of pilocarpine and the inhalation 
of nitrite of amyl have in my hands answered well. Bleeding, and 
the injection of large quantities (about 500 centimetres) of an 
artificial serum made from sulphate of soda, 5 grammes ; common 
salt, I gramme ; corrosive sublimate, 0.05 gramme ; and distilled 
water, 200 centimetres, under the skin of the abdomen, is a line 
of treatment that finds favour with many French physicians. I 
need scarcely add that lead poisoning is too serious a malady for 
its treatment to be undertaken by the laity without the advice of 
a doctor. 

Chromate of Lead ; Dye Works. 
The use of chrome dyes has been followed by lead poisoning 



3i6 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

which in a few instances has ended fatally. Chrome dyeing by 
means of lead compounds was one of the unhealthy occupations 
relegated by the Home Secretary to the Dangerous Trades Com- 
mittee for its opinion. The dye is obtained by mixing a solution 
of bichromate of soda or potass with sugar of lead, or by acting 
upon lead carbonate with a solution of bichromate of soda or potass. 
In the Final Report of the Dangerous Trades Committee, p. 26, it 
is stated how the different colours may be got. To obtain deep 
orange colour, hanks of yarn are dipped first in a solution of lime, 
and then in a solution of brown sugar of lead ; the dip is again 
repeated, and after this the hanks are dipped in bichromate of 
potass or soda, and finally they are boiled in lime water. For 
yelloiv chrome colour the treatment is similar, with the exception 
that the goods are not boiled in lime water, but washed in dilute 
hydrochloric acid. To obtain chrome Lemon colour, the yarn is 
dipped first in an alkaline lead solution, then in bichromate of soda, 
and subsequently washed in cold water. Green chrome is got by 
dipping the lemon-stained yarn in an indigo bath. In all of these 
processes the bichromate of soda acts upon the lead and produces 
a chromate. This forms not so much a dye as a coloured coating 
on the surface of the fibre of the yarn. In the process of dyeing 
no risk to health is incurred by the workpeople. The danger 
commences when the goods have become dried and the coloured 
dust of chromate of lead is given off, as may be seen in the 
noddling and bundling departments of a factory. In several large 
Ay^ works, both in England and Scotland, I have seen the girls who 
handle and pull the yarn covered with yellow dust, found them 
anaemic, complaining of headache, and showing a well-marked blue 
line on their gums, while several of them complained that they had 
suffered from colic, and been off work through it for a time. 
In some instances more serious symptoms developed. A fatal 
termination is not unknown. The contents of the stomach when 
vomited often exhibit the same colour as the yarn the girls handle. 
In one mill there was quite an epidemic of lead poisoning among 
the women owing to some of them, on account of the cold weather, 
having stopped the running of the fan. As a consequence the 
atmosphere of the carding-room became impregnated with 
yellow dust, and many of the girls became ill, one of them 
dying from unmistakable lead poisoning. When the fan was 
re-started all the illness disappeared. Improved ventilation 
puts an end to poisoning in chrome dye works. The dust-laden 
air ought to be drawn down and away from the workers. In the 



CHROME DYEING AND CALICO PRINTING 317 

dyeing of cotton, lead compounds are similarly used, but an effort 
is being made to supplant these by aniline and vegetable dyes. 
Whether aniline colours are capable of entirely taking the place of 
lead chromate under all circumstances of climate, etc., still remains to 
be seen. The opinions of manufacturers are divided upon the 
point of aniline dyed goods standing exposure to the sun like those 
coloured by lead chromate. Some maintain that the colours are 
not so permanent. The subject is therefore not yet ripe for the 
expression of an absolute opinion. Another danger to which 
workers in chrome dyeing works are exposed, is the occurrence of 
chrome holes or scars on the hands of the men who work with the 
bichromate solution. Perforation of the septum of the nose does 
not occur. 

Calico Printing. 
This subject may be conveniently discussed with that immedi- 
ately preceding The pattern is printed on the cotton cloth 
in lead salts. The cloth is then passed through a solution of 
bichromate of soda. Only the letters or portions of the pattern 
that have been printed in lead retain the chrome colour. There is 
no risk to the operative in the process of printing. The danger 
resides rather in the dust given off in the drying-room, to which 
the cloth is taken. Here, owing to the heat of the room and the 
handling of the calico, a certain amount of dust may be present. 
The question of aniline substitutes for lead has been discussed by 
manufacturers, but among them there is no unanimity upon the 
matter, especially in those engaged in the export trade. In indigo 
blue dye works where the calico is printed with copper sulphate 
and lead acetate, the men may suffer as much from the copper as 
the lead. 

Enamelling of Iron Plates and Hollow Ware. 

The enamelling of iron plates is an industry which is mostly 
confined to Birmingham and Wolverhampton and their immediate 
neighbourhood. Enamelled iron plates are used for advertising 
purposes, for announcing the names of railway stations, etc. 
The process of manufacture consists in first cleansing the iron 
plate, smearing it with gum-water, and sifting a fine dust on to it, 
or in allowing to trickle over it powder suspended in water. The 
powder may contain as much as 25 per cent, of lead, or in some 
instances no lead at all. The plate having been coated in one of 
these ways is placed in a furnace and exposed to an intense heat. 



LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 



On removal it is seen on cooling to have received its first coat of 
enamel. In order to obtain the required red, blue, or brown 
colours the plate is subsequently swilled. The colours are put on at 
first roughly with a broad brush, and then a finer one so as to get 
an even surface, after which it is smoothed by a camel's hair brush. 
The plate thus swilled is allowed to dry on hot pipes at a moder- 
ate temperature. The process up to this stage is wet, and 
therefore not dangerous, besides the lead compounds used are 
often fritted, and these are known to be very insoluble. It is in 
the subsequent treatment known as stencilling that the danger 
commences. This part of the work is generally done by women, 
who by means of a nail-brush rub off the colour on the surface of 
the plate which is exposed through the openings cut in the stencil, 
and which correspond to the alphabetical letters, etc., of the 
advertisement. This is a very dusty process. The atmosphere 
of the workroom becomes thick from the coloured particles of dust 
given off from the plate, and these fall upon the hair and clothing 
of the workpeople. There is often a large percentage of lead in 
the dust, so that when this is inhaled for several hours, during each 
working day in the week, it becomes a cause of plumbism occa- 
sionally of a severe character, and running to a fatal termination. 

Brushing-off through the stencil is usually performed over 
perforated tables down which there is a strong draught, but if the 
aspirating force is weak the dust rises and impregnates the atmo- 
sphere, so that it is almost impossible to see across the workroom. 
After the plate has been stencilled it is again placed in the furnace, 
and the processes of swilling, drying, stencilling, and firing are 
repeated according to the kind of colours required in the advertise- 
ment. These processes may be repeated as many as eight or nine 
times. Red and other compounds of lead are largely used for 
enamelling, and may be present to the extent of from 25 to 33 
per cent. Formerly arsenic was also used, but such serious con- 
sequences followed that its employment has been discontinued. 

In this industry, as in white lead works, it is the young female 
operatives who are the most susceptible to plumbism. A few 
years ago there was a great amount of ill-health among the 
hands owing to imperfect ventilation of the workrooms. The 
White Lead Committee recommended that there should be a 
medical inspection of all the workers once a month, and that 
no girl under 20 years of age should be employed as a brusher- 
•off in the stencilling process ; that no female should be employed 
without medical testimony as to her fitness for the work, ex- 



XIX.] TINNING OF HOLLOW WARE 319 

. ^ ft . 

perience having shown that anaemic, scrofulous, and ill-nourished 
persons are more predisposed to plumbism than those that are 
healthy ; that after an illness of any kind a medical certificate 
should be furnished. The Committee would have been glad if 
the employers could have seen their way to give half a pint of 
milk every forenoon to each of the workers, for experience has 
shown, both in this country and abroad, that milk is to some 
extent a prophylactic against plumbism. Dr Morison Legge,* 
in his report upon the enamelling of iron plates, says that for 
last year only 10 cases of lead poisoning occurred in 689 persons 
engaged in the dangerous processes. He attributes the fact 
of the cases being few to the periodic medical examination, the 
removal of dust by fans, and the encouraging efforts which are 
being made by large firms to substitute other things for lead. 

Tinning and enamelling of the hollow ware used for culinary 
and domestic purposes is an industry confined for the most 
part to Wolverhampton, Bilston, and Dudley. The iron kettle 
or saucepan about to be tinned is first cleaned or prepared by 
being swilled in a mixture of dilute hydrochloric acid and chloride 
of zinc. The process of tinning consists in dipping the utensil 
into a trough containing molten tin and lead in the proportion 
sometimes of 60 per cent, of metallic lead and 40 of tin. Owing 
to tin being the more expensive metal, the cheaper ware is often 
dipped in a composition of 70 per cent, of lead and 30 of tin. 
The dangers incidental to tinned hollow ware are twofold : first, if 
the workman who dips the utensil in the molten lead is not careful, 
cleanly, and temperate as regards the use of alcohol, he may 
suffer from lead poisoning ; and secondly, the poorer working classes, 
who buy the cheaper ware, which has been nominally tinned but 
is in reality leaded, also run the risk of becoming poisoned by 
the food either having become contaminated by lead in the act 
of cooking or subsequently. When the cauldrons containing 
the molten metal, into which the workman plunges the pans, 
etc., are hooded, the fumes are not so readily inhaled. It is a 
common belief among these men that the poison enters the 
system when they are wiping off the metal from the hot sauce- 
pans, etc., by means of tow. In the white enamelling of iron 
hollow ware many manufacturers are now using a leadless glaze 
with every promise of success. 

The enamelling of copper letters or tablets is shown by Dr 
Legge to be a source of plumbism. Four cases were reported to 
■'Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Factories, 1900, p. 313. 



320 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

the Home Office in 1900. The danger occurs during the " brushing 
on " and " wooling off" of a black enamel powder, which was found 
to contain as much as 67.0 per cent, of lead. 

Electric Accumulator Works and Lead Poisoning. 

The manufacture of electric accumulators for telegraph and 
telephone purposes and for motor cars has become a very impor- 
tant industry, and is likely to become still more important as 
time goes on. There is one process in the manufacture which is 
distinctly dangerous. The workmen who rub the red lead, made 
into a paste by means of dilute sulphuric acid, on to embossed or 
perforated plates occasionally suffer from plumbism. When the 
plate leaves the workman its interstices look as if they were filled 
with red clay. Both sides of the plate have to be treated by the 
workman, whose hands are generally covered with indiarubber 
gloves. During the mixing of the dry red lead or litharge with the 
dilute sulphuric acid a considerable amount of dust is created. 
The indiarubber gloves which are worn by the men who fill the 
perforations in the plates with the lead paste become in time thin 
and worn, or they get torn, and as a result certain parts of the hands 
of the men become coated with the red composition. By this means, 
as the work entails a considerable amount of friction, lead poisoning 
may readily occur. In visiting electric accumulator works, I found 
several of the workmen, especially the younger men, extremely pale, 
and suffering from headache ; some of them had been laid off with 
colic, and they presented a well-marked blue line on their gums. 

The colic of electricians is not a new disease. In one electric 
accumulator works in La Hague in 1894, there occurred 37 cases 
of plumbism in 252 male workers; and in another factory in 
Wiesbaden 12 cases of lead poisoning occurred in 90 workers. 
Of 30 patients suffering from lead colic admitted into the Hospital 
Bichat, Paris, during 1 899, Talamon says more than one-half were 
electricians, the remainder being made up of painters, plumbers, 
and typographers. So prevalent had lead poisoning become in 
Germany that the Imperial Health Office directed an inquiry* 
to be made into the conditions of labour in electric accumulator 
works. In consequence of this, special rules were issued, and as 
these now govern the industry in Germany, it will not be out of 
place if I quote at some length from the Report, a translation of 
which has been kindly placed in my hands by Dr Morison Legge. 

* " Die in eletrisch. akkumulator fabriken " ; Dr Wutzdorff — Arbeiten mts dem 
Kaiserlichen Gesundheitsainte^ 1898. 



XIX.] LEAD POISONING IN ELECTRIC ACCUMULATOR WORKS 32 \ 

The information embodied in the Report was collected by a 
circular letter of the Chancellor, and deals with the extent of the 
manufacture of accumulators and the dangers of working. From 
one factory alone the following particulars were received as to the 
special incidence of plumbism in particular processes. 



Occupation. 


i Number 
j Employed. 

1 


Number of 

Cases of Lead 

Poisoning. 


Per cent. 


Casting 


1 

30 


3 


lO.O 


Pasting 


30 


9 


30.0 


Soldering 


16 


6 


37.5 


Trimming . 


30 


4 


13.3 


Plumbing . 


30 


9 


30.0 


Section Building 


60 


5 


8.3 



As regards remedial measures, special attention was directed 
to : (i) casting and preparation of the plate ; (2) mixing the 
paste ; (3) actual pasting ; (4) the drying and building into bat- 
teries of the various segments ; (5) forming and changing plates. 
As regards these various headings the information gathered is as 
follows : — 

(i) Ordinary lead, often containing a trace of antimony, is used 
for casting the plates. From the surface of the lead in the melting 
pots fume rises (oxide of lead), so that it is recommended to have 
the melting pots arranged that they can be provided with an 
efficient hood and shaft leading either into the open air or into a 
chimney. The need for these precautions lies in the fact that not 
only are the fumes of lead and antimony harmful when inhaled, but 
commercial lead often contains traces of arsenic, varying from o.i 
to 7.9 per cent. 

(2) Litharge and red lead are used for making the paste, and 
as these come to the works in casks, the dry material is transferred 
from the cask to the worker's bench by means of a shovel or trowel. 
Dust thus becomes scattered about in all directions. It is, there- 
fore, desirable to have the floor of the workrooms moistened 
and swept daily. The mixing of the red lead and sulphuric 
acid should be done in a closed chamber or under an exhaust 
shaft. 

(3) As regards the wearing of gloves by the men who paste the 
plates, reference is made to the difficulty of keeping the gloves in 
good repair. The same difficulty, as I have already mentioned, 
occurs in Britain. In some of the electric accumulator works the 

X 



322 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

gloves worn are too short. The dry red lead occasionally gets 
inside the gloves, and as these tend to keep the hands hot and 
cause them to perspire, plumbism is rather encouraged than pre- 
vented, or skin eruptions develop. In order to avoid, therefore, 
as far as possible absorption of lead by the skin, two alternatives 
are put forward by the German Committee of Enquiry : {a) the 
work is not to exceed eight hours a day, to be broken by a pause 
of at least one and a half hours ; or ifi) there is to be one six- 
hours' spell of work in the day. The Committee is in favour of 
the latter. Respirators for the men engaged in pasting are not 
considered necessary. 

(4) In building up the batteries by means of solder, ordinary 
solder is not used, but a very pure lead instead, in order that the 
connections made between the plates may not be affected when 
they are subsequently exposed to the acid. To bind these plates 
together by solder, the heat from an oxygen or hydrogen blow- 
pipe flame is used, but frequently the temperature reaches a height 
sufficient to cause volatilisation of the lead, and statistics show that 
persons engaged in this occupation run a considerable risk of lead 
poisoning. 

(5) Opinions were found to differ as to the effect of the dilute 
sulphuric acid vapour in the formation-room upon the workers. 
There was said to be medical testimony as to its good effects upon 
workpeople, who are the subjects of chronic bronchitis. Reference 
is made to the difficulty of providing fans for ventilation of these 
rooms owing to the deleterious action of the acid upon the metal 
contained in the fan, and yet some form of artificial ventilation 
is necessary. 

The method adopted in the factory of determining the pres- 
ence of lead in the air was the simple one of suspending, at the 
level of the worker's head, a sheet of blotting paper, icx) centi- 
metres square, previously moistened: Subsequent treatment with 
dilute acid and exposure to the action of sulphuretted hydrogen 
showed whether lead was present or not. 

Motor Cars. 

In Paris, motor cars are much more in evidence than in this 
country. There are very few in London compared with the French 
capital. Dr Proust has reported four cases of lead poisoning in 
Paris, in women aged eighteen, nineteen, twenty-five, and thirty- 
nine years respectively, whose work consisted in coating with oxide 
of lead small leaden rods, and fixing them in position. All of 



XIX.] MOTOR CARS AND ELECTRIC TRAMWA YS . 323 

these women entered the electrical department of motor car manu- 
factories in good health. At the end of six weeks to two months 
they had colic, loss of appetite, constipation, and abdominal pain 
of such severity that they had to be taken to the hospital, and 
detained there under treatment for more than a fortnight. In one 
patient the symptoms of plumbism returned shortly after resuming 
work. With the dangerous nature of the occupation the employers 
were quite familiar. They not only paid a doctor to visit the 
works once a week to examine the workers, but they were in the 
habit of giving to the female workers honey and sulphur, iron 
pills, and half a litre of milk daily. Ample provision was made for 
v/ashing ; tooth-brushes were provided, also sulphur baths once a 
fortnight, and yet, notwithstanding these precautions, four of the 
women quickly developed symptoms of lead poisoning. 

Electric Tramways. 

An accident of rather a peculiar character occurred on 8th Oct. 
1 90 1, on a tramway car in Paris. I state the facts for what they 
are worth. During the course of the evening, nearly a dozen of 
the travellers were suddenly seized with violent pains in the 
abdomen and by syncope, and were obliged to be treated at a 
chemist's shop en route. On an inquiry being instituted, the 
opinion was expressed that the symptoms were due to poisoning 
caused by fumes given off by sulphuric acid acting upon the lead 
in the electric accumulators. 

Recommendations. 

It is evident that as electricity will be the motor power of the 
future and will be turned into numerous channels of application, the 
number of electric accumulator works in Britain is sure to increase. 
The necessity for putting into force several of the recommendations 
mentioned in these pages is almost sure to arise. So far as the 
hygiene of the works is concerned, the same rules ought to apply to 
them as are now in force in red lead works. 

Soldering. 

Common solder is an alloy of tin and leatd, equal parts. Fine 
solder is composed of 2 parts of tin and i of lead ; coarse solder, 
of 2 of lead and i of tin. The extensive consumption of tinned 
meats and fruits is responsible for some cases of plumbism, 



324 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap, 

owing to the acid juices dissolving some of the lead out of the 
solder, but workmen who solder, e.g. tinkers, have been known 
to suffer from paralysis of the muscles of the fingers and hands, 
Owing to volatilisation of the lead and inhalation of the fume. 



Typefounding ; Printing ; Typesetting ; Linotyping. 

Type metal is an alloy of lead with J to J of antimony. The 
antimony is added to harden the alloy, for lead is a soft metal. 
Occasionally small quantities of tin and copper are added, so that 
the alloy may be composed of 70 parts of lead, 18 of antimony, 10 
of tin, and 2 of copper. 

We have already dealt with the smelting of lead ore and the 
melting of pig-lead. The smelting of antimony ore is not attended 
with such serious risks to health as -is the case with lead. One of 
the largest antimony works in this country is on Tyneside. I have 
had the privilege of visiting Jhe works and of examining the work- 
nien. The raw ore or sulphide comes from Japan. It is smelted 
with iron filings. No constitutional bad effects were noticeable 
in the men who smelt the ore. To some extent this freedom from 
illness may be due to the fact that the men are not closely exposed 
to the fume, and that, owing to good ventilation, the fumes were 
quickly got rid of. The only trouble the workmen seemed to 
experience, and it was more of a complaint than an illness, is 
that as the work is hot they perspire freely, and the skin in con- 
sequence becomes extremely irritable and itchy. An eruption' 
appears on the skin. This at first shows itself as a crop of vesicles, 
which ultimately become pustular. Formerly more than now it 
was a medical practice in the treatment of disease to apply an 
ointment composed of tartrate of antimony to the skin in order 
to bring out a pustular eruption, which acted as a counter 
irritant. Knowing this to be the local action of antimony, it is easy 
to understand, therefore, the development of the skin eruption 
spoken of as " pox " upon the neck and upper part of the abdomen 
in antimony workers. Eulenburg says that exposure to the fumes 
of oxide of antimony is followed by pains in the region of the 
bladder and urethra, and by impotence in the male. My experi- 
ence does not confirm this statement. Several of the men looked 
rather pale, probably as the result of exposure to the heat, and a 
few of them had suffered from gastro-intestinal pains like colic, 
usually relieved by taking a dose of Epsom salts. A case of 
industrial antimony poisoning is published in the Report of the 



XIX.] ANTIMONY POISONING; PRINTERS' COLIC . 325 

Chief Inspector of Factories for 1900, p. 332. It is that of a man 
who had worked as an extractor of the metal, and who in conse- 
quence of having inhaled the fumes suffered from paroxysmal 
attacks of difficulty of breathing without any physical signs of 
disease in his lungs. He complained of a sense of constriction in 
his chest, nausea, a metallic taste in his mouth, backache, weak- 
ness in the muscles of his legs, profuse perspiration, headache, and 
dimness of vision. 

It is, however, not so much with antimony as with the presence 
of lead in the printers' type that we are here concerned. Printers' 
colic was a much more common malady two or three decades ago 
than now. It is due to handling the type, and to the dust that is 
given off. Typefounders also suffer from plumbism, but in not 
a few cases the illness has been caused by the workpeople eat- 
ing their food without previously washing their hands. Printers 
as a class are often pale and unhealthy looking. Much of this 
may be due to the fact that they work in overheated rooms for 
long spells at a time, and have late hours. H.M. Medical Inspector 
of Factories reports that during 1900 there were 17 cases of lead 
poisoning in printers. One of the patients died. Ten of the men 
were compositors, 4 were linotypists, and 2 stereotypers. Dr 
Stiihler, of Berlin, taking his statistics from the reports of sick 
benefit societies, states that of 3000 printers in Berlin 313 were 
annually sick from lead colic, i.e., about 10.4 per cent, of printers' 
compositors suffer from plumbism, either by absorption through 
the skin, caused by handling the type that has become oxidised 
during wear, or by swallowing the dust through eating with un- 
washed hands. Fromm discusses this subject, and alludes to the 
analyses of dust of printing-houses made by Stumpf, who found that 
it contained often as much as 14.43 P^^ cent, of lead. In a report 
recently presented to the German Board of Health, Faber states 
that he found in the dust collected from the floor 11.51 per cent, 
of lead : that the dust taken from a shelf in the room contained 
6.59 per cent, of lead, while dust collected in the gangway between 
the desks in the composing room of a newspaper office contained 
4.7 per cent, of lead. In analysing the air of printing shops 
Keygi* found that the dust contained from 10 to 15 per cent, 
of lead, which came from the wear of the type. Inhalation 
of the dust of the oxidised metal in all probability, therefore, 
plays a very important part in the causation of plumbism in 
printers' compositors. During 1900, printing was in Britain 
^■' Encycloped. d' Hygiene., p. 546. 



326 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap, 

responsible for 17 cases of lead poisoning. In 2 of the cases 
there were symptoms of lead encephalopathy, one of which 
proved fatal, and in another there was paralysis. Ten of the 
patients were compositors and 4 were linotypists. 

It has to be borne in mind that compositors do a great 
deal of their work in an artificial light. As they are obliged 
to handle type very freely, the skin on the inner aspect of the 
last phalanx of the right thumb, forefinger, and midfinger occa- 
sionally becomes thick and hard, also the skin of the last phalanx 
of the left thumb, and the interdigital eminences of the left hand. 
According to Choquet, typographers suffer from two distinct mala- 
dies, one directly due to the mechanical nature of their work, and 
the other attributable to the medium in which that work is carried 
on. Standing on their feet for long spells at a time, they run the 
risk of developing varicose veins, and as the rooms are either too 
brilliantly lighted, or the reverse, to affections of eyesight. Older 
compositors frequently show a trembling of the right hand, due to 
fatigue caused by grasping and distributing the type, but in pro- 
ducing this tremor plumbism no doubt plays a part. Analogous to 
writers' palsy, the tremor is sometimes so persistent that it obliges 
the individual to renounce his work. The channels by which lead 
dust effects an entrance into the system are the buccal and 
nasal mucous membranes, the skin, the respiratory passages, 
and the alimentary canal. So slight are the initial troubles 
of the typographer, that for a time they are unperceived. Acute 
plumbism does not occur among compositors, it is always chronic. 
By degrees the individual begins to look pale ; the skin becomes 
greyish and exhibits a slightly jaundiced tint ; the appetite, too, 
fails, and digestion becomes weak, and obstinate constipation 
occurs. A blue line, if sought for, will be seen in the gums, 
and there is complaint of an unpleasant metallic taste in the 
mouth. The breath becomes fetid, and motor and sensory 
troubles develop, especially at those , parts that have been 
brought into the closest contact with the type. Often com- 
mencing with a sense of fatigue in the muscles, the paresis 
proceeds to motor paralysis. In female typographers excessive 
menstrual losses, such as are known to occur in female white 
lead workers, have been noted. 

Whatever tends to interfere with the elimination of lead from 
the system encourages necessarily the development of plumbism. 
Alcohol has this tendency. It is said that if the skin of a com- 
positor gets broken, the wound heals slowly and is apt to become 



XIX.] PRINTERS' CATS SUFFER FROM LEAD POISONJJVG 327 

erysipelatous, but I have not observed this. Some typographers 
are more susceptible to plumbism than others. It is largely 
a question of well or ill ventilated workrooms, and of personal 
resistance. Tanquerel found in France that the ages between 
thirty and forty years gave the largest amount of ill health, 
and that in the hot seasons of the year most cases occurred. Dr 
Motais, who is a member of the Departmental Council of Hygiene 
of Paris, in an address recently delivered at a conference of typo- 
graphers, recited a story of animal life which had been told to him 
by some of the printers themselves. For twenty years these men 
had tried to keep cats in the workrooms. The animals were well 
fed ; they received plenty of milk. For a time all would go well 
with them, and then the same train of symptoms would invariably 
develop ; the eyes would lose their healthy lustre, the limbs become 
paralysed, and the animals die, presenting the same cerebral 
symptoms as are observed in the acute lead encephalopathy of 
man. 

Precautions. — Printing houses should be so situated that free 
currents of air can get to them, and not, as at present is too frequently 
the case, shut in by other buildings. Plenty of daylight and, if 
possible, sunlight are very desirable ; daylight if introduced by one 
side should enter preferably on the left of the compositor, so that 
no shadow is thrown upon the case that contains his type. Light 
coming in from the roof obviates all this. So far as artificial light- 
ing of the rooms is concerned, there is an opinion that the electric 
light is more hurtful than gas, and gas again more harmful than 
lamps. There should be tinted shades on the gas or lamps, green 
externally, white internally. The workroom should be well venti- 
lated and without draughts ; any dust generated should as far as 
possible be removed by fans. The type boxes should be kept clean 
and the floors periodically watered. By young compositors long 
hours ought to be avoided. No food should be eaten in the work- 
rooms. Compositors should never do any work fasting, and should 
avoid smoking when at work. Excesses of all kinds ought to be 
avoided, particularly the immoderate use of alcohol. Milk should 
be freely taken. On the occurrence of colic, the individual should 
at once give up his work and be medically treated. Washing the 
hands and rinsing the mouth before eating are absolutely required, 
also a bath once a week, and the wearing of overalls when at 
work. 

It is an old opinion attributed to the French physicians 
Tanquerel and Pidoux, that there exists an antagonism between 



328 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 



plumbism and pulmonary tuberculosis. Facts so far as applied to 
compositors do not support this statement, hence the desirability of 
printing houses receiving plenty of sunlight, and of the undesirability 
of persons who are bronchitic or susceptible to lung diseases being 
allowed to work in printing houses, unless they are careful of how 
they dispose of their expectoration. One of the great foes of the 
printer is pulmonary phthisis. Much of this is undoubtedly pre- 
ventible, since the disease is encouraged by the unhealthy condi- 
tions under which the work is carried on. Smith* found that the 
mortality from consumption was 60 per cent, greater than in most 
of the other trades. Of 799 deaths published by the London Society 
of Compositors for ten years, 1880- 1889 inclusive, Arlidge found 
phthisis as the cause of death in 296, bronchitis and asthma in 85^ 
pneumonia and pleurisy together were responsible for 6^ deaths, 
paralysis and apoplexy for 61, and Bright's disease for 21. Pulmon- 
ary phthisis caused 37 per cent, of the deaths. The largest number 
of deaths occurred between the ages of thirty and forty years. 
Since the statistics given by Dr Arlidge are more than ten years 
old, and as tabulated are not comparable with the general death- 
rate all over the country of persons between twenty to sixty-five 
years of age, I communicated with the Secretaries of the Typo- 
graphical Association, also the London Society of Compositors, for 
their annual reports, from which I am able through the kind assist- 
ance of Dr Henry Armstrong, the Medical Officer of Health for 
Newcastle-on-Tyne, and his clerk, Mr Gillinder, to supply more 
recent information, as indicated in the following table (pp. 329-330). 

These statistics unfortunately are not exactly comparable : the 
time periods are not the same for all three. This is unavoidable, 
owing to the census returns for later periods not having been 
published while I write. They are, however, not without value, for 
they strengthen the suspicion of greater liability of the printer to 
pulmonary disease. 

The figures underlined in column 12 indicate the increased 
tuberculosis mortality rate of the two associations as compared 
with the whole of England and Wales. In column 1 1 it will be 
observed that in the Society of Compositors there is an increase 
in tubercular disease, but not great, over the corresponding 
rate for the entire country. It may be therefore taken as a 
fact that printers are more liable to tubercular consumption than 
men engaged in most other trades. In the half-yearly Report 
of the Typographical Association ending December 1900, there 
* Quoted by Arlidge in Diseases of Occupations. 



I 



X.1 


MORTALITY TABLES OF TYPOGRAPHICAL AS^OC 


. 329 


u 


6 


2 • 


00 


. 


VO 




CO 




M 


il 


^i 




w 




CO 




CO 




CO 


















II 


u "^ 




VO 




00 




t^ 


. . 


N 


^'i 


- : : 


PO 




^ 


■ 


4 


■ 


■^ 




- -On 


O CO n 


xn 


0^ 0^ 


00 


0^^^ 


v£> 


CO c^ 


VO 


" P w S 

IJlf 


2 fq M 


CO 


C-l HH 


Th 


►H r» 


rh 


"" 


•<*- 


s 


H P^~ 






1 










< 


a 






i 










^ 


1 


1 










P 


« - rt " 
















S 


M " ° >i •£ 


^ O 1^ 




oc f^ 




ON^ 


VO 


CO t^ 





i2 


<> Jf)hH 


^ 


CO M 


v£5 


W CO 


VO 


CO 01 


VO! 




§-Sffi££ 




















J 




















uT 




















'S 




















o 




















ll 


00 W 11 


CO 


KO CO 


ON 


w >-< 


CO 


^hH 


vn 




1 








































H 


















a 




















.2 




















a 




















S 


In • 


' 


I ! 










• 




S 




















c 




















o 




















U 


















.i 


















f; 


.2 


l-l l-H 


M 


covo 


ON 


t^^ 


CO 


a^ w 





d 


^ 


« W hi 


CO 


M hH 


CO 


"-H rj 


M- 




-:i- 




^ 


















d. 


Oh 


















U3 




















s 




















oj 


















-a) 




















Q 


1 

s 


IC w o» 


Th 


ON w^ 


'^ 


t-^oo 


vo 


00 N 





.2 








































i 


Tf Jr^<N 


ON 


KO vO 


M 


VO N 


t^ 


VO Tj- 























..• 




















~ S) 


„ i-i VD 


t^ 


00 VO 


CO 


VOOO 


CO 


C4 -^ 


VO 




"J 


'^VO Tj- 


o 


t-sO 


■^ 


t^O 


Th 


OO VO 


CO 
























- — ■ — > 




' . 




, ' , 




, — >— . 








o 




/~v 




/— N 




/-s 




o| 






00 CO 
l^ ON 


-& 


K^ 


^$^ 


0) vn 

VO O 


^Ip 




rs 




CO vn 
CO CO 


ri 


VO ON 
CO CO 




00 -^ 
CO 4 


c3 




^ 


W l-H 


*-| " 


l-H IH 


hH 1-1 












v_/ 




o 




N^ 






v_,_/ 


^— Y— ' 




v_,_/ 




v->,_- 






O ON 


ON 00 


t^v£> 




VO VO 








to c« 


c< r« 


C» C» 




«M N 








a> • 


« • 


OJ ,■ 




<u • 










i& ■ 


II 


. 


II 








-o 


.'^ 


. TJ 




. ^3 








-1 . 2 


ON-O :: 55 


^-S . 


a 


^i . 


!3 






g ^ 


=2 S >^ 


<2§ 


^ 


^g 


>>. 








^H <" 




'o 


l-H 


'0 






rt 


ri 


"rt 




'rt 








K 


ffi 


ffi 




m 





LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS 



[CHA^. 



•^* 





S2 


« : 


O 




'5^ 




tl 




qvo o 


^1 




°°.l 


^=^•3 




CO 


• • 


^ 




cAl 




'j- -^ CO 


col 




-1 


rt £ 


o 


























U Ov 




t~> 


. 


CO 




VO 




<M O CO 


00 




lO 


ai 


^^1 


- : 


CO 


■ 


vr> 




tJ- 




vAi/^Tt- 


•<^ 




■<*■ 




^- 


















J3 


"3-5 !£ u 


• 
o ^ o 


rt- 


O CO 


O 








-d- l-l VO 








ei 


S 3 35 « 




^ 


n Tj- 


O 




tn 




■^ vn cn 


tn 






CO 


III! 












1 










a, 


X 


H OhS= 












>% 






>. 




C4 


12 


rt 












VO 






CO 




"o 


U 

Q 


.':£ is 2 2 «■ 


^ O vo 


«r) 


O '^ 


o 








VO VO CT> 


^ 
?. 




^ 


'^•^^ 




CO ir. 


cr. 












XT) 














< 






> 
< 








.5 






















at 




'x 






















o 




o 






















C 




3b 


ao (N ^ 


CO 


CO rh 


t^ 








hH l-l l^ 




! 


^ 




H 














tri 






00 


















Pi 






OO 


















g 














O 






O 


^o 




\ 














H 






1 






e 


ts : 












OQ 


. 1-1 l-l 




■^ 


1 




a 














2 

O 






^ 

.* 


















'7. 














o 






g 


"cs 


p. 




« ^2^ 


^_ 


CO O^ 


N 






o 


CO O 00 




Q 


P 


o 


X, 


•^ 


N CO 


VO 






CO rh N 




l-l 


c 


« 


X. 




















c 




a, 




















1 


< 

i 
















< 

Q 


c 
1 

i 

Oh 


^^^ 


^ 


O CO 


On 






o 
o 


O VOON 




1 


















o 






« 






i 


■*.<-> vTi 


O 


l^ ^1 


ON 






H-1 


CO O l-l 




< 

z 
<; 






cc 




















o 

z 




















.y* 




















w 






■< 1 


'^J:^^ 




^§: 










vO l-l c^< 
N rh CO 










XJ 




^^ 




^^ 


















. 




^-^ 




C 










tM £ 


o "^ 


00 t 


CO Tj- 


-1^ 


! 




O O^ >n 










o C 


p,o o" 


C^ vo 








00 t^ l-l 










oE 


rooo 


^^g 








f^ O '^ 










:z; S 


Tj-U^ 




vn vri 










o' £ £ 










^ 


•-C M 


l-l i-c 


























•^ 






















^ — , — ' 




^ 








vri 1- 




rh O 




















N ro 




M CO 




















D • 




(U 




















-11 




£ ^ 






















>^C 




















-Td 




. "d 




















c 
























°o ^ 






<o 






t^OO ON 












0^ i3 


-2i 








a> ov CTN 












-| = 


o 


'o 






OO 00 oo 














J3 


















rt 




K 
















DECLINE OF LEAD POISONING IN PRINTEI^S 33 1 



is a list of 74 deaths for the half-year in the Society, whose 
members number 16,179. Of these 74 deaths, 32 were caused by 
pulmonary disease, and of these 32 deaths, 22 were caused by 
tubercular disease, mostly pulmonary phthisis. There is an 
opinion, but it is erroneous, that smoking tobacco or chewing it is 
more or less a protection against plumbism, because the men 
expectorate ; but apart from the fact of spitting being a dirty 
practice, the habit of expectorating upon a printer's floor is to be 
discouraged, especially if the workman has a cough and is the 
subject of lung disease, for it is largely by means of the sputa 
thrown upon the floor and becoming dried that the bacilli of 
tubercle disseminate pulmonary consumption. 

In thus expounding the subject of lead poisoning in printers, 
I have rather drawn attention to dangers that were more common 
in the past than exist at present, for, fortunately in this country 
at least, plumbism among compositors is very much on the wane. 
It is seldom that we meet with cases of printer's colic in these 
days, owing very largely to the change in the method of printing 
newspapers. Until recently the printing of newspapers was done 
by ordinary type, the compositor setting the type by touch and 
not by sight. He quickly picked out the required letters, deftly 
inserting the nail of his thumb into the groove on one side of 
the type. It was through these operations that the skin of the 
fingers became thickened, and lead dust got under his finger 
nails. Having set and printed the paper, he had to take up, 
wash the type in lye, and subsequently distribute it, i.e., put 
each type back into its proper place. The distribution of the 
type required even more care than the setting of it, for a type 
wrongly distributed became a source of future trouble. Printing 
by hand type is rapidly on the decline, and is being replaced by 
stereotyping and linotyping. For newspaper printing there are 
now several fast printing machines in existence. Stereotyping has 
made it possible to print from a stamped cylinder without making 
direct use of the individual type. Endless rolls of paper, too, feed 
the printing machines. As many as 10,000 thirty-two page 
periodicals can be thrown off in an hour, but by perfecting the 
apparatus, as in Hoe's machine, as many as 24,000 are capable of 
being thrown off in an hour. It is in typesetting machines with 
automatic distribution that the greatest progress has been made. 
The Merganthaler linotype machine, which is used for newspaper 
printing, produces and gathers in order successive bars of metal, 
each of the required length and breadth of a line, and bearing 



332 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

on its upper surface the type which prints the hne. In the 
machine are small brass matrices, representing the different 
letters, etc. When the operator presses a finger-key on the board 
in front of him a single matrix bearing the required letter falls 
out of the magazine, and is carried to the assembling block, where 
the various matrices are set up, side by side, in a line or row. 
Subsequently these are transported to the face of a vertical 
mould wheel. Into the face of the mould molten type-metal is 
pumped, and thus a slug or linotype is produced. As the forma- 
tion of the slugs is effected automatically, the operator does not 
handle the metal, consequently plumbism is rare, only two 
cases of lead poisoning in linotypists appearing in the Annual 
Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories for 1899, and four in 
1900. 

The new methods of printing have certainly diminished the 
numbers of cases of lead poisoning among printers, but the 
introduction of linotyping is losing us, as a people, an art. No 
person contends that, for finish, linotyped printing is equal to 
that obtained by hand-set type. Except for book-printing, in 
which the letters stand out boldly and clearly, and which as 
a trade is being relegated to a few towns, stereotyping and 
linotyping are in our own country rapidly eliminating typo- 
graphy. Since this is unavoidable, it is to be hoped that lino- 
typing will yet further improve, for badly-printed newspapers 
are trying to the eyes. On the Continent most of the small 
newspapers are still printed by hand-set type, and consequently 
lead poisoning among printers is more prevalent there than 
Jiere. 

Compositors working the linotype machine run little risk of 
lead poisoning if they keep themselves and the workrooms clean. 
In linotypists the danger is not in handling the metal, for the need 
of doing this is rare ; it is rather through inhalation of the fumes of 
the molten lead or from oxidation of lead particles that are lying 
about on the machine and floor. I have met with a few cases 
of colic in linotypists, but the attacks of pain have been mild and 
much more quickly got over than in compositors who use the 
ordinary type. In some, too, I have observed some of the milder 
derangements of the nervous system, mostly functional, that are the 
result of plumbism. 



I 



xix.] PLUMBERS AND HOUSE PAINTERS 333 



Plumbing. 

Plumbers are not a long-lived class. They suffer from lead 
poisoning in consequence of handling sheet-lead, pipes made 
from the same metal, also from working with white lead. They 
often complain of a sweet metallic taste in the mouth during the 
beating of the lead and the application of solder. 

Gasfitters and plumbers run the risk of being poisoned also in 
another manner, to which allusion may be incidentally made 
here. When making the necessary connections between the pipes 
going into the houses and the mains, the gas in the latter is not 
shut off on account of its requirement by consumers. As a conse- 
quence of exposure to coal gas escaping from the main pipes, 
the workmen occasionally become dizzy and unconscious, lose their 
eyesight for several minutes, as well as the muscular power of their 
limbs. They have to be removed by their fellow-workmen, who 
often administer an emetic of salt and water when consciousness 
has sufficiently returned to enable them to swallow. The vomited 
matter smells strongly of coal gas. The symptoms are known as 
"gassing "by the workmen. In some of the men who have 
thus suffered I have found that complete muscular power had not 
returned to the limbs three months after the accident, that the 
knee-jerks were exaggerated, and that the patients were nervous 
and the subject of tremor. Albumen or sugar may be temporarily 
present in the urine. 

House Painting, . 

House painting is a prolific cause of plumbism. Dr Stuhler, of 
Berlin, who obtained his facts from benefit societies, states that of 
3000 painters in Berlin 313 or 10.4 per cent, were annually off 
work from the effects of lead poisoning. In Paris, Gautier found 
that out of 14,000 painters and varnishers 250 on an average 
attended the hospitals on account of plumbism, and that an equal 
number was treated at home, making a total percentage of 3.5. 
Of late the admissions into the hospitals of cases of lead poisoning 
have been increasing notwithstanding the regulations issued by 
the French Government, and the fact that the patients coming 
from white lead works have been getting fewer. This circumstance 
is explained by other industries sending more patients than 
formerly, and of these industries house painting has contributed 
the largest number. During the years 1894-98 this trade alone, and 



334 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap 

colour-grinding, contributed 223 patients, while white lead works 
only sent 4, and the occupation of plumbing 22. Of 86 fatal 
cases of lead poisoning in Paris during the five years mentioned, 
43 occurred in painters, 2 in plumbers, and only i in a 
white lead worker. In consequence of the large amount 
of plumbism that prevails among house painters in Paris, it is 
Gautier's contention that the occupation should be brought under 
closer Government supervision. The same remark applies equally 
to the trade in our own country. Lead poisoning among house 
painters is much more prevalent than people imagine. Taking 
a few monthly reports at random, there were 12 cases of 
plumbism in house painters (with i death) reported to the 
Home OfiBce during the month of June 1900; in the month of 
November 1900 there were reported 11 cases of lead poisoning 
(including 2 deaths) among house painters and plumbers, and in 
the following month 14 cases of lead poisoning (including 4 deaths) 
in house painters and plumbers. During 1900 there were 199 cases 
of lead poisoning in house painters and plumbers reported to the 
Home Office. These figures show that if Saturnine poisoning 
in house painting was notifiable, both it and plumbing would 
be found to be trades that are the cause of a great amount of 
sickness, of which at the present time we hear very little. 
During the year 1899 upwards of 100 cases of lead poisoning were 
notified, while from district registrars information was received of 
18 fatal cases of plumbism attributed to the occupation of house 
painting. Notification of lead poisoning in house painters is 
not compulsorily required by the Home Office. Cases of industrial 
lead poisoning, also arsenic, phosphorus, mercury, and cases of 
anthrax, are obliged to be reported to the Chief Inspector of 
Factories by the medical men who attend the patients, and by 
employers, but an exception is made in regard to house painting, 
one of the reasons being that as painters pursue their avocation 
largely in the open air and in houses away from the employer's 
premises, it is difficult to say where the poisoning was contracted. 
Industrial lead poisoning to be notifiable to the Home Office must 
have occurred in places that are controlled by the Factory and 
Workshop Acts. When a painter, who is following his occupation 
in a factory or workshop and is engaged in grinding or mixing 
colours, develops lead poisoning, the illness has to be noti- 
fied. As the Act stands at present, the Home Office cannot 
deal with certain forms of industrial lead poisoning, nor have 
the factory inspectors power to enforce improved conditions of 



H XIX.] 



SHOULD HOUSE PAINT J NG BE SCHEDULED 335 



labour. In view of house painting being ultimately brought under 
Special Rules^ it is very desirable that all cases of sickness in house 
painters and deaths from plumbism should be reported. To the 
ordinary medical practitioner, who has been informed that he must 
report all cases of occupational lead poisoning coming under his 
care, it is embarrassing for him to draw a distinction between lead 
poisoning caught by one man filling a barrel with dry lead car- 
bonate in a workroom, and another man who uses this as a paint in 
decorating the interior of a house or shop, and yet while the 
former is notifiable, the latter is not, although the same cause is in 
operation in both. The sphere of Home Office influence ought 
therefore to be extended so as to include house painting, and this 
might be done under the Act that allows the Home Secretary on 
sufficient evidence to schedule a trade as dangerous. 

There are several ways in which painters and colour-mixers 
become the victims of lead poisoning. The men who grind or 
mix the colours run the risk of inhaling the dust. Unless this 
process is carried on either in closed spaces or in airy and well- 
ventilated rooms, the atmosphere becomes thick and can only be 
cleared by means of a fan. In this country there are, excluding 
house painters, upwards of 6000 persons employed in the 
manufacture, mixing, and grinding of paints and colours. Of 48 
cases of plumbism that occurred among these persons in 1899, 
30 were grinders and 7 of them packers. 

For the purposes of house painting, the pigments are generally 
mixed with oil and a turpentine body. It has sometimes been 
thought that the lead poisoning of painters is due to the inhalation 
of the terebinthated vapour that rises from the painted surface. 
That this is a possible source is shown by the outbreaks of " belly 
ache," or colique seche, that occurred a few years ago in the Tropics, 
and played sad havoc with the sailors of the French Navy. For 
a long period the nature of the illness was not recognised. It was 
thought by some to be a neurosis of the abdominal sympathetic 
nervous system, and due to chill, while other physicians regarded 
it as a form of malarial disease. Lefevre, the Director of the 
Naval Sanitary Board at Brest, ultimately gave it as his opinion 
that " the colique secJie of the French Navy is nothing more than 
lead poisoning," and the reason why colic was more frequent 
among French sailors than those of other countries was due to the 
fact that lead entered more into the construction of their ships of 
war. It formed the tanks for holding the drinking water and the 
pipes for carrying the water ; it was present in the paint of the 



336 . LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

cabins, in the enamel of the drinking-cups, and in the cooking 
utensils. Out of this number of possible causes some of the cases 
of colique seche might have been due to sleeping in cabins newly 
painted with lead compounds, although drinking contaminated 
water would be the more probable cause. A common cause 
of lead poisoning in house painters is inhalation of the fume 
evolved during the burning-off of old paint. When engaged for 
long at this kind of work the men complain of headache, nausea, 
and occasionally have colicky pains in the abdomen. There is yet 
another manner in which plumbism may develop, and this occurs in 
finer work, where several coats of paint have to be applied. After 
what is called laying-on of the prime colours and puttying with 
white lead comes the flat colouring. When the coats of paint have 
become dry the workman is obliged to use sandpaper to rub the 
surface flat. In doing this a considerable amount of dust is given 
off which is rich in white lead. It is inhalation of this dust that 
so frequently induces colic and paralysis of the hands in house 
painters. Carelessness and ignorance are frequently contributing 
causes. Men, while laying-on the white paint with a flat knife, 
have often been observed using the hollow of their left hand as a 
reservoir for the paint. If there is any erosion of the skin, absorp- 
tion of the poison is sure to follow. Layers-on are an unhealth}- 
class of men. In Paris alone there occurred i8 deaths during the 
years 1898 and 1899 in a small union of 200 members, the greatest 
age at death being 35 years. 

A fresh danger has been recently introduced into house paint- 
ing. A few months ago a house painter, aged 40, was admitted 
into the Newcastle Infirmary suffering from extreme blueness of 
the face, lips, ears, hands and fingers, and from colic. He had also 
a very blue line on his gums. The illness was plumbism, but with 
something superadded. He had been engaged in removing the 
varnish and paint from old Venetian blinds, and had been using a 
dark brown liquid with a pungent, penetrating odour, known in the 
trade as a special patent. During the process of rubbing and swill- 
ing the blinds, and subsequently of sandpapering them, a strong 
sickening odour arose, which caused him to vomit and to have 
severe headache. The vapour, too, caused him to become so 
drowsy that he would almost fall asleep. He would feel giddy, but 
had no difficulty in walking, nor was his eyesight affected. The 
man was pale as well as blue, he had a haggard expression, and 
there was the most marked cyanosis possible. He had colic and 
constipation. His internal organs were healthy, including the 




XIX.] COACH PAINTING • 337 

kidneys. He had marked tremor of both hands, but no paralysis. 
It was quite clear that there was an acute intoxication of some 
kind or another, over and above lead poisoning. Several ex- 
aminations of the urine were made by Dr R. A. Bolam, who had 
charge of the patient, with the view of establishing the nature of 
the poison. The symptoms reminded me of those observed in 
men who are employed in painting ships with quickly-drying 
spirit paints. It was thought at first that the symptoms were 
due to the presence of aniline oil in the "patent," or of some 
chemical akin to the pyridine group of compounds. The 
case is an illustration of the danger incidental to the use of 
highly volatile, complex, and unstable chemical compounds 
whose nature is not quite known, whose effects upon the 
human body can only be learnt by experience, and which have 
for their object, from a trade point of view, rapid execution of 
work. 

Painters of ships' cabins suffer from plumbism as much if not 
more than house painters, since they are often obliged to work in 
close, confined spaces; so, too, do the painters of the back of mirrors, 
from using red lead ; also painters of agricultural implements, 
etc. 

It is worthy of mention that shipbuilders have found in the re 
oxide of iron a cheaper and safer pigment for painting the outside 
of steel plates than red lead. 

The question as to whether any comparatively harmless sub- 
stitute for white lead can be found for house painting is discussed 
at p. 293, ^.z;. 

Coach Painting. 

Lead poisoning in coach and carriage painters is far from being 
rare. In the painting of carriages there are often as many as 
eighteen coats of paint and varnish applied. Frequently the work 
is done in rather close and very ordinarily ventilated places. In 
Newcastle it is the practice of large firms of coach makers to give 
a carriage three coats of primary paint, six of filling up, three or 
four of oil colours, two of varnish colour, i.e. oil and varnish mixed, 
and, finally, about four coats of varnish. The colours used are 
white lead, dry and ground in oil : lampblack, ultramarine, yellow 
chromes, zinc white, and others known by particular names in the 
trade. " Driers " are also used, such as sugar of lead and 
terebene. Coach painters become the subjects of plumbism 

Y 



338 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chai'. 

chiefly through inhaling the dust when sandpapering to get 
a good surface. They suffer from colic and wrist-drop. Many 
of the cases approach in severity the lead poisoning of file 
cutters. Dr Morison Legge states that the percentage of 
chronic plumbism among coach painters is greater than among 
file cutters. 

Several cases of plumbism have occurred in the painting of 
new carriages, also in the breaking-up and burning of the wood 
of old railway carriages. Thirty-four of the cases of plumbism 
reported during 1900 as having taken place in coachbuilders. 
occurred in men engaged in railway shops. 

It is almost unnecessary to repeat that in all places where lead 
paints are being handled and used, as in workshops, factories, 
ships and dockyards, there should be adequate washing accommoda- 
tion, with plenty of soap, towels, and nail-brushes, and sufficient 
time ought to be given to the men to wash before leaving 
work. 

Glass Polishing. 

After glass and crystal have been cut they have to be polished. 
The polishing is generally conducted on a revolving wheel or 
table made of wood, and upon which water, containing rouge 
or putty powder in suspension, is allowed to drip. When the 
article to be polished is a plane surface, e.g. a mirror, the wheel is 
a horizontal one revolving on a vertical axis. The water con- 
taining the rouge or putty powder escapes by a narrow opening 
from a conical vessel placed above the wheel. When finer work 
is required, e.g. the polishing of wine-glasses, electric-light globes, 
etc., the water drops on to a hard brush, which is attached to the 
external rim of a vertical wheel, from four to six inches in 
diameter, running at a high speed and revolving on a horizontal 
axis. For this kind of polishing putty powder alone is used. In 
some factories the liquid putty powder is fed on to the brush by a 
boy; in others the supply, as already mentioned, is automatic. 
Several samples of putty powder were sent to the Dangerous 
Trades Committee, and subjoined is the analysis of two of them : — 





A. 


a 


Oxide of tin 


29.72 per cent. 


28.96 


Oxide of lead 


70.28 


68.07 



In the very free use of this putty powder, rich in lead, the 
clothes and hands of the workers become bespattered by the thick 




XIX.] PUTTY POWDER AND GLASS POLISHING . 339 



spray thrown off from the rapidly-revolving wheels. Putty 
powder administered to animals in their food causes symptoms 
of Saturnine poisoning almost as quickly as white lead. In the 
evidence given before the Dangerous Trades Committee there was 
abundant proof of the extremely harmful effects of the use of putty 
powder in glass polishing. Many of the workers examined had 
suffered from colic, while others had been obliged to give up their 
employment on account of paralysis of the fingers and hands. 
It was ascertained that several of the male workers had died from 
acute convulsive seizures due to poisoning by lead. Another 
point to which attention was drawn was, that plumbism might 
develop in workmen in a glass-polishing shop who were not 
engaged in the actual process of polishing, and who had therefore 
not been directly brought into contact with the putty powder. 
This was due to the dried liquid on the floor becoming rubbed 
and trodden upon, rising as dust into the atmosphere, and being 
inhaled by the workmen in the shop. 

Putty powder is a frequent cause of lead poisoning. The 
master polishers have for years tried to find a substitute for it. 
In many factories rouge is used. This is considered by many of 
the employers to be innocuous. On analysing rouge powders 
for the Dangerous Trades Committee, Professor Thorpe found 
that they contained commercial oxide of tin : that in one powder 
o. T 3 per cent, of arsenious acid was present, and in another a trace 
of the same substance. Probably not much danger would follow 
the use of rouge powders containing such a mere trace of arsenic, 
but their employment would not be altogether free from risk ; 
besides, since it can be shown that the presence of arsenic is not 
essential, then it ought to be eliminated altogether. The diffi- 
culty in regard to the use of harmless rouge powders is rather a 
technical or industrial question than medical. Do they answer 
the purpose as well as putty powder? The Dangerous Trades 
Committee found that opinions were much divided upon the 
point. Some of the glass polishers stated that rouge did not 
give such a fine effect, and that it took a longer time. On 
the whole, however, the results obtained have been such as to 
encourage employers to adopt it more freely. Where putty 
powder has been interdicted by the masters and only rouge 
used, the health of the workmen has wonderfully improved. 

A few years ago M, Geroult proposed to the French glass 
polishers and crystal manufacturers, metastannic acid as a partial 
substitute for the putty powders that contained a large percentage 



'340 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chai'. 

of lead, and which had been the cause of several fatal cases 
of plumbism. The Academy awarded the Montyon prize to 
Geroult for his discovery. For the last ten years the .new method 
has been followed in the glass works of Baccarat, and has given 
the most satisfactory results. Dr Schmitt, the surgeon to the 
works, says, that since 1891, the date of the substitution of the 
new for the old method, there has not been one single case of 
lead poisoning among the crystal cutters and glass polishers, nor 
an acute attack of plumbism in those workers who had previously 
suffered from lead poisoning. Formerly the putty powder con- 
tained 62 per cent, of lead, but in that recommended by Geroult 
there is only 20 per cent, and even with a smaller percentage of 
lead good manufacturing results can be obtained. 

Glass polishing is one of those trades in which personal 
cleanliness of the worker can do a very great deal to prevent 
plumbism, and, knowing this, employers ought to provide ample 
washing accommodation and appliances ; overalls should be worn ; 
no food should be taken into or eaten in the workshop. All 
polishing should be conducted as far as possible in semi-enclosed 
cupboards, with draught tubes and fans, and the feeding of the 
wheels should be done automatically. There ought also to be 
frequent periodical medical examination of the workers, with power 
to suspend in case of signs of plumbism. These were the recom- 
mendations of the Dangerous Trades Committee, and as one result 
of their being put into practice the Medical Inspector of Factories, 
in his Report for 1899, says he is satisfied that the introduction 
of fans has materially diminished the danger of lead poisoning 
in the process of glass polishing. It has, practically speaking, 
abolished the bespattering of the workmen's clothes and the 
splashing formerly observed during glass polishing. 



File Cutting. 

Hand file cutting, although still giving employment in this 
country to a fairly large number of people, is generally stated to be 
a decaying industry. This is controverted by Dr John Robertson, 
Medical Officer of Health, Sheffield. It is, however, an unhealthy 
trade. In 1898 there were 46 cases of lead poisoning reported 
in file cutters, in 1899 the number was 41, and in 1900 there were 
40 cases. The centre of the industry is Sheffield, but the manu- 
facture is carried on in London, Glasgow, Rainhill, and Birming- 




MACHINE VERSUS HAND FILE CUTTING . 341 

ham. There are upwards of 2000 hand file cutters in Sheffield 
alone. In the Annual Report on the health of the City of Shef- 
field, 1900, it is stated that there are 2040 persons engaged in 
546 hand file cutting shops. Files can be cut both by hand 
and by machinery, but as file cutting by machinery is usually 
carried on in modern and well-ventilated factories, this method 
of manufacture need not detain us, for it is a healthy occupa- 
tion, there being no lead used in the process. It is otherwise 
with hand file cutting. Seated on a " stock," the hand file cutter 
has in front of him a stone block, into the centre of which 
a small piece of bar steel called a "stiddy" is inserted, and 
on this stiddy is placed a piece of metallic lead, which is called the 
" bed." The file about to be cut is strapped on to the bed. The 
lines that are seen on a file are made by means of a chisel and 
hammer, each line representing a blow. The reason for using the 
lead bed to strike the file upon is, that while there may be as 
little recoil as possible, there shall yet be sufficient resistance to 
develop the line in its entirety as a result of the blow given by 
the hammer and chisel. As a consequence of constantly striking 
files of uniform size a groove comes to be formed on the lead bed, 
into which succeeding files easily fit. When he has cut one face 
of the file, the workman rubs that side with charcoal, turns it pyer, 
and then proceeds to cut the other side, after which both faces are 
briskly rubbed. The file cutter grips the chisel between the index 
finger and thumb of the left hand, and in order to get a good 
grip of the chisel, he often licks his finger. A good deal of strain 
is experienced by the fingers in a day's work. The steel hammer 
used by a cutter generally weighs from j\ to 9 lbs., and as each 
line on a file represents one stroke of the hammer, and there are 
often on large files as many as 3800 lines, it is estimated that in 
the course of one day a file cutter will lift a weight equal to several 
tons. A Gateshead file cutter, who consulted me recently, works 
with a hammer 7 lbs. in weight; he cuts files 16 inches in length. 
Each file receives 1500 "bats," and he makes one and a 
quarter dozen of files daily, working eight to eight and a 
half hours. In the course of a day's work he lifts 157,500 lbs. 
weight. 

File cutting by hand is properly regarded as a dangerous 
industry. Although it claims annually large numbers as the 
victims of plumbism, it is difficult to say exactly in what form 
lead enters the system. In Sheffield the work is for the most part 
carried on in small, badly-ventilated, and over-crowded shops. 



342 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

more like outhouses, often situated in backyards or in the rear 
of dwellings, and not unfrequently contiguous to privies. Of 
546 hand file cutting shops, in only 48 was there any means 
of ventilation provided, and in many of these " the means of 
ventilation consisted of a brick taken out of the wall." Inside, 
the floor in nearly all of them is the bare earth, or bricks 
badly placed together. The workers are' closely packed together 
without any consideration of the cubic space of the work- 
room. Hand file cutters as a class are anything but cleanly. 
Possibly their sense of indifference to dirt is largely the out- 
come of the long custom of the men taking their meals in shops 
totally unprovided with washing appliances. As a consequence 
of hammering and brushing the files, a considerable amount 
of dust is created, some of which must be inhaled, as the man 
or woman — for both sexes follow the occupation — bends closely 
over the stock. In several samples of dust removed from the 
stocks and rafters of the shops, lead * was found, the other con- 
stituents of the dust being particles of iron, charcoal, and chalk. 
File cutting is a sedentary occupation. In order to get as much 
light as possible upon their work, the men sit close up to the 
window, but they object to any part of the window being open 
on account of the cold and draughts. Owing to the close and 
dusty atmosphere in which the work is carried on, the general 
health of the file cutter becomes gradually undermined. As a 
consequence of this diminished vital resistance, and the practice 
of eating his food with unwashed hands, the licking of his fingers 
when at work, and inhalation of dust, the file cutter, in course of 
time, becomes the victim of lead poisoning. It is metallic lead 
dust that is given off during the blows with the hammer and 
chisel upon the file. Lead in this form is certainly much less 
harmful than when in such a soluble combination as the oxide 
or carbonate, but oxidation of the surface of the lead is con- 
stantly taking place, thereby rendering the metal more or less 
absorbable. 

In addition to the ill-health caused by lead, pulmonary con- 
sumption carries off a large number of file cutters. The men work 
in a stooping position in over-crowded and ill-ventilated shops for 
long hours daily, with the result that the trade occupies an 
unenviable position on account of its mortality from phthisis. It 

* " Dust from rafters contained 2.64 per cent, metallic lead ; top of stock, 
14.82, and 22.28 per cent. ; from floor under the stock, 2.63, and 4.37 per 
cent." — Dangerous Trades Committee's Fourth Interim Report, p. 29. 



XIX.] FILE CUTTERS THE VICTIMS OF PLUMBISM, ETC. 343 

is not, therefore, lead qua lead that is the sole danger, but the 
unhealthy conditions under which the labour is carried on. 

In Sheffield, file cutting has received considerable attention 
from members of the medical profession. Thirty years ago Dr 
J. C. Hall denounced the trade as unhealthy, and demonstrated 
how, with such simple means as the free use of soap and water, 
much of the suffering and ill-health traceable to lead could 
be averted. Drs Sinclair White, Porter, and Harvey Little- 
john have in recent times written upon the evils of the 
trade from different standpoints. Notwithstanding all the 
attention the subject has received, hand file cutting still remains 
a most unhealthy industry. All the workers look anaemic. 
Many whom 1 examined both in Sheffield and in Rainhill 
had suffered from colic ; several were completely disabled on 
account of paralysis of the extensor muscles of the fingers and 
^^Tists. It is rather in the chronic forms of plumbism, and in 
those persons in whom the kidneys become affected and 
health breaks down, that the worst effects of file cutting as an 
occupation are seen. Out of 100 file cutters examined by Dr 
Sinclair White, 74 had a blue line on the gums, 28 had had lead 
colic, and 20 paralysis of the wrists and fingers. The trade is 
characterised by a high mortality, the figures being 316 against 
123 for occupied males in general. 

The possibility of finding a substitute for the lead bed 
upon which the file is cut is, although not a new subject, one 
to which the Dangerous Trades Committee gave considerable 
attention. It was felt that if lead could be eliminated, the 
occupation would be rendered much less harmful. It was 
ascertained that in Germany pads of paper had been tried for 
small files, also that clay and sand encased in canvas, bars of 
wood, copper, vulcanite, and various combinations of india- 
rubber and gutta-percha had been tried, but each in turn 
discarded, owing to its unsuitability as a bed. This is a field 
of inquiry that would well repay any practical file cutter. 

File cutters may work at their trade for years without becom- 
ing ill. Others again early suffer from colic, and the attacks 
of abdominal pain keep recurring every few months. Gradually, 
or suddenly, in those who have been thus afflicted, or even in 
those who have not had colic, paralysis of the fingers and hands 
develops. The peculiarity of file makers' paralysis is, that while 
the extensor muscles of the fingers and wrists may become 
affected, so as to constitute a veritable *' wrist-drop," there is 



344 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

observed more frequently paralysis with wasting of the smaller 
muscles of the fingers and thumb. The loss of power is usually 
confined to the fingers of the left hand. It is with the left 
forefinger and thumb that the chisel is grasped, and as a 
consequence of the workman holding the chisel in this position 
during a great portion of the day, there is an amount of 
muscular strain experienced which cannot but play a part 
in determining the paralysis and its location. It is not the 
sole explanation, however, for the paralysis also affects at 
times the muscles of the right hand of the file cutter. This 
is the hammer hand that really does the hardest work, though 
not of the same strained character. 

While it is to the fact of the work being conducted upon a 
lead bed, and the want of personal cleanliness on the part of 
the file cutter, that plumbism is mainly due, there are, as seen 
in Sheffield, contributory causes in operation which tend to 
increase the harmfulness of the occupation. One of these is, that 
file cutting is often a home industry. The work is frequently 
carried on in the living room or kitchen of a dwelling-house. 
Domestic and family duties come to be disregarded by the 
mother, for she, no less than the other members of the family, 
interruptedly lends a hand to increase the income of the home. 
Readers of this paper are prepared to learn that work under 
these circumstances is usually carried on in houses of the 
poorest description, and that, as a consequence of the dangerous 
character of the occupation, the unhealthy atmosphere of the work- 
room, and the constitution of the workers having become under- 
mined through poverty, lead poisoning when it occurs is not only 
extremely severe, but may affect those who are simply living in the 
house and not actually engaged in file cutting at all. How to 
grapple satisfactorily with this most unhealthy trade is one of the 
many difficult labour problems that have been presented to the 
Home Office. Both for it and the peculiar tenement conditions 
under which the industry is carried on in Sheffield, fresh legisla- 
tion is required. 

In file cutting shops generally, the air space ought to be 
extended to 450 cubic feet at least for each person (it is 600 
feet in cotton factories) ; there should be greater distance 
between the stocks, say 4 feet; better ventilation; washing appli- 
ances, with plenty of soap, water, towels, nail-brushes; wearing 
of overalls ; periodic lime-washing of the workshops ; concrete, 
asphalt, or wooden floors, which can be damped and swept 



I 



XIX.] HIGH DEATH-RATE OF SHEFFIELD FILE CUTTERS 345 

regularly ; prohibition of the taking of food into the workshops ; and 
in the event of new buildings being erected, submission of the 
plans to the Home Office. For" ventilation purposes Dr John 
Robertson recommends an inlet of the type of a Sherringham 
valve. 

The report on the sickness experience of the Society of File 
Cutters by Hand in Sheffield, by Mr Stuart Uttley, Secretary of 
the Federated Trades Council, and which is published in the 
Fourth Interim Report of the Dangerous Trades Committee, 1899, 
p. 21, shows the extent to which file cutters are thrown off 
work every year through illness, including lead poisoning. This 
Society does not contribute any sick benefit, but during the 
illness of members their contributions to the Society cease. In 
this way it is readily known how many members are off work. 
The report deals with adult males only, and the dates chosen 
are 1891 and 1896, two years when trade was good, when all 
the members were at work, and malingering was practically 
beyond question. Out of 1092 members in the Society in 
1 891, the claims for exemption on account of sickness were 
equivalent to 1 109 weeks, or a fraction of over one week per 
man per year. It is not maintained that all the sickness was 
due to plumbism. In 1896, 961 file cutters who were working 
in Sheffield claimed 951 weeks' exemption from payment of 
contributions on account of sickness, or a fraction under one 
week each per man per year. There were 36 cases of plumbism 
in file cutters notified in Sheffield from July 1898 to June 1899, 
and of these 35 were men. A glance at Dr Tatham's tables of 
comparative mortality, in an earlier part of this book, will show 
to what a large extent pulmonary consumption prevails in file 
cutters. 

Dr Harvey Littlejohn found that in twelve years there occurred 
91 deaths from plumbism in Sheffield, and that of the 91 people 
who died, 56 were file cutters. These statistics, however, do not 
represent the total number of deaths from lead poisoning. Plum- 
bism is sometimes so tardily developed, and the constitution of the 
workman so gradually undermined, that as pathological changes 
are very slowly induced in internal organs, such as the kidneys, an 
individual may die long after he has given up working in lead, and 
the death be registered as having been caused by chronic disease of 
the kidneys, which but for lead poisoning would probably not have 
developed at all. It is thus that many fatal cases of lead poisoning 
fail to be attributed to their proper cause, owing to the fact that 



346 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

as death is the result of well-defined disease of internal organs, the 
connection of which with plumbism is overlooked, the occupation 
of the patient is either not inquired into or is completely ignored 
by the medical attendant. It was with the view of minimising 
this error, and of bringing into greater prominence the connection 
of lead poisoning with industrial occupation, that the Dangerous 
Trades Committee suggested in its final Report, 1899, P- 6» that if 
all deaths among workpeople who had been employed at any time 
within three months immediately preceding death in a trade in 
which Special Rules are established were compulsorily reported to 
the coroner, many facts of intrinsic and statistical value would be 
ascertained, and much light shed upon some of the occupations 
that ^WQ, rise to industrial disease. By this means much injury 
and suffering might be mitigated at an earlier date than at present 
through alteration of the conditions under which the particular 
industry is carried on. Possibly six months would be better than 
the three suggested in the above sentence. Usually lead poisoning 
is so slowly and insidiously developed in file cutters, that the work- 
people become indifferent to the dangers, and yet when symptoms 
of plumbism occur they can be very severe. Occasionally in female 
file cutters the malady shows itself at an early date after exposure, 
and the symptoms are those rather of the acute than the chronic 
form of plumbism. 

Since, doubtless, the tendsrcy to plumbism in file cutters is 
favoured by the nasty habit indulged in of licking their left thumb 
in order to get a better grip of the chisel, the application of resin 
to the finger has been recommended, but the suggestion does not 
appear to have met with much approval. Allusion has been made 
at the commencement of this article to the fact that it is only hand 
made file cutters who suffer from lead poisoning. In the United 
States all file cutting is done by machinery, and in that country 
plumbism among file cutters is unknown. In Britain machine- 
made files are slowly supplanting those cut by hand, but the 
customs of a trade die hard. 



Use of Lead in Potteries. 

Staffordshire is the home of the pottery industry in this 
country. In Stoke-on-Trent, Burslem, Hanley, Longton, Fenton, 
and Tunstall, the trade is centred. These towns form what is 
called the " Potteries," a district of about ten miles in length and 
four in breadth. Here nine-tenths of the earthenware produced in 



XIX.] THE ''POTTERIES'' , 347 



^B the United Kingdom are manufactured. The location of the 
^B manufacture of pottery in Staffordshire is an illustration of 
^P how industries cling to particular districts. At the present 
time none of the clay which is used in the manufacture of the 
finer earthenware is found in the neighbourhood. Originally 
there was plenty of coarse clay, and there is still abundance of 
marl, which is used for making saggers and firebricks. Coal^ 
however, is abundant, and cheap fuel is an important item in the 
manufacture of pottery. In the early part of the seventeenth century 
there was a good supply of clay and fuel in the locality. The ware 
produced at that time was made from yellow or red marl, glazed 
with galena, or crushed raw lead ore brought from the Derbyshire 
mines; but in 1680, common salt was substituted for galena in 
the glaze. The articles produced were known as Crouch ware. 
It was in Burslem that this ware was first made. In 1759^ 
Wedgwood perfected the white cream ware, and introduced 
many improvements into pottery, especially in the manufacture 
of green, black Egyptian, and jasper wares. Although England 
never outrivalled France and Germany, e.g. Sevres or Dresden, in 
the manufacture of soft china, yet she has produced earthenware 
on a larger scale and supplied more of the world's markets than 
other pottery districts, and is still doing her utmost to maintain 
her supremacy. In Staffordshire there is plenty of common clay, 
marl, or fireclay which, as already mentioned, is useful for making 
saggers, i.e. the large vessels in which earthenware is fired. The 
clays necessary for making the finer earthenware and china 
are brought from Dorset, Devon, and Cornwall. The clay or 
felspar used is, roughly speaking, a silicate of alumina in combina- 
tion with water, potass, soda, lime, or iron. These ingredients 
act as fluxes on the silicate, and therefore help its vitrification. 
For earthenware, two kinds of clay may be used, the blue or 
ball clay and kaolin, but for porcelain only kaolin. It is estimated 
that upwards of 70,000 tons of ball clay are annually imported 
into the Potteries from the south of England. Kaolin, the 
Chinese word for the clay out of which porcelain is made, is in 
Staffordshire called China or Cornish clay, and is got from granite 
rocks. Workmen mix this Cornish clay with water in a large tank. 
The quartz, mica, and undissolved felspar sink to the bottom, 
while the thick white water in which the fine particles of kaolin 
are suspended is run off into another tank in which the kaolin 
is allowed to become precipitated. The precipitate is subse- 
quently removed, dried, and exported from the south of England 



348 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

as a very fine white clay, which contains more alumina but less 
iron than the untreated clay. Of this material about 130,000 
tons are sent to the Potteries every year. In Staffordshire what 
is called Cornish stone is also used. This is a kind of granite 
in which the felspar retains its alkaline elements, and is also 
useful as a vitrifying agent. Ground flints, too, are employed 
in the manufacture of earthenware. Ball clay forms the founda- 
tion of earthenware ; flint is simply the whitening material. The 
addition of Cornish clay makes the body still whiter and less 
liable to break under a heavy weight and changes of temperature, 
while Cornish stone renders the 'ware more compact and of a 
closer texture. A mixture of these substances when fired would 
not produce earthenware of a perfectly white colour. The iron 
contained in them would impart a yellow tinge. This is over- 
come by adding oxide of cobalt, which neutralises this tendency 
so completely that white ware is produced. 

It is unnecessary to describe at any length the process of 
manufacture. Once the ware is made it is gently dried by 
exposure to the ordinary air ; afterwards it is placed in saggers 
and fired in large cylindrical ovens, slowly at first to prevent 
too sudden evaporation of moisture and to prevent splitting. 
When the ware has undergone its first firing it is known in 
the trade as biscuit. Common terra-cotta and stone-ware only 
require one firing, but for all English ware it is necessary that 
it should be placed twice in the oven so as to get a denser 
texture of 'the ware, also for the purpose of glazing, or that pro- 
cess whereby the article is dipped in a liquid in which usually raw 
or ground vitrified lead is suspended. If the ware is to remain 
white, it is, after it has been biscuited, sent to the dipping depart- 
ment to be glazed, and if it is to be decorated and sold as an 
inexpensive ware it goes in addition to the printing shop, where 
by means of thin paper transfers it receives the desired coloured 
impression. The more expensive ware is painted by hand in the 
ordinary way by means of small brushes. In underglazed colour- 
ing the decorated ware is placed in a kiln and brought to a red 
heat so as to burn off the oil in the colouring. The earliest glaze 
used in Staffordshire contained galena or sulphide of lead. The 
materials used for glazes are the same as those for the body, viz., 
silica as found in flint, and felspar, to which is often added Cornish 
stone. These are called the hard materials, and they are vitrified 
by such fluxes as oxide or carbonate of lead, borax or boric acid, 
potash, soda, carbonate of lime and barytes. In the Potteries 



FRITTED LEAD 



349 



each manufacturer has his own receipt for glazes, and he guards 
it with a conservatism that to outsiders seems unnecessary in 
these days of advanced chemical research. The ingredients of 
the glaze can be rendered very insoluble by vitrifying them in a 
reverbatory furnace or crucible by exposure to an intense heat, 
whereby a compound like green glass is obtained, which is 
called a fritt. This is subsequently ground and mixed with 
water. Into this liquid the ware is dipped, and having been 
biscuited, the porous ware rapidly absorbs the water, leaving the 
solid particles of the glaze on the surface. Instead of fritting 
the lead, many manufacturers until lately simply added raw 
lead, i.e. white lead or carbonate, to the other ingredients in the 
dipping tub, and it is owing to persistence in this practice that 
lead poisoning has been so prevalent in the Potteries. After 
the ware has been dipped in the glaze it is fired for a second 
time in a manner similar to the first, only in smaller ovens, 
and with greater care, the individual pieces being better separ- 
ated from each other. On removal of the ware from the 
oven it is ready for the market. In most factories the ware,, 
after having been dipped, is dried and cleaned by women, i.e. 
the borders are scraped with a knife to remove any surplus 
glaze. When this process of cleaning is conducted over a trough 
that is aspirated there is very little dry glaze dust scattered 
about the room, but if performed in a room without proper 
ventilation the atmosphere becomes dusty and dangerous. Ware 
cleaning ought never to be conducted in the same room as the 
dipping. 

What is called porcelain or china differs slightly from 
earthenware. There are three kinds of porcelain : (i) that made 
from kaolin and felspar, with the addition of quartz : this is 
manufactured in Limoges in France ; (2) soft porcelain, which 
was formerly made at Sevres, near Paris ; and (3) English porcelain,, 
which, like the first, is made from kaolin ahd Cornish stone, but 
differs from it in containing calcined bones. For hard porcelain, 
the glaze is made from felspar, which contains a variable quantity 
of quartz, while in the glaze used for the other two there is 
usually some silicate of lead and borates, the presence of which 
allows of a lower temperature being used for the biscuited 
ware. Thirty-five firms in the Potteries make china, and 195 
earthenware. 

The population of the Potteries and of the district immediately 
round about is probably not less than a quarter of a million. It 



.350 



LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS 



[chap. 



is estimated that there are from 46,000 to 50,000 people working in 
the Potteries, of whom 4703 — viz., 3123 males and 1580 females — 
are engaged in what might be called lead or dangerous processes. 
In his Annual Reports the Chief Inspector of Factories shows 
that in 1898 there were 457 cases of lead poisoning notified to 
the Home Office from the Potteries, 249 in 1899, and 200 in 1900, 
whereas for the same periods the following numbers were reported 
from all other trades combined, excluding house painters, 1278, 
1258, and 1058. The number of persons working "in the lead" 
in the Potteries in July 1898 was 4703, and were classified as 
follows :— 



Number of Persons employed in Processes where Lead is used in the 
manufacture of Earthenware and China, North Stafford District, July 1898. 



Persons Employed. 


Under 13. j 13 to 18. 


Over 18. 




Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 


(«) Dippers 






9 


15 


486 


66 


(J)) Dippers' Assistants 




7 




408 


49 


103 


58 


(0 Ware Cleaners 








i^ 


76 


90 


382 


(O Glost Placers . 






... ; 58 


8 


1747 


38 


((f) Majolica Paintresses 






... 1 ... 


62 




233 


(y^ Ground Layers 








9 


89 


373 


{£) Colour Dusters 






1 


24 


7 


118 


(Ji) Enamel Colour & Glaze Blowers 


... 








9 


12 


(/") Other persons coming in con- 














tact with lead, not enumerated 














in the foregoing list . 






19 


13 


76 


44 


Totals 


.7 




509 


256 


2607 


1324 



Males 
Females 



Total 



1580 
4703 



At the date of the Report on the Use of Lead in Potteries, 
presented by Professor Thorpe and myself to the Home Secretary 
(1899), the total number of cases of lead poisoning in the Potteries 
during the previous three years, i.e. since the Act of 1895, as to 
compulsory notification, came into force, was : — 



Males 
Females 



478 
607 



Total 



1085 



XIX. 



STATISTICS OF LEAD POISONING 



351 



These were distributed thus : — 

Number of Persons reported as suffering from Lead Poisoning during the 
years 1896, 1897, and 1898.* 





1896. 


1897. 


1898. 


13 to 18. 


Over 18. 


13 to 18. 


Over 18. 


13 to 18. 


Over 18. 




M. 


F. 


M. 


K. 


M. 


F. 


M. 


F. 


M. 


F. 


M. 


F. 


Dippers . 


3 


T 


50 


'4 






48 


9 




I 


41 


6 


Dippers' Assistants 


1 9 


b 


3 


12 


2b 


2 


3 


8 


14 


2 


b 


17 


Ware Cleaners 




3 


2 


54 




2 




66 




3 


I 


55 


Glost Placers 


1 I 




S7 


I 






53 


2 






48 


I 


Majolica Paintresses 


... 


I 




3« 




/ 




4i 




4 




27 


Ground Layers 






16 


34 


... 




15 


40 






10 


45 


Colour Dusters 




2 




II 


... 


9 


... 


I 




6 




9 


Litho. Dusters, or Cleaner 


= 
























in making Litho. Transfer 




10 




II 




8 


4 


10 


4 


8 


6 


9 


Other persons coming ii 


1 1 
























contact with lead, no 


L 
























enumerated in the fore 


- 1 
























going list 




I 


10 






2 


25 


5 






22 


3 


Totals . 


.3 


24 


139 


175 


26 


30 


148 


182 


18 


24 


134 


172 



Asje. 

13 to 18 /Males 
years. (Females 

r. o (Males 

^''^' '^ JFemales . . 

Grand total in 3 years 



1896. 1897. 

13 26 
24 30 


1898. 

18 = 
24 = 


11 


139 148 
175 182 


134 = 
172 = 


421 
529 


/Males 

\ Females . 


478 
. 607 





1085 



Comparison of Number of Persons "Working in Lead" in July 1898, with 
number of cases of Lead Poisoning reported in year 1898. 





Workers. 




Lead Cases. 




Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Per cent. 


Females. 


Percent. 


Dippers .... 


495 


81 


41 


8.2 


7 


8.6 


Dippers' Assistants 


5'8 


107 


20 


3.9 


19 


17.8 


Ware Cleaners 


105 


4.5« 


I 


I.O 


58 


12.7 


Glost Placers 


1805 


46 


48 


2.6 




2.0 


Majolica Paintresses , . 


... 


295 


... 




31 


10.5 


Ground Layers 


89 


382 


10 


11-3 


45 


11.8 


Colour Dusters and Litho. Dusters 


16 


154 


10 


62.:; 


32 


20.8 


Other persons in contact with lead . 


95 


57 


22 


23.2 


3 


5.3 


Totals 


3123 


1580 


152 


4.9 


196 


12.4 



* Lead Compounds in Pottery : Report to Secretary of State for Home 
Department, by Professor T. E. Thorpe, F.R.S., and Professor T. Oliver, M.D., 
1899. 



352 ^ LEAD AMD iTS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

These statistics were obtained for Professor Thorpe and myself 
by Mr J. H. Walmsley, H.M. Inspector of Factories, Stoke-on- 
Trent, and are reproduced from our Conjoint Report to the Home 
Secretary on Lead Compounds in Pottery. From these figures it 
is seen that of the total male workers 4.9 per cent, become "leaded," 
whereas of the female workers, who form the smaller body, the 
proportion is as high as 12.4 per cent; and if the official figures for 
1 897 had been taken, the results, it is believed, would have been even 
higher. Before Professor Thorpe and myself commenced our investi- 
gation of lead poisoning in the Potteries, Special Rules had been 
issued by the Chief Inspector of Factories in 1898, the good effects 
of which were already being felt at the time of our visits to Stafford- 
shire. From the Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories 
it appears that in 1900, 200 cases of lead poisoning in the Potteries 
were reported, as against 249 notified in 1899. Dr Morison Legge 
in alluding to this subject remarks that it is natural to attribute 
the diminution partly to the new Special Rules (1898), and to the 
fact that in some factories the use of raw lead has been discon- 
tinued. The numbers of cases of both sexes in 1899 are much 
fewer than in 1898 ; but of the total persons, it is to be noted that 
whereas feniales constituted 55.2 per cent, and males 45.8 per cent, 
during 1898, the reverse occurs in 1899, viz., 51.4 per cent, males 
and 48.6 females. The alteration in sex distribution among per- 
sons attacked is attributed by Dr Morison Legge to the medical 
examination, in which adult males did not participate. It would 
appear, too, that there is a diminution in the number of severe 
cases reported, a circumstance which is also attributed to the 
medical examination. The diminution is most observed among 
ground layers and colour dusters, but not in ware cleaning or 
dipping operations. 

What are called the dangerous processes of pottery manu- 
facture are those in which the worker is brought into contact 
with lead. The preceding tables show that from lead poison- 
ing a very high percentage of colour and litho-dusters suffer, 
also that dippers' assistants, ground layers, ware cleaners, majolica 
paintresses, and dippers run a considerable risk from plumbism. 
There are fewer women than men working as dippers, and in 
this department the incidence of plumbism is nearly equal in the 
two sexes. With the exception of glost placing, i.e. filling the 
ovens with the ware about to be fired, and which is heavy 
labour and only fit for men, females predominate in all the other 
departments. From these figures it is seen that males who are 




GO VERNMENT INQ UIR V INTO LEAD POISONING 3 5 3 

colour dusters suffer in much larger proportion from lead poisoning 
than do females, but in nearly all the other processes it will be 
observed that the percentage of lead poisoning is higher in females 
than males. It is the lead processes that have justly caused pot- 
tery manufacture to be regarded as one of the dangerous indus- 
tries, and whatever may be said to the contrary, women, especially 
young women from seventeen to thirty years of age, and all 
young males or females, are especially susceptible to plumbism. 
Lead poisoning in pottery manufacture has for long been known, 
but neither had the Home Office, nor employers and the public, 
any adequate idea of the extent to which the evil prevailed until 
industrial plumbism became notifiable. It was with the view of 
throwing light upon this subject that the Secretary of State invited 
Professor Thorpe and myself, in May 1898, to institute a special 
inquiry into the hygienic questions involved in the use of lead in 
pottery processes, and to ascertain — 

(i) How far' the danger may be diminished or removed by 
substituting for the carbonate of lead ordinarily used, 
either {a) one or other less soluble compound of lead, e.g. 
a silicate ; (/;) leadless glaze. 

(2) How far any substitutes found to be harmless or less danger- 

ous than the carbonate lend themselves to the varied 
practical requirements of the manufacturer. 

(3) What other preventive measures can be adopted. 

Professor Thorpe and. myself, either singly or together, visited 
not only the potteries in Staffordshire and in Scotland, but several 
of the leading manufactories on the Continent, e.g. at Delft, La 
Louviere, Maastricht, Copenhagen, Charlottenburg, Dresden, 
Limoges, Choisy-le-Roi, etc., and our opinions and recommenda- 
tions are embodied in a Blue Book which was presented to the 
Home Secretary, Sir Matthew White Ridley, in February 1899. 
These, it is to be hoped, will ultimately form the basis of 
legislation for the trade in this country. At present our recom- 
mendations have been challenged by the manufacturers, and are 
the cause of considerable dispute between the master potters of 
this country and the Home Office. I therefore reproduce our 
recommendations : — 

(i) That by far the greater amount of earthenware of the class 
already specified, i.e. white and cream-coloured ware, can 
be glazed without the use of lead in any form. It has 

z 



354 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

been demonstrated, without the sHghtest doubt, that the 
ware so made is in no respects inferior to that coated with 
lead glaze. There seems no reason, therefore, why in 
the manufacture of this class of goods the operatives 
should still continue to be exposed to the evils which the 
use of lead entails. 

(2) There are, however, certain branches of the pottery industry 

in which it would be more difficult to dispense with the 
use of lead compounds. But there is no reason why, in 
these cases, the lead so employed should not be in the 
form of a fritted * double silicate. Such a compound, if 
properly made, is but slightly attacked by even strong 
hydrochloric, acetic, or lactic acid. There can be little 
doubt that if lead must be used, the employment of such 
a compound silicate — if its use could be insured — would 
greatly diminish the evil of lead poisoning. 

(3) The use of raw lead as an ingredient of glazing material, or 

as an ingredient of colours which have to be subsequently 
fired, should be absolutely prohibited. 

(4) As it would be very difficult to ensure that an innocuous lead 

glaze shall be employed, we are of opinion that young 
persons and women should be excluded from employment 
as dippers, dippers' assistants, ware cleaners after dippers, 
and glost placers in factories where lead glaze is used, 
and that the adult male dippers, dippers' assistants, 
ware cleaners, and glost placers should be subjected to 
systematic medical inspection. 

These were our recommendations, and while they received a con- 
siderable amount of approval throughout the country, some of them, 
as might be expected, have been the subject of hostile criticism on 
the part of the pottery manufacturers. It should be borne in mind 
that a few years previous to our inquiry a Committee appointed 
by Mr Asquith, then Home Secretary, and composed of Mr S. W. 
May, H.M. Superintending Inspector of Factories (Chairman), Dr 
John T. Arlidge, Mr W. D. Spanton, F.R.C.S.E., Mr A. P. Laurie, 
M. A., Mr J. H. Walmsley, H.M. Inspector of Factories, and Mr W. 
D. Cramp, H.M. Superintending Inspector of Factories (Secretary). 

* By the term fritted lead is meant a compound of raw lead, silica, and 
boric acid, etc., fused together at a very high temperature. The product 
resembles glass in appearance, and is sparingly soluble in acids. It is this 
substance which, when pulverised and mixed with water and fine clay, can be 
used as a glaze for coating earthenware. (See p. 349.) 




XIX.] CONSERVATISM OF POTTERY MANUFACTURERS 355 

had reported to the Secretary of State, and made certain recom- 
mendations, including one specially by Mr Laurie, in which it is 
suggested that the manufacturers should be circularised from the 
Home Office to experiment with and test the uses and the effect 
upon the health of the workpeople of glazes and colours in which 
all the lead had been fritted ; also the practicability of making 
a glaze that would be harmless to those employed in the manu 
facture, and at the same time would not injure the ware. It 
remains a cause of disappointment that, considering the assist- 
ance rendered by the 1893 Committee, the pottery manufacturers 
did so little to introduce the improvements that were recom- 
mended so as to minimize the evils that were yearly increasing. 
Periodical medical examination of the workers, male as well as 
female, they certainly encouraged, and they admit that the result 
was beneficial. There is a feeling that, had the manufacturers 
bestirred themselves a little more in the direction of using 
properly fritted lead compounds instead of raw lead in the 
glaze, and of again experimenting with leadless glazes to see 
what they could accomplish, plumbism in pottery manufacture 
would have materially diminished, our inquiry might not have 
been necessary, and certainly the recommendations made by 
Professor Thorpe and myself would not have been viewed, as 
they are by employers, in the light of a menace to the 
industry and a check to its commercial prosperity. 

If there is one thing upon which the British public has 
made up its mind in regard to some of the important labour 
and social questions of to-day, it is, that there ought to be fewer 
cases of lead poisoning in the manufacture of pottery generally, 
and that plumbism should be practically abolished in the pro- 
duction of certain kinds of earthenware. It would therefore be 
rather to the advantage of the industry than otherwise, were 
the Staffordshire employers to meet the wishes of the public in 
this respect, by making a greater effort to produce ware dipped 
in leadless glaze. When the Home Secretary published our 
recommendations, and stated to employers that it was his inten- 
tion to give effect to them, the pottery manufacturers assumed 
an attitude partly of agreement and partly of disagreement. 
They at once stated their willingness to discontinue the use 
of raw lead in glazes ; they asked for a lengthened period to 
test and experiment with fritted lead, while in regard to leadless 
glazes they have taken up the position which, up to the time of 
writing, may be regarded as one of no compromise. The abolition 



356 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap, 

of raw lead, if carried out, would mark a very important stage in the 
pottery manufacture of this country, and of itself would do much 
to reduce the number of cases of lead poisoning. The use of 
fritted lead compounds would also prove helpful ; but in order to 
obviate the risks of plumbism from the use of these substances, 
the fritting of the lead compounds has to be done carefully, for 
although less soluble than raw lead, yet plumbism has followed 
their use. A simple silicate of lead possesses advantages over the 
carbonate, both in its physical and mechanical characters ; it is, 
for example, less dusty and clammy than either white or red lead, 
and is more easily removed from the skin by washing. Such an 
ordinary silicate may contain as much as 70 per cent, of lead oxide, 
and 25 per cent, of silica, with small quantities of alumina, lime, 
magnesia, and alkalis, corresponding in fact to a crude mono- 
silicate, "and this compound, which is generally understood as 
' fritted ' lead, is hardly less soluble in acids than basic lead 
carbonate," besides "glazes in which the whole of the lead has 
been fritted as a properly compound lead silicate — that is, fritted 
directly with the other components of the glaze, so as to form a 
double silicate— have been found to possess greater covering power 
than a glaze containing the same relative amount of lead in the 
* raw ' state, with the further advantage of enhancing the colour." 
When the amount of silica is increased the fritt becomes more 
innocuous, but there is a limit to which silica can be added to 
litharge, so as to produce a homogeneous silicate. Even bisilicate 
of lead is not wholly insoluble in acids. Professor Thorpe found 
in his experiments, conducted in the Government Laboratory, that 
it was not desirable the fritted lead should be a simple silicate, 
also that a properly compounded double silicate could be made 
that would fulfil all the requirements of the potter, and at the 
same time be practically insoluble in acids. He suggested the 
following as a suitable constituent of glaze, and as a compound 
that would be only slightly attacked by hydrochloric acid, viz. — 



Lead Monoxide 


22.0 


Alumina . 


7.5 


Lime 


8.3 


Alkalis . 


3-9 


Boracic acid . 


3-5 


Silica 


54.8 



This combination can be obtained by " fritting an intimate 
mixture of litharge, flint, felspar, tincal, and chalk, or an intimate 



^^K.] 



STANDARD SOLUBILITY OF LEAD FRITTS 



357 



mixture of litharge, flint glass, borax, china clay, and ground flint ; 
or, as is done on the Continent, a portion of the flint may be 
replaced by white sand, the colour if necessary being corrected by 
cobalt." There is a very strong feeling that in Staffordshire the 
pottery manufacturers have been using more lead than is actually 
required to make a good glaze. Lead has been used without 
proper discrimination. As to what the amount of combined lead, 
calculated as oxide, which the glaze of "glost" ware should 
contain, the opinion of even practical potters is divided. It has 
been thought by some that 20 per cent, is required, while others 
fix the limit at 10. Professor Thorpe found excellent examples 
of lead-glazed ware in which the monoxide of lead did not exceed 
12 per cent, of the total weight of the glazing materials, while on 
analysing some of the liquid taken from the dipping tubs in the 
potteries, he found the amount varied from 13 to 24 per cent, 
and even higher. If, therefore, the use of lead compounds is still 
to be permitted, and, as has been shown, fritted lead in the form 
of a simple silicate is not much less soluble than raw lead, it is 
apparent that, with the view of preventing injurious consequences, 
their use must be restricted and regulated. It was with this 
object that the Home Office insisted upon all fritted lead com- 
pounds conforming to a certain test of solubility, and it is around 
this point there is considerable disagreement between the master 
potters and the Home Office. In a Report on the *' Use of Lead in 
the Manufacture of Pottery," presented to the Secretary of State 
by Professor Thorpe (1901), the Government chemist deals, among 
other things, with the relation between the composition and 
solubility of lead silicate, as shown in the following table : — 



Fritts arranged in order of Increasing Solubility. 


Oxide of Lead 

dissolved by 

0.25 per cent, of 

Hydrochloric Acid. 


Percentage 
Composition. 

Oxide of Lead. 


Preparation from Maastricht fritt (Belgium) 

Preparation from Boch's fritt (Bel^afium) . 

Boch's fritt .... 

Almstrom's fritt (Sweden) 

Maastricht fritt . . . ' . 

Owen's glaze fritt 

Owen's fritt 

Doulton's fritt .... 

Owen's lead silicate (No. 2 sample) 




Per cent. 
None. 
Traces. 

2.6 

4.8 

5.6 

6.6 
23.8 
60.4 
99.6 


18.04 
21.83 
22.44 

44.06 
18.97 
16.23 

45.77 
37.92 
70.40 



I have not reproduced in the table the percentage composition 
of the other ingredients of the fritt, but it is maintained that the 



358 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

solubility does not depend upon any of the constituents, nor does 

any single base or acid increase or decrease continuously as the 

solubility of the fritt increases. Although in a general sense the 

solubility increases with the sum of monoxides present in the fritt, 

yet there is no regular progression. The solubility, according to 

bases 
Thorpe, depends upon the value of the ratio — t-t- which, judging 

aciQs 

from the results obtained by him, should not exceed 1.45, or there- 
abouts, if the fritt is to be practically insoluble in 0.25 per cent, 
hydrochloric acid and be therefore safe. With the view of coming 
to some understanding upon this question a conference was held 
between representatives of the pottery industry and the Home 
Office on 31st October 1899. Two months afterwards the Secretary 
of State intimated that it was his intention to propose that after a 
certain interval a standard of insolubility for fritted lead employed 
in glazes should be observed by the manufacturers — the standard of 
insolubility being that the glaze should not yield more than 2 per 
cent, of lead when acted upon by hydrochloric acid, under certain 
conditions. Permission was granted to manufacturers to submit 
specimens of fritted lead to Professor Thorpe, so that they might 
have the necessary chemical assistance if wanted. Several samples 
were received, and on examination it was found that they could 
contain amounts of lead ranging from 24 to 53 per cent, and yet 
be capable of conforming to the standard of solubility required by 
the Home Office, although generally speaking they yielded slightly 
larger quantities of lead oxide to dilute hydrochloric acid than the 
insoluble silicate prepared from Continental fritts. In a short 
Report by Dr Thorpe, dated 20th November 1900, are published 
directions for the fritting of lead. The manufacturer, for example, 
" may, in the first place, fritt together all the materials given in the 
receipts — that is in one operation. If he choses to take this course 
it would, as a matter of economy, be preferable to substitute 
litharge, if not for the whole of the raw lead, at least for the white 
lead. It seems absurd to pay for the trouble of putting the 
carbonic acid and water into the white lead, when these ingredients 
are expelled by the heat of the kiln. The required alteration in 
the receipt may easily be calculated from the fact that i lb. of 
litharge contains the same amount of lead oxide as 1.02 lb. of red 
lead or 1.18 lb. of white lead. Or the manufacturer may make up 
his fritt by commingling two other fritts. Thus he may fritt 
together borax, stone and flint, and fritt also the lead oxide, flint 
and stone, each in such proportions that the two when mixed with 




I 



PROFESSOR THORPE'S EXPERIMENTS 359 

the whiting and china clay form a composition containing 18 per 
cent, of lead oxide." It was urged by the manufacturers that the 2 
percent, solubility of lead in a glaze would be materially affected by 
the degree of fineness to which the fritt might be ground, but ex- 
periments showed that while within limits increased solubility of 
the fritt and fineness of grinding were concurrent, yet this question 
was rather of an academic nature, and had no practical bearing 
upon the use of fritted lead compounds in pottery. In our 
Conjoint Report, dated 1889, when discussing the amount of com- 
bined lead that might be allowed in glazes, we stated as the 
opinion of practical potters that it should be from 10 to 20 per 
cent. We ourselves suggested 12 per cent. Subsequent experi- 
ence and experiment convinced Professor Thorpe that 12 per 
cent, is higher than is actually necessary in earthenware and china 
glaze. Nor does he regard the limit of 2 per cent, of solubility as 
too hard or stringent a requirement. The manufacturers pressed 
the Home Office to raise the limit to 5 per cent, but to do this 
in the face of existing evils was far from helping the object that 
the Home Office had in view. The stamping out of lead poison- 
ing in pottery manufacture is a most desirable object, and one all 
must wish to see accomplished without, if possible, any injury to 
the trade. " If the limit is raised, as suggested, to 5 per cent, it 
means that the lead in an ordinary earthenware or china glaze, 
as at present used, may be so soluble that one-third of it may 
be extracted by very dilute acid at ordinary temperatures in one 
hour." More than that, to raise the limit to 5 per cent would be 
to throw away all the result of the experience that has been gained 
by experiments conducted over a period of three years, and would 
tend to perpetuate the evils that at present exist.* 

No matter in what form lead is used for glazing pottery, there 
is always a risk of plumbism. The French pottery manufacturers 
employ for enamelling purposes a glaze the principal ingredient of 
which is calcine — an alloy of 15 to 20 parts of tin, and lOO parts of 
lead. An ordinary composition for white glaze for table ware is — 
Calcine ...... 44 



Minium (lead oxide) 
Decize sand 
Sea salt . 
Soda 



2 

44 
8 
2 



Yellow and green coloured enamels are got by adding to the white 

* This was written before the Arbitration Meeting] at Stoke-on-Trent in 
November 1901. 



36o LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

glaze a quantity of antimoniate of lead, but for other colours no 
lead is used. {Poisons Indus tnels, Office du Travail, Paris, 1901, 

P- 45.) 

Since the publication of the Report on Pottery Manufacture in 
1899, by Professor Thorpe and myself, in which we recommended 
the use of leadless glazes for cream and white ware, electrical 
fittings, sanitary ware, etc., attempts have been made to place lead- 
less glazed earthenware and china on the market Commercially 
the thing can be done. The Worcester Porcelain Company, also 
Messrs Mortlock, Maling & Sons, and others, are willing to supply 
china finished with a glaze quite free from lead. The Coalport 
China Company state that they have used a leadless glaze for 
the past eighty years, and that they have never had a case of lead 
poisoning in their works. Messrs Maling & Sons, Newcastle- 
upon-Tyne, regularly produce a large amount of ware dipped in 
leadless glaze, particularly jam-pots. 

In France a circular issued by the Minister of the Interior, and 
bearing date 19th June 1878, interdicts the manufacture and sale 
of pottery, either of French or foreign manufacture, glazed by 
means of oxide of lead which has been incompletely fritted, and 
which gives up readily oxide of lead to feeble acids. I am not in 
a position to say how far this has been given effect to. 

In potteries where red or brown ware is used plumbism is not 
unknown. It has generally been traced to the use of red lead. 
Occasionally lead poisoning from red earthenware potteries, 
mostly in the form of wrist drop, has come under my notice at 
the Newcastle Infirmary. Some of the cases have been drawn 
directly from the immediate district, while others have come from 
Sunderland. With the view of diminishing plumbism in the 
manufacture of red and brown earthenware. Professor Thorpe 
suggested that where employers decline to use fritted lead, 
on the ground of expense, there would be no practical hardship 
in adopting the use of ground blue lead or galena, i.e. the native 
ore, instead of red or white lead. It is cheap, but it requires 
to be ground. The drawback to it is that it gives off sulphur 
fumes when fired, but the amount of sulphur oxides given off is 
small to that formed in the combustion of the coal in the oven. 
It gives a faint yellow or brownish tinge to the glaze, but this 
does not seem to be objectionable. In visiting potteries in 
Holland, I found one firm in Gouda which used ground galena for 
glazing this kind of ware. They had not only every reason to 
be satisfied with the results, but in the factory plumbism was 




XIX.] MANUFACTURERS OBJECT TO LEADLESS GLAZES 361 



unknown. Several decades ago galena was similarly used in 
Staffordshire. 

I have dwelt at considerable length upon the question of 
fritting lead compounds and the use of leadless glazes, both in 
defence of the attitude which Professor Thorpe and myself have 
assumed, and to show the reasonableness of our recommendations. 

If our recommendations were adopted they would certainly 
make for better health of the operatives engaged in pottery manu- 
facture. At the time of writing they have not been adopted. Some 
months ago a statement was issued by a joint committee represent- 
ing 283 of the 579 manufacturers coming under the Special Rules, 
challenging our Report. The manufacturers say that it is impos- 
sible to glaze the greater part of their ware without lead, and that 
serious injury will be done to the trade if a radical measure of 
so sweeping a character is enforced without giving sufficient time 
to test the products so treated. Employers maintain that from 
a trade point of view existing regulations are hard enough. 
They suggest that there should be an extension of the medical 
examination of all operatives engaged in lead processes quite 
irrespective of age or sex. The Home Secretary subsequently 
indicated to the manufacturers the steps he proposed to take with 
the view of protecting workers from lead poisoning in china and 
earthenware, viz.— (i) relaxation of the Special Rules for factories 
or processes in which no lead is used ; (2) medical examination 
of male workers in lead processes; (3) use of fritted lead — six 
months being allowed before this becomes compulsory ; (4) fixing 
of standard of safety in fritts as regards solubility in acids. 

There is everything to show that within the last three or four 
years the conditions of labour in the Potteries have materially 
improved, and that there has been a distinct diminution in the 
number of cases of lead poisoning. The operation of the Special 
Rules, the periodical medical examinations, and a more restricted 
use of raw lead have largely contributed to this satisfactory result. 
A return of cases of lead poisoning reported under the Act 1895, 
occurring in the manufacture of earthenware and china from ist 
January 1899 to 31st December 1900, and presented to the House 
of Commons by Mr Jesse Collings, 27th February 1 901, conveys 
information upon this particular point. During the year 1899 
there were in the Potteries 129 persons suspended from work 
on account of lead poisoning, and in the following year 95. In 
1899, 34 of the 129 persons were ware cleaners, 29 worked in 
the dipping house, 26 were majolica paintresses, ground layers 



362 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

formed 14 of the total, and 10 were colour dusters, while for 
1900 the numlDers were respectively 20, 42, 8, 6, 13. The districts 
of Hanley, Burslem, Tunstall, and Stoke include practically the 
whole of the North Staffordshire Potteries, where about 46,000 
persons are at present employed in the manufacture of china 
and earthenware, and of whom 4700 are employed in lead 
processes. Taking, therefore, the cases of lead poisoning in the 
Potteries for the last four years, they run as follows : in 1897, 446 ; 
in 1898, 457 ; in 1899, 249; and in 1900, 200.* Allowing a margin 
on either side for discrepancies and incompleteness in the statistics, 
these figures at once show how in a trade that has hitherto 
been regarded as dangerous the conditions of labour can be 
materially improved, with a very marked gain in health to the 
workers. These encouraging results are, it is hoped, only a 
forecast of others yet to come. 

There is considerable discrepancy in the returns of lead poison- 
ing in the Potteries, due to the source from which the statistics have 
been obtained, and the manner in which the cases have been 
notified. All the statistics concur in showing a declension of 
plumbism. From an article in the Times, 24th September 1901, the 
following has been taken : — " That lead poisoning has rapidly dim- 
inished among potters and increased among other trades is proved 
by the following table of cases reported in the last four years, and 
compiled from the Labour Gazette and other official sources." 





Potters, 


Other Trades. 




Potters. 


Other Trades. 


897 


469 


745 1 


1899 


249 


1009 


898 


463 


954 1 


1900 


200 


1057 



It will be thus observed that there has been a progressive dim- 
inution in the number of cases of lead poisoning in the pottery 
trade, a diminution that is still proceeding, judging from the 
returns of the first half of the year 1901. The cases reported 
for the six months. January-June, in the last four years are : — 

1898 1899 1900 1901 

200 165 no 59 

" In the course of three years the amount of lead poisoning 
has been reduced to one-fourth of that reported in 1898." The 
manufacturers attribute this result to the monthly medical exami- 
nation of women and young persons brought into contact with lead. 

An accidental delay in the passage of these pages through 

* In a Parliamentary paper published in February 1902, the number of cases 
of lead poisoning occurring in earthenware and china works is stated to be 106, 
i.e., 94 less than in the previous year. 




CO URT OF ARBITRA TION A T STOKE- ON- TRENT 363 

the press allows me to add a further note upon the attitude 
of the Home Office and the pottery manufacturers in regard 
to the use of fritted lead compounds, the suggested standard 
solubility, and the use of leadless glazes, and thus to bring up 
to date the history of this important trade inquiry, probably the 
last of the large industrial conflicts that will be submitted to arbitra- 
tion. The questions at issue between the Home Office and the 
manufacturers were referred to arbitration, Lord James of Here- 
ford being chosen as umpire. The Court sat at Stoke-on-Trent 
on 7th November 1901, and subsequent days. Mr Chester Jones 
acted as arbitrator for the Home Office, and Mr Llewellyn for 
the manufacturers ; the counsel being, Mr Cripps, K.C., and Mr 
H. Sutton, for the Home Office; Mr Fletcher Moulton, K.C., 
for the manufacturers ; and Mr Colefax for the operatives. 
Evidence was given by Professor Thorpe, Mr Wilton Rix ; 
Dr Wilkin, director of large potteries, Dresden ; Mr Alstrom, 
of the Rorstrand Potteries, Stockholm ; Dr T. M. Legge ; 
Miss A. M. Anderson, Principal Lady Inspector of Factories ; 
and myself, on behalf of the Home Office. The principal points 
urged were : the possibility of using leadless glazes for certain 
kinds of ware ; the greater safety of fritted lead compounds over 
raw lead ; the greater freedom of Continental potteries from 
plumbism, w^here most, if not all, of the lead was fritted, than 
is the case in Staffordshire ; and, in a general way, the better 
structural arrangements in Continental potteries than in those at 
home. On behalf of the manufacturers, Messrs W. H. Grindley, 
G. E. Meakin, H. J. Johnson, J. L. Whittaker, and J. Sherwin gave 
evidence. It was admitted by the witnesses on both sides that 
there had been since the introduction of the Special Rules 1898 
a very notable decline in the number of cases of plumbism in 
Staffordshire, and that towards this happy circumstance better 
ventilation, greater personal cleanliness on the part of the 
workpeople, and systematic medical examination had doubtless 
contributed. The main part of the inquiry centred round the 
subject of fritting the lead for the glaze. It was demonstrated 
by Professor Thorpe that excellent results could be obtained 
by the use of vitrified lead, which was soluble to the extent of 
only 2 per cent, in .25 per cent, of hydrochloric acid. The 
manufacturers having previously intimated to the Home Office 
their willingness to accept a 5 per cent, standard solubility as 
the test of lead in their glazes, wished to recede from this posi- 
tion, and at the time the Court was sitting, claimed the right not 



364 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

to be bound by this or any other test of solubility. In fact, it 
was admitted that many of the manufacturers had returned to the 
use of 30 to 40 per cent, of raw lead in their glazes. As to the 
greater safety in the use of fritted lead compounds of the low 
solubility insisted upon by Professor Thorpe there can be no 
question. There never will be absolute safety so long as lead in 
any form is used ; a 2 per cent, soluble fritted lead compound 
must be much less harmful if swallowed than one containing lead 
which has a solubility of 5 per cent, or more* My contention, 
like that of Professor Thorpe, was that the .25 per cent, of hydro- 
chloric test was not at all a hard one ; that while this was the 
amount of hydrochloric acid present in the gastric juice, the test 
proposed was not so severe as that which would be carried on 
in the human stomach, where there was a higher temperature, 
greater agitation, and therefore better admixture of the contents. 
It is unnecessary here to reproduce the evidence in detail 
either for or against the recommendations of the Home Office, 
which were based upon the Thorpe-Oliver Report ; but I may 
mention one or two additional facts. While the Court was sitting, 
a male dipper of 20 years' experience, and who had never been 
ill, requested permission of Lord James to give evidence. This 
was gladly complied with. The evidence tendered was directed 
against the proposed monthly examination of males employed 
in lead processes. The operative simply wished to assert his 
right to work in lead even if he was the subject of plumbism, 
to express his unwillingness to submit to periodical medical 
examination, and to state that he objected to be bound by 
the arbitrary order of the certifying surgeon either for temporary 
or permanent suspension. In a word, he stated that he and his 
comrades knew the risks of their calling, and they were prepared 
to take them. He appealed against the application of all official 
restraint, which he regarded as of too coercive a character. When 

* Dr MacAldowie, Senior Physician to the North Stafifordshire Infirmary, 
does not regard lead poisoning in the Potteries as the serious malady it is 
generally believed to be. From 1891 to 1900 the in-patients of the Infirmary 
numbered 19,505 : of these, 213 were lead poisoned patients, of whom 6 died. 
During the same period there were 91,748 out-patients, of whom 353 were lead 
poisoned ; all recovered. Dr MacAldowie is of opinion that lead poisoning is a 
curable malady and seldom fatal. Also, that there is greater danger to health 
by the operatives being exposed to minute than large quantities of lead. Deal- 
ing with the low standard solubility of the fritt recommended in our Report, he 
says : " The proposed extreme reduction in solubility may be fraught with grave 
danger in the operatives. Where there is prolonged and continuous exposure 
to the action of lead its toxic effects are aggravated rather than minimized by 
minute doses." 



1 




POSTPONEMENT OF THE ARBITRATION . 365 

working men, in whose interests well-meant efforts are being made 
to render their occupation more healthy, prefer to court death and 
to throw their wives and families upon the ratepayers rather than 
forego the loss of a few weeks' wages so that they may regain their 
health, the difficulty of bringing into line the many conflicting 
forces is at once apparent. 

To the fritting of lead compounds the manufacturers raised 
many objections. It was stated that, quite apart from the expense, 
their use was impracticable. Mr W. H. Grindley of Tunstall 
stated that he had tried fritted lead, but had relinquished it, as 
its use had involved him in a financial loss of some hundreds 
of pounds in a few weeks. Mr Henry J. Johnson and other 
manufacturers gave similar evidence. 

Quite unexpectedly, on the fifth day of the sitting of the Court, 
Lord James announced his intention of not carrying the inquiry 
further. Balancing the various conflicting issues at stake, and 
influenced by the reduction in the number of cases of lead 
poisoning from 12 to 3.5 per cent, in the four years' operation of 
the Special Rules, he postponed the arbitration for eighteen months, 
during which, putting the manufacturers on their honour, he 
looked to them to rigidly give effect to the Special Rules of 
1 898 ; to take a lesson from Continental manufacturers ; to try 
fresh experiments with fritted lead, and to reduce them to the 
lowest possible solubility consistent with a satisfactory production 
of their ware ; also to come to some understanding with the work- 
people in regard to founding a mutual assurance fund. As the 
whole subject is to be again discussed in eighteen months, it would 
ill become me to do more than simply state these facts, and to 
express the hope that by a loyal adherence to the special 
regulations the amount of lead poisoning in Staffordshire may 
meanwhile still further decrease. 

Chromo-lithographic Works and Transfer Making. 

In the printing of coloured trade advertisements and wrappers 
there is frequently used metallochrome powder, known under 
various names, e.g. " flake white," " china white," etc. Usually 
the dry powder is dusted on the sheets of paper by hand and 
dusted off again by young women or lads, an operation that is 
extremely dusty, and too often carried on in workrooms totally 
unprovided with any artificial means of ventilation. Practically 
speaking, the manufacture of transfers for giving coloured 
impressions to pottery is a similar operation. The coloured 



366 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

impressions are made upon paper which, when applied to china 
and earthenware about to be fired, allow of the floral design 
and pictures being transferred to plates, cups, and saucers, 
etc. Under all circumstances, whether it is the making of 
transfers for pottery work, covers for fancy tins of biscuits, 
mustard, tobacco, etc., or coats -of- arms for railway carriages, 
the occupation is not only dusty but is dangerous, owing to 
the fact that metallochrome powder often contains as much as 
from 50 to 60 per cent, of white lead. In the manufacture of 
transfers the workers, usually girls, throw the powder loosely 
on the paper and tilt it from side to side, or what is more 
common, they gently rub the powder all over the paper by 
means of a soft cloth or a pad of chamois leather, the super- 
fluous powder being removed by shaking. In visiting factories 
where transfers are made both at home and on the Continent, 
I have been struck by the extreme pallor of the workers ; 
frequently they have complained of splitting headache and 
severe abdominal pains. Nearly all the workers presented a 
deep blue line on their gums. In Limoges, where large 
quantities of coloured porcelain are made, the introduction of 
transfers into the industry took place only about twenty years 
ago, and it was not until several fatal cases of lead poisoning 
had occurred that the plumbism was traced to its cause, viz., 
the making of transfers. Many of the girls had succumbed to 
that extremely severe and often suddenly developed form of 
Saturnine affection of the brain, which is attended by epilepti- 
form convulsions, and known as lead encephalopathy. It is 
when metallochrome powder is used in the dry form, and 
therefore dusty, that there is danger. When mixed and 
moistened as in coloured printers' ink, and the printing is 
done by machinery, there is no danger. Men, however, have 
suffered from plumbism after mixing "flake white " and varnish. 
This is not a dusty process, but there is considerable danger when 
spirituous materials are used along with lead. 

Much of the risk to health in this trade can be overcome 
by diminishing the amount of white lead in the metallochrome 
powder. Experience shows that this is often present in excess 
of what is necessary. A less harmful metal, too, might in 
several instances be substituted for lead. Barium has been 
suggested, but time and trial alone can tell whether even the 
use of barium is quite free from danger. Animals can be 
fed upon barium salts, and apparently thrive when they would die 



XIX.] SUBSTITUTES IN METALLOCHROME POWDERS 367 

if given the same quantity of lead carbonate. It is a heavier 
metal than lead, and on the whole may be said to be safer. 
Magnesia has also been recommended as a substitute for 
white lead in the metallochrome powders. The trade of 
transfer making is one in which, fortunately in one sense for the 
workers, employment is irregular. Under any circumstance it is 
an occupation in which the workers should have some alterna- 
tion of employment, and in which no young person should be 
engaged, no food should be eaten in the workroom, overalls 
ought to be worn, and before leaving the factory the hands 
and face of each worker should be washed. Not only should 
adequate lavatory accommodation be provided, but sufficient time 
should be given by the masters before break, for the workers to 
wash. In this, as in all trades in which lead is used, the indi- 
viduals should be subjected to periodical medical examination — 
experience in the potteries, for example, having shown how very 
beneficial this has been in preventing plumbism. Such an 
examination often succeeds in eliminating persons who are 
susceptible to lead before they have worked too long at the 
trade. In Limoges, so impressed were several of the large porce- 
lain makers by the great susceptibility of young women to 
plumbism, that they now only employ men in the manufacture 
of transfers. The work, too, is no longer conducted on open 
tables, but in closed glass cases, through openings which are 
guarded by indiarubber, the hands of the workman are thrust, 
so that the operation of " laying on " is conducted under cover, 
the dust created being drawn away by strong aspiration on the 
distal side of the enclosed space. Since the introduction of this 
method of making transfers, plumbism has disappeared from 
most of the large porcelain works in Limoges. In Staffordshire 
a similar method of transfer making has also been adopted, and 
with equally satisfactory results to the workpeople. 

Eleven cases of lead poisoning were notified to the Home 
Office as having occurred in litho-transfer works during 1899. 

Tile-making and Manufacture of Porcelain Stoves. 

The manufacture of tiles for useful and decorative purposes, 
such as the floor of entrance halls, hearths, sides of fireplaces, and 
stoves, is a large and increasing industry. The pressing of clay 
into the form of tiles is done by machinery, and although it is 
a dusty process, there is usually in operation at the time the 
pressing is done a strong aspirating draught brought into 



368 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

play, whereby the dust is removed from the face of the worker. 
The tiles when dried are subsequently dipped in glazes often rich 
in lead. Usually the lead which enters into the composition of the 
glaze for majolica tiles is fritted ; but some manufacturers have 
until recently been in the habit of using only raw lead, and it was 
occasionally in their factories that lead poisoning occurred. The 
opportunities for a worker becoming leaded are during the dip- 
ping, cleaning, or painting. In some of the factories visited by 
Professor Thorpe and myself, we saw mechanical dippers in use 
which gave promise of superseding hand-dipping and of abolish- 
ing the necessity for cleaning and trimming the edges of the tile. 
Employment of mechanical dippers and of fritted lead com- 
pounds, conforming to the solubility standard required by the 
Home Office, with enforcement of the Special Rules, would pretty 
well abolish plumbism in this industry. 

During the manufacture, at Velten in Brandenburg, of glazed 
tiles for making earthenw^are stoves, there recently occurred a 
considerable amount of lead poisoning among the operatives,* 
due to the glazing of tiles wdth oxide of lead. The outbreak is 
of sufficient importance to be mentioned here. The glazing 
material is made, first, by firing together lead oxide and tin in the 
proportion of three to one. To the compound thus obtained 
there are added felspar, marine salt, and quartz. These are 
mixed together, and subsequently exposed to a great heat so as 
to form a fritt. The vitrified material thus obtained is crushed, 
finely pulverised and mixed with water, while the thick liquid is 
applied to the surface of the tiles, which are afterwards heated 
in a special furnace. During these operations there are many 
opportunities for the workmen to become poisoned by lead. 
In the act of crushing, a considerable amount of dust rich in lead 
salts rises into the atmosphere. Rasch caused some of the air 
to pass through cotton-wool, and he thus arrested the dust. The 
lead in this he estimated as sulphide. The quantity found by him 
in lOO litres of air varied between 0.0012 to 0.0066 gramme, which 
was equivalent to an amount of lead oxide entering into the 
lungs during the twelve hours' work in the factory of 0.05 to 0.6 
gramme. Upon the clothes of the workmen he obtained as much 
as 3 to 4.8 grammes. It was found that all the lead in the fritt 
had not been converted into an insoluble form. There was at 
least one-hundredth part in the form of lead oxide, a circumstance 

* " Ueber Bleinergeftungen der Arbeiten in Kachelofen-Fabriquen," by Rasch. 
{Arbciten aiis dem Kaiserlichcn Gesund^ 1898, xiv., p. 81.) 




XIX.] POISONING FROM WASHING PAINTERS' CLOTHES 369 



which rendered the glaze harmful to those who dipped the tiles, and 
also to those who handled them after dipping. It is needless to 
say that where this industry is carried on, precautions should be 
taken similar to those in use in the potteries, care being taken to 
have the fritting of the lead carried on in well-ventilated places, 
and the grinding of the fritt done in enclosed machinery. 

Washing of Lead-workers' and Painters' Clothes. 

In my Gulstonian Lectures on Lead Poisoning, I make mention 
of the fact that dogs which had slept on the coats or jackets of 
their masters, who were lead smelters in the vales of Durham, 
sometimes suffered from colic ; also that a peculiar epidemic 
of Saturnine poisoning occurred in France in women who had 
simply washed the clothes of their husbands, who were workers 
in lead factories. One of the main reasons for the White Lead 
Commission recommending the wearing of overalls when at work 
was that the Committee ascertained that the clothes of several 
of the female workers, which were often dust - laden, became 
the bedclothes of the family at night. Lead dust is always 
a danger, so, too, may be the bespattered working clothes of 
house painters. A woman, thirty-six years of age, consulted me 
at the Newcastle Dispensary on account of anaemia, headache, 
and double wrist drop. In addition she had a well-marked blue 
line on her gums. There was no difficulty in diagnosing the 
case as one of plumbism, the difficulty was rather in tracing the 
lead poisoning to its source. She was a widow and had never 
worked in any factory, nor, so far as she knew, had she ever been 
brought into contact with lead. She simply attended to her 
domestic duties. On inquiry I found that since her husband's death, 
in order to increase her income, she had taken to reside with her 
two male lodgers — her own brother and a nephew. Both were 
house painters, and they wore the ordinary white jackets and 
trousers of the artisan. The patient was in the habit of wash- 
ing their clothes once a week, which were frequently very much 
discoloured, especially those of the younger man, the nephew. 
I asked for a bottleful of the water removed from the washtub 
when she washed the clothes. This water was dirty brown in 
colour, and contained a good deal of sediment. I submitted it to 
Dr Bedson, Professor of Chemistry at the College of Science in 
Newcastle, who reported the presence of a very large quantity 
of lead in suspension in the water, and a small quantity in 
solution. That the woman's ill-health and paralysis of the 

2 A 



370 LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS [chap. 

hands were due to Saturnine poisoning there was not the least 
doubt, for under medicinal and electrical treatment and cessa- 
tion on her part of the weekly washing of the painters' clothes, 
health was gradually regained and muscular power restored. 
It is known that women who wash the overalls, etc., in white lead 
factories occasionally suffer from plumbism. 

Lead Foil Manufacture. 

Makers of lead foil which is to be subsequently used for the 
tops of bottles or for wrapping round tobacco, snuff, and cheese, 
occasionally suffer from plumbism ; so, too, do those who handle 
and fix the lead discs over the corks of bottles. On analysis the 
metallic foil which envelops Roquefort cheese has been found to 
contain 12 parts of tin and 85 of lead, among other substances, 
while in that which envelops Angelots cheese there has been 
found as much as 95 per cent, of lead. Tobacco smokers and 
chewers have suffered from using tobacco kept in metallic dishes, 
and I have had professional experience of the very bad effects of 
the use of snuff wrapped in leaden foil. An attempt is being 
made to substitute parchment for lead discs for bottles. 

Shoe-finishing and Staining by Lead Compounds. 

A few months ago, owing to several shoe finishers in North- 
ampton having been thrown upon their benefit societies, 
all suffering from the same type of symptoms, ultimately 
certified to be lead poisoning, the circumstance was necessarily 
brought under the cognisance of the Factory Inspector for the 
district. The men worked in the same factory. On investiga- 
tion it was found that they were in the habit of using, for 
finishing the bottoms of shoes, certain powders, known in the 
trade as Chinese red and yellow chrome. These contained 
lead compounds. In the manipulation of the powders to 
stain the boots and shoes with, a considerable amount of dust 
arises. The process is thus described by Mr Wright, H.M. 
Inspector. Dry China-red powder is by means of a sponge 
dusted on to the sole of a boot, a piece of fine glass-paper 
is then used to scour the colour into the leather, a small 
quantity of grease is subsequently applied, and the sole is 
polished with a dry cloth. The workman, during the whole 
of the process, has to bend down closely over the boot, and 
thereby inhales the coloured dust. Sometimes chrome-yellow is 
mixed with the China-red. It was found necessary by the Home 




XIX.] LEAD IN POWDERS USED FOR FINISHING SHOF^S 371 

Office to interdict the use of these powders, less harmful sub- 
stitutes being suggested. 



Lucifer Matches containing Lead. 

In order to make matches strike softly, and in other 
instances with the view of making matches free from yellow 
phosphorus, various compounds of lead have been introduced 
into the paste for heading the lucifers. The mixing of the 
ingredients and the manipulation of the paste were attended 
by such an amount of sickness among the workers that their 
use has been discarded, for it was found that although less 
painful, lead poisoning was just as serious a malady as that 
caused by phosphorus. 

Buffing of Brass Cocks and Plumbisni. 

In buffing brass cocks upon rapidly revolving wheels covered 
with leather, the surface of which is kept coated with 
emery powder, several of the men have become ill, and shown 
signs of lead poisoning. Buffing is done so as to smooth the 
brass cocks after casting. In what is known as " gun " and 
" pot " metal, lead is sometimes present to the extent of 5 to 6 
per cent. 

APPENDIX 



Number of Cases of Lead Poisoning notified to the Home Secretary under 
Section 29, 1895, during 1898, 1899, and 1900.* 



Disease and Industry. 


Number of Reported Cases. 










1900. 


1899. 


1898. 


Lead Poisoning .... 


1058 


1258 


1278 


China and Earthenware 






200 


249 


457 


Litho. -Transfer Works 






10 


II 


* 


Glass Polishing 






7 


8 


19 


Smelting .... 






34 


61 


82 


Tinning and Enamelling . 






16 


24 


24 


File Cutting 






40 


41 


46 


White Lead 






358 


399 


332 


Paints and Colours . 






56 


75 


59 


Coachmaking . 






70 


^5 


45 


Shipbuilding 






32 


30 


t 


Electric Accumulator Works 






33 


33 


II 


Other Industries 






202 


290 


103 



* Factories and Workshops : Annual Reports for 1899 and 1900. 
t Included in other Industries. 



372 



LEAD AND ITS COMPOUNDS 



[chap. XIX. 



Analysis of Reports on Lead Poisoning by Certifying Surgeon. Factories 
and Workshops : Annual Reports for 1899 and 1900 (Dr T. M. Legge). 



Smelting 

Brass 

Sheet Lead 

Printing . 

File Cutting 

Plumbing . 

Tinning and Enamelling of Iron Hollow Ware 

White Lead 

Red Lead -. 

Earthenware ...... 

Litho. -Transfers 

Glass ........ 

Enamelling of Iron Plates .... 

Electric Accumulators 

Paints and Colours 

Coachpainting ....... 

Shipbuilding 

Paint in other Industries, excluding House 
Painters ....... 

Other Industries 





Total Cases. 




1900. 


1899. 


Males. 


Females. 


Males. 


Females. 


34 




52 




3 
17 




II 

26 


I 


17 




25 


I 


35 


3 

I 


39 
16 


I 


2 

288 


3 

28 


II 
340 


4 
22 


19 




19 


2 


92 

7 


105 

3 


"1 


III 

4 


7 
8 


3 


7 
6 


I 
4 


30 




31 


I 


i: 


5 


47 

58 


I 


31 




30 




46 

58 


18 


47 
64 


5 
17 



Dr T. M, Legge deals with the age, distribution, and duration of 
employment in persons brought in contact with metallic lead, and 
with the salts of lead, either in the form of dust or of paint ; and 
in the following table, taken from his annual Report for 1 900, shows 
that in those who handle metallic lead or use it as paint, symptoms 
of poisoning are more slowly developed than in those employed in 
industries in which the salts of lead are present in the form of 
dust. 



Source of Poisoning. 


Age. 


Duration of Employment. 


Under 30. 


30 Years and 
over. 


1-5 Years. 


5 Years and 
over. 


Metallic Lead . . per cent. 
Saks of Lead as Paint 
Salts of Lead as Dust . „ 


43.0 
43.6 
65.4 


57.0 

57.4. 

34.6 


37-4 
. 45-8 

76.0 


62.6 
55.2 
24.0 



The reports bring out the fact that Saturnine palsy is 
essentially an affection of the male sex, while the symptoms of 
headache, ansemia, and encephalopathy are more common in 
the female. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XX 

ELECTRICAL TREATMENT IN CASES OF LEAD POISONING 

'he treatment of lead poisoning by electricity is based upon 
two distinct ideas. First, the use of the electrolytic effects of a 
current to eliminate the metal from the system ; and secondly, 
the treatment of its symptoms, especially its nervous symptoms, by 
electricity, in virtue of its usefulness as a remedy for paralytic 
disorders. In any treatment of lead poisoning these two con- 
siderations are of importance : — 

I. The Elimination of the Metal. — There is no doubt that the 
elimination of the metal is necessary for the recovery of a patient 
from the effects of the poison. In the ordinary course of events 
elimination probably takes place by the sweat glands of the skin, 
by the kidneys, and by the mucous membrane and glands of the 
bowel ; whereas the direct effect of an electrolytic elimination 
would be to cause the lead to pass by a process akin to osmosis 
in some soluble form, most probably as a chloride of lead, from 
the tissues of the body to the electrolyte surrounding the body, 
and so to the plates or poles of the electrolytic cell or bath in 
which the patient is placed. Unfortunately, the experimental 
evidence that lead can be extracted from the tissues of the body 
in this way is not free from possible sources of error. The 
amount of lead existing in the tissues of a patient suffering from 
lead poisoning may not be more than a few grains in weight, 
and the quantity which could be deposited by electrolysis in an 
electric bath of the ordinary strength and duration could not 
amount to more than a few milligrammes. In solutions such as 
the juices of the body, containing but little lead, the lead ions could 
play but an insignificant part in the transport of the current, 
and therefore there are considerable difficulties in depositing at the 
poles of the bath a quantity of lead which could only be a small 
fraction of the total amount contained in the body. Lead com- 
pounds also have a somewhat special behaviour when submitted 
to electrolytic treatment, for whereas most metals are deposited 

373 



374 ELECTRICAL TREAT MENT IN LEAD POISONING [chap> 

from their solutions at the negative pole, lead compounds when 
submitted to electrolysis have a tendency to be deposited in 
part upon the positive pole, as lead peroxide, and in part upon 
the negative pole, in a spongy metallic form. In the presence 
of chlorides the lead peroxide does not adhere to the positive 
pole, but tends to undergo changes and decomposition. State- 
ments have frequently been made that after the treatment of a 
patient by electrolysis in a bath of water, traces of lead may 
be found upon the poles of the bath. I have been able to detect 
lead on the plates in one case of my own in which the experiment 
was tried. But there is always some uncertainty as to the source 
of this lead, for in cases of workmen it may very well have come 
from dust and dirt containing lead which has been mechanically 
deposited upon the surface of their skin ; or again, it may be lead 
which has actually come from the tissues, but has already been 
eliminated by the sweat glands, and is lying on the surface of 
the skin, so that it could be washed away by ordinary washing 
with soap and water. But at the same time we must not forget 
that even if the direct electrolytic elimination of lead is a thing 
which can be brought about by electricity, it is not the only way 
in which electrical applications may act favourably in removing 
lead from the system, for by their means we can also influence 
what may be called the natural processes of elimination, so that 
after electrical treatment one might expect to find traces of lead 
in the urine, in addition to that which might be found by a care- 
ful examination of the poles of the bath. And so far as mere 
opinions go, I certainly take the view that electrical treatment 
favours such an indirect elimination of the poison, and to that 
extent is of service in the treatment of cases. 

2. The Electrical Treatment of the Paralysis caused by the Lead. — 
This is probably as important, or more important, than the ques- 
tion of the extraction and elimination of the metal. In practical 
treatment we may say that it is the paralytic symptoms which are 
most readily dealt with by electrical methods. All forms of 
electrical application have been recommended for paralysis due to 
lead, e.g.^ the constant current, the interrupted current of the coil, 
and, more recently, the sinusoidal current of an alternating dynamo. 
These can all be used, and apparently with advantage. As I have 
frequently maintained in other places, the state of contractility in a 
paralysed muscle need not necessarily dictate to us the form that 
the electrical applications are to take. I mean that when a 
muscle paralysed from lead ceases to react to induction coil 




XX.] CHOICE OF METHODS OF ELECTRICAL TREATMENT ^js 

currents, it does not at all follow that induction coil currents are 
useless in its treatment ; and, therefore, I consider that the widely 
held view that a coil should be used only for those muscles capable 
of responding to it is not correct. Muscles which show the re- 
action of degeneration, and contract only to direct applications of 
the constant current, will almost certainly derive benefit from a 
course of induction coil currents, and these should in every case be 
given to them, not to the exclusion of constant currents, but in 
addition thereto. Many of the rules laid down for the treatment 
of paralysis by electricity are based upon the view that the 
therapeutic effect of electricity upon a muscle can be measured by 
the amount of contraction which the electrical application can 
produce in it ; but this is quite wrong. Even in the absence of all 
visible contractions in a muscle under treatment, electrical applica- 
tions produce effects — vaso-motor, trophic, and other — which are 
of service. Indeed, we may go further, and say that treatment by 
currents purposely made strong, in order to set up contractions in 
paralysed muscles with very feeble contractility, may easily be 
overdone, and that fatigue and injury may be caused to muscles 
through too severe stimulation when strong currents are demanded, 
in order to make them contract visibly. 

In the practical treatment of paralysis due to lead, the choice 
of an electrical method will turn upon the supposed relative 
advantages of electrolytic extraction of the metal on the one hand, 
and of electrical stimulation of the paralysed parts on the other. 
For the former the electric bath with constant current is to be used, 
and for the latter induction coil currents or sinusoidal currents, 
with or without a water bath. The advantages of the sinusoidal 
current over that of the induction coil consist mainly in the greater 
smoothness with which the current varies in the former case, and in 
the greater magnitude of the currents which can be borne. The 
two methods differ from each other rather in degree than in 
essence. When, as is usual, the case is one of paralysis of the 
extensor muscles of the forearm, the use of an arm-bath as the 
medium for applying the electricity has very decided advan- 
tages, so that I am accustomed to treat most of my cases by 
the arm-bath and sinusoidal current. In cases of severe or exten- 
sive lead poisoning, or in cases where the muscles of the lower 
limbs are affected, I make use of the full-length bath, and at the 
commencement of the case would advise the use of direct and 
sinusoidal currents on alternate days, in order to secure electrolytic 
effects as well as those of simple stimulation. It is probable that 



376 ELECTRICAL TREATMENT IN LEAD POISONING [chap. 

hot baths, without electricity, are of very decided service in treat- 
ing symptoms due to lead. In former days the thermal waters of 
Bath enjoyed a very considerable reputation in this disease. 
Thus, by combining a full-length bath with electricity, one is able to 
make use of the increased elimination set up by hot bathing, as well 
as of the increased elimination set up by general electrical stimu- 
lation. The electrolytic effect also comes in if the current used is 
a continuous one, but not so if it is alternating. In practical 
treatment, the cases of lead poisoning most commonly met with, 
are cases of operatives who handle lead, or some preparation of 
lead, in the course of earning their living. The symptoms of which 
they commonly complain in London, at least, are wrist drop and 
paralysis of the extensors of the wrist and fingers. This is the 
class of case which I have had under treatment during the last ten 
years ; and the opinion which I have formed of electrical treatment 
is decidedly favourable. Although in a number of cases the lead 
has had many years in which to poison the patient, yet it is the 
rule that within a few weeks from the commencement of electrical 
applications the paralytic symptoms become very considerably 
decreased. Unfortunately, recovery is usually followed by a 
return to the old occupation ; fresh infection follows, and paralytic 
symptoms sooner or later reappear. The patient returns for 
further treatment under conditions less favourable than before. 
He is older, the system is more seriously damaged, and his 
recovery is apt to be less perfect than on the previous occasion. 
It is this state of things which is chiefly responsible for the fact 
that brilliant results are not often met with in the treatment 
of lead poisoning due to occupation. In districts where 
lead poisoning is common, I would recommend an installation for 
electrical treatment on the following lines : (i) one or more arm- 
baths ; (2) one or more full-length baths for the whole body. 
Both of these sets of baths should be supplied with sinusoidal 
current, generated by a dynamo on the premises, or drawn from 
the mains of an electric light station, if the current supplied in the 
neighbourhood should happen to be alternating. In each case 
some clockwork or other mechanical contrivance for slowly vary- 
ing the current from zero to the maximum might with advantage 
be installed, although good resuhs may be obtained without this. 
In addition, for direct treatment by constant current in special 
cases, It would be necessary to have a battery or other source of 
constant current, either for use with the bath or for local applica- 
tions by means of pads and conductors of the usual class. The 



XX.] FITTING UP OF ELECTRICAL BATHS • 377 

induction coil may be used where the sinusoidal current cannot be 
obtained, but wherever possible, the latter should be used in prefer- 
ence. A pressure of ten or twelve volts is about a suitable one for 
an arm-bath, and if an average of twelve and a half volts per arm- 
bath is taken, it is sometimes convenient to arrange the arm-baths 
in series, as is done, for example, at St Bartholomew's Hospital, 
where four arm-baths in a series are fed from one source at fifty 
volts. This, it will be seen, gives twelve and a half volts per 
bath, minus a small loss of one volt or so over the whole circuit for 
the conductors. So if eight or ten baths could be employed with 
advantage, they might be arranged in a single series upon mains 
of a hundred volts pressure. In the fitting up of a new establish- 
ment, it would be convenient to provide waste pipes and water 
taps fixed over them, to obviate the inconvenience of filling and 
emptying by hand. A very convenient vessel for arm-bath treat- 
ment is an oblong stoneware picklepan, which can usually be 
obtained in towns ; or wooden vessels of the same shape may be 
made almost anywhere. It is advantageous to use narrow oblong 
vessels of a suitable length and width to take the arms and hands, 
because with round tubs there is considerable loss of current, 
carried by the water without entering into the patient. There is 
also a certain waste of hot water by reason of the greater capacity 
of round tubs. The electrodes for arm-baths may conveniently 
be made of one piece of sheet copper or sheet zinc, shaped like 
a tennis racket, with the handle bent over in a hook, by which 
to suspend it to the end of the tub. 

The progress of treatment is slow, and without incident. 
There is a gradual return of power and a gain in thickness of the 
wasted muscles. The duration of the case varies much with the 
severity of the poisoning, and the state of health of the patient. 
The final results are good. 

H. Lewis Jones. 



CHAPTER XXI 

ARSENIC 

Arsenic is employed for colouring purposes in various arts and 
industries, and may produce injurious effects on the workers and 
on others who are exposed to the influence of the poison. A Com- 
mittee of the Medical Society of London, of which I was secretary 
some twenty years ago, compiled from the information collected 
by them the following list of articles in which arsenical pigments, 
dyes, and mordants were used. 

Paper, fancy and surface coloured, in sheets for covering card- 
board boxes ; for labels of all kinds ; for advertisement cards, playing 
cards, wrappers for sweetmeats, cosaques, etc.; for the ornamenta- 
tion of children's toys ; for covering children's and other books ; for 
lamp shades, paperhangings for walls and other purposes ; artificial 
leaves and flowers ; wax ornaments for Christmas trees and other 
purposes ; printed or woven fabrics intended for use as garments ; 
printed or woven fabrics intended for use as curtains or coverings 
for furniture ; children's toys, particularly inflated indiarubber balls 
with dry colour inside, painted indiarubber dolls, stands and rockers 
of rocking-horses and the like, glass balls (hollow); distemper 
colour for decorative purposes ; oil paint for the same ; litho- 
graphers' colour printing ; decorated tin plates, including painted 
labels used by butchers and others to advertise the price of pro- 
visions ; japanned goods generally ; Venetian and other blinds ; 
American or leather cloth; printed table baizes; carpets, floorcloth, 
linoleum, book cloth and fancy bindings. To this list may be 
added coloured soaps, wafers, sweetmeats, and false malachite. 
Arsenic is also used in the preparation of skins for stufBng and of 
some preservatives used by anatomists. Workers employed in the 
manufacture of any of these things may suffer from the effects of 
the arsenic contained in the materials which they handle. The 
fluid known as " sheep dip," which is sold for the purpose of killing 
tic on sheep, contains a large quantity of arsenic. Occasionally the 
men who manufacture the liquid or who wash the workmen's clothes 

378 



CHAP. XXI.] ARSENIC IN WALL PAPERS ' 379 

have suffered from the effects of arsenic upon their extremities and 
nervous system. 

The metal is mostly employed in the form of green arsenites 
of copper, known as Scheele's green, and Schweinfurt or Vienna 
green. The poison gains admission to the system either by being 
carried into the mouth on the hands and thence taken into the 
stomach, or by inhalation into the lungs. 

In the preparation of artificial flowers Scheele's green is 
powdered over the leaves, and in this process some of the dust is 
drawn in with the breath, while some may lodge in the furrows of 
the skin and under the nails. In the manufacture of green wall- 
papers Scheele's green and the aceto-arsenite of copper are mainly 
used ; from i grain of the poisonous substance to 50 or 60 grains 
per square foot has been found in different samples. Arsenic has 
been found in red, orange, brown, and grey papers as well as green. 
The poisonous material may be dusted off the wallpapers and 
distributed through the atmosphere of the room. Bamberg of 
Stockholm detected arsenic in the atmosphere of a room that had 
been papered for twenty-five or thirty years. According to 
Parkes and Kenwood,* in the case of the smoother papers arseni- 
uretted hydrogen is formed by decomposition of the size and paste 
acting chemically on the arsenical salt. The same authors point 
out that even distempered walls must not be assumed to be 
innocuous, as there is frequently arsenic in distemper which is 
mixed with size to make it adhere, thus forming a combination of 
organic matter and arsenic ready for the development of arseni- 
uretted hydrogen. 

Persons living in rooms hung with arsenicated wallpapers, and 
workmen who strip walls or hang pictures, are liable to suffer from 
the inhalation of the poisonous dust or vapour. Injurious effects 
may also be caused by the use of green lamp shades, and of gloves, 
stockings, and other articles of clothing coloured with aniline dyes 
in the preparation of which arsenic is largely employed. The use 
of arsenic in many of the arts that have been enumerated, and 
particularly in the manufacture of wallpapers and in the tinting 
of textile and silken fabrics intended for furnishing and clothing 
purposes, also of arsenical colours, has greatly diminished since 
attention was called to the danger of these by the Medical Society 
and by sanitarians, among whom the late Mr Henry Carr-f* deserves 
special mention. Yet, as is proved by cases which are from time 

■^ Hygiene and Public Healthy London, 1901. 
t Our Domestic Poisons ^'LoxidiOX).^ 1879. 



38o ARSENIC [chap. 

to time reported in the papers, they are still too much em- 
ployed. 

Symptoms. — The symptoms are those of chronic arsenical 
poisoning, and may vary in severity from slight inflammation of 
the eyes or conjunctivitis, and running at the nose, or coryza, to 
prostration, or convulsions ending in death. The strong are 
attacked as well as the weak. In the slighter forms of the affection 
they are marked by conjunctivitis, running at the nose, and injection, 
with dryness and soreness of the throat, accompanied by depres- 
sion. In more severe forms there is headache with colicky pain 
and abdominal " cramps," with vomiting, diarrhoea, and sometimes 
dysentery ; the throat and mouth are sore and parched ; there 
is great thirst, with distaste for food. The congested condition 
of the respiratory passages manifests itself by cough and 
bronchial catarrh, sometimes by asthma. If the cause is not 
removed the affection may last indefinitely in a stage of more or 
less troublesome indisposition, or the prolonged gastro-intestinal 
derangement may gradually undermine the health and exhaust 
the patient. In some cases the nervous system suffers most ; 
there is increasing depression, with restlessness and insomnia ; in 
certain severe cases paralysis of the extremities occurs, with con- 
vulsions ending in death. This, however, is altogether exceptional, 
and indeed death from arsenical poisoning of what may be called 
industrial origin is decidedly rare. 

In certain cases arsenic produces local as well as general effects. 
According to Arlidge* workers employed in the manufacture of 
arsenical green often exhibit peculiar symptoms. That product is 
derived from arsenite of soda, which is decomposed by sulphate 
of copper, and the resultant treated with pyroligneous acid. 

The workers are liable to the development of boils and pimples, 
and suffer from an itching eruption about the nostrils and in the 
flexures of the arms. In severer cases there is headache with 
thirst and nausea, and an irritating eruption appears on the 
scrotum. Vomiting, quickening of the pulse, and conjunctival 
injection are observed in some persons. In workmen employed 
in the calcining or *' burning " houses for arsenical ores the fumes 
produce sometimes gastric disturbances, sometimes bronchial and 
laryngeal irritation. The commonest effect is the production of 
an eruption about the genitals and on the exposed parts of the 
body, especially at the bends of the limbs. Stockings, handker- 
chiefs, gloves, etc., dyed with aniline colours often cause severe 
* hygiene Diseases afid Mortality of Occupations, London, 1872. 



XXI.] PREVENTION OF ARSENICAL POISONING. 381- 

irritation, especially on the skin of delicate women and children. 
This ought never to occur, for if the process is rightly carried out 
no arsenic passes into the finished dye. 

Treatment and Prophylaxis. — The first principle of treatment 
is removal of the cause. The symptoms will then, in the great 
majority of cases, spontaneously disappear. Debility or other 
conditions calling for active measures should be treated secundum 
artem. 

As regards the prophylaxis, in trades where exposure to the 
arsenic is unavoidable, sanitary precautions on the same lines as 
those taken against lead poisoning should be enforced. For 
colouring purposes arsenical colours are unnecessary. In the 
dyeing of textile fabrics and in the tinting of papers they should 
be absolutely prohibited. 

No paper should be placed on a wall unless it be guaranteed 
free from arsenic, and even with a guarantee from the manu- 
facturer it is advisable to test a piece with Marsh's apparatus to 
make sure. 

Malcolm Morris. 



CHAPTER XXII 

CHINA AND EARTHENWARE MANUFACTURE : POTTERS' ROT 

In all dusty trades pulmonary disease is the cause of death of 
large numbers of the workpeople. The manufacture of pottery 
is a dusty trade. Potters' asthma and consumption have for long 
been known. The potteries of Staffordshire formerly had an 
unenviable notoriety on account of the prevalence of ill-health, 
and the large death-rate among the hands employed. For much 
that we know of the pulmonary diseases of potters and of 
pneumoconiosis in general we are indebted to Drs Greenhow, 
Addison, Peacock, and the late Dr J. T. Arlidge, who, as Physician 
to the North Staffordshire Infirmary, Stoke-upon-Trent, had 
unusual opportunities of observing and recording the prevalent 
diseases of that district. 

In the manufacture of china and earthenware the workpeople 
are exposed to two dangers : (i) pulmonary disease due to inhala- 
tion of particles of clay and flint ; and (2) plumbism in consequence 
of the presence of lead used in the glazes and for colouring 
purposes. In another part of the book the dangers incidental to 
lead poisoning in potteries are dealt with. Here we are concerned 
with mineral dust solely, and its effect upon the lungs. Cheap 
pottery is made from ordinary clay, but in the manufacture of the 
finer ware, Cornish clay and stone are used. In firing china, 
ground flint is largely used as a packing between the cups, 
saucers, and plates, etc., when these are placed in the " saggers " 
or burnt-clay boxes in the ovens. In addition to the ingredients 
mentioned above, ground calcined bone is also one of the con- 
stituents of china. 

Clay and flint both contain very hard, sharp, angular particles 
of silex, which when drawn into the respiratory organs during 
inhalation are not dissolved by the secretions of the bronchi. 
They become deposited in the smallest bronchial tubes and the 
pulmonary alveoli, and set up irritation. The initial process in 
the manufacture of earthenware consists in mixing the clays with 



CHAP, xxii.] RISKS INCURRED IN FIRING WARE , 383 

ground flints and water. This is rather a dusty operation, but 
fortunately only a few men are employed at it. When properly 
mixed, the compound is known as " slip," and the men are called 
slip-makers. The mixing of the slip is sometimes done by hand 
by means of long, broad pieces of wood, but usually by machinery. 
The next stage in the manufacture is known as "throwing," 
where the potter throws moist clay upon a revolving wheel, and 
by means of his hands and fingers shapes the clay into all forms 
of useful dishes, elegant vases, etc. These products are known 
as hollow ware, but other kinds of ware just as useful, e.g. plates 
and saucers, can be made by pressing. The clay vessel when 
removed from the potter's wheel is felt by the fingers when run 
over it to be rough and uneven, and in order to get the required 
smoothness it is necessary later on to turn such hollow ware as 
cups upon a lathe, while flat goods like plates and saucers are 
made even by being rubbed with tow or flannel upon a rapidly 
revolving table. This process is called "towing." Ware thus 
smoothed is ready for the oven. The first firing is known in 
the trade as " biscuiting." After this it is ready to be painted 
or imprinted by coloured transfers, and then glazed. The ware 
to be fired is placed in large thick-walled vessels the size of an 
ordinary cheese, made of very coarse local clay, and known by 
the name of " saggers." These are capable of withstanding great 
heat. Into these the earthenware and china goods are packed, 
care being taken to separate the individual china pieces from each 
other by plenty of loose ground flint. The men who carry the 
saggers into the kilns are called "placers." They build up the 
saggers on the top of one another, pile after pile, and when doing 
this they are naturally exposed to alternating heat and cold, to 
high temperatures in ovens just emptied, to the fumes of sul- 
phur in the kilns from the expiring fires, and to a considerable 
amount of dust when emptying the saggers. Coming out of the 
warm kilns covered with perspiration they run the risk of getting 
chilled. 

In this description of the manufacture we have simply dealt 
with ware that has not been glazed or in any way brought into 
contact with poisonous compounds, such as lead. The products 
have only once been fired. Should the biscuited ware be 
subsequently glazed, this is done by dipping it into a liquid 
which contains, among other things, "raw" or "fritted" lead. 
The man who plunges the ware into the glaze is called a " dipper," 
and he is followed in his work by the dipper's cleaners, who rub 



384 CHINA AND EARTHENWARE MANUFACTURE [chap. 

the rough edges off the ware, while the person who places the 
dipped ware in the saggers, which go again into the oven for a 
second firing, is called a " glost placer." The workman who fills 
the unglazed ware in the saggers and carries them into the kilns 
for the first firing is, as already stated, called a *' placer." He only 
incurs such risks to health as might be caused by exposure to 
varying temperatures and to dust, but the " glost placer " runs in 
addition the risk of lead poisoning. About 3 per cent, of them 
suffer from plumbism. 

Since, however, we are only concerned at present with dust and its 
effect upon the respiratory organs, we shall adhere to a description 
of those processes in potteries in which it prevails, and of these the 
two that are the dustiest and the most dangerous are " towing " or 
smoothing of the ware before it has been fired, also what is known 
as the " scouring " or cleaning of china after it has been biscuited 
The scouring of china is generally done by women, sometimes by 
hand, by brushing the ware over a wooden trough so that the 
ground flint can be collected and used over again. The atmosphere 
of the workroom is often thick with dust, while the hair and clothing 
of the women are literally white with the fine particles of flint. 
For dust and danger there is no comparison between the throw- 
ing and turning of unfired clay products and the cleaning of 
china that has been once fired. Unless provision is made by fans 
for the removal of the dust, the air is so thick that no person could 
scour china for even a few weeks or months without suffering 
from bronchial irritation or bronchitis, cough and shortness of 
breath. Dr Prendergast of Hanley, Staffordshire, informs me that 
after two months' work in scouring china, ,^ healthy woman will 
often present symptoms suggestive of phthisis, but happily the 
condition of the lung is remediable. Potters' asthma and con- 
sumption, as indeed all forms of lung disease due to dusty occupa- 
tions, are becoming fortunately fewer and fewer every year in this 
country, owing to the improved appliances in factories for getting 
rid of dust. The late Dr Arlidge told me that the chances of 
obtaining a good illustration of potters' phthisis as a pathological 
specimen was becoming increasingly difficult, and the same informa- 
tion has been sent to me from Sheffield as regards steel grinders' 
lung. 

In addition to visiting the largest potteries in England and 
Scotland, I have had the opportunity of inspecting many on the 
Continent, and particularly the porcelain works at Limoges, where 
I saw something of the baneful effects upon the French potters 



XXII.] LIMOGES AND ITS PORCELAIN ' 385 

of the scouring of china. In Limoges the porcelain is made from 
a very fine white clay or kaolin, which is found in the district. 
The products made from this kaolin are dipped in a glaze con- 
taining felspar and quartz, and whose composition is silica 70, 
aluminium 17, potash 13. 

For more than a century porcelain has been manufactured in 
Limoges, a town containing 80,000 people, of whom, roughly speak- 
ing, 15,000 are engaged in the potteries in the town and neigh- 
bourhood, men and women about equally. The kaolin is found 
at St Yrieix, a village twenty-six miles south of Limoges. There 
is therefore very little expense incurred in the railway transport 
of the raw material. Labour, too, is on the whole cheap. In 
Limoges there are sixteen or seventeen large potteries with 
almost double that number of smaller workshops. The brushing- 
off or epoussetage of the fired or biscuited ware is done both by 
women and men by means of soft feather brushes. It is a very 
dusty operation, and where there are no fans for its removal, as 
in some of the factories I visited, the air was thick with dust. 
The windows were open at the time, but currents of air obtained 
by this means exercised no very appreciable influence upon the 
dust. It is not this kind of ventilation that is required under 
these circumstances. In the matter of the provision of artificial 
means for the removal of dust and the renewal of air in the pot- 
teries of Limoges, some of the manufacturers seemed to me to be 
rather behind than in advance of the owners of large factories 
in Staffordshire. Accordingly I was not unprepared for the 
information that among the potters, especially the brushers-off 
or scourers, in Limoges, the mortality from pulmonary consump- 
tion and chest diseases is high. The harmful operations in 
porcelain works are the emptying of the kilns, the removal of 
the ware from the saggers, and the brushing of this ware ; while 
the hard dust that rises during the polishing of the all but 
finished articles is equally dangerous. The polishing has for its 
object the removal of any roughness from the edges or surfaces 
of the ware, and it is generally done on a revolving wheel by 
means of a broken piece of china, the workman using this as 
the smoothing agent. The men and women employed in these 
operations are usually well covered with dust, yet it is seldom 
that they wear respirators. Fans for the lemoval of the dust 
were present in only very few of the factories. The employes 
objected to them on the ground that they created a strong 
draught of cold air. Dr Raymondaud, one of the Professors in the 

2B 



386 CHINA AND EARTHENWARE MANUFACTURE [chap. 

School of Medicine, Limoges, has made a special study of the 
diseases of porcelain makers, particularly of pulmonary consump- 
tion and chronic bronchitis. He found that the potteries furnished 
a larger number of patients suffering from lung diseases than did 
the other trades of the district. Of 75 deaths registered in Limoges 
as occurring among china makers, 36 were due to phthisis, and of 
30 potters whom Raymondaud examined, 20 were suffering from 
pulmonary consumption. Pulmonary phthisis is regarded as the 
principal disease affecting the workers in the Limoges potteries. 

The discovery of the tubercle bacillus by Koch has tended to 
unify medical opinion as to the cause of pulmonary phthisis. The 
bulk of pulmonary phthisis is tubercular and is due to the bacillus. 
Other conditions, however, are not without their influence, such 
as hereditary predisposition, constitutional weakness, infection at 
home, and the effect of chills ; but admitting all these, there is con- 
siderable evidence in favour of the view that dust plays an im- 
portant part in producing potters' phthisis, which, as previously 
remarked, differs in some respects from tubercular consumption. 
Dr Lemaistre, with whom I discussed this subject, had analysed 
the air of the Limoges potteries, and he found that the dust in 
some of the workshops is'composed of earthy particles, fragments 
of granite, flint, particles of dried glaze, soot, and wood charcoal. 
The atmosphere which the brushers-off, the finishers, and the porce- 
lain makers generally work in, he found contained 640 million par- 
ticles of dust to the cubic metre, while several of the finishers, i.e. 
those persons whose duty it is to remove the excess of dried glaze 
on the ware, often work in an atmosphere containing 680 million 
particles to the cubic metre. The particles in the latter instance 
are smaller than those first mentioned, and they therefore remain 
a longer time suspended in the air of the workroom. This large 
number of particles of dust in the air is one explanation of the 
frequency of bronchitis and of pulmonary disease, and also of the 
small chalk-like masses found after death in the lungs of porce- 
lain makers, but which must not be confounded with cretaceous 
tubercles. Whatever may be the influence of the dust-laden atmo- 
sphere of a pottery in causing pulmonary fibrosis, the accidental 
presence of the tubercle bacillus in addition would go far to aggra- 
vate existing pulmonary conditions, and tend to transform a non- 
tubercular affection of the lungs into one of a true specific character. 
It is thus that the presence of a tuberculous person in a workroom 
becomes a source of danger to his fellow-workmen. Particles of 
clay or china dust, when inhaled, can only act mechanically upon 



xxil] pulmonary symptoms in china workers 387 

the lining of the small bronchial tubes and pulmonary alveoli, but 
by making a breach upon their epithelial coating they reduce the 
local vital resistance, and pave the way for the entrance of the 
tubercle bacilli. Dust, therefore, weakens the lung, and by altering 
its structure, induces conditions that favour the development of the 
tubercle bacilli. Apart from bacillary infection, dust is itself a 
cause of danger : it is capable of inducing bronchitis, and if long 
inhaled causes fibrosis of the lungs of potters. The pulmonary 
consumption of porcelain-makers differs from tubercular phthisis in 
the fact that it is of slower development, and is of longer duration ; 
that it less seldom attacks the young than those of middle life and 
more advanced age ; also that there may be found in the lungs 
after death calculous concretions, which on chemical examination 
are found to be composed of carbonate and phosphate of lime, 
silica, and oxide of iron, with a certain amount of organic matter. 
The average age at death of men from fibroid phthisis in the 
potteries of Limoges is forty-three, and of women thirty-eight 
years. The same symptoms just described as having been ob- 
served in the Limoges porcelain-makers are also found in workers 
in pottery in this country, viz., cough, shortness of breath, and 
progressive emaciation, but there is a greater tendency to blood- 
spitting in French porcelain-makers than Arlidge found among 
the potters in Staffordshire. 

Symptoms. — It is not until an individual has worked, as a 
rule, some months or years at his trade that he shows signs and 
symptoms of potters' phthisis. In this, as in other forms of chronic 
pulmonary disease, there is cough on getting up in the morning, 
but this circumstance attracts little or no attention, as the general 
health usually remains good for a lengthened period. At first white 
and frothy, or speckled from the greyish-black dust that has been 
inhaled, the expectoration by degrees becomes purulent, while the 
cough, no longer confined to the morning, becomes more paroxysmal 
in character, and is attended by shortness of breath, which tends to 
get worse with time. On examining the chest it is found that 
the amount of shortness of breath or dyspnoea is out of all pro- 
portion to the amount of consolidated lung that may be present. 
It is a fact well known to every member of the medical profession 
that tubercular consumption much more frequently affects the 
apices or uppermost parts of the lungs, i.e. just below the collar- 
bones, than the lowest portions, a circumstance very largely due 
to the imperfect inflation or ventilation of those particular regions, 
so that when they become the seat of catarrh or of subacute 



388 CHINA AND EARTHENWARE MANUFACTURE [chap. 

inflammation, the morbid products that are secreted and effused 
are, owing to the Hmited range of movement of this part of the 
chest wall, and incomplete aeration of this part of the lungs, with 
difficulty expectorated. A catarrh therefore tends to linger in 
the apices of the lungs, and offers opportunities for bacillary 
infection. In dust diseases of the lungs, on the other hand, it is 
not the apices that become affected so much as the lower and 
back parts of the lungs. This is an important distinction between 
the two, for it shows that a different cause must have been in 
operation. Limited areas of dulness, indicating small patches of 
consolidated lung, can be detected here and there in the chest, 
especially at the base behind or close to the shoulder-blades. 
In the early stages there is neither the evening rise of tempera- 
ture, the feverishness, nor the accelerated pulse and rapid loss 
of flesh which are so pathognomonic of tubercle. Arlidge says 
there is, too, a wonderful immunity from blood-spitting. If an 
afflicted workman, therefore, at this stage were to give up his 
employment and seek for some occupation out-of-doors, the 
chances are that he would still have a good spell of life before 
him ; but if, on the other hand, he is contented to remain at his 
occupation, sooner or later he becomes the confirmed victim of 
potters' phthisis. His vital resistance becomes gradually more 
and more enfeebled. His preference for indoor life, daily expo- 
sure to infection in the factory, and his overcrowded home, lay 
the individual open to the chances of a tubercular lesion becom- 
ing grafted upon a fibrotic lung. Dr Arlidge found that the 
mean age at death of male potters aged twenty years and up- 
wards was forty-six and a half years, whilst that of non-potters 
stood at fifty-four. Dr Prendergast tells me that potters working in 
dust generally die at the age of forty-five. Among potters Arlidge 
found as the most frequent causes of death pulmonary consumption, 
diseases of the heart and nervous system. In the workpeople of the 
district other than potters, while the death-rate from diseases of 
the chest was 7.86 per cent., the rate for potters was 12.29. Taking 
the male population generally and their entire mortality from all 
causes at the time that Arlidge wrote, we find that the deaths of 
male potters from diseases of the respiratory organs were 60 instead 
of 27 per 1000, and that the decennial period from fifty to sixty 
gave the greatest number of deaths, each preceding decennium back 
to twenty giving less and less, while the maximum mortality from 
phthisis as opposed to diseases of the lungs generally was reached 
between the ages of thirty and forty years. Before the age of 



XXII.] PREVENTION OF POTTERS' PHTHISIS ■ 389 

forty, therefore, the bulk of the potters who have contracted 
lung disease, and who have become tubercular, die ; whereas 
in those who contract the disease later on they become less 
liable to the tubercular type of the malady. Bronchitis is met 
with among the male pressers who are exposed to the dust of 
the clay, but in china scourers pulmonary diseases are extremely 
prevalent; as many as 40 per cent, were found suffering from phthisis 
and 25 per cent, from bronchitis. As already stated, the phthisis in 
potters is in the early stages usually not tuberculous. So much 
so is this considered to be the case that Dr John Tatham,* at 
page xcvii. of Supplement to the Fifty-fifth Annual Report of the 
Registrar-General of Births, Deaths, etc.. Part II., 1897, in speaking 
of potters (earthenware makers) sustaining a mortality from phthisis 
and respiratory diseases together far in excess of that experienced 
by other groups of workers, e.£: 453 as against 100 agriculturists, 
says that " potters succumb to non-tubercular disease of the lungs 
more rapidly than they do to phthisis, and it is certain that much 
of the so-called * potters' phthisis ' ought properly to be designated 
non-tubercular cirrhosis of the lung." Cirrhosis is a medical term 
sometimes used instead of fibrosis. 

Prevention. — Ventilation of the workroom should be by means 
of fans and not simply by open windows. Scouring of china by 
hand over an open trough into which the ground flint falls should 
be discontinued. It should be done in semi-closed boxes with 
a strong down draught on the offside of the workers, or by 
revolving brushes driven by machinery in semi-closed spaces 
similarly aspirated. Overalls and coverings for the head should 
be worn by the workers ; and since the form of pulmonary disease 
that affects potters develops slowly and is capable of being at least 
retarded, if not arrested, in the early stages, in the interests of the 
workpeople themselves their chest should be examined by a doctor 
once every three or six months, so that those who show signs of 
commencing lung disease might be pronounced disqualified for 
further employment at towing and scouring. 

Thomas Oliver. 



"* See also Dr Tatham's Remarks and Tables, p. 136, etc. 



CHAPTER XXIII 

BASIC SLAG 

In the manufacture of steel by the Thomas Gilchrist or basic 
process, there is a large percentage of waste product, which is 
known by the name of basic slag. This, notwithstanding its high 
percentage of phosphorus, remained for some years of little or no 
value, until it was found that its fertilising properties could be 
obtained by reducing it to an exceedingly fine powder. Since that 
was done, it has been in great demand as a manure. It is the 
manufacture of this manure which is said to produce deleterious 
effects upon the workmen engaged, and which has brought it 
within the meaning and regulations of a dangerous trade. 
The composition of basic slag is : — 



Lime ... 


41.58 per cent 


Magnesia 


6.14 


5> 


Alumina . 


2.57 




Peroxide of iron . 


8.54 




Protoxide of iron 


13.62 




Protoxide of manganese 


3-79 




Protoxide of vanadium . 


1.29 




Silica 


7.38 




Sulphur . 


0.23 




Calcium . 


0.31 




Sulphuric anhydride 


0.12 




Phosphoric acid 


14.36 





Before crushing, the slag is in large pieces, and it has to be 
ground into an almost impalpable powder, so that 80 to 85 per 
cent, of it will pass through a mesh of 10,000 to the square inch. 
There is still a more impalpable dust given off which, not- 
withstanding the utmost care, escapes from the machinery during 
the process of grinding. 

The grinding is performed in several ways, sometimes by means 
of edge runners, sometimes by flint pebbles, and sometimes by 
means of heavy balls called the Krupp ball system. The following 
is a description of the process as carried on at the North Eastern 
Steel Works, Middlesborough. 

390 



CHAP. XXIII.] DESCRIPTION OF PROCESS OF MANUFACTURE 391 

The main building is of three storeys, the ground floor of 
which is used for the various pulleys and driving gear for the mill. 

On the first floor are six roller mills, and on the top floor are 
ten Askam separators, three screens, and a main conveyor, into 
which each separator discharges the dust. 

Outside the main building, but connected with it, on the 
ground floor, is a shed in which are placed four edge runner 
mills. 

The slag is put into the first edge runner, and crushed until it 
is fine enough to pass through grids at the bottom of the mill, and 
it falls through these on to an elevator, which takes it up to the 
screen on the top floor. That which is not fine enough to 
pass through this screen falls down into the second edge runner, 
where it is ground in a similar manner and again elevated to the 
top floor. 

After the slag has passed through the screen, it is taken into 
the first two separators, where the fine dust is taken out and falls 
into the main conveyor, and is carried by means of this direct to 
the warehouse. 

The tailings from the separator fall into the roller mills on the 
first floor, where they are crushed up, after which they fall into the 
second edge runner mill, where they are ground and treated in 
exactly the same way as in the first edge runner mill. This pro- 
cess being repeated altogether four times, the slag is then found 
to be pulverised. 

The dust made in the separators is conveyed direct to the 
warehouse, as above described ; but that made by the roller mills 
on the first floor is drawn by means of a fan into a long tube, 
running the whole length of the building, and from this it passes 
into a long dust-tight chamber, called the stive room. The floor 
of this room is cleaned by scrapers, which take the dust into the 
main conveyor above referred to. The dust is finally received into 
a hopper, and from this it falls automatically into bags, in quanti- 
ties of about a hundredweight. 

In the early years of its manufacture, the process was con- 
ducted in such a way that it was undoubtedly a very dusty 
occupation, and the men working at it then suflered constantly 
from what they called the " slag cough." 

Some two or three years after its manufacture was begun, 
there was an outbreak of epidemic pneumonia in Middlesborough, 
and it was thought by many to be in some way caused by the 
new industry. As the disease (in 1888) assumed very serious 



392 BASIC SLAG [chap. 

proportions, it was thought expedient by the sanitary authority 
to invite the co-operation of the Local Government Board. 
Dr Ballard came down, and after a most careful inquiry, he 
reported that " the slag dust to which the epidemic had 
been attributed was not the cause of the pneumonia, but that 
when from any cause pneumonia becomes epidemic, persons 
largely exposed to the inhalation of this dust may and do suffer 
more than persons not so exposed, and that the disease with them 
is of high fatality." 

In 1893 the attention of the Secretary of State was again 
called to the injurious nature of the trade, and Mr Gould, Her 
Majesty's Superintending Inspector of Factories, conducted the 
inquiry, and made a report in December of that year, in which he 
says : — " Being in its nature extremely fine, it has a tendency, when 
inhaled, to settle in the farthest ramifications of the air-passages, 
and to induce in the mucous membrane of these a chronic state of 
irritation, thus rendering the larynx and bronchial tubes unduly 
susceptible of further mischief should the subject take cold ; and 
in general creating a distinct predisposition to bronchitis and 
pneumonia. Moreover, it is found that when pneumonia does 
supervene, a fatal result not unfrequently follows, with unusual 
rapidity. But even in a case of complete recovery from an acute 
attack, the patient will be constantly liable to a recurrence of the 
same malady, as his breathing apparatus is continually undergoing 
deterioration, so long as he is subject to the influence of the 
dust." 

The summaries of these two inquiries may be taken as repre- 
senting all that could be said about the effects of slag dust at that 
time ; and it remains for me to state whether more recent obser- 
vations have tended to confirm these conclusions. 

In investigating the subject, I have examined a number of 
men engaged in daily occupation at the mill, and I subjoin a 
short report of some of them. 

S. R., 54, been in the mill twelve years ; well nourished ; no 
complaints except occasional cough after starting in the morn- 
ing ; breath sounds not very distinct at the base of the lungs, and 
expansion of chest rather deficient. 

J. R., 32, worked in the mill thirteen years ; chest expansion 
rather deficient ; general health good ; occasional cough. 

E. F., 31, worked eleven years ; good appetite and good health ; 
had pneumonia fifteen years ago; does not suffer from colds, 
but coughs sometimes in the mornings. 



XXIII.] PULMONARY SYMPTOMS IN BASIC SLAG GRINJDERS 393 

W. J., 44, has worked nine years ; always has cough, which is 
worst about an hour after leaving work; expansion of chest 
diminished. 

J. T., 52, worked thirteen years ; health equal to the average. 
Three years ago had pneumonia ; ten weeks off; colds not 
common ; respiratory murmur diminished over the bases of lungs ; 
expansion lessened. 

N. R., 44, worked eight years ; health good, never ill ; colds 
often. 

In measuring the chest, it was found that there was only a 
difference of about one and a half inches between that of inspira- 
tion and expiration, showing considerable diminution in chest 
capacity. 

With regard to the causation of chest affections there can be 
little doubt that it produces increased action of the bronchial 
mucous membrane, and consequent cough. But unless this is 
accompanied by such influences as wet, cold, exposure, or drink, 
there is no reason to think that it is the cause of acute bronchitis. 
Indeed, notwithstanding excessive carelessness in their habits, I 
should say that the tendency in the great majority of cases is 
towards a chronic affection of the bronchial tubes, followed after 
some years by emphysema. 

The men nearly all suffer more or less from cough and some 
mucous expectoration, which makes them frequently seek relief 
from cough medicines. In the last few years, however, great 
improvements have taken place in the grinding mills, and the 
men now tell me that their discomforts are greatly reduced. 

In the cases examined, there was accelerated breathing in 
three, and diminished power of expansion more or less in all of 
them. 

It will be seen from the chemical analysis of the slag that there 
is nothing in it of the nature of a poison such as to produce im- 
mediate injurious consequences, beyond such effects as may be 
traced to its mechanical action upon the bronchial tubes and air 
cells. The phosphoric acid is in combination with the lime as a 
tetraphosphate, which is not corrosive, nor generally harmful. 
There is, however, a good deal of irritation produced in those 
unaccustomed to it, for on the last occasion when I visited the 
works, I felt some tightness in the chest, with cough and rough- 
ness of the voice, which lasted three or four hours. 

Inquiries have failed to elicit that any undue proportion of 
slag-workers have been attacked by pneumonia. As the medical 



394 



BASIC SLAG [CHAP. 



profession in Middlesborough had come to suspect pneumonia in 
slag-workers as infectious, with a view to helping in its investi- 
gation an arrangement was come to with the Health Department 
of the Town Council to have the cases of pneumonia notified. 
Of these, 36 were labourers, and the other 6^ embraced nearly 
the whole catalogue of special workers and trades, such as crane 
men, gantry men, carters, trimmers, blacksmiths, joiners, fitters, 
and moulders, besides printers, barmen, publicans, butchers, 
teachers, and insurance agents. 

During the latter half of 1900, Dr Dingle, the Medical Officer 
of Health, received 103 notifications of pneumonia in adult males, 
which he inquired into. After a very careful inquiry, Dr Dingle 
failed to fix any special degree of susceptibility upon any par- 
ticular occupation. Slag dust does not play any prominent 
part in causing pneumonia. 

In the treatment of the immediate effects of the inhalation 
of slag dust, the remedies for ordinary catarrhal conditions of 
the bronchial tubes answer as well as anything ; and as its 
remote effects are in no way different from those produced by 
other dusty occupations, remedies which prove useful in those, 
such as potassium iodide, carbonate of ammonia, digitalis, and 
strychnine, have, in my hands, proved most efficacious. 

But our efforts must be directed more to the prevention of 
the initial ailments, and to the amelioration of their causes 
than to their treatment by medicines, for it must not be 
forgotten that the tendency is always towards the production 
of structural changes in the tissues of the bronchi and lungs. 

There is a standing order in all of the works that the' 
men should wear respirators, and these are provided by their 
employers. But hitherto no form of respirator has been 
suggested which answers the necessary requirements of being 
porous and comfortable, and at the same time impervious to 
dust. The face bag, which was one of the results of Mr 
Gould's inquiry, ought to be of great service ; but it becomes 
saturated with the moisture of the expired air, the result being 
that during inspiration it is drawn up against the mouth and 
nose, and a sufficient quantity of air not being available, the 
workmen slip it down underneath the chin, where, of course, it 
is useless. No contrivance will ever answer the purpose which 
does not admit of easy access of air into the lungs, and of 
complete expiration without effort. For this purpose a light, 
soft wire mask might be made to fit the face, which should 




XXIII.] PACKING OF SLAG A DUSTY PROCESS. 395 

stand out from the mouth and nose. It should contain a 
shutter, by which several layers of open webbing could be 
enclosed, through which the breath could be easily drawn ; and 
there should be an opening fitted with a valve, which should 
open easily for outward, but shut for inward breathing. 

The finished material is placed in packing bags, in the fitting of 
which the openings are tightly fixed round the hopper, and by 
means of a lever the charge is suddenly dropped into the bag, 
when a cloud of dust immediately rises. There is consequently 
more dust in this department than there ought to be, and, more- 
over, it is the finest dust of all, for it comes through bags of very 
closely-woven texture. If the packing material were dipped in 
size, or rendered impervious in some other way, this source of 
danger would be largely reduced. 

There is another improvement which might be suggested, 
and that is, that the men should be provided with a room, outside 
the mill altogether, in which to take their meals. As it is at 
present, the grinding goes on without stoppage for meals, which 
renders it necessary for the men to be on hand the whole time ; 
consequently there is no opportunity for open-air breathing 
time. By a little arrangement the men could probably go 
in batches, and have their dinner in comfort, and for a time be 
free from the atmosphere of the mill. 

John Hedley. 



CHAPTER XXIV 

CANISTER CRUSHING • 

Workers engaged in crushing basic slag, in the breaking of 
certain rocks, in the manufacture of millstones, in stone-mason's 
work and kindred occupations, are peculiarly liable to chronic 
inflammation of the air-tubes, caused by the inhalation of dust 
of an irritant kind. This, it is believed, leads to lung fibrosis. 
Where the operatives form part of a large community in which 
individuals are employed in many and varied trades, it is con- 
ceivable that fibrosis of the lung may be mistaken for tubercular 
pulmonary consumption, and it may not be realised that the 
cause is due to the occupation of the sufferer. The late Dr 
Arlidge, in a public lecture on " The Sanitation of Industries and 
Occupations," referring to china clay as a silicious material, 
states that the dust is most destructive to lung function and 
lung integrity, as it sets up chronic inflammation of the air-tubes 
and of the lung tissues, itself accompanied by bronchitis and 
asthma. The disease thus established terminates in fibrosis of 
the lung, "a lesion which symptomatically closely resembles 
pulmonary consumption." 

The risks referred to have in late years more than ever 
engaged public attention. Already great strides have been 
made in the provision of remedies. To medical men practising 
in districts where these dusty trades form the principal occupation, 
we may look for information of a definite and exact nature as to 
the health of the workers. A highly interesting article, entitled 
" Canister Disease," was published in the Journal of the Sanitary 
Institute for April 1900. The writer, Dr C. L. Birmingham, 
lived for several years in the valley of the Don^ the principal 
centre of this mining industry. 

To the general reader it may be well to explain that ganister 
or calliard is a hard, close-grained, silicious stone which often 
forms the stratum that underlies the coal seam. A footnote in 
Dr Percy's Fuel says — " Dinas rock is believed to be a mill- 



CHAP. XXIV.] MINING AND CRUSHING OF GANISTER 397 

stone grit of the carboniferous system, and the geological 
equivalent of the bed termed * Ganister ' at Sheffield." It is 
found in Yorkshire, Durham, North and South Wales, and 
elsewhere. When crushed and ground into dust it is .used as 
a fire-resistant, chiefly for lining Bessemer and other steel- 
converters, for the manufacture of bricks likely to be subjected 
to great and continuous heat, and it is sometimes mixed with, 
or substituted for, Stannington or other clays, which, together 
with ground cinders and old ground pot, are used for the 
manufacture of crucibles in which certain kinds of steel are 
made. 

The persons liable to suffer are the ganister miners and those 
who manipulate the material in mills known as '* breaker-mills." 
During the mining process much dust is generated in the various 
stages of blasting, and little doubt exists that it is to this that 
we must look for a solution of the very high mortality returns. 
By many it is held that the products of combustion from the 
blasting charges are liable, when inhaled, to cause (or to pre- 
dispose the worker to) chest affections. The ganister, in large 
lumps, is brought from the mines to the mills in small trucks 
running on metals. Where necessary, these lumps are broken 
by hand with heavy sledge-hammers, the process being known 
as "sledging." Whilst this is being done a certain amount of 
dust arises. The material is next thrown into breaker-mills of 
various patterns, for crushing. The mills are in the open air, or 
in open sheds. As the lumps are thrown into the mouth of the 
mill where the crushing takes place, clouds of dry dust rise in 
the face of the workers, and to this operation is attributable much 
of the illness. Happily, a remedy generally accepted has been 
found and is being adopted. It is simply a jet of steam playing 
into the mouth of the mill, damping the material and preventing 
the dust from rising. In some works, small fine jets of water, 
such as would run from an ordinary water can, are preferred. 
Time has not yet allowed practical men to say with certainty 
that this is an absolute remedy, but they are very hopeful. 

The crushed ganister, in pieces about the size of " metal " used 
for road-making, is carried from the breaker-mills by shoots to 
edge-runner mills, to be pulverised into a fine dust. During the 
whole of this process it is thoroughly saturated with water, 
rendering the escape of dust a practical impossibility. In this 
state it is ready to be converted into bricks, or to be taken away 
in railway trucks, carts, or other conveyances, for use elsewhere. 



398 CANISTER CRUSHING [chap. 

It is sometimes found that the ganister mortar is too moist, in 
which case it is "tempered," that is, dry ganister-dust, to the 
necessary amount, is mixed with it. In this process some dust 
may here arise, but it is hardly in sufficient quantity to affect 
the health of the workers. 

The bricks are made in hand presses. It is not a dusty 
process until just before closing the press, when many operatives 
take a handful of ganister dust and throw it over the surface 
of the brick, to secure a clear and clean impress, showing the 
name of the maker, etc. This is a dangerous and unnecessary step ; 
damp sawdust is equally efficacious and is now generally used. 
The floors of ganister brick-drying sheds, as in other brick 
works where the same method of drying is adopted, are more 
or less dusty. Under these floors there are pipes heated by 
steam or hot air, for the purpose of drying the bricks. Each 
time a dry brick is lifted, dry dust is liberated, but seeing 
that there is little or no traffic on these floors (except in 
passages, which can easily be kept clean), the dust rests on the 
floor, and does not permeate the atmosphere. Mechanical fans 
have been suggested, but practical men would find it extremely 
difficult, if not impossible, to find any fan that would carry 
this dust, and such men certainly would be sceptical as to the 
wisdom of creating draughts where the desire is to keep the 
dust on the floor, and not to cause it to fly about. It will be 
realised that although fans may be, and are, used with the 
greatest advantage in certain dusty occupations, it does not 
follow that they will answer in all. 

It has been stated, and probably with some degree of 
accuracy, that the " setter's " work involves exceptional risk. 
The process consists in placing the bricks in the kilns for 
baking, after they have been dried in the sheds. A man 
standing in an elevated position catches the bricks, which are 
thrown to him by the man at the mouth of the kiln. As they 
are thrown, dust is liberated, and seeing that this work is 
done in a confined space, it is quite conceivable that injurious 
results to health may follow. 

In some works ganister is ground dry in what are known 
as "sieve mills." These are ordinary edge-runner mills, with 
a sieve at the bottom of the pan. The fine ganister passes 
through the sieve, and is taken by elevators to the sifting 
machine, where what is fine enough is carried away to the 
receptacle for holding it, the coarser material being carried 




XXIV.] RISKS INCURRED BY CANISTER WORKER^ 399 



by shoots to be again ground in the mill. In many works 
the ganister, although nominally dry, is damped sufficiently to 
prevent any escape of dust, and it has been stated by experi- 
enced manufacturers that the damping in no way damages 
the material, nor does it hinder the work. This dry ganister 
crushing is in most cases a subsidiary process, the quantities 
required being small, it only being used for the purpose of 
making a cement, or mortar, for joining silica bricks or other 
fire resistants. 

Ganister workers are peculiarl}^ liable to those ailments 
incidental to occupations exposing the operatives to extremes 
of heat and cold, to damp, and to draughts, but the writer 
believes that he has, in general terms, defined the peculiar 
and exceptional risks incurred in this occupation. Having 
done so, it seems difficult to account for the alarming mortality 
returns published in Dr Birmingham's article. A possible 
solution may be found in the fact that where ganister works 
are situated there are also large numbers of fireclay works in 
which are made fire-resisting bricks, tuyeres, pipes, gas-retorts, 
etc. To the uninitiated it might appear that ganister and fire- 
brick workers were engaged in one and the same occupation, 
nor would this be unreasonable when the constitution of the 
two substances is considered. Ganister is stated to contain 95 
per cent, of silica, whereas, according to Chambers's Encyclopedia^ 
from which the following extract is taken, it will be seen that 
fireclay contains from 54.2 to 65.1 per cent, of silica. 

" Ordinary fireclay is chiefly found in beds not usually much exceeding 
two feet in thickness, in the coal measures, interstratified with seams of coal 
and other rocks. In the British Islands it is most largely worked about 
Glasgow, Newcastle-on-Tyne, and Stourbridge in Worcestershire, at which 
last place it is said to have been discovered about 1555 by some wandering 
glassmakers from Lorraine. But it occurs, more or less, in most places where 
true coal is found. It is mined in Germany, Belgium, France, the United 
States, and other countries. Stourbridge fireclay, owing to its excellent 
quality, is largely exported to foreign countries, as well as bricks and other 
objects made of it. Refractory clays are found, although more rarely, in other 
formations besides the coal measures. For example, some of Tertiary age 
found in Dorsetshire and Devonshire are made into firebricks. The following 
table shows the principal constituents of fireclay : — 



[Table. 



400 



CANISTER CRUSHING 



[chap. 





No. I. 


No. 2. 


No. 3. 


No. 4. 


No. 5. 


Silica 


65.10 


51.10 


59.49 


53-52 


54.20 


Alumina . 




22.22 


31.35 


28.95 


33.68 


33.80 


Potash . 




0.18 






Trace 


Trace 


Lime 




0.14 


1.46 


Trace 


0.76 


Trace 


Magnesia . 




0.18 


1.54 


... 


0.14 


0.02 


Oxide of iron 




1.92 


4.63 


1.05 


0.52 


0.0 1 


Water . 
Organic matter 




9.28 ) 
0.58 i 


10.47 


( 11.05 


11.34 


10.86 
0.15 



No. I, Stourbridge ; No. 2, Newcastle-on-Tyne ; No. 3, Gartsherrie, Scotland ; 
No. 4, Poole, Dorsetshire ; No. 5, Morgantown, West Virginia, United States." 

Canister is pulverised in the wet state. Fireclay is not 
moistened, but ground into a fine dry powder, certainly suggest- 
ing greater risk to the workers. 

Into other industries, such as the manufacture of steel-melters' 
composition, the crushing of ganister largely enters. This com- 
position is used for the manufacture of heavy castings, and 
contains large proportions of old ganister and fireclay crucibles, 
bricks, mortar, etc., which are ground in open edge-runner mills 
in the dry state, fed, and often sifted by hand. The work is 
generally done in the open air or in open sheds, where the dust 
is blown about, and where it is a practical impossibility for the 
worker to avoid inhalation of this irritant. The use of closed mills, 
closed cylindrical worm-screw conveyers, and mechanical sieves, 
would largely avoid unnecessary risk, and these labour-saving 
appliances (the writer believes) would soon more than repay an)' 
original cost. 

The sickness and mortality amongst ganister workers engaged 
the attention of the poor-law authorities in the district of Deepcar, 
near Sheffield. Statistics were prepared for them, and a very 
carefully considered report dealing fully with the subject was 
submitted by Dr Robertshaw of Stockbridge, Medical Officer of 
Health for the division. 

The attention of Dr Legge, H.M. Medical Inspector of 
Factories, was called to the subject recently, and he obtained 
from Dr Robertshaw the lung of a ganister miner, who had 
presumably died from pneumoconiosis. The following is an 
extract from the valuable report by Dr F. W. Andrews, Pathologist 
to St Bartholomew's Hospital, of the anatomical changes in this 
lung induced by the inhalation of ganister dust, published in Dr 
Legge's Report to the Chief Inspector of Factories for the year 
•1900. 




XXIV.] CONDITION OF THE L UNO IN A CANISTER MINER 401 

Report on Portions of Lung from a Canister Miner. 

The upper lobe is densely indurated, black and fibrotic. The 
pleura is thickened, especially at the apex. The lower lobe shows 
less advanced changes ; numerous blackish nodules, about the 
size of a hemp-seed, are scattered throughout its substance with 
tolerable uniformity. Under a lens many of these indurated 
patches are seen to contain a minute cavity, as if they had been 
formed around minute bronchi or blood-vessels. The intervening 
lung tissue is greyish, scarcely at all pigmented, and not indurated ; 
it has the appearance of slight uniform emphysema. The large 
and medium-sized bronchi stand out prominently. To the naked 
eye the lung nowhere shows any evidence of tubercle. 

Microscopic Examination. — Seven different blocks of lung tissue 
were selected illustrating as far as possible the different degrees 
of fibrotic change present, from an area almost normal up to the 
densest induration. These were sectioned. The method of stain- 
ing found most suitable was that known as Van Giesson's— viz., 
staining in haemalum, followed by a counterstain of acid fuchsin 
with picric acid. In this way the distribution of the fibrous tissue 
was demonstrated with great minuteness. Nuclear staining was 
not very well marked, because the tissue had been lying so long in 
spirit. 

All sections show an abundance of foreign mineral particles of 
a black or brownish colour. The majority of these are minute, 
irregular, sometimes angular in form. Seen singly they are semi- 
transparent and brownish, but they are commonly collected into 
blackish heaps, included in cells, and then appear opaque. Careful 
focussing, however, reveals the presence of the angular semi- 
transparent particles in these accumulations. The pigment masses 
have not the soft and rounded outline of the carbon masses seen 
in the lungs of town dwellers ; nevertheless very finely divided jet 
black particles are present, which are probably carbon, but they are 
less abundant than the brownish semi-transparent, masses. The 
pigment masses occur chiefly in connection with the fibrotic 
areas. 

A few simple chemical tests were applied to microscopic sections, 
and their effect watched under the microscope. Caustic potash (10%) 
produced no change whatever in the pigment. Glacial acetic acid 
likewise caused no change. Fuming nitric acid caused liberation 
of gas bubbles under the coverglass, but the colour and amount of 
the pigment were in no way altered. From this it may be con- 

2C 



402 CANISTER CRUSHING [chap. 

eluded that the colour does not depend upon altered blood or any 
organic product, but that the pigment is purely mineral in 
character — carbonaceous or siliceous. The liberation of gas by 
nitric acid indicates the presence of traces of carbonates. 

The characters of the fibrotic change and its localisation and 
development could be traced from its earliest commencement. 
Sections of the least affected portions of the lung present the 
following appearances. The pleura is scarcely thickened over 
much of the lower lobe. There is a slight degree of diffuse 
emphysema ; apart from the indurated patches there is a very 
slight increase in the amount of fibrous tissue present in the 
alveolar walls generally, but in some places this is barely per- 
ceptible. Careful search in the alveolar walls reveals the presence 
of scanty mineral particles scattered in the tissue. In places these 
form larger clumps. Some few detached epithelial cells, laden with 
pigment, are seen here and there in the alveoli ; but on the whole, 
except around the fibroid nodules, the pulmonary epithelium shows 
no sign of proliferation or catarrh. There is no evidence of 
general broncho-pneumonia and none of vascular congestion. 

The development of the fibroid nodules appears to take place 
in the first instance around the small arteries, veins, and bronchi. 
Where a vessel chances to be cut longitudinally, the peri- 
vascular thickening is seen to be irregular and patchy, whence 
arises the appearance of discrete fibroid nodules. When cut 
transversely, nearly all the blood-vessels display some degree of 
perivascular fibrosis. This is true also of the bronchi ; but 
these have undergone so much loss of mucous membrane that it 
is not always easy to say which are bronchi and which blood- 
vessels. It is not possible to be sure that all the young fibroid 
nodules have this perivascular or peribronchial origin. Some 
appear to be independent of vessels or bronchi, but it is possible 
that they are tangential sections of such thickenings. It seems 
clear, however, that most own such an origin. In any case the 
relation between the accumulation of mineral particles and the 
production of new fibrous tissue is obvious and beyond dispute. 

Older and denser nodules, such as are visible to the naked eye, 
as the hemp-seed structures above described, illustrate the further 
development of the process. In those the vessel or bronchus 
around which they have presumably arisen has usually dis- 
appeared, and they present concentric zones which represent 
different stages in their formation, and illustrate the manner in 
which they increase in size. The outermost zone shows the 



XXIV.] DR F. W. ANDREWS' PATHOLOGICAL REPORT 403 

earliest stage : large black pigment-laden cells accumulate ; they 
may be in part leucocytes, in part pulmonary epithelial cells or 
fixed connective tissue corpuscles. The pulmonary epithelium 
is here often in a condition of catarrhal proliferation — a localised 
broncho-pneumonia — each cell full of mineral particles. The next 
zone consists of a loose connective tissue, the meshes of which 
contain the large pigment-laden cells previously mentioned. The 
mineral matter is almost entirely intracellular. The central mass 
is composed of a dense fibrous tissue in which the cells have 
almost entirely disappeared, the mineral particles now becoming 
free and less conspicuous because no longer aggregated into 
dense black clumps. It is easy to realise from the structure of 
such nodules how they increase in size at the expense of the lung 
tissue. Beneath the pleura a similar development of new 
pigmented fibrous tissue similarly occurs. It is to be observed 
that all this fibrotic change corresponds in its localisation with 
the distribution of the lymphatic system of the lungs. The 
lymphatics, originating by stomata between the pulmonary 
epithelium, fall into two sets — (i) the sub-pleural network, and 
(2) those which closely accompany the blood-vessels and bronchi, 
forming a perivascular and peribronchial network. 

The final stages in the process are shown by sections taken 
from the upper lobe of the lung, in which the fibrosis is much 
more dense and complete. Here the individual nodules have so 
encroached upon the lung tissue that they have more or less 
completely coalesced. In the most advanced portions, little or 
no normal lung tissue can be seen, although the focal character 
of the fibrosis is still perceptible, since islands of dense fibrous 
tissue are connected by areas in which the pigmental cells are 
enclosed in a looser connective tissue. The mineral particles are 
here even more abundant and conspicuous than in the lower lobe 
of the lung. In one single nodule (in the lower lobe) calcification 
was seen, but this stage is absent elsewhere. 

Although to the naked eye there is no evidence of tubercle 
in the lung, yet microscopically such evidence exists in at 
least one of the seven blocks. The process of fibrosis has 
been traced from its earliest stages, and is most positively non- 
tubercular in its origin. The evidence of tuberculosis is 
present, as a recent and accessory phenomenon, only in the 
most advanced stages of the fibrotic change. It consists in 
the presence of small miliary tubercles embedded in the fibrous 
tissue, and showing the characteristic structure of tubercles, 



404 CANISTER CRUSHING [chap. xxiv. 

with typical giant cells. Even in these no tubercle bacilli can 
be demonstrated. 

The conclusions to be drawn from the preceding observa- 
tions are as follows : — 

The inhaled mineral particles are, in the first place, deposited 
uniformly in the pulmonary parenchyma. They are at once 
taken up hence by the lymphatics and carried along by the 
lymph stream. The lymphatics have a perivascular, peri- 
bronchial, and subpleural distribution, and in these situations 
the mineral matter specially accumulates, because the amount 
is greater than can be got rid of by the lymphatics. It is 
here chiefly found enclosed in cells (phagocytes), and exercises 
an irritant action leading to the production of new fibrous 
tissue in these situations. The fibroid areas increase at the 
expense of the adjacent lung, in part at least by the develop- 
ment of a localised broncho-pneumonia, and in part by 
thickening and induration of the alveolar walls. When the 
fibrous tissue is fully formed the cells containing the mineral 
particles break Up and degenerate, and the particles again 
lie free amongst the fibrous tissue. By the spread and coal- 
escence of the fibroid areas, the lung tissue in the most advanced 
areas completely disappears. A secondary tubercular infection 
has now taken place, and miliary tubercles appear in scanty 
numbers in the fibroid areas. 

Chemical Analysis. — Portions of the lung were handed to 
Mr H. A. Scholberg, M.B., who furnishes the following analyses. 

The material supplied was dried at ioo° C. on a water bath 
for three hours. The dry lung tissue thus obtained was 
used for analysis. 

(i) Analysis for total Ash. 

Gi'ammes of dry lung taken 2.2675 

Loss of weight on combustion in muffle furnace . 1.1900 

Residue of ash i-0775 

.'. Percentage of ash in dried lung = 47.5 19 

(2) ^ Estimation of Silica. 

Grammes of dried lung taken . . . . . o. 1 505 

Silica in the same . . . . . . . o.oioo 

.*. Percentage of silica in dried lung = 6.644 

Hamilton P. Smith. 



CHAPTER XXV 

MILLSTONE BUILDING: FRENCH BUHRSTONE 

In the Final Report of the Dangerous Trades Committee of the 
Home Office,* the subject of the building or making of millstones 
by a hard, flint-like stone known in the trade as French buhrstone, 
and which is imported into this country from Epernon in the 
Valley of the Seine, and from Fierte-sous-Jouarre, is fully discussed 
and the dangers exemplified. Buhrstone is one of the hardest 
stones in nature. It is a variety of quartz, and is so hard and 
destructive to the steel tools used by the workmen that in ten 
minutes a workman will knock off the points of as many chisels. 
The stone has to be shaped into wedges of varying size. Thesp 
wedges are placed together in the form of a circle cemented 
together, and subsequently surrounded by one or more strong 
iron hoops. The millstones are used for grinding flour, cement, 
feeding stuffs, etc. The chiselling of the buhrstone is generally 
conducted in the open air or in a shed open at the sides, the 
rough stone resting meanwhile upon a tub filled with sand, or 
upon some other solid support. Fortunately French millstone 
building is a small industry, for it is one that is most destructive 
to human life. Millstone masons are a short-lived body of men. 
Their work is hard, most of it is done practically in the open, 
without adequate protection from cold, wind, and rain ; the wages 
earned are good, often as much as fifty or sixty shillings a week, 
but as a class the workmen are intemperate and careless. No 
Houbt alcoholism and indiscretion play their part in shortening 
the lives of the men. As the stone is very hard, and the point 
of the steel tools with which the men chisel is readily knocked 
off, the workmen are exposed to two dangers : (i) splinters of steel 
and stone striking the eye ; and (2) inhalatic3n of the dust given 
off with each stroke of the hammer. Considering the compac]!:- 
ness and the great weight of the stone, it is astonishing that th^ 
dust evolved in chiselling ever reaches the lungs at all. In dealing 
*. Published by Messrs Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1S99. ; - 



4o6 MILLSTONE BUILDING: FRENCH BUHRSTONE [chap. 

with the question of dust generated in any trade, it is to be 
remembered that while the dust that is seen lying about in a 
factory may seem to be heavy and the particles large, yet there 
is a finer and more impalpable dust created at the time the 
particular work is being done, and it is very largely this which 
is inhaled and inflicts the damage. When a workman is chisel- 
ling a piece of buhrstone, two different kinds of particles are 
given off, mineral particles from the stone, and metallic from the 
chisels. These mingle together and form the dust that is inhaled. 
That steel particles are present in the dust rising from the stone 
was indicated to my colleagues on the Departmental Committee 
and myself by a workman who, having magnetised the blade of 
a pocket knife, placed the same in his waistcoat pocket, and " after 
moving it about a few moments withdrew it, when it was found 
to be covered along its edge with a fern-like coating consisting 
entirely of minute particles of steel." It is to the presence of 
very small fragments of steel imbedded in the skin of the arms 
of the men, who frequently chisel with their sleeves rolled up, 
that is due the bluish-black mottling of the forearms of millstone 
builders. 

The men, as already stated, are short-lived. Several whom 
I examined in the stoneyards on the banks of the Thames 
acknowledged the unhealthy character of their employment, and 
said that they and their comrades knew they might be able to 
follow their calling for only ten or fifteen years, seldom more, 
and that probably * before the tenth year was reached, symptoms 
of pulmonary consumption would show themselves, attended by 
cough and blood-spitting. Haemoptysis is a very common 
symptom, and in this respect, as also in the rapid course of the 
illness, the pulmonary consumption of millstone builders differs 
from the phthisis of potters in which haemorrhage from the lung 
is rather infrequent. Once destructive changes have been started 
in the lungs of a buhrstone chiseller, the disease progresses 
quickly to a fatal termination. The Dangerous Trades Com- 
mittee found that men who began this occupation when very 
young seldom lived beyond thirty-six to forty years of age. 

Prevention. — It is such a dangerous occupation that if the 
industry were swept out of existence altogether it would be no 
great loss either to the commercial world or to civilisation at large. 
The number of men employed in it is small, and as steel rollers 
have to a large extent replaced French millstones in the grinding 
of food and other stuffs, milling can be just as successfully 



I 



XXV.] PREVENTION OF ILL-HEALTH , 407 

accomplished without as with these stones. The trade will 
probably die a natural death, but so long as the industry 
continues, the men ought to wear respirators. If this were done 
much illness would probably disappear. The men complain of the 
irksomeness of respirators, and of the heat that they cause. The 
laborious nature of their employment creates a need for free, full, 
and easy respiration. The dust that is given off in chiselling the 
stones is very heavy, and is therefore capable of being readily 
carried downwards and away from the workmen by powerful 
suction, yet the conditions under which the work is carried on, viz., 
in open places and unprotected sheds, makes the use of fans diffi- 
cult, if not impossible. The wearing of goggles or eye-guards 
should be insisted upon. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XXVI 

STEEL GRINDING 

The process of grinding cutlery and other steel implements is 
conducted by a class of workmen known as "grinders." Their 
trade is a highly specialised one, necessitating a long apprentice- 
ship before proficiency is attained ; and in the majority of 
instances the calling has been handed down through many 
generations. The trade is quite free from the adulteration 
of casual labour, and consequently statistical data respecting 
"grinders" possess a relatively high value. For the most part 
they earn good wages, and being keen sportsmen, get a fair 
amount of out-door recreation. Their hours of work are seldom 
excessive, and their homes and mode of living are up to the 
average standard of comfort obtaining in the artisan class of 
the population. 

Grinding is done on circular stones turned either by steam 
or water power. The stones vary in diameter from an inch up 
to several feet, and are of different degrees of hardness accord- 
ing to the work required of them. On the stones, articles of 
cutlery are reduced to their proper shape and thickness, and are 
given their cutting edge, while many other steel implements .are 
ground to remove the roughness of their surfaces. For the 
most part " grinders " sit astride the grinding stone on a saddle, 
leaning forward, more or less according to the size of the stone. 
The position is not an ideally healthy one, but the assertion that it 
interferes with the free expansion of the lungs is only to a very 
slight extent true. The attitude, however, renders the workmen 
peculiarly vulnerable to accident when a stone breaks. 

Grinders are divided into two classes, known respectively as 
"dry grinders" and "wet grinders." The former are engaged 
in grinding steel forks, augers, gimlets, needles, and a few other 
articles ; while the latter grind the blades of knives, scissors, 
razors, and most other cutting implements. 

Certain articles of cutlery are ground partly on a wet and 



CHAP. XXVI.] STEEL GRINDERS' PHTHISIS AND ASTHMA 409 

partly on a dry stone. Thus the backs of razors and scissors 
and the bolsters of table-knives are ground dry, while the rest 
of the blade is wet ground. 

Dry grinders form a comparatively small class of workmen, 
but owing to the excessive mortality which formerly obtained 
among them they have long attracted the attention of the trade 
sanitarian. The attrition of the steel against the dry grinding 
stone gives rise to enormous quantities of steel and stone dust, 
which renders the atmosphere of the workshop very irritating 
to the lungs, and produces a pathological condition known as 
grinders' phthisis. 

The following account of the pathology and symptomology of 
the disease has been very kindly written for this article by 
Dr Duncan Burgess, Senior Physician to the Sheffield Royal 
Hospital : — 

" Grinders' Phthisis, Grinders' Asthma, Grinders' Rot. — 
This disease is due to the inhalation of dust composed for 
the most part of gritty particles from the grinding-stone, but 
also containing fine particles of steel from the implement ground. 
It has been asserted that steel particles are not found in 
the grinders' lung, but a very beautiful microscopical section 
of an affected lung, appropriately stained, in the possession of 
Dr Arthur Hall, shows unmistakably traces of iron. Steel dust, 
however, constitutes only a minute fraction of the foreign pig- 
ment in the diseased lung, and its effects compared with those 
of stone dust may be neglected. 

" The frightful mortality among dry grinders before the intro- 
duction of fans made the lung diseases of this class of workmen 
so notorious that the name ' grinders' phthisis ' still signifies 
outside Sheffield the very severe indurated broncho-pneumonia, 
which past generations of fork grinders were subject to. This 
extreme form of grinders' phthisis is now practically extinct, 
but a modified form of the disease is still very prevalent among 
Sheffield grinders and cutlers. The whole respiratory tract is 
exposed to the action of the dust, but its effects on the larger 
passages are comparatively unimportant. The disease usually 
manifests itself in the first instance in the form of chronic 
bronchitis with emphysema. Immunity from symptoms may 
continue for decades, then in the winter or during foggy weather 
cough with some expectoration in the morning may be noticed. 
The cough gradually gets worse, and it may last more or less 
throughout the winter. Shortness of breath is now complained 



4IO STEEL GRINDING [chap. 

of, and the grinder may have to leave off work for weeks together 
from time to time. Finally his cough persists through the, summer, 
and his shortness of breath on exertion forces him to leave off 
work altogether, it may be after the age of sixty, or evfen twenty 
years earlier. If he be examined now his skin and lips will be 
dusky, and his chest fixed as at the end of inspiration. The breath- 
ing is mainly diaphragmatic, and though the auxiliary muscles of 
respiration stand out in strong contraction, there is very little 
expansion of the chest. In addition to the ordinary physical 
signs of bronchitis there may be areas in which the breath 
sounds are very feeble or absent, and areas in which they are 
comparatively loud. The grinder is especially liable to have 
tuberculosis grafted on to his bronchial lesion, and this may 
occur quite early, or be deferred until late. Wasting, night 
sweats, and haemoptysis mark the onset of the rapid change for 
the worse which follows tubercular infection. The dyspnoea is 
naturally greater than in ordinary phthisis, and the emphyse- 
matous condition of the lung may mask for a time tubercular 
infiltration. The sputum is at first very scanty, and consists of 
mucus with dark spots and patches. Later it is more abundant 
and becomes muco-purulent, with black spots and patches, and 
occasionally gritty particles. In the terminal stage tubercular 
bacilli are present, together with other pathogenic organisms. 
Grinders suffer inordinately from pleurisy and pneumonia. 

" The pathological feature of dry grinders' phthisis is the presence 
in the cut section of the lung of groups of dark, hard nodules 
about \ of an inch in diameter. Under the microscope these 
nodules are found to consist of dense fibrous tissue arranged more 
or less in layers. Black amorphous masses may be conspicuous in 
or near the centre of the nodule. The lung tissue in immediate 
contact with the nodules is converted into less dense but more 
deeply pigmented fibrous tissue. This merges into air-cells with 
thickened and pigmented walls. The apices of the lungs are more 
frequently the seat of nodules than the bases. In an extreme 
degree of grinders' phthisis the entire upper lobe may be replaced 
by a solid, hard, black mass, which on section presents a mottled 
appearance from the innumerable nodules, thickened bronchi, and 
pigmented airless lung tissue. The pleura is irregularly thickened, 
in places forming a milky or thick yellow layer, which may be 
adherent to the chest wall. A tubercular cavity of considerable 
extent may be found at the apex or elsewhere." 

At one time dry grinding was perhaps the most unhealthy trade 




XXVI.] WET GRINDING . 411 

in the country. The late Dr J. C. Hall of Sheffield, in a paper 
read before the Social Science Congress in 1865, stated that 
"excluding boys, the average age of dry grinders was only twenty- 
nine years ; " and there can be little doubt that comparatively few 
workmen were to be found following their employment after the 
age of forty years' Of late the introduction of fans for carrying 
away the dust has greatly improved the conditions under which dry 
grinders work, and, as I shall presently show, this has been followed 
by a corresponding improvement in health and length of years, but 
the trade is still an unhealthy one. 

Wet grinding is much the more important branch of the grind- 
ing trade, and in Sheffield alone it gives employment to several 
thousand workmen. In revolving, the grinding - stone passes 
through a thin layer of water placed in a trough beneath the stone, 
and is always wet, so that comparatively little dust is produced ; 
but as certain other dust-producing processes are usually conducted 
in the wet grinding workrooms, the atmosphere is not quite free 
from dust. The processes referred to are : — 

(i) Glazing. — Most articles of cutlery after having been ground 
are "glazed." This is done on a wooden wheel covered with 
leather which has received a coating of emery and glue. The rim 
of the wheel is from time to time rubbed with a cake composed of 
emery, suet, and beeswax. The "glazer" is used for the purpose 
of removing marks on the blade left by the grinding-stone. 
Owing to the greasy nature of its surface there is not much dust 
formed. 

(2) Polishing is employed to give a highly-finished appearance 
to certain blades. The "polisher" is also made of wood, covered 
with leather, but instead of emery a fine powder containing oxide 
of iron, and known as " crocus," is used. The process gives rise to 
a considerable amount of dust. 

(3) Lapping. — The blades of pen-knives and many razors are 
subject to a process called "lapping," which is done on a lead- 
rimmed wheel called a " lap." The process is chiefly interesting as 
being a possible source of lead poisoning, but after careful inquiry 
I have failed to find any one showing evidence of plumbism from 
this source. 

(4) Racing the Stone. — The grind ing-stones are received from 
the quarries in a rough condition, and the " grinder," after mounting 
the stone on its axle, reduces its circumference to the proper shape 
and degree of smoothness by applying a steel bar to it while it is 
revolving slowly. This process, which is known as " racing the 



412 STEEL GRINDING [chap. 

stone," gives rise to enormous volumes of dry dust, so that the air 
in the immediate neighbourhood of the stone is almost unbreath- 
able. All stones, whether for wet or dry grinding, require to be 
" raced " in the first instance. 

But while wet grinders cannot be said to suffer much from 
the irritation of dust, they show an appalling mortality from 
phthisis and other diseases of the lungs, and there is no room for 
doubt that the damp, stagnant atmosphere in which they work is 
the principal cause of these diseases. The grinding-stones are 
constantly throwing off water, which soddens the floor and satu- 
rates the air of the grinding-room until, owing to the absence of 
efficient ventilation, it becomes very like that of a damp cave. 

Another danger to which grinders are exposed is the breaking 
of the grinding-stone when in motion. These accidents are un- 
fortunately common, and often cause frightful injuries and death. 
They are due to a variety of causes, such as departure from the 
circular shape owing to one side of the stone wearing faster than 
the other ; flaws in the stone ; allowing the lower part of the stone 
to remain immersed in the water trough when not in use ; fixing 
the stone on its axle by means of wedges instead of using plates 
and screws for this purpose ; and permitting the stone to revolve 
too rapidly. 

In the hafting of certain classes of knives an emery wheel is 
used for shaping the knife handles, and it produces dense volumes 
of dust composed of steel particles from the rivets and tangs, also 
of emery from the wheel, and of bone or other material of which 
the knife handles are made. This emery wheel is known as a 
" cutler's glazer," and is a comparatively recent invention, having 
come into general use only during the last twenty-five years, 
previous to which all handles were shaped with a file. It is 
most injurious when used for shaping the handles of knives 
that have scale tangs. 

The cutlery manager of one of the largest firms in Sheffield 
assures me that cutlers as a class have become much more un- 
healthy since the introduction of the glazer. This opinion is 
endorsed by other competent observers, and there is no difficulty 
in accepting the accuracy of it if we reflect that the modern scale 
tang, cutler who uses a glazer is virtually a "dry grinder." 

Grinding is carried on either in separate buildings, which are 
known as '* grinding wheels," or on premises where other branches 
of the cutlery trade are conducted. In either case the grinding of 
heavy articles is done on the ground floor. The rooms, or " hulls," 



XXVI.] DRY GRINDING • 413 

as they are called, are sometimes sunk below the level of the ground, 
and are as a rule bounded on three sides by blank walls without 
adequate provision for cross ventilation. The windows and doors 
are in the fourth wall, and the former are usually devoid of glass 
because the mud from the grinding-stones would speedily obstruct 
the light if glass were used. The hulls are provided with fires for 
drying the blades, but the fireplaces are situate in front or in one of 
the lateral walls, and consequently their utility as ventilating agents 
is not great. Each hull contains one, two, or more troughs which 
run from front to back, and in them are placed the grinding, glazing, 
and polishing wheels in the order mentioned. The floors are Wet 
and dirty, and the atmosphere damp and stagnant^ particularly at 
the back, where it is further defiled by the dust given off from the 
polishing wheels. The cubical space per worker would as a rule be 
ample if the ventilation was good. 

Dry grinding and the lighter branches of wet grinding are 
carried on in rooms in the upper stories. Better ventilation exists 
here, but on the other hand the rooms are often overcrowded, and 
when dry grinding is done there is of course much dust. In the 
majority of dry grinding rooms fans for the removal of dust are to 
be found, but occasionally these are absent. One fan is as a rule 
sufficient for several workmen. Attached to it is a number of 
tubes, each of which ends in an expansion or hood in front of the 
grinding-stone. The tubes are put down by the owner of the 
factory, who likewise occasionally supplies the fans ; but as a rule 
the fans and hoods belong to the workmen, who are known as 
" piece workers." When properly constructed and looked after, the 
fans act admirably for removing dust, and also aid in ventilating 
the workshops ; but as several workmen commonly occupy one 
room and share responsibility for its sanitary condition, there is 
the usual failure to carry out efficiently that which is the duty of 
one in particular. For this reason the tubes are apt to become 
choked from not being periodically cleaned out, or a trivial defect 
which a few minutes would suffice to remedy, is allowed to render 
the fan inoperative for days together. Again, a careless grinder by 
neglecting to use a hood will seriously discount the efforts of his 
more careful shopmates to keep down dust. Hence it happens 
that in many workshops where dry grinding is done the dust 
accumulates in large quantities on the floor, to rise in dense clouds 
each time it is disturbed. 

In the manufacture of scale tang cutlery, in which glazers are 
extensively used, the atmosphere under the most favourable 



414 STEEL GRINDING [chap. 

circumstances is charged with fine dust. This is especially 
noticeable where bone is employed for hafting. Moreover, 
manufacturers complain bitterly that the workmen will some- 
times block up ventilators and dispense with the use of fans unless 
strict vigilance is maintained. It is almost incredible that any 
one should pursue so suicidal a policy, yet personal observation 
compels me to admit that these allegations are not altogether 
groundless. 

Another grave defect is the indiscriminate mixing of various 
classes of workers. Thus in a shop where a dozen men work, 
only two or three may be engaged in dust-producing processes, 
yet all are obliged to inhale the dust-laden atmosphere. 

The buildings in which grinding and hafting are done vary 
widely in their sanitary aspects. Many of these places are as 
perfect as it is possible to make them, having regard to the nature 
of the work carried on therein ; but not a few are just the reverse. 
Dilapidated buildings, constructed in the first instance without 
regard to the requirements of health, are sadly too common. In 
these overcrowding, defective ventilation, and a dust-laden atmo- 
sphere are the rule rather than the exception. Externally the 
condition of affairs is often no better, the factories being shut in by 
other buildings which exclude sunlight from the lower rooms, and 
interfere with the circulation of the air. 

Trade mortality tables have been carefully compiled by 
successive Medical Officers of Health for the city of Sheffield, 
showing the number of deaths, the principal diseases which cause 
death, and the age at which death took place in a number of 
trades. The figures have reference to males over the age of 
fifteen years, and when contrasted with the corresponding figures 
of the Registrar-General for the entire male population of the 
country they indicate fairly accurately the relative unhealthiness 
or otherwise of the workmen concerned. An examination of the 
returns for grinders shows an appalling death-rate from phthisis 
and other diseases of the respiratory organs. Thus in every 
thousand deaths among grinders phthisis causes 345, and other 
respiratory diseases 295, or collectively these diseases account for 
64 per cent, of the entire mortality, whereas among the entire 
adult male population of the country phthisis accounts for 144, 
and other respiratory diseases for 182, in every thousand deaths, 
or collectively to 32.6 per cent. If we examine the ages at which 
deaths occur, a similar unsatisfactory contrast obtains. Thus 458 
grinders in every thousand die between the ages of thirty-five 



XXVI.] DIFFICULTIES OF LEGISLATION • 415 

and fifty-five years, as compared with 261 in every thousand 
obtaining among the entire male population of the country ; while 
only 140 grinders in every thousand have attained the age of 
fifty-five years and upwards at death, as compared with 391 in 
every thousand for the entire adult male community. 

The dusty nature of a dry grinder's occupation prepares us 
to accept these figures as applied to him ; but it must not be lost 
sight of that dry grinders form a very small minority of those 
engaged in the grinding industry. Moreover, my investigations 
lead me to believe that dry grinders, although they still show an 
enormous mortality from phthisis and other respiratory diseases, 
live to a much greater age than formerly. Thus I found the 
average age of twenty-two unselected fork grinders to be forty- 
three years, which is a marked improvement compared with the 
late Dr Hall's estimate of twenty-nine years. Again, during the 
four years 1889-92 the average age at which fork grinders in 
Sheffield died was forty-five and a half years. 

Owing to the conditions already set forth as existing in many 
grinding rooms, wet grinders are frequently compelled to inhale 
dust-laden air, and this no doubt is a factor in producing the high 
mortality which prevails among them. But important as this evil 
is, it is altogether overshadowed by the baneful influence of the 
damp, stagnant atmosphere of the wet grinding "hulls," an 
atmosphere which is peculiarly favourable for the propagation of 
diseases of the lungs. 

The legislature of this country has done much to improve the 
conditions under which workmen pursue their various callings, 
but local peculiarities and unforeseen contingencies sometimes 
frustrate the beneficent intentions of our legislators, and this is 
markedly the case in respect of the grinding industry. With few 
exceptions grinders are "piece workers," and pay rent for their 
" stalls " and the motive power which drives their stones. The 
grinding wheels and cutlery works are frequently owned by 
individuals or companies who are not themselves manufacturers^ 
but are merely the landlords of the premises, letting off rooms or 
portions of rooms to workmen who, in the eyes of the law, are the 
occupiers, and therefore responsible for carrying out the require- 
ments of the Factory Acts. It follows that the owners of the 
premises are able to repudiate responsibility for sanitary control, 
and that the Factory Inspector, when he wishes to insist on fans 
or other needful appliances being provided, must proceed legally 
against the workmen. The outcome of all this is that it is difficult 



4i6 STEEL GRINDING [chap. xxvi. 

or impossible to apportion responsibility for sanitary requirements ; 
the Inspector's work is enormously increased, and often rendered 
excessively irksome ; while the amount of good he can do is 
proportionally lessened. There is but one remedy for this state 
of things. Sooner or later the legislature will have to fix on the 
individual, or company, who lets off rooms and power to workmen, 
the responsibility for carrying out the provisions of the Factory 
Acts. We shall be told that an enactment of this kind would 
disturb long-established trade usages, and be unfair to the 
manufacturers ; but apart from the fact that it is the only feasible 
way out of the difficulty, it would merely place cutlery manu- 
facturers on the same footing as that occupied by most other 
employers of labour in the country. Moreover, some of the best 
cutlery firms already recognise their moral responsibility in this 
respect, and provide for the use of their workmen fans and all 
other contrivances of a health-saving nature. 

The sanitary condition of the workshops in which grinders, 
particularly wet grinders, work admits of much improvement. 
These rooms should always be above the level of the ground, 
and so situated in regard to surrounding buildings as to allow 
of free entrance of fresh air and sunlight. The floors should 
have a fall to the front, and be composed of concrete or some 
similar impervious material. Better ventilation is urgentl}' 
required, especially towards the back of the rooms, and the 
fireplaces might with advantage be placed at the back. The 
polishing wheels should be provided with hoods connected with 
a fan for the removal of dust and the better ventilation of the 
room. 

Grinding-stones should not be mounted until they have been 
inspected by some competent person with the view to detecting 
flaws, and it should be obligatory to use plates and bolts instead 
of wedges for fastening the stones on their axles. 

Dry grinding should be done in rooms specially set apart for 
this purpose, and not, as is sometimes the case, in rooms where 
other processes are carried on. The " racing " of stones should be 
conducted at a time when there are few workmen present, and 
those engaged in the process should wear some form of respirator. 

Sinclair White. 



CHAPTER XXVII 

PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES 

However useful phosphorus has been to man, its manipulation 
has been a constant source of danger. As there are two forms 
of phosphorus, so there are two kinds of matches: the safety , 
which only ignite on the box, and the ordinary strike-anywhere. 
Safety matches are made from red or amorphous phosphorus, 
and the ordinary matches from white or yellow. Oldbury, near 
Birmingham, is the seat of the manufacture of yellow phosphorus. 
Although white phosphorus is a dangerous substance, there have 
been very few cases of ill-health among the men who make it, 
owing very largely to the fact that in its production from bone, 
very few people are employed, and the processes of manufacture 
are such that the workmen are not brought directly into contact 
with the dangerous substance. Sixty tons of the phosphorus 
annually manufactured in Oldbury are consumed in lucifer match 
works in Britain. 

The death of a lucifer matchmaker in London five years ago, 
and the announcement in the daily press of the contemporaneous 
occurrence of a large number of cases of ill-health in a 
Metropolitan match works, aroused an amount of feeling, and 
created such an adverse public opinion in regard to this industry 
in England, that the Home Secretary, Sir Matthew White Ridley, 
appointed a Commission, composed of Professor T. E. Thorpe, 
Dr George Cunningham, and myself, to undertake an inquiry 
into certain important questions which had arisen with regard 
to the effect of work in lucifer match factories on the health of 
the workpeople. 

The questions which at the time engaged the attention of 
the Home Office were : — 

(i) The nature and extent of the dangers attending the use 
of yellow and white phosphorus. 

(2) The means whereby these can be lessened. 

417 2 I) 



41 8 PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES. chap. 

(3) The practicability of discontinuing the iise of yellow and 
white phosphorus. 

Many match works, both at home and abroad, were visited by 
the members of the Commission, whose views and opinions upon 
these questions are embodied in a Report* that describes the 
methods of manufacture, and the legislative measures adopted 
in most of the countries in Europe to abolish or diminish 
the ill-effects of the industry upon the health of the work- 
people. 

The principal malady of the lucifer matchmaker is a localised 
inflammatory affection of the jawbone, followed by suppuration 
and death of the bone, constituting what is known as phosphorus 
necrosis — "phossy jaw," as it is sometimes called in this country, 
and 77ial chiinique in France. Other diseased conditions are also 
met with, but these and the subject of phosphorus necrosis 
generally will be dealt with further on. 

Commercial phosphorus is made from bone- ash by treating it 
with sulphuric acid, filtering and evaporating the product, heating 
this with charcoal, and afterwards distilling it. The substance 
known as white or yellow phosphorus was discovered as far back 
as 1669, by Brandt of Hamburg, and is, when pure, colourless and 
transparent, but when exposed to the light it becomes yellowish. 
During absorption of oxygen from the atmosphere it becomes phos- 
phorescent. The greenish-white light thus evolved can at once be 
checked by such essential oils as turpentine and eucalyptus. The 
glow of phosphorus is an indication that oxidation is taking place, 
and that both phosphorous and phosphoric oxides are being 
formed, ozone being probably present at the same time. White 
phosphorus is extremely inflammable : it ignites at a temperature 
of 34° C, and forms with a plentiful supply of air phosphoric 
oxide P4O10, but if the supply of air is limited, phosphorous oxide 
is formed P40g. It is with a paste made from white phosphorus 
that the ordinary strike-anywhere matches are headed. 

Red or amorphous phosphorus, from which safety matches are 
made, has been known only since 1845. It was discovered by 
Schroter of Vienna, and is obtained by exposing ordinary phos- 
phorus for some time in a closed vessel to a temperature of about 
250° C. Red or amorphous phosphorus differs from yellow both 
physically and in other respects. It can be handled, for example, 
with impunity, and does not take fire when rubbed on any rough 

* Use of Phosphorus in the Manufacture of Lucifer Matches^ 1899, published 
by Eyre & Spottiswoode. 



XXVII.] NUMBERS EMPLO YED IN THE MA TCH IND UST'RY 419 

surface. It is non-volatile, and since it is not acted upon by the 
digestive juices of the alimentary canal it is non-poisonous. As 
much as an ounce of amorphous phosphorus has been given to 
animals without any bad effects, while one to three grains of 
the ordinary metalloid have caused death. In order to ignite red 
phosphorus, it has to be rubbed upon a surface that contains sub- 
stances rich in oxygen. The heads of safety matches are composed 
of potassium chlorate and chromate, and other compounds that 
contain large quantities of oxygen, while the red phosphorus is 
present in the brownish-red layer that has been pasted on the side 
of the matchbox. It is significant of the habits of our country- 
men that while sixty tons of white phosphorus are converted into 
the ordinary strike-anywhere matches every year in Britain, only 
three and a half tons of red phosphorus are required to satisfy 
the public demand for safety-matches. 

White phosphorus is volatile at ordinary temperatures, and its 
vapour when pure is said by Schonbein to be odourless ; the 
odour that is perceived is a mixture of ozone and phosphorous 
oxide. On analysing the fumes given off by phosphorus eight- 
tenths are found to consist of oxides of phosphorus. 

Professor Thorpe found that when decayed human teeth were 
exposed to the fumes of phosphorus for twelve hours they lost 
0.37 per cent, of their weight, and that carious teeth when crushed 
and exposed to a dilute solution of phosphoric acid (i per cent.) 
lost 8.9 per cent, of their original weight. When, therefore, the 
fume of phosphorus co-operates with the saliva of the mouth, it 
must clearly exercise a solvent action upon the teeth. In the air 
of the dipping room of a match factory, Thorpe found 0.02 milli- 
grammes of phosphorus per 100 litres of air, while the same quantity 
of air of the boxing-room contained 0.12 milligrammes of phos- 
phorus. On analysing the water in which twenty-two of the work- 
people had washed their hands, after working a certain number of 
hours in the factory, 37.3 milligrammes of phosphorus were found, 
or an equivalent of 4.2 milligrammes of phosphorus per person for 
each ten hours' work. 

The lucifer match industry of Great Britain and Ireland gave 
employment during 1898 to 4270 persons, of whom 1166 were 
males and 3104 females; about 1700 of these were working in 
phosphorus processes. Of persons under eighteen years of age 
there were 466 males and 1077 females. The match works were 
distributed as follows: in England and Wales 17, Scotland 2, and 
in Ireland 5, making a total of 24. Dr Whitelegge sends me 



420 PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES [chap. 

the following information regarding the number of lucifer match 
works in January 1901 — 

Number in which yellow phosphorus is being used . . 15 

Number in which the use of yellow phosphorus has been dis- 
continued ....... 3 

Number not yet working . . . . .1 

Number closed during past twelve months (one temporarily) .5 

Total . 24 

The Chief Inspector of Factories, in his Annual Report for 
1899, p. 318, states that the total cases of industrial phosphorus 
poisoning in this country within the last twenty years, of which 
there is a definite record, number 102. Before 1898 there were 92 
cases of phosphorus necrosis, 6 in 1896, and 4 in 1899. Three 
other cases were reported in 1899, and are included in the return, 
but they did not reach the stage of necrosis. It has been urged 
with reason that such doubtful cases, when notified, should be 
placed on a " suspended " list, and judgment deferred until the 
diagnosis is quite clear. Of the 102 cases 19 terminated fatalh'. 
Dr Whitelegge informs me that three cases of phosphorus poison- 
ing were reported during 1900; this brings the total number up to 
105 in twenty-one years. 

The ordinary lucifer match is dipped in a paste composed of 
glue, phosphorus^ chlorate of potass, powdered glass, sometimes 
magnesia or lime, and coloured by a magenta dye. On an average 
there is 5 per cent, of phosphorus present in the paste, but some- 
times it is double this amount. The paste or composition, when 
about to be used, is spread upon an iron slab kept at a moderate 
temperature. Into this paste the dipper, always a male in this 
country, quickly plunges the tips of prepared wooden splints that 
are projecting at a uniform level from a frame, and at once hands 
them over to a fellow-workman, who removes them to the drying 
chambers, which are ventilated by means of fans to renew the air, 
and to hasten the drying of the matches. At the distal end of the 
slab upon which the dipper heads the lucifers, there is, or ought 
to be, a fan towards which, when in operation, the fumes of the 
phosphorus as they rise from the paste can be seen travelling away 
from the face of the worker. Since the introduction of fans on the 
far side of the slab, the occupation of dipping in match works has 
become much less dangerous. 

The boxing of matches, when done by hand, is attended by 
considerable risk to health, especially if the workroom is badly 



XXVII.] ATTITUDE OF EUROPE TO USE OF PHOSPHORUS 42 1 

ventilated. In addition to the phosphorus fumes which pervade 
the boxing- room, the atmosphere is from time to time rendered 
more unhealthy by dense clouds of smoke given off by the 
matches that are frequently catching fire. 

It was Lorinser of Vienna who first drew the attention of the 
medical profession to phosphorus necrosis, or disease of the jaw- 
bone, in lucifer matchmakers. This was in 1845, or about eleven 
years after the establishment of the match industry in Austria. 
Between the years 1839- 1845 he had examined nine cases of 
phosphorus necrosis. Shortly after Lorinser had published his 
cases, Sir Samuel Wilks in our own country reported the occur- 
rence of disease of the jawbone in a matchmaker, attended by 
suppuration, and followed by exfoliation of the bone. Since then 
in every country where ordinary lucifer matches have been 
made, the use of phosphorus has been followed by such an amount 
of ill-health and suffering on the part of matchmakers, that 
almost all the preventive measures which industrial science and 
legislation could suggest, short of total prohibition, have had a 
trial without rendering the industry completely safe. More than 
twenty years ago Denmark interdicted the use of white phos- 
phorus, and the importation of ordinary strike-anywhere matches. 
France, several years after having made the manufacture of 
matches a Government monopoly, and having been obliged to pay 
large sums of money as compensation to the diseased match- 
makers of Pantin-Aubervilliers, has commenced to manufacture 
matches from a harmless sesquisulphide of phosphorus ; matches 
which, while possessing all the freedom from poison claimed for 
safeties, have the property of striking anywhere. Belgium has not 
only insisted upon the reduction of phosphorus in the paste to 
3 per cent., but with the view of stimulating the manufacture of a 
satisfactory non-poisonous strike-anywhere match, has offered a 
prize of 50,000 francs (;{i^2000). Holland * insists upon 5 per cent, 
of phosphorus in the paste, and allows no young person under 
sixteen years of age, and no woman to work in a match factory 
where yellow phosphorus is used. In Norway 28 cases of phos- 
phorus necrosis occurred in fourteen years out of a total number 

* Holland passed a law, dated 28th May 1901, prohibiting the manufacture 
of phosphorus matches. This law, which came into force on ist July 1901, not 
only prohibits the manufacture of phosphorus matches, but makes it illega} to 
convey or import them in larger quantity than 100 grammes, or to hold more 
than this quantity for sale. After January 1902 no such matches are to be kept 
in stock. " . ■ 



422 PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES [chap. 

of 600 workers. The match industry of Sweden gives employ- 
ment to about one-twentieth of the artizan population. In the 
twenty-seven match factories of that country, 5500 persons find 
employment, males and females about equally. Although a large 
proportion of Swedish matches are safeties, yet as a matter of 
fact 80 per cent, of the matches produced are made from ordinarj- 
phosphorus. There is a large home consumption of strike-any- 
where matches in Sweden. As a consequence of their manu- 
facture, phosphorus necrosis is not unknown in that country, and 
on more than one occasion the question of the total prohibition of 
ordinary phosphorus has been discussed in the Rigsdag. Were 
such a thing to become law the match industry of Sweden, in the 
absence of an international agreement, would be seriously crippled. 
During the year 1891 there were 19 cases of phosphorus necrosis 
reported from thirteen factories. The Commission appointed by 
the Swedish Parliament to consider the prohibition of ordinary 
phosphorus did not feel justified in recommending such a sweep- 
ing change, believing that in better ventilation of the workrooms, 
repeated medical examination of the workers, and scrupulous 
attention to details in the various processes, the manufacture of 
matches could be robbed of much that had hitherto caused it to 
be regarded as a dangerous industr)-. Of the ninety match 
factories in Germany about thirty make ordinary lucifers. Several 
cases of phosphorus necrosis have occurred, but since the introduc- 
tion of stringent regulations in 1884, requiring special ventilation, 
medical examination of the workers, personal cleanliness and 
separation of the workrooms, the amount of sickness has, within 
the last few years, materially diminished. In Austria-Hungary 
there are upwards of ninety match works. It is an important 
industry in Bohemia, Galicia, and Hungary. The matches chiefly 
find their way into Servia, Bulgaria, Roumania, and Turkey. In 
eighteen years 140 cases of phosphorus necrosis were reported to 
the Factory Inspectors ; as many as 47 cases of phosphorus necrosis 
having occurred in the year 1888. This unhappy circumstance is 
to be explained by the fact that the manufacture of lucifers at this 
time was extensively but secretly carried on as a home industry. 
Experience has shown that this clandestine practice is always 
extremely dangerous. Fortunately the authorities have practically 
succeeded in abolishing this home industry. The regulations in 
Austria- Hungary resemble those of Germany. Switzerland in 
1879 introduced a Bill for the prohibition of the use of yellow 
phosphorus, and two years afterwards it became law. Instead of 




XXVII.] PHOSPHORUS NECROSIS OR'' PHOSSY JAW 423 



abolishing phosphorus necrosis, however, the disease became not 
only more prevalent, but of a severer type, owing to the manu- 
facture of matches as a home industry. As the interference of the 
Government defeated the object it had in view, viz., safeguarding 
the health of the workers, the Act of 1879 was in a sense repealed. 
Whilst in Switzerland the importation and manufacture of matches 
made with yellow phosphorus is forbidden, the manufacture of 
lucifers is under the control of each canton, the Federal Council 
holding itself responsible for the conditions that are requisite for 
the health and safety of the workers, and also of the public. 

Phosphorus Necrosis. — It is difficult to say what is the actual 
cause of necrosis of the jawbone in lucifer matchmakers. As to 
whether it is a primary lesion or one secondary to a general or 
constitutional form of poisoning, medical opinion is still divided. 
Most writers attribute the disease of the bone to the fumes of phos- 
phorus, i.e. to the oxides of phosphorus, acting upon the decayed 
teeth of the workpeople. The fumes are supposed to penetrate 
a carious tooth and induce a periostitis or inflammation of the 
covering of the bone. The gum becomes swollen and painful. 
To such an extent has this been regarded as the explanation of 
the cause of necrosis that two of the large match works in this 
country had at their own expense appointed dentists to examine 
and keep in good order the teeth of the workpeople. Subsequently 
the Home Office, as a result of the opinions expressed at an Arbi- 
tration with the Match Manufacturers, decided to accept periodical 
examination of the teeth of the workpeople by a qualified dentist 
as a substitute for medical inspection. While regarding decayed 
teeth as a necessary preliminary to inflammation of the dental 
socket, Roussel holds that it is phosphoric acid that is the 
destructive agent. Gubler and Lailler,* on the other hand, 
maintain that they have met with phosphorus necrosis in the 
inferior jaw of a matchmaker whose teeth were perfectly sound, 
and that if phosphoric acid were the destructive agent the teeth 
ought to become softened and translucent. Gubler holds, but on 
what grounds we do not know, that it is phosphorus itself that 
penetrates into the soft tissues and destroys the nutrition of 
the covering of the bone. Under all circumstances " phossy jaw " 
is a painful affection, especially in the early stages, and although 
naturally it might be expected to occur with greater readiness 
in workpeople who are ill-nourished, scrofulous, or tubercular, 
)'ct I have seen it in male and female matchmakers who were 
* Hys^ienc des Professions et des Industries (Layet), p. in. 



424 PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES [chap. 

physically strong and otherwise perfectly healthy. This circum- 
stance, therefore, is rather in favour of phosphorus necrosis being 
in the first instance a local affection and primary. Once sup- 
puration occurs, the painful tooth femoved, and the pus thereby 
allowed to escape, pain is subsequently not a marked feature 
in the case. As the periosteum is usually separated, the affected 
portion of bone lying underneath dies and is exfoliated. A 
piece of bone varying from half-an-inch to three inches is thus 
thrown off. The process of separation of the bone by ulceration 
is extremely slow. It may extend over months or years if the 
bone is not surgically treated, and all this time there is a constant 
oozing of pus into the mouth of the patient, some of which must 
be swallowed along with the food, thereby undermining the health 
and causing anaemia or cachexia, or during sleep it may trickle 
down the throat into the respiratory passages and set up an 
unhealthy inflammation of the lining membrane, or it indirectly 
prepares the way for tubercular disease of the lungs. Either jaw 
may become necrosed. If anything, the inferior maxilla is more 
frequently affected than the superior. When the upper jaw is 
diseased there is a tendency for the inflammation to extend to 
the base of the skull and to induce a septic inflammation of the 
membranes of the brain, which is invariably fatal. In France both 
Dr Magitot of Paris and Dr Arnaud of Marseilles described a 
constitutional condition or cachexia in matchmakers to which they 
gave the name oi phosphorisme, of which pallor, dyspepsia, albu 
minuria, and a tendency to bronchitis are the prominent features. 
Arnaud, with whom I had the opportunity of discussing this 
subject in Marseilles, found that as many as 28 per cent, of lucifer 
matchmakers, especially young women under eighteen years of 
age, suffered from bronchitis, but he did not think that matchmak- 
ing/^rj-^ was a cause of tubercular lung disease, nor was, it his experi- 
ence that pregnant female matchmakers aborted more frequently 
than their sisters engaged in other occupations. Phosphorisme 
does not occur to any extent in English matchmakers. In visit- 
ing the match factories of Belgium, particularly of Grammont. 
where I met Dr Brocoorens, who from his large experience of 
industrial phosphorus poisoning had been invited to give evidence 
before the French Commission, my attention was drawn to the 
interesting fact that men who had been dippers and who had 
suffered from necrosis of the jawbone and recovered, exhibited 
an unnatural tendency to spontaneous fracture of their long bones, 
especially the femur. During twenty-five years in Grammont alone. 



XXVII.] FRA GILITY OF BONES IN L UCIFER MA TCHMAKERS 42 5 

which is not a large town, with six match factories giving employ- 
ment to 1 100 people, Dr Brocoorens treated 30 cases of fracture 
of the long bones, caused by muscular effort, in dippers who had 
previously suffered from necrosis of the jaw. This circumstance 
would rather suggest that in addition to the local disease of the 
maxillae caused by phosphorus, there was also induced a wider 
spread morbid state, which was capable of showing itself long after 
recovery from the primary lesion. Spontaneous fracture of the 
long bones of matchmakers is not unknown in England. Ur 
Garman of Bow, medical officer to Messrs Bryant & May, informs 
me that he knows of nine cases in which the long bones of the 
arm and leg of matchmakers have become broken without any 
injury being received, and Dr Dearden of Manchester relates * 
the case of two dippers, " each of whom has had separately and 
at different times both thigh bones broken in a ridiculously simple 
fashion." Dr Kocher of Berne had experience of a matchmaker 
who broke his thigh bone five times. These facts indicate that 
the osseous tissues of the body are in some way or other 
influenced either by phosphorus itself or its compounds, whereby 
they become unable to withstand external violence. Dearden is 
of opinion that the bones of match dippers contain an excess of 
phosphoric acid, which combines with the pre-existing neutral 
phosphate of lime to form a slightly acid salt. In this circumstance 
may possibly be found an explanation of the fragilitas ossiiim of 
lucifer matchmakers. 

A brief notice of some experiments performed by Wegner may 
not be out of place here. He believes that phosphorus has a specific 
action upon bones, especially those of young animals. Wegner 
found that the administration of very minute doses of yellow 
phosphorus, ^V to \ mgrm., for several weeks to young rabbits 
was followed by characteristic changes in the growth of the 
long bones, owing to the phosphorus acting as an irritant or 
stimulant to the bone-forming cells. Where loose cancellous 
bone was being formed from cartilage, phosphorus caused the 
deposition of a layer of dense bone, and if the drug was pushed 
a little longer, the soft, cancellous bone, formed before the 
phosphorus treatment was begun, became gradually absorbed. 
In this way the central or medullary cavity of the bone became 
enlarged, so that in the case of the long bones this cavity extended 
into the epiphyses or ends of the shafts. In other instances the 
newly-formed bone which had developed under the influence of 
'. ". * British 3Iedical Journal, iZ<^% \o\. W., p. 270. 



426 PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES [chap. 

the phosphorus, and also that which grows normally from the 
periosteum, became denser, so that in fowls Wegner found the 
medullary cavity obliterated by the deposition of, hard bone. 
When lime salts were withheld from the food of the animals 
treated by phosphorus, the activity of the bone-forming cells 
continued, but no lime was deposited, and so there was produced 
a condition of bone such as is found in rickets. Kassowitz by 
similar means produced appearances closely resembling the soft 
and yielding bones that are met with in rickety children. Wegner, 
by exposing the bared tibia of an animal to the influence of 
phosphorus fumes, induced periosteal irritation and the deposit 
of new layers of bone. 

Although it takes a long time for the sequestrum of a 
diseased jawbone to be thrown off in a person the subject of 
phosphorus necrosis, yet once it is expelled and the wound closed, 
the patient generally feels well enough to return to work in a 
match factory, and is placed in a department wherein he runs no 
further risk. Despite the tediousness and the unpleasantness of 
the malady, most of the patients recover. Dr Garman of Bow, 
treating his cases by the expectant method and allowing the 
sequestrum to be naturally separated, found that 83 per cent, of 
his cases recovered ; Kocher of Berne prefers to remove by means 
of a surgical operation the affected portion of bone, and 83.7 
per cent, of his cases recovered ; while Kuiper of Jena, treating 
his patients on similar lines to Kocher, had 89 per cent, of 
recoveries. 

This account of the diseases of bones of matchmakers allows 
us now to return to the original question, viz., the cause of 
phosphorus necrosis. Fume is generally regarded as the cause, 
but it is probably only an incident. In the pus that keeps 
oozing away from the necrosing jaw of an affected matchmaker, 
I have found numerous pus-forming micro-organisms, viz., 
putrefactive bacilli, streptococci and staphylococci pyogenes, and 
as Professor Stockman of Glasgow detected in addition in the 
pus a few tubercle bacilli, he is disposed to regard the " phossy jaw " 
of lucifer matchmakers as a true tubercular process. In several 
of the specimens of pus taken from the diseased jawbone of 
matchmakers sent to me by Dr Garman of Bow, I could find no 
trace of tubercle bacilli, although these were carefully searched for. 
The presence of the bacilli of tubercle in Professor Stockman's 
specimens, which' by the way I have had the privilege of examin- 
ing and confirming, is an extremely interesting fact, and it 



XXVII.] PATHOLOGY OF PHOSPHORUS NECROSiS 427 

certainly creates a bias in favour of the lesion bein^ tubercular. 
On the other hand, the human mouth under all circumstances 
contains large numbers of micro-organisms, some of which arc 
capable of becoming extremely virulent under altered condi- 
tions, and there is no reason why some of these might not find 
their way through a carious tooth to its socket in the jawbone or 
to the periosteum, where phosphorus fumes had previously gained 
entrance and set up irritation. In these tissues thus prepared 
microbes would find a suitable nidus for their multiplication. As 
the same remark applies to tubercle bacilli, it is clear that the 
final answer has not yet been given to the pathological problem 
of phosphorus necrosis. There is something in the causation of 
phosphorus necrosis that is still unknown to us, some peculiar 
action of phosphorus on the human subject that is not yet 
fully explained.* It is an extremely difficult thing to produce 
phosphorus necrosis in animals, either by exposing them to the 
fumes of phosphorus itself, or to clouds of smoke from burning 
matches. 

In many instances where " phossy jaw " has occurred, the work- 
people were at the time following their occupation, and had done so 
for many years. Acute phosphorus poisoning, practically speaking, 
does not occur in matchmakers. The poisoning is always chronic. 
Phosphorus necrosis was not recognised in Vienna until the 
industry had been established seven or eight years. The malad}- 
might have existed, and of course not been diagnosed. Most 
of the patients with "phossy jaw" whom I have seen had 
worked from seven to fifteen years at the trade, but the 
disease has been known to occur within twelve months after 
entering a match factory. Dr Garman has kept a register 
of all the cases of phosphorus necrosis that have occurred in 
Messrs Bryant & May's for the last twenty years. During this 

* As showing the extreme sensitiveness of the human mouth to phosphorus, 
I recite the following : Into the rather wide canal of the pipe of a friend who 
is a smoker there by chance entered a wax vesta, with its head pointing to the 
mouthpiece. Shortly after smoking the pipe my friend experienced a most 
unpleasant taste and disagreeable odour. He continued smoking. Next day 
he had violent toothache. On the second day so severe was the toothache that, 
on account of the suppurating gums, tender teeth, and painful jawbone, the 
dentist was obliged to extract five teeth. Although the teeth on their removal 
were slightly carious, there had been no toothache until the smoking of the 
pipe on the particular day. The acutely developed pain and rapid destruction 
of the gums must in this case have been principally caused by phosphorus 
fume. 



428 PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES [chap. 

period there have occurred 51 cases — 31 females and 20 males. 
The upper jaw was affected fifteen times, and the lower sixteen, in 
the women : while in the men the numbers were eleven and nine. 
The severer type of the malady formed 70 per cent, of the cases in 
females, while in males, who as dippers are more exposed to the 
fresh fumes of phosphorus, it formed 85 per cent. Of these 5 1 cases 
of phosphorus necrosis nine ended fatally ; 83 per cent, recovered 
and returned to work. On examining the register as to the ages at 
death, I find that these were nineteen, twenty-three, twenty-one, 
twenty-two, twenty-seven, twenty-seven, nineteen, twenty-two, 
and twenty-two years. Clearly, therefore, it is not necessary to 
have a very lengthened exposure to the fumes in order that a fatal 
result may follow. Co-existing pulmonary consumption was present 
in two of the patients, and doubtless contributed to the fatal ending. 
In Great Britain less than i per cent, of matchmakers suffer from 
phosphorus necrosis : in Switzerland it used to be 1.6 to 3, and in 
France formerly 2 to 3 per cent. Phosphorus necrosis, it is well to 
remember, does not always develop during the time an individual 
is following his employment in a match work ; it has been known 
to occur two years after leaving the factory. The early age at 
which Garman's patients died suggests that the vital resistance to 
the malady at this period is less than in later years. 

Prevention of Phosphorus Necrosis. — Since the manufacture of 
lucifer matches is capable of inducing in the workpeople necrosis of 
the jawbone, which in the early stages is admittedly a painful 
affection, but fortunately one not often followed by any marked 
deformity, it is apparent that to the public must be given by the 
manufacturers some satisfactory assurance, if the use of yellow 
phosphorus is to be continued, that the industry which at present is 
harmful shall be converted into one that is free from danger. 
Is this event possible? Experience of match works, both at home 
and abroad, shows that where the industry is conducted on the 
best hygienic lines possible, phosphorus necrosis is practically un- 
known. This, so far as it goes, is satisfactory. It cannot be said, 
however, that the employment of white or yellow phosphorus can 
under all circumstances be rendered absolutely free from danger. 
The education of the working classes to use only safety matches 
would of itself very largely diminish the danger by reducing the 
demand for ordinary strike-anywhere matches. Dipping of the 
wooden splints in cold composition instead of hot would, as in the 
case of vestas, in the manufacture of which " phossy jaw" does not 
occur, also tend to diminish the ill-health of the workers. It has 



XXVII.] SUBSTITUTES FOR WHITE PHOSPHORUS 429 

been demonstrated that certain essential oils are capable of check- 
ing the oxidation of phosphorus, which is one of the possible 
causes of phosphorus necrosis. It has, therefore, been recommended 
to circulate the vapour of turpentine through the dipping and 
boxing rooms. In some American factories the workpeople wear 
suspended round their necks small vessels containing turpentine. 
Of all hygienic measures full and free ventilation is the best. 
Years ago the scourge of matchmakers in Belgium was "phossy jaw," 
but shortly after the introduction of hygienic measures and the 
reduction of phosphorus to 8 per cent, in the paste, there was 
observed a very notable declension in the number of cases of 
necrosis, and in our own country the removal of phosphorus fume 
by powerful aspiration from the dipping slab, frequent renewal of 
the air of the drying chamber, and ventilation of each of the 
benches at which the boxing is done by women by hand, have 
exercised an undoubted influence in preventing phosphorus 
necrosis. Periodical examination of the teeth of matchmakers by 
a dentist, with the necessary local treatment, including temporary 
suspension from work on the detection of disease in the early 
stages, will be beneficial. It is one of the requirements of the Home 
Office that this dental examination shall be periodically made. 
Whether of itself it is sufficient to permanently obviate the 
necessity for a medical examination of the workers by a doctor in 
addition remains yet to be seen. Since the frequent firing of 
matches is a cause of pollution of the atmosphere of the boxing- 
room, and filling of the matchboxes by hand brings the worker 
into direct contact with dried phosphorus paste, it is advisable to 
discontinue the practice of cutting wooden matches once they have 
been headed, and to substitute machinery for all hand labour, which, 
as in the case of the Diamond Match Company, Liverpool, dips, 
dries, and boxes the matches in large and well-ventilated rooms, 
and has thereby practically made lucifer matchmaking a harmless 
industry. It is absolutely' necessary that personal cleanliness 
should be attended to, and that there should be adequate pro- 
vision of washing appliances with hot and cold water, plenty of 
soap and towels, that overalls should be worn, frequent change of 
occupation from one department in the factory to another, and 
that no food should be allowed into the workroom. 

Can any substitute be found for yellow phosphorus, capable of 
producing a non-poisonous match that will strike anywhere, and 
yet conform to the same conditions as ordinary phosphorus ? 
France has, within the last three years, ceased to manufacture 



430 PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES [chap. 

matches from yellow phosphorus. In that country the manu- 
facture of matches is a State monopoly. i\ short while ago the 
Government felt itself obliged to change the method of manu- 
facture, partly on humanitarian grounds, but very largely owing to 
the numberless claims for compensation by the workpeople upon 
the Minister of Finance. In the match works at Pantin-Auber- 
villiers, there were, in 1894, 32 cases of phosphorus poisoning, 125 in 
1895, and in 1896 the number rose to 223, or one-third the effective 
force of the factory. Many of these must have been of a mild 
nature, and probably some of them were cases of imposition, for 
when analysed carefully it would appear that between 1888 and 
1896 there were eight cases of deforming necrosis, 12 of necrosis 
requiring surgical treatment, 21 probable cases of phosphorus 
necrosis, and 18 of phosphorisme, making a total of 59. At this 
time the match paste, in addition to lead, contained often as much 
as from 20 to 30 per cent, of phosphorus. From the ist January 
to 31st December 1896, the State paid 400,000 francs as allow- 
ances to sick-workers, men and women, employed at Pantin- 
Aubervilliers, or an average of 650 francs per head employed. 
It was in consequence of this experience that in order to 
encourage research, which would lead to the manufacture of a 
non-poisonous match, the State granted financial help. After 
many experiments — such, e.g., as the matches of M. Ponteau, made 
from acetate of amyl, during the manufacture of which a splitting 
headache, a feeling of cerebral fulness, and a throbbing of the 
head were complained of by the workers, a circumstance that led 
to their manufacture being abandoned ; also the lucifers of M. 
Miram, which met with a similar fate, since they contained lead, 
and therefore one poison was simply being substituted for another, 
— the French Government at present believes that in the substance 
known as sesquisulphide of phosphorus it has found an answer to 
the question raised at the head of this paragraph. 

The toxicity of the sesquisulphide of phosphorus is small. 
Messrs Sevene and Cahen gave repeated doses of 3 centigrammes 
(f grain) of the substance daily to guinea-pigs without these 
animals appearing to suffer, although the ingestion of 3 milli- 
grammes (2V grain) of white phosphorus caused rapid death. The 
dose of 3 centigrammes (4 grain) to a guinea-pig would corre- 
spond to 3.5 grammes (54 grains) for a human adult, that is to say, 
to the amount of sesquisulphide of phosphorus present in 6000 
matches. For these and other reasons based upon experience, the 
French inventors maintain that sesquisulphide of phosphorus 



XXVII.] 



A SANS PHOSPHORE MATCH 



431 



matches are harmless. The following is the composition of the 
paste employed : — 



Sesquisulphide of phosphorus 

Chlorate of potass 

Zinc white 

Red ocre 

Powdered glass 

Glue . 

Water . 



6 
24 

6 

6 

6 
18 
34* 



The sesquisulphide is almost inodorous as a powder, and is 
non-poisonous. When matches are headed with a paste made 
from it, they are capable of striking anywhere. The only impurity 
which the sesquisulphide can contain is some red or amorphous 
phosphorus. At first manufacturing chemists expressed doubtful 
opinions as to the keeping properties of the matches, also as to 
their capability of being transported across the seas, and of 
remaining good in all climates. Two yea-rs' experience of the 
manufacture of matches from sesquisulphide of phosphorus has 
demonstrated such fears to have been groundless. Dr Courtois- 
Suffit, the Medical Inspector of the Match Works at Pantin- 
Aubervilliers, says that " since substituting sesquisulphide for yellow 
phosphorus, not only have the workpeople been more healthy, but 
that there has been no complaint on the part of the consumers." 
No match is superior to the lucifer made from yellow phosphorus. 
French matches have never been regarded as equal to those of 
English manufacture. PVance is not an exporting country. While, 
therefore, the introduction of what is called a sans phosphore match 
in F'rance has answered satisfactorily, it does not follow that the 
manufacture of this particular kind of lucifer is the best for all coun- 
tries, and especially for such a large exporting country as Britain. 

In Italy the same subject has received the attention of 
scientists. M. Bertarelli,-|- in a lecture at the University of Turin, 
demonstrated the properties of a non-poisonous match made by 
Dr G. Graveri of Villanova-SoUaro, the principal ingredient of 
which is persulphocyanic acid, a substance obtained from the 
residue of gas-works, of a yellow colour, crystalline, soluble in 
alcohol, ether, and boiling water, decomposing at a temperature 
of 220° C, and giving rise to sulphide of carbon, ammonia, and 
sulphur. This is made into a paste with sulphur and antimony 
trisulphate. The matches ignite when rubbed briskly upon a 



1899. 



Extract from Dr T. Oliver's Report to the Home Secretary, 20th January 



t Revue d^Hygihie ct de Police Sanitaire. Oct. 1899^ 



432 PHOSPHORUS AND LUCIFER MATCHES [chap. 

rough surface, and no cyanogen is evolved. Bertarelli states 
that he has given to dogs for several days 3 to 4 grammes (46 
to 60 grains) of the paste used for heading the matches, and 
beyond slight vomiting he has not noticed any accident, whilst 
0.7 grammes (11 grains) of ordinary phosphorus paste caused 
death. It is claimed for his matches that they cost less to 
produce than ordinary matches, they ignite noiselessly, and develop 
no odorous gases, that they are non-hygroscopic and non- 
poisonous. The only drawback is stated to be the escape of 
hydrochloric acid fume during their manufacture, but this can 
be overcome by efficient ventilation. 

Great Britain is not only a consumer but a large exporter 
of lucifer matches, and it is this circumstance that raises a 
difficulty in regard to the total abolition of the use of yellow 
phosphorus in this country. If other matchmaking and large 
exporting countries, such as Belgium, Sweden, the United 
States, and Japan, could come to some satisfactory terms of 
international agreement with Britain not to manufacture lucifer 
matches from yellow phosphorus, the question would be settled, 
if not permanently, at least for a time. It would be useless for 
Britain with her free trade to abolish yellow phosphorus, thereby 
crippling her own matchmaking industry, and at the same time 
allow matches made from the poisonous phosphorus to be 
imported from other countries wherein Government super- 
vision is perhaps less strict than in ours. Such a course would 
only transfer phosphorus necrosis from our own to other countries. 
English methods of manufacture, like national customs, die hard. 
It is pleasing to observe, however, that the objection on the part 
of British match manufacturers to the use of substitutes for yellow 
phosphorus is gradually disappearing. Messrs Bryant & May 
no longer use yellow phosphorus. Mr Gilbert Bartholomew, 
the Managing Director of the firm, in answer to some queries I 
addressed him (1901), informs me that "we are well satisfied with 
our long trial of the new composition. There has not been, and 
there cannot be, from the nature of the composition, any sickness 
among the workpeople. We have not used an ounce of yellow 
or poisonous phosphorus for nearly ten months. . . . We do 
not think there is an increased demand for safety matches ; the 
great demand is for strike-anywhere." It is gratifying to know 
that some of the smaller firms of lucifer matchmakers have also 
undertaken to produce ordinary strike-anywhere matches from a 
non-poisonous substance. How far these non- poisonous substances 



XXVII.] PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF NECROSIS 433 

are quite free from danger and as sources of irritation, remains to 
be seen, for conjunctivitis, oedema of eyelids, and eczema have been 
noticed in the workers.* 

Treatment of Phosphorus Necrosis. — It is unnecessary to enter 
into this at any length. Such preventive measures as a medical and 
dental examination of the workpeople before entering the factory, 
and from time to time afterwards, combined with suspension when 
necessary, personal cleanliness, and the use of terebinth gargles, 
wearing of overalls, and a change of employment in the factory, 
also thorough ventilation of the workrooms and of the dipping 
tables by reliable artificial means, will, if carefully carried out, do 
a very great deal to make and keep the workpeople healthy. 

Once phosphorus necrosis has developed, it may either be 
treated by antiseptic mouth-washes, maintenance of the general 
health by good nourishing food, and a life spent in the open air, 
thus allowing time for exfoliation of the necrosed bone to take? 
place naturally, a process which, as we have seen, may extend 
over many months ; or it may be treated surgically by removal 
of the piece of diseased bone. Each method has its advocates, 
but the results are practically the same, viz., upwards of 80 per 
cent, of recoveries. 

* In May 1901 I visited the match works at Pantin, near Paris, and found 
that as lucifer matchmaking was now regarded as a healthy employment, the 
regulations previously insisted upon had been very materially relaxed. Since 
the substitution of sesquisulphide for yellow phosphorus, there has been no ill- 
ness among the workpeople traceable to their employment. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XXVIII 

DANGERS IN THE USE OF MERCURY AND ITS SALTS 

Introduction. — The number of industries and the number of 
persons coming into contact with mercury in this country is 
not large. Probably not more than 5CX) to looo persons are 
exposed to the danger of industrial mercurial poisoning in Great 
Britain, but no matter how the metal or its salts are used, those 
handling it run considerable risk. In some industries, indeed, 
as, for instance, the silvering of mirrors with an amalgam of 
tin and mercury, which was for over a century the great source 
of mercurial poisoning, the matter is now only of historical 
interest, as the process in question has been replaced within 
the last twenty years by an innocuous one in which mercury 
is not used. On the other hand, fresh industries arise in 
which the metal is used, as, for example, the manufacture of 
electrical meters and incandescent electric lamps. 

Historical.— K^ far back as the year 1665, in the Philo- 
sophical Transactions of that year, a reference is made by Dr 
Walter Pope to the tremor affecting the hands of a worker in 
some cinnabar mines in Italy. In 172 1 Antoine de Jussieu* 
described the symptoms of salivation, ulceration of the gums, 
and tremor which affected the workers in the quicksilver mines 
of Almaden, in Spain. In the various translations of Bernardino 
Ramazzini's work, De inorbis artijicum diatriba^ originally 
published in 1702, an account is given of the effect of mercury 
on miners and gilders. 

One of the first references to the occurrence of mercurialism 
in the process of silvering of mirrors was made by Bateman -f in 
1 81 2, but the great work which still remains the classical work 
on the subject of chronic industrial poisoning, due to mercury, 

* Histoire de P Academic ray ale des Scietices pour VAnn^e 1719, Paris, 
'721, p. 359. 

t Edinburgh Med. and Surg. Journ.^ vol. viii., 18 12, p. 376. 



CHAP. XXVIII.] INDUSTRIES IN WHICH MERCURY IS USED 435 

was published in 1861 by Adolf Kussmaul,* Professor of 
Medicine in Erlangen. The splendid use which he and other 
medical men made of the opportunities offered them of studying 
the clinical symptoms among persons employed in the silvering 
of mirrors in Fiirth and Nuremberg, the principal seats formerly 
of the industry on the Continent, and the publication of their 
observations, led up to the introduction of the stringent regula- 
tions which have since caused the process to be given up. 

In 1829, Dr Reitz-(- of St Petersburg published an account 
of the danger to health in hatters furriers' processes in that 
city, and showed that the solution (regarded then as it still 
is as a secret), contained mercury, arsenious acid, and nitric 
acid. 

He does not particularly refer to the occurrence of tremor, 
but describes the death of three men from acute bronchitis 
after mixing the nitrate of mercury solution. 

Industries in which Poisoning may occur. — The industries in 
which mercurial poisoning may occur are : — 

1. Recovery of the metal from the ore. 

2. Separation of gold and silver from their ores by means 
of an amalgam with mercury. 

3. The manufacture of barometers and thermometers and 
other philosophical instruments. 

4. The manufacture of incandescent electric lamps, where 
mercurial pumps are used to create a vacuum. 

5. The manufacture of electrical meters. 

6. Gilding and silvering, generally known as water- 
gilding : where an amalgam of gold or silver is applied to 
the objects, and the mercury volatilised by heat. 

7. Chemical works : where pharmaceutical mercurial prepara- 
tions are made. 

8. Paint and colour works : where anti-fouling paints or 
vermilion are made. 

9. In hatters furriers' workshops : from the brushing of 
rabbit skins with an acid solution of nitrate of mercury. 

10. Bronzing with a solution of nitrate of mercury : as in 
bronzing the inside of field-glasses. 

■* Untersuchimgen iiber dem constituHonellen Mercurialismus^ by Adolf 
Kussmaul, Wiirzburg, 1861. 

t " Ueber die giftigen Hutmacherbeizen und deren nachtheiligen 
Einfluss auf die Gesundheit," by Dr J. Reitz. — Zeitschrift fur die Staats- 
arzneiktmde, 1829, p. 381, 



436 DANGERS IN USE OF MERCURY AND ITS SALTS [chap. 

In the first six the poisoning takes place almost entirely 
through the inhalation of mercurial vapour, and hardly at all from 
dust ; in (7) it may arise either from vapour or from, as is the case 
in (8), contamination of the hands and subsequent ingestion of the 
salts ; in (9) it results from the inhalation of fumes or the ingestion 
of particles of fur impregnated with nitrate of mercury. 

Other processes which deserve mention as a possible source of 
mercurial poisoning are : electrical engineering, mercury being used 
in amalgamating zinc plates ; taxidermy when corrosive sublimate 
is used ; the manufacture and use. of fulminate of mercury in explo- 
sive factories ; sole-stitching by the " Blake sole-stitching machine," * 
in which mercury is used to prevent the escape of gas. 

Mode in which Poisoning is brought about.— Mercury in the 
liquid form, even when swallowed in large amount, rarely gives 
rise to poisoning. When absorbed in the form of vapour it 
frequently does, but it would be wrong to suppose that the vapour 
can as such pass through the lining walls of the alveoli of the lungs. 
It must first undergo condensation, and the tiny globules so formed 
become oxidised and then dissolved. In view of the fact that 
expired air is warmer than that inspired, it is difficult to see where 
this condensation takes place. Von Renkf carried out a series of 
experiments to see whether the mercury that was scattered in rooms 
where the silvering of mirrors was carried on could be swallowed 
with the dust. He found, however, such small quantities of dust 
in the air (only 7.3 miUigrammes in 712 litres of air) that he con- 
cluded absorption of mercury in this way was improbable. On the 
other hand, mercury gives off vapour at ordinary temperatures, 
the amount depending on the vapour tension, and he found 
appreciable quantities (2 milligrammes) in a cubic metre of air in a 
room without special ventilation immediately above a layer of 
mercury half a square metre in area. As in eight hours a worker 
inhales and expires about 3 cubic metres of air, if the air breathed 
were charged only to an extent of 1.5 milligrammes per cubic 
metre, it would mean that 4.5 milligrammes entered the lungs. 
Were this continued day after day, injurious effects would neces- 
sarily ensue. 

The reactions which enable mercury to enter the circulation 
are only imperfectly understood. It is acted on more readily by 
salt solution than by dilute acids. The presence of both salt 

* For description of the machine, see Third Interim Report of the Danger- 
ous Trades Committee, p. 15 : Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1898. 

t Arbeiten aus dem Kaiserlichen Gestmdheitsamfe, vol, v., p. 113. 



xxviii.] SYMPTOMS OF MERCURIAL POISONING ' . 437 

solution and free acid must favour greatly the solution of the 
metal. Corrosive sublimate forms an albuminate with albumen 
insoluble in water, but readily soluble in the presence of salt 
solution. In this remarkable reaction of the solubility of albumi- 
nate of mercur}/ in presence of sodium chloride lies the probable 
explanation of the occurrence of mercurial poisoning.* 

Symptoms. — Although in industrial mercurial poisoning the 
symptoms occasionally resemble those which result from the 
internal administration of full doses of mercury, such as excessive 
salivation, swelling and ulceration of the gums with foetor of the 
breath, followed in severe cases by looseness and falling out of 
the teeth, they are as a rule much slower in their onset and more 
insidious in character. For years the only sign may be more or 
less gastric disturbance, a gradually increasing anaemia, a slight 
increase in the secretion of saliva with tendency to ulceration of 
the gums, and slight tremor of the muscles of the face and hands, 
accompanied by a certain amount of nervousness. 

Kussmaul, from his wide experience among the silverers of 
mirrors in Fiirth, describes three stages in industrial mercurial 
poisoning : first, erythism or psychical changes ; secondly, tremor ; 
and thirdly, the final or cachectic ; and my own experience points 
to the correctness of his description. 

The first commences usually in the digestive tract with 
slight stomatitis and salivation. The worker becomes pale and 
loses his appetite. He frequently has headache, giddiness, and 
transitory pains in the lirribs. The muscles of the face twitch, the 
fingers tremble when spread out, and the tongue is also tremulous 
when protruded. The mental condition undergoes change. Workers 
assured of their skill become shy and nervous, especially when 
watched. Sleep is often interfered with and broken by night- 
mare. Sometimes the tonsils and pharynx become involved in the 
inflammatory processes affecting the mouth. 

At this stage if the employment be given, up, the symptoms 
disappear in about three weeks. If not, the weakness of the 
muscles increases. Palpitation, headache, sleeplessness, and 
emaciation all become worse. ''■. 

In the second stage of tremor, disturbance of the muscular 
system preponderates. It is observed principally in the muscles 
of the face, hands, and arms ; more rarely in the legs. At first 
it may amount only to slight tremulousness, but gradually it 
advances until the movements become convulsive in charafcter, 
* A. J. Kunkel, Handbuch der Toxikologie^ P- 123. 



438 DANGERS IN USE OF MERCURY AND ITS SALTS [chap. 

and the hand cannot be directed with certainty to any particular 
object. The speech, from involvement of the muscles of 
articulation, becomes slow and indistinct. The psychical condition 
changes to one of depression or despondency. There ma}^ be 
hallucinations, loss of memory, and dulness of the intellectual 
faculties. In women, menstruation is diminished or ceases. Mis- 
carriage is frequent, and the offspring is liable to be the subject of 
rickets or scrofula. 

The condition of the teeth of persons exposed to the fumes 
of nitrate of mercury in hatters furriers' processes deserves separate 
mention. The typical appearance in the teeth of those who are 
engaged in " carotting," that is, brushing the rabbit skins with the 
dilute acid solution for several years, is loss of the molar teeth in 
the upper and lower jaws. The upper incisor and canine teeth 
are not infrequently absent, and such teeth as remain (generally 
the lower incisors and canines) are characteristically blackened 
and often loose. They show a marked tendency to erosion (a 
process quite distinct from caries, as the enamel and not the 
dentine suffers most) from the acid fumes, and frequently the 
gums recede, so that the anterior surfaces of the roots are 
exposed. 

Chronic mercurial poisoning does not frequently lead directly 
to death. It appears to lower the vitality of the tissues markedly, 
and Kussmaul calls attention to the frequency with which 
mercurial workers die of phthisis. 

Recovery from the Ore. — The principal ore from which the 
metal is obtained is cinnabar, or sulphide of mercury. It occurs 
principally in Idria in Illyria, where the greater part of the male 
inhabitants are concerned with its extraction, in Almaden in 
Spain, and also in China, Peru, California, and in smaller 
quantity in some of the German States. 

The extraction of the metal depends on the principle that by 
heating the ore in the presence of air, oxidation of the sulphur 
present results, while the mercury is liberated in the form of 
vapour, which is condensed in suitable flues kept constantly cool 
by a stream of water. Complete condensation of the vapour is 
difficult. 

In the actual mining of the ore, poisoning does not occur. 
Danger principally attaches to the smelting operation, to the 
cleaning out of the flues, and to the packing of the quicksilver. 

The amount of illness caused may be judged from the fact 
that between the years 1879- 1884, of looo workers, 112 suffered 




XXVIII.] THERMOMETERS, ETC. • , 439 

from mercurialism, although this figure does not take account of 
gastric symptoms, which, if included, would raise it to 200 or 250 
per 1000.* 

The dangers can be best avoided by suitable arrangement of 
the furnaces so as to prevent the escape of fumes, the wearing 
of overalls, and ample provision of washing and bath accom- 
modation. 

Making of Thermovieters. — In the making of thermometers a 
small funnel is blown on the top of a capillary glass tube and 
filled with mercury. Heat from a spirit lamp or gas jet is applied 
to the bulb, and the expanded air partially escapes. On cooling, 
a portion of the mercury passes into the bulb to take the place of 
the air which has escaped. This process is repeated until the bulb 
and part of the tube are full of mercury. The mercury is then 
heated to boiling, mercury vapour escapes, carrying with it the 
air and moisture which remain in the tube. The tube, when full 
of the expanded mercury and mercury vapour, is hermetically 
sealed at one end. 

The number of persons employed in the industry of ther- 
mometer and barometer making is small. They generally describe 
themselves as experimental glass-blowers. The processes are 
usually carried on in small workrooms, the conditions in which, 
owing to the wooden benches and floors affording lodgment in 
the crevices for particles of mercury and to the gas jets alight 
at every bench, are not conducive to health. Close observation 
of almost every worker who has been employed for a few years 
(and when once entered on it is rarely exchanged for another), 
reveals the presence of chronic mercurialism either in slight tremor 
of the muscles of the face or hands, or the characteristic earthy 
complexion.i" 

Incandescent Electric Lamps. — In the manufacture of incan- 
descent electric lamps, if mercurial pumps are used to produce the 
vacuum in the glass envelope, the danger from the scattering of 
mercury, which not unfrequently happens through breakage and 
careless manipulation, is considerable. 

In Berlin and Buda Pesth \ several cases of chronic poisoning 
from this source occurred a few years ago. The industry, so far 
as the operations in the pump-room was concerned, was placed 
under special regulations in Berlin, requiring (i) mechanical 

* Sommerfeld, Handbuch der Gewerbekrankheiten, p. 502. 

t See Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Factories for 1899, p. 138. 

\ Sommerfeld, Handbuch der Gewerbekrankheiten., p. 312. 



440 DANGERS IN USE OF MERCURY AND ITS SALTS [chap. 

ventilation ; (2) overalls and head coverings for the persons 
employed ; (3) provision of a meal room and the washing of 
hands and face with soap, and the rinsing out of the mouth with 
potassium chlorate before meals ; (4) a warm douche bath three 
tiiii^s a week ; (5) medical examination of the workers once a week. 
The effect of these regulations was a cessation almost at once 
of mercurial poisoning, and they soon led to the introduction of 
mechanical pumps to replace those of mercury. 

In this country no case has been reported in this industry, and 
the evidence I have found so far of mercurialism among the 
workers is slight. 

Electrical Meters. — The same dangers from the free use and 
handling of mercury is to be found in workshops where electrical 
meters are made, and they can only be satisfactorily met by the 
adoption of the precautions mentioned in the last section of this 
chapter. 

Gold and Stiver Extraction. — Both gold and silver are occasion- 
ally separated from the ores in which they are found by amalga- 
mation with mercury, the latter subsequently being removed by 
distillation. 

Water-gilding. — In the gilding and silvering of ornaments, the 
use of mercury has fortunately been almost entirely replaced by 
the much less harmful electroplating. The gilding, however, pro- 
duced by the amalgam with mercury and subsequent firing (water- 
gilding) is more durable than that obtained by electroplating, 
but such articles as military buttons are still prepared in the old 
dangerous way, although greater precautions are taken to see that 
the fumes are carried away. The object to be gilt is treated with 
a solution of nitrate of mercury, and the amalgam (previously 
prepared by heating an alloy of gold with silver and copper to 
redness, adding an eighth part by weight of mercury, subsequently 
cooling in water and expressing any excess of mercury) is applied 
with a brush. Formerly the article was heated over a charcoal 
fire, with, necessarily, escape of fumes both of carbonic oxide and 
mercur}^ into the room. Now it is done either in a closed stove or 
on a gas jet with a good draught. 

Silvering of Mirrors. — The process of silvering of mirrors, which 
formerly caused so much suffering, was to spread out on a perfectly 
horizontal table of marble or glass a sheet of tinfoil. On to this 
a small quantity of mercury was poured to form an amalgam. A 
large ; quantity of the metal was then added, and the carefully 
polished plate of glass was slid over it, pushing some of the excess 



XXVIII.] THE SILVERING OF MIRRORS • ^ 441 

of mercury in front, which was collected in small channels, but 
abundance remained in the cracks and crevices of the tables. 
Heavy weights were placed on the glass to press but the mercury, 
and in a few days the combination of mercury and tin was found 
to have adhered firmly to the glass. 

It may be well to refer here to the process which has taken its 
place. The method is a wet one, and consists in pouring over the 
cleaned and dried glass plate a solution of nitrate of silver, con- 
taining an alkaline reducing agent, such as a tartrate, or more 
commonly ammonia. A reddish or black precipitate at first falls 
down, and later on a shining surface of metallic silver holds close 
to the glass. The glass is then carefully wiped dry and backed 
with a coat of varnish or red lead. Cases of lead poisoning have 
occurred from the use of red lead in this way. 

Statistics of Dr Wollner * show that in 1885, on an average, 
160 persons were engaged in the silvering of mirrors in Furth. 
Among these there were 165 illnesses (103 per cent.) for which 
sickness insurance money was paid, and of these 60.6 per cent, 
were on account of mercurial poisoning. The percentage among 
males and females was practically the same, but the number of 
sick days was greater in the case of men than in that of the women 
— 66.1 days as compared with 50.5. 

In 21 per cent, symptoms became prominent in from one to 
two years, in 61 per cent, in two to six years, in 15 percent, in 
six to ten years, and in 3 per cent, in ten to seventeen years. 

In 1898 the Factory Inspector for the district of Fiirth states 
in his report that only seven persons were engaged in the process, 
and that their employment was intermittent. As the process has 
thus become practically extinct, it is hardly necessary to give the 
regulations enforced in Germany since 1889, but they are well 
worth reading by those who are anxious to bring to an end 
particularly dangerous industries, especially when they are carried 
on in the homes of the workers. 

Hatters Furriers' Processes. — Mercury in the form of a 
dilute solution of the nitrate is used in the preliminary process 
of felt hat making to increase the felting properties of the rabbit 
fur. The industry employs in the mercurial process alone between 
two and three hundred men and women. After the longer hairs 
have been removed by fur pullers, the rabbit skins are subjected 
to a process known as " carotting," in which they are brushed with 

* Quoted from Die Spiegelbeleger., by Dr H, Schaefer, p. 991, of vol. viii. 
of Weyl's Handbuch der Hygiene. 



442 DANGERS IN USE OF MERCURY AND ITS SALTS [chap. 

the above solution. When dried they are brushed by machinery 
to loosen the fur, and then each rabbit skin is passed through an 
ingenious machine with rotating knives so arranged as to cause 
the skin to be shaved off in strips, leaving the fur intact.* 

Few combinations can be imagined more likely to affect 
detrimentally the health and more particularly the teeth of workers 
than that of mercury and nitric acid. As might be expected, those 
engaged in " carotting " show in most marked degree injury to the 
teeth from the nitric acid fumes, the typical condition of which has 
already been described, while tremor and erythism predominate in 
those engaged in the later processes as the result of the inhalation 
of particles of fur impregnated with the nitrate of mercury. 

The following figures make this clear, giving the result of an 
examination made by me of in persons in eight different 
factories, who had worked for one year and upwards — 



Process. 


Number 
examined. 


Teeth 
Bad. 


Per cent. 


Teeth 
Fair. 


Per cent. 


Tremor. 


Per cent. 


Carotting 
Other processes 


30 
81 


20 

27 


66.6 

33.3 


10 
54 


33.3 
66.6 


I 
17 


3.3 
21.0 



A " fur " as received from the cutting machine, analysed in the 
Government Laboratory, was found to contain 1.34 per cent, of 
nitrate of mercury. The mercury forms a very insoluble combina- 
tion with the keratine in the hair which is not removed in the 
subsequent processes of felt hat making. Jungfleish f found in a 
layer of felt which had been deposited on the revolving cone used 
in making hats nearly 0.5 per cent of metallic mercury, and in a 
felt hat which had been worn for a long time 0.7 per cent. Never- 
theless, mercurial poisoning even of slight degree does not occur, 
or at any rate only very exceptionally, in the later processes of 
felt hat making.^ 

Preparation of Mercurial Compounds. — In factories where 
mercurial compounds are made, such as calomel, corrosive sub- 

* For a full description of the processes, see a report by Miss Deane and 
Miss Squire in the Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories for the 
year 1898, p. 167. 

t " Dangers du secretage des polls par le mercure," Annales d^ Hygiene^ 
December 1892. 

I Reference will be found to this source of mercurial poisoning in America 



in the article on "Occupation Diseases," by J. 
Century Practice of Medicine^ vol. iii., p. 350. 



H. Lloyd, M.D., in Twejitieth 



XXVIII.] PREPARATION OF MERCURIAL COMPOUND^ 443 

limate, the red oxide (largely used as an anti-fouling paint for 
ships' bottoms), and vermilion, there is considerable evidence of 
mercurial poisoning among the workers. For instance, of 27 
men so employed, I found in four (15 per cent.) more or less 
salivation, and in ten (37 per cent.) tremor, besides such other 
symptoms as anaemia and gastric derangement. Danger arises 
from the volatilisation of the metal in the subliming operations, 
and also to some extent from the dust which, though very 
heavy, can become scattered, if such processes as mixing, sift- 
ing, and grinding are not carried out with care in closed-in 
vessels. 

Calomel, subchloride of mercury (HgCl), is made either by 
intimately mixing corrosive sublimate with metallic mercury and 
subsequent sublimation, or by mixing definite proportions of 
mercuric sulphate, metallic mercury, and common salt. The 
mixture is then heated so that the calomel may pass off as vapour 
and be condensed in the cool subliming chamber. Finally, it is 
ground wet, dried, and sifted. All these later stages in the 
preparation must be carried on in a closed apparatus, and with 
observance of great care. 

Corrosive sublimate, the bichloride of mercury (HgCL), is 
made by heating two parts by weight of mercury with three 
parts of strong sulphuric acid. To the mercuric sulphate so 
formed when dry, one and a half parts of common salt are added. 
The corrosive sublimate is converted into vapour by heat, and 
condenses on the upper cooler portion of the vessel in lustrous 
colourless masses, leaving a cake of sulphate of soda below. The 
sublimate is then scraped out, and usually undergoes no further 
treatment such as grinding. The operation of sublimation requires 
very constant attention on the part of the worker to prevent the 
vessels in which the vapour sublimes being overheated, and so 
allowing its escape. 

In the preparation of red oxide of mercury, nitrate of mercury 
is first made, in which care has to be taken that the fumes so 
developed are carried away by ventilating shafts in connection 
with each vessel. The crystals formed after evaporation are 
ground with addition of metallic mercury, and then heated in an 
oven. Nitrous fumes are evolved, and the oxide, black when hot, 
turns to a brilliant red crystalline powder on cooling. Finally, it 
is ground wet, dried, and sifted. 

Vermilion, sulphide of mercury (HgS), is made by mixing 
excess of sulphur with metallic mercury in closed rotating 



444 DANGERS IN USE OF MERCURY AND ITS SALTS [chap. 

wooden drums. Black amorphous sulphide of mercury results,* 
which on heating to 1 50° C. becomes converted into a dark violet 
powder. From this vermilion is obtained by sublimation, a 
process attended with risk from escape of vapour. Finally, it is 
ground wet, and according to the fineness of the grinding so is 
the particular shade of colour obtained. 

The manufacture of calomel, corrosive sublimate, and vermilion 
can be made by a wet method throughout without danger, pro- 
vided reasonable care is taken. 

Preventive Measures.— The, conditions to be aimed at in places 
where metallic mercury is handled (and for the most part also in 
places where salts of mercury are used), are as follows : — 

1. The flooring and benches should be smooth, impermeable, 
and free from cracks or crevices in which mercury can lodge. 
Preferably the floor should be of some kind of asphalt or cement, 
laid in such a way that channels all converge towards a receptacle 
where the scattered mercury may collect. Wood, although at 
present in common use, is not well adapted for the purpose. The 
receptacles should be covered over, leaving only a narrow opening 
for the mercury to run in. 

2. There should be ample light, and the windows of all rooms 
where mercury vapour may be produced should preferably face the 
north. 

3. Mercurial processes should be carried on in rooms separate 
and distinct from the other workrooms. 

4. Any unnecessary raising of the temperature above 60° F. is 
to be avoided, and consequently there should be no direct heating 
of the rooms by open fires or stoves. 

5. Mechanical ventilation should be provided, and reliance not 
be placed merely On differences of temperature between the out- 
side and inside air. Inlets for air should be above the level of the 
heads of the workers, and the draught of the fan should be a down- 
ward suction one. 

6. Workers should wear overalls and head coverings. 

7. Shortness of the hair, shortness and cleanliness of the nails, 
a proper hygiene of the mouth, and baths, would do much to 
protect the workers. Ample washing convenience, including soap, 
nail brushes, and towels, should be provided. 

8. Meals should be prohibited in any room where mercury is 
handled. 

* Gefahren imd Krankheiteii in der chemischen Industrie, by Ch. Heinzerling, 
vol. i., p. 212. 



XXVIII.] REGULATIONS TO BE OBSERVED • , 445 

9. Periodical medical examination, with power to the surgeon 
appointed to suspend temporarily or permanently from work. 

In two of the largest factories in which mercurial prepara- 
tions are made, in addition to the carrying out of all dusty pro- 
cesses such as mixing and sieving, as f&r as possible, in a closed-in 
apparatus, the following measures have been taken : — 

Rules to be Observed in the Manufacture of 
Mercurial Preparations. 

1. The firm will appoint a surgeon to examine all persons 
employed in mercurial processes at least once in every month, and 
he will undertake any necessary medical treatment of illness con- 
tracted in consequence of such employment. He will have power 
to suspend any such person from work in any place or process. 

The surgeon will enter in a register the dates and results of the 
examination of the person employed as above. No person after 
suspension can be employed in any mercurial process without 
written sanction from the surgeon. 

Every person employed in a mercurial process must present 
himself at the appointed time for examination by the surgeon. 

2. The firm will provide sufficient and suitable overall suits for 
the use of persons engaged in the processes of sifting and grind- 
ing, and every person when so engaged must wear an overall 
suit. 

3. The firm will provide respirators approved by the surgeon 
for persons engaged in processes where there is unavoidable dust, 
and every person so employed must wear the respirator. 

4. The firm will provide and maintain washing conveniences in 
the proportion of one lavatory basin to each five persons employed, 
with soap, nail brushes, and towels, and a constant supply of hot 
and cold water laid on to each basin. 

Every person must, before meals and before leaving the 
premises, thoroughly wash in the basins provided, and those who 
have worn overalls and respirators must deposit them before 
leaving the factory after the day's work in the place appointed for 
the purpose by the firm. 

The firm will see that the overalls are washed once a week, and 
the respirators renewed or washed every day. 

5. The firm will provide and maintain a bath with hot and 
cold water laid on, and a sufficient supply of soap and towels. 
Every person shall have the opportunity of taking a bath at the 



446 DANGERS OF MERCURY AND ITS SALTS [chap, xxviii. 

factory once a week, and those whom the surgeon directs must 
do so. 

Each person taking a bath must sign his name in a register. 

6. The firm will provide and maintain a cloak-room in which 
workers can deposit clothing put off during working hours, 
separate from any portion of the works where mercurial processes 
are carried on. 

7. No food or tobacco are to be taken into, nor is food to be 
eaten in any part of the factory where mercurial processes are 
carried on. 

8. The foreman must report to the manager any instance 
coming under his notice of a workman neglecting to observe these 
rules. 

Note. — The danger against which the rules are directed is that 
of mercurial poisoning, of which the principal symptoms are sore- 
ness of the gums, offensive breath, increase in the amount of 
spittle, and trembling of the fingers. Workers are warned of the 
danger arising from the chewing of tobacco, and of eating food 
with unwashed hands. Mercury has a tendency to destroy the 
teeth, and this can be best obviated by the use of a tooth-brush 
once every day. 

In hatters furriers' processes the remedial measures required 
are rather different, although suggestions (6), (8), (9), and part of 
(7) equally apply. It is necessary in this industry to remove the 
fumes arising from the solution of nitrate of mercury in carotting, 
and to secure the absence of dust at the cutting machines, either 
by perfecting the machinery and fittings of the receptacles into 
which the bulk of the dust is carried by the revolving knives, or 
by increasing this draught by means of a fan. This lattei" mode 
has been adopted with success both as regards removal of dust 
and economy of work. It is desirable, too, that the primitive 
stoves at present in use for drying the " carotted " skins should be 
replaced by the kind now commonly to be found in steam 
laundries, of "horses" sliding in and out of the heated chamber 
on rails. 

By the French law of 13th May 1893, the treatment of the 
skins and fur of hare and rabbit skins with nitrate of mercury is 
scheduled, with others, as an industry in which neither children 
nor females may be employed. 

T. M. Legge. 



CHAPTER XXIX 

THE LESIONS RESULTING FROM THE MANUFACTURE AND 
USES OF POTASSIUM AND SODIUM BICHROMATE 

Peculiar lesions — erosion of the septum of the nose and the 
production of ulcers on the skin^are caused by bichromate of 
potassium or sodium. Erosion of the septum is found only among 
persons engaged in the manufacture of the salts, but ulceration of 
the skin of exposed parts, principally the hands, although most 
severe and most frequently met with among the same class of 
operatives, may be detected among persons engaged in the many 
industries in which the salts are used in solution. 

Bichromate of potassium and sodium, commercially known as 
" bichromes," are used largely — 

1. In the manufacture of colours, such as the various chrome 
yellows, by the interaction of lead acetate and bichromate of 
potassium. 

2. In dyeing and calico-printing. In dying cotton yarn the 
material is soaked in lime water, and, after wringing, is transferred 
to a vat containing lead acetate. It then passes through a solution 
of bichromate which develops the yellow colour on the fibre. 

In calico printing potassium bichromate is used in the indigo 
blue discharge style, when it may be printed from a paste contain- 
ing 40 per cent, of bichromate, which will discharge the colour from 
the blue material after suitable treatment. Or it may be used for 
the production of chrome lead colours by first printing the desired 
pattern on the calico with a paste containing acetate of lead, and 
subsequently passing this through a 2 to 5 per cent, solution of 
bichromate. 

Potassium bichromate is the most important mordant for wool. 
The mordanting bath is prepared with 2 to 4 per cent, potassium 
bichromate (of the weight of the wool) and the necessary quantity 
of water, amounting to from 50 to 100 times the weight of wool* 

* Manual of Dyeings by E. Knecht, C. Rawson, and R. Loewenthal : C. 

Griffin, 1893. 

447 



448 POTASSIUM AND SODIUM BICHROMATE [chap. 

3. In photography. The carbon process depends on the fact 
that gelatine and potassium bichromate combine under the influence 
of Hght to form a compound which is insoluble in hot water. The 
strength of the bichromate solution for this process does not exceed 
5 per cent. 

4. As an oxidising agent for the manufacture of coal tar 
colours, for the bleaching of oils, etc. 

The first full account of the lesions arising in the course of the 
manufacture of bichromate was given by Becourt and Chevallier 
in 1863.* In 1854 Heathcote published in the Lancet^ an account 
of obstinate ulceration of the tonsils and pharynx observed in a 
worker in a bichromate factory. No such extensive ulceration as 
he describes has been recorded since. 

A very complete description of the processes and of the clinical 
symptoms shown by the persons employed, together with sugges- 
tions for improving the conditions of working, was given in a joint 
paper by Delpech and HillairetJ in the years 1869 and 1876. 
They believed that any part of the skin might become ulcerated 
if exposed long enough to the action of the dust. In no case did 
they find that the ulcers penetrated into the joints, or that the bones 
of the nose were attacked. They believed that the action of the 
dust set up in some cases bronchitis and asthma. 

In 1893 the effect of bichromate on the health of the workers 
was referred to in the Report of a Departmental Committee of the 
Home Office on the conditions of labour in chemical works, and, 
as a result, special rules prescribing protection of vessels containing 
bichromate in solution, respirators, due means for the removal 
of dust, waterproof gloves, and lavatory accommodation, were 
drawn up.§ 

In 1895 the conditions found in the German bichromate 
factories was made the subject of an interesting official report by 
Dr Wutzdorff, || assisted in the chemical part by Dr Heise. 

* Annales d^ Hygiene pttbligue, \o\. XX., -^.Z-^- 

t Lancet, 1854, i., p. 152. 

X " Memoire sur les accidents auxquels sont soumis les ouvriers employes a la 
fabrication des chromstX^s," Annales d' Hygiene pttbliq tie, 1869, p. 5 ; and 1876, 
pp. 5 and 193. 

§ Report on the Condition of Labour in Chemical Works, the Dangers to 
Life and Health of the Workpeople Employed therein, and the Proposed 
Remedies: Eyre & Spottiswoode, 1893. 

II " Die in Chromatfabriken beobachtetan Gesundheitsschadigungen und die 
zur Verhiitung derselben erforderlichen Massnahmen," Arbeiten mis dem 
Kaiserlicheni Gesundheitsainte, vol. xiii. 



XXIX.] MANUFACTURE OF THE BICHROMATES 449 

Following upon the recommendations made by Dr Wutzdorff, 
stringent regulations were drawn up to govern the industry in 
Germany. 

In 1899 considerable stir was created in Glasgow by the publi- 
cation by the Labour Leader of a series of pamphlets directed to 
show, among other things, that in certain factories in Scotland the 
conditions of work were still unhealthy. In that year I visited all 
the factories in this country, and a code of special rules printed 
elsewhere in this volume now governs the industry. 

Potassium bichromate is made by roasting a mixture of chrome 
ironstone, potash and lime, lixiviating the fused mass with water, 
and adding enough sulphuric acid to convert the neutral chromate 
into bichromate. The reaction may be represented as follows : — 

C10O3 + 3O = 2Cr03 

CrO^ + KXOa = KXrO^ + CO., 

aK^CrO^ + H^SO^ = KoSO^ + K^Cr^O, + H2O. 

Sodium bichromate is made in practically the same way, sodium 
carbonate taking naturally the place of potassium carbonate. In 
the crushing and grinding of the chrome ironstone much dust per- 
meates the air, but this mineral dust does not give rise to the 
peculiar lesions associated with the bichromate. 

After having been ground to a fine impalpable powder the 
chrome ironstone, mixed with lime and potash, is introduced into a 
furnace and roasted for about three hours. When withdrawn from 
here the fused mass or " batch," as it is called, consisting of neutral 
chromate of calcium and potassium, after being allowed to cool, is 
broken up and shovelled with evolution of much dust into large 
vats or *' keaves." Water and potassium sulphate in solution are 
added, and at this stage, owing to the slaking of the uncombined 
lime, much steam, carrying with it particles of chromate dust, 
arises. The solution, when concentrated by passing through suc- 
cessive keaves, is pumped into evaporating pans, which are almost 
invariably entirely covered in and communicate with the outside 
air by means of a shaft running through the roof Sulphuric acid 
is next added, forming potassium sulphate and potassium bichro- 
mate. The former is withdrawn, and the latter, when sufficiently 
concentrated, is pumped into lead-lined tanks, where crystallisa- 
tion is usually completed within three weeks. The crystals form 
beautiful large adherent masses on the sides and floor of the 
tanks. They are broken up by a pick, removed on barrows to 
be washed, dried in open stoves by hot-air or steam-pipes, and 
finally packed in barrels. 

2F 



450 



POTASSIUM AND SODIUM BICHROMATE 



[CHAl- 



Sodium bichromate does not usually crystallise, but forms a 
solid cake which requires to be broken up. 

The particular lesions associated with the manufacture are 
found among all classes of men employed, from the moment the 
fused mass is removed from the furnace, until the crystals are 
headed up in the barrels. Inasmuch, however, as all the processes 
are carried out in one large common shed, it is a little difficult to 
determine the relative degree of danger attaching to each operation. 

The rafters immediately above the keaves are coloured a 
canary yellow, from the neutral potassium chromate carried up by 
the steam ; a sheet of cardboard suspended at a height of 2 feet 
above an evaporating pan becomes covered in a short time on 
its upper surface with innumerable small brown specks of bichro- 
mate — a precipitation which must result from the cooling of the 
steam ; a stranger present for only a few minutes while the pack- 
ing is being done has the mucous membrane of his nose acutely 
inflamed for hours or even days afterwards. These facts show 
how permeated the atmosphere in the shed can become from the 
dust and fumes from the bichromate. Breaking the crystals is the 
source par excellence for the development of chrome sores. 

Dr Heise, in the paper already referred to, estimated quantita- 
tively the amount of bichromate dust in the air where the different 
processes were carried on. Thus he found i cubic metre of air 
near to the place where three men were breaking up a cake of 
sodium bichromate contained 6.30 milligrammes. One cubic 
m€tre taken during the fifteen minutes during which packing was 
done contained 1.57 milligrammes. As regards the steam, he 
found I cubic metre taken at a height of 45 centimetres above 
the level of the evaporating pan contained 0.736 milligrammes of 
sodium bichromate. In general, considerably less bichromate was 
found in the air over the evaporating pan than where the dusty 
processes were carried on. 

The following is the result of an examination I made of 176 
men exposed to work at one time or another in the chrome house : 



Number 
Examined. 


Septum 
Normal. 


Septum 
Perforated. 


Septum 
Ulcerated. 


Sense of Smell 

Lost or 

Impaired. 


Number with 

Unhealed 
Chrome Sores. 


176 
100 


30 
17.0 


126 
71.6 


20 
II.3 


16 
9.9 


39 
22.1 



In most of the cases where the septum was found ulcerated 



XXIX.] 



ULCERATION OF THE NASAL SEPTUM 



45 » 



but not perforated, the duration of employment had not been suffi- 
ciently long for the ulceration to proceed to perforation. 

In none of the 30 men in whom the septum was found to 
be normal was the immunity attributable to shortness of employ- 
ment. Six were connected with the management, 6 were 
blacksmiths or coopers, 10 were furnacemen, 4 were engaged at 
the keaves, and 4 in the crystal house. One-half of them had been 
employed for upwards of ten years. 

There can be no doubt that the mucous membrane covering 
the septum is attacked more readily in some persons than in 
others, and I incline to the view that an immunity may be 
acquired if the first few months are passed without ulceration 
taking place. 

The rapidity of its onset is remarkable, as is shown by the 
following table : — 

Duration of Employment where the Ulceration had not progressed 
to Perforation. 



2 Weeks or 

less. 


2 Weeks to 
3 Months. 


3 to 12 

Slonths. 


I to 3 
Years. 


Over 
3 Years. 


3 


7 


5 


4 


I 



Perforation was noted as having already occurred in one 
instance where the duration of employment had been seven weeks, 
and in two others it had been less than three months. Usually, 
it appears to take place between the sixth and twelfth month 
after commencing work. Most of the men examined worked in 
the crystal house, and all except the four mentioned had either 
ulceration or perforation of the septum. The majority of the 
furnacemen also had perforation, but in them the septum was 
found normal more frequently than was the case with the men 
employed in the crystal house. 

Nature of the Perforation. — The cartilaginous framework of the 
nose consists of five pieces, the two upper and the two lower lateral 
cartilages, and the cartilage of the septum. The two upper and the 
two lower lateral cartilages give the nose much of its shape, and form 
the ala^ nasi. The ulcerative process due to bichromate dust never 
attacks them. The cartilage of the septum is somewhat triangular 
in form, and thicker at its margin than at its centre. Its anterior 
margin, thickest above, is connected from above downwards with 



452 POTASSIUM AND SODIUM BICHRQMATE [chap. 

the nasal bones, the front part of the two upper lateral cartilages, 
and the inner portion of the two lower cartilages. Its posterior 
margin is connected with the perpendicular lamella of the ethmoid ; 
its inferior margin with the vomer and the palate processes of the 
superior maxillary bones. The seat of election for the ulceration 
to commence is a point about a quarter of an inch from the lower 
and anterior margin of the septum, and it extends in a direction 
upwards and backwards. 

The limitation of the perforation to the cartilage of the septum 
is accounted for by the fact that the mucous membrane covering it is 
adherent, forming the perichondrium, and is far less vascular than 
the mucous membrane lining the rest of the nasal fossa. Once the 
mucous membrane is destroyed, the blood supply to the cartilage 
is cut off, and necrosis ensues. The ulceration having progressed 
upwards as far as the junction of the septum with the ethmoid and 
backwards to the vomer, becomes arrested. Healing then takes 
place, the bone not being attacked, and the cicatrix usually 
becomes covered with an ecthymatous crust of mucus. 

In no instance was the anterior or lower border of the septum 
destroyed. Consequently, the rigidity of the parts is maintained, 
and deformity, so prominent in other ulcerative processes attack- 
ing the nose, absent. 

The onset of the morbid process is ushered in by sneezing and 
the ordinary symptoms of nasal catarrh. The pain accompanying 
the ulceration appears to be insignificant. It had never been 
severe enough to necessitate absence from work or to call for 
medical treatment. 

Once the perforation is established, the only inconvenience 
which results is the formation of plugs of mucus in the nasal 
passages. The general health is in no way detrimentally affected 
by the condition. Considering the extent of the lesion, the 
number found with marked impairment of the sense of smell is 
not large. Mucous deposits and white patches were occasionally 
noted on the pharynx, but definite ulceration, such as has been 
described in bichromate workers, was in no case detected. 
Asthma, noted by the French writers on the subject, Delpech 
and Hillairet, was found in one instance — that of a partner 
in one of the works. In his case there was a family predisposi- 
tion to it, but the first definite attack dated from contact with 
bichromate. 

Ulceration of the Skin. — In 39 out of the 176 men engaged 
in chrome processes, one or more unhealed ulcers or " chrome 



XXIX.] " CHROME HOLES,'' OR ULCERS ON THE SKIN 453 

holes " were observed. In these and in several others, numerous 
scars marking the site of bygone ulcers were noted. 

A chrome hole is a sluggish ulcer. It results from a cut or 
abrasion of the skin coming into contact with bichromate in the 
form of crystals or solution. The seat of election is either on the 
knuckles or at the base of the nail, but they may occur on any part of 
the hands or forearm. In two cases they were observed on the neck, 
once in the groin, and once on the foot. The tissues around are 
raised, thickened, and indurated ; the centre is filled by a slough, 
usually covered by a scab, and the whole resembles a large boil. 
When the slough has been removed the floor of the ulcer is seen 
to consist of greenish-yellow granulation tissue. In the majority 
of cases the central scab is not more than \ inch in diameter, in a 
few it is \ inch, and the largest that I have seen measured, | by J 
inch. Chrome holes occur principally among men engaged in 
the crystal house and at the keaves, and only rarely among the 
furnacemen. The amount of pain and inconvenience they cause 
is considerable. Sometimes they necessitate absence from work, 
but they are never a menace to life. At one works six men 
were absent during 1898 for periods varying from three to nine 
weeks, on account of chrome holes. Even when their severity is 
not such as to necessitate absence from work, months may elapse 
before they heal. 

The treatment adopted by the men is of the most elementary 
description, and naturally under these circumstances they prove 
intractable. 

The conditions found by Dr Wutzdorff in the German 
bichromate factories were very similar. Ulcers of the external skin 
were found most frequently on the fingers, hands, and arms, then 
on the feet and legs ; once an ulcer was found in the external 
auditory meatus and three times on the eyelids. The ulcers 
penetrated deeply into the soft parts, and required, in consequence, 
a long time to heal. In no case had they penetrated as far as the 
tendons, or into the joints. Ulceration and perforation of the 
septum was found in workers in several factories, and ulceration of 
the gums and pharynx of slight extent was observed twice. The 
general condition of the workpeople was apparently good — at all 
events no worse than that of chemical workers generally. 

The preventive measures necessary in the manufacture of 
potassium or sodium bichromate will be found stated in the 
regulations printed elsewhere in this volume. They resolve them- 
selves generally into removal of dust and fumes, cleanliness, and 



454 POTASSIUM AND SODIUM BICHROMATE [chap, xxix 

medical supervision periodically of the workers, and the covering 
up of cuts and abrasions with suitable dressings. When in solu- 
tion the salt does not attack the unbroken skin. Indiarubber 
gloves are sometimes worn by the men in dye-works who are 
constantly engaged in processes in which bichromate is used in 
dilute solution, but in view of the difficulty of enforcing their 
use, and the fact already stated, that unless there is an abrasion 
of the skin a chrome hole will not be developed, the wearing of 
indiarubber gloves, while a thing to be recommended, can hardly 
be made compulsory. It is advisable that in all dye-works the 
foreman should be made responsible to report all men suffering 
from abrasions of the skin, or from chrome holes, to the manager, 
in order that they may have proper treatment, and be put to other 
work until such time as healing has taken place. 

In photographic processes involving the use of bichromate, if 
there is any tendency to the development of eruptions on the 
hands, careful washing and subsequent treatment, when thoroughly 
dried, with lanolin or glycerine should be tried. If this fails, 
rubber gloves must be worn. 

T. M. Legge. 



CHAPTER XXX 

COPPER AND BRASS 

The two substances, the dangers to health attendant on the work- 
ing of which form the subject of this chapter, present widely 
different features, both as regards their essential natures, their treat- 
ment during the processes of manufacture, and the treatment they 
subsequently receive. The one being a metal and the other an alloy^ 
the primary processes in the first case are those of mining and of 
reducing the ore ; while in the second, the admixture of metals in 
such proportions as the particular alloy requires is the first detail 
of treatment. A similar process of casting into ingots follows with 
both substances, but the malleable and ductile qualities of copper 
render its subsequent treatment, in the various processes of manu- 
facture, dissimilar to that of brass and its kindred alloys. 

There are, moreover, marked features of dissimilarity in the 
constituents of brass and of copper ore of especial importance in any 
consideration of unhealthy conditions attendant upon working in 
these substances. The form of copper ore which is most largely 
smelted in England is copper pyrites, an ore which is largely 
composed of sulphur, while in various ores arsenic is found. Brass 
and similar alloys, on the other hand, are composed of copper and 
zinc ; and as we shall see later in this chapter, it is to the presence 
of the latter ingredient that in our opinion may be attributed the 
illness known as " brassfounders' ague," or at all events the abnormal 
amount of ill health found to exist amongst brass mixers and 
casters. 

Although it might be more natural to discuss the metal in the 
first place, and the alloy of which it forms a very important part in 
the second, we will reverse that order, owing to the much greater 
degree of importance, from a sanitary point of view, which attaches 
to the working of brass than to that of copper. Prefacing, there- 
fore, our remarks on the dangers attending the working in brass 
by an outline of the processes involved, it will be sufficient for 
our purpose to quote from a Report of a Committee of the Home 

455 



456 COPPER AND BRASS [chap. 

Office appointed in 1894 to inquire into the conditions of labour 
in the manufacture of brass and of kindred amalgams, and of 
which we had the honour of being members. It is explained that, 
in the first instance, an alloy is made at a very high temperature 
in crucibles which are plunged into sunken furnaces, the principal 
components of the alloy being copper and zinc (commonly called 
spelter) mixed in proportions varying in accordance with the 
quality of brass required. An example of a deposit resulting from 
the pouring of common or yellow brass taken by the Committee is 
as follows : — 

Moisture ....... 9.64 

Organic matter ...... 39-42 

Silicious residue 9.14 

Oxide of iron 2.78 

Copper 1.7 1 

Oxide of zinc 28.82 

Other matter 8.49 

100.00 



Other amalgams, such as gun metal, phosphor bronze, atid bell 
metal, yield different proportions, while in some cases it is found 
that old copper and brass scrap, such as discarded locomotive and 
marine boiler tubes, are thrown into the mixture. The alloy thus 
mixed is poured into iron moulds or ingots, to be remelted when 
required ; or it is at once poured into moulds which have been 
already prepared by patterns to receive the metal, and in which 
the formation of the castings takes place. Previously to receiving 
the metal the mould has been dusted over with fine dust either of 
burnt loam, sand, burnt red brick, charcoal, French chalk, or bean 
flour, according to the requirements of the work. The moulds are, 
roughly speaking, iron rims clamped together, and filled with very 
fine sand in which the patterns have left impressions for the 
reception of the metal, hence the name of sand-casting possessed 
by this process. Should the metal be required for sheets, tubes, or 
wire, it is poured into iron moulds or ingots, to be subsequently 
rolled or drawn as required, and this process is called sheet or 
strip casting. Having procured its shape, the brass article or 
casting is subjected to further processes on its way to completion, 
such as (i) that of dipping in aqua fortis and in acid solutions of 
various strengths for the purpose of removing oxidation and 
impurities ; (2) that of burnishing or of polishing at a lathe to 
acquire a smooth surface ; (3) that of finishing or dressing ; and 
finally (4) that of lacquering, which is an application of a solution 



XXX.] BRASSFOUNDERS' AGUE . ,^ 457 

of shellac and other ingredients to the work (specially heated for 
its reception on a stove) with a view of securing the colour 
desired ; also (5) a process of bronzing is also undergone when a 
particular effect is required in the appearance of the article. In 
either of these processes, which involves the pouring of the molten 
alloy, the zinc deflagrates during the pouring, and a dense white 
smoke is formed, which almost instantaneously fills the atmosphere 
of the casting shop. This smoke is rapidly converted into snow- 
white flakes and white powder, consisting of the oxide of zinc, 
which remains for some time diffused through the atmosphere of 
the shop, and in ill-ventilated casting shops collects upon the 
rafters and ceiling in the form of a dense white incrustation. The 
quantity of these fumes depends, firstly, upon the amount of zinc 
employed ; secondly, upon the ventilation of the shop ; thirdly, upon 
the weather — a dull, foggy day preventing their escape. It may 
be readily imagined that persons exposed to the alternations of 
heat and cold in the casting shop, to the deflagrated zinc inhaled 
as well as imbibed with food and drink, and the intense thirst 
induced by the nature of the work, would suffer in health. That 
such is the case the evidence submitted to the Home Office 
Committee was ample and conclusive. It must not, however, be 
assumed that nothing was previously known upon the subject, 
or that no steps had been already taken in the endeavour to 
improve the shops or in other ways to ameliorate the con- 
dition of the workers. 

The recognition of working in and making brass as causative 
of disease is due to Dr Headlam Greenhow, who, in 1862, read 
before the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society a paper on 
" Brassfounders' Ague." This was based on his experience while 
paying a brief holiday visit to Birmingham in 1858, in connection 
with his investigation of trades injurious to health. It is curious 
that he should have selected for his title the name of a disorder 
which undoubtedly occurs, but which, as we shall endeavour to 
show, is only an acute expression of a chronic malady, and one 
which rarely or never comes within the range or experience of 
practising physicians. In the out-patient department of the 
Birmingham hospitals one meets with an enormous number of 
brass-workers complaining of various pulmonary and gastric 
disorders ; but an experience of many years has never yet 
produced to us a case of this so-called ague, although questions 
will very frequently elicit the statement of its occurrence. The 
literature of the subject is very scanty, but Greenhow quotes 



458 COPPER AND BRASS [chap. 

Thackrah's essay on the " Effects of Arts, Trades, and Professions 
on Health and Longevity," published about 1830, as well as the 
writings of a few Frenchmen, which have not, however, materially 
advanced our knowledge of the disease. Thackrah's observations 
were clearly inaccurate and imperfect, for he mentions only 
"ague," which he speaks of as an intermittent fever, attacking 
brass-workers from once a month to once a year, and leaving 
them in a state of great debilit}\ Dr Hogben, Physician to 
out-patients at the Queen's Hospital, Birmingham, published a 
very interesting paper on this subject in the Birmingham Medical 
Review in Maj- 1887. Dr Greenhow refers only to ague and 
bronchial disorders, and very cursorily to nervous troubles, as 
resulting from brass casting ; but Dr Hogben mentions also 
colic, constipation, and dyspeptic troubles which result from this 
occupation. Dr Greenhow, on the one hand, refers all the 
symptoms to intoxication by zinc, while Dr Hogben thinks they 
should be rather referred to chronic copper poisoning. These 
two metals are the principal ingredients in the making of brass, 
as already mentioned. 

That Thackrah was in error in speaking of brass ague as an 
intermittent affection, occurring once a month or once a year, 
is clearly proved by the following positive observation, which 
is supported by all brass-workers. Ague never occurs among 
the regular workers, but always affects those who are new to 
the work, or who resume work after an absence of even a month 
or a fortnight. If a man resumes work, that is melting or casting, 
after even so brief an interval, he is sure to have an attack of 
ague, but he will have only one attack, and remain free until 
after his next holiday. There is most certainly no kind of 
regular intermission, and according to brass-workers themselves, 
they only suffer till they are inured to the poison. The following 
are the symptoms of this so-called ague. After working a few 
hours, a man becomes languid, depressed, and feels very cold. 
He is very pale and almost in a state of collapse, his face is 
covered with a cold perspiration, he shivers, his teeth chatter, 
and he is restless and anxious. His head aches, there is much 
nausea and complaint of muscular pains. As a rule he goes or 
is led home, where he drinks freely of milk and goes to bed. 
The symptoms continue until he has vomited, either as the 
result of taking an emetic or independently of it. Vomiting is 
usually followed by sleep or recovery, with more or less of 
debility and lassitude on waking. Drs Greenhow and Hogben 



XXX.] THE TERM ''AGUE" MISLEADING . „ 459 

speak of a more or less marked hot stage succeeding the cold, 
while following the hot stage they mention profuse sweating. 
The hot stage may be absent, but the sweating, according to 
these writers, invariably occurs. Our own observations, based 
on inquiry amongst those who have suffered from this ague, 
have never elicited a statement of these hot and sweating 
stages. Even direct questions as to their occurrence have always 
been met with positive negation, though some have spoken of 
free perspiration in the stage of collapse. How to reconcile 
these statements we do not know. The cycle of events as 
recorded by Greenhow is just that of ordinary ague, from which 
this disease differs, otherwise than in the suggested sequence, in 
toto. The inquiries we have made do not support such a 
sequence, and certainly not a relationship to malarial ague. 
The symptoms are just such as would be caused by the ingestion 
of a quantity of irritant metal, sufficiently large to cause vomit- 
ing, and its attendant depression. Such, indeed, is our opinion 
of the causation of the symptoms, and therefore the name " ague " 
should not be continued, as being wrongly suggestive and mis- 
leading. It will be remembered that it is only when fresh to 
the work that brass-workers suffer from "ague," but, though 
they do not suffer from acute metallic poisoning, they do suffer 
from its chronic effects, and it is extremely probable that, as 
with arsenic and opium eaters, they may become inured to the 
use of the metals. 

As it is not very common for brass-workers to use tooth 
brushes, the accumulating tartar is usually found coloured green. 
Even when an attempt is made to cleanse the teeth, they still 
show signs of green discoloration. This has been proved to be 
due to the presence of copper. The white hair of the workmen 
is often coloured green, and the underclothing is stained green 
by the perspiration. The gums may be slightly blackened at 
the edges, but there is nothing distinctive as in the case of the 
blue line of lead poisoning ; nor, indeed, beyond the green 
colouring of the hair and teeth, do brass-workers present any 
unequivocal evidence of their calling. 

Ague is not a disorder for which brass-workers consult a 
medical man ; they know how to treat it themselves, and also 
that it is transitory in its effects ; but they come to hospitals in 
large numbers to be treated for bronchitis. As regards this there 
is nothing special. The men suffer from it in common with all 
workers in dusty trades, and so far as we can learn from the 



46o COPPER AND BRASS [chap. 

Secretary of the Brass-workers' Organisation, they usually die 
from chronic bronchitis or fibroid phthisis, unless they succumb to 
some acute malady. The existence of nervous disorders, especially 
paralysis agitans, has been said to be common among them, but 
we cannot find that a larger percentage of brass-workers than of 
the rest of the community suffers from diseases of the nervous 
system. It is common, however, to meet with complaints of 
disturbance of the digestive function. Brass-casters suffer from 
dyspepsia, loss of appetite, gastro-intestinal catarrh, nausea, vomit- 
ing, metallic taste, thirst, colic, constipation, and diarrhoea. They 
are often nervous and hypochondriacal, and complain of headache 
as well as muscular pains. There is nothing distinctive about any 
of these disorders, except the obstinacy with which they resist 
ordinary methods of treatment, and the readiness with which they 
yield to the administration of iodide of potassium in combination 
with the other drugs indicated by the various conditions of ill- 
health. All the symptoms bear a remarkable resemblance to 
those produced by chronic copper poisoning. In Guy and 
Ferrier's Forensic Medicine^ an outbreak of copper poisoning 
from the use of copper vessels in cooking is recorded, in which 
the symptoms were almost identical with those here mentioned. 
The inmates of a convent suffered severely from obstinate and 
severe colic, retching, and bilious vomiting, costiveness, and 
flatulence, burning pain in the pit of the stomach and extremities, 
and paralytic weakness in the arm. According to Stephenson it 
is impossible to distinguish between the symptoms produced by 
zinc and copper poisoning. These are just such as brass-workers 
suffer from, and it is, therefore, impossible to say which metal — 
copper or zinc — is most concerned in the production of these 
symptoms. Dr Greenhow attributes them all to the inhalation 
of the deflagrating zinc. This forms oxide of zinc, which is only 
sparingly if at all soluble, and, therefore, is not likely to be freely 
absorbed into the stomach. Greenhow pays little or no attention 
to the common and chronic gastric and intestinal troubles to 
which brass-workers are liable. These affect all who work in 
the various processes by which, either in vapour or in minute 
particles, copper and zinc — that is, brass — are distributed in the 
atmosphere. Dr Hogben, on the other hand, considers copper 
alone to be the efficient cause of the symptoms, and advances 
the following arguments : — 

I. We have no evidence that the internal administration 
of zinc ever produces the symptoms of brass ague. Enormous 



XXX.] MILK AN ANTIDOTE * . 461 

doses of the oxide have been administered without apparently 
producing the characteristic febrile reaction of brass ague. 

2. The malady is observed in individuals whose work is other 
than casting. 

3. The malady is not observed in operatives, such as gal- 
vanised iron workers, who work with zinc, and are exposed to its 
fumes. 

4. Zinc is rapidly excreted, and does not, like lead, mercury, 
or copper, become fixed in the body, and produce chronic 
affections. 

It seems more probable that, accepting Stephenson's statement 
of the impossibility of distinguishing between the effects of 
acute copper or zinc poisoning, the symptoms of ague are due to 
an admixture of the two metals ; whereas, for the chronic com- 
plaints, the copper is responsible. How the practice of taking 
milk during an attack of so-called ague has arisen is not clear ; 
but its wisdom is proved by the fact that in cases of both copper 
and zinc poisoning milk is one of the best antidotes, since it 
precipitates both these metals into insoluble albuminates. It is 
abundantly evident that brass-workers are especially liable to 
diseases from the use of the metals employed in its manufacture, 
but these are not new disorders ; they are either proofs of chronic 
poisoning by zinc or copper, or, as in the so-called ague, are due 
to intoxication by them. If more proof were wanting of the 
unhealthiness of brass-casters, it would be afforded by the fact that 
a few years ago, though there were 1200 casters in Birmingham, 
there were not more than ten over sixty years of age, and in con- 
nection with a superannuation fund of the Amalgamated Brass- 
workers' Association from which casters could at the age of 
fifty-five derive benefit, it is an appalling fact that there were only 
three men — two in Birmingham aftd one in Shefifield — enjoying 
this benefit. 

That such a condition of affairs should be allowed to remain 
unremedied, if remedy was possible, was improbable after special 
power was vested in the Home Secretary by the Factory Act of 
1 89 1 to deal with processes which he deemed dangerous or even 
injurious to health. 

The desirability of observance of certain general principles, 
such as temperance, cleanliness, and care in the matter of taking 
food, was obvious not less in the case of brass-workers than 
of other operatives. These need not be enlarged upon by 
us, although their importance towards securing health and 



462 COPPER AND BRASS [chap. 

happiness in a man's declining years are sadly overlooked among 
the working classes. But it was felt that there should be some 
definite rules officially published for the healthy conduct of brass- 
working. 

A series of rules designed to that end were tentatively issued 
with the approval of the Secretary of State by Mr R. E. Sprague 
Oram, C.B., then Chief Inspector of Factories in 1894, but 
although possessing features of stringency which appear not 
unwarrantable under- certain conditions of brass-working, they 
were generally felt to be unnecessary in the case of working in 
alloys in which the percentage of zinc was either relatively small, 
or indeed from which it was entirely absent. 

Official attention had, however, been thoroughly aroused to 
the necessity of action, and in November 1894 a Departmental 
Committee was appointed by Mr Asquith, Secretary of State, to 
report upon conditions of work, so far as they affected the health 
of operatives in the various processes connected with the working 
of brass, gun metal, bell metal, and other kindred amalgams. 
Subsequently too at Birmingham, which may be regarded as 
the home of the brass trade, the Committee held sittings and 
made inquiries in various parts of London, in Willenhall, Wolver- 
hampton, Edinburgh, Glasgow, Sheffield, and Rotherham, and were 
assisted by the evidence of a large number of manufacturers, 
artisans, factory inspectors, physicians, and others, on which their 
report to the Home Secretary of State was based. The report 
largely deals with matter already given in this chapter, but 
drawn as it was immediately after the accumulation of the best 
evidence on the subject which could be procured, and for the 
elicitation of which no further opportunity is likely to arise for the 
present, it is desirable that the conclusions arrived at should be 
given. Having stated that during the inquiry the Committee had 
met with ample evidence of the existence of such symptoms as 
have been described above, the report adds that the attention 
of the Committee had been, by personal observation and experi- 
ence, especially drawn to the causes and symptoms of the so- 
called "ague," of which the members had no reason to doubt 
zinc fumes were the efficient cause ; that it considered the 
danger of working in the several alloys was proportionate to 
the amount of zinc contained ; that the danger was increased 
by the use of such ingredients as discarded locomotive and 
boiler tubes, and such-like scrap ; also that the symptoms were 
caused by the inhalation of the zinc fumes, and by the intro- 



XXX.] RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE COMMITTEE - 463 

duction of the particles of zinc into the digestive tract with such 
food as might be eaten in the casting shop. The conclusion 
arrived at was that, "Although in brass-casting, as in all other 
occupations, the practice of personal cleanliness may serve to 
reduce the ill effects incident to the workers' employment, yet 
if a brass-caster is constantly exposed to the influence of these 
fumes, it remains almost an impossibility that he should pass 
unscathed by them. The most serious efforts, therefore, should 
be directed by manufacturers and artisans alike towards the 
minimising of the ill effects which must of necessity be caused in 
the process of casting by these fumes ; and the Committee are 
convinced, both from personal experience and from evidence which 
they have acquired from witnesses of all classes, that the direction 
of these efforts should lie towards securing a proper construction 
of casting shops, supplemented by a system of ventilation con- 
ducted on scientific principles." 

Shops properly constructed, scientifically ventilated, adequately 
provided with washing arrangements for the casters, and licensed 
by a competent authority, were the requirements suggested by 
the Committee as being absolutely necessary for the casters. 
The compulsory wearing of mouth coverings during the process 
of pouring the metal was felt, owing to hostile evidence given 
by the workers themselves, to be impossible for recommendation. 
Finding that "a great many witnesses considered milk to be a 
desirable thing to take when ill, but as a rule they preferred to 
take it at night, finding that it did not agree with them so well 
when taken in the shop, and in many cases witnesses did not 
think milk suited them personally," the Committee did not con- 
sider it desirable to recommend the retention of the tentative 
rule requiring manufacturers to provide a supply of milk or 
other sanitary drink. The drinking of milk, however, as well as 
the wearing of a covering to the mouth and nostrils, was recom- 
mended for the casters. Further recommendations were, leaving 
the shop for the purpose of taking food, frequent ablution, care 
in the avoidance of taking cold, and of a regular and moderate 
diet. 

Apart from the recommendations for optional courses of con- 
duct were suggestions for specific rules. It was a matter of 
sincere regret to the Committee to learn that these- were in 
some instances — such, for example, as the desired requirement 
that casting shops should be licensed — beyond the powers of 
enforcement vested in the Secretary of State. The special rules 



464 COPPER AND BRASS [chap. 

which were issued subsequently to the report of the Committee 
underwent a slight modification more recently, and are now as 
follows : — 

Form 271. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



MIXING AND CASTING OF BRASS AND OF CERTAIN OTHER 

ALLOYS. 



SPECIAL RULES. 

Under Section 8 of the Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, and Section 28 of the 
Factory and Workshop Act, 1895, for the processes in the mixing and casting 
of Brass, Gun Metal, Bell Metal, White Metal, Delta Metal, Phosphor Bronze, 
and Manilla Mixture. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

1. They shall provide adequate means for facilitating, as far as possible, the 
emission or escape from the shop of any noxious fumes or dust arising from the 
above-named processes. Such means shall include the provision of traps or of 
louvre gratings in th*e roof or ceiling of any shop in which such processes, or 
either of them, is or are carried on ; or in case of a mixing or casting shop 
which is situated under any other shop, there shall be provided an adequate 
flue or shaft (other than any flue or shaft in connection with a furnace or fire- 
place) to carry any fumes from the mixing or casting shop, by or through any 
such shop that may be situated above it. 

2. They shall cause all such mixing or casting shops, whether defined as 
P^actories or as Workshops under the Factory and Workshop Act, 1 878, to be 
cleaned down and limewashed once at least within every twelve months, or once 
within every six months if so required, by notice in writing from H.M. Inspector 
of Factories and Workshops, dating from the time when these were last thus 
cleaned down and limewashed ; and they shall record the dates of such clean- 
ing down and limewashing in a prescribed form of register. 

3. They shall provide a sufficient supply of metal basins, water, and soap, 
for the use of all persons employed in such mixing or casting shops. 

4. They shall not employ, or allow within their Factory or Workshop the 
employment of, any Woman or Female Young Person, in any process whatever, 
in any such mixing or casting shop, or in any portion thereof which is not 
entirely separated by a partition extending from the floor to the ceiling. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

5. They shall not partake of, or cook any food in any such mixing or casting 
shop, within a period of at least Ten Minutes after the completion of the last 
pouring of metal in that shop. 

B. A. WHITELEGGE, 
Jicly 10, 1896. H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

{Note^) — Women and Persons under 18 Years of Age are by the 39th section of 
the Factory and Workshop Act, 1878, expressly FORBIDDEN either to Take A Meal or 



XXX.] AIM OF THE RULES ' ' 465 

to Remain in any casting shop during the time stated on the Notice affixed in the factory 
or workshop as being allowed for meals ; and the obligation of enforcing this section rests 
with the occupier. 

These Rules are required to be posted up in conspicuous places in the 
Factory or Workshop to which they apply, where they may be conveniently 
read by the persons employed. Any person who wilfully injures or defaces 
them is liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds (Factory and Workshop 
Act, 1 89 1, section 11). Occupiers of factories and workshop, and persons 
employed therein, who are bound to observe any special rules, are liable to 
penalties for non-compliance with the same (Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, 
sections 9 and 11). 

These rules will be found to strike at the three principal 
causes of illness in the workers, viz. : (i) shops either struc- 
turally unfit for the processes of mixing or casting metal, or 
equally unfit on account of their dirty and zinc-coated con- 
dition ; (2) the want of opportunity afforded to the casters 
of washing themselves before taking meals ; and (3) the most 
pernicious habit, too common hitherto with the workers, of 
taking food in an atmosphere of deflagrated zinc. It will 
be noticed also that a prohibition is laid upon the employ- 
ment of females in casting-shops. Their labour in connection 
with such work is limited to the making of cores, small blocks 
of sand which are used in the formation of hollow castings. 
The evidence of the witnesses examined before the Committee 
was in favour of this prohibition, also of core-making being 
carried on in a separate shop. 

With regard to the other processes met with in brass- 
working, and which have been enumerated in an earlier part 
of this chapter, it cannot be said that they present any causes 
of illness differing from like processes in connection with other 
metals. Workers in the dipping-shop, and to a less extent 
in the bronzing process, are exposed to inhalation of acid 
fumes, and further, in the former occupation to exposure to 
the weather and to being obliged to stand on very wet floors. 
In a case brought to our notice, the powder used in bronzing 
contained lead to an extent of 7 per cent., a condition which 
might induce plumbism in the worker in the absence of due 
precaution. The dust which is given off during polishing is 
partly metallic in character, partly composed of a mixture of 
sand and lime, and partly textile fluff worn off the calico 
polishing discs by the process of work. Without doubt such 
dust should, as in all factories, be removed by fans or other 

2G 



466 COPPER AND BRASS [chap. 

ventilating methods from the shop. The shops used for lacquer- 
ing should similarly be freed from the unpleasant fumes of the 
lacquer, which cannot, however, be considered in any particular 
degree injurious to health. A most interesting paper read before 
the Midland Medical Society by Dr William Murray (subse- 
quently printed in the British Medical Journal, 2nd June 1900) 
on Chronic Brass Poisoning, draws attention to another rather 
common form of plumbism caused by the process of "putting 
together" gas fittings, it being customary to solder the joints 
of these fittings with white lead, and then having closed one 
end of the bracket, to suck at the other to ascertain that the 
work is perfectly sound. We have recently met with a case of 
advanced paralysis in a man of forty-five apparently induced by 
this branch of brass-work. Dr Murray deals in detail with 
his method of treatment of cases of chronic brass poisoning, 
of which as Resident Surgeon of the Birmingham General 
Dispensary he has had considerable experience. 

We hope we have shown that, firstly, the conditions of 
brass-working in all its branches require that the shops in 
which it is carried on should be well ventilated in order to 
secure the escape of the " smother " from the casting-shops, 
and of the conglomerated dusts from the polishing rooms ; 
and secondly, these conditions require or rather demand 
habits of personal cleanliness and of self-respect on the part 
of the workers, habits which prescribe temperance, avoidance 
of taking food in the shop, and frequency and regularity of 
ablution. Such are now possible of attainment by the persons 
whose health is concerned, and it rests with themselves alone 
to make full use of the improvements placed within their 
reach. 

Passing from the consideration of brass to that of copper, 
we find that there is little to be said regarding the working of 
that metal descriptive of any injury to health among its workers. 
Indeed it may be doubted whether any traces of such injury 
can be found. Having been mined in many quarters of the 
globe, the ore is subjected to the process of smelting, which, 
so far as Great Britain is concerned, takes place chiefly at 
Swansea, and also at St Helens and at Newcastle - on - Tyne. 
The qualities of the ores from different mining districts vary 
greatly, and the reducing processes of the ores vary corre- 
spondingly. Speaking generally, it may be said that the pro- 
cess consists of six operations conducted in reverbatory furnaces, 



XXX.] COPPER SMELTING • ' 467 

termed calcining and melting furnaces. At the conclusion of 
these processes the metal, freed from the arsenic, sulphur, and 
other accessories of the ore, is melted and cast into ingots, 
to be sent in that shape to various centres for manufacturing 
purposes. 

During the smelting processes the sulphurous fumes either 
are collected in leaden chambers for purposes of condensation 
into sulphuric acid, or escape through the flues into the out- 
side air. In neither case does the worker at the furnace 
suffer from these fumes, except, perhaps, when drawing the 
furnace he may experience some back draft of sulphur, an evil 
which may readily be met by the wearing of a handkerchief 
over the mouth while engaged in the operation. During recent 
years it may be mentioned that the first of the reducing 
processes is more commonly carried on in the vicinity of the 
mines, and as a consequence the ore on reaching S. Wales is 
now usually in the form of regulus. The denuded state of 
the country in the neighbourhood of the smelting furnaces 
bears witness to the unhealthy character of sulphur fumes. Dr 
Arlidge, however, notes an analysis of sickness in the 
Swansea district which tends to prove that though the fumes 
were very productive of acute pulmonary disease, yet the 
death-rate in parts of the country subject to their inr 
fluence was lower than that in adjacent districts. We are 
told by Mr Lewis, who for many years has been the Factory 
Inspector in charge of the Swansea district, that although 
there is a prevalent impression that the furnacemen suffer 
exceptionally from chest mischief owing to the great heat and 
the fumes, he does not consider that they suffer in any 
degree more than the furnacemen in other metal processes. 
He forms the same opinion as that held by us in respect 
of the brass-workers, namely, that the workers are not suffi- 
ciently careful of themselves between shifts. He reports that 
the flue and chamber cleaners, as at other smelting works, 
rarely wear respirators ; they will not ventilate the flues nor 
water the dust before commencing cleaning operations, and 
consequently the respiratory organs are more or less affected ; 
he cannot find direct evidence of specific illness traceable 
to copper smelting. Mr Lewis attaches considerable import- 
ance to the provision of high and well - constructed stacks and 
flues, and to the due preparation of the chambers by ventila- 
tion and watering before the process of their cleaning takes 



468 COPPER AND BRASS [chap. 

place. No special inquiry having been ordered concerning this 
subject, particular importance attaches to Mr Lewis' opinion. 

On the whole we do not consider that copper-working is in 
any way as dangerous an occupation as brass-working, for 
the pouring of metal is not accompanied by the same abundant 
vapours as in brass pouring, besides such vapour as does arise 
is mainly due to the presence of a small quantity of spelter 
in the mixture. The same precautions as advised for brass 
pourers should be taken, but the need is less ; we have 
seen a pouring shop with a perfectly clear atmosphere five 
minutes after the pouring has taken place. A muffler or 
respirator should be worn during the operation, and, as far as 
we have seen, this is generally done. Apart from the pouring 
we have been struck by the excellent health of copper-workers, 
and as the dust is heavy, and does not float in the air, there 
are none of those respiratory troubles which, as we have seen, 
are the bane of brass-workers. There is one danger to which 
apparently they might be subjected, but we found no evidence 
of its having arisen, and that is from the accumulation of the 
heavy copper dust on the tables or boards at which the men 
are working. It seemed not unreasonable to expect that want 
of cleanliness on the part of the workers would entail digestive 
troubles from the mixing of copper dust with the food. As 
we have stated, no evidence of this is forthcoming. It will be 
seen that we are unable to confirm Dr Arlidge's view of the 
dangers to copper-workers from the inhalation of copper dust, 
nor are we able, though contrary to our expectations, to assert 
that men employed in the trade are particularly liable to suffer 
from colic. According to Blaudet, this colic is attended by 
complete prostration, by vomiting and purging, and it is very 
probable that such results would follow, if the men were dirty 
in their work and habits, the introduction of copper dust by 
food taken into the stomach. Opinions are much divided on this 
subject, and it is possible that working in old copper and brass, 
which are covered with a carbonate of copper, may be responsible 
for the ill effects noticed. According to M. Perron of Besangon, 
clockmakers, who have to handle copper freely, suffer from a 
slow intoxication from it, exhibited by gastric derangements, 
diarrhoea, oppression, and some feverishness, but our own 
experience among copper-workers and other persons does not 
confirm these observations. 

The conditions of improvement suggested both for brass 



XXX.] SUGGESTIONS ' 469 

and copper working are those that should be applied to all 
manufacturing processes. Shops of good construction, well 
ventilated, and amply furnished with lavatory and other sanitary 
arrangements ; these are desiderata for the workmen. 

Robert M. Simon. 
Seymour H. Knyvett. 



CHAPTER XXXI 

INDIARUBBER: DANGERS INCIDENTAL TO THE USE OF 
BISULPHIDE OF CARBON AND NAPHTHA 

INDIARUBBER is used in the manufacture of waterproof garments, 
door-mats, toys for children, insulators of electric wires, tobacco 
pouches, etc. In the production of these articles large numbers of 
people find employment. During my visits to indiarubber works 
in Manchester and London I had several opportunities of observ- 
ing some of the dangers incidental to the trade. 

On entering a waterproof garment manufactory one encounters 
an extremely pungent vapour, which dries and heats the nose 
and throat, and is apt to make the eyes run water. This is the 
fume that comes from naphtha, which is used to dissolve the rubber 
and to form the dough that is spread as a thin layer by means of 
a roller machine upon the cloth about to be waterproofed. Both 
coal tar and mineral naphtha are employed. The vapour of 
naphtha is extremely irritating, and can be detected over the 
whole of the factory. The colour of the waterproofed material 
depends upon the pigment that is employed. If, for example, black 
is wanted, all that has to be added to the dough, composed of 
indiarubber and naphtha, is lamp black. The men who feed the 
roller machines, and who regulate the distribution of the dough 
upon the cloth, are constantly breathing the irritating atmo- 
sphere, but I did not find any special complaint in regard to it 
from them. It is the girls who work in the overheated and often 
overcrowded rooms of the factory that suffer most. They are 
usually very anaemic and complain much of headache. So satu- 
rated are they with the fumes of naphtha that even after they have 
left the factory they still feel the taste of naphtha in their food. In 
the workrooms these girls are employed rolling and pressing the 
garments ; joining the seams, etc., by rubber dissolved in naphtha. 
On a winter's night, when the gas is full ablaze, the air of the 
workroom is extremely pungent, so that girls are often obliged to 
leave the room and go into the open air for a short period. The 



CHAP. XXXI.] VULCANISATION OF RUBBER • ' 471 

fumes of naphtha are more unpleasant than really dangerous ; still 
there is no doubt that the constant inhalation of these fumes 
during working hours and the distaste for food thereby created 
cannot but in time undermine the health of the female worker, and 
render her more or less unfit for duty. 

The dangerous process in the manufacture of indiarubber 
goods is not that in which naphtha is used, but bisulphide of 
carbon. In order to render rubber goods capable of withstanding 
alternations of heat and cold, and of retaining their elasticity in all 
kinds of weather, they must be vulcanised. The vulcanising agent 
is either the common flowers of sulphur or a compound of sulphur. 
When 50 to 60 per cent, of sulphur is added to rubber there is 
obtained a very hard product known as ebonite. Considerable care 
has to be taken in using sulphur. If, for example, too much sulphur 
is added to rubber, the goods become hard ; 5 per cent, gives good 
elasticity. There are various ways of bringing indiarubber goods 
under the influence of sulphur. It may be done in the primary 
mixing of the dough, so that all that is subsequently required in the 
treatment of the waterproofed materials is exposure to a great 
heat, say 260° F. in a closed oven. Another method is to hang up 
non-vulcanised waterproofed goods for several hours in a hot stove 
in which there is a basin containing chloride of sulphur heated over 
a flame. These processes can scarcely be called dangerous, for they 
are conducted in closed chambers. The real danger lies in using 
as the vulcanising agent bisulphide of carbon, to which is often 
added a small quantity of chloride of sulphur. The bisulphide of 
carbon has an extremely offensive odour : it is very volatile and 
highly inflammable, but it is an excellent solvent for caoutchouc. 
To vulcanise indiarubber goods by means of bisulphide of carbon, 
the materials are passed through a solution containing about one 
thousand parts of bisulphide of carbon and from two to ten of 
chloride of sulphur. The indiarubber is dissolved by the carbon 
bisulphide and becomes incorporated with the sulphur given up by 
the chloride. 

It is difficult to prevent the nauseating, offensive, and repellent 
vapour given off by carbon bisulphide penetrating the atmosphere 
of a workroom even when the room is provided with fans. Fortun- 
ately, in some respects, the work is carried on in the top storey of 
the factory. Here the long webs of cloth coated with indiarubber 
are vulcanised by being passed through a trough of bisulphide of 
carbon placed in front of rollers. Escaping at the distal end of 
the machine the cloth is afterwards hung up to dry. All the time 



472 INDIARUBBER [chap 



the men are at work in this room they are exposed to the vapour 
of the bisulphide. Inhalation of the vapour is liable to induce a 
subacute inflammatory condition of the nerves of the limbs known 
as peripheral neuritis, in consequence of which men lose the power 
in their arms and legs. Some of the men whom I examined had 
been paralysed in their lower extremities, had been off work for 
several months, and had only slowly regained the use of their 
limbs. Occasionally men may work as long as three or four years 
in the bisulphide department without becoming paralysed. Before 
actually losing the power in their legs the men suffer from inco- 
ordination ; they stagger when walking. The workmen complain of 
the carbon bisulphide vapour making them drowsy and of their 
sleep being heavy. After working for a few hours in the vulcanis- 
ing department, they feel tired and sleepy. Thick or foggy weather 
rather tends to favour the development of these unpleasant 
symptoms. 

The pernicious effects of bisulphide of carbon are by no means 
confined to the men. The women and girls who dip very fine india- 
rubber goods — for example, children's balloons, tobacco pouches, 
etc. — into the bisulphide, suffer even more severely than the men. 
The poisoning shows itself under two forms. In one the symptoms 
which are slowly developed are dizziness, headache, vomiting, lassi- 
tude, and not infrequently paralysis of the arms or legs. Many 
of the female workers complain of tasting the nauseous bisulphide 
in their food. The appetite thus becomes impaired. In the other 
form of poisoning, which may be spoken of as acute, the individual 
is really intoxicated. Girls have told me that on leaving the 
factory at night they have simply staggered home, they have even 
fallen as if drunk, or at the end of a day's work they have had a 
splitting headache, and on reaching home have sat down, tired out, 
and fallen asleep before touching their evening meal. This sleep 
is heavy and non-refreshing. In the morning they drag them- 
selves to the factory feeling ill and headachy, and, like people who 
are accustomed to the intemperate use of alcohol, they only get 
relief and recover their nervous equilibrium by renewed inhalation 
of the vapour of the bisulphide of carbon. Sad as this state 
of things is, it is nothing to the extremely violent maniacal condition 
into which some of the workers, both male and female, are known 
to have been thrown. Some of them have become the victims of 
acute insanity, and in their frenzy have precipitated themselves from 
the top rooms of the factory to the ground. In consequence of 
bisulphide of carbon being extremely explosive, vulcanisation by 




XXXI.] TOXIC HYSTERIA • "^ 473 

means of it has generally to be carried on in rooms, one side of which 
is perfectly open. This open front is usually protected by iron bars. 

Bisulphide of carbon, in addition to causing paralysis of the limbs 
and an exalted condition of the brain, induces a temporary form 
of amblyopia, or blindness. Women often suffer from excessive 
menstruation, and, if pregnant, they may abort. Girls sometimes 
become hysterical and excited. This form of toxic hysteria, like 
that in plumbism, often masks a deeper form of bisulphide of 
carbon poisoning. The individual becomes extremely loquacious ; 
she shouts or sings, becomes very irritable, and may, when in this 
mood, perpetrate acts that are beyond her control and even beyond 
her consciousness. Just as in some people, after the excitement 
of alcoholic intoxication has passed off, there comes a stage of 
depression, physical and mental, so too after intoxication by 
bisulphide of carbon there is a period marked by great weakness 
of mind and body. Prolonged exposure to the vapour of bisulphide 
induces an enfeeblement of the intelligence that recalls the mental 
weakness of chronic alcoholic inebriety. 

In addition to the risks from naphtha and bisulphide of carbon, 
indiarubber workers are said to be liable to consumption. Dr 
Philip of Edinburgh states that within a period of eight years he 
had under his care in the Hospital for Consumption 70 india- 
rubber workers, and that 85 per cent, of these suffered from 
respiratory diseases, the bulk of which was phthisis. His experi- 
ence as to pulmonary phthisis has not been altogether confirmed 
by that of medical men elsewhere. 

Prevention of Poisoning. — Ventilation of the workrooms is of 
the first importance. This cannot be secured by open windows 
alone. Owing to the inflammability of carbon bisulphide no fires 
and no naked lights are allowed in the workroom. The work- 
people complain, therefore, of the cold, and as a consequence 
cannot but have their vital resistance reduced thereby. The air of 
this particular part of the factory is redolent of the offensive odour 
coming from the open troughs and basins. As carbon bisulphide 
is heavier than the ordinary atmosphere, the artificial means of 
ventilation that are required are such as shall draw the air of the 
workroom downwards away from the worker. No young person 
should be allowed to work in the vulcanisation of indiarubber by 
means of carbon bisulphide, nor should any adult be allowed to 
work more than five hours a day — two and a half at a stretch — 
separated by at least an hour's interval, which should be spent in 
the open air, if possible, and away from the factory. 



474 INDIARUBBER [chap. xxxi. 

This is a kind of work in which there ought to be alternation 
of employment. All receptacles containing carbon bisulphide 
when not in use should be covered. The machines should be 
provided with down-draught suction fans. During the drying of 
the vulcanised waterproof goods no person should be allowed to 
enter the room where these products are hanging unless on busi- 
ness that is absolutely necessary. Naphtha receptacles should, 
when not in use, be kept covered. No food should be eaten 
in the bisulphide department, and it should be discouraged also 
where naphtha is used. Girls say that they sometimes can only 
eat food in the workrooms, because they do not taste the naphtha 
there. In the open air the food tastes as though it contained 
naphtha. Workers in the bisulphide process should be medicall}' 
examined once a month, and the slightest indication of com- 
mencing paralysis or other nervous manifestation should be fol- 
lowed by suspension from work. Five hundred cubic feet of air 
space should be allowed to each worker. 

Poisoning by bisulphide of carbon in its minor form generally 
disappears on removing the individual from his employment. By 
many of the workers, particularly girls who are extremely poor and 
ill-fed, suspension from work would be keenly felt, for to them the loss 
of the weekly wage is a serious matter. When peripheral neuritis 
has been induced and causes paralysis, recovery is usually tedious. 
The patient under these circumstances should be taken to a hos- 
pital, where under the influence of good food, rest, electricity, and 
tonic treatment, health will in most instances be regained. 

In the AllgjJi. Medic. Central Zeitung^ 22nd December 1900, 
Lazarus, a surgeon-dentist, draws attention to a newmalady to which 
workers in guttapercha are liable. In one year he observed twenty 
cases of dental caries and necrosis of the jaw-bone not unlike that 
met with in lucifer matchmakers, and known as phosphorus 
necrosis. Those workers, who on entering the factory were 
already the subjects of decayed teeth and carious stumps, are the 
most predisposed. With the exception of a young woman, aged 
19 years, and who had worked in the factory for only two years 
all the other females wh© suffered were from 25 to 35 years 
of age. While Lazarus recommends a dental examination 
of the teeth of all the workers before entering a guttapercha 
factory, he offers no suggestion as to the probable causes of 
the necrosis of the jaw in the patients who came under his care 
for treatment. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XXXII 

THE EFFECTS OF DINITROBENZINE AND OTHER NITRO- 
SUBSTITUTION PRODUCTS OF THE AROMATIC SERIES ON 
THE WORKMEN EMPLOYED IN THE MANUFACTURE OF 
HIGH EXPLOSIVES. 

There are about fourteen authorised explosives in use in the 
United Kingdom, all of which contain, more or less, naphthalene 
and the aromatic nuclei, benzine, toluene, either singly or combined. 
These nuclei, when nitrated, form the usual combustible elements 
in high explosives. 

The dinitro compounds of benzine exist in three varieties, 
ortho, meta, and para. The ordinary commercial form consists 
almost entirely of metadinitrobenzine, and is generally used in 
the manufacture of high explosives. This is in some cases 
mixed with a chlorinated hydrocarbon. The metadinitrobenzine 
is usually commercially pure, it rarely contains a trace of mono- 
nitrobenzine, or the lower oxides of nitrogen. A little free acid 
is generally found which colours the crystals yellow, and stains 
the hands of the workmen. It is very sensibly volatile at a 
temperature of 48° C. At ordinary temperatures it is solid, as 
are also its isomerides, para and orthonitrobenzine. 

The proportions used in the various explosives differ very 
largely, ranging from 5 to 20 per cent, in the finished explosives. 
In a smaller number the mono, di, and tri nitrobenzine, toluene, 
and naphthalene are employed either alone or in combination. 

When comparing the poisonous nature of these substances, 
naphthalene is probably not poisonous, whilst some of the toluene 
compounds are more poisonous than the benzine. 

There is evidence that, generally speaking, the higher the nitra- 
tion of the aromatic series, the more dangerous these substances 
are to manipulate. 

This is borne out by the following investigations, which we 
communicated to the Lancet, August 31, 1901 : — 

" We found that mononitrobenzine when given by the mouth 



476 MANUFACTURE OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

to cats was quite harmless, they seemed rather to thrive and grow 
fat upon it. Dinitrobenzine is exceedingly poisonous both to men 
and animals. 1.2 grammes given to a cat by the mouth proved 
fatal in about three hours. The smallest lethal dose for a cat of 
6 lb. in weight, given by the mouth in one dose, was .08 gramme. 
In another instance .06 gramme given in the same manner was 
almost fatal. A lethal dose of .09 gramme of dinitrobenzine, 
when given over a consecutive number of days in divided doses of 
.04, .02, .01, and .02 gramme, did not cause death." 

" Hypodermically, .04 gramme did not prove fatal to a cat. 

** In experimenting upon animals with trinitrobenzine, we 
found that it was distinctly but not much more poisonous than 
dinitrobenzine. 

" Coming to the toluene group, the administration of mono- 
nitrotoluene proved, like its homologue mononitrobenzine, quite 
inert. 

*' There is great difference of opinion amongst manufacturers 
as to whether dinitrotoluene has lethal properties or not. The 
weight of evidence rather supports the latter view. We are 
investigating this point {Lancet, August 31, 1901). 

" Trinitrotoluene is not poisonous under ordinary use. 

" For comparative purposes we injected 50 minims of a i per 
cent, solution of dinitrobenzine into a cat, with a fatal result. 
We then injected 60 minims of a i per cent, solution of trinitro- 
toluene into another cat, with the result that the only effect 
appeared to be some slight cyanosis. 

" Again, 90 minims of a i per cent, solution of dinitrobenzine 
given hypodermically was quickly fatal to a cat, whilst 90 minims 
of a I per cent, trinitrotoluene proved perfectly innocuous." 

This is a very important practical point, as the susceptibility of 
man and animals seems closely allied. In some factories the tri- 
nitrotoluene has been substituted for dinitrobenzine, with great 
advantage to the health of the workmen employed. 

The oxidising bodies used are the nitrates of ammonium, 
potassium, and barium. These do not appear to affect the work- 
men injuriously. 

The gases produced by the complete detonation of these high 
explosives, when well diluted with air, are for all practical purposes 
harmless. 

During the process of the manufacture of these high explosives 
an intimate mixture of the organic compound with the oxidising 
body results. This is effected in the case of chlorinated meta- 



XXXII.] POISONOUS PROPERTIES OF DINITROBENZII<IE 477 

dinitrobenzine (of which this article chiefly treats), by the processes 
of grinding, rnelting at a temperature of 98.9° C, cooHng, mixing 
in a closed, heated, jacketed pan at a temperature of 80° C, and 
finally filling in air-tight cartridges. 

Poisonous Dose. — Dinitrobenzine is a potent poison, whether 
introduced into the stomach, injected into the circulation, absorbed 
as it readily is by the skin, or inhaled in the form of vapour. 

The poisonous dose of dinitrobenzine for an animal, cat, or dog 
of six pounds in weight averages about .08 gramme ; in the same 
proportion for a man of ten stones weight, it will be about 1.84 
grammes. 

Dixon Mann {Forensic Medicine, 2nd edition) and T. Oliver 
(article in AUbutt's System of Medicine^ vol. ii.) do not mention the 
poisonous dose, but in all probability a dose of under i gramme 
by the mouth will be lethal. 

In fatal cases death takes place within twenty-four hours 
from a single dose. If animals live beyond that time, there 
is a strong probability of their ultimate recovery. 

A marked characteristic of dinitrobenzine is the ease and 
rapidity with which, when mixed with fat, it passes through the 
skin into the system. We found that a 25 per cent, ointment in 
lanoline, rubbed into the skin of a cat, caused death in twenty-four 
hours, and 400 milligrammes of lanoline containing .1 gramme 
of dinitrobenzine, when rubbed into the groins of a man, 
produced lividity, cyanosis, and other pathognomonic symptoms 
in a few hours. No doubt the secretions of the cutaneous 
glands facilitate absorption when the powder settles on the 
skin. It is probable that all the nitro derivatives of the aromatic 
series pass readily through the skin. In most works, handling 
any of these crude compounds for any length of time without 
gloves is prohibited, being considered dangerous. 

The concentrated vapour is dangerous in small doses, and 
fatal in large. A workman breathing for ten minutes the air 
in a flue through which pure dinitrobenzine had passed from 
the mixing pans, died from the effects eighteen hours later. 

Judging from experiments upon animals, the poisonous dose, if 
injected hypodermically, is about half that taken by the mouth. 

Poisoning divides itself naturally into acute, subacute, and 
chronic. 

Acute Poisoning. — Fatal acute cases are rare, and have been 
noted chiefly on account of their interest from a medico-legal 
point of view. The symptoms are nausea and vomiting, intense 



478 MANUFACTURE OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

congestive headache, faintness and giddiness, loss of control over 
the limbs, numbness, tingling in tongue and lips, and other sub- 
jective sensations. A characteristic symptom is deep cyanosis ; 
lips, fingers, and tongue are deeply cyanosed, nearly black in the 
early stage. The skin becomes cold and clammy, the pulse quick 
and weak, often over 120 a minute. It is small, thready, and 
feeble, and shows a very low condition of arterial tension. The 
capillaries are freely dilated, and cause the line of descent in 
sphygmographic tracings to be very rapid. In all severe cases 
the pulse is fully dicrotic, and displays well the loss of vasomotor 
tone, which is one of the most marked features in these cases. 
The heart's action is easily excited by exertion, the breathing is 
laboured, and the urine darkened. The eyes become bright and 
glassy, the features pale and ghastly, and coma supervenes, which 
lasts for many hours. Exceptional symptoms are noises in the 
head, or dark specks floating before the eyes. When larger doses 
of the poison have been absorbed, unconsciousness may become 
complete. The eyes then roll slowly from side to side, the 
pupils are widely dilated, and the conjunctivae are insensitive 
to touch. Both the deep and superficial reflexes are in abeyance. 
The respirations are increased to even double the normal number, 
become irregular, and Cheyne-Stokes in character. The limbs 
become quite flaccid, or one or more of the joints remain stiff, 
and when this is the case it is usually those of the upper limbs. 
Eventually this stiffness entirely disappears. The hands, feet, 
and face become remarkably bloodless. Occasionally there 
is cedema of the lips and eyelids, or dropsy of the lower 
extremities. The temperature ranges from 99"^ F. to 102° F. 
{Lancet, November i, 1902, p. 89). 

Subacute Poisoning. — Subacute attacks may supervene upon 
chronic poisoning, in which, besides the usual chronic condi- 
tions to be mentioned later, we find a distinct distaste for food, 
especially breakfast. Sometimes there is nausea, or there may 
be slight vomiting. This should always be a warning sign, for, 
if neglected, coma may follow. 

The attacks vary in severity according to the amount of the 
poison absorbed. The symptoms noticed are : — Headache, with 
throbbing of the temples and forehead, great langour and de- 
pression, the urine becomes darkened in colour, the hands moist ; 
there is drowsiness, with great tendency to sleep ; the men say it 
is impossible to keep awake. During the night they sleep soundly 
unless prevented by an incessant headache. In the morning they 



XXXII.] CHRONIC POISONING BY DINITROBENZINS n 479 

awake unrefreshed and heavy. The tongue is fairly clean though 
dark in colour, and develops a yellowish fur ; dull, heavy pains 
are felt in the back. Breathing is quick and short, and fatigue 
follows upon the least exertion. Pricking, tingling, and numbness 
in the extremities are complained of when walking ; workmen 
when so affected may take three hours to cover as many miles ; 
they stagger, do not know where their legs are, frequently fall, and 
are unable to pick themselves up readily. When asked to walk 
backwards with their eyes closed, their movements are very 
unsteady. These symptoms practically disappear if the men 
leave work a few days ; after such rest they say they feel in 
excellent health and spirits. 

Chronic Poisoning. — The more common manifestations may 
be denominated chronic, as they are found after prolonged 
absorption of small doses of the poison, and many of them 
persist for a long time, at least many months, even after the 
workmen have left this special occupation. All workers who 
are brought into intimate contact with this poison show more 
or less the following : — 

Upon careful examination of the cases, it is found that those 
employed suffer from a very severe form of anaemia. The ruddy 
hue of health disappears ; the skin becomes dirty yellow-greyish 
in colour. This duskiness gradually deepens with the amount 
of poison absorbed, and decreases as it becomes eliminated. 
This objective symptom is especially marked in the mucous 
membrane. The men appear to be suffering from partial asphyxia. 
The conjunctivae show a jaundiced tinge. 

Muscular System. — The effects of the poison are shown in a 
marked manner upon the muscular system. The men have not 
the appearance of being employed in manual labour. When 
stripped the muscles are seen to be flaccid and the skin loose. 
The body lacks fullness and firmness. All movements lose tone 
and precision. Fatigue quickly follows muscular exertion. 

In long-continued cases the objective symptoms are occasion- 
ally remarkable, such as wasting of the muscles, especially those 
of the extremities. This has been particularly pointed out by 
Dr Ross (^Medical Chi'onicle, May 1889). "The muscles of the 
hands are seen to be very much atrophied. The spaces between 
the metacarpal bones are more distinctly marked than is normal, 
and the grooves between them very noticeable. The muscles 
of the thenar and hypo-thenar eminences are soft and distinctly 
wasted, especially the abductor indices. Patients cannot, without 



48o MANUFACTURE OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

considerable trouble and difficulty, cause the tips of the thumb 
and little finger to meet. Sometimes this is more observable in 
one hand than the other. The phalangeal joints must be bent, 
otherwise there is inability to flex the thumb strongly into the 
palm, and at the same time the power of adduction is feeble. 

" All the finer and more delicate movements of the hands are 
greatly restricted in severe cases. Small objects such as pins and 
needles cannot be readily felt or held. The act of walking loses 
much of its elasticity and spring, and in consequence the balance 
of the body is with difficulty maintained. The big toe in the 
advancing foot does not manifestly drop ; it is only slightly 
flexed into the sole. There is usually no ankle drop, and the 
power of raising the toes whilst the foot is flat on the ground is 
not lost. The symptoms of weakness and paresis observed in the 
muscles of the foot are not so well-marked as those seen in the 
hand." 

Nervous Symptoms. — Pains of a shooting, stabbing, or darting 
character are of very frequent occurrence. They are felt in all 
parts of the body, a common position being under the heart or in 
the armpit, neck, or jaws. The legs are rarely affected. When 
the pains are in the locality of the stomach they are of a griping 
nature. Sometimes a smarting or burning sensation is described, 
which is felt in the cheeks, forehead, and eyes, or restricted to 
the soles of the feet. These sensations are not accompanied by 
tenderness to the touch. 

More or less irritation of the peripheral nerves is always 
present. It shows itself by tingling and itching of the skin of 
the fingers, palms, and backs of the hands, sometimes extending 
to the wrists. In a certain proportion of cases they are felt in 
the feet as well as the hands. They may be restricted to the 
feet, and only noticed when the men have their boots on, or their 
legs crossed. Whilst sitting, or at rest in bed, the pains are often 
acute. They are invariably confined to the dorsum of the foot, 
never being felt in the soles, and disappear upon standing or 
walking. Occasionally these symptoms are more severe in the 
extremity or extremities of one side of the body. 

Hyperaesthesia is a most characteristic feature in all these 
chronic cases of poisoning. In all cases it is present, but it varies 
both in intensity and in the part of the body affected. It may 
be felt in one or both feet, restricted to the upper or under 
surfaces of the toes. Striking the outside, or dorsum of the foot, 
causes severe electric-like pains to run all over the leg. In a 



XXXII,] • . NERVOUS SYMPTOMS .-•. .> 4gj 

well-marked case there will be exceeding tenderness upon the 
slightest pressure on any part of the foot. Drawing the finger 
very gently over these sensitive areas sends shooting pains about 
four inches up the legs. The soles of the feet are not affected 
by a light touch, but a sharp blow, tap, or jar, or a false step-in 
walking causes painful sensations as high as the knees. These 
symptoms are usually more acute in the left than the right leg. 
The upper extremity is in like manner affected ; a gentle rub 
on a small part of the cutaneous distribution of the ulnar nerve 
will produce general formication and tingling all over the arm. 
Partial hemianaisthesia, with a small patch excessively tender, 
may be present. This is probably hysterical. Dr Dreschfeld 
points out that Charcot, Balmskz, and Marie have found this same 
symptom in bisulphide of carbon poisoning, viz., hemianaesthesia 
with small circumscribed hyperaesthefic areas. The nerve trunks 
of the legs or arms are sensitive to pressure where superficial ; 
and great pain is caused all over the area of distribution of the 
occipital nerve by pressure on the nerve trunk. - 

The muscles are often very tender, especially those of the upper 
arm. Touch is often impaired in the fingers and toes. Patients 
almost invariably complain that the skin of the hands and soles 
of the feet is less sensitive than is usual in the healthy state. 
The fingers are numb and act clumsily, while the hands feel aS 
if they were gloved. The impression of sand or snow is con* 
veyed to the feet when standing or walking. Heat and cold are 
with difficulty differentiated. In one sufferer two test-tubes con- 
taining water, differing lo degrees in temperature, being applied 
to the arms and trunk, were readily distinguished, but from the 
hips downwards the patient was utterly unable to discover which 
of the two tubes was the hotter. If applied simultaneously about 
three inches apart, both were experienced as cold. Generally 
speaking the skin of the body is more sensitive than that of 
the limbs, but in all parts variations occur. Upon using a 
Faradic current of a given strength, which was with difficulty 
borne by the thighs, arms, and trunk, there was no perceptible 
impression produced in the calves or legs. In these situations 
the compasses must be separated three inches, to be distinguished 
as two points. The transmission of touch and pain are .slower 
than normal, or at any rate are not as readily responded to as 
in health. The extremities become very quickly chilled. On 
the slightest exposure to a low temperature the fingers look 
pale, bloodless, and feel as if they were dead, and the feet are 

2 H 



482 MANUFACTURE OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES • [chap 

always cold. Hearing and taste are unaffected. There is great 
loss of energy. Feebleness, lassitude, and depression are invari- 
able concomitants. The sexual appetite is notoriously weakened, 
or lost, and erections of the penis rare. The reflexes, superficial 
and deep, are very variable ; sometimes they are exaggerated ; 
this, however, is not usual. Generally speaking, they are en- 
feebled. Dr Reynolds mentions a case where the patient was 
comatose and the knee-jerk persistent. Cremasteric and plantar 
reflexes are those most commonly absent. The muscles react 
readily to a moderate Faradic current, but different groups of 
muscles vary in their sensitiveness to the same strength of 
current. 

Eye Affections. — Dinitrobenzine produces a distinct toxic 
defect of vision similar in many respects to that caused by 
tobacco, iodoform, bisulphide of carbon, etc. This amblyopia 
will be found in a varying degree in all those who suffer periodi- 
cally from subacute attacks of poisoning, or who develop other 
symptoms due to the continued absorption of the poison. 
Susceptibility may aggravate the symptoms, but no worker can 
claim perfect immunity. Comparatively few complain of any 
impairment to their sight, but probably about one in ten are 
unknowingly affected. Dr Neiden {Edinburgh Medical Journal^ 
1889) and Mr Simeon Snell {British Medical Journal, 1894) have 
described the eye affections. The latter summarises his conclu- 
sions as follows: — "Failure of sight, often to a considerable 
degree in both eyes, concentric contraction of the visual field, 
with in many cases a central colour scotoma, some blurring, 
never extensive, of the edges of the disc, and a varying degree 
of pallor of its surface." 

In all cases absence from the work removes these symptoms 
in a varying length of time : and usually a restricted exposure 
will alleviate them. 

Urinary Affection, — In cases of long-continued chronic poison- 
ing, dinitrobenzine will always be found free in the urine (Dixon 
Mann). In the urine of animals, tube casts, brown flakes, and 
haemoglobin have been isolated, and in the kidneys much cloudy 
swelling of the epithelium lining the tubules can be seen (Strass- 
mann and Strecker). 

. We tested the blood, lungs, liver, spleen, and urine from 
several cats poisoned by dinitrobenzine. In only one sample, 
the urine from a cat which died from chronic poisoning, could 
any indication be found. Both sugar and albumen are gener- 



XXXII.] FATE OF NITRO-COMPOUNDS IN HUMAN BODY 483 

ally absent. The source of the bile pigments is the haemo- 
globin of the blood, and the excretion of these pigments 
points to the existence of some cause at work in the blood 
leading to the destruction of haemoglobin. The large deposit 
of urates, high specific gravity and presence of biliary pigments 
found in the urine, is strong corroborative evidence of an active 
destruction of blood corpuscles. 

No experimental evidence has yet proved that reduction takes 
place in the body in case of the nitro-compounds of benzine to 
aniline, or phenylene-diamine. 

In several samples of urine tested, both nitrates and nitrites 
were present, so that in the case of phenylene-diamine being present, 
the pigment Bismarck brown would be formed, and would give the 
urine a brown tint. 

The samples of urine were tested for free dinitrobenzine by 
the following method : The urine is treated with zinc and hydro- 
chloric acid for some hours. Any dinitrobenzine that may be 
present is reduced by the nascent hydrogen into phenylene-diamine. 
The urine is then alkalised with caustic soda, and well shaken up 
with ether. The ether is then separated, filtered, and evaporated. 
The residue is treated with dilute acetic acid and nitrite of soda, 
when a yellow or brown coloration shows the presence of dinitro- 
benzine in the original sample. In three cases a slight indication 
was found. 

By ordinary reducing agents in the laboratory, such as nascent 
hydrogen, the nitro-substitution compounds of benzine can easily 
be reduced as follows : — 

Mononitrobenzine to aniline. 

Dinitrobenzine to phenylene-diamine. 

Trinitrobenzine to triamidobenzine. 

The amount of urea is generally high, due to increased meta- 
bolism of the tissues. 

The exact chemical changes which take place in the body are 
extremely difficult to follow. The nitro-compounds probably pass 
through the body without suffering any change, or they may be 
reduced in the body. 

It will be noticed in the subsequent table that all the samples 
are acid, many being strongly so. Nearly all are dark-brown in 
colour and generally precipitate a red deposit, principally urates. 
In most of these urobilin is present, and can be easily recognised 
by the following test : 100 c.c. of the urine are acidified with 10 
drops of strong hydrochloric acid, and then shaken with 20 c.c. 



484 MANUFACTURE OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

of chloroform. The chloroform which falls to the bottom is 
separated by means of a separating funnel, and filtered into a 
test-tube, .4 c.c. of a solution of i gramme of crystallised acetate 
of zinc dissolved in a litre of 95 per cent, alcohol is then poured 
gently down the side of the test-tube, and at the junction where 
the liquids meet, a green fluorescent ring, characteristic of urobilin, 
will appear ; the solution on shaking will become fluorescent, being 
green by transmitted, and rose-coloured by reflected light. This 
pigment can also be detected by means of the spectroscope. 

Urine. — In severe cases of dinitrobenzine poisoning, the urine 
becomes of a dark, tawny, port-wine colour. There is no irritation 
or frequency in making water. 

The following table represents the examination of the urine 
from very mild cases, such as can any day be found amongst men 
handling, or breathing the fumes of dinitrobenzine. 

Pathology : The Blood. — Active metabolism takes place at once 
upon contact of the blood tissue with dinitrobenzine, and this 
may induce a febrile rise of temperature. The blood becomes thin 
and dark in colour, varying from chocolate-brown to black. The 
number of blood corpuscles is greatly diminished, in some cases 
less than half the normal number. The amount of haemoglobin 
averages 35 per cent. MacMunn describes the presence of large 
coloured megalocytes, 12 yu in diameter ; the ordinary red corpuscles 
are smaller than normal, about 5 /x or 6 /x in diameter ; many are 
crenated and broken up. 

Haldane (^Journal of Physiology, vol. xxi., 1897), in carefully 
conducted experiments on mice, " finds spectroscopically a feebly- 
marked band in the red besides the oxyhaemoglobin bands ; but 
it was not methaemoglobin. Methaemoglobin is contained in the 
blood, but some other pigment is probably present." In men we 
were able to obtain the oxyhaemoglobin band, but it was always 
blurred. Whether there is a special dinitro band in the blood is 
a disputed point ; it has been investigated in animals by Huber 
and Rohl {Ueber acute u. chron. Intoxdurch Nitrokdrp d. Benzol- 
reihe, 1890). 

Dinitrobenzine is a powerful narcotic poison. Death in acute 
cases is due to coma in man. Convulsions are frequently and 
generally observed in animals. It is a powerful disintegrator of 
the blood, and in dogs, cats, and rabbits causes oligocythemia, 
poikilocytosis, and haemoglobinaemia. So great is the destruction 
of the blood corpuscles that Haldane attributes all the symptoms 
to the want of oxygen consequent on changes in the blood. In 



XXXII.] 




• • ? 




URINAR V ANAL YSIS 






• '• 


4^5 


rr 






. 


u u 




























,c 








- S 2 fi ■ - - 












































1 


^. 


1^ 


^ 


^ fS s . g; z 


^ 


^ 


^ 


)^ 


c 








c« rt 










p 








U. U^ 


















^ ^ ' 






■ w 




1 


"S 


i 


2 


J5 1 2 ^ 1 1 


^• 




i' 


' 1 ^ 


p 








t. - 0^ Oh 




Cu 


Dh 


Ck . 






^ 














1 ■ 


^ 


i 


J? 


g i^ g g z^. ^ 


^ 


2 


^ 


^ . 


, (^ 




CL, 














■^ 












' 






■«?, 


^ 


. 


— 


^ -. -^ -, -. -. 


^ 




:« 


— 


s ii 


^ 




^ 


g g g j5 k; g 


^ 


^ 


^; 




















g 












« 


















H 






.•5 


:^. 


'■ 


^ 


r. '^ r. ^ ^ ^ 


^ 


^ 


z 


< 


















^ 


















11 








: : to q. w q 


06 


to 






^ 
















. 


o 




































%i 


TJ 


T3 


TJ 


-C no ^3 13 T3 -a 


-0 


IS- 


. T) 


13 


•|s 


•o 


•G 


•o 


'o 'G 'o 'o , "u '0 




*G 


•G- 






. < 


< 


< 


<<<<<:< 


< 


<tj 


< 


< 








































G 






3 c c ^ G a 




G 


c 


a 




^ 






=: j: 5: ^ ^ ^ 


& 


IS 


^ 


^ 


, 


O 


& 


S 


? P p -^ 
^ ^ ^ >> ^ i 










. 1 


J3 


o 


_o 


S 


^ 


^ 


.S 


6 


-S 


^ 


>J 


•T3 -Td 13 ^ -d . u- 

<U ly 4J ^ (U 0) 


>^ 


-s 


-B 


•^ 




oi 






cd Di Di a. &i Ai 




:^ 


pd 


cd 








3 

3 


^. -S 13 1 ^ S^ 
£ ^^ ^ -1 -S -S 








-M - 


i 


S 


% 


s 

ex 

p 1 


)_ 

g 




CLi 


i- 




o 


o 




^ ^ ^ ^ ^ 


U 


13 


13 


13 






J3 


^ rt OJ <u 




<U 


« 


« 


as 




00 


.w= ^^ 15 . fti Cd 




cc; 


oi 


^" 


i 1^ S 


o 


-+ 


hH \o t^ U3 M 


p» 


t^ 




■+ 




ri 




M 


N n «S M M N 


N 


N 


r< 


r« 


d«3 


O 


o 


o 


Q 














^l 


*^ 


^ 


M 




"^ 


■"* . 


*"" 


"^ 


1 ^ 


















c3 




N 


ro 


■ r^- ,rt VO t> 06 cy. 









''^ 



















486 MANUFACTURE OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

chronic poisoning men exhibit the features of a peripheral neuritis, 
although this point has not been confirmed by pathological in- 
vestigation. Strassmann and Strecker (Fredreich's Blatter fiir 
gerichtliche Median, 1896), in dogs, have obtained, by staining, 
degeneration of the lateral columns of the cord. They also 
found irritation and catarrh of the stomach and intestines, and 
after large doses small extravasations of broken-down blood-clot, 
with swelling and cloudiness of the mucous membrane of the 
stomach. There is also evidence of much tissue degeneration in 
the organs, probably fatty. In men, post-mortem, we find that 
the lividity entirely disappears, the skin becomes pale, and all 
the internal organs, such as the heart, lungs, and liver, are of a 
pale yellowish cast, and more friable than usual. The brain is 
of a dull pink colour, and the veins of the body, and especially 
the meninges, are filled with a thin, characteristically-fluid, black 
blood. 

Prognosis. — Prognosis in cases of poisoning by dinitrobenzine 
depends upon the amount absorbed, the time the men have been 
exposed to it, and their previous health. The headache and 
general malaise caused by small doses are usually recovered 
from in the course of a few days. A week's absence from work 
enables the men to regain their usual energy, the appetite and urine 
becoming normal. Anaemia is a very persistent trouble. If the 
number of blood corpuscles becomes greatly decreased, it takes 
months to restore them. The peculiar dusky colour of the skin 
can be detected by those who are conversant with this symptom, 
even weeks after ceasing work. In cases of coma hours may 
elapse before consciousness returns. Recovery has taken place 
after insensibility lasting eight to twelve hours. In one fatal case 
consciousness returned after nearly sixteen hours' insensibility, 
but death suddenly occurred half-an-hour afterwards, when the 
man was being raised quickly and carelessly from the recumbent 
position. Cases which are going to terminate fatally usually do so 
within twenty-four hours. Some months may elapse before mus- 
cular power is fully restored. The profound anaemia does not leave 
its mark permanently, it is eventually entirely recovered from when 
the workers are removed to other occupations. Workmen often 
affirm that after a time they become accustomed to the effect of 
the poison. This is not so, any more than individuals can 
become habituated to taking alcohol without being affected by 
it. In the early stages of employment the workers notice and 
complain of the effects of the poison, as it is new and strange to 



1 



XXXII.] PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES \ • "' 487 

them \ eventually they come to regard the symptoms as neces- 
sary to the work, and if slight, know from their own experience 
that, by more care in the manipulation, or absence from work, 
the symptoms will pass away. Any natural weakness is liable 
to be aggravated, and pre-existing anaemia will be made worse. 
Precautions. — With ordinary care the work is but slightly 
harmful, but without care it becomes immediately dangerous. The 
higher the percentage of dinitrobenzine used the greater the risk 
and the necessity for care. The dinitrobenzine used should be, as 
far as possible, chemically pure. We find a small admixture 
of mononitrobenzine makes it more dangerous to manipulate 
{^Lancet, August 31, 1901). Commercial dinitrobenzine is a deadly 
poison, however introduced into the system. All precautions have 
for their object the prevention of poisonous quantities gaining 
access to the system, by the dilution of the poison, and the avoid- 
ance of personal contact. Works should be situated in the 
country. At the erection of the different houses, much attention 
should be given to their construction and arrangement Each should 
be well isolated ; not opening one into the other, nor contiguous to 
another building. Each should be surrounded by a plentiful air 
space, and have ample ventilation. Every house should be pro- 
vided with a lantern roof, containing rain-proof windows easily 
opened and closed. The window space must be ample, and all 
windows capable of being freely opened or entirely taken out. It 
is often necessary to regulate the draught, and on windy days 
removing the windows on the lee side will permit a free current of 
air, and ample exit of the fumes, dust, and heat generated. No 
house should be overcrowded with machinery, and the different 
processes should be conducted as far as possible in separate 
buildings. All vessels, melting pots, cooling trays, or pans con- 
taining a heated compound must be provided with efficient and 
well-fitting covers, with flues leading from them to the outside air 
The floors, tables, covers of pans, ledges, canisters, etc., in all the 
houses are to be kept clean and free from dust, the powdered 
compound, and manufactured explosive ; and no utensils or use- 
less articles are to be allowed in the houses. Canisters contain- 
ing the powder must be kept closed with a well-fitting lid. No 
flue through which heated vapour has passed may be entered 
by any person. The cleaning of such flues must be done auto-» 
matically, or from the outside of the building. Cooling trays 
should be in a shed open on all sides to the external air. A 
house, or other shelter from the weather, should be provided for 



48S MANUFACTURE OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

the workmen to retire from the vitiated atmosphere of the house 
whilst watching the operations. 

Wherever possible, the processes of grinding, filling, and 
emptying utensils, hoppers, pans, and cartridges should be done 
automatically. If done by hand, respirators should be used, and 
the men should be careful to stand on the windward side of the 
pans when the covers are off. Washing appliances should be freely 
supplied, preferably near each house. Towels inside the houses 
are objectionable ; even if covered up they remain wet. Frequent 
washing of the hands with soap and nail-brushes is most desir- 
able. The face, beard, and head should be kept clean, frequently 
washed, and free from dust. The beard, hair, and nails should 
be cut short. The air in the houses should be kept as dry 
as possible. Moisture in the atmosphere is always followed by 
an increase in sickness. Low temperature and dry atmosphere 
cause a proportionate decrease in the sick -rate. This is 
accounted for by the fact, that moisture makes the powder 
cling to the exposed parts of the body; perspiration has the 
same effect, as also some of the deliquescent salts used. In 
winter the number of invalids is very small, but during the hot 
summer months is greatly increased. In all houses where there is 
much dust, respirators are essential. They are of no use against 
the vaporised fumes. Cotton respirators fitting over the nose and 
rhouth, kept very clean and frequently renewed, are least objected 
to by the workmen. Dr Snell has suggested a diving-bell apparatus. 
Gloves are necessary when handling the material. The importance 
of keeping the interior of the gloves scrupulously clean and tight at 
the wristbands is self-evident. 

Special clothing should be provided, fitting well at the neck, 
wrists, and overlapping at the buttons ; the caps should fit close. All 
dothing should be regularly washed, and never damp when put on. 
No overalls should be allowed in the eating place ; they should be 
always removed before entering, and donned again before going 
into the working sheds. Separate dressing and dining rooms 
should be provided, suitably arranged with washing appliances. 

Medical inspection of the works should be made regularly, 
preferably at the end of the week. The difference in the appear- 
ance of the employes at the beginning and end of the week is 
very noticeable. The number of visits should be not less than 
once a fortnight. In hot and damp muggy weather, where 
there is extra pressur-e of work and longer hours, and in the more 
dangerous processes, medical inspection should be more frequent. 



XXXII.] SUGGESTED DUTIES OF MEDICAL INSPECTOR'S 489 

The inspection should include the sanitary condition of each 
house, ventilation, number of hours worked, composition of the 
compound, condition of each employe, sufficiency of washing and 
drying requisites, the overalls, gloves, respirators, escape of vapour 
from melting pots or flues, dustiness of the air, cleanliness of the 
houses, and freedom of tables, floors, etc., from the powder. The 
surgeon should warn the management of any peculiarly dangerous 
process, suggest the number of hours to be worked, and notify 
any workman whom he thinks unfit for it. He may find it neces- 
sary to advise an earlier hour to begin work, on account of the 
heat, and more frequent exchange of workers in the different 
departments of the manufactory. In selecting men for work, he 
should choose men of middle age and strong constitution, and, 
other things being equal, the less frequently new hands are taken 
on the better. Young women, or nursing mothers, should not be 
allowed to work, or handle the crude dinitro, the organic com- 
pound, or the finished explosive. Pregnancy or anaemia should 
entail dismissal. The medical officer should watch carefully new 
beginners at the work, and initiate proper precautions to prevent 
chronic cases becoming acute. A written notice of employes off 
work supposed to be due to the effects of the poison should be 
sent to the medical officer in charge, so that he may investigate 
the conditions and causes. All employees should be examined 
and passed by the medical man, and their condition noted before 
being taken on. He may find it necessary to prescribe short 
shifts ; this may mean either a short continuous number of 
hours at the work, as in the filling houses ; or frequent intermis- 
sion of work, as can be obtained by the mixing house workers. 
Sometimes it is necessary to advise very limited spells of work. 
The process of grinding and cleaning out of flues are operations 
attended with serious risk. About six hours' work in the mixing 
and filling houses daily is as much as an average man can under- 
take. Headache, sickness, nausea, and distaste for food in the 
morning should be looked upon as warning symptoms, and men 
so affected should not be allowed to persist at the work. Heavy 
muscular exertion is not desirable for those who suffer from 
anaemia, or the cyanosis caused by the poison. 

Alcohol is contra-indicated, and all oils and fats are solvents of 
dinitrobenzine. Lemons, apples, acid fruits and drinks, and milk, 
are usually advised ; the two latter may be ordered by the medical 
man with advantage. 

Treatment. — There is no known antidote. Symptoms must be 



490 MANUFACTURE OF HIGH EXPLOSIVES [chap. xxxu. 

combated as the}- arise. If the poison has been taken into the 
stomach it must be immediately removed by the stomach tube. 
Oxygen freely inhaled and saline infusion are necessary. Arti- 
ficial warmth, diffusible stimulants, and perfect rest must be 
persisted in until all danger from syncope is past. Warm, easily- 
assimilated liquid food per mouth and rectum must be given. 
Later the anaemia requires general tonics, fresh air, and good 
food. 

Robert Prosser White. 



CHAPTER XXXIII 

DRY CLEANING BY MEANS OF BENZINE 

The cleaning of gloves and stained garments by means of benzine 
is an occupation which gives employment to large numbers of 
people. In some dry-cleaning establishments naphtha alone is 
used, so that what has already been said of naphtha in connection 
with indiarubber trades will equally apply here. The soiled 
articles are first washed with naphtha and soap in an out-building 
in which no naked lights are allowed, and then put into a revolving 
cylinder filled with naphtha. When benzine is the cleansing 
agent, two kinds are made use of: (i) a petroleum spirit obtained 
from mineral oil, and (2) spirit obtained from coal tar. In several 
dry-cleaning establishments fires have suddenly, and often in a most 
mysterious and unexplained manner, broken out. They have been 
attributed to friction, electric sparks, and to accidental ignition of 
the spirit by lucifer matches concealed in the clothes. One of the 
first things attended to on the arrival of garments to be cleaned 
is a thorough turning inside out of all the pockets, and the removal 
particularly of any matches that may have been left therein, also 
a stripping-off of all metallic buttons from coats, jackets, etc. 
The workmen are not allowed to smoke nor to have in their 
pockets any lucifer matches. The work is carried on in out- 
buildings, one side of which is quite open, so that the freest venti- 
lation possible is obtained. No naked, nor artificial, light of any 
kind is allowed in these buildings. The garments, after having 
been examined on their arrival, and sorted, are placed in a revolving 
drum that contains benzine, and which can be hermetically closed, 
or in a fixed machine within which there is a revolving cylinder 
that contains the spirit. By either of these methods the clothes 
are brought into the closest contact with the benzine. After the 
garments have thus been sufificiently agitated and cleaned by con- 
tact with the benzine, they are removed and placed in a machine 
known as a hydro-extractor, whereby the excess of spirit is 
removed. This liquid is allowed to settle, the supernatant clean 



492 DRY CLEANING BY MEANS OF BENZINE [chap. 

spirit is decanted off and redistilled. The garments on being 
removed from the hydro-extractor are rinsed in clean spirit, put 
through the hydro-extractor again, removed, dried, and finished. 

The risks incurred by the workpeople are twofold : (i) danger 
from fire and explosions ; (2) effects of inhalation of the benzine. 
Fires, as already mentioned, occur in dry-cleaning establishments 
under the most mysterious circumstances. In one establishment 
that I visited eight fires and explosions had occurred in fifteen 
years. In the summer evenings when the weather is sultry, and 
perhaps several hours after the employes have left off working, fires 
have broken out in these establishments. The cause of the fire is 
often unexplainable. It is believed that benzine has a tendency to 
undergo spontaneous combustion, and that this can be prevented 
by the addition of a small quantity of oil soap, ^^ to y^ per cent., 
to the benzine, and well mixed with it. This soap is prepared 
according to the patent of an Austrian firm, Messrs L. Schutte, 
Landsberg, & Co., by dissolving one kilo of caustic potass, or soda, 
in four kilos of alcohol. To a litre of this solution one and 
three-quarter litres of oleic acid are added and the mixture heated. 
In order to keep the salt in solution there should be added to 
every 100 parts of the mixture, either before or after heating it, 
250 parts of carbon tetrachloride, benzol, benzine, or other suitable 
solvent. Experience has shown that too great care cannot be 
taken in regard to the manipulation and storage of benzine. 
Materials that have just been removed from or cleaned with 
benzine should on no account be brought near a fire or naked 
light. Care has to be exercised, too, that naphtha and benzine are 
not poured into the drains in considerable quantity, for they give 
off explosive vapours which are dangerous when workmen enter 
the large drains in a city with naked lights. 

Inhalation of the vapours of benzine affect people differently. 
Some persons are more susceptible than others, and are obliged to 
retire from the work while others can remain at it. Its effects are 
more noticeable in young women than men. Females on the 
whole are more readily intoxicated, they become excited and 
hysterical. The power of walking is not interfered with. Both 
men and women complain of headache and giddiness after work- 
ing in an atmosphere laden with benzine vapour. Occasionally 
they vomit. Although women seem to be more susceptible than 
men, yet even the men become intoxicated and feel as if they were 
drunk. On a sultry afternoon the effects are more pronounced. 
The workpeople are often obliged to leave the rooms and go out 



XXXIII.] SYMPTOMS OF BENZINE INTOXICATION* "' 493 

into the fresh air. The vapour of benzine produces in some 
people a heavy, sleepy feeling, with a sense of great tiredness, 
amounting to a loss of muscular power and followed by a tem- 
porary defect of memor}-. Naphtha produces similar symptoms. 
As its vapour is heavier than atmospheric air, the workmen suffer 
most in hot, close weather. 

Prevention. — The air of the workroom should be kept as pure 
as possible by means of artificial ventilation. In the place where 
gloves are cleaned the air should be renewed by the running of a 
fan. No food should be allowed to be taken into the workroom. 
Attached to each revolving cylinder in which the garments are 
agitated along with benzine there ought to be an automatic fire- 
extinguisher. There should be plenty of loose sand lying about 
to put out any accidental fire, and there ought to be blankets in 
readiness to throw round any one whose clothes have caught fire. 
Woollen outer garments should be worn by the workpeople. If 
a dry-cleaning establishment is a few storeys high, there ought 
to be fire-escape ladders provided. 

Workpeople who have become excited or intoxicated by the 
benzine should be taken into the fresh air. It is by the respiratory 
organs that the spirit which has been taken into the blood leaves 
the system. Anaemic girls who are subject to headache should 
give up the work, for experience shows that the- inhalation of 
benzine aggravates headache. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XXXIV 

USE OF INFLAMMABLE OR SPIRIT PAINTS 

Inflammable paints have only come into use within the last 
twenty years. Known in the trade as quickly dryings composite 
or spirit paints, they are principally used for painting the interior 
of ships that put into dock and which the owners can only allow 
to stay there for two or three days. By their use a ship can be 
painted and turned out of dock according to the number of men 
put on to do the work in from one to three days. To the owners 
of modern steamships time is money, and consequently there has 
grown up of late a considerable demand for these paints. It is 
in the drying of the ordinary oil-paint that there occurs delay 
not only in regard to the laying on of a second coating, but in 
the utilisation of the painted spaces afterwards. With these 
quickly drying paints it is quite otherwise. Mr James H. 
Edwards, formerly of Messrs Edwards, ship repairers. South 
Shields, informs me that in half-an-hour or thereabouts after 
the first coating of spirit paint has been put on another layer can 
be applied. They are used more in the painting of old than of 
new boats. Instead of being ground with oil, the colours are 
mixed with methylated or petroleum spirit, or with benzine. The 
paints may contain lead, but there is less danger from the lead 
than from the spirit. It is the spirit which confers upon these 
paints their quickly drying properties, but at the same time it 
renders them extremely dangerous to the workmen alike from 
inhalation of the vapour and its inflammability. In investigating 
this question along with my colleagues of the Dangerous Trades 
Committee of the Home Office, our attention was specially 
drawn to the fact that as these paints are generally employed for 
coating spaces in ships that are confined and often dark, men 
have worked therein with naked lights, and, as a consequence, 
explosions and fires have occurred. Too often the workman 
is alone in the confined space, and as he may be rendered 
unconscious not only by the spirituous vapours rising from the 



CHAP. XXXIV.] SYMPTOMS CAUSED BY USING SPIRIT PAINTS 495 

paint, but, in the event of fire, by the products of combustion, he 
is quite unable to extricate himself from his perilous position. I 
have seen one man with burns nearly over the whole of his body 
who had been rescued with difficulty from the bunker in which 
he was working. It is not only in the confined spaces in the 
interior of ships that fires suddenly break out, they are not 
unknown during the painting of the outside of a ship in a dry 
dock. Momentarily and without any explanation, unless it be 
that the wind has fanned a naked light or blown a spark, the 
side of a ship may be enveloped in flame which is just as 
suddenly extinguished. 

It is during the painting of the bunkers, fore and aft 
peaks, tunnels, ballast tanks, and the holds of ships that the 
greatest risk is incurred, and especially in the former, since only 
one man as a rule can work in these confined spaces at a time. 
Men have been known, after working in one of these confined 
spaces, to have become excited as if intoxicated, and on being 
removed to the open air they have vomited. The ejected contents 
of the stomach have smelt strongly of the spirit paint they were 
using. For a short period the men have seemed dazed and 
stupid, and would have fallen if unsupported. 

Sometimes exposure of an hour or less to the vapours given 
off by the paint in a contracted chamber is sufficient to induce 
unpleasant symptoms. Men have become unconscious in the 
bunkers and have had to be extricated. On being placed on deck 
in the open air they have looked pale rather than cyanosed. In 
some instances where the symptoms have been less severe, there 
have been difficulty of breathing and a sense of suffocation in the 
chest, but as a rule these are absent. There is often complaint of 
a swimming in the head and a feeling of great uncertainty and 
want of self-confidence, while in other instances the individual falls 
soundly asleep. Now and again, when the men have been removed 
from the bunkers bleeding has occurred at the nose. As a rule 
the intoxicating and stupefying effects of these spirit paints soon 
pass off on exposing the workman to the open air. 

In some of the men I observed a well-marked blue line on the 
gums, showing that in addition to the danger caused by inhaling 
spirituous vapours their system at the same time had been exposed 
to the risk of lead poisoning. 

Prevention. — Since these spirit compositions cannot be used to 
paint the inside of peaks, bunkers, and tunnels of ships, without 
running considerable risk to the workmen, clearly their employment 



496 USE OF INFLAMMABLE OR SPIRIT PAINTS [chap, xxxiv. 

ought to be prohibited in confined spaces. It is courting disaster 
to paint the inside of any cramped space, ingress to or egress from 
which can only take place through a man-hole. No naked lights 
should be allowed in these places. Illumination should be secured 
either by a safety lamp or by the electric light. All the workmen 
whom I have interrogated are unanimously of opinion that the 
work should be periodically interrupted. Every hour or two, 
according to the more or less confined character of the chamber in 
which the paints are being used, the workmen should go into 
the open air for several minutes. Six hours' work a day should 
be the maximum, and this ought to be divided into equal halves, 
separated at least by one and a half hour's interval. Since there 
is considerable risk from fire and explosion, no young or inexperi- 
enced person should be allowed to use these paints, and under all 
circumstances men on being employed for the first time should be 
informed of the dangers and of the risks they are running. Where 
a workman is painting the inside of a confined space in a ship with 
spirit paint he should be frequently visited by a foreman, to see 
that all is well. 

When an individual has become intoxicated through the 
vapours given off by composite paints, the best treatment is 
to take him into the open air, and to wrap him up in rugs so as 
to avoid the chance of his being chilled. When the workman 
has sufficiently recovered, he should be accompanied home by 
some of his mates, put to bed, kept warm, and a saline aperient 
administered at the earliest opportunity. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XXXV 

ACETYLENE AND ITS DANGERS 

All details relating to the manufacture of coal-gas, water-gas, 
or oil-gas, and to the incidental risks both to the worker and the 
consumer, are well known, having been treated by many reliable 
authorities. Acetylene gas, however, is a comparatively modern 
illuminant, growing in public favour, and now that the manufacture 
of calcium carbide is not confined to the United States, Canada, 
and the Continent, but is produced also in the United Kingdom, 
it is probable that the adoption of acetylene will become more 
general. 

For country houses, country churches, railway stations, isolated 
factories and workshops, Indian bungalows, and other places 
where a cheap and ready supply of coal-gas or electricity is not 
available, acetylene will be particularly appreciated. Its uses, 
however, are more extended. On the Continent many towns are 
lighted with this gas. The Town Commissioners have expressed 
satisfaction with it as an illuminant for the town of Boyle. For 
photographic purposes, carriage lamps, magic lanterns, bicycle 
lamps, etc., acetylene is largely used. 

A brief description of the manufacture will be interesting. The 
writer, owing to the fact that there are as yet few carbide of 
calcium manufactories in the United Kingdom, can speak with 
only a limited experience, but he is indebted for information to the 
Read-HoUiday Acetylene Company, to an article which appeared 
in the Public Health Journal for 29th September 1900, to one on 
" Electrical Furnaces " recently published in the Windsor Magazine, 
and to other sources. 

The introduction of electrical furnaces capable of producing 
intense heat has rendered it possible to melt and join together 
such infusible elements as lime and carbon. When the furnaces 
are cool, the compound formed is known as "calcium carbide." 
If dropped in water it decomposes ; some authorities say, almost 
with an explosion. If simply damped, the decomposition is slower, 
497 2 I 



498 ACETYLENE AND ITS DANGERS [chap. 

the product given off being the gas known as "acetylene," — a 
colourless gas, stated to contain by weight 24 parts of carbon and 
2 parts of hydrogen. In England the electrical furnaces are 
practically arc lamps on a large scale, the bottom of the furnace 
being a large carbon block electrically connected to the positive 
pole of the generator, whilst the upper carbon is connected to the 
negative. By a simple arrangement the negative pole can be 
raised or lowered at will, to strike the arc or regulate the intensity 
of the furnace. A mixture of lime and coke, in the form of fine 
powder, is thrown into the furnaces for fusion, and when cool it is 
taken away in lumps ready for use. 

Seeing that this industry is one of very modern date, it is of 
interest to consider whether acetylene gas, during the process of 
manufacture or in use, is likely to produce injury to health or life. 
This question may be considered under the following heads : — 

{a) The inhalation of dust during the crushing processes and 
in feeding the furnaces. 

(J?) The fumes evolved from the furnaces. 

if) The danger of electric shock to the workers. 

id) Explosion during the stages of manufacture. 

{e) Explosion, or risk of inhalation of gas, when in use. 

During the operation of grinding carbon and lime, and when 
feeding the furnaces, more or less fine dust must of necessity 
arise, unless this is prevented by mechanical appliances of a some- 
what expensive kind. Some of this dust will be held in suspension 
by the atmosphere and inhaled by the workers, but as the work is 
done in practically open sheds, and as the industry is of compara- 
tively recent origin, it is impossible at present to say whether 
injury to health is caused. Labourers engaged in quarrying lime- 
stone are said to be healthy men. The late Dr Arlidge, when 
referring to workmen employed about lime-kilns, stated that there 
are grounds for believing that the carbonic acid of respiration is 
capable of acting upon lime-dust and ridding the lungs of it. 

(^) Fumes must of necessity be given off from the furnaces, 
but mechanical ventilating fans render these harmless. 

[c) Little fear of electric shock need be apprehended in this 
country, the voltage being low, although the current is strong — a 
result attained by the aid of several brushes and heavy copper 
strips for conveying the current to the carbons forming the 
furnaces. An interesting article recently published in the Windsor 
Magazine describes a visit to Niagara Falls, where the largest 
furnaces in the world are operated, and where, amongst other 



XXXV.] CALCIUM CARBIDE • ' 499 

industries, is found the manufacture of calcium carbide. Furnaces 
on the arc and incandescent principle are employed. The current 
enters the building at a voltage of 2200, to be transformed to 
about 100 volts, which approximates the pressure found in English 
works. 

id) An accident of a serious (but happily a non-fatal) nature 
recently occurred at works in which the calcium carbide, when 
cool, is stored in 8 cwt. metal tanks, ready to be sent away. It 
appears that some moisture had found its way into a returned 
tank. This was unobserved by a worker, who placed about 4 cwts. 
of the material into it, screwed the lid down, and left the works for 
the night. The tank stood about 1 5 feet from the electric furnace. 
A mechanical fan for ventilating purposes was running, and caused 
a current from the direction of the tanks to the furnace. As a 
natural result, gas was generated in the tank during the night. 
The workman, before resuming work in the morning, took off the 
lid, liberating the gas, which was at once ignited by the furnace, 
causing explosion, and seriously injuring the man. The obvious 
lesson is, that tanks should be carefully examined for moisture or 
leakage before filling, and that under no circumstances should the 
filling be done near the furnaces, but in another room, in which 
there are no lights and no probability of "sparking" from any 
electrical machine. 

ie) On the first adoption of acetylene, accidents happened, 
giving rise to a general belief that it was dangerous. The follow- 
ing extracts from Orders in Council issued at various times will 
show that the Government officials were fully alive to this danger, 
and that from time to time precautions to safeguard the public 
have been taken. By an Order in Council dated 26th February 
1897, certain parts of the Petroleum Acts, 1871-1881, were made 
to apply to carbide of calcium, and it was laid down that : — 

"The label on the vessel containing the carbide of calcium shall bear in 
conspicuous characters the words ' Carbide of Calcium,' ' Dangerous if not kept 
dry,' and with the following caution : ' The contents of this package are liable 
if brought into contact with moisture to give off a highly inflammable gas,' and 
with the addition : — 

" (a) In the case of a vessel kept, of the name and address of the con- 
signee or owner. 

"(<5) In the case of a vessel sent or conveyed, of the name and address 
of the sender, 

^'(f) In the case of a vessel sold or exposed for sale, of the name and 
address of the vendor." 



500 ACETYLENE AND ITS DANGERS [chap. 

On the 7th July 1897, an Order in Council amended the 
Order of 26th February 1897, by prescribing that : — 

" Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the said Order, the quantity 
of carbide of calcium which may be kept without a licence shall be as 
follows : — 

" {a) Where it is kept in separate substantial hermetically closed metal 

vessels containing not more than i lb. each - 5 lbs. 
" {b) Where it is kept otherwise ----- None." 

By a further Order in Council, dated 26th November 1897, 
it was laid down that : — 

" Acetylene when liquid, or when subject to a pressure above that of the 
atmosphere, capable of supporting a column of water exceeding one hundred 
inches in height, and whether or not in admixture with other substances, shall 
be deemed to be an explosive within the meaning of the Explosives Act of 
1875, subject to the following exception ; that if it be shown to the satisfaction 
of the Secretary of State that acetylene, declared to be explosive by this Order 
when in admixture with any substance, or in any form or condition, is not 
possessed of explosive properties, the Secretary of State may, by Order, exempt 
such acetylene from being deemed to be an explosive." 

The Order further prescribed that : — 

"Whereas by section 43 of the Explosives Act, 1875, it is provided that 
Her Majesty, from time to time by Order in Council, may prohibit, either 
absolutely, or except in pursuance of a licence of the Secretary of State under 
the said Act, or may subject to conditions or restrictions, the manufacture, 
keeping, importation from any place out of the United Kingdom, conveyance, 
and sale, or any of them, of any explosive which is of so dangerous, a character, 
that in the judgment of Her Majesty it is expedient for the public safety to 
make such Order. 

"And whereas it is in the judgment of Her Majesty expedient for the public 
safety that acetylene, when an explosive within the meaning of this Order, shall 
be prohibited. 

" Now, therefore, in pursuance of the above-mentioned provision of this Act, 
Her Majesty is pleased, by and with the advice of Her Privy Council, to order 
and prescribe that acetylene, declared to be an explosive by this Order, shall 
be prohibited from being manufactured, imported, conveyed, or sold." 

An Order of the Secretary of State, dated 28th March 1898, 
provided as follows : — 

" Acetylene in admixture with oil-gas in a proportion not exceeding twenty 
parts by volume of acetylene in every one hundred parts of the mixture, when 
subjected to a pressure not exceeding one hundred and fifty pounds to the 
square inch, shall not be deemed to be an explosive within the meaning of 
the Explosives Act, 1875. 

" Provided that the acetylene and oil-gas shall be mixed together in a 
chamber or vessel before the gases are subjected to compression." 



XXXV.] ACETYLENE VERY EXPLOSIVE ' 501 

Lastly, an Order of 15th May 1900 required: — 

" That acetylene in admixture with air or oxygen, declared to be an explosive 
by this Order, shall be prohibited from being manufactured, imported, conveyed, 
or sold. 

"Provided that nothing in this Order shall apply to acetylene in admixture 
with air when such admixture takes place only in a burner or contrivance in 
which the mixture is intended to be burnt. 

"Provided also that nothing in this Order shall be held to apply to an 
admixture of acetylene and air which may unavoidably occur in the first use or 
re-charging of an apparatus, properly designed and constructed with a view to 
the production of pure acetylene." 

A Committee of the Society of Arts, London, was appointed 
to investigate the subject and frame rules for the safe con- 
struction of acetylene apparatus, and it is claimed (justly I 
believe) by manufacturers such as the Read-Holliday Acetylene 
Company, Lockerby and Wilson Limited, and others, that their 
apparatus fulfils the conditions laid down by the Committee, 
and that now their appliances may be used with perfect 
safety. Messrs Tinker & Holliday, of Huddersfield, who 
manufacture carbide of calcium, give their assurance that 
they have sold more than 1000 machines, mostly of a large 
size, some of 600 lights, and that there has never yet been an 
accident of any kind. On the other hand, it must be remem- 
bered that, as acetylene is more explosive than coal-gas, 
exceptional care should be taken as to where generators are 
placed, and to avoid the use of lights where leakage is sus- 
pected. Early last November a representative of an acetylene 
firm visited an hotel in a country town in Derbyshire to 
inspect the generator. The newspapers state that immediately 
after striking a match a loud explosion occurred, in consequence 
of which his face and hand were injured. 

The Chemical Trade Journal for i6th June 1900 contains 
a paragraph of public interest, relating to the safety of calcium 
carbide, which may perhaps with advantage be here reproduced : 

" The large army of insurance agents and adjusters who are now in Ottawa 
settling the losses incurred through the recent fire have lately had before them 
an object lesson which should remove any doubts that may have been enter- 
tained as to the safety of storing carbide of calcium. According to a communi- 
cation we have received from Mr Andrew Holland of the Board of Trade, 
Ottawa, when the fire reached the furnace-room of the Dominion Carbide 
Works, everything in it that would burn was consumed. Three pigs of carbide, 
however, in three crucibles remained in perfect condition as evidence that they 
did not explode. The grinding and mixing department and warehouse were in 



502 ACETYLENE AND ITS DANGERS [chap. 

another building, and every effort was made to prevent the fire from reaching 
it ; but the very strong wind blowing, and the vast rush of flame, enveloped all 
the buildings in the vicinity, and they were in a few minutes reduced to ruins. 
In the carbide warehouses there were 15 tons of carbide, packed in rolled steel 
cans with screw covers. When the floor burned, the carbide dropped through 
into the cellar, in which a foot of water had collected from the firemen's hose. 
Here was an ideal combination for an explosion, if carbide is an explosive. 
Several cans were broken in the fall, owing to the intense heat having opened 
the seams, and the carbide was dumped into the water. Gas was generated in 
immense quantities, but it simply burned with a low steady flame, making less 
show than two cartloads of coke on fire in the immediate vicinity. Had the 
cellar been dry, the carbide could have been all saved after the fire ; but it 
continued to soak up the water and make gas for some days, and the burning 
gas kept the carbide so hot, that it could not be handled. As it was, about a 
ton of it was shovelled out and packed in new cans. Two of the cans were dug 
out whole from the hot mass, and saved with the carbide, though they were 
burned like old, worn-out stove-pipes. The insurance agents admit that they 
have had a practical demonstration which had convinced them how much the 
' risks ' of calcium carbide have been over-estimated." 

It is claimed by the manufacturers of acetylene that it 
possesses certain hygienic advantages over other gases, these 
being — a less consumption of oxygen, a less addition of carbonic 
acid to the atmosphere, less heating of the air, and freedom 
from sulphur compounds. The illumination is stated to be 
brilliant, but not injurious to the eyes. On this point, how- 
ever, it does not appear that oculists in this country have 
pronounced definite opinions, although individual medical 
practitioners have reported favourably. Dr W. A. M'Keown, 
in his Treatise on Unripe Catai^act, in a chapter on " Suitable 
Light and Optical Aids," says : " Fortunately, however, it is 
now within the power of the surgeon to whom the electric 
light is not available to have acetylene light, • an illuminant 
at least as good as the electric light, and very well borne by 
the eyes." 

An article by Professor Thomas Oliver, published in the 
l^ritish Medical Journal of 23rd April 1898, and entitled "Acety- 
lene, the New Hluminant, and the Dangers arising from its Inha- 
lation," is probably the only authoritative statement yet published 
dealing with the physiological effects of acetylene gas. In a brief 
paper such as this, many details describing the methods of experi- 
ment adopted by Dr Oliver must be omitted, but the following 
is an attempt to summarise the conclusions arrived at by him : — 

A mixture of air and acetylene commences to be explosive 
when it contains 5 per cent, of acetylene (Captain Thomson, 



XXXV.] EFFECTS DUE TO INHALATION OF ACETYLENE 503 

H.M. Chief Inspector of Explosives, thinks 3 per cent.), whereas 
it requires the presence of 8 per cent, of coal-gas to make a 
similar mixture explosive. It is therefore more explosive than 
coal-gas. Acetylene has an excessively pungent and disagree- 
able odour, but this, although a disadvantage in some ways, 
acts as a warning to individuals of its presence. Generators for 
private mansions, etc., should be placed in the open air, or 
in a covered shed open at the sides. In the case of coal-gas 
and water-gas, death supervenes by asphyxia, owing to the 
carbon-monoxide entering into extremely stable combinations 
with the haemoglobin of the blood. If a rabbit is placed 
in a bell-jar into which ordinary air and acetylene are 
pumped, the animal for a long period experiences little 
inconvenience. If atmospheric air is excluded, and acetylene 
only admitted, symptoms gradually and slowly develop. After 
more lengthened exposure to acetylene than that which is 
necessary for coal-gas, the animal becomes intoxicated, stupor 
stealing over it, apparently painlessly. When somnolence has 
been induced and asphyxia not pushed too far, the rabbit, if 
placed in atmospheric air, shortly afterwards moves about in 
as lively a manner as if it had not been interfered with. Should 
the inhalation, however, have been pushed further, and the animal 
be deeply narcotised, death may ensue. In the minor stages of 
asphyxia, vascular tension is maintained, but in the deeper stages 
the vessels are so deeply contracted, that it is almost impossible to 
obtain a drop of blood. On spectroscopic examination, the blood 
of a rabbit at different stages of intoxication from acetylene 
always exhibits the well-marked band« of oxyhaemoglobin, but, 
unlike the blood in coal-gas poisoning, it is capable of under- 
going reduction. In this respect it behaves like ordinary blood. 
If asphyxia caused by acetylene is not too profound — and 
under ordinary domestic circumstances it would not be a pure 
acetylene atmosphere that would be inhaled by an individual, 
but one mixed with a large proportion of common air — the danger 
to life seems to be less than it would be in coal-gas poisoning, and 
the prospect of recovery by removal to atmospheric air greater. 
Death may supervene, however, if the inhalation has been 
lengthened, and atmospheric air excluded. In the treatment of 
unconsciousness caused by the inhalation of acetylene gas, it is 
necessary to remove the individual into the open air, and to try 
artificial respiration. 

Since this brief article was framed, a handbook for the student 



504 ACETYLENE AND ITS DANGERS [chap. xxxv. 

and manufacturer has been published by Professor Vivian Lewis, 
dealing in an exhaustive form with everything relating to acetylene. 
It is illustrated profusely, and doubtless will become a standard 
book of reference. 

In November 1900, the Foreign Office published a Consular 
Report by Dr Frederick Rose, H.M. Consul at Stuttgart, on 
" The Rise, Progress, and Present Condition of the Carbide and 
Acetylene Industries in Germany," containing statistics and 
detailed information of considerable value, but which cannot well 
be here reproduced. It is shown that thirty towns or villages in 
Germany, with populations varying from 6000 to 382, are lighted 
by acetylene. In Berlin the Imperial Post Office has made a 
beginning by lighting two of its branch post offices with this gas, 
and has installed an apparatus with sixty jets in the head post 
office. In July 1898, 62,000 jets of acetylene were installed in 
Germany. In the first months of 1899 the number had increased 
to 170,000. Reference is made to a new application of calcium 
carbide in the production of pure metals from their ores by its 
use as a reducing agent ; to the manufacture of lamp-black, it being 
stated that acetylene gives three to four times as much lamp- 
black as good oil-gas ; and to an invention which utilises carbide 
for the production of converted steel, as well as for hardening 
armour-plate after Harvey's process. 

On 1st December 1900, TJie Public Health Engineer devoted 
the whole of its issue to acetylene, and as the article gives 
in detail descriptions of generators and other appliances made 
by practically all recognised firms, together with a statement of 
what is claimed in regard to safety and economy in use, it may 
be helpful to mention this publication, for the benefit of 
inquirers. 

Hamilton P. Smith. 



CHAPTER XXXVI 

FLOUR MILLS 

Flour-milling as conducted in this country a few decades ago 
was, despite the fact that most of the mills were situated in the 
country, an unhealthy industry. Flour millers died from pulmonary 
consumption and chest diseases in a larger proportion than men 
engaged in other trades in the same district. The average life 
of a miller was said to be forty-three years. Hirt compiled tables 
of the comparative sickness of millers and bakers, and he showed 
that while of one hundred bakers seven died from pulmonary 
phthisis, out of the same number of millers the deaths were ten. 
Bakers and millers seemed to him to be about equally predisposed 
to emphysema of the lungs, but as regards pneumonia the mortality 
figure for bakers was 8.4 per cent, as against 42 per cent, for 
millers. These statistics are taken from a German source, and 
it is difficult to explain the very heavy mortality rate from 
pneumonia in millers compared with that of bakers. 

Until within thirty years ago all the wheat and oats in this 
country were ground between revolving stones. During the 
grinding a considerable amount of fine dust was given off, the 
continual inhalation of which was held responsible for much of 
the ill-health of the operatives. So unhealthy was the occupation 
of milling believed to be twenty years ago, that Friendly Societies 
would not accept operative millers as members. To-day no 
objection is raised. In addition to injury to health from breath- 
ing the dust-laden atmosphere, there was a risk from fire owing 
to the highly explosive character of the dust. While danger 
to life from explosions in flour mills still to some extent prevails, 
both it and the risk to health from inhalation of the dust have 
materially diminished. There is the widest divergence possible 
between the old and the new methods of milling. The intro- 
duction of the steam roller system of milling from Buda-Pesth, 
and the fact that nearly all the various processes are carried on 
inside closed machinery, have cleared the atmosphere of modern 



5o6 FLOUR MILLS [chap. 

flour mills and converted what was admittedl}- a dangerous trade 
into one that compares very favourably with most occupations. 
Wherever the old method of milling is still carried on the atmo- 
sphere is found laden with a v^ery fine dust, mostly flour. This 
with each inspiration is drawn into the bronchial tubes of the 
miller, and forms plugs with the mucus secreted by these pas- 
sages. The plugs, owing to their tenacity, are dislodged with 
difficulty. It is not contended that the flour itself reaches the 
lungs ; probably the whole, or at any rate the most of it, becomes 
entangled in the mucus of the smallest bronchial tubes, but in the 
dust there are other things than flour present, e.g., portions of 
the husks of harder grain than wheat, portions of hairs of oats, 
bristles of rye, and particles of mineral from the grinding stones 
(see Microphotographs, page 276), so that through one thing and 
another, and in consequence of the repeated bronchial irritation 
and the cough caused by respiring the dust-laden air, a strain is 
imposed upon the lungs that leads to over-distension of the 
air cells, or what is known as pulmonary emphysema. That por- 
tions of bristle, etc., are capable of being inhaled into the deeper 
recesses of the respiratory passages is shown by the presence of 
these bristles on microscopical examination of the expectoration 
that has been discharged after hard coughing. 

As a nation we are dependent upon foreign countries for our 
food supplies, especially wheat. Some of the wheat that is 
imported is extremely dirty, particularly that from the River 
Plate, India, and Persia. It not only contains small stones and 
sand, and the husks of other seeds, but often particles of soil 
that have been contaminated by manure. In going over a large 
modern flour mill one is struck by the amount of dirt that is 
taken out of wheat. It is therefore necessary to clean the grain, 
which is done by first removing all solid impurities and then 
washing it. To clean it, the wheat is passed through a separator 
composed of sieves that are kept vibrating. By this means the 
larger impure particles are removed, while by the operation of 
a strong current of air the lighter dust is sucked away. After 
this preliminary cleaning the wheat is taken to rotatory sieves, 
which size the grain and thereby separate the larger from the 
smaller seeds. It is now ready to be washed. This is done by 
allowing the wheat to fall into a tank of warm water, through 
which a stream is constantly running. From this it is removed 
to dryers and coolers. It is only the very dirty wheat that is 
washed. Some of it is simply scoured and brushed inside a conical 




XXXVI.] DANGERS INCIDENTAL TO FLOUR MILLING ' 507 

iron cylinder by means of beaters or brushes that are revolving 
rapidly. The dust given off escapes through fine slot holes. 

In modern flour mills the dangers that operatives are exposed to 
are : (i) those incidental to the machinery; (2) fire and explosions ; 
and (3) inhalation of dust. It is with the latter that we are here 
most concerned. The cleaning of wheat is a dusty process, but it 
is usually carried on within enclosed machinery, and so long as this 
and all the covered-in spaces are provided with fans that are kept 
in good order, and the pipes leading away from these to the dust 
chambers are kept patent, the workmen do not seem to incur any 
great risk to health. Attention, however, must be given to keeping 
the suction-pipes clean and the fans in good order, otherwise, as 
cleaning is a very dirty process, the men would assuredly suffer in 
their chest. At several of the large flour mills where Oriental wheat 
is ground, and to the grains of which particles of manure are often 
adherent, I have on several occasions interrogated the men as to 
whether any illness had ever followed the washing of the foreign 
wheat, but in no instance could I learn of any illness being trace- 
able to such a source. Once the wheat has been cleaned and 
brushed or washed, it is put through the rollers and is milled into 
flour. This consists of not one but many processes, all of which 
are conducted in enclosed chambers, the product at each particular 
stage being lifted and carried onwards by self-regulating machinery 
and elevators from one part of the mill to another. Where the 
fittings of the machinery are good, no dust practically escapes. 
Hence it is that flour-milling has ceased to be the harmful industry 
it formerly was. In filling the sacks with flour, and in cleaning 
returned sacks, there is often a considerable amount of dust given 
off, but mechanical contrivances are now in operation that greatly 
minimise the amount of dust, so that this particular operation too 
has become less dangerous than it once was. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER XXXVII 

MINING 

The industry of mining, touching as it does the boundaries of 
nearly every field of human activity, necessarily presents itself 
under so many and such different aspects, that the complete 
study of the risks to life, limb, and health to which those engaged 
in it are exposed, involves an unusually large number of diversified 
considerations. It is here proposed to examine only the risks 
that are more directly incidental to mining proper, and these 
again only in so far as they affect the miners themselves, leaving 
out of consideration entirely the dangers to which mining opera- 
tions may expose the population in whose midst they have to be 
carried on, although these are far from unimportant, including, 
for example, such accidents as a fall down an unfenced shaft, 
the destruction caused by the explosion of a dynamite magazine, 
the possibility of being struck by a stone projected by a blast, 
the injurious effects of fumes arising from smouldering waste 
heaps, or from the calcination of pyritic ores, and extending in 
extreme cases to the collapse of entire districts, as, for instance, 
in the salt-mining area of Cheshire.* 

The entire subject of mining is generally looked upon as 
divisible into three main branches, namely, " prospecting," or the 
search for mineral deposits ; " mining " properly so called, or the 
exploitation of these deposits ; and " dressing," or the preparation 
for the market of the minerals produced. 

Of these three branches the risks incidental to the last named 
are practically those to which workers in any ordinary factory 
are exposed, and need not be further considered here ; whilst 
minor accidents, such as cuts and bruises, are common enough, 
especially when mineral is broken by hand, serious casualties, on 
the other hand, are fortunately rare. The only precautions needed 
are those indicated in all cases where men, and in the case of dress- 

* "The Subsidences in and around the Town of Northwich in Cheshire," by 
Thomas Ward, Trans. Inst. Min. Eng.^ vol. xix., p. 341. 

60S 



CHAP, xxxvii.] R/S/CS RUN BY MINING PROSPECTORS • 509 

ing works, often boys, girls, and women also are at work in the 
midst of machinery in motion. It may just be mentioned that, 
in certain branches of gold mining, a solution of cyanide of potassium 
is used as a solvent for extracting the gold ; this solution is not only 
extremely poisonous when taken internally, but also produces in 
many instances painful sores on the hands and arms of the men 
working with it. 

The life of the prospector is necessarily a most arduous one, 
and for which men of exceptionally good physique and sound 
health are alone suitable. The typical prospector starts off, 
generally by himself, sometimes with a mate, to examine an 
unknown and at times uninhabited district ; or worse still, the 
inhabitants may be uncivilised races, hostile to the white man, 
and thus their presence only introduces another and a serious 
danger to the prospector. At the best he can only carry a 
limited amount of food with him, and has often to depend on 
his gun for a great part of his supplies. He has, therefore, to 
time his journeys accurately, so as to enable him to get back to 
civilisation before his stock of provisions or ammunition is 
exhausted, and many a poor fellow has paid with his life for 
the rash eagerness that has led him too far afield in his search 
for valuable minerals. In some countries, such as Western 
Australia, not only has food to be arranged for, but drink also, 
great areas being absolutely without potable water ; there is no 
doubt that many an explorer in this great auriferous continent 
has perished of thirst * in his search for the precious metal. 

When mining operations have to be undertaken by the 
prospector, these usually take the form of sinking small shafts, 
less rarely of driving levels. In either case the timbering is of 
the crudest character, any branch of a tree, piece of bamboo, or 
similar weak support being generally looked upon as sufficient. 
The windlass is usually a rough concern, made entirely, or almost 
entirely, of wood, and the writer was once a witness of the remark- 
ably narrow escape of a prospector who was being hoisted up a 
shaft by a couple of natives with the aid of such a rudimentary 
windlass, after having lit a couple of shots in the shaft bottom, 
when one of the rough wooden handles of the windlass suddenly 
broke. To the risks incidental to working with imperfect 
appliances must be added those due to the fact that only native 
labour, always utterly inexperienced in mining and often unused 
to work of any kind, is available, whilst the prospector has to 

* Karl Schmeisser, The Goldfields of Australia^ translated by Henry Louis. 



5IO MINING [chap. 

undertake, single-handed, the task of both instruction and 
supervision. 

It but rarely happens that the prospector is fortunate enough 
to find a healthy climate at the scene of his operations, although 
such is the case in some parts of Australia, South Africa, etc. 
As the greater portion of the temperate zone habitable by civilised 
man has been pretty well ransacked for minerals, the prospector 
is generally compelled to resort to tropical regions for his hunting 
ground, and is, therefore, often subject to all the risks of an 
unhealthy climate, amongst which malarial fever in its various 
forms is perhaps the most formidable. Prospecting in Central 
America, the northern half of South America, West Africa, and 
Central Africa, parts of India, Siam, Burma, the Malay Archi- 
pelago and Peninsula, and some parts of Australia means in 
each case the strong probability, amounting almost to a certainty, 
of being attacked by malaria, which, though not necessarily fatal, 
only too often undermines the strongest constitution. Finally, 
it must be remembered that whenever a rich " strike " has been 
made and a rush sets in to any small area, the townships that 
spring up thus suddenly are invariably unhealthy at first, even 
in the healthiest climates. " What is everybody's business is 
nobody's business," and the most elementary rules of sanitation 
are disregarded with the most frightful recklessness, until the 
number of victims becomes so serious as to compel attention. 
In this way Kimberley, Johannesburg, Coolgardie, Menzies, 
etc., have all been visited by epidemics of typhoid or enteric 
fever. 

That the Polar regions are no more favourable to the 
prospector than are the Tropics is only too clearly shown by the 
death-roll of those who have been seeking their fortunes of 
recent years in the Yukon and other similar parts of far North- 
western America. Statistics of the mortality of prospectors, 
whether by disease or by accident, are, of course, not available 
in any form, but no one who has had much to do with pros- 
pecting can fail to recognise that there are few more dangerous, 
just as there are few more fascinating, occupations. 

Turning next to mining proper, as carried on in civilised 
countries, it becomes necessary to investigate separately the 
accidents and the diseases incidental to the miners' calling. 
Careful statistics of mining accidents are kept by many countries, 
notably Germany, France, Belgium, and Great Britain, and a com- 
parison of these statistics would, no doubt, enable us to deduce 



XXXVII.] DEFINITIONS OF MINING ACCIDENTS VAGUE ^ 511 

results of the highest importance if these statistics were at all 
comparable. Unfortunately, however, the definitions of what 
constitutes a mining accident on the one hand, and of what con- 
stitutes a fatal mining accident on the other, are either extremely 
vague, or else will be found to differ in each country. In Great 
Britain we have no legal definition at all. The Coal Mines 
Regulations Act, section 35, merely says that "loss of life" or 
" serious personal injury " due to an accident must be reported, 
unless the accident be due to " any explosion of gas, or of any 
explosive, or of any steam-boiler," when every personal injury 
whatever, whether serious or not, has to be reported. The Act, 
construed literally, seems to require only the reporting of any 
accident that is instantly fatal, or of a serious accident that 
terminates fatally under the head of " Loss of Life." If a trivial 
accident, such as would not need reporting under the Act, happens 
to end fatally, as, e.g., when a slight cut or scratch causes blood- 
poisoning and ultimately death, the Act seems to deliberately 
exclude such accidents from the list of fatalities. In the absence 
of clear legal guidance, most inspectors seem to include in their 
list of fatal accidents all accidents of any kind whatever that 
terminate fatally within a year and a day from the date of the 
occurrence of the accident. This may not be law, but it is certainly 
common sense. The term " serious personal injury " is interpreted 
very differently in different places, the ultimate decision resting 
with the colliery manager and the colliery doctor. Thus one 
doctor may hold that a simple fracture is not a " serious " acci- 
dent, and need not be reported ; whilst another may consider a 
bad cut or bruise, perhaps not sufficient even to lay a man off for 
a day, as a " serious " accident, though the majority rather incline 
to the view that no accident is " serious " unless there is rather 
more than a possibility that it will end fatally. This wide dis- 
crepancy of opinion makes it very difficult to compare fairly the 
accident statistics of different parts of the Kingdom, and, as the 
sequel will show, the British official non-fatal accident statistics 
are practically worthless. 

In Germany each state or kingdom has its own mining law. 
The Prussian law, which is the most important by far of any, and 
which all the others follow more or less closely, merely says, that 
any accident that has caused death or serious injury to one or 
more persons must be at once reported. The accident statistics 
based upon these reports are, therefore, even less satisfactory than 
our own ; it would appear as though the law contemplated only 



512 MINING . [CHAP. 

the inclusion of cases of instantaneous death in the Hst of fatal 
accidents, whilst non-fatal accidents are quite undefined. The 
Prussian official statistics record only fatal accidents in mines, 
except in the case of explosions of fire-damp, when injuries are 
also recorded. Fortunately, however, accurate statistics have been 
kept for some time past of all mining accidents by the Official 
Miners' Permanent Relief Fund of the German Empire. This 
assurance association defines a fatal accident as one that causes 
death, whether instantaneously or after any length of time. Non- 
fatal accidents are divided into such as incapacitate the injured 
person from working for either a longer or a shorter period, the 
limit between these two classes being fixed at thirteen weeks. 
A distinction is also made between accidents that permanently, 
and those that temporaril}% disable a miner, and again between 
those that cause total, and those that cause partial, disablement. 
As this Insurance Fund of Germany is under the direct super- 
vision of the Governmental authorities, the statistics published by 
it have all the character of official documents. 

In France mining accidents are simply divided into those that 
cause injuries merely and those that cause death, there being 
apparently no precise definitions of either. 

In Belgium a mining accident is one that has for its conse- 
quences the death or severe injury of one or more persons — severe 
injury being defined as an injury of such a nature as to cause the 
ultimate death or to interfere with the regular work of the victim. 
Apparently the Belgian law, strictly interpreted, would include 
amongst the fatal accidents only those where the injured person 
is killed on the spot, but in the published statistics, a fatal 
accident is understood to be one that causes death within thirty 
days of its occurrence. Obviously this definition is much narrower 
than that used in Great Britain, a fact that must not be lost sight 
of when statistics of the two countries are compared. 

Perhaps the most exhaustive analysis of mining accidents is to 
be found in a work published in 1897 by the above-mentioned 
Official Miners' Permanent Relief Fund of the German Empire,* 
which covers the period from ist October 1885 up to ist January 
1895. This Relief Fund, administered under Government super- 
vision, deals with all accidents that incapacitate the victims from 
work for a longer period than thirteen weeks, all accidents of lesser 
importance, here called minor accidents, being dealt with by a 

* Statistik der Knappschafts-Beriifsgotossenschaft fur das Deutsche Reich, 
Berlin, 1897. 



XXXVII.] NON-FATAL MINING ACCIDENTS IN GERMANY 513 

separate fund worked in conjunction with the former. The total 
number of persons insured for one year during the period covered 
by this work was 3,623,175 ; the total number of accidents of all 
kinds notified was 278,371, distributed as follows : — 



Fatal accidents 

Accidents causing total permanent 
disablement .... 

Accidents causing partial permanent 
disablement .... 

Accidents causing temporary dis- 
ablement .... 



Minor accidents 



Total 



Numbers. 

7,721 

1,427 

14,367 

8,164 

246,692 

278,371 



Per 1000 
Persons Employed. 

2.13 

0-39 
3-97 
2.25 



8.74 
68.09 

76.83 



Although, as will be seen subsequently, the ratio of fatal 
accidents is slowly but steadily decreasing in all the more 
important mining countries, the ratios between the various 
classes of accident appear to remain approximately constant. 
It is, however, notorious that ever since the laws providing 
compensation for accidents have received their present form, 
the number of non-fatal accidents reported in Germany has been 
steadily increasing year by year, there being no satisfactory 
explanation that can be assigned for this fact. The serious 
accidents are classified in various ways, the most interesting 
of which are those that refer to the causes of the accidents. 
Thus, of the above serious accidents, it is shown that the dis- 
tribution was as follows amongst the various branches of 
mining : — 



' 


No. of 

Persons 

Employed. 


Fatal Accidents. 


Serious Accidents. 


, 


Number. 


Per 1000 
Persons 


Number. 


Per 1000 
Persons 








Employed. 




Employed. 


(a) Coal Mines 


2,378,673 


6020 


2.53 


19,130 


8.04 


{b) Lignite Mines . 


331,522 


617 


1.86 


1,354 


4.08 


(f) Metalliferous Mines and 












Smelting Works . 


58,853 


870 


1.14 


2,750 


3.62 


[d) Salt Mines and Brine 












Works. 


95,423 


H3 


1-50 


450 


4*71 


{/) Other forms of Mining , 


58,704 


71 


1. 21 


274 


.« 



2 K 



Below Ground. 


Abovt 


: Ground. 


84.7 per cent. 
45-1 V 


15.3 percent. 
54-9 » 


73-5 » 
51-4 „ 
42.3 „ 


26.5 
48.6 
57-' 





514 MINING [chap. 

It is interesting to note that the ratio of accidents above 
ground to those below was as follows in the various branches 
of mining : — 



{a) Coal Mines 

{b) Lignite Mines 

{c) Metalliferous Mines and 

Smelting Works . 
{d) Salt Mines and Brine Works 
\e) Other forms of Mining 



The information is unfortunately not complete, as the 
relative numbers of the workers above and below ground 
are not given, so that no idea can be formed from these 
data of the relative degree of risk of work above and below 
ground. 

As regards the time at which accidents occur, there are 
a few more in the forenoon than in the afternoon, as might 
well be expected, seeing that the average number of men at 
work is greater in the former than in the latter period. As 
regards the days of the week, the percentage of accidents 
occurring on the respective days is as follows : — 



Sunday . 2.2 per cent. 

.1 per cent. | Thursda; 

.2 „ I Friday 

Wednesday . 16.6 „ j Saturday . . 17.0 



Monday . 15.1 per cent. | Thursday. . 15.9 per cent. 

Tuesday . 16.2 „ | Friday . .16.7 



Excluding, of course, Sunday, it is noteworthy that the 
number of accidents in the second half of the week is notably 
greater than in the first half; apparently the only cause that 
can be suggested for this circumstance is that the men, 
being more fatigued towards the latter end of the week, are 
on that account more liable to accidents. It may well be, 
however, that the facts here noted are themselves merely 
accidental, and that observations extended over a larger 
period would tend to equalise the numbers. 

Two highly interesting series of tables give an objective 
and a subjective division of the causes of the accidents, show- 
ing in what manner and by whose fault these originated. The 
former table may be summarised as follows : — 



XXXVII.] 



CAUSES OF ACCIDENT 



515 



BranW of Mininjr. 


Causes of Accident per cent. 




1 

1^ 


IP 


J. 

1 
a 
>< 


e 

.2 

P 


Molten Metal, 
Hot and Corrosive 

Liquids, 
Poisonous Gases. 


3 


1 


(a) Coal Mines 

(/5) Lignite Mines . 

(/) Metalliferous Mines and 

Smelting Works 
(d') Salt Mines and Brine 

Works .... 
(e) Other forms of Mining 
All Mines .... 


41. I 
35.9 

34-4 

13.7 
31.9 
39.4 


26.2 
28.7 

20.8 

3r.5 

25.2 
25.8 


9.1 

14.8 

13.T 

23.6 
12.2 

:o.2 


9.2 

3-5 
10.2 

7.9 
9.6 
9.0 


5.7 

7-9 
5.6 

7.3 
2.9 

5.9 


I.O 
3.4 

1.9 

7.6 

1.3 


7.7 
5.8 

14.0 

8.4 
18.2 

8.5 



The accidents due to these various causes calculated per 
1000 people employed in the whole mining industry were as 
follows : — 

Falls of Rock, Coal, Falling Bodies, etc. . . 3.44 

Transport, Haulage, Winding, Loading, etc. . 2.26 

Falls from Ladders, Steps, or other Heights . 0.89 

Explosions 0.78 

Machinery in Motion, Motors, etc. . . . 0.51 

Molten Metal, Hot and Corrosive Fluids, 

Poisonous Gases . . . . . . 0.12 

Miscellaneous 0.74 

Total (Fatal and Serious Accidents) . . 8.74 



There were no less than 3.42 accidents per 1000 workers due 
to falls of rock and coal in the workings, whilst those due to 
explosions of fire-damp were only 0.31 per mil. It will be seen 
in the sequel that accidents due to falls of ground of various 
kinds play by far the most important part in mining casual- 
ties everywhere. 

In distributing the blame for these accidents, four main 
groups are distinguished, accidents being either apparently un- 
avoidable and therefore put down to the intrinsic danger of the 
occupation, or else due to some fault of omission or commission 
either of the mine owners or managers, of the victims them- 
selves or of their fellow-workers. The numbers for the entire 
mining industry are given as follows : — 



5i6 MINING [CHAP. 

Per cent. 

Inherent danger of the occupation ... 58.2 

Per cent. 

Defects in or absence of safety appHances . . 0.2 

Insufficient regulations °-^ *>. 

Other faults of management . . . . _ 0.9 

Faults of the mine owners . . .l|lP 1.2 

Neglect of fellow-workers to use safety appliances o. i 
Contravention of regulations by fellow- workers . i.i 
Unskilfulness of fellow-workers . . . , 0.3 . 
Carelessness of fellow-workers .... 2.4 
Ignorance of danger on the part of fellow- 
workers ... 0.1 

Gross neghgence of fellow-workers ... 0.5 

Faults of fellow- workers . . . ■ 4.5 

Neglect of victims to use safety appliances . 0.9 , 

Contravention of regulations by victims . . 6.4 

Unskilfulness of victims 4.8 

Carelessness of victims . . . . . 20.3 

Ignorance of danger on the part of victims . 2.0 

Gross negligence of victims .... 1.5 

Fault of victims . . . . . 35.9 

Unknown causes ..... 0.2 



This table .shows, in the first place, that 41.6 per cent, or 
two-fifths of all the accidents could have been avoided by proper 
care and intelligent thought on the part of all concerned ; and in 
the second place, that fully one-third of the accidents can be 
ascribed to the faults of the victims themselves. This means that 
whilst the occupation is not necessarily much more than half as 
hazardous as the accident statistics make it appear, there is but 
little room for improvement either in the appliances used or in 
the regulations framed for the safety of the miners, and that the 
remedy lies largely within their own grasp, the better education 
of the miner and the development of his thinking powers being 
the best protection that can be offered him against accident. 
This view is further supported by the fact that in coal-mining the 
unavoidable accidents are as high as 61.7 per cent., whilst the 
avoidable accidents fall to 28.2 per cent, (o.i per cent, being 
ascribed to unknown causes). It may be taken as fairly well 
known that the coal miners are amongst the better educated and 
the more highly trained of all classes of miners, the effect of their 
higher intelligence being indicated in these figures. 

It is interesting to compare the above data with the results 
given in a recent paper by Mr B. M'Laren on " Preventible 
Colliery Fatalities," * in which that gentleman analyses the fatal 
* Tf-ans, Inst, Min. Eni^.^ vol. xix., p. 2t, 



XXXVII.] 



PREVENTIBILITY OF ACCIDENTS 



517 



accidents in Great Britain during the years 1896-98, and points 
out that 35 per cent, of the total number of underground fatal 
accidents were preventible. In coming to this conclusion, he has 
included "all fatalities stated to have been brought about by 
carelessness or neglect ; those in which a deficiency of props, 
sprags, bars, chocks, packs, etc., are mentioned ; cases of want of 
judgment ; a moment's forgetfulness on the part of some one ; 
acts contrary to the Coal Mines Regulation Act, special rules, and 
ordinary regulations ; want of care, etc. ; and those which present 
themselves as possibly preventible ; while all apparently doubtful 
cases are omitted." It may be added that this writer, like most 
others on this subject, concurs in the view that " the best preventive 
for colliery accidents is technical education." * 

These German figures have been dealt with at considerable 
length because they give the most complete picture anywhere 
obtainable of the liability of miners to serious or fatal accidents. 
Although the tables in the work dealt with extend only up to the 
year 1895, they are still perfectly applicable to the present day; 
this is perhaps best seen by taking the proportion of fatal accidents 
for the decade 1890 to 1899, when it will be seen that though 
these fluctuate considerably about the average for the period under 
consideration, yet their general average agrees pretty well with 
that of the period covered by the work quoted, namely, 1885 
to 1895 :— 



Year. 


Death-rale 
per 1000 Persons. 


Year. 




Death-rate 
per icxx) Person 


1890 . 


2.19 


1896 . 




2.21 


189I . 


2.44 


1897 ■ 




2.05 


1892 . . 


. 2.05 


1898 . 




2.53 


1893 • 


2.27 


1899 . 


. 


2.03 


1894 . 


r.91 








1895 • • 


2.16 


Ave 


-age 


2.18 



No other equally complete data are available for any other 
country. In addition to the special report that has been here^ 
summarised, this official Relief Fund publishes annual statistics,*}* 
and these can be compared with the official statistics published 
annually by the Government from the returns collected by the 
Inspectors of Mines ; it is true that these latter do not refer to the 
German Empire as a whole, but are published separately for the 

* Tratis. hist. Mi7i. Etig., vol xix., p. 27. 

t Berlchfe ilber die Verwaltung der Knappschafts-Berufsgenossenschaft^ 
Bedin. 



5i8 



MINING 



[ghap. 



principal mining states, namely Prussia* and Saxony f; the 
Prussian statistics are especially useful, because, out of the total 
number of miners employed in the German Empire, no less than 
nine-tenths are included in the kingdom of Prussia. 

The following table shows the proportion of Fatal Accidents as 
given in the above quoted Prussian statistics for 1899 : — 



Year. 




Fatal Acciden 


ts per 1000 Person 


s Employed in 
















Bituminous 
Coal Mines. 


Lignite 
Mines. 


Metalliferous 
Mines. 


Other Mines. 


All Mines. 


189I 


2.889 


1.835 


1.035 


1. 018 


2.395 


1892 


2.208 


1. 710 


1. 081 


2.224 


1.963 


1893 


2.619 


2.089 


0.794 


2.298 


2.245 


1894 


2.209 


1.986 


1.005 


1-935 


1.983 


1895 


2.540 


2.103 


1.002 


1. 917 


2.229 


1896 


2.577 


1.664 


I.I37 


1.649 


2.241 


1897 


2.353 


2.362 


1.046 


1. 611 


2.124 


1898 


2.864 


1.992 


0.994 


1.956 


2.485 1 


1899 


2.314 


1.945 


1.393 


1. 231 


2. 114 ! 


Decade 












1890-99 


2.518 


1.946 


1.079 


1.708 


2.204 1 



These figures refer to the total number of workers both below 
and above ground ; an analysis for the year 1 899 gives the 
following results : — 



Fatal accidents due to explosions 

„ „ haulage and winding 

„ „ falls of coal and stone 

„ „ after-damp 

„ „ blasting . 

„ „ miscellaneous causes 


Per 1000 Persons 
Employed Underground. 

0.079 
0.874 
1. 191 
O.II2 
O.I2I 
0.142 


Total fatal accidents underground 


2.519 


Total fatal accidents above ground . 


Per 1000 Persons 
Employed Above Ground. 

1.082 




Per 1000 Persons 
ICmpIoyed in Open Working 



Total fatal accidents in open workings 



1-455 



It will be seen that the death-rate per 1000 persons employed 
is very nearly the same as that given by the Relief Fund Associa- 

* Zeitschriftfilr das Berg-, Hill ten- und Salinen-wesen im Preiissischen Staate. 
\ Jahrbuchfur das Berg- und Hiitten-wesen im Konigreiche Sachsen. 



XXXVII.] 



BELGIAN COAL MINES 



519 



tion, an agreement that goes far to confirm the belief above 
expressed in the general reliability of these statistics. It is 
important to note that metal-mining is in Germany a far safer 
occupation than coal-mining, a state of affairs that would naturally 
be expected to obtain, having regard to the conditions of safety 
of these two classes of work, and bearing in mind that in 
Germany the educational level of both classes of miners is more 
nearly the same, and that the legislation for both is practically 
identical. It should be added that the above statistics refer only 
to persons regularly employed in mines, and excludes fatal 
accidents that may occur in or about any mine, to persons not 
comprised in the category of regular mine employes ; the inclusion 
of such cases would increase the above total figure by about 2.5 
per cent. 

In Belgium, careful statistics of accidents are published,* and 
in spite of the fact that her coal mines present circumstances 
of special difficulty, the recorded death-rate is a low one, due 
partly to the fact already pointed out, that only deaths within 
thirty days of the accident are reported. Moreover, in Belgium, 
deaths due indirectly to mine accidents are excluded from the 
lists. Coal-mining being the chief mineral industry of Belgium, 
the mineral statistics of that kingdom are more particularly 
devoted to it. The death-rate has been as follows in the Belgian 
coal mines from the year 1895 to 1899: — 



Year. 


Death-rate per looo Persons Employed. 


At Surface and 
Underground. 


Underground only. 


1895 
1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 


1.33 
1. 14 
1.03 
1.40 
0.97 


1.58 
r.38 
I.3I 

I.7I 
1.09 



In 1899 there were 241 separate accidents underground, causing 
lOi deaths, and 151 serious injuries ; of these, 85 accidents, killing 48 
and injuring 43 workmen, were due to falls of rock or coal ; accidents 
due to haulage produced 63 casualties, of which 19 were fatal, the 
majority, or 39 accidents, occurring in roads which were approxi- 
mately level. There was only one explosion of fire-damp, causing 

* Royaume de Belgique — Statistique de Mines, Minieres, Carricres, etc. 



520 



MINING 



[chap. 



4 deaths, but there are 6 fatal accidents recorded as due to choke- 
damp. An interesting table shows that the number of accidents 
due to falls of rock or coal has produced an annual average of 
0.73 deaths per 1000 men employed, the year 1899 happening to 
be considerably below the^ average in this particular category. 

In France also, great attention is paid to conditions affecting 
the security of the miner. Great care is exercised by the 
Inspectors of Mines, and the accident death-rate appears to be 
decreasing steadily and satisfactorily, but, in comparing the 
French statistics with these of other countries, it must be remem- 
bered that the former include only accidents that result fatally 
within a few days of their occurrence, there being no rule at all on the 
subject. The following table shows the death-rates per thousand 
since 1894* : — 



-• 


Death-rate per looo Persons Employed. 


In Coal Mines. 


In other Mines. | In all Mines. 

■ 1 


Under- 
ground. 


Above 
ground. 


Total. 


Under- 
ground. 


Above 
ground. 


Total. 


Under- 
ground. 


Above 
ground. 


Tota'.. 

•1 


1894 

1895 
1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 


0.97 
I.4I 
1.62 

1.34 
1.26 
1.62 


0.55 
0.68 
0.50 
0.41 
0.60 
0.66 


0.85 
1. 19 
1.30 
1.07 
1.07 
1.29 


0.92 
1.73 
1.97 
2.52 
3.06 
2.II 


0.54 
0.31 
0.90 
0.84 
2.00 
1.02 


0.81 i 0.96 
1.32 1.43 
1.67 1.65 
2.06 1 1.44 
2.75 r.41 
1.78 i 1.67 


0.55 
0.65 

0.53 
0.44 
0.72 
0.70 


1 
0.84 
1.20 

..33 1 

I.IO ] 
1. 21 

1.39 1 

1 



Coal-mining forms the principal portion of the French 
mining industry, over 90 per cent, of those engaged in mining 
being employed in collieries of various kinds. Metal-mining 
is comparatively unimportant, and is generally carried on upon 
a small scale, a fact that in part no doubt accounts for the 
relatively high accident death-rate. In coal-mining, on the 
other hand, the rate is a very low one. Many French collieries 
are controlled by large corporations, and in these large and 
well-managed concerns all work is done with the greatest care, 
and carried on in the most approved style. 

Italy is rarely looked upon as a mining country, yet there 
are over 60,000 persons annually engaged in mining proper 
in the kingdom of Italy, the mining being practically all 

Statistlque de P Industrie Miiv'rale en France et en Algerie. 



xxxvn.] 



ITALY AND THE UNITED STATES 



521 



metalliferous mining. The following are the recent Italian 
accident statistics *: — 



Y.ear. 




Per 1000 Persons Employed. 






Underground. 


Above ground. 


Total. 


Killed. 


Injured. 


Killed. 


Injured. 


Killed. 


Injured. 


1897 
1898 
1899 


2.77 

1.75 
2.10 


3.23 
3.50 
3.29 


0.78 
0.46 
0.42 


0.86 

1.39 
1.08 


2.31 
1. 41 

1.66 


2.67 

2.95 
2.72 



It is worth noting that about two-thirds of the fatal and 
one-half of the non-fatal accidents underground are due to 
falls of stone, this being here, as elsewhere, the most prolific 
cause of disaster. The comparatively high death-rate in Italy 
cannot well be due to any of the conditions of mining, none 
of the mines being particularly deep, or presenting any con- 
ditions of abnormal danger or difficulty. It is more than 
probable that the high rate is due to the low educational level 
of the Italian miner. Whilst not less naturally intelligent or 
skilful than his fellow-worker in Britain, Germany, or France, 
his technical training is far inferior, and to this deficiency the 
higher accident death-rate in Italy may fairly be ascribed. 

In the United States it is only within quite recent years 
that any attempt has been made to obtain accurate statistics 
of mining accidents, and these are still mainly confined to 
coal mines ; even now the inspection of these leaves a good 
deal to be desired. The following figures are given for miners 
other than coal miners in an article by F. L. Hoffman,-|- from 
which most of the following information is derived : — 



i 

Occupation, Locality, and Year. 


Accident Death- | 

rate per 1000 ! 

Persons Employed. 


Iron Ore Miners, Michigan (1892-96) . . 

„ „ (1899-1900) .... 

Copper Mines, Lake Superior (1892-96) . . . . 

(1898-99) .... 

Metal Miners, Colorado (1896-97) . . 

Metal Miners (Lead and Zinc), Missouri (1S92-97) . . . 


5.14 
3.62 

3.57. 
2.07 

3.89 
2.59 



* Rivista del Servizio Minerario. 

t The Mineral Industry^ 1898, p. 719. 



522 MINING [CHAP. 

It is obvious that the collection of accurate statistics in the 
Western States, where the mines are much scattered and there 
is practically no inspection, is quite out of the question. 

The following table, taken from the paper above quoted, 
shows the accident death-rate in coal mines in the various States 
of the Union during the period 1886- 1897, 3-s f^ar as such 
statistics are available : — 

Accident Death-rate 



States and ^^^ 

Territories. p^^^^^^^ Employed. 

Alabama . . . 1.63 

Colorado 

Illinois 

Indiana 

Indian Territory 

Iowa 

Kansas . 

Kentucky 

Maryland 



States and Accident D^h-rate 

Territories. Per^on's^E^loyed. 

Missouri . . .2.19 
New Mexico . . 9.42 

Ohio .... 1.53 
Pennsylvania (Anthracite) 3.15 
Pennsylvania (Bituminous) 1.88 
Tennessee . . .4.16 
Washington . . . 10.70 
West Virginia . . 3.30 



4.72 
1.82 
2.32 
3.76 
2.28 
1.62 
1.50 
1.63 

In all bituminous coal mines (average) . . . 2.12 
In all anthracite mines (average) . . . . 3,15 
In all coal mines (average) 2.53 

The first point that is brought out by this table is that 
anthracite mining is evidently more dangerous than bituminous 
coal-mining, and this is the more striking seeing that anthracite 
coal does not give off fire-damp, so that the dangers of gas 
explosions are here excluded. The general conditions of 
anthracite mining, and more particularly the steep inclination 
and great thickness of many of the seams, are sources of danger 
that are not met with in ordinary coal-mining. Although, as has 
been already pointed out, comparisons between the statistics of 
different countries must be made with the utmost caution, it 
seems certain that the accident death-rate in the bituminous 
mines of the United States is higher than in the more important 
European coal-producing countries. There seems to be nothing 
in the nature of the bituminous coal mines of America to account 
for this fact, which is no doubt largely due to the circumstance 
that the American coalfields do not as yet possess a settled coal- 
mining population properly so called, and that experienced coal 
miners are therefore rare, any working man taking casually to coal- 
mining for a while, as he might to any other temporary occupa- 
tion. Such men can of course never gain the experience and 
almost intuitive knowledge of coal-mining that is acquired by 
coal miners in the older continent, who are generally born and 
bred on the coalfields and imbibe knowledge about coal-mining 
matters from their earliest childhood. Another equally potent 



XXXVII.] 



BRITISH STATISTICS 



523 



factor is the extraordinary mixture of nationalities to be found in 
most American coal mines, which seem to be the first refuge for 
the immigrant labourer from Eastern or South Eastern Europe. 
The result, of course, is that regulations or orders are only half 
understood, and are therefore not properly obeyed. Attention 
has recently been directed to this source of danger in various 
parts of the world ; for example, the employment underground of 
persons who are not acquainted with the German language has 
recently been forbidden in the Westphalian coalfield. It is worth 
while noting that the States in which machine coal-cutting is most 
largely employed, such as Ohio and Illinois, show death-rates well 
below the average of the United States as a whole. 

Turning now to Great Britain, there is a large mass of 
statistical material available by which the liability to accident 
of the British miner may be gauged. Each of H.M. Inspectors 
of Mines in charge of a district issues an annual report, a 
great portion of which is devoted to mining accidents and their 
causes, and these district reports are summarised in the General 
Report and Statistics, Part II., Labour, whilst an advance proof 
is also published early in each year. It may be as well to point 
out first of all that the death-rate due to accidents has been 
steadily diminishing during the last half century,* as is well 
shown by the following table, worked out for quinquennial periods 
from 1 85 1 to 1899: — 





Average Annual Death-rate 


per 1000 Persons Employed in all Mines ] 








in 


Great Britain. 








Underground. 




Above 
ground. 


Total. 


Quinquennial Period. 
















2§ 


2*0-0 


^. 


nl 


pi 


$ 


si 




Si 


«I 




Miscell 
ous 


Due 
all Cau 






1851-1855 


1.280 


2.016 


1.296 


0.556 


5.149 


1.012 


4.301 


1856-1860 


1.234 


1.846 


0.899 


0.648 


4.628 


0.994 


3.883 


1861-1865 


0.618 


1.714 


0.668 


0.790 


3.791 


1.105 


3.240 


1866-1870 


1. 158 


1-578 


0.528 


0.730 


3.995 


1.256 


3.433 


1871-I875 


0.516 


1. 210 


0-437 


0.572 


2.736 


0.899 


2.342 


I876-1880 


0.81 1 


1. 132 


0.317 


0.449 


2.709 


0.847 


2.306 


' I881-1885 


0.408 


1. 108 


0.263 


0.532 


2.312 


0.848 


2.007 


1886-1890 


0.312 


1.015 


0.196 


0.517 


2.042 


0.913 


1.806 


189I-1895 


0.244 


0.798 


0.188 


0.470 


1.704 


0.820 


1.524 


1896-1899 


0.II7 


0.783 


0.122 


0.457 


T.479 


0.798 


1.338 



* See also the Annual General Reports upon the Mineral Industry of the 
United Kingdom and Ireland for the years 1894, 1895, and 1896. 



524 



MINING 



[chap. 



This table shows that as far as comparisons with other 
countries are at all possible, mining in Great Britain has 
reached a level of safety with which but few other nations can 
compare favourably ; it also brings out the very satisfactory fact 
that the accident death-rate is steadily decreasing, although further 
investigation will show that all branches of the mining industry 
do not share equally in the decrease. Great Britain is essentially 
a coal-mining country, its metal-mining having been for years 
constantly diminishing until it is now almost a negligible 
quantity ; it must, however, be remarked that by one of those 
curious legislative freaks that are so familiar to the miner in this 
country, the only remaining important branch of metal-mining, 
namely, ironstone-mining, is for legal purposes included under the 
head of coal-mining, and figures as such in all these statistics. 
About 95 or 96 per cent, of all persons employed in mining work 
in the coal mines as thus legally defined, over 93 per cent, being 
employed in coal-mining properly so called. The following table 
shows the death-rates for quinquennial periods from 1875 to the 
end of 1899 for coal and metal miners, taken separately, using 
these words in their official sense : — 



Ouinquf nnial Periods. 


Average Annual Death-rate in Great Britain per looo Persons 
Emploj'ed. 


1 ! 

In Coal Mines. ; In Metal Mines. ! 

! - : 


Under- Above 
ground. ground. 


Total. 


Under- Above 
ground. ! ground. 

1 


Total. 


1876-I880 
1881.1885 

1 886- 1 890 

189I-1895 
1896-1899 


! 
2.752 0.936 
2.310 0.962 
2.038 1 0.970 
1.686 0.874 
r.462 1 0.816 

1 


2.396 
2.046 
1.834 
1.526 
1.340 


! 
2.170 0.432 
2.338 0.461 
2.116 0.318 
2.250 I 0.392 
1.898 0.468 


1.472 
I..600 
1.428 
r.482 
1.305 

i 



An examination of this table shows very clearly that practi- 
cally all the improvement has been confined to coal-mining. 
Leaving surface labour out of question for the moment, it is seen 
that the death-rate amongst coal miners for the period 1896-99 
is little more than half of what it was in 1876-80, whilst in 
metal-mining there has only been a somewhat doubtful improve- 
ment of about \2\ per cent. Contrary to the popular opinion, 
coal-mining in this country is obviously now a very much safer 
employment than metal-mining, and has been so for about the 
last twenty years. The death-rates of surface workers have in 



XXXVII.] MORE ACCIDENTS IN COAL THAN METAL-MINES 525 

both cases remained about stationary during the last twenty- 
five years. It is evidently nearly double as high at collieries as 
it is at metal mines, the reason for this being undoubtedly the 
greater complexity of surface machinery, the far more intensive 
rate of work at the former, and above all the fact that the 
surface works of the vast majority of collieries are connected 
by a network of railway lines and sidings. That these are 
a grave source of danger needs hardly any proof, but such 
is easily obtainable, seeing that the accident death-rate of all 
males in Great Britain is about 0.87* per icxx), whilst that of 
railway employes, such as pointsmen, porters, guards, etc., is 
no less than 2.286* per 1000. It is evident that the higher 
death-rate at the surface of collieries as compared with metal- 
liferous mines is easily enough accounted for, and the fact is, 
moreover, indicated in the statistics themselves. For example, 
in 1899, nearly 60 per cent, of the total number of surface 
accidents at collieries were returned as due to this cause. The 
suggestion of a remedy is unfortunately a far more difficult 
matter ; this necessarily lies largely in the hands of the men 
themselves, and whilst it must be admitted that working about 
and amongst railway trucks is a dangerous occupation, it is a 
danger that can be considerably lessened by the care and 
attention of the workers themselves. 

An analysis of the causes of fatalities in coal mines leads 
to several important conclusions. In the first place it is obvious 
that the danger which is most prominently connected in the 
public mind with coal mines, that, namely, of explosions, is now 
one of the least formidable. 

The death-rate from explosions within the last five years 
has been as follows in all the collieries of the United Kingdom : — 

Death-rate 
Year. per locxj Persons 

due to Explosions. 

1895 • • • • • • • • o-io 

1896 . . 0.31 

1897 0.03 

1898 . . 0.05 

1899 0.09 

These figures have now become so small that they are necessarily 
irregular, an accident of any magnitude, causing even a dozen 

* Figures calculated from those given in the "Supplement to the Fifty- 
fifth Annual Report of the Registrar-General," 1897. These figures refer to 
the years 1891-93. 



526 MINING [chap. 

deaths, being sufficient to affect the rate very greatly. The 
improvement within the last twenty years is extremely marked, 
and is due to various causes, among which may be enumerated 
better ventilation, the far more extended use of safety lamps, 
the substitution in all dangerous mines of safer explosives for 
the once universally used black powder, and above all, of some 
better method of firing for the highly dangerous " squib." It is 
highly probable that further improvements may be looked for 
with every prospect of success in this latter direction, and that 
the general adoption of electric firing would be a distinctly 
valuable safeguard. The recognition of the fact that coal-dust 
is an explosive agent but little less dangerous than fire-damp, 
due largely to the labours of Professor W. Galloway and Mr 
H. Hall, and the precautions in the form of watering now 
adopted, have also played an important part in reducing the 
death-rate. It need hardly be added that most of these pre- 
cautions would have been of little value, even if their introduction 
had been possible, unless the scientific training of managers, 
officials, and men alike had concurrently made considerable 
advances. It is scarcely possible to enforce in a coal mine laws 
or regulations of which the more intelligent, at any rate, amongst 
the miners themselves do not see the use, and legislation alone 
could do but little, unless there existed a general feeling in the 
mining community that it was tending in the right direction. It 
needs a certain amount of technical and scientific training, 
however, to enable the average coal miner to realise such a 
fact, and that he has been brought to realise it is one of the main 
factors in the increased security that men enjoy nowadays. 

The main cause of disaster underground has always been, 
and still remains, that classed as "falls of ground," to which 
considerably over half of the deaths underground are due. 
Explosions have now been so far brought under control that an 
explosion has come to be looked upon as an abnormal accident, 
due to a fault of omission or commission on the part of some- 
body, and therefore requiring careful investigation, whilst falls of 
ground are unfortunately still regarded as normal risks incident to 
the miner's calling. These falls may be subdivided according as they 
are falls at the working face, when they are either falls of roof or 
falls of the coal face, or they are " backbye " accidents, that is to 
say, falls of roof in the roadways of the mine. Falls at the face 
are accountable for over 70 per cent, of the total number of 
deaths due to falls, but unfortunately our statistics do not dis- 



XXXVII.] FALLS OF COAL AND FALLS OF ROOF . > 527 

criminate between falls of coal and falls of roof at the face. In 
the absence of definite information on this important point, it 
is difficult to suggest what remedies should be applied, but these 
must depend greatly upon what may be found to be the most 
fertile causes of accident ; falls of the roof, properly speaking, 
can only be avoided by setting more props, or by setting them 
better; falls of coal may be due to bad "spragging," or to the 
undercut mass of coal falling forward, or to its coming away 
at one of the natural cleavage joints of the coal. In Germany 
a Government Commission has been appointed to inquire into 
the whole question of falls of ground, and no doubt the report, 
when issued, will throw much light upon this difficult subject. 
It is obvious that the two kinds of falls require entirely different 
treatment ; systematic timbering, i.e., the setting of props at 
regular uniform distances apart, whether the roof seems to need 
it or not, is being advocated in several quarters, and it should 
certainly do something to reduce the number of accidents due 
to falls of roof. Falls of coal can hardly be treated in the same 
way ; systematic spragging might do something, but would 
probably not of itself be sufficient. A very obvious mode of 
reducing the accident rate at the working face should be found 
in the more extensive use of coal-cutting machinery ; in the 
first place the number of men necessary to be employed at the 
coal face for a given output would be very considerably reduced, 
and hence the number of men exposed to this danger would 
be proportionally diminished. Furthermore, as the machine 
cuts rapidly, and must be kept moving constantly if it is to be 
economically successful, the men working it will always be under 
a comparatively fresh roof, which is far less liable to sudden 
falls than a roof that has been laid bare for some time, the same 
being true also of a freshly-cut face of coal, which should never, 
under these conditions, be left standing long enough for the 
weight of the roof to affect it. Finally, a man working with a 
machine has a far better chance of looking about him and 
seeing what is going on than has a miner lying on his side, 
half under the coal, engaged in " kirving his holing," that is to 
say, in hewing out with his pick a narrow strip of coal along 
the floor of the seam, an operation that has to be performed 
preparatory to breaking down the mass of coal. 

It is highly probable that one of the conditions that has contri- 
buted very largely to the prevention of colliery explosions, namely, 
the extended use of safety lamps, has at the same time been a con- 



528 MINING [chap. 

tributory cause of the non-diminution in the number of accidents 
due to falls of ground. Among the conditions that have been laid 
down from time to time by Royal Commissions and others as 
essential to a good safety lamp, that of giving a sufficient amount 
of light has been very generally overlooked, and most of the safety 
lamps in use give a very poor light, especially after they have been 
burning for a few hours. Their shape, moreover, prevents their 
giving a top light, so that it is scarcely possible for a miner to 
adequately examine the roof of his working with a safety lamp, so 
as to see whether it is dangerous or not. Much was hoped from 
the introduction of portable electric lamps, but so far these have 
not come up to expectations, partly because no entirely satisfactory 
electric lamp has yet been devised, partly because the ordinary 
electric lamp does not, like the ordinary safety lamp, indicate the 
presence of gas, and thus allows the miner to continue his work 
without giving him warning that he is in an atmosphere in which 
he ought not to remain. A really good safety lamp, giving a light 
all round at least equal to that of an ordinary candle, is a great 
desideratum at the present moment. 

Of the remaining causes of accidents underground, the most 
serious are those connected with the transport of the coal ; 
the various systems of mechanical or self-acting haulage in 
use in all collieries of any importance must always give rise 
to a certain number of accidents, but it can only be said that 
the number of these could be greatly diminished by a stricter 
attention to colliery regulations. A large number are due 
annually to men and lads riding upon the tubs, so as to save 
themselves the exertion of walking to or from the shaft bottom. 
Shaft accidents have fortunately diminished considerably within 
the last twenty years, having come down to about one-third 
of what they were ; much of the improvement is no doubt due 
to the greater attention now being paid to the quality and 
condition of the winding ropes. A notable proportion of 
the accidents classified under this head occurs not in regular 
mining, but during the sinking of shafts, an operation that 
always of necessity involves a good deal of risk. 

Turning next to metal-mining, the most striking fact is 
that the conditions of safety have undergone such small im- 
provement ; the figures of course fluctuate a good deal from 
year to year, because the total number of men engaged is so 
small that a very few accidents more or less affect the ratios 
very considerably. It should be noted that metalliferous mines, as 



XXXVII.] TECHNICAL EDUCATION OF THE COAL MIN^R 529 

defined by law, include a large number of mines in which no 
metallic minerals are wrought, and should more properly be de- 
scribed as all mines not included under coal mines; the metalliferous 
mines properly so called show a far higher death-rate than is 
returned for the miscellaneous mines legally described as metal- 
liferous. Here again, as in coal mines, the largest number of 
casualties is due to falls of ground, by which nearly two-thirds 
of the total number of deaths is caused. In metal-mining, the 
miner's safety must depend far more than in coal-mining upon 
the worker's own judgment, experience, and carefulness ; it can 
only be suggested that mine managers should see to it that 
an ample supply of suitable timber is kept close to all the 
working places, and that the timbering of all levels, etc., should be 
constantly inspected by special officials appointed for this purpose. 
The most interesting problem that presents itself for solu- 
tion is, however, the question why the form of mining that 
was the safer of the two twenty-five years ago in this country, 
and which is still far the safer in Germany, is now the more 
dangerous, and why the death - rate in one should have been 
reduced 50 per cent, whilst in the other it has remained practi- 
cally stationary. The only salient point of difference to be found 
between the present regulations affecting the two forms of mining 
is, that whilst the Coal Mines Regulation Acts insist that no man 
shall be allowed to act as either manager or under-manager of a 
colliery unless he has passed certain prescribed examinations, any 
one is at liberty to manage a metalliferous mine, whether he be 
qualified to do so or not. The result has been that the 
educational level of coal miners as a whole has been raised ; 
every intelligent coal miner knows that the only road to 
ultimate promotion lies through these examinations, and there- 
fore applies himself to the scientific study of his work. There 
are thus growing up in every coalfield in Great Britain 
numbers of technically well - educated young men, from whom 
colliery managers can select their colliery officials, and the 
higher educational standard thus attained by the officials is 
slowly but surely affecting both the working miner on the 
one hand, and the manager on the other, as it is obvious that 
the latter dare not remain on an intellectually lower plane 
than his subordinates. It is probable this educational develop- 
ment has played a leading part in the improved conditions of 
safety in coal mines, not only directly, by increasing the know- 
ledge and thinking powers of the miners, but indirectly, as 

2L 



530 



MINING 



[chap. 



already said, by rendering legislation easy that would scarcely have 
been possible without it, all of which merely amounts to another 
repetition of the statement, that improved education is the best 
safeguard of the miner against accident. It will be remembered 
that the same conclusion was already drawn from the comparison 
of the accident death-rates of various countries, the highest death- 
rates being found in the most ignorant nations. Although much 
has been done in this country within the last twenty-five years, 
very much still remains to be done in order to bring up the edu- 
cational level of all connected with mining to the high standard of 
scientific technology that is to be found in some other countries. 

It should here be pointed out that mining, and more especially 
coal-mining, is really not the highly dangerous occupation that 
it is usually thought to be. The annual average accident 
death-rate* for all males in Great Britain is 0.870 per 1000, 
with which the present rate for coal miners underground of 
1.462 per 1000 does not compare very unfavourably. The 
true accident risk of the miner is perhaps best seen by com- 
paring it with a few of the other trades that are usually classed 
as dangerous : — 

Occupation. 



Bargeman, Lighterman, etc. 
Seaman, Merchant Service 
Dock Labourer, etc. .... 
Railway Guard, Porter, Pointsman, etc. 
Railway Engine Driver, Stoker 
General Labourer .... 



Average Annual Accident 
Death-rate per looo 
in the years 1891-93. 

3765 
3.219 
2.41 1 
2.286 



1.340 
1. 155 



As regards non-fatal accidents, it has already been pointed 
out that the official statistics of this country are of practically 
no value, owing to the absence of any standard or definition 
of what constitutes an accident to be reported. The following 
table shows the number of persons injured in mines (non-fatal 
accident cases) according to the official statistics : — 



Year. 


Number of Persons Injured per 
1000 Persons Employed. 


In Coal Mines. 


In Metal Mines. 


1895 
1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 


7.49 
8.29 
6.42 

5.74 
5.66 


6.96 
9.89 
8.29 

9.75 
10.10 



Supplement to the Fifty-fifth Annual Report of the Registrar-General.' 



XXXVII.] MINERS' PERMANENT RELIEF FUNDS " 



531 



It will be seen presently that these figures are ludicrously 
disproportionate to the real casualties, and although it is 
difficult to get accurate data about these, an approximation, 
at any rate, to the true facts can be obtained. 

Valuable information is afforded by the various Miners' 
Permanent Relief Funds, and by the Central Association for 
dealing with distress caused by mining accidents. The 
latter Association publishes statistics, from which the following 
table has been compiled, this representing the summary of the 
returns from the nine English societies (there are no Scotch 
or Irish ones) which together compose the Association * : — 





No. of 
Members. 


No. per 1000 Members 


Year. 


Of Deaths by Fatal 


Of Disablement 






Accident. 


Cases. 


1889 


238,892 


2.12 


188.3 


1890 


268,985 


2.66 


157.2 


189I 


287,690 


1.88 


149.8 


1892 


295,676 


2.17 


139.8 


1893 


299,027 


1.59 


144.8 


1894 


313,438 


2.50 


159.4 


1895 


317,004 


1.99 


166.8 


1896 


325,708 


1.90 


177.6 


1897 


334,428 


1.76 


192.6 


1898 


271,536 


I.8I 


196.3 


1899 


279,842 


1.67 


176.6 



The accident death-rate reported by the Association is 
rather higher than is shown in the Inspectors' Official Reports, 
because in the latter only deaths that occur within a year 
and a day of the accident are included, whereas in the tables com- 
piled by the Association all deaths that can be referred to mining 
accidents are given, however long the interval may be between 
the accident and the death of the injured person. 

The disablement cases in the above table comprise all 
injuries received by any member of the Association that are 
sufficiently serious to keep the victim off work for at least a 
week. They are more than twenty times as numerous as those 
included in the Inspectors of Mines' Reports, and this may 
be accepted as conclusive evidence that these reports do not 
record by any means all cases of " serious personal injury." It 
is true that the two sets of statistics are not in all respects 
strictly comparable ; the Inspectors of Mines take no account 

* From statistics kindly supplied by the Secretary of the Association. 



532 



MINING 



[chap. 



of an accident unless it happens within the precincts of the 
mine as legally defined, while the Associations' regulations 
extend to accidents that may happen to miners going to or 
returning from their work. There is also a suspicion that 
occasional cases of disability to work are returned as due to 
accident, when they are really not so caused, and escape the 
vigilance of the various societies' officials. Making all allowances, 
however, for these and similar defects, the above figures may 
be looked upon as reasonably accurate, and as fairly represent- 
ing the risk of minor accidents to which the coal miner is 
exposed in this country ; it may be added that the figures for 
each individual society do not vary very greatly from the general 
average, as shown by the Association. It is difficult to see why 
they should be about twice as high as the corresponding accidents 
in Germany, for although there may be some laxity in admitting 
supposed accidents, this circumstance cannot possibly account for 
one-half of the cases. It would be a decided advantage if In- 
spectors of Mines had power to record and report all cases of 
"smart money" and of compensation respectively paid by the 
collieries in their districts, as fairly accurate statistics of minor 
accidents could be obtained in this simple manner. It would 
also be more satisfactory if all accidents were subject to the 
examination of special medical officers appointed solely for this 
purpose. In this way the suspicion would be avoided that a 
medical practitioner may at times take too lenient a view of a 
doubtful case, biassed perhaps by the fact that his livelihood may 
depend largely upon the goodwill of the miners, who often form 
the bulk of his patients. 

By far the most important of the individual societies that make 
up the Central Association is the Northumberland and Durham 
Miners' Permanent Relief Fund ; from the annual reports of this 
society useful information may be gathered, some of which is 
summarised in the following table : — 



Year. 


No. of Members. 


No. per 1000 Members. 


Of Killed. 


Of Permanently 
Disabled. 


Of Temporarily 
Disabled. 


1896 
1897 
1898 
1899 


122,257 
124,920 
127,564 
130,552 


1.33 
1.60 
1.24 
1.50 


1.96 

1.94 
1.96 
2.00 


156.6 
156.8 
152.I 
148.4 



XXXVII.] TEMPORARY AND PERMANENT DISABLEMENT 533 

According to the rules of the society an injured man whose 
injuries prevent him from working for a week is considered as 
" temporarily disabled," and he continues in this category until he 
is fit to return to work, unless he is so badly hurt as to be un- 
able to work for six months, when he is classed as " permanently 
disabled " ; such a man may either recover sufficiently to be able 
to work again, or he may die, or he may remain disabled for life. 
The duration of permanent disablement as above defined has 
of course risen gradually from the commencement of the fund, 
until it amounted to 5.17 years in the quinquennial period 1887-91, 
its average duration from the formation of the fund having been 
4.42 years.* 

The duration of temporary disablement was about : — 

3.5 weeks in the year 1896 | 3.55 weeks in the year 1898 

3-6 „ „ 1897 I 3-55 ,, » 1899 

In the Liverpool district, the ratio of permanent disablement is 
found to be 4.5 per 1000 members, and of temporary disablement 
180 per 1000 members ; the duration of the former cases averages 
3^ years, and that of the latter 4.3 weeks. 

Annual reports are also issued by the Prussian Official Miners' 
Relief Fund ; the report for 1898 gives the accident death-rate of 
the members of the Association as 2.69 per 1000 members, the 
death-rate from all other causes being 5.39, making a total death- 
rate of 7.58 per 1000. It is worth noting that the average age at 
which members are totally incapacitated from working is 49.2 years, 
whilst the average age at which members are partially incapaci- 
tated is about forty-five years ; this includes disablement due to 
old age as well as to accident. 

Coming lastly to the subject of the diseases of miners, it may 
first of all be stated that mining is a distinctly healthy occupation. 
The mortality of all males f in Great Britain during the years 
1890-92 was 18.74 per 1000, out of which 0.87 deaths were due 
to accident, leaving 17.87 per 1000 due to what may be termed 
natural causes. On the other hand the mortality among coal 
miners from all causes for the same period was 12.33, that due to 
accident being given as 2.00,$ making the death-rate due to 

* Actuarial Report on the Northumberland and Durham Miners' Permanent 
Relief Fund, 1897. 

t Loc. cit. 

X In the Mines and Quarries Reports it is given as only 1.63, the difference 
being mainly due to the fact that in the Registrar-General's returns, accidents 
not caused by the miners' occupation are also included. 



534 MINING [chap. 

natural causes only 10.35 per 1000. Of course it must not be for- 
gotten that the working miner's career covers just that period of 
life at which the natural death-rate is lowest. There are no doubt 
several circumstances that contribute to the general healthiness of 
the miner's occupation ; in the first place, mining is hard work, and 
men whose constitution is not tolerably sound, and whose physique 
is not fully up to the average, will either select some less arduous 
occupation at the outset, or will find themselves, if they began 
life as miners, unable to continue at the work. On the other hand, 
the work, though arduous, requires steady though only moderate 
exertion, and does not expose the worker to the abnormally 
violent strains, exerted through brief periods, that characterise 
some other occupations. Again, the hygienic conditions are, as 
far as the coal mine at least is concerned, far more favourable than 
in most other occupations. The miner works in a good atmo- 
sphere, ample ventilation being a prime necessity for ensuring the 
safety of the coal miner, in an equable temperature, free from the 
extremes alike of heat and cold, he is not exposed to the 
inclemencies of the weather, and his working place is usually dry. 
The same cannot always be said of the miner in metalliferous 
mines, where the conditions of work are far less favourable 
in every respect, and his mortality is therefore higher. It 
may be added that the coal miner, if even moderately indus- 
trious, can always earn a wage ample to keep him in fair 
comfort, and to supply him fully with all the necessaries of life. 
Probably the most unhealthy part of the coal miner's work con- 
sists in "kirving" or undercutting the coal, in doing which the 
miner has to lie on his side on the floor of the coal seam, swinging 
his pick with a peculiar sideways stroke over his head, till he has 
cut out a narrow groove some 3 feet deep below the over-hanging 
mass of coal. Work in this constrained position is necessarily 
harmful to some extent ; its effect has been most noticed as 
affecting the nervous system, and especially the nerves of the 
eyes, the disease known as miner's nystagmus having been often 
ascribed to it. Cases of miner's nystagmus occur, however, also 
among miners who do not have to kirve, and it may well be due in 
great part to the poor light obtainable in so many cases underground, 
especially when safety lamps are used, and the consequent strain 
on the eyes ; at any rate this seems to be the opinion of several 
who have suffered from this complaint. The coal miner working 
in this position is also bound to inhale a considerable amount of 
fine coal-dust, which has an irritating effect upon the lungs ; thus it 



XXXVII.] MALADIES OF COAL MINERS . ^ 535 

appears from the tables already referred to that the percentages 
of deaths of coal miners due to the respective causes indicated 
were as follows : — 

Ca-esofDeath. Total NuSir^aths. 

Accident 16.2 

Phthisis 10.7 

Bronchitis 12.4 

Pneumonia 10.9 

The most obvious remedy for reducing the proportion of 
diseases due to the above causes is the one already referred to, 
namely, the general use of mechanical coal-cutters, and the 
replacement of hand kirving by machine kirving. Another cause 
besides coal-dust that is probably answerable for a considerable 
proportion of diseases of the lungs is the universal custom among 
coal miners in this country of walking home in their damp and 
dirty pit clothing, instead of changing into warm, dry clothes at 
the mine. Colliery owners have tried the experiment of providing 
changing houses and baths for the men at the pit's mouth, but 
have always found that the men declined to avail themselves of 
these conveniences. 

It has been pointed out that the metal miner's work is far 
more unhealthy than that of the collier. This is well seen in the 
death-rate among Cornish tin miners, the typical metal miners of 
Great Britain. Here we find that the death-rate, instead of 
being below the average of the country, is higher, namely 19.66 
per 1000 from all causes, that from accident being given as 
1. 14, leaving 18.52 per 1000 as the _ death-rate from disease. 
Consumption is extremely fatal amongst tin miners, bronchitis 
also claiming many victims. The following table shows the 
percentage of the total number of deaths for the period 1890-92, 
due to the causes specified : — 

^-- ^' D-^- Total^l^rbeTofte'aths. 

Accident 5.8 

Phthisis 29.9 

Bronchitis 13.5 

Pneumonia ....... 5.4 

Other diseases of respiratory system . . 7.1 

It is worth noting that according to Dr Ogle's figures the per- 
centage of deaths in the period 1880-83 amongst Cornish miners 
(which may be taken as practically equivalent to the tin miners 



536 MINING [chap. 

quoted above) due to phthisis was 37.5, and to other diseases 
of the respiratory organs, 24.9, the death-rate from all causes 
being rather more than double that of the average of all males. 
It is probable that a good deal of the improvement that appears 
to have taken place in those ten years is due to the increasing 
replacement of ladders by cages for getting the men to and from 
their work ; there seems little doubt that the fatigue of having to 
climb up a good many hundred feet of steep ladders at the end 
of a hard day's work is a prolific cause of chest complaints and 
of heart disease. At most Cornish mines of any importance a 
"dry" is provided, i.e.^ a room or building in which the miners 
change their wet and dirty mine clothes, and leave them to be 
properly dried for the day following. As in coal mines, so in 
metal mines, the dust produced by the miner's work is apt to 
injure the men's lungs. In metal-mining this dust is chiefly 
produced by the action of drilling. When a drill hole inclines 
well below the horizontal, water can and always should be poured 
in, to convert the dust produced into mud, and thus to prevent it 
from flying about. When a hole " looks upwards " or is pointed 
above the horizontal, water cannot be poured in, but may be 
splashed in from time to time ; this, however, involves a certain 
amount of trouble, and is rarely done, although it ought to be. It 
is especially important in the case of machine drills, which work 
very much faster and cause much more dust than hand drilling. 
The compressed air by which these drills are usually actuated can 
easily be employed to force a small jet of water into the drill 
hole ; this is done by some machines, and is to be highly recom- 
mended. Some Continental makers have extended this idea, and 
use drills pierced longitudinally with a small hole, through which 
water is injected ; this plan seems to be very effective in prevent- 
ing dust, but may be found open to some other objections in 
practice. 

The fumes produced by blasting, especially when nitro- 
glycerine explosives are used, are said to be occasionally injurious 
to health. There is no doubt that the explosion of ordinary 
black blasting-powder produces a considerable amount of carbonic 
oxide, and this poisonous gas is also produced, though apparently 
in less quantity, by most of the so-called safety explosives used 
in coal-mining. There is, however, never or rarely any good 
reason why a miner should be exposed to these fumes, which can 
be cleared away rapidly, provided that the mine is properly 
ventilated. It has been remarked that in most cases where such 



XXXVII.] ANCHYLOSTOMIASIS IN MINERS ■ ' 537 

ill effects have been complained of, the fault has lain with the 
men themselves. 

It is very exceptional that mining operations, properly so 
called, necessitate working in air under pressure, though this 
may occur in some special methods of shaft-sinking or of driving 
levels through wet ground ; it is well known that men working 
under these conditions are liable to suffer from caisson disease. 
None but sound, healthy men, not too old, should be employed 
on such work ; they should work short shifts, remain a sufficient 
time in the intermediate air-lock, and it is advisable that they 
should be under medical observation or periodic examination as 
long as the work lasts. In Westphalia the law forbids men 
working for more than six hours in any place underground the 
temperature of which exceeds 29° C. (84° F.). 

Of special diseases that particularly affect miners, there can 
hardly be said to be any. On the Continent, particularly in 
Belgium,* and more recently in Australia, especially in North 
Queensland, a good deal of alarm has been caused by the pre- 
valence of a serious disease due to an intestinal parasite known 
as Anchylostomum Duodenale. This disease, once introduced, 
spreads with alarming rapidity ; thus in one Hungarian pit, 80 
per cent, of the workers were found to be affected, and in pits in 
the province of Liege from 50 to 69 per cent, were attacked ; in 
Westphalia, in 1897, there were 275 cases of the disease amongst 
56,370 miners. The principal, if not the only remedy for this 
very serious, and often fatal disease, consists in the strictest 
personal cleanliness on the part of the miners themselves, 
whilst the management should take care to provide portable 
sanitary appliances, properly disinfected, at suitable places under- 
ground, and an ample supply of clean water for washing purposes. 
This has been made compulsory by recent legislation for the 
Westphalian coal mines. At German colleries bathing facilities 
are always provided, but the same Act now compels the use of 
separate shower baths in the place of the general plunge bath, 
the latter having been found to be a means of propagating not 
only anchylostomiasis, but other contagious diseases, such as 
trachoma (contagious disease of the eyes), typhus, etc. 

There are a few special diseases due to special cases of mining 

* A7inales des Mines de Belgique^ vol. v., p. 318. Bergassessor Hundt, 
" Die Bekampfung der Wurmkrankheit (Ankylostomiasis) im Oberbergamts- 
bezirke Dortmund," Zeitschrift f. Berg. Hiltt. u. Salinen-Wesen im Preussis- 
chen Staate, 1898, p. 184. 



538 MINING [chap. 

poisonous minerals, which only just need passing mention. It 
may be said that the only poisonous minerals mined are the 
ores of copper, arsenic, lead, and mercury. The mining of copper 
never seems to have given rise to any trouble, and it is even 
disputed by some authorities, whether copper, taken into the 
system in small quantities, acts as a poison.* Arsenic is usually 
mined in the form of arsenical pyrites, and does not seem in 
this shape to have any injurious effects. It is said that dust from 
the mineral smaltite (an arsenide of cobalt, containing no sulphur 
when pure), when drawn into the lungs produces cancer of the 
lungs,"!* 3-nd that this disease is not uncommon amongst the 
miners in the Schneeberg district of Saxony, where the above 
mineral occurs. 

In ordinary lead mines, lead poisoning or plumbism is almost 
unknown ; in the mortality tables already quoted, only one case 
of death is referred to plumbism among 16,827 miners. This is 
apparently due mainly to the fact that in all British lead mines 
the supply of oxidised lead ores is practically exhausted, and work 
is confined to the sulphuretted ores. Galena, the sulphide of lead, 
is a heavy and difficultly soluble substance, and it would seem 
that lead is not readily absorbed from it into the system. The 
case is far different when the softer oxidised ores of lead, such as 
the carbonates, are worked, and these have been a source of serious 
trouble at the mines of the Broken Hill district. New South Wales. 
It was found that men could not safely be kept at work in those 
parts of the mine which produced the earthy lead carbonates 
for more than a fortnight at a time.J 

Mercurial poisoning is no doubt the most serious of all these 
special forms of mining disease, due to the fact that all ores of 
mercury carry more or less mercury in the metallic state, as also- 
to the readiness with which metallic mercury volatilises even at 
ordinary temperatures. At the Almaden mines in Spain, and 
the Idria mines in Carniola, a good deal of mercurial poisoning 
is found to occur; the chief remedy adopted seems to be the 
working of short shifts, so as to expose the men for as short a 
time as possible to the dangerous fumes. At the New Almaden 
mines in California statistics have shown that there were amongst 

* J. W. Hiene, " On the Effects of Copper on the Human Body," Brit. 
Ass. Rept.^ 1900, p. 697. 

t Dr Harting and Dr Hesse (quoted by C. Le Neve Foster, Ore and 
Stone Mining., p. 686). 

+ Report of Board of Inquiry at Broken Hill, Sydney, 1893. 



XXXVII.] MERCURY MINES . ^ 539 

the miners 10.44 P^^ cent, of cases of mercurialism (salivation) in 
one year (1890).* The following remarks on this subject in the 
report are worth quoting : — 

"The miners employed in the extraction of ore work by 
contract as a rule, and a certain number of careless men, through 
their own negligence, become victims to mercurial salivation. 
Men engaged in ore chambers, where native mercury is found, 
are requested not to eat, drink, or smoke, without first cleaning 
the face and hands, and using a solution of potassium chlorate 
as a mouth wash. Working stripped to the waist is discouraged. 

"As the greatest attention is paid toward the attainment of 
perfect ventilation, which is of prime importance in the prevention 
of mercurial sickness, it is the physician's belief that if the miners 
were more thorough in the use of the above precautions, the 
salivation rate at the mine would be under i per cent, whereas 
it is now over 10 per cent. It is probable that there will always 
be a slight amount of mercurial sickness, owing, very likely, to 
the suspension in the moist atmosphere of the mine of a small 
amount of the chlorides, and possibly other salts of mercury." 

This last example, therefore, serves to repeat and enforce the 
lesson that seems to be taught by every portion of this investiga- 
tion, namely, that although mining is from the very nature of the 
occupation accompanied by certain risks, and although enlightened 
legislation and careful and scientific management can do much 
towards diminishing these risks, the main prophylactic must 
always lie in the thoughtfulness and intelligence of the miners 
themselves, and that the best thing that can be done towards 
increasing the safety of mining operations is to raise by all 
possible means the intellectual status of mining communities. 

* Eleventh Census of the United States^ p. 238. 

Henry Louis. 



CHAPTER XXXVIII 

THE AIR OF MINES 

The air of mines of whatever kind is extremely liable to vitiation, 
the nature and extent of which is of considerable importance in 
relation to the health and safety of those working in the mine. The 
impurities met with are known to the miners under such names as 
■*' black-damp," " fire-damp," " after-damp," " white-damp," " gob- 
stink," etc. ; and these terms will as far as possible be adhered to 
in the present account of the subject. 

In all mines a current of air to all parts is secured by means of 
the arrangement of the shafts and roads. One shaft, known as 
the "downcast," serves for the supply of fresh air, which is dis- 
tributed by means of "intake" roads to the working places. 
The more or less vitiated air then passes along a correspond- 
ing system of " return " roads or passages to the " upcast " 
shaft, by which it leaves the mine. In coal mines, where a very 
large ventilation is necessary, the current is usually maintained 
by means of a centrifugal fan placed at the top of the upcast, 
or in some cases by a furnace at the bottom of the upcast. In 
metalliferous mines the warmth of the mine commonly causes 
sufficient up-current, without any artificial aid. It is evident 
that by analysing the return air, and measuring its rate of flow, 
we can obtain the best idea of the nature and amount of the 
general vitiation of air throughout the whole mine, while 
analyses made at particular points in the mine afford more 
information with regard to vitiation due to special local con- 
ditions. 

Black-damp. — So far as is known the impurity known to miners 
as black-damp is met with to a greater or less extent in all, or 
nearly all, mines, and in many wells. Black-damp is recognised 
by the fact that when present in small quantities it causes a 
candle or lamp to burn dimly, without at the same time pro- 
ducing any distinctly noticeable effect on men : that in larger 
amounts it extinguishes lights ; and that in still larger amounts it 

540 



CHAP. XXXVIII.] 



BLACK-DAMP 



541 



causes death by suffocation. It is never explosive when present 
by itself, and is almost always heavier than air, unless, as very 
frequently occurs in coal mines, it occurs mixed with fire-damp. 

Until lately black-damp was believed to issue from coal and 
other strata, and was commonly identified with carbonic acid. 
Investigations by Mr W. N. Atkinson and the writer* have 
shown that this belief is erroneous, and that black-damp is. 
nothing else than the residual gas, resulting from the action 
of air on oxidisable material present in coal and other materials. 
Pure black-damp, free from air and other gases, consists of a 
mixture of nitrogen with usually from 5 to 15 per cent, of 
carbonic acid. 

The following table shows the composition of the black-damp 
obtained from various coal-mines, metalliferous mines, and wells. 
The samples were usually mixed to a greater or less extent with 
air, the amount of which was determined from the percentage of 
oxygen present : — 



ANALYSES OF BLACK-DAMP. 



Locality. 


Nitrogen 
per cent. 


Carbonic Acid 
per cent. 


Stopping, Podmore Hall Colliery, North Staffordshire . 
Another Stopping, same Colliery- 
Main Return, same Colliery .... 
Sladderhill Colliery, Apedale, North Staffordshire 
Old Road, Talk o' the Hill Colliery, North Staffordshire 
Main West Return, Talk o' the Hill Colliery . 
South Main Return, Great Fenton Col., N. Staffordshire 
Return, Wallsend Colliery, Newcastle, New South Wales 
Old Workings, Burghlee Colliery, Midlothian . 
Upcast Shaft, same Pit . . . . 
Upcast Shaft, Tylorstown Colliery, South Wales 
Old Road, Conygre (Timsbury) Colliery, Somerset 
Stopping, Nabb Pit, Lilleshall Colliery . 
Stopping, Hamstead Colliery, South Staffordshire 
Upcast Shaft, Hamstead Colliery, South Staffordshire . 
Old Road, Forge Ironstone Pit, North Staffordshire 
Issuing from Hole, Foxdale Lead Mine, Isle of Man 
Issuing from another Hole, same Mine . 
Return Air-way, same Mine .... 
Well at Redwick, Gloucestershire 
Coming over Top, Well at Balcombe, Sussex 
Well at Charterhouse School, Surrey 
Well at Northleigh, Oxfordshire .... 


87.87 

91-37 
87.30 
85.86 
91.90 
80.66 
89.31 
89.00 
86.90 
86.91 
85.97 
84.92 
86.48 
93.25 
93.31 
85.30 
88.07 
79.80 
80.30 
95.80 
88.93 
81.86 
93-19 


12.13 
8.63 
12.70 
14.14 
8.10 

iO'.3i 
12.69 
11.00 
13.10 
13.09 
14.03 
15.08 
13.52 
6.75 
6.69 
14.70 

11.93 
21.20 
19.70 

4.20 
ir.07 
18.14 

6.81 



The black-damp met with in coal-pits is probably formed 
chiefly and often exclusively from the oxidation of iron pyrites 

* Transactions of the Institution of Mining Engineers^ vol. viii., p. 549 - 
vol, xi., p. 265 ; and vol. xvi., 1899. 



542 THE AIR OF MINES [chap. 

(FeSg) present in the coal. This is oxidised to sulphuric acid 
and sulphate of iron, and as carbonate of lime (calcite) is also 
present in the coal, the sulphuric acid usually combines with the 
hme, liberating carbonic acid. The whole process may be repre- 
sented by the following equation : — 

4 FeSg + 1 5O2 + 8 CaCOg = 8 COg + 8 CaSO ^ + 2 FegOg. 

Oxidation occurring according to this equation would yield 
black-damp consisting of 87.7 per cent, of nitrogen and 12.3 
per cent, of carbonic acid, which is nearly the composition 
usually found. On pieces of coal which have been exposed 
for some time to air and moisture the red oxide of iron result- 
ing from this reaction may frequently be seen. On other pieces 
where there is no carbonate of lime, crystals of sulphate of iron, 
and an acid reaction will be found in the positions previously 
occupied by iron pyrites, while the coal itself is unchanged. 
The oxygen of air left in contact with coal gradually disappears. 
Hence old workings or spaces of any kind left unventilated soon 
become filled with black-damp. A fall in barometric pressure 
leads to an issue of black-damp from these spaces, though often 
there is also a constant issue into the return air-ways on account 
of a little air being sucked through from the intakes. In the 
case of wells the influence of barometric pressure on the issue 
of black-damp is very marked. The black-damp is formed in 
the pores of the surrounding strata, and issues out up the well 
whenever a fall of pressure occurs. Thus the well may be fairly 
■clear of black-damp at one time, and shortly afterwards full of 
it. Accidents to well-sinkers commonly occur through ignorance 
of this fact. The air is perhaps tested in the morning with a 
candle and found clear. In the afternoon after dinner a further 
test is neglected, and if the barometer has meanwhile fallen, the 
well-sinkers may descend into black-damp and be asphyxiated or 
fatally injured, or drowned by falling from the ladder. In the 
case of wells and metalliferous mines the black-damp is probably 
formed partly by the oxidation of carbonate of iron. 

The return air of coal mines always contains black-damp, about 
2 per cent, being very commonly present in the air of the upcast 
shaft. As the air-current passing through a coal mine is enormous, 
the quantity of black-damp formed in the pit is very considerable, 
usually amounting to over 2000 cubic feet per minute in a large 
pit. The oxidation thus represented must liberate a large amount 
of heat in the mine. Thus in the case of one pit investigated by 



XXXVIII.] ACTION OF BLACK-DAMP ' "- 543 

the writer and Mr F. G. Meachem* the amount of heat calculated 
as being liberated in the mine per minute would have sufficed to 
raise one ton of water 134° F. or to heat the whole of the air- 
current (of 100,000 cubic feet per minute) to boiling point. Of this 
heat only about one-ninth was expended in raising the tempera- 
ture of the air, two-ninths became latent through evaporation of 
moisture, and the remaining six-ninths escaped by conduction into 
the surrounding strata. This slow oxidation is one of the main 
causes of the high temperatures met with in mines ; and apart 
from it very deep workings could be kept comparatively cool by 
ventilation. It must, however, be borne in mind that air in 
descending the shaft of a pit is heated by compression about 
5J° F. for every 1000 feet of descent. There is thus a limit to the 
cooling effect of ventilation. Moreover, at great depths oxida- 
tion is apt to be favoured by both the higher temperature and the 
crushing of the coal by the weight of superincumbent strata, since 
in coal which is crushed a much larger surface is exposed to the 
oxygen of the air. When a current of air insufficient to carry off 
the heat passes through crushed coal spontaneous combustion is 
very apt to occur, and is a source of constant danger in some 
seams. 

Black-damp is ordinarily recognised by its action in ex- 
tinguishing a candle or lamp. The percentage which is just 
extinctive to a tallow candle or miners' safety lamp was carefully 
determined by Mr Atkinson and the writer. We found that a 
candle held vertically will not continue to burn if more than 15.8 
per cent, of black-damp is present (corresponding to an oxygen 
percentage of 17.6 per cent): that 17.7 per cent of black-damp 
extinguished an ordinary safety lamp ; and that 18.6 per cent ex- 
tinguished a candle held horizontally. The extinction is due, 
practically speaking, to the reduction in the oxygen percentage of 
the air and not to the presence of carbonic acid, although dilution 
of air with carbonic acid extinguishes a light somewhat sooner 
than dilution with nitrogen. A light will still just burn in a mix- 
ture of 75 per cent, of carbonic acid and 25 per cent, of oxygen. 
The presence of black-damp affects the light given by a candle long 
before the point of extinction is reached. The flame becomes 
smaller, and the rate of combustion is diminished. Angus Smith -|- 
found that when a candle was allowed to burn in air increasingly 
vitiated by its own combustion and by respiration, the light 

* Trans. Inst, of Mining Engineers., vol. xvi., 1899. 
■\ AirandRain^ p. 167. 



544 THE AIR OF MINES [chap. 

diminished to 22 per cent, of its original value when the oxygen 
percentage fell to 18.5 (corresponding to 8.9 per cent, of black- 
damp). 

The effects of black-damp on men are due partly to the carbonic 
acid, and partly to the diminished oxygen percentage accompany- 
ing the admixture of black-damp with the air. The influence of 
excess of carbonic acid and of deficiency of oxygen must therefore 
first be described separately.* 

When carbonic acid is added to air no noticeable effect is 
produced until about 3 per cent, is present, when the breathing 
begins to be distinctly deeper and slightly more frequent. No 
other unpleasant effects are produced, even after a long exposure ; 
and animals kept in air containing 3 per cent, of carbonic acid are 
unaffected in health. As the percentage of carbonic acid increases, 
the effects on the breathing become more and more marked, until 
at about 6 or 7 per cent, there is severe panting, the pulse-rate being 
also more frequent and vigorous, and the face being flushed. The 
sensation experienced is similar to that accompanying hard 
muscular work. A long stay in air of this composition is followed 
by frontal headache. With 10 per cent, of carbonic acid the 
respiratory distress is very great, but with a still higher percentage 
a narcotic effect is produced, and the mind becomes confused. 
Animals sometimes die from long exposure to air containing 
about 25 per cent, of carbonic acid, but even 50 per cent, may not 
prove fatal for some time. 

Diminution of the oxygen percentage of air usually causes no 
noticeable effect until the percentage falls to about 12, when the 
respirations begin to be just perceptibly deeper. At 10 per cent, 
the respirations are usually distinctly deeper, and the lips begin to 
become slightly bluish. At 8 per cent, the lips and face have more 
or less of a leaden blue colour, and usually the breathing is deeper 
and more frequent. In some persons, however, this is not the case,, 
and nothing is noticed by the person breathing this vitiated air, 
although his face presents to a bystander a most alarming appear- 
ance. At 5 or 6 per cent, there is clouding of the senses, and loss 
of power over the limbs, and often complete loss of consciousness,, 
which, to judge from experiments on animals, would probably 
soon end in death, either from gradual failure of the respiratory 
centre or from stoppage of the heart. The symptoms described 
are those observed when the breathing of the vitiated air is not 
accompanied by muscular exertion. The danger point is, however^ 
* See Haldane and Lorrain Srmth, Journal of Pathology^ vol. i., p. 168. 



xxxviii.] EFFECTS OF BLACK-DAMP . 545 

reached much sooner when any muscular exertion, such as that of 
climbing, or even walking, is made. Even at 1 5 per cent, of oxygen 
there is often shortness of breath and dizziness on exertion, and 
when the oxygen percentage falls much further fainting is apt to 
occur, and this is probably the cause of many accidents in which 
men fall off ladders in vitiated air, and are fatally injured or 
drowned. When the oxygen percentage falls below 8 or 10 per 
cent, death may occur in consequence of muscular exertion. Air 
vitiated simply by diminution of the oxygen percentage of the 
air is exceedingly dangerous, for the reason that there are hardly 
any warning symptoms before life is imperilled ; and were it not 
that a light is usually carried in such air, and that its extinction 
gives ample warning, since it occurs at about 17 per cent, of oxygen, 
accidents would be much more frequent. 

Sudden exposure to air containing less than 3 or 4 per cent, 
of oxygen causes in men loss of consciousness within about forty 
seconds. This is followed by convulsions, and the respirations 
soon cease. The heart, however, continues to beat for some time 
longer, and during this period artificial respiration will still restore 
life. 

A reference to the composition of black-damp will show that 
the effects produced by it are due, in most cases at least, to 
carbonic acid as well as to want of oxygen. When there is just 
sufficient black-damp present to extinguish a light no noticeable 
effect is, as a rule, produced, since there is 17 per cent, of oxygen, 
and usually not more than about 2 per cent, of carbonic acid. 
Occasionally, however, as in the case of two of the samples from 
Foxdale lead mines (see table), there will be as much as 3 or 4 per 
cent, of carbonic acid present, in which case the breathing will be 
slightly affected. With an increasing percentage of black-damp the 
panting due to carbonic acid will usually become more and more 
noticeable. Thus with 50 per cent, of black-damp there will 
commonly be about 6 per cent, of carbonic acid, and 10.5 per cent, 
of oxygen. The panting due to carbonic acid will, therefore, be 
very considerable. In some cases, however, as in the black-damp 
from Hamstead Colliery or Redwick Well, there will still be 
insufficient carbonic acid to produce panting, and the air will be 
already dangerous from deficiency of oxygen. With still larger 
percentages of black-damp, the symptoms from want of oxygen 
will predominate more and more, until at last with about 75 per 
cent, or 5 per cent, of oxygen, life can no longer be supprted. Death 
is always due to want of oxygen, and not to the poisonous action of 

2M 



546 THE AIR OF MINES [chap. 

carbonic acid. The presence of carbonic acid diminishes the danger, 
as the panting caused by it not only gives warning of danger, but 
also increases the oxygen supply to the lungs, and thus wards off 
for a time the effects of the deficiency of oxygen. 

Carbonic Acid. — There is no recorded case of evolution of pure 
carbonic acid in a mine in this country, but in one colliery district 
in France sudden outbursts of pure carbonic acid have occurred. 
The locality is a volcanic one, and possibly the carbonic acid may have 
originated from some such cause as the decomposition of limestone 
by silicates at high temperatures. The well-known case of the 
Grotto del Cane is one in which pure carbonic acid is evolved. 
The composition of a sample recently analysed by the writer from 
near the floor of the Grotto corresponded exactly to that of a 
mixture by diffusion of pure carbonic acid and air. The effects 
of pure carbonic acid have already been described, and are, of 
course, quite different from those of black-damp. According to 
Clowes, air containing 1 5 per cent, of carbonic acid is just sufficient 
to extinguish lights. Air of this composition would produce 
violent panting and partial loss of consciousness. 

Fire-damp. — The gas known to miners as fire-damp is recognised 
by its forming with air explosive mixtures. So far as is known 
the fire-damp met with in English mines is always pure methane 
(CH4), although in Germany ethane (CgHg) is also reported to 
occur in connection with certain kinds of coal. The writer has 
carefully examined many specimens of fire-damp from various 
English coal-fields, but never found that it consisted of anything 
else but the methane described by previous observers. The 
presence of fire-damp in air is recognised by miners from the 
appearance over the ordinary flames of a lamp of a pale non- 
luminous " cap " of flame, similar in appearance to the non-luminous 
flame of a Bunsen burner, though much paler, unless the air is 
nearly explosive. • From the size and distinctness of this cap, the 
percentage of fire-damp can be approximately determined. In 
testing for fire-damp the flame of the safety lamp should be 
lowered until only a small blue flame is left. The pale cap can 
then be better seen above the lamp flame. With very careful 
observation about i per cent, of fire-damp in the air can just be 
detected. With a hydrogen flame, as in the Clowes lamp, it is 
possible to detect as little as 0.2 per cent* With increasing per- 
centages of fire-damp, the cap becomes longer and more distinct, 
and passes right up the chimney when the air is nearly ex- 
* See Clowes, Detection of Inflammable Gas^ 1896. 



XXXVIII.] FIRE-DAMP ■ '' 547 

plosive. Air containing anything between about 5 and 1 3 per cent, 
of fire-damp is explosive. 

Fire-damp is given off from coal, within which it is contained in 
a highly compressed state. Different seams of coal give off very 
different proportions of fire-damp. Those seams which give off 
much are known to miners as " fiery." The amount of fire-damp 
contained in the coal seems to depend in large measure on the 
extent to which the strata above the coal are gas-tight. If fire- 
damp can escape upwards it drains off from the coal. Some idea 
of the enormous amount of fire-damp contained in fiery coal can be 
formed from the amount of fire-damp which escapes from the mine 
by the upcast shaft. This is chiefly given off from the coal as it 
is exposed in working, so that from the output of coal and fire- 
damp from the mine a rough estimate can be made of the 
proportion of fire-damp in the coal. In one mine, for instance, 
about 4500 cubic feet of fire-damp per minute were given off, with 
an output of about 1200 tons of coal per day, or nearly one ton 
per minute. It would thus appear that 4500 cubic feet of fire-damp 
per ton raised were given off, or 1 50 cubic feet of gas per cubic 
foot of coal. 

The fire-damp met with in mines is commonly mixed with a 
large proportion of black-damp ; and in consequence of this the fire- 
damp, though still capable of forming an explosive mixture when less 
air is present, may not be recognised unless very carefully looked 
for, as the lamp is extinguished before a prominent cap is visible. 
Such a mixture may easily be fired by striking a match in the 
midst of it, or by a blown-out shot in blasting. The mixture is 
lighter than air, whereas pure black-damp is nearly always heavier 
than air. 

Fire-damp has no direct action on man. It only acts by 
diluting the oxygen of the air. When a mixture of 79 per cent, 
of fire-damp and 21 per cent, of oxygen is breathed it cannot be 
distinguished from air ; and animals may be kept for long periods 
in a mixture of this composition. The action of a given mixture 
of fire-damp and air thus depends simply upon the oxygen 
percentage, any effect produced being merely due to want of 
oxygen, the symptoms of which have already been described. As 
fire-damp is lighter than air, a man affected by it will, on losing 
consciousness, usually fall into better air. Were it not for this, 
fatal accidents by asphyxiation with fire-damp would be much 
more common. It often enough happens that a man is 
temporarily overcome by putting his head upwards into a 



S48 THE AIR OF MINES [chap. 

cavity filled with fire-damp. If the fire-damp contains little or no 
air loss of consciousness occurs suddenly, and without previous 
warning. Fatal accidents sometimes occur through a man 
incautiously advancing without a lamp up a road, during 
attempts to restore ventilation in a district of a mine which has 
become filled with fire-damp. So long as a lamp burns in air 
containing fire-damp not the slightest harm results from breathing 
the air. 

After-damp. — The gas remaining in a mine at the place where 
an explosion has occurred is known to miners as "after-damp," 
and is much dreaded on account of its poisonous properties. A 
careful examination, recently undertaken by the writer,* of the 
bodies of the men and horses killed in three colliery explosions 
resulted in showing that in almost every case, whether or not 
there were burns or other injuries, the actual cause of death was 
carbonic oxide poisoning. In many cases, however, the burns or 
other injuries would certainly have proved fatal apart from the 
carbonic oxide ; and the result of a rough estimate was that, on 
an average of the three explosions, about 23 per cent, of those 
killed had received burns or other injuries sufificient to cause 
death. Only 46 per cent, were burnt or injured. 

The symptoms of the rescuers who encountered after-damp 
were clearly those of carbonic oxide poisoning. Their lamps 
continued to burn in the poisonous air, and in some cases men 
were found dead with their lamps either still burning, or with the 
oil burnt out. The fact that a lamp continues to burn, which is 
an excellent test of the safety of air vitiated by black-damp or 
fire-damp, is thus no test of the safety of air vitiated by after- 
damp. 

In the case of the great colliery explosions which cause such 
wholesale destruction of life, the explosion is almost invariably 
one of coal-dust, started either by blasting at dry and dusty 
places in the mine, or by small explosions of fire-damp. Slighter 
explosions may be due simply to ignition of fire-damp. When 
fire-damp or coal-dust ignites in presence of excess of air, the 
products of combustion are simply carbonic acid and water, along 
with a little sulphurous acid in the case of coal-dust. The reaction 
occurring when fire-damp ignites under these conditions is 
represented by the following equation : — 
CH^ + 202 = CO2 + 2H2O. 

* Report to the Home Secretary on the Causes of Death in Colliery 
Explosions and Fires : Parliamentary Paper, 1896. 



XXXVIII.] AFTER-DAMP AND ITS EFFECTS ' 549 

The after-damp from such an explosion in air would consist 
of 88.3 per cent, of nitrogen and 11. 7 per cent, of carbonic acid ; 
and with coal-dust a slightly higher proportion of carbonic acid 
would be present. When, however, the proportion of air present 
is insufficient for complete oxidation a certain amount of carbonic 
oxide is produced in place of part of the carbonic acid. As much 
as 4.5 per cent, may be present in the after-damp of an explosion 
of fire-damp. In a colliery explosion the fire-damp or dust must 
always be very irregularly distributed in the air, so that in some 
places there will be an excess of air, and in others an excess of 
fire-damp or dust. At many places the excess of gas or dust 
must be so great that no explosion at all can occur. The after- 
damp is thus a variable mixture of nitrogen, carbonic acid, and 
carbonic oxide, together with much air, and, in the case of dust 
explosions, a little sulphurous acid or sulphuretted hydrogen, and 
various products of the dry distillation of coal. These latter 
products give after-damp a characteristic unpleasant smell. The 
fact that sufficient oxygen to support life is left along the track 
of an explosion is shown by the fact that the bodies do not present 
the appearances seen in the rapid death which ensues in an 
atmosphere devoid of oxygen. Probably about 2 to 5 per cent, 
of carbonic oxide is usually contained in the pure after-damp of 
a colliery explosion. The gas met with by rescuers some hours, 
or perhaps days, after the explosion, is, of course, a mixture of 
after-damp with the black-damp and fire-damp which has 
accumulated in consequence of stoppage of the ventilation through 
the air current being short-circuited. 

The action on men and animals of after-damp depends practi- 
cally upon the carbonic oxide contained in it. Pure after-damp, 
containing no air, would of course cause death just as rapidly 
apart from the action of the carbonic oxide : but such after-damp 
unmixed with air is hardly met with. 

Carbonic oxide or carbon monoxide (CO) is a very poisonous 
gas. Judging from experiments on animals, air containing any- 
thing more than 0.4 per cent, would, after a sufficient time, always 
cause death in a man, though anything over 0.2 per cent, would in 
many cases prove fatal. It has practically no smell or irritating 
properties by which its presence might be readily recognised, and 
its action is peculiarly slow and insidious. The first symptoms of 
carbonic oxide poisoning are usually dizziness, shortness of breath, 
and palpitation following any unusual exertion. Sometimes 
there is drowsiness, and sometimes unusual excitement similar 



550 THE AIR OF MINES [chap. 

to that produced by alcohol. When more of the gas is absorbed 
there is great failure of muscular power. The least exertion 
causes dizziness and fainting, and any serious exertion may prove 
fatal. At the same time the mind becomes more or less confused, 
although the person affected is not himself aware of any mental 
failure. The senses are also affected, and frequently there seems 
to be greater or less insensibility to pain, as miners who are 
partially stupefied by carbonic oxide are not infrequently seriously 
burnt by their lamps. The loss of muscular and sensory power 
gradually becomes more and more complete, until at last con- 
sciousness is entirely lost ; and finally, with further absorption, 
death quietly ensues. There is no pain or serious discomfort at 
any stage. Recovery from slight carbonic oxide poisoning is 
usually accompanied by severe headache, nausea, and depression. 
When consciousness has been lost for a considerable time, recovery 
is very slow and uncertain. Death may occur from pneumonia 
after two or three days ; and a variety of severe mental symptoms 
may persist for long periods. In cases where much muscular 
exertion has been attempted during exposure to the poison the 
heart appears to be often seriously affected. 

In order to understand the very peculiar features presented 
by carbonic oxide poisoning it is necessary to consider the mode 
of action of this gas. The oxygen absorbed from the air in the 
lungs is normally taken up in the form of a loose chemical com- 
bination with the red colouring matter (haemoglobin) of the blood 
corpuscles, and so carried by the circulation to the tissues, where 
it is used up. The haemoglobin not only combines with oxygen, 
but is also capable of forming a much more stable compound with 
carbonic oxide, and, as was shown by Claude Bernard, haemoglobin 
which is saturated with carbonic oxide cannot take up oxygen. 
Hence, when the haemoglobin of a living animal is saturated to a 
certain extent with carbonic oxide, sufficient oxygen cannot be 
conveyed from the lungs to the tissues, and death occurs from 
want of oxygen.* Carbonic oxide has no other action than that 
due to its interference with the oxygen supply through the blood. 
Apart from its property of combining with the haemoglobin it is 
a physiologically indifferent gas, like nitrogen ; and it has no 
action on lower animals which do not possess haemoglobin. The 

* On the action of carbonic oxide, see papers by the writer in the Journal of 
Physiology^ vol, xviii., pp. 200, 430; vol. xx., p. 497; vol. xxii., p. 231 ; vol. 
XXV., p. 225 ; also the above-mentioned Report to the Home Secretary, and 
Lorrain Smith, British Medical Journal^ 1889, vol. i., p. 780. 



XXXVIII.] CARBONIC OXIDE • ' 551 

symptoms produced by it are therefore essentially the same as 
those described above as due to deficiency of oxygen in the air 
breathed. No noticeable symptoms are produced until the 
haemoglobin is about a third saturated with carbonic oxide, and 
death does not usually occur until about 70 or 80 per cent, satura- 
tion has been reached. When, therefore, not much carbonic oxide 
is present in the air, a considerable time elapses before a suffi- 
cient quantity of the gas has been absorbed to produce symptoms. 
A man possesses on an average a weight of blood equal to 2t of 
his body-weight, or about 3 litres, and the haemoglobin of this 
blood requires about 600 c.c. of carbonic oxide to saturate it. He 
breathes when at rest about 5 litres of air per minute. Hence, 
supposing that the air contains 0.2 per cent, of carbonic oxide, 
which is about the minimum quantity which will produce death, 
he can absorb only 10 c.c. per minute at the most. It must thus 
take at least twenty minutes, and actually takes a good deal 
longer, for distinct symptoms to be produced. During this 
interval, which will, however, be shorter when the man is breath- 
ing more rapidly in consequence of muscular exertion, he may 
advance far into an atmosphere poisonous from the presence of 
after-damp, and may consequently be unable to return. 

It might be supposed that the presence of any proportion, 
however small, of carbonic oxide in air would ultimately prove 
fatal from gradual absorption of the gas by the blood. Actually, 
however, there is a maximum limit to absorption with any given 
percentage of carbonic oxide in air ; for although the affinity of 
haemoglobin for carbonic oxide is much stronger than for oxygen, 
yet if both gases are present, the haemoglobin is shared between 
them in proportion, not only to the relative strengths of their 
affinities for haemoglobin, but also to the relative percentages 
present of the two gases. Hence, although the affinity of car- 
bonic oxide for haemoglobin is nearly four hundred times as great 
as that of oxygen, yet if the percentage of carbonic oxide is very 
minute as compared with the percentage of oxygen, only a little of 
the haemoglobin will combine with the carbonic oxide, and conse- 
quently no symptoms of poisoning will be produced, however long 
the exposure may be. Thus with less than about .03 per cent, 
of carbonic oxide in the air, the blood will never absorb enough 
of the gas to produce distinct symptoms ; and with less than .2 
per cent, life will hardly be endangered, although very severe 
symptoms may be produced. 

In recovery from carbonic oxide poisoning, the gas is driven 



552 THE AIR OF MINES [chap. 

out from the blood through the lungs in consequence of the pre- 
ponderating influence of the oxygen of the air ; and in the course of 
several hours the blood will be again practically free from carbonic 
oxide. An hour of breathing fresh air will usually suffice to 
remove any dangerous excess of carbonic oxide, but if, as often 
enough happens in persons who have been rendered unconscious, 
the breathing is shallow, a much longer time may be needed 
unless artificial respiration has been employed. Carbonic oxide 
is not oxidised within the body, so that the only way in which it 
can be got rid of is through the lungs. The blood from which the 
carbonic oxide has been expelled is in no way injured. The 
expulsion of carbonic oxide during recovery from poisoning can 
be greatly hastened by the inhalation of pure oxygen, since its 
influence in driving out carbonic oxide from the blood is about 
five times as great as that of air, which only contains 20.9 per 
cent, of oxygen. Inhalation of oxygen has also another and 
immediate effect, however. In addition to the oxygen taken up 
in combination with haemoglobin, the blood takes up in the lungs 
a little oxygen in simple solution, just as an equal volume of water 
would do. When pure oxygen is breathed, the quantity of this 
dissolved oxygen is increased five times, and is then sufficient to 
afford an important immediate supply of oxygen to the tissues. 
If an animal be placed in oxygen at two atmospheres' pressure, 
carbonic oxide can be administered without harming it, since 
although its haemoglobin becomes completely saturated with 
carbonic oxide, its blood carries enough oxygen in simple solution 
to support life. 

The cause of death in carbonic oxide poisoning can always 
be determined by examining a drop of blood taken from the 
body, and comparing it with normal blood from a healthy 
person or an animal. The normal blood is diluted with water 
until the tint of the solution appears yellow ; the suspected 
blood is then diluted until its depth of colour appears about the 
same. If death was due to carbonic oxide poisoning the 
latter solution will appear pink instead of yellow. By taking 
advantage of this difference of tint the percentage saturation 
of the haemoglobin can readily be determined. Death often 
occurs, however, some hours or days after removal from the 
poisonous atmosphere, and in this case the blood will be free 
of carbonic oxide. Blood saturated with carbonic oxide has 
a red colour similar to that of arterial blood, hence the lips, 
cheeks, and other parts of the bodies of men who have died 



XXXVIII.] IMPORTANCE OF RECOGNISING AFTER-DAMP 553 

from carbonic oxide poisoning have often a pink colour similar 
to that seen in life. 

In consequence of the restricted oxygen supply to the tissues 
during prolonged exposure to carbonic oxide, serious changes may 
be produced in the brain, heart, and other organs, and as a result of 
these changes recovery does n ot occur at once when the carbnic 
oxide disappears from the blood. Unconsciousness may persist, 
or relapses may occur, and death is not unfrequent several days 
after exposure to the poison. 

The prompt recognition of the presence of carbonic oxide or 
after-damp in air is of much practical importance. As already 
remarked, the fact that a lamp continues to burn is no proof 
of the safety of air in which after-damp may be present, and 
elaborate chemical tests are hardly applicable in ordinary practice. 
A small warm-blooded animal, such as a mouse, or perhaps still 
better a small bird, may, however, be used to indicate the presence 
of any dangerous proportion of carbonic oxide. The oxidation 
processes in the small animal are enormously more rapid than in a 
man i consequently the small animal breathes and absorbs car- 
bonic oxide much more rapidly. It therefore shows symptoms of 
poisoning in a fraction of the time necessary in the case of a man, 
although it is only about equally sensitive to a given percentage 
of the gas. Hence by watching the animal, timely warning may 
be obtained of the presence of enough carbonic oxide to cause 
danger to life. It must be remembered, however, that the animal 
may show no very evident signs when sufficient carbonic oxide 
is present to cause very distinct and unpleasant symptoms in a 
man, and that these symptoms may be aggravated to a dangerous 
extent by muscular exertion, such as that of hurrying back towards 
fresh air. Another circumstance which tends to suddenly intensify 
the symptoms of carbonic oxide poisoning is exposure to cold air, 
and this should be avoided as far as possible with persons who 
have begun to feel the effects of the gas. 

When a man has been rendered unconscious by exposure to 
carbonic oxide or any other suffocative gas, the first thing to do, 
after his removal from the contaminated air, is to apply artificial 
respiration without a moment's delay, if the breathing has stopped 
or is feeble. 

Smoke. — Some of the most disastrous accidents in mines have 
been due to the poisonous action of smoke from underground fires. 
Fires may occur from an intensification of the spontaneous oxida- 
tion of coal, iron pyrites, cotton waste, etc., from the careless use of 



554 THE AIR OF MINES [chap. 

lights, from engines underground, or in consequence of an explosion 
of gas setting fire to brattice cloths, igniting blowers of gas, etc. 
In any case the occurrence of a fire underground is a source of 
extreme danger, especially when the timbering has become ignited. 
If the fire occurs on, or spreads to, an intake road the ventilation 
current carries the smoke over the mine, killing all those who are 
unable to avoid it. Smoke which has travelled some distance in a 
mine appears to lose its pungent smell, and deposits the suspended 
particles which ordinarily render it visible. This greatly increases 
the danger, as there is then nothing to give warning of its presence. 
Thus in the case of the Snaefell accident in 1897 a number of 
men descended into the shaft without their suspicions being in 
any wa}/ aroused until they had gone too far to be able to 
return. 

The poisonous constituent of smoke is carbonic oxide. This 
was clearly established in the case of the Snaefell accident, where 
the timbering had caught fire.* A sample of the poisonous air 
collected by Mr Williams, Her Majesty's Inspector of Mines, was 
found by the writer to contain 1. 1 per cent, of carbonic oxide. Mr 
Williams fell over unconscious just after obtaining the sample, 
and was only restored through the prompt application of artificial 
respiration by his colleague, Mr Jones. Further evidence that 
carbonic oxide is the cause of death in underground fires was 
afforded by the medical examination of the bodies by Dr Burkitt 
in the recent fire at Whitwick Colliery.-|* There can be little 
doubt that carbonic oxide poisoning is also one of the most 
frequent causes of death in fires above ground. The writer 
recently examined the body of a man found dead in a sitting 
position in a house which was partially burnt in Oxford. Carbonic 
oxide poisoning was the cause of death. There were only a few 
superficial burns which had apparently been inflicted after death. 
The smoke from burning or smouldering wood is particularly 
dangerous, as the gas distilled from wood may contain about 
30 per cent, of carbonic oxide, the large proportion of oxygen in 
wood favouring the production of carbonic oxide. 

As regards the symptoms produced by smoke nothing need 
be added to what has already been said under the heading of 
after-damp. 

White-damp^ Gob-stinky Fire-stink. — Under one or other of 

* See the very interesting Report on the Snaefell Fire by Professor Le Neve 
Foster: Parliamentary Paper, 1897. 

t See Mr Stokes' Official Report : Parliamentary Paper, 1898. 



XXXVIII.] WHITE-DAMP AND GASES FROM EXPLOSIVES 555 

these names is included by miners the poisonous gas given off 
from coal which has heated from spontaneous oxidation. Some 
seams of coal, such as the thick coal in South Staffordshire, or 
the Bulhurst seam in North Staffordshire, are particularly liable 
to heating, which readily occurs where the coal has become 
more or less disintegrated. If the coal is not actually red-hot 
there may be no distinct smell, and the poisonous gas would come 
under the designation of "white-damp." The name "gob-stink" 
is derived from the fact that the heating usually occurs in the 
waste coal of a goaf or gob (the area from which the workable 
coal has been removed). The origin of the name " white-damp " 
is less clear. 

Practically speaking, white-damp and gob-stink, or fire-stink, 
have the same properties as after-damp, and the poisonous con- 
stituent is again carbonic oxide, which the writer has found to 
be present in various samples. Occasionally, however, sulphur- 
etted hydrogen is also present in formidable proportions. The 
latter gas is extremely poisonous, as little as .07 per cent, being 
capable of causing death. Air containing 0.2 per cent, kills 
warm-blooded animals within one and a half minutes. Its 
presence may be detected not only by its characteristic smell of 
rotten eggs, but also by the fact that when present in the 
proportion of more than about .01 per cent, it causes smarting 
of the eyes and general irritation of the air-passages. 

Gases from Explosives. — The gases from some explosives are 
extremely poisonous, from the presence in them of carbonic 
oxide, sulphuretted hydrogen, or nitric peroxide. In coal mines, 
when the ventilation is everywhere good, it seldom happens 
that there is trouble from the gases from explosives ; but in 
metalliferous mines and underground quarries cases of poisoning 
are not uncommon. 

Gunpowder gives off on ignition carbonic acid and nitrogen, 
along with a variable, though much smaller, proportion of carbonic 
oxide and sulphuretted hydrogen, either or both of which gases 
may produce symptoms of poisoning. 

Of the "high" explosives, nitroglycerine, blasting gelatine, 
and roburite yield on detonation only carbonic acid and nitrogen, 
whereas gun-cotton, tonite, gelignite, and carbonite also give 
off carbonic oxide, and therefore require more care when the 
ventilation is defective. 

The most serious accidents in mines from gases from 
explosives have been due to the accidental burning of high 



556 THE AIR OF MINES ' [chap, xxxviii. 

explosives, such as dynamite or gun-cotton. When substances 
of this class burn quietly instead of detonating, nearly the 
whole of the nitrogen is given off as nitric oxide (NO) instead 
of as free nitrogen. The nitric oxide at once combines with 
the oxygen of the air to form nitric peroxide, which is a very 
dangerous gas. Even when a charge is detonated for blasting 
purposes it may happen, particularly with badly made or 
roughly handled explosives, that part burns quietly and forms 
nitric peroxide. The latter is an irritant gas, but when suffi- 
ciently diluted may be breathed for some time without the 
person exposed to it being aware of his danger. Under such 
circumstances bronchitis of a very acute character is apt to occur 
after a few hours, and death often results. In the gold mines 
in India and the Transvaal, accidents involving the loss of as 
many as twenty men at a time have sometimes occurred in 
this way from dynamite catching fire underground, and serious 
injury to health may easily be caused by the fumes of imper- 
fectly denotated high explosives where the ventilation is bad. 

John Haldane. 



CHAPTER XXXIX 

QUARRIES 

Introduction. — Man is essentially a builder, and Nature has 
prepared for him material in abundance and rich variety. Quarry- 
ing or stone-getting is an occupation of great antiquity. Its early 
records are evidenced in the relics of man's labour in prehistoric 
days. Through all the ages human ingenuity and skill have been 
at work freeing the closely-fettered rocks and fashioning them for 
uprising. 

A thorough investigation of our subject would make an 
acquaintance with geology and practical mechanics desirable, but 
in the present article it will only be possible to deal with the 
matter in its immediate relation to health, and its public import- 
ance will be evident when it is remembered that something like 
94,000 individuals are engaged in connection with quarries in the 
British Isles alone.* 

Definitions. — A quarry (L.O.F. quarriere^ F. carriere^ L.L. quad- 
raria, quadratus) is an excavation, pit, or place from which 
stone or rock material is separated by digging, cutting, blasting, or 
similar processes. 

For legal requirements a quarry is defined as : "A place in 
which persons work in getting slate, stone, coprolites, or other 
minerals, and any part of which is more than 20 feet deep." f 

It will be readily seen that the depth limit in the legal definition 
introduces a factor which goes far to lessen a proper applicatiork 
of the law, and it is desirable that such restriction should be 
abandoned. - 

* According to the last Annual Report of H.M. Twelve Inspectors of Mines- 
and Quarries, over 61,000 individuals are engaged as quarry employes inside 
the quarry, z>,, inside the actual pit, hole, or excavation, and over 32,000 outside, 
the quarry, z>., outside the actual pit, hole, or excavation. In some districts a. 
few females are engaged in quarry work. 

t See Act to provide for the better regulation of quarries : Quarries Act^ 

1894. 

557 



558 QUARRIES ' [chap. 

Varieties of Quarries. — Quarries vary greatly in respect to 
their size, depth, and the nature of the material worked. In some 
instances the quarry is superficial in its extent, readily accessible 
and easily worked from the surface. In other cases the quarry is 
deep, can be reached only by shafts or ladders, and its working 
necessitates elaborate means for the elevation and removal of the 
materials when separated from the native rock. Of the stones 
quarried for building purposes we may distinguish : i. Enduring 
stones, which are used for the major part of the structure; 2. Shap- 
ing stones, which are principally utilised for ornamentation. 

Of quarried materials the uses may be exceedingly varied, 
chalk being worked for the making of lime, china-clay for the 
purpose of pottery, graphite for pencil manufacture, and so on. 

Quarries are perhaps best classified according to the nature of 
the rock they yield. We can distinguish the following : — 



Alabaster 


Gravel 


Basalt or Whinstone 


Gypsum 


Brickearth 


Limestone 


Chalk 


Marl 


Chert 


Porphyry 


China-clay- 


Sand 


Clay 


Sandstone 


Flint 


Shale 


Freestone 


Serpentine 


Graphite 


Slate 



Of each of the above class of quarry much might be said, would 
space allow, concerning : {a) geological character of the rock ; 
ip) localities where the various forms of quarry are to be found ; 
{c) uses of the quarried materials ; {d) special methods of working 
employed in some of the quarries ; and {e) particular dangers 
connected with certain forms of quarry. But for the purposes of 
this article it will be desirable to deal with the subject in its 
general aspects only. 

Methods of Working. — In early days men were content to 
labour patiently with primitive methods and inadequate tools. 
The modern use of explosives, and the introduction of various 
mechanical contrivances, have, however, done much to accelerate 
the getting of stone : and such measures have led to accidents and 
conditions inimical to health. 

The methods of quarrying and the operations immediately 
concerned therewith may be grouped under : — {a) Mechanical, or 
the application of various mechanical contrivances ; {b) Blasting, 
ox the use of explosives. 



XXXIX.] EXPLOSIVES USED ■ ' 559 

In spite, however, of the introduction of machinery and 
explosives, it would seem that the risk of accidents and ex- 
posure to conditions detrimental to health have not been very 
appreciably increased, although, of course, the process of quarry- 
ing has been greatly facilitated, and such works extended. In 
most quarries, both in this country and abroad, the wedge and 
hammer are still the chief agents employed in the getting of stone. 
For rocks in levels or distinct seams, as in the case of the mill- 
stone grit, probably the wedges afford the best methods. A 
procedure called the " plug and feather " method, and working on 
the principle of the incline plane, is sometimes employed. 

According to an ancient procedure, after the hole was drilled, 
dry wood was inserted, and the expansion after moistening with 
water employed to split the rock. Another custom was to fill 
the borehole with quicklime and water. 

Explosives are, however, extensively employed, and their use 
proves fruitful as a source of accidents. In many quarries with 
stone in flat layers, after boring the holes by hand, or the aid 
of machinery, only sufficient explosive is used to split but not to 
break or shatter the rock, its further separation being accom- 
plished by wedge and hammer. 

Blasting is commonly used for all rocks not found in seams, 
and hence explosives are largely employed in granite and marble 
quarries. In slate quarries also, especially in Wales, blasting 
would seem to be the favourite method. 

Among the more important explosives used in quarry work 
are the following : — 



Blasting gelatine 


Gelignite 


Dynamite 


Gunpowder 


Fulminate of mercury 


Roburite 


Gelatine dynamite 


Tonite 



Pathology. — The quarryman, from the nature of his work and 
the circumstances under which it has to be carried on, is neces- 
sarily exposed to influences which may (i) excite or (2) predispose 
to morbid conditions, and in not a few cases it is difficult, if not 
impossible, to sharply distinguish between them. 

The pathological lesions resulting from the action of the causal 
agents may be best considered under the customary headings of 
(i) Accidents, and (2) Disease. 

Etiology. — The exciting agents may be classified according to 
their nature into: — (i) Mechanical; (2) Thermal; (3) Chemical; 
(4) Electrical ; (5) Biological. 



56o QUARRIES [chap. 

The predisposing agents act by (i) influencing the condition 
of the individual, and (2) by modifying the character of his 
environment. Without entering into details we may simply 
enumerate such points as heredity, sex, period of life, constitu- 
tion, temperament and previous disease, as modifying the health 
tendencies of the individual ; while climate, social standing, edu- 
cation, form of occupation, and habits are all influential in modi- 
fying the environment. 

Of accidents occurring in connection with quarries, a study of 
the published returns will show that these may be best considered 
as to whether they arise (i) inside, or (2) outside the quarry 
proper. 

Quarry accidents may thus be grouped : — 

1. Those which occur inside the quarries — 

(i) From falls of ground and detachment of rock. Such may 
occur {a) from beyond, or {U) at the person's own working place. 

(2) By blasting. Accidents are here particularly liable to 
occur {a) while charging or tamping, {p) from stones projected by 
shots, if) from miss-fires. 

(3) During descent or ascent to a deep-seated quarry, accidents 
may arise from ioi) falling from paths, steps, or ladders, while 
climbing ; or even {b^ when ascending or descending by 
machinery. 

(4) Accidents may also arise from a miscellaneous group of 
causes, such, for instance, as — 

The breaking of ropes or chains, the mismanagement of 
machinery, boiler explosions ; in connection with inclined and 
engine planes, railways, tramways, or sidings, from falling from 
ledges, or by injury with the ordinary quarry implements. 

2. Those which occur outside the quarries — 

The chief of these arise in connection with machinery, from 
the use of hot liquid or molten metal, by boiler explosions, from 
the escape of gas, steam, or metal, on inclined and engine planes,, 
railways, tramways, or sidings. 

It will thus be seen that the accidents arise chiefly from 
mechanical agencies, or from the misuse of explosives. Thermal 
causes lead to burns and scalds. As electricity comes into more 
general use, injuries from this agent are likely to be met with. 

The dangers from mechanical conditions depend upon: (i) 
the situation and material of the quarries ; (2) the implements 
and machinery used. 

Dangers in connection with the use of explosives arise: (i)* 



XXXIX.] ACCIDENTS AND DISEASES OF QUARRYM^EN 561 

while conveying explosives ; (2) during the thawing of explosives ; 
(3) from changing or stemming holes ; (4) allowing access 
of sparks from lamp or candle ; (5) by the use of iron or steel 
tools, or by using wooden, brass, or copper tools ; (6) premature 
explosions are liable to arise from the use of squibs or straws, 
and sometimes from the so-called safety fuse ; (7) delayed explo- 
sions ; (8) unramming shots ; (9) blows from stones projected 
by shots. 

Exceptional accidents may also arise, as, for instance, where 
an acetylene gas apparatus used in the quarry work suddenly 
exploded. 

The nature and extent of the injuries met with in quarrying 
vary greatly. Burns and scalds may occur from contact with 
the boilers and steam appliances used in many large quarries. 
Contusions of greater or less severity are necessarily common. 
Crushes may arise from falling rock or entanglement in 
machinery. Dislocation of joints sometimes occurs from falls 
or similar accidents. Eye injuries are somewhat common from 
granite chips or particles of steel, and they also occur where 
dressing of stone is carried out at the quarries. Fractures arise 
from falls and the giving of the ground. Lacerations, superficial 
or deep, and involving skin and muscular structures, arise not 
only in connection with the actual quarrying, but in the use of 
the machinery which is now so frequent in large quarries. Sprains 
are not uncommon in connection with falls and the like. Wounds 
may arise from various circumstances, and may be of any degree 
of severity. 

Diseases. — After having made extensive inquiries with a 
view to ascertain the extent of actual disease which may be 
fairly considered as incidental to quarrying, we are drawn to the 
conclusion that such work, generally speaking, is not necessarily 
detrimental to health. 

The medical officers and managers of most of the large 
quarries from whom we have sought information are decisive 
in considering quarrying, as usually carried out in this country, 
a fairly healthy occupation. 

Of course quarry-workers are liable to many of the ailments 
to which all labourers are more or less prone, and their habits 
and social customs are not always such as to maintain a high 
degree of physical vigour. 

Unfortunately, in many parts the quarrymen are thriftless 
and drunken. Their homes also are often ill-built and ill-kept. 

2 N 



562 (2UARRIES [chap 



A neglect of habits of cleanliness is, in many instances, only 
too apparent. In some parts of the country the quarrymen 
are of poor physique, which arises, according to local opinion, 
from too early marriage, intermarriage, excessive tea - drinking, 
and poor diet. 

We find that in some rather isolated districts, for instance 
in Cornwall, there is considerable intermarriage among the 
workers, and some believe that this affords a factor of import- 
ance in connection with the development of phthisis. 

That quarrying is by no means a dangerous employment 
to health is evidenced by the fact that in many quarry districts 
old men abound, many of whom work until over eighty years 
of age. 

We have made particular inquiries regarding workers in 
limestone, but even those who are engaged as burners and 
dressers of the lime seem to experience no detriment to health, 
many having worked all their lives without complaint. Indeed, 
we learn that at one justly celebrated lime-works, delicate lads 
have been sent to work at drawing lime, and have materially 
improved in their general health. The fact that quarrying is 
necessarily carried on out-of-doors of itself makes for physical 
vigour. 

Even where dressing is carried out in the immediate vicinity 
of the quarry, the sheds are frequently of such a character as 
to allow of free natural ventilation, and the ready carrying away 
of dust almost as quickly as it is formed. In many places the 
cutting is done quite in the open and with no protection whatever. 

Brief reference may be made to some of the more important 
pathological conditions which, arising in quarry-workers, may 
be considered as aitiologically associated with the nature of their 
labour. 

Affections of the Respiratory Organs. — Lesions in connection 
with the lungs and air-passages have long and rightly been 
considered the more particular accompaniment of work 
associated with the production of dust. But in most forms of 
quarrying the amount of dust and its means of access to the 
respiratory tract must be considered so limited that serious 
pulmonary disease is quite the exception. 

Wherej however, in connection with quarry-works there is 
also extensive dressing of soft material like sandstone, or the 
preparation of material giving rise to such irritating particles 
as granite, changes in the bronchi and lungs are liable to 



xxxix.] HEART AND LUNG TROUBLES • ^ 563 

occur. The bronchi then become the seat of an excessive 
formation of mucus, and it may be that a catarrhal process 
is established which may progress to a chronic bronchitis, to 
which will sooner or later be added the usually associated 
conditions. 

The lungs may absorb more or less of the dust particles 
which, becoming deposited in the inter-alveolar and sub-pleural 
lymphatics, or arrested in the bronchial glands, give a greater 
or less degree of pigmentation to the lung (pneumoconiosis). 
Should, however, as is very likely, the particles of stone-dust 
produce marked irritation, the reaction of the tissues will 
lead to the formation of fibrous tissue which may not only 
lessen the function of the lungs as blood-aerating organs, but 
predispose them to the invasion of the tubercle bacillus. 

Quarry workers would appear to be but little predisposed 
to tuberculosis, and doubtless the out -door character of the 
work greatly militates against the liability to infection. 

Cardio- Vascular Disease. — The laborious and oftentimes 
straining character of the work seems to be influential, at least 
to some extent, in initiating and perpetuating states of arterial 
degeneration, leading to or associated with cardiac enfeeble- 
ment. It is very doubtful, however, if atheroma and cardiac 
involvement occur more frequently in quarr}'men than in the 
sedentary and intellectual workers of the present day, in whom 
cardio-vascular regressive changes are only too common. 

Indeed, even when cardiac and arterial degeneration is met with 
in quarry workers there seems reas5n to believe that it is more 
often due to alcoholic indulgence and other irregular habits than 
to the nature and character of the work. 

Cutaneous Lesions. — The skin frequently shows evidence of 
exposure to wind and weather and scars from the war with 
rocks. 

Digestive Disturbances. — The lack of suitable food, irrational 
indulgence in tea, or excessive use of alcohol, not infrequently leads 
to digestive derangements. 

We learn that in consequence of dietetic ignorance in some 
of the Welsh quarries, constipation, dyspepsia, haemorrhoids and 
hepatic disorders are common. 

Ear Affections. — It might be thought that the constant 
vibration from the use of the hammer and the employment of 
explosives might prove detrimental to hearing, but such seems 
not to be the case. 



04 QUARRIES [CRap. 

Eye Affections. — Injuries to the eyes have already beJen 
referred to and are often serious, but inflammatory or other 
morbid processes in the eye are not of frequent occurrence. 
The action of the sunlight on some of the Hght coloured and 
strongly reflecting rocks may occasionally produce conjunctivitis, 
but, generally speaking, the powers of vision of the quarry- 
man would not seem to be inferior to that of the ordinary 
labourer. 

Osteo-artJiritis, whatever may be the nature of its pathology, 
certainly affects some of the quarrymen, especially when getting 
into advanced life, but they are apparently not more liable 
than other labourers. Rheuniatisvi^ more particularly in its so- 
called chronic and muscular forms, may affect quarrymen, 
and is generally credited as arising from exposure to damp 
and cold, which of^ necessity during a considerable part of the 
year forms the daily portion of most quarrymen in this 
country. Dupuytren's contraction of the palmar fascia and con- 
tiguous structures may also be met with. 

Septic Infection. — Considering the frequency of injuries and 
the unsatisfactory methods of treating the same, it is surprising 
that more cases of serious septic infection do not occur. 
. Tetanus. — A quarryman, just like any other labourer, 
occasionally contracts tetanus, but infection is quite exceptional. 

Legal Provisions. — Very rightly the working of quarries is under 
strict supervision and controlled by legal enactments. 

The chief Acts directing their management are : — 
. I. Quarries Act, 1894. 

This empowers the application to quarries of certain provisions 
of the Metalliferous Mines Regulations Acts, 1872 and 1875, and ^^^^ 
Metalliferous Mines (Isle of Man) Act, 1891, and arranges that 
the Inspectors under the Metalliferous Mines Regulations Acts, 
1872 and 1875, shall be Inspectors of the Quarries under this 
Act. This Act applies to all quarries 20 feet or more in 
depth. 

2. Metalliferous Mines Regulations Acts, 1872, 1875, 35 and 36 
Vict, cap. jj, 38 and 39 Vict, cap. 39; and Metalliferous Mines 
Regulations Acts (Isle of Man Act) 1891, 54 and 55 Vict, cap. 47, 
make certain provisions which also apply to quarries. 

3. The Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 and 1891. These 
Acts apply also to quarries, and there have also been introduced 
certain modifications in the working of the same. Since 1898 
brick and other works in connection with quarries have come 



XXXIX.] REGULATIONS FOR QUARRIES ,565 

under the jurisdiction of Inspectors of Factories. This explains 
why of recent years the number of individuals returned as 
engaged in work outside the actual pit, hole, or excavation has 
often been less than formerly. '. ? H 

4. Quarry (Fencing) Act, 1887. This provides that where 
any quarry dangerous to the public is in open or unenclosed land 
within fifty yards of a highway or place of public resort dedicated 
to the public, and is not separated therefrom by a secure and 
sufficient fence, it shall be kept reasonably fenced for the preven- 
tion of accident, and unless so kept shall be deemed to be a 
nuisance liable to be dealt with summarily in manner provided by 
the Public Health Act, 1875. 

Actual getting of clay in case of brickworks is under the 
Inspector of Quarries, but in the making of clay-ware under the 
Factory and Workshop Act, the local Inspector of Factories 
exercises supervision. 

Where washing and dressing of quarried material takes place 
adjacent to the quarry, the Inspector of Quarries acts as a Factory 
and Workshop Inspector under the Factory and Workshop Acts, 

It may be well to point out that there is much need that the 
legal definition of a quarry should be amended by abandoning the 
depth limit. 

It is also well to state that even in the case of small quarries, 
where only one or two men may be employed, and the stone 
removed only for such purposes as road repair, the place is never- 
theless a quarry, and legal enactments must apply. Explosives 
may be employed only in accordance with the Explosives Act 

In many indirect ways legislative measures have of recent 
years accomplished much in lessening the dangers of quarrying. 
Thus the passing of the Workmen's Compensation Act has led in 
many districts to much greater care and supervision being exercised. 
For instance, in some quarries it is now forbidden to bring alcoholic 
drinks into the quarries during working hours, although formerly 
it was no unusual thing to find a lad whose chief work was the 
fetching of beer for the workmen. 

The Boiler Explosives Act will also, of course, apply to cases 
occurring in connection with quarry works. 

The systematic examination of boilers is a measure likely to 
avail much in lessening the occurrence of boiler explosions. 

The Employers' Liability Act also applies to quarry proprietors. 

With regard to further restrictions, it may be pointed out that 
the Quarry Fencing Act, which applies to quarries on unericlosed 



566 QUARRIES [chap. 

land within fifty yards of the highway might be well extended in 
its scope, so as to provide protection to the public from the Only 
too common abandoned quarries. 

It is also very necessary that those responsible for the conduct 
of a quariy should insist on the strict enforcement of rules. An 
abstract of the Quarries Act and Special Rules should be printed 
on enamelled iron and placed in a conspicuous position in the 
works. It is of particular importance that well understood signals 
be always used in connection with blasting. 

Prophylaxis and Treatment. — Although quarrying as now con- 
ducted must be considered a comparatively safe and fairly healthy 
occupation, there yet remains much to be done to ensure the 
carrying on of such work with the minimum of risk and the 
maximum of efficiency. 

Unless constant care is exercised and rigorous inspection carried 
out, the results of ignorance and neglect are soon made apparent. 

I. Preventive Measures. — These may be considered as they are 
formulated and carried out by {a^ the State, {U) the Employer, 
{c) the Workman. 

{a) The State has recognised the risks and dangers incidental to 
quarrying, and legislation has to a great extent limited the dangers 
arising from neglect and ignorance. The annual publications of 
the Reports of the Inspectors and the occasional prosecution of law- 
neglecting proprietors give evidence that the enforcement of the 
law is in many districts satisfactory, but it may be freely admitted 
that further measures of control and increased activity in survey- 
ance would do much to lessen the accidents still only too common 
in quarries. 

{b) The workmen should be well housed and offered induce- 
ments to live rationally and act hygienically. Where possible, 
baths should be available. Education in the elements of hygiene 
should be encouraged. 

{c) The workman can do much to maintain and retain his 
own health. His clothing should be suitable to the form of his 
work and the nature of the climate. His diet should be nutritious 
and appropriate to the laborious character of his work. Suitable 
recreation should be afforded, and temperance and thrift practised. 
Steps to provide against accidents, sickness, strikes, and old age 
will be taken by a thrifty and thoughtful workman. 

A wise workman realises that his best protection lies in his 
own intelligence and experience, and no rules or superintendence 
can relieve him of his own personal responsibility. 




XXXIX.] TREATMENT OF ACCIDENTS 567 

2. Treatment of Accidents and Ailments occurring in Quarries. — 
The workmen engaged in quarries should be trained in the methods 
of rendering " first aid " in cases of accident and ilhiess, and dress- 
ings, bandages, splints, and suitable appliances should always be 
available. 

In most large quarries a medical officer exercises a certain 
amount of general inspection as regards hygiene measures, often 
holds ambulance classes, and attends in case of accident or sudden 
illness. 

John Brown. 
T. N. Kelynack 



CHAPTER XL 

THE CHEMICAL TRADES 

Introductory Remarks. — Under the title of the chemical trades 
a very large number of industries must be included which vary 
widely in the conditions under which the manufacturing operations 
are carried on. Nor must sight be lost of the great variety of 
chemicals used in the arts. For instance, in the department of 
pure chemicals and drugs for medical purposes, we find manufac- 
turers who are engaged in producing small quantities of these 
substances, with the greatest precautions for cleanliness and care 
in the details of manufacture. These articles may be manu- 
factured in small vessels by the pound weight at a time. At 
the other end of the industry we find the manufacture of such 
chemicals as are used in very large quantities carried on by 
tons. The whole conditions of such a manufacturing process 
are necessarily quite different, and we find laboratory fittings 
replaced by enormous machinery and great furnaces working 
under open sheds and turning out large quantities of material. 
It is therefore impossible to deal adequately with an industry of 
this description, or to give anything approaching a complete 
survey of the different conditions of employment found in it. 

Furthermore, we have allied to the chemical trade others closely 
resembling it. It is, for instance, a mere arbitrary distinction to 
separate the manufacture of pigments from that of chemicals, as 
many of the pigments used at the present day are made by means 
of chemical processes carried on under similar conditions, and the 
workmen engaged in these are exposed to similar risks and dangers. 
The white lead industry, for example, is merely a process of chemical 
manufacture, although for convenience it is regarded as an industry 
by itself. There are other industries in which the danger to health 
in using certain chemicals is even more serious than it is to those 
actually engaged in their manufacture. For instance, it seems to 
be far more dangerous to dip match heads in the composition 
containing small quantities of phosphorus than it is to manufacture 



CHAP. XL.] MANUFACTURE NOT NECESSARILY DANGEROUS 569 

phosphorus itself, and many cases occur where lead poisoning 
results from the use of chemicals containing lead. The greatest 
danger seems to be for those who are continuously engaged in 
handling these substances in small quantities rather than for 
those who deal with the manufacture in bulk. It is evident, then, 
that as a matter of convenient classification we must strictly 
limit the meaning of the words *' chemical trades." 

Dealing purely with the manufacture of chemicals themselves, 
we may, I think, lay down this general principle, that there is not 
necessarily any danger to the workman in manufacturing the 
most poisonous substances, if reasonable precautions are taken. 
Most chemicals are made by a wet process, and are crystallised 
or precipitated from the solutions, and therefore the danger from 
the inhaling of poisonous dust is not present. If deleterious gases 
are evolved, suitable arrangements can be made for preventing 
them escaping into the laboratory : moreover, we find that firms 
engaged in the manufacture of fine chemicals usually prepare a 
great variety of substances, so that the workmen are not always 
engaged upon the same process, and the risk of accumulated 
poisoning is diminished. 

The experience of scientific chemists in their own laboratories 
goes to show that for many years experiments may be carried 
on with the most dangerous substances, including gases of a 
poisonous nature, and that they may work day after day in an 
atmosphere frequently loaded with the fumes of strong; acids 
and other substances, and yet not suffer any serious damage. 
In the manufacture of miscellaneous chemicals and drugs con- 
ducted on a comparatively small scale, there is no reason, I 
believe, to look for any serious difficulty in making the work 
perfectly healthy. Good ventilation and obvious precautions are 
all that are really necessary. But when we come to consider the 
manufacture of certain chemicals in very large quantities, then 
we find conditions which make it very difficult to protect the 
workmen from injurious consequences. The heaviest part of the 
chemical trade is that devoted to the manufacture of hydrochloric 
and sulphuric acids, carbonate of soda, caustic soda, and bleaching 
powder. These chemicals are usually made in one establishment, 
as part of One process, or in establishments closely allied to each 
other, and we shall find that there are three distinct methods of 
producing some, at any rate, of these chemicals. 

The Le Blanc Process. — To deal first with the process by which 
all these substances can be manufactured, and which is the oldest 



570 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

and still the most important, we shall consider in some detail 
the manufacture known as the Le Blanc process, which is carried 
on in this country by the United Alkali Company and others. 
We shall find that the manufacturing processes necessitate the 
workman being exposed to the weather in open sheds, and that 
he is carrying on operations involving considerable bodily exertion 
before furnaces, and is exposed to various deleterious gases. 
Probably the fact that his work is carried on in open sheds, 
while making him more liable to sudden chills after working 
before the furnaces, is, on the whole, beneficial, as he is supplied in 
this way with fresh air. In fact it would be impossible to carry 
on many of the operations under any other conditions. As has 
been shown by statistics, the agricultural labourer, in spite of his 
exposure to inclement weather, has the longest life of any class 
of workmen. We may say, then, that the chemical worker, as his 
employment is practically an outdoor one, has this much to the 
good ; but we cannot compare the air which he breathes in the 
chemical works with that which is breathed on the country farm. 

The processes of Le Blanc manufacture are as follows : The 
first is the production of sulphate of soda or salt cake. This is 
produced by acting upon common salt with sulphuric acid or oil 
of vitriol. We shall have to consider the conditions of the manu- 
facture of sulphuric acid itself, but it will be simpler in the mean- 
time to assume that we have sulphuric acid supplied to us. Its 
manufacture is usually carried on in the same works in which the 
salt cake is rriade. The sulphuric acid and salt are heated on the 
bed of a furnace, and are raked and moved about by the man in 
charge, until the decomposition of the salt is complete, and it has 
been converted into sulphate of soda. During this process torrents 
of hydrochloric acid gas are set free from the mass, and are drawn 
away from the furnace by means of a Root's blower or some 
similar contrivance. 

The hydrochloric acid gas has a suffocating and irritating 
effect when breathed, and if present in any considerable quantities 
in the air, makes it quite impossible for any one to stand the suffo- 
cation and irritation produced. Even in smaller quantities the 
irritation of the air-passages is so great that it must in course 
of time prove injurious to the workmen. If we could obtain an 
ideal system, there seems to be no reason why workmen should 
be exposed at all to this irritating gas. The furnaces are, of 
course, arched in, and the gas is drawn off as it is generated. The 
main danger of exposure to the gas comes when the workman rakes 



XL.] HYDROCHLORIC ACID ' 571 

the salt cake from the furnace into barrows, for removal to the next 
operation. Here a considerable improvement has been made of 
late years. The salt cake is raked into an iron box, which is 
connected to the furnace draught, so that the gases are drawn 
away while the salt cake cools, and the box is not removed 
from this position until by this means most of the fumes of acid 
have been given off. 

Notwithstanding these improvements, hydrochloric acid gas 
is found to be present more or less in the neighbourhood of 
these furnaces. The state of repair in the furnaces themselves, 
the condition of the weather, the amount of moisture in the 
air, the successful working of the acid towers, the rate at 
which the workman is trying to get out his material, and con- 
sequently not allowing it to cool properly in the iron box — 
all these conditions are present, and any of them may result 
in the presence of a certain amount of gas. It is only necessary 
to be in a town like St Helens on a moist evening to realise 
the fact that from these various chemical works large quantities 
of hydrochloric acid and other gases are evidently escaping. 

In order to protect himself to a certain extent from the 
hydrochloric acid, the workman either wears a flannel muffler 
tied over his face, or he bites a piece of flannel between his teeth 
and breathes through it. The fumes of acid quickly cause the 
teeth to rot away, and it has been suggested that this biting of the 
flannel, which gets full of acid, is one of the main causes of the rotting 
of the teeth. I have no evidence, however, on this point. My 
impression is that the rotting away of the teeth will take place 
whether flannel is held between the teeth or is wrapped over the 
mouth. Besides being exposed more or less to hydrochloric acid 
gas, the man is also working before a furnace door, in an open 
shed, and his work is of a very heavy character, so that he 
usually wears a minimum of clothes and perspires freely. He 
is thus exposed to constant chills, and to the risk of developing 
some pulmonary disease. 

The custom of the chemical trade is to divide all work of this 
character into shifts of twelve hours each, though as a matter of 
convenience the workmen sometimes arrange to take shifts of 
eleven and thirteen hours. During the twelve hours the workman 
is supposed to have sufficient time for his meals, but he does not 
leave his furnace ; his food is brought to him, and he so arranges 
his work that he is able to get his meal while waiting for 
the next operation to take place. His work at the furnace is not 



572 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

absolutely continuous. It would be impossible for any human 
being to carry on such heavy muscular labour continuously. He 
has to watch the materials, to stir them and rake them about at the 
proper intervals, and to remove the charge when completed, and 
to distribute a new charge in the furnace. Hut as the method of 
payment universally adopted in the chemical trade is by the 
quantity of material turned out, he is naturally anxious to turn out 
as much as possible, and he produces with considerable regularity 
the same quantity of stuff from day to day. 

The amount of labour involved in this would be impossible to 
a muscular man who had not been trained to it. The mere 
exposure to heat would make it very difficult. But it must not be 
supposed, that because a man going to this work for the first time 
would find the labour and the heat involved quite intolerable that 
it is so to the salt cake worker. The extraordinary power of 
adaptation which we find in the human subject enables him to 
carry out these arduous operations with comparative ease, and so 
far does this adaptation go, that the men working beside him, 
whose business it is to wheel barrow loads of the weighed 
chemicals to the furnace door, can wheel barrows all day, but could 
not carry out the furnace operations ; while the furnaceman, if put 
into the yard, where he has general labouring work to do, will be 
found at first very unfit for such toil, and will do the best he can to 
get back to his furnace work again. 

Besides the long hours involved, the exposure to the heat of 
the furnaces tends to make such men heavy drinkers, and I 
think it is the universal experience in the chemical trade that 
such is the case. I believe that inquiry would show that the 
quantity of alcoholic liquor that one of these men can take, with- 
out any apparent injurious effects, is extraordinary. In the end 
these drinking habits tell, and the result is that the health of the 
workman rapidly breaks down. 

We have then four conditions which are acting prejudicially 
— exposure to the fumes of an irritating gas, exposure to high 
temperature from the furnaces, exposure to cold and chills work- 
ing in an open shed, and the tendency to drink heavily when 
away from work. I have described these conditions in consider- 
able detail, because the work at the salt qake furnace is so similar 
to that carried on in many other operations in chemical works, 
that it may be taken as fairly typical. The men employed in 
this industry are very largely Irish labourers. If they are not 
of Irish extraction, they are principally country labourers from 



XL.] SALT CAKE and caustic SODA • "' 573 

thfe surrounding districts. The comparatively , high wages earned 
are, of course, a temptation. A man may change from salt 
cake to a black ash furnace, but he is still engaged in similar 
operations. The work is of so peculiar a character, that a man 
who has once got adapted to it is not suited for other purposes. 
When no longer fit for so arduous a task, we may find him 
employed in odd jobs about the yard, acting as a night watch- 
man, or performing some of the many miscellaneous jobs that 
require to be attended to in chemical works. 

In the earlier inquiries into the effect on health of this and 
other processes in the chemical trade, very different opinions 
\v:ere expressed as to whether the operations which these gien 
had to carry on, while undoubtedly of a disagreeable character, 
had really a serious effect upon their health. I shall not discuss 
this at the present stage, but I think it is proved, in spite of the 
difficulties, which I shall refer to later oh, of obtaining definite 
statistics on this point, that the injury to health is of a definite 
and serious character. I shall also reserve for general discussion 
the question as to the long hours of labour, and how far that may 
be dealt with and improved. 

The salt cake after it leaves the furnace is mixed with lime- 
stone and coal in a black ash furnace. After being heated and 
stirred in this furnace for a sufficient length of time, it is poured 
out in a molten condition, wheeled away to cool, is broken up, 
and the soda dissolved from it tn the black ash vats. This 
operation of decomposing the salt cake used to be carried on 
in furnaces worked by hand. Such furnaces have practically 
disappeared, and with their disappearance a form of labour as 
arduous as the work of the salt cake man has also gone. Large 
revolving mechanical furnaces are now used for this operation, and 
although the labour of tending these furnaces is arduous, yet the 
conditions are very much improved upon those which prevailed 
in the old days. No fumes result in this operation, so that the 
workman is not exposed to deleterious gases. 

. After the soda has been dissolved it is subjected to various 
processes, according to the product which may be required. It 
may be converted into soda ash, into soda crystals, and into 
caustic soda. All these operations invoh^e boiling, furnacing, 
and similar processes, but there is nothing to be said about them 
of special interest, except the final operation in the manufacture 
of caustic soda. 

In order to make caustic soda, the liquors, after treatment 



574 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

with lime, are evaporated in large cast-iron cauldrons some 15 
feet in diameter. As the liquor gets more and more con- 
centrated, the temperature keeps rising, until finally the cauldron 
is full of red-hot caustic soda, which when it is finished is bailed 
into iron drums and there solidifies and is ready for sale. These 
great cauldrons of red-hot caustic are, of course, dangerous, as 
the substance will produce very serious injuries, if by any accident 
it gets out of the pot, while a drop of water will cause it to spurt, 
and other accidents may happen, causing similar spurting of this 
liquid. We find accordingly that burns are apt to happen in 
the caustic shop, although they are seldom of a serious character, 
and occasionally men have lost their lives from slipping and falling 
into the caustic pot. 

Some of these cases were discussed in the inquiry which was 
made in 1893 into the chemical trades, and certain precautions 
were suggested for preventing such accidents in future, and were 
embodied in the special rules. The most important of these 
was taking care that the top of the pot should be at least 3 feet 
in height above the ground, and that the brickwork should slope 
to the top, and should have no ledges upon it where the work- 
man could place his foot. 

But while the manufacture of caustic may and does lead to 
accidents, there is nothing in the actual process of manufacture 
itself which seems to be injurious to the workman, beyond the 
exposure to heat and cold. The work of the caustic finisher is 
not nearly so continuous or so arduous as that of the furnaceman. 
He is usually highly paid, and requires to be a man of consider- 
able skill, for the turning out of a white caustic of a high 
strength depends upon long experience, as well as great care in 
its manufacture. 

The next process to be considered is the manufacture of bleach- 
ing powder from the hydrochloric acid which was given off during 
the operations in the salt cake furnace. In practice there are 
two ways of dealing with this substance, with the view to 
producing chlorine gas, from which bleaching powder is pre- 
pared. Either the hydrochloric acid is decomposed in large stone- 
covered vessels, known as stills, by means of manganese mud, 
the chlorine gas evolved being carried away through suitable 
pipes to the bleaching chambers ; or the hydrochloric acid gas is 
passed direct from the salt cake furnace, and without condensation 
is mixed with proper proportions of air and steam ; it is then 
decomposed by being brought into contact with specially prepared 



XL.] BLEACHING POWDER . ■> 575 

material, and the chlorine gas liberated. The first process is known 
as the Weldon process, and chlorine gas produced by decomposition 
of hydrochloric acid and manganese mud is known as Weldon gas. 
The second process is known as the Deacon's process, and the gas 
is called Deacon gas. 

I have mentioned both these processes because the method of 
preparing chlorine makes a considerable difference in the way in 
which bleach is prepared from gas. In order to prepare bleaching 
powder we must expose freshly slaked lime to the gas. The lime 
will then absorb the chlorine gas, forming a compound known as 
bleaching powder, from which chlorine can be very readily evolved, 
mere exposure to air and carbonic acid gas being sufficient to cause 
a slight decomposition to go on. 

It is a matter of great importance to the manufacturer to get 
as high a percentage of available chlorine into every ton of bleach- 
ing powder that he sells as he can, as the buyer of bleaching powder 
naturally objects to paying carriage on a weak article. 

As bleach is always slightly decomposing and losing in strength, 
it becomes specially important for export purposes, where it may 
be exposed to long voyages, to make it as strong as possible before 
it is sent away. We have then the production of an unstable com- 
pound, which can only be prepared at full strength, say 38 per cent., 
by taking great care in the conditions of manufacture, a compound 
which is always slightly decomposing, and which, if the conditions 
of manufacture are only slightly altered, will possibly lose rather 
than gain in strength in the final stages of its manufacture. For 
example, in order to be able to meet the competition from the 
Continent and America, it is necessary to turn out this product at 
as high a percentage of strength as possible. The bleach below 
35 per cent, in strength is not saleable, except at a very reduced 
price, while bleach of 38 per cent, strength is considered to be of 
the highest quality. It is a matter of the utmost importance to 
the manufacturer to obtain this 2 or 3 per cent, of strength. 
Many of those who have discussed the manufacture of bleach, 
and have talked of improved mechanical processes, have not 
realised how difficult and delicate a business the production of 
bleach of full strength really is. These facts should be kept in 
mind when the chemical manufacturer is condemned for what 
is called his crude and old-fashioned methods of making this 
article. 

If we are going to make bleach from Weldon gas, we are dealing 
with gas which contains a very high percentage of pure chlorine. 



576 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

and, consequently, the conditions for successful manufacture are 
quite different from those prevailing in the case of Deacon gas, 
in which we have only some 7 per cent of chlorine present. 
The manufacture of bleach from Weldon gas is carried on 
to-day as it has always been, by spreading lime over the floors of 
chambers, which are at the present time usually made of lead, 
and passing the gas into these chambers, and allowing it to be 
absorbed by the lime. These lead chambers are of varying size, 
but are usually about 100 feet long, 30 feet broad, and about 
6 feet high.' The lime is spread over the floor, and is made up 
into ridges by means of a wooden rake. The doors are closed 
and the chlorine gas is allowed to enter. The absorption pro- 
cess is carried on for two or three days. During that time the 
lime is taking up the chlorine gas, and forming the compound 
which we call bleaching powder. Samples are withdrawn from 
time to time, the supply of fresh gas is stopped, and the lime, is 
allowed to continue absorbing the gas still remaining upon it in the 
chamber. When this operation has gone as far as it can, and the 
bleach has reached full strength, then the chamber is again con- 
nected to another chamber, containing fresh lime, and this second 
chamber is then connected to a pipe and subjected to a gentle suction 
so as to cause a slight current from chamber No. i to chamber No. 
2. The doors of the first chamber are now slightly opened, so as 
to admit a little air, and the remaining chlorine gas is then gently 
drawn off into the chamber which is freshly limed, while air passes 
in and takes its place. The doors are then thrown wide open, and 
free admission of air is allowed. The chamber cools, and the greater 
part of the gas is removed ; but complete removal of the gas is not 
practicable, as the powder itself is always slightly decomposing, 
and if left long enough on the chamber floor would soon cease to 
be saleable bleach. 

The quantity of gas which may be left in the chamber when 
the bleach is packed has been laid down in the Act of Parliament 
dealing with injurious gases from chemical works, and the works' 
chemist is expected to test the air in the chamber and enter the 
result in a book which is inspected from time to time by the Alkali 
Inspector. These inspectors are not appointed under the Factory 
Acts. Their function is to prevent the escape of injurious gases 
which may injure neighbouring property. It must be remembered, 
however, that the bleach is always decomposing, and in summer 
weather the decomposition of the bleach is going, on very rapidly, 
and unless it is packed with great promptitude it will lose in 



XL.J BLEACH PACKING EXTREMELY DISAGREEABLE 577 

strength, while, on the other hand, the fact of this decomposition 
going on makes the work of packing more disagreeable. 

The method of packing is as follows : — The bleach packer 
wraps his face in roll upon roll of flannel, the flannel being drawn 
over his mouth and leaving the nostrils free. These layers of 
flannel stand out some three inches beyond his face, and have to 
be of just the right dampness to prevent the gas reaching his 
lungs. He then puts on leather goggles to protect his eyes, and 
ties a piece of paper round his trousers to keep the bleach from 
attacking them. He then enters the bleach chamber and rapidly 
shovels the powder through holes made in the floor. Under these 
holes are shoots down into the casks which are underneath the 
bleaching chamber, and a covering is attached to the shoot and 
tied round the sides of the cask, preventing the bleach from 
escaping as it goes down. In this way the bleach is packed. 

This operation of bleach packing is the most disagreeable to 
which the man in charge of the bleach is subjected. The chlorine 
rises from the bleach as it is disturbed, and it would be impossible 
for any one to remain for a few seconds in a bleach chamber unless 
he was protected from breathing the gas in the way I have 
described. On the other hand, such wrappings make breathing 
very difficult. In fact a man who has not got accustomed to the 
bleach packer's flannel would imagine that he was going to die 
of suffocation, and could not bear it round his face for more than 
a few seconds. While the bleach packer leaves his nostrils free, 
he is careful to breathe out from them, while he inhales through 
the flannels. He may stay from twenty to forty minutes inside 
the chamber, then come out and take fresh air, then put on his 
flannels and go back again, and in the course of a day he may thus 
do from two or three to five or six hours' bleach packing. The 
bleach chambers come up to strength in succession, and when one 
of these is up to strength the product is packed as rapidly as 
possible, and the chamber prepared for another operation. A great 
part of the bleach packer's time is spent in merely looking after 
his bleaching chambers, seeing that the lutes are tight, that the 
gas is passing properly into the chambers, and so on. His 
life consists of periodic leisure combined with the most arduous 
and exceptional form of toil. 

The exact conditions vary in different works, but it is usually 
found that the bleach packer also prepares the chamber with lime, 
and he may also prepare the lime himself and sift ,it. In large 
works the duties of sifting and slacking the lime are performed 

20 



578 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

by a special set of men. This preparation of the lime is also a 
very unpleasant process, as it involves working in clouds of lime, 
which settle on the body and clothes, and is inhaled in consider- 
able quantities. The lime-dresser rubs his arms and face over 
with grease and has also to roll his face in a flannel, but does not 
require to put on anything like the number of layers which are 
necessary in the case of the bleach packer exposed to chlorine gas. 
In the case qf the Deacon process, the arrangement is somewhat 
different. The lime is distributed on shelves, and is finally 
removed by being pushed from these shelves down suitable 
holes, by means of openings from the outside ; so that the Deacon 
man does not go into the chamber, as he does in the case of 
Weldon gas. 

Besides the exposure to the chlorine gas under the conditions 
of packing, it must be remembered that, in carrying on operations 
on a large scale with gas having the corrosive properties of 
chlorine, many little escapes of gas will take place, and that 
accidents from this source will be found to happen more frequently 
when the men, not expecting such an escape, are not, consequently, 
prepared for it, than from actual breathing of the gas during the 
process of packing. 

It is unnecessary to describe the effects of chlorine when 
breathed. A person has himself to experience the peculiarly 
suffocating and irritating properties of this gas, in order to 
appreciate its qualities. But while the inconvenience and dis- 
comfort produced are very great, and may result in vomiting and 
irritation of the bronchial passages lasting for some days, yet the 
discomfort is greater apparently than the permanent injury to 
health. Insensibility and death have been produced, but such 
results are rare. It often happens that workmen in chemical works 
get " gassed " accidentally, and consequently feel great irritation of 
their respiratory passages, and have a feeling of suffocation, followed 
by vomiting, but these symptoms are temporary in their duration, 
and do not appear to cause permanent injury. Any one who is 
familiar with chemical works has been gassed occasionally, and 
yet he has found no permanent harm come from it. 

But when we come to the question as to whether the con- 
tinuous exposure to this gas, combined with work under the 
peculiar conditions necessary in the case of the bleach packers, 
does not ultimately undermine the health of the workers, we 
approach a more difficult problem. These men are necessarily 
men of great physical strength and in the prime of life, and they 



XL.] HASENCLEVER METHOD OF MANUFACTURE 579 

like the trade because of the very high wages paid ; but it is 
difficult to trace the ultimate history of such men, and decide 
how far the death-rate among men who are picked for their 
health, strength, and age would give any real information as to 
the injurious nature of the employment. Here again, as in the 
case of the furnace man, the temptation to excessive drinking is 
very great. The bleach packer is more highly paid, and as he 
has a good deal of responsibility resting upon him in the manu- 
facture of this difficult article, he is a superior man, just as the 
caustic finisher is a better man than he who works at a furnace 
door. Many of them are in the local football teams, and I think 
we may take it that, at any rate for a considerable number of 
years, working in chlorine does not produce any very obvious 
bad effects. 

Naturally when people first come across this industry, they 
remark upon the crude methods by which this manufacture is 
carried on, and they say at once : " Why is not some arrange- 
ment invented for the mechanical production of bleach? How 
easy it would be to put in lime at the one end, and carry it 
by means of suitable belting out at the other end, and pass 
the chlorine gas continually over it, and so avoid these unhealthy 
processes." And the chemical manufacturer has been denounced 
for his inhumanity in not adopting some such plan. The 
question of humanity, or inhumanity, does not enter into the 
matter. A successful mechanical mode of making bleach 
would save so much expenditure in labour, the men connected 
with bleach manufacture being highly paid, and would save 
so much capital expenditure, that it would be at once adopted 
by chemical manufacturers. In the Home Office Report on 
the Chemical Trades, one piece of apparatus, known as the 
Hasenclever apparatus, is described, and an invention by 
another engineer. Hasenclever's apparatus has been used, 
I believe, in Germany, and there is one works at any rate in 
St Helens where the apparatus has been tried. I have had 
no experience of its working, and consequently can say nothing 
about it, but the mechanical difficulties involved in the manu- 
facture of bleaching powder are so great, that there is no 
indication at the present time of mechanical methods being 
adopted. In the case of the Deacon process, shelves are being 
used, and the latest plant put up by the Alkali Company 
consists of shelves made of slate, upon which lime is to a 
certain extent distsibuted mechanically. In processes where 



58o THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

strong gas like the Weldon gas is produced, the lead chamber 
is still in use, and in modern works where the latest electrolytic 
plant is being erected in this country, and of which I shall have 
something to say presently, large lead chambers on the same 
plan as those used for the Weldon gas are being built. Very 
little progress l\as, therefore, been made in the replacing of the 
old methods of bleach making by a mechanical process. The 
tendency seems to be in two directions. In the case of the 
Le Blanc manufacture, with which we have been dealing so 
far, the Deacon process is replacing the old Weldon process ; 
but in the case of the new electrolytic methods of making 
bleach, which are probably going to be the methods of the 
future, the strong gas produced under these conditions is being 
poured into bleach chambers, built on the old lines. 

There is another possible way of getting over the difficulty, and 
that is by the men wearing a helmet not unlike a diver's apparatus. 
There are two difficulties here : one is the awkwardness for the 
workman wearing such an apparatus, and his dislike to being 
covered in it, while engaged in heavy toil. Another difficulty is 
in making the apparatus of such material that it will stand con- 
tinuous exposure to chlorine gas. It is a common thing for people 
to say, why not use a helmet covered with guttapercha, or some 
other material that will resist chlorine ? This sounds very simple, 
but the material which will continuously resist the action of 
chlorine, and at the same time will enable us to construct a tight- 
fitting helmet, with its valves and apparatus, has yet to be dis- 
covered. The practical difficulties in the way of improving the 
conditions of bleach manufacture are very serious indeed, and I 
fear that no real solution of them has yet been found. 

We have still to deal with two other products of manufacture 
which are made by the Le Blanc process before considering other 
methods of manufacturing soda and bleaching powder. One of 
these is sulphuric acid. 

The manufacture of sulphuric acid is carried on in many works 
besides those for the manufacture of soda. Sulphuric acid is used in 
many processes of manufacture, and is so expensive to carry, that 
it is found more convenient to make the acid on the spot where 
it is wanted. The method most universally adopted for making 
the gas is to burn sulphur or sulphide of iron in specially con- 
structed furnaces, so as to produce sulphur dioxide, with the smell 
of which we are all familiar. This is drawn into large lead 
chambers, where, it is brought into contact with air, steam, and 



XL.] MANUFACTURE OF SULPHURIC ACID • ' 581 

nitrous fumes. These fumes are produced by decomposing small 
quantities of sodium nitrate with sulphuric acid, the nitric acid 
gas and fumes being drawn into the sulphuric acid chambers. In 
these chambers a chemical reaction is set up which results in the 
production of sulphuric acid, while the nitrous fumes are regenerated 
by the action of the air, and are consequently used for the manu- 
facture of a fresh quantity of acid. As it is necessary to cause a 
current of these gases to move through the chambers, we find at 
the end of the series of chambers air ladened with nitrous fumes 
passing away ; the nitrous gases are therefore absorbed and are 
returned to the process again, so that we have in practice the 
burning of the sulphide of iron going on continuously, and the 
gases passing into the chambers at the bottom of which the 
sulphuric acid collects and is drawn off from time to time, while 
the addition of fresh nitrous fumes, by the decomposition of small 
quantities of nitrate of soda, is necessary, merely in order to supply 
the waste which takes place in what is theoretically a continuous 
process. The manufacture from sulphur dioxide is too new to be 
considered here. 

The men working at the pyrites burners are exposed to heat 
and cold, and at the same time are exposed to a certain amount of 
sulphur dioxide, and to occasional nitrous fumes. These gases are, 
of course, irritating, and must tend to produce similar effects on 
the breathing apparatus to those found in the case of chlorine and 
hydrochloric acid. Here again an entirely perfect system would 
result in the men not having to breathe either sulphur dioxide or 
nitrous fumes, but under practical conditions of manufacture, such 
substances are apt to be more or less present on occasion. The 
work of a pyrites burner is not so arduous as that of a man 
employed in making salt cake. 

The other product of manufacture, introduced in recent years, 
is that of sulphur. Returning for the moment to the prepara- 
tion of soda, it will be remembered that at a certain stage black 
ash was produced, which was treated with water, and the soda 
it contained dissolved from it. After this operation, the black 
ash vats are left full of material, known as vat waste, which is 
principally sulphide of lime. In past years this material was 
thrown out as a waste product, so that in the neighbourhood of 
such towns as St Helens immense quantities of it have accumu- 
lated, forming great mounds. It is very unsightly, as no vegeta- 
tion can grow upon it, and it is gradually decomposed by air and 
rain, with the result that the air and the streams become loaded 



582 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

with sulphuretted hydrogen — a most disagreeable gas— the rotten- 
egg smell of which is familiar to those who drink sulphur waters. 
For many years attempts were made to recover the sulphur from 
this substance, and we now find that the problem has been solved 
by that part of the Le Blanc manufacture known as Chance's 
process. 

The tank waste is mixed with a sufficiency of water, and 
placed in large closed vessels, through which carbonic acid gas 
is passed. The result is to decompose the tank waste, and give 
off sulphuretted hydrogen gas, while the carbonate of lime is 
precipitated. When the decomposition is complete, the sludge 
is run off from these vessels into a suitable settling pond, and 
the sulphuretted hydrogen gas, which has been produced, is 
burned, under certain conditions as to limitation of the quantity 
of air, with the result that water and sulphur are formed. 

This process means the manufacture in enormous quantities 
of sulphuretted hydrogen, and this gas, as is well known, is very 
poisonous. Breathing the gas for a few minutes, even if diluted 
with a considerable quantity of air, results in coma, very often 
followed by death. The smell of the gas is also so disagreeable, 
that if only a very little escape, the whole neighbourhood is made 
intolerable, and therefore the process of manufacture is so carried 
on as to make the chance of gas escape as remote as possible. 
At the same time we find here again the difficulty of carrying' 
on a large process with absolute perfection. Consequently, in 
such a district as St Helens we find that at night the air 
will, in the neighbourhood of a Chance's plant, occasionally smell 
strongly of this gas. The best remedy for gassing with sulphur- 
etted hydrogen seems to be the breathing of pure oxygen, and 
consequently a cylinder of compressed oxygen is kept at the works. 
On the other hand, I have not been able to obtain any evidence 
that the occasional exposure to small quantities of this gas has an 
injurious effect. People living in the neighbourhood of Chance's 
plant are frequently breathing this gas, largely diluted with air, 
and while they seem at first to suffer in health, loss of appetite, 
and so on, they seem soon to adjust themselves to it, and not to 
suffer any permanent inconvenience. At the same time it is 
very difficult, unless we could have a large number of cases very 
carefully watched for many years, to tell how far the presence 
of this gas is deleterious to health in its ultimate effects. 

Alkali Manufacture, other Methods. — We have now dealt with 
the main branches of alkali manufacture, as carried on by the 



XL.] PRODUCTION OF CHLORINE ' 585 

Le Blanc process, and it remains to say something of the new 
processes which are being used in connection with this industry. 
Soda is very largely manufactured in England, and on the 
Continent, by means of the ammonia soda process. This process 
is carried on in closed vessels, the substance being in solution 
during the whole time, and we do not find the furnace intro- 
duced until the very last stage, when the soda ash has to be 
heated at a comparatively low temperature, so that there are 
no deleterious gases produced. There are no arduous furnace 
operations, and I have never heard any complaint made as 
to the conditions of the workmen in this industry. Messrs 
Brlinner, Mond, & Co., the largest manufacturers in this country, 
introduced some years ago an eight hours' day for their furnace- 
workers, and I believe that the result was very successful, but I 
shall deal with that matter later on. 

The ammonia soda process, while giving us soda, does not 
produce bleaching powder, and consequently we have to adopt 
some other means of production — either by chlorine, as produced 
by the Le Blanc process, or by some other method of obtaining 
this gas. At the works of Messrs Briinner, Mond, & Co., I believe 
special processes are used by which chlorine is part of the manu- 
facture, but I cannot go further into that particular matter. 

One of the most important methods of producing both soda and 
chlorine, which is now coming to the front, is by means of the 
electrolysis of salt. An electric current is passed through a solution 
of salt, and the result is to decompose the salt directly into chlorine 
gas and caustic soda. The caustic soda can be concentrated, or 
converted into carbonate of soda, while the chlorine gas is led 
away and used for the making of bleach. This method of manu- 
facture has been very successful on the Continent, and is also 
in use in this country, where large new works are being erected 
for the production of chlorine in this way. As in the case of most 
new industries, many different devices have been introduced for 
carrying on the process, some successful and some unsuccessful, but 
on the whole it continues to advance, and is likely ultimately to 
replace the Le Blanc process. By this method of manufacture we 
find all furnace operations are practically done away with ; but, on 
the other hand, the chlorine gas has to be drawn from the decom- 
posing house and converted into bleach, and we find here con- 
ditions prevailing which we have already described, and which show 
no indication of improvement. With the exception of the bleach 
packing, the conditions of labour, however, are enormously im- 



584 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

proved, and the more arduous duties of the chemical workers are 
absent. 

We must not expect to see the Le Blanc process of manu- 
facture entirely replaced by these new methods, and for this 
reason : the first stage of the manufacture consists of the pre- 
paration of salt cake as already described. This substance is 
used in very large quantities in glass manufactories and also 
in other industries. As long as there is a demand for salt cake, 
it will probably be prepared by the decomposition of salt with 
sulphuric acid. It is possible that in the future the Le Blanc 
process may stop at this stage, and that nothing but salt cake 
and hydrochloric acid will be manufactured ; but salt cake in some 
way or other must be produced in enormous quantities quite apart 
from the other products resulting from the Le Blanc process. 

The Chemical Worker. — The general conditions of the chemical 
worker are very much as I have described them, but how far they 
affect his health is a more difficult matter. The earlier inquiries 
into this question seem to have left the effect on health very 
doubtful. The statistics of the death-rate of such a town as St 
Helens are not of any value for a purpose of this kind. The 
town is inhabited very largely by glass workers, coal miners, and 
engineers, and the chemical workers form only a small proportion 
of the number of hands employed. I do not find on inquiry 
of the medical men in St Helens, that they have very definite 
views on this question. Where we have, for example, lead poison- 
ing produced by an industry, it is very easy to trace back the 
cause of illness, but when we are dealing with a general under- 
mining of health, it is much more difficult to give definite figures 
or definite facts as to the effects of an industry. Then the 
chemical worker changes ; he leaves the trade and goes back to it ; 
he moves from place to place. We also find that a very large 
number of men who work in chemical works are simply labourers 
employed in the yard, and are only exposed accidentally to the 
injurious gases produced, and then probably in a diluted form. The 
construction of the works has also an important effect. We may, 
for example, be trying to trace the effects on health of employment 
at the black ash or the salt cake furnace, and in the particular 
works examined, the bleach chambers might be built in such a 
position that when the wind is blowing in a certain direction, the 
chlorine gas is carried to the furnace and may seriously affect the 
health of the workmen, while in other works the chlorine might be 
blown in a different direction. The gas is so heavy that under 



XL.] 



AVERAGE HOURS OF LABOUR AND WAGE'S 



585 







•^' 
















III 


'ssSvj^ 




































^u. 


•sjnoH 




: 




















-TS 


VO 













ON 




M 


•S9SBAV 






VO 










00 


i 




<A 


m 


M 










M 


•sjnoH 






CO 






: 




VO 


% 


























>? 
















VO 


(/) 


Bg 


•saSBAv 








: 




: 










<o 


C<) 












CO 
























S 


•sjnoH 




: 




: 






= 


VO 








•^" 

























u 


•sagBAV 




.n ON 


CO 


CO 


t^ 


VO 










<o 


CO f<5 


CO 


CO 


CI 


■rt- 


^ 


CO 




























VO 


On 












ON 










in t-^ 


VO 


t^ 


t^ 


t^ 


t^ 


VO 


. 




-^ 


ON 

















CO 




li 


•saSBM. 




0^ 








CO 


N 


t->. 









<n 


vn VO 


^ 





CO 




T^ 


\r» 


























Q 






N VO 


00 


VO 


Th 


00 


vO 


to 


CQ 






Th CO 


'^ 


CO 




rh 




tJ- 






-«' 


















II 


•saSKM 




















•sjnoH 










■W* 

























= s 


•saSB^v 







in 





-^ 










2^ 




<-2 


VO vo 


XO 


VO 


CO 


in 


^ 


\n 






N 


vO 


VO 


00 


VO 


VO 










Tt- CO 


CO 


CO 


T*- 


CO 


CO 


CO 








•>S 


00 

















1" 


•saSBAv 




u-1 CO • 










M 





















\-n 


\j-> 




1- 




















•sjnoH 




vo Th : 




: 




: 


R 


t^ 






-W* 


s« 








vo 






VO 




1^ 

as 


•sagBAV 




i ia 












On 






■^ 






c^ 






N 


•sanoH 




i. Pi 







R 













-W 


VO 


















,~ 


tjO 


•sa^BAV 




OJ 


00 


•^ 


t-s. 








_3 




to 


CO 


" 




N 






<M 


^ 


, 


•sjnojj 




: 












; 


R 






•> 


Ti- 




















£ 


•saSBAS, 




vn ci 


Tt- 




VO 


: 












<^ 


CO CO 


■«J- 


w 


cs 




CO 


CO 


•sjnoH 




^ Tl- 


00 


M 


VO 










> 




00 ^J~> 




t^ 


ir> 




w-> 


VO 






>• 


n- 





t^ 










ON 






•saSBAV 




vo 


t^ 


t_ 




• 





t^ 






<-5 


Tf- CO 


CO 


•^ 


CO 




^ 


CO 




•sjnojj 




XT, t^ 







R 







^ 


Cake, 
and 
ster 
en. 




ts 


>o 





VO 








00 


„ 


•saS^M 




Tl- 


CO 


w 


00 


00 


ir^ 


CO 




<^ 


CO CO 


CO 


CO 


M 


CO 


CO 


CO 


lu- 




















•sanoH 




vO 


t^ 


R 





N 



1^ 


s 






"ts 


►H 





\o 








CO 





lls 


•saSBAY 




'^ CO 


M 


n 






CO 


CO 




<r> 






CO 


CO 


CO 


CO 


•sjnoH 




VO yS 


VO 


VO 


VO 


Th 


■^ 


Th 










vO 


VO 


00 


00 


VO 


•a 








?n 




1 


• 


• 


• 






















B 




J. 

w 

> 


i 1 




.5 


0) 

c)5 


§ 1 

< 


c 


.5 


c 


& 
S • 

> 

< 



586 



THE CHEMICAL TRADES 



[chap. 



certain atmospheric conditions it will produce serious effects a long 
way from the point of escape. In fact the men working in the 
bleach chambers might be quite free of the gas while it was doing 
much damage elsewhere. Each works would, therefore, have to be 
considered by itself in studying health conditions, or very erroneous 
conclusions might be arrived at. 

Hours of Work in Alkali Manufacture. — Before leaving this 
industry it will be of interest to give some figures supplied by 
the Alkali Union to the inquiry made in 1893 ^.s to the hours of 
work of the different workmen employed. These figures may be 
taken as very carefully drawn up, and as representing very closely 
the conditions of labour which still prevail. Wages, of course, tend 
to vary, so that statistics on this point have to be constantly 
revised (^see table on preceding page). 



HOURS OF ATTENDANCE AND TIME SPENT IN ACTUAL 
WORK AT GLOBE WORKS. 



Vitriol Process. 
Average hours of attendance of the two shifts of men 
Hours spent in actual labour (say) 

The latter is arrived at in the following way, viz. ; 
Dropping one burner or kiln 
Barring and charging one burner 



84 per week 
30 

2 minutes 
4 » 



30 burners are charged per 12 hours, or at the rate of 2\ per hour. 
6 X 2| = 15 minutes per hour. 

Time spent in potting 6 „ 



12 = 



21 
4.2 hours per shift, or 29.4 per week. 



Salt Cake Department. 
Average hours of attendance 
Potmen — Time spent in actual labour 
Arrived at as follows : — 

Gathering up charge 

Shoving . 

Spreading 

Charging pot 

Wheeling out salt cake 

Wheeling salt . 

Working pot 

Watching acid-heater filling 

Clinkering fire . 

Firing 

Throwing up cinders 



%l 


per weel 


J 


minutes 




10 

7i 




'^1 
i9i 




14 
16 

3i 





129^ 



Or 2 hours 95 minutes per charge x 3 = 8 hours 38 minutes per shift, 
or 5 1 hours 48 minutes per week. 



XL.] SHORTER SHIFTS TRIED, BUT ABANDONEh^ 587 



Furnacemen — Time spent in actual labour 
Arrived at as follows : — 
Taking in one charge 
Spreading 
Charging pot 
Clinkering 
Slicing . 

Wheeling out salt cake 
Slicing, tooth-raking, and drawing 
Firing . 
Throwing up cinders . 



lours 18 


minutes 


23* 


minutes 


10 




7k 




28I 




19 
36i 




2i 





138^ 



= 2 hours i8| minutes per charge x 4 = 9 hours 13 minutes per shift, 
or 55 hours 18 minutes per week. 



Bleaching Powder Department. 

Lime Dressers — Three men employed : — 
Average hours of attendance .... 
Time spent in actual labour (say) 
Arrived at as follows : — 



63 
30 



per 



week 



2 men sievmg ..... 
One man laying down lime, i\ hours . 
One man slacking Hme, i hour 
All the men turning lime, i hour each, .•. each man works 4I hours, 
which X 6 = 27 hours per week (say, 30 hours). 



3I hours each 

} z\ 



It will be noted, after examining these figures, that the em- 
ployment of men who are on duty a very large number of 
hours does not mean absolutely continuous work. The labour 
is, of course, of a very heavy character, and such continuous 
labour would be impracticable. 

As has been already stated, Messrs Briinner Mond have intro- 
duced eight hours' shifts for their furnace workmen, and I myself 
am responsible for trying an experiment of this character with 
hand-worked black ash furnaces. My experience was as follows : I 
found that each furnaceman in a twelve hours' shift was able to 
turn out 1 5 black ash balls, and on an eight hours' shift he was 
able to turn out from 11 to 12, so that in the course of the 
twenty-four hours the output of the furnace was increased 
from 30 to 36 balls. This increased output was not sufficient 
to enable the firm to pay quite the same wages. The black 
ash workman is paid by the balls that he turns out, and it is 
evident that in order to earn the same wage, the amount 
paid per black ash ball would have to be increased. We were 
able to so adjust matters that his earnings were reduced less 
than 2s. a week, while of course he had the advantage of 
additional leisure. This experiment was ultimately abandoned^ 



588 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

because it was not appreciated, either by the foreman or by 
the black ash men themselves. They preferred to have a 
twelve hours' shift, and produce their 15 balls with less 
strain, than to work harder for eight hours, to get out 
the twelve balls. The foreman objected that the greater leisure 
which the men had, made it more difficult to keep his gang 
■of men sober, while I believe the wives also objected to the 
•change of shift for the same reasons. These, of course, are 
merely temporary objections, which would disappear if any 
such reform was carried out on a large scale. Messrs Briinner 
Mond state that in their experience they found that the» result 
of the change has not worked out at any loss to the firm, while 
the workmen are receiving the same wages. 

It must be remembered, however, that there are many 
processes in the chemical works which cannot be hastened, 
and that the greater energy of the workman has no effect 
on the output of the process. This was pointed out by the 
Alkali Union at the time of the Home Office inquiry. In 
such cases it is evident that the shortening of hours must 
result in a definite loss to the manufacturer, and therefore it 
is not right to assume that, because in the special furnace 
operations carried on by Messrs Briinner Mond they are able 
to reduce the number of shifts without loss because of the 
greater output of their furnaces, therefore in the case of chemical 
processes of all kinds a similar gain would result from shorter 
hours. This point is sometimes lost sight of by those who 
■discuss this question. 

The Administration of the Alkali Act. — There is another 
matter to be considered in connection with the alkali manufacture 
and all chemical processes in which gases are produced which are 
injurious to health and to vegetation. These processes have been 
under the charge of a special set of inspectors appointed under the 
Alkali Act to prevent the escape of gas with the view to protect- 
ing the neighbouring districts from the injurious consequences 
that these gases may produce. Consequently the present alkali 
manufacturer finds himself under inspection from two different 
departments and from two different points of view. The Factory 
Inspector requires him to take certain precautions under the 
special rules issued by the Home Office for dangerous trades, while 
the Alkali Inspector also requires him to prevent the escape of 
gases. The Alkali Act had done a great deal to improve the 
condition of the workman in the chemical works, because the 



XL.] THE ALKALI ACT DEFECTIVE • • 589 

diminution of the escapes of gas injurious to his health has of 
course benefited him as well as those living in the neigh- 
bourhood. 

The main defect, however, under this Act is to be found in the 
limited amount of inspection possible in spite of the zealousness of 
the inspectors. The districts they have to cover are so large, and 
the number of works they have to visit so great, that it is impos- 
sible for them to do all that might be done by enforcing this 
particular Act. The tendency in all the chemical works is to 
arrange that if any gases are to be allowed to escape it shall be 
done at night, and consequently a night staff of inspectors is 
urgently required in order to see that the law is complied with. 
It is a common statement to make, that as these gases have a 
commercial value the manufacturer may be trusted to prevent their 
escape. This argument is one which a practical manufacturer 
smiles at. It is often much more important to push work through 
as rapidly as possible with the view of delivering orders. And it 
may be more profitable, with the view to getting a larger output 
from the same plant, to allow a certain amount of gas to escape,, 
rather than use up the whole of the gases. It may happen that 
some part of the plant breaks down, or that in order to get over 
some difficulty the simplest plan is to let certain gases go. 
The temptation is for all such operations to be arranged to take 
place if possible at night, so that the public shall know as little 
about them as possible. There are so many ways of evading such 
an Act that a far larger staff of inspectors is necessary, to see that 
it is thoroughly complied with. 

Output Method of Paying Wages. — Another matter we have 
referred to is the method of payment of the workmen. We have 
already quoted the tables supplied by the Alkali Union, with the 
view of showing the hours of work prevailing in their factories. 
The usual method of payment in the chemical works is by output,, 
and a system of sub-contracting is very frequently present, z>., 
one man will take charge of the output of bleach or of caustic 
soda, and will pay those he employs. Whatever the system may 
be, the general principle is to pay by tonnage and not by means of 
a weekly wage. This has been denounced as an unfair system, as 
it causes the workman to be more exposed than is necessary to 
the injurious nature of his employment. As I have already 
indicated, it has that effect. The workman is disposed in many 
cases to push the work through at the risk of exposure to injurious 
gases for the sake of getting a larger output, and making a higher 



590 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

wage. On the other hand it is, I fear, the only way in which 
such an industry can be successfully carried on. Chemical works 
usually extend over a large area of ground, and consist of a 
large number of workshops and buildings in which various pro- 
cesses are being carried on, and which make strict supervision 
on the part of the foreman practically impossible. The only way 
in which economical results can be obtained is by making the 
workman himself directly interested in creating a proper output, 
while the chemist in the works takes care that the product pro- 
duced is up to standard quality. It is difficult to see how under 
the present conditions of manufacture it could be carried on 
economically in any other way. The amount of competition which 
now exists with Germany and America has put this industry 
in so serious a position that it is engaged in a fierce struggle for 
existence, and consequently it becomes very difficult to carry out 
any radical reforms. 

While we have stated the dangerous nature of the work, it will 
be evident in reading this description that little has been suggested 
in the way of improvement beyond increasing the staff of alkali 
inspectors with the view to keeping down the escape of injurious 
gases. The reduction of the hours of labour of the workmen from 
twelve to eight would no doubt have an excellent effect, and 
would be a reform which all would welcome. At the same time, 
unless some understanding could be come to, of an international 
character, on this point, I fear that such a reduction at the present 
time would be disastrous to the chemical trade, and consequently it 
is not at the present moment within the region of practical politics. 
The difficulties of improving the manufacture of bleach have 
also been dealt with, and while it may be said that dangers have 
been pointed out and no remedy suggested, it is better to face 
the fact of the numerous difficulties in the way of improvement, 
rather than to imagine that it is a simple matter to put this 
industry in a proper sanitary state. 

Bichromate of Potash Manufacture. — Another department of 
•chemical manufacture which has attracted attention is the pre- 
paration of bichromate of potash. This subject has already been 
dealt with by Dr Morison Legge, and need not be repeated here. 

Coal Tar Products. — Another industry, to which attention has 
been directed of late years, is the manufacture of various products 
from coal tar. This manufacture is principally carried on in 
Germany ; the crude distillations of the coal tar are made in 
this country, and the resulting products sent to Germany : various 




ANILINE AND NITROBENZINES ' 591 

dyes, drugs, etc., are there manufactured from them, and then 
largely sold in this country to our dyers and druggists. 

But the preparation of these compounds in this country is 
growing in importance, and the almost complete monopoly which 
Germany has held for so many years is not likely to be permanent. 

Consequently attention has been directed to the effect on the 
health of the workers of the substances manufactured. Many 
of these are so new to science that their possible poisonous 
qualities are not yet known, but in the case of one or two, 
distinctly injurious results have been proved to exist. 

Among these we may mention aniline and the nitrobenzines. 
These bodies are prepared in large quantities as the starting 
point for other compounds, and consequently their poisonous 
qualities have been shown very clearly upon the workmen. One 
or two references to reports will make this clear. In the year 
1896, Mr Rodgers, H,M. Inspector of Factories, pointed out that 
he had one or two cases of somewhat serious illness among workers 
in aniline. He described the process of manufacture by which the 
crude benzine is first of all converted by the action of sulphuric 
and nitric acids into nitro and dinitrobenzine, known to the 
workmen under the name of myrbane. This substance is then 
reduced to aniline by means of the action of hydrochloric acid 
and iron. 

The fumes from the preparation of the nitrobenzines seem to 
occasionally produce serious effects, such as dizziness ending in 
coma and vomiting. Evidently some men are more susceptible 
than others, as one case is mentioned where a man had been 
repeatedly away suffering from pain in the stomach, dizziness, 
partial paralysis of the legs, and defective vision. 

Again, we find another further reference to this industry. In 
the report for the year 1899, Mr Sidney Smith, H.M. Inspector of 
Factories, reports that he has noticed the peculiar anaemic appear- 
ance of the men engaged in the manufacture of aniline, both those 
employed in distilling the crude aniline oil and those engaged in 
manufacturing the aniline hydrochloride. The men speak of being 
" gassed " — as they call it — a number of times, and they seem to find 
tolindene, the homologue of aniline, to have a similar effect. So 
that here we find the aniline itself referred to as dangerous to the 
workers. It is, of course, well known to medical men that aniline 
itself is an active poison. It is evident from these accounts that 
these substances are dangerous to health, and special measures 
are required to protect the workers. 



592 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

Doubtless, as we get further knowledge of the compounds 
belonging to this large group of substances, we shall find other 
cases where injurious results are produced, and, in fact, the time has 
probably come for a searching inquiry into this branch of chemical 
manufacture. 

Bisulphide of Carbon. — Another substance which might yet be 
mentioned is bisulphide of carbon, but as it has been dealt with 
in regard to the manufacture of rubber, where its effects are far 
more injurious than in the actual manufacture of the substance 
itself, it is hardly necessary to discuss it here. 

Phosphorus. — In the same way phosphorus is more dangerous 
to the matchmaker who uses it than to the worker who manu- 
factures it. The modern process of manufacture in an electric 
furnace is to a great extent a secret one, and consequently it is 
difficult to get accurate information. 

There are numerous other chemical substances, such as 
cyanides, the compounds of antimony, the compounds of arsenic, 
and the compounds of barium, which are very poisonous, and which 
are manufactured in very large quantities, and which have not, 
as far as I am aware, ever been studied in their relation to health. 
But many of these substances appear in other industries, and their 
discussion in any detail would be endless. It is probably sufficient 
to say that in all these processes of chemical manufacture special 
precautions should be taken to prevent the workmen being 
exposed to the fumes arising from vats and tanks, to insist upon 
the greatest cleanliness, to allow him efficient respirators during 
certain operations, and to take every precaution for ensuring the 
removal of dust, and thorough and efficient ventilation. If these 
things are done there is no reason why many of these substances 
should not be manufactured, although poisonous in their nature,, 
without injury to the workmen. 

The special rules which were drawn up by the German 
Government for bichromate works afford, I think, a very good 
guide as to the conditions that ought to be insisted upon in all 
chemical manufactories. We come now to consider how far 
statistics show that the manufacture of chemicals is injurious to 
health. 

Health of Chemical Workers as shown by Statistics. — The use of 
statistics in this particular industry is of doubtful value. In the 
first place it is very difficult to define what are the limits of chemical 
manufacture. If, for example, the manufacture of chemicals includes 
white lead, at once we shall cause a considerable apparent increase: 



XL.] UNSKILLED LABOUR IN CHEMICAL FACTORIES 593 

in the unhealthiness of the industry ; while, if white lead manufac- 
ture is treated by itself and statistics referring to it removed from 
the chemical trade, doubtless better results would be shown. There 
are many other cases where it is difficult to know whether under 
the head of chemical manufacture a particular industry is included 
or not. 

Then the trade is one which to a large extent employs the 
lowest class of labour and requires little skill or special knowledge 
from those employed. Many manufacturers in fact prefer to use 
this class of labour, so that the workman himself shall have as little 
knowledge as possible of the processes that he is carrying on, and 
will therefore be useless to any rival manufacturer if bribed to give 
information. Then the labour being of this rough and unskilled 
kind, the men leave the industry or come into it in a very casual 
way, and we do not find that a chemical worker is always a chemical 
worker in the same way in which a cotton operative would be who 
remains in the cotton mills all his life. 

Furthermore, so many of the chemical industries require men 
of unusual health and strength, that they are recruited from the 
vigorous class of country or Irish labour, and when the men get 
unfit for the arduous character of the work, they are apt to drop 
out of the industry, so that it is difficult to follow these men 
through their whole career, and death statistics fail to indicate 
how far the industry is unhealthy. 

As I explained in the opening remarks of this chapter, the 
conditions of the industry itself vary so enormously according to 
the substances manufactured that any general condemnation of it, 
or approval of it, is impossible, and if we find that men engaged 
in this industry show a distinctly higher death-rate than those 
engaged in ordinary trades, we must, I think, assume that certain 
branches of chemical manufacture are peculiarly unhealthy since 
those branches are able to bring up the death-rate over the whole 
number. With these preliminary remarks I propose to quote 
some of the figures published by Dr Tatham as the result of the 
census of 1890-91-92, which show, I think, very clearly that this 
industry is far from being a healthy one. 

In the first place, -if we compare the mean annual mortality 
of males engaged in different occupations at successive periods of 
life, we find, as is evident from the figures printed below, that while 
the chemical worker up to the age of thirty-five does not show 
any very excessive rate of death as compared with all males, with 
occupied males, or with carpenters (to take an industry which may 



594 



THE CHEMICAL TRADES 



[chap. 



be regarded as a very healthy one), his death-rate after thirty-five 
begins rapidly to increase, and by the time we come to the period 
between forty-five and fifty-five, his death-rate is nearly double 
that of a carpenter. 

In fact, in order to find between these ages so high a death- 
rate, we have to take the returns for brewers, who are notoriously 
unhealthy from the excessive quantities of beer they consume, 
cutlers, file makers, lead workers, earthenware and glass workers. 
In some of these industries that I have just referred to the figures 
are considerably higher than those for the chemical worker : e.g., 
while the figure for the chemical workers at this age (forty-five 
to fifty-five) is 30.3, that for earthenware is 43, and for the file 
maker 40 : but these are notoriously unhealthy industries, and it 
is evident that the chemical worker comes high up among the 
unhealthy trades. 

Mean Annual Mortality of Males engaged in different Occupations in 
the three years, 1890-91-92, at successive periods of life. 



Occupations. 


Ages. 


















15-20 


20-25 


25-35 


35-45 


45-55 


55-65 


65 and 
upwards. 


• 
I 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


All Males 


4.1 


S.6 


1-1 


13.0 


21.4 


39.0 


103.6 


Occupied Males 


2.6 


5-1 


7-3 


12.4 


20.7 • 


36.7 


102.3 


Brewer . 


2.7 


5.6 


10.8 


19.0 


30.8 


54-4 


129. 1 


Cutler . . 


2.4 


5-4 


8.5 


20.9 


35.6 


60.2 


136.8 


FileMaker . . 


1-7 


6.9 


II. I 


26.1 


40.1 


70.8 


147.4 


Copper Worker 
Lead V^orker . 


2.6 


8.0 


ir.i 


16.2 


27.9 


58.8 


168.9 


44 


11.8 


12. 1 


22.8 


37.6 


75.3 


281.3 


Carpenter 


^7 


4.0 


5-8 


9.4 


17.2 


32.2 


102.2 


Manufacturing 
















Chemist 


4-5 


6.7 


8.4 


16.7 


30.3 


62.5 


117.3 


Earthenware Manu- 
















facture 


2.8 


5-4 


8.2 


19.6 


43.0 


75.1 


H3-4 


Glass Manufacture . 


3-2 


6.4 


II-3 


17.9 


32.1 


60.8 


172.4 



If, now, we take another of these tables and compare the 
comparative mortality from specified causes among males engaged 
in certain occupations, and if we take the annual mortality among 
all males as 1000, so as to obtain a figure of comparison, we 
find the following results. The brewer, cutler, file maker, copper 
worker, lead worker, and those engaged in earthenware and 
glass, all show high mortality ; but among these we find again 
the manufacturing chemist. In fact we find only five industries 



XL.] 



COMPARATIVE MORTALITY TABLES 



595 



in which the mortality is greater. Among these, the file maker, 
lead worker, and earthenware worker again head the list with 
enormous figures. 

Comparative Mortality from specified Causes among Males engaged in 
certain Occupations, 1890-91-92. 





Causes of Death. 






c 






oE 


A 


E 


«> E 


V s 






Occupation. 


< 


< 


1 

1 
1 


i 





1 


•sin 


ft 

S 2 


11 

11 
11 


■si 

It 

'4. 


IS 
E 




•a 
'I 
< 


, 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


" 7 


8 


9 


10 


II 


12 


13 


All Males . 


1000 


13 


7 


2 


192 


102 


132 


224 


58 


44 


I 


56 


Occupied Males 


953 


13 


7 


2 


185 


82 


126 


221 




41 


I 


56 


Brewer . 


1427 


41 


13 


10 


273 


125 


195 


315 


106 


78 




50 


Cutler . 


1516 


18 


7 




382 


91 


167 


518 


58 


56 


3 


32 


File Maker . 


1810 


4 




4 


402 


212 


204 


423 


72 


104 


75 


39 


Copper Worker 


1381 


4 






294 


85 


186 


406 


76 


60 


8 


57 


Lead Worker . 


1783 








148 


232 


272 


397 


147 


161 


211 


45 


Carpenter 


783 


"s 


9 


2 


172 


71 


106 


154 


45 


34 


... 


39 


Manufacturing 


























Chemist 


1392 


7 


7 




162 


98 


168 


502 


68 


52 


I ■ 


98 


Earthenware 


























Manufacturer 


1706 


9 


8 


I 


333 


123 


227 


668 


66 


63 


17 


20 


Glass Manu- 


























facturer 


1487 


24 


TO 


9 


295 


155 


157 


445 


67 


63 


12 


59 



If we now pass from these figures to the causes of death there 
are some interesting points to notice. Unfortunately, returns as 
to causes of death are not of so much value as they might be. 
Death certificates are apt to be filled in in many cases very 
hastily, and too often the custom is to give the immediate cause 
of death without attempting to show how that immediate cause 
has been brought about. It has been and still remains one of the 
great difficulties in tracing the effects of industry on health that 
so little attention has been paid by the medical profession through- 
out the country to industrial conditions as causes of death. Even 
in the case of so specific a thing as lead poisoning much difficulty 
has been found in obtaining reliable statistics, and when we come 
to the general undermining of health produced by other indus- 
tries, the difficulties are increased. It must be remembered that 
on account of the low class of labour employed in chemical works, 
although the wages are in many cases good, the workman probably 



596 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. 

feeds badly, lives under unhealthy conditions, and spends far too 
much on drink, so that all these tell against him. It must also be 
remembered that the tendency to drink is largely caused by the 
nature of his work, therefore the nature of his employment may 
be indirectly blamed for injury that is really caused by alcohol. 
With these preliminary remarks, let us look at the causes of death 
as stated in Dr Tatham's tables. 

One striking fact is noticeable. The chemical trades head 
all other industries in the number of deaths put down to accident. 
While the number for all males stands at 56, the number for 
the chemical trades stands at 98, and the only industry which 
approaches it is that of shipwrights, with a death-rate from 
accident of 63. 

The next point of interest to notice is the number of deaths 
from diseases of the respiratory system. If the fumes and 
deleterious gases breathed by the chemical workers are injurious 
to health, it is in pulmonary diseases that we should expect to 
find an increase ; consequently we find that while the number 
of deaths from diseases of the respiratory system stand in the 
case of the manufacturing chemist at 502, there are only two 
industries in which higher figures are given — the cutlers, who are 
exposed to the dust from the grindstones, and the earthenware 
manufacturers, who are exposed to the deadly dust from the 
ground flints. Curiously enough, the next figure after chemical 
workers is that for manufacturers of glass. This is not an employ- 
ment in which the workers are exposed to dust or injurious 
fumes, and the *only and the natural cause for diseases of this 
character must be the exposure to the heat of the glass furnace 
and to the cold of the open sheds, while engaged in an arduous 
employment. The figure given for the glass workers is 445, so 
that it is apparently probable that the conditions under which the 
chemical workers carry on the operations in furnaces would alone 
be sufficient to cause a high death-rate among that particular class 
without the additional injury caused by exposure to fumes. 

When we look at the returns pf death from phthisis we find 
that the manufacturing chemist is below the normal for all males, 
the figure for all males being 192, and for the chemical worker 
162. If we compare the glass worker, who is exposed to similar 
conditions of heat and cold, we find that the figure for the glass 
worker is 295. This result agrees with the view, which is held 
by many doctors in St Helens, that the gases present in the air, 
such as sulphur dioxide, hydrochloric acid, nitrous fumes, and 



XL.] HOW WORKERS' HEALTH MIGHT BE IMPROVED 597 

chlorine, are distinctly beneficial to phthisical cases ; that phthisis 
is rare, and when present, that the progress of the disease is slow, 
also that it does not assume the virulent form which is found in 
other places. 

As the figures given for chemical workers do not show any 
other marked results, we may say that chemical manufacture is 
to be ranked among one of the most unhealthy of our industries, 
coming fairly high up in the list, although of course not ranking 
with those in which lead is present in large quantities. 

Furthermore, it is one of our industries in which it is not 
easy to improve the health of the worker. 

It is to be hoped that the most objectionable process of 
manufacture, the making of bleaching powder, will in time 
become a thing of the past, as the manufacturers who require 
this material for the bleaching of goods and of paper* pulp will 
make their own bleach liquors by means of the electric current 
passed through the salt solution, and so avoid the necessity of 
producing the same on a large scale. This industrial revolution 
will take time. Meanwhile the manufacture of bleach remains 
a difficult problem for those who wish to see the occupation 
healthier. 

I have suggested that more might be done by increasing the 
number of inspectors under the Alkali Acts so as to protect the 
workmen from the injurious fumes. While the present small 
staff of inspectors do all they can to carry out the Act, they are 
not sufficient in number. It would be necessary to appoint several 
new inspectors, so as to arrange for constant surprise visits to the 
works, especially at night. Furthermore, in this and many other 
industries where the general conditions of life are unhealthy with- 
out the presence of any specific cause of poison, such as lead, the 
best remedy will be the reduction of the number of hours of 
work. If the men were working for eight instead of twelve hours 
a day, their health would be enormously improved. This has been 
clearly shown in the case of the works of Messrs Brlinner Mond, 
where it was found that the conversion of the twelve to the eight 
hours' day reduced the number of men who were attended by the 
doctor by nearly 50 per cent. The actual figures given are as 
follows: — In the year 1889, 10.12 per cent, were attended by the 
doctor; in the year 1893, under the new system, 5.1. Where an 
industry is successful and making large profits, as in the case of 
Messrs Briinner Mond's works, such changes can be made ; but 
where the industry is struggling against severe competition and 



598 THE CHEMICAL TRADES [chap. XL. 

vanishing profits, such an alteration would be disastrous. It is 
therefore not a matter which can be done with a stroke of the 
pen, but if some understanding could be come to of an inter- 
national character, chemical industries might make a move in 
this direction. The number of works engaged in alkali manufac- 
ture in America, Germany, Belgium, France, and England is 
after all not so very large. At the same time the capital re- 
quired to make a change in this direction is very large, so that 
it ought to be possible to come to some understanding, though 
it would be very difficult in the case of industries carried on in 
small workshops. The effect of the shorter hours would ulti- 
mately be the moral as well as the material improvement of 
the workmen. It is impossible that a man who is engaged in 
hard physical labour for twelve hours out of the twenty-four, 
and who leaves it too exhausted to do more than eat and sleep, 
can develop intellectually or morally to a very high level, and 
consequently he has small chance of resisting the temptations 
to drink. With shorter hours and more leisure might come 
an improvement, such as has been the case in the mining 
population. 

In conclusion, I may state that the rules for bichromate of 
potash works, published by the German Government, as indicat- 
ing the kind of precautions to be taken in processes of chemical 
manufacture, are such as might well be applied to chemical pro- 
cesses throughout the country, with the exception of those special 
processes like the manufacture of bleach, where the conditions 
seem at present to make improvement almost hopeless. The 
subject, however, is so vast and complex, that I feel as if I had 
simply touched upon many of the problems connected with 
chemical manufacture and the health of the workpeople. 

A. P. Laurie. 



CHAPTER XLI 

EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES 

Introductory 

In the following pages I have made no attempt to scientifically 
discourse upon the composition and properties of explosive 
bodies, nor have I endeavoured, on the other hand, to write an 
elementary treatise on the subject ; such matters have been 
fully attended to already by Berthelot, Guttmann, Eissler, and 
others, while much useful information is also obtainable in the 
Dictionary of Explosives and the Handbook of Service Explosives. 
My object has rather been to offer to such of the educated 
public as already possess a general knowledge of the subject, a 
few remarks from a point of view from which it has never yet 
to my knowledge been approached except in Blue Books, while 
at the same time I have striven to avoid reiteration of informa- 
tion already published in our Annual and Special Reports. 

Moreover, I have endeavoured to exclude, so far as may be, 
all matter not entirely germane to the question at issue, viz., 
the special risks connected with the trade in explosives in the 
United Kingdom. 

Until the year 1845 "explosive" and "gunpowder" were to 
all intents and purposes synonymous terms, and even now as an 
explosive of universal application gunpowder stands unrivalled. 
In these days of specialism, however, it is being rapidly ousted 
from the field of battle, by cordite as a propellant, by lyddite as a 
burster for shells, and by gun-cotton as a destructive agent ; from 
the field of sport, by the countless nitro-powders ; from the 
quarry and railway tunnel, by the gelatine dynamites ; and 
lastly, from the coal mine, by the so-called safety explosives. - As 
a coal-getter pure and simple, irrespective of the question of 
danger from fire-damp and dust, it still, however, stands un- 
equalled, and in view of the recent vast improvements in its 
manufacture — the result, no doubt, of legislative action — it would 

be exceedingly rash to state that its days are numbered. 

599 



6oo EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

The great epoch-marking events in the history of explosives 
may be briefly stated as follows : — 

First, the discovery of the deflagrating properties of saltpetre 
in admixture with carbonaceous material, and its consequent 
utilisation in the form of Greek fire and such like destructive 
compounds, date unknown. 

Second^ the first use of gunpowder as a propellant, in or 
about 1320 A.D. 

Third, the invention of gun-cotton, in 1845. 

Fourth^ the discovery by Alfred Nobel in 1875, that a variety 
of gun-cotton, or rather nitro-cotton, could be dissolved in nitro- 
glycerine to form the homogeneous jelly-like mass to which he 
gave the name of blasting-gelatine. To these may perhaps be 
added the discovery of the power of transmitting detonation 
possessed by fulminate of mercury. 

Although there are doubtless many other important dis- 
coveries connected with the evolution of our multitudinous 
modern explosives, yet, without belittling the genius of their 
inventors, they may all be regarded as mere episodes, so to 
speak — the adaptation of existing principles. Thus, nitro-glycerine 
and dynamite followed naturally in the wake of nitro-cellulose, 
just as the gelatine dynamites and more recently ballistite and 
cordite were merely modifications of blasting gelatine. Perhaps 
the most important discovery in addition to those above mentioned 
was Sir Frederick Abel's process of pulping and cleaning gun- 
cotton, or rather the principle underlying the process, viz., that 
only by thorough cleansing can stability be assured to a nitro- 
compound. 

About lyddite there is little to say which has not already 
appeared in the daily papers, and of that little the greater part 
is confidential ; but as regards its effect on the enemy, I have 
it on the authority of an artillery officer who was engaged in 
every action of the campaign which terminated in the relief of 
Ladysmith, that it was quite impossible to obtain reliable in- 
formation. Even when a rout resulted from its use, it is doubt- 
ful whether this was not due as much to the steep angle of 
descent of the howitzer fire as to the explosive effect of the 
lyddite. The stories as to the wholesale havoc wrought at 
Omdurman, where entire ranks of horsemen are said to have 
been laid low by a single lyddite shell without a mark being 
found on them, must be accepted with caution. A shell filled 
with high explosive naturally bursts into* very much smaller 



XLi.] SELF-INTEREST AND EXPLOSIVES' MANUFACTURE 6oi 

fragments than when filled with gunpowder, and the resulting 
wounds would in many cases no doubt be difficult to discern 
at a cursory examination. 

Of all branches of the explosives industry fireworks are 
perhaps the most difficult to control. Not only is it a common 
custom at North of England weddings to improvise amateur 
displays by filling iron pipes with gunpowder and applying a 
light, but the actual manufacture of squibs and rockets is regarded 
in most quarters as a praiseworthy and legitimate occupation, 
provided there is no question of sale. That this is entirely 
erroneous cannot be too strongly emphasised — the fine on convic- 
tion being no less than ;^ioo a day. Moreover, since the amateur 
pyrotechnist invariably includes both chlorate of potash and 
sulphur in his coloured fire composition, a mixture entailing 
grave risk from spontaneous combustion, and one which is on 
this account prohibited by Order in Council, a further offence 
is involved. 

I. 

Accidents in Manufacture and Use. 
There is no industry possessing greater possibilities for sudden 
death to its operatives than that connected with the manufacture, 
storage, and conveyance of explosives ; and there is no industry of 
an admittedly dangerous nature demanding fewer victims. The 
reasons for this happy result are not far to seek, and may be sum- 
marised in two words — legislation and self-interest. The destruc- 
tion of property caused by an explosion in a factory is a mere 
fraction of the actual loss ; for days or even weeks the employes 
may not only refuse to return to work, but may make use of the 
accident as a lever to obtain a permanent rise in wages. More- 
over, in gunpowder factories particularly, where every trace is 
swept away, the cause of the explosion is often impossible to 
determine, and the vague feeling of unrest to which this uncer- 
tainty gives rise is by no means conducive to efficient work. 
Thus, even the apathetic manufacturer is constrained by motives 
of self-interest to enforce certain precautionary measures (which, 
however, he is quite prepared to relax under the strain of com- 
petition), while the conscientious trader who really has the safety 
of his workpeople at heart is only too easily persuaded by the 
additional incentive of personal profit to institute and maintain 
a very high standard of discipline throughout his factory. It is, 
however, extremely difficult for either of these individuals to 



6o2 EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. 



differentiate between what may be called essentials and refine- 
ments, and the unscrupulous trader, in his anxiety to sail as 
near the wind as possible, may neglect some obvious precaution, 
whereas his less reckless rival may be seriously handicapped by a 
/(?(? close attention to details. Here, then, is where legislation 
steps in, and by enforcing equal restrictions on all, prevents 
undue economy at the expense of safety— and, moreover, the 
public are properly protected. With the courteous assistance of 
the trade, I am able to give some figures in support of this. 
The total quantity of explosives manufactured per annum in the 
United Kingdom, exclusive of that which is produced in Govern- 
ment factories, is approximately as follows * : — 

. Classes I. to IV. {i.e. gunpowder, other nitrate mixtures, nitro- 
compounds, and chlorate mixtures), 32,115 tons. 
Class V. Fulminate of mercury being the only explosive of 
this class made in any quantity, and the manufacture 
being practically in the hands of two firms, one of which 
is domiciled in the Channel Islands, I must not for 
obvious reasons disclose the total output. 
Class VI. (Ammunition). Here again it is impossible to specify 
: . with any degree of accuracy the number of the various 
•..: natures of explosive coming under this head. Fifty 

million detonators, electric detonators and fuses, and an 
equal number of yards of safety fuse will not be very 
. wide of the mark, while about 500 million cartridges for 
small arms are turned out by licensed factories during the 
year. 
.Class VII. (Fireworks). About 1788 tons. 

In the actual operations of manufacture 4828 persons are 
ernployed, the totaV number wbrking within the licensed areas, and 
therefore more or less exposed to the effects of an explosion, being 
1 1,098. During the year 1899, 54 accidents occurred in the manu- 
facture of explosives, causing the death of 3 persons and injuries 
to 24, the average for the last ten years being 4.4 and 20.4 
respectively. Of the 54 accidents no less than 32 were unattended 
with loss of life or personal injury— a fact that would be somewhat 

■^ in giving the output of the various explosives^ I have been most careful so 
to classify them as to avoid disclosures which might by any possibility be ob- 
jected to by those members of the Explosives Trade to whose courtesy I owe 
the information. For instance, I have not even differentiated between gun- 
powder and high explosives, owing to the fact that the gunpowder Irade is now 
concentrated in the hands of three or four firms. 



Xi.\:\- EXPLOSIVES J THEIR VARIETY AND RELATIVE RISKS 603 

remarkable were it hot that in many operations in which the appli- 
cation of force is required, or where the explosive is of an extra 
sensitive nature, accidents are unavoidable and provided for accord- 
ingly. " Prevention," in fact, being impossible, a " cure" is applied. 
Among these specially dangerous processes may be instanced the 
"milling" or " incorporation " of gunpowder, the " pressing " of 
detonators, and the mixing of cap composition, during each of 
which the operator is either directly or indirectly specially 
protected. 

In the following table I have endeavoured, by collecting the 
results of the last ten years, to show the relative risk attached to 
the manufacture of various classes of explosives. The classification 
is by no means in accordance with the Order in Council classifying 
explosives, but is better suited to the particular purpose in view. 



TABLE A. 

Showing the Number of Accidents causing Personal Injury, and the Number 
of Killed and Injured in the Manufacture of the Various Natures of 
Explosive during the decade 1890-99, and the Number of Persons now 
Employed. - 





Accidents causing Loss of Life 


Number of Persons Emploj'ed in the 


Nature of Explosive in course 


or Personal Injur}'. 


Manufacture of the \ 


arious natures. 














■- 


of Manufacture. 


No. of 
Accidents. 


No. of Persons 


In the 


In 


annum. 








Danger 
Buildings. 


Licenced 
Area. 
















Killed. 


Injured. 






Killed. 


liijured. 


I. Gunpowder 


18 


10 


23 


964 


1,906 


.52 


...1.2. 


2. Nitro - glycerine and 
















Cellulose Explosives 


47 


17 


<8 


-2034 


4,021 


.42 


■1.4 


3. Ammunition, exclu- 
















sive of Detonators , 


39 


5 - 












4: Fulminate Composi- 
tions, in or out of 






II5-5 


4,267 


..23 


2,2 . 


Detonators and Caps 


48 


5 










5. Fireworks 


23 


7 


26 


675 


904 


•77- 


-2.9 


Totals . 


175 


44 


204 

- 


4828 


11,098 


•39 


1V8 



Ujider heading No. 2 are included the various smokeless 
powders for sporting purposes, but as a matter of fact no 
accident causing personal injury has occurred in their manu- 
facture during the last ten years, and the same may be. said 
of safety £use, which comes under heading No. 3. The ex- 
plosives of the ammonium - nitrate group also have a stainless 
record up to the present, and they no doubt possess a very high 
degree of safety in manufacture; but those of them which 



6o4 EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

contain dinitrobenzol present another kind of risk quite 
independent of their explosive properties. This subject is, 
however, fully dealt with elsewhere by Dr Prosser White, and 
will not be enlarged on here. As regards their apparent safety 
in manufacture, too much stress must not be laid on their 
immunity from accident in the past. They can most of them 
be exploded by combined friction and percussion, and though 
as a rule only the part affected will explode, this applies also 
in the case of gun-cotton and many other admittedly sensitive 
compounds, and it would be rash to predict the result under 
circumstances specially favourable to the transmission of detona- 
tion. 

To the accidents in actual manufacture, those occurring 
during the storage and distribution of the finished product 
must also be added, since they may be said to have taken 
place under conditions to which the controlling provisions of 
the Act are intended to apply. Thus 69 accidents, causing 32 
deaths and injuries to 81 persons, occurred under these headings 
during the decade 1890- 1899, making a grand total of 'j6 killed 
and 285 injured in the period named, or an average of 7.6 killed 
and 28.5 injured per annum in that section of the industry which 
is presumably controlled by experts supplemented by Govern- 
ment inspection. Briefly, this result has been attained by {a) 
subdivision of risks, i.e., the number of persons allowed in any 
one "danger" building is strictly limited, and communication 
of explosion between buildings is prevented by the erection 
of mounds of earth or masonry, and by making the quantity of 
explosive in any building directly dependent on its distance 
from others ; (Ji) scrupulous attention to cleanliness ; {c) preven- 
tion of the introduction of matches and other dangerous articles, 
by providing suitable clothing without pockets, and by a 
thorough system of searching all those employed in danger 
buildings ; and id) the provision of an adequate number of 
escape doors opening outwards, and provided with safety 
latches so as to yield easily to a push from the inside. Many 
manufacturers of their own initiative go far further in these 
directions than is enjoined by statute, with the result that in 
discipline, efficiency, and immunity from accident, their factories 
compare most favourably with the Government establishments. 

On turning to the question of risk in the use of explosives, 
the prospect is not so pleasing ; the contempt bred of familiarity 
is something appalling. It is not too much to say that 99 



xll] 



ACCIDENTS DUE TO USE OF EXPLOSIVES 



605 



out of every 100 accidents would have been avoided by the 
exercise of reasonable care and common sense. Scraping out 
detonators with pins, thawing dynamite over the fire in tin 
dishes, driving gunpowder and dynamite with metal rods 
into roughly drilled holes, and boring out missfires, are only 
a few of the commonest examples of reckless folly. In mines 
alone there were no less than 29 persons killed and 195 
injured by explosives during the year 1899, and this be it 
remembered in the handling and use of the finished article, 
each nature of which is thoroughly tested for purity and 
absence of extreme sensitiveness before being authorised by 
the Home Office, whereas in the course of manufacture many 
operations have to be undertaken which are known to be 
dangerous, even with the exercise of the greatest care. Quite 
recently a fatal accident was reported as follows : — " A. B. was 
charging a bore-hole in rock with pellet gunpowder. Finding 
a difficulty in inserting the charge, he was holding the 
tamping rod on the powder while his mate drove it home with 
a sledge-hammer, when, for no reason whatever, the charge 
exploded." The italics are my own. 

In Table B, I have summarised the accidents which have 



TABLE B. 

Showing the Number of Accidents in the handling and use of the various 
Explosives during the decade 1890-99. 



Nature of Explosive. 


No. of 
Accidents. 


No. of Persons 


Killed. 


Injured. 


1. Gunpowder* . . . 

2. Nitro-glycerine Compounds 

3. Ammonium Nitrates 

4. Detonators .... 

5. Fireworks .... 


244 
376 

44 
143 

41 


94 

135 

12 

3 
19 


294 
440 

41 
193 

96 


Total 


848 


263 


1064 


Total in Manufacture during same period 


175 t 


44 


204 



* In the year 1899 alone 146 accidents with gunpowder in mines killed 
15 persons and injured 148 others. Few, if any, of these were reported, and 
if multiplied by 10 and added to the casualties due to this explosive, the figures 
under heading No. 1 would be enormously increased. 

t This is exclusive of accidents in factories which did not cause death or 
personal injury. 



6o6 EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

ocGurred dur'ing the ten years 1890-99, in order to give some 
idea of the relative risk attached to the handling of the various 
explosives. It is, however, somewhat misleading in view of 
the impracticability of forming even a rough estimate of the 
quantity of each description used, and also of the fact that 
ordinary mining accidents with gunpowder are not required to 
be reported. 

The accidents with ammunition other than detonators are so 
insignificant in number and effect that I have omitted them from 
the above table, but, on the other hand, the ammonium-nitrates 
now contribute their quota of casualties. Whatever margin of 
safety they may possess alone, it is nullified the moment the 
detonator is fitted, and without this deadly little adjunct they 
are useless. The ideal mining explosive is no doubt one 
which, while possessing the slow action and consequent "coal- 
getting" properties of gunpowder, together with its capacity for 
exploding without the use of a detonator, shall at the same time 
be as safe to manufacture, store, convey, and use in a " fiery" or 
dusty mine, as an ammonium-nitrate explosive. Moreover, it 
should have the plasticity of gelignite with similar immunity from 
injury by water, should require a bore-hole of but small diameter, 
and lastly, should produce on combustion nothing more harmful 
than CO2 and water. If to these advantages cheapness be added, 
and the inventor has sufficient capital to properly exploit its 
capabilities, such an explosive may possibly have a future before 
it — but the British miner is very conservative, and has a deep- 
rooted affection for gunpowder. 

I have already referred to the system by which the quantity 
of explosive allowed in a licensed building is automatically 
regulated by the distance that can be maintained between the 
building and the nearest highway, dwelling-house, railway, etc., 
and from the social aspect the application of this principle is 
of more importance in the case of an isolated magazine or store 
(of which there are several thousand in the United Kingdom) than 
when only the various buildings of an individual factory are 
involved. Fortunately, owing to the care with which explosives 
of questionable stability are excluded from the authorised list, 
an explosion in a magazine or store is of the rarest occurrence in 
this country (and as regards foreign explosions figures are difficult 
to obtain), but in the following table I have been at some pains to 
set forth the results, from a destructive point of view, of a number 
of accidents with gunpowder and high explosives, even though 



^IA.'\ MANUFACTURE NOT AN UNHEALTHY OCCUPATION 607 

thty may not have occurred in magazines or st6res7 so as to 
enable the public to estimate for themselves the measure of risk 
offered by the unavoidable establishment in their midst of so great 
a quantity of " bottled energy." I say unavoidable, since modern 
engineering feats would be practically impossible without high 
explosives, and admitting the necessity for their existence, it is 
assuredly safer to keep them stored in specially constructed and 
protected buildings, than to have them continually travelling 
about the country. In Table C "destructive effect" may be taken 
to mean structural damage to ordinary dwelling-houses due to the 
explosion itself, but not to projected debris. Nor does it include 
broken windows ; to maintain a radius sufficient to prevent this 
would be practically impossible; at Erith, for instance, in 1864, 
windows were broken up to ten miles. In many cases much 
protection was no doubt afforded by mounds of earth and clumps 
of trees specially erected and planted for the purpose, interfering 
somewhat with the accuracy of the figures, but the margin of 
safety is in general so ample that no apprehension need be felt 
on this score. 

As showing how circumstances alter cases, a comparison of 
the results of the Regent's Park explosion on 2nd October 1874, 
with that of Craig, near Montrose, on 5th March 1880, is somewhat 
striking. In the former case five tons of gunpowder exploded in 
the middle of London, without injuring a soul outside the barge 
on which the explosive was being conveyed ; whereas at Craig, an 

ounce or two of nitro-glycerine — possibly less than an ounce 

killed no less than five persons, and severely injured another. 

To summarise, the explosives industry can scarcely be said to 
affect the health of the operatives, as this word is generally under- 
stood, although there is no doubt an ever-present risk of sudden 
mutilation or death. I have endeavoured to show, however, that 
with the precautions now universally adopted in this country, this 
risk is reduced to a minimum, and that in all other respects the 
high standard of cleanliness and smartness necessarily associated 
with the manufacture introduces a condition of affairs which 
cannot be otherwise than beneficial to those engaged. 

Finally, the fact cannot be too strongly emphasised, that in 
dealing with explosives a policy of pin-pricks is strongly to be 
deprecated, unless the perpetrator is anxious to be translated to 
a higher sphere. In the words of the late Colonel Cundill, " the 
function of an explosive is to explode." 



6oS 



EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES 



[chap. 



o 

X 

W 
u 



o 

6 
o 







<U 


D 1) 












C Xi 


jr a3 c «N ° 




1 




O 

.£ 

-t3 

•n 


is 

^1 


ing on to t 

with wood 
press cake, 
ase containi 

house at 2 
I breaking 




1 

•3 




c 
o 




andle fall 

a spark 
reaking " 
fall of a c 

nearest 
iminjured 

accidenta 
g " house, 
n the fire. 


ing down "mill cake." 
own, but while " pressii 
bly spark from adjacen 
on frozen dynamite. 


c3 


o 


3 

2 c 
"3 s 


on by the c 
pour, which 
npowder. 
bly due to c 
plosive, 
man struck 
illec while "b 
bly due to the 
tonators. 
ning. The 
rds was quite 
own. 

bly due to 
aft in " glazin 
ettle placed o 


c 






-^ c S ^ 


y 


■A bJ.-tS > 


^'ii-9. ^ 




c 






o o o W) c 2 
a, ^ Cu '^ Pclh *5 




•XmuBnb si'qi 












ioj Xjo)B3;iqo paaap 
.U3J Avou 'asnoq paj 


8 


o 


lO 


o o o o ^o 

u^ r^ vo vn v£> vO 

Ti- <M - CO : 


CO vi-> vrj 

rt- "^O 


-iqBqui jsajBau luoaj 


CO 










spj^X ui aauBjsiQ 




















<u 


f^ 


•Spi'BX UI P3^3 


o 

00 


s 


8 


t^ o 5b' o o 

CO vn O w o ^ O 

HH j: g^o CO 


^ij^c-H 


aAiptuisap JO snipB^ 


^ 


Tl- 


ri- 


'g^>^^ 










^ 


^ 






s> 








•pajnfuj JO -o^j 


<u 




'- 


n : : c-i « 00 w 


CO : CO M 




M « b 








•psm^IJO 'Oil 


< 


s 


CO 


CO CO CO : CO i-H vn 


CO N 1-. t>. 


•paAIOAUl 3AlS0ld 


§ 


v> 

c 
o 


^ 


i6o lbs. 

4J tons 

3300 lbs. 

1 ton 

500 lbs. 
32- tons 

about 


I oz. 
1 800 lbs. 
I TOO lbs. 
2^ tons 
300 lbs. 


-xg JO X?puBn5 


^ 










C 


^^ 








s 






jj <U (U w „, 




ID 




'V 


H "0 -0 T3 -0 


S'O'd'O « 


•paAJOAUl 


o 


o 


^ 


ami 

pow 

onat 

pow 

pow 
pow 

0- 


£ 5 5 S 


3Atsoidxg JO ajnjBNT 


Oh 


y 


a, 


0- Q, 0- rt 




c 


B 


c 


c c y, c c c i: 


>^c c c c 




3 


3 


3 


>> 3 « 3 3 3 .r 


KtS 3 3 >» 




o 


o 


O 


Q Q 00 ^ 












2 • "^ 


1 

a. 




s 

1 


.s-§ 


Cymmer, Glamorgan 
a tunnel) . 
Herodsfoot, Liskearc 

Floating magazine 

Gravesend . 
Victoria Colliery, Bru 

cliffe, Yorkshire . 
Elterwater,Westmore 
Hall's Factory, Fa 

sham . 
Craig, Montrose . 


Blackbeck, Haverthw 
Gatebeck, near Kend 
Furness, Inveraray 
Pembrey, near Llan 




1 ^ 




rj- 


:& :& S ^ ^5 ^ 


« « co^ 




VO 






00 00 00 22^ 












•luapiooy JO ajBQ 


1 $^ 


oo 


o 


-^ ^ ^ ^ -^^ ^ 

^ - ;^ or- ^ 


H, M W ^ 



XLI.] 



PARTICULARS OF EXPLOSIONS 



609 







c 






t 


2 "o 

'3 3 




a 


.a 




1 




rt 




C 


^ 3 


"0 














? 


3 






« 


c 




3 


;Sd 


1 rt 


"8 


2 




TS 
rt 


3 





1 


i 


<u 







QJ 




J3 


2 ^ 


•5 


u 






!S 


% 


c 


c 


„ I 


"o 


*o 




c 

1 


63 


'o 






c 


^ So 

g i . 

Q . -2 


c 



a 
.2 






11 






.S 2i 

II 




c 


3 






I 


. 2 S 


c - 
.2,3 




rt 

c 




2 rt 

3-c 




u 


-M C5 







C3 u 


rt 3 






-C -^ X! 

^2 


■sg-l 


iJ 





^^ 






JCLh 


^in 


PuCsi fc4 


W 


D w 


P^ 


a^ 




•X;ijuBnb siqj 


















ioj Xio;-BSiiqo paiap 


vn 


^0 


8v§^ 


U-) 


i - 


00 







-u;5j Avou asnoq pai 


M 0^ 


c 


r^ 


rf- 







-iq^nui jsajBaa luojj 


>-. CO 


V-/ M 


N P-t u^ 


vr> 


<^ w 


'"' 


^ 




spjB.i Ul 3DUEJS1Q 


























S „ 




^ 




1 


•spjBX uj joPjja 
9Ai}onj}S3p JO snipB^ 


u^vo 




00 ro 


8S,| 


1-^ 


rt in 
n3 


1 


s 











rt " '^ 


C 


3 


3 


•£2 








^ 


z» 


3 


M " 


3 


« 
^ 


































^ 


•pajnfuj JO -0^ 


: ! 


g : 

> • 


« ': i 




00 ^ 




§ 


<1 




























c 




<u 

3 


^ 
S 


•paiUHJo-ON 


rj- M 


i-i <N 


VO w j 


• 


<o 


Cl 

























iio. 


^ i 


^-S g 


c 


III 


i 


8 




•paAJOAUI 3AlSOld 

-xa JO AjuuBn^ 






loS 




i 


1 


00 

VO 






M t^— ' 


'"' 


r^j 






'"' 


"^^ 






^ ^ 


. ^ 


^H I1 • 


^ 


. ^ 


(_^ 


. 






(U tl) 


^•^ 


III 


<u 


II 

6 S S. 


a; 


n3 






13^3 


T3 


xt 






•pgAjoAui 

3AIS0ldX3 JO 3iniB«yI 


II 


> 
=« 


1 


1 




.2 






c c 


>- c 


C C 4) 


c 


i3 >^ 3 


c 








3 3 


.^ 3 


3 3.i:i 


3 


g^O 


3 


u 






00 


OhO 


00^ 








E 






^ * 


i:^ 


-&l=s 


^cT 






• 






"5 • 


tf^Csi 


^ =^ "H 


'rt 


s: 








St: 

Si;" 


cert 




c' -S 


^ 


• 






u 
U 


^^ ^ 


2 53 


« 






pli 


> 

ii 


WW ^ 




CO y 


> 

u 


2 

U3 






— • 




!/) - 1) 


- w 


OJ 








§ g 38 s ° 
0^ ^DiCii^ 


(U OJ 1- 












rf- f^ 


. t^ r^ 


III 


-2! 


r^ 00 












^iS- 


00 00 


a\ o^ 


^ 


^ 




•jusppDy JO ajBQ 


-t;'^ 


^"H" 


^ 


-^ -^ 


vn 


VO 






vO "5^ 


N --^ 


« w ^ 


^ 


^ 2? 


vO 


^ 








C» t^ 




w 


to 



2 Q 



6io EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

II. 

Products of Combustion : Fumes. 
All explosives in practical use contain carbon. If there be also 
present a sufficiency or an excess of oxygen this carbon is gener- 
ally burnt on explosion to carbonic anhydride, COg. This is a 
poisonous gas. If, on the other hand, there is a deficiency of 
oxygen the carbon is only partially burnt and carbon monoxide 
(CO) is formed. This is a vastly more poisonous gas. But in 
any event the products of combustion are distinctly harmful, 
and it is misleading and mischievous to assert of any explosive 
that it gives off "no noxious fumes." Some are, however, as 
already stated, worse than others in this respect. Gunpowder, 
gun-cotton, and lyddite (picric acid) are all deficient in oxygen. 
The two latter, being chemical compounds, are of constant com- 
position, viz. : — 

C,,H,,0,(0,NOJe and CeH, (N0,)30H 
respectively, and their lack of oxygen can be seen by inspection 
of their formulae ; but the ingredients of gunpowder, being merely 
mechanically mixed, may be varied at will so as to produce on 
combustion the minimum of CO compatible with other require- 
ments. In blasting, for instance, where there is no outlet for the 
gases formed except by disruption of the rock or coal, the 
production of a large volume of gas at high temperature is in 
theory all that is necessary — the time taken to attain maximum 
pressure is of comparatively little importance. When there is a 
deficiency of oxygen a proportion of the carbon is converted 
into CO, giving for equal weights of oxygen double as much 
gas as is produced in the formation of CO2, and thus, although 
the heat evolved in conversion to COg is more than half as 
much again as in conversion to CO, yet the maximum pressure 
is theoretically about the same. Calculations of maximum 
pressures are, however, somewhat unreliable, owing not only to 
the fact that at the high temperature of explosion the complex 
potassium salts found in the cooled residue undoubtedly undergo 
dissociation, but also to the uncertainty which exists as to 
whether gases, especially compound gases, obey, at very high 
temperature and pressure, the usual law as to the relation of 
pressure to volume. Practical experience would certainly seem 
to contradict the theory of equality in blasting efficiency between 
high and low grade powder, since far better results are un- 
doubtedly obtained with the former. For use in fiery or dusty 



xll] poisonous gases evolved on DETONATiON 6ii 

coal mines or in confined spaces there is, of course, no comparison 
between them. According to Noble and Abel the percentages 
of CO evolved by Curtis's and Harvey's best sporting powder, 
containing 75 per cent, of saltpetre, and by ordinary blasting 
powder, containing but 62 per cent, of this ingredient, are as 
2.47 to 15.22; the hydrogen sulphide, another poisonous gas, 
being also increased from .83 per cent, in the case of the 
former to 3.89 per cent, in the latter. On the occasion of the 
peculiar accident at Crarae Quarry, Lochfyne, in September 
1886, when no less than 40 persons were rendered insensible 
(7 of whom succumbed) by the fumes from a monster blast, 
the powder used contained 74 per cent of saltpetre, and only 
yielded 3.6 per cent, of CO on combustion. Since 150 persons 
were present, it is more than probable that, had gunpowder 
of inferior quality been used, the mortality would have been 
very much greater. Gun-cotton is an even worse offender 
in this respect, yielding on detonation, according to different 
authorities and according to the pressure under which it is 
exploded, from 28 to 45 per cent, of CO. For mining purposes 
this percentage has been much reduced by the admixture of a 
due proportion of barium nitrate to supply the necessary oxygen 
for theoretically complete conversion of the carbon to COg, and 
although this happy consummation has not been fully attained, 
yet this explosive, under the name of tonite or cotton powder, 
has been used in mines with good results, the products of com- 
bustion, according to Sir F. Abel, furnishing little or no carbonic 
oxide. Prior to the introduction of this modification, several 
fatal accidents had already occurred in the use of gun-cotton 
by itself. For instance, no less than 12 persons were injured, 
one fatally, in April 1878, by the fumes from a gun-cotton blast 
during the construction of a mine tunnel at Halkyn, Flintshire. 
Lyddite, on the other hand, of whose fumes we have been 
hearing a good deal of late, yields not only a large proportion 
of CO, but also a notable percentage of free carbon, as is evidenced 
by the black smoke arising on detonation. In small quantities, 
however, complete detonation is somewhat difficult to achieve, 
a yellow deposit being the result. This deposit, mingling with 
the black smoke tinged with the blue-grey of the pulverised 
rock, may possibly have given rise to the "green fumes" which 
were, according to eye-witnesses, a marked feature at Paardeberg 
and elsewhere. The proportion of CO formed is doubtless greatly 
in excess of that evolved by gunpowder — especially of the good 



6i2 EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

quality alone used by the War Department — but it is difficult to 
believe that even in the most favourable circumstances -the atmo- 
sphere could be rendered unfit to breathe by the bursting of 
lyddite shells. If this possibility existed half Huddersfield must 
have been asphyxiated by the recent explosion of picric acid at 
the works of Messrs Read, Holliday, & Sons. Owing to its 
exceedingly bitter taste, the sifting of the dry acid gives rise 
in some cases to sore throat and distressing cough, necessitating 
the use of a respirator by those employed in this operation, but 
that these symptoms are mere inconveniences not affecting in 
any way the general health of the operator is shown by the fact 
that the workers complain that they cannot keep themselves on 
account of the tonic and appetising effect of the acid ! It is also, 
in solution, an excellent cure for burns. 

Into the question of the physiological effect of CO poisoning I 
do not propose to enter, but would refer the reader to the reports 
and papers on the subject by Dr Haldane, whose classical investiga- 
tions in this connection are unrivalled ; but it is of importance to 
note that all explosives, except nitro-glycerine {i.e. Kieselguhr 
dynamite), and certain of the ammonium nitrates, produce on 
explosion a proportion of this deadly gas. Nitro-glycerine, or 
glyceryl tri-nitrate, as it might more properly be called, contains, 
as shown by its formula, C3H5(0,N02)3, more oxygen than is 
required for complete combustion. The manner in which it 
decomposes on detonation may be expressed according to the 
majority of authorities by the equation : — 

2C3H,(0,N02)3 = 6CO2 + 5H2O + 6N + O 

giving the following percentages — 

Carbonic acid . . 58.15 

Steam . . . 19.82 

Nitrogen . . . 18.50 

Oxygen . . . 3.52 

99-99 

the products thus contain nothing more deleterious than car- 
bonic acid gas. Even if, as is possible, the excess of oxygen 
combines with nitrogen to form nitrous oxide, the proportion of 
NO formed can only amount to 6.60 per cent, a quantity which, 
under no conceivable circumstances, could produce fatal effects. 
If however, nitro-glycerine be decomposed by simple combus- 
tion, not detonation, the nitrogen and oxygen in the NOg 
molecules do not appear to be dissevered, the result being that 




XLI.] PHYSIOLOGICAL EFFECTS OF NITRO-GLYCERINE 613 

not only are highly poisonous nitrous fumes given off, but the 
proportion of available oxygen is also so much diminished that a 
considerable quantity of CO is formed. Many instances are 
recorded of fatalities due to the inhalation of these nitrous fumes, 
and there is also at least one case (in September 1892) when the 
symptoms pointed to CO, or rather to a combination of CO 
and CO2 as the cause of death, the two victims being rendered 
unconscious on the spot, and dying before help could arrive. In 
cases where death has resulted from breathing nitrous fumes only, 
the end has generally been deferred for some considerable time, 
amounting in one instance to no less than 40 hours after the 
inhalation. The symptoms are identical with those observed in 
cases of poisoning from nitric acid vapour, viz., very little incon- 
venience is felt at the time, — in fact the person affected has 
generally partaken of food, and in one recorded case, enjoyed a 
smoke, before noticing anything wrong, — subsequently difficulty in 
breathing, accompanied by violent coughing, is then experienced, 
which increases until death. An accident from these fumes, which 
occurred in September 1879, during the construction of the 
Severn Tunnel, by which two men lost their lives, has been very 
fully reported on by Col. Ford, late Chief Inspector of Explosives, 
in Special Report No. XXVI., dated 30th October 1879, and he 
there quotes several other interesting cases brought to his notice 
by Dr Dupre. Moreover, since the issue of that report, several 
instances have occurred where dynamite has been accidentally 
ignited in a mine gallery, and has caused fatal injuries, not by 
explosion, but by the fumes given off. 

The notorious " nitro-glycerine headache" must not be for- 
gotten. This is due to dilation of the capillary blood-vessels, or 
rather of the arteries, by which means the circulation is largely 
and suddenly increased. This effect is achieved either by in- 
halation of nitro-glycerine vapour, or by absorption through 
the skin, so that it results from handling the manufactured 
compound, as well as from being present in a building in which 
the hot explosive is deposited. No one can enter a cordite drying 
room or " stove " without experiencing a peculiar sensation at the 
heart and at the back of the head, which, in the absence of fresh 
air, soon develops into a headache which reduces to insignificance 
all the other ills of life. Some suffer more than others, but in no 
case, so far as I can gather, has any permanent harm resulted 
from this cause, and on most people the fumes appear to lose their 
effect after a few days. With certain individuals, on the other 



6i4 EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

hand, it is a matter of weeks before they become inured, and 
during that period they are never free from sickness and headache ; 
moreover, a very few days' absence from contact with the explosive 
causes a return of the original susceptibility. The best remedies 
are strong coffee, and a linseed poultice applied to the back of the 
neck. Like most poisons, nitro-glycerine is used in medicine, and 
has undoubtedly been the means of prolonging many lives in cases 
of angina pectoris. Its freezing point is high, viz., about 40° F., 
and once frozen it cannot be thawed below 50° F. Thus, nitro- 
glycerine compounds are frequently found frozen hard in June ; in 
fact, for a great part of the year they have to be thawed before 
use, and this process, unless carefully carried out in proper 
warming-pans, constitutes a very considerable danger. The 
lesson is gradually being learnt that dynamite will explode at 
temperatures below that required to ignite it, owing to the heat 
produced by the chemical action set up by the decomposition, 
which commences long before the point of ignition is reached. 
Three accidents in thawing occurred during the year 1899, and 
between the years 1872 and 1898 no less than sixty-eight accidents 
due to this cause took place, involving the death of 68 persons and 
injuries of a more or less" serious nature to 97 others. 

Inasmuch as nitro-cotton contains too little oxygen for com- 
plete combustion, and nitro - glycerine contains more than is 
necessary, it may well be imagined that a very powerful explosive 
would result from an admixture of the two in proper proportions. 
This was first effected by Alfred Nobel in 1875, and the invention 
of blasting gelatine, as the resulting compound was named by him, 
may be said to mark an epoch in the history of explosives. 
Provided the nitro-cotton be in the form of the penta-nitrate only, 
100 parts of nitro-glycerine would theoretically be required to 
satisfy 10 parts of nitro-cellulose, but in actual practice it is im- 
possible to ensure the absence of lower nitrates, and as the degree 
of nitration of the cellulose decreases the necessary proportion of 
nitro-glycerine increases. If, however, the percentage of nitro- 
cotton is reduced too low, it is impossible to comply with the 
Home Office conditions as to exudation. Thus, in this country, 
where the usual proportion is 9 of nitro-cotton to 91 of nitro- 
glycerine, a certain quantity of CO is invariably produced by the 
explosion of even the best blasting gelatine; and cordite, which 
contains 37 per cent, of cellulose hexa-nitrate to 58 per cent, of 
nitro-glycerine, the balance consisting of vaseline, produces no less 
than 32 per cent, of CO. The gelatine dynamites, a most popular 



XL!.] EXPLOSIVES IN FIERY COAL MINES 615 

class of blasting explosive, and the majority of smokeless powders, 
may be said to be based on blasting gelatine. 

As regards those ammonium-nitrate explosives, of which 
dinitrobenzol forms the combustible ingredient, several fatalities 
have occurred in their manufacture, generally from neglecting to 
make use of the respirators and gloves supplied to prevent intro- 
duction of the poison into the system. In one recorded case, 
however, viz., on 6th June 1889, at the Roburite Company's 
Works, a workman was engaged in cleaning out an air flue 
through which the fumes from three mixing pans were discharged, 
and owing to the admittedly ultra-dangerous nature of the work, 
wore a handkerchief over his respirator, and was entirely clothed 
in indiarubber, but in spite of these precautions was fatally injured 
by the fumes. According to the manufacturers, the injury to the 
health of the workpeople in the ordinary process of manufacture 
is more apparent than real, but the wish may possibly be father 
to the thought, and the industry has not been in existence long 
enough to provide reliable statistics. 

III. 

Explosives in Coal Mines. 
Reference has already been made to the dangers attending the 
use of certain explosives in fiery and dusty coal-pits. In view 
of the vast quantity used in coal-getting, and of the somewhat 
complex nature of the problem presented, also having regard to 
the wholesale destruction of life, and consequent widespread 
misery entailed by a pit explosion, originating perhaps in quite 
an insignificant ignition of fire-damp or even of coal-dust, the 
question as to what does or does not constitute a " safety " ex- 
plosive has been discussed in all its bearings in every civilised 
country. The results obtained are, however, hardly satisfactory — 
no two experts, or rather groups of experts, appear to agree. The 
systems by which increased safety is sought to be obtained may 
be dubbed for general purposes the French, German, and British. 
It would be quite impossible in the space at my disposal to trace 
the gradual development in each country of the researches, theo- 
retical and experimental, which have in each case culminated in 
legislative action. Other countries have, so far as I can gather, 
adopted one or other of the above systems, or modifications of 
them, but, so far as general principles are concerned, the above 
classification may be accepted as correct. Thus, in France, the 
criterion of safety is the calculated temperature of explosion, which 



6i6 EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. 

must in no case exceed 1 500° C. ; in Germany, increasing quantities 
of the explosive under examination are fired unstemmed in a regu- 
lated mixture of pit-gas, coal-dust, and air, and no charge may be 
fired in practice exceeding the maximum weight shown to be safe 
under the above conditions ; lastly, in this country, an arbitrary 
but semi-practical test has been established, and in the prescribed 
mines no explosive may be used, until it has satisfied this test. 
Having been connected with the Woolwich Testing Station since 
its inception, any comparison by me of the merits or demerits of 
the three systems would be worthless, but I venture to hope that it 
will be conceded that the principle underlying our own method is 
sound, however defective the details may be considered by rival 
investigators. The truth of the matter is, that the whole question 
is most involved, safety depending not on one condition but on 
many. The temperature, the time, and the products, gaseous and 
solid, of the explosion, the weight of the charge, the depth and 
diameter of the bore-hole, the quantity and quality of the stem- 
ming, the position of the bore-hole with reference to surfaces or 
obstacles on which the hot gases may impinge, the composition 
of the atmosphere of the mine, the meteorological conditions, 
the structure of the rock or coal in which the shot is fired, and 
last but not least, the means of firing — all have their say in the 
matter ; and it is ridiculous to attribute to the inherent qualities 
of an explosive a calamity really due to the negligent or reckless 
misuse of it. An analysis of the official reports on mine explo- 
sions caused, or rather probably caused, by shot firing during 
the last twenty years, is somewhat instructive in this connection, 
and may be deemed worthy of perusal, with this preface, however, 
that the information has been obtained from the published reports 
only, and with no facilities for reading between the lines (see pp. 
617-618). 

The natural inference to be drawn is, that if a " permitted " 
explosive alone is used, and the charge properly stemmed with 
suitable material, and if, moreover, a very moderate quantum 
of judgment and common sense is used in selecting the 
position of the bore-hole and the weight of explosive necessary 
to do the work, the risk of an accident under this head is 
practically eliminated.* 

■^ The question as to whether electric firing should be rendered compulsory 
in dangerous mines is at present sub judice, and any expression of opinion on 
the matter would therefore be out of place, but it goes without saying that the 
means of firing should be as free from risk as practicable. 



XLI.] 



EXPLOSIONS CAUSED BY SHOT-FIRING 



617 



TABLE D. 



A List of Explosions of Gas and Dust in Coal Mines caused by Shot-firing, on 
which Reports have been published, with Explanatory Extracts from these 
Reports. 



Date. 


Place. 


Nature of 
Explosive. 


Remarks and Extracts. 


21/1/80 


Fair Lady Pit, 
Leycett, Staffs. 


Blasting 


62 killed. Caused by a blown-out shot 
in a particularly fiery and dusty mine 




gunpowder 








in which, on the initiative of the 








owners themselves, steps had already 








been taken to substitute "wedging" 








for " blasting." 


8/9/80 


Seaham Colliery, 


(?) Blasting 


160 killed. Cause of explosion doubt- 




Durham . 


gunpowder 


ful, but if due to a shot, there is 
no evidence to show carelessness in 








charging and firing. In other words, 
the accident could only have been 
avoided by the prohibition of ex- 
plosive — or, at anyrate, of gunpowder 
— throughout the mine. 


27/1/84 


Pen-y-craig, 


Dynamite 


14 killed. The conditions were such as 




Rhondda Valley 


(probably) 


" in the opinion of all the skilled 
witnesses would have deterred any 
prudent man from firing a shot on 
27th January in the place where the 
explosion originated." 


2/3/85 


Usworth Colliery, 


Blasting 


40 killed. " In my opinion to fire a 




Durham . 


gunpowder 


shot at such a place was a breach of 






(probably) 


General Rule 8, subsection 2, of 
Coal Mines Regulation Act, 1872." 


8/4/85 


Great Fenton 


(?) 


8 killed, 5 injured. " The error of the 




Colliery . 




fireman in boring the shot-hole into 
the ' fast,' and thus causing the shot 
to ' blow out,' was the immediate 
cause of the explosion." 


2/10/86 


Altoff 's Colliery . 


Blasting 


22 killed. " Three consecutive shots 






gunpowder 


fired in the same part of the pit 
— the third causing the accident. 
Watering quite inadequate, since the 
mine was very dusty. " 


18/2/87 


National Colliery, 


Gelatine 


39 killed, 6 injured. The shot was 




Tnyshir, Gla- 


dynamite 


fired in the roof pointing towards 




morgan . 




very dusty floor. Also, although it 
was only considered safe to use 
"water cartridges," the water had 
in this case been omitted. 



6i8 



EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES 



[chap. 







TABLE D- 


-continued. 


Date. 


Place. 


Nature of 
Explosive. 


Remarks and Extracts. 


10/3/90 


Morfa Colliery, 


Blasting 


87 killed. No watering done, notwith- 




Port Talbot . 


gunpowder 


standing that " blasting was not 
generally allowed in the colliery. 
The manager was much averse to 
shot-firing, and . . . it had been 
entirely dispensed with in coal- 
getting for a number of years." 
Again, " permission to fire shots was 
reluctantly gi\en." 


2/4/91 


Apedale Colliery, 


Gelignite 


10 killed. Shot fired by fuse and blown 




Staffs. . 




out. The jury at the inquest were 
of opinion "that the explosion was 
caused by a blown-out shot, and that 
we are strongly of opinion that the 
management of the colliery has been 
most lax and negligent ; leading, in 
the opinion of the jur}', to the gross 
carelessness shown on the part of 
their subordinates." 


13/11/93 


Camerton Colliery, 


Blasting 


2 killed. Overcharged shot, fired in 




Somerset , 


gunpowder 


roof pointing at very dusty floor. 
Shot-hole only 10 inches long and 












l|^ inches in diameter, so that the 








charge of about f lb. of powder 








could not have been properly 








stemmed — the cartridge would oc- 








cupy 8 or 9 inches. 


23/6/94 


Albion Colliery, 


Gelignite 


290 killed. Shot ignited by safety fuse 




Pontypridd 




and fired, probably unstemmed, in 
timber. These facts strongly com- 
mented on by jury at inquest. 


6/2/95 


Timsbury Colliery, 


Blasting 


7 killed. Shot fired by squib or straw 




Radstock . 


gunpowder 


— in the roof — and stemmed very 
probably with an inflammable mix- 
ture of clay and oil. Road watered 
two or three days before the ex- 
plosion. Shot overcharged owing 
to a joint. 


15/3/95 


Malago Vale Col- 


Blasting 


2 killed. Improperly stemmed shot 




liery, Bristol 


gunpowder 


fired by fuse in a dry and dusty 
place. 


27/1/96 


Tuberstoun Pits, 


A high ex- 


57 killed. Very little watering done, 




Ferndale Col- 


plosive. 


shot fired by fuse, and so much gas 




lieries 


probably 


found close to shot-hole that one 






Bellite or 


fireman refused to fire the shot, there 






Ammonite 


being more than \ inch of " cap " 
in his lamp. 


13/4/96 


Brancepeth Col- 
liery, Durham . 


Blasting 


20 killed. The shot was badly put in. 




gunpowder 


The direction of it was bad, it was 








overcharged, and there was an un- 








seen joint behind it. No watering 








had been done on the sides and 








roof. 



XLi.] MILITARY, SPORTING, AND MINING EXPLOSIVES 619 

In the year 1899, during which period an increased amount 
of attention was paid to the above points, out of no less than 
147 ignitions of fire-damp or coal-dust only 6 were caused by 
the flame from explosives used in shot-firing. 

I will conclude with a very concise description of a few of 
the best known explosives in common use, other than gun- 
powder. 

{a) Military. 

Cordite. — Nitro - glycerine, gun - cotton, and vaseline, reduced 
by means of acetone to a gelatinous paste, which is then " squirted " 
into cords through dies of varying diameter by hydraulic or screw 
pressure. The rate of combustion depends on the diameter of 
the cords. 

Gun-cotton. — Cellulose hexa-nitrate — pure cotton or cellulose 
steeped in a mixture of the strongest nitric and sulphuric acids, 
and thoroughly washed. 

Lyddite. — Trinitrophenol or picric acid, a mixture of carbolic 
acid (phenol), and concentrated sulphuric acid treated with strong 
nitric acid, picric acid crystallising out. 

{b) Sporting. 

The name of these is legion. The best known are AmberitCy 
Ballistite, Cannonite, E.C., Schultze, S.S., and Walsrode, and the 
vast majority are based on nitro-cellulose. This is mixed with 
other comparatively unimportant ingredients, and granulated, 
gelatinised, and hardened in a suitable manner, the method of 
manufacture varying according to the explosive. 

{c) Blasting. 

Ammonite, Amvis, Bellite, Electronite, Roburite, diXid Westphalite^ 
form with a few others seldom met with in this country a group 
of explosives derived from the admixture of ammonium-nitrate 
with various carbonaceous substances, such as dinitronaphthalene, 
dinitrobenzol, starch, and resin. They are comparatively safe to 
handle and convey, but suffer in keeping from the hygroscopic 
nature of the ammonium - nitrate, which necessitates their en- 
closure in absolutely waterproof cases. 

Blasting Gelatine. — Nitro - cotton dissolved in nitro - glycerine 
to form a jelly. This is probably the most powerful explosive 
in general use. 



620 EXPLOSIONS AND EXPLOSIVES [chap. xli. 

Carbonite. — About 27 per cent, of nitro-glycerine absorbed 
in a "dope" of woodmeal and saltpetre or nitrate of barium. 

Dynamite. — 75 per cent, of nitro-glycerine absorbed in 25 
per cent, of an infusorial silicious earth called " Kieselguhr." 

Gelatine Dynamite. — Nitro-glycerine thickened by the addition 
of nitro-cotton, and combined with woodmeal, charcoal, or certain 
other non-explosive ingredients. 

Gelignite, the most commonly used of all the high explosives, 
is, practically gelatine-dynamite with the addition of saltpetre. 

Tonite or Cotton Powder is a mixture of equal parts of 
gun-cotton and nitrate of barium. 

Fulminate of Mercury, used for detonating nearly all high ex- 
plosives, is a grey precipitate obtained by treating with alcohol 
a solution of mercury in nitric acid. It is extremely sensitive 
to percussion or friction. 

A. Cooper Key. 



CHAPTER XLII 

ANTHRAX 

Hides and Horsehair. 

The disease to which the term anthrax is at the present time 
usually applied, in this country, is fortunately of rare occurrence 
in man, mainly affecting, as it does, cattle, sheep, swine, and 
horses. In 1 891, it may be noted, there was an outbreak among 
deer, and in certain foreign countries attacks among goats 
and camels appear to be not uncommon. The disease may 
be transmitted by direct inoculation of a scratch or wound 
of the skin, by inhalation into the lungs, or by being intro- 
duced into the alimentary canal with the food. The last- 
named mode of infection is that which appears to be most 
common in the lower animals, and the disease produced in them,, 
accompanied as it is, as a rule, by marked enlargement of the 
spleen, is sometimes referred to as splenic fever. The infective 
property clings pertinaciously to certain fields and pastures, so 
that in America, and on the continent of Europe, the risk 
incurred by allowing animals to graze in particular localities is 
definitely recognised, while a similar phenomenon has also been 
observed in this country. The risk in question appears to be 
greater at certain times of the year. In the Western States of 
America it is said to be inseparably connected with the highest 
temperatures of summer, and to occur only when the surface soil 
has been thoroughly warmed ; a certain degree of moisture is 
also believed to be necessary. Power of transmitting infection 
is maintained in these particular localities, and conveyed to^ 
others, by allowing the discharges from infected animals, and 
the blood of such animals, if they are slaughtered or cut up 
after death, to obtain access to the soil. Hides, skins, hair, and 
wool, which have become smeared with such blood or discharges,, 
retain the property of conveying infection after drying, and 
exposure to light and air for prolonged periods ; even after trans- 

(321 



622 ANTHRAX [chap. 

portation for thousands of miles the manipulation of such infected 
products is attended with serious danger. 

In man the disease assumes generally what is known as the 
external forin^ the poison obtaining access to the body through 
some abrasion of the skin. At the site of inoculation a small 
vesicle may be detected at the outset : this vesicle speedily 
develops into a malignant pustule, i.e., an inflamed area present- 
ing a dark centre, surrounded by a ring of vesicles with a 
crenated margin. At this stage, which is that in which atten- 
tion is usually first drawn to the disease, the appearances are 
generally quite characteristic, and if skilled advice is obtained, 
and the nature of the mischief realised, the pustule can be 
•excised and there is comparatively little risk of a fatal issue. 
The term pustule, it may be noted, is a misnomer, as pus {i.e. 
matter) is not formed in the local manifestation of anthrax as 
in the case of an ordinary boil or carbuncle. A variety of 
external anthrax occasionally met with (erysipelatous or oede- 
matous anthrax) is referred to elsewhere. Again, in some in- 
stances, usually in connection with the manipulation of wool, 
anthrax in man assumes the internal form {vide Anthrax in 
relation to the wool industry). This last-named form of the 
malady is also met with among workers in horsehair, but is 
very uncommon in persons who manipulate hides and skins. 

Histoiy of the Disease. — Little is known as regards the pre- 
valence of anthrax in man and in animals in past times. It 
has been suggested that the grievous murrain which destroyed 
the cattle of the Egyptians, and which was succeeded by a 
^'breaking forth with blains" upon men, and upon horses, asses, 
•camels, oxen, and sheep, was anthrax. Again, numerous instances 
of the concurrence of murrain in cattle with pestilence in man 
have been recorded from time to time, and some of these 
may conceivably admit of similar interpretation. At the present 
•day the name anthrax is commonly given, in some parts of the 
world, to what in England is known as carbuncle, and there 
is room for difference of opinion as to the meaning of the word 
when it occurs in old records. It may be sufficient to note in 
this connection that it has been contended that in ancient Greece 
the term was applied to smallpox. Towards the end of the last 
•century, however, the occurrence of what would now be termed 
in this country " anthrax " seems to have been observed in the 
human subject, in association with the manipulation of raw animal 
products. Thus Fournier of Dijon in 1769 referred to the trans- 



XLii.] DISCOVERY OF THE ANTHRAX BACILLUS • • 623 

mission of disease to men engaged in handling hair and wool. 
Similar cases were recorded by Montfils in 1776; moreover, the 
subject of anthrax in animals was, it may be noted, discussed by 
Chabert in a work published in Paris in 1780. It was not, how- 
ever, until the latter part of the nineteenth century that any con- 
siderable amount of attention was attracted by the malady. 

In 1847 cases of "malignant pustule" were described by 
Lawrence in connection with a hair factory ; a series of cases 
was collected and published in 1852 by Mr Harvey Ludlow; and 
in 1862 the history of some 30 cases, one of which occurred in 
a tanner, and one in a person who had been employed in loading 
hides, was given by Dr William Budd. 

Growth of knowledge concerning anthrax was much stimu- 
lated by the discovery of the anthrax bacillus. This organism had 
been observed by Pollender in 1 849 ; it was shown to be the 
actual cause of the disease, however, by the researches of 
Davaine, and knowledge of its life-history was subsequently 
greatly extended by Koch. The discovery of the comparatively 
easily destructible bacillus, and its ability to produce highly 
resistant spores, afforded explanation of the pertinacity with 
which raw animal products retain the power of transmitting 
infection, and led to appreciation of the difficulty of dealing with 
contaminated material. The researches of Pasteur, concerning 
attenuation of the anthrax organism and protective inoculation, 
moreover, opened up a most interesting and important field of 
inquiry. 

Anthrax Statistics. — It was not until 1863 that "malignant 
pustule" began to appear as a cause of death in the Registrar- 
General's returns. During the fourteen years 1863- 1876, three or 
four deaths on an average were registered annually. Then, for 
a time, in addition to the heading " Malignant Pustule," the head- 
ings " Charbon " and " Wool-sorters' Disease " were officially recog- 
nised, and the number of deaths registered under the three 
headings had, in the year 1880, increased to eighteen. From 
1 88 1 onwards, all anthrax deaths have been included by the 
Registrar-General under the heading "Splenic Fever," and the 
number registered was, it may be noted, as small as three in the 
year 1891, as high as eighteen in 1884, 1897, and 1898, and 
twenty-one in 1899. 

Brief as has been the period in which records of the disease 
in man have accumulated, and imperfect as these records doubt- 
Jess still are, anthrax statistics relating to other animals are, as 



624 



ANTHRAX 



[chap. 



might be expected, still more imperfect Returns for Great 
Britain, which are only available from 1887 onwards, are given 
in the annexed table, taken from the annual report on proceed- 
ings under the Diseases of Animals Acts, compiled for the Board 
of Agriculture. 

Number of Counties in Great Britain in which Anthrax was reported by the 
Inspectors of the Local Authorities, with the Number of Outbreaks 
reported, and the Number of each kind of Animal returned as attacked 
in each year. 











Animals attacked. 




Year?. 


Counties. 


Outbreaks 
reported. 




























Cattle. 


Sheep. 


Swine. 


Horses. 


Deer. 


1887 


51 


236 


415 


37 


184 


* 




1888 


49 


180 


280 


45 


76 


« 




1889 


45 


167 


236 


4 


69 


-K- 


461 


1890 


48 


152 


253 


72 


210 


* 




189I 


50 


226 


300 


15 


156 


* 


... 


1892 


60 


289 


445 


II 


190 


* 




- 1893 


68 


563 


833 


108 


313 


46 




1894 


64 


494 


625 


125 


188 


62 


... 


1895 


66 


434 


604 


158 


140 


32 




1896 


64 


488 


632 


34 


200 


38 




1897 


67 


433 


521 


39 


284 


38 


... 


1898 


73 


556 


634 


22 


161 


39 


... 


1899 


67 


534 


634 


69 


253 


30 





As time goes on the value of these returns will no doubt be 
enhanced. At present veterinary opinion rather suggests that too 
absolute reliance must not be placed upon the figures given. It 
may be taken for granted, however, that the system of reporting 
outbreaks has led to increased attention being devoted to anthrax 
in animals, and to an appreciation of the fact that the disease is 
more prevalent in Great Britain than had been supposed. The 
particulars collected, moreover, show that those counties in which 
foreign animal products, hides, hair, wool, etc., are manipulated, are 
specially prone to suffer from outbreaks of anthrax in animals. It 
may be mentioned that an inquiry was made a few years ago by Dr 
Ravenal of Pennsylvania as to the influence of tanneries in spread- 
ing anthrax among cattle feeding on pastures watered by streams 
contaminated by tannery refuse. The result of this inquiry is. 
given by Dr Legge in a report, which appears in the Annual 
Report for 1899 (p. 325) of the Chief Inspector of Factories. 

* Prior to the year 1893, horses, asses, and mules were not included in the 
definition of the word " animals " in the Orders relating to Anthrax. 



XLii.] ANTHRAX AT HOME AND ABROAD ' 625 

It seems that in 1897, 12 men and 60 head of cattle died of 
anthrax near tanneries in the State of Pennsylvania. *' 

Of the prevalence of anthrax in other parts of the world, it is 
difficult at the present time to obtain precise knowledge. In some 
parts of Europe (France, Germany, Russia, and Italy) the malady 
appears to be more prevalent than it is in this country ; the same 
remark may perhaps be said to hold good for Persia, India, Siberia, 
China, and parts of Africa, and North and South America. It is 
stated that in the district of Novgorod, Russia, in the four years 
1867-70, 56,000 horses, cattle, and sheep perished from anthrax. 

Outbreaks Recorded during Recent Years. — During the last 
twenty-five years several detailed reports on outbreaks of anthrax 
in man, attributed to the handling of particular raw animal 
products, have been made. Thus Dr Russell, in 1878, published 
the history of an outbreak of this kind, which was attributed to 
the manipulation of " raw Russian manes " in certain horsehair 
factories in Glasgow. In his report (appended to the Annual 
Report of the Medical Officer of the Local Government Board for 
1878) Dr Russell discusses certain previously recorded instances 
of anthrax in association with horsehair manipulation in Paris, 
Metz, Leipzig, and Massachusetts. From 1878 to 1899 no further 
cases of the disease were noted in workers in the horsehair industry 
in Glasgow ; in 1900, however, three such cases were reported, and 
similar cases have been observed in several instances in London 
{vide Annual Reports of the Medical Officer of Health of the County 
of London and of H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories). Outbreaks 
on a more extensive scale have been reported in Germany {vide 
Report of Dr Kubler in Arbeiten a. d. KaiserlicJien Gesundheitsainie, 
15 Band, 3 Heft, 1899). It may be noted that raw Russian and 
China manes have fallen especially under suspicion in connection 
with several of the recorded outbreaks, and these kinds of raw 
material seem particularly prone to be contaminated with dirt, arid 
when combed or " willeyed," to give rise to dust, which it is pre- 
sumed is the medium by which infection is conveyed to workers in 
horsehair. 

At about the time when the publication of Dr Russell's report 
drew attention to horsehair, the question of wool-sorters' disease 
{vide Anthrax — its relation to the Wool Industry) also came to the 
fore. Again, in 1882-83, Mr Spear, on behalf of the Local Govern- 
ment Board, carefully investigated the circumstances of an out- 
break of anthrax in connection with the hide and skin industry 
in London, affecting persons who had manipulated certain bales 

2 R 



626 ANTHRAX [chap. 

of hides from China, either at the warehouse in which they were 
in the first instance stored, or subsequently at the tannery to 
which they were conveyed and in which they underwent the 
process of conversion into leather. Mr Spear published, in an 
appendix to his report, a table giving particulars as to cases of 
anthrax which he had traced as having occurred in London 
between 1873 and 1883. This table was subsequently extended, 
and further cases have been recorded from time to time in the 
Annual Reports of the Medical Officer of Health of the County 
of London. These reports show that between 1873 and 1896 
there were recognised, in the metropolis and its neighbourhood, 
in all 148 cases of the disease. Of these : — 

108 occurred among persons engaged in the hide and skin trade ; 5 occurred 
among persons engaged in slaughtering animals ; 18 occurred among 
persons engaged in the manipulation of horsehair, or in the manufac- 
ture of brushes ; i occurred in a person employed in a bacteriological 
laboratory ; finally, 16 occurred under circumstances in which the source 
of infection was not traceable. 

Anthrax Notification. — Sect. 29 of the Factory and Workshop 
Act of 1 895 made notification of a case of anthrax occurring in a 
factory or workshop compulsory, and under this section there 
have, during recent years, been notified the following cases : — 

In 1896, 13 cases. 

In 1897, 23 cases, including 14 in connection with hides and skins and 9 in 

connection with wool. 
In 1898, 28 cases, including 8 in connection with hides and skins ; 16 in 

connection with wool ; 3 in connection with horsehair ; and i in 

connection with other industries. 
In 1899, 55 cases, including 16 in connection with hides and skins ; 18 in 

connection with wool ; 17 in connection with horsehair ; and 4 in 

connection with other industries. 
In 1900, 37 cases, including 9 in connection with hides and skins ; 9 in 

connection with wool; 12 in connection with horsehair; and 7 in 

connection with other industries. 

In 1897 an important report by a Departmental Committee ap- 
pointed by the Home Office to inquire into the " Conditions of Work 
in Wool-sorting and other Kindred Trades " was issued. In this 
report existing knowledge concerning the subject was summarised 
and special consideration was devoted to the discussion of possible 
preventive measures. Dr Whitelegge, now H.M. Chief Inspector 
of Factories, was one of the members of this Committee, and since 
his appointment to his present office he has, in his annual reports, 



XLii.] WORKERS IN HORSEHAIR AND ANTHRAX" ' 627 

published a summary of the facts ascertained with regard to 
anthrax in each year since 1897. Dr Whitelegge's more recent 
reports contain also the results of the inquiries made by Dr Legge, 
the Medical Inspector of Factories. This series of Home Office 
reports is from year to year, adding materially to our knowledge 
of the disease and the methods which may be advantageously used 
in checking its prevalence. In Germany, moreover, the reports of 
the Imperial Health Office have of late years contained frequent 
references to the subject, and a new era may thus be said to have 
commenced as regards the study of the malady in its relation to 
industry. 

Having regard to the recent introduction of compulsory noti- 
fication, and to the larger measure of importance which is attached 
to anthrax, it is now unlikely that cases of the disease will escape 
notice, as they have doubtless in some instances done in the past, 
and as more and more complete records of the circumstances of 
anthrax outbreaks are obtained, there seems reason for hoping 
that it may be possible to obtain fuller knowledge concerning the 
history and antecedents of the material which has conveyed 
infection. If this proves to be the case, preventive measures may 
be thus greatly facilitated. 

Gi'ouping of Anthrax Cases. — That investigation of this kind 
may prove of importance seems clear from the evidence of 
grouping of cases which has been forthcoming, even from such 
inquiry as it was possible to make in past years, and in the 
absence of the more precise information which compulsory 
notification may, in future, be expected to afford. The following 
instances observed in the metropolis and its neighbourhood may 
be referred to in illustration of this point. 

(i) In the year 1895 a number of cases of anthrax occurred 
among persons employed in manipulating horsehair and in brush- 
making. Thus three cases occurred in Southwark, and in each 
instance the persons attacked had manipulated horsehair, in 
connection, however, with the establishments of three different 
brushmakers. A fourth case occurred in a dresser of horsehair 
employed in St Luke's. Two cases in Shoreditch appeared to 
be traceable to a brushmaker's at Tottenham, and it was found, 
on making inquiry there, that two other cases had occurred 
among employes at this particular work-place. Two further 
cases occurred in East London affecting men who worked with 
horsehair at a bass and fibre dresser's in Mile End Old Town. 
In all, ten- cases occurred between May and December 1 895, 



628 ANTHRAX [chap. 

in association with the manipulation of horsehair. The facts 
as to the distribution of horsehair to the various estabUshments 
concerned could not be fully ascertained ; so far as the question 
could be followed up, it appeared quite possible that some 
particular consignment of horsehair had been handled by all the 
affected workers, and that this consignment had done all the 
mischief Having regard to the distribution of the cases in time 
such an hypothesis seemed a likely one. 

(2) On the last day of January and the first four days of 
February 1896, six men were admitted to Guy's Hospital 
suffering from malignant pustule. Five of the men had recently 
been engaged in manipulating goatskins at a leather-dressing 
establishment, and the sixth man was employed at a warehouse 
from which goatskins had been supplied to this establishment 
Every facility was given by the firm employing the five men with 
a view to enabling the particular consignment of skins implicated 
to be traced, but it was not found possible to ascertain all the facts 
with regard to these skins. There was, however, evidence point- 
ing to two conclusions respecting them. In the first place, some 
of them were " sea damaged," and secondly, they were brought to 
England by a vessel which had touched at certain Mediter- 
ranean ports. 

On investigation of previous occurrences of anthrax in London 
it was found that a case had occurred in December 1895, the 
patient being a man employed in a tanyard. This man had on 
29th November and succeeding days handled goatskins, which, 
inasmuch as they were a salvage lot from a ship on which a fire 
had broken out, had " been sold cheap." Some of these goatskins 
which were described as " sea damaged," were regarded as unfit 
for treatment, and were sent away ; the others were converted into, 
leather. The ship by which they were brought to this country 
had come from the Mediterranean. Again, a dock labourer who 
had unloaded goods, among which were goatskins, in St 
Katherine's Dock during the first week of December, developed 
on 7th December a malignant pustule. The skins concerned 
possibly came from the Mediterranean. 

Thus within a period of a few weeks three distinct occurrences, 
of anthrax had been observed in London, apparently attributable 
to one common cause, the manipulation of goatskins. On the 
information to hand, the three consignments of goatskins could 
not be traced to one and the same source — indeed a distinct ship 
was- apparently implicated in each instance, the only feature ia 



INFECTED GOATSKINS , n 629 

common being that two of these vessels were definitely stated to 
have come, and the third may have come, from the Mediterranean. 
It ■ was further noteworthy that several cases of anthrax had 
occurred in recent years at the wharf from which one of the 
consignments referred to above had been supplied. Thus a case 
occurred at this wharf in September 1893, another in March 1894, 
and in each of these cases the man who was attacked had manipu- 
lated goatskins. In September 1894 another rnan working at 
this wharf was attacked ; there was, however, no information as to 
goatskins in this instance. Again, in October 1895, two cases 
occurred in men who had manipulated goatskins at the same 
wharf 

This series of events is suggestive of one or other of two 
explanations. Either the wharf may have been supplied from 
time to time with infected goatskins, and in that case the 
possibility of some particular anthrax-infected locality being the 
source of supply and the cause of all the trouble naturally suggests 
itself; or the wharf premises, having themselves become infected, 
may have served as a means of re-infecting from time to time 
batches of skins. The former hypothesis seems to best fit in with 
the facts. That premises may, however, at times become infected 
and again convey infection at a later period seems not improbable. 
Such was indeed proved to be the case by Professor Boyce (vide 
Annual Report of the Medical Ofificer of Health of Liverpool for 
1899). It may be noted in this connection with regard to the five 
cases of anthrax mentioned above, as having occurred in January 
and February of 1896, that three further cases developed which may 
possibly have been attributable to the same source of infection. 
Two of the cases occurred in persons who may have been brought 
in contact with the skins implicated in January and February ; a 
third case was that of a man who had worked at the leather- 
dressing establishment, and on a part of the premises in which 
the skins implicated in the earlier part of the year had been 
placed. 

Grouping of Cases considered in Relation to Preventive Measures. — 
The occurrence of such groups of cases as those above referred to 
merely repeats the experience of Glasgow in 1878, when Russian 
manes were at fault, and that of Bermondsey in 1882, when certain 
Shanghai hides fell under suspicion. If careful inquiry were made 
concerning every case of anthrax, it appears not improbable that 
all the cases occurring during a series of years could be referred 
to a very limited number of consignments of raw material, and 



630 ANTHRAX [CHAP. 

if the origin of the goods were followed up in each instance, it 
might be found that a considerable check could be placed upon 
the introduction of infected raw products into this country. In 
some cases workmen have been led to suspect that they were 
incurring special risk from something unusual in the appearance 
of the hides, skins, or horsehair, with which they were dealing. 
It has been already said that the hides suspected in the historic 
outbreak in Bermondsey in 1882 came from Shanghai ; a consider- 
able number of these were ascertained to have been " light," " dirty," 
"stale," and "much tainted," "many were in fact 'dead' hides," 
i.e. those of animals that had not been slaughtered, but had died, 
possibly, of course, of anthrax. In a particular instance, in 
connection with a more recent occurrence of a case of the disease 
in question in London, it was found that a small quantity of 
suspected material had been retained at the broker's warehouse, 
the bulk of the consignment, of which the said material formed a 
portion, being sent abroad. The small quantity in question, which 
consisted of scabbed and worthless skins, was handed over, at the 
request of the Medical Officer of Health in whose district the 
warehouse was situated, to be destroyed ; but that officer had 
no opportunity afforded him of examining the bales which were 
not disposed of in London. There can be no doubt that there 
would be less likelihood of suspected material being placed upon 
the market, if it were definitely realised that the source of 
infection would be traced in all cases of anthrax which occur. 
Veterinary experts in this country have long insisted that " no 
attempt should be made to utilise any part of the carcase of an 
animal which has died of anthrax " ; and M. Chauveau, in a paper 
read before the seventh International Congress of Hygiene and 
Demography in 1891, argued that only by convincing those con- 
cerned with the disposal of raw material, to which suspicion 
attaches, that to destroy it is the only course open to them in 
order to safeguard their own interests, will it be practicable to 
exercise any really efficacious check upon production of disease. 
M. Chauveau urged that effort should be made to cause this 
fact to be generally appreciated, and he added, " L'effet de cette 
propagande devrait etre renforce par une bonne organisation des 
services de surveillance sanitaire, et par une application severe des 
p^nalites contre les delinquants." 

Mr Spear, in his report in 1883, referred to the possibility of 
"the establishment of an organisation by which this country 
may be warned of the existence of the disease among cattle," 






xlil] should diseased HIDES BE DESTROYED 9 ^ 631 

with a view to prohibiting the import of suspected hides. He 
pointed out, moreover, that if the practice of dealing separately 
with "dead" Hides, from their first shipment at the port of 
export, were to become established, such a system would " result 
in the limitation of dangerous material mainly to one class of 
goods, instead of its distribution throughout the entire bulk." 
These suggestions seemed, perhaps, when they were made, to be 
"counsels of perfection," but if the material conveying infection 
is in the future traced in a growing proportion of cases, and if, 
armed with knowledge of all cases of anthrax which occur, 
inquiry as to the antecedents of implicated material is more and 
more sedulously prosecuted, it seems probable that it will increas- 
ingly become the practice of owners of diseased animals to 
destroy infected hides, skins, hair, etc., instead of attempting to 
dispose of them. 

Against the prospect of diminution of risk from the growth 
of a desire on the part of dealers in raw animal products to 
safeguard their own interests, it may be urged that anthrax is 
so common a disease that the wholesale destruction of the skins, 
hides, hair, etc., of infected animals would mean great loss ; that 
in many instances the existence of diseased conditions cannot be 
detected ; that even with the best intentions on the part of the 
dealer much dangerous material must necessarily be placed on 
the market ; and that in any event all that is needful in the case 
of suspected raw products is that they should be adequately 
disinfected. Further experience will no doubt throw more light 
on these questions, but the history of cases in London and else- 
where, so far as it is known, suggests that the amount of 
dangerous material exported to this country is very small in pro- 
portion to the total bulk, and that, with the devotion of an increas- 
ing amount of attention to the matter, it will become more and 
more usual for the origin of consignments of such dangerous 
material to be traced. If this should prove to be the case, it may 
be that the prevention of anthrax infection will be worked out 
very much upon the lines indicated by M. Chauveau. 

Disinfection and Other Measures of Precaution. — As regards 
disinfection it has been, until quite recently, assumed that 
exposure to steam, or to reliable chemical disinfectants, was quite 
out of the question. So far as the leather trade is concerned 
this doctrine is still generally accepted, but, as regards the horse- 
hair industry, experiments have shown that disinfection is practic- 
able under certain conditions. It appears from a recent Report 



632 ANTHRAX [chap. 

of the Medical Inspector of Factories (Dr Legge), that in this 
country a steam disinfector is in use in a particular establishment 
for dealing with mane hair from Russia and China, and that in 
other establishments all mane hair is boiled or dyed before being 
used for curling purposes. In Germany careful experiments have 
been made with a view to determining how disinfection can be 
carried out with a minimum of damage to raw material, and an 
account of the results obtained is contained in the Arbeiten a. d. 
Kaiserlichen Gesundheitsamte, 15 Band, 5 Heft, 1899. The prin- 
cipal conclusion would appear to be that the pressure under which 
the steam is allowed to enter the disinfecting chamber should not 
exceed 0.15 atmosphere (2 to 3 lbs. to the square inch). Higher 
pressures, such as are commonly in use in steam disinfectors in 
this country, tend to make the ends of the hair (especially of long 
tail hair used for weaving purposes) brittle. A further objection 
to steam is the yellow colour which it imparts to white hair. 
As the outcome of these experiments, special rules dealing with 
the disinfection of foreign horsehair and pigs' bristles were 
formulated, and came into force throughout Germany in 1899. 
A report as to their operation appeared in 1901 {loc. cit., 18 Band, 
I Heft). 

The use of steam disinfection in the horsehair industry may, 
therefore, become considerably extended. Dr Legge points out, 
however, that reliance must not be placed upon such disinfection 
as at present practised for dealing with " unopened bales, especi- 
ally when hydraulically pressed." The fact noted by Dr Legge 
that, in September 1899, "the principal horsehair manufacturers, 
at a meeting held in London, passed unanimously a resolution 
binding themselves from that date to buy no Russian, Siberian, 
or Chinese undyed mane hair, until satisfactory guarantees had 
been given by the sellers that the hair has been thoroughly 
disinfected," is a significant one. Further, reference may be 
made to a circular letter, addressed to occupiers of horsehair 
works by H.M. Chief inspector of Factories, which deals with 
means of diminishing risk of anthrax in the industry in question 
{vide Annual Report of the Chief Inspector for 1900). 

In connection with hides, Mr Spear first pointed out the 
desirability of studying, in relation to the process of curing, 
the question of the possibility of favouring the destruction of 
morbific germs. "It might," he said, " be possible so to treat the 
skins by a preliminary process, as to cause any attached spores 
to germinate into the easily destructible rods." 



h 



XLii.] DISINFECTION AND OTHER PRECAUTIONS • ^ 633 

Anthrax appears to be rarely, if ever, conveyed by wet hides, 
and there is, therefore, some prospect that the increasing adoption 
of the " wet," as opposed to the " dry," cure may prove an import- 
ant means of obviating the spread of infection. The dry cure 
is said to stand condemned from the point of view of producing 
good leather, but, in places where difficulty of transport makes 
weight an important consideration, it is still largely adopted. 
As long ago as 1 894, a writer in the Leather Trades Circular and 
Review urged the merchants engaged in the China trade to 
" establish saladeros (as has been done in South America), where 
all green hides shall, after slaughtering, go through a proper 
system of brining, or arsenic curing, or salting, by which the pelt 
will be preserved." Arsenic curing, it may, however, be noted, 
might become a source of danger. Experiments made with a 
view to determining whether chemical disinfection of hides can 
be effected in a practicable manner are being carried out in this 
country at the present time. 

Pending the growth of knowledge as to sources of anthrax 
infection, and increase in appreciation of the desirability of 
destroying infected goods, something can be done by advocating 
cleanliness and enforcing the provision of washing appliances, 
and by urging the great importance of alertness as regards de- 
tecting the disease at the outset, with a view to obtaining proper 
advice during the earliest stages of the malady. In the Annual 
Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories for 1899 the special 
rules issued in 1899, and established in eighty-eight works, 
are published in extenso. These rules define both the duties of 
the occupier and the duties of persons employed. In 1899, too, 
it was decided by the Home Office authorities to give facilities for 
bacteriological examination, with a view to the verification of 
doubtful cases of anthrax, and medical practitioners, on making 
application to the Medical Inspector of Factories at the Home 
Office, are now enabled to satisfactorily clear up the diagnosis in 
doubtful cases. This in itself constitutes an important step in 
advance, and is an indication of the growing amount of attention 
that is likely to be accorded to anthrax prevention in the near 
future. 

W. H. Hamer. 



CHAPTER XLIII 

ANTHRAX — ITS RELATION TO THE WOOL INDUSTRY 

Wool has been woven into the industrial history of the world, and 
has been an important factor in the progress of nations from 
savagery to civilisation. In all ages, "flocks and herds" have 
represented peace and prosperity, and only within recent years 
has it become known that the fleeces, hides, flesh, and other 
products of animals which die from anthrax sometimes convey 
the disease to man. 

The word "wool" in its technical meaning comprises sheep 
or lamb's wool, goat's wool or hair (mohair), camel's wool or hair, 
alpaca, and other allied textile fibres. The quantities and 
origins of these for manufacturing purposes in the year 1900 were 
nearly as follow, in million pounds weight : — 

From the United Kingdom 141 

„ British Possessions 448 

„ Foreign Countries 105 

„ „ Mohair . . . . 22 

„ „ Alpaca .... 6 

722 
Exported in the " raw " state 220 

Balance for home use 502 

The "clip" of wool of the United Kingdom is practically 
what it was fifty years ago. The total imports of wool, goat's 
hair, and alpaca, have increased fourfold during the same period. 
This increase represents the growth of the wool industry in the 
West Riding, there having been little increase in other parts of 
the Kingdom. It is probable that " three-fourths of all the wool 
used in this country is consumed within a radius of fifteen miles 
from Bradford." The longer and finer combing wools, including 
almost all the mohair and alpaca, are manufactured into 
"worsteds" — stuffs — for which Bradford is the commercial 
centre. The shorter and coarser felting wools are made into 
" woollens "—cloths— of which Leeds and Huddersfield are the 

634 




HAP. XLiii.] ANTHRAX SOMETIMES RAPIDLY FATAL . •• 635 

most important producers ; others are used at Halifax and 
Kidderminster for carpets, and also at Leicester for hosiery. 

Previous to 1 837, when alpaca and mohair were imported from 
Peru and Asia Minor respectively for use as textile fibres, no 
specific disease had been associated with wool. Ten years 
afterwards, owing to recurring deaths of sorters, a suspicion arose 
that these materials were in some way or other the cause of the 
peculiar, rapid, and fatal illness which became known as "wool- 
sorter's disease." When these sudden deaths followed each other 
at several months' interval they did not attract much atten- 
tion, but when sorters died within a few weeks from a similar 
and unusual disease, the workpeople became alarmed, and their 
fears were increased when no reasonable explanation could be 
given as to the nature of the illness, its prevention or its cure. 
In the hope of solving the mystery, va^My post-mortem examina- 
tions of the bodies of wool-sorters were made by leading medical 
men in the large towns of the West-Riding, and the suspected 
materials and dust arising from these were submitted to experts 
for microscopical examination and chemical analysis. These 
investigations and reports extended over more than thirty years 
without arriving at a satisfactory explanation. In 1877 a case of 
this disease came under the writer's observation ; the man was 
apparently well in the morning on leaving home for work, and 
died seventeen hours after the first feeling of illness. It was 
evident that this fatal collapse without pain or distress was not 
from any well-known disease. In 1879, when visiting such a 
patient — who died twelve hours afterwards — he took some blood 
from the arm, and within a few minutes two or three drops of it 
were injected under the lumbar skin of a rabbit, a guinea-pig, and 
a mouse respectively. The animals died within sixty hours, and 
the blood of each showed the presence of bacilli. Another 
animal was inoculated with the blood from one of these, and it 
died in a shorter time. The fluids from this animal were 
found to be crowded with the bacillus anthracis, and the disease 
was recognised to be anthrax. {Lancet, vol. ii., 1879, pp. 920, 

959-) 

Anthrax is a contagious disease, and of the widest distribution. 
It readily attacks most wool-bearing animals, and is found in all 
countries, being very prevalent on the Continent of Europe, in 
Asia, South Africa, and South America, and occurring less 
commonly in the United Kingdom, North Africa, North America, 
and Australasia. The incidence of anthrax among animals in 



636 ANTHRAX— ITS RELATION TO WOOL INDUSTRY [chap. 

Great Britain varies very much, some counties having no 
outbreak year after year, while from others it is never absent. 
It is most prevalent in the West-Riding, and the counties of 
Leicester, Northampton* and Norfolk, in all of which foreign 
wool, hair, hides, or other animal products are used in 
industrial processes. The number of sheep and lambs in 
Great Britain in 1900 was 28,ooo,cxX), and the number reported 
to the Board of Agriculture to have died from anthrax during 
the year was 40. P^or 1899 the number of deaths was 69. The 
risk of infection from home-grown and colonial wools is so slight 
that it may be disregarded. The most noxious wools are those 
from foreign countries where anthrax is prevalent, the wool 
being dry, dusty, of low quality, and having very little "yolk." 
(Yolk is a peculiar unctuous substance, chiefly consisting of 
2l potash soap which pervades the wool and protects the animal 
from the effects of rain and cold ; it also nourishes the 
wool, rendering it soft, oily, and pliable.) It is equal in weight 
to 7 or 8 per cent, of the "raw" fleece. Alpaca, mohair, 
camel's hair, Persian, and inferior dry Eastern wools have very 
little yolk, and are dangerous to handle if they contain "fallen 
fleeces." The greater amount of yolk or grease in South 
American and other foreign wools appears to fix the anthrax 
spores, and renders the wool almost innocuous to the sorters. 

The essential cause of anthrax is a micro-organism, the 
Bacillus anthracis, the spores of which can only produce their 
specific effect when they gain access to the circulating blood 
by way of the skin, the lungs, or the stomach ; hence there are 
three types of the disease : the cutaneous, the pulmonary, and the 
intestinal. 

I. Cutaneous Anthrax. — This presents two varieties, viz., malig- 
nant pustule and erysipelatous anthrax. The malignant pustule 
was first noticed in England in 1854, and recorded in 1863. It 
must have occurred frequently in the Bradford Worsted District 
for more than thirty years before it was diagnosed as anthrax 
in 1880. This form of cutaneous anthrax in wool-workers is 
very much the same as that which appears in hide-dressers and 
others. 

Erysipelatous anthrax, of which cedematous anthrax is a milder 
manifestation, has, until recently, escaped recognition in this 
country. It was first noticed by Bourgeois in Provence, France, 
in 1834, and his observations were published in 1843. He wrote 
afterwards a very complete account of it in his book on La 



xliil] ■ ERYSIPELATOUS ANTHRAX ^^ 637 

Pustule Maligne et LCEdeme Malin, 1861. Subsequent writers 
have been almost entirely indebted to this author for their 
statements. 

Symptoms.— ViOUYgQois says : " It begins as a pale swelling, soft 
and without pain. It is only after several days, and when more 
fully developed, that vesicles and eschars form, notably on the eye- 
lids, but at the onset the skin is smooth and has no trace of a 
pimple." The local symptoms are the extensive oedema, in slight 
cases, without redness, vesication, or eschar ; in severe cases, with 
redness, vesication, and a gangrenous appearance of the skin. 
The general symptoms are of a negative character ; there may 
be no pain, no distress, and no fever. Even in fatal cases these are 
not very marked. 

Diagnosis. — The appearance of the patient is so like that of 
one with ordinary erysipelas that the differences might easily 
be overlooked, were it not that there is so little constitutional 
disturbance. The absence of injury, pain, and fever will dis- 
tinguish it from acute emphysematous gangrene. The only proof, 
however, is the finding of the characteristic bacillus in the blood 
or fluids by cultures and physiological tests. 

Prognosis. — This form of anthrax is stated to be much more 
fatal than malignant pustule ; of seven cases seen by the writer, 
three were fatal. 

Cx\SE. — J. G., aet. 29, a willower of low class wools, had been 
ailing several days when visited • on 12th March 1899. The right 
upper eyelid was greatly swollen, red, and hard, there were several 
vesicles, nearly the size of kidney beans, which contained a clear 
gelatinous, straw-coloured serum ; pulse 88, temperature 100.5°. 
March 13th, neither eye could be opened, the right ear was. 
doubled on itself, the scalp pitted on pressure, and he was slightly 
delirious ; pulse ^6, temperature 101.8°. March 14th, other vesicles 
on the cheek, much swelling of sub-maxillary glands and neck ; 
pulse 88, temperature 101.8°. After a few days, black eschars 
appeared on the eyelids, the swelling subsided, and he was con- 
valescent. March 17th, pulse 72, temperature 98.9°. Serum 
taken on 12th March for cultivation yielded positive results. 

2. Pulmonary Anthrax. — "Wool-sorters' Disease." — From the 
year 1846, when this disease was first noticed in the neighbour- 
hood of Bradford, to 1877, it had not been known to attack other 
persons than the sorters of alpaca and mohair. In subsequent 
years it was found that camel's hair, Persian, and other dry, dusty, 
low class foreign wools, were also infective ; and further, that anjr 



638 ANTHRAX— ITS RELATION TO WOOL INDUSTRY [chap. 

person might be attacked if exposed to the inhalation of anthrax 
spores in dust arising from the products of dead animals. 

Symptoms. — The absence of troublesome symptoms is very 
remarkable. There may be no rigor, pain, cough, vomiting, 
purging, or other distressful conditions. Even when dying, the 
patient may not feel particularly ill. In ordinary cases, at the 
commencement, there is a chilliness or slight shivering, the tongue 
is moist and thinly coated, thirst is present, and the appetite 
indifferent, with some nausea and uneasiness at the stomach ; 
vomiting is common (if this is only at the commencement it is 
not of much moment, but if persistent or commencing after two 
or three days it is of serious import, indicating the extension of 
the disease to the stomach and bowels.) The lungs are always 
affected, although sometimes only slightly. Nearly all patients 
have a feeling of tightness, weight, and oppression about the 
chest, which embarrasses the breathing. Cough is generally pres- 
ent, but never very troublesome ; in one-third of the cases it was 
absent, or very slight. In most there is no expectoration, but 
in mixed cases, which continue over five days, there is some, 
which is occasionally rusty coloured. The purer the infection, 
however, the less likely is there to be any pneumonia. There is 
a dusky, leaden hue, with coldness of face, ears, and fingers in 
the collapse stage. Percussion sounds are generally clear ; occa- 
sionally there is some dulness, mostly at the base of the right 
lung ; the respiratory sounds are feeble and almost inaudible on 
this side, with some sibilant sounds ; moist bronchial rales may 
be present later on, but rarely crepitations. In cases where 
no dulness on percussion was detected a few hours before death, 
not unfrequently a considerable quantity of fluid has been found 
in the pleural spaces at the post-mortem examination. In the 
early stage the pulse may not differ from the normal as regards 
frequency ; later it is small, feeble, irregular, uncountable, and 
out of keeping with the apparent slight character of the illness. 
The heart's sounds are also very weak and may be inaudible. 
In most cases the mind keeps clear to the end ; in some with 
cerebral lesions, there are struggling, convulsions, and coma. The 
skin is always moist and often bathed with perspiration. The 
temperature seldom reaches 103'' ; when more than this, the infec- 
tion is mixed, causing septic pneumonia. Generally the tempera- 
ture is from 3° to 5° higher in the rectum than in the axilla. As 
the illness advances, the temperature falls. The urine is scanty 
and high-coloured. In one case the sp. gr. was 1040, In several 



XLiii.] . PULMONARY FORM OF ANTHRAX ^ 639 

cases albumin was found, in one equal to two-thirds of the quantity 
of urine in the test-tube. Sugar is also occasionally present. 

The cases clinically arrange themselves into three classes : (i) 
Rapid, in which death takes place within two days, from collapse 
without any reaction. (2) Ordinary, in which the initial depres- 
sion is followed by reaction and death within four days. (3) Pro- 
longed cases, in which there is pneumonia from mixed infection, 
and death after the fourth day. 

Duration of Illness, — Number of cases fatal within — 



I day 


2 days 


3 days 


4 days 


5 days 


10 days over lo days 


Total 


5 


19 


19 


16 


7 


7 2 


75 



Diagnosis. — In a rapid case this is easy ; the patient when 
first visited is seen to be dying from continued uncomplicated 
collapse, which if there has been exposure to infection should not 
be mistaken for any other disease. In ordinary cases during the 
first two days diagnosis is impossible, the symptoms are not 
severe, and are such as are met with in common ailments ; it is 
only when the illness becomes more pronounced by the patient's 
strength and his heart failing without other sufficient reason that 
a diagnosis may be made. In prolonged cases the uncertainty is 
still greater ; the pleuritic and pneumonic conditions mask the 
purely anthrax symptoms so much, that it is only by a post-mortem 
examination that the true nature of the illness can be known. 

Prognosis. — In all cases this is unfavourable ; symptoms are 
unreliable ; what appears to be nothing more than ordinary 
catarrh in a person who has been exposed to anthrax infection 
may suddenly terminate fatally from heart failure. In the more 
prolonged cases, which are mixed with septic pneumonia, death 
may occur unexpectedly. It is probable that many cases of 
pulmonary infection recover ; such cases have been reported, but 
in none has the diagnosis been confirmed by exact experimental 
methods. 

Incubation. — The period of incubation is uncertain. The exact 
time of infection cannot be fixed as in cases of traumatic 
cutaneous anthrax. No case of pulmonary anthrax has been 
recorded which was due to only one exposure to infection. 
Sorters of noxious materials may work exposed to the risk of 
infection almost daily for years without any noticeable effect from 
it. It is only when the virus gains access to the blood stream 
through some accidentally open gateway that serious illness 
follows. Judging from what takes place in cutaneous cases we 



640 ANTHRAX— ITS RELATION TO WOOL INDUSTRY [chap. 

may presume that when the spores pass the respiratory epithelial 
barrier they will produce some local specific effect within twenty- 
four hours. Infective material may be present on the skin or the 
mucous membranes several days before it gains access to the 
blood and produces any noticeable effect. 

Pathological Changes : External. — The appearance of the body 
twenty-four hours after death varies considerably. The discolora- 
tion of decomposition appears very soon, attended with more 
than the usual lividity, which is not confined to the posterior 
surface of the body. The face is sometimes very much swollen 
and discoloured. The cellular tissue of the neck and upper part 
of the chest may be distended, gangrenous-looking, and emphyse- 
matous. In many cases the cause of death may be surmised from 
the external appearance of the body alone ; in other cases there is 
no unusual discoloration excepting that the tips of the fingers are 
cyanosed. Between these two conditions there is every gradation of 
external appearances. Internal. — On cutting the skin of the chest 
where it is much discoloured serum and air bubbles escape. The 
muscles are dark coloured. On removing the sternum the cellular 
tissue beneath is sometimes emphysematous ; more frequently 
there is much gelatinous oedema and occasionally it has been seen 
infiltrated with blood. The pleural spaces almost invariably 
contain a large quantity of clear straw-coloured serum, generally 
more on the right side. Gelatinous infiltration under the serous, 
covering of the lungs and between the lobes may be one inch 
in thickness without any plastic inflammatory exudation. On 
section the lungs are seen to be engorged with dark-coloured 
blood, some portions being more solid than others, and of a blacker 
red colour. It is not uncommon to find infarcts of blood in the 
parenchyma of the lungs, and these in prolonged cases may have 
broken down and become purulent. The bronchial glands are 
enlarged, and more so on the right side ; the mass may be the 
size of a hen's ^^^. The trachea and bronchial tubes contain 
frothy blood-stained mucus ; the mucous membrane is claret- 
coloured and swollen, and beneath it are frequently small infarcts 
of blood. The connective tissue at the root of the lungs and base 
of the heart is sometimes oedematous and extensively infiltrated 
with blood. The pericardium, epicardium, and endocardium 
frequently show subserous petechial spots, and the pericardial 
fluid may be increased to five or six ounces. The blood is nearly 
always fluid and of a dark, almost black colour. The heart may 
be empty or contain fluid blood in all its cavities. The colour 




XLiii.] • INTESTINAL ANTHRAX . , 641 



of its lining membrane varies from a pale cherry red to dark 
chocolate. The abdomen does not contain much fluid unless 
the intestines have been involved, when the quantity may be 
from two to four pints. The gelatinous oedema is sometimes 
very considerable in the mesentery and the cellular tissue sur- 
rounding the kidneys. Extravasated blood in small or large 
quantities is also seen in a few cases in the mesentery or in the 
connective tissue around the kidneys. The stomach and intes- 
tines frequently show numerous patches of extravasated blood ; 
if these are considerable in size they are seen on both the mucous 
and serous surfaces. The spleen, like all other organs in this 
disease, varies very much. It is generally larger than natural, 
but not unfrequently it is unaltered in size and appearance. The 
liver and kidneys are less frequently affected than other organs. 
The brain is occasionally completely surrounded by blood 
extravasated between the membranes. Small infarcts are some- 
times seen in the cerebral substance. The characteristic changes 
are : i. The discoloration of the skin, especially about the neck 
and upper part of the chest. 2. The gelatinous oedema under 
the sternum, about the base of the heart, in the mesentery, the 
omentum, and the adipose tissue around the kidneys. 3. The 
extravasations of blood, which may be extensive, in the chest, the 
abdomen, or the head, with smaller haemorrhagic areas and 
petechial infarcts in any organ or any part of the body. 4. The 
serous effusions into the pleura, pericardium, and peritoneum. 
5. The dark colour and fluid condition of the blood. Many coarse 
changes are present in every case,*but no single lesion is found 
in all cases. There may be no unusual discoloration of the 
skin, no gelatinous oedema, no large or numerous small extrava- 
sations of blood, or even serous effusions, but one or more of these 
in various degrees is always present. 

3. Intestinal Anthrax. — Only one case of primary intestinal 
anthrax has been observed in wool-workers, and that recently. 
A wool-sorter, aged 29, on leaving work felt weak and as if he had 
a lump at the stomach. The following day he was sick and rest- 
less ; on the third day the pulse was 86, temperature 99.2° ; on 
the fourth day brown-coloured blood was vomited, and several tar- 
like stools were passed. Thirteen hours before death he was in 
a collapsed condition; pulse 112, small and almost uncountable; 
respiration 26. The lungs were not involved. Duration of ill- 
ness, 4J days. 

Distribution of the Bacilli. — These are found in the swollen 

2 s 



642 ANTHRAX— ITS RELATION TO WOOL INDUSTRY [chap. 

mucous membrane of the trachea and larger bronchi, being most 
numerous in the neighbourhood of small haemorrhages, and only a 
few in the lung tissue. The gelatinous serum never contains large 
numbers. The serum from the chest and abdomen, being a pure 
cultivation fluid, generally contains large numbers of bacilli of 
shorter or longer lengths. Bacilli are very unequally distributed 
throughout the body ; they may not be found in the spleen, but 
in the fluids and tissues near pathological lesions. 

Inoculations of rodents with blood taken from a patient twelve 
hours before death does not always produce fatal anthrax, a result 
which is inevitable if the blood be taken two or three hours before 
the event, even if on microscopical examination it gives no 
evidence of containing bacilli. Inoculations with gelatinous and 
pleural serum taken within twenty-four hours after death may 
have no effect on rodents, but generally they are fatal. All fluids 
and tissues which are fresh and contain the characteristic bacilli 
give rise to anthrax when inoculated into the blood stream of 
susceptible animals, but if not used for two or three days this 
effect may not follow. 

Preventive Measures. — Noxious wools of foreign origin some- 
times include " fallen fleeces," which are easily recognised ; these 
should be picked out, classed apart, and disinfected by steam. 

TJie Precautionary Regulations agreed upon at Bradford in 1884 
were adopted by the Home Office in 1899, and have the force of 
legal enactments. They provide that bales of alpaca, pelitan, 
cashmere, Persian and camel's hair, shall be opened over a dust- 
extracting fan, so arranged th5t the current of air shall draw the 
dust away from any workman in the room. Badly-damaged wool 
or hair, van mohair, " fallen fleeces," and foreign skin wool shall 
be damped with a disinfectant, and then washed without being put 
through any dust-extracting machine. The dust collected by the 
willows or other dust-extracting machine from the open boards — 
wire-work — shall not be discharged into the open air ; it shall be 
removed weekly and afterwards burnt. No person having any 
open cut or sore upon any part of the body shall be allowed to 
attend to any willow or dust-extracting machine. No bale of 
wool or hair shall be stored in a dust-extracting room. Requisites 
for slight wounds shall be kept at hand. Appliances for washing 
shall be provided for the workers in the warehouse and dust- 
extracting rooms. No meals shall be taken in the willowing or 
carding room. These regulations have had a beneficial effect in 
reducing the number of cases of anthrax, but they are not 



I 



XLiii.]. PREVENTION AND TREATMENT OF ANTHRAX^ 643 

sufficient to eradicate the disease. If bales of noxious wool or hair 
were placed in steamers, and submitted to a steam pressure of six 
pounds to the square inch — 230° F. — for a few hours, all bacteria 
would be destroyed. Such a regulation should be enforced where- 
ever noxious wools or hairs are used in the United Kingdom. 

Treatment. — It is to be regretted that in such a fatal disease so 
little can be done in the way of treatment. The progress of the 
illness is often so rapid that before a diagnosis can be determined 
the patient is in a hopeless condition. If the patient is seen before 
any signs of collapse are apparent, perhaps the inhalation of non- 
toxic germicides in the form of spray, and the intravenous in- 
jections of these may give the best chances of success. We may 
look forward with confidence to the time when we shall be able to 
treat the disease more successfully by antitoxines ; hitherto these 
have been used only in external cases. 

John Henry Bell. 



CHAPTER XLIV 

RAGS AND THEIR PRODUCTS IN RELATION TO HEALTH 

Rag-Soi'ting^ Rag-Grinding, Shoddy, Mungo, Flocks, Carbonising 
or Wool-Extracting 

Rags may be roughly divided into two distinct kinds : (i) cotton 
and linen rags ; (2) woollen and partly woollen rags. The former 
are almost entirely used by the paper-maker, the latter by the 
cloth manufacturer. It is with the second section that I am here 
chiefly concerned. Rags, as a matter of fact, seem to cause little 
or no infectious disease to those who work among them, except 
in the case of cotton and linen rags used in paper-making, which 
have been a frequent source of smallpox infection. It may be 
stated that little or no infectious disease is introduced among the 
workers by woollen rags. Woollen rags are of two kinds : (i) soft 
rags, and (2) Mungo rags. Soft rags are largely drawn from 
Scotland. Such rags as stockings, white flannels, stuffs, carpets, 
etc., are included in the term " soft rags." The " Mungo rag " is 
of two sorts, the " old and the new " : the old, derived from coats, 
vests, trousers, caps, etc., the " new " from clippings of army cloth, 
and tailors' shreds, etc. The wide world is laid under contribu- 
tion by the rag merchants. Walter White, in his Month in York- 
shire, says of Batley : — " Hither were brought tatters from pedi- 
culous Poland, from the gipsies of Hungary, from the peasants 
and scarecrows of Germany, from the frowsy peasants of Muscovy, 
to say nothing of snips and shreds of monks' gowns and lawyers' 
robes, from postillions' jackets and soldiers' uniforms, from maidens' 
bodices and noblemen's cloaks. A vast medley, truly, and all to 
be manufactured into broadcloth in Yorkshire." Sir George 
Head, in his Home Tour, also alludes to Batley and the shoddy 
trade. This quotation gives one a good idea of where rags come 
from. Rags are collected by travelling tinkers, etc., and by marine 
store dealers, and by them transmitted to rag merchants, who sort 
them out into different lots according as they are (i) soft, and (2) 



I 



CHAP. XLiv.] SHODDY FEVER .> 645 

MunjTo rags. /\11 linings and seams are removed by the sorters. 
All rags are sorted over what is called a riddle, through which the 
dust falls, at least a part of it. Rag sorters only sit down when 
seaming. 

Effects of Rag- Sorting on Health. — People who sort rags 
are occasionally bronchitic and asthmatic from the dust which 
rises from them, but I have seldom met with this condition 
in rag sorters, although I have known individuals who had 
to wear respirators when sorting. In the case of very dirty 
rags derived from dust heaps, rags which have been exposed to 
rain in many cases, it is probable that after drying, the dust 
would be of a septic character, and might induce sore throat. 
Rags from surgical hospitals are decidedly dangerous. Most 
persons who work as sorters are infested with fleas, which 
simply swarm among the rags, especially the Mungo variety. 
Sorters are mostly females, and they have sometimes to help 
to crane up bales of rags into warehouses. This frequently 
produces" prolapse of the womb and other uterine displacements. 
It is certainly not suitable work for women. If infection ever 
breaks out among rag-sorters, it generally attacks them when a 
bale is first opened. It is a desideratum that all rags, whether 
of foreign or home origin, should be subjected to disinfection by 
heat before being opened, and this can be effectually accom- 
plished, even in the tightly packed bales from abroad. This 
would have the virtue of destroying fleas, while disinfecting the 
bales. 

Rag-G landing. — This process is accomplished by means of a 
swift which is really a drum, studded with sharp teeth, which are 
set very close for grinding cloth, and more openly for the trans- 
formation of soft rags, such as stockings, flannels, etc. These 
swifts perform six or seven hundred revolutions per minute, and 
the rags are metamorphosed into a soft, fluffy, woolly mass. Oil is 
largely used in this process. This prevents dust. 

The dust which rises from rag machines consists of particles 
of wool and also of filth adherent to the various kinds of rags. It 
is highly irritating to all the respiratory passages, especially in 
those who are novices at the trade, but older hands become inured 
to it, and tolerate it well. A train of symptoms is developed, called 
" shoddy fever." It is accompanied by high fever, with nasal 
catarrh and frontal headache, and a certain amount of bronchial 
catarrh. It is ushered in by shivering, malaise, and general 
muscular pain. It is almost indistinguishable from epidemic 



646 RAGS IN RELATION TO HEALTH [chap. 

influenza, and if treated on similar lines, recovery is soon secured. 
The only difference is, that the catarrhal symptoms are the result 
of local irritation, and, consequently, when that is removed, the 
febrile condition soon subsides. Shoddy fever is easily induced 
in persons who have been out of the mill for a few weeks and 
return to work, in persons suffering from general catarrh, or in 
habitual drunkards. 

What is known as shoddy is produced from soft rags, and 
Mungo from cloth rags. Flocks of the commoner kind are manu- 
factured from a variety of raw material, the refuse of the shoddy 
trade, while the superior qualities are manufactured from a better 
raw material. For the former, the seams of woollen cloth rags, 
and heavy linsey (mixed wool and cotton), such as old dresses, 
and a variety of other materials, are used. The lowest class 
of flocks are made from old carpets with a backing of hemp 
or other vegetable fibre. Flocks are used for stuffing beds and 
articles of furniture. The raw material is separated in a similar 
manner as in the manufacture of shoddy and Mungo, only in 
flock-making the teeth are shorter and not so sharp. When a 
shoddy machine is worn out, it is sometimes used for flock-making. 

Carbonising. — This process is applied to rags which have a 
certain amount of cotton in them. The cotton is carbonised by 
means of either sulphuric or hydrochloric acid. The former 
acid is used in a wet process, the rags being steeped in a some- 
what diluted sulphuric acid, at a temperature of i6o° to 190° F., 
then rinsed in water, and dried in a stove. In the second or dry 
process, the rags are heated for some hours in an atmosphere of 
hydrochloric acid gas. By these means the cotton fibre is destroyed, 
and when the rags are beaten it flies off as a powdery dust, 
probably glucose, which is very inflammable, and often causes ex- 
plosions. The above process is also styled "extracting," i.e. ex- 
tracting the wool from fabrics composed of cotton warp, and 
worsted or woollen weft. 

Are these various processes inimical to health ? Shoddy fever 
has been already considered. Flock fever is also a condition of 
the flock manufacture. Upholsterers, working with flocks, are 
occasionally sufferers from the dust. A few of the workers in 
shoddy mills suffer from bronchitis and emphysema of the lungs, 
but those who do so are the older men who began to work before 
so much oil was used with the rags. The dust is also apt to 
combine with the wax in the ears and plug them, as is the case 
in any dusty occupation. Granular inflammation of the eyelids is 



H XLIV.] Cy 



xi.\w.] CARBONISING OF RAGS IN RELATION TO HEAI^T^ 647 

also occasionally seen among rag grinders. Acne is common 
through plugging of the sebaceous ducts. Carbonising occasion- 
ally causes bronchitis and emphysema. Workers in carbonising 
mills state that it is quite the exception for men to be off ill. 
In one mill which I visited, no worker had been off work for 
more than two days, and the mills had been in existence upwards 
of five years. The glucose product from carbonised rags subjected 
to the "shaking" process is highly inflammable, and severe burns 
are occasioned by the explosion of it in the air. These are 
generally due to carelessness. 

Recommendations. — Dr Parsons, in the Annual Report of the 
Medical Officer of the Local Government Board (Dr George 
Buchanan) for 1885, recommends : (i) vaccination and re-vaccination 
of rag workers ; (2) ventilation, cleanliness, and avoidance of dust in 
rag factories ; (3) disinfection or purification of rags, preferably in 
the bale. Disinfection of rags is at present not very satisfactory, 
as the steam used for disinfection in the bale condenses and ruins 
the stock. Many men in the trade say that no disinfection is 
necessary, as infection seldom or never comes from woollen rags. 

John A. E. Stuart. 



CHAPTER XLV 

BLANKET STOVING 

The men who are employed in this branch of blanket making are 
a fine, stalwart set of fellows, broad-set, muscular, and well- 
coloured in complexion, the healthiest-looking workmen, apart 
from teamers, to be seen in the Heavy Woollen District. It is a 
hereditary occupation as a rule. Most of the men are connected 
by ties of kindred, for intermarriage is prevalent. Blanket raisers 
are, as a rule, long lived, the mean age at death of 28 workmen 
whom I attended in their last illness was 64. i years. 

In winter-time, blankets are exposed in a stoving house to 
brimstone fumes. This is intended to bleach the blanket. In 
summer-time, most of the blankets are dried outside. The fixing 
of these on the tenter posts involves an immense amount of 
stretching. There is considerable exertion involved in the raising 
process, and getting the pile on the fabric. In fine weather, the 
men are in the open a great part of the day ; but in winter, the 
stoved blankets are taken out to the tenters, when the change 
from the close, sulphurous atmosphere to a cold and damp tenter 
field is found to be trying even to a strong constitution. At 
some mills, fans are inserted in the roofs of the drying houses to 
take away the fumes ; in others, the tenters in the drying house 
are on wheels, and run on rails. These are ladened with blankets 
in the open, and then run in to the sulphurous atmosphere, and 
after being sufficiently dried, are again drawn out to the open, 
where the blankets are taken off the frames without causing the 
irritating cough and semi-suffocation which ensues when men 
have to enter the dry house to remove them. I am informed that, 
under this last system, it is no uncommon thing for a raiser to 
cough and sneeze until blood comes from his mouth or lungs. 

The question of whether blanket stoving with brimstone is a 
dangerous trade or not was answered in the negative by the 
Commissioners appointed by Mr Asquith, Home Secretary, before 
whom I gave evidence about five years ago. 

048 



CHAP. XLV.] BLANKET STOVING A HEALTHY OCCUPATJQN 649 

As there is a considerable number of these men living near 
me, and I have often conversed with them about the brimstone 
and the healthiness of their occupation, certain matters of interest 
have come to my knowledge. Among these is the fact, that the 
men almost never die from tuberculosis. They seldom, if ever, 
contract infectious disease. As a rule, they imbibe beer very 
freely, owing to the dryness of the mouth and throat produced 
in the drying house, and by the tremendous sweating which 
results from the enormous loads which they take on their shoulders 
to the tenter field. 

Bronchitis and emphysema are the most common diseases 
among them. Of the 28 deaths which I certified among 
raisers, 10 were due to bronchitis ; the mean age at death was 
64 years. Heart disease accounted for 4 deaths, at a mean age 
of 69.3 years. Three succumbed to pneumonia, at a mean 
age of 49. Two died from phthisis, mean age 51.5 years. 
There were two deaths from senile decay, mean age 72 years. 
Influenza claimed 2, mean age 68.5. Typhoid caused one 
death, at 60 years ; as did prostatic disease, at 68 years. 
Apoplexy caused death in two, mean age 75.5 years. Cerebral 
softening claimed one at 68 years. 

The 28 deaths are as follows : — 



Bronchitis . 
Heart Disease 
Pneumonia 
Senile Decay 
Phthisis 
Influenza . 
Apoplexy . 
Typhoid Fever 
Prostatic Disease 
Cerebral Softening 



10 

4 
3 
2 
2 

2 
2 

I 
I 

I 

28 



Seeing that the mean age at death at all ages in England is 
29 years, and that of blanket raisers is 64.1, one is scarcely 
justified in regarding it as a trade which is injurious to health. 

Efficient ventilation and the establishment of the running 
tenter described above, and figured in the Blue Book issued by 
the Commission, are all that is necessary. 



John A. E. Stuart. 



CHAPTER XLVI 

JUTE 

The commercial fibre jute is obtained from the following 
species of Corchorus — Corchorus Capsularis, grown mostly in 
Northern, Central, and Eastern Bengal, and Corchorus Olitarus^ 
raised in the vicinity of Calcutta. The great bulk of the fibre 
is obtained, however, from the former variety. 

The plant may be described as a long wand, from 8 to lo 
feet in height, and of the thickness of one's finger at the 
bottom. The stem is smooth, and more or less branched 
towards the top, bearing vivid green leaves and yellow flowers. 
It possesses an outside covering of hard bark ; underneath this 
is the commercial fibre, and within the latter a pithy stick. 

Jute is an annual, and appears to be capable of cultivation 
in almost any kind of soil, but is grown to best advantage 
upon that of a loamy nature, or on rich clay and sand. The 
coarser and larger plants are cultivated chiefly upon the 
"churs" or mud banks, and islands formed by the rivers, 
while others are raised upon submerged lands and in salt- 
impregnated soils. A hot, damp climate, such as is found in 
the vast delta of the Ganges, and Brahmapootra, with annual 
heavy rains and inundations, fulfils the conditions under 
which jute can be successfully cultivated. In November or 
December the soil is ploughed over five or six times, the 
clods broken up, pulverised, and at the final ploughing the 
weeds are collected, dried, and burned. The seeds are sown 
during the months of April, May, and June, according to the 
district, and covered over with a thin sprinkling of earth. 
Germination takes place in from three to seven days, and 
when the plants rise a few inches above the ground, the 
cultivator weeds and thins them out, ultimately leaving a 
space of, approximately, 6 inches between each. 

The crop is considered to be in season for cutting when 
the flowers appear during August and September. By this 

650 



^m CHAP. X 

^' 4-: 4.1 



I 



CHAP.XLVi.] PREPARATION OF THE FIBRE ,s 651 

time the plants have attained a height of from 8 to 10, or 
even in some instances, 17 feet. The stems are cut with 
knives close to the ground, tied up in bundles, and removed 
to the steeping or "retting" pond. 

The system of "retting," as practised by the natives of 
India, consists in steeping the plants in stagnant pools or 
tanks for from two to twenty-five days. Weights are placed 
above the bundles to ensure that all the material may be sub- 
merged. The stagnant water thus used for steeping purposes 
has a strong and somewhat offensive smell, which, however, is 
not remarked in the fibre itself, and the fetid liquid is valuable 
as a manure. 

To ascertain that the process is complete, the cultivator has 
to visit the tank daily, and test the fibre to see that it has begun 
to separate from the stem or pith. In removing the fibre from 
the woody portion the operator, standing waist deep in the tank, 
seizes a bundle of stems in his left hand, beats the ends out flat, 
turning the bundle deftly meantime, and then breaks the stems 
about eighteen inches from the point, first one way and then 
another. A little more manipulation, and the short sticks at the 
end fall out, leaving the fibre clear. The remaining portion is 
separated in a somewhat similar manner. The operator then, 
striking the surface repeatedly with the fibre, and drawing it 
through towards him, relieves it of any remaining impurities. 
By a dexterous throw he next spreads it on the surface of the 
water, and picks off any remaining black spots or hard patches. 

It is then wrung out and hung on bamboos to dry in the sun, 
when it is ready for the market. 

The fibre for exportation is bought by dealers, shipped to 
Calcutta, and made up into hydraulically-compressed bales of 
about 400 pounds weight, lashed round with ropes made of 
strong jute, the various qualities being distinguished by different 
marks affixed to the bales. 

Jute is now a source of considerable revenue to the Indian 
Government, about 3,500,000 bales being exported annually to 
Europe and America, and over 2,900,000 bales manufactured 
into cloth and sacks in and around Calcutta. The distribution 
of the exported material is approximately as follows : — 

To the United Kingdom . . . 1,900,000 bales. 
To the Continent .... 1,000,000 „ 
To America 500,000' „ 

Dundee is the chief seat of jute manufacturing in the United 



6S2 JUTE [chap. 

Kingdom, only a very small proportion of the material imported 
being operated upon elsewhere. According to the latest procur- 
able statistics there are slightly over 43,000 persons employed 
in the industry, and of this number quite 40,000 are engaged in 
and around Dundee, almost three-fourths of these being women. 
The figures do not include several hundreds who make up cloth 
into bags — a separate industry. Indirectly, the staple trade gives 
employment to a considerable number of persons, such as shuttle- 
makers, bobbin-turners, hackle-makers, yarn-bleachers, etc., and 
practically supports about 1000 sack-sewers who are out-workers. 

Jute as imported consists of coils or bundles of fibre of a pale 
yellowish colour, and possesses a faint yet not unpleasant, though 
characteristic, smell. It cards and spins easily when properly 
treated with oil and water, the yarn produced being relatively 
coarse, fairly strong, and is much sold as twine, the output of this 
article amounting to hundreds of tons per annum. The bulk of 
the yarn spun, however, is woven into what are termed " Hessians," 
plain jute cloth of various widths up to four yards. This material 
is seen everywhere, and is constantly used for packing and wrap- 
ping goods of all descriptions. A certain amount of cloth is cut 
up into suitable lengths and sewn into sacks. 

Jute sacks are required for holding all kinds of material ; they 
are cheap and strong, and although they rapidly deteriorate if 
exposed to wet, they are, owing to their low price, easily replaced. 

Jute fibre takes kindly to most dyes, and this characteristic 
allows of its being largely used in the manufacture of carpets and 
rugs. A large trade has grown up in this department, fabrics 
being produced of beautiful designs and brilliant colouring. Jute 
is also interwoven with cotton and other textiles, but it does not 
readily spin with any fibre of an elastic nature. 

The inelasticity of the fibre is a distinct drawback, affecting 
the utility of the articles manufactured, and although the durability 
of the fabric is great if kept dry, the colours are fugitive. 

The first operation in the process of the manufacture of jute 
consists in cutting the binding ropes of the bale, and opening out 
the hard, compressed material. This is invariably done by hand, 
and immediately afterwards the fibre, still in a compressed state, 
is passed through between four heavy deeply-fluted rollers inter- 
secting each other, which open the material somewhat and 
facilitate its disentanglement, before it is placed on the feeding 
table of the softener. During these processes, while the fibre is 
in a dry condition, a considerabl.e quantity of dust is shaken out, 



XLVI.] . PROCESSES OF MANUFACTURE ^, 653 

much of it being of a gritty nature, and consisting largely of fine 
particles of the sand or mud in which the plant grows. The 
latter impurities adhere to the rooty portion of the plant, but 
become dispersed when the fibre is shaken out and disturbed. 
It is in this dust that tetanus spores have been found in very 
considerable quantities. 

Once placed on the softener, the fibre passes through a long 
series of spirally fluted rollers, pressure being brought to bear on 
the top row by means of springs. Hot water and oil are applied 
to the material during the progress along the machine, care being 
taken to spread the liquids evenly. 

This moistening of the fibre is rendered necessary owing to 
its inherent brittle nature. Although this application of oil and 
water is to facilitate the subsequent manipulation of the material, 
it serves a beneficial purpose in reducing to an enormous extent 
the quantity of dust which would otherwise be diffused in carding 
and other processes. As matters at present stand, the pre- 
paring operations in jute factories are much more dusty than 
subsequent processes, but the particles thrown off in carding, 
drawing, and rove-spinning are more of a light fluffy nature, and 
prove less irritating to the respiratory organs than the gritty dust 
evolved in handling the dry jute. After the material has been 
effectively softened, and while in a slightly moist condition, it is 
fed into the " breaker " card. Here, owing to the splitting and 
combing action of the rapidly running card teeth, many rooty 
particles and other impurities are removed, but the heavier matter 
falls below the machines, from which it is taken away periodically, 
so that only the lighter dust rises, and is breathed by the 
operators. 

When delivered from the " breaker " it is passed over the 
" finisher " card, but less dust if possible is evolved in the 
second carding. To equalise the thickness of the jute sliver as 
it emerges from the cards, and to lay the fibres parallel, the 
material is passed over drawing frames, and, when delivered, is 
spun by roving machines into "rove," that is, thick loosely- 
twisted yarn. The twist given is just sufficient to keep the 
fibre together during its treatment in the spinning frame, before 
the actual twist is administered which completes it as finished 
yarn. 

The operations subsequent to carding evolve little dust 
relatively, but owing to the excessive speed of spinning frame 
flyers, and the friction on the yarn, very light fluffy particles 



654 JUTE [CHAP. 

are continually rising in spinning rooms, so that the atmosphere 
becomes charged with extremely fine portions of fibre. All 
horizontal surfaces, and the clothing and hair of the workers in 
these departments, soon become coated with this dust. 

The yarn intended for weft is never dressed, but is wound 
or built up into solid "cops" for insertion in the shuttle. It is 
so coiled in the cop as to unwind regularly and easily when in 
the shuttle, but is still of sufilicient firmness to withstand handling 
without collapsing. The warp yarn is wound into solid balls, 
or on large bobbins, and thereafter arranged upon angular 
frames at each end of the dressing machines. 

The dressing, the basis of which consists mostly of flour, is 
contained in troughs affixed to the machines, the yarn passing 
through the liquid, and then round steam-heated cylinders to 
ensure its thorough dryness before being wound on the weaving 
beam. As in the dressing of linen yarn, considerable heat is 
constantly maintained in the departments of factories apportioned 
for this purpose. The cylinders, round which the damp yarn 
passes, radiate heat, and where the ceilings of the rooms are 
low, or the cubic capacity restricted, much discomfort is occa- 
sioned in summer, unless exhaust fans, or wide-opened windows, 
are arranged for. The beams when filled are removed, and 
inserted in the looms, the " dressed " or starched yarns constitut- 
ing the warp of the woven fabric. 

The weaving of jute cloth calls for little comment or descrip- 
tion, the process being of the simplest character, except where 
figured carpets are woven. This work is comparatively pleasant 
and clean. To give finish to the cloth, calendering is necessary. 
The webs are passed through ponderous machines, known as 
either calenders or mangles ; hot rollers and heavy pressure, 
combined with the dressing in the yarn, effecting an evenness 
to the fabric, and, if necessary, a gloss to the surface. 

Health Conditions. 

The factories in Great Britain engaged in manufacturing jute 
are, with few exceptions, rather superior. Many of them are 
on the shed or one-floor system. They were built at a time 
when the industry was extremely remunerative, and much capital 
was sunk in substantial and well-designed premises. The shed 
construction with the saw-tooth roof is advantageous from many 
standpoints, facilitating the maintenance of an equable tempera- 
ture, the free ingress of air through roof openings, while providing 



XLVi.] DIMINUTION OF ACCIDENTS IN JUTE FACTORIES, 655 

an abundance of light throughout. The latter advantage is 
important, when one considers the liability to accident which 
constant attendance on, and manipulation of, intricate mechanisms 

■ necessitate. Jute machinery is very similar to that utilised in 
the manufacture of flax, the various machines (with the exception 
of softeners and openers) differing only in small details, necessary 
owing to the greater length and relative coarseness of the former 
fibre. The liability to accidents is slightly greater in the manu- 
facture of jute than in any other textile industry, to judge by 
the annual returns of casualties. This is partially due to the fact 
that the older types of machines have been fitted with crude 
and ineffective protections, to improve which requires much 
careful and systematic supervision, and partially to the pro- 
portionately large number of insignificant accidents, hitherto 
found unpreventable, occasioned by the oscillating slays of looms, 
which, though slight in themselves, are yet sufficiently serious to 
bring them just within the category of reportable accidents. 

By slight alterations in the construction of certain machines 
and additions to the existing fencing of spinning, drawing frames 
and cards, certain kinds of accidents have been completely 
stamped out. Thus, since the insistence on travelling feed and 
delivery sheets or webs for jute softeners, a type of accident 
always severe, and often fatal, has entirely disappeared. Before 
these safeguards were introduced the operatives were frequently 
entangled in the long jute fibre in feeding or attending the 
delivery end of the machine, and instantly drawn forward and 
mangled by the rapid-running fluted rollers. As might be 
expected young persons are the commonest victims of factory 
accidents, owing to their ignorance and indiscretion. A careful 
note of all such casualties has revealed lurking dangers in certain 
machines, and where these have been effectually protected, 
accidents decrease in number and in seriousness. Since shuttle- 
guards have become universal, the annual return of injuries from 
flying shuttles has decreased to less than half the former figure. 
The liability to tetanus of persons injured in jute manufactories 
makes the adequate and effective protection of all dangerous 
mechanism, even to the minutest details, of the utmost importance. 

The dirtiest and most objectionable processes in the manu- 
facture of the material are undoubtedly those of preparing and 
spinning. The remuneration of the operatives in these depart- 
ments is considerably less than that earned by the weavers. 
Thus a distinctly lower class of employes engage in the former 



6s6 JUTE [CHAP. 

» ~~ — — __ 

processes, the more self-respecting taking up weaving as a 
means of livelihood. 

Where the finer qualities of fibre are treated, the amount of 
dust evolved is comparatively small, and the factories fairly clean ; 
but in the coarser varieties it becomes excessive, and the whole 
premises assume a dirty and objectionable aspect. 

It may be of interest to observe here that many women 
engaged in the preparing and spinning operations of jute manu- 
facture habitually snuff, presumably to rid the nostrils of dust. 
The custom is rarely observed among women outside Dundee. 

The prevention of the dispersal of dust in carding and spin- 
ning is extremely difficult, for it appears to rise, more or less, from 
the fibre, wherever it is sufficiently disturbed, and from any 
number of points, even in one room. Exhaust fans, however, 
when placed immediately above the softening machines, and 
properly erected, undoubtedly remove much of the fine gritty 
particles shaken out of the raw material, and where a hood is 
arranged above the exact seat of dust production, and communi- 
cates with a fan, there is little to complain of 

This particular dust from the raw material is most irritating 
to breathe, and is presumably injurious, but fortunately few persons 
in any one mill come in contact with it. 

The ample cubic .space of most carding departments greatly 
counteracts the injurious effects of this ever-present dust ; and 
indeed, in establishments where very fine material is spun, it is 
scarcely noticeable. The prevailing high temperature of spinning 
departments, together with the crowded arrangement of the 
frames and the number of workers congregated in a limited floor 
space, makes such rooms somewhat disagreeable to work in, and 
the occupation is increasingly unpopular. The friction of the 
numerous small bearings, and especially that generated by the 
temper bands on the bobbins, raises the temperature to 30 or 
more degrees above that existing outside, and maintains it thus 
even when the outer air has fairly free ingress. This over- 
heating of the spinning room is a constant source of trouble, 
and is difficult to regulate. A temperature of 80" is common 
in the coldest weather, and persists at times, even when many 
windows are open. The provision of exhaust fans in premises 
where high temperatures were hitherto troublesome has, how- 
ever, effected a distinct improvement. The application of oil, 
already referred to, reduces the tendency of the material to give 
off dust, but the subsequent operations disperse fine particles of 



XLVI.] 



ANALYSES OF AIR OF FACTORIES 



657 



fibre throughout the work-rooms. The oily jute gives to the 
preparing departments a somewhat peculiar and rather offensive 
odour, and where the atmosphere is abnormally heated, creates a 
feeling of closeness. 

During the month of March 1900, samples of air were taken 
from three selected mills in Dundee, at various times, and in 
different atmospheric conditions. Two of the selected establish- 
ments were considered as typical of badly ventilated premises ; the 
third, for contrast, was one of the most modern and airy factories 
in the city. Although the high winds which prevailed during 
the period of testing may detract from the assumption that the 
figures are really representative of the usual conditions, still 
after making all allowances it must be presumed that they 
approximately indicate the true condition of the inside atmo- 
spheres. Samples were procured from two of the mills on a 
Sunday about mid-day, a period of about twenty-four hours 
having elapsed since any workers had been in the premises. 

The windows in both cases were all closed, and, on the day 
in question, a fresh cold wind prevailed. 

The result showed a very pure atmosphere — 3.1 and 3.3 
volumes of CO2 respectively per 10,000 volumes of air. 

The following day, samples were secured in the two establish- 
ments and from a third between i and 2 P.M. (the meal hour 
being from 2 to 3 P.M.), and again just before the factories stopped 
running, namely, between 5 and 6 P.M. 

The following table gives the results : — 





No. of Samples. 


. 


2 


3 


4 


s 


6 


Time . 


1.30 p.m. 


1.40 p.m. 


1.55 P-ni. 


5-15 P-m. 


5.30 p.m. 


5.50 p.m. 


Selected room 


Spinning 


Spinning 


Spinning 


Spinning 


Spinning 


Spinning 


Total cubic contents 


462,840 


100,383 


83,856 


462,840 


100,383 


83,856 


Number of Persons 














employed . 


300 


156 


83 


300 


150 


83 


Cubic space per 














head . 


1542 


669 


lOIO 


1542 


669 


lOIO 


Temperature : — 














Inside 


70° 


77° 


77° 


75° 


81.5° 


83° 


Outside . 


41° 


41° 


41° 


40° 


40° 


40° 


Ventilation . 


Natural 


Natural 


Natural 


Natural 


Natural 


Natural 




windows 


windows 


windows 


windows 


windows 


windows 




i open 


\ open 


iopen 


iopen 


iopen 


iopen 


No. of Factory 


I 


2 


3 




2 


3 


Carbonic acid in 














10,000 vols, of 














air . 


5.4 


7.0 


7.5 


7.0 


9-8 


9.0 



2 T 



658 JUTE [chap. 

Factory No. i was of modern construction and built on the 
one-floor system. The relative purity of the sample is noticeable 
as compared with Nos. 2 and 3, both old premises with low 
ceilings. There was no artificial lighting in either case, conse- 
quently the carbonic acid present must have been entirely due 
to respiration. Other examinations of samples obtained from 
both spinning and weaving rooms show almost similar results, 
except that the weaving sheds were purer, owing to their ample 
cubic space, and the temperature, as is always the case, consider- 
ably lower. 

In the instance of factory No. i, carding, spinning, and 
winding were all proceeding under one roof, 300 persons being 
at work, as will be seen from a reference to the table. Had gas 
as an illuminant been burning for even a short time in any of 
the premises examined the proportion of COg would presumably 
have been higher. This is supported by the analysis of air in 
a dressmaker's workroom, selected at 8 P.M. There were ten 
persons at work, three large gas jets burning (lit for two hours), 
and 259 cubic feet capacity per head. An examination of the 
sample showed the proportion of CO2 to be 26.4 per 10,000 
volumes of air: temperature inside 73°, outside 41° F. Electric 
light is now the illuminant in almost all the jute factories of any 
size, and a distinct improvement in the condition of the inside 
atmospheres has resulted. Unquestionably the high temperatures 
of spinning rooms are distinctly harmful, perhaps more so than 
is usually imagined ; in fact, the writer from close observation of 
operatives in various parts of the country and in dissimilar 
industries, exposed persistently to warm atmospheres, is of 
opinion that a general lowering of the health (in certain instances 
marked) very frequently follows such employment. The effects 
of constantly breathing warm air, quite apart from the liability 
to chills which such atmospheres engender, are worthy of closer 
study and scientific investigation. Certainly exposure to great 
radiated heat, if the air is not particularly warm, does not affect 
workmen in a similar manner. 

As has been already remarked, the weaving of jute is 
apparently a healthy occupation, judging from the general appear- 
ance of the operatives. The wage of the weaver enables her to 
occupy a comfortable home, and ensures a sufficiency of suitable 
food. The same may be said of the sack-sewers, who, like the 
weavers, usually work in premises kept at a reasonable tempera- 
ture, and present a ruddy and robust appearance. 



xlvl] tetanus in jute workers . . 659 

With reference to the subject of tetanus, no more authori- 
tative statement can be submitted than that of H.M. Medical 
Inspector of Factories, Dr T. Morison Legge, and his remarks 
are accordingly quoted from the Annual Report of H.M. Chief 
Inspectors of Factories for the year 1899 : — 

" When visiting Dundee in February, my attention was called 
by the district inspector, Mr Wilson, to the fact that within the 
preceding twelve months two fatal cases of tetanus had occurred 
in one jute mill. It occurred to me that possibly the soil of the 
alluvial land in which the jute was grown in Bengal might be rich 
in tetanus bacilli, and the incidence of tetanus on jute workers 
in Dundee therefore be attributable to spores brought over in the 
mud adhering to the jute fibres. 

" In April a woman climbed up upon the travelling feed-sheet 
of a jute-softening machine while it was in motion. Her foot was 
caught between the ingathering fluted iron rollers, and was 
severely crushed and lacerated. Tetanus ensued on about the 
sixth day after the accident, and proved fatal within twenty-four 
hours. A sample of dust was collected from under the machine, 
and was submitted to Dr Andrewes of St Bartholomew's Hospital, 
for bacteriological examination. He found tetanus bacilli un- 
doubtedly present in the dust, probably in considerable numbers, 
and stated that it was unusual to be able to demonstrate tetanus 
bacilli in such numbers, and with such ease as he had been able 
to do. 

" The point having considerable scientific interest, as showing 
possibly the same connection between tetanus and jute as is 
known to exist between anthrax and wool-sorting, and further 
in emphasising the necessity of careful fencing of machinery, I 
collected, eight months later, four other samples of jute from 
factories in Dundee, and one sample of Russian hemp dust to 
serve as a control. In three of the samples of jute dust, Dr 
Andrewes reported that tetanus bacilli were present, but that he 
could not demonstrate their presence in the sample of hemp dust. 

" One of the samples in which the bacilli were present was 
taken from under the same machine where eight months 
previously the accident had occurred. During the interval the 
original sample, which Dr Andrewes had retained, appeared to 
have lost its virulence. 

" At the end of December an accident occurred in a jute mill 
resulting in severe injury to the wrist of a worker. Tetanus 
developed twenty-six days later, and as has frequently been 



66o JUTE [CHAP. 

noted in cases where the incubation period is prolonged more 
than three weeks, did not prove fatal. Some dust was collected 
six weeks after the accident from near the place where it occurred, 
and was examined with negative results. 

" Dr Andrewes' experiments prove unquestionably that tetanus 
spores must be present in incredible numbers in much of the dust 
in jute mills. Fortunately, the disease cannot be brought about 
like anthrax by inhalation, nor does it develop, as a rule, except as 
the result of a mixed infection. 

'•In the ten years 1890-99, 11 fatal cases of traumatic tetanus 
have been recorded in Dundee. Five of these were workers in 
jute mills. Of the remaining six, one, aged six, was the son of a 
yarn-dresser, a second, aged eight, the son of a mill overseer, and 
a third, aged one, the daughter of a yard-beamer. The possibility 
of the tetanus in their cases having been brought about by the 
dust in their parents' clothing, or in jute material worked at home, 
is not excluded. In the other three cases there does not appear 
to have been any connection with jute. 

" While not wishing to lay too much stress on the matter, seeing 
that tetanus germs are to be found in almost every sample of 
garden mould, I think the figures do show a special incidence of 
tetanus on jute workers, and I attribute it, as I have said, to the 
soil in which the jute is grown being particularly rich in the 
bacilli. 

" In India, tetanus is much commoner than it is in this country, 
and I am informed that one of the most prominent fears before 
the surgeon's mind in treating a severe lacerated wound is the 
possibility of tetanus supervening. Inquiry is being made in India 
as to the incidence of tetanus among jute workers there." 

Investigations reveal a predisposition among factory workers, 
and particularly those employed in spinning and preparing rooms, 
to develop respiratory troubles — broncho-pneumonia, chronic 
bronchitis, and pulmonary emphysema, being the most prominent. 
There is also a singularly large number of patients admitted to. 
the local infirmary suffering from lobar pneumonia. Rheumatism 
is an extremely common ailment, and can be partially accounted 
for by the great variations of temperature which operatives have 
frequently to withstand. Multiple tuberculous lesions are fre- 
quently observed in the children of the poorer operatives, and. 
thus one finds from time to time young, persons at work, with 
portions of the hands amputated on account of scrofulous or tuber- 
culous diseases of the bones. Slight deafness is widespread among^ 




XLVi.] ''MILL FEVER" IN JUTE WORKERS * ' 66 1 



jute operatives, but other textile workers may be afflicted in a 
similar degree. The excessive noise of jute-weaving looms, and 
the persistent loud hum of spinning frames presumably account 
for much of this. The looms, owing to their large size, and the 
weight and high speed of the shuttles, are particularly noisy. The 
possibility of the dust inducing the formation of an obstruction 
with the waxy secretion of the ear is not excluded ; indeed the 
fine light particles of fibre readily accumulate in the external 
auditory canal. 

A hoarseness or huskiness of voice is met with frequently, 
and is especially marked in preparing and spinning operatives. 
Whether this is due to overstraining of the voice, shouting above 
the noise of the machinery, or to dust irritation of the vocal chords, 
has never been clearly demonstrated. Anaemia in its commonest 
forms is a frequent ailment among all the operatives, but doubtless 
careless and injudicious feeding contributes to this condition of 
health. 

An illness locally known as " mill fever " attacks about one- 
fourth of the persons who commence labour in factories for the 
first time. The symptoms make their appearance a few days after 
work is started, and take the form of one or more of the following : 
headache, backache, lassitude, thirst, and slight fever. The attack 
lasts about from three to four days, and yields to antifebrile 
medicines followed by tonics. It has been observed that the 
patients are usually young people, and are frequently of weak con- 
stitution, or badly nourished. 

In drawing definite conclusions as to the incidence of these 
ailments in jute operatives, one is confronted by the difficulty of 
differentiating between what is caused by the industry, and what 
is the natural result of poor feeding and bad housing. No 
absolutely reliable statistics have yet been compiled relating to the 
health conditions of the workers ; indeed there is much scope for 
further research in this direction. 

The low physical and social condition of a section of the opera- 
tives is a marked feature of this industry. The class alluded to is 
generally distinctly diminutive in appearance, being of light weight 
as well as of short stature. For the most part they are employed 
in the relatively disagreeable processes, namely, preparing and 
spinning, and, as before mentioned, they earn smaller wages than 
weavers. It is needless to say that most of this class are 
indifferently housed. At the census return of 1891 there were 
22,206 persons living in single-roomed houses in Dundee, an 



662 JUTE [chap. xlvi. 

average of 2.6 per house. Of two-roomed houses there were 
17,834, containing 81,488 inmates, an average of 4.56 per house. 
Generally speaking, the single-roomed abodes shelter the worst 
paid operatives. These single rooms are at times badly crowded, 
and the sanitary accommodation, if such exists at all, in spite of 
extensive improvements effected in recent years, is often an open 
manure heap, the tenants using pails for house refuse, etc. 

Typhus fever is almost constantly prevalent in Dundee, 39 
cases occurring in 1899, with 5 deaths, and up to the 13th November 
1900, 49 cases, 6 terminating fatally. These figures may indicate 
to a certain extent the amount of destitution and overcrowding 
which exists. 

The infantile death-rate is high, the figures for the last few 
years being as follows: — For 1897, 194; 1898, 181; 1899, 169 
per 1000 births. The lamentable neglect of young infants leaves 
its impress on the children who survive, many of them presenting 
a puny and delicate appearance when applying for employment at 
twelve years of age. 

The poverty or greed of the parents drives these children, the 
most undersized and least able to withstand the injurious effects of 
a factory life, to work at the earliest possible age, and the indoor 
life discourages growth and development. 

The reports of the inspectors of jute mills in East India show 
that the industry is considered there to have no particularly 
deleterious effects on health. The mills, however, are built with 
very high roofs, and are largely open to the sky. The climate 
permits of this, and accordingly the ventilation gives no trouble. 
Another fact has to be borne in mind in comparing Indian operatives 
with those employed at home. The former are migratory, only 
remaining a year or two at the industry, and, presumably, insuffi- 
cient time is given for any injurious effects to betray themselves ; 
whereas in Scotland, the bulk of a lifetime is spent by a worker in 
a jute factory. 

Harry J. Wilson. 



CHAPTER XLVII 

LAUNDRY WORKERS 

Thousands of women and girls are employed every week in 
the useful office of cleansing and making fresh the garments 
stained in the daily stress and toil of life, and the impression 
is probably a correct one — though it is impossible to support 
it by statistics^ — that "washing," in the sense of laundry work, 
affords occupation to at least as large a number of women as 
does any other industry in the country. 

The industry embraces perhaps as wide a range of methods 
as any other that could be mentioned. The disparity between 
that of the woman who " takes in a little washing " and that 
of the huge " Sanitary Laundry " owned by a Limited Company, 
and equipped with power-driven machinery which yearly becomes 
more complicated, is indeed great. But the engine wins, and it 
seems clear that before long the whole industry will become 
one of organised factory-labour with some survivals of the 
other system, just as in the textile trades a few rough wooden 
hand-looms and picturesque spinning-wheels still linger in the 
more out-of-way districts. 

" To take in washing " has for so long appeared to be an 
occupation mainly reserved as a resource for the woman bereft 
of her "breadwinner," or deprived by circumstances of other 
means of livelihood, that many people still look on "laundry 
work " from this point of view. It is perhaps difficult to realise 
that the radical change which has everywhere transformed 
industrial conditions has already affected this occupation also, 
and that for good or for evil the washerwoman is passing under 
the influences which have so profoundly modified the circum- 
stances of her sister of the spinning-wheel and the sewing 
needle. When the first washing- machine and ironing roller were 
applied to this occupation, alteration in the conditions became as 
much a foregone conclusion as it did in the case of the textile 

663 



664 LAUNDRY WORKERS [chap. 

or the clothing manufactures, when the spinning frame, the 
power loom, or the sewing machine appeared. 

Meanwhile, few industries afford at the present time a more 
interesting study. From a simple home occupation it is steadily 
being transformed by the application of power-driven machinery 
and by the division of labour into a highly organised factory 
industry, in which complicated labour-saving contrivances of all 
kinds play a prominent part. The tremendous impetus in the 
adoption of machinery, and the consequent modification of the 
system of employment so striking in the large laundries, is not 
greater than the less obvious but even more important develop- 
ment in the same direction among small laundries. Indeed the 
difference is rapidly becoming one of degree only. In the large 
laundries may be found perhaps more machinery and a greater 
number of the newest devices, but the fundamental change has 
affected all alike. " At one time it was only in a few large 
steam laundries that machinery was to be met with, now it is 
no uncommon thing to .find a row of houses in separate occupa- 
tion, the back yard of each of which is roofed in and packed 
with laundry machinery, all driven by an engine installed at one 
end of the row. The old-fashioned 'washerwoman' is fast dis- 
appearing, and is superseded by the enterprising young * laundry 
proprietor,* who, turning the tubs out of the back kitchen, fills 
their place with ' washing machines,' and connecting them with 
a little gas engine (tightly wedged into the dark broom cupboard 
under the stairs), blossoms forth as the owner of ' a factory 
laundry,' ready to deal with six times the amount of work that 
his predecessor could hope to cope with, and to compete 
feverishly with scores of similarly equipped rivals." * 

One result of this haphazard adaptation of old conditions 
to new circumstances is an undesirable anomaly between the 
two. The small unsuitable premises, never designed for house 
machinery, quiver and shake under the unaccustomed strain ; 
and the little rooms, " ventilated " by windows only, are ill suited for 
operations which produce quantities of steam and an abnormal 
temperature. Not seldom the ambitious " proprietor " himself 
is lamentably ignorant of the capacities and possibilities of the 
machinery of which he is the proud possessor. " Since the 
guvnor tied the old box-mangle up to the new engine, she has 
taken to leapin' back and forrards that alairmin' and that sudden- 
like, that it's a wonder I've not been caught out sooner nor I 
* Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories for 1900. 




XLVuf! MACHINERY IN STEAM LAUNDRIES , . 665 

was." The remark, which is recorded by the Factory Inspector 
who investigated the resulting accident, epitomises quaintly the 
situation in many a small laundry. Everywhere machinery is 
to be found, even in the smallest hand laundry. The hand-turned 
washing machine stands among the wash-tubs, and as soon as 
funds permit will be coupled up to a tiny gas engine, which in 
time will give place to a larger one. 

' - " Side by side with this development in the smaller laundries 
Is to be found the rapid multiplication of large laundry com- 
panies and syndicates, certain of which own as many as a 
dozen or more fine well-equipped steam laundries fitted up 
with the latest ingenious inventions in labour-saving machinery, 
and organised into ' departments ' in which the division of 
labour is at least as marked a feature as it is in the majority 
of non-textile factories. In such places a single shirt will 
pass through seven or eight different machines in the process 
of ironing alone. In place of the elderly married woman or 
widow, we find skilled engineers in charge of a shed full of 
machinery still called familiarly the 'wash-house,' while scores 
of girls and young women, from thirteen years upwards, tend 
the various kinds of ironing machines, with exactly the same 
mechanical precision and routine as in any other factory. Even 
in those departments where machinery is not required, the labour 
is organised and regulated as in an ordinary factory, the sorters 
have their staff of ' markers,' and the ' dryers ' fill and empty 
with almost automatic regularity the series of drying closets 
through which hot air is driven by propulsion fans. With this 
advent of machinery and sub-division of labour, the whole 
character of the industry has changed. It is becoming more 
and more evident that, from the smallest to the largest 
laundry, the industry is passing — has indeed in some respects 
already passed — out of the peculiar position which it has hitherto 
occupied, and is taking its place alongside ordinary trades." * 

The manufacture of laundry machinery, to which much energy 
and capital is devoted, is every year increasing. New and 
ingenious inventions and improvements constantly appear, 
many of which come from America, whence a considerable 
amount of this machinery is imported. The adaptation to 
laundry work of the "hydro-extractor," a powerful drying 
machine much used in bleaching and dyeworks, has greatly 
expedited the laundry process. This machine consists of a 
* Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories for 1900. 



666 LAUNDRY WORKERS [chap. 

round perforated metal " cage " or " basket," which revolves 
at an enormous speed (500 to over 1500 revolutions a minute) 
inside an iron or steel case, in shape like a huge round pot 
standing 2 or 3 feet high ; the wet clothes are packed into 
the " basket," and during its rapid revolutions the water is 
driven out of them by centrifugal force through the perforations 
into the outer casing, on the same principal as water from a 
mop which is trundled. As may be imagined, the terrific 
velocity and vibration of such a machine is an element of 
danger, and in the event of a cast-iron case bursting, the 
fragments are hurled with a force which will wreck the room 
or shed in which it stands, and prove fatal to any bystander. 

In the same way the "calender machine" has been adapted 
to laundry work, and is now commonly found in quite small 
laundries ; it consists of huge steam or gas heated cylinders, 
varying from 4 to 8 or 9 feet long, either revolving singly in 
a metal bed, as in the case of the "decoudun," or on each 
other, as in the case of the multiple-roller calenders. The 
machine is tended by quite young girls from thirteen years 
old and upwards, who stand in front to "feed" the edge of 
the material into the " bite " of the rollers or over the " lip " of 
the decoudun. The linen is gradually drawn in under the 
hot, revolving rollers, which thus " iron " it smooth and glossy^ 
a cloud of steam arising as each damp article passes under 
the roller. Constant care is required to so put the work under 
the machine that the hands are not also drawn under ; want 
of attention may be followed by an accident, and even where 
care is exercised the fingers may be entangled in a string or 
hole in the material and the hand thus drawn in. The heat 
given off by these machines is sometimes very great ; a tempera- 
ture of over 90° F. may be registered even in winter on the feeding- 
step in front of this machine, at which little girls stand all day long. 

It would be difficult to enumerate in detail all the various 
machines and appliances now used in laundries ; washing 
machines in endless and bewildering variety, hydro - extractors, 
mangling and starching machines, calenders, collar and cuff- 
ironers, shirt -bosom polishers, blouse ironers, skirt ironers, 
body-linen ironers, curling machines (to give the desired curl 
to collars), gophering-machines (which give the wave to frills), 
electric or gas-heated irons and drying closets, through which 
hot blasts are driven by mechanical " fans," are some of the 
contrivances which are in common use. 



XLVII.] • FACTORY YY.^S\JS HOME INDUSTRY , . 667 

The change in the nature of the occupation is naturally 
accompanied by a change in the conditions of work which 
now assimilate in all but the degree of legislative regulation 
to those in ordinary factories or workshops. As in other 
industries, the adoption of machinery has resulted in a large 
increase in the employment of young and of comparatively 
unskilled labour, for girls of fourteen or sixteen years can 
tend machines, the operations of which, if accomplished by 
hand, could only be undertaken by older or more skilled 
workers. Where only one girl under eighteen years was 
employed eight or nine years ago, now dozens are to be 
found as machine tenders. 

In endeavouring to present as saliently as possible the 
most striking feature of the present position of this trade, 
namely, its development into a factory industry, and the 
strides with which it is ranging itself alongside others in 
this respect, reference has been purposely delayed to that 
section which, though relatively decreasing, is still of course 
large, in which only hand labour is employed. Here the 
interesting feature is the steady decrease in the size of the 
average hand - laundry. Large hand - laundries are becoming 
rare, for, unless they do a peculiar class of work, they cannot 
hope to compete with similar or smaller-sized ones in which 
mechanical power is employed. On the other hand, the very 
small hand-laundries, where from one to five or six women are 
employed, still of course exist in large numbers, and are for the 
most part carried on in little dwelling-houses. The house-mother 
who endeavours to support her family by tailoring, shirtmaking, 
boot-closing, knitting, artificial flower-making, or by handwork of 
any kind carried on in her own living rooms, may feel assured that, 
uncomfortable and wretched as her home may in consequence 
become, it is and must be infinitely less wretched, unhealthy, and 
disorganised than the home of the woman who in a small 
town dwelling-house takes in washing as a means of livelihood. 
The discomforts of the family "wash day" are extended to 
all the other days in the week, and are increased tenfold. It 
is impossible to wash without creating steam, which makes the 
air heavy and condenses on ceilings, walls, and furniture, saturat- 
ing them with a clammy moisture. It is impossible to "dry" 
in smoky towns during the greater part of the year except 
under cover, and the flapping wet material hung all day and all 
night across the rooms, the passages, or the tiny backyard, 



668 LAUNDRY WORKERS [chap. 

excludes air and light, even apart from the other objections. 
It is impossible to iron without fire or stoves which raise the 
temperature, until not only the tiny room but the whole house 
becomes oppressively hot, and the " close " smell, always so 
noticeable in small town houses, is seriously aggravated when 
piles of soiled linen are sorted and dealt with. 

Sometimes the washing is done in a basement room, to 
light or ventilate which is practically impossible ; and one has 
only to stand in such a place where, with the best will in the 
world, proper drainage of the sloppy floor is impossible, where 
the heat in summer and the damp in winter are alike exces- 
sive, to realise vividly that of all industries laundry work 
is perhaps the least suitable to the home. A common plan 
in certain crowded parts of London, and one much favoured 
by foreign immigrants, is to let in lodgings the single rooms 
on the floors above the ground, and to carry on such a 
"laundry" below, with the help of one or two other women. 
The steam, heat, and smell are sometimes overpowering, while 
the work is continued till far into the night. 

The effect of the occupation on the health of those engaged 
in it is not very easy to gauge, because most of the diseases 
to which such persons are rendered peculiarly liable by the 
nature of the occupation are those which might be induced 
by many other causes. It is much to be hoped that before 
long the registration of the occupation of women as well as 
of men, in all hospitals and infirmaries, and in certificates of 
death, will make the comparison of this with other industries 
possible in this respect. 

It is impossible that the heat and steam, the exhausting 
manual labour (all of which is done standing), and above all the 
excessively long hours of work in this ill-regulated industry, can 
fail to have a marked effect on the health of the workers as a 
class. In 1893 and 1894, when inquiry as to these conditions pre- 
ceded the passing of the Act of 1895, the periods of work of women 
and young girls were found to be excessively long — and they are 
still not only very long, but extraordinarily irregular. The 
most immediately obvious effect on health is to be found in 
the prevalence, among these workers, of ulcers on the legs and 
varicose veins. It would perhaps be hardly credited by any who 
are not intimately acquainted with them, to what extent these 
poor women suffer in this respect. To stand at work all day is 
the lot of many industrial workers, but in no other woman's 



XLVII.] 



MALADIES OF LA UNDR V WORKERS 



669 



industry is this form of suffering so serious. In certain well- 
defined laundry districts in West London an inquiry at the 
Poor Law Infirmaries, to which, and not to the Hospitals, the poor 
women suffering from this troublesome and painful ailment most 
naturally resort, demonstrated the peculiar liability of laundry 
workers in this respect. 

The districts to which the following figures (taken from the 
Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories) relate are those in 
which industrial workers — although not perhaps employed to the 
same extent as laundry workers — reside in greater numbers, and 
to the Poor Law Infirmaries, to which they therefore gravitate to 
even greater extent. 

TABLE A* 
Wandsworth : Clapham Infirmary (including Battersea). 



1899. 


No. 


Suffering from 

Ulcers of 

Legs. 


Proportion. 


Pulmonary 
Consumption. 


Proportion. 


Laundresses 


247 


36 


I in 6 


21 


I in II 


Women other than 












Laundresses 


I171 


50 


I in 23 


63 


I in 19 


1900. 
Laundresses 


199 


27 


I in 7 


18 


I in ir 


Women other than 












Laundresses 


I127 


41 


I m 27 


59 


I in 19 



TABLE B. 
Isle worth Infirmary (includes Acton, Chiswick, Brentford). 



1898. 


No. 


Suffering from 

Ulcers of 

Legs. 


Proportion. 


Pulmonary 
Consumption. 


Proportion. 


Laundresses . 
Women other than 
Laundresses 

T A '^^9- 

Laundresses 
Women other than 
Laundresses 


58 
179 

79 
218 


9 

7 

13 

7 


I in 6 

I in 25 

I in 6 
I in 31 


6 

7 

9 

1 II 


I in 10 

I in 25 

I in 9 
I in 20 



The transference of most of the work in laundries from com- 
paratively elderly women to quite young girls, who are thus at an 

* In giving the figures showing the proportion of cases to the total number of; 
patients, any fractions have been omitted for the sake of clearness. 



670 LAUNDRY WORKERS [chap. 

immature age brought under conditions which no thoughtful or 
educated person will deny are in every respect trying, is an aspect 
of the subject to which it is important to direct attention ; seventy, 
seventy-two, seventy-six hours a week, exclusive of meal times, 
are not uncommonly worked by girls of fourteen, fifteen, or six- 
teen years of age, and although these long hours are nominally 
illegal, it is practically impossible to give general effect to the law. 
This work is not the light and often pleasant occupation of sewing 
or folding. It is not done sitting down. From morning to night 
these young girls are constantly standing, they are generally 
tending machines, the majority of which are specially heated, and 
they work in an atmosphere in which steam, which is nearly 
always present, makes the high temperature far more oppressive 
than would be the case if the air were not thus artificially saturated 
to an excessive degree with moisture. Steam rises from the 
calenders and various machines. It is given off also by the damp 
clothes, which in many laundries, even large ones, hang drying or 
airing overhead or on " horses " in the room. The conditions in 
this respect are often at least as trying as in any spinning-mill, 
and the hours, during which the girls are exposed to them, very 
much longer. 

Ironers suffer from headaches and sore eyes, which result from 
constantly bending over the gas-heated irons in general use. The 
fumes from the tiny gas-jets — unless these and the air supply to 
each iron are very carefully regulated — are disagreeably noticeable 
on entering the room, and sometimes even the laundry, and are of 
course worst of all just above the iron so heated. It is to be 
remembered that the material handled is not new or in the first 
instance clean, and unless sufficient care is taken to keep the 
"sorting" room in laundries in proper condition, the result is 
sure to be insanitary. 

In small hand and "factory" laundries, a practice is to be 
found which cannot be too severely deprecated, of employing as 
a " drying-room " for the washed linen the same little room in 
which the foul linen is sorted on its arrival. The room has a 
stove in the middle of it, and the washed linen is hung on 
lines drawn across it, and, with door and window closely shut, is 
left all day and often all night till dry. 

It may be taken as an axiom that when on entering the 
premises the peculiar "close" smell is noticeable, there the 
conditions are bad. Of all the disagreeable smells that are to be 
found, the heavy odour of an ill-ventilated laundry or wash-house 



XLVIl] , LAUNDRY WORK EXTREMELY EXHAUSTING , 671 

is one of the worst ; " it seems to cling to one's lips till one tastes 
it," was the expression used by one who frequently visits laundries. 
To this discomfort the " sorters " are peculiarly exposed. As Miss 
Squire says : "It is hardly perhaps realised how great are the 
demands that this branch of laundry-work makes upon the 
physical and mental powers of the workers, usually young women 
of good education, and the constant standing, the unpleasant, if 
not the insanitary nature of the work for the first part of the week 
during the "sorting" process, and the great care and attention 
required during the latter part, when collecting, checking, and 
packing separately each customer's linen." " 1 visited," says Miss 
Anderson, "one hand laundry in London where a packer and 
sorter had been driven into a hospital with sores on her legs from 
long standing ; every day in the week she had been working from 
8 A.M. to 10 P.M. with indefinite meal-times, and on Sundays the 
whole morning, giving out parcels to customers. This girl 
eventually left the hospital on crutches, and at that time I 
found her successor in a fair way to losing her health also." * 
The reply of the women themselves, when questioned on the 
subject, is nearly always the same, and its reiteration is impressive : 
" I don't know that it's anything particular as carries us off; but 
we are just wore out in no time." " There's nothing like this life 
for wearing you out." " We're old women at forty." " It's a 
harder life than any, is a laundry ; it wears you out very soon." 
" For one strong one that'll stand it, there's a many and many 
fair wore out by it before they've lived half a life." 

It would be interesting to test the accuracy of this general 
impression which is shared by many medical and philanthropic 
persons who are interested in laundry-workers, if figures were 
available on which to base a calculation of the "expectation of life" 
among these women. " Worn out while still young," is the 
expression constantly used by those whose professional work 
brings them into contact with these women when speaking of 
the effect of the occupation on health. 

It is frequently asserted that laundry women as a class are 
intemperate and rougher than most industrial workers. That 
they are peculiarly irregular in their habits it is impossible to 
deny ; and that the long hours, the discomfort and exhaustion due 
to constant standing in wet and heat, discourage the entrance into 
the trade of a better class of worker is certain. This latter cause, 
however, will operate less and less strongly as the environment 
* Annual Report of Chief Inspector of Factories for 1896. 



672 LAUNDRY WORKERS [chap, xlvii. 

improves. They may at present be characterised as a hard- 
working, impulsive, short-tempered body of women, the control of 
whom, under the existing irregular conditions which have been 
thoughtlessly and unnecessarily encouraged, is not to be lightly 
undertaken by a man without a fair amount of physical and 
moral courage. The prevalence of the drink habit among many 
of them, of which so much is said, is not difficult to account for : 
the heat of an atmosphere often laden with particles of soda, 
ammonia, and other chemicals, has a remarkably thirst-inducing 
effect ; the work is for the most part exhausting, even apart from 
the conditions, and the pernicious habit of quenching the thirst, 
and stimulating an overtired physical condition, with beer. The 
ten minutes or quarter-hour " lunch " of " beer " is common, and 
the " beerman," who goes his rounds at lo A.M. and 6 or 7 P.M. 
to all the laundries, delivering his cans of beer from the nearest 
public house, is an institution which is, I believe, unknown in 
any other trade. Imagine the amazement of the master of a mill 
or weaving factory if his employes were to stop in a body for 
a quarter of an hour twice a day between meals to drink beer ! 
Yet in many laundries the beer is kept on the premises for the 
purpose, and it is certain that as long as time thus wasted (to 
put it on the lowest grounds) can be made up by each separate 
woman "working it out" at the end of the day, irregular 
dawdling and intemperate habits will be encouraged. On 
the other hand, a woman who is expected on Thursdays or 
Fridays to be in the laundry from 8 or 8.30 in the morning 
till 9 or 10 or 11 at night, may claim with some show of reason 
that only by some kind of spur can she keep her overtired body 
from flagging. 

None deplore this discreditable and unsatisfactory practice 
more than the better and more progressive among the laundry 
employers, but the abolition of it rests practically with them. 

Little has been said about the legal regulation of hours of work. 
Were the conditions in this trade to be raised by the exercise 
of modern ingenuity and wise organisation — above all, by whole- 
hearted adoption of effectual means of counteracting the very 
trying conditions, which it is best frankly to own are otherwise 
an essential accompaniment of the work — there is no reason why- 
it should not rank as one of the best of the non-textile industries. 

Lucy A. E. Deane. 



CHAPTER XLVIII 

FISH-CURING AND FRUIT-PRESERVING 

It would probably seem to the casual observer that of all indus- 
tries in which women are employed, none are less likely to cause 
injury to health than those connected with fish. Visions arise of 
the fisherman's wife, who from the minute the fishing-boat grates 
on the beach relieves her husband of all labour, taking the burden 
of the active work and the sole responsibility for all connected 
with the fish and the nets ; of the Newhaven fishwife, so familiar 
in the streets of Edinburgh, as she trudges from door" to door 
bearing with apparent ease the enormous creel of fish, and her 
almost equally surprising burden of petticoats, and of everything 
one has heard or read of the fisher lass. These visions and 
traditions would seem to justify the view that whatever there 
may be in her life that is hard, and for which the dweller in 
towns might be found unfit, the woman who has from her infancy 
been accustomed to an outdoor life and to constant exposure 
to wind and weather, will, in this work, have fitness and endurance 
which it would be difficult to overtax. 

Yet it is not inappropriate to give some space to this industry 
in a book on Occupation Diseases, and in order to arrive at 
the reason for its inclusion, it is necessary to look at the history 
of the development of the fish-curing industry and the condi- 
tions of work. 

Far away in remote districts of Scotland and Ireland, there 
may still be found surviving the hand industry of wool-carding and 
spinning, carried on often by the crofter's or shepherd's wife as 
she sits, singing no doubt appropriate songs, on the hillside or at 
her peat fire, but in nothing can this be compared with the great 
wool-spinning industry of the Yorkshire mills. Similarly in the 
fish-curing trade, the work of the women who concern themselves 
only with the catch of one small fishing-boat is totally different 
from that of those who are centred round a fish market, who go 
from port to port, and to whom the trawler, the drifter, the steam 

673 * 2 u 



674 FISH-CURING AND FRUIT-PRESERVING [chap. 

liner, and a huge fleet of sail boats, bring in daily tons of 
fish. 

In a country with such a coastline as ours, with its shores 
washed by many seas, it follows as a matter of course that all 
parts of the United Kingdom are industrially interested in fishing, 
but in Scotland chiefly it is a staple industry ; and the Scots, in 
some parts of the country, might be called a nation of fisher folk, 
so large a proportion of the population depend, if not for their 
entire living, at least for the chief part of it, on the harvest of 
the sea. The figures given in the last published report of the 
Scotch Fishery Board show that almost 90,000 Scots were 
employed in connection with the various branches of the sea 
fisheries, of whom probably at least a fourth are women, 
constantly or intermittently engaged in fish-curing. 

The industry, leaving out of account the packing of fish for 
sale fresh, which is done from the market, not the workshop, may 
be divided roughly into two varieties, the one dealing with 
herring, the other with haddocks, cod, and other white-fleshed 
fish. It is with the former I wish to deal chiefly here, although 
the latter has also a record of injury caused by overwork and bad 
conditions. 

There does not appear to be reason to fear that the demand 
both at home and abroad for Scotch-cured herrings will diminish. 
The industry, while fluctuating yearly, both locally and generally, 
grows as a whole in extent, and is largely in the hands of Scotch 
workers, even in the ports in England in which it is carried on. 
There is a huge trade to foreign ports in cured or pickled 
herrings, for which there is apparently an unlimited demand in 
Russia and Germany ; and an immense quantity are exported 
also to the Mediterranean ports. The women employed (if we 
consider, as the English curer does, that Northumberland is part 
of Scotland as far as the fishing industry is concerned) are practi- 
cally all Scotch. They are engaged by the curer for the season 
as long as that lasts in one port, or may be engaged for a longer 
period, or indeed for the whole " herring " year by the same curer. 
At any rate, they find little difficulty in securing engagements, 
and, in May and June, we find them very far north : Stornoway 
and Thurso being the centres of the industry. In July, there is 
a move eastwards on the part of the herring, and consequently of 
the herring curers, and for two months Shetland, Wick, Fraser- 
burgh, and Peterhead are the chief headquarters. Later, the 
same women may be found doing the same work on the York- 



XLViii.] CAUSES OF INJURY TO HEALTH 675 

shire and the Lincolnshire coasts, and in October they move to 
Lowestoft and Yarmouth, where their season probably ends about 
Christmas time. A certain number also may be found in Hull, 
kippering herrings in the early part of the year, before making 
their way home north for a sight of friends and home, before 
beginning the work of a new season. 

The chief causes of injury to health in the industry are two : 
(i) long and irregular hours of work; (2) exposure. Uncertainty 
of supply, both of fish and of wind, are of course important factors 
in the trade ; and, so far, little enterprise has been shown in over- 
coming the resulting difficulties by adopting even such methods 
as are known to a careful housekeeper, of keeping the fish, which 
undoubtedly, when left unprotected and piled in heaps, soon 
begin to deteriorate. The curer's object is to have the fish 
dealt with as soon as possible after they are landed, both to 
prevent deterioration and in order to be ready for the next supply. 
Hence the long hours, the night work, the absence of regular 
hours or of intervals sufficient for meals. 

The method of housing the workers adds to the discomforts 
occasioned by the methods of work. In Scotland it is customary 
for the curer to utilise for this purpose the sheds used in winter 
as stores, handing them over unfurnished, save for grates and 
rough boards put together to form bedsteads, in the proportion of 
one bedstead for one crew. The workers bring their own furniture, 
bedding, and cooking utensils, and live as they work, in crews of 
three ; generally six, nine, or twelve in a room according to its 
size. It is not surprising that the frying-pan and the tea-pot fill 
a large place in their domestic arrangements, and that their diet 
is as a rule as expensive as it is indigestible. If they are not so 
housed, the probability is that their lodging is a long way from 
their workplace, too far to admit of them returning for meals, 
and they take these in the wet and unwholesome atmosphere of 
the fish-house. 

The second drawback to this work is the exposure. In early 
summer in Lewis (where the absence of any real darkness makes 
it easy to continue work all through the night), with the rain 
falling softly probably, as is its custom in the west, but none 
the less effectively ; later on in the east, exposed to the scorch- 
ing mid-day heat ; and still later on, on the Norfolk coast in frost, 
wind, and rain, working far into the night, by the light of flaring 
torches, such is the yearly experience of the herring curer. The 
reason given for the present conditions in each place is that 



676 FISH-CURING AND FRUIT-PRESERVING [chap. 

the season is short, a month or two out of the year only. True, 
the season is short for the town, but it is long for the worker, 
living a nomadic life for eight to ten months out of twelve, either 
in barracks or in lodgings, too often enduring the maximum 
of discomfort both in and out of her working hours. Since 
the work, unlike most of an outdoor nature, can be carried on 
in bad as in good weather, it is reasonable to expect that some 
covering should be provided, so that the worker shall not be 
wetted through and through, and compelled to stand in mud 
as she works. Should the occupation be ever transformed 
from an outdoor to an indoor industry, there would necessarily 
be a loss of those picturesque sights with which many of 
us have become familiar, but there would be a distinct gain 
in improved health to the workers, for the unsatisfactory 
health of many of the women is the direct result of the con- 
ditions under which their work is carried on. Rheumatism, 
bronchitis, and the pulmonary troubles, from which so many 
of them suffer, are consequent upon exposure to inclement 
weather, but the derangements of the digestive organs and the 
tendency for the workers to contract, often too in a severe 
form, epidemic diseases with which they are brought into contact, 
are the result of their generally lowered physical condition, due 
to their unhealthy mode of living. The very ground they stand 
on is often a menace to health, for in the absence of proper 
paving and drainage, the earth becomes impregnated with 
decaying organic matter, which "smells to heaven," and creates 
a constantly foul atmosphere not completely counteracted by 
the open-air surroundings. The long spell of work, the irregular 
and hastily cooked and eaten meals, and overcrowded rooms, all 
tend to lower vitality and render the system an easy prey to 
disease. No one will deny that an allowance of 250 cubic feet 
of space for each person, in a room which serves as a living 
room, as well as bedroom, for six to twelve persons, is too 
small, yet a smaller allowance of space is frequently found. 

I have spoken of the workers at the pickling or gutting and 
packing process, leaving out of account the numbers employed 
in kippering, who, while also nomadic, yet work on different 
terms as regards wages, etc. Each worker is engaged separ- 
ately, not as part of a crew, and as a rule she has to find her 
own lodgings. The nature of the employment obliges the 
kipperer to work in a covered place, but she, equally with the 
"gutter" working outside, is injuriously influenced by the imperfect 



\ 



XLViil.] FISH-CURING UNSUITABLE FOR YOUNG WOMEN 677 

sanitary conditions dependent upon unpaved or badly -paved 
floors that cannot be cleansed by simply being flushed with water. 
Only properly constructed floors with good means of drainage 
are of value here, and these are seldom seen. Ventilation and 
daylight are acknowledged to be desirable to maintain health, 
but the little kippering shop is too frequently without them. 
As a set-ofl" against the unhealthiness of the trade, it is urged 
that the season is short, but if we take the interests of the 
workers into account, the season, as I have shown, is not short, and 
there can be no justice in depriving the woman who works in a trade 
which requires her to be in several places in a year, of those 
privileges to which she would be entitled were she working in 
one which permitted her to live always at home. 

Among the minor ills from which the herring curer suffers, 
are the severe cuts which it is impossible to avoid, and which are 
rendered exceedingly painful by the constant use of salt, neces- 
sary in her work. This often causes sores which take a long 
time to heal. Cases of mild forms of blood poisoning are not 
infrequent, caused chiefly by the sting of the jelly-fish, which is 
often found with its tentacles wound round the herring. 

In considering this question, it must be remembered that this 
branch of the industry is not one in which young girls work. 
I am of opinion that not more than 3 per cent, are under 
eighteen years of age. Were it otherwise, there would un- 
doubtedly be a much darker picture to draw of ill-health, for 
the adult is able to withstand more than the young undeveloped 
girl, and the evil effects are not so rapidly apparent. The subject 
is one on which anything more than general statements are 
difficult to make, for only a little of the injury is discoverable 
at any one of the curing stations. When ill-health overtakes 
her, the thought of the worker turns to home, and it is to the 
little fishing villages, and among the crofters of the north, that 
one must go to learn the full record of the fisher woman's life. 
It is impossible to doubt that the fish-curing industry has much 
to answer for, possessing as it does, in addition to the unfavourable 
surroundings of insanitary districts, evils peculiar to itself The 
history of many a worker is one of steady deterioration of health 
during the time of her employment in this industry. 

In the other branches of the trade, such as the curing and smok- 
ing of haddocks, cod, ling, etc., and the preserving and tinning of 
fish, the workers are drawn much more generally from the 
immediate locality. It is in these that young labour is found, 



678 FISH-CURING AND FRUIT-PRESERVING [chap. 

especially and increasingly in the processes in which the hours 
and conditions are not regulated by law, the period of employ- 
ment at times abnormally long, and the conditions of the work- 
places far from satisfactory. Trying as these are to every one, it 
is to the young and undeveloped workers that they most often 
cause lasting injury. The employment of children, too, out of 
school hours and during school holidays, in these laborious 
processes, is not to their physical advantage. 

The hopeful feature is that the evils are avoidable. The 
exemptions from Public Health and Factory and Workshop 
Acts, which the fish - curer has been allowed, have not been 
for the benefit either of the worker or the consumer. With 
definite enactment and administration, with regulated hours 
and sanitary workplaces, impetus would be given, I believe, 
to better regulation of the industry itself, and there being 
nothing necessarily unhealthy in the work, we should gradually 
find our fisher population becoming what with their ancestry 
and industry they ought to be — worthy successors of those 
who, in the annals of history, have never been found wanting 
in strength and endurance. 

The Preserving of Fruit. 

The preserving of fruit has only of recent years become an 
industry of any importance. The costliness of sugar made jam 
formerly a luxury for which the demand was small, and the 
great bulk of it used was made not in the factory or workshop,, 
but in the domestic kitchen. Few housewives would, in those 
past days, admit the use of bought jam ; now its reduced price has 
brought it within the reach of all who are without the appli- 
ances or knowledge to make it, or space in which to store it. 
The industry is carried on in all varieties of workplaces, from 
the large country factory in a fruit-growing district, to the little 
dingy workshop in a crowded city street, and largely by women 
and young girls. Jam-making is not an intricate process, whether 
made outright in the fruit season, or only partially, to be completed 
as required during the remainder of the year ; it is simple and 
easily carried on, for the most part, by unskilled workers. Still 
the work is not light, and although there are many appliances 
which help to render it less hard and exhausting, these are not 
in general use, and the workers are exposed, as a rule, to danger 
both to health and limb. Burns and scalds from the boiling 
mixture, and injury from falls on slippery floors, may not be 



xlviil] jam-makers AND RISKS THE V ARE EXPOSED TO 679 

wholly unavoidable in this trade ; but the risk from them can 
be reduced greatly by using proper means of pouring and 
conveying jam, and by limiting the amount which a worker 
shall be allowed or expected to carry. One cannot but view 
with concern the increasing number of youthful workers now 
employed, especially during the summer months, when, owing 
to a relaxation of the Factory Act, the industry is largely out- 
side the sphere of legislative control. Long hours, too, go, as is 
often the case, hand in hand with bad conditions. 

In quite a number of industries among which jam-making 
may be included, wetness really forms the chief menace to 
health. In the textile industry the danger from this cause 
has been so much recognised, that by means of the Cotton 
Cloth Act and by Special Rules, provision is made for the 
health of the workers where they are exposed to moisture. In 
the law relating to steam laundries, the removal of steam is 
specially provided for. In jam manufacture, there is of necessity 
the production of moisture. Where the means for removing it 
are effective, little discomfort or injury may result, but un- 
fortunately in the rapid development of the industry, buildings 
unsuitable for the purpose have often been chosen ; disused 
factories, intended primarily for quite other purposes, and not 
easily adaptable to their present use. In these, consequently, 
the work is done at a risk to health. 

When you enter the boiling-room of one of these factories, 
you are often conscious only of steam, steam which cannot be 
seen through, which envelopes, you, wetting and chilling at the 
same time. As you penetrate it you find that there are 
workers there, young girls often, thinly clad, thin and pale, and 
as you stand and talk to them, the condensed steam drops 
down on you and them from the roof, so that you are not 
surprised that the thin cotton dresses they wear are saturated, 
and even their hair is dripping wet. In the resigned manner 
characteristic of this class of worker, they admit that it is "a 
bit steamy," possibly assuring you at the same time in husky 
voices, which go far to belie their words, that it has never done 
them any harm. Under foot there is again wetness, partly due 
to the steam, partly to the water, hot and cold, which must 
be used with some lavishness, and which in factories, not con- 
structed with a special view to such an industry as this, lodges 
in pools, lies between the flags and bricks of the floor in 
crevices, to which much of the refuse of the factory finds its 



68o FISH-CURING AND FRUIT-PRESERVING [chap, xlviii. 



way. There it lies decomposing, affecting injuriously the 
health of the workers, and hastening the deterioration of the 
fresh fruit. 

Jam -making is classed as a season trade, and although 
employment for the permanent workers is usually continuous 
throughout the year, it is in the summer months that there 
is the greatest pressure, and large numbers of casual workers 
are employed. To meet this pressure, the usual limits set 
by. the Factory Acts have been relaxed, and long spells of 
work, with shortened meal - times, are further elements in 
rendering the worker less efficient and more liable to contract 
disease. The effects of these conditions are not seen at once, 
they are gradual and insidious in their action, but it is only 
the constitution much above the average which can withstand 
them. The prevalence of bronchitis and other chest diseases, 
and of rheumatism and lumbago of a chronic character, although 
often not of a specially severe type, is due to causes which are, 
or should be, preventable. 

The two industries, fish -curing and fruit - preserving, have 
many points in common, notably that in both: (i) the material 
dealt with is of a perishable nature, liable to deterioration ; (2) 
the pressure of work is not continuous throughout the year ; 
(3) the industry is not fully controlled by the Factory Acts. 
To the effects from these causes all that renders these trades at 
present dangerous or injurious to health may be attributed. If 
the economic value of the health of the worker is recognised, 
it will not be impossible to secure conditions which, being 
primarily intended for her benefit, shall incidentally tend also 
to the improvement of the industries. 

Note. — This chapter was written before the Factory Bill of 190 1 
passed into law. It should, owing to the provisions of that Bill, 
be possible in future for H.M. Inspectors to exercise some control 
over some of the conditions relating to health in these trades. 

Mary M. Paterson. 



CHAPTER XLIX 

women's labour in tinplate works 

TiNPLATES, the material of which canisters, tin boxes, etc., are 
made, are plates of iron or of steel, which have been dipped in 
baths of molten tin ; the tin unites by this process with the iron 
or steel, and coats it completely. The secret of tinning plates 
was brought into England from Saxony at the end of the seven- 
teenth century, and the first works were opened at Pontypool. 
South Wales still retains the chief part of this trade ; a few tin- 
plate works are to be found on the banks of the Severn and in 
the Midlands, but the majority are in Monmouthshire, Glamorgan, 
and Carmarthen. In these counties great tinplate works, either 
singly or in groups, or in a long line at intervals of a mile or so 
down the still beautiful valleys, are to be seen and heard, pouring 
out volumes of smoke from tall chimneys, and sending up the 
ceaseless clang and roll of resounding metal — literally ceaseless, 
for the work goes on night and day, with shifts of men and boys. 
More unlikely places in which to find women and girls than 
these iron and steel works where tinplates are made it would 
be difficult to imagine, yet there are hundreds of them in those 
of South Wales, and a few in some of the works in England. 
Before the Factory Acts restricted their hours of labour, women 
and girls worked all night through in tinplate works with the 
men and boys, and such employment seems to have lingered 
long in these out-of-the-way places, for the older women 
remember the night alarm of the inspector's visit and the rush 
from the works out into the darkness, and the quiet stealing home 
so as not to be caught. Now, boys working in a night-shift 
take the place of women and girls in the continuous processes. 
The actual manufacture of the tinplate as distinct from the 
manufacture of the material is divided into two distinct depart- 
ments: (i) The preparation of the iron or steel into plates of 
the required size and thickness, or rather thinness, and the 
smoothing and cleaning of their surfaces ; (2) the tinning of the 



682 WOMEN'S LABOUR IN T INFLATE WORKS [chap. 

plates and their subsequent cleaning, polishing, and packing 
up. 

The first set of processes is carried on in the mills, the second 
in the tinhouses ; the chief part of the work is done by men and 
boys, but in both the mills and the tinhouses women and girls 
find occupation. Their labour falls into five main divisions ; in 
some tinhouses there are also found others subsidiary to these 
five : — 

(i) Opening. — Separating the plates which have in the process 
of rolling been almost welded together, 

(2) Washing. — Cleansing the plates in water. 

(3) Pickling. — Lading and unlading the cradle with plates for 
the pickler (a man) to immerse in dilute sulphuric acid. 

(4) Rubbing or Dusting. — Rubbing the tinned plates with bran, 
meal, or mineral powder to remove grease and polish the surface. 

(5) Counting and Packing. — Ordinary warehouse processes. 
The first three of these processes are carried on in the mills, 

the last two in the tinhouses and warehouses. Different as are 
the conditions of occupation in the various processes, all the 
employes are subject alike to certain conditions : in all depart- 
ments there is exposure to the weather, the works being more 
or less open on all sides ; everywhere there is noise which in the 
mills is deafening, danger to life and limb from locomotives and 
trucks in motion, from red-hot metal, from sharp-edged plates, 
and scraps strewn about, so that the whole works appears one 
vast rubbish heap ; in all departments alike the lifting and 
carrying of heavy loads are part of the ordinary work. There is 
also the association of men and women, lads and girls, working 
together in these great open works where supervision is impossible, 
and where, unfortunately, proper provision for women's con- 
venience, often even for elementary decency, is too often conspicu- 
ous by its absence. 

In Ihe Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories 
for 1888, Mr Whymper gives a graphic description of tinplate 
works and the various processes of manufacture, only touching 
upon the part taken by women and girls, and time seems to have 
made little or no change in either works or processes. 

A few remarks must now be made on the special conditions of 
each of the processes in which women are employed. 

I. Opening. — Mr Whymper has well described this process as 
follows : " Holding the plate upright on a stand of the proper 
height, her right hand fitted with the much-needed guard, she 



I 



XLix.] 7^/SKS TO HEALTH ' ' 683 

first breaks down the plate's upper edges with a sort of knife, 
and starts asunder the tops of the layers which the rolling-mill 
has pressed together temporarily into one piece. Then having 
thus got something to take hold of, she wrenches them asunder in 
their whole lengths, one after another, and lays them flat before 
her. These at last are the required black plates, the result of so 
much and such varied labour." Strength and skill are required 
for this work ; there is some danger of overstrain in lifting the 
heavy plates, but an opener is more at liberty to suit her load to 
her strength than are the w^omen and girls in the other depart- 
ments. The sharp edges of the plates inflict nasty cuts upon the 
hands in spite of the guards worn, and serious accidents have 
occurred by women stumbling and falling against the upright 
plates ; one young woman had her arm cut open from wrist to 
elbow in this way. Fine particles of steel and iron fly off in the 
forcing open of the layers, and it is surprising that injuries to the 
eyes are not more frequent. Some doctors well acquainted with 
these works consider that much injury is caused to the men by 
inhaling these particles of metal present in the air of the mills, 
and that the women are more injuriously affected than they 
themselves know, chest diseases in later life resulting from this 
cause. The openers are a somewhat superior class to the other 
women in tinplate works, from whom they hold themselves aloof: 
their hours, too, are much shorter than those of the others, usually 
from 9 A.M. to 2 P.M., and they come and go as they like. 

2. Waske7's. — These women wash the metal plates in large 
tanks of water ; they carry loads of these heavy, sharp-edged plates, 
and immerse them in the tanks, the displaced water splashes over 
the edge of the tank upon the washer, and falls upon the floor. 
With sleeves rolled up above the elbow, bending over the tank, 
the woman raises the plates again, and carries them to stack at a 
little distance, the water pouring from her load down her dress 
and into her boots. As the same process is repeated again and 
again the whole day long, it is not surprising that her clothes 
are saturated even through the sacking tied on as an apron. 
Nothing more unsuitable for the occupation than the dress of the 
washer could well be imagined — several thin articles of clothing 
hanging wet upon her, the dress and petticoat long enough to 
draggle in the pools of water on the broken flagged or slushy 
mud floor, and flapping heavily against her ankles, and upon her 
feet men's boots filled with water oozing through the eyelet-holes. 
Rheumatism, colds, and chills are regarded as inseparable, at any 



684 WOMEN'S LABOUR IN TINPLATE WORKS [chap. 

rate in winter, from the work of washing tinplates, and other 
ills consequent upon this wet condition are complained of Yet 
the wearing of a waterproof apron (which should be provided 
by the employer), and of short skirts, woollen under-garments, 
and clogs, would prevent nearly all the discomfort and risk to 
health now endured by all these women. The provision of 
properly paved and drained floors, such as the Factory Acts 
require in all laundries, might reasonably be looked for from the 
occupiers of tinplate works, and were mechanical means employed, 
as in the bottle-washing departments in aerated water works for, 
lowering into the tanks and raising from them the articles to be 
washed, the work would be less unsuitable for women than it is at 
present. 

3. Pickling. — The roughest and dirtiest, and perhaps the most 
unhealthy occupation for women in the works is that of the 
" picklers' assistants." These girls work in gangs under the man 
who has the contract for cleaning the plates in dilute sulphuric 
acid. Their work is to lade and unlade the cradles in which the 
plates placed in racks are lowered by the pickler into the steaming 
tanks of acid. Backwards and forwards the girls move with 
armfuls of plates, carrying each time weights of thirty pounds and 
upwards, first filling the racks and then removing from them the 
wet plates fresh from the tanks. The clothing of the girls 
becomes saturated like that of the washers. It is not only their 
health that suffers ; the girls are " soaked through to the skin " as 
they say, not with plain water, but with the " pickle," which rapidly 
destroys both their upper and under garments, and also the leather 
of their boots and clogs. 

The strength of the solution of sulphuric acid used in 
different works varies considerably according to the class of 
plate manufactured, and consequently the degree of discomfort 
and ill-health to those exposed to its fumes varies also. The 
peculiar smell of the acid pervades the entire works, and is 
encountered sometimes at some distance from them. In the 
pickling department itself it is very strong ; here the huge 
tanks of pickle emit volumes of steam, which only under very 
favourable conditions of weather and exceptional structural 
arrangements rises and escapes from the building ; usually it 
hangs about the workers, or blows in clouds across the open 
shed, irritating throat and eyes. Where the solution used is a 
strong one, the workers suffer much from running of the eyes, 
dryness of the throat, and smarting of lips and face, from 



XLix.] WORK IN TINHOUSES A DUSTY OCCUPATION ^ 685 

what they describe as a "stifled feeHng," and from nausea 
and giddiness ; the teeth become black, and the hair is said 
by the workers to fall out. When the strongest solution is 
used, the girls tie handkerchiefs across their mouths and cover 
the hair completely. But in most cases a weaker solution is 
employed, and very little complaint of ill-health is made ; the 
workers believe that the pickle gives them an appetite and 
keeps off infectious illness. In Switzerland, by a decree of 
1898, pregnant women are forbidden to work where there is 
any emanation of sulphuric acid, lifting heavy weights, or 
violent shocks, conditions which are combined in the pickling 
department of tinplate works. 

The only special health provision of the Factory Acts at 
present applied to tinplate works is the order of the Secretary 
of State, dated December 1882, prohibiting meals being taken 
in departments "where metal is dipped in acid solution." This 
excludes women and young persons from the pickling depart- 
ment during meal hours, but as no other place is provided 
where meals can be eaten under shelter by those whose homes 
are at a far distance, this rule is frequently disregarded. 

4. Tinhouses. — Large numbers of quite young girls, young 
persons from thirteen to eighteen years of age, are employed 
in this work, which is that of rubbing the tinned plates with 
bran, meal, or fine mineral dust to remove all grease and polish 
the surfaces of the plates. This process is largely done by 
hand, but machines have superseded hand -rubbing in some 
works. Where they are in use, girls are still employed to tend 
the machines, but fewer are required than when all the work 
is done by hand. The girls work ia the tinhouses standing, 
whether at the tables heaped with bran or at the machines, 
at right angles to the tinning stacks where the tinman and 
his assistants are working. The plates are passed on hot from 
the tinning -pot to the girls, who push them backwards and 
forwards through the heaped " bran " before them ; or if this 
first process has been done by the machine, the girls pass the 
plates through the power -driven sheepskin rollers. In either 
case the fine dust rises into the face of the worker, covers 
her hair and dress, and diffuses through the air of the tin- 
house, which frequently is filled as with a fog with this light, 
floating dust. This being inhaled, produces more or less 
injurious effects, according to the nature of the dust and the 
susceptibilities of the individual. In some works the irritation 



686 WOMEN'S LABOUR IN TIN PLATE WORKS [chap. xlix. 

to the throat is so great as to make speech almost impossible, 
and complaints of cough and " stuffing up " of the chest are 
numerous, while in others, whatever may be the ultimate result 
on the lungs, no discomfort, after once the worker has become 
used to the conditions, seems to be felt. 

A most objectionable feature of the employment of young 
girls in the tinhouse is the carrying of heavy loads. As this 
is not essential to the work, and could be done by boy or 
man with a specially constructed truck or trolly, it is greatly 
to be deplored. The plates which have been rubbed accumu- 
late upon the table, and must be removed to the warehouse 
to be weighed and packed, and so at frequent intervals the 
girl, with both her hands (protected by sheepskin gloves), 
grasps her pile of plates, and supporting them upon her hip, 
staggers along to the warehouse. To prevent constant journeys 
and secure more time for wage-earning (for the " rubbers " are 
paid so much for a box of plates), the girls carry as much at 
a time as they possibly can, carrying loads men hesitate to 
lift. These loads, carried by slight girls of thirteen or fourteen, 
weighed from 40 to in lbs. Injuries known, and unknown, 
are done by this unnecessary use of young girls as "beasts of 
burden." 

Rose E. Squire. 



CHAPTER L 

women's labour in aerated water works 

In the year 1896 the Dangerous Trades Committee appointed by 
the Home Office reported on the manufacture and bottling of 
aerated waters. As a result of this report this industry was 
scheduled as a dangerous trade, and Special Rules were imposed. 
The danger — for minimising which regulations have been framed 
— in this manufacture is not, as is the case with the majority of 
those to which Special Rules are applied, a danger to health, but to 
life and limb. The danger is the risk of cuts, more or less severe, 
from the glass fragments of bursting bottles filled under pressure. 
The number of such accidents is enormous, inflicting every degree 
of injury from a skin graze to a cut artery, or the loss of an eye. 
The number of accidents reportable to the Home Office has been 
greatly reduced by the wearing of faceguards and gauntlets pre- 
scribed by the Special Rules, but it is still very large. Four classes 
of workers are specially mentioned in the Special Rules as requiring 
protection by wearing guards — these are bottlers, wirers, sighters, 
and labellers. The first of these four are exposed to most danger ; 
the bottles frequently burst while in the machine, or more often 
while being removed from it, but if suitable faceguards and gauntlets 
are worn no serious injury results. Unless the bottling machines 
are, in accordance with the Special Rules, carefully fenced off, the 
danger is very great to all persons in the room ; the broken glass, 
sent by the explosion with enormous force to a considerable dis- 
tance, has been known to rebound with terrible effect from an 
object struck in its course, and to hit persons who seemed quite 
safe. Women and girls are largely employed as bottlers in 
London, Birmingham, and a few other large towns, but elsewhere 
this work is done almost exclusively by men ; boys are generally 
employed outside London and Birmingham as wirers, sighters, 
and labellers, in place of girls. Wiring has disappeared from most 
aerated water works, the patent stoppers having taken the place of 
corks in all but a few kinds of aerated waters. Sighters, those 

687 



688 WOMEN'S LABOUR IN AERATED WATER WORKS [chap. 

who examine the filled bottles to detect specks by holding them 
up to the light, wirers (where these are employed), and labellers, 
are the classes of workers who most frequently discard the pre- 
scribed guards, or wear them under protest as interfering with 
their work. The sighters complain that the wire mesh of masks 
or goggles prevents their seeing the specks in the water ; wirers 
and labellers find that the knitted woollen mittens, which are the 
kind of gauntlet commonly supplied, impede the movements of 
the hands ; in the one case the handles of the pliers used to twist 
the wire catch in the worsted, and in the other the mitten becomes 
stiff and hard with the paste with which the labels are smeared. 
A satisfactory gauntlet has yet to be invented ; the conditions 
required are that they should be of a material impenetrable to 
flying glass, soft and pliable, close-fitting, of a size and shape to 
keep in place over the palm of the hand and up above the elbow ; 
these have not yet been found combined. Objection on the part 
of the women and girls to wearing faceguards is only met with 
where the guard supplied to them is unsuitable. The faceguards 
for girls should be of a smaller size and lighter make than those 
for men, sufficiently bowed out not to press upon the nose, and 
long enough to cover the whole chin, throat, and neck ; they 
must be clean, and must be provided with buckle and strap, or 
some other means of keeping them firmly in position on the head. 
A mask that presses against the face, or weighs heavily on the 
head, or shifts from side to side with every movement, or of which 
the wire mesh is clogged with rust and dirt, is sure to be thrown 
aside whenever supervision is relaxed. 

Another class of workers employed in aerated water factories 
who are mentioned in the Special Rules as needing to be protected 
from the danger of bursting bottles are the washers. These 
women, although handling the empty, not the filled bottles, gener- 
ally work in the bottling rooms, and unless the bottling machines 
are well guarded, do meet occasionally with serious accidents, such 
as the loss of an eye, or an arm cut open. But this is a risk quite 
apart from the nature of their employment, to which it is most 
unreasonable that washers should be exposed. A far more serious 
risk, a risk to health, is incidental to their work ; it is that of being 
constantly wet. No special rules are imposed to protect them 
from such injury to health arising from their employment, as is 
the case in wet spinning factories, where women are exposed by 
their occupation to being constantly wetted. In wet spinning 
factories the occupier must, unless splash-boards are provided. 



L.] ILL-HEALTH ATTRIBUTED TO WETNESS OF WORK 689 

supply to all the workers waterproof overalls or aprons, and floors 
must be kept in a sound condition, so as to prevent retention or 
accumulation of water. The bottle-washers stand in great need 
of protection of the kind specified in these rules. They stand at 
large tanks full of water, in which the bottles, returned empty by 
customers, are washed before being refilled for sale. From the 
point of view of the public health, the history of the water used 
for this purpose would be of interest — its source, the frequency with 
which it is changed, and the steps taken to cleanse the tanks. 
The appearance of the water in the tanks is not, as a rule, attrac- 
tive, and the notices to washers to reject bottles smelling of 
paraffin suggest strange uses to which the bottles may be put 
by customers before they are returned empty. But it is the 
wetness and coldness of the water, and not its purity or impurity, 
which affect the washer. Bending over the tank to lower into 
it or raise from it the bottles being washed, she is very early in 
the day wet to the skin ; the water splashes up from the tank and 
drips from the wet bottles, and it is no wonder that the usual 
description given by the washers of their condition is, "We 
are sopped through to the skin soon after we begin in the 
morning until we get home at night." As a consequence, 
rheumatism, colds, coughs, aches and pains, are the bottle-washers' 
constant complaints, and not infrequently one and another of 
them is laid up for some weeks with more serious results of their 
wet condition. The wearing of a waterproof apron seems such a 
simple means of protecting the clothing from getting wet that it 
is surprising how seldom it is adopted, but such aprons are too 
expensive for the washers to provide for themselves, and in the 
few cases where the occupier has supplied them, a small sum has 
been deducted weekly from the wearer's wages until the article has 
been paid for. Usually the only kind of protection is a number 
of old sacks tied on as an apron ; these are better than nothing, 
but they soon get saturated. In the larger aerated water works 
the bottle-washing tanks are fitted with automatic means of lower- 
ing the bottles into the water and raising them again, and with 
revolving brushes to cleanse the inside. This labour-saving 
apparatus also reduces the amount of wetting to which the washer 
is exposed, and if a splash-board is fitted to the tank, as has been 
done in a few cases, the women need scarcely get wet at all. 
Where there is no mechanical contrivance to aid the washer, a 
splash-board is impracticable, as she must bend low over the tank 
to reach deep down into it. Grids and boards to stand upon are 

2X 



690 WOMEN'S LABOUR IN AERATED WATER WORKS [chap. l. 

usually provided, but even where the women have these to stand 
upon it is of importance that the floor should be properly paved 
and drained, and kept in good condition. Where this is not done 
the feet are constantly wet in moving backwards and forwards 
across the pools of water standing in the broken, uneven floor. 
Clogs should always be worn in aerated water works, and are in 
most large factories provided by the employers at the expense of 
the workers, who pay 3d. or 4d. a week towards them. It would 
be well if occupiers were to supply all such necessary articles as 
part of the equipment of the works. 

Rose E. Squire. 



CHAPTER LI 

FLAX AND LINEN 

Historical, Manufacturing, Hygienic, and Medical. 

The manufacture of linen cloth from flax was well known to 
the ancient Egyptians and other Eastern nations. Reference to 
linen frequently occurs in the Celtic literature of Ireland. The 
native Irish usually dyed their linen garments of a yellow or 
saffron colour. The revival of the industry in the North of 
Ireland is attributed to the French Huguenots who left France 
after the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes in 1685. Several of 
these refugees settled in Belfast, Lurgan, and Lisburn. One 
name stands out prominently amongst these people, viz., Louis 
Crommelin. 

Crommelin published, in 1705, a short sketch of the Irish linen 
trade. It may be more or less interesting to give a few extracts 
from it, thus : — 

"The people are entirely ignorant of the mysteries relating to the manu- 
facture . . . the flax being managed by women altogether ignorant as to their 
choice of the seed or soil, for which reason their flax is too short, and unfit for 
making good yarn ; they do not know when or how to pull their flax, whereby 
their seed degenerates, and their flax wants strength and substance. . . . They 
have no judgment when or how to water or grass their flax, so as to give it a 
natural colour ; and what is yet worse than all, they constantly dry their flax by 
the fire, which makes it impossible to bleach cloth made of their yarns ; for let 
all the skill and judgment in the world be used to bleach cloth made of different 
sorts of flax, you can never bring it to a good colour ; for till such time as it is 
woven and bleached, the best artist in nature cannot discover the mischief. . . . 
They also use, in cleaning their flax, things which they call " breaks," which I 
can in no way approve of. . . . They spin their long and short flax athwart, 
which is extremely preposterous, as the flax cannot be spun fine, so the linen is 
cottony. . . . The wheels used in spinning are turned by the foot, and have 
two cords, one going round the wheel and the whirl of the spindle, and the 
other going round the wheel and the whirl of the spool, which overtwists the 
thread. Their manner of reeling yarn is one of the greatest grievances, as many 
honest, industrious men are undone by the deceitful methods now used by the 
crafty and unfair people in this particular; as, for instance, there is no standard 
for the measure of reels, and everybody uses such reels as they think fit, for 



692 FLAX AND LINEN [chap. 

which reason a stranger to the market is imposed upon to his ruin. The cuts 
and hanks are reeled by several threads, through laziness or wickedness, to 
the utter ruin of the poor dealers who buy yarn, and think they have good and 
marketable goods for their money, but find that the whole hank ravels together,, 
and becomes entirely unserviceable, or at the best so troublesome to wind that 
it is as eligible to lose it as it is to spend so much time and pains to wind it. 
They ought to mark each cut, or six score threads, as they reel them, and not 
afterwards, as they now do, which they might do without difficulty. They do- 
likewise intermix, in one and the same hank, yarn of several degrees of fineness,, 
which is a cheat intolerable to buyers. . . . The looms generally employed in 
this kingdom for the making of all sorts of linen cloth (excepting diaper and 
damask) are looms properly disposed, and invented for the making of woollen 
cloth (save only that they changed the gear, and wrought promiscuously linen 
and woollen therein). Therefore, it is impossible to use one and the same loom 
to both material with good success. . . . The reels are uneven and too thick . . . 
and they make a stuff, of water and meal, without judgment, wherewith they 
stiffen their warps ; and the cloth is made too thin and sleazy, and woven where 
the weather affects it. ..." 

In 1 7 10 a bleach green, on an improved plan, was established 
at Lisburn, and a Board of Trustees of the Linen and Hempen 
Manufacture of Ireland was formed by Act of Parliament in 171 1. 

North of Ireland farmers purchase their flax seed from local 
merchants, and it is usually either Dutch or Russian. The farmers 
never save any of their own flax seed, owing to the local custom of 
" steeping " the flax, as soon as it is " pulled," in ponds of water 
for a certain length of time ; it is subsequently removed, spread 
out in a field to dry, then gathered into bundles, stacked, and 
eventually taken to the scutch mill. Here it is run through rollers 
so as to remove the outer coat or bark. The farmer next takes 
his flax to market, which is visited by the flax buyers from the 
various spinning mills, and after purchase conveyed to the store, 
examined and sorted, so as to be used for different kinds of yarn. 
An analysis of Irish flax fibre made by the late Professor 
Hodges, M.D., of the Queen's College, Belfast, gave — 

In 100 parts of Ash. 



Potash 


20.32 


Soda 


2.70 


Chloride of sodium 


9.27 


Lime 


19.88 


Magnesia . 


4.05 


Oxide of iron 


2.83 


Sulphuric acid 


7-13 


Carbonic acid 


10.72 


Phosphoric acid 


10.24 


Silica 


12.80 



99.94 



LI.] PROCESSES OF MANUFACTURE ' 693 

The presence of silica causes linen cloth always to feel cool ; more- 
over it contains no moisture, thus differing from cotton. 

In the "roughing shop" the "rougher"" examines a "strick" 
of flax ; giving it a quick pull with his right hand, then, swinging 
his arm, he leaves the disengaged portion of the fibre on his 
bench. This is called " piecing," and its object is to have all the 
flax as near as possible of the same length. After having obtained 
a sufficient quantity, he takes up a piece of flax, throws it out 
behind his shoulder, and draws the same through his "heckle" 
pins, which are attached to a bench in front of the operator. 
The next process is running the flax through heckling machines 
of different kinds, but they are all more or less made on the 
same principle. These machines are attended to by boys, five 
or six to each machine. Some mills employ " half-timers " ; in 
other mills the lads are over fourteen years of age, but they are 
all under the control of a " machine master." In this department 
the flax is separated into stricks, fastened by means of screws 
into a clamp called a "holder," which runs along the upper part 
of the machine, on vertical fixed combs. Accidents to the 
machine boys have been frequent, owing to their attempting to 
remove a "holder" too soon, or in consequence of wearing a 
loose shirt sleeve, they get caught, and have their hand or fore- 
arm pulled in against the pins. The lads in this room were 
formerly obliged, by the factory authorities, to wear respirators. 
These were of simple construction, for they were composed of 
two pieces of flannel sewed together and fastened by a tape. 
The boys generally suspended them over their chin or neck 
instead. The respirators were not at all suitable ; they did not 
cover the nose, they became damp with saliva, foul and mal- 
odorous. In frosty weather they irritated the lips. The use of 
respirators has since been abandoned. 

The part of the flax taken off by the pins of the machines is 
known as " tow." The pins are kept clean by a brush and doffer 
arrangement connected with the machine. The boys in a machine 
room are classified into tow-boys, sweepers, oilers, parcel lads, 
piecers-out, and cutter boys. The last-mentioned attend to the 
flax-cutting machine, by which the ends of a strick of flax are 
cut off by the revolving grooved wheels. 

The next stage or process in the manufacture is that of 
"dressing and sorting," which is performed by hand. The men 
employed are called hecklers. In the preparing room, flax is 
made into sliver by being sorted out on the spread-board by a 



694 FLAX AND LINEN [chap. 

girl, and then drawn through pins and rollers to produce a ribbon- 
like band, which is finally deposited in sliver cans. When a bell 
connected with the drawing frame rings, it is the signal for the 
girl to break off the sliver. Occasionally the sliver breaks short 
in its passage, and it is the duty of the attendant then to stop 
her machine and to put up the end, as it is called. Sometimes 
her hands are injured by doing this while the machine is in 
motion. The roving frame is the last machine in use in the pre- 
paring department, and has flyers and spindles. The sliver, on 
coming from the boss rollers, goes into the flyer, a small tube of 
iron like an inverted V, fixed to the top of a spindle that 
revolves, and passes through its eye on to a bobbin, revolving 
on the spindle. This gives a twist to the sliver now called by 
the name of rove. 

All small fibres, etc., of the flax that are taken off during the 
heckling processes are called tow. This is put through a some- 
what different preparation, but eventually it becomes tow sliver 
and tow yarn. The tow from flax scutching mills is also run 
through a breaker card, which is a machine consisting of a 
cylinder of iron 4 or 5 feet in diameter, that turns at a rapid rate 
of speed, and is covered by a quantity of iron pins of varying size. 
To it the tow is brought by means of feed sheets, and removed 
from the cards by a doffer knife. 

The rove is spun into yarn in the spinning-room. A recent 
writer remarks that — 

"The process is nearly entirely mechanical, brass rollers, fluted and revolv- 
ing, taking the place of the primitive rock, and manipulation between the 
fingers, as practised by the spinning-wheel. The fact of spinning as it is now, 
being mechanical, cannot be better illustrated than by mentioning that as 
much yarn can now be spun under the supervision of one woman called a 
spinner, as could be turned off 400 spinning-wheels by 400 women in the older 
time." 

The spinning frame has been much improved of late years. The 
spindles have a velocity of 1000 revolutions or more per minute ; 
the yarn as it goes through the eye of the flyer attached to the 
end of each spindle is thus properly twisted before it is wound on 
to a bobbin that revolves on a spindle immediately beneath the 
flyer. There are " wet " and " dry " spinning. In the former, the 
yarn goes through a trough of hot water (heated by steam pipes) 
situated on the top of the spinning frame. When the yarn is 
being twisted round the bobbins, a quantity of spray is thrown 
off that wets the clothes of the spinners and doffers, who are 



LI.] LINEN BLEACHING ' 695 

obliged to wear waterproof aprons and chest protectors. The 
workers, however, prefer coarse sacking, which they maintain soaks 
up the spray, and prevents the water running down over their 
petticoats, making the lower parts of the body more or less wet. 
The floor of the spinning room is frequently tiled, and is always 
covered with more or less water. The atmosphere of the room 
from this cause and steam jets is thoroughly saturated with 
moisture. When the bobbins have received enough yarn, the 
doffing mistress stops the spinning frame, and by the assistance 
of her doffers — boys and girls, usually "half-timers" — the full 
bobbins are rapidly removed and replaced by others. The tem- 
perature of the spinning-room is usually at least 70° F. 

The measuring of yarn into hanks is called " reeling." Some 
of the reeling machines, always tended by women, are moved 
by steam-power, others by hand. When the reel is full, the 
hanks of yarn are taken to the drying-room, and finally to the 
bundling department, where they are put up in bunches. 

Before being woven into linen cloth, some yarn is bleached, 
but whether bleached or in the brown state it is taken from the 
mill to the factory, first going to the winders, who put the 
yarn on spools. These are then carried to the warpers, who 
transfer it on to the loom beams. It is dressed or sized and is 
ready for weaving. The stiffening or dressing applied by the 
tenters to the yarn before weaving is made from Irish Carragheen 
Moss, which is very mucilaginous but free from starch, and to it 
flour and tallow are added. The temperature of the room in 
which this process is conducted is high, generally from 90° to 
125° F,, so as to dry the yarn as quickly as possible. 

At the bleach green, the brown linen is first boiled in water 
and lye, next put out on grass ; after this it receives another boil- 
ing to remove any remaining chemicals, dried, and taken to the 
beetling engines to be beetled. Subsequently it is lapped into 
parcels, and is then ready for the market. 

Belfast is the centre of the linen trade. My father, Dr C. D. 
Purdon, formerly Certifying Factory Surgeon for Belfast and the 
surrounding district, wrote several pamphlets on the flax and 
linen industries. Many of his suggestions have been adopted. 
In 1873 he published a pamphlet, "On the Mortality of Flax Mill 
Workers," etc., accompanied by tables showing the mortality of 
different classes. In the compilation of his statistics he had the 
assistance of the late Dr Newett, Dispensary Medical Officer and 
subsequently Certifying Surgeon of Ligoneill. W. D. Cramp, Esq., 



696 FLAX AND LINEN [chap. 

at that time H.M. Inspector of Factories for Belfast and the North 
of Ireland, likewise gave valuable assistance. 

"It will be perceived," he says, "that the flax manufacturing operatives 
suffer far more from phthisis than the. other two classes, nearly three-fifths of 
those that die annually being taken off by diseases of the respiratory organs, 
while in the other two classes (artisan and mercantile) the average amounts to 
about two-fifths. In carrying our investigations into the fatality of the different 
branches of the manufacture, we will see that the death-rate amongst those 
employed in the preparing rooms is exceedingly high, and that few of those 
employed in these rooms live beyond sixty years. The next class that suffers 
from the same diseases is the ' hecklers,' and the rate of mortality among the 
spinners and weavers is also high. The reason that the 'machine boys' 
appear to suffer so little is that when they become 'poucey,' i.e. asthmatic, 
caused by flax dust, numbers of them leave the mills on account of suffering 
from chest affections, and go to other trades, where they may linger on, or die 
from phthisis. This fatality I consider arises from four different causes: ist, 
commencing to work when too young ; 2nd, the unhealthiness of the employ- 
rnent ; 3rd, neglect of sanitary laws ; 4th, insufiicient and impure diet. A fifth 
might be added — namely, insuflScient clothing for the young." 

My own observations lead me to think that the machine boys 
are the hardest worked of any employes in the mill. They seldom 
have a minute's rest, for they are either charging the holder with 
flax, or taking it out. Although fans have been introduced into 
the machine room, the atmosphere is still laden with more or 
less dust. I have long had the opinion that no boy under at 
least thirteen years of age should be employed in this department. 
Many of the machine boys work in the brickfields during summer, 
so as to be in the open air. Although the half-time doffers in 
the spinning-room do not suffer from the inhalation of dust, they 
are exposed to an unnatural heat and humid atmosphere for 
several hours daily, whereby they become liable to bronchial 
irritation, especially during cold and frosty weather. The weavers 
are often similarly affected. 

The late Mr Baker, M.R.C.S. Eng., H.M. Chief Inspector of 
Factories in the year 1 874, introduced a respirator which for a time 
was worn by hecklers in some of the mills, as they derived much 
benefit from it. Many of the men, however, would not wear it, 
as it prevented them from expectorating when chewing tobacco. 
Some of the owners have introduced a new system of ventilating 
into the hecklers' shop, whereby all dust is carried away at once 
from the bench by fans. 

The hecklers and roughers suffer from dryness of the throat, 
which is one of the first symptoms of " mechanical bronchitis." 



LI.] BRONCHIAL TROUBLES OF HECKLERS AND WEAVERS 697 

This is generally followed by cough and dyspnoea, and is occa- 
sionally accompanied by vomiting. In order to relieve these 
distressing symptoms the men often drink whisky. During cold 
weather, easterly winds or frost, their breathing is worse. Some 
of the older men are not able to follow their occupation during 
the winter months. The late Dr C. D. Purdon, in the pamphlet 
already referred to, makes the following remarks : — 

"The consumption of stimulants is also producing sad havoc. ... If I may 
single out a class that injure themselves more than any other, I would mention 
the ' hecklers,' for when they begin to suffer from the effects of dust, they 
commence to drink, and go on using alcoholic stimulants till at last they die 
from the effects of drink, or hasten the advance of chest affections by its 
inordinate consumption." 

At the time this was written, a child under the Factory Act, if 
ten years of age, could be employed for six hours each day, 
independent of school attendance of three hours daily, and was 
obliged each alternate fortnight to commence work at six o'clock 
in the morning, often travelling bare-footed one or two miles 
before arriving at the mill. At present no child in Ireland can 
work as a " half-timer " unless he or she be eleven years of age,* 
and the time of commencing work is in flax mills generally 
6.30 A.M. In towns most of the workers live close to the mills. 

The "half-time " children who are employed as doffers in the 
spinning-room do not suffer so much from dust as from the heat 
and steam from the hot water, through which the flax is passed, 
also from their clothes becoming wet in spite of the use of 
over-alls. Hygienic rules are ignored in the home. The workers 
sleep in small over-crowded rooms. Nor is the food of the mill 
workers as nutritious as it ought to be. Tea and white bread, 
potato-bread or oaten-meal bread, form their principal food, to 
which is occasionally added bacon or salt fish. " Tea dyspepsia " 
is common. The children of the millworkers are, I think, rather 
degenerating than improving in physical development. 

The diseases from which flax mill-workers chiefly suffer are 
those incidental to the preparing and spinning processes. . To 
quote from Dr C. D. Purdon's pamphlet : — 

" In the former (preparing) the lungs chiefly suffer from the constant inhal- 
ing of the ' pouce.' The irritating quality of the dust is felt on the throat, which 
soon becomes dry. This irritation creeps to the lungs, which soon manifests its 
presence by the worker being attacked each morning with a paroxysm of cough- 

* The age is raised to twelve by the Factory Act, 1901. 



698 FLAX AND LINEN [chap. 

ing. The dyspnoea is often very severe. Those employed in the roughing and 
sorting, heckling and preparing of flax suffer from this affection, and in the 
majority of cases die from phthisis." 

The carders who are employed attending to the carding 
machines inhale a great deal of vegetable dust. Some physicians 
maintain that vegetable dust is more irritating to the lungs than 
mineral. These workers as a matter of precaution wrap round 
their mouth and nose a lump of tow, which makes a kind of 
respirator. The introduction of fans — Blackman's, Davidson's, and 
others — has effected an improvement in clearing away the dust of 
the atmosphere of the carding and machine rooms. A few steam 
jets in these departments would help still further to allay the dust 
and purify the atmosphere. 

The late Dr Hamilton, Certifying Surgeon for Cookstown, stated 
that in the scutch mills of Antrim, Down, and Tyrone the workers 
were very prone to ophthalmia, phthisis, and asthma, all due to 
dust. 

The late Dr Arlidge {Diseases of Occupation^ page 255) has 
remarked : — 

"Organic dusts — some vegetable, others mineral — are encountered in the 
textile manufactures, and include cotton, flax, hemp, silk, wool, and hair. 
These in a general point of view are obstructive dusts, nevertheless they are 
not devoid of irritant properties, and differ greatly among themselves in the 
latter respect. They further exemplify the fact, that besides mechanical form 
and action, dust operates by inherent qualities ; for dust of linen and hemp 
develops far more serious symptoms. The degree of dyspnoea varies 
extremely, and is influenced both by individual peculiarities and also by the 
properties of the dust. Writers generally concur in the belief that a tonic 
spasm is set up in the bronchial muscles by the irritation and the reflex action 
just spoken of, and that in co-operating therewith there is turgescence of the 
mucous membrane of the bronchi, which interposes a mechanical impediment to 
the free admission and egress of air to and from the air-cells. This hypothesis 
is sanctioned by the repeated strong efforts made to inspire and expire." 

The workers employed in the spinning-room are sometimes in 
summer attacked by vertigo and faintness due to excessive heat ; also 
owing to their long standing, especially when bare-footed, on a wet 
floor, they are liable to varicose veins, and oedema of ankles followed 
often by an outbreak of eczema. It may be worth while to say 
that I have occasionally noticed eczema rimosum on the hands of 
spinners, especially the right hand. . A great many of the workers 
wear a kind of half leather glove on that hand. Heat and moisture 
may cause the disease. Dr Gilbert, of the Ministere de V Industrie 
et du Travail at Brussels, has been good enough to send me some 



LI.] ''MILL FEVER'' AND SKIN ERUPTIONS IN DOFFERS 699 

photographs showing slight superficial ulceration of skin of palm of 
hand and fingers in flax spinners.* I cannot say that I have ever 
noticed this in our Belfast workers, either during the 32 years I 
attended as Physician to the Belfast Skin Hospital, or the 19 years 
that I have been Certifying Factory Surgeon. Constipation is also 
common. Enlarged glands are frequent, and the women are 
of pale complexion. 

The doffers, especially if young, are frequently, when first 
employed in the mills, attacked by " mill fever " a few days 
after commencing work. The symptoms are nausea and vomiting, 
followed by pain in the head, thirst, and heat of skin. These 
continue for three or four days, when the affection subsides. 
No treatment is required or sought. The cause assigned for its 
origin is the smell of the oil, along with the heat and vapour of the 
rooms. Irish flax is said to be less irritating to doffers than 
either Dutch or Belgian. Egyptian flax, which is occasionally met 
with, and which has been steeped in a special preparing fluid, 
gives off in the process of heckling more or less ammonia ; this 
causes irritation of the mucous membrane of the nostrils. 

A peculiar eruption also attacks doffers, and which is evidently 
due to a combination of flax-water and oil. The uncovered parts 
of the body, as forearms, arms, and face, are the parts attacked by 
this cutaneous eruption. It never attacks adults, only the doffers. 
It is a papular rash in the first stage, and is shotty to the touch, 
like smallpox. The papules become larger, and often contain a 
central plug of sebum. It is a folliculitis. Some kinds of flax, 
such as Russian, cause more of the eruption than others. 

Various trades are known to cause particular kinds of callosities 
due to pressure and constant friction ; thus hecklers have fre- 
quently a thickened or callous condition of the skin of the index 
finger of the right hand due to pulling the flax out of the " pins." 

Another disease, now rare, owing to the spinners wearing boots 
or shoes instead of going bare-footed from home to mill and back 
in all weathers, is onychia, or inflammation of the nail of the great 
toe. Cases of this were very common at the Belfast Royal Hospital 
thirty years ago. The late Sir William MacCormac, Bart, then 
one of the surgeons to the hospital, investigated the origin of the 
disease and introduced the local treatment by nitrate of lead. 
It seemed to be due to the action of the hot and contaminated 
water lying on the floor of the spinning-room, containing 
flax-water, and probably verdigris, or other matter from the 
* Vide Dr Gilbert's Photographs of Dermatoconioses, page 269. 



700 FLAX AND LINEN [chap. 

brass in the machinery, some of which, finding its way under 
the nail, or from some slight injury to the part, caused the painful 
affection known as onychia. 

During late years many improvements have been made in the 
mills and factories as regards ventilation, by the introduction of 
fans, so that there is now little more to suggest. During the 19 
years that I have been Certifying Factory Surgeon for the city of 
Belfast, I have always found our merchants and employers of 
labour ready to adopt any reasonable suggestion towards improve- 
ment of the health of their workers. The recommendations I 
would make are : — 

1. That no " half-timers " be employed in machine shops ; all 

to be over, at least, thirteen years of age. 

2. That no "half-timers," who according to the certifying 

surgeon appear weakly or not well-developed for their 
age, be allowed to work in the morning set, especially 
during the winter months. 
3.' That only the strong and well-developed who are from twelve 
to thirteen be kept in the morning set, and before being 
so placed, reported by the surgeon as fit for such work. 

4. The wearing of a good respirator to cover nose as well as 

mouth is necessary in the carding and heckling rooms, 
and should be made compulsory. 

5. An inspection of the " young persons " and " children " by 

the certifying surgeon, say every three months, to see 
what the effect of the work is upon the constitution of 
those employed. If there are signs of suffering they 
should cease work. 

6. That those mills and factories which have not as yet opened 

a dining-room for use of their workers, do so. 

7. That in such departments as the carding and machine rooms, 

where dust is prevalent, a few steam jets be allowed so as 
to make the atmosphere moist and allay the dust. 

8. That each room in the mill should have connected therewith 

a small closet heated by steam-pipes, in which workers 
can deposit part of their clothing, shawls, boots, etc., so 
that if the day is wet these will be dry for them on going 
home for meals or leaving work. 

9. In conclusion, I quote the following from my father's 

pamphlet already mentioned : 

" Another subject bearing on the social state of the workers is the employ- 
ment of mothers in mills and factories. Now, in order to lessen as much as 



LI.] CRECHES ^ 7or 

possible the number of deaths that occur amongst children, each mother ought 
not to be allowed to resume work for at least two months after the birth of her 
child, and then should be obliged, when going to work each day, to bring her 
child to a public creche. . . . The creche ought to be visited weekly by the 
certifying surgeon who is to inspect each child. . . . The creche to be under 
Government inspection." 

I am glad to say that, owing to the efforts of Lady Henderson, 
two creches have been opened in Belfast. 

Henry S. Purdon. 



CHAPTER LII 

MANUFACTURE OF COTTON 

Although the manufacture of cotton goods is or has been 
carried on under conditions to some extent injurious to health, 
yet there is no definite disease which can be traced to these 
conditions. There is no disease produced which corresponds to 
woolsorters' disease in woollen manufacture, or the various forms 
of tuberculosis of the lungs in trades where dust composed of 
sharp, hard particles is inhaled. If it were not for the fact that 
moisture has for trade purposes been artificially introduced into 
the atmosphere of weaving-sheds, it is doubtful whether the 
health condition of cotton factories would have received any 
special attention beyond that devoted to factories and work- 
shops in general. This addition of moisture was carried on 
in a reckless and unscientific manner, and in consequence 
Government investigations were made which resulted in special 
legislation. 

Artificial humidity is the condition which has attracted most 
attention, but it is not by any means the only important factor 
influencing the health conditions of cotton operatives. It is 
mainly in weaving-sheds that artificial humidity is used, and 
this article will be principally devoted to the health conditions 
of weaving. It will, however, be well, for the sake of the few 
remarks which will be made with regard to other branches of 
the cotton industry, to describe very briefly the different processes 
which the raw material undergoes before it is finally turned out 
as cotton cloth. 

Raw cotton, as it is received in bales, is naturally some- 
what impure. The processes that it undergoes before it is 
made into yarn are somewhat complicated when considered in 
detail, but they consist roughly of cleansing, combing, and 
twisting. 

Most of the dirt in the raw material is separated in the " blow- 
ing-room." The cotton is drawn by means of a current of air 

702 



CHAP. Lii.] PROCESSES OF MANUFACTURE 703 

— J . 

through the blowing machine. The heavier impurities fall out 
during the process, and the cleaned cotton is formed into a more 
or less even layer or lap. It is then taken to the card-room, where 
it is " carded " — a process which combs the fibres so that they are 
laid parallel, and still further cleans the cotton. Before being 
delivered to the actual spinning machinery, the cotton passes through 
other preparatory machines, known as slubbing and roving frames, 
where it is drawn out and slightly twisted. The cotton " roving," 
as it is then termed, is taken to the spinning-room, to be finally 
attenuated and twisted into the required form of yarn. There are 
different types of spinning machines, known as mules, throstles, and 
ring frames. The attendants on the mules are, as a rule, men, and 
they have a considerable amount of physical exertion in following 
the movements of the carriage, which is constantly moving back- 
wards and forwards. In ring spinning, on the other hand, women 
are almost invariably employed. After the yarn has been spun 
it is wound on to bobbins by "winders," and from the bobbins 
on to beams by "warpers." The warp is then sized and 
prepared for the looms by "reachers" and "drawers." The 
cotton is then ready for the process with which we are mainly 
concerned, viz., weaving. 

The health conditions of these various departments of the 
cotton industry prior to weaving will be dismissed very briefly. 
The workpeople in all of them have an ample air-space, rising in 
mule spinning up to about 10,000 cubic feet per head. In the 
blowing-room there is a moderate amount of dust, consisting 
almost entirely of cotton fibre, but at the same time there is 
a plentiful supply of fresh air. The principal feature with 
regard to the air of the card-room is the amount of dust. 
This at times is sufficient to cause a distinct cloudiness of 
the atmosphere. This dust is certainly serious, and needs 
special treatment. 

Spinning, unlike weaving, is carried on in a many-storied 
building. The light and fresh air for a spinning-room has 
consequently to be obtained entirely from the sides. For several 
reasons very little fresh air is provided. By excluding the outside 
air, the room can generally be kept at a good spinning temperature 
simply by the friction of the machinery, and at the same time par- 
ticles of soot are prevented from entering and damaging the yarn. 
The result is, that notwithstanding the enormous air-space per 
head in a spinning-room, the atmosphere is frequently by no 
means pure, and it is often excessively hot. The temperature is 



704 MANUFACTURE OF COTTON [chap. 

commonly above 90° F., and occasionally above 100° F. As no 
moisture is, as a rule, added, the air becomes very dry. The 
artificial moistening of the air of spinning-mills is gaining ground, 
and there can be little doubt that up to a certain point it will 
be beneficial to the workpeople. The conditions could also be 
much improved by the provision of suitable means of ventilation. 
On account of the large amount of cubic space per head, and 
the marked difference in the temperature inside the spinning- 
room and outside, it is possible that natural ventilation would 
be sufficient to accomplish all that is necessary. In order, 
however, to obtain a high degree of purity and to thoroughly 
control the air currents, artificial ventilation must be employed. 

The winders and warpers are subjected to no special conditions. 
They have somewhat less air-space than most other operatives, and 
there is usually no mechanical ventilation. They are not, however, 
subjected to great heat or moisture. 

Weaving, the industry which will principally be dealt with, is 
carried on almost entirely in one-storied buildings. In choosing 
the site of a weaving-shed it is usually borne in mind that damp- 
ness conduces to good weaving. Most weaving-sheds are situated 
in somewhat damp positions, and the floor of the sheds being 
formed simply of flags laid directly on the earth, dampness is not 
prevented from rising from the ground. The walls are without 
windows, and where openings are provided for ventilation, 
they are usually closed. All the light and most of the fresh 
air have to gain admittance through the roof, which is formed 
by a series of bays, usually running from east to west of the 
shed. The south side of the bay is formed of slate, and the north 
side of glass, so that little direct sunlight is admitted to the shed. 
The height of a shed varies considerably, but an average height is 
about II feet to the gutters, and about 15 feet to the top of the 
bays, and the span of the bays is about 10 feet. There is a small 
space along the gutters left open to allow the escape of water 
which condenses on the glass. The roof therefore of a weaving- 
shed, and usually two or more of the walls, are exposed to out- 
side influences, and fresh air can, if desired, be admitted through 
them. 

The prominent factors which enter into the health conditions, 
of a weaving-shed are : — 

(i) Impurity of the atmosphere from : [a) respiration ; {U) com- 
bustion of gas ; {c) dust ; {d) emanations from the soil and the: 
sanitary conveniences. 



( 



Lii.] EFFECTS OF HE A VY SIZING UPON HEALTH 705 

(2) Excessive humidity. 

(3) High temperature in summer. 

(4) Want of cleanHness. 

Although it seems always to have been recognised that a 
moist atmosphere was advantageous to weaving, yet the introduc- 
tion of moisture systematically is a growth of comparatively recent 
years. In the year 1872 Dr Buchanan made a report on certain 
sizing processes used in the cotton manufacture at Todmorden, and 
their influence upon health. He described how the practice of 
sizing had grown and altered much in character owing to the 
scarcity of cotton during the American Civil War. Ten years 
later, Dr Bridges and Mr Osborn, H.M. Inspector of Factories, 
made a report to the Government on " The effects of heavy 
sizing in cotton weaving upon the health of the operatives 
employed." This inquiry was instituted in consequence of 
a representation by the Parliamentary Committee of the Trades 
Union Congress in 1882, The views of the memorialists with 
regard to the dangers from the infusion of steam are clearly 
set forth in the following quotation : — " Your memorialists 
desire to draw your attention to a practice that has of late 
years become very common, especially in the making of goods 
known as T-cloths and Indian shirtings. We allude to over-sizing 
of cotton yarns, out of which arises another evil, especially in dry 
weather, viz., the infusion of steam into the weaving-sheds in order 
to soften the stiff, over-sized threads. Your memorialists desire to 
point out that an addition of about 20 per cent, of size, more or 
less, in accordance with the class of goods being made, is required 
for manufacturing purposes ; but of late years a practice of adding 
from 50 to more than 200 per cent, of an admixture of various 
ingredients, which serve no other purpose than to give a fictitious 
weight and appearance to the cloth, has become very common. 
Your memorialists complain that the extraordinary addition to the 
yarn of the admixture already described, gives off in the process of 
weaving deleterious effluvia, dust, and flocculent matter, which is 
inhaled by the weavers, to the injury of their health. . . . The 
manufacturers of this kind of cloth in infusing steam into their 
weaving-sheds have two objects in view, viz., (i) to enable more 
of the admixture to be woven into the cloth ; (2) to soften the 
stiff, over-sized threads, and thus render them soft and pliable, and 
less subject to breakages. Your memorialists complain that the 
clothes of the persons, chiefly women and children, who are 
employed in those sheds, are so damped by the warm moisture 

2 Y 



7o6 MANUFACTURE OF COTTON [chap. 

given off by the steam, that, after going out into the open air, 
coughs, colds, and the whole train of lung diseases are contracted ; 
and rheumatism and many other bodily afflictions which tend to 
enervate and break up the system at a premature age, follow. 
Dyspepsia is unhappily very often brought on, particularly in the 
cases of women and children. Your memorialists therefore 
earnestly pray that Her Majesty's Government will adopt some 
means which in their wisdom may appear best by which the health 
of the weavers, 80 per cent, of whom are females and young persons, 
may be preserved." 

Dr Bridges and Mr Osborn found, that although the scarcity 
of cotton had been completely removed in the years following the 
American War, yet heavily-sized goods were still manufactured, 
and in fact that the amount of size used had increased very con- 
siderably. The importance of sizing on the health of the opera- 
tives is due to two facts: (i) heavy sizing requires a very moist 
atmosphere ; (2) the size contributes considerably to the dust of the 
shed. 

The practice of infusing steam appears to have continued to 
grow, and in the year 1888 the Health Committee of the Black- 
burn Corporation instituted a public inquiry on account of a very 
strong report, made in the year 1887 by the Medical Officer of 
Health (Dr Stephenson). The Committee came to the following 
conclusion : " That ventilation in the mills is very ineffectually and 
inefficiently attended to, particularly in winter ; that heavy steam- 
ing had been practised in Blackburn, and that the adverse con- 
ditions under which the weavers had worked (at any rate during 
the winter months) had had a material influence upon the 
undoubtedly high death-rate of the borough : that the statements 
contained in the last annual report made by Dr Stephenson, as 
the Medical Officer of Health, are, in the main, true, and have been 
supported by the evidence ; and that heavy or excessive steaming 
in mills is injurious to the health of those who work in them, but 
that steaming, if lightly performed, with proper attention to 
ventilation, is not injurious." 

As a result of these reports, and of further agitation on the 
part of the operatives, the Cotton Cloth Factories Act, 1889, was 
passed. By this Act manufacturers were required to maintain two 
hygrometers in each weaving-shed, and were prohibited from ex- 
ceeding certain limits of moisture. These limits are shown in the 
schedule below. 



LIL] 



HUMIDITY OF THE ATMOSPHERE 



707 



1889 y^^/. SCHEDULE A. 

Maximum Limits of Humidity of the Atmosphere at given 
Temperatures. 



I. 


II. 


III. 


IV. 


Grains of Moisture 


Dry Bulb 


Wet Bulb 




per 


Thermometer Readings. 


Thermometer Readings. 


Percentage of Humidity. 


Cubic Foot of Air. 


Degrees Fahr. 


Degrees P'ahr. 




5-1 


60 


58 


88 


5-2 


61 


59 


88 


5-4 


62 


60 


88 


5-6 


63 


61 


88 


5-8 


64 


62 


88 


6.0 


65 


63 


88 


6.2 


66 


64 


88 


6.4 


67 


65 


88 


6.6 


68 


66 


88 


6.9 


69 


67 


88 


7-1 


70 


68 


88 


7-1 


71 


68.5 


85.5 


7-1 


72 


69 


84 


7-4 


73 


70 


84 


7-4 


74 


70-5 


81.5 


7.65 


75 


71-5 


81.5 


7-7 


76 


72 


79 


8.0 


77 


73 


79 


8.0 


78 


73-5 


77 


8.25 


79 


74-5 


77.5 


8.55 


80 


75-5 


77-5 


8.6 


81 


76 


76 


8.65 


82 


76.5 


74 


8.85 


83 


77-5 


74 


8.9 


84 


78 


72 


9.2 


85 


79 


72 


9-5 


86 


80 


72 


9.5s 


87 


80.5 


71 


9-9 


88 


81.5 


71 


10.25 


89 


82.5 


71 


10.3 


90 


83 


69 


10.35 


91 


83-5 


68 


10.7 


92 


84.5 


68 


II. 


93 


85.5 


68 


II. I 


94 


86 


66 


II-5 


95 


87 


66 



The only other section of much importance was one which 
made it necessary to supply 600 cubic feet of fresh air per person 
per hour. This Act, although it produced great improvement, did 
not satisfy the Weavers' Associations, and a further attempt was 
made to bring about the total abolition of steaming. The 
Government in consequence appointed a Committee consisting of 
Sir H. Roscoe, Sir Wm. Roberts, and Dr Ransome, to inquire 
into the working of the Act. A very extensive inquiry was made, 
and the resulting report is one of extreme value. The report was 



7o8 MANUFACTURE OF COTTON [chap. 

made in 1897, ^.nd many of its chief recommendations were 
embodied in a Statutory Order of the Home Secretary in the year 
1898. This Order, although not altering in any way the amount of 
moisture allowed, contained very important provisions with regard 
to ventilation, purity of steam, and temperature, etc. It is of such 
interest and importance, being in many respects a new departure 
in factory legislation, as to be well worth quoting in full here. 

Order of the Secretary of State, dated 2nd February 1 898, making 
regulations for the protection of health in Cotton Cloth Factories. 

(i) In every cotton cloth factory to which the Cotton Cloth Factories Act, 
1889, applies, the occupier or manager or person for the time being in charge 
of the factory shall, in addition to taking the two readings of the thermometers 
required by section 7 of that Act, read each of the thermometers every day 
between seven o'clock and eight o'clock in the forenoon, and record the read- 
ing of each thermometer in the form and in accordance with the regulations in 
Schedule B. of the said Act as amended by this Order. 

(2) Schedules B. and C. of the Act of 1889 shall be altered, and shall be as 
set out in the schedule to this Order. 

(3) In every such cotton cloth factory, when artificial humidity is produced, 
the water used for the purpose shall either be taken from a public supply of 
drinking water or other source of pure water, or shall be effectively purified to 
the satisfaction of the Inspector before being introduced in the form of steam 
into the factory, and all ducts for the introduction of humidified air shall be 
kept clean. 

(4) The pipes used for the introduction of steam into a cotton cloth factory 
in which the temperature is 70 degrees Fahrenheit or over shall, so far as they 
are within the shed, be as small both in diameter and length as is reasonably 
practicable, and shall be effectively covered with non-conducting material to 
the satisfaction of the Inspector, so as to minimise the amount of heat thrown 
off by them into the shed. 

(5) The arrangements for ventilation shall be such that during working 
hours in no part of the cotton cloth factory shall the proportion of carbonic 
acid (carbon dioxide) in the air be greater than nine volumes of carbonic acid 
to every ten thousand volumes of air. 

(6) Unless some other method, certified by the Inspector to be equally 
satisfactory, is adopted, the outside of the roof of every cotton cloth factory 
shall be whitewashed every year before the 31st day of May, and such white- 
wash shall be effectively maintained until the 31st day of August. 

(7) In every cotton cloth factory erected after the date of this Order, a 
sufficient and suitable cloakroom, or cloakrooms, shall be provided for the 
use of all persons employed therein, and shall be ventilated and kept at a suit- 
able temperature. 

Having briefly described the steps by which the present 
conditions have been arrived at, we may now consider these 
conditions in detail. The humidity of the air has, rightly or 
wrongly, been thought to be the chief factor in the healthiness 



Lii.] MEANS ADOPTED TO HUMIDIFY THE ATMOSPHERE 709 

of weaving-sheds. Moisture is usually added to the air of sheds 
by means of a number of steam jets. Steam introduced in this 
manner is known in the trade as "live steam." The moisture 
becomes visible almost immediately after escaping from the pipe, 
and again disappears at a distance of two or three feet. Many 
other methods of moistening the air of weaving-sheds have been 
tried. Some of these depend upon the evaporation of water in 
the shed ; others upon evaporation of water outside the shed, the 
air so moistened being forced in ; and others again upon steam 
being mixed with fresh air, which are forced into the shed together. 
It is obvious that any system which depends upon the evaporation 
of water, if efficient in other ways, has a distinct advantage in the 
summer months, in that it will tend to lower rather than raise 
the temperature. There are, however, very distinct drawbacks 
to most of the methods of humidifying by evaporation, and the 
crude method of watering the floor is probably the most harmful 
of all forms. The method of humidifying which depends on 
evaporating water outside and forcing air so moistened into the 
shed has a very limited application, but it might with benefit be 
extended in order to lessen the temperature in summer. The 
way in which moisture is added to the air of a shed is of little 
consequence except so far as it affects the temperature, and this 
is affected far more by the length and size of the steam-pipes 
than by the amount of steam infused. Previous to the Cotton 
Cloth Factories Act, 1889, there was no legal restriction to the 
amount of humidity. The writer has no personal knowledge of 
the condition of the sheds at this time, and he has found it 
difficult to form a correct opinion. It is certain, however, that 
sometimes steam was introduced to such an extent that it 
condensed very freely on the walls, pillars, and floors. The air 
of the shed became over-saturated and consequently hazy. This 
raising of humidity was done in a very unworkmanlike manner. 
No attempt was made to find out what conditions were favourable 
to weaving. It was known that a very dry air was unfavourable, 
and if a dry east wind was blowing, a large amount of moisture 
was introduced. When a favourable condition was reached there 
was no means of recording what this condition was, for such a 
thing as a hygrometer was practically unknown in a weaving- 
shed. It seems strange, considering that the degree of dampness 
of the atmosphere is so important with regard to weaving, that 
the use of hygrometers had to be forced upon the manufacturers 
by an Act of Parliament. 



7IO 



MANUFACTURE OF COTTON 



[chap. 



The introduction of moisture artificially does not necessarily 
mean that the relative humidity of the atmosphere of the 
shed is being raised above that of the outside air. The 
temperature of a shed is usually many degrees above the 
temperature outside, and consequently the air of the shed without 
any addition of moisture would be much dryer than the air 
outside. It is not easy to appreciate exactly what the amount 
of moisture specified by the Act means. It is quite commonly 
said, on the one hand, that the amount of moisture allowed by it 
is frequently exceeded under natural conditions in Lancashire, 
and, on the other hand, that the moisture allowed is greatly in 
excess of what can possibly be healthy. It may givq a clearer 
idea to compare the average moisture of the air at various 
temperatures with the moisture allowed by the schedule. For 
this purpose the readings taken at the Blackburn Observatory 
for the years 1898 and 1899 have been averaged at the various 
temperatures. 







Figures obtained from the Daily Records of the 
Blackburn Observatory for the years 1898 








Percentage of Moisture 


and 1899. 


Temperatures. 


allowed bv law in 
Weaving Sheds at 








these Temperatures. 


Average percentage of 


Maximum amount of 






Moisture at the 


Moisture at the 






different Temperatures. 


different Temperatures. 


Degrees. 


Per cent. 


Per cent. 


Per cent. 


50-55 


86 


82.1 


100 


55-60 


87 


81. 1 


100 


60-65 


88 


77.4 


97 


65-70 


88 


65.1 


83 


70-75 


84.6 


59-9 


66.5 



For practical purposes temperatures below 60° may be 
neglected, as that temperature is generally exceeded in weaving- 
sheds. At higher temperatures the moisture allowed in weaving- 
sheds is considerably in excess of the average moisture of the 
atmosphere outside, and above 65° the legal limit is very con- 
siderably in excess of the highest recorded observation. 

It is somewhat difficult to estimate the effect upon health 
of raising the amount of moisture in the air one breathes. In 
the case before us the problem is complicated by the fact that 
the humidified air is only breathed during ten hours of the day, 
and that the workpeople frequently pass from the artificial to 
the natural atmosphere. Knowledge gained from the distribution 



\ 



lil] enervating effects of moist air ' 711 

of disease in dry and moist climates must be applied with great 
caution. The dampness of a locality is frequently due to the 
damp and waterlogged condition of the soil, in which case there 
are causes of unhealthiness not in the least comparable with the 
high humidity of a shed produced by the introduction of steam. 
Speaking generally, however, there can be no doubt that a dry 
air is invigorating and a moist air enervating. Probably partly 
for this reason tubercular diseases, which are dependent so much 
in their spread upon the loss of vigour of those attacked, flourish 
more in damp climates. The other class of diseases, which 
presumably would be increased by excessive humidity, are the 
different forms of rheumatism and their complications. In the 
various inquiries that have been made into the health of cotton 
operatives rheumatism has been complained of as the chief 
ailment produced by artificial humidity. Frequent changes from 
a warm, moist atmosphere to a dry, cold one without proper 
precautions are quite sufficient to account for an excessive 
amount of rheumatism. This danger is greatly enhanced by 
the unsuitable and inadequate clothes worn by the operatives. 
There is little or no reason to suppose that working in an 
atmosphere which, although moist, is considerably removed from 
saturation, would of itself conduce to rheumatism. 

One of the chief complaints of the operatives in these sheds 
is that their clothes become damp. It is quite impossible that 
any moisture can condense on their clothes if the law with 
regard to steaming is observed. There is, however, the 
possibility that clothes which have been worn for a long time 
in weaving-sheds may become permeated with size dust. This 
dust contains a considerable proportion of deliquescent salts, 
and clothes upon which it has been deposited would become damp 
on exposure to a moist atmosphere. Whether or not this is 
a matter of much practical importance could be settled by a 
few careful experiments. If clothes do absorb moisture in this 
way to any extent, it is one more argument in favour of cloak- 
rooms. It also suggests the advisability of the careful brushing 
of clothes, in order to free them from shed dust as much as 
possible. Where no cloakroom is provided, clothes are usually 
hung against walls or pillars. If the walls are outside-walls, 
and if the pillars act, as they frequently do, as rain-water pipes, 
the clothes become wet from the condensation of water on 
these walls and pillars. The absorption of moisture by clothes, 
due to the hygroscopic nature of wool, is small in amount, and 



712 MANUFACTURE OF COTTON [chap. 

may probably with safety be left out of account. For all these 
reasons it is extremely desirable that all cotton factories in 
which the air is artificially moistened should be provided with 
suitable cloakroom accommodation. The cloakrooms should of 
course be of adequate size, and properly heated and venti- 
lated. 

In considering artificial humidity, it must be borne in mind 
that the steam is frequently raised from very impure water. 
It is possible that this fact accounts to some extent for the 
strong feeling against steaming amongst a considerable section 
of the operatives. Steam raised from filthy water undoubtedly 
gives a very disagreeable odour to a shed, and there can be 
no doubt that it is injurious to the health of the workpeople. 
This matter has, however, been dealt with, so far as legislation 
is concerned, by Clause 3 of the Order of 1898, and it only 
remains now to enforce the Order. 

Closely associated with the humidity of the atmosphere of 
the shed is its temperature and impurity. Particularly is it 
difficult to separate the effects of high temperatures from those 
of excessive humidity. The peculiar construction of a shed, 
with its roof exposed the whole day through to the direct rays 
of the sun, is of itself sufficient in summer to cause a high 
temperature. To this must be added the heat developed by 
the friction of the machinery. It is not then to be wondered 
at that the temperature becomes sometimes almost unbearable 
when it is still further raised by the infusion of steam, and 
by the heat from steam-pipes. It is very probable that most 
of the complaints of steaming have arisen from the excessive 
temperature that has been at the same time produced. The 
effect of the heat of a shed cannot be gauged absolutely by 
the temperature, but the temperature and the humidity must 
be considered together. The principal reason why working in 
a hot, moist atmosphere is uncomfortable and oppressive, is 
that evaporation of perspiration is checked, and one of the chief 
means of cooling is lessened. What under other conditions 
would be insensible perspiration becomes sensible, and general 
discomfort ensues. An operative in this condition going out 
into a dry, cool air feels a chill at once. It cannot, however, 
be said that this condition is brought about solely by excessive 
humidity, as at the lower temperatures no discomfort is felt. 
Whatever conclusion is come to with regard to the desirability 
of allowing the introduction of moisture, there can be no 



lil] carbonic acid averages . 713 

question that every reasonable means should be taken to 
prevent the temperature being unduly raised in summer. 

Although the agitation against steaming has not led to its 
abolition, it has brought about one of the greatest advances in our 
factories and workshops legislation of recent years. 

The Cotton Cloth Factories Act, 1889, insisted that 600 cubic 
feet of fresh air should be supplied for each operative per hour. 
The fact that it was made compulsory to supply a definite quantity 
of fresh air was in itself an advance, but the amount of air specified 
by the Act fell far short of what was necessary. Not only was 
the amount of air supplied insufficient, but no adequate steps 
were taken to ensure that the fresh air was properly diffused. 
Moreover, there can be no doubt, that in the form of ventilation 
most commonly in use, viz., extraction by fans through the roof, 
there is a large amount of short circuiting. The Committee pre- 
viously mentioned, which was appointed to inquire into the working 
of the Cotton Cloth Factories Act, investigated this matter very 
thoroughly. They found that the mechanical ventilation of sheds 
under this Act had been productive of some good, although not 
to the extent expected. Mr Williams, H.M. Inspector of Factories, 
who acted as secretary to the Committee, and to whom I am in- 
debted for much information, examined seventy-two samples of air 
taken from weaving-sheds for the amount of carbonic acid contained 
in them. Thirty-four were taken from " dry " sheds, that is, sheds 
where steam is not infused, and not as a rule mechanically ventilated ; 
thirty-eight were taken from " moist " sheds, which were ventilated 
according to the Act. The carbonic acid in the air of the dry 
sheds varied from .55 to 1.94 parts per thousand, the average being 
1. 168 ; that of the moist sheds varied from .68 to 1.59, the average 
being 1.02 1. Many anemometer tests were also made, and it 
was found that there was little correspondence between the amount 
of air supplied and the purity of the air of the shed at the 
breathing level. From these experiments, two facts were readily 
deduced, viz., that the amount of air supplied was too small, and 
that the anemometer test was not to be relied upon as a test 
of ventilation. The Committee consequently took a new de- 
parture, and made a recommendation, that as a measure of respir- 
atory impurity the carbonic acid gas contained in 10,000 volumes 
of air in humidified sheds should not exceed 9 volumes. This 
recommendation was embodied in its main feature in the Order 
previously quoted. It is difficult to over-estimate the im- 
portance of this step. It applies a scientific test to the ventila- 



714 MANUFACTURE OF COTTON [chap. 

tion of the factory, and at the same time it allows the utmost 
freedom to the manufacturer in selecting means to attain this 
standard. Hitherto, openings of certain sizes have been specified 
for the purpose of ventilation, or the introduction of a certain 
amount of air has been made compulsory, but no legal notice has 
been taken of the actual condition of the atmosphere. In this 
order, then, the most satisfactory and the only scientific method 
of estimating ventilation has been adopted. The difficulties in the 
way of carrying it out seem to be gradually being surmounted, 
and already a standard much higher than the legal one has been 
attained in many factories.* .9 parts per thousand may not 
appear to some a sufficiently high standard. It certainly is not 
perfect, but it is probably as high a standard as it is practicable 
to adopt at present. It has been found in practice that it is 
generally necessary to introduce more than 2000 cubic feet per 
head per hour to maintain this standard. On account of con- 
siderable variation in the amount of carbonic acid in the air of 
towns, the administration of the Order has been varied to this 
extent, that .5 parts of carbonic acid are allowed in the air of a 
shed in excess of that contained in the air outside at the same time. 
Although this regulation with regard to ventilation has only 
been applied to weaving-sheds into which moisture is artificially 
introduced, there seems to be no good reason why it should not be 
applied to all weaving-sheds and to other departments of cotton 
manufacture. A regulation of this kind can only be carried out in 
buildings where power is available, but in the near future electric 
power will be available for every workshop, and then the universal 
enforcement of some similar regulation will be possible, and 
would be productive of much good. It seems likely that an 
indirect advantage will also be gained by the greatly increased 
knowledge of the efficiency of the various systems of artificial 
ventilation. The useless and inefficient methods of ventilation will 
be rapidly weeded out, only the good methods will remain, and 
a truer perception of the principles of ventilation will be produced. 

* Mr Williams, in his annual report to the Chief Inspector of Factories for 
the year 1900, gives the results of his examination of air from thirty-five weaving- 
sheds before and after the ventilation had been improved so as to comply with 
this regulation. The average of the amounts of carbonic acid found in the air 
of the sheds before the improvement of the ventilation was 13 per 10,000, and 
after the improvement 7.9 per 10,000. If the usual amount of carbonic acid in 
the outside air of towns (4 per 10,000) be deducted, the amount of impurity 
due to respiration is seen to be in the one case 9 parts, and in the other only 
3.9 parts per 10,000. 



Lii.] DUST IN THE AIR OF COTTON FACTORIES 715 

The stimulus given by these Acts to ventilating engineers 
has already brought about great advances. One extremely ingenious 
apparatus will deliver enormous quantities of fresh air (250,000 
cubic feet per hour), warmed and moistened as required, into 
a room at one single point, and diffuse it over an area of 8000 
square feet without causing a draught. By this means one of 
the principal objections to all other methods of ventilation on 
the plenum system is overcome, for the air is introduced directly 
without the interposition of distributing ducts. 

Compared with the workrooms of most other trades, cotton- 
weaving-sheds must be considered to be well ventilated, and when 
the regulations have been thoroughly enforced, these sheds will 
have few equals amongst workrooms judged by the amount of 
respiratory impurity. There are, however, other atmospheric 
impurities that are not dealt with in so satisfactory a manner. It 
is found to be quite impossible, with any of the apparatus at 
present in use, to keep the amount of carbonic acid within the 
legal limits when the shed is lighted with gas. To do this it 
would be necessary to increase the amount of fresh air introduced 
to an enormous extent. The only practical solution of this 
difficulty, and one that is urgently called for, is the substitution 
of electricity for gas for lighting purposes. Such a substitution 
frequently leads to a positive saving of money. 

There is one form of atmospheric contamination that mechani- 
cal ventilation has in some instances made worse. The sanitary 
conveniences are frequently built so as to be in direct connection 
with the shed, and any system of ventilation depending on ex- 
traction increases the amount of air supplied to the shed through 
these offices. The remedy in all such cases is complete discon- 
nection of the sanitary conveniences by means of an open space. 

No ventilation is satisfactory which does not reduce the 
amount of dust as well as the gaseous impurities in the atmo- 
sphere. The dust floating in the air of a weaving- shed is very 
variable both in its quantity and in its composition. In a shed 
where no size is used (very rare) the dust consists entirely of 
cotton fibre. On the other hand, where size is used, it enters very 
considerably into the composition of the dust floating in the 
atmosphere. Size consists mainly of starch, china clay, tallow, and 
various deliquescent salts, the principal one being magnesium 
chloride. A certain amount of zinc chloride is put into the size 
to delay or prevent the growth of mildew. One would anticipate 
that the different constituents of size would vary considerably 



7i6 



MANUFACTURE OF COTTON 



[chap. 



in the readiness with which they diffuse through the atmosphere, 
and this is so to some extent. For instance, analyses made 
by Dr Dupre showed that zinc chloride, although largely used 
in sizing, is not found in the dust of sheds. This is of considerable 
importance, as chloride of zinc is the only constituent of size which 
is chemically irritating. On the other hand, contrary to expecta- 
tion, it was found that the insoluble mineral matter (china clay) 
was present in as large a proportion on the shafting at considerable 
heights as in the dust on the floor. The composition of the dust 
examined by Dr Dupre varied somewhat, but roughly speaking, 
50 per cent, of the dried dust was insoluble mineral matter (china 
clay), 30 per cent, insoluble organic matter (cotton), 15 per cent, 
soluble organic matter (starch), and 5 per cent, soluble mineral 
matter (principally chloride and sulphate of magnesium). 

The amount of dust in the atmosphere of a shed is determined 
partly by the amount of size used and the quality of the cotton, 
but also to a great extent on the efficiency of the ventilation and 
the degree of moisture in the air. That the infusion of steam 
would lessen the amount of dust in the air was first inferred 
and afterwards proved by experiment. A large amount of 
moisture in the air may cause a more ready precipitation of dust, 
but its principal action is probably in preventing the liberation of 
dust from the yarn during the process of weaving. Mr Osborn, 
in his evidence before the Parliamentary Committee previously 
referred to, said that sheds are now freer from dust than they were, 
and this he attributed to more careful sizing. Mr Williams made 
several comparative tests of the amount of dust in sheds when 
moisture was being introduced and when not. He found invari- 
ably that the infusion of steam lessened the amount of dust. The 
following are the averages of his experiments : 





No. I 
Position. 


No. 2 
Position. 


No. 3 
Position. 


No. 4 
Position. 


No. 5 
Position. 


With infusion of steam 
Without „ „ 


26H 
43^ 


25 
40+ 


36i 


26-J 

45i 


3H 
43i 



These figures represent the number of particles of dust 
deposited on six square millimetres in five minutes. 

The dust in the atmosphere is undoubtedly lessened by ventila- 
tion, unless this is of such a nature as to disturb the dust that has 
already settled. The most efficient method of ventilation for reduc- 
ing the dust in the air would certainly be extraction from beneath 



lil] need of cleanliness ^ 717 

the looms. The dust of a weaving-shed is not, however, of a specially 
irritating nature, and although injurious, is not of sufficient import- 
ance for the whole system of ventilation to be devoted to its removal. 
Apart from the extraction of air downwards, so that the dust is 
drawn directly away from the breathing level, there does not seem 
much to choose between the various forms of ventilation in this respect. 

The cleanliness of the floors and shed generally must have a 
considerable effect upon the amount of floating atmospheric 
impurity. As a general rule, the floors are very dirty. They 
are never washed (with a few rare but very pleasing excep- 
tions), and are seldom brushed thoroughly. Such a condition of 
things lends itself readily to the spread of infectious diseases. 
It seems particularly serious with regard to phthisis. Phthisical 
sputum must often remain on these floors undestroyed until much 
of it has become pulverised, and distributed in the air of the shed. 
It would undoubtedly greatly improve the health conditions of 
weaving-sheds if proper steps were taken to keep the floors clean. 
An improvement of this kind is not limited in its benefits to the 
direct results, but it has a very distinct influence upon the habits 
of the persons employed. 

There is, as the evidence given before the various inquiries 
shows, a great difference of opinion as to the healthiness of cotton 
manufacture. It is difficult to come to any absolute conclusion from 
examination of these opinions, and by examination of the physical 
conditions to which the workpeople are subjected. One therefore 
turns naturally to the vital statistics bearing on this question, in 
the hope that they will afford some absolute and indisputable indi- 
cations. It must, however, be acknowledged that when all the 
available statistics have been examined, the inferences that can be 
drawn are not by any means definite. There are many reasons 
for looking on trade statistics with some suspicion. Most of these 
reasons are very carefully reviewed, and allowed for as far as 
possible by Dr Tatham in the supplement to the Fifty-fifth Annual 
Report of the Registrar-General. It is only necessary to see the 
enormous death-rate of the persons classified as unemployed to 
understand how this class is probably greatly .swollen by those 
who have broken down in their various occupations. It is very 
doubtful if under any circumstances trade mortality statistics can 
be altogether relied on. There is always the possibility that the 
occupation followed at the time of death is not the one that has 
really hastened or caused death. A person after some years 
working in an unhealthy trade finds it necessary to change his. 



71' 



MANUFACTURE OF COTTON 



[chap. 



occupation because his health is failing. At death he is classed 
in the trade he was last engaged in, although this trade has had 
no effect in causing his death. Again, arduous and unhealthy 
occupations act as a selective agency, none but those of a certain 
physical fitness engaging in them. It is difficult, too, to separate 
the influence of a trade from that of its surroundings. Whether 
a trade is carried on in crowded, badly built towns, or in the 
country, will modify the trade statistics considerably. These facts 
make it desirable in gauging the healthiness of a trade to look 
outside trade statistics. It is sometimes possible, where a large 
proportion of the inhabitants of a district are engaged in one 
particular branch of industry, to gauge the healthiness of this 
industry by examining the health statistics of the district as a 
whole. If the persons employed in this industry have a peculiar 
age distribution it is possible to get a more accurate estimate. 
These conditions are fulfilled to a peculiar degree in the town of 
Blackburn. Out of a population of 120,064 at the 1891 census, no 
less than 37,755, or 31 per cent., were employed in the cotton 
industry. Any marked unhealthiness of the trade should show 
itself, although perhaps not very distinctly, in the general mortality. 
This of itself would be of little help but for the peculiar distribution 
of the cotton operatives in age periods. The accompanying table 
illustrates this point clearly : — 

DEATH-RATE FOR ENGLAND AND BLACKBURN, 1889-1898. 



Age 
Period. 


Males. 


Differences 
expressed as 
percentages. 


Females. 


Differences 
expressed as 
percentages. 


Percentage of 

population of 

Blackburn in the 

Cotton Industry. 


England. 


Black- 
burn. 


England. 


Black- 
burn. 


15-25 

25-35 

35-45 

45-55 

55-65 

65 

^ unwards 


4.72 
7-05 
11.89 
19.32 
35.47 
98.56 


5.14 

6.71 

14.60 

26.05 

51-42 

117.22 


Per cent. 
+ 8.9 
- 4-8 
+ 23.6 
+ 34-8 
+ 44-9 
+ 18.9 


4.42 

6.48 

10.03 

14.89 

28.8? 

88.88 


4.72 
6.96 
13.05 
18.82 
43.46 
95.08 


Per cent. 
+ 6.7 
+ 7.6 
+ 29.1 
+ 27.0 
+ 50.7 
+ 6.9 


Males. 

48.3 
390 
31-4 

27.4 

21.8 

13.2 


Females. 
70.3 

34.8 
19.7 

9-3 

3 


At all \ 
Ages/ 


20.58 


23.82 


+ 15.7 


18.20 


19.51 


+ 7-2 


26.8 


33-1 



1 



Any excessive mortality amongst the cotton operatives should 
show itself distinctly at those age periods in which the operatives 
preponderate. It may be argued that the bad effects are not felt 
until the later age periods, but it is difficult to believe that injurious 
conditions to which all alike are exposed would produce increased 



Lii.] COMPARATIVE MORTALITY OF COTTON OPERATIVES 719 

mortality at the later ages, and not affect the mortality of the 
earlier ages. It will be seen that 82 per cent, of the cotton opera- 
tives employed in this town are under the age of thirty-five, and 
it is at the age periods below 35 that the mortalities compare most 
favourably with those of the country as a whole. The only 
conclusion, then, that we can draw from the general mortality 
figures of Blackburn is, that the cotton industry has no influence in 
raising the mortality of the town as a whole, at any rate as far as 
the lower age periods are concerned. 

With the reservations previously mentioned the trade statistics 
may be profitably considered. The trade mortality statistics in 
this country are compiled almost entirely in the office of the 
Registrar-General under the supervision of Dr Tatham. Although 
the statistics published by the Registrar-General are extremely 
valuable, there are many local problems on which little light is 
thrown. The Medical Officer of Health and others, to whom these 
problems are of the greatest importance, have no chance of investi- 
gating them, owing to the meagreness of the information published 
in the census returns. The age distribution of the persons engaged 
in the various occupations is not given, and many trades very 
dissimilar in their working conditions are grouped together. The 
necessary information should be forthcoming in one way or another. 
If details with regard to the age distribution of the persons 
engaged in the various occupations would make the census returns 
too bulky, then any local authority should have access to the 
census enumeration books, in order to extract whatever information 
they need. Fortunately the writer has had access to the enumera- 
tion books of the town of Blackburn, and in consequence he has 
been able to prepare special statistics. The following tables have 
been extracted from the Supplement to the Fifty-fifth Annual 
Rep'ort of the Registrar-General : — 

Mean Annual Mortality of Males for the years 1890, 1891, and 1892, engaged 
in the Cotton, Flax, and Linen Manufacture of Lancashire at successive 
periods of life. 





15 to 20. 


20 to 25. 


25 to 35. 


35 to 45- 


45 to 55. 


55 to 65. 


65 and up. 


Cotton, Flax, and 
Linen Manufac- 
ture, Lancashire . 


3-73 


5.96 


7.13 


13.38 


25.11 


55.06 


168.55 


All Males 


4.14 


5.55 


7.67 


13.01 


21.37 


39.01 


103.56 


All Occupied Males 


2.55 


5.07 


7.29 


12.43 


20.66 


36.66 


102.32 



720 



MANUFACTURE OF COTTON 



[chap. 



Mortality Figures of Males, 25 to 65 years of age, for Certain Diseases amon« 
the following Groups of People, for the years 1890, 1891, and 1892. 









fc 




S 


oi 






^ 


"o S 


=r: 




t 

6_ 


8 


E 








.2 


3 

u 
s 


"0 

1 




5 




<! 


< 


u 






a3 




Oh 


V. 


^So 










« 




> 


^u 






p 


OQ 


•z 


All Males 


1000 


M 


7 


iq2 


24 


102 


88 


107 


29 


26 


102 


All Occupied Males . 


953 


13 


7 


185 


23 


97 


88 


105 


27 


25 


82 


Occupied Males : — 
























London . 


1147 


18 


7 


277 


28 


97 


127 


lie 


30 


25 


88 


Industrial Districts 


1248 


iq 


8 


223 


27 


122 


IS4 


178 


32 


32 


108 


Agricultural „ 


687 


7 


6 


135 


18 


73 


37 


55 


24 


21 


63 


Cotton Manufac- 
























tures, Lancashire . 


1 1 76 


9 


10 


200 


32 


116 


159 


172 


27 


35 


I2S 


Unoccupied Males . 


2215 


23 


2 


448 


37 


191 


84 


135 


53 


39 


630 



It is at once apparent on examining the tables that the death- 
rates of the cotton operatives at the lower age periods is not 
excessive, when one considers that the majority of them live in 
large and crowded centres. The death-rate from phthisis is little 
above that of all males throughout the country, and is much below 
that of occupied males in London or in the industrial districts. 
One striking feature, however, is the high mortality from bronchitis 
and pneumonia. The mortality from rheumatism and heart disease 
is also considerably above that of other classes of the population. 
These are the diseases which one would expect to be increased in 
persons subjected to sudden changes of temperature and humidity. 
The mortality figures published by the Registrar-General referring 
to the two periods, 1880- 1882 and 1890- 1892, are very instructive 
when compared. Two of the most striking features of these figures 
are the decrease of phthisis and the increase of bronchitis and 
pneumonia in the second period as compared with the first. The 
phthisis deaths amongst the cotton operatives of Lancashire were 
25 per cent, of the total deaths in the years 1880-1882; the per- 



centage had decreased to 19.6 in the years i890-L 



On the 



other hand, the percentage of deaths from bronchitis and pneumonia 
increased from 25 per cent to 29.7 in the same period. The inferences 
that one might draw from these figures are rendered less positive 
by the fact that a change similar, but not so marked, took place 
throughout England. The small amount of phthisis amongst the 
cotton operatives in the second period compared with the first is 
certainly remarkable, the decrease being much greater than in the 



Lii.] DEATH-RATES IN THE DIFFERENT DEPARTMENTS 721 



w 
Q 
< 

O 
H 
H 
O 
O 

H 

o s^ 

P-l •§ 
w 







00 


r^ 


UD 


vO 


VD 






•S3sm23 nv 


-t- 


o' 


ro 






xO 












N 


■<*• 





^ 






























3 



















•sisiqiqj 











N 


t^ 


XO 


« 


UBqi j3qio 




N 




CO 


^. 


vq 


sasBasiQ 




i-i 


CO 


VD 


4 


j>. 


"o 


3unq 












« 


















> 


































0^ 


hH 


i-i 


^O 


CO 


t^ 




•sisiiijqj 




CO 


N 


J>- 


^ 


■f 






'"' 


'"' 


ri 


'"' 


" 








t-~ 


c^ 


CO 


!>. 


CO 


oo_ 


. 


•S3snB3 nv 


4- 


xn 


ci 


N 




00 


1 






























ri 
















ffi 


•sisjqjqj 


N 


N 


j>. 


j^ 


t^ 


CO 


s 


UBqj jaqjo 


ir> 


M3 


'4- 


CO 


C^ 


0^ 





S3SB3SIQ 






ci 


d 


d 


dv 



V 


Sunq 












vo 


1 

u 
































00 


ro 


vo 


vo 








•sisiqiqj 


N 





cy. 


CTi 










'"' 


N 


d 


CO 










ro 


't 


N 


-f 


00 


vq 





•S3snt33 iiv 


,n 


1>- 


"^ 


CO 


CO 





~ 














N 
































e- 
















;« 

^ 


•sisiqiqj 


■^ 


10 


vo 


00 


00 


vn 


UBqj jgqjo 


00 


^. 


q 






CO 


X) 


S3SE3SIQ 






CO 


!>. 


r}- 


ro 


1 


Sunq 




























c 




00 








t}- 


00 


N 


^ 


•sisiquid 


^ 





CO 


vq 


C^ 


ON 




*"■ 


N 


N 


•"• 


^ 


vn 






„ 


VO 


00 


up 


00 


N 




•sasnBQ nv 


VJD 


vd 


l;^' 


CO 


CO 


VD 


i2 














N 


•sisiqiqj 


-rh 








00 


t1- 


W 


q! 


uBqj jaqio 


qs 


qx 


^ 




0^ 






S3SB3SIQ 




1-4 


N 


hJ 


^ 


CO 


'a 


gun'-j 








" 


OJ 






u-i 


00 


On 


'*• 


„ 


vn 




•sisiqiqj 


VO 


tJ- 


q 


ON 


vq 


as 






■^ 


N 


CO 


M 




CO 






CJ 


CJ 


q 


„ 


VO 


00 




•sasnEO iiv 


4 


vri 


^^ 


vo 


vd 


8 


•sjsiqjqj 


00 


VO 


a^ 


0^ 


C^ 






utjqi aaqjo 




00 






ri 


00 




S3SB3SIQ 






N 


in 


d 


M 


i2 


Sunq 










c^ 


VO 


1 






























^ 




-)- 


r< 


IH 


00 


vn 


l/-> 


•sisiqjqj 


I-; 


1^ 


•-; 


00 


t^ 


rt- 






'"' 


'"' 


ri 


" 


CO 


^ 


II 


vO 


vn 


vo 


m 


xr> 


'^■p 




w-1 


CO 


^ 


1 




J 


ii 




P. 




r-^ 


CO 


'^ 


xi-> 


ffg. 



2 Z 



722 MANUFACTURE OF COTTON [chap. 

whole country. Improved ventilation following on the 1889 Act 
may have had some effect, but it seems likely that there has been 
some change in death certification, and that some deaths which 
formerly were returned as phthisis are now returned as bronchitis 
and pneumonia. 

The conclusion to be drawn from the Blackburn figures is that 
weaving in that town is somewhat healthier than the other cotton 
occupations, and in this connection it must be remembered that 
" steaming " is practically confined to weaving-sheds. If one could 
go more deeply into this subject, it might probably be shown that 
some of the disparity in the death-rates of weavers and spinners in 
Blackburn is due to the classes of people from which they are 
drawn. From all these figures it may be deduced that the cotton 
trade has little or no harmful effect as compared with most other 
trades at the earlier age periods. After the age of fifty-five the 
death-rate becomes enormous. There is, however, only a very 
small number of cotton operatives over the age of fifty-five. 
Failure of eyesight generally makes it necessary for them to 
give up this work and find some other employment before 
reaching this age. It seems almost certain that the very large 
death-rates at the ages of fifty-five to sixty-five, and sixty-five and 
upwards, are due to a great extent to a difference in the manner 
in which the census returns and the death returns are made. 

As this article shows, much has been done by legislation to 
make the cotton trade healthy. There still, however, remains 
much to be done, not only by further legislation, but by the 
operative himself, in shaping his conduct on reasonably healthy 
lines. For instance, there is nothing more desirable than the 
provision of good cloakrooms, sufficiently large, well-warmed 
and ventilated, and constructed in such a way as to be a real 
convenience ; but these are of little use unless the operatives make 
proper use of them, and provide themselves with clothes sufficiently 
warm to protect them against the sudden and severe change of 
temperature that they are subjected to. The cotton operative is 
extremely neglectful in this matter of clothing, and to this fact is 
probably due much of the ill effect put down to steaming. 

The further improvements that suggest themselves as likely to 
be most beneficial are : — 

(i) The extension of the regulations with regard to venti- 
lation to all weaving-sheds and to other departments of the cotton 
industry. 

(2) The substitution of electricity for gas for lighting purposes. 




SUGGESTED IMPROVEMENTS . 723 

(3) The enforcement of proper cleanliness, particularly with 
regard to the floors of weaving-sheds. 

(4) The provision of cloakrooms and lavatories. 

(5) The complete disconnection of all sanitary conveniences 
from the workrooms by means of an open space. 

James Wheatley. 



CHAPTER LIII 

RABBIT DOWN 

The transformation of rabbit skins into felt hats is one of the 
most interesting of the many wonderful metamorphoses brought 
about by the manufacturer. Of a long series of acts and processes 
by which this transformation is effected, one of the earliest is the 
removal by the "fur-puller" of the long, coarse hairs from the 
rabbit skin. What is left after these have been removed is the short 
close fur which, after it has been separated from the pelt, is alone 
used by the felt-hatmaker. The hair plucked off by the fur-puller 
is the Rabbit Down, a waste product regarded as of little value, sold 
for ijd. to 3d. a pound, to be used principally for stuffing cheap 
bedding, and largely bought by mining companies for the miners 
to lie upon while working the coal seams. 

The fur-puller plucks off these long hairs by means of a special 
knife pressed against the thumb, which is protected by an india- 
rubber shield. She sits on a low bench before a wooden trough, 
the rabbit skin stretched over her knee, held fast at one end 
between knee and trough, and grasped at the other by the left 
hand. A pile of skins is on the floor on either side of her, and 
very rapidly she "pulls" each skin in succession, passing it over 
from the " unpulled " to the " pulled " heap. The wooden trough 
is for the reception of the " down," and receives the greater part 
of it, but it is so light that it flies everywhere, covering the 
worker's hair and clothing till all is one uniform grey ; it floats 
in the air and rests thickly on every ledge and beam, the floor 
too, being carpeted with it. 

No description can convey any adequate impression of a fur- 
pulling room, whether it be occupied by i or 50 workers — the 
universal grey, the haze of floating hair, the sickly, disgusting 
odour of uncleaned skins — it must be seen, felt, and smelt, to be 
understood. 

Not infrequently the pulling-room in a factory or workshop 
is used at the same time as a drying-room and store-room, 

724 




I 



CHAP. Liii.] THE MALADIES OF FUR-PULLERS • 725 



and the skins hang in rows suspended from the ceiling, adding an 
almost overpowering stench to the other unpleasant conditions. 
The rabbit skins, when delivered to the worker, have usually 
undergone no preparatory or purifying process, but are as they 
were received from the dealer. Before they can be pulled, they 
must be " opened," that is, smoothed out and dragged into shape, 
scraps of fat or clotted blood cut and scraped off, and the skin 
turned fur side out and laid flat. In some of the larger works, 
women are employed as " openers " only, and from them the skins 
pass to the "pullers." In most cases the pullers open the skins 
themselves. Fur-pullers and openers belong to the poorest class 
of women. The dirty and repulsive nature of the work, and the 
low scale of wages, attract none but those who, for one reason or 
another, can get no other employment. The trade is dying out, 
very few young women and girls are found in it, and none will learn 
it ; they go rather to the jam or fancy box factories, or any of 
the numerous unskilled occupations open now to girls. The 
fur-pullers are chiefly old women, or middle-aged women in 
distress. The wages vary according to the class of skins, and 
according to whether the puller works at home or in the work- 
shop, and whether she opens the skins herself; they range from 
IS. to 2s. the "turn" of 60 skins. The knife costs 8d., and must 
be constantly ground : the rubber shield costs 3d. and 4d., and lasts 
but a few weeks. 

Machines are taking the place of hand-pulling to a certain 
extent, but the chief part of the work is done in Belgium, where 
men do the pulling for a low wage. The manufacturer here finds 
it cheaper to pay the carriage of British rabbit skins to Belgium 
and back, than to have them pulled in England. Fur-pullers are, 
as a class, irregular workers ; and being paid by the piece, the em- 
ployer has no hold upon them. They seldom work more than four 
days in a week ; not because there is no work for them, but because 
intemperate habits prevail, and home cares provide other occupations 
on Monday and Saturday. When the workers in any industry 
are drawn only from that class whose standard of life is the very 
lowest, when insufficient food and clothing and all the other sad 
accompaniments of deep poverty have made their mark upon 
them, it is almost impossible to point to any one physical con- 
dition as a result of their occupation. Hoarseness, cough, and 
a bronchitic condition are common among fur-pullers ; such are also 
observed in the old and middle-aged women of the same class who 
are not fur-pullers. One would certainly expect to find evidence 



726 RABBIT DOWN [chap. 

among them of suffering caused by inhaling the down present in 
the air of the workrooms ; but, except for occasional complaints that 
"it stuffs up the chest," most of the workers consider fur-pulling 
a healthy occupation. It may be that the fur being so fine and 
light is not inhaled; the danger is probably more to be found in 
swallowing it, and symptoms of ill-health arising from this are, from 
their nature, not easily discoverable, and must be related by the 
sufferer; but the poor fur-pullers look with suspicion on any inquiry 
touching their health, fearing that they may be deprived of their 
work, which, although they say it is not worth the doing, is all they 
have. 

If the occupation is dirty and disgusting even in a factory and 
workshop where rooms are specially set apart for it, it is, when 
carried on at home in a little living room, indescribably offensive 
and horrible. In 1897 the terrible condition of the homes of the 
fur-pullers in South London was described in the Press. Since 
then matters both inside and outside the factories and workshops 
have been improved, although much remains still to be done. In 
consequence of recommendations made in 1897 by the Depart- 
mental Committee appointed to inquire into the conditions of 
work in wool-sorting and other kindred trades, fur-pulling was 
added by Order of the Secretary of State in March 1898 to the 
Schedule of Trades in which occupiers must keep lists of out- 
workers' names and addresses ; and by another Order the taking 
of meals in fur-pulling workrooms, or remaining during the time 
allowed for meals in such places, was prohibited. By these means 
greater control has been exercised by sanitary authorities and 
the Factory Department over fur-pulling, both as a home industry 
and in factories and workshops, and one of the greatest risks to 
health, the taking of meals in the workrooms, removed. In the 
absence, however, of any legal obligation upon an employer to 
provide other accommodation for employes whom he is bound 
to exclude from their workroom during their dinner hour, those 
poor creatures whose homes are at a distance are turned out 
into the streets, and in bad weather run a risk scarcely less than 
that from which the legislature sought to preserve them — the risk 
to health of cold and wet. 

Much more than has yet been attempted might be done to 
improve, by specially applied ventilation, the condition of fur- 
pulling rooms in factories and workshops. The drawing away 
of the pulled hair from the worker in a downward direction by 
means of a properly constructed flue under the troughs, and an 




Liii.] HOW THE INDUSTRY MIGHT BE IMPROVED 727 



extracting fan, would seem to be practicable, and the down could 
be collected outside in a receptacle for the purpose. But pulling 
is not a process that pays ; and although many occupiers have 
provided better rooms than formerly, and more attention is paid 
to general ventilation, to sweeping and cleaning, to warming in 
winter, and other matters affecting the health and comfort of the 
workers, a pioneer has yet to be found who will revolutionise the 
industry by applying to it a really effective dust-extracting system 
of ventilation — and this will require some considerable sum ex- 
pended on it.* 

Rose E. Squire. 



* To the above a note might be added, bearing upon the dangers to health 
in the manufacture of felt hats from the prepared fur. In the process of manu- 
facture known in the trade as "carotting," t.e.^ where the rabbits' skins are 
brushed with a solution of nitrate of mercury, the workmen are exposed to the 
inhalation of mercurial and nitrous vapours (a point alluded to by Dr T. M. 
Legge, p. 442), and as a consequence the teeth become blackened and fall out 
early. The men who are employed in the post-carotting processes, and who are 
designated cutters, blockers, and pelt-shakers, often suffer from muscular tremors 
(hatters' shakers). In the British Medical Journal, February 15, 1902, Dr 
Charles Porter, formerly Medical Officer of Health for Stockport, and at 
present County Medical Officer of Health for Shropshire, describes the pro- 
cesses of manufacture and hygiene of felt hat making, and gives illustrations of 
the rugged, loosened, and discoloured finger nails of plaukers and blockers, as 
well as of the callosities which form upon the thenar and hypothenar eminences 
of the hands. T. O. 



CHAPTER LIV 

DISEASES DUE TO WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND 
STAGNANT AIR 

Caisson Disease. 

Caisson disease, or compressed air illness, is a product of modern 
civilisation. It seizes labourers who are engaged in sinking 
mines, in excavating the beds of rivers to obtain a foundation 
for the piers of bridges, and in tunnel making. A caisson is 
a cylinder composed usually of iron plates riveted together to 
form a shaft, which, in the case of bridge building, is sunk into 
a river, for example, so that its open mouth shall rest upon 
the bed of that river. Down this shaft, when it is properly 
closed at the top by a perfect fitting diaphragm, men descend, 
air having been previously driven in under considerable pressure 
to drive the water out at the bottom of the cylinder and to 
keep it out. The workmen enter and leave the caisson by a 
chamber or " lock " close to the diaphragm at the top. The 
length of the caisson shown in the diagram made for me by 
Mr Huntley, engineer at the Redheugh Bridge on the Tyne, 
is 90 feet, and at the time this drawing was made the men 
were working "jy feet below high-water level mark. In building 
a caisson it is the lower part that is made first. Thirty feet 
of circular iron plates are riveted together, care being taken to 
make the bottom bell-shaped. Before this unfinished caisson 
is lowered on to the bed of the river, there is placed outside 
of it a larger cylinder, and the two are united at the rim of 
the bell-shaped expansion. The space between the two cylinders 
is filled with cement. Successive lengths of twenty feet of 
cylinders are added, and subsequently the air lock, or the 
chamber by means of which men enter and leave the caisson. 
Two men work as a rule in each caisson, but this number varies 
with its size. In the lock there is an inner as well as an outer 
air-tight door, both of which open towards the interior of the 

728 



Sliding 




Fig, 73.— Section of Caisson used in rebuilding Redheugh Bridge, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. 



730 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. 

caisson. When a labourer has to enter the cylinder that is filled 
with compressed air, he passes into the workman's part of the 
lock by the door A (see Diagram) ; the other door, B, which 
opens into the main shaft, is at this time perfectly closed, and 
kept thus by the great pressure within the caisson. Once he 
is in the lock and door A closed, also the outlet cock C, the 
inlet cock D is gradually opened. By degrees the compressed 
air of the cylinder escapes into the lock, and when the pressure 
inside the lock comes to equal that inside the cylinder, door 
B opens of itself. The labourer now enters and descends the 
internal cylinder by means of a ladder to his work on the bed 
of the river. On leaving the caisson the process is reversed. 
The men, while working inside the caisson, shovel the soil and 
stones into large iron buckets which, when filled, are raised 
by a chain wound by an engine outside the cylinder. This 
chain passes through the " material " part of the lock, the 
sliding doors and cocks of which are moved by men outside 
who operate very quickly. As the excavation proceeds, the 
cylinders sink by their own weight and require new lengths 
to be added, bars of pig-iron being thrown into the space 
between the external and internal shafts so as to favour the 
sinking of the caisson. 

It was a French engineer, M. Triger, who first employed 
caissons in order to reach a bed of coal that lay underneath 
the River Loire. Subsequently he used them for boring wells 
and fixing piles for bridges. From the first day on which 
caissons were used, the workmen have complained of pains 
in their ears and joints. In making the Blackwall Tunnel, 
several of the men were ill. Dr Snell, the surgeon to the 
Blackwall Tunnel, has embodied his experience in an excellent 
monograph. It is to MM. Pol and Watelle we are indebted 
for the earliest account of the pathological effects of compressed 
air upon men working in a mine at Douchy in France. Of 
64 workmen exposed to the influence of compressed air, 47 
stood the work well, 25 gave up their employment, and 2 died. 
The risks incurred are not so much when the men are at work 
in the caisson as on entering or leaving it, i.e.^ when they are 
passing through the lock undergoing compression before entering 
the cylinder, or coming out through the lock and undergoing 
decompression. Of these two, decompression is the more dangerous. 
If this is not accomplished slowly, the individual may not only 
experience very unpleasant symptoms, he may become the 



I 



LI v.] UNDERTAKINGS IN WHICH CAISSONS WERE USED 731 

subject of permanent ill-health. It is because, in our daily life, 
the ordinary atmospheric air is pressing upon us equally all 
round that we are unconscious of the 15-lb. pressure to the 
square inch exerted upon our bodies, also that when we dive 
under water we are unaware of any superincumbent weight. 
Engineers have utilised knowledge of these facts, and have 
tried to imitate nature by subjecting men to pressure equal to 
two, three, or four atmospheres, or in other words to weights 
equal to 30, 45, or 60 lbs. to the square inch. 

In this country caissons were first made use of by Hughes in 
1 85 1 to make a bridge at Rochester over the Medway. Brunei 
subsequently employed them at Chepstow and at Saltash. At 
Saltash one of the men died shortly after emerging from the 
caisson, wherein he had been working at a depth of 87.5 feet below 
the surface, and under a maximum pressure of 40 lbs. During 
the building of the bridge of Kaffre Azzyat over the Nile in 1859, 
five Arabs died from the effects of compressed air. Blood issued 
from their mouth, nose, and ears. These men had been working 
at a depth of 85 feet below high-water level mark, and under a 
pressure of 34 lbs. to the square inch. For several years now, 
wherever an important bridge has had to be built, caissons have 
been used. It was thus that the foundations were obtained for 
such structures as the railway bridge across the Rhine at Stras- 
burg, the Forth Bridge, and the Suspension Bridge at Brooklyn, 
New York. Descriptions of the illnesses that occurred among the 
workmen engaged at the Forth Bridge, and at Brooklyn, have been 
embodied in monographs by Dr James Hunter, in his M.D. 
Thesis for Edinburgh University, and by Dr Andrew Smith of 
New York. At the Brooklyn Bridge the pressure varied from 
18 to 36 lbs. to the square inch above that of the atmosphere, 
and the caissons were lighted by gas. Ventilation of the cylinders 
was attended to as far as possible, but, notwithstanding this, the 
air frequently contained as much as 0.3 per cent, of carbonic 
acid as against 0.06, which is regarded as the maximum for a 
well-ventilated space. Into the caissons 150,000 cubic feet of air 
had to be pumped every hour to satisfy the respiratory require- 
ments of the labourers. The men worked in two shifts of four 
hours, separated by a period of rest for two hours, but as the 
cylinders sank deeper and deeper the working time had to be 
correspondingly diminished. Dr Smith treated no cases of com- 
pressed air illness, of which three proved fatal. 

In the following brief account of the signs presented, and the 



732 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. 

symptoms complained of by one of the patients who was under 
my care in the Newcastle Infirmary, will be found a recital of the 
details of caisson disease. The man was a sinker, forty-five years 
of age. He was worTcing in the caissons at the Redheugh Bridge 
close to the Infirmary, 77 feet below high-water level mark, at a 
pressure of 31-35 lbs. to the square inch. On leaving work one 
day he felt numb in his legs, became sick and vomited ; shortly 
afterwards he became giddy and fell to the ground unconscious. 
His comrades carried him home, where he lay for twelve hours in 
a state of unconsciousness. When he came to himself he com- 
plained of pains all over his body, incomplete loss of power in his 
legs, headache, and buzzing in his ears. Next morning on getting out 
of bed his nose began to bleed, but as epistaxis is common among 
sinkers, he thought lightly of the matter and attempted to go to 
work. He again lost consciousness for a brief period, and it was 
in this condition that he was brought to the Infirmary. Subse- 
quently he complained of severe pains all over his body, difficulty 
of breathing, a feeling of sickness, and profuse perspiration ; the 
pulse was slow and full, there were muscular rigidity, loss of power 
in his legs, and deafness. The urine was free from albumen and 
sugar. During the day there was occasionally delirium of a noisy 
character. Heart, lungs, liver, and spleen seemed healthy. When 
a few days afterwards the symptoms which have already been 
detailed had subsided, and the patient attempted to walk, it was 
observed that there was considerable staggering, and that he 
tended to fall forwards. On examining his blood microscopically, 
nothing abnormal was detected beyond the fact that the coloured 
■cells were slightly paler than usual, and did not form rouleaux 
properly. It was several weeks before patient could walk well, 
also before he lost the noises complained of in his head, and 
that his hearing was perfectly restored. During his stay in the 
Infirmary he had spitting of blood on a few occasions. 

At the Forth Bridge, Hunter found that several of the men 
who worked in the caissons suffered from bleeding at the nose. It 
is gratifying to know that not one of his cases of compressed air 
illness proved fatal. The men worked under a pressure of from 
15 to 34 lbs. above that of the atmosphere, and from four 
to six hours at a stretch, but as the caissons sank this was 
found to be too long. It was observed that the men suffered 
most in their general health when the soft silt in the bed of 
the river containing decomposing organic material was being 
removed. 



I 



LI v.] EFFECTS OF WORKING IN COMPRESSED AIR 733 

One of my clinical clerks* volunteered to enter a caisson. 
He observed that the candles burnt more quickly in compressed 
air than in the ordinary atmosphere, and that as a consequence 
there was much more smoke. His breathing was at first quick- 
ened (40 respirations instead of 16 to the minute), while in the 
case of Mr Huntley, the engineer who accompanied him, and 
who was accustomed to the position, the respirations were only 
20 to the minute. The pulse-rate was also quickened. Mr 
Fawcus experienced very unpleasant sensations in his ears, which 
gradually abated when he swallowed air, and thus inflated the 
middle-ear through the Eustachian tube. He could speak easily 
enough, but he could not whistle. There was no difficulty of 
breathing, although the pressure in the cylinder was 41 lbs. to 
the square inch ; nor was there any sense of fatigue, but rather 
a feeling of fitness. Another of my students on emerging 
from the caisson had bleeding at the nose, severe earache and 
faceache. Pain and unpleasant sensations in the ears are com- 
plained of by nearly all on emerging from a caisson for the first 
time. The pain is apparently a mechanical effect, and is the result 
of the drum of the ear being forcibly driven in by the compressed 
air ; for when a workman has acquired the faculty of swallowing 
air and passing it from his throat up the Eustachian tube into 
the middle-ear, so as to equalise the pressure, the sensation is no 
longer felt. Under these circumstances, it is unwise for any person 
who is suffering from a cold in the head or naso-pharynx to enter 
a caisson. The conditions inside the caisson are unnatural. As 
the whole body is subjected to an enormous pressure, men can only 
work therein for a short period at a time. It is a well-known 
fact that in the ordinary affairs of our daily life, some of our best 
work is done when we are working under mental pressure ; and while 
the simile does not actually hold good of comparing mental with 
physical work, also of comparing physical work done under normal 
and abnormal pressure, yet experience shows that in the caisson the 
workmen, instead of feeling any bad effects from the compressed 
air, are so buoyed up by it, that in a given time they do far more 
and much harder work than when they are on the surface. Besides, 
as they are unconscious of putting forth extra effort, they do not 
feel fatigued, they perspire freely, and are apt to rub themselves 
incautiously, thus causing skin eruptions. Just as candles burn 
with greater rapidity inside the caissons, so too, it would appear, 
are the vital processes in the workmen quickened, disintegration 
* Now Mr H. B. Fawcus, M.B., Royal Army Medical Corps. 



734 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. 

of their tissues hastened, and the functions of the eliminating 
organs heightened. This simply means that all round more work 
is done by, and more waste formed in, the human body. Unless 
a caisson suddenly ruptures, as occurred a few years ago in France, 
the men when working inside run very little danger. It is on 
emerging from the cylinder, i.e., when he has undergone decom- 
pression, that the workman runs the risk of becoming giddy, and 
of being unable to stand, of having temporary paralysis of the 
legs, of experiencing muscular pains, called " bends," all over his 
body, but particularly in legs and back, of suffering from bleeding 
from the nose, ears, and lungs, or of becoming unconscious. 

That pressure per se plays a part in the production of the 
symptoms is shown by the fact that as the caisson sinks and the 
internal pressure is correspondingly raised, the men suffer corre- 
spondingly. On the Tyne the men always suffered more when 
the pressure inside the cylinder was increased so as to keep pace 
with the rising tide. The condition of the air inside is also of 
importance. As more smoke is given off by the candles, and the 
men work harder inside than outside the caissons, the air is 
rendered very impure. At the Brooklyn Bridge each man was 
supplied with lOOO to 3000 cubic feet of air per hour, and yet 
the air inside the cylinders contained as much as 0.3 per cent, of 
carbonic acid as against 0.06, which is considered a healthy average. 
It is desirable that the workmen should have not less than 6000 
cubic feet of air per hour. At the bridge on the Tyne, where my 
patients worked, 3000 cubic feet of air per hour were at first 
supplied to the workmen, but after their breakdown in health, this 
amount was raised to 5000. 

It is difficult to say what amount of atmospheric pressure men 
can endure with safety. With the object of throwing light upon 
this subject, experiments have been conducted by Hersent, a 
French engineer at Bordeaux, and also by Dr Lepine. Hersent 
tried the effects of compressed air both upon dogs and men. 
Some of the dogs on leaving the caisson, others the day after 
having undergone decompression, became paralysed in their 
limbs. Men similarly treated suffered from severe pains in their 
limbs and itchiness of their skin. Lepine experimented with 
guinea-pigs and rabbits. When these animals had undergone rapid 
decompression after exposure to the influence of compressed air, 
they became paralysed in their hinder extremities, convulsions 
supervened, followed by death in a quarter of an hour. On 
making a post-mortem examination of the bodies, the central canal 



Liv.] RAPID DECOMPRESSION EXTREMELY DANGEROUS 735 

of the spinal cord was found to be distended by gas which had 
torn its way into the canal. There were also gaseous bullae 
around the blood-vessels of the spinal cord. Several of the small 
arteries were torn and had bled. In one case where the animal 
died on the thirteenth day after exposure to compressed air, 
followed by rapid decompression, Lepine found foci of softening in 
the anterior horns of grey matter of the spinal cord due to gaseous 
emboli and to hsemorrhagic infarction or rupture of blood-vessels. 

There is a very great tendency for grave accidents to be pro- 
duced in man when the pressure in the caissons exceeds four to 
five atmospheres. The greatest risk occurs when the workmen 
are coming out of the cylinders and are in the lock undergoing 
decompression. If decompression is effected suddenly, harmful or 
even fatal results are likely to ensue. One minute for every three 
pounds of pressure is the time usually given for decompression, or 
five minutes for each atmosphere, but it is obvious that the longer 
the labourers are in the caissons and are exposed to very high 
pressure, the greater is the probability of a larger amount of gas 
being dissolved in the blood and the greater the time therefore 
required for decompression. 

A caisson has been known to burst. This causes the most 
sudden decompression possible. It is almost always a fatal accident 
owing to the rapid disengagement into the tissues of the nitrogen 
gas of the atmosphere which had been dissolved in the blood of 
the workmen under very great pressure. Death is often preceded 
by convulsions. If the workmen rally, their legs are found to be 
paralysed ; this loss of power may be temporary or permanent. 

Three theories have been brought forward to explain com- 
pressed-air illness: (i) carbonic acid poisoning; (2) mechanical 
congestion of internal organs ; (3) increased solution by the blood 
of the gases in the cylinder and the sudden liberation of these 
gases from the blood into the tissues during decompression. 

If caisson disease were due to carbonic acid poisoning, we would 
naturally expect the symptoms to show themselves during the time 
the men are working in the cylinder, and not after they leave it. 
Dr Andrew Smith of New York believes that the illness is the 
result of mechanical congestion, especially of the brain. In 
several of the men who died the membranes of the brain were found 
to be deeply congested, a pathological condition that doubtless 
contributed to the fatal termination. 

My own opinion is that caisson disease is due to an increased 
solution of gases in the blood and sudden liberation of them. 



I 



736 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. 

The amount of gas capable of being dissolved by a liquid is, as 
Dalton showed, proportional to pressure. This law holds good 
for the workman in the caisson. Since under the influence of com- 
pression more gas is dissolved in the blood, the excess has to be 
liberated during the act of decompression. If this is done quickly 
there is an escape of bubbles of gas from the blood as it circulates 
through the capillaries in the spinal cord and elsewhere. When 
Paul Bert, a French physiologist, exposed animals to the influence 
of compressed air and quickly decompressed them, several of them 
died suddenly, and at the autopsy free gas was found in the blood 
and in the right side of the heart. Other animals were paralysed, 
and in them bubbles of gas were found in the spinal cord, while the 
subcutaneous tissue was at places emphysematous or filled with 
air. As to the nature of the gas found in the blood and tissues 
it is impossible to speak with certainty. It is probably nitrogen, 
for this gas is the largest constituent of atmospheric air, and it is 
perfectly passive, so that any effect produced by it would be purely 
mechanical. If we regard caisson disease as due to the liberation 
of gases dissolved in the blood during too rapid decompression, we 
have an explanation of such a circumstance as that of work- 
men taking ill shortly after they emerge from the lock, also the 
benefit which they receive by being put back into the cylinder and 
of undergoing temporary recompression. 

Treatment. — Treatment is preventive and curative. The points 
that above all others demand attention are that the acts of com- 
pression and decompression should be very slowly accomplished. 
Of these two, decompression is the more important. The work- 
man should not be too rapidly pushed through the lock or exposed 
to any sudden increment or decrement of pressure. One minute 
for every three pounds of pressure is regarded as the average 
period, but this length of time might with advantage be lengthened 
especially for decompression, since it is the more dangerous. At 
this time too the workman, although he does not feel fatigued, is 
perspiring freely, and he is exposed to chill owing to a falling 
temperature. The air inside the caisson should be kept as pure 
as possible, and the men ought not to work longer than from two 
to four hours at a stretch. Even the minimum stated here may 
require to be halved as greater depths are reached. Men should 
be medically selected for the work, and only healthy men chosen 
who are free from heart disease, pulmonary and nasal catarrh, 
and who are temperate. No man who is suffering from a 
discharge from the ear ought to be allowed into a caisson, 



LI v.] THE MONT CENIS TUNNEL , - 737 

for even in healthy men the drum of the ear has been known to 
become ruptured. There ought to be a warm shelter or cabin at 
hand in which the men could lie down after coming out of the 
cylinders, and where hot non-intoxicating drinks can be got if 
required. If the men on coming out of the caisson are cold and 
collapsed, warm bottles should be applied to their extremities, 
medical assistance sought, and if the breathing is impaired a hypo- 
dermic injection of liquor strychniae should be administered. 
Stimulants should only be given if there is failure of the heart's 
action. Subsequently, if there is severe muscular pain morphia 
may be required. In the view that the symptoms are due to 
congestion of the internal organs ergot has been recommended. 
When unpleasant and dangerous symptoms have occurred imme- 
diately the workman has emerged from the caisson, good results 
have been obtained by subjecting him to recompression. Part 
of the cabin or shelter just recommended might be so constructed 
that recompression could be carried out therein under careful 
supervision, with the workman in the recumbent position. 

Dangers Incidental to the Making of, and Working in, Tunnels. 

The making of tunnels has been carried on from remote ages, 
there being records of such works as early as six hundred years 
before the Christian era. In a paper read by Mr Francis Fox, 
M.Inst. C.E., before the Royal Institution, 25th May 1900, the 
methods adopted for making tunnels are described at length, and 
especially the making of the great Alpine tunnels. The dangers of 
tunnelling the Alps have been considerable, and now that the act 
has been accomplished, there has been experienced considerable 
difficulty in ventilating some of the tunnels. The Mont Cenis 
tunnel is 8 miles in length, and as there is a gradient of i in 
40 on the French side for the first 7 kilometres,* the trains go 
through with the regulators of the engine full open, so that if the 
wind is blowing in the same direction, great volumes of smoke 
practically travel with the train. For the men who are working in 
the tunnel there are refuges placed at every kilometre. Here when 
the men shut themselves in they can obtain compressed air, fresh 
water, and medicines, and by means of the telephone, extending in 
both directions, they can make their wants known outside. The 
caretakers of the tunnel work in pairs, so that ir one man is affected 
by want of oxygen or through the density of the smoke, the other 
■^ I kilometre = % English mile. 

3A 



738 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. 

can render assistance, or telephone for relief, or they can both retire 
into a refuge and wait for either the air of the tunnel to clear or 
for a locomotive to come and remove them. 

The St Got hard tunnel is 9.3 miles in length. It is on the 
railway from Lucerne to Chiaso on the Italian frontier. The north 
portal of the tunnel has an altitude of 3639 feet above the 
level of the sea, and the south portal 3757. Ten years were 
spent in tunnelling the mountain. The work was accomplished 
at a great sacrifice of human life. In constructing the tunnel there 
were 580 accidents, of which 177 were fatal. The engineer and con- 
tractor lost their lives. There was a great mortality, too, among the 
horses. This excessive loss of life was attributed to insufficient 
ventilation, high temperatures in the tunnel, exposure of the men 
to the rigours of an Alpine climate after leaving their work, 
carelessness of the men in not changing their wet clothes, the 
poor character of the food supplied to the men, and defective 
sanitary arrangements. One of the great difficulties as regards 
the St Gothard tunnel has been its ventilation. The height 
of the mountain prevented the sinking of a shaft, but a large 
ventilating fan placed near the mouth of the tunnel blows 
air through the annular space between the arch of the tunnel 
and the gauge of maximum construction, whereby 210,000 cubic 
feet of air are thrown into the tunnel every minute, or 100 cubic 
metres per second. Before the fan was brought into operation 
the temperature used sometimes to be as high as 107° F., with 
97 per cent, of moisture, but by artificial ventilation the tempera- 
ture fell to 8r R, subsequently to 74.5° F. The tunnel can now be 
kept cool and comparatively free from smoke and vapour. Formerly 
the engine drivers and passengers were seriously indisposed in going 
through the tunnel ; to-day they can travel without any incon- 
venience. In the St Gothard tunnel the amount of carbonic acid 
often exceeded 15 per 1000. There resulted from this and other 
causes such a corrosion of the rails, that it was necessary at the 
end of every few years to entirely replace the rails and their con- 
nections. The engineers estimated that during three and a half 
years each rail lost on an average 18 kilos in weight, and at 
a maximum 28 kilos. Similar metallic corrosion has been 
observed in the tunnel between Genoa and Turin, and is attri- 
buted to the sulphurous acid in the smoke of the coal becoming 
converted into sulphuric acid. The recent artificial ventilation of 
the St Gothard tunnel by the Saccardo system has not only made 
the air purer but increased the longevity of the permanent way. 




m {5 



§1 






o o, 



[To face page 733. 




LIV.] 



THE SIMPLON TUNNEL 



739 



The Siniplon tunnel is now in course of formation. In the 
first eighteen months three miles were made. When finished it 
will measure 12.26 miles between the north or Swiss portal on the 
Brigue side of the Alps and the south or Italian opening at Iselle. 



^ iSElLE 

(South End) 



STATION 




BRIGUE 

(North End) 



Fig. 75.— Section of Slmplon Tunnel, showing difference in Levels between 
North and South ends. 

Such are the existing engineering and hygienic arrangements that 
they are believed likely to prevent the heavy death-rate that 
occurred in tunnelling the St Gothard. Fifty times the amount 




TUNNEL 



Fio. 76. — Section of Simplon Tunnel, showing Cross Gallery by means of which air is 
transmitted from ventilating passage to head of tunnel where the men are working. 

of atmospheric air is being sent into the tunnel than was forced 
into the St Gothard, and there are means in use whereby the 
air is cooled by jets of water. The great difficulty of the enter- 
prise, as Professor Pagliani showed {Revue d' Hygiene, 20 Juin 1900), 
lies in keeping the temperature low and in renewing the air, 
so that the work of excavation and construction can be con- 
veniently carried on without undue fatigue to the men. In the 
centre of the tunnel a temperature of from 107.6° F. to 113° F. 
is expected to be met with. The best possible means will 
be adopted to cool and ventilate the passages. The effect 
of high temperatures upon the men working in the tunnel 
is to increase the tension of carbonic acid in their blood and 
to interfere with respiratory exchanges. The moist atmosphere, 
too, tends to induce both pulmonary and circulatory troubles 



740 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. 

by preventing elimination of waste material through the per- 
spiration. It is impossible for hard muscular work to be 
continued for any length of time, and to be efficacious in a 
temperature equal or superior to that of the human body, and 
in a close medium saturated with moisture. At 84° F. we know 
physiologically that muscular effort is considerably reduced. An 
attempt is being made to keep the temperature of the tunnel 
at y']'^ F., and lower when possible. 

Two parallel galleries — in other words, two tunnels — are being 
run into the mountain 17 metres* apart, and are reunited by a 
small transverse gallery every 200 metres. As the entrance into 
the tunnel, on each side of the mountain, is on a curve, there is at 
either end a "gallery of direction" to correct errors of allignment 
direct from the two observatories in the axis of the tunnel. 
Pagliani found that the amount of carbonic acid at various 
distances varied from 0.68 to 7.53 per 1000, and the temperature 
from 75.2° F. to 87.8°, but these amounts vary with the activity 
of the ventilation, the number of men working, the activity 
of the machinery, and the moisture of the air, which is nearly 
always at the point of saturation. It is almost impossible to 
have a dry atmosphere ; besides it is vitiated by the products of 
dynamite explosions. 

The chief feature of the Simplon tunnel -j* "is the much lower 
altitude of the rails above sea-level than any of the other Alpine 
tunnels. This altitude is at its highest point 2314 feet, being 1474 
feet lower level than that of the St Gothard, 1934 feet lower than 
that of the Mont Cenis. . . . 

"The tunnel enters the mountain at the present level of the 
railway at Brigue . . . but on the Iselle side the connecting line 
with the existing railway at Domo d'Ossola necessitates heavy 
work. . . . The gradient on the northern portion of the tunnel 
will only be that sufficient for drainage, viz., i in 500, but on the 
southern portion the gradient will be 7 per 1000, or i in 142." 

In May 1901, 1 visited the Simplon tunnel, with the object of in- 
specting the methods of ventilation, the hospitals, the system of baths, 
and the houses erected for the working men, married and unmarried. 
Armed with letters of introduction from Mr Francis Fox, I was 
received at Iselle, the Italian side of the tunnel, by Mr Sulser-Ziegler, 
Director of Messrs Brandt, Brandau & Cie, Zurich ; also by Dr 

■^ A metre = i yard 3 inches. 

t " The Great Alpine Tunnels," Francis Fox, Proceedings^ Royal Institutiofiy 
Great Britain (November 1901), p. 422. 




li'iG. 77.— Interior of 13ath- house and Vestiary for the ]\Iiners at the Simplon Tunnel (Iselle), showing 
the cubicles providetl with hot and cold water douche pipes, also numerous cords with workmen's 
apparel suspended from ceiling. 



[To face page 740. 




VENTILATION OF THE SIMPLON TUNNEL. ' y^i 

Volante, the resident Medical Officer, who conducted me over the 
u'orks, the workmen's dweUings, and the hospital. From the 
elaborate precautions taken, it is clear that the Company has made 
up its mind not to repeat the errors of the St Gothard, and to show 
to the engineering world and the public generally that tunnel- 
making can be conducted without greater risk to life and health 
than occurs in any ordinary enterprise. The large number of 
deaths in the St Gothard was due to the imperfect system of 
ventilation, the difficulty of dealing with excessive temperatures in 
the mountain, and defective sanitary arrangements. Before 
operations at the Simplon were commenced, Mr Sulser and his 
colleagues appointed two medical men, one at either end of the 
proposed tunnel, viz., Dr Volante at Iselle and Dr Pommata at 
Brigue. Both are Italians, and are most capable men. Before 
undertaking work the men are all medically examined. By this 
means, only healthy men have been employed from the commence- 
ment. The most important problem has been that of ventilation. 
The Simplon tunnel, when completed, will be the longest in the 
world, being upwards of 1 2 miles in length. So satisfactory have 
the operations proceeded until now, that unless some untoward and 
unexpected event happens, the tunnel will be completed with the 
smallest number of deaths on record.* A short description of the 
work, based upon personal inspection, may well be added here. 

Ventilation, as already stated, is the main difficulty. At the 
Swiss end of the mountain a shaft has been sunk into the tunnel, 
and up this the foul air is removed by wood fires. Into the tunnel, 
at each end, by means of large fans, air is introduced to the extent 
of 19 million cubic feet per day, or 13,200 cubic feet per minute. 
The air is carried in by one of the two parallel tunnels as far as the 
most recently constructed cross gallery, thence it is carried to the 
face by pipes. It returns by the larger tunnel, i.e., the one through 
which trains will ultimately travel. By this means fresh air is 
carried to the head of the tunnel where the men are working. At 
Iselle there are 500 men always at work in the tunnel. There are 
three shifts of men, and they work 8 hours each, so that 1 500 men, 
roughly speaking, are employed at the Italian end, and a much 
larger number at Brigue. The average temperature at the head 
varies from 73° F. upwards. After firing with dynamite it may be as 
high as 80° F., or 86° F. The air is not only ladened with carbonic 

* Since this was written there has occurred a large inrush of water from the 
superincumbent calcareous strata into the tunnel, at the Iselle end, which has 
seriously delayed operations. 



742 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap, 

acid given off from the lungs of the men and the 15 to 20 horses 
in the tunnel, but contains materials given off from the bodies 
of the men during excessive perspiration, and is polluted by the 
products of dynamite and gelatine explosions. The foul air as it 
escapes from the mouth of the tunnel is thick and greyish-white 
in colour ; it contains a good deal of smoke from the lamps of the 
workmen, and is very offensive. Small wonder, therefore, that the 
men emerge from the tunnel bathed in perspiration, and disposed 
to be chilled owing to their clothes being wet, for, although they 
work in tarpaulins, there is a good deal of water in the tunnel 
It was, among other things, want of attention to these particular 
details in the St Gothard that caused so many deaths and illnesses 
from pulmonary disease. 

Close to the mouth of the Simplon tunnel at Iselle, where the 
railway trucks draw up that bring the men from their work in the 
interior of the mountain, are large wooden buildings, one of which 
internally is divided off into, among other things, 32 cubicles, each of 
which is fitted up with hot and cold water pipes. The railway plat- 
form where the men emerge is covered over, so that the workmen 
can reach this building without being exposed to wet or cold. The 
building alluded to is not only a bath-house but a vestiary as well. 
Here the men in going to work in the tunnel put on their working 
clothes. At first sight, part of the interior of the bath-house is not 
unlike an old-clothes' shop, for, on looking upwards, the clothes of 
the workmen can be seen suspended from the ceiling. There are 
2000 strong cords placed i foot 6 inches apart. Attached to the 
free end of each cord are three iron hooks and a soap dish. Upon 
the hooks the workman hangs his clothes. As every cord is 
provided with a pulley and is numbered, each man, having had 
a bath after his day's work, hangs his wet clothes on the hooks 
and draws them up to the ceiling. Next morning he finds his 
clothes ready for him, dry, warm, and comfortable. The bath-house 
is kept at a warm temperature, and is well ventilated. I was 
particularly struck with the excellent system of baths, the vestiary 
arrangements, and the cleanliness of the interior, and am of opinion 
that prevention of chilling of the workmen after coming out of the 
hot tunnel has had much to do with keeping them healthy, and has 
warded off pulmonary and bronchial disease. The supply of drinking 
water is good, and so far there has been during the three years no 
case of typhoid fever at Iselle. The workmen's dwellings are also 
good, so, too, is the hospital and its administration. 

In addition to the ill-health caused by working in the vitiated 



Liv.] ANCHYLOSTOMIASIS IN MINERS ' 743 

atmosphere and high temperature of the tunnels, the miners 
employed in making the St Gothard tunnel suffered from a 
peculiar form of anaemia, which for long was unexplained. The 
discovery of the cause of this " maladie des tunnels," for so it 
came to be called, was made by Perroncito of Turin, who showed 
that the anaemia of the miners was caused by the presence of a 
parasite which fixes itself in the upper part of the small intestine, 
measures from ^ to J an inch in length, and possesses a mouth 
and four long booklets. By its booklets the parasite fixes 
itself to the lining membrane of the human intestine, and is thus 
enabled to suck the blood of its host. The worm is called 
" Anchylostomum Duodenale," and is known to be prevalent in Italy. 
It would appear, therefore, that the ova of this parasite escaping 
by the faeces of miners who are suffering from anchylostomiasis 
find in the heat and moisture of the tunnel a medium favourable 
for their transformation into the larval stage; while in the dirty 
habits of the miners, and the accidental contamination of their 
food and drink, lies the explanation of the means of ingress of the 
ova into the alimentary canal. Anchylostomiasis is not therefore 
necessarily a disease of tunnels.* It was simply introduced into 
the St Gothard by infected miners. The malady is endemic in 
Piedmont and Lombardy. Dubini of Milan found in one hundred 
autopsies made upon the peasantry of these districts, anchylos- 
tomiasis present in twenty bodies, so that the disease had been 
apparently introduced into the St Gothard by Italian workmen. 
The ravages caused by this parasite show the necessity for miners 
working in tunnels disinfecting their stools by such means, for 
example, as sulphuric acid. It is to the careful medical ex- 
amination of the workmen by Drs Volante and Pommata, before 
being engaged by the firm, the elimination of all suspected 
persons, and the repeated inspection of the closets in the tunnel, 
that anchylostomiasis has not appeared at the Simplon. Since 
much* of the pulmonary disease that affected the miners was 
consequent upon breathing an overheated and an excessively 
moist atmosphere, one also vitiated by the products of human 
respiration and dynamite explosions, improved ventilation in the 
case of the Simplon tunnel has diminished these evils ; while the 
opportunities given to the men of changing their wet clothes, of 
bathing themselves, and of receiving shelter when tired, have 
prevented the acute bronchial and pulmonary catarrhs that were 
observed in making the other great Alpine tunnels. 
* See p. 537, Anchylostomiasis in coal miners. 



744 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. 

Underground Railways. 

Of the underground railways in this country the only one I 
need allude to is the London Metropolitan. In 1897 ^ Board of 
Trade Commission was appointed to inquire into the condition 
of the air in the "Inner Circle" of the Metropolitan. The 
passenger traffic on this line is enormous. Between Praed Street 
and Aldgate stations, in one hour, as many as 38 trains were said 
to arrive and depart from either side of the stations. Welsh coal is 
consumed. Part of the Metropolitan railway is underground, and 
part is in the open, so that when the wind is blowing in certain 
directions passengers have been inconvenienced by the smoke 
and the insufficiency of the ventilation, despite the numerous 
escape holes. There has often been an excess of carbonic acid, 
sometimes, too, of carbon monoxide, in the air in the tunnels. 
The Commission found that the ventilation could not be adequately 
assured by the exchange and renewal of the air at the stations and 
the escape holes. It recognised the necessity for artificial ventila- 
tion, and in consequence the centrifugal method was adopted. 

Vitiation of the air of a tunnel is caused by the gases that 
come from the means adopted for illuminating purposes, the 
products of respiration, and those due to combustion of coal 
in the furnace of the locomotive. Carbonic acid is only 
dangerous when it is present in large quantities. Breathed for 
a very short time at 60 per 1000 it causes headache, at 100 per 
1000 respiration becomes extremely difficult, while if present in the 
proportion of 250 per 1000 it will cause rapid death.* It is seldom, 
however, that carbonic acid is even present to the extent of 10 
per 1000 ; if present, it is as a rule accidental and only for a short 
period, so that danger from this gas is slight. 

It is otherwise with carbon monoxide, a gas much more 
dangerous and subtle in its influence than carbon dioxide, 
popularly known as carbonic acid. Carbon monoxide was found 
to be present in the air of the Metropolitan Railway to the 
extent of 0.66 per 1000. When present to this amount in air 
it can, if time is given, paralyse the haemoglobin or coloured 
substance of the blood that carries the oxygen to the tissues. 
Harmful effects can occur when carbon monoxide reaches 0.3 
per 1000, but as it requires half- an -hour for the blood to 
absorb sufficient of this gas to be detrimental to the individual, 

* See also Dr Haldane's remarks re carbonic acid and carbon monoxide 
gases," The Air of Mines," p. 544. 



Liv.] COMPOSITION OF GASES IN RAILIVA Y TUNNELS 745 

accidents do not happen owing to the short length of the tunnels 
and the good speed of the trains through them. The risks to 
health are incurred mostly by the-men who work on the railways. 
M. Raymond Godfernaux {Genie Civil., Aout et Sept. 1899), in 
reviewing this subject, remarks that the breathing by an individual 
in repose for one and a half hours (less than this if work is being 
done) of an atmosphere containing 0.25 of carbon monoxide per 
1000 is sufficient to cause unpleasant symptoms ; if the air 
contains 0.5 per 1000 there will be debility and vertigo ; if 0.9 per 
1000 walking becomes impossible, while death will supervene if 
there is 1.5 in 1000. To men employed on underground railways, 
danger from this source only comes when the amount of carbon 
monoxide passes beyond 0.25 per 1000. The passengers run, 
practically speaking, no risk. 

A heavy sulphurous odour hangs about the tunnels and 
stations of the Metropolitan Railway due to the combustion 
of coal. When sulphurous acid is present in air to the extent of 
0.6 per 1000 it may cause death. This proportion is never present 
in the air of the tunnels of the Metropolitan of London. 

The sulphurous acid and carbonic acid are believed to be 
proportional to each other. The amount of sulphurous acid is 
440 times less than that of carbonic acid, and as the maximum of 
carbonic acid was 8.9 per 1000, sulphurous acid is seldom more 
than 0.02 per 1000. 

The Commission established the facts (i) that there was a 
constant relation between the deleterious gases in the tunnels, 
and (2) that the proportion of carbonic acid present might be 
taken as the basis for the aeration of the tunnels. The 
proportion of carbon monoxide is constant, and corresponds to 
one-thirteenth the volume of carbon dioxide, while that of 
sulphurous acid is 440 times less than that of carbon dioxide. 
The amount of sulphurous acid is regulated by the character of 
the coal burnt in the locomotive. Some coals contain more 
sulphur than others. A similar remark applies to carbon 
monoxide. An Italian Commission charged with a similar 
function in regard to the composition of the air in the tunnels 
of its own country arrived at different chemical conclusions to the 
Commission of the Board of Trade, so that it would be scarcely 
wise to calculate the purity of the air in all tunnels upon parallel 
lines. 

The amounts of carbon monoxide and dioxide should be 
estimated separately. The composition of the air of the tunnels 



746 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. 

of the Metropolitan, accepted for a maximum, is 1.5 of carbonic 
acid per 1000 (0.3 being regarded as the normal), o.i carbon 
monoxide per 1000, and 0.0027 sulphurous acid per 1000. 

It is especially for the sake of the men who are working in 
the tunnels, and for the drivers of the locomotives, rather than 
for the passengers who spend proportionally a very short time on 
the railway, although of course desirable for all, that such artificial 
means of ventilation should exist as will quickly disperse the 
smoke and all combustion products. 

It has been decided to introduce electric traction in the under- 
ground railway. By this means the Metropolitan Railway Com- 
pany will rid the atmosphere in the tunnels of the impurities 
alluded to. 

Divers' Paralysis. 

Men when clad in proper diving suits and wearing air-tight 
head-gear can work at very considerable depths under water. 
At the depth of 33 feet the pressure is about twice that of the 
atmosphere. It is not exactly known to what depth men may 
descend with safety, but 201 feet have been reached, i.e., equivalent 
to a pressure of 87 lbs. to the square inch. It is very desirable 
that the descent should be made gradually, say about two feet per 
second. In this country diving is resorted to for making excavations 
connected with piers, inspecting sunken ships, etc., and abroad 
for sponge, pearl, and coral fishing. It is not uncommon for the 
men after having been in the water some time to complain of 
weakness of the legs and of impaired sensation. A patient of 
Dr Frederick Taylor {Clin. Jour., April 27, 1898), after diving 
162 feet felt sick, and when pulled up into the lighter was found 
to have lost the power of his legs. Loss of consciousness is a 
frequent symptom, and as it often takes a man as much as five 
minutes before he can reach the surface of the water, there is 
considerable danger attending the occupation. Divers have died 
without regaining consciousness. Others when rescued, and on 
coming to themselves, have complained of severe cramp-like pains 
in the muscles of their limbs and abdomen. 

At such depths as 160 to 180 feet men can only stay at the 
bottom of the sea a very short time. It is only when men 
work at very great depths that paralysis is likely to supervene. 
The risk to life and health is regulated by the depth, and 
particularly is this the case when there are sudden alterations of 
pressure. Hauling up divers too quickly when the air-tube has 




SYMPTOMS OBSERVED IN DIVERS • ' 747 

become foul is a very dangerous proceeding. Since young men 
bear the work better than old men, age, therefore, is a circumstance 
that should be considered, as well as temperance in the use of 
alcohol. The character of the water and the length of the period 
of submersion must not be overlooked. Once 150 feet below 
the surface has been reached, the diver is apt to feel somewhat 
inconvenienced, and with every increase of two or three feet 
beyond this, the inconvenience becomes rapidly greater. There 
are experienced a sense of fulness in the head, buzzing in the 
ears — often relieved by filling the mouth with saliva and swallowing 
the secretion — also flashes of light before the eyes. Bleeding at the 
nose, mouth, and ears occasionally occurs after the men come to the 
surface ; severe muscular pains, called " bends," are sometimes com- 
plained of, followed by loss of power in the legs. There is either 
complete paraplegia, i.e., the lower half of the body is paralysed as 
regards motion, and sometimes too as regards sensation, or the loss 
of power is limited to groups of muscles affecting the wrists and 
ankles. The paralysis may be permanent, or it may last only a few 
hours or days, but if a diver has once had paralysis the symptoms 
are apt to recur on re-exposure. 

The cause of divers' paralysis, like the disease of caisson workers, 
is the sudden liberation of gas that was previously dissolved in the 
blood. No haemorrhages have been found in the central nervous 
system, but Van Ley den observed fissures in the spinal cord occupied 
by leucocytes, i.e., cells like the white corpuscles of the blood. The 
appearance of the fissures suggested that they had first been formed, 
and that the colourless corpuscles had found their way thither after- 
wards. When lesions have been present in the spinal cord they 
usually occupy the lowest third of its length, a circumstance attri- 
buted by Moxon to the greater length, tortuosity, and attenuated 
condition of the small blood-vessels that are present at this 
particular part compared with the arteries in the upper region of 
the spinal cord. 

Fatal cases of divers' paralysis fortunately do not occur very 
frequently. One of the most recent cases was in November 1900, 
when H.M. battleship Howe was cruising in the West of Scot- 
land ; the diver of the ship died after a lengthened immersion in 
the water. At the post-mortem examination bubbles of gas were 
found in the blood-vessels, the heart, and brain. The morbid 
conditions found in this man's body after death quite confirm 
the opinion already expressed as to the pathology of the malady. 

In addition to the risks to health already mentioned, there 



748 WORKING IN COMPRESSED AND STAGNANT AIR [chap. liv. 

are those incidental to the fouHng of the air-tubes of the diver ; 
also large stones and other materials occasionally fall upon the 
tubes, and tend to cause death by asphyxia. 

So far as the operations of diving itself are concerned the 
three things to be avoided are: (i) too great depths; (2) sudden 
alteration of pressure ; and (3) coming up too suddenly. There 
must necessarily be increased danger when a man who is working 
at a depth of 150 feet is brought to the surface in one minute 
instead of five. 

Treatment. — If the diver on coming to the surface is found 
to be unconscious and not breathing well, artificial respiration 
should be resorted to and kept up till breathing becomes 
automatic. If he is collapsed, warmth should be applied to the ex- 
tremities, and, if he can swallow, hot coffee should be administered. 
The patient should be removed to a hospital, or his own home, 
when sufficiently revived. If muscular pains are severe, or if there 
is loss of power, rest in bed, sinapisms to the spine, and later on 
galvanism should be tried. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER LV 

DISEASES DUE TO DLMINISllED ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE: 
PURE AND IMPURE GASES 

Mountain Climbers ; Military Balloonists. 

Increased atmospheric pressure causes unpleasant and sometimes 
serious symptoms in divers and in caisson workers, but to an 
extremely rarefied atmosphere can also be traced effects that are 
nearly equally serious. It is difficult to say at what height above 
the ordinary surface level of the earth man can live with com- 
parative comfort. The Andes and the Himalayas have been scaled 
to from 15,000 to 23,000 feet above the sea level, and men are 
said to have gone as high as six miles in balloons. The difficulties 
of remaining at great altitudes are the excessive cold and the low 
barometric and oxygen pressures. In order to compensate for this 
low oxygen pressure, nature endows men living at great heights by 
increasing the number of the red corpuscles of their blood. It is 
these corpuscles that carry oxygen to the tissues. In ascending a 
very high mountain the individual experiences not only great 
difficulty of breathing and violent palpitation of the heart, but a 
sense of great physical fatigue and faintness. A set of symptoms 
not unlike those observed in sea-sickness occurs, hence the name 
given to the illness, " mal de montagnes," although vomiting and 
nausea are not always present. In climbing mountains people 
generally put forth a great amount of muscular effort, and in conse- 
quence an increased amount of chemical change takes place within 
their body, a circumstance which reduces the resistance of these in- 
dividuals to the influences of a falling barometric pressure. Aeronauts 
do not experience this sense of muscular fatigue, because they are not 
making any muscular effort, but they ascend to great heights with 
greater rapidity than climbers, and to this circumstance must be 
attributed many of the unpleasant symptoms they experience. 

Since in the act of climbing it is upon the heart and lungs 
that the greatest strain is thrown, it is these organs that princi- 
pally have their functional activity increased. The palpitation 



750 DIMINISHED ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE [chap. 

of the heart may be very distressing. There is throbbing in 
the head, accompanied by extreme muscular exhaustion, so that 
after reaching a great height the individual may be so over- 
come that he throws himself on the ground, unable to proceed 
further. He lies there for a time panting, trying to get more 
oxygen into his system and to rid it of the excess of carbonic 
acid. He may bleed at the nose or from the gums. He 
perspires freely, and there is great thirst. There may be 
deafness and earache owing to the bulging outwards of the 
drum of the ear. Although it cannot be stated that in man 
death has been caused by diminished atmospheric pressures at 
great heights, yet it has been shown experimentally in animals 
that coma is induced which may end in death. The animal 
passes into a state of cadaveric rigidity very shortly after death. 
It is just a question how far the sudden supervention of cardiac 
and cerebral symptoms in mountain climbers may not be respon- 
sible for some of the fatal accidents that we read of from time to 
time as occurring on the Alps. 

Military Balloonists. — In the Archiv. de Med. Milit., February 
1900, Dr Maljean reports that in a company of balloonists belonging 
to the 1st Regiment of Engineers he found several of the soldiers 
suffering from a toxaemic form of jaundice, the nature of which 
was obscure. Ultimately he demonstrated that the jaundice was 
due to poisoning by inhalation of arseniuretted hydrogen gas 
mixed with hydrogen that had been used for filling the balloons. 
The hydrogen employed for military balloons is obtained by 
acting upon granulated zinc with sulphuric acid. The sulphuric 
acid is generally obtained from pyrites, and this is known to 
contain sometimes as much as from 2 to 5 per cent, of arsenic 
combined with iron. Commercial zinc also often contains arsenic. 
In filling balloons, therefore, it would appear that not only is 
there frequently an escape of this impure hydrogen from the 
valves of the balloon, but that during the operation of filling the 
balloon, the officers and men are in the habit of smelling the 
tube to ascertain whether by the garlicky odour of the impure 
hydrogen this gas has replaced the ordinary atmospheric air. 
At a single filling an officer may smell several times the open 
tube of the balloon and suffer in consequence. 

According to Maljean the symptoms of poisoning commence 
with a sense of great malaise and nausea, followed later on by 
jaundice, often of a very pronounced yellow-green tint, urine 
scanty, and often as dark as coffee, but not giving the reaction 



LV.] ONLY PURE HYDROGEN GAS SHOULD BE US^D' 751 

of biliary pigment. The urine stains the linen like the blood- 
coloured urine of patients suffering from hsemoglobinuria, and it may 
contain both albumen and a few tube-casts. In a few days these 
symptoms disappear, but they leave behind them anaemia and loss 
of flesh, which persist. It has for long been known that if animals 
are given arseniuretted hydrogen gas to inhale, they rapidly become 
jaundiced and pass a blood - coloured urine. A similar set of 
symptoms has been observed in men working in chemical and 
mineral industries in which arsenic is present. 

In the balloon service of the French army an endeavour is 
now being made to use only pure hydrogen. In most of the 
military balloons the valve which allows the gas to escape is 
placed in the upper part of the machine. The balloons are 
filled in the open by hydrogen from metallic cylinders which 
have been charged under a pressure equivalent to 120 atmospheric 
pressures. It is stated by some authorities that under such 
very high pressure the impure gas may be decomposed and 
rendered less harmful, but this requires confirmation. 

Poisoning of aeronauts by arseniuretted hydrogen in connec- 
tion with military balloons on the Continent is not confined to the 
French army alone. In the Deutsche Milit. Zeitschrift, 1900, p. 139, 
is an account of two German soldiers, who, after being poisoned by 
this gas, died at the end of three days. 

Persons ascending in balloons should dress warmly, and they 
ought to take with them cylinders filled with compressed oxygen. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER LVI 

EFFECTS OF CONCUSSION OF THE AIR 

Boilermakers and Riveters. 

It may be taken as a fact based upon experience, that artisans 
who are exposed to such loud noises as are made in hammering 
rivets suffer from deafness. Boilermakers and riveters become deaf 
at an early age, while their comrades engaged in other kinds of 
work in the same shipyard do not suffer. Several young boiler- 
makers whom I have examined have stated that they lost their 
hearing at an early age. Their infirmity dated back to their 
'prentice days, when as boys they were sent into the boilers 
to catch the rivets, and were subjected to the intense noise 
of hammering inside the cylinder. Workers in sheet-iron fac- 
tories are sometimes similarly affected with deafness. It is no 
uncommon thing, as people know, for artillerymen when firing 
large guns to be rendered temporarily deaf by the noise and force 
of the explosion, and in some instances for the drum of the ear 
to be ruptured. In order to prevent such an accident, cotton 
wadding is sometimes placed in the ear. It is difficult to say 
exactly what is the cause of deafness in boilermakers, but the 
extreme vibration of the tympanum, and the intense agitation of 
the ossicles, cannot but be followed either by a thickening of the 
drum of the ear, or by a paralytic condition of the minute termina- 
tions of the auditory nerve. 

There is nothing I know of that will prevent boilermakers' 
deafness, short of substitution of machine for hand riveting, and 
once deafness is established I know of no reliable cure for it. 



Boilermakers, Shipwrights, etc. 

Some idea may be formed of the trades included under this 
heading, by glancing at the reports of the Boilermakers' Society, 
and ascertaining from what trades the members of the society are 



CHAP. LVi.] BOILERMAKING NOT UNHEALTHY WORK ' 753 

drawn. The members are engaged in the various steel trades, 
viz., boilermaking, bridge-building, shipbuilding, also in iron and 
other structural work composed of iron and steel. They mostly 
come from the boilermaking and shipbuilding industries. As 
the central office of this Society is in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, I 
have, through the kindness of Messrs Robert Knight and D. C. 
Cummings, the past and present secretaries, gained considerable 
information as to the maladies principally affecting boilermakers, 
and their death-rate, etc. The work is hard, and as it is mostly 
carried on in the open the workmen are exposed to all kinds of 
weather. Under these circumstances, therefore, it would be 
natural to expect that boilermakers would show a tendency to 
suffer from acute inflammatory affections, especially of the respira- 
tory organs. Boilermakers as a class are not unhealthy. At the 
present time there are 48,000 members in the Society. In 1899 
there died 436 members, a number equal to 9 per 1000, as against 
8 per 1000 of the male population of the country generally. As 
illustrating the effect of the occupation Upon their working powers, 
members are eligible to be placed upon the superannuation fund 
at the age of fifty-five years. This is an early age compared 
with some industries, and yet, at fifty-five some boilermakers are, 
comparatively speaking, old, a circumstance that is attributed to 
the arduous nature of their calling. The records of the Society, 
as of many other trade unions, show that with each succeeding 
decade in the working life of a boilermaker he is annually on the 
sick-list an increasing number of days. The average age at death 
of boilermakers is 46.72 years. Hard and exposed as the work is, 
it is interesting to know that the average age at death of boiler- 
makers is greater than that of the wives of boilermakers, who are 
leading an indoor and protected life. The average age at death 
of members' wives is 45.47 years, a circumstance which I attribute 
to many of the wives dying during or shortly after their confine- 
ment, and also dying at an earlier age than the members from 
such other diseases, for example, as consumption. 

In the accompanying statistical tables in their present form I 
am indebted to Dr H. E. Armstrong, Medical Officer of Health, 
Newcastle-upon-Tyne (see p. 754). 

One thousand boilermakers, it will be seen, exhibit a slightly 
higher death-rate from all causes than 1000 of the male population 
of England and Wales, the numbers being respectively 9 and 8. 
They have a slightly higher mean death-rate, too, from all forms of 
lung diseases, including pneumonia, viz., 3.0 as against 2.9 of 1000 

3B 



754 



EFFECTS OF CONCUSSION OF THE AIR 



[chap. 



C/3 

Q 
PQ 



Q 


V 


< 


^ 






C/3 


•J^ 






< 


:2 


>; 


s 


oi 


^ 


fTl 


^^ 


J 








o 


S 


m 


< 


li^ 


> 


u 


-J^ 






>^ 


? 


H 


> 


W 


^ 


u 




o 




m 




P 




w 




H 








^ 




D 

























^" ^ ; 


















's^-gi 






tn 












11 'l^ 


fO w t>- C?N 




■i 


0, ON t-" W 







q 




III! 


» vo rh t^vo 




"" <x> 6s6^6^ 


d^ 




00 


a 






i 










•< . 












j 
















~~ 


■ 
















< 


















s 

H 


Lung Disease: 

including 

Bronchitis, 

Pneumonia, 

Phthisis, etc. 


2 Sg-g-^ 




;:; 
















gjj I-H h-i CO vr> 

" d d d d 


d 




d 




•a 


















P 























^ 


t^ rj <^_ rj w 


CJ 




hH 










8 


W W M hH 


" 




'"' 


o b . 






Ul ^ O c 


00 C^ C<5VO 










! 








- Tf VOlO VO 
















l=J»^ 










00 










ON 






00 
















"o 


K^ CO in T^ CO 


rj- 


.0 


"* 




i 




l>S 




" d d d d 


d 


1 


d 




" 


^ r^ to f*> 




u 














..^s 


&! 






i 
















•<\ 










^ 












«r 














tberculosi 

not 
eluded in 
ols. 6, 7. 


00 : rJ-N r^ 


§ 


JO 










IX. 

X 
H 




^ 


"o 


JO *? "". ^. ^ 


'f 


^ 


VD 


f^ .5" 









*-< 


1 


'-' 


i^^ 




1 


^ 






< 




Q 


Ii-h: 


t^ 00 N VO fO 










^ 














i 18 




^ 


t 






p 
< 

Q 






.5 • 






"o 


.^ C^ r* w 


q 


? 




■^ ^"O - 









- CO t^ CO CO 


CO 


w" 




l^°1-i 


^ i-H rOOO N 




d 










^ .gS 































a: 






cj 












w 












g 










. 


* 


^_*^ 




E 


"S fO CO t}-xO 


























c 




Cu 














i 

Ph 




•B 


































S 


~ «M CO C? CO 






























m 










S2 




S So 


















<u 




^ ° 














>^ 








_ <0 0^ Cr>yD 












^ 




^§ 


f*! -^ t^ ON CO 
CO CO CO ■»*- 








3 

v2 






u 












•5 ^ 














a 




t ^ 










U~ 1-. 


VO 00 »0i~< 








So 

> 
< 




P ^ 




4) 


t^ t^ l-l 










'-' u 






« ^ ": <^ ^ 

rj CO 1^ 

Th rh ■=*- rh 










11 








oi 


VO t^OO 0^ 












is 




;^ 


0^ On On On 
















00 "2 w *S 




























LVi.] LONGEVITY OF BOILERMAKERS v. THEIR WIV^S 755 



male persons over twenty and under sixty-five years of age ; but 
taking tubercular diseases only, the death-rate from this cause is 
less, being 1.4 as against 1.6 ; on the other hand the death-rate for 
diseases of the heart and circulatory organs is slightly higher, 1.2 as 
against i.i. 

It is noteworthy, as already stated, that the average age at 
death of the wives of the members of the Boilermaker's Society 
is lower than that of members, viz., 45.47 years for the wives and 
46.72 for the members. Fewer of the wives die from phthisis and 
tubercular disease than the members, the numbers being i and 
1.4 respectively as against 1.6 of 1000 of the population generally, 
estimated upon the returns of the Registrar-General for 1881-90. 
The wives of members die at an earlier age from pulmonary con- 
sumption than the members, viz., thirty-four and a half years for 
the wives, and thirty-nine for members, a circumstance possibly 
explained by two facts — that males show greater resistance to the 
disease than females, and that during the early part of the disease 
at any rate the members spend more of their time in the open air 
than do the wives. 

Although boilermakers are exposed to such risks as burns from 
red-hot rivets, it is surprising how few accidents are traceable to 
this cause. When Dr Ogle dealt with the statistics of workers in 
iron, he concluded that of the three classes — (i) locksmiths, including 
bellhangers and gasfitters ; (2) engine and machine-makers, fitters 
and millwrights ; (3) boilermakers— the engine-makers occupied the 
most favourable position from a mortality point of view, the mean 
mortality rate being Z6^ as against 967 for locksmiths, and 994 
for boilermakers. According to the same authority, too, the mean 
annual death-rate of boilermakers is greater at all the ages between 
twenty-five and sixty-five years. 

Thomas Oliver. 



CHAPTER LVII 

IRON AND STEEL INDUSTRIES 

Exposure to High Temperatures, and Severe Muscular Strain. 

In iron works the blast furnacenien are exposed to very high 
temperatures. Passing rapidly from great heat to cold, they are 
prone to suffer from bronchial and pulmonary affections and from 
rheumatism. They run the risk of burns, also on a windy day of 
getting particles of dust or sand into their eyes.* Blast furnacemen's 
work is hard. When young the men are, as a class, physically 
strong. Their wages are good ; they live well, but at an early age 
they begin to drink freely. Under the combined influence of 
their arduous labour, exposure to all kinds of weather, and 
their intemperate habits, they break down readily and become 
prematurely old. 

The men who work at the puddling furnaces are exposed to 
excessive heat and to severe muscular strain. Owing to the heat 
and excessive perspiration, they often work with the upper half of 
their body uncovered. They imbibe many kinds of liquids, so as 
to replace what is lost by perspiration. Puddling, which is briefly 
speaking the rolling about by means of a rabble the huge balls of 
molten iron in the furnaces, is such very hard work that many 
of the men develop heart affections, particularly disease of the 
aortic valves, or aneurismal dilatation of the aorta, owing to the 
excessive muscular strain and intemperate habits. Puddling is 
justly regarded as one of the most degrading occupations a man 
can follow. Fortunately for the workmen it is now very much 
on the decrease. Steel is rapidly taking the place of iron, con- 
sequently puddling is not so much required, 

* Mr H. J. Wilson, H.M. Inspector of Factories, informs me that a short 
while ago a healthy workman while charging a Siemens-Martin furnace was 
struck on the ear by a spark of molten steel. The particle rebounded off the 
external meatus and penetrated the drum of the ear, setting up a purulent 
otitis, which was followed by meningitis, fatal on the ninth day. The particle 
of steel was found after death in the middle ear. 




CHAP. LVii.] DISEASES DUE TO STRAIN OF HAMMERING 7S7 

Blast furnacemen are occasionally poisoned by the escape of 
carbonic oxide from the waste gases used for heating the air of the 
furnace. 

Blacksmiths and Forgemen. 

Beyond the extremely arduous nature of this employment, 
and which necessitates the work being undertaken by men of 
good physique, whose muscular system develops in proportion to 
the strain that is imposed upon it, especially in the early years 
of manhood, and freedom from alcoholic excess, the work of the 
blacksmith and forgeman is healthy. Formerly a good deal of 
the heavy work was done by men wielding large hammers. This 
threw a strain upon the heart and large blood-vessels, and was 
a frequent cause of valvular disease of the heart, dilatation of the 
aorta, and possibly too of hernia. Since much of the hard work 
previously done by hammermen is now done by machinery, we 
see less of aortic disease among forgemen than two decades 
ago. The workmen are exposed to heats and colds, to injuries 
to the eyes, and to burns from flying scales during hammering. 
Blacksmiths seem to lead a charmed life so far as these risks are 
concerned, for considering their exposure the percentage of 
injuries is small. As a consequence of handling the rough iron 
tools the skin of the hand becomes thick and hard, and the men 
run the risk of catching bronchial and pulmonary catarrhs on 
emerging from their heated workshops into the open air. Years 
ago in Sheffield, when sledge-hammers were more in use than 
now, there was observed a form of paralysis of the muscles of the 
arms due to overstrain, and known by the name of hammermen's 
paralysis. A considerable percentage of blacksmiths die from 
phthisis and diseases of the respiratory organs. Out of 872 
deaths of blacksmiths Dr Ogle found 194 due to consumption, 
and 183 caused by other forms of lung disease; while following 
these came diseases of the heart and circulation, 108 ; and, lastly, 
from diseases of the nervous system, 85. 

Use of Converters in Steel Works. 

This is the proper place to allude to a matter which formed 

the subject of a special inquiry by, and report * from, the 

Dangerous Trades Committee of the Home Office, on account of 

a fatal accident to four men in a large iron works in which the 

* Report of Dangerous Trades Committee of Home Office, published by 
Messrs Eyre & Spottiswoode. 



758 IRON AND STEEL INDUSTRIES [chap. 

Bessemer process of steel manufacture is in use. The Bessemer 
converter is a pear-shaped metal vessel, about nineteen feet long 
by seven or eight across at its widest part, into which pig-iron 
and other ingredients for the manufacture of steel are run in a 
liquid condition. In the bottom of the converter are openings 
called "tuyere holes," through which a powerful blast of air is 
driven into the molten pig-iron, the object being- to burn out 
such impurities as carbon, silicon, phosphorus, etc., the means 
employed to do this being sufficient to develop at the same time 
a degree of heat capable of keeping the purified metal in a liquid 
state. Before the blast is turned on, the converter occupies 
almost an upright position. The roar that follows the entrance 
of the blast of air is succeeded by volumes of coloured smoke and 
flame, and by myriads of sparks of molten metal. When the 
flame has become finally white, the blast is withdrawn, spiegel 
iron is added to the seething mass to restore the proper amount 
of manganese and carbon required, the converter is lowered and 
gently turned over so as to allow of the pouring of the liquid 
steel into a ladle, which distributes it into moulds. It is in the 
moving of the converter and the ladle into their respective 
positions, an act usually accomplished by the aid of hydraulic 
or steam power, that accidents have arisen owing to faulty 
machinery. The moulds are standing upright in what is called 
the pit, where there are usually two or three men employed. 
Should by chance either the converter or the ladle spill its 
contents a fatal accident is almost sure to occur. It is desirable, 
therefore, that only experienced men should work the machinery 
connected with the lowering and turning over of the converter 
and ladle, and that during the act of distributing the steel into the 
moulds no men should be present in the pit at all. The Dangerous 
Trades Committee, in addition to the above, recommended that 
where an automatic safety apparatus has been introduced into the 
machinery, the spindle in the valve should be changed every 
three months, and the valves examined regularly by a competent 
engineer. Owing to the fact that when molten metal falls into 
water there is an explosion, it was also recommended that the pits 
should not be, as they too often are, open to the sky and exposed 
to Ml kinds of weather. 

Nail and Chain Making. 

The small iron industries are located in districts where coal 
is plentiful, iron close at hand, and labour cheap. It is thus that 




LVii.] NAIL-MAKING A HARD AND UNDERPAID INDUSTRY 759 

chain-making has come to be associated with such places as 
Cradley Heath and Dudley, and has grown up to be a family 
industry, carried on in these localities by husband, wife, and 
children in small tenemented properties and outbuildings under 
the worst hygienic conditions possible. A similar remark applies 
to nail-making at Bromsgrove. In these trades, as carried on 
in the Midlands, female labour, assisted by that of children, prevails, 
a circumstance that tends to pull down wages and to render the 
conditions of life hard. 

As an illustration of how the minor iron industries come 
to be located in small places, I would mention the manufacture 
of nails, locks, and angle iron that has been carried on for many 
years in Winlaton, a few miles from Newcastle-on-Tyne. Here also 
the work has partly assumed the family type already mentioned. 
For generations the industry has been handed on from father 
to sons. It cannot be said that in Winlaton the conditions of 
labour have been, from a financial point of view, unsatisfactory 
to the workers or deleterious in its effects upon their health, as 
is stated to be the case in the " Black Country," where labour has 
been ill-requited, recourse had to female and child labour on 
account of cheapness, the hours of toil long, and the hygienic con- 
ditions under which the work is carried on bad. Dr ArHdge, 
drawing his experience from Staffordshire, was of opinion that 
for the worker in these trades to earn a living wage, a great 
amount of physical labour had to be expended in the forging and 
hammering of the nails on the anvil. To put the head on to a 
nail a suspended hammer has to be intermittently brought down 
by pressure of the foot upon a chain. For spike nails the cold 
iron has to be cut into proper lengths by means of an "oliver" or 
sledge hammer, worked by two or three men by means of a 
treddle. In forging a nail a girl works with the hammer on the 
anvil, and with her foot a small " oliver." Apart from the small 
wages received it cannot be said that the industry is unhealthy, 
but the work is hard, and requires a great amount of physical 
exertion which ought to be met by good food and adequate 
physical rest, the former of which is denied the workers by their 
small wages, and the latter by the long hours of toil required to 
secure the necessaries of life. 

In consequence of the irritation which the palm of the hand is 
exposed to in handling the hammer, etc., there occurs a thickening 
and contraction of the fascia in the front of the hand whereby the 
fingers become crooked and drawn towards the palm. Spinal 



76o IRON AND STEEL INDUSTRIES [chap. lvii. 

curvature, too, is not unknown. It is extremely apt to develop 
in those who engage in the work at an early age. Pulmonary 
disease is said to carry off the men while still young, and the 
occupation is one that exposes the worker to the risk of burns. 
Attention is drawn to this industry, not so much because the trades 
are unhealthy in themselves, as that the nail-makers at Bromsgrove 
and Sidemoor, and the chain-makers of Cradley Heath, scarcely 
earn wages sufficient to buy the proper food necessary for the 
maintenance of the body, while they are obliged to put forth con- 
siderable muscular effort owing to the laborious nature of their 
calling. 

Thomas Oliver. 




CHAPTER LVIII 

EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS IN RELATION TO 
INDUSTRIAL OCCUPATIONS 

The subject to be discussed in this article is a very wide one. 
To treat all industrial occupations and the relations they bear 
to eye diseases and eye accidents would be impossible in the 
space at my command. It will, however, be found that the 
various trades which are brought under notice cover a consider- 
able part of the whole area. They may be regarded as perhaps 
the most important, and some, at all events, will represent also 
the dangers arising from cognate or allied industries. For 
the most part I have treated of occupations in which I have 
myself been particularly interested. 

The subjects to be considered may be conveniently arranged 
under the following divisions : 

1st. Diseases due to occupations involving prolonged use 
or excessive strain of the eyes, such as nystagmus in 
miners, and others. 
2nd. Diseases due to occupations involving the use of 
certain poisonous substances, such as dinitrobenzol, 
bisulphide of carbon, tobacco, lead, etc. 
'^rd. Diseases due to occupations involving exposure to 
excessive light or heat, or both, such as burnishers, 
steel melters, electric welders, etc. 
^th. Injuries or accidents amongst grinders, iron and steel 
workers, masons, coal miners, weavers, etc. 

I. Diseases due to occupations involving prolonged use or excessive 
strain of the eyes, such as nystagmus in miners and others. 

Coal miners, as a result of their employment, are specially 

prone to a peculiar affection of the eyes called " nystagmus," * 

which is characterised by oscillations of the eyeball. The sufferer, 

too, complains of objects dancing before his eyes. In this disease 

* Miners' Nystag7nus, Snell, 1892. 



762 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

objects appear to move either in a circle or an ellipse. Head- 
ache is often present, and especially giddiness, which sometimes 
causes the miner so to stumble about that he is compelled to 
leave his work in the mine. The movements of the eyeball are 
chiefly rotatory ; to-and-fro oscillations are sometimes super- 
added ; these are rarely vertical, but the rotatory are seldom, if 
ever, absent. The rapidity of the ocular motions varies greatly : 
from sixty to one hundred and fifty motions may be counted in 
a min-ute ; I have observed them as frequent as three hundred 
and fifty. Both eyes are affected, but the rapidity of movements 
may vary in the two eyes. The more rapid the oscillations the 
less extended is the excursion of the globes. The oscillations 
are arrested by turning the gaze downwards below the horizontal 
line, and miners often learn to rest their eyes in this way. Look- 
ing upwards, and especially obliquely to one side or the other, 
rapid movements of the head, lowering of the head and suddenly 
raising it, are means of increasing the rate of movements of the 
eyeballs, or, in other cases, of rendering them evident. Placing 
the patient in the position he would assume at his work is another 
method. Tremors of the head (noticeable to the hand placed 
on the head), of the eyelids, and of the muscles of the face or 
neck, are often associated with nystagmus, and so is torticollis 
or " wry-neck " in some cases. Night blindness has been alleged 
to be present, but there is some reason to dispute this; the 
nystagmus alone is a sufficient cause for any difficulty in seeing 
in a failing light. Errors of refraction, myopia, hypermetropia, 
and astigmatism are often present, but bear no causal relation 
to nystagmus ; visual acuity is generally unaffected. Colour 
perception is good, and, so far as the movements of the eye- 
balls permit of testing, the field of vision is normal. The on- 
set of the disorder is often brought about by some attack of 
illness. It is generally met with in men who have worked in the 
mine for some years. Ninety per cent, of cases occur in persons 
from twenty-five to forty-five years of age. 

Nystagmus is found in miners (coal-getters) engaged at the 
coal face, who work in a more or less constrained position of 
body and of eyes. It is desirable to get coal in as large pieces 
as possible, and, to do this, they undercut, or "hole" the seam. 
A man sits with his legs crooked up, lying almost on his side, 
and strikes the coal with a horizontal swing of his pick at the 
bottom of the coal seam. He will cut away the coal to a height 
of from 1 8 inches to 2 feet, and then as he gets deeper in he 




Fig. 78. — Bottom Holing. 
(Photo, taken in coal mine with Magnesium Flash Light.) 




Fig. 79.— Bottom Holing. (To show position of heai ani eyes.) 
(Photo, taken in coal mine with Magnesium Flash Light.) 



[To face page 762. 



LViii.] NYSTAGMUS OF COAL MINERS . ' 763 

draws his body under the coal, lying on one side or the other. 
The process is called "holing," and sometimes the undermining 
may be continued from 2 or 3 feet to as much as 7 or 8 feet ; 
the distance varies considerably. As he proceeds with his work 
the miner applies timber supports to keep the coal from falling. 
This just described is called " bottom-holing," but the seam 
may be attacked in the middle (middle-holing) or at the top (top- 
holing). A miner engaged at this work will direct his gaze 
to different parts, as it becomes necessary for him to strike, for 
the eyes will follow the pickpoint, but the tendency will be for 
the gaze to be directed upwards (using the ocular elevators) 
more or less obliquely. He will lie sometimes on one side and 
sometimes on the other ; his legs will be crooked up, his head 
thrown back and flexed more or less on the shoulder beneath. 
This position is shown in the photographs, which were taken in the 
mine with a magnesium flash-light, of a man whilst actually at 
work. Ninety-eight per cent, of all cases of nystagmus coming under 
my notice have been in men occupied at the coal face and more or 
less engaged at this kind of work. The thickness of the coal seam 
varies greatly in different parts, but work of a very similar nature 
is done in coal mines in all countries. 

There are others working in a mine besides the coal-getters. 
Among these are those who attend to the roads, fill the waggons 
(fillers), push these (trammers), or drive the ponies. There are also 
deputies or overlookers, whose work it is to see to the safety of 
the places the men work in, both as to freedom from gas and as 
to the condition of the roof of the mine. These latter occasionally 
suffer from nystagmus, and a consideration of the work they 
perform will show that it necessitates the same upward and 
oblique direction of the gaze. Frequently also these men have 
previously worked as coal-getters. The photograph shows a 
deputy examining the roof by striking it with his stick to ascertain 
its soundness. It must be remembered that the height of the 
working places and passages in the mine is nearly always so 
low that this alone compels a constrained attitude. " Onsetters," 
whose duty it is to see to the ascent of the full, and descent of 
the empty coal tubs, sometimes get nystagmus, as do also 
" timbermen." It may be accepted as a rule that all cases of 
nystagmus occur in those who are either working, or have 
worked, as coal -getters, or that the work in which they have 
been employed has been one in which an upward direction of the 
eyes has also been necessitated for more or less prolonged periods. 



764 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

The etiology of the affection must be sought in this constrained 
position of the eyes by which chronic weariness is induced in the 
elevator muscles of the eyes. Like effects are found in other 
muscles of the miner, producing wry-neck, tremors of the head, and 
quivering of the eyelids. It is thus similar to other occupation 
neuroses, and in the same category as those met with in writers, 
compositors, telegraphers, ballet-dancers, and many others. 

Nystagmus occurs in miners working with all kinds of lighting. 
I have met with it in workers with safety lamps, candles, large 
open lamps, and when the artificial light was really good. There 
is, however, some reason for believing that the strain is greater the 
worse the light, and that nystagmus is met with in greater 
frequency under such conditions. Other things, as to the nature of 
work, being equal, the disease will probably be most frequent with 
the worst light. 

Nieden says that 5 per cent, of miners suffer, and my observa- 
tions support this generally ; in some parts, however, the percentage 
is higher. For instance, among men working at a colliery with 
candles I found that 6 out of a total of 140 were absent from 
work for nystagmus, and this represented only a portion of those 
whom an examination would have ascertained to be actually affected 
with the disorder. Romiee gives the percentage for Belgium as 
high as 20, but possibly he includes less marked cases. 

The prognosis is good, and, even in old-standing cases, if the 
directions as to work are followed, the nystagmus will usually 
disappear. Treatment consists essentially of a change of the kind 
of work. In some cases it will suffice if- the patient ceases from 
coal-getting, without altogether stopping work in the mine, but 
generally it is advisable, especially if the nystagmus be of high 
degree and of some standing, to recommend cessation altogether 
from work underground. After relief has been effected return to 
the mine is practicable, provided the head can be kept straight, and 
the upward turn of the eyes avoided. Resumption of the old kind 
of work is followed, sooner or later, by a recurrence of the 
symptoms. Medicinal treatment is also of service. 

Though so peculiarly an affection of miners, nystagmus is met 
with, but much less frequently, in other occupations. I have observed 
it in various employments, and have collected together a series of 
cases in which it occurred, viz., in compositors, metal roller, plate 
layer, plank cutter, saw maker, sanitary tube maker, fitter, iron 
founder, cage worker in the mine, glass manufacturer, youth in 
confectionery warehouse, and a man engaged in hanging up 




Fig. 80. — Deputy examining roof. 
(Photo, taken in coal mine with Magnesium Flash Light.) 



[To face page 764. 



LViii.] DINITROBENZOL 765 

harness, and in another employed at the screens at the surface of 
a coal mine. These instances occurred in circumstances closely 
comparable to the work in the mine as to strain of the elevator 
muscles of the eyeball, and where, of course, the influence of illumi- 
nation had no place. They may be held as definitely corroborating 
the views set forth as to the causation of this affection in miners. 

2. Diseases due to occupations involving the use of certain poison- 
ous substances, such as, dinitrobenzol, bisulphide of carbon, 
tobacco, leady etc, 

Dinitrobenzol is largely employed in the making of explosives, 
such as roburite, sicherheit, etc., a class of explosives which find 
special employment in coal mines. 

The dinitrobenzol is brought to the factory in slabs, say 15 
inches square, and about 4 inches thick. The first process is to 
grind these to powder in an apparatus with steam rollers. During 
this process a good deal of dust is given off, and there is a smell of 
bitter almonds. The next step is to take the powder thus obtained 
to the mixing shed, where it is mixed with oxidising salts and 
other materials in a large pan, and heated with steam. It remains 
there for several hours, and it is then cooled by cold water being 
pumped on the outside of the shell. When cool, the material is 
turned out of the mixer. It is during the removal of the material 
from the mixer that workmen are especially exposed to the vapour, 
but the dangers are lessened by the adoption of a cowl to the 
mixer, and also by the use of a fan. The explosive prepared in 
this way is put away in cylinders and kept until required. The 
next step is to take it to the filling room, where it is put into cart- 
ridges, which are then weighed and stamped, and finally these go 
to the dipping room, where the cartridges are waterproofed by 
being dipped in liquid paraffin wax. 

The most injurious work is that of grinding and mixing, 
especially the latter. Men are employed in these processes. For 
the " filling " of the cartridges, and for the " dipping," women and 
girls are employed. In the first named, the powder is shovelled 
into the cartridges and directly handled ; a good deal of dust is 
given off. Respirators and gloves are used, as they are also by the 
men mixing or grinding. The dippers are apparently the least 
exposed to the injurious effects, yet they, nevertheless, suffer. 
The greasiness about the hands from the paraffin may also aid 
absorption. Here also gloves and respirators are worn. There is 
not much dust, the powder being confined inside the cases. 



766 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

Some years ago several patients were under my care whose 
impaired vision was due to working with dinitrobenzol. An 
opportunity was afforded me of investigating the manufacture 
of this material, its effect on vision and the general health 
of the employes.* The eye symptoms may be summarised as 
follows : failure of sight, often to a considerable degree, to a more 
or less equal extent on the two sides ; concentric contraction 
of visual field, with, in many cases, a central colour scotoma ; 
enlargement of retinal vessels, especially the veins, some blurring 
of the edges of the optic disc, and a varying degree of pallor 
of its surface. The condition of retinal vessels spoken of is 
observed in workers with the dinitrobenzol independently of com- 
plaints of defective sight. Cessation of work with dinitrobenzol 
tends to recovery. The general effects appeared to be chiefly 
exerted on the blood and the nervous system. In some cases 
there were also gastric symptoms. With reference to the blood 
changes, the occurrence of very marked anaemia in girls, who 
lived practically in the country, and who worked in well ventilated 
rooms, was particularly striking. The symptoms and physical 
signs of anaemia in men, working under the same hygienic 
conditions, were perhaps still more noteworthy. That some 
other change, however, in the blood was also present was 
evidenced by the blueness of the lips and finger tips, which was 
observed in several cases. The colour of the urine was also 
remarkable. 

The chief nervous symptoms were numbness of the extremities 
and unsteadiness of gait. The latter was noticed especially at 
the close of a day's work in the factory, and was much aggra- 
vated by indulgence in alcohol. 

Dinitrobenzol may, it appears, either be absorbed through 
the skin, ingested, or be taken in through the air passages. What 
the poison then becomes does not appear to have been satis- 
factorily ascertained, but its action on the blood is definite. 
Specimens of blood drawn from the fingers of two of my patients 
were found to be thin and black-looking. Dr MacMunn, of Wolver- 
hampton, very kindly examined some specimens which were 
forwarded to him, and reported on them (as he did also of the 
urine, which was dark, almost black like porter), that, spectro- 
scopically, all the specimens of blood sent showed nothing 
abnormal. 

The explosives under consideration are used in coal mines, 
* British Medical Journal^ vol. i., 1 892. 



LViii.] PREVENTION OF DINITROBENZOL POISONING , 767 

and cases have been recorded of men who became affected by 
dinitrobenzol employed underground. 

At the invitation of Commander H. P. Smith and Dr Dupre, 
the following suggestions for preventing the deleterious effects of 
dinitrobenzol on those engaged in its manufacture were drawn up 
by me for their report. 

(i) That the different processes should as much as possible 
be conducted in the open air, or in large, well-ventilated sheds. 

(2) That in the " mixing," closed vessels should, as much as 
possible, be employed. 

(3) Fans, which have been adopted in other trades with great 
advantage, might also in this one be of service. 

(4) Respirators are in use, but their employment is, as far 
as I am aware, optional. Those protecting both the nose and 
mouth are, up to a certain point, of service. I do not think they 
are a sufficient safeguard against the fine vapour entering the 
respiratory system. It occurred to me that during the process 
of "mixing" especially, it might be possible to shut the workman 
off from the vapour and fine dust by means of a kind of diving- 
bell apparatus, with a communication behind open to the air. A 
mask, such as has been used, I believe, in Germany, might answer 
the objects desired. 

(5) Handling by the bare hand or direct exposure of the skin 
should be avoided. The filling could, perhaps, be performed 
automatically. The hand should, moreover, be protected by gloves. 
These should be capable of being cleaned, and possibly india- 
rubber might be used by preference. The cleaning of the gloves 
is an important matter, because those worn with any of the 
substance clinging to the interior, as would be the case after 
they had been in use for some time, would allow of absorption 
taking place under the still more favourable circumstances afforded 
by the warmth and moisture of the hand. Special clothing should 
be provided, the workmen and women being compelled to change 
their clothing on entering and retiring from work. Dressing- 
rooms should be provided, and washing enforced. Food should 
only be partaken of away from the sheds where the mixing, filling, 
etc., take place, and particularly is it important to insist on 
washing before meals, and removal of the special clothing. 

When used in the coal mine it is desirable that means should 
be taken to prevent any of the powder adhering to the outside 
of the cartridges, that combustion should be complete, and that 
the use of cartridges should be restricted as much as possible to 



768 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

well - ventilated places, so that currents of air would speedily 
dilute and carry away any deleterious vapours. 

As a result of the report by Dr Dupre and Commander 
Hamilton P. Smith, notice to observe the " Special Rules " recom- 
mended in their report was served on the different manufacturers. 

The effect of bisulphide of carbon in causing impaired eye- 
sight has been shown by many instances. Rubber-making has 
been the industry in which those suffering have been mostly 
observed. The bisulphide is a very active and penetrating 
solvent, and it is used to dissolve and carry into the rubber 
chloride of sulphur, which is the vulcanising agent. This process 
is called "curing," and it is during it that the fumes of the 
bisulphide are given off and act injuriously on the general 
system of those exposed to them, as well as in some cases 
causing injury to eyesight. Some time since I visited rubber- 
works in which about 200 hands were employed, and witnessed 
the process of "curing." The rubber cloth which it was wished 
to vulcanise was brought into contact with the wet surface of 
a wood or slate roller, which revolved in a trough in which was 
the bisulphide holding the sulphur in solution. The shed in 
which the curing was done was very open, and was well calculated 
to allow of the ready escape of the fumes. The vapour was a 
heavy one, and tended very much to keep low, especially in wet 
or damp weather. Any apparatus to carry off the fumes, there- 
fore, should be one to draw them downwards. Among the 
workers I saw one man who had evidently two years ago suffered 
from amblyopia, which appeared to have been characteristic. 
He changed his work to another part of the factory, and recovered. 
A considerable alteration has, I understand, been brought about 
in the vulcanising process, and since attention was first directed 
to the subject, bisulphide has been much less employed in 
rubber-works. The sulphur is now mixed with the rubber, 
and the vulcanising is done by subjecting the otherwise finished 
article to a high temperature. The bisulphide in the future is 
even less likely to be required, and therefore in this class of 
occupation, at all events, it may be expected that impaired 
eyesight will be more infrequent. 

Tobacco was the first agent to be recognised as causing toxic 

amblyopia. It is doubtful whether it can be classed properly 

with occupation disorders. Galezowski * however, asserted that 

visual troubles occurred in those engaged in the manufacture of 

* Des Amblyopias et Amauroses Toxiques^ 1897, page 47. 



LViii.] TOBACCO AND IODOFORM -, 769 

— — — — — f 

tobacco in consequence of the absorption of nicotine powder. 
He further advised that the working places should be well- 
ventilated, and recommended a change of occupation for those 
affected. This statement finds corroboration by De Schweinitz, 
who states that amblyopia may occur in those who do not use 
tobacco in any form, but who work in tobacco manufactories. 
He has related a very remarkable case of this character in a 
young woman. All of the symptoms disappeared when she 
was removed from the tobacco factory. On the other hand, 
Shears* has related that he visited the large factory of Cope 
Bros., where 1200 men and women were employed, and that 
he made careful inquiries in each of the departments of the 
foremen, but from none could he learn of instances of sight 
failure. Lee at the same time made observations at a large 
factory at Chester, with similar results. Sheffield is celebrated 
for its snuff, the two kinds, Top Mill and Bottom Mill, being 
well known. There are also several smaller tobacco works about 
the city, but my attention has in the last twenty years never once, 
as far as I remember, been directed to a case of tobacco amblyopia 
in a worker at any of these places. Dowlingf in America has 
also gone into this matter. At a factory where 3000 were 
employed, half being females, he examined 150, or 5 per cent. 
Ninety per cent, of the males used tobacco in some form or other, 
and 20 per cent, chewed, in addition to smoking liberally pipe 
or cigar. These are his conclusions : " When I commenced 
my examination I was under the impression that the constant 
inhalation of the dust and the odour of tobacco in the workshops 
would tend of itself to bring about symptoms of tobacco 
amblyopia. I am induced to think this hardly takes place, 
for in my examination I found those who did not smoke were 
uniformly free from troubles of vision of a toxic nature, and 
the females were almost universally free from the trouble, that 
is as far as I examined them." 

Iodoform is largely used in surgical practice. A few instances 
have been recorded of impairment of vision resulting from its 
employment as a dressing for large burns, etc. The character- 
istics of the affection were similar to those met with in tobacco 
amblyopia, in chronic poisoning by bisulphide of carbon, and 
other toxic amblyopias. Inquiry addressed to perhaps the 

■*^ British Medical Journal^ 1884, vol. i., page 202. 

f " Influence of Tobacco on Vision ; some Investigations made in Tobacco 
Manufactories of Cincinnati," Cinn. Lancet Clinic^ 29th October 1892. 

3C 



770 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

largest makers of iodoform in this country elicited the reply, 
that they had consulted the Medical Attendant of their men, 
and he confirmed the opinion expressed by the foreman, that 
they had never known of any injury to the sight from the 
manufacture of iodoform. If there was carelessness in the manu- 
facture pungent vapours would be evolved ; but that was always 
a sign of something being wrong. 

Men employed in dye factories and other manufactories 
requiring the handling and preparation of the various coal-tar 
products are reported to be subject to visual troubles, cases 
having been recorded from time to time.* Galezowski gives 
headache, dizziness, malaise, deficiency in visual acuity, photo- 
phobia, and ciliary injection as symptoms from which the workers 
suffer, but, as is pointed out by Knies, the connection of these 
ocular complaints with the aniline used is uncertain. 

M'Kinlay f has recorded a case of intense pigmentation of the 
cornea and conjunctiva in a man who was a worker in aniline 
dyes. Reduction of vision was also caused. 

Arsenic is extensively used in the arts, and has been the 
cause of many cases of poisoning, for example, from wallpaper 
and articles of clothing. Its use for artificial flowers and wall- 
papers has much abated. Casey Wood mentions that makers 
of Paris green, painters, and paperhangers, as well as those 
who take the drug for medicinal or cosmetic purposes, are liable 
to suffer from visual disturbances, from conjunctival hyperaemia 
and eczema of the lids, which are regarded as evidences of 
arsenical poisoning. Amblyopia and optic neuritis have been 
reported as due to arsenic. 

The occupations in which lead or its compounds, in one 
way or another, are used are multitudinous, and those liable to 
be affected by lead poisoning belong, therefore, to a numerous 
class. Among these are painters, plumbers, etc., and, in Sheffield, 
file cutters. In this latter occupation the file, when being 
cut, rests on a " bed " made of lead, and each blow of the hammer 
causes minute particles of lead to disperse and to charge the 
atmosphere of the workroom. Chronic lead poisoning in file 
cutters results from inhalation of these particles, and from the 
uncleanly habit of wetting the hands at the mouth. In acute 
lead poisoning there are no eye symptoms, but in chronic lead 
poisoning central and peripheral affections of sight are common. 

* Toxic Amblyopias, De Schweinitz, 1896. 

t Trafis. of OphtJi. Soc. of the United Kingdom^ 1886, vi., p. 144. 



LViii.] EFFECTS OF EXCESSIVE LIGHT UPON VISIQiV' 771 

The brain and nervous system are frequently seriously affected 
in chronic plumbism, and kidney disease is also frequently 
occasioned thereby. Sight is liable to be affected in association 
with both these conditions. Apart from them, however, lesions 
of the eye are often occasioned by chronic lead poisoning. 
Unilateral or bilateral optic neuritis is met with, and more 
frequently an affection of the optic nerve (retro-bulbar neuritis) 
very similar to that occasioned by tobacco and other agents 
producing *' toxic amblyopia." Recovery from these last-named 
(peripheral) conditions is frequent. Palsy of one or more of 
the eye muscles has been met with. 

3. Diseases due to occupations involving exposure to excessive light 
or heat, or both, such as burnishers, steel inciters, electric 
welders, etc. 

Silver, either the metal or electro, when finished, has a 
very highly reflecting surface. The most important for our 
purpose of the processes by which silver goods have to be 
brought to the proper polish, is the finishing or burnishing. This 
is usually done by girls, who brighten the surface with a blunt tool. 
These girls are frequently the subjects of hyperaesthesia of the retina, 
by which they are often compelled to relinquish the work entirely. 
Coloured glasses and correction of refractive errors help in 
some cases. Those engaged in the process called "buffing" 
suffer in a similar manner. 

Excessive heat associated with intensity of light is met with 
in iron and steel works in the different processes connected 
with the making of the iron, and the converting of it into steel. 
There is, I think, no definite evidence that men exposed to 
the heat and glare of the furnaces or from the molten metal 
suffer materially in their eyesight, though some assert that 
disease of the background of the eye is occasioned in some 
instances. The men are, in consequence of the heat, prone 
to sweat a great deal, and frequently wear little clothing above 
the waist. The temperatures before which they work are, to 
an outsider, something almost astounding, especially if he 
remembers that the temperature of an ordinary well - lighted 
fire in a grate is about 500° F. There would seem to be a 
very marked difference in the way a temperature is borne, 
when it is below 2000° R, and when above it. Up to that 
figure a man can look at the metal in a furnace with compara- 



772 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

tive ease, but before it gets to 3000° F. he is compelled to 
wear coloured glasses when doing so. A friend, at some large 
iron and steel works, gave me the following notes : " In dealing 
with cast iron, the heat of the metal would be about 1800° to 
2000°, and the men employed take no precautions. The heat 
of the molten metal would be about 2700° to 2800°, while the 
heat of the gases in the furnace would be about 200° or 300*' 
more. The furnacemen have to wear deep blue glasses to 
protect their eyes from the glare of the furnace. With this 
precaution we have not observed their eyes to suffer in any 
marked degree. The heat of Bessemer metal is about 3000° F. to 
32CX)° F. ; in this case there is not the same necessity as in the 
Siemens to watch the hot metal, consequently the men do not wear 
glasses. We do not observe any ill effects directly traceable 
to the heat. In the case of the Siemens men, I should say 
that without protection the eyes would suffer considerably. 
After looking at a Siemens' furnace without glasses, it is several 
minutes before the eye can see ordinary things again." 

There is, moreover, a further difference between the two 
processes, viz., Bessemer and Siemens. The former has, as 
just mentioned, the higher temperature and the more dazzling 
glare, but the steel is melted and the process completed in 
about twenty minutes, and it is only necessary for one man 
to take close observations, and this he does by means of a 
spectroscope, and is as far as 30 feet from the molten metal. 
The Siemens process takes ten hours, and during this period 
the whole of those engaged will, as the door is frequently 
drawn up, be taking observations to see whether the melting 
is proceeding properly. This is constant and regular work, 
and they are obliged to use coloured glasses. 

In addition, in these large works, are the castings, forgings, 
rolling of armour plates, and many other things. A huge 
forging, of perhaps 60 or 80 tons, is drawn out of a furnace 
with a temperature of from 2000^ to 2500° F., and placed under 
a powerful hydraulic press of 10,000 tons power, where, with 
the men all around, it is hammered with as much apparent 
ease as putty is manipulated by one's fingers. 

The glare and dazzling in the Bessemer and Siemens 
processes must be seen to be realised. Generally speaking, 
in fact almost always, it would seem as if the men engaged 
in these various kinds of work could submit to exposure 
to the high temperatures and intense lights with imfpunity, if 



( 



H LVIII.] 



GLASS BLOWING— ELECTRIC LIGHTING ■- 773 



I 



they will only use coloured glasses when employed with the 
higher temperatures and the more dazzlingly bright lights. 
Occasionally, however, one meets with men who appear incapable 
of continuing to bear these conditions. They feel their eyes 
painful, and it is some time after cessation of labour before the 
discomfort passes away. Such as these have sometimes to seek 
another occupation. On the other hand, the readiness with which, 
it may be after an accident to one eye, men will often return to 
their employment before the furnace or fire, is surprising. 

Glass-blowers are asserted to be frequently the subjects of 
cataract, and it has been sought to connect this tendency with 
the powerful heats to which their work exposes them, and 
also to the sweating which accompanies it. They work 
around open - mouthed furnaces and close to pots of molten 
glass, and are thus exposed to intense heat and light. I have, 
however, seen something of glass-blowers from time to time, 
and my experience, whilst it does not allow me to support 
this assertion of the frequency of cataract among these men, 
may be regarded as too limited to contradict the statements 
which other observers have made. Should extreme heat and 
consequent loss of moisture be regarded as sufficient causes 
for the production of cataract, then it should be found especially 
among iron and steel workers. My experience does not, however, 
show that this is the case. 

Exposure to Electric Light. — Several instances have been 
recorded showing the serious effects on the eyes of those 
exposed to the glare of this powerful light. The following may 
be mentioned.* Two men were employed on an electric street 
railway. One man thrust a blade of a screwdriver into a motor 
cylinder and " immediately he was flashed by the powerful light 
and stunned by the powerful current." When seen five hours after, 
the eyelids were closed and he was suffering intense pain, but he 
was able to resume his work next day. The second man struck a 
" live electrical circuit " with a steel file, and instantly there was a 
flash of light and he was rendered unconscious. The eyelashes 
were singed and the arms burnt, and there was great pain. It was 
not until the fifth day that he could return to work. A more 
severe case-f* is reported of a man engaged as engineer in the 
power-house of an electric car line. He was using a wrench to 
some machinery, when accidentally his elbow came into contact 

■^ Brose, Knapp's Archives of Ophthalmology^ March 1894. 
t '^w^x's,^ Knapps Archives of Ophthalmology^ March 1894. 



774 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap, 

with another machine forming a short circuit. The whole electri- 
cal force — looo amperes — used to propel the cars several miles, 
passed down the forearm and out at the elbow. The electrical 
discharge was succeeded by a loud report following an intense flash 
of light. The man was knocked down, but only lost consciousness 
for a few seconds. When seen an hour after, the skin of the arms, 
hands, face, and neck, in fact, of all exposed parts, was burnt ; the 
effects were like those caused by boiling water ; the eyelashes and 
eyebrows were burnt off. The ocular conjunctiva looked as if a 
strong solution of nitrate of silver had been applied to it, and the 
corneae had the appearance of ground-glass, especially in the centres, 
so that the impression was given that they were both destroyed. It 
was, however, found that only the epithelial layers were affected. 
Ultimately sight was recovered, but photophobia remained for some 
time. 

Of the many ways that the electric light is liable to be injurious 
may be mentioned that of electric welding. This process is one 
that is becoming very largely used in iron works, and it effects its 
purpose so rapidly that it is likely to find still further employment. 
I have met with many men who have suffered from exposure to the 
intense light emitted in electric welding. On several occasions 
the opportunity has been given me of witnessing the process. 
The heat produced is so intense that metal runs at once like 
solder. So rapidly, indeed, is this effected that, without seeing 
the process, it seems incredible. To protect the eyes from the 
intensity of the light, the onlookers use large shields with glass 
in the centre arranged in alternate layers of blue and red, there 
being four thicknesses. The man engaged in working the process 
in one factory with which I am acquainted, uses a helmet to 
protect his head and face. In the front of the helmet is a glass 
window made up of six la\-ers, alternately red and blue. At 
another place the men stand behind a wooden screen about 4 ft. 
high, with a sliding top, in which is a glass window for the workman 
to observe the work upon which he is engaged. The sliding top 
can be raised or lowered according to the height of the man or 
the nature of the exact work to be done. The window is made 
up of four thicknesses of glass, two green and two blue, and there 
is a plain glass fixed in front of these, as it can be more easily 
replaced, this being required by the liability of the front glass to 
be spoilt by deposit on its surface. This arrangement protects the 
man much more than the helmet. The men's trousers may be 
burnt by the metal splashing on them, and this screen gives more 



1 



Lvm.] EFFECTS OF ELECTRIC LIGHT UPON THE EYE- 775 

protection than the helmet would do. The top part of the screen 
is narrower than the bottom, to enable the men to get their arms 
freely round it so as to work on the metal in front, and the broad 
lower part forms a rest for their arms. Any parts of the body 
which are exposed to the light may get burnt, and many suffer 
severely in this way. If the eyes "catch" the light they feel 
the effects at once, but the worst generally does not come on 
until some hours afterwards, and most men will say that the 
most acute stage is during the night succeeding the exposure. 
The eyes feel swollen and as if filled with burning sand, and the 
pain is very severe. There is swelling of lids; so much so that 
they cannot be opened, and there is lachrymation. All night the 
pain will last, but the next day the worst will be over, and often 
by a day more the eyes will be quite right again. 

Terrier and Malakoff have each published very interesting 
observations bearing on this subject, as has also Wildmark. The 
latter especially appears to have settled the point as to whether 
in these cases it is the heat or chemical rays that act so hurt- 
fully. Taking advantage of the different actions of glass and 
crystal — the former absorbing chemical rays, the latter, or crystal, 
allowing them to pass — he showed that if a pencil of light before 
reaching the skin was made to pass through a disc of glass, in the 
centre of which was a hole filled with a small disc of crystal, the 
redness of the skin was observed only in the central area, a proof 
of its dependence on the chemical rays. Malakoff pointed out 
that though the light was so intensely dazzling the thermometer 
was only raised 2° C. at a metre distant, but it must be borne in 
mind, however, as a workman mentioned to me recently, that the 
metal acted upon during welding becomes very hot, so that standing 
close by is hardly possible.- 

Some idea, also, may be given of the heat involved in electric 
welding by the following data, supplied to me by an experienced 
electrical engineer. He stated that, at one works, the temperature 
during electric welding would measure about 3000° C. (700x3° F.), 
and that it was not an unusual thing to measure 3000° C. in an 
electric furnace. In the absence of photometric measurements, he 
assumed the luminosity of the arc for electric welding would be 
about 8000 candle-power. 

The action of the electric light upon the eye is to all appear- 
ances confined chiefly to the conjunctival or corneal surfaces. 
Very possibly, however, it occasions also a hyperaemia of the retina, 
and one case is on record of a boy who got a central scotoma from 



776 



EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS 



[chap. 



looking at an electric light placed in the roof, like those resulting 
from the action of direct sunlight. 

With the prudent use of the protectors mentioned the light 
can be observed with little risk of injury. 

4. Injuries or accidents amongst grinders, iron and steel 
workers, masons, coal miners, weavers, etc. 

It is difficult to obtain anything like accurate statistics as to 
the numbers blinded by accident. Magnus, in his tables, makes 
8.5 per cent, of all cases of blindness as due to accident. In this 
calculation no count is made of those blind in one eye only, and 
the far larger number who have sustained permanent injury in 
varying degrees short of blindness ; and even if such a computation 
were true for the community generally, the number must be 
greatly exceeded in large and populous centres, especially in those 
in which iron and steel are important industries. 

A brief reference only to statistics is necessary. Mr Watson, 
the able Secretary of the Miners' Permanent Benefit Fund, has 
given me the following figures as to the proportionate frequency 
of eye accidents among miners, to other accidents. In all these 
accidents the miners have been rendered unfitted from continuing 
their work, at least temporarily. The figures are for fifteen years 
arranged in periods of five years. The number of non-fatal 
accidents dealt with is 48,262. 



Period. 


No. of 
Accidents. 


No. to Eye. 


Percentage. 


1884 to 1888 . 
1889 to 1893 . 
1894 to 1898 . 


16,870 
12,768 
18,624 


670 
■979 


5.08 

5-24 
5-25 


Total 


48,262 


2506 


5-19 



The average yearly membership for each period was — 1884 to 
1888, 22,410 ; 1889 to 1893, 17,876 ; and 1894 to 1898, 23,(X)5. 

The Equalised Druids Society gives to those of its members 
who are permanently incapacitated from following their employ- 
ment a grant of ;^ioo. The number of cases of all accidents in 
which this grant was made during the last five years was 57, and 
of that number it was given seven times owing to eye accidents. 

My own infirmary figures also testify to the large number of 
eye accidents annually occurring in the district with which I am 



LViii.] INJURIES TO EYES OF IRON AND STEEL WORKERS 777 

more particularly acquainted. Of the last 2554 patients who have 
passed through my wards at the Sheffield Royal Infirmary, 2038 
were men, and 516 women. Of the 2038 men, 622 were admitted 
for accident, or 30.52 per cent. This percentage has kept fairly 
uniform, but at periods of great trade activity the ratio of 
accidents to other cases admitted has gone up. Of the 516 women, 
only 36, or 6.9 per cent, were for accidents. The important part 
occupation bears to the number of eye accidents is well illustrated 
by these statistics. The men not only exceeded the women very 
largely in actual numbers, but still more so by percentage, this 
latter being six times as great as for the women. 

In many trades associated with iron and steel in all its 
varieties, small foreign bodies are very prone to become lodged in 
the workmen's corneae. I take, as an example, the grinders. In 
the course of the day a grinder may get several " motes," as he calls 
them, fixed in his eye, or days may elapse without such a mishap. 
If the cornea of a grinder be examined carefully with a magni- 
fying glass, it will not infrequently be found to be studded over 
with minute nebulae. Although the damage done by each foreign 
body may often not be serious, yet frequent repetition, by dulling 
the cornea, will, in many cases, diminish the acuteness of vision. 
These particles may either be small fragments of stone, or, much 
more frequently, small portions of steel or emery, which latter is used 
as a wheel for glazing cutlery, and for other purposes. Of the two 
varieties of grinding, the dry grinders are more exposed to injury 
from foreign bodies than the wet grinders. A grinder sits across 
his bench, or " horse," and presses the knife or razor blade on the 
stone. The wet prevents the particles from flying about a good 
deal, but still a man's face becomes, as he works, bespattered ; 
nevertheless, a wet grinder seldom gets motes in his eyes. 
In dry grinding the sparks fly freely, and it is evident that very 
minute particles of steel or stone are being projected about, 
and it is the merest chance whether they hit the man's eye or 
face, or scatter about the room. The fans, which it is well 
known have for many years been required in the grinding 
trade in consequence of its deleterious effects upon the health 
of the operatives, must be regarded as in some measure a pro- 
tection. It is interesting to observe the remarkable manner in 
which a fan draws into it the sparks and particles flying from the 
wheel. There can, moreover, be no question that the grinder 
derives considerable immunity from motes by the employment of 
protective glasses. Grinders admit the protection they afford. I 



7/8 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

further testimony be needed, it can be found in the condition of 
the glasses, after having been used for some time by a grinder : 
they are studded over with small dots occasioned by the impact of 
the motes. 

In the great majority of instances the damage occasioned to 
the grinder or other operative in which similar mishaps occur is 
not attended with serious results. The immediate injury may, 
however, be serious, either directly or indirectly, by the ulceration 
that ensues. There is another way, also, in which injury results. 
A man once said to me, pointing to his damaged finger, " This 
would not have happened if something had not got into my eye, 
because I could not see my finger on the circular saw." The 
operatives, in all the various trades in which iron and steel are 
used, are liable, though to a less degree than the grinders, to get 
these motes into their eyes. 

In all the large works there are men who have a reputation 
for their skill in the removal of these motes. The instruments 
they use are of various kinds — for instance, a blunt lancet, blade of 
pocket knife, or a pin. Generally speaking, they are unsuitable. 
In many instances the motes are skilfully removed ; in others, 
there is a good deal of bungling, and not infrequently cases 
come under observation in which sloughing corneal ulcers have 
resulted. 

It seemed to me not unlikely that septic conditions were 
set up in consequence of the uncleanly instruments which were 
so often employed. Dr Shennan of Edinburgh kindly undertook 
a bacteriological examination of some of these instruments for me. 
L collected 22 tools used by different men, and Dr Shennan ex- 
amined the majority of these. Taking all in all, he found nothing 
pathogenic excepting the staphylococcus pyogenes albus, whose 
virulence is comparatively slight. Of course there are many 
sources besides these tools by which a corneal wound may become 
septic. But good should result if a cleanly and suitable instru- 
ment could be made available to the men who remove motes. In 
some of the works a case, made at my suggestion, is provided, 
containing iridium-platinum blunt-pointed spuds, together with 
a small spirit lamp, with directions printed on the inside of the 
case, saying that before use the extremity of the spud should 
be sterilised by heating it in the flame of the spirit lamp, or if 
this be not accessible, in a gas or other flame which may be at 
hand. 

By far the most serious eye accidents happen to men engaged 



r 




Fig. 81.— Grinders. Edge-Tool Grinding. 



[To face page 778. 



LVIII.] 



EYE INJURIES, HOW CAUSED 



779 



in working iron or steel. The following figures exhibit this in 
a very lurid light : — 



Steel and Iron. 

Steel and iron splinters, rivet 
chips, pieces of drill, file, wire, 
etc 

Nail ...... 

Burns. 

Metal sparks, flashes, etc. 

Lime ...... 

Gas explosion .... 

Ammonia ..... 

Gunpowder 

Cinder 

Poker 



Miscellaneous. 

Dynamite, and dynamite explosion 
and cartridge .... 
Wood, sticks, and peggy 

Hook 

Knife ...... 

Glass, soda-water bottles, etc. 

Pick 

Stone 



173 
5 



43 ' 
8 
I , 

I i 

4| 
I ; 

I ! 



6 

13 

I 
8 

15 
5 

24 



Fork 
Pin 

Fist 

Branch of tree 

Crane handle 

Cork 

Cinder . 

Coal 

Straw 

Cat's claw 

Sand 

Ball 

Pen 

Firework 

Boiling oil 

Tin 

Band strap . 

Band buckle . 

Chain , 

Kick 

Brick . 

Thorn . 

Elastic, piece of 



Total 



7 
I 

3 

I 
I 
2 

4 
II 

I 
I 
] 
1 
2 
I 

2 
2 

2 

I 
I 
I 
2 
I 

359 



Out of this total of 359 eye accidents to males, taken from the 
records for this purpose consecutively, which were so serious as to 
require admission to my wards at the Sheffield Royal Infirmary, 
no fewer than 173 were caused by iron or steel, pieces of rivet, of 
drill, wire, and many other means associated with the iron and 
steel trades. There were also 43 due to burns from molten metal, 
sparks, flashes, etc. I am not sure, also, whether to the former 
number should not be added 5 put down as caused by nails, as 
most, if not all of them, would have occurred to iron or steel 
workers. 

The opportunities for the infliction of severe injuries to iron and 
steel workers are multitudinous. They occur in all branches of 
the trade, in the lighter iron and steel industries as well as in the 
heavy trades where armour plates and heavy castings of scores of 
tons are made. A very large proportion of the accidents are 
occasioned by what is called "chipping" and "fettling." "Dress- 
ing" is the name given in some parts to this process. This work 
consists in chipping the rough edges from iron and steel castings, 
ingots, and all kinds of steel and iron work, and among other 
things, even the large armour plates. 



78o EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

Castings of either iron, steel, or brass are the most dangerous 
to work upon, because the chippings fly about on account of the 
metal being brittle. It is very dangerous chipping castings in the 
corners, or where the " chipping " strikes the metal and rebounds. 
Chippings from the castings are about \ inch to J inch long, and 
very sharp. When chipping thin plates on the edges, the 
chippings are sometimes i, 2, or 3 inches long before they break 
off. All castings are " fettled " at the foundry, that is, the runners 
are cut off, and the places where the metal has run at the joint of 
the moulding boxes are trimmed off 

Whatever be the special kind of metal or steel to be fettled, 
the manner in which it is done is practically the same. A 
hammer and chisel, or sate, are used, and with these the rough- 
nesses are removed. Frequently, also, whilst one man places the 
chisel, another, or even two others, called "strikers," will use a 
hammer. I understand that at works where say 1000 men are 
employed, 200 or more will be occupied more or less in " chipping." 
Many men are frequently working close to each other, so that the 
danger is not only to the worker himself, but to those around. 
Passers-by are by no means infrequently the victims. The chipper 
himself is often hit by the rebound of the splinter after it has 
struck some other object. It must be recollected, also, that in the 
process spoken of, the danger is not merely from the iron or steel 
which is being operated upon ; there are three other places from 
which splinters may be given off and cause injury, namely, the 
hammer head, the chisel head, and the chisel point. 

It is obvious that men engaged in work which causes the 
splinters to fly about so freely, should be so placed as not to be 
chipping against their fellow-workmen, or in a direction from which 
passers-by may approach. This is managed in some works by 
getting the men to chip against a wall, though not too close to it, 
or, again, by interposing a canvas screen between sets of work- 
4Tien. 

The sizes of the splinters spoken of vary from the most 
minute to others measuring some inches in length, and they may 
be thick or thin. The injury inflicted differs, of course, in accord- 
ance with the size of the missile and the force with which it is 
projected. The small fragments may be thrown off with such 
velocity that they penetrate the eyeball and become embedded in 
its interior, in some instances passing through the eyelid before 
reaching the globe. The destruction to sight in this way is very 
large. I have myself removed from the globe, with my electro- 




r 



Fig. 82.— Men engaged in Cliippinc 




Fig, 83. — Chipping against a Screen. Men wearing Protectors. 



[To face page 780. 



LViii.] DANGERS OF CHIPPING; ALSO OF MOLTEN METAL 781 

magnet, more than two hundred fragments of steel and iron. 
One was no heavier than 0.0015 gr. ; several were as Hght as 
0.0030 gr. and 0.0046 gr. The largest weighed 36 grs., and there 
were two others 12 and 9 grs. respectively. It would be out of 
place to refer here to the results of the extraction of this number of 
foreign bodies with the electro-magnet. It will suffice to say, that 
many eyes have been saved by its employment which otherwise 
would have been hopelessly lost. The injury to the eyeball occa- 
sioned by the large chippings may be so extensive that the eye is 
at once irreparably damaged, or so injured that removal of the 
globe will subsequently be necessitated. 

The dangers of chipping may be minimised by adopting a 
pneumatic chipper. In some works, for chipping ingots I have 
seen one at work on a large casting. It has the advantage of 
accomplishing in one hour what, by hand, would take six or seven 
hours. It certainly prevented the flying about of splinters in a 
remarkable manner. They merely curled up and rolled over. It 
more resembled using a cheese-scoop in a fairly soft cheese than 
running any tool over hard steel. Up to the present these 
pneumatic tools have not been successful for "chipping" the 
rough edges from steel castings. 

Another class of severe injuries which are of common occur- 
rence are burns from molten metal. Sparks and flashes fly about 
freely in almost every instance that molten metal is run into the 
moulds, but on some occasions, of course, more so than in others, 
and the portions given off vary much also in size. Injuries caused 
in this manner were no fewer than 43 out of the 359 consecutive 
accidents in males admitted into the Sheffield Royal Infirmary. In 
the forgings, also, great or small, when the iron or steel is being 
hammered either by hand, or, in the case of larger castings, by a 
steam or hydraulic hammer, portions are given ofl" from the glowing 
metal, and those working and the bystanders are exposed to danger 
of burns. 

The knowledge which I have acquired from contact with work- 
ing men who have been injured, and from periodical visits to 
the principal works, has long since satisfied me that much of the 
destructive injury to sight is preventable, and that means should 
be adopted to lessen the risks to sight which are at present 
associated with important industries. There is less difficulty in 
enlisting the support of the employers than in gaining the assent 
of the men to the adoption of precautionary measures. I know 
of one firm who make it compulsory on men engaged in " chip- 



782 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

ping," " fettling," " turning," and other work in which iron and steel 
splinters are liable to fly off and endanger sight, to wear protectors, 
which are provided at the expense of the firm. This decision was 
taken in consequence of a workman being blinded by a chipping. 

In considering what kind of protectors men should use, it must 
be borne in mind that the cost must be very moderate, and that 
sight should be interfered with as little as possible, if at all. 
Among iron-workers, glass is practically out of the question. 
Even thick rock crystal, which has been suggested for some kinds 
of work, in consequence of its thickness and peculiar manner of 
fracture, would hardly do. Gauze wire, fitting close to the eye like 
a cup and attached to the head by a string, is employed by stone- 
breakers and in some ironworks. Complaint is made of such pro- 
tectors as being hot and interfering with sight, but there is no 
question that they afford considerable immunity from accident. 
Another practical point about protectors is that they should not 
be liable to rust. For this reason galvanised iron wire, or better, 
aluminium wire, is of service. The mesh should be sufficiently 
strong and fine, and sufficiently close to prevent, as far as possible, 
even small chippings passing through it, and yet to interfere with 
sight as little as need be. I have had experiments made by allow- 
ing men engaged in fettling to " chip " against wire gauze which 
has been suspended for the purpose, to ascertain how far a mesh 
answered before deciding to adopt a given size. I have had this 
netting made * into protectors which cover the eyes and adjacent 
parts. The portion over each eye is bulged forward so as to allow 
very free play to the eye underneath ; the convex surface is 
a greater protection than one merely flat would be. I have 
supplied workmen with these protectors, who have used them 
when chipping, steel melting, and in other dangerous iron and steel 
work. I learn that they are regarded as satisfactory, that they 
answer their purpose well as protectors, and that the interference 
with sight is very little.f 

I would sum up my suggestions as to the means for pro- 
tection as follows : — 

I. The grinder will find that large glasses made of plain glass, 
or, indeed, his own spectacles, should his refraction require their 
use, will afford great protection. Or he may use other protectors, 
made with glass in front, and gauze surrounding it. 
* By Priest & Ashmore, opticians, Sheffield. 

t The interference with sight is not greater than that occasioned by many 
ladies' veils. 




Fig. 84. — Protectors. (^Author's pattern.) 



[To face page 782. 



I 



Lviii.] USE OF PROTECTORS 783 

2. The use of protectors should be compulsory for those 
workers in iron or steel whose employment renders them liable 
to be injured by iron or steel splinters, or who are exposed to 
danger from molten metal. 

The gauze eye-shield I have described will, I believe, answer 
the purpose well. The cost is low, and it is worth the employers' 
while to supply their men with them. 

Other means to be adopted are : — 

{a) The use of a pneumatic chipper whenever practicable ; (J)) 
the proper arranging of the men at their work ; and {c) the use 
of screens, so as to avoid injury to their fellow-workmen and to 
passers-by. 

It is my belief that a consideration of the facts here advanced 
will lead to the conviction I have myself long held — that very 
many eye accidents associated with trades are preventable, and 
to the view that preventive means should be adopted. 

In addition to the classes of workmen more particularly alluded 
to in the foregoing remarks on eye accidents and their prevention, 
the following occupations may be briefly touched upon. 

Coal miners are prone to be injured by portions of coal strik- 
ing the eye, and either becoming embedded in the cornea (like the 
grinders' motes) or causing abrasion of the surface, or wounds 
of the eyeball. Eye injuries in the miner appear to be more than 
usually prone to become septic. Injury may also be occasioned 
by splinters flying from the pick point, and either sticking in the 
cornea or penetrating and becoming lodged in the eyeball, in a 
similar manner to that which happens in " chippers." 

Agriculturists are liable to eye accidents in many ways. In 
"hedging" injury is often caused by the eye being struck by 
branches or twigs of bushes, or a thorn may wound the surface 
or penetrate and remain lodged in the interior of the globe. In 
threshing and chaff-cutting, among other processes, the lodgment 
of foreign bodies under the eyelids may occur, or abrasion of the 
surface of the eye be effected. A special form of ophthalmia has 
been described as occurring among hop pickers. It is charac- 
terised by muco-purulent discharge and swelling of the lids. Dr 
Percy Adams, who has described this affection, considers it is 
caused by the introduction into the conjunctival sac, or into 
the cornea, of the small, thorn-like, hairy processes which are 
found on the hop leaves, bracts, and bines. 

It may be generally stated that all engaged in dusty occupa- 
tions are prone to have their eyes irritated or to suffer from 



784 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

conjunctivitis. This is the case, for instance, in a very dusty coal 
mine, a dust-laden flour mill, etc. 

All workers with stone are liable to eye injury from portions of 
stone flying ofl" and striking the eye, as they are also from splinters 
coming from the chisel or hammer. Stonecutters are very liable 
to have motes in their eyes, and more rarely the injury is much 
more serious. Stone-masons, masons, bricklayers, and stone- 
breakers come under this class. Protectors are sometimes used 
by stonebreakers at their work. Stone " cutting " or " dressing " 
in the streets is often a source of danger to the passers-by as well 
as to the workers themselves. Such work should be so arranged 
that the cutting or dressing is directed against a hoarding or 
wall. 

In the preparation of grindstones there is considerable danger 
to sight. " Millstone building," in which buhrstone is used, is 
only a small and decaying industry. Buhrstone comes from 
France in blocks, which have to be chiselled into wedges to form 
sections of the circular millstone, which are joined by cement 
and bound round with hoops of iron. Pieces of stone or tool 
are liable, during the process of chiselling, to fly about and en- 
danger eyesight.* 

The workers in quarries are exposed to dangers to eyesight 
like the cutters and dressers of stone, but the fragments will 
frequently be larger. Another danger is added, viz., that of 
blasting. The gravity of the injury inflicted varies considerably. 
In some, powder grains are studded about the face and eyelids 
and embedded in the front of the eyeball, occasioning serious 
danger to sight. In others, the injury may be so severe that sight 
is irrecoverably lost. It is unfortunate, also, that not infrequently 
in these serious accidents both eyes are implicated. The same 
dangers apply to all kinds of work in which explosives are used 
for blasting purposes, whether above or under ground, as, for 
instance, in the latter, coal and ironstone mining. 

There are only a few parts of the country where ganister is 
obtained. The largest works of the sort are situated at Deepcar, 
near Sheffield. The effect of the fine powder produced in the 
processes required for making the bricks is recognised as hurtful 
to the lungs of the employes engaged. Besides this, however, 
the extreme hardness of ganister necessitates blasting, and this 
is mostly done by dynamite. Two men, within a short time of 
each other, came under my observation, who had been blinded 
* Report by Dangerous Trades Committee. 



LViii.] BURNS CAUSED BY LIME 785 

from this blasting. This occurrence induced me to pay a visit to 
the ganister works. I found ganister was obtained by quarrying 
and also underground, where it is found lying underneath a seam 
of coal. In " scrapping " or breaking the ganister into smaller 
pieces there is a danger of pieces striking the face or eye, a 
greater risk probably than in ordinary stone-breaking. The 
ganister is afterwards broken, in a machine, into small portions. 
Fragments not infrequently fly off, and might cause injury. From 
this machine the ganister goes to another, where it is ground 
quite small and churned up into a thick pea-soup consistence, 
whence it is taken and placed where the bricks are made, and 
afterwards burnt in a kiln heated to 2000° F. The dangers 
attending the working of ganister are not so great as to call for 
special notice, and, moreover, the industry is a small one. 

Burns caused by lime must be mentioned. All workers with 
lime and mortar are exposed to this danger from these substances 
getting into their eyes, resulting sometimes in destruction of the 
cornea and adhesions of the eyelids to the globe. Masons, 
plasterers, and bricklayers belong to this class. Besides the actual 
burning, the irritating qualities of lime and cement may occasion 
conjunctivitis, with ulceration of cornea, and endanger sight. 

In wire-drawing, not infrequently the breaking of the wire is 
a cause of eye accident. The wire is put on a reel, and passed 
through the plate, and wound round the wire-drawing block. 
During this process, the tension is, of necessity, very great, but 
of course depends on the size of the wire. Generally speaking, it 
is three-fourths of the breaking strain of the wire. If the wire 
breaks on this block, the " back-lash " may strike a man on the 
face or head, and then also the last end of the piece might slip and 
strike a man. The wire is not likely to break until it has passed 
through the wire-plate or " wortle." 

In the weaving shops one peculiar danger to which persons 
working are subject is the liability to be struck in the face, or, more 
especially, in the eye by flying shuttles. This risk has been known 
and appreciated for many years. The matter formed the subject 
of a report ordered by the House of Commons in April 1891. 

Since then, greater attention has been paid to the provision of 
guards to prevent accidents. There are many patterns of guards 
on the market. In principle they are of two classes : ist, what are 
known as wing guards, that is, a wire screen of fine mesh canvas 
placed between the looms. In this case should the shuttle fly, it 
would be caught by the wing, and thus danger to the weaver at the 

3D 



786 EYE DISEASES AND EYE ACCIDENTS [chap. 

adjacent loom is obviated. The other system is to provide a rod 
on the traversing beam which is aKvays over the beam of the 
shuttle. Should there be a tendency for the shuttle to rise, this 
would prevent it. With most guards of this description it is 
practically impossible for any shuttle to fly, but in less efficient 
ones the shuttle may escape. If it does so, however, it will always 
be at a low angle, and instead of striking the worker at the adjoin- 
ing loom or any passer-by in the face or dangerous part, it will 
simply strike the clothing, and little or no serious result need be 
anticipated. Since the adoption of these guards the percentage of 
accidents has been very appreciably reduced. 

In a recent case of serious eye injury to a young girl, it was 
ascertained that the guard for some reason or other had been left 
off, and the shuttle had flown up and struck her. The liability to 
accident among these operatives is shown by the statement of this 
girl, that she had been struck once before on the eyebrow, and at 
least twenty times on other parts of the body. All the girls work- 
ing with her had also been struck several times. She had, how- 
ever, in five years only known of one serious eye injury similar to 
her own. 

In the manufacture of aerated waters there is danger to eyesight 
from the bursting of the bottles. The industry is carried on ex- 
tensively in most of the larger towns. Usually the bottles or 
syphons are filled by machinery, and, in a similar manner, the cork 
is inserted, or some other method is adopted for sealing the bottles, 
whether it be a glass ball or screw stopper. If "wiring" is needed, 
it is then done and the label attached. In addition the bottles are 
** sighted," or held up to the light, to see that they leave the factory 
clean. Another process consists in cleaning the returned empties. 
In all these processes, but especially so in " bottling," there is danger 
of the bottles bursting, and inflicting serious injury to the eye, or 
cuts on the face or body from the fragments of broken glass. To 
obviate these dangers the use of faceguards or eye protectors 
is absolutely necessary, and all machines used for bottling or 
corking should be fenced round. The manufacture of aerated 
waters was reported on by the Dangerous Trades Committee 
(1896),* who recommended that all bottlers, wirers, sighters, and 
labellers, whilst at work, should be provided with faceguards, 
masks, or veils of wire-gauze. They also recommended the pro- 
viding of gauntlets for the arms. They further advised the fencing 

* Vide also Report, by myself, for the Home Office, and published in the 
Annual Report of the Chief Inspector of Factories^ 1901. 



lviil] bursting of water-gauges on boiler^ 787 

of all machines for bottling, to avoid the possibility of fragments of 
a bursting bottle striking any worker. 

Bursting of Water-Gauges on Boilei^s. — Many cases of serious 
eye injury have come under my notice from the breaking of water- 
gauges. The liability to danger exists in every description of 
steam boiler, and breakages frequently occur. Injury may be 
occasioned by fragments of glass or from scalding, owing to the 
escape of boiling water and steam. Protection of some sort is 
necessary. Encasing the gauge in wire netting would suffice to 
prevent injury from fragments of glass, but it would still allow of 
the escape of steam and water. Another method is to surround 
the gauge with a metal casing, in front of which is inserted a 
window of plate glass to permit of the gauge being visible, A man 
of considerable experience suggested to me that this metal casing 
should be left open at the back, so that, in the event of the water- 
gauge glass breaking, the force of the explosion would be sent 
backwards. Too frequently no safeguard has been provided, but 
men occasionally devise means of protection themselves. 

Simeon Snell. 



CHAPTER LIX 

MISCELLANEOUS TRADES 

Silicate of Cotton. 

The name silicate of cotton is misleading, for the manufacture 
of this substance has nothing whatever to do with cotton. It is 
a fleecy, white substance, hence the name. The danger in its 
manufacture is not from dust but from fluff of a metallic nature. 
Silicate of cotton is made from the refuse basic slag of ironworks. 
It is manufactured in Middlesborough, Redcar, Skinningrove, 
Hazlehead, etc. It is a small industry, and gives employment to 
very few people. The process of manufacture is simple. It 
consists in allowing a small, thin stream of molten slag to flow 
in a special direction, so that at a particular spot the stream is 
met by a strong blast of steam blown through a narrow pipe. 
Very minute particles of slag are thus formed, which are driven 
with great velocity into a collecting chamber in which no person 
could stand at the time. The small particles of slag are extremely 
viscous, and as they are blown through the air with very great 
velocity and meet resistance they become drawn out into very 
fine filaments like cotton wool, and fall to the ground as a loose, 
spongy material, not unlike snow or very fine spun glass. The 
material- is then known as silicate of cotton, or slag wool. It con- 
tains the ordinary constituents of slag, viz., silica, lime, alumina, 
with a small percentage of iron and magnesia, etc. As it is a 
non-inflammable material and a non-conductor of heat, it is used 
for packing the pipes that come away from steam boilers, and 
for laying between floors to deaden sound, etc. 

The danger to the health of the workmen lies in the inhala- 
tion of the fine filaments of slag wool, for they are extremely 
light, and this occurs mostly during the act of packing the silicate 
into bags. At this time the filaments are apt to get on to the 
skin and to adhere to the clothing, particularly where it meets 
the skin. On account of their sharp needle-like form they cause 



CHAP. Lix.] UPHOLSTERING AND ITS RISKS , 78^9 

considerable irritation and induce an itchiness of the skin which 
is extremely trying, for it endures by night as well as by day, 
robbing the individual of his sleep, and as he is likely to scratch 
himself, the inflammation of the skin leads to eczema. Beyond 
this itchiness or pruritus, the Dangerous Trades Committee, whose 
description of the process of manufacture I have largely reproduced, 
did not find anything in the trade that could be considered pre- 
judicial to health. The industry had been previously inspected by 
Mr Edward Gould, now Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories, but 
he did not observe anything in the occupation to cause it to be 
regarded as really dangerous. Yet it is scarcely an industry for 
growing lads to be sent to, as they seem to suffer more than men, 
probably on account of being more impatient under the influence 
of pruritus, and being less able to bear the effects of loss of sleep 
from it. The working shifts ought to be short, and the men when 
engaged in packing the slag wool ought to wear a veil or respirator. 
As it is desirable to cover the ears, nose, and eyes, a loose gauze 
or muslin veil is preferable. The men ought not to enter the 
chamber into which the slag wool has been blown until the 
atmosphere has become clear, through the settling down of the 
fleecy filaments. 

Upholsterers Occupation. 

As the work of the upholsterer is largely concerned with the 
manipulation of feather, flock, hair, etc., the subject is indirectly 
dealt with under Shoddy and Rags. The dust is provocative of 
respiratory troubles. If the rags, feathers, and hair have not been 
previously cleaned, the dust not only causes bronchial irritation, but 
may be the means, owing to morbific germs adherent to these 
products, of causing infectious diseases such as smallpox and 
erysipelas, and such intestinal derangements as vomiting and 
diarrhoea. 

The manufacture of mattresses is an unhealthy occupation, for 
the dust that escapes from wool and horse-hair during the opera- 
tion of carding often causes cough, difficulty of breathing, and 
retching, and if these have not been previously sterilised, the dust 
may cause blood-poisoning. Ramazini alludes to the ill-health 
of the Jews in Italy who undertook this work, and to the fact 
that they became emaciated. 

Mattresses that have been lain upon by persons who have 
died of infectious diseases occasionally find their way into third- 
rate upholsterers' shops, where their contents are picked and 



790 ■ MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

mattresses are re-made. It is very dusty work when the pick- 
ing is done by hand, and besides, there escapes an unpleasant, 
sickening odour which causes headache and a feeHng of malaise. 
When mattresses have become fouled in places by discharges 
from patients suffering from infectious diseases, considerable risk 
is incurred by those who by hand teaze the contents of such 
bespoiled bedding. 

A short while ago a Commission in France dealt with the 
subject of the cleansing of bedding. It reported that used 
mattresses often harboured the germs of smallpox, scarlet fever, 
measles, diphtheria, and typhoid fever. Before any old mattress 
is picked, it ought to be exposed to a very high and dry tempera- 
ture, say ioo°C. or 2I2°F. Woollen and other flock materials 
should be previously exposed to superheated steam and after- 
wards to sulphurous acid vapour, which can be got from burning 
sulphur. In ordinary medical practice, particularly in large towns, 
many of the municipal authorities not only provide the means for 
sterilising, but require that the bedding that has been used in 
infectious cases shall be disinfected. It is desirable in the interests 
of the public that the Sanitary Authorities should also offer facili- 
ties to furniture dealers for the disinfection of second-hand mat- 
tresses, and that upholsterers who re-make these mattresses should 
not be allowed to have their contents picked by hand until they 
have been dry stoved. Cardage by machinery is fortunately re- 
placing hand-picking, but in places where hand-picking is still 
carried on the workers should wear respirators, and the venti- 
lation so arranged whereby the dust may be carried away from 
them. 

From feathers dust of a suffocating character is also given off. 
Sometimes it induces ophthalmia, also diseases of the bronchial 
tubes and lungs, but as feathers can be very readily disinfected 
by means of steam, and the industry is a small one and offers 
work only at irregular intervals, the number of people who actually 
suffer in health from feather dust is not large. 



Joiners and Carpenters : Workers in Sequoia Wood. 

The occupation of joiners and carpenters is on the whole healthy. 
Beyond a greater amount of exertion required in some branches 
of the trade than in others, and greater exposure to the weather, 
the industry calls for very little consideration here. The removal 
of timber in dockyards is heavy work, but it is undertaken by 



Lix.] SEQUOIA WOOD . 791 

labourers. A few years ago, when sawpits were more in use 
than now, the act of sawing imposed a considerable strain upon 
the men, and as the sawpits were often out of doors or at the 
best very imperfectly covered, the sawyers often suffered from 
rheumatic affections, bronchitis, and asthma. Thirty years ago, 
before machinery had so generally supplanted hand - sawing, 
sawyers occasionally came to the Newcastle Infirmary suffering 
from disease of the aortic valves, and presenting such other signs 
of cardio-vascular degeneration as are found in men whose work is 
hard, and who have been exposed to all kinds of weather. Beyond 
the large but diminishing number of surgical accidents caused 
by the circular saw, the use of this implement, especially when 
acting upon soft wood, cannot be regarded as the cause of ill- 
health to men employed in the joiner's shop. 

Carpenters are said to suffer from contracted tendons of the 
hand, owing to the protracted use of the chisel, and in men who 
plane much the hands become enlarged. As these workmen 
stand on their feet all day they run the risk of suffering from 
hernia and varicocele, but I am not disposed to admit that 
their liability to these affections is very much greater than in 
men in other trades, nor have I noticed to any extent, in turners, 
the depression of the left shoulder, the bulging of the shoulder- 
blade, and protrusion of the left hip, through the individual 
throwing the weight of his body upon the left leg when at 
work, to which some authors allude as of common occurrence. 

Sequoia Wood. — A short while ago my attention was directed 
by Sir James Russell of Edinburgh to a series of symptoms said 
to be experienced by joiners when working with sequoia wood. 
To Councillor Telfer of the same city I am indebted for a short 
account of the supposed effect of the sawdust on those who 
saw and chip the wood, also for samples of the sawdust. The 
symptoms produced resemble those of a bad cold in the head 
and chest. There is a running at the nose, with frequent fits 
of sneezing, irritation in the throat and chest, followed by cough- 
ing, laboured breathing and quickened pulse, and later on by a 
sense of oppression at the pit of the stomach and a smarting 
sensation in the eyes. The symptoms usually last for only 
twenty-four hours, and are especially pronounced in men work- 
ing for the first time with the wood. By next morning the 
unpleasant symptoms just described have, as a rule, disappeared. 
A kind of tolerance comes in time to be established, although 
in the case of men who are the subjects of asthma and throat 



792 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

affections, their experience is painful and the effects enduring. 
I am informed that if a splinter of the wood penetrates 
the skin to any depth the wound almost invariably suppur- 
ates. The sequoia tree is a conifer, and is found in California. 
It requires a good deal of moisture, grows well in fog, which 
is said to be essential to its life, for on passing through the 
fog belt into clearer air no sequoia trees are to be found. It 
is a wood not unlike mahogany in appearance, and is used for 
house panelling. Dr R. A. Bolam and myself have examined 
sequoia sawdust both chemically and microscopically without 
finding in it anything definite to explain the symptoms attri- 
buted to working with the wood. It can be kept mixed with 
water without giving an acid reaction. I covered the floor of 
a rabbit's hutch with sequoia sawdust instead of ordinary saw- 
dust, but the rabbit confined in the cage, although thus exposed 
to it for several weeks, took no harm. Rats, on the other hand, 
seemed susceptible to sequoia sawdust ; they suffered in a few 
instances from running at the nose. That the dust of some 
kinds of wood are more irritating than others has long been 
known. Rosewood, for example, has had a bad reputation in 
this respect. The presence of a large amount of inorganic 
matter in wood causes the sawdust to be much more irritating 
than that obtained from wood in which such inorganic matter 
is, comparatively speaking, absent. 



Manufacture of Celluloid. 

In the manufacture o^ celluloid two risks are incurred: (i) fire, 
and (2) inhalation of harmful vapours. 

Celluloid is a complex product formed from pyroxiline, 
camphor, and alcohol. It was invented by an American named 
Hyatt in 1869. When rolled and compressed after having been 
very gently heated, it forms a hard, elastic, transparent substance, 
■capable of taking a beautiful polish, and as various pigments can 
be added to it, celluloid can be made to resemble coral, ivory, 
•ebony, malachite, etc. Heat quickly softens it. If brought into 
contact with a naked light it is readily ignited, producing a smoky 
flame and a disagreeable camphor-like odour. Several explo- 
sions and burns have been known to occur when hairdressers 
have been using celluloid combs in close proximity to a naked 
light. Celluloid is used for making billiard balls, knife and 
umbrella handles, combs, frames for eyeglasses, also wash- 



Lix.] TOBACCO AND CIGAR MANUFACTURE _ 793 

able imitations of linen, — for example, American cliffs and 
collars, etc.* 

One of the principal dangers in regard to using celluloid is 
fire. No naked lights, therefore, should be allowed near at hand, 
nor should there be any open hearths where celluloid is being 
manufactured or stored. Should celluloid by any chance become 
ignited, sand and water will extinguish the fire. 

There are also dangers incidental to its manufacture. Pyroxi- 
line is prepared from vegetable cellulose by treating it with 
nitric and sulphuric acids. Apart from the burning accidentally 
caused by these acids, the workpeople breathe while in the fac- 
tory an atmosphere charged with nitrous vapour, which causes 
cough, a feeling of suffocation followed at times by bloody 
expectoration and signs of pulmonary congestion. No mixing 
and pounding of the celluloid should be done in open tubs, but 
in hooded receptacles, so that the irritating fumes are carried 
away from the workmen. Gloves ought to be worn. No young 
person should be employed in the industry. 

Tobacco and Cigar Manufacture. 
Medical opinion is divided as to whether the manufacture of 
tobacco and cigars really exercises any injurious influence upon 
the workers. As far back as 1846 this subject was carefully 
investigated by Dr Melier at the request of the Academy of 
Medicine of Paris. In the manufacture of tobacco for smoking 
it is generally conceded that during the chopping up of the leaves 
and their subsequent exposure to a high temperature in shallow 
vessels, certain fumes are given off that are obnoxious to the 
workmen engaged in this operation, also that during the grinding 
of snuff irritating gases and dust are evolved. Apart from these, 
however, the industry is on the whole a healthy one. Some 
people have an idiosyncracy which causes them to be easily 
affected by tobacco. New hands on entering a tobacco factory 
for the first time often experience a good deal of nausea, head- 
ache, and giddiness, and they sometimes too have a sense of 
faintness, but by degrees they become accustomed to the odours. 
At the Newcastle Dispensary I am occasionally consulted by 
female tobacco-spinners on account of persistent headache, nausea, 
dislike to food, anaemia, and muscular feebleness. I have never 

* Prof. Alexander Ogston, of Aberdeen, Lancet^ Feb. 22, 1902, gives details 
.of burns caused by the ignition of celluloid combs and collars. He suggests that 
celluloid should be rendered incombustible by the addition of some chemical. 



794 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

observed the transient loss of sight nor the pharyngeal catarrh 
alluded to by some writers. Melier held the opinion that working 
in tobacco arrested tuberculous disease, but this is simply an opinion, 
and is uncorroborated by the experience of others. Poisson and 
Eulenburg take the opposite view, and maintain that tuberculosis 
is a very frequent disease indeed in tobacco workers, especially 
in females. In the lungs of tobacco-workers, both at home and 
abroad, there have been found pigmentation and patches of brown 
induration. Similar lesions have been observed in the lungs of 
animals experimentally exposed to tobacco dust ; but at the best 
these changes in the human subject must be regarded as of 
extremely rare occurrence, and are more than likely due to the 
inhalation of vegetable and mineral dusts which dry tobacco 
often contains. Given a healthy man or woman, and a well- 
ventilated factory provided with the proper means for removing 
dust and foul air, there is nothing in the manufacture of tobacco 
or in the making of cigars to cause the occupation to be regarded 
as one very prejudicial to health. Anaemic girls and those with 
an idiosyncracy to tobacco are not good subjects. As to the 
work causing excessive menstruation and producing sterility, 
confirmation is required ; and the same remark applies to the 
supposed frequency with which pregnant tobacco - workers and 
cigar -makers are said to miscarry. In Poisons Industriels^ 
p. 20 1, it is stated that the midwives who attend the female 
tobacco-workers of the Rue Jean-Nicot in Paris often remark 
upon the readiness with which pregnant cigar and cigarette 
makers abort, and that the only way by which it is possible for a 
pregnant tobacco-worker to carry her child to term is to give up 
her employment for the time being. It is also stated that the 
infants are either born dead or die soon after birth. Out of 100 
pregnancies in female cigar-makers, Dr Jacquemart observed 45 
miscarriages. Personally I do not attach much importance to these 
statements, nor to that regarding infants suckled at the breast, who 
are said to suffer from colic after a meal, and to die from inanition. 
In Madrid infants are taken at certain hours of the day to the 
large cigar factories to be suckled by their mothers. While I am 
far from countenancing the practice, I must admit that, having 
examined as many as 30 and 40 infants being thus fed at a time, 
the children looked plump and healthy ; so, too, did -the mothers. 
Tobacco is not an emmenagogue. Its abortifacient properties, it 
seems to me, have been exaggerated ; and in this I am supported 
by Poincare, and also by Ygonin, who found in 750 female cigar- 



^m Lix.] ( 

I 
I 



LIX.] CIGAR MAKING A PROPER INDUSTRY FOR WOMEN 795 

makers that miscarriages were by no means more frequent than in 
women engaged in other occupations. 

The subject of amblyopia or loss of vision in tobacco-workers is 
dealt with in another part of this book by Mr Simeon Snell.* 

An interesting contribution to the subject of the manu- 
facture of cigars, from the social and hygienic standpoint, 
appears in the Economic Journal, December 1900, from the 
pen of Miss Grace Oakeshott. It is the result of an inquiry 
undertaken by the Women's Industrial Council. Smokers need 
hardly be reminded that two kinds of cigars are made, the 
machine or moulded, and the handmade cigar, nor is it necessary 
to do more than mention the superiority of the latter over the 
former, A woman requires rather a long apprenticeship, nearly 
five years, before she becomes an adept in making handmade 
cigars. Miss Oakeshott had several opportunities of coming 
into close contact with female cigar-makers, from whom she 
learned that they themselves believe there is nothing in the 
work that is unhealthy nor in any way trying to an ordinarily 
healthy woman. The occupation is decidedly sedentary, and it 
is more than probable that the women sit too long. As to a 
supposed protection to the workers from epidemic disease afforded 
by tobacco, I am not in a position either to support or contradict 
the statement. I doubt it. In 1862 a Parliamentary Report was 
published on the tobacco manufactories of Lancashire. It dealt 
especially with the female workers in Liverpool. The medical 
men gave it as their opinion in the report that tobacco had no 
permanent effect upon the health of the workers, and that " though 
at first the women were attacked by sickness and faintness due 
to the smell of tobacco and to insufficient ventilation, they soon 
grew accustomed to this, and that, moreover, at the time of a 
cholera epidemic the cigar-makers in the town were free from the 
disease altogether." 

Women, taken all in all, are slower cigar-makers than men. 
Men will make from 800 to 1270 cigars in a week, and women from 
400 to 800, and yet it occasionally happens that a woman who is 
an exceptionally quick worker will beat the best male worker. The 
cigar trade is one that requires deftness and skill in manipulation, 
and as both of these are possessed by women's fingers, the occu- 
pation is one particularly suited for women. The work is neither 
hard nor laborious ; it is quiet, and on the whole it is well paid. 

* See "Eye Diseases and Eye Accidents in Relation to Industrial Occu- 
pations," p. 769. 



796 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

Engine-Drivers and Railway Employes. 

What strikes one most in dealing with the subject of workmen 
employed on railways is the large number of accidents that befall 
them. It is a general opinion that engine-drivers are a healthy 
class of men. The records of their Insurance Societies show this, 
and medical experience confirms it. The wages that drivers 
receive enable them to buy good food. As they have few oppor- 
tunities of getting much physical exercise, several of the men become 
rather obese. My own professional knowledge of engine-drivers is 
limited. Most of those whom I have had medically to deal with 
have suffered from acute inflammatory affections of the chest, or 
from dyspeptic troubles due to their long and irregular hours, their 
long journeys, and lengthened absence from home. These irregu- 
larities oblige drivers and firemen to take with them on the 
engine food already cooked, and often to eat it when they can. 
Their duties are of an anxious nature, and are accompanied by 
a considerable amount of nerve tension, which may cause them to 
break down in health. Dr Alexander Scott, of Glasgow, at the 
meeting of the British Medical Association at Cheltenham, August 
190 1, expressed the opinion that most of the accidents on the line 
are the result of nervous tension on the part of railway servants. 
He cited instances of signal-men becoming paralysed through fear, 
and of experienced engine-drivers losing their head and suffering 
from temporary mental aberration. Nervous tension causes head- 
ache, weariness of brain, and sleeplessness. Whether it is in con- 
sequence of this nerve strain that engine-drivers as a class suffer 
more frequently from diabetes than men engaged in other occupa- 
tions, I am not prepared to say. Dr Atkinson, of Crewe, states that 
engine-men are usually long lived, but that they are subject to 
bronchitis in winter, while their common complaints are indiges- 
tion, varicocele, and varicose veins, the latter in consequence of 
their prolonged standing. Out of 4000 men employed at Crewe, 
not more than 6 die annually from phthisis. 

Through the kindness of Dr Atkinson, of Crewe, I have been 
furnished with the Annual Reports of the London and North- 
western Railway Insurance Society for Drivers and Firemen for 
the last six years. The average number of men in the society has 
been 10,817. The average annual nnmber of deaths during these 
six years has been 91, and the average annual number of deaths 
from accidents 9.6 ; that is to say, one-tenth of the deaths is due to 
accidents received when at work. On looking over the causes of 



^» 1 .1 



RISK OF TUBERCULOSIS 



797 



death, it is noticed that the largest number of men die from old 
age, and that pneumonia, heart and kidney diseases, also the com- 
bined influence of these two latter, carry off by far the next 
largest proportion. I am struck, however, by the number of 
deaths from diabetes. They vary from one to four per annum ; 
no age period is spared, but the maximum rate of mortality is 
above fifty years of age. More of the men die from pneumonia 
than phthisis, probably in consequence of exposure. Dr -Atkinson 
concludes a letter by remarking that drivers and firemen "are 
very long lived and healthy, and fewer of them suffer from hernia 
than the public generally." 

Stokers are said to suffer from pulmonary anthracosis, a form 
of consumption like coal-miners' phthisis, but I am doubtful of the 
prevalency of this ailment among stokers, just as I am of their 
becoming deaf owing to the soundings of the whistle. Men 
employed in the sheds cleaning the engines with soda and potash 
often become thin and anaemic, but if they are given outside work 
they rapidly regain the appearance of health. 

Labourers on the railway employed to look after the transport 
of living cattle, or who have to handle the carcases of dead beasts,, 
skins, and hides, run the risk of contracting blood-poisoning. As 
the identity of human and bovine tuberculosis has recently been 
disputed by Koch, the following fact is of considerable importance. 
Two labourers employed on an American railway to clean and 
repair cars used for transporting cattle, suffered from local tuber- 
culosis of the skin, following a slight injury to the hand caused by 
a splint of wood. One of the men died a year afterwards from 
tuberculous disease of the lungs. There is every reason, therefore,, 
why infected cattle and carcases should not be allowed to be carried 
by rail. In our own country we know how often anthrax has been 
traced to the importation of diseased hides and infected hair (see 
" Anthrax "). While people may thus become infected, not only on 
the railways but in the factories, it is absolutely necessary that 
diseased cattle should not be allowed to travel either by road or 
rail. In the event of infected animals having been conveyed by 
rail, complete disinfection of the waggons is an absolute necessity.. 
This is sometimes done by washing out the interior of the waggons, 
and brushing them with quicklime. Superheated steam is by 
many believed to be better than antiseptic solutions, for if these 
are to be of any service they must be used strong. Pasteur taught 
that all disease-causing germs were destroyed at a temperature of 
110° C, or 233° F., and that moist heat is superior to dry. A few 



798 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

minutes' exposure to superheated steam kills even the most resistant 
microbes, so that where vehicles have been employed in the trans- 
port of infected cattle, patients suffering from enteric fever, and in 
warfare of soldiers with discharging wounds, disinfection should be 
resorted to immediately after discharge of the cargo. 

(For further remarks on disinfection, see article " Anthrax," 
p. 642). 

Drivers of Public Vehicles. 

Drivers of public vehicles suffer and become prematurely old 
in consequence of their exposure to inclement weather, late hours, 
and irregularity in getting their meals. Alcoholism and exposure 
to cold are responsible for their tendency to develop gout and 
rheumatism, and through these disorders to secondary affections 
of the kidneys, heart, and respiratory organs. They die at the 
rate of 1482 to 1000 of the male population generally. 

Cooks. 

The average age at death of cooks is fifty-four years. Heat 
affects cooks differently ; some become extremely stout and un- 
healthy looking, while others, in consequence of the heat, working 
in cellar kitchens by artificial light, and deprived of the fresh 
air, become pale, suffer from headache, lose their appetite, and 
have occasional bleedings at the nose. Many of them suffer, 
too, from varicose veins, owing to standing so long on their feet. 
Others suffer from eczema of the hands. Subterranean kitchens 
are bad from a hygienic point of view. Every kitchen should be 
well ventilated and have good daylight. The introduction of gas 
stoves into kitchens has not improved matters. They are very 
convenient, but ventilation is interfered with, and the atmosphere 
is liable to be contaminated when the gas stoves are not 
provided with adequate means for carrying off the products of 
combustion. Often, too, the indiarubber tube that carries the gas 
emits an unpleasant odour. The tube may become cracked, allow- 
ing coal-gas to escape, and as arsenic has been found in some 
indiarubber tubes, this substance may enter into combination with 
the gases that are of themselves harmful, and thus further help to 
undermine the health of those working in the kitchen. 

Confection Makers. 

Confection makers suffer from caries of the teeth, and from 
ophthalmia and headache, and from the effects of great heat. 



Lix.] DOMESTIC SER VANTS AND ULCER A TION OF STOMA CH 799 

Domestic Servants and Housemaids^ etc. 
Domestic servants in well-to-do and upper middle - class 
families are not unhealthy. They are well fed, but either do not 
get or take as much open air exercise as they ought. It is in the 
maid-of-all-work, and in servants employed in the smaller houses 
where there are large families, and in lodging-houses, that we find 
the worst indications of the effects of domestic service. The sleep- 
ing accommodation for servants, even in large houses, is not always 
as good as it should be. Their rooms, which are at the top of the 
house, are small, badly lit, often without a fireplace, and therefore 
badly ventilated. Their hours of toil are long, and the demands 
made upon domestic servants are numerous, often exacting, and 
frequently protracted well on into the evening. Small wonder 
that, owing to their deprivation of fresh air, the monotony of 
their work in many instances, the conflict of tempers, and the 
imperfect food obtainable in poorer families and lodging-houses, 
many young women break down in health, become anaemic, 
suffer from headache and derangement of the digestive and pelvic 
organs. There is one illness domestic servants seem to be very 
prone to, and that is ulcer of the stomach. It used to be stated 
in medical text-books that cooks were more liable than any other 
class of female servants to ulcer of the stomach, a circumstance 
that was attributed to their frequently tasting very hot foods. 
My own experience at the Newcastle Infirmary is that house- 
maids suffer in at least as large a proportion as cooks do from 
ulcer of the stomach, but why I cannot say, unless it be that as 
a class they are more anaemic, and anaemia is a predisposing 
cause to gastric ulcer. It is an opinion held by several asylum 
physicians and others, that domestic servants form a very large 
percentage of the inmates of asylums. I have taken pains 
to ascertain the facts upon which this opinion rests, by apply- 
ing to Dr McDowall, of the Northumberland County Asylum, and 
to Dr Calcott, of the Newcastle-upon-Tyne Asylum at Cox Lodge. 
The total admissions of women into the Northumberland County 
Asylum for five years, 1886 to 1890 inclusive, were 415. Of these, 
48, or 1 1.3 per cent, were domestic servants, 15 were house- 
keepers, and 189 housewives, by which is usually meant married 
women. The area from which these patients are drawn is agri- 
cultural and mining. Taking out-door work as a healthy but often 
badly paid occupation as a contrast, I find that 11 field-workers 
were admitted as against 48 domestic servants. Dr McDowall 



8oo MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

does not think " there is an excessive amount of insanity among 
domestic servants." It is only right to add that in addition to the 
above there were loi females admitted classed under "no occupa- 
tion," and that many of these were young women who were at 
home and helped in housework. 

The Newcastle-upon-Tyne Asylum, on the other hand, draws 
its patients from the city, where the typical domestic servant 
is more likely to be found than in the districts that supply the 
County Asylum. Dr Calcott has been good enough to send 
me a table showing the occupation of female patients received 
into the Newcastle City Asylum during the past twenty years, 
and embracing lOCX) cases. The following is the percentages : — 
Housewives, i.e. married women, widows, and daughters acting 
as housekeepers to fathers, brothers, and relatives, 47.7 per cent. ; 
domestic servants, 14.60, or, including women keeping house for 
artisans, 2.03, a total percentage of 16.63. This is a large per- 
centage for domestic servants compared with 0.46 for shop girls. 
The Whittingham Asylum, near Preston, Lancashire, draws 
patients from a different class of occupations to those in New- 
castle. I find in the Report of that Asylum of 1899, that 
there were 196 females admitted during the year. Of these, 26 
were domestic servants ; housekeepers and housewives numbered 
102, contrasted with 24 mill hands and factory operatives. Next 
to housekeepers, which includes married women, domestic servants 
stood highest in the list of admission. 

" Housemaids' Knee " is an inflammation of the bursa in front 
of the knee-cap, and is caused by pressure and friction. 

Barmen and Dealers in Alcoholic Drinks. 

Publicans and licensed victuallers are notoriously a short-lived 
class. The modern tendency of brewers to buy out the smaller 
publicans and to form "tied" houses is causing the older type 
of landlords to disappear, and is replacing them by men often 
drawn from an inferior rank of life. In large industrial centres 
the men who are placed in charge of bars or who take over public- 
houses for themselves have frequently been previously engaged 
in the ordinary trades of the district. As subsequent events toa 
often show, the life adopted, however gilded it may appear, is 
attended with considerable danger. The occupation of the publican 
is sedentary. Without any exercise in the open air, his long day is 
too often spent in an atmosphere reeking with the odour of spirits, 
tobacco smoke, and emanations from the men and women who 



\ 



( 



Lix.] HIGH MORTALITY OF PUBLICANS . 80 r 

lounge at the bar ; and this, coupled with the numerous temptations 
to drink, and his irregular meals, sooner or later induces structural 
alterations in the liver, lungs, and heart, that bring life to a premature 
close. According to Ogle, innkeepers and publicans have a com- 
parative mortality figure of 1521 as against looo of the general 
population, an unenviable position, which is corroborated by the 
statistics of the Scottish Amicable Insurance Society, which show 
that dealers in intoxicating drinks have a mortality of 68 per cent. 
in excess of the Actuaries' or healthy Male Tables, and 49 per cent 
in excess of the English Life Tables. The mortality is 5 1 per cent, 
roughly speaking, above that for all males. In no other class of 
men, as might be expected from the opportunities offered, is the 
mortality from alcoholism so high as in innkeepers and publicans. 
It is from five to seven times higher than the average. The only 
occupation that approximates to it from a mortality point of view 
is that of cabmen. There is a belief that the mortality among 
publicans from alcohol is diminishing, but Dr Tatham's statistics 
for 1890-92, which appeared in the British Medical Journal for 
January 1898, do not confirm this. Some barmen, it is true, are 
teetotallers, and many are extremely temperate, but all are living 
under conditions of great temptation. The dangerous nature 
of the occupation lies not so much in the fact that barmen may 
get repeatedly drunk and run the risk of delirium tremens, but in 
the opportunities that are offered of continually nipping. It is 
the frequent nipping, begun early in the day and continued 
through it, often without food and an increasing distaste for it, 
that slowly undermines the physical and mental health of the 
publicans, is the cause of the large number of suicides among them, 
and of the large number of barmen that are carried off by cirrhosis 
of the liver and kidney disease before they reach the age of forty. 

Working brewers are also unhealthy. They have, according 
to Ogle, a mortality figure of 1361 as against 1521 for publicans, 
but while they present a lower mortality figure and greater freedom 
from alcoholism, they have a higher mortality from heart and lung 
diseases, especially consumption, a circumstance which is attributed 
to their greater exposure to varying temperatures and to wet, their 
figures for phthisis being 334 as against 295 for publicans. Brewers 
and their assistants are more liable to accidents ; these, like all 
alcoholic subjects, they bear badly. Dr Tatham's statistics are 
more recent than Ogle's, and they show that all occupations con- 
nected with the liquor traffic have even a higher mortality rate 
than those furnished by previous decennial reports. The figures 

3E 



8o2 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

are for brewers 1427, innkeepers and publicans 1642, and for inn 
and hotel servants, 1725. Taking 100 as representing the mean 
mortality among all occupied males for each of the subjoined 
causes of death, the comparative mortality figures for publicans, 
innkeepers, and their servants are 723 from alcoholism, 600 from 
gout, 271 from diabetes, 644 from diseases of the liver, 210 from 
urinary diseases, and 207 from suicide. 



Sewing- Machine Workers. 

If seamstresses and tailors in days gone by suffered, in con- 
sequence of plying the needle for many hours a day, from con- 
tracted fingers and rheumatic swellings of the joints ; and tailors, 
owing to their cross-legged position when at work, from atrophy of 
the muscles of the limbs, bandy-legs, and deformities of the 
chest, the introduction of the sewing-machine about 1855, while 
removing these evils, was at first believed to have introduced others 
of its own. To sit working a sewing-machine, as thousands of 
anaemic women in this country are doing six days in every week, is 
to aggravate the physical conditions upon which their bloodlessness 
depends, to court neuralgia, and to encourage lethargy of some of 
the eliminating organs, but beyond exaggerating certain functional 
disorders, I do not think that to working the sewing-machine can 
be traced any real organic disease. It has been asserted that the 
vibration to which the spine is subjected is a cause of spinal-cord 
disease, and of such a disorder as locomotor ataxia. There is no 
truth in this statement. I know of no instances, nor is it likely that 
the jolting of the spine could cause locomotor ataxia any more than 
the movements of the knees induce disorders of the genital organs 
and encourage immoral practices, which some medical men claimed 
for the sewing-machine on its introduction. The one statement is 
just as unfounded as the other. Working the sewing-machine too 
long may be followed by muscular cramps, and even by loss of power 
in the limbs, due to irritation of the flexor and extensor muscles of 
the legs. The principal effects, however, are vague muscular pains 
in the limbs and loins, and a sense of fatigue, but I question whether 
these pains are more pronounced in sewing-machine workers than 
in shop girls and women who are doing other kinds of work. It is 
a sedentary occupation, but given a good constitution to start with, 
well-ventilated workrooms, and not too prolonged hours of toil, 
coupled with such open air exercise as a reasonable walk twice 
a day, between the home and the workroom, provides, along with 



Lix.] LABEL-LICKING AND STAMP-LICKERS' TONGUE 803 

good wages to get sufficient food, it cannot be said to be un- 
healthy. Women, recognising that the work is sedentary, ought 
themselves to take the necessary means to keep the bowels open, 
for obstinate constipation is not only a cause of anaemia, it ladens 
the blood with impurities that induce headache, the too frequent 
recurrence of which obliges the individual to give up her em- 
ployment. 

Label-licking. 

In thread mills young girls are often employed to put labels 
on the bobbins. This they do by licking the labels, and as a 
consequence children are known to have suffered from swollen 
submaxillary glands, as reported in 1895 by Miss Anderson,* 
Principal Lady Inspector of Factories. This unwholesome practice 
is not confined to thread mills, it prevails in many industries in 
which small packets are being labelled for sale. The work is 
generally given to young persons and children. It is undertaken, 
therefore, at an age when growth is active, and the system is in 
need of all its digestive juices. The practice entails an enormous 
loss of saliva daily. Quite apart from this circumstance weakening 
the digestive functions, there is always the risk of the coloured labels 
containing, as Professor Thorpe's* analysis showed, copper and lead. 
Besides, there is the risk that the adhesive part of the label owes 
its sticking properties not to gum, but to substances of an animal 
nature, such as serum, to the presence of which have been traced 
some minor forms of blood poisoning, and the painful affection 
known as " stamp-lickers' tongue." As a consequence ulcers in 
the mouth sometimes develop, and from these ulcers poisonous 
material is absorbed and carried by the lymphatics to the glands 
underneath the jaw, setting up an acute inflammation or adenitis. 

Stamp-lickers' tongue is an infective process which generally 
yields to antiseptic treatment, such as a weak carbolic, boric, or 
hyposulphite of soda mouth-wash. It is not so generally known as 
it ought to be, that the licking of stamps may be followed by 
tubercular disease. The following fact is therefore worthy of 
being more publicly recorded. Dr Busquet,f a surgeon-major in 
the French army, and engaged in the Bacteriological Laboratory 
attached to the military hospital at Dey, in Algiers, received into 
the hospital a young soldier far advanced in tubercular disease of 
the lungs. He was a collector of foreign stamps. Unused stamps 

* See Final Report of the Dangerous Trades Committee, Appendix, 
t Bulletin medical^ i6th December 1899, p. 11 26. 



8o4 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

he generally fixed in his album by licking them. In order to test 
some stamps, Dr Busquet bought three hundred for his patient, 
many of which were for the purpose of exchange. These stamps 
were placed in sterilised water. At the end of twenty-four hours, 
Busquet inoculated guinea-pigs with the water. Of eight animals 
thus treated all became tuberculous, and at the post-mortem 
examination they showed various tubercular lesions in their 
internal organs. School boys and girls form the larger number of 
philatelists, and as they often wet the stamps with their tongue 
the danger incidental to this practice is apparent. What has been 
said of foreign stamps may not apply equally to label-licking, and 
yet labels are often lying about in a factory exposed to the dusty 
atmosphere of the workroom in which microbes of disease are 
known to abound. We cannot always be sure too that the solu- 
tion of gum was sterile to commence with, and that it was spread 
upon the labels by healthy persons. There is no wish to 
exaggerate the importance of microbes in causing disease ; all 
that is here insisted upon is that label-licking is an unhealthy 
and an unpleasant occupation, one that can be better and just 
as cheaply done by mechanical contrivances than by wasting 
children's saliva. That large quantities of saliva are used up in 
the process is shown by the fact that half-timers will lick as many 
as forty to fifty gross of labels in one day, and an adult woman as 
many as ninety gross. Where factory owners have introduced 
the use of dampers, they have found that by such artificial means 
the fixing of labels on bobbins can be just as expeditiously 
performed. 

Glass Manufacture : Glass- Blowing. 

The manufacture of glass is a very old industry. The Egyptians 
made glass more than 4000 years ago. Probably they learned the 
art from the Phoenicians or Jews. When Rome was at its zenith the 
number of Jewish glass-makers was so great that a special quarter 
of the city was set apart for them. These men turned out beautiful 
works of art, as the specimens in the Vatican and the British and 
French Museums show. Glass is supposed to have been intro- 
duced into England in the year 6^6 A.D., but the first glass works . 
in London were not established until 1557. Two centuries ago 
Lancashire led the way in making plate glass. British sheet glass 
began to be made in Birmingham in 1832. So far as plate glass ^ 
for mirrors and windows is concerned the British-made article is H 
bad to beat. St Helens in Lancashire is the home of the manu- 
facture of this particular kind of glass, which is composed of sand> 



\ 



Lix.] GLASS-MAKING AND ITS RISKS TO HEALTH 805 

soda salt, lime, felspar (quartz), and occasionally red lead and black 
oxide of manganese. These when melted together form a silicate, 
the sand supplying the silicic acid. Boric can be substituted for 
silicic acid. These substances are all fused together at an extremely 
high temperature in circular furnaces, with several small openings 
through which the workmen, wearing blue-tinted spectacles, can 
view the molten mass. Boys dip the end of a long hollow iron 
tube into the lake of molten material and, removing a blob on the 
end of the tube, take it to the men standing close by, who blow 
down the iron tube and cause the glowing mass to become globular. 
They fix and regulate the shape of the globe by occasionally roll- 
ing it on a small iron table. As the mass at the end of the iron 
tube cools further expansion of the glass by blowing becomes im- 
possible, and so it becomes necessary to again replace the unfinished 
product at the end of the rod in the furnace. This is in time 
removed and again blown, restored to the furnace and manipulated 
until a completely finished article is evolved. This has still to 
undergo a process of annealing or toughening so as to prevent it 
cracking or breaking readily. The process consists in again exposing 
the glass to a high temperature, gradually raised and just as gradu- 
ally lowered. Frosted glass is made by forcing a jet of sand under 
very great pressure upon particular parts of the glass. Sheet glass, 
on the other hand, is formed from a large mass of molten material 
adherent to the end of a blowpipe, which, when it becomes large 
enough, is swung round and round in the air until it becomes oblong. 
It is then cut and the mass is allowed to fall flat. In order to flatten 
it still more the sheet is put into an oven ; when rendered pliable 
by the heat it is removed and smoothed out by wood. In the 
manufacture of plate glass no blowing is required. A pot of molten 
glass is carried by a travelling crane to the casting-table, which is 
made of smooth iron with an elevated rim. Upon this table the 
liquid is poured. By means of rollers the workmen spread the 
layer out equally until it is of uniform thickness. After cooling, 
the glass is annealed in the manner already described. It is sub- 
sequently ground with sand and water, and afterwards polished with 
emery or putty powder. 

The risks to health incurred by makers of glass are mainly those 
due to exposure to excessively high temperatures, e.g. bronchial 
and pulmonary affections ; many of the men die from phthisis. 
They bear pneumonia badly owing to their intemperate habits. 
Dr Scheele, in the Berlin. Klinische Wochenschrtft, March 1900, has 
drawn attention to what is known as "glass-blowers' mouth." 



8o6 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

Large swellings like air-cushions can be seen and felt in some glass- 
blowers, extending from the angle of the mouth to below the ears. 
The swellings look like mumps. They involve the parotid gland 
only. They crepitate under the finger, and by pressure can be 
made to disappear. It is only recently that these swellings in the 
cheeks of glass-blowers have attracted attention, and especially in 
France. The relaxation of the cheeks, the joices casees of French 
glass-blowers, is by some attributed to a faulty method of blowing. 
From glass-blowers under my care in the Newcastle Infirmary I have 
ascertained that the malady is not unknown among the men in 
the works on Tyneside. Dr Scheele found that it was present in 
only 2.5 per cent, of blowers, some of whom had worked for years. 
In those who had thus suffered the duct that leads from the interior 
of the mouth to the parotid gland had become dilated owing to 
the repeated entrance of air into it under considerable pressure : 
the mucous membrane of the inside of the cheek, too, showed 
thick pale patches, plaques opalines, which Guinard regarded as 
the result of the great pressure and straining the buccal mucous 
membrane was exposed to during the act of blowing. Under 
ordinary forced expiration the pressure inside the closed mouth 
is equivalent to from 6 to 9 millimetres of mercury, but in glass- 
blowing it may rise to 90 and even as high as no mm. In 
the course of an ordinary day a good workman will blow as 
many as from 600 to 700 bottles. 

In consequence of the strain experienced by glass-blowers other 
defects are occasionally observed ; one is deafness due to increased 
internal pressure in the middle ear, and the other is a painless 
deformity of the fingers {main en crochet) due to the manner in 
which the blowpipe is grasped. 

Glass-workers are exposed to other dangers. Dr Probsting,* 
an oculist in Cologne, has found that in 12 per cent, of the factory 
operatives in Ehren field who are upwards of forty years of age, 
the crystalline lens of the eye becomes opaque. One of the most 
frequent causes of this form of cataract is exposure to the intense 
heat on the part of glass-makers, especially the workmen who 
remove the molten material from the furnace. Owing to the 
manner in which they handle their implements these men generally 
stand with the left side of their face towards the furnace. It is 
generally the left eye that becomes the seat of cataract. Meyhofer 
believes that the excessive perspiration of glass-makers plays an 
important part in producing this change in the lens. A third 
* Annales d' Hygiene, April 1900, p. 358. 







-is 










[To /ace pogfe 806. 



I 



Lix.] WARE GLAZED WITH POTASSIUM CYANIDE^ 807 

cause may be the brilliant white light that dazzles workers in glass, 
and which, by fatiguing the retina of the eye, reflexly influences the 
lens. Mr Simeon Snell's experience does not quite corroborate 
that of Dr Probsting.* 

A new method of making hollow glass ware, e.g. tumblers, etc., 
has lately been introduced. The blowing is no longer done by men 
exhaling air from their lungs, but by driving in compressed air by 
means of machinery. One machine managed by four men and 
seven boys can turn out 500 tumblers in an hour, or 5000 in a 
day, whereas the same number of operatives working under old 
methods can only throw off 40 tumblers in an hour. In large glass 
factories the work often goes on night and day in double shifts, 
particularly on the Continent. The use of compressed air in glass- 
blowing is very desirable, for by its use many of the ill effects 
consequent upon the present methods of blowing would soon dis- 
appear. The more frequent wearing of blue-tinted spectacles by 
the workmen, too, would tend to lessen the frequency of cataract. 

Glazed Ware Poisonous from other Causes than Lead. — Cyanide 

of Potassium. 

The United States Consul at Mayence, in December 1900, 
uttered a word of warning to purchasers of silvered glass and 
porcelain, which is deserving of notice. In order to apply the silver 
by the galvano-caustic method in use, the ware has to be dipped in 
a bath highly charged with cyanide of potassium. However care- 
fully treated, the surface is never perfectly smooth, but conceals 
innumerable fine cracks. The cyanide lies in the minute fissures 
and cannot be removed during manufacture. As a consequence 
both the use and the handling of the ware may be followed by 
poisonous effects. Cyanide of potassium contains the well-known 
poison, prussic acid. Owing to the danger to health incurred by 
the workmen and the public, some large firms have abandoned the 
manufacture of goods by this process, but the ware is still exported 
from Frankfort, Stuttgart, and Berlin. Attempts are being made 
to devise non-poisonous methods of plating these goods. 

Coal-heaving, Coal-trimming, and Chimney -sweeping. 

Men employed in the first two of the above occupations are 
much exposed to the weather and to dust given off during the tipping 
of coal, while in the case of chimney-cleaning the sweep is exposed 
* See Mr Simeon Snell's paper, " Eye Accidents," etc., p. 'J'JZ- 



8o8 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

to the effects of soot that has been formed during the combustion 
of coal. The men who perform the rough, heavy labour on quays 
and staithes, loading and unloading ships with coal, or who fill sacks 
with the fuel, are called coal-heavers, while the men who are in the 
holds of vessels, shovelling and distributing the coal therein, are 
known as coal-trimmers. Usually the men are w^ell developed and 
of good physique, but as a class they are extremely intemperate. 
On Tyneside they earn good wages, but a large part of them goes 
in drink. Owing to the many delays to which steamers are exposed 
the work of these men is rather irregular, a circumstance which 
does not conduce to steady habits. Beyond the risk of accidents, 
and the hard and exposed nature of the calling of the coal-heaver, 
there is nothing that is particularly dangerous in it, if the men 
themselves are careful. The trimmers when in the further recesses 
of the holds of vessels work in a dusty atmosphere, but the dust 
readily escapes. On coming out of the holds they often bring Up a 
black spit, but this is mostly pigmented mucus from the bronchi. 
Phthisis and pulmonary disease carry off a large percentage of coal- 
heavers and trimmers. It must be admitted that neglect of 
common colds, and the indifference to health created by intemperate 
habits, are to a large extent responsible for these maladies. 

Chimney sweeps form pretty well a social class by themselves. 
Their occupation cannot be regarded as a healthy one. To pul- 
monary, cardiac, and kidney diseases sweeps are particularly liable. 
Soot has a peculiarly irritating effect on the skin. It induces eczema, 
and is apt to cause inflammation of the eyelids, hence the " blear " 
eye exhibited by many sweeps. Occasionally the soot enters the 
skin, and is transported by the cells along the lymphatic vessels to 
distant parts of the body. A short while ago the question was 
raised in the pages of the Lancet, Do coal miners suffer from 
cancer? In a paper which I read at the Sanitary Congress in 
Newcastle-on-Tyne five years ago, I showed, from statistics of 
admissions into the Newcastle and Sunderland Infirmaries and 
the Durham County Hospital, that coal miners were anything 
but exempted from cancer. It is interesting to note, too, that 
while coal dust when inhaled is followed only by an inflammatory 
reaction in the pulmonary tissue surrounding the entangled particles 
of dust, coal when burnt undergoes some peculiar chemical change, 
whereby soot has conferred upon it properties of a specially irri- 
tating nature, for only thus can we explain the prevalence of cancer 
in chimney sw^eeps, a disease with which hospital surgeons at 
home, particularly in London, have been long familiar. Taking Dr 



Lix.] CHIMNEY SWEEPS' CANCER - 809 

Ogle's statistics of the deaths of 242 chimney sweeps, 49 were due 
to malignant disease. Expressed in other words, Ogle found that 
while among all males in England and Wales between twenty-five 
and sixty-five years of age the proportion of deaths from malig- 
nant disease was in the ratio of ^6 per 1000 deaths from all causes, 
it was in sweeps 202. Reference may here be made to the 
opinions expressed by Dr Tatham in this book, vzde " Dust-Pro- 
ducing Occupations," upon the mortality of sweeps from cancer. 
His statistics, which are more recent than Ogle's, indicate that 
the mortality from different forms of cancer amounts to 156, 
compared with 44, the figure for occupied males in the aggregate. 
Chimney sweeps have a liability to cancer eight times greater 
than other persons. The disease tends to locate itself in the 
scrotum more than in other organs. To this subject Mr Henry 
T. Butlin, F.R.C.S., Surgeon to St Bartholomew's Hospital, has 
given considerable attention, and has embodied his experience 
in a series of lectures delivered at the Royal College of 
Surgeons.* There is a widespread opinion that chimney sweeps' 
cancer is seldom met with in any other part of the civilised world 
than in Great Britain ; also, that during recent years, in this country, 
it is becoming rarer. Statistics show that it occurs very infrequently 
on the Continent. Many French hospital surgeons say they have 
never seen a case of cancer of the scrotum in a chimney sweep. In 
Vienna during eleven years, 1874 to 1884 inclusive, only one case 
of scrotal cancer was reported, and in that instance the patient was 
not a chimney sweep. During the years 1878 to 1885 not one case 
occurred in the large town hospitals of Berlin, and yet in four of 
the large London hospitals in one year, 1884, there were five cases 
of chimney sweeps' cancer admitted; during 1881, into a similar 
number of Metropolitan hospitals there were received four patients 
suffering from this affection. It is sometimes stated that cancer 
in chimney sweeps has practically disappeared in Britain. This is 
not so. As Dr Tatham has shown in his article on " Dust-Producing 
Occupations," there has been within the last twenty years a consider- 
able decrease in the mortality of sweeps from this cause ; but that it 
still claims annually a large number of victims in this trade is, un- 
fortunately, too true. During a recent period of twenty years, 
there were admitted into St Bartholomew's Hospital alone 39 
cases of cancer of the scrotum, and of these patients 29 were 
chimney sweeps. So far, then, as London is concerned, there are 

* " On Cancer of the Scrotum in Chimney Sweeps and Others " : Butlin. 
Reprinted from Brz'^. Med. Journal^ 1892. 



8io MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

every year in its hospitals one or two cases of chimney sweeps' 
cancer in the wards. In Newcastle it is only rarely met with. 

There is a theory that the supposed decline of sweeps' cancer is 
due to the prohibition of " climbing boys," to the use of machinery, 
cleaner habits of sweeps, and the abolition of passing soot through 
sieves for agricultural purposes. That the disease we are alluding 
to is cancer there is no doubt. It often commences in the form of 
a wart or warts on the scrotum, and as these are very frequently 
followed by cancer, what is called the "soot wart" becomes the 
"soot cancer." These warts may exist for years. In many 
instances they never take on malignant action at all. The warts 
are liable to be rubbed and irritated by the dirty clothes of the 
sweep and by soot, and in consequence they become larger 
and ulcerate, the ulceration extending superficially along the 
skin or penetrating deeper into the testicle. The glands in the 
groin become enlarged at first from irritation, but ultimately 
they assume the malignant characters of the original ulcer. 
Under any circumstance, even when the disease is far advanced, 
death comes but slowly ; emaciation does not progress rapidly, 
strength is gradually lost, and the general health is undermined 
by the profuse and sickening discharges from the open sores. 
On post-mortem examination of the body secondary disease, as 
might be expected, is frequently found in the peritoneal cavity, 
liver, and lungs. On microscopical examination of the scrotal 
ulcer the appearances presented are those met with in epithelioma 
or squamous cell cancer. 

Although the dirty clothes of chimney sweeps and their want 
of personal cleanliness have been regarded as causes of the cancer, 
there is a feeling that the real cause resides in the soot itself, for 
there are many trades that are as dirty as chimney sweeping, 
and yet the men engaged therein do not suffer from scrotal 
cancer. Gardeners, who have been in the habit of using soot for 
the protection of plants from slugs (see paper by Mr D'Arcy 
Power, page 237), are known to have developed cancer in the 
hand. How soot causes cancer it is difficult to say. By some 
pathologists the sulphurous acid present in soot is blamed, by 
others, the ammonia compounds. The parasitic causation of 
cancer is still only a theory and requires confirmation. At any- 
rate there is no proof of the existence in soot of a cancerous 
element. Soot when repeatedly applied to the skin causes it to 
become thickened, or harsh and dry, and just to the extent that 
it is capable of altering the structure of the skin, so may it pre- 




Fig. 87.— German Sweep's Costun e. (Reproduced with permission of Mr H. T. Butlin, F.R.C.S.) 

[To face paje 810. 




Fig 88.— Belgian Sweep's Costume. (Reproduced with periuissiou of Mr II. T. Butlin, F.R.C.S.) 

[To face i:(tge 810. 



1 



^TlixJ 



CHIMNEY SWEEPS, THEIR ABLUTIONS, ETC.. 



dispose to cancer. The disease is most rife in chimney sweeps 
bet\¥een the ages of forty-five and fifty. Whether the soot from 
one particular kind of coal has a greater influence compared with 
another it is not easy to say. The coal that is used for heating 
dwellings is of four kinds: (i) anthracite or smokeless coal; 
(2) hard coal or stone coal ; (3) brown coal ; (4) coke, wood, peat, 
and charcoal are also used. There is very little soot formed during 
the burning of anthracite. In England the fireplaces are open, 
but on the Continent stoves for heating purposes are more 
in evidence. At home there is a much larger quantity of hard 
or stone coal burnt in the dwellings than on the Continent, and 
to this fact has been attributed the greater freedom of chimney 
sweeps from cancer across the Channel. Butlin made extensive 
inquiries into the question of chimney sweeps' cancer abroad, 
and elicited a good deal of information as to the personal habits 
of the men who follow this particular calling. In Belgium, for 
example, sweeps are in the habit of washing themselves to the 
waist daily, and of washing the whole body from head to foot 
once or twice a week. The chimney sweeps of Hanover wear 
special kinds of clothes, and after each day's work they wash 
themselves with soap and warm water. In the North German 
towns several of the sweeps have baths fitted up in their own 
houses, and where this is not the case the fraternity own a 
bath-house, fitted up with all the necessary requirements, and 
to which the sweeps pay a daily visit. They also wear special 
garments, and a handkerchief over their mouth. Swiss chimney 
sweeps take a bath every evening. In some of the towns of 
France the precautions taken in regard to preventing the contact 
of soot with the body are not so good. It was found, however, 
that in Amiens, Lille, Rouen, etc., the sweeps wore blouses, and 
that they washed themselves thoroughly all over once a week. 
In Paris, sweeps' cancer is practically unknown. Chimney-sweep- 
ing in Paris is relegated to companies known as fumistes (stove 
makers, menders, etc.). One establishment employs 100 men ; these 
men dress in a linen blouse or jacket buttoned in front, trousers 
made from the same material, a coarse shirt and boots. After 
a day's work the men take off their clothes in the workshop, 
wash, and on reaching home wash themselves again. Their 
working clothes are washed once a week. 

" Climbing boys " are still employed by sweeps on the Continent 
for cleaning chimneys. It is several decades since they were 
prohibited in Britain. In the north of Germany, boys from 



8 12 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. 

seven to fourteen years of age are employed for this purpose, 
and in Belgium Mr Butlin found that even still younger boys 
were engaged to do the work. 

Workers in tar and paraffin are also liable to cancer of 
the scrotum, and men employed in the production of 
anthracene, which is the last product of the distillation of gas- 
coal tar, are specially prone to suffer from warts and skin 
eruptions Distillers of benzine and creosote suffer in a similar 
but slighter degree from warts. Tillmanns* of Leipzig, 
who made an inquiry into the health conditions of the men 
employed in the tar manufactories, stone coal tar distilleries, 
pine soot, or lampblack factories in Saxony, Hanover, and 
Holland, etc., states that " in lampblack factories, and in stone 
coal tar factories cancer of the skin and severe dermatitis do 
not appear to have been hitherto observed, as in the workers 
in the brown coal tar and paraffin industries." 

Having reviewed this subject at considerable length, I 
reproduce the conclusions that Butlin arrived at — (i) That it 
is possible to prepare the skin for the occurrence of cancer by 
the constant or repeated application to it of certain substances 
during a period of years ; (2) that the nocuous substances in 
this relation of which we have the most information are hard 
or stone coal soot, brown coal tar, and crude paraffin ; (3) that 
there is evidence to cast grave suspicion on certain other substances, 
such as stone coal tar, but that those are far less to be feared. 

In order to prevent the occurrence of this malady in chimney 
sweeps, the individual should have his skin protected as far as 
possible against contact with the soot, and he ought to have a 
warm bath daily after his work. In the special clothing worn by 
Dutch, Belgian, and German sweeps, and in their practice of 
covering the mouth with a handkerchief, may possibly lie one 
explanation of their freedom from the disease compared with 
English sweeps, while in the use of the daily bath there assuredly 
lies protection. 

Acts of Parliament relating to the Employment of Boys 
in the Sweeping of Chimneys in England : — 

George III., 28, chap. 48 (1788). — To compel the masters to provide proper 
clothes for the climbing boys and to cause the boys to be washed and cleaned 
from the soot and dirt at least once a week. Also that the boys shall attend 
public worship on the Lord's Day, on which day they are not to wear their 

* Deutsche Zeitschr. filr Chirurgie, xiii., 519, 1880. 



Lix.] EMERY ROCK AND EMERY WHEELS . 813 

sweeping clothes. The masters are not permitted to take more than six 
apprentices at one time, and no apprentice of less than eight years of age. 

William IV. ^ 4 and 5, chap. 34-35 (1834). — The age of the apprentices is 
not to be less than ten years. 

Victoria^ 3 and 4, chap. 85 (1840). — To provide that from and after July i, 
1842, no sweep under the age of twenty-one years shall climb a chimney, and 
that no apprentice of less than sixteen years shall be taken. 

Manufacture and Use of Emery Wheels. 

Emery wheels are used for grinding steel goods, knife and 
fork smoothing, etc. A large proportion of the wheels run in this 
country are imported from the Continent and from America, but 
many are made at home. When serving on the Dangerous Trades 
Committee I had the opportunity of inspecting their manufacture 
in Manchester and elsewhere. The Departmental Committee 
was invited to report upon emery wheels,* less on account of 
danger to health in their manufacture than their breakage when 
running at great speed, and of their splinters, which are hurled 
with great force, dealing sad havoc in a crowded factory. The 
wheels are made from crushed emery stone. Emery rock,f which 
is imported from Smyrna or from the Island of Naxos, is an 
anhydrous oxide of aluminium with a large percentage of flint, 
silica, and iron. In Canada a similar kind of wheel is made from 
a stone called corundum, which, while quite as hard as emery,, 
is also an oxide of aluminium. The rock in either instance is 
crushed by means of heavy rollers into a very fine powder, which 
is sifted and then blown by a fan into a dust chamber, where 
it is collected. A considerable amount of dust is generated at this 
particular stage, but as the processes are conducted in encased 
machinery there is little or no risk to the workmen who super- 
intend the crushing of the rock. Nor did it appear to me that 
any risk to health was incurred by the men who built up the 
emery wheels. These are made of crushed emery rock, with 
such binding substances as shellac, indiarubber, oil, sulphur, and 
silicate of soda, all pressed together in a mould under great 
hydraulic power. Into some of the wheels brass wire webbing is 

* Final Report of the Dangerous Trades Committee, 1899. 

t At the quarries in the Island of Naxos 300 men are employed. Emery 
stone is too hard to be dug out or even blasted. It is one of the hardest substances, 
known. Large fires are kept blazing round the huge blocks until the natural 
cracks expand with the heat, when levers are inserted to prise them apart. The 
process is repeated until the blocks are reduced in size to masses of a cubic 
foot or less, in which form it is exported. It is estimated that there are still, 
20,000,000 tons of emery available in Naxos. 



8 14 MISCELLANEOUS TRADES [chap. lix. 

inserted, so that in the event of one of them breaking when 
running there would be less chance of the whole wheel sundering. 

The danger commences during the running of emery wheels, a 
circumstance that can be readily imagined when it is known that 
a small wheel of 3 inches in diameter will often make as many 
as 7400 revolutions in a minute, and a large one, 3 feet in 
diameter, 600. 

The Departmental Committee recommended that guards 
should be used in connection with the running of emery and 
corundum wheels. These should cover as much of the wheel as 
possible without interfering with the operations of the workman. 
During grinding a considerable amount of dust is given off. A 
suction pipe and fan should therefore be provided to draw the 
dust away from the face of the workman. .Mr Archibald New- 
lands, H.M. Inspector of Factories, has invented a guard which 
not only protects the workmen from portions of broken emery 
wheel, should such an accident happen, but is so arranged as 
to aspirate and remove by suction the dust that is generated. 
In addition to the mineral and metallic dust that is given off 
>iuring the operation of grinding, sparks are sometimes thrown off 
which might injure the eyes of the workman, hence the necessity 
for powerful suction. 

Thomas Oliver. 




CHAPTER LX 

OCCUPATION DISEASES DUE TO EXCESSIVELY REPEATED 
MUSCULAR ACTIONS. 

Fatigue Neuroses : Scriveriers' Spasm, or Writers' Palsy. 

Under the head of occupation or fatigue neuroses it is customary 
to include affections characterised by spasm or paralysis of the 
muscles which prevent the individual performing certain muscular 
actions, by means of which he has hitherto earned his livelihood. 
The affection is met with in various occupations, usually, but not 
always, in those in which delicate movements — as, for example, those 
of the fingers — are required ; hence as writing is one of the com- 
monest of this class of occupations, it occurs as writers' palsy. 
Accompanying the spasm or sudden contraction of the muscles 
that takes place, there is frequently pain, but there may be pain 
without spasm. Gowers, in his Diseases of the Nervous System, 
speaks of a motor and a sensory, or a spasmodic and neuralgic, 
form of scriveners' palsy. Seventy years ago the affection was first 
described by Sir Charles Bell. The infirmity affects males oftener 
than females, and the weakness shows itself mostly between twenty 
and thirty years of age. While the repeated muscular movements 
required in writing become through fatigue the cause of the 
loss of power, there are other circumstances in operation, notably 
the inheritance of a weak nervous system, family worries, and 
financial difficulties. Excessive use of tobacco and intemperance 
in alcohol also favour its development. Since over-use of the 
muscles is a cause of the palsy, the malady naturally occurs in 
those people who earn their living by writing, e.g. clerks, copying- 
clerks particularly, and it would seem to be caused less by the 
amount than by the manner of writing. Steel pens have been 
blamed for causing scriveners' palsy, because they have to be 
grasped more firmly and adjusted more exactly than quills. 
Doubtless the malady has become more general since their intro- 
duction, but the disease was previously not unknown in persons who 



8i6 EXCESSIVELY REPEATED MUSCULAR ACTIONS [chap. 

only used quills. Besides, the number of people who are employed 
as clerks is greater now than formerly, and the conditions of life 
have materially altered. Quick writers do not suffer so much as 
slow and laborious toilers of the pen, owing to the greater range 
of their muscular movements. Sharp-pointed pens are more 
liable to cause paralysis than stub-pointed, because they have to 
be held more tightly, and require more and finer muscular adjust- 
ments. 

Once the malady is established, it is when any muscular effort 
is made that the defect is observed. An individual, for example, 
may feel nothing wrong with his hand until he begins to write, 
and then the muscles that control the movements of the 
fingers are thrown into a state of involuntary spasm, or there is 
pain which prevents him writing. I have at present under my 
care a schoolmaster whose right arm is perfectly still, and its 
muscular movements normal, until he attempts to write. In the 
middle of writing a word the fingers will be unexpectedly thrown 
into a state of spasm, so that the pen is more firmly gripped than 
before, and yet he is unable to lift the pen off, or move it further 
on the paper. He has no difficulty in writing on the blackboard 
owing to the wider range of muscular movements of the elbow 
and shoulder. In scriveners' cramp there may be, in addition to 
spasm and pain, violent tremor, or there may be what is still rarer,, 
actual paralysis. When the muscles during the act of writing 
are thrown suddenly into a state of spasm, the individual is con- 
scious that he is grasping the pen too tightly, but he cannot help 
it. Any voluntary attempt to relax his hold of the pen makes na 
difference so far as his ability to finish the writing is concerned 
The act is accomplished slowly : the letters and figures which he 
makes are irregular, while the handwriting resembles that which is 
attempted by a person riding in a jolting carriage or on the railway. 
The power of writing may be lost gradually or quickly. The 
presence of spasm either prevents the individual writing at all, or 
if the spasm is intermittent and accompanied by tremor, the hand- 
writing is jerky and rather illegible. It is the attitude assumed by 
the muscles in the act of writing that induces tremor, for where no 
effort is made there are no tremulous movements. It is an interest- 
ing fact too, as showing how the affection is limited to a distinct 
group of muscles concerned in a particular act, that while a person 
who is the subject of scriveners' palsy cannot write, he may be able 
to paint quite well or even to print various letters and words. The 
grasp of the affected hand is usually unimpaired, or there is just 



I 



LX.] WRITERS' PALSY, AND HOW IT IS CAUSER 817 

the slightest loss of power. In grasping the affected hand in 
scriveners' spasm, I have noticed that if there is prolonged con- 
traction of the muscles concerned in grasping, the act is sufficient 
to bring on tremor. The muscles of the fingers seem to be 
incapable of sustaining any effort without being thrown into a 
state of spasm or tremor. If there is any atrophy or loss of muscle 
substance it is generally slight. Usually there is very little altera- 
tion in the response of the nerves and muscles to electrical stimula- 
tion. In some persons it is increased, in others it is diminished. 
The patients complain of the arm and hand feeling tired, and of a 
general sense of languor and fatigue to which they have hitherto 
been strangers. They are easily fatigued and retire to rest early, 
for they feel the need of repose, and are conscious of the benefit that 
comes from it. Their general health remains on the whole good. 
They are, however, apt to suffer in consequence if they are unable 
to take their accustomed out-of-door exercise, and there is a degree 
of mental depression that comes from the disablement caused by 
their infirmity. The individual feels that he cannot earn his living 
as he used to, and so he worries. It is not that he is overcome by 
pain, although in some instances this is acute and of a severe 
neuralgic character, especially in the muscles of the thumb, the 
finger, and the forearm. It is mental anxiety that drags him 
down. 

Various theories have been put forward to explain writers' 
palsy. According to Gowers these are — (i) weakness of groups of 
muscles with over-action of antagonists ; (2) a reflex spasm due 
to stimulation of the sensory nerves in writing ; (3) structural 
changes in those particular parts of the central nervous system 
that superintend the muscular movements concerned in this act 
Writing is an acquired act learned by education, and it never 
becomes automatic. We require to concentrate our attention 
while writing, and so the fatigue is really as much, if not more, 
cerebral than muscular. Each of the above theories has its sup- 
porters, but it is difficult to make any one of them harmonise 
with all the facts. My own belief is that the malady is primarily 
central rather than peripheral. Spasm is one of the initial facts 
in the illness, and in writers' palsy, as in all occupation neuroses, 
spasm and paresis overtake those muscles that have been trained 
to accomplish particular movements, especially movements of 
a complicated and delicate character. Altered nutrition of cere- 
bral nerve centres is in all probability responsible for the 
defective muscular movements, while any pain that is felt is due 

3F 



S 1 8 EXCESS J VEL V REPEA TED MUSCULAR A CTIONS [chap. 

to compression of the sensory nerve endings in the muscles during 
spasm. If there is any structural alteration in the nerve fibres it 
must be slight. This indicates that we are not dealing with a 
neuritis but a functional condition of the nerve fibres, such as 
occurs in neuralgia. Although the primary seat of the trouble is 
probably located in the cortex of the brain, there is a marked 
absence of headache and of impairment of intelligence. A recent 
author has thrown out a hint that, in cases of great nervous exhaus- 
tion and extreme fatigue, in which during life no physical signs of 
disease of any organs can be detected, and in which after death' 
no gross structural changes are found, the cause in all probability 
resides in some obscure pathological condition of the large nerve 
cells in the cortex or grey matter of the brain. It is to such a 
condition that we are disposed to look for an explanation of the 
early symptoms of writers' palsy. 

Scriveners' spasm per se is distinguished from the inability 
to write that is observed, for example, in hemiplegic patients who 
have had an apoplectic stroke, by its history, the limited extent of 
the spasm and loss of power. 

So long as the individual, the subject of scriveners' spasm, 
insists upon writing, the more pronounced does his difficulty 
become. He must give up writing for a lengthened period if he 
A^ishes to get well. Should he, however, persist in following his 
occupation, the weakness may extend to other muscles, and he 
will then be thrown further hors-de-combat, a circumstance that 
will only tend to deepen still further his mental depression and 
make him more anxious with regard to his future. Feeling 
himself baffled, he may educate himself to write with his other 
hand, but in time this too may become affected. More than that, 
when he attempts to write with his left hand tremors may be 
induced in his right. In one of my patients a sudden involuntary 
act, such as sneezing or yawning, will sometimes induce violent 
tremor of the affected arm when the muscles are perfectly still. 
Absolute rest from the use of the pen and freedom from all worry 
are necessary to establish a cure, which unfortunately is readily 
broken by too early return to work. 

Prevention and Treatment. — All are agreed that the less 
cramped the handwriting and the more that shoulder mus- 
cular movement can be brought into operation, the less is the 
likelihood of scriveners' spasm arising. Writing is a matter of 
education, hence children should be taught to use the muscles of 
the arm more freely. Pens should not be too fine-pointed if 



I 




I 



TELEGRAPHISTS' SPASM ^ 819 

much writing is to be done, while the encircling of the lower part 
of the penholder by indiarubber obviates to some extent the 
necessity for taking too firm a grip of the pen. Lewis {Twentieth 
Century Pract. Medicine^ vol. iii,, p. 471) recommends that the pen 
should be held between the index and middle fingers, as this 
requires less muscular effort than the ordinary method, but at 
the best it must be admitted that this is an awkward position, 
and although initial difficulties can be overcome by education, 
it is still doubtful whether the muscular movement required under 
those circumstances is, after all, so very much less. Quills and 
stylographs may be substituted for steel pens, and, as already 
mentioned, the non-affected hand may be taught to write. Type 
for hand writing might be substituted, since this brings a new set 
of muscles into play, and the movements are not so fatiguing. 
Once symptoms of the malady begin to show themselves, absolute 
cessation of all handwriting is necessary. The work should cease 
at once, for it is in the early stages that rest is beneficial and a 
cure possible. 

Internally, nervi(^.e tonics may be administered. Drugs as a 
rule do only a limited amount of good. I have got the best 
results from arsenic and bromides. Strychnine is recommended 
by some. If there is much pain such sedatives as morphia or 
belladonna may be required, but their use should be avoided as 
far as possible. Electricity, too, is worthy of a trial, especially in 
the voltaic rather than the faradic form, combined with massage 
or rubbing. 

Telegraphists' Spasm, or Cramp. 

Mai telegraphique, or telegraphic spasm, was first described by 
Onimus, a Frenchman, in 1875; t)y Robinson in this country in 
1882; and by Fulton in 1884, who described in detail the move- 
ments involved in the use of the Morse instrument. Twenty-five 
years ago the disease was a rarity. In the succeeding decade it 
was pretty prevalent. Probably it is now less frequent, owing to 
the telephone having been in many instances substituted for the 
telegraph. Dr Vivian Poore (Allbutt's System of Medicine, vol. viii., 
p. 131) examined 400 cases of professional ailments, but he only 
found two patients who were telegraphists, and they had worked 
the Morse instrument. Telegraphists' spasm differs in no material 
way from what has been described as writers' palsy. Since it is 
to working the Morse machine that the largest number of cases 
of telegraphists' cramp has been traced, it is necessary to remind 



820 EXCESSIVELY REPEATED MUSCULAR ACTIONS [chap. 

the reader that the Morse alphabet is composed of a series of 
dots and dashes, and that the transmitting instrument consists 
of a lever surmounted at one end with a knob, which when 
depressed by the hand of the operator makes an electrical 
connection with, or completes the electrical circuit between, the 
transmitting apparatus at one end of the telegraph wire and the 
receiving apparatus at the other. On each occasion that the lever 
is brought down by the hand of the operator, and an electrical 
connection is made, a bar of soft iron in the receiving instrument 
becomes magnetised and attracts an armature which is fastened 
at one end of a lever, while an inscribing point at the other end 
reproduces on a slip of ribbon or paper, kept moving by clock- 
work, the dots and dashes made by the transmitter. As the 
knob is generally held between the thumb, index, and middle 
fingers of the right hand, the elbow meanwhile being supported, 
it is clear that most of the movement is made by the extensor 
and flexor muscles of the fingers and of the wrists, including 
the adductor and opposing muscles of the thumb. Since each 
letter, with the exception of E, which is a single dot, and T a 
single dash, consists of more than one dot or dash, while some 
require as many as four, the amount of sustained and co-ordinated 
movement is necessarily very great, and as the transmission is 
generally very rapidly effected, the operation when repeated for 
a great length of time, as in the transmission of speeches 
delivered in Parliament, must be followed by a considerable 
amount of fatigue. Fulton calculated that an operator might 
make between thirty and forty thousand muscular contractions 
in one hour, and since many telegraphists work eight hours a day^ 
the strain on their muscles is necessarily very great. While the 
excessive use of tobacco and alcohol doubtless favours the 
development of telegraphists' spasm, as of other occupation 
neuroses, there is not the least doubt that cerebral fatigue and 
muscular overstrain are the causes of it. In America, men 
have not been found to be more predisposed to it than women^ 
or vice versa. Once the symptoms of the malady have shown 
themselves, an operator when transmitting a message may be 
suddenly seized with muscular cramp, so that his hand cannot 
be quickly enough raised, and in consequence of this involuntary 
spasm, the pressure on the lever by the fingers is so long 
maintained that what ought to have been dots become dashes^ 
or he transmits dots and dashes in such an abnormal sequence 
that the message received reads quite differently to that which 




PIANOFORTE AND VIOLIN PLA VERS' CRAMP 821 

it was intended to send. Mistakes of this kind have a distressing 
mental effect upon the operator, and they tend still further to 
derange the functional activity of his nervous system. There 
may be tremor of the hand as well as cramp of the muscles, but 
pain as a rule is absent. The muscles respond to electrical tests 
and do not waste to any extent. A telegraphist feeling that 
the muscular spasms are unfitting him for his daily duties may 
train his other hand to do the work. Conscious that by this 
means he will retain his appointment, he becomes more cheerful, 
and is able to rise to some extent above his infirmity. Whenever 
possible, such an individual should have a lengthy respite from 
his labours, for muscular rest is of very great importance. The 
treatment of telegraphists' spasm is the same as that described 
under writers' palsy. Prevention is better than cure. Learners 
are encouraged to practise with both hands, and as a consequence 
of this ambidexterity, not only are the cases becoming fewer 
every year, but they are seen and treated earlier by the Post 
Office Medical Attendants, whose experience is, that by causing 
the patients to desist there and then from keying for a few 
months recovery invariably follows. After all, it is but a small 
percentage of telegraphists who have *' spasm," probably not more 
than 1.3 per looo. 

Pianoforte Players' Cramps etc. 

Pianoforte players' cramp affects principally professionals, 
women more frequently than men. Like the infirmities men- 
tioned in the preceding pages, there is muscular spasm, which may 
or may not be associated with pain. If the cramp is painful the 
individual cannot go on playing. Usually the spasm affects one 
or more of the fingers. 

Spasmodic muscular contraction is also met with in violin 
players, in violincellists especially in the fingers of the left hand 
that are brought down upon the strings of the instrument, and 
in seamstresses, in whom once the affection is developed any 
attempt at sewing is followed by cramp of the fingers, so that 
sewing becomes impossible. Seamstresses' cramp bears a resem- 
blance to shoemakers' spasm mentioned a little further on. 

Spasms of various trades have been described, e.g., type-setters', 
milkers' spasm, which is said to occur in the cowherds of the Tyrol, 
and hammermen's spasm. Workers in almost any trade, but 
especially those trades in which excessive muscular effort is com- 



822 EXCESSIVELY REPEATED MUSCULAR ACTIONS [chap. 

bined with mental concentration, are liable to spasmodic seizures 
such as have been described, and to which in a general way the 
remarks already made on prevention and treatment may be said 
to apply. 

Shoemakers' Spasm. 

In Vienna and Heidelberg there have occurred on several 
occasions epidemics of " idiopathic tetany." Tetany is a disease 
characterised by muscular spasms involving the hands and feet, 
and sometimes, too, the muscles of the trunk, the face, neck, eyes, 
and larynx. Of 399 cases of idiopathic tetany collected by Frankl- 
Hochwart, 174 occurred in shoemakers and 95 in tailors, mostly 
between the ages of sixteen and twenty-five years. The epi- 
demics have generally prevailed during the months of March and 
April. Risien Russell, who alludes to this subject in Allbutt's 
System of Medicine, vol. viii., p. 51, says that probably some general 
toxic condition is in operation. If so, then idiopathic tetany 
would be caused by something on, or in, the thread that is used, 
since this material is common to the two occupations, and the 
illness should therefore be regarded as accidental, and not as inci- 
dental, to either the trade of the shoemaker or the tailor. 



Boot and Shoe Making. 

The last few decades have witnessed great changes in many 
trades that were formerly conducted as home industries, but 
perhaps in none more than in boot and shoe making. A few 
years ago it was no iincommon thing to find a cobbler working 
alone in his home, or in a small shop, assisted by one or two 
workmen. All boots and shoes were then handmade, the leather 
being cut and the pieces sewn together on the premises, so that 
a completely finished article was turned out by one person. The 
application of machinery has changed all this. It has flooded the 
market with ready-made boots and shoes, which, since they can 
be made more quickly, and in larger numbers, are cheaper than 
those made by hand, although not so enduring. In boot and 
shoe making, as in all factory production, subdivision of labour 
prevails. To one man is assigned the guidance of a machine 
which cuts the "uppers" or the "soles" of the shoes; another 
stitches the uppers, or " closes " them ; while to yet another is 
given the harder task of "making" the shoe, i.e., of attaching the 
soles to the uppers. The extent to which machinery has already 



LX. 



SHOEMAKERS' CHEST 



823 



displaced handmade boots and shoes is depriving us of a class of 
workman who was capable of doing all that machinery now 
accomplishes, only he required much longer time. In rural districts 




Fig. 89. — Shoemakers' Chest : showing great recession of lower part of Chest, due to pressure of 
the last. (Dr Oliver's patient, Newcastle Royal Infirmary.) 

cobblers will still be required, but their occupation in the future 
will be that of boot-menders rather than of boot-makers. 

In reproducing the accompanying picture of one of my 
patients — a shoemaker — who was in the Newcastle-upon-Tyne 



824 EXCESSIVELY REPEATED MUSCULAR ACTIONS [chap. 

Infirmary, I am wishful to give some literary permanence to a 
deformity which was very prevalent in workers in the trade a few 
years ago, a deformity known by the name of shoemakers' chest, and 
which, as time goes on, will probably cease to exist. At his work the 
old type of shoemaker would sit on a low bench, with his thighs 
and knees tightly drawn towards each other, clasping the last with 
the boot upon it. His trunk would be bent down over his work, 
so that during the act of stitching and drawing the waxen threads 
through the holes made by his awl in the leather, his arms would 
be forcibly separated from his sides in order to tighten each stitch, 
while any beneficial expansion of the chest that this movement 
created was unfavourably counterbalanced by the increased pres- 
sure of the last upon his chest bone. As a consequence of this 
repeated pressure applied to the front of the chest, especially on 
younger men, the chest bone and ribs were driven in so as to form 
a deep hollow, such as is depicted in the lower part of the chest 
in the illustration (Fig. 89). The work, too, was sedentary, 
consequently the men suffered from indigestion, constipation, and 
piles, the latter being often aggravated by excessive indulgence in 
alcohol, to which shoemakers as a class were much addicted. It has 
sometimes been stated that they also suffered from cancer more 
than men engaged in other trades, but it is difficult from available 
statistics to prove or disprove this. 

In modern boot factories, instead of the " uppers " being 
stitched to the " soles," they are often riveted. When bootmaking 
is carried on by this process at home, the workman is often found 
sitting in the attitude of the shoemaker described higher up. 
During the act of burnishing and filing the rough edges of the 
boot, there is a considerable degree of pressure exercised by the 
heel against the front of the chest. In the bootmaking trade the 
men who cut out and shape the leather to be made up are known 
by the name of " clickers." 

Shoemakers formerly suffered from bronchitis and pulmonary 
phthisis in fairly large numbers, but much of this was due to the 
sedentary character of their occupation, their want of exercise in 
the open air, and their intemperate habits. The introduction of 
machinery, and the bringing of shoemaking under the Factory 
Acts, may to some extent effect an improvement in the health of 
shoemakers, but in many of the factories which I have visited, 
and where large numbers of persons are employed, the overheated 
rooms in which the work is carried on and the vitiated atmo- 
sphere rather predispose the workpeople to pulmonary catarrh, 



LX.] MERCURIAL POISONING IN SHOE FACTORIES 825 

and tend to make the women anaemic. In addition, mercurial 
poisoning has been known to occur in the men employed in shoe- 
making factories, whose duty it is to mind the American or Blake 
machines. The mercury is placed in a well in the machine, to act 

^as a lubricant, and as the metal is extremely volatile, poisoning 
may readily arise. 
Thomas Oliver. 



i 



APPENDIX 

SPECIAL RULES 

Nearly a century ago, the necessity for legislation designed to 
protect workers in textile factories was realised. In the year 
1802 an Act was passed for the Preservation of Health and Morals 
of Apprentices and others employed in cotton mills. The statutes 
of 1833 and 1845 brought under inspection the manufacture of 
several materials other than cotton and wool. Subsequent Acts 
regulated employment in print works, bleaching and dye works, 
and the manufacture of lace ; but the Acts passed in 1 864 and 
1867 — afterwards embodied in the Act of 1878 (the principal Act) — 
practically included almost every occupation in the country. 

It soon became apparent that no definite clauses in any 
statute, however carefully drafted and considered, could afford 
satisfactory protection to health, life, and limb, in manifold and 
varied industries, found not only in the large centres of manu- 
facture, but in almost every village or country district where a 
stream could be found for driving water-wheels of corn-mills, 
scutch-mills, cutlery grinding-hulls, wood -turning shops, etc., etc. 
Philanthropists, medical men, scientists, trade-unionists, poor-law 
guardians, managers of sick clubs, called for further protection to 
workers engaged in dangerous trades, and for the remedy (as far 
as was possible) of the evils arising from inhalation of injurious 
dusts and fumes, contact with poisonous, chemical, and mineral 
substances, manufacture of white lead, and the smelting and hand- 
ling of blue lead. They pointed to "brass-casters' ague" ; to the 
deadly disease known as " phossy jaw," prevalent amongst opera- 
tives in match-works, where yellow or white phosphorus is used ; 
to plumbism amongst pottery workers and hand file-cutters ; to 
potters' and metal grinders' lung ailments ; and to many other 
diseases of occupation too numerous to be here mentioned. 

The Factory Act of 1891 provided in sections 8, 9, 10, and 11, 
what was universally accepted as a legal remedy based upon 
principles of humanity, moderation, and common sense. Power 



828 SPECIAL RULES 



was given to the Secretary of State to frame special rules and 
requirements as to dangerous and unhealthy incidents of employ- 
ment, the Act stating that — 

"(i) Where the Secretary of State certifies that in his opinion any 
machinery, or process or particular description of manual labour used in a 
factory or workshop (other than a domestic workshop), is dangerous or injurious 
to health, or dangerous to life or limb, either generally, or in the case of 
women, children, or any other class of persons, or that the provision for the 
admission of fresh air is not sufficient, or that the quantity of dust generated or 
inhaled in any factory or workshop is dangerous or injurious to health, the 
Chief Inspector may serve on the occupier of the factory or workshop a notice 
in writing, either proposing such special rules, or requiring the adoption of 
such special measures as appear to the Chief Inspector to be reasonably practic- 
able, and to meet the necessities of the case. 

" (2) Unless, within twenty-one days after receipt of the notice, the occupier 
serves on the Chief Inspector a notice in writing that he objects to the rules or 
the requirement, the rules shall be established, or, as the case may be, the 
requirement shall be observed. 

"(3) If the notice of objection suggests any modification of the rules or 
requirement, the Secretary of State shall consider the suggestion, and may 
assent thereto, with or without any further modification, which may be agreed 
on between the Secretary of State and the occupier, and thereupon the rules 
shall be established, or, as the case may be, the requirement shall be observed, 
subject to such modification. 

" (4) If the Secretary of State does not assent to any objection or modifica- 
tion suggested, as aforesaid, by the occupier, the matter in difference between 
the Secretary of State and the occupier shall be referred to arbitration under 
this Act, and the date of the receipt of the notice of this objection by the 
Secretary of State shall be deemed to be the date of the reference, and the 
rules shall be established, or the requisition shall have effect, as settled by an 
award or arbitration." 

Penalties were provided for the contravention of special rules 
duly established. Schedule i of the Act of 1891 described in 
minute detail the methods of procedure when arbitration had to 
be resorted to. 

The list of trades scheduled as " Dangerous Trades," together 
with the series of special rules legally instituted, is appended. 
This list can hardly fail to be of interest, seeing that the rules 
were framed after most exhaustive and careful inquiry by experts 
and scientists, whose opinions commanded respect. Year by year 
the practical good done by this legislation is more fully realised, 
but the test of time has shown the necessity for reconsideration of 
those clauses which relate to arbitration, and proposals to meet a 
now recognised difficulty are found in the Factory Bill read for the 
first time in the House of Commons on Thursday, 2Sth March 1901. 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 829 

. «__ 

Sections 79 to 86 of the Factory and Workshop Act, 1901, con- 
tain Amended Regulations as to Dangerous Trades, chiefly as to 
methods of procedure in making such regulations. 

Hamilton P. Smith. 



Form 247c. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



WHITE LEAD FACTORIES. 

In these Rules ''''person employed in a lead process" means a person who is 
employed in any work or process involving exposure to white lead, or to lead or 
lead compounds used in its manufacture, or who is admitted to any room or part 
of the factory where such process is carried on. 

Any approval given by the Chief Inspector of FactoHes in pursuance of Rules 
2, 4, 6, 9, <7r 1 2 shall be given in writing, and may at any time be revoked by 
notice in writing signed by him. 

DUTIES of occupiers. 

1. New Works. — On and after ist July 1899, no part of a white lead factory- 
shall be constructed, structurally altered, or newly used, for any process in 
which white lead is manufactured or prepared for sale, unless the plans have 
previously been submitted to and approved in writing by the Chief Inspector 
of Factories. 

2. Stacks. — {a) Every stack shall be provided with a standpipe and mov- 
able hose, and an adequate supply of water distributed by a rose. 

{b) White Beds — Every white bed shall, on the removal of the covering- 
boards, be effectually damped by the means mentioned above. 

Where it is shown to the satisfaction of the Chief Inspector of Factories 
that there is no available public water service in the district, it shall be a 
sufficient compliance with this Rule if each white bed is, on the removal of the 
covering boards, effectually damped by means of a watering can. 

3. Chamber Process. — -Where white lead is made by the Chamber Process, 
the chamber shall be kept moist while the process is in operation, and the 
corrosions shall be effectually moistened before the chamber is emptied. 

4. Corrosions. — {a) Corrosions shall not be carried except in trays of 
impervious material. 

{b) No person shall be allowed to carry on his head or shoulder a tray of 
corrosions which has been allowed to rest directly upon the corrosions, or upon 
any surface where there is white lead. 

{c) All corrosions, before being put into the rollers or washbecks, shall be 
effectually damped, either by dipping the tray containing them in a trough of 
water, or by some other method approved by the Chief Inspector of Factories. 

5. Rollers. — The flooring round the rollers shall either be of smooth cement 
or be covered with sheet lead, and shall be kept constantly moist. 

6. Drying Stoves. — On and after ist January 1901, except as hereinafter 
provided— 

{a) Every stove shall have a window, or windows, with at otal area of not 
less than 8 square feet, made to open, and so placed as to admit of 
effectual through ventilation. 

ip) In no stove shall bowls be placed on a rack which is more than lo- 
feet from the floor. 

{c) Each bowl shall rest upon the rack and not upon another bowl. 



830 SPECIAL RULES 



(d) No stove shall be entered for the purpose of drawing until the tem- 

perature at a height of 5 feet from the floor has fallen either to 
70° F., or to a point not more than 10° F. above the temperature of 
the air outside. 

(e) In drawing any stove or part of a stove there shall not be more than 

one stage or standing place above the level of the floor. 

Provided that if the Chief Inspector approves of any other means of ventila- 
ting a stove, as allowing of effectual through ventilation, such means may be 
adopted, notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this Rule ; and if he approves of any 
other method of setting and drawing the stoves, as effectually preventing white 
lead from falling upon any worker, such method may be followed, notwithstand- 
ing paragraphs (d) and (e) of this Rule. 

7. Drawing Dutch Stoves. — No person shall be employed in drawing Dutch 
stoves on more than two days in any week. 

8. Deposits of dry white lead. — No dry white lead shall be deposited in any 
place that is not provided either with a cover or with a fan effectually removing 
the dust from the worker. 

9. Packing. — On and after ist January 1900, the packing of dry white lead 
shall be done only under conditions which secure the effectual removal of dust, 
either by exhaust fans or by other efficient means approved in each case by the 
Chief Inspector of Factories. 

This rule shall not apply where packing is effected by mechanical means 
entirely closed in. 

10. The floor of any place where packing of dry white lead is carried on 
shall be of cement, or of stone set in cement. 

"II. Employment of Women. — No women shall be employed or allowed in 
the white beds, rollers, washbecks, or stoves, or any place where dry white lead 
is packed, or in other work exposing her to white lead dust. 

12. Weekly Medical Examination. — {a) A duly qualified medical practitioner 
(in these Rules referred to as the " Appointed Surgeon ") shall be appointed by 
the occupier for each factory, such appointment to be subject to the approval 
of the Chief Inspector. 

{b) No person shall be employed in a lead process for more than a week 
without a certificate of fitness granted after examination by the Appointed 
Surgeon. 

{c) Every person employed in a lead process shall be examined once a week 
by the Appointed Surgeon, who shall have power to order suspension from 
employment in any place or process. 

{d) No person after such suspension shall be employed in a lead process 
without the written sanction of the Appointed Surgeon. 

Health Register. — {e) A register in a form approved by the Chief Inspector 
of Factories shall be kept, and shall contain a list of all persons employed in 
lead processes. The Appointed Surgeon will enter in the register the dates 
and results of his examinations of the persons employed, and particulars of any 
directions given by him. The register shall be produced at any time when 
required by H.M. Inspectors of Factories, or by the Certifying Surgeon, or by 
the Appointed Surgeon. 

13. Medical Attendance. — Upon any person employed in a lead process com- 
plaining of being unwell, the occupier shall, with the least possible delay, give 
an order upon a duly qualified medical practitioner. 

14. Respirators^ Overalls., Head Coverings. — The occupier shall provide and 
maintain sufficient and suitable respirators, overalls, and head coverings, and 
shall cause them to be worn as directed in Rule 29. 

At the end of every day's work they shall be collected and kept in proper 
custody in a suitable place set apart for the purpose. 

They shall be thoroughly washed or renewed every week ; and those which 
have been used in the stoves, and all respirators, shall be washed or renewed 
daily. 



I 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 831 

15. Dining-room, Cloak-room. — The occupier shall provide and maintain a 
dining-room and cloak-room in which workers can deposit clothing put off 
during working hours. 

16. Food. — No person employed in a lead process shall be allowed to pre- 
pare or partake of any food or drink except in the dining-room or kitchen. 

1 7. Sanitary Drink. — A supply of a suitable sanitary drink, to be approved 
by the Appointed Surgeon, shall be kept for the use of the workers. 

18. Lavatory. — The occupier shall provide and maintain a lavatory for the 
use of the workers, with soap, nail brushes, and at least one lavatory basin for 
every five persons employed. Each such basin shall be fitted with a waste 
pipe. There shall be a constant supply of hot and cold water laid on, except 
where there is no available public water service, in which case the provision of 
hot and cold water shall be such as shall satisfy the Inspector in charge of the 
district. 

The lavatory shall be thoroughly cleaned and supplied with clean towels 
after every meal. 

There shall, in addition, be means of washing in close proximity to the 
workers of each department, if required by notice in writing from the Inspector 
yc\. charge of the district. 

There shall be facilities, to the satisfaction of the Inspector in charge of the 
district, for the workers to wash out their mouths. 

19. Allowance of time for Washing. — Before each meal, and before the end 
of the day's work, at least ten minutes in addition to the regular meal times 
shall be allowed to each worker for washing. 

A notice to this effect shall be affixed in each department. 

20. Baths. — The occupier shall provide and maintain sufficient baths and 
dressing-rooms for all persons employed in lead processes, with hot and cold 
water, soap, and towels, and shall cause each such person to take a bath once a 
week at the factory. 

Bath Register. — A bath register shall be kept, containing a list of all persons 
employed in lead processes, and an entry of the date when each person takes a 
bath. 

This register shall be produced at any time when required by H.M. 
Inspectors of Factories, or by the Certifying Surgeon, or by the Appointed 
Surgeon. 

21. The dressing-rooms, baths, and w.c.'s shall be cleaned daily. 

22. Cleaning Floors. — The floor of each workroom shall be cleaned daily, after 
being thoroughly damped. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED 

23. Corrosions. — No person shall strip a white bed or empty a chamber 
without previously effectually damping as directed in Rules 2 and 3. 

24. No person shall carry corrosions, or put them into the rollers or wash- 
becks, otherwise than as permitted by Rule 4. 

25. Stoves. — No person shall set or draw a stove otherwise than as permitted 
by Rules 6 and 7. 

26. Packing. — No person shall deposit or pack dry white lead otherwise than 
as permitted by Rules 8 and 9. 

27. Weekly Medical Fxa^nination. — Every person employed in a lead process 
shall present himself at the appointed times for examination by the Appointed 
Surgeon, as provided in Rule 12. 

28. No person after suspension by the Appointed Surgeon shall work in a 
lead process without his written sanction. 

29. Respirators, Overalls, Head Coverings. — Every person engaged in — 
White beds. Packing, 

Emptying chambers, Paint mixing. 

Rollers, washbecks or grinding, Handling dry white lead, 

Setting or drawing stoves. 



832 SPECIAL RULES 



or in any work involving exposure to white lead dust, shall, while so occupied, 
wear an overall suit and head covering. 

Every person engaged in stripping white beds, or in emptying chambers, or 
in drawing stoves, or in packing, shall in addition wear a respirator while so 
occupied. 

30. Washing. — Every person engaged in any place or process named in 
Rule 29 shall, before partaking of meals or leaving the premises, deposit the 
overalls, head coverings, and respirators in the place appointed by the occupier 
for the purpose, and shall thoroughly wash face and hands in the lavatory. 

31. Baths. — Every person employed in a lead process shall take a bath at 
the factory at least once a week, and wash in the lavatory before bathing ; having 
done so, he shall at once sign his name in the bath register, with the date. 

32. Food. — No person employed in a lead process shall smoke or use tobacco 
in any form, or partake of food or drink, elsewhere than in the dining-room or 
kitchen. 

33. Ventilation. — No person shall in any way interfere, without the know- 
ledge and concurrence of the occupier or manager, with the means and appli- 
ances provided for the removal of dust. 

34. Reporting neglect of Rules. — The foreman shall report to the manager, 
and the manager shall report to the occupier, any instance coming under his 
notice of a worker neglecting to observe these Rules. 

35. False pretences. — No person shall obtain employment under an assumed 
name or under any false pretence. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 

Chief Inspector of Factories. 
M. W. Ridley, 

One of Her Majesty's Principal 
1st June 1899. Secretaries of State. 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. Any 
person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contravention of 
them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such cases the occupier also is liable to a penalty 
unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing, and to the best of 
his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, sections 9 and il.) 



Form 249. 

P'ACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1 878 TO 1 895. 



AMENDED SPECIAL RULES. 



PROCESSES IN THE MANUFACTURE OF PAINTS, COLOURS, 
AND IN THE EXTRACTION OF ARSENIC. 

duties of OCCUPIERS. 

They shall provide washing conveniences, with a sufficient supply of hot and 
cold water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels, and take measures to secure that 
every worker wash face and hands before meals, and before leaving the works ;. 
and, in addition to the above, sufficient bath accommodation for the use of all 
persons employed in the manufacture of Milan Red, Vermilionette, or Persian 
Red. 

They shall provide suitable respirators and overall suits, kept in a cleanly 
state, for all workers engaged in any department where dry white lead or 
arsenic is used in either the manufacture or paint mixing, and overall suits for 
those engaged in grinding in water or oil, and for all workers in Milan Red,. 
Vermilionette, or Persian Red, wherever dust is generated. 

They shall provide a sufficient supply of approved sanitary drink, which 
shall be accessible to the workers at all times, and shall cause such approved 




FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, i^7^-gS , 833 

sanitary drink to be taken daily by workers in any department where white 
lead or arsenic is used in the manufacture, and shall provide a supply of 
aperient medicine, which shall be given to the workers, when required, free of 
charge. 

No food shall be eaten in any part of the works where white lead or arsenic 
is used in the manufacture. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

Every person to whom is supplied a respirator or overall suit shall wear the 
same when at the special work for which such are provided. 

Every person shall carefully clean and wash hands and face before meals 
and before leaving the works. 

No food shall be eaten in any part of the works in which white lead or 
arsenic is used in the manufacture. 

No person shall smoke or use tobacco in any part of the works in which 
white lead or arsenic is used in the manufacture. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Under Section 9, Factory Act, 1891, any person who is bound to observe 
any special rules is liable to penalties for non-compliance with such special 
rules. 



Form 251. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES for Works, or parts of Works in which 

LEAD, ARSENIC, OR ANTIMONY is USED in the ENAMELLING 

OF IRON PLATES. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

1. Lavatories. — They shall provide washing conveniences, with a sufficient 
supply of hot and cold water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels, and take measures 
to secure that every worker wash face and hands before meals and before 
leaving the works. 

2. Respirators, Overalls, Head Coverings. — They shall provide suitable 
respirators, overall suits, and head coverings for all workers employed in the 
processes of grinding, dusting, and brushing. 

3. Dust. — They shall adopt measures on and after the first day of October, 
1894, in the dusting and brushing processes for the removal of all superfluous 
dust, by the use of perforated benches or tables supplied with fans to carry the 
dust down through the apertures of such benches or tables, the under part of 
which must be boxed in. 

4. Sanitary Drink. — They shall provide a sufficient supply of approved 
sanitary drink, and shall cause the workpeople to take it. 

5. Medical Examination. — They shall arrange for a medical inspection of all 
persons employed, at least once a month. 

They shall see that no female is employed without previous examination and 
a certificate of fitness from the medical attendant of the works. 

They shall see that no person who has been absent from work through 
illness shall be re-employed without a medical certificate to the effect that he or 
she has recovered. 

6. Medical Attejidance. — Upon any person employed in the works complain- 
ing of being unwell, the occupier shall, with the least possible delay, and at his 
own expense, give an order upon a doctor for professional attendance and 
medicine. It is to be understood that this rule will not apply to persons 
suffering from complaints which have not been contracted in the process of 
manufacture. 



834 SPECIAL RULES 



7. Cloak-room. — They shall provide a place or places free from dust and 
damp in which the operatives can hang up the clothes in which they do not 
work. 

(// is recommended thai they shall provide for each female before the day's 
work begins some light refreshment^ such as a half -pint of milk and a biscuit.) 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

8. Respirators^ Overalls^ Head Coverings. — Every person to whom is 
supplied a respirator or overall and head covering shall wear the same when at 
the work for which such are provided. 

9. Washing. — Every person shall carefully clean and wash hands and face 
before meals and before leaving the works. 

10. Food. — No food shall be eaten by any person in any part of the works 
except in the apartment specially provided for the purpose. 

11. False Pretences. — No person may seek employment under an assumed 
name or under any false pretence. 

T> . fA good respirator is a cambric bag with or without a thin 

Kespirators -j^ flexible wire made to fit over the nose. 

t, '^ J • 1 r Sulphate of magnesia 2 oz. 

Sanitary drink J ^^^^^ - - i gallon. 

suggested [Essence of lemon, sufficient to flavour. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. 

Any person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in con- 
travention of them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such case the occupier also is liable to a 
penalty unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by pubHshing and to 
the best of his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compli- 
ance. (Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 11.) 



Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF EARTHENWARE AND CHINA. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

1. They shall provide suitable overalls and head coverings for all female! 
workers employed in the dipping house or dippers' drying room, or in any 
processes of ware cleaning after the dipper, glost placing, china scouring, 
ground laying or majolica pa.inting (which overalls and head coverings shall 
remain the property of the employers), and shall make arrangements for the' 
safe custody of all overalls and head coverings worn by their operatives, and i 
for the safe delivery thereof at the works every seven days to the represen- 
tatives of the laundry or wash-house which shall be selected by the operatives, 
for the purpose of washing the same. They shall also provide a place in which 
the above workers can deposit clothing put off during working hours. 

2. They shall not allow any persons to cook or partake of any food, or to 
remain during meal times in the dipping house, dippers' drying room, china 
scouring room, glost placers' shop, ground laying shop, or majolica painting 
room. 

3. In the process of towing of earthenware, they shall use fans or other 
mechanical means for the removal of all dust ; in the process of scouring 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, i?>7Z-<)S . 835 

china, they shall, as far as practicable, use mechanical or other efficient means 
for the removal of flint ; and in all processes and descriptions of manual 
labour, they shall, as far as practicable, adopt measures for the removal of 
dust, and for the prevention of any injurious effects arising therefrom, either 
by the use of mechanical fans, ventilation, or other efficient means, 

4. They shall provide brooms, brushes, and all other necessaries for the 
daily sweeping of floors of workshops and of such stoves as are entered by the 
workers ; and for the cleansing of work-benches and of stairs leading to work- 
shops ; and shall arrange that the floors of such workshops and stoves are 
sprinkled and swept every working day, and the scraps and dirt removed, and 
that work-benches and stairs are cleansed at least once a week. The daily 
sweeping of floors of potters' shops shall be done after work has ceased for 
the day, unless there is some sufficient reason to the contrary. 

5. They shall provide washing conveniences and a sufficient supply of 
water, soap, and nail-brushes for all workers employed in the dipping-house 
or dippers' drying-room, or in any processes of ware cleaning after the dipper, 
glost placing, china scouring, ground laying, or majolica painting, as close as is 
practicable to the workshops. 

6. All stoves, as well as all workshops and all parts of the factories, shall 
be effectually ventilated. Regard being had to the cubic capacity of the 
shops, etc., there shall be, wherever practicable, natural ventilation by doors 
and windows ; and careful supervision of hot air and hot-water pipes used 
for heating, and of the consumption of gas. The required ventilation shall 
be accomplished by mechanical or other efficient means. The temperature 
of any workshop during working hours shall not be allowed to exceed 90 
degrees (Fahrenheit). 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

7. Every person employed in the places and processes enumerated in Rule 
I shall wear an overall suit or head covering when at their work, and no such 
person shall remove such overall suit or head covering from the works at 
which they are employed so long as they shall continue in such employ. 

8. Every person employed in the places or processes enumerated in Rule 
5 shall carefully clean and wash his or her hands and face before meals and 
before leaving the works. 

9. Every person employed in dipping, carrying ware from the dipper, 
cleaning ware after it has been dipped, glost placing, china scouring, ground 
laying, or majolica painting, shall during the meal times leave the shops 
in which those processes are carried on, and shall not cook or eat any food 
therein at any time. 

10. The measures taken by the employers for the ventilation of the various 
workrooms and stoves, and for the removal of dust, shall not be in any way 
interfered with by the workpeople without the knowledge and concurrence of 
the employer or manager of the works. 

11. Every male or female worker shall be responsible for the cleansing of 
that portion of the room in which he or she is employed, and shall see that the 
floors of shops and of such stoves as are entered by the workers, are sprinkled 
and swept, and the dust, scraps, ashes, and dirt be removed every day, and 
that the work-benches and stairs are cleansed at least once a week. The 
sweeping of floors and of potters' shops shall be done after the working hours, 
unless there is some sufficient reason to the contrary, by an adult male, 
employed and paid by the workers and approved by the employer. 

R. E. Sprague Oram, 

H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 
H. H. ASQUITH, 
Home Office, Whitehall One of Her Majesty's Principal 

7th September 1894. Secretaries of State. 



836 SPECIAL RULES 



Form 254. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF EARTHENWARE AND CHINA. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

I. Age. — After ist August 1898, no person under 14 years of age, and after 
I St August 1899, no person under 15 years of age, shall be employed in the 

Dipping house, or | Dippers' drying room 

or in any processes of- 



Ware cleaning after the dipper, 
Glost placing, 
Colour dusting, 
Ground laying. 



Majolica painting. 
Glaze blowing. 
Transfer making, or 
China scouring. 



2. Monthly Examination. — All women and young persons employed in the 
places and processes named in Rule i shall be examined once a month by the 
Certifying Surgeon for the District, who shall after ist August, 1898, have power 
to order suspension from employment in any place or process named in Rule i. 

No person after such suspension shall be allowed to work in any of the 
places or processes named in Rule i without the written sanction of the Certify- 
ing Surgeon. 

3. Health Register. — A register, in the form which has been prescribed by 
the Secretary of State for use in earthenware and china works, shall be kept, 
and in it the Certifying Surgeon will enter the dates and results of his visits, 
the number of persons examined, and particulars of any directions given by 
him. This register shall contain a list of all persons employed in the places 
and processes named in Rule i, and shall be produced at any time when required 
by H.M. Inspector of Factories or by the Certifying Surgeon. 

4. Overalls and Head Coverings. — The occupierjshall provide and maintain 
suitable overalls and head coverings for all women and young persons employed 
in the places and processes named in Rule i. 

All overalls and head coverings shall be kept (see form 254*) in proper 
custody, and all overalls shall be washed at least once a week, and suitable 
arrangements shall be made for carrying out these requirements. 

A suitable place shall be provided in which the above workers can deposit 
clothing put off during working hours. 

5. Food. — No person shall be allowed to prepare or partake of any food or 
drink, or to remain during meal times, in the dipping house or dippers' drying 
room, or in a place in which is carried on any process named in Rule i. 

The occupier shall make suitable provision to the reasonable satisfaction of 
the Inspector in charge of the district for the accommodation during meal times 
of persons employed in such places or processes (see form 254*). 

6. Dust. — After ist January 1899, the process of — 



Towing of earthenware, 
China scouring. 
Ground laying. 



Colour dusting. 
Glaze blowing, or 
Transfer making. 



shall not be carried on without the use of exhaust fans for the effectual removal 
of dust (see form 254*). 

In the process of ware cleaning after the dipper, exhaust fans shall be used,, 
or arrangements made for the dust to fall into water. 

In all processes the occupier shall, as far as practicable, adopt efficient 
measures for the removal of dust and for the prevention of any injurious effects 
arising therefrom. 

7. Ventilation. — All drying stoves as well as all workshops and all parts of 
factories shall be effectually ventilated to the reasonable satisfaction of the. 
Inspector in charge of the District. 




FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 . 837 

8. Lavatories. — The occupier shall provide and maintain sufficient and suit- 
able washing conveniences for all persons employed in the places and processes 
named in Rule i, as near as is practicable to the places in which such persons 
are employed. 

The washing conveniences shall comprise soap, nail-brushes, and towels, 
and at least one lavatory (see form 254*) basin for every five persons employed 
as above, and each such basin shall be fitted with waste-pipe, and have a con- 
stant supply of water laid on by tap. 

9. Clea7ising of Work-places. — The occupier shall see that the requirements of 
Rule 16 are duly observed, and shall provide brushes and all other necessaries 
for the purpose. 

10. Boards. — The boards used in the dipping house, dippers' drying room, 
or glost placing shop shall be cleansed every week, and shall not be used in any 
other department (see form 254*). 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

11. Monthly Examinatio7i. — All women and young persons employed in 
the places and processes named in Rule i shall present themselves at the 
appointed time for examination by the Certifying Surgeon as provided in 
Rule 2. 

No person after suspension by the Certifying Surgeon shall work in any of 
the places or processes named in Rule i without the written sanction of the 
Certifying Surgeon. 

12. Overalls. — Every person employed in the places and processes named 
in Rule i shall, when at work, wear an overall suit and head covering, which 
shall not be worn outside the factory or workshop, and which shall not be. 
removed therefrom except for the purpose of being washed. 

The overalls and head coverings, when not being worn, shall be deposited 
in the place provided for the purpose under Rule 4. 

Clothing put off during working hours shall be deposited in the place pro- 
vided for the purpose under Rule 4. 

13. Food. — No person shall remain during meal times in the dipping house, 
dippers' drying room, or in any place in which is carried on any process named 
in Rule i ; or prepare or partake of any food or drink therein at any time. 

14. Ventilation. Dust. — No person shall in any way interfere, without the 
knowledge and concurrence of the occupier or manager, with the means and 
appliances provided by the employers for the ventilation of the workshops and 
stoves and for the removal of dust. 

15. Washing. — No person employed in any place or process named in 
Rule I shall leave the works or partake of meals without previously and care- 
fully cleaning and washing his or her hands. 

16. Cleansing of Work-places. — The persons employed shall be responsible 
for the 

daily sprinkling and sweeping of the floors of workshops and of such 

stoves as are entered by the workpeople ; and for the 
daily removal of dust, scraps, ashes, and dirt ; and for the 
weekly cleansing* of work-benches and of stairs leading to workshops. 
Each person shall be responsible for the cleansing of that portion of the 
room in which he or she is employed. 

The sweeping of the floors of potters' shops, stoves, dipping houses, and 
majolica painting rooms shall be done after working hours, by an adult male, 
employed and paid by the workers and approved by the employer. 

17. Boards. — The boards used in the dipping house, dipper's drying room, 
or glost placing shop shall be cleansed every week, and shall not be used in 
any other department. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
May 1898. H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. 



838 SPECIAL RULES 



Any person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contra- 
vention of them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such case the occupier also is liable to a 
penalty unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing, and to the 
best of his power enforcing, the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 11). 



Form 254*. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES, 



THE MANUFACTURE OF EARTHENWARE AND CHINA. 

duties of occupiers. 

I. Age. — After ist August 1890, no person under 14 years of age, and after 
I St August 1 899, no person under 1 5 years of age, shall be employed in the 

Dipping house, or | Dipper's drying room, 

or in any processes of- 



Ware cleaning after the dipper, 
Glost placing. 
Colour dusting, 
Ground laying, 



Majolica painting. 
Glaze blowing, 
Transfer making, or 
China scouring. 



2. Monthly Examination. — All women and young persons employed in the 
places and processes named in Rule i shall be examined once a month by the 
Certifying Surgeon for the district, who shall, after ist August 1898, have power 
to order suspension from employment in any place or process named in Rule i. 

No person after such suspension shall be allowed to work in any of the 
places or processes named in Rule i without the written sanction of the Certi- 
fying Surgeon. 

3. Health Register. — A register, in the form which has been prescribed by 
the Secretary of State for use in earthenware and china works, shall be kept, 
and in it the Certifying Surgeon will enter the dates and results of his visits, the 
number of persons examined, and particulars of any directions given by him. 
This register shall contain a list of all persons employed in the places and pro- 
cesses named in Rule i, and shall be produced at any time when required by 
H.M. Inspector of Factories or by the Certifying Surgeon. 

4. Overalls and Head Coverings. — The occupier shall provide and maintain 
suitable overalls and head coverings for all women and young persons employed 
in the places and processes named in Rule i. 

All overalls and head coverings shall be kept by the occupier in proper 
custody and shall be washed at least once a week, and suitable arrangements 
shall be made for carrying out these requirements. 

A suitable place shall be provided in which the above workers can deposit 
clothing put off during working hours. 

5. Food. — No person shall be allowed to prepare or partake of any food or 
drink, or to remain during meal times, in the dipping house or dippers' drying 
room, or in a place in which is carried on any process named in Rule i. 

The occupier shall make suitable provision to the reasonable satisfaction of 
the Inspector in charge of the District for the accommodation during meal times 
of persons employed in such place or processes, with a right of appeal to the 
Chief Inspector of Factories. Such accommodation to be provided in any room 
or rooms on the premises other than those referred to in Rule 13. 

6. Dust. — After ist January 1899, the process of — 

Towing of earthenware. Colour dusting, 

China scouring. Glaze blowing, or 

Ground laying. Transfer making, 

shall not be carried on without the use of exhaust fans for the effectual removal 
of dust, or other efficient means for the effectual removal of dust, to be approved 



\ 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 . 839 

in each particular case by the Secretary of State, and under such conditions as 
he may from time to time prescribe. 

In the process of ware cleaning after the dipper, exhaust fans shall be used, 
or arrangements made for the dust to fall into water. 

In all processes the occupiers shall, as far as practicable, adopt efficient 
measures for the removal of dust and for the prevention of any injurious effects 
arising therefrom. 

7. Ventilation. — All drying stoves as well as all workshops and all parts of 
factories shall be effectually ventilated to the reasonable satisfaction of the 
Inspector in charge of the District. 

8. Lavatories. — The occupier shall provide and maintain sufficient and 
suitable washing conveniences for all persons employed in the places and pro- 
cesses named in Rule i, as near as is practicable to the places in which such 
persons are employed. 

The washing conveniences shall comprise soap, nail-brushes, and towels, and 
at least one wash-hand basin for every five persons employed as above, with a 
constant supply of water laid on, with one tap at least for every two basins, and 
conveniences for emptying the same and running off the waste water on the 
spot down a waste-pipe. 

9. Cleansing of Work-places. — The occupier shall see that the requirements 
of Rule 16 are duly observed, and shall provide brushes and all other necessaries 
for the purpose. 

10. Boards. — The boards used in the dipping house, dippers' drying room, or 
glost placing shop shall be cleansed every week, and shall not be used in any 
other department, except after being cleansed. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

11. Monthly Examination. — All women and young persons employed in the 
places and processes named in Rule i shall present themselves at the 
appointed time for examination by the Certifying Surgeon as provided in 
Rule 2. 

No person after suspension by the Certifying Surgeon shall work in any of 
the places or processes named in Rule i without the written sanction of the 
Certifying Surgeon. 

1 2. Overalls. — Every person employed in the places and processes named in 
Rule I shall, when at work, wear an overall suit and head covering, which shall 
not be worn outside the factory or workshop, and which shall not be removed 
therefrom except for the purpose of being washed. All overalls and head cover- 
ings shall be washed at least once a week. 

The overalls and head coverings, when not being worn, shall be deposited in 
the place provided for the purpose under Rule 4. 

Clothing put off during working hours shall be deposited in the place pro- 
vided for the purpose under Rule 4. 

13. Food. — No person shall remain during meal times in the dipping house, 
dippers' drying room, or in any place in which is carried on any process named 
in Rule i ; or prepare or partake of any food or drink therein at any time. 

14. Ventilation. Dust. — No person shall in any way interfere, without the 
knowledge and concurrence of the occupier or manager, with the means and 
appliances provided by the employers for the ventilation of the workshops and 
stoves and for the removal of dust. 

15. Washing. — No person employed in any place or process named in Rule 
I shall leave the works or partake of meals without previously and carefully 
cleaning and washing his or her hands. 

16. Cleansing of Work-places. — The persons employed shall be responsible 
for the 

daily sprinkling and sweeping of the floors of workshops and of such 

stoves as are entered by the workpeople ; and for the 
daily removal of dust, scraps, ashes, and dirt ; and for the 
weekly cleansing of work-benches and of stairs leading to workshops. 



840 SPECIAL RULES 



Each person shall be responsible for the cleansing of that portion of the 
room in which he or she is employed. 

The sweeping of the floors of potters' shops, stoves, dipping houses, and 
majolica painting rooms shall be done after working hours, by an adult male, 
employed and paid by the workers and approved by the employer. 

17. Boards. — The boards used in the dipping house, dippers' drying room, 
or glost placing shop shall be cleansed every week, and shall not be used in any 
other department, except after being cleansed. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 

O ctober 1 898. H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to which 
they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. 

Any person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contra- 
vention of them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such case the occupier also is liable to a 
penalty, unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing and to the 
best of his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 11.) 



Form 254A. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



MAKING TRANSFERS FOR EARTHENWARE AND CHINA. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

1. Age. — No person under 15 years of age shall be employed in making 
Transfers for Earthenware or China. 

2. Monthly Examination. — All women and young persons employed shall 
be examined once a month by the Certifying Surgeon for the District, who 
shall, after ist May 1899, have power to order suspension from employment. 

No person after such suspension shall be allowed to work without the 
written sanction of the Certifying Surgeon. 

4. Health Register. — A register, in the form which has been prescribed by 
the Secretary of State for use in earthenware and china works, shall be kept, 
and in it the Certifying Surgeon will enter the dates and results of his visits, the 
number of persons examined, and particulars of any directions given by him. 
This register shall contain a list of all persons employed, and shall be 
produced at any time when required by H.M. Inspector of Factories or by 
the Certifying Surgeon. 

4. Overalls and Head Coverings. — The occupier shall provide and maintain 
suitable overalls and head coverings for all women and young persons 
employed in rooms in which colour processes are carried on. 

All overalls and head coverings shall be kept by the occupier in proper 
custody and shall be washed at least once a week, and suitable arrangements 
shall be made for carrying out these requirements. 

A suitable place shall be provided in which the above workers can deposit 
clothing put off during working hours. 

It shall be a sufficient compliance with the requirements of this rule as to 
head coverings if they are made of suitable glazed paper and renewed once 
a week. The head coverings shall be made so as completely to cover the hair, 
and to the satisfaction of the Inspector. 

5. Food. — No person shall be allowed to prepare or partake of any food or 
drink, or to remain during meal times, in any place in which is carried on the 
making of transfers. 




FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, iZ-jZ-^l . 841 

The occupier shall make suitable provision, to the reasonable satisfaction 
of the Inspector in charge of the District, for the accommodation during meal 
times of persons employed in such places or processes, with a right of appeal 
to the Chief Inspector of Factories. 

6. Dust. — Transfer making shall not be carried on without the use of 
exhaust fans for the effectual removal of dust, or other efficient means for the 
effectual removal of dust, to be approved in each particular case by the Secretary 
of State, and under such conditions as he may from time to time prescribe. 

7. lavatories. — The occupier shall provide and maintain sufficient and 
suitable washing conveniences for all persons employed, as near as is practicable 
to the places in which such persons are employed. 

The washing conveniences shall comprise soap, nail-brushes, and towels, 
and at least one wash-hand basin for every five persons employed as above, 
with a constant supply of water laid on, with one tap at least for every two 
basins, and conveniences for emptying the same and running off the waste 
water on the spot down a waste-pipe. 



DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

8. Monthly Examination. — All women and young persons employed shall 
present themselves at the appointed time for examination by the Certifying 
Surgeon as provided in Rule 2. 

No person after suspension by the Certifying Surgeon shall work without 
the written sanction of the Certifying Surgeon. 

9. Overalls. — Every person employed in any room in which colour processes 
are carried on shall, when at work, wear an overall suit and head covering, 
which shall not be worn outside the factory or workshop, and which shall not 
be removed therefrom except for the purpose of being washed. All overalls 
and head coverings shall be washed or renewed at least once a week. 

The overalls and head coverings, when not being worn, shall be deposited 
in the place provided for the purpose under Rule 4. 

Clothing put off during working hours shall be deposited in the place 
provided for the purpose under Rule 4. 

It shall be a sufficient compliance with the requirements of this rule as to 
head coverings if they are made of suitable glazed paper and renewed once a 
week. The head coverings shall be made so as completely to cover the hair, 
and to the satisfaction of the Inspector. 

10. Food. — No person shall remain during meal times in any place in which 
is carried on the making of transfers ; or prepare or partake of any food or 
drink therein at any time. 

11. Ventilation. Dust. — No person shall in any way interfere, without the 
knowledge and concurrence of the occupier or manager, with the means and 
appliances provided by the employers for the ventilation of the workshops and 
for the removal of dust. 

12. Washing. — No person employed shall leave the works or partake of 
meals without previously and carefully cleaning and washing his or her 
hands. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
January 1899. H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories, 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. 

Any person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contra- 
vention of them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such case the occupier also is liable to a 
penalty, unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing and to 
the best of his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 11). 



842 SPECIAL RULES 



Form 257. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



THE MANUFACTURE OF EXPLOSIVES IN WHICH 
DINITROBENZOLE IS USED. 

1. No person to be employed without a medical certificate, stating that he 
or she is physically fit for such employment. 

2. An examination of the workers at their work to be made at least once a 
fortnight by a Certifying Surgeon, who shall have power to order temporary sus- 
pension or total change of work for any person showing symptoms of suffering 
from the poison, or if after a fair trial he is of opinion that any person is by 
constitution unfit, he shall direct that such person shall cease to be employed. 

3. A supply of fresh milk, and of any drug that the medical officer may con- 
sider desirable, shall be kept where the workers in his opinion may require it. 

4. No meals to be taken in the workrooms. 

5. There shall be provided separate lavatories for men and women, with a 
good supply of hot water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels, and whenever the 
skin has come in contact with dinitrobenzole, the part shall be immediately 
washed. 

6. Overall suits and head coverings shall be supplied to all workers in shops 
where dinitrobenzole is used, these suits to be taken off or well brushed before 
meals and before leaving the works, and to be washed at least once a week. 

7. Suitable respirators (capable of being washed), folds of linen, or woollen 
material of open texture, or other suitable material, shall be supplied to those 
workers liable to inhale dust, and the wearing of such respirators shall be urged 
where the workers derive benefit from their use. 

8. Where dinitrobenzole has to be handled, the hands shall always be 
protected from direct contact with it, either by the use of indiarubber gloves 
(kept perfectly clean, especially in the inner side), or by means of rags which 
shall be destroyed immediately after use. 

9. Where dinitrobenzole is broken by hand, the instrument used shall 
be a wooden bar, spade, or tool with a handle long enough to prevent the 
worker's face from coming into near contact with the material. 

10. In all rooms or sheds in which the process, either of purifying, grinding, 
mixing materials of which dinitrobenzole forms a part, is carried on, efficient 
" cowls," ventilating shafts, and mechanical ventilating fans shall be provided 
to carry off the dust or fumes generated. 

11. Drying stoves shall be efficiently ventilated, and, when possible, be 
charged and drawn at fixed times, and a free current of air shall be admitted for 
some time prior to the workers entering to draw either a part or the whole 
of the contents. 

12. In the process of filling cartridges, the material shall not be touched by 
hand, but suitable scoops shall be used, and where patent ventilated cartridge 
filling machines are not used, there shall be efficient mechanical ventilation 
arranged in such a manner that the suction shall draw the fumes or dust away 
from and not across or over the faces of the workers. 

13. A register, in a prescribed form, shall be kept, and it shall be the duty 
of a responsible person named by the firm to enter, at least once a week, a 
statement that he has personally satisfied himself that each and all of the 
special rules have been observed, or if not, the reasons for such non-observance. 
The Surgeon to enter in this register the dates of his visits, the results of such 
visits, and any requirement made by him. 

14. The "dipping" rooms to be efficiently ventilated. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, i%7?>-()S . 843 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. 

Any person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contra- 
vention of them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such case the occupier also is liable to a 
penalty, unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing and to the 
best of his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and li.) 



Form 250. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



CHEMICAL WORKS. 

1. Uncovered Pots and Pans. — In future every uncovered pot, pan, or other 
structure containing liquid of a dangerous character, shall be so constructed as 
to be at least 3 feet in height above the ground or platform. Those already in 
existence vs^hich are less than 3 feet in height, or in cases where it is proved to 
the satisfaction of an inspector that a height of 3 feet is impracticable, shall be 
securely fenced. 

2. There shall be a clear space round such pots, pans, or other structures, or 
where any junction exists a barrier shall be so placed as to prevent passage. 

3. Caustic Pots. — Caustic pots shall be of such construction that there shall 
be no footing on the top or sides of the brickwork, and dome-shaped Hds shall 
be used where possible. 

4. Planks and Gangways. — No unfenced planks or gangways shall be placed 
across open pots, pans, or other structures containing liquid of a dangerous 
character. This rule shall not apply to black ash vats where the vats them- 
selves are otherwise securely fenced. 

5. Respirators. — Suitable respirators shall be provided for the use of the 
workers in places where poisonous gases or injurious dust may be inhaled. 

6. Lighting. — The lighting of all dangerous places shall be made thoroughly 
efficient. 

7. Syringes or Wash-bottles. — Every place where caustic soda or caustic 
potash is manufactured shall be supplied with syringes or wash-bottles, which 
shall be enclosed in covered boxes fixed in convenient places, in the proportion 
of one to every four caustic pots. They shall be of suitable form and size, and 
be kept full of clean water. Similar appliances shall be provided wherever, in 
the opinion of an inspector, they may be desirable. 

8. Overalls, Bath. — Overalls, kept in a cleanly state, shall be provided for 
all workers in any room where chlorate of potash or other chlorate is ground. 
In every such room a bath shall be kept ready for immediate use. 

In every chlorate mill, tallow or other suitable lubricant shall be used 
instead of oil. 

9. Respirators. — Respirators charged with moist oxide of iron or other suit- 
able substance, shall be kept in accessible places ready for use in cases of 
emergency arising from sulphuretted hydrogen or other poisonous gases. 

10. Salt Cake Departments. — In salt cake departments suitable measures 
shall be adopted by maintaining a proper draught, and by other means, to 
obviate the escape of low-level gases. 

11. Weldon Bleaching Powder Chainbers. — Weldon bleaching powder 
chambers, after the free gas has, as far as may be practicable, been drawn 
off or absorbed by fresh lime, shall, before being opened, be tested by the 
standard recognised under the Alkali Act. Such tests shall be duly entered in 
a register kept for the purpose. 

All chambers shall be ventilated, as far as possible, when packing is being 
carried on, by means of open doors on opposite sides and openings in the roof, 
so as to allow of a free current of air. 



844 SPECIAL RULES 



12. Co-operation of Workers : Peftalty. — In cases where the co-operation of 
the workers is required for carrying out the foregoing rules, and where such co- 
operation is not given, the workers shall be held liable in accordance with the 
Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, section 9, which runs as follows: — "If any 
person who is bound to observe any special rules, established for any factory or 
workshop under this Act, acts in contravention of, or fails to comply with, any 
such special rule, he shall be liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceed- 
ing two pounds." 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
II. M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 



Form 260. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



AMENDED SPECIAL RULES for Chemical Works in which is carried on the 

MANUFACTURE OF BICHROMATE OR CHROMATE 
OF POTASSIUM OR SODIUM. 

In these Rules ''''Persons employed in a chrome process " means a person who is 
employed in any work involving contact with chromate or bichromate of potassium 
or sodium., or involving exposure to dust or fumes arising from the manufacture 
thereof. 

Any approval given by the Chief Inspector in pursuance of Rule 10 shall be 
given in writing., and may at any time be revoked by notice in writing signed by 
him. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

1. open Pans^ Qr'c., containing Dangerous Liquid. — No uncovered pot, pan, 
or other structure containing liquid of a dangerous character shall be so con- 
structed as to be less than 3 feet in height above the adjoining ground or 
platform. 

This Rule shall not apply to any pot, pan, or other structure constructed 
before ist January 1899, or in which a height of 3 feet is impracticable by 
reason of the nature of the work to be carried on : provided in either case that 
the structure is securely fenced. 

2. There shall be a clear space round all pots, pans, or other structures 
containing liquid of a dangerous character, except where any junction exists, in 
which case a barrier shall be so placed as to prevent passage. 

3. No unfenced plank or gangway shall be placed across any pot, pan, or 
other structure containing liquid of a dangerous character. 

4. Lighting. — The lighting of all dangerous places shall be made thoroughly 
efficient. 

5. Grinding., Separating., and Mixing of Raw Materials. — The grinding, 
separating, and mixing of the raw materials (including chrome ironstone, lime, 
and sodium and potassium carbonate) shall not be done without such appliances 
as will prevent, as far as possible, the entrance of dust into the workrooms. 

6. Batches. — " Batches," when withdrawn from the furnaces, shall either be 
placed in the keaves or vats while still warm, or be allowed to cool in barrows 
or other receptacles. 

7. Evaporating Vessels. — Evaporating vessels shall be covered in, and shall 
be provided with ventilating shafts to carry the steam into the outside air. 

8. Packing and Crushing of Bichromate. — Packing or crushing of bichromate 
of potassium or sodium shall not be done except under conditions which secure 
either the entire absence of dust or its effectual removal by means of a fan. 

* 9. Age. — No child or young person shall be employed in a chrome process. 
10. Monthly Medical Examination. Suspension.— {a) The occupier shall, sub- 
ject to the approval of the Chief Inspector, appoint a duly qualified medical practi- 
tioner (in these Rules referred to as the Appointed Surgeon), who shall examine 




I 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 845 

all persons employed in chrome processes at least once in every month, and 
shall undertake any necessary medical treatment of disease contracted in con- 
sequence of such employment, and shall, after the 30th day of April 1900, have 
power to suspend any such person from work in any place or process. 

{b) No person after such suspension shall be employed in any chrome pro- 
cess without the written sanction of the Appointed Surgeon. 

Health Register. — {c) A register shall be kept in a form approved by the 
Chief Inspector, and shall contain a list of all persons employed in any chrome 
process. The Appointed Surgeon shall enter in the register the dates and 
results of his examinations of the persons employed and particulars of any 
treatment prescribed by him. The register shall be produced at any time when 
required by H.M. Inspectors of Factories or by the Appointed Surgeon. 

11. Requisites for treating slight Wounds and Ulcers. — Requisites (approved 
by the Appointed Surgeon) for treating slight wounds and ulcers shall be kept 
at hand and be placed in charge of a responsible person. 

12. Overalls and Respirators. — The occupier shall provide sufficient and 
suitable overall suits for the use of all persons engaged in the processes of 
grinding the raw materials ; and sufficient and suitable overall suits or other 
adequate means of protection, approved in writing by the Appointed Surgeon,, 
for the use of all persons engaged in the crystal department or in packing. 

Respirators approved by the Appointed Surgeon shall be provided for the 
use of all persons employed in packing or crushing bichromate of sodium or 
potassium. 

At the end of every day's work they shall be collected and kept in proper 
custody in a suitable place set apart for the purpose. 

The overalls and respirators shall be thoroughly washed or renewed every 
week. 

13. Cloak-room. — The occupier shall provide and maintain a cloak-room in 
which workers can deposit clothing put off during working hours. 

14. Lavatory. — The occupier shall provide and maintain a lavatory for the 
use of the persons employed in chrome processes, with soap, nail-brushes, and 
towels, and a constant supply of hot and cold water laid on to each basin.. 
There shall be at least one lavatory basin for every five persons employed in 
the crystal department and in packing. Each such basin shall be fitted with a 
waste-pipe, or shall be placed in a trough fitted with a waste-pipe. 

15. Baths. — The occupier shall provide and maintain sufficient baths and 
dressing-rooms for all persons employed in chrome processes, with hot and cold 
water laid on, and a sufficient supply of soap and towels ; and shall cause each 
person employed in the crystal department and in packing to take a bath once 
a week at the factory. 

Bath Register. — A bath register shall be kept containing a list of all persons 
employed in the crystal department and in packing, and an entry of the date 
when each person takes a bath. 

The bath register shall be produced at any time when required by H.M. 
Inspectors of Factories. 

16. Cleaning of Floors, &=€. — The floors, stairs, and landings shall be cleaned 
daily. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

17. Batches. — No person shall deposit a "batch" when withdrawn from the 
furnace upon the floor nor transfer it to the keaves or vats otherwise than as 
prescribed in Rule 6. 

18. Packing and Crushing of Bichromate. — No person shall pack or crush., 
bichromate of potassium or sodium otherwise than as prescribed in Rule 8. 

19. Medical Examination. — {a) Every person employed in a chrome process 
shall present himself at the appointed times for examination by the Appointed 
Surgeon as provided in Rule 10. 

{b) After the 30th day of April 1900, no person suspended by the Appointed. 
Surgeon shall work in a chrome process without his written sanction. 



846 SPECIAL RULES 



20. Overalls. — Every person engaged in the processes of grinding the raw 
materials shall wear an overall suit, and every person engaged in the crystal 
department or in packing shall wear an overall suit or other adequate means of 
protection approved by the Appointed Surgeon. 

Respirators. — Every person employed in packing or crushing bichromate of 
sodium or potassium shall in addition wear a respirator while so occupied. 

21. Washing. — Every person employed in the processes named in Rule 20 
shall before leaving the premises deposit the overalls and respirators in the 
place appointed by the occupier for the purpose, and shall thoroughly wash face 
and hands in the lavatory. 

22. Bathing. — Every person employed in the crystal department and in 
packing shall take a bath at the factory at least once a week ; and, having done 
so, he shall at once sign his name in the bath register, with the date. 

23. Neglect to be Reported. — The foreman shall report to the manager any 
instance coming under his notice of a workman neglecting to observe these 
Rules. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 

Chief Inspector of Factories, 
M. W. Ridley, 

One of Her Majesty s Principal 
February 1900. Secretaries of State, 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
which they apply, where ihey may be convenient!)' read by the persons employed. Any 
person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contravention of 
them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such cases the occupier also is liable to a penalty, unless 
he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing and to the best of his 
power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. (Factory 
and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 1 1.) 



Form No. 261. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



RED AND ORANGE LEAD WORKS. 

duties of occupiers. 

Drawing. — In drawing charges of massicot, or of red lead, or of orange lead, 
from the furnace they shall not allow the charges of massicot, or of red lead, or 
of orange lead, to be discharged on to the floor of the factory or workshop, but 
shall arrange that it be shovelled, not raked, into waggons. 

Packifig. — They shall arrange that no red or orange lead shall be packed in 
the room or rooms where the manufacture is actually carried on. 

They shall arrange that no red or orange lead shall be packed in casks or 
other receptacles except in a place provided with a hood connected with a fan, 
or shall provide other suitable means to create an effective draught. 

Washing Conveniences. — They shall provide sufficient bath accommodation 
for all persons employed in the manipulation of red and orange lead, and lava- 
tories, with a good supply of hot water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels for the 
use of such persons. 

Monthly Examination. — They shall arrange for a monthly visit by a medical 
man, who shall examine every worker individually, and who shall enter the result 
of each examination in a register book to be provided by the said occupiers. 

Sanitary Drink. — They shall provide a sufficient supply of approved sanitary 
drink for the workers. 




FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 847 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

In cases where the co-operation of the workers is required for carrying out 
the foregoing rules, and where such co-operation is not given, the workers shall 
be held liable in accordance with the Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, 
Section 9, which runs as follows : — 

f" If any person who is bound to observe any special rules established 
for any factory or workshop under this Act, acts in contravention 
^_ of, or fails to comply with, any such special rule, he shall be liable 

K on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding two pounds." 

H Arthur Whitelegge, 

^K H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

For 



Form 263. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 

SPECIAL RULES. 



YELLOW LEAD. 
duties of occupiers. 

They shall provide washing conveniences, with a sufficient supply of hot and 
cold water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels. 

They shall provide respirators and overall suits for the persons employed in 
all dry processes. 

They shall provide fans or other suitable means of ventilation wherever dust 
is generated in the process of manufacture. 

They shall provide a sufficient supply of Epsom salts and of an approved 
sanitary drink. 

duties of persons employed. 

In cases where the co-operation of the workers is required for carrying out 
the foregoing rules, and where such co-operation is not given, the workers shall 
be held liable, in accordance with the Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, 
Section 9, which runs as follows : — 

"If any person who is bound to observe any special rules established 

for any factory or workshop under this Act, acts in contravention 

of, or fails to comply with, any such special rule, he shall be liable 

on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding two pounds." 

T? • ai-r, c /-^ 8"°°^ respirator is a cambric bag with or without a thin 

Kespirarors | flexible wire made to fit over the nose. 

sanitary drink Su^hf\°f-«-- : ; ; ; :-^„„„, 

sugges e I Essence of lemon, sufficient to flavour. 

B. A. Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 



Form 264. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



LEAD SMELTING WORKS. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 



They shall provide respirators and overall suits for the use of all persons 
employed in cleaning the flues, and take means to see that the same are used. 



848 SPECIAL RULES 



They shall arrange that no person be allowed to remain at work more than 
two hours at a time in a flue. (A rest of half-an-hour before re-entering will be 
deemed sufficient.) 

They shall provide sufficient bath accommodation for all persons employed 
in cleaning the flues, and every one so employed shall take a bath before 
leaving the works. 

They shall provide washing conveniences, with a sufficient supply of hot 
and cold water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 
In cases where the co-operation of the workers is required for carrying out 
the foregoing rules, and where such co-operation is not given, the workers shall 
be held liable, in accordance with the Factory and Workshop Act, 1891,. 
Section 9, which runs as follows : — 

" If any person who is bound to observe any special rules established 
for any factory or workshop under this Act, acts in contravention 
of, or fails to comply with, any such special rule, he shall be liable 
on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding two pounds." 

B. A. Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 



Form 268. 



Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES, only applicable to works in which 

LEAD OR ARSENIC IS USED IN THE TINNING AND 
ENAMELLING OF IRON HOLLOW WARE. 

duties of occupiers. 

They shall provide washing conveniences with a sufficient supply of hot and 
cold water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels ; and take measures to secure that 
every worker wash face and hands before meals and before leaving the 
works. 

They shall see that no food is eaten in any room where the process of 
tinning or enamelling is carried on. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 
In cases where the co-operation of the workers is required for carrying out 
the foregoing rules, and where such co-operation is not given, the workers shall 
be held liable in accordance with the Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Section 
9, which runs as follows :— " If any person who is bound to observe any 
special rules established for any factory or workshop under this Act, acts in 
contravention of, or fails to comply with, any such special rule, he shall be: 
liable on summary conviction to a fine not exceeding two pounds." 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 



Form 266. 



Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



AMENDED SPECIAL RULES. 



SPINNING AND WEAVING OF FLAX. 

weaving sheds 

(in w^hich artificial humidity is produced). 

Ventilation. — An efficient 14-inch extracting fan shall be provided for every 

2500 square feet of floor surface, such ventilation to be arranged to the. 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 849 

satisfaction of the Inspector of Factories, and to be kept in operation during 
working hours. 

Hu7}iidity. — In every weaving factory where artificial humidity is produced, 
there shall be provided, maintained, and kept in correct working order two 
sets of standardised wet and dry bulb thermometers. A difference of at least 
two degrees shall be kept during working hours between the wet and dry bulbs 
{e.g.. Dry Bulb 75, Wet Bulb 73). 

(i.) One set of thermometers is to be fixed in the centre and one at the side 
of the factory, or in such other position as may be directed or sanctioned by 
an Inspector of Factories, so as to be plainly visible to the operatives. 

(2.) The occupier or manager, or person for the time being in charge of 
each factory, shall read the thermometers twice in the day, viz., between ten 
o'clock and eleven o'clock in the forenoon, and between three o'clock and four 
o'clock in the afternoon, on every day that any operatives are employed in the 
factory, and shall record the readings of each thermometer at each of such 
times on a form provided for the purpose for each set of thermometers, in the 
form and in accordance with the regulations contained in Schedule B. of the 
Cotton Cloth Factories Act, 1889, and the readings indicated at any time by 
the said thermometers shall be taken to represent the actual humidity of the 
room at such time. 

(3.) The form in which the readings of each thermometer provided for in sub- 
section (ii.) of this section are to be recorded shall be kept hung up near the 
thermometers ; and after being duly filled up, shall be forwarded at the end of 
each month to the Inspector of the District, and a copy shall be kept at the 
factory for reference. 

WET SPINNING ROOMS. 

Overalls. — Where splashboards are not provided, waterproof overalls or 
aprons shall be provided by the occupier for all the workers, such overalls 
or aprons to be sufficient to protect the lower part of the chest to the satis- 
faction of the Inspector. 

Troughs. — The lids of the troughs shall be kept in perfect repair to check 
escape of steam. 

Floors. — Floors shall be kept in sound condition so as to prevent retention 
or accumulation of water. 

The same rules shall be adopted with respect to humidity as are required 
in the weaving sheds. 

WET SPINNING ROOMS AND WEAVING FACTORIES. 

Steaftt- Pipes. — Whenever steam is injected into any room, the pipes convey- 
ing the same shall be jacketed with non-conducting composition to the satis- 
faction of the Inspector of Factories. 

ROUGHING AND SORTING AND HAND HACKLING ROOMS. 

Fans. — Exhaust fans shall be provided so as to draw the dust forward and 
down from the face of the worker, unless some other arrangement shall be 
found equally effective, to the satisfaction of the Factory Inspector. 

Respirators. — Respirators shall be provided for the use of the workers, if 
children or young persons, and be worn by them at work. 

MACHINE HACKLING ROOMS. 

Preparation and Card Rooms. 

Fans.—Eyh2LVist fans shall be provided on the side of the room where the 

machines are, and inlets provided from 6 to 7 feet from the ground on the 

opposite side, unless some other arrangement of such fans shall be found 

equally effective. 

Respirators.— Kts^ivditors shall be provided for the use of the workers, if 
children or young persons, and be worn by them at work. 

3H 



850 SPECIAL RULES 



DRESSING ROOMS. 
Ventilation. — Dressing rooms must be ventilated so as to render harmless 
any gas, vapour, or other impurities. 

B. A. Whitelegge, 
Her Majesty^ Chief Inspector of Factories. 
Home Office, M. W. Ridley, 

1 8th April 1 896. One of Her Majesty^ s Principal Secretaries of State. 



Form 270. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



FACTORIES OR WORKSHOPS IN WHICH YELLOW CHROMATE 
OF LEAD IS USED, OR IN WHICH GOODS DYED WITH 
IT UNDERGO THE PROCESSES OF BUNDLING OR NOD- 
DLING, WINDING, REELING, WEAVING, OR ANY OTHER 
TREATMENT. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

They shall provide washing conveniences, with a sufficient supply of hot and 
cold water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels. 

They shall provide respirators and overall suits for the persons employed in 
all dry processes. 

They shall provide fans or other suitable means of ventilation wherever dust 
is generated in the process of manufacture. 

They shall provide a sufficient supply of Epsom salts and of the sanitary 
drink mentioned below, or some other approved by H.M. Inspector of Factories. 
"R*»cr." at i ^ good respirator is a cambric bag with or without a thin 

i^espiraiors -| flexible wire made to fit over the nose. 

{Sulphate of magnesia 2 oz. 
Water . i gallon. 
Essence of lemon, sufficient to flavour. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

Every person to whom is supplied a respirator or overall suit shall wear the 
same when at the special work for which such are provided. 

Every person shall carefully clean and wash hands and face before meals 
and before leaving the works. 

No food shall be eaten in any part of the works in which yellow chromate 
of lead is used in the manufacture. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Under Section 9, Factory Act, 1891, any person who is bound to observe 
any special rules is liable to penalties for non-compliance with such special 
rules. 



Form 271. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



MIXING AND CASTING OF BRASS AND OF 
CERTAIN OTHER ALLOYS. 



SPECIAL RULES. 

Under Section 8 of the Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, and Section 28 
of the Factory and Workshop Act, 1895, for the processes in the mixing and 
casting of Brass, Gun Metal, Bell Metal, White Metal, Delta Metal, Phosphor 
Bronze, and Manilla Mixture. 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 851 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

1. They shall provide adequate means for facilitating, as far as possible, the 
emission or escape from the shop of any noxious fumes or dust arising from the 
above-named processes. Such means shall include the provision of traps or of 
louvre gratings in the roof or ceiling of any shop in which such processes, or 
either of them, is or are carried on ; or in case of a mixing or casting shop 
which is situated under any other shop, there shall be provided an adequate flue 
or shaft (other than any flue or shaft in connection with a furnace or fireplace) 
to carry any fumes from the mixing or casting shop, by or through any such 
shop that may be situated above it. 

2. They shall cause all such mixing or casting shops, whether defined as 
Factories or as Workshops under the Factory and Workshop Act, 1878, to be 
cleaned down and limewashed once at least within every twelve months, or once 
within every six months if so required by notice in writing from H.M. Inspector 
of Factories and Workshops, dating from the time when these were last thus 
cleaned down and limewashed ; and they shall record the dates of such clean- 
ing down and lime washing in a prescribed form of register. 

3. They shall provide a sufficient supply of metal basins, water, and soap, 
for the use of all persons employed in such mixing or casting shops. 

4. They shall not employ, or allow within their Factory or Workshop the 
employment of, any Woman or Female Young Person, in any process what- 
ever, in any such mixing or casting shop, or in any portion thereof which is not 
entirely separated by a partition extending from the floor to the ceiling. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

5. They shall not partake of, or cook any food in any such mixing or cast- 
ing shop, within a period of at least Ten Minutes after the completion of the 
last pouring of metal in that shop. 

B. A. Whitelegge, 
July 10, 1896. H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Note. — Women and Persons under 18 Years of Age are by the 39th section of 
the Factory and Workshop Act, 1878, expressly Forbidden either to Take a Meal or 
to Remain in any casting shop during the time stated on the Notice affixed in the factory 
or workshop as being allowed for meals ; and the obligation of enforcing this section rests 
with the occupier. 

These Rules are required to be posted up in conspicuous places in the 
Factory or Workshop to which they apply, where they may be conveniently 
read by the persons employed. Any person who wilfully injures or defaces 
them is liable to a penalty not exceeding five pounds (Factory and Workshop 
Act, 1891, section 11). Occupiers of factories and workshops, and persons 
employed therein, who are bound to observe any special rules, are liable to 
penalties for non-compliance with the same. (Factory and Workshop Act, 
1891, Sections 9 and 11.) 



Form 272. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



WOOL SORTING. 
duties of occupiers. 

1. Bales of wool or hair shall, whenever opened for the purpose of being 
sorted, be so opened by men skilled in judging of the quality and condition of 
the material. 

2. All Alpaca, Pelitan, Cashmere, Persian, and Camel Hair shall be opened 



85^ SPECIAL RULES 



over a fan with a downward draught, in a room specially set apart for the 
purpose, separate and distinct from any sorting-room and from any room 
in which work (other than opening) is carried on. 

3. Van Mohair shall be washed and sorted while damp, if sorted at all. 
Persian shall be washed or disinfected as far as possible before being sorted. 
Damaged wool or hair, fallen fleeces and foreign skin-wool or hair of the 

descriptions named in Rules 2 and 4 shall be washed before being sorted. 

4. No Alpaca, Pelitan, Cashmere, Persian, Camel Hair, or Mohair shall be 
sorted except in rooms provided with extracting fans, so arranged that each 
sorting-board shall be independently connected with the extracting shaft by 
means of a funnel-shaped opening not less than ten inches across at the top, in 
such manner that the dust may be drawn downwards. The draught shall be 
maintained in constant efficiency while the sorters are at work, and shall be 
such that not less than 75 cubic feet of air per minute are drawn by the fan 
from beneath each sorting-board. 

The extracting shaft shall be cleaned out at least once in each week. 

5. The dust collected by the fan shall be discharged into properly con- 
structed receptacles, and not into the open air. This dust, together with the 
sweepings from the floors and walls of the sorting-room, and from under the 
sorting-boards, shall be removed at least twice a week, and burnt. All pieces 
of skin, scab, and clippings or " shearlings " shall be removed daily from the 
sorting-rooms, and be disinfected or destroyed. All bags in which dangerous 
wool or hair has been imported shall be picked clean and not brushed. 

6. No person having any open cut or sore upon any part of his body shall be 
allowed to sort. 

7. Proper provision shall be made for the keeping of the sorter's clothing 
and food outside of the sorting-room. No meals shall be allowed to be taken 
in the sorting-room. 

During meal hours the windows shall be kept open. 

8. No bale wool or hair shall be stored in a sorting-room, nor wool of any 
description, unless the same be effectually screened off from the sorting-room. 
An air space of at least 1000 cubic feet shall be allowed for each sorter, exclu- 
sive of any portion screened off. 

9. The floor of the sorting-room shall be thoroughly sprinkled daily with a 
disinfectant solution, and swept daily (immediately after sprinkling) after the 
work is done. 

10. The walls and ceilings of the sorting-room shall be lime washed at least 
once a year. 

11. Requisites for treating scratches and slight wounds shall be kept at 
hand. 

12. Proper and sufficient appliances for washing, including basins, water, 
soap, nail-brushes, and towels, shall be provided in or near the sorting rooms, 
for the use of the sorters. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

13. If, on opening a bale of wool or hair, any fallen fleece or damaged 
material is discovered, the person opening the bale shall report the discovery 
immediately to the foreman. 

14. Every sorter having an open cut or sore on any part of his body shall 
immediately report the fact to the foreman. 

15. No sorter shall keep in the sorting-room coats or other articles of 
clothing besides those he is wearing. No meals shall be taken in the sorting- 
room. 

16. If the draught at any sorting-board, or the fan or any other appliance 
necessary to the production of such draught, is found to be out of order, the 
sorter, or any other person becoming aware of the defect, shall report it to the. 
foreman at once. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
October 1897. HM. Chief Inspector of Factories^ 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 853 

Note. — These Rules are required to be posted up in conspicuous places in the Factory 
or Workshop to which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons 
employed. Any person who wilfully injures or defaces them is liable to a penalty not 
exceeding five pounds. Occupiers of factories and workshops, and persons employed 
therein, who are bound to observe these Rules, are liable to penalties in case of non- 
compliance, (Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 11.) 



Forai 272A. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



WOOL SORTING. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

1. Bales of wool or hair shall, whenever opened for the purpose of being 
sorted, be so opened by men skilled in judging of the quality and condition of 
the material. 

2. All Alpaca, Pelitan, Cashmere, and Camel Hair shall be opened over a fan 
with a downward draught, in a room specially set apart for the purpose, 
separate and distinct from any sorting-room, and from any room in which 
work (other than opening) is carried on. All Persian shall be opened and 
sorted in a room specially set apart for this purpose, 

3. Van Mohair shall be washed and sorted while damp, if sorted at all. 
Damaged wool or hair, fallen fleeces and foreign skin-wool or hair of the 

descriptions named in Rules 2 and 4 shall be washed before being sorted. 

4. No Alpaca, Pelitan, Cashmere, Persian, Camel Hair, or Mohair shall be 
sorted except in rooms provided with extracting fans, so arranged that each 
sorting-board shall be independently connected with the extracting shaft by 
means of a funnel-shaped opening not less than ten inches across at the top, in 
such manner that the dust may be drawn downwards. The draught shall be 
maintained in constant efficiency while the sorters are at work, and shall be 
such that not less than 75 cubic feet of air per minute are drawn by the fan 
from beneath each sorting-board. 

The extracting shaft shall be cleaned out at least once in each week. 

5. The dust collected by the fan from the sorting-boards shall be discharged 
into properly constructed receptacles, and not into the open air. This dust, 
together with the sweepings from the floors and walls of the sorting-room, and 
from under the sorting-boards, shall be removed at least twice a week, and 
burnt. All pieces of skin, scab, and clippings or "shearlings" shall be 
removed daily from the sorting-rooms, and be disinfected or destroyed. All 
bags in which dangerous wool or hair has been imported shall be picked clean 
and not brushed. 

6. No person having any open cut or sore upon any part of his body shall 
be allowed to sort. 

7. Proper provision shall be made for the keeping of the sorter's clothing 
and food outside of the sorting-room. No meals shall be allowed to be taken 
in the sorting-room. 

During meal hours the windows shall be kept open. 

8. No bale wool or hair shall be stored in a sorting-room, nor wool of any 
description unless the same be effectually screened off from the sorting-room. 
An air space of at least 1000 cubic feet shall be allowed for each sorter, exclu- 
sive of any portion screened off, 

9. The floor of the sorting-room shall be thoroughly sprinkled daily with a 
disinfectant solution, and swept daily (immediately after sprinkling) after the 
work is done. 

10. The walls and ceilings of the sorting-room shall be limewashed at least 
once a year. 



854 SPECIAL RULES 



11. Requisites for treating scratches and slight wounds shall be kept at 
hand. 

12. Proper and sufficient appliances for washing, including basins, water, 
soap, nail-brushes, and towels, shall be provided in or near the sorting-rooms, 
for the use of the sorters. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

13. If, on opening a bale of wool or hair, any fallen fleece or damaged 
material is discovered, the person opening the bale shall report the discovery 
immediately to the foreman, 

14. Every sorter having an open cut or sore on any part of his body shall 
immediately report the fact to the foreman. 

15. No sorter shall keep in the sorting-room coats or other articles of cloth- 
ing besides those he is wearing. No meals shall be taken in the sorting-room. 

16. If the draught at any sorting-board, or the fan or any other appliance 
necessary to the production of such draught, is found to be out of order, the 
sorter, or any other person becoming aware of the defect, shall report it to the 
foreman at once. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
April 1898. H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Note. — These Rules are required to be posted up in conspicuous places in the Factory 
or Workshop to which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons 
employed. Any person who wilfully injures or defaces them is liable to a penalty not 
exceeding five pounds. Occupiers of factories and workshops, and persons employed 
therein, who are bound to observe these Rules, are liable to penalties in case of non- 
compliance, (Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and ll.) 



Form 273. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



BOTTLING OF AERATED WATER. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

1. Face-guards. — They shall provide all bottlers with face-guards, masks, or 
veils of wire gauze. 

They shall provide all wirers, sighters, and labellers with face-guards, masks, 
or veils of wire gauze, or goggles. 

2. Gauntlets. — They shall provide all bottlers with full-length gauntlets for 
both arms. 

They shall provide all wirers, sighters, and labellers with gauntlets for both 
arms, protecting at least half of the palm and the space between the thumb and 
forefinger. 

3. Fencing. — They shall cause all machines for bottling to be so constructed, 
so placed, or so fenced, as to prevent as far as possible, during the operation of 
filling or corking, a fragment of a bursting bottle from striking any bottler, 
wirer, sighter, labeller, or washer. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

4. Face-guards. — All bottlers shall, while at work, wear face-guards, masks, 
or veils of wire gauze. 

All wirers, sighters, and labellers shall, while at work, wear face-guards, 
masks, or veils of wire gauze, or goggles ; except labellers when labelling 
bottles standing in cases. 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 855 

5. Gauntlets. — All bottlers shall, while at work, wear on both arms full- 
length gauntlets. All wirers, sighters, and labellers shall, while at work, wear 
on both arms gauntlets protecting at least half of the palm and the space 
between the thumb and forefinger ; except labellers when labelling bottles 
standing in cases. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
August 1897. H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the Factory to 
which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. 

Any person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in con- 
travention of them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such case the occupier also is liable to a 
penalty, unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing, and to the 
best of his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 11.) 



Form 274. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



VULCANISING OF INDIA-RUBBER BY MEANS OF BISULPHIDE 

OF CARBON. 

DUTIES OF EMPLOYERS. 

1. No child or young person shall be employed in any room in which 
bisulphide of carbon is used. 

2. After May ist, 1898, no person shall be employed for more than five 
hours in any day in a room in which bisulphide of carbon is used, nor for more 
than two-and-a-half hours at a time without an interval of at least an hour. 

3. In vulcanising waterproof cloth by means of bisulphide of carbon — 

{a) the trough containing the bisulphide of carbon shall be self-feeding 

and covered over ; 
{b) the cloth shall be conveyed to and from the drying chamber by 

means of an automatic machine ; 
{c) no person shall be allowed to enter the drying chamber in the 

ordinary course of work ; 
{d) the machine shall be covered over, and the fumes drawn away from 

the workers by means of a downward suction fan maintained in 

constant efficiency. 

4. Dipping shall not be done except in boxes so arranged that a suction fan 
shall draw the fumes away from the workers. 

5. No food shall be allowed to be eaten in any room in which bisulphide of 
carbon is used. 

6. A suitable place for meals shall be provided. 

7. All persons employed in rooms in which bisulphide of carbon is used 
shall be examined once a month by the Certifying Surgeon for the district, who 
shall, after May ist, 1898, have power to order temporary or total suspension 
from work. 

8. No person sh^ll be employed in any room in which bisulphide of carbon 
is used, contrary to the direction of the Certifying Surgeon given as above. 

9. A Register in the form which has been prescribed by the Secretary of 
State for use in India-rubber Works shall be kept, and in it the Certifying 
Surgeon will enter the dates and result of his visits, with the number of persons 
examined, and particulars of any directions given by him. This Register shall 
contain a list of all persons employed in rooms in which bisulphide of carbon is 
used, and shall be produced at any time when required by H.M. Inspector of 
Factories or by the Certifying Surgeon. 



^$6 - SPECIAL RULES 



DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

10. No person shall enter the drying room in the ordinary course of work, 
or perform dipping except in boxes provided with a suction fan carrying the 
fumes away from the workers. 

11. No person shall take any food in any room in which bisulphide of 
carbon is used. 

12. After May ist, 1898, no person shall, contrary to the direction of the 
Certifying Surgeon, given in pursuance of Rule 7, work in any room in which 
bisulphide of carbon is used. 

13. All persons employed in rooms in which bisulphide of carbon is used 
shall present themselves for periodic examination by the Certifying Surgeon, as 
provided in Rule 7. 

14. It shall be the duty of all persons employed to report immediately to the 
employer or foreman any defect which they may discover in the working of the 
fan or in any appliance required by these rules. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
1897. H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Note. — These Rules are required to be posted up in conspicuous places in the Factory 
or Workshop to which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons 
employed. Any person who wilfully injures or defaces them is liable to a penalty not 
exceeding five pounds. Occupiers of factories and workshops, and persons employed 
therein, who are bound to observe these Rules, are liable to penalties in case of non-com- 
pliance. (Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 11). 



Form 343. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



DRY AND DRYSALTED FOREIGN HIDES AND SKINS, AND 

DRY AND DRYSALTED EAST INDIAN HIDES AND SKINS. 

duties of occupier. 

1. Protection for Neck, Arms, and Hands. — Efficient means of protection for 
the neck, arms, and hands shall be provided for the use of all persons employed 
in unpacking, sorting, packing, handling, or carrying any dry or drysalted foreign 
or East Indian hides or skins. 

2. Storage of Food and Clothing. — Proper provision, to the reasonable satis- 
faction of the Inspector in charge of the District, shall be made for the keeping 
of the workmen's food and clothing outside any room or shed in which any of 
the above described hides or skins are unpacked, sorted, packed, or stored. 

Meals. — No meals shall be allowed to be taken in any such room or shed. 

3. Washing. — Proper and sufficient apphances for washing, comprising soap, 
basins with water laid on, nail-brushes and towels, shall be provided and main- 
tained for the use of the workmen, to the reasonable satisfaction of the Inspector 
in charge of the District. 

4. Dressings. — Stirking plaster, and other requisites for treating scratches and 
slight wounds, shall be Vept at hand, available for the use of the persons employed. 

5. Wounds. — No person having any open cut, scratch, or sore upon face, 
head, neck, arm, or hand shall be allowed to work on the premises until the 
wound is healed, or completely covered by a proper dressing after being 
thoroughly washed. 

6. Note to be Exhibited. — A copy of the appended notes shall be kept affixed 
with the Rules. 

duties of persons employed. 

7. Protection for Neck, Arms, and Hands. — Each person whilst engaged in 
unpacking, sorting, packing, handling, or carrying any dry or drysalted foreign 
or East Indian hides or skins shall use the means of protection provided by the 
Occupier in pursuance of Rule i. 

8. Storage of Food and Clothing. — No workman shall keep any food, or 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 857 



■ any articles of clothing other than those he is wearing, in any room or shed 
"^ in which any dry or drysalted foreign or East Indian hides or skins are handled. 
He shall not take any food in any such room or shed. 

9. Wounds. — Every workman having any open cut or scratch or raw surface 
however trifling, upon his face, head, neck, arm, or hand, shall immediately 
report the fact to the foreman, and shall not work on the premises until the 
wound is healed, or is completely covered by a proper dressing after being 
thoroughly washed. 

• Arthur Whitelegge, 

August 1899. H.M. Chief hispector of Factories. 

Note I. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. Any 
person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contravention 
of them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such cases the occupier also is liable to a penalty, 
unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing, and to the best of 
his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. (Factory 
and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and ir.) 

Note 2. — Nature of the Disease. — The danger against which these Rules are directed 
is that of anthrax — a fatal disease affecting certain animals, which may be conveyed from 
them to man by the handling of hides of animals which have died of the disease. The 
germs of the disease (anthrax spores) are found in the dust and in the substance of the 
hide, and may remain active for years. In this country anthrax is rare, and precautions 
are taken to prevent infected hides from coming into the market, consequently there is 
little danger in handling the hides slaughtered in the United Kingdom : but in Russia, 
China, and the East Indies, and in many other parts of the world, the disease is common, 
and infected hides (which do not differ from others in appearance) are often shipped to 
British ports. Hence in handling foreign dry hides the above Rules should be carefully 
observed. Wet salted hides are free from dust, and less risk is incurred in handling them. 

The disease is communicated to man sometimes by breathing or swallowing the dust 
from an infected hide, but much more usually by the poison lodging in some point where 
the skin is broken : such as a fresh scratch or cut, or a scratched pimple, or even chapped 
hands. This happens most readily on the uncovered parts of the body, the hand, arm, 
face, and most frequently of all on the neck; owing either to an infected hide rubbing 
against the bare skin, or to dust from such a hide alighting on the raw surface. Hence 
the necessity for the coverings required by the Rules. But a raw surface covered by 
clothing is not free from risk, for dust lodging upon the clothes may sooner or later work 
its way to the skin beneath. Infection may also be brought about by rubbing or scratch- 
ing a pimple with hand or nail carrying the anthrax poison. 

The first symptom of anthrax is usually a small inflamed swelling like a pimple or 
boil, often quite painless, which extends, and in a few days becomes black at the centre and 
surrounded by other "pimples." The poison is now liable to be absorbed into the system 
and will cause risk to life, which can be avoided only by prompt and effective medical 
treatment in the early stage while the poison is still confined to the pimple. Hence it is 
of the utmost importance that a doctor should at once be consulted if there is any suspicion 
of infection. 



Form 383. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



WOOL-COMBING. 

For the purpose of Rules 1,2, 12, and 13, " opening'''' of any wool or hair means 
the opening of the fleece., or., if it be not in the fleece., the opening out for 
looking over., or classing purposes. 

duties of employers. 
I. Opening, — No Alpaca, Pelitan, Cashmere, Persian, or Camel Hair shall 
be opened except — 

{a) after steeping in water, or 
\b) over an efficient opening board. 
For the purposes of this Rule, no opening board shall be considered efficient 



858 SPECIAL RULES 



unless, over a central area of four square feet, the linear velocity of air passing 
through the screen shall average at least 1 50 feet per minute for each square 
foot, the measurements to be taken on a uniform system approved by H.M. 
Chief Inspector of Factories ; and no opening board shall have an area of less 
than seven square feet. 

2. All badly-damaged wool or hair, fallen fleeces, and skin, wool, or hair of 
the kinds named in Rule i, shall be opened by an experienced man in the 
manner prescribed in Rule i, and damped with a disinfectant and then washed 
without being willowed. 

3. Every bale of Van Mohair shall be steeped in water before being 
opened. 

4. Willowing. — No Alpaca, Pelitan, Cashmere, Persian, Camel Hair, or 
Mohair shall be willowed except in a separate room provided with an efficient 
exhaust fan so arranged as to draw the dust away from the workmen and 
prevent it from entering the air of the room. 

No wool or hair shall be stored in a willowing room. 

The floor of every such room shall be sprinkled daily with a disinfectant 
solution and swept immediately after sprinkling. 

The walls and ceilings of every such room shall be limewashed at least once 
a year and swept down at least once a month. 

5. Dust. — The dust collected by the willows or other dust extracting 
machines and from the opening boards shall be discharged intp properly 
constructed receptacles, and not into the open air. This dust shall be 
removed at least once a week. 

6. Storage of Clothing and Food. — Suitable provision shall be made for keep- 
ing the clothing and food of all persons who are employed in the warehouse, or 
in any room in which is carried on willowing or opening, or any other process 
through which the wool or hair passes before being washed. 

7. Wounds. — No person having any open cut or sore upon any part of the 
body shall be employed in a place specified in Rule 6. 

8. Meals. — No person shall be allowed to prepare or partake of any food in 
a place specified in Rule 6, or in a carding room. 

9. Lavatories. — Sufficient and suitable washing conveniences shall be 
provided and maintained for all persons employed in the places specified 
in Rule 6. 

The washing conveniences shall comprise soap, nail-brushes, and towels, 
and at least one wash-hand basin for every five persons employed as above, 
each basin being fitted with a waste-pipe and having a constant supply of 
water laid on. 

10. Dressings. — Requisites for treating scratches and slight wounds shall 
be kept at hand. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

11. Opening. — If, on opening a bale, any fallen fleeces or damaged material 
is discovered, the person opening the bale shall report the discovery immedi- 
ately to the foreman. 

12. No Alpaca, Pelitan, Cashmere, Persian, or Camel Hair shall be opened 
otherwise than as permitted by Rule i. 

13. No badly damaged wool or hair, fallen fleeces, or skin, wool, or 
hair of the kinds named in Rule i shall be opened otherwise than as permitted 
by Rule 2. 

14. No bale of Van Mohair shall be opened otherwise than as permitted by 
Rule 3. 

15. Willowing. — No Alpaca, Pelitan, Cashmere, Persian, Camel Hair, or 
Mohair shall be willowed except as permitted by Rule 4. 

16. Wounds. — Any person employed in a place specified in Rule 6, and 
having an open cut or sore upon any part of the body, shall immediately report 
the fact to the foreman. 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 859 

17. Storage of Clothing and Food. — No clothing or food shall be kept in any 
place specified in Rule 6. 

18. Meals. — No person shall prepare or partake of food in a place 
specified in Rule 6, or in a carding room, or bring any food into such 
room. 

19. Washing. — No person employed in any place specified in Rule 6 
shall leave the works or partake of meals without previously washing his or her 
hands. 

20. Failure of Fan, etc. — If the fan or any other appliance necessary for the 
carrying out of these Rules is out of order, any workman becoming aware of the 
defect shall immediately report the fact to the foreman. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 
May 1900. 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the persons employed. Any 
person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contravention of 
them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such cases the occupier also is liable to a penalty, 
unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing, and to the best of 
his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1 89 1, Sections 9 and 11.) 



Form 384. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 

SPECIAL RULES. 



LUCIFER MATCH FACTORIES IN WHICH WHITE OR YELLOW 
PHOSPHORUS IS USED. 

Definitions. — In these Rules "phosphorus process" means mixing, dipping, 
drying, boxing, and any other work or process in which White or Yellow 
Phosphorus is used ; and " persons employed in a phosphorus process " means 
any person who is employed in any room or part of the factory where such a 
process is carried on. 

" Double-dipped matches " means wood splints, both ends of which have 
been dipped in the igniting composition. 

" Certifying Surgeon " means a Surgeon appointed under the Factory and 
Workshop Acts. 

Any approval or decision given by the Chief Inspector of Factories in 
pursuance of these Rules shall be given in writing, and may at any time be 
revoked by notice in writing signed by him. 

Date of Commencement of Certain Rules. — Rules 5 («), 5 (3), 6, 8, and 19, so 
far as they affect the employment of adult workers, shall not come into force 
until the ist day of October 1900. 

DUTIES OF EMPLOYERS. 

1. Plans. — No part of a lucifer match factory shall be constructed, structur- 
ally altered, or newly used for the carrying on of any phosphorus process, 
unless the plans have previously been submitted in duplicate to the Chief 
Inspector of Factories, and unless he shall have approved the plans in writing, 
or shall not, within six weeks from the submission of the plans, have expressed 
his disapproval in writing of the same. 

2. Every room in which mixing, dipping, drying, or boxing is carried on — 

Ventilation. — Shall be efficiently ventilated by means of sufficient open- 
ings to the outer air, and also by means of fans, unless the use of 
fans is dispensed with by order in writing of the Chief Inspector ; 



86o SPECIAL RULES 



Air Space. — Shall contain at least 400 cubic feet of air space for each 

person employed therein ; and in computing this air space no height 

above 14 feet shall be taken into account ; 
Lighting. — Shall be efficiently lighted ; 
Floor. — Shall have a smooth and impervious floor. A floor laid with 

flagstones or hard bricks in good repair shall be deemed to constitute 

a smooth and impervious floor. c: sir.;--^'" 

3. Separate Roo77ts. — {a) The processes of mixing, dipping, and drying shall 
each be done in a separate and distinct room. The process of boxing double- 
dipped matches or matches not thoroughly dry shall also be done in a separate 
and distinct room. These rooms shall not communicate with any other part of 
the factory unless there shall be a ventilated space intervening ; nor shall they 
communicate with one another, except by means of doorways with closely-fitting 
doors, which doors shall be kept shut except when some person is passing 
through. 

Mixing. — {b) Mixing shall not be done except in an apparatus so closed, or 
so arranged, and ventilated by means of a fan, as to prevent the entrance of 
fumes into the air of the mixing room. 

Dipping.— {c) Dipping shall not be done except on a slab provided with an 
efficient exhaust fan, and with an air inlet between the dipper and the slab, or 
with a hood, so arranged as to draw the fumes away from the dipper, and to 
prevent them from entering the air of the dipping room. 

Drying. — id) Matches that have been dipped and cannot at once be 
removed to the drying room shall immediately be placed under a hood provided 
with an efficient exhaust fan, so arranged as to prevent the fumes from entering 
the air of the room. 

{e) Matches shall not be taken to a boxing room not arranged in compli- 
ance with sub-section (/) of this Rule until they are thoroughly dry, and 
matches shall not be taken to a boxing room that is so arranged until they- are 
dried so far as they can be before cutting down and boxing. 

Boxing. — (/■) Cutting down of double-dipped matches and boxing of 
matches not thoroughly dry shall not be done except at benches or tables 
provided with an efficient exhaust fan, so arranged as to draw the fumes away 
from the worker and prevent them from entering the air of the boxing room. 

Mechanical arra?tgenients obviating Hand Labour. — Provided that the fore- 
going Rule shall not prevent the employment of any mechanical arrangement 
"for carrying on any of the above-mentioned processes if the same be approved 
by the Chief Inspector as obviating the use of hand labour, and if it be used 
subject to the conditions (if any) specified in such approval. 

Provided further, that if the Chief Inspector shall, on consideration of the 
special circumstances of any particular case, so approve in writing, all or any of 
the provisions of the foregoing Rule may be suspended for the time named in 
such approval in writing. 

4. Phosphorus Paste. — Vessels containing phosphorus paste shall, when not 
actually in use, be kept constantly covered, and closely fitting covers or damp 
flannels shall be provided for the purpose. 

5. Appointed Dentist. — {a) For the purposes of these Rules the occupier 
shall appoint, subject to the approval of the Chief Inspector, a duly qualified 
and registered Dentist, herein termed the Appointed Dentist. 

Suspension. — It shall be the duty of the Appointed Dentist to suspend from 
employment in any phosphorus process any person whom he finds to incur 
danger of phosphorus necrosis by reason of defective conditions of teeth or 
exposure of the jaw. 

Preliminary Exa7nination.—{b) No person shall be newly employed in a 
dipping room for more than 28 days, whether such days are consecutive or not, 
without being examined by the Appointed Dentist. 

Periodical Examination. — {c) Every person employed in a phosphorus 
process, except persons employed only as boxers of wax vestas or other 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 861 

^ 

thoroughly dry matches, shall be examined by the Appointed Dentist at least 
once in every three months. 

Special Examination in case of Toothache, etc. — {d) Any person employed in 
the factory complaining of toothache, or a pain or swelling of the jaw, shall at 
once be examined by the Appointed Dentist. 

Reference of Cases to Certifying Surgeon. — {e) When the Appointed Dentist 
has reason to believe that any person employed in the factory is suffering from 
inflammation or necrosis of the jaw, or is in such a state of health as to incur 
danger of phosphorus necrosis, he shall at once direct the attention of the 
Certifying Surgeon and occupier to the case. Thereupon such person shall at 
once be examined by the Certifying Surgeon. 

6. Exclusion of Certain Persons from Employment in Phosphorus Processes. 
— No person shall be employed in a phosphorus process — 

after suspension by the Appointed Dentist ; or 

after the extraction of a tooth ; or 

after any operation involving exposure of the jaw-bone ; or 

after inflammation or necrosis of the jaw ; or 

after examination by the Appointed Dentist in pursuance of Rule 5 {d) ; 

or after reference to the Certifying Surgeon in pursuance of Rule 5 {e), 
unless a certificate of fitness has been given, after examination, by signed 
entry in the health register, by the Appointed Dentist or by the Certifying 
Surgeon in cases referred to him under Rule (5) {e). 

7. Health Register. Entries by Occupier. — A health register, in a form 
approved by the Chief Inspector of Factories, shall be kept by the occupier, 
and shall contain a complete list of all persons employed in each phosphorus 
process, specifying with regard to each such person the full name, address, age 
when first employed, and date of first employment. 

Entries by Certifying Surgeon. — The Certifying Surgeon will enter in the 
health register the dates and results of his examinations of persons employed 
in phosphorus processes, and particulars of any directions given by him. 

Entries by Appointed Dentist. — The Appointed Dentist will enter in the 
health register the dates and results of his examinations of the teeth of persons 
employed in phosphorus processes, and particulars of any directions given by 
him, and a note of any case referred by him to the Certifying Surgeon. 

Health Register to be produced when required. — The health register shall 
be produced at any time when required by H.M. Inspectors of Factories, or by 
the Certifying Surgeon, or by the Appointed Dentist. 

8. Preliminary Examinatiofi by Certifying Surgeon. Certificate of Fitness. — 
Except persons whose names are on the health register mentioned in Rule 7, 
and in respect of whom certificates of fitness shall have been granted, no person 
shall be newly employed in any phosphorus process for more than 28 days, 
whether such days are consecutive or not, without a certificate of fitness, granted 
after examination by the Certifying Surgeon, by signed entry in the health 
register. 

This Rule shall not apply to persons employed only as boxers of wax vestas 
or other thoroughly dry matches. 

9. Overalls. — The occupier shall provide and maintain sufficient and suit- 
able overalls for all persons employed in phosphorus processes, except for 
persons employed only as boxers of wax vestas or other thoroughly dry 
matches, and shall cause them to be worn as directed in Rule 20. 

At the end of every day's work they shall be collected and kept in proper 
custody in a suitable place set apart for the purpose. 

They shall be thoroughly washed every week, and suitable arrangements 
for this purpose shall be made by the occupier. 

10. The occupier shall provide and maintain^ 

{a) Dining-room. — A dining-room, and 

{b) Cloak-room. — A cloak-room in which workers can deposit clothing 
put off during working hours. 



862 SPECIAL RULES 



11. Food. — No person shall be allowed to prepare or partake of any food or 
drink in any room in which a phosphorus process is carried on, nor to bring any 
food or drink into such room. 

12. Lavatory. — The occupier shall provide and maintain for the use of the 
workers a lavatory, with soap, nail-brushes, towels, and at least one lavatory 
basin for every five persons employed in any phosphorus process. 

Each such basin shall be fitted with a waste-pipe, or the basins shall be 
placed on a trough fitted with a waste-pipe. There shall be a constant supply 
of hot and cold water laid on to each basin. 

Or, in the place of basins, the occupier shall provide and maintain enamel 
or galvanised iron troughs, in good repair, of a total length of 2 feet for every 
five persons employed, fitted with waste-pipes and without plugs, with a suffi- 
cient supply of warm water constantly available. 

The lavatory shall be kept thoroughly cleansed, and shall be supplied with a 
sufficient quantity of clean towels twice in each day. 

Additional means of Washing where required. — There shall, in addition, be 
means of washing in close proximity to the workers in any department, if so 
required in writing by the Inspector in charge of the District. 

13. Mouth-wash. — The occupier shall provide for the use of every person 
employed in a phosphorus process an antiseptic mouth-wash approved by the 
Appointed Dentist, and a sufficient supply of glasses or cups. 

14. Cleansing of Floors. — The floor of each room in which a phosphorus 
process is carried on shall be cleared of waste at least once a day, and washed 
at least once a week. 

15. Copy of Rules to be given to Persons Employed. — A printed copy of these 
Rules shall be given to each person on entering upon employment in a 
phosphorus process. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

16. Use of Appliances provided by Occupier under Rule 3. — No person shall 
work in a mixing, dipping, drying, or boxing room under other conditions than 
those prescribed in Rule 3. 

17. Phosphorus Paste. — No person shall allow a vessel containing phos- 
phorus paste to remain uncovered except when actually in use. 

18. Medical and Dental Examination. — All persons employed in a phosphorus 
process shall present themselves at the appointed times for examination by the 
Certifying Surgeon and Appointed Dentist, as provided in Rules 5, 6, and 8. 

19. Toothache., etc., to be reported. Exclusiotifrom Employ fuent in Phosphorus 
Processes. — Every person employed in a phosphorus process and suffering from 
toothache or swelling of the jaw : or having had a tooth extracted, or having 
undergone any other operation involving exposure of the jaw, shall at once 
inform the occupier, and shall not resume employment in a phosphorus process 
without a certificate of fitness from the Appointed Dentist, as provided in 
Rule 6. 

No person, after suspension by the Appointed Dentist, or after reference to 
the Certifying Surgeon, shall resume employment in a phosphorus process 
without a certificate of fitness, as provided in Rule 6. 

20. Overalls. — Every person employed in a phosphorus process for whom 
the occupier is required by Rule 9 to provide overalls shall wear while at work 
the overalls so provided. 

2 1 . Washing. — Every person employed in a phosphorus process shall, before 
partaking of meals or leaving the premises, deposit the overalls in the place 
appointed by the occupier for the purpose, and shall thoroughly wash in the 
lavatory. 

22. Food. — No person shall prepare or partake of food or drink in any room 
in which a phosphorus process is being carried on, or bring any food or drink 
into such room. 

23. Means of Removal of Dust and Fumes not to be interfered with.—Y^o 



W" person sh 



I 



FACTORY AND WORKSHOP ACTS, 1878-95 863 

— » 

person shall in any way interfere, without the knowledge and concurrence of 
the occupier or manager, with the means and appliances provided for the 
removal of dust and fumes. 

24. Foremen to Report Neglect of Rules. — Foremen and forewomen shall 
report to the manager any instance coming under their notice of a worker 
neglecting to observe these Rules. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 

Chief Inspector of Factories. 
M. W. Ridley, 
April 1900. One of Her Majesty's Principal 

Secretaries of State. 

Mote. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory to 
■which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by persons employed. Any 
person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contravention to 
them, is liable to a penalty, and in such cases the occupier also is liable to a penalty, 
unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing^, and to the best 
of his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1 891, Sections 9 and 11.) 



Form 385. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RUL^S.for works in which 
LEAD OR ARSENIC IS USED IN THE TINNING AND ENAMEL- 
LING OF METAL HOLLOW WARE AND COOKING UTENSILS. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 

Washing, — They shall provide washing conveniences, with a sufficient 
supply of hot and cold water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels ; and take 
measures to secure that every worker wash face and hands before meals and 
before leaving the works. 

Meals. — They shall see that no food is eaten in any room where the process 
of tinning or enamelling is carried on. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

Washing. — Every worker shall wash face and hands before meals and 
before leaving the works. 

Meals. — No worker shall eat food in any room where the process of tinning 
or enamelling is carried on. 

Arthur Whitelegge, 
HM. Chief Inspector of Factories. 

Note. — These Rules must be kept posted up in conspicuous places in the factory 
to which they apply, where they may be conveniently read by the person employed. 
Any person who is bound to observe these Rules and fails to do so, or acts in contra- 
vention of them, is liable to a penalty ; and in such cases the occupier also is liable to a 
penalty unless he proves that he has taken all reasonable means by publishing, and to the 
best of his power enforcing the Rules, to prevent the contravention or non-compliance. 
(Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Sections 9 and 1 1.) 



Form 386. 

Factory and Workshop Acts, 1878 to 1895. 



SPECIAL RULES. 



ELECTRIC ACCUMULATOR WORKS. 

DUTIES OF OCCUPIERS. 
Bath., Lavatory. — They shall provide a bath and lavatory accommodation, 
with a plentiful supply of hot and cold water, soap, nail-brushes, and towels. 



864 SPECIAL RULES 



Respirators^ Overalls. — They shall provide respirators and overall suits for 
all persons employed in the operation of mixing. 

Gloves and Aprons. — They shall provide gloves and aprons for all persons 
employed in the occupation of rubbing. 

They shall see that the gloves are constantly inspected and renewed when 
defective. 

DUTIES OF PERSONS EMPLOYED. 

In cases where the co-operation of the workers is required for carrying out 
the foregoing Rules, and where such co-operation is not given, the workers shall 
be held liable in accordance with the Factory and Workshop Act, 1891, Section 
9, which runs as follows : — " If any person who is bound to observe any special 
rules established for any factory or workshop under this Act acts in contraven- 
tion of, or fails to comply with, any such special rule, he shall be liable on 
summary conviction to a fine not exceeding two pounds." 

Respirators. — A good respirator is a cambric bag with or without a thin 
flexible wire made to fit over the nose. 



Arthur Whitelegge, 
H.M. Chief Inspector of Factories. 



INDEX 



Abel, Sir Frederick, process of treating 
gun-cotton, 600 ; on tonite, 611, 

Aberdeen granite workers, suffer from 
chronic bronchitis, 275. 

Abruzzi, lathyrism in the, 235. 

Academie de Medecine (Paris), 57, 793. 

Academie des Sciences (Paris), 114, 434. 

Accident Insurance Associations (Germany), 
50, 60, 512, 

Accidents, in mines, ll, 12, 33, 157, 158, 
161, 200, 508-33, 783 ; in textile and 
non-textile industries, 12, 200 ; their 
prevention in factories, 54 ; to occupied 
and unoccupied males, 164; on sailing- 
and steam-ships, 184; on railways, igo- 
202 ; in agriculture, 236, 783 ; in electric 
works, 260; caused by grindstones, 412, 
784; to bargemen, 530; well-sinkers, 
542 ; quarriers, 560 ; in manufacture and 
use of explosives, 601-9 ; in tinplate 
works, 683 ; aerated water works, 687, 
786 ; to eyes, in industrial occupations, 
776-87 ; in iron and steel works, 777 ; 
boiler, 787. 

Acetylene and its dangers, 497-504. 

Acne in rag-grinders, 467. 

Actinomycosis, disease caused by infected 
grain, 248. 

Addison, Dr, 382. 

Adenitis in label-lickers, 803. 

Administrative decrees for sanitary regula- 
tion of factories in France and Belgium, 

55, 56. 
Admiralty adopts eight hours' day, 8. 
Aerated water works, women employed in, 

687-90 ; Special Rules, 687, 854 ; eye 

accidents in, 786. 
Africa, pellagra in, 235. 
Africa, South, enteric fever in, 175, 176, 

178. 
Africa, West Coast of, 171. 
After-damp, in mines, 548-53. 
Age, mortality of occupations in relation 

to, 127-29. 
Agriculture, 232-37 ; machinery accidents 

in, 236 ; eye accidents, 783. 
Agriculturists, I20 ; mortality tables, 135, 

149. 
Ague, brass-founders , 144, 455-62. 
865 



Air, of mines, 540-56 ; of jute factories, 657 ; 
diseases due to compressed and stagnant 
(in caissons, tunnels, etc.), 728-48 ; to 
diminished pressure of, 749 ; to con- 
cussion of, 752. 

Alabaster quarries, 558. 

Albuminate of mercury, 437. 

Alcohol and fatigue, 113. 

Alcoholism, mortality among cutlers, 138, 
595 ; glassmakers, 139, 595 ; chimney 
sweeps, 146; musicians, 151 ; hatters, 
152 ; hairdressers, 153 ; tailors, 153, 154 ; 
drapers, 1 54, 1 55 ; shoemakers, 155, 824 ; 
miners, 157, 160, 161, 405 ; occupied 
and unoccupied men, 164, 595, 720 ; in 
mercantile marine, 183, 185 ; predisposes 
to plumbism, 305, 310 ; quarriers, 563 ; 
chemical workers, 572 ; file-cutters, 
copper workers, carpenters, earthenware 
makers, 595 ; brewers, 595, 801 ; hecklers 
and roughers, 697 ; agriculturists, cotton 
operatives, 720; drivers of public vehicles, 
798, 801; publicans and innkeepers, 801 ; 
coal heavers and trimmers, 808. 

Alkali Acts, 588,597. 

Alkali, manufacture of, 582 ; hours of 
workers in, 586. 

Alkali Union, 586, 588, 589. 

Allahabad, lathyrism at, 235. 

Allbutt's System of Medicine^ 309, 477, 819, 
822. 

A llgm. Medic. Central Zeitung^ 474. 

Almaden (Spain), quicksilver mines, 434, 
438, 538. 

Alpaca, 634. 

Alpine tunnels, the, 737-43. 

Alstrom, Mr (Rorstrand Potteries, Stock- 
holm), 363. 

Amalgamated Brass- Workers' Association, 
461. 

Amberite, sporting powder, 619. 

Amblyopia, blindness caused by bisulphide 
of carbon, 473, 768 ; by dinitrobenzine, 
482 ; in tobacco factories, 768, 769. 

America, railways in, 197, 198 ; all file- 
cutting done by machinery, 346 ; fire- 
clay mines, 399, 400 ; mercurial poison- 
ing from hatters furriers' processes in, 
442 ; mining accidents, 521, 522 ; alkali 

3 I 



866 



INDEX 



works in, 598 ; telegraphists' spasm in, 
820. 

American, or Blake machine, in shoe- 
factories, 436, 825. 

Ammonia soda process, 583. 

Ammonite, for blasting, 619. 

Ammonium-nitrate explosives, 603, 605, 
606, 612, 615, 619. 

Ammunition, manufacture of, 602, 603, 
606. 

Amorphous, or red, phosphorus, 417-19. 

Am vis, for blasting, 619. 

Anchylosis, 233. 

Anchylostomiasis, 16 ; in miners, 537 ; in 
tunnel miners ("maladie des tunnels"), 

743- 

Anderson, Miss A. M., 363, 671. 

Andes, the, 749. 

Andrews, Dr F. W., pathologist at St 
Bartholomew's Hospital, 400 ; on tetanus 
in jute-workers, 659. 

Aneurism, affects sailors, 183, 184 ; butchers, 
slaughterers, and tanners, 246 ; (popli- 
teal) common in jockeys and grooms, 

245. 

Aniline, 483, 591. 

Aniline dyes, 317. 

Ankle drop, a symptom of plumbism, 306. 

Annales d Hygiene publique^ 442, 448, 806. 

Annales des Mines de Belgique, 537. 

Annealing, in glass manufacture, 805. 

Annuaire de la Legislation du Travail 
(Belgium), 45. 

Annual Register^ 192. 

Anthracene, 812. 

Anthracosis, or miners' phthisis, 273 ; 
stokers', 797. 

Anthrax (charbon, splenic fever), 13, 19; 
in woolworkers, 148, 244, 634-43 ; 
drovers, shepherds, farmers, farriers, veteri- 
nary surgeons, knackers, slaughterers, 
fell-mongers, hair- and horn-workers, rag- 
sorters, plasterers, furriers, felt-workers, 
mattress - makers, 244 ; brush - workers, 
244, 627 ; tanners, 244, 246 ; its history, 
622.; statistics, 623; outbreaks and 
notification of, 625, 626 ; grouping of 
cases, 627 ; preventive measures, dis- 
infection and treatment, 629-33, 643 ; 
cutaneous, 636 ; pulmonary, 637 ; in- 
testinal, 641. 

Antimony, smelting of, 270 ; poisoning by, 
324, 325 ; compounds of, 592. 

Apoplexy, heat, 171, 175, 180; the " fire- 
man's frenzy" of stokers, 183, 184. 

Appendicitis, 17. 

Arbeiten aus dem Kaiserlichen Gesundheit- 
samte, 320, 368, 436, 448, 625, 632. 

Arbitration, and Factory Act of 1901, 5 ; 
the principle of, 32 ; for mines, 37, 39 ; 
and Special Rules, 65-71 ; match manu- 
facturers, 423. 

Arbitration Court at Stoke-on-Trent, 363. 

Archiv. de Med. Milit.., 750. 



Ardeer, Scotland, nitro-glycerine explosion 
at, 609. 

Arlidge, Dr, Hygiene and Diseases of Occu- 
pations, 137, 139, 140, 274, 302, 328, 
354, 380, 382, 384, 388, 467, 468, 498, 
698, 759; ^^^^ Sanitation 0/ Industries 
and Occupations, 396. 

Armstrong, Dr Henry E., Medical Officer 
of Health, Newcastle, 328, 753, 

Army, health of the, 166-81. 

Arnaud, Dr, Marseilles, 424. 

Arsenic, used for colouring purposes, 378 ; 
symptoms and treatment of poisoning by, 
455 ; compounds of, 592 ; its effects on 
eyes, 770 ; Special Rules for extraction 
of, 831. 

Arsenical pyrites, 538. 

Arseniuretted hydrogen, 750. 

Artificially- v. breast-fed children, 85. 

Artisans and labourers, working - classes, 
divided into, ill. 

Asbestos, 25. 

Ashanti Expeditions (1873 and 1895-96), 
"doctors' wars," 173, 180, 181. 

Ashley, Lord, 33. 

Askam separator, for basic slag, 391. 

Asprieres, Aveyron, lead mining at, 284. 

Asquith, H. H,, 75, 354, 462, 468. 

Asthma, induced by bichromate, 452 ; in 
' rag-sorters, 645 ; flax-workers, 698 ; 
sawyers, 791. 

Ataxia, locomotor, 802. 

Atkinson, Dr, Crewe, 796. 

Atkinson, W. N., 541. 

Atropin, antidote to mushroom poisoning, 

237. . 

Australia, eight hours' day in, 7 ; anchylos- 
tomiasis among miners, 537. 

Austria, factory legislation in, 46, 51, 54 ; 
inspectorate in, 47, 48 ; powers of health 
authorities, 49-51 ; employment of 
women after childbirth, 54 ; lucifer 
match industry in, 421, 422. 

Austrian Industrial Code, 46. 

Automatic couplings, on railways, 193, 
197, 201. 

Babes, Dr, Bucharest, 244. 
Bacteriological Laboratory at Dey, Algiers, 

803. 
Bagehot, Walter, 64. 
Baker, Mr, Chief of Factory Department 

35, 81, 696. 
Bakers, death rate, 135, 505. 
Ballard, Dr, 392. 
Ballistite, 600, 619. 
Balloonists, military, 750. 
Balmskz, Dr, 481. 
Bamberg, Dr, Stockholm, 379. 
Bands, scroll- or draw-, 225. 
Bargemen, accident death rate, 530. 
Barium, compounds of, 592. 
Barium nitrate, in explosives, 611. 
Barium sulphate, 294, 366. 



INDEX 



867 



Barmen, high mortality of, 800. 

Barometer-makings, 439. 

Barracks, military, 168. 

Bartholomew, Gilbert, Managing Director 
of Bryant & May, 432. 

Basalt or whinstone quarries, 558. 

Basic slag, 276, 390-95 ; pulmonary symp- 
toms in grinders of, 393 ; silicate of 
cotton made from refuse, 788. 

Batch, fused mass of chrome, ironstone, 
etc., 449. 

Bateman, Dr, 434. 

Batley, rag-trade at, 644. 

Battelli, Dr, Geneva University, 258. 

Bayer, Dr, 284. 

Beach, Sir Michael Hicks-, 193. 

Beaconsfield, Lord, 192. 

Becourt, M,, 448, 

Bedson, Professor of Chemistry, Newcastle 
College of Science, 301, 303, 310, 369. 

Bee-stings, among field-workers, 236. 

Beetling machines (linen manufacture), 
695. 

Belfast, centre of linen trade, 695. 

Belgian Mills Co., Pearson 7/., 213. 

Belgian Superior Council of Labour, 14. 

Belgium, colliers' diseases in, 16 ; factory 
legislation and inspectorate in, 47, 49, 
51 ; employment of women after child- 
birth, 53 ; use of white phosphorus 
limited in, 60 ; fire-clay mining in, 399 ; 
lucifer match industry, 421, 424 ; phos- 
phorus necrosis in, 428 ; mining accidents, 
512, 519 ) anchylostomiasis in miners, 
537 ; alkali works, 598 ; miners' nys- 
tagmus in, 764 ; chimney sweeps, 811. 

Bell, Sir Charles, 815. 

Bellhangers, death rate, 755. 

Bellite, for blasting, 619. 

Belts and mill-gearing, 205, 208-II ; shaft- 
ings, pulleys, couplings, etc., 209. 

Benefit Societies of the Printers and Type- 
casters of Vienna, 275. 

Benzine, and its dinitro compounds, 475. 

Benzine, dry cleaning by, 49 1 -3. 

Berg-^ Huiten-, und Salinen-wesen im 
Preussischen Staate^ Zeitschrift fur des^ 

518, 537- 

Berg- und Hutlen - wesen rni Konigreiche 
Sachsen, Jahrhuckfiir das^ c^l2>. 

Beriberi, seamen liable to, 183, 187. 

Berichte iiher die Verwaliung der Knapp- 
schafts-Bertifsgenossenschaft^ 5 1 7 , 

Berkfeld, his bacterial filter, 1 75. 

Berlin, printers in, 325 ; manufacture of 
incandescent electric lamps in, 439, 

Berlin International Conference on Fac- 
tories, 40. 

Berlin. Klin. Wochenschrift, 805. 

Bermondsey, case of anthrax in, 629. 

Bernard, Claude, 550. 

Bert, Paul, French physiologist, 736. 

Bertarelli, M., 431. 

Berthelot, Professor, 599. 



Besan9on process for treating white lead, 
290, 294. 

Bessemer metal, heat of, 772. 

Bessemer process of steel manufacture, 
758. 

Bevel wheels (mill-gearing), 212, 217. 

Bichat Hospital, Paris, lead colic patients 
in, 320. 

Bichloride of mercury (corrosive sublimate), 
442, 443. 

Bichromate of potassium and sodium 
(bi chromes), lesions resulting from manu- 
facture and use of, 447-54 ; Special 
Rules for manufacture, 844. 

Bilston, hollow ware tinning and enamel- 
ling works at, 319. 

Birmingham, infant mortality in, 78 ; iron- 
plate enamelling at, 317 ; sheet glass 
manufacture in, 804. 

Birmingham Medical Review.^ 458. 

Birmingham, Dr C. L., Canister Disease.^ 
.396, 399. 

Birtwisile, Hindle »., 214. 

Bischof process, in white lead manufacture, 
292, 

Biscuit, earthenware after its first firing, 
.348, 383. 

Bismarck brown pigment, 483. 

Bisulphide of carbon, poisoning by, 19, 42, 
481 ; used in indiarubber works, 470, 
855 ; causes peripheral neuritis, 472 ; 
and toxic hysteria, 473 ; its effects on 
eyes, 768 ; Special Rules for use of, 

.855, 

Bituminous coal mines, America, 522. 

Blackbeck, Haverthwaite, gunpowder ex- 
plosions at, 608, 609. 

Blackburn, cotton spinning at, 706 ; death 
rate of cotton operatives in, 718. 

Blackburn Observatory, daily records of 
moisture in weaving sheds, 710. 

Black -damp, in mines, 540-45. 

Blackman's ventilating fan, 698. 

Blacksmiths, their diseases and death rate, 

135, 757. 
Blackwall Tunnel, 730. 
Blake sole-stitching machine, 436, 825. 
Blanket-stoving, 648 ; causes bronchitis 

and emphysema, 649. 
Blast furnacemen, their diseases, 756. 
Blasting explosives, 559, 619 ; fumes pro- 
duced in mines by, 536 ; eye accidents 

from, 784. 
Blasting gelatine (nitro-cotton dissolved 

into nitro - glycerine), 555, 559, 614, 

619. 
Blaudet, M., 468. 
Bleach packers, 577, 578. 
Bleaching linen, 695. 
Bleaching powder, manufacture of, 574-80 ; 

hours of work, etc., 587. 
Blindness, caused by accidents, 776. 
Bloomfontein, 178. 
Blowing room (cotton spinning), 702. 



868 



INDEX 



Blue and white beds, in a lead factory, 

289. 
Blyth, Wynter, 310. 
Board of Trade, and railways, 191-202, 
Bobbin-turners (jute works), 652. 
Boers, the, 179, 
Bohemia, ergotism in, 234 ; lucifer match 

works in, 422. 
Boiler Explosives Act, 565. 
Boilermakers, their deafness, 752 ; their 

health, 753, 754. 
Boilermakers' Society, 752. 
Bolam, Dr R. A., 274, 277, 337, 792. 
Bolt-heads and bolts for mill-gearing, 209. 
Bones, fragility of, in lucifer match makers, 

425 

Bookbinders, death rate, 150. 

Bootmaking, 822. 

Bottlers, of aerated water, 687 ; eye acci- 
dents to, 786. 

Bouquet, M., 57. 

Bourgeois, La Pustule Maligne et UCEdeme 
Malin^ 636. 

Bournemouth, horses killed by electric 
shock at, 256, 

Boyce, Professor, 629. 

Boys, Professor C. V., 259. 

Bradford, School Board and Board of 
Guardians Conference at, 91 ; wool in- 
dustry at, 634. 

Brain work, and brain fatigue, 109. 

Brakesmen, railway, 195. 

Brandt, of Hamburg, discovers white or 
yellow phosphorus, 418. 

Brandt, Brandau et Cie., Zurich, 740. 

Brass, manufacture of, 455-66, 

Brass-casters, 455, 461. 

Brass cocks, buffing of, 371. 

Brass-founders' ague, 144, 455-62. 

Brass-workers, death rate, 135, 144 ; more 
unhealthy than copper-, 468 ; Special 
Rules, 850. 

Brass-workers' Organisation, 460. 

Brazil, pellagra in, 235. 

Breaker card (jute), 653 ; (flax), 694. 

Breaker-mills, for ganister crushing, 397. 

Brewers, death rate, 594, 595, 801. 

Brickearth quarries, 558. 

Bricklayers, death rate, 135 ; eye accidents, 

784, 785. 
Bridges, Dr, Inspector of Factories, 705. 
Bright's disease, miners subject to, 157. 
Brigue (Simplon Tunnel), 740, 741. 
Brimstone, blanket-stoving with, 648. 
Brine works (Germany), accidents in, 513- 

15. 
Brtttsh Associatton Report, 538. 
British Medical Association, 73, 75, 87, 796. 
British Medical Journal, 75, 109, 258, 308, 

425, 466, 482, 502, 550, 766, 769, 809. 
Brocoorens, Dr, Grammont, 424. 
Broken Hill, Australia, lead mining at, 283, 

538. 
Bromsgrove, nail-making at, 759. 



Bronchial affections, among porcelain- and 
cement-makers, masons, 274 ; blast 
furnacemen, 756; glassmakers, 805. 

Bronchitis, in seamen, 183 ; field-woikers^ 
234; Aberdeen granite workers, 275; 
typographers, 329, 330 ; coal and metal 
miners, 535 ; rag-sorters, 645 ; blanket- 
stovers, 649 ; jute-workers, 660 ; jam- 
makers, 680 ; occupied and unoccupied 
males, agriculturists, cotton operatives, 
720 ; boilermakers, shipwrights, 754 ; 
sawyers, 791 ; engine drivers, 796. 

Bronzing, dry, 268 ; brass, 465. 

Brooklyn Suspension Bridge, 731, 734. 

Brose, Dr, 773. 

Brown, Dr Ed., 26. 

Brunei, 191 ; his use of caissons, 731. 

Briinner, Mond, & Co., 583, 587, 588, 597. 

Bruntscliffe, Yorks., gunpowder explosion 
at Victoria Colliery, 608. 

Brush-workers, 244 ; anthrax in, 627. 

Bryant & May, 425, 427, 432 ; their 
allowance to necrosis patients, 20. 

Buchanan, Dr George, Medical Officer 
Local Government Board, 467, 705. 

Buckingham, Duke of, 192, 

Buda Pesth, manufacture of incandescent 
electric lamps at, 439 ; steam roller 
system of milling, 505. 

Budd, Dr William, 623. 

Buffing, of brass cocks, and plumbism, 371 ; 
of silver, eye affections, 771. 

Buhrstone, French, 405-7, 784. 

Bulhurst coal seam. North Staff,, 555. 

Bulletin de r Inspection du Travail QFrance),. 
45, 294. 

Bulletin Medical, 803. 

Bunsen burner, 546. 

Burgess, Dr Duncan, Senior Physician,. 
Sheffield Royal Hospital, 409. 

Burkitt, Dr, 554. 

Burnishers of silver, eye affections, 771. 

Burns, John, M.P., 14. 

Burslem potteries, 346, 

Busquet, Surgeon-Major, French Army,. 
803. 

Butchers, 245. 

Butlin, Henry T., Surgeon St Bartholo- 
mew's Hospital, Cancer 0/ the Scrotum in 
Chimney Sweeps, 809, 81 1, 81 2. 

Byssinosis, lung disease from inhaling 
cotton particles, 273. 

Cabmen, and alcoholism, 798, 801. 

Cage hoists, 220. 

Caisson disease (compressed air illness),. 

537, 728-35 ; its treatment, 735. 
Caissons, for well-boring, bridge-building,. 

etc., 728-31. 
Calcium carbide, 497, 499-501. 
Calcott, Dr, Newcastle Asylum at Cox 

Lodge, 799. 
Calender machine, adapted to laundry 

work, 666. 



INDEX 



869 



Calico-printing, 317, 447. 

Calliard or ganister stone, 396. 

Calomel (the subchloride of mercury), 442, 

443.^ 

Camel's wool or hair, 634. 

Campbell and Greenwood's guard, 22g. 

Camphor, 792. 

Canada, use of corundum stone in, 813. 

Cancer, affects glassmakers, 1 39 ; chimney 
sweeps, 146, 809 ; wool-workers, 148 ; 
bookbinders, 150; shoemakers, 155; 
miners, 158, 161, 162 ; occupied and un- 
occupied men, 164 ; fieldworkers, 234 ; 
gardeners, 237 ; boilermakers, and ship- 
wrights, 754 ; workers in tar and paraffin, 
812. 

Cannonite, 619. 

Carbide of calcium, 497, 499-501. 

Carbon, all explosives contain, 610. 

Carbon bisulphide, see bisulphide of car- 
bon. 

Carbon monoxide, 610 ; in tunnels, 744, 

Carbonate of lead (ceruse")^ 288, 292. 

Carbonators, 291. 

Carbonic acid (carbon dioxide), in mines, 
544-46 ; in weaving sheds, 713 ; in 
tunnels, 744. 

Carbonic anhydride, 610. 

Carbonic oxide, or carbon monoxide, 536, 

548-55. 
Carbonising, process applied to cotton rags, 

646. 
Carbonite, blasting explosive, 555, 620. 
Carding, jute, 653 ; flax, 698 ; cotton, 

7°3. 
Cardio-vascular disease, in quarriers, 563. 
Carmarthen, tinplate works at, 681. 
Carotting, brushing rabbit skins, 438, 441, 

442, 446. 
Carpenters, death rate, 594, 595 ; subject 

to contracted tendons, hernia, varicocele, 

791. 

Carpet manufacturers, death rate, 135. 

Carr, Henry, Our Domestic Poisons, 379. 

Carragheen moss, Irish, 695. 

Carriage wheels, 225. 

Cartmen, 238. 

Casters, printing trade, lead dust, 275 ; 
transfer making, 455, 461. 

Castings of iron or steel, 780. 

Casualties at sea, 1 84. 

Catania, 112, 

Cataract, in glass blowers, 773, 806. 

Cats, diphtheria caught from, 247 ; experi- 
ments with benzine and toluene on, 476. 

Cattani, discovers tetanus bacilli, 241. 

Cattle, anthrax in, 624. 

Caustic soda, manufacture of, 573. 

" Cavaliyman's leg," 245. 

Celluloid, manufacture of, 792. 

Cement dust, diseases caused by, 274. 

Centanni, Professor, and hydrophobia, 
244. 

Ceruse (carbonate of lead), 288, 292. 



Ceylon, 173. 

Chabert, Dr, 623. 

Chadwick, Sir Edwin, 26. 

Chaff-cutting machines, 224 ; eye accidents, 
783. 

Chain and nail making, 758. 

Chalicosis, or silicosis, lung disease due 
to dust, etc., 273. 

Chalk quarries, 558. 

Chamberland, Pasteur-, his bacterial filter, 
175. 

Chambers^ Encyclopcedta, 399. 

Chance's process, in sulphur manufacture, 
582. 

Charbon or anthrax, see anthrax. 

Charcoal, 81 1. 

Charcot, Dr, 481. 

Chauveau, M.A., 114, 630. 

Chemical industry, causes of its decline in 
England, 5 ; its decay on Tyneside, 6 ; 
a survey of, 566-98 ; table of average 
hours of labour and wages in, 585 ; out- 
put method of wage-paying, 589 ; health 
of workers in, 592-98 ; Special Rules for, 
843. 

Chepstow, use of caissons at, 731. 

Chert; quarries, 558. 

Cheshire salt mines, 508. 

Chester, tobacco factory at, 769. 

Chevallier, Dr, 448. 

Cheyne-Stokes respiration, 478. 

Chick-pea (lathyrus), 235. 

Child-birth, employment of women in 
factories after, 53, 54. 

Child-labour, 90-97. 

Children, high mortality of lead-workers', 
303. 

Children's Employment Commission (l 862), 
Report of, 35. 

Chimney sweeps, death rate, 135, 145 ; 
cancer in, 146, 809 ; pulmonary, kidney, 
and heart disease in, 808 ; their ablu- 
tions, 811. 

China, or porcelain, 349, 

China clay, 347, 382, 558. 

China manufacturers, 36, 43 ; death rate, 
135 ; liable to pulmonary disease and 
phthisis, 382-89 ; Special Rules for, 

834-41. 
China-red powder, 370. 
Chipping in iron and steel works, 779-82. 
Chlorate of potass, 419, 420. 
Chlorate mixtures, as explosives, 602. 
Chlorine, 574-80, 583. 
Choquet, Dr, 326. 
Chromate of lead, 315. 
Chromate of potassium, Special Rules for 

manufacture of, 844. 
Chrome dyes, 315-17. 
Chrome holes, ulcers caused by bichromate, 

453. 
Chrome ironstone, 449. 
Chromo-lithographic works and transfer 

making, 365. 



870 



INDEX 



Cigar manufacture, 793 ; a proper industry 
for women, 795, 

Cincinnati, tobacco works in, 769. 

Cincinnati Lancet Clinic^ 769, 

Cinnabar, 434 ;. extraction of quicksilver 
from, 438. 

Circular saw, 227. 

Circulatory diseases, among gunsmiths, 
steel-, zinc-, and brass-workers, chimney 
sweeps, coopers, wood-turners, rope 
makers, bricklayers, masons, carpet 
makers, tin- and wool-v\ orkers, lock- 
smiths, bakers, 135 ; blacksmiths, 135, 
757 ; earthernware- and china-workers, 
135. 136, 595 ; glass-makers, 135, 139, 
595 ; copper-workers, 135, 140, 595 ; 
iron-workers, 135, 141 ; lead-workers, 
135, 143, 595 ; stone quarriers, 135, 143 ; 
cutlers, file-makers, cotton operatives, 
135) 595; bookbinders, 150; printers, 
musicians, 151 ; miners, 158, 161 ; 
brewers, carpenters, chemical workers, 
595 ; occupied and unoccupied males, 
595, 720 ; agriculturists, 720 ; boiler- 
makers and shipwrights, 754. 

Cirrhosis of liver, in barmen, 801. 

Cirrhosis of lung (potters' phthisis), 389. 

Classification of industries, 123. 

Clay quarries, 558. 

Claybury Asylum, Essex, 308, 

Clichy (France), white lead works at, 311, 
312. 

Climbing boys, in chimney sweeping, 8 10, 
811. 

Clinical Journal^ 746. 

Cloth manufacture, 644. 

Clowes, Detection of Inflammable Gas, 
546. 

Coachmen, liable to glanders and farcy, 
238. 

Coachpainters, and plumbism, 338. 

Coal, four kinds of heating, 81 1. 

Coal-dust, an explosive agent, 526. 

Coal heavers and trimmers, subject to 
alcoholism, phthisis, and pulmonary 
diseases, 808. 

Coal miners, comparison of night and day 
shift work, 9 ; and Workmen's Com- 
pensation Act, 10, II ; death rate of, 
158 ; technical education of, 529 ; their 
diseases, 533-39 ; more healthy than 
metal-, 534; nystagmus, 761-64; eye 
accidents to, 783. 

Coal mines, accidents in, — Germany, 511- 
19; France, 512, 520; Belgium, 512, 
519 ; Italy, 520 ; America, 521 ; England, 
523-28 ; death rate from explosions, 525 ; 
, falls of coal and roof (" back bye " acci- 
dents), 526, 527 ; safety lamps, 527 ; 
transport and shaft accidents, 528 ; 
explosions and explosives in, 548, 615- 
18. 

Coal Mines Act (1850 and 1855), 33 ; 
(i860), 34, 199; (1872), 34, 37 j (1881 



Regulation Act, 511, 517, 
52-4) 



and 1887), 38 

529. 
Coal Mines, Royal Commission (i{ 

on, 38. 
Coalport China Co., 360. 
Coal tar, in indiarubber work, 470 ; its 

products, 590 ; eye accidents from, 770. 
Cobalt, oxide of, 348. 

Colefax, M., 363. p-faK- ?! 

Colic, an early symptom of plumbism, 15, 

305 ; of electricians, 320 ; file-cutters, 

343 ; brass-workers, 460 ; copper-workers, 

468. 
Collars, for mill-gearing, 209. 
Collings, Jesse, 361. 
Colour grinders, lead insanity, 308 ; mixers, 

and plumbism, 335. 
Colour and paint factories, 447 ; Special 

Rules for, 831, 
Combe's method, for treating white lead, 

290,^ 313. 
Comite Consultaiif d' Hygiene, 294. 
Commission Sufierieure du Travail dans 

r Industrie, 49. 
Compensation Acts, Workmen's, 224. 
Compositors, see typographers. 
Compositors, London Society of, 328 ; 

Mortality Table, 330. 
Compressed and stagnant air, diseases due 

to working in, 728-48. 
Concussion of the air, effects of, 752. 
Conductors, of electricity, 251, 252. 
Confectioners, death rate, 135 ; liable to 

caries of the teeth, ophthalmia, etc., 798. 
Congres International des Accidents du 

Travail (Brussels), 14. 
Conjunctivitis, due to dusty occupations, 

783 ; to lime, 785. 
Conseil de Salubrite, 36. 
Converters, in steel works, 757. 
Cooks, in mercantile marine, 189 ; health 

of domestic, 798. 
Coopers, death rate, 135. 
Cope Bros., tobacco manufacturers, 769. 
Copper, arsenites of, 379. 
Copper-miners, death rate, 156, 162 ; a 

healthy occupation, 538. 
Copper-smelting, 466-69. 
Copper-workers, death rate, 135, 139, 594, 

595 ; their occupation less dangerous 

than that of brass-, 468. 
Cops, for jute yarn, 654. 
Cor chorus capsular is, C. olitarus, jute fibre 

obtained from, 650. 
Cordite, 599, 6co, 619. 
Cornbrook, Manchester, lyddite explosion 

at, 609. 
Cornish clay, 347, 382. 
Cornwall, tin miners, 

phthisis, bronchitis, and pneumonia, 535 ; 

intermarriage among quarriers in, 562. - 
Corrosive sublimate (bichloride of mercury), 

437, 442, 443. 
Corundum stone, for emery wheels, 813. 



162 ; liable to 



INDEX 



871 



Cotton, manufacture of, 702-23. 

Cotton Cloth Factories Act, 679, 706, 
713. 

Cotton dust, 276, 715. 

Cotton factories, standard purity of air in, 
41 ; machinery in, 703 ; humidity of the 
air in, 707-14. 

Cotton famine in Lancashire, 75. 

Cotton operatives, death rate, 135, 147 ; 
(Blackburn), 721. 

Cotton powder, or tonite, 620. 

Cotton rags, 644. 

Council of Hygiene (Paris), 327. 

Couplings, automatic, on railways, 193, 
197, 201 ; for mill-gearing, 209. 

Courtois, 293. 

Courtois-Suffit, Dr, 431. 

Coventry, prostration of trade (1861) in, 
75 ; sale of Godfrey's cordial and opiates 
in, 79, 80. 

Cowmen, 246, 247. 

Cowpox, or vaccinia, cowmen and dairy- 
maids liable to, 246. 

Cows, communicate tuberculosis, diph- 
theria, scarlet fever, and ringworm, 247. 

Cradley Heath, chain making at, 759. 

Craig, Montrose, nitroglycerine explosion 
at, 607, 608. 

Cramp, W. D., Factory Inspector, 354, 

695. 
Cranes, winches, etc., 221. 
Crarae Quarry, Loch Fyne, gunpowder 

explosion at, 611. 
Creche, the, its proper sphere, 83 ; for 

flax-workers, 701. 
Cripps, Mr, K.C., 363. 
Crocus, a fine powder for polishing steel, 

411. 
Crommelin, Louis, sketch of the Irish linen 

trade, 691. 
Crouch ware, 347. 
Cumberland, ironstone mines, l6l ; lead 

mines, 283, 
Cummings, D. C, Secretary Boilermakers' 

Society, 753. 
Cundill, Colonel, 607. 
Cunningham, Dr George, 417. 
Curgenven, Mr, 80. 
Curing, in indiarubber works, 768. 
Currents, electrical, 251. 
Curtis' and Harvey's sporting powder, 611. 
Cutlers, death rate, 135, 137, 594, 595. 
Cutler's glazer, or emery wheel, 412, 777, 

813. 
Cutlery, scale tang, 413. 
Cyanide of potassium, in gold mining, 509 ; 

in glazed ware, 807. 
Cyanides, the, 592. 

Cymmer, Glamorganshire, dynamite ex- 
plosion at, 608. 

Dairymaids, 246, 247. 
Dangerous trades, or industries, historical 
sketch of legislation for 24-43 ; their 



regulation in chief countries of Europe, 
44-62 ; Special Rules for, 59, 827-64 ; 
principles of prospective legislation for, 
63-72. 

Dangerous Trades Committee, 14, 57, 68, 
260, 316, 338-40, 342, 343, 345, 346, 405, 
406, 687, 757, 758, 784, 786, 789, 803, 
813. 

D'Arsonval, Dr, 258, 263. 

Darwin, 94. 

Davaine, and the anthrax bacillus, 623. 

Davidson's ventilating fan, 698. 

Davis, Bremner, 258. 

Deacon's prdfcess for treating bleaching 
powder, 575, 578-80. 

Deafness, in jute-workers, 660 ; boiler- 
makers and riveters, 752. 

Dealers in alcoholic drinks, high mortality 
of, 800, 

Deane, Miss, Factory Inspector, 302, 442. 

Dearden, Dr, Manchester, 425. 

Decennial Supplements to Reports of Regis- 
trar-General^ 118-28, 150, 389, 525, 530, 

717, 719- 

Decorators, lead insanity in, 308. 

Decrees for sanitary regulation of fac- 
tories in France and Belgium, 55, 56. 

Deepcar, near Sheffield, ganister works at, 
784. 

Deer and anthrax, 624. 

Delpech and Hillairet, Memoire . . . des 
chromates, 448, 452, 

Denmark, inspectorate in, 49 ; ventilation 
of factories in, 51 ; employment of 
women after childbirth, 54 ; use of white 
phosphorus interdicted in, 421. 

Derby, Lord, 191. 

Derbyshire mines, 158-60; pig-lead in, 
283. 

Dermatoconiosis, skin disease caused by 
dust, 268 ; flax-workers subject to, 269, 
699. 

Desilvering of lead, 287. 

Destructors, dust, 279. 

Detonators, 602, 603, 605, 606. 

Deutsche Milit. Zeitschrift, 751. 

Deutsche Zeitschriftfiir Chirurgie, 8 1 2. 

Devon, tin mines, 162 ; clay, 347. 

Dhobie itch, a complaint among soldiers in 
India, 176. 

Diabetes, in drapers, 154; miners, 
engine drivers, 796 ; publicans, 
802. 

Diamond Match Co., Liverpool, 429. 

Diarrhoea, seamen subject to, 185. 

Dictionary of Explosives, 599. 

Digestive diseases, in glassmakers, 
595 ; iron and steel workers, 141 ; 
workers, 143, 595 ; quarriers, 144, 
brassworkers, 145 ; wool-workers, 
printers, musicians, 151 ; tailors, 
ironstone miners, 161 ; typographers, 
275 ; brewers, 595 ; cutlers, file-cutters, 
carpenters, chemical workers, earthen- 



158 
etc. 



139, 
lead- 
563; 
148; 
154 



872 



INDEX 



ware makers, 595 ; occupied and unoccu- 
pied men, 720 ; engine drivers, 796. 
Dijon Academy, 293. 
Dilke, Sir C. W., 14. 
Dinas rock, 396. 
Dingle, Dr, Medical Officer of Health, 

Middlesborough, 394. 
Dinitrobenzine, its effects on makers of 

high explosives, 475-90. 
Dinitrobenzol, 615, 619; manufacture of, 

765-67 ; its effect on the eyes, 766. 
Dinitronaphthalene, 619, 
Dinitrotoluene, 476. 
Dioxide, sulphur, 580, 581. 
Diphtheria, caused by cows' milk and 

cats, 247. 
Dippers (pottery), 383 ; (brass), 465 ; 

(dinitrobenzol manufacture), 765. 
Disease, dust as a cause of occupation, 

267-77. 
Disease, industrial, various definitions of, 

14) 15 ; good effects of notification of, 

22, 
Diseases of Animals Act, 624. 
Distoma hepaticum, or liver fluke, in 

shepherds, 249. 
Districts, industrial, agricultural, mining, 

120. 
Divers' paralysis, 746 ; its treatment, 748. 
Dock labourers, death rate from accidents, 

530 ; anthrax in, 628. 
Doffer knife, for flax, 694. 
Doffers, mill fever and skin eruptions in, 

699. 
Domestic servants, subject to ulceration of 

stomach, 798. 
Dominion Carbide Works (Ottawa), 501. 
Don, Valley of the, centre of the ganister- 

crushing industry, 396. 
Donaldson, 97. 
Dorset clay, 347. 
Douchy mine (France), 730. 
Dowling, Influence of Tobacco on Vision; 

some Investigations made in Tobacco 

Manufactories of Cincinnati^ 769. 
Downcast shaft (mines), 540. 
Drapers, death rate, 154. 
Draw- or scroll-bands, 225. 
Drawers, in cotton spinning, 703. 
Dreschfeld, Dr, 481. 
Dressing in iron and steel works, 779- 
Drivers of public vehicles, subject to 

alcoholism, gout, rheumatism, etc., 798. 
Driving belts, for mill-gearing, 21 1. 
Drovers, anthrax in, 244. 
Dry bronzing, 268. 

Dry grinders, mortality of, 409, 415, 416. 
Drysalting hides and skins, Special Rules 

for, 856. 
Dubini, of Milan, 743. 
Dublin, shock from electric lamp at, 257. 
Dudfield, Dr, 280. 
Dudley, hollow ware manufacture at, 319 ; 

chain making at, 759. 



Dundee, chief jute manufacture seat, 

651-62. 
Dupr^, Dr, 613, 716, 767. 
Dupuytren's contraction, in field- workers, 

233 ; gardeners, 237 ; quarriers, 564. 
Durham, coal mines in, 158-60; lead 

mines, 283, 284. 
Durham County Hospital, 808. 
Dust as a cause of occupation diseases, 

267-77. 
Dust destructors, 279. 
Dust-producing occupations, 134-65 ; their 

relative mortality, 135. 
Dust women, 278-81. 
Dye works, poisoning in, 315-17 ; and 

eye troubles, 770 ; Special Rules for, 

850. 
Dyeing, 447. 

Dynamite, 556, 559, 600, 614, 620; gela- 
tine, 559, 599, 600, 620. 
Dynamos, 251. 
Dysentery, among soldiers, 174, 177 ; 

sailors, 183, 185. 

E.C. POWDER, 619. 

Ear affections, in quarrymen, 563. 

Earle, Sir James, edition of Percivall 
Pott's Works ^ 237. 

Earthenware manufacture, 35, 36, 43 ; 
death rate in, 135, 594, 595 ; and 
plumbism, 360 ; Special Rules for. 
834-41. 

East London, anthrax cases in, 627. 

Economic Journal^ 278, 795. 

Eczema, 270. 

Edge runner mills, 390, 391. 

Edinburgh Medical and Surgical Journal, 
434, 482. 

Edwards, James H., ship-repairer. South 
Shields, 495. 

Egypt, 171. 

Egyptian flax, 699. 

Egyptians, anthrax the " grievous murrain " 
of the, 622 ; as glass makers, 804. 

Ehrenfield, glassmakers at, 806. 

Eissler, Professor, 599. 

Electric accumulator works and lead 
poisoning, 320 ; Special Rules for, 863. 

Electric, baths, 375-77 ; currents, 251 ; 
generating works, 250-66 ; generators, 
208 ; incandescent lamp manufacture, 
439 ; light, its effect on eyes, 773-75 ; 
tramways, 323 ; welding, its effect on 
eyes, 774. 

Electric shock, deaths from, 253-60 ; sug- 
gestions for treating apparent death 
from, 263. 

Electrical furnaces, 497 ; meters, 440. 

Electrical Revietu, 258, 263. 

Electrical treatment in plumbism, 315, 

373-77. 
Electrolysis of salt, 583. 
Electronite, for blasting, 619. 
Electroplating, 440. 



INDEX 



87: 



Elter water, Westmoreland, gunpowder 

explosion at, 608. 
Elvatka guard, 227. 
Emery rock, imported from Smyrna and 

Naxos, 813, 
Emery wheel, or cutler's glazer, 412, 773, 

813. 
Emphysema, in seamen, 183 ; porcelain- 

and cement-makers, masons, 274 ; 

millers, bakers, 505 ; blanket-stovers, 

649 ; jute-workers, 660, 
Employers' Associations (France), 55. 
Employers' Liability Act (1880), 9, 20, 

565. 
Employment of Boys in the Sweeping of 

Chimneys in England Acts, 812. 
Enamelling, of iron plates, 317 ; of hollow 

ware, 319; Special Rules for, 833,848, 

863. 
Encephalopathy, -cerebral type of plumbism, 

288, 307, 326, 366, 369. 
Encyclopedie d' Hygiene, 325. 
Engine drivers, their diseases, 796, 797. 
Engine-makers, death rate, 755. 
Engines, s.team-, gas-, and oil-, 206. 
England, the pioneer of factory legislation, 

3 ; causes of decline of chemical and 

metallurgical industries in, 5 ; lagging 

behind in factory legislation, 45 ; decay 

of lead mining in, 283 ; white lead made 

by old Dutch process in, 288. 
English Sanitary Science, 76. 
Enteric fever, 174; among soldiers, 177- 

79 ; sailors, with table of mortalit)^, 187, 

188 ; among field-workers, 234 ; boiler- 
makers and shipwrights, 754. 
Enteroconiosis, gastro - intestinal lesion 

caused by dust, 268, 273. 
Epernon, Seine Valley, buhrstone imported 

from, 405. 
Equalised Druids Society, 776. 
Ergograph, instrument for estimating 

muscular work, 105. 
Ergotism, disease caused by spurred rye, 

234. 

Erith, gunpowder explosion at, 607, 608. 

Erysipelas, in butchers, slaughterers, 
tanners, 245 ; upholsterers, 789. 

Erysipelatous anthrax, 636. 

Ethane, fire-damp in mines, 546. 

Eulenberg, Dr, 324, 794. 

Europe, use of phosphorus in, 421. 

Expert - Besan^on et Cie., Paris, their 
process for treating white lead, 290, 
294. 

Explosions in colHeries, 548, 

Explosives, comparative safety of manu- 
facture of, 17; high, 475-90; nitro- 
glycerine, 536 ; gases from, 555 ; in 
quarries, 559 ; and explosions, 599-620 ; 
Special Rules for manufacture of, 842, 

Explosives Act, 565. 

Eye diseases, caused by dinitrobenzine, 
482 ; in quarries, 564 ; glassmakers, 



806 ; accidents, in industrial occupa- 
tions, 776-87. 

Faber, Dr, 325. 

Factories, and the Workmen's Compensa- 
tion Act (1897), 12, 13 ; survey of legis- 
lation for, 44-62 ; ventilation and light- 
ing in, 51 ; prevention of accidents in, 
54 ; employment of mothers in, 73 ^/ 
seq. ; machinery in, 205. 

Factory and Workshop Acts (1802 and 
1833), 31 ; (1844), 31, 41 ; (1864 and 
1867), 35, 36; (1871), 35; (1878), 35, 
36, 64, 214, 220, 464, 564 ; (1883), 39 ; 
(1889), 40, 41 ; C1891), 4, 40, 41, 58, 99; 
199, 205, 214, 220, 461, 465, 564, 827 ; 
(1895), 41, 71, 99, loi, 203, 626 ; (1901), 
4, 199, 205, 213, 218, 697, 829. 

Factory Acts, 28 ; first extended to women, 
32 ; and the British Constitution, 63 ; 
Special Rules under, 829-64. 

Factory Bill of 1901, 47, 71. 

Factory Commission (1875), 36, 80. 

Factory Inspectorate, organised by Act of 
1884, 31 ; in various countries, 47-49. 

Factory labour and infant mortality, 73-89. 

Factory legislation, England the pioneer 
of, 3 ; improves trade and conditions of 
labour, 5 ; and effects of particular trades 
on health, 22 ; Acts of 1802 and 1833, 
the landmarks of, 31 ; its progress, 34 ; 
laundries included in, 42 ; England 
lagging behind in, 45 ; Royal Com- 
mission (1876) on, 47 ; home-work not 
controlled by, 99. 

Fans for removal of dust, in steel-grinding, 
411, 413, 777; in lucifer match works, 
420 ; in hatters furriers' processes, 446. 

Faradic current, 481. 

Farcy, in man, 240. 

Farmers, mortality table, 128, 135, 244. 

Farr, Dr, 118, 127, 136. 

Farriers, anthrax in, 244. 

Fascia, contraction of the palmar, 233, 237, 

564. 
Fatigue, its causes, 106 ; and alcohol, 43. 
Faversham, gunpowder explosion at Hall's 

Factory, 608. 
Fawcus, H. B., Royal Army Medical 

Corps, 733. 
Feathers, induce ophthalmia and lung 

disease, 790. 
Federal Council, Germany, 46, 48, 58, 61. 
Federated Trades Council, 345. 
Fell-mongers, anthrax in, 244. 
Fell-workers, anthrax in, 244 ; dust, 276. 
Felspar, 347, 348. 
Fencing, of machinery, 203-31 ; of quarries, 

565. 
Fenton potteries, 346. 
Fergusson, Sir James, 81. 
Fettling, in iron and steel works, 779. 
Fibrosis of lung, 272 ; in potters, 387 ; in 

ganister crushers, 396. 



874 



INDEX 



Field work, and maternity, 8l. 

Field workers, their bodily ills, 405, 

"Fiery" coal seams, 547. 

Fierte-sous-Jouarre, buhrstone imported 
from, 405. 

File-cutters, death rate, 135, 138, 594, 595 ; 
dust diseases of, 275 ; lead insanity, 
308 ; plumbism, 341, 770 ; machinery v. 
hand, 341. 

Fillers, in dinitrobenzol works, 765. 

Filters, 175. 

Finisher card (jute works), 653. 

Finishers of silver, subject to eye affections, 
.771. 

Fireclay, 399 ; principal constituents of, 
400. 

Fire-damp in mines, 546-48. 

Firemen, see engine drivers. 

Fire-stink, 554. 

Fireworks, manufacture of, 602, 603, 605. 

Firing ware, risks incurred in, 383. 

Fish-curing, 673-78. 

Fitters (iron works), 755. 

Flax, 25, and linen, 691-701 ; process of 
manufacture, 693 ; bleaching, 695. 

Flax-workers, skin diseases of, 269, 276 ; 
liable to phthisis, ophthalmia, asthma, 
etc., 696, 698 ; Special Rules for, 848. 

Flint quarries, 558. 

Flock fever, 466. 

Flour mills, 505-7. 

Fluke, liver (distoma hepaticum), in 
shepherds, 249, 

Fly-wheels, engine, 207. 

Folliculitis, in doffers, 699. 

Fontaine, M., 57. 

Foot-and-mouth disease, transmitted to 
man, 247. 

Ford, Colonel, Chief Inspector of Explo- 
sives, 613. 

Forecastles, in mercantile marine, 182, 
186. 

Forgemen, their health, 757. 

Forks, strap-, 2 1 7. 

Forth Bridge, 731, 732. 

Fosbroke, G. H., Medical Officer of Wor- 
cestershire, 234. 

Foster, Dr C. Le Neve, Ore and Stone 
Mining, 538, 554. 

Foulkes, Mr, 80. 

Fournier, of Dijon, 622. 

Fourniere, M,, 113. 

Fox, Francis, The Great Alpine Tunnels^ 

737. 

Foxdale lead mines (Isle of Man), 545. 

France, match industry in, 20, 421 ; manu- 
facture of white lead, 36 ; factory inspec- 
torate, 47, 48 ; ventilation of factories, 
51 ; lead poisoning in potteries, 57, 58 ; 
ergotism in, 234 ; pellagra and lathyrism 
in, 235 ; lead mining, 284 ; zinc white 
V. white lead, 293 ; colique secke in 
navy, 335 ; pottery glaze used in, 359 ; 
fire-clay mining, 399 ; phosphorus 



necrosis in, 428 ; ceased to use yellow 

phosphorus, 429 ; a sans phosphore 

match, 431 ; mining accidents, 512, 520 ; 

alkali works, 598 ; mine explosions, 615 ; 

chimney sweeping in, 811. 
Frankl-Hochwart, Professor, 822. 
Freestone quarries, 558. 
Fredreich's Bl&tter filr gerichtliche Medicin, 

486. 
Fritted lead, 349, 354, 356, 358, 363-65, 383 ; 

standard solubility of, 357, 364. 
Fromm, Dr, 325. 
Fruit-preserving, 678. 
Fulminate of mercury, 559, 602, 603, 

620. 
Fulton, Dr, 819. 
Fung Shui, 174. 
Fur-brushing dust, 276. 
Furnacemen, blast and puddling, their 

diseases, 756. 
Furriers, 244 ; diseases of nails in, 270. 
Fur-pullers, maladies of, 724, 725. 
Furness, Inveraray, gunpowder explosion 

at, 608, 
Fiirth, mirror-silvering at, 435, 437, 441. 
Fuses, 602. 

Galena (sulphide of lead), 286, 347, 348, 

360, 361, 538, 784. 
Galezowski, Des Amblyopias, etc., 768, 

770. 
Galicia, match works in, 422. 
Galloway, Professor W., 526. 
Galvano-caustic method of glazing ware, 

807. 
Canister (calliard) crushing and mining, 

risks of, 396-404 ; condition of miner's 

lung, 401, 404. 
Gardeners, death rate, 129 ; and Dupuy- 

tren's contraction, 237 ; subject to cancer, 

237, 810. 
Carman, Dr, Bryant & May's Medical 

Officer, 425-27. 
Cartsherrie (Scotland), fire-clay mines at, 

400. 
Gas engines, 206 ; safety starting-gear for, 

208. 
Gases from explosives, 555. 
Gasfitters, lead insanity in, 308 ; "gassing " 

symptoms, 333 ; death rate, 755. 
Gasmeter-makers, lead insanity in, 308. 
Gastro - intestinal lesion (enteroconiosis), 

caused by dust, 273. 
Gatebeck, Kendal, gunpowder explosion 

at, 608. 
Gautier, Dr Armand, 311 ; on house- 
painters' plumbism in Paris, 333. 
Gelatine, blasting, 555, 559, 614, 619; 

dynamite, 559, 599, 600, 620. 
Gelignite, 555, 559, 620. 
Generating stations, electric, 250. 
Genie Civil., 745. 

Germany, factory legislation and inspec- 
torate in, 46, 47, 51 ; powers of health 



INDEX 



875 



authorities, 51 ; employment of women 
after childbirth, 54, 88 ; prevention of 
accidents in factories, 54 ; Special Rules 
for dangerous trades, 59 ; Trade Acci- 
dent Associations, 55 \ letterpress print- 
ing works in, 61 ; ergotism in, 234 ; 
Imperial Health Office, 320, 325 ; inquiry 
into labour conditions in electric accumu- 
lator works, 320 ; fire-clay mining in, 
399 ; lucifer match industry, 422 ; bi- 
chromate factories, 448, 449, 453 ; 
mining accidents, 511-18 ; metal- safer 
than coal-mining in, 519 ; manufacture of 
coal-tar products, 590 ; alkali works, 
598 ; mine explosives in, 616 ; anthrax, 
625, 632 ; chimney sweeps in, 811. 

Geroult, M., 339. 

Gibb, Mr, General Manager N. E. Railway, 
200. 

Gillinder, Mr, 328. 

Glamorgan, tinplate works in, 681. 

Glanders, in man, 238 ; in animals, 239. 

Glasgow, chemical industry meeting at, 
5 ; file-cutting in, 340 ; fire-clay worked 
near, 399 ; anthrax outbreak in, 625. 

Glassblowers, and cataract, 773; "glass- 
blowers' mouth," 805. 

Glass-makers, 36 ; death rate, 135, 139, 
594; 595 ; their risks, 804-807 ; and 
cataract, 806. 

Glass-polishers, and plumbism, 339. 

Glass ware, new method of making hollow, 
807. 

Glazed ware, poisonous, 807. 

Glazes, for pottery, 353-63, 368. 

Glazing, of cutlery, 412. 

Gilbert, Dr, Medical Inspector, Labour 
Office, Belgium, 269, 270, 698 ; his defi- 
nition of industrial disease, 15. 

Glost placers (pottery), 384. 

Goatskins, and anthrax, 628. 

Goat's wool, or hair (mohair), 634. 

Gob-stink, 554. 

Godfernaux, Raymond, 745. 

Godfrey's cordial, 79. 

Goelet, Dr, 258, 263. 

Gold and silver extraction, 440. 

Gouda, Holland, galena used for glazing 
at, 360. 

Gould, Edward, Factory Inspector, 392, 
789. 

Gout, in tailors, 154; gardeners, 237; 
butchers, 246 ; occupied males, brewers, 
file-cutters, carpenters, earthenware- and 
glass-makers, 595 ; drivers of public 
vehicles, 798 ; publicans, etc., 802. 

Gowers, Diseases of the Nervous System^ 
815, 817. 

Graham, Sir James, 191. 

Grainers, lead insanity in, 308. 

Grammont, Belgium, match factory at, 
424. 

Grand Committee on Trade (1902), 43. 

Granger, Dr, 234. 



Granite, dust, 274 ; quarries, 559. 

Graphite quarries, 558. 

Gravel quarries, 558. 

Graveri, Dr G., of Villanova-Sollaro, 

431. 
Gravesend (floating magazine), detonators 

explosion at, 608 ; fireworks explosion 

at, 609. 
Grease, or.horsepox, 245, 246. 
Great Britain, mining accidents in, 523. 
Greek lead ore, 283, 
Greenhow, Dr Headlam, 29, 77-79, 83, 137, 

144, 382, 457-60. 
Greenock, gunpowder explosion in the 

barque " Auchmountain " off, 609. 
Grinders of cutlery and other steel imple- 
ments, 408 ; mortality of, 409, 414-16 ; 

subject to phthisis, asthma, "rot," 409, 

410, 414 ; eye accidents to, 777. 
Grinding-stones, 411, 412, 416, 784; 

wheels, 412-15. 
Grindley, W. H., 363, 365. 
Grooms, subject to glanders, 238 ; popliteal 

aneurism, 245. 
Grotto del Cane, carbonic acid in, 546. 
Guard, for engine fly-wheels, 207 ; shuttle, 

226 ; Elvatka, 227 ; Longmore's, 228 ; 

Victor, 228 ; Woodhouse and Mitchell's, 

229 ; Campbell and Greenwood's, ibid. ; 

against eye accidents in factories, 785. 
Guards, goods (railways), 195. 
Gubler, 423. 

Guerrini, Dr Guido, 1 10. 
Guggenbauer, 276. 
Guinard, Dr, 806. 
Gulstonian Lectures^ 304. 
Gun-cotton (cellulose hexa-nitrate), 555, 

599, 600, 604, 610, 611, 619. 
Gunpowder, 555, 559, 599, 600, 602, 603, 

605, 606, 610, 611. 
Gunsmiths, death rate, 135) 145' 
Guttmann, Professor, 599. 
Guy, Dr, 130. 

Guy and Ferrier, Forensic Medicine^ 460. 
Gypsum quarries, 558. 

Hacklemakers, jute works, 652. 

Haemoglobin, 550-552. 

Haemoglobinoemia, 484. 

Hafting of knives, 412. 

Hairdressers, death rate, 152. 

Hair workers, and anthrax, 244. 

Haldane, Dr John, 484, 544 ; Causes of 

Death in Colliery Explosions and Fires, 

548. 
Half-timers, decadence of the system, 7, 

93 ; arrested mental development of, 

95- 
Halifax, carpet makmg at, 635. 
Halkyn, Flintshire, gun-cotton explosion 

at, 611. 
Hall, Dr Arthur, 409. 
Hall, H., 526. 
Hall, Dr j. C, Sheffield, 343, 411, 4i5- 



876 



INDEX 



Halstead's " Patent Unbreakable Square- 
hole Solid-ended Grub Screw," 215. 

Hamilton, Dr, Certifying Surgeon for 
Cookstown, 698. 

Hammermen's paralysis, 757 ; spasm, 821. 

Hamstead Colliery, Staff., 545. 

Handbook of Service Explosives^ 599. 

Hanley potteries, 346. 

Hanover, chimney sweeps in, 81 1. 

Hargreave's " Mule Carriage Wheel 
Guard," 225. 

Harris's patent, 336. 

Hart, Ernest, 79. 

Harting, Dr, 538. 

Hartlepool, horse killed by electric shock 

I at, 256. 

Harvey's sporting powder, 611. 

Hasenclever apparatus, for bleach, 579. 

Hatters, death rate, 152. 

Hatters furriers' processes, mercurial poison- 
ing in, 441 ; remedial measures, 446. 

Head, Sir George, Home Tour, 644. 

Heart disease, in potters, earthenware and 
china makers, 136; cutlers, 138; gun- 
smiths, 145 ; sweeps, 146, 808 ; tailors, 
154; drapers, shoemakers, 155; occu- 
pied and unoccupied men, 164, 720 ; 
soldiers, 169, 170; sailors, 183, 184; 
field workers, 232, 234, 720 ; cotton 
operatives, 720 ; puddling furnacemen, 
756 ; blacksmiths and forgemen, 757 ; 
brewers, 801. 

Heat apoplexy, 171, 175, 180; the "fire- 
man's frenzy" of stokers, 183, 184. 

Heathcote, Dr, 448. 

Hecklers, flax, 693 ; phthisis and bronchial 
troubles in, 696-98 ; alcoholism, 697. 

Heckling machines, 693. 

Hedgers, eye accidents to, 783. 

Hedley, Dr, Inspector of Mines, II, 258. 

Heidelberg, epidemic of idiopathic tetany 
in, 822. 

Heinzerling, Ch., Gefahren und Krankheiten 
in der chemischen Industrie, 444. 

Heise, Dr, 449, 550. 

Hemianaesthesia, 481. 

Helmholtz, German physiologist, 106. 

Hemp dust, 276. 

Hernia, 19; sailors, 183, 184; field 
workers, 236 ; butchers, etc., 245 ; 
carpenters, 791. 

Herodsfoot, Liskeard, gunpowder explosion 
at, 608. 

Herrings, Scotch-cured, 674. 

Hersent, French engineer at Bordeaux, 

734. 
Hesse, Dr, 538. 
Hides and skins, anthrax and, 621-33 ; 

drysalting. Special Rules for, 856. 
Hiene, J. W., Effects of Copper on the Human 

Body, 538. 
High explosives, manufacture of, 475-90. 
Hillairet, Dr, 448, 452. 
Himalayas, the, 749. 



Hindle v. Birtwistle, 214. 

Hindoos, the, 179. 

Hirt, Dr, 274, 276, 505. 

Historie de lAcademie royale des Sciences, 
Paris, 434. 

Hodge, Prof., 109. 

Hodges, Prof., Queen's Coll., Belfast, 692. 

Hoe's stereotyping machine, 331. 

Hoffman, F. L., The Mineral Industry, 
521. 

Hogben, Dr, Queen's Hospital, Birming- 
ham, 144, 458-60. 

Hoists, 218-22. 

Holder, or clamp (flax machine), 693. 

Holland, inspectorate in, 47 ; employment 
of women after childbirth in, 54 ; use of 
white phosphorus limited in, 60 ; manu- 
facture of phosphorus matches pro- 
hibited in, 421. 

Holland, Andrew, Board of Trade, Ottawa, 
501. 

Hollow ware, tinning and enamelling of, 
319 ; new method of making glass, 807 ; 
Special Rules for, 848, 863. 

Home-work, 98-103 ; not controlled by 
factory legislation, 99 ; its effect upon 
wages, 103. 

Hong Kong, the Happy Valley in, 
170. 

Hop-pickers, subject to ophthalmia, 783. 

Hope, Dr, Liverpool, 85. 

Hopwood, F, J. S., Assist. Sec. Rly. Dept., 
Board of Trade, 198. 

Horgen, Switzerland, death from electricity 
at, 253. 

Horn-workers, liable to anthrax, 244. 

Horsehair, and anthrax, 621-33. 

Horsekeepers, subject to influenza, 244 ; to 
horsepox or "grease," 245. 

Horsepox or "grease, ' 245, 246. 

Horses, 238-45 ; and anthrax, 624. 

Hounslow, gunpowder explosion at, 609. 

House painters, and white lead, 292, 293 ; 
and plumbism, 333-36. 

Huber and Rohl, Ueher acute u. chron. 
Intoxdurch Nitrokorp d. Benzolreihe, 
484. 

Huddersfield, lyddite explosion at, 609, 
612 ; woollen cloth industry at, 634. 

Hughes, his use of caissons at Rochester 
Bridge, 731. 

Huguenots, linen industry revived in 
North of Ireland by, 691, 

Hundt, Bergassessor, Die Bekampfung der 
Wurmkrankheit im Oberbergamtsbezirke 
Dortmund, 537- 

Hunter, Dr, 81. 

Hunter, Dr James, Edinburgh, 731. 

Huntington and M'Millan, Metals, 287. 

Huntley, Mr, Engineer, Redheugh Bridge, 
Newcastle, 728, 733. 

Huskisson, 190. 

Hyatt, discoverer of celluloid, 792. 

Hydatid cyst, in shepherds, 248. 



INDEX 



877 



Hydrochloric acid, 570, 571. 

Hydro-extractor, for removing excess of 
spirit in benzine, 491 ; adapted to 
laundry work, 665. 

Hydrogen sulphide, 611. 

Hydrogen, sulphuretted, 555, 582. 

Hydrophobia, 242-44. 

Hygiene, industrial, how to promote, 22, 
23. 

Hygiene Committee, France, 294. 

Hygiene Congress at Turin, 288. 

Hygiene Council of Paris, 311. 

Hygrometer, in cotton spinning works, 
709. 

Hyperaesthesia, a feature in chronic poison- 
ing by dinitrobenzine, 480. 

Idiopathic tetany, or shoemakers' spasm, 
822. 

Idria (Illyria), cinnabar mines at, 438, 
538. 

Imperial Health Office, Germany, 320, 
325. 

Incandescent electric lamps, manufacture 
of, 439- 

India, 171, 175 ; lathyrism in, 235 ; its 
export of jute, 651 ; jute mills in, 
662. 

Indiarubber works, 471 ; vulcanisation 
process in, 471 ; bisulphide of carbon, 
768. 

Industrial Code, 46, 50. 

Industrial Councils existing on Continent 
— suggested formation in England of, 
23. 

Industrial disease, various definitions of, 
14, 15 ; notification of, 22. 

Industrial districts, 120. 

Industrial hygiene, how to promote, 22, 
23. . . . 

Industrial injury, scientific protection of 
works against, 28. 

Industrial methods, more scientifically 
studied on Continent, 6. 

Industrial Occupation, a process of evolu- 
tion, I, 21. 

Industrial Revolution, an epoch in the 
world's history, 2. 

Industries, classification of, 1 23. 

Infant mortality and factory labour, 73-89 ; 
in Dundee, 662. 

Inflammable or spirit paints, use of, 

494-96. 
Influenza, in tailors and drapers, 1 54 ; iron- 
stone miners, 161 ; occupied and un- 
occupied men, 164 ; horses, 244. 
Injurious industries, historical sketch of 
legislation for, 24-43 ; scientific protec- 
tion of workers, 28 ; their regulation in 
chief countries of Europe, 44-62 ; 
principles of prospective legislation 
for, 63-72 ; Special Rules for, 59, 827- 
64. 
Innkeepers, mortality of, 801. 



Insanity, in leadworkers, 308, 309. 
Inspection, rules of factory, 47. 
Inspectorate of factories, organised by Act 

of 1844, 31. 
Inspectors, women appointed (1893) as, 

41. 
Insured children, higher death rate of, 80. 
Intake roads (mines), 540. 
International, competition, 6 ; committees 

suggested for industrial hygiene, 23. 
International Congress of Hygiene and 

Demography, 630. 
Intestinal anthrax, 641. 
Iodoform manufacture, its effect on eyes. 

769. ^ 

Ireland, lucifer match works in, 419 ; 

linen trade in, 691. 
Irish Carragheen Moss, 695. 
Iron and steel industries, 756-60. 
Iron hollow ware, tinning and enamelling 

of. Special Rules, 848. 
Iron plates, enamelling of, 317. 
Iron pyrites, oxidation produces black- 
damp, 541-43. 
Iron-workers, death rate, 140 ; eye diseases 

of, 771-75 ; eye accidents of, 776-83. 
Ironers, in laundries, 670. 
Ironstone miners, included (Act of i860) 

under head of coal miners, 34, 524 ; 

death rate, 160. 
Iselle, the Italian side of Simplon Tunnel^ 

740-42. 
Italian miners, diseases of, 16 ; accidents 

to, 520. 
Italy, pellagra (malattia della miseria) in, 
235 ; experiments in non-poisonous 

matches, 431. 

Jacquemart, Dr, Paris, 794. 

Jahrbuch fiir das Berg- Hiltten- und 

Salinen-wesen im Preussischen Staate, 

518. 
Jam-making, 678 ; its risks, 679. 
James of Hereford, Lord, 199, 201, 202, 

363-65. _ 
Jaundice, in military balloonists, 750. 
Jenner, Sir William, 178. 
Jews, as glassmakers in Rome, 804. 
Jockeys, popliteal aneurism in, 245. 
Joiners, 790. 

Johnson, Henry J., 363, 365. 
Jones, Chester, 363, 
Jones, Dr Lewis, 258, 263, 315. 
Jones, Dr Robert, Claybury Asylum^ 

Essex, 308. 
Journal of Morphology, I09. 
Journal of Pathology, 544. 
Journal of Physiology, 484, 550. 
Journal of the Sanitary Institute, 396. 
Jungfleish, Dangers du secretage des poih 

par le mercure, 442. 
Jussieu, Antoine de, 434. 
Jute, dust caused by, 276 ; preparation of 

the fibre, 651 ; process of manufacture,. 



878 



INDEX 



652 ; health conditions in factories, 654 ; 
analyses of air in factories, 657 ; tetanus 
produced by, 659 ; mill fever, 661. 

Kaffre, Azzyat Bridge (Nile), 731. 
Kaiser lichen Gesundheitsamte, Arheiten aus 

dem, 320, 368, 436, 448, 625, 632. 
Kaolin, Chinese for porcelain clay, 347, 

385. 
Kassowitz, Professor, 426. 
Keaves, vats for bichromate manufacture, 

449- 
Kennall Vale, Redruth, gunpowder ex- 
plosion at, 609. 
Kerr, Dr, 91. 
Keygi, Professor, 325. 
Kidderminster, carpet making at, 635. 
Kidney disease, and plumbism, 15 ; in 

tanners, 801 ; chimney sweeps, 808. 
Kieselguhr dynamite, 612. 
Kirving, undercutting coal, 527, 534. 
Kitasato, Professor, bacilli of tetanus first 

isolated by, 241. 
Knackers, glanders in, 238 ; anthrax, 

244. 
Knapp's Archives of Ophthalmology^ 773. 
Knappschafts-Derufsgenossenschaft fur das 

Deutsche Reich, Statistik der^ 512. 
Knappschafts-Berufsgenossenschaft, Berichte 

ilher die Verwaltung der^ 517. 
Knecht, E., Manual of Dyeing, 447. 
Knies, Professor, 770. 
Knight, Robert, Secretary Boilermaker's 

Society, 753. 
Knowles' "Improved Safety Hoist," 219, 

231. 
Koch, Dr, and the anthrax bacillus, 623 ; 

on the identity of human and bovine 

tuberculosis, 797, 
Kocher, Dr, Berne, 425, 426. 
Krupp ball system, in steel works, 390. 
Kubler, Dr, 625. 
Kuborn, Dr, Serang, 16. 
Kuiper, Dr, Jena, 426. 
Kummerbund, the, 174. 
Kunkel, A. J., Hattdbuch der Toxikologie, 

437. 
Kussmaul, Adolf, Untersuchungen iiber dem 

constitutionellen Mercurialismus, 435, 437, 

438. 
Kyphosis, or stooping gait, in field 

workers, 233. 

Labellers, aerated water, 687 ; eye 

accidents to, 786, 
Label-lickers in thread mills, death rate, 

803. 
Labour Gazette, 362. 
Labour Leader, 449. 
Labour, Ministry of, needed in England, 

Labour, Royal Commission on, 41, 186. 
Labourers, agricultural, 135, 232-37 ; 
working classes divided into artisans 



and. III ; accident death rate of general, 
530 ; railway, risk of tuberculosis, 797. 

Labouring Population, Report (1838) on 
Sanitary Condition of the, 45. 

Lady Assistant Commissioners, Report 
(1893) of, 74, 83. 

La Hague, plumbism in electric accumu- 
lator works at, 320. 

Lailler, Hygiene des Professions et des 
Industries, 422. 

Lamb's wool, 634. 

Lampblack factories, 812. 

Lancashire, infant mortality in, 75 ; wages 
of male and female workers, 88 ; child 
labour in, 92 ; mines, 158, 160 ; mortality 
of cotton operatives, 719, 720 ; tobacco 
workers in, 795 ; plate glass manufacture 
in, 804. 

Lancet^ no, 448, 475, 478, 487, 635, 808. 

Lapping, of cutleiy, 412. 

Lathyrism, caused by chick-pea, 235. 

Laundresses, pulmonary consumption in, 
669, 

Laundries, 42, 663-72 ; machinery in, 665, 
666 ; factory v. home industry, 667 ; 
health of workers in, 669-72. 

Laurie, A. P., 8, 354. 

Lawrence, Dr, 623. 

Layet, Professor, on minium, 288. 

Lazarus, surgeon-dentist, 474. 

Lead and its compounds, 282-372 ; its use 
in potteries, 346-65. 

Lead hi the Manufacture of Pottery, Report 
on the Use of, 357. 

Lead dust, 275. 

Lead factories, blue and white beds in, 
289. 

Lead foil makers, plumbism in, 370. 

Lead insanity, see encephalopathy. 

Lead mining, 25 ; and the health and 
surroundings of the miners, 282-86 ; 
plumbism almost unknown in, 538. 

Lead oxide, 287. 

Lead poisoning, see plumbism. 

Lead smelting works, 42 ; and plumbism, 
286 ; Special Rules for, 848. 

Lead workers, death rate, 135, 141, 594, 
595 ; high mortality of their children, 
303 ; encephalopathy in, 307 ; their 
clothes, 369 ; Special Rules for, 829, 
846, 847. 

Leadless glaze, for pottery, 360, 361, 363. 

Leathart, Mr, of Newcastle, 313. 

Leather Trades Circular and Review^ 633. 

Le Blanc process, for manufacture of 
hydrochloric and sulphuric acids, car- 
bonate of soda, caustic soda, and bleach- 
ing powder, 569-84. 

Lee, Professor, 769. 

Leeds, woollen cloth manufacture in, 634. 

Lefebre, Dr, 270. 

Lefevre, Dr, Brest, 335. 

Legge, Dr T. Morison, Medical Inspector 
of Factories, 297, 300, 319, 320, 338, 



INDEX 



879 



352, 
659. 



363, 372, 400, 590, 624, 627, 632, 



Legislation for dangerous trades, historical 
sketch of its development, 24-43 ; for 
mines, 33 ; principles of prospective, 63- 
72 ; see also factory legislation. 

Leicester, hosiery manufacture in, 635. 

Leipzig, anthrax in, 625. 

Leloir, Dr, 270. 

Lemaistre, Dr, 386. 

Lepine, Dr, 734. 

Letterpress Printing Works (Germany), 
61. 

Levy, Dr, 109. 

Lewis, Mr, Factory Inspector, Swansea 
district, 467. 

Lewis, Professor Vivian, 504, 819. 

Licensed victuallers, death rate, 800. 

Lifege, anchylostomiasis at, 537. 

Lightermen, accident death rate, 530. 

Lighting of factories, 51. 

Lignite mines (Germany), accidents in, 
513-15, 518. 

Lime, burns caused by, 785. 

Lime dressers, 578. 

Limes, use of, 175. 

Limestone quarries, 498, SS^j 5^2. 

Limoges, and plumbisra from transfer 
making, 366, 367 ; and its porcelain, 
385 ; phthisis in works at, 386, 

387. 

Linen and flax, 691-701 ; process of manu- 
facture, 693 ; bleaching, 695. 

Linen and Hempen Manufacture of Ireland 
(1711), 692. 

Linen rags, 644. 

Linotyping and plumbism, 331, 332. 

Liquor traffic, death rate in, 801, 

Litharge, 287. 

Litho-transfer works, 365-67. 

Little Bokon, 76. 

Littlejohn, Dr Harvey, 343, 345. 

Liver diseases, in cutlers, 138 
quarriers, 141 ; musicians, 151 
dressers, tailors, 153, 154; drapers, 
154; miners, 157, 161 ; occupied and 
unoccupied males, 164, 720 ; soldiers, 
174 ; sailors, 183 ; publicans, 802. 

Llewellyn, Mr, 363. 

Lloyd, Dr J. H., Occupation Diseases, 
442. 

Lockerby & Wilson, 501. 

Lockjaw, or tetanus, 240-42 ; its micro- 
organism, 241. 

Locksmiths, death rate, 1 35, 755. 

Locomotor ataxia, 802. 

Loewenthal, R., Manual of Dyeifig, 447- 

Logements Insalubres (Paris), Commission 
des, 293. 

Loire River, 730. 

Lombardy, anchylostomiasis endemic in, 
743. 

London, outbreak of anthrax in, 625. 

London and North Western Railway 



stone 
hair- 



Insurance Society for Drivers and Fire- 
men, 796. 

London Society of Compositors, 328 ; 
Mortality Tables of, 330. 

Londonderry, Lord, 27, 

Longmore's guard, 228. 

Longton potteries, 346. 

Looms, 225. 

Lorinser, of Vienna, 421. 

Louis, Henry, translator of Schmeisser's 
Goldfields of Australia, 509. 

Louis, Professor, Coal Mining, 11, 282. 

Lucifer Match Factories, Commission on, 
417. 

Lucifer match works, 35, 36, 43 ; fragility 
of bones of employes in, 425 ; Special 
Rules for, 859, 

Lucifer matches, containing lead, 371 ; 
and phosphorus, 417-33 ; safety and 
strike-anywhere, 419, 421, 422. 

Ludlow, Harvey, 623. 

Lumbago, in field workers, 232 ; jam- 
makers, 680. 

Lunacy, in field workers, 234 ; lead- 
workers, 308, 309. 

Lung disease due to dust (pneumoconiosis), 
271 ; in cotton operatives, 721 ; brewers, 
801. 

Lyddite (picric acid, trinitrophenol), 599, 
6oo, 609-11, 619. 

Macaulay, Lord, 27. 

MacCormac, Bart., Sir William, 699. 

McDowall, Dr, Northumberland County 

Asylum, 799. 
M'Keown, Dr W. A., Treatise on Unripe 

Cataract, 502. 
M'Kinlay, Dr, 770. 
M'Laren, B., Preventible Colliery Accidents^ 

516. 
MacMunn, Dr, Wolverhampton, 484, 

766. 
Machine-makers, death rate, 755. 
Machine tools, 212. 
Machinery, its effect on workers, 116; 

safe-guarding of, 203-31 ; prime movers, 

205-208; means of stopping, 212; 

accidents in agricultural, 236. 
Machines, planing, 229. 
Madrid, cigar factories in, 794. 
Magitot, Dr, Paris, 424. 
Magnus, Professor, 776, 
Maize, 235. 

Mai chimique, phosphorus necrosis, 418. 
Mai de montagnes, 749. 
Malakoff, Professor, 775. 
Malaria, an old theory about, 1 74 ; and 

soldiers, 177, 180; sailors, 183; caused 

by mosquitoes, 180, 186. 
Maljean, Dr, 750. 
Malt liquor, the London dock labourers 

and, 114. 
Manchester, indiarubber works in, 470. 
Manchester warehousemen, death rate, 154. 



88o 



INDEX 



Manganese mud, 574, 575. 

Mann, Dixon, Forensic Medicine^ 477, 

482. 
Manson, Professor, on beriberi, 187. 
Manufacturers, their right of arbitration, 

5 ; Special Rules for, 35, 827-64. 
Marble quarries, 559. 
Marie, Dr, 481. 

Marine Service, health in the, 182-89. 
Marl quarries, 558. 
Marsh's apparatus, 38 1. 
Masons, death rate, 135 ; phthisis, etc., in, 

273, 274 ; eye accidents to, 784, 785. 
Massachusetts, anthrax in, 625. 
Massicot, 287. 
Match industry, and phosphorus necrosis, 

20, 418-28. 
Match Manufacturers Arbitration, 422. 
Matches, safety and strike-anywhere^ 419, 

421, 422. 
Maternity v. factory labour, 77, 82 ; field 

work and, 81. 
Mather & Piatt (Salford), on work before 

breakfast, 8. 
Matin, le, 257. 
Mattress-makers, liable to anthrax, 244 ; 

their diseases, 789, 790. 
Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, 14. 
May, S. W., Factory Inspector, 354. 
Mayence, glazed ware at, 807. 
Meachem, F. G., 543. 
Meakin, G. E., 363. 
Medical Chronicle, 479. 
Medical Department of the Privy Council, 

inquiries between 1 859 and 1 872 con- 
ducted by, 76. 
Medical Society of London, 378, 379. 
Melbourne Argus, 257. 
Melier, Dr, 793. 
Mercantile Marine, 182 ; cooks in, 1 89 ; 

accident death rate, 530. 
Merchant Shipping Act, 182, 189. 
Mercurial compounds, preparation of, 442. 
Mercurial poisoning, 19, 22, 26 ; indus- 
tries liable to, 435-41 ; mode of causation, 

436 ; symptoms of, 437 ; preventive 

measures, 444 ; in mines, 538. 
Mercury, and its salts, dangers in use of, 

434-46. 
Mercury, fulminate of, 559, 602, 603, 

620. 
" Merganthaler linotype machine, 331. 
Metadinitrobenzine, 475. 
Metal hollow ware, Special Rules for 

tinning and enamelling of, 863. 
Metallic dust, 273. 
Metalliferous mines, regulation of, 38, 528 ; 

accidents in German, 513-1$, 5i8 ; more 

unhealthy than coal, 534. 
Metalliferous Mines (Isle of Man) Act 

(1 89 1), 564. 
Metalliferous Mines Regulation Acts 

(1872 and 1875), 564. 
Metallochrome powder, 365. 



Metallurgical industry, causes of its decline 

in England, 5. 
Meters, electrical, 440. 
Methaemoglobin, 484. 
Methane, fire-damp in mines, 546. 
Metropolitan Meat Market, 245. 
Metropolitan District Railway, air of the, 

744. 

Metz, cases of anthrax at, 625. 

Meyhofer, Dr, 806. 

Middlesborough, North Eastern Steel 
Works, 390-94. 

Midland Medical Association, 466. 

Migerka, Dr, Staubarten in Wort und Bi'd, 
274. 

Military balloonists, 750. 

Military explosives, 619. 

Milkers' spasm, 821. 

Mill fever, in jute workers, 661 ; doffers, 
699. 

Mill-gearing and belts, 205, 208-11 ; 
shaftings, pulleys, couplings, etc.,. 
209. 

Millers, death rate, 505. 

Millstone building, buhrstone used for, 
405, 407 ; health of masons, 405, 406 ; 
eye accidents to, 784. 

Millwrights, death rate, 755. 

Miners, accidents to, li ; death rate, 156 ; 
subject to phthisis, bronchitis, pneu- 
monia, 273, 535 ; nystagmus, 534 ; eye 
accidents to, 776. 

Miners, lead, their health and surroundings,. 
282-86. 

Miners' Permanent Benefit Relief Fund,, 
II, 531, 776 (Germany), 512-18. 

Miners' Central Association, 531, 532. 

Mines, explosions and explosives in, 26,. 
615-18; Acts, 28, 40; premature death 
in, 30 ; no protective legislation till 
1842, 31 ; inquests not held on accidental 
deaths, ibid. ; legislation since i860 for, 
33, 37 ; the air of, 540-56. 

Mines and Manufactures, Report of Com- 
mission (1843) on, 35. 

Mines Legislation in Germany, France, and 
Belgium, Mr Tremenheere's Special 
Reports on, 28. 

Mining, 508-39. 

Mining districts, 1 20. 

Mining, Royal Commission (1841) on, 

31. 
Minister e de V Industrie et llu Travail, 

Brussels, 698. 
Ministry of Labour needed in England, 

23. 
Minium, 287. 
Miram, M., experiments in matches, 

430. 
Mirror-silvering, 435, 437, 440. 
Mixers, in dinitrobenzol manufacture,. 

765. , ^ 

Mixing and casting of brass and other 
alloys, Special Rules for, 464. 




INDEX 



Mohair, 634. 

Molten me'al, and eye accidents, 781. 

Monmouthshire, mines in, 158-60 ; tin- 
plate works in, 681. 

Mononitrobenzine, 475, 483. 

Mononitrotoluene, 476. 

Mont Cenis Tunnel, 737. 

Montfils, Dr, 623. 

Morgan's " Patent Safety Catch," 221, 
231. 

Morse instrument (telegraphy), 819. 

Mortality, of occupations, 118-33; tables 
of, in dust-producing occupations, 135, 
142, 274, 275 ; in unhealthy occupations, 
149 ; occupied and unoccupied men, 162 ; 
in sailing- and steam-ships, 184, 188 ; in 
railwaymen, 200 ; from plumbism, 298, 
351 ; from mining accidents, 513-32 
passim ; in different and certain occupa- 
tions, 594, 595 ; from manufacture and 
use of explosives, 603, 605 ; chief 
explosions in England, 608, 609 ; 
explosions in coal mines, 617, 618 ; in 
cotton operatives, 718-21 ; in boiler- 
makers and iron shipbuilders, 754, 

Morveau, Guyton de, 293. 

Mosquitoes, and malaria, 180, 186. 

Mosso, Professor, Turin University, 105. 

Motais, Dr, Paris, 327. 

Motes in the eye, from steel-grinding, 

777. 

Mother-of-pearl grinding causes phthisis, 
276, 

Mothers in factories, employment of, 73 
et srq. 

Motor cars, manufacture of, and plumbism, 
322. 

Moulton, Fletcher, 363. 

Mountain climbers, and diminished atmo- 
spheric pressure, 749. 

Moxon, Professor, 747. 

Mules, self-acting, 223-25 ; in cotton 
spinning, 703, 

Mungo rags, 644. 

Murray, Dr William, Birmingham, Chronic 
Brass Poisoning^ 466. 

Muscarin, poisonous constituent in mush- 
room-poisoning, 237. 

Muscular system, effect of dinitrobenzine 
poison on, 479. 

Muscular work, means for measuring, 
105. 

Mushroom-poisoning, and fieldworkers, 

237- 
Musicians, death rate, 151. 
Myrbane (nitro- and dinitro - benzine), 

591- 

Nail and chain making, 758. 
Nail diseases in furriers, 270. 
Naphtha, in indiarubber works, 470 ; in 

dry cleaning works, 491. 
Naphthalene, 475. 
Napias, M. le Docteur, 57. 



Nasal septum ulceration, caused by 
bichromes, 451. 

Nature^ 252. 

Navy, health of the, 184. 

Naxos, Island of, emery stone quarries in, 
813. 

Necrosis, see phosphorus necrosis. 

Needle-grinding, dust from, 276. 

Nervous diseases, in potters, etc., 136; 
cutlers, file-cutters, 138, 595 ; glass- 
makers, 139, 595 ; iron-workers, 141 ; 
lead-workers, 143, 595 ; brass-workers, 
145 ; wool-workers, 148 ; printers, 
musicians, 151 ; tailors, drapers, 154; 
miners, 158, 161, 162 ; occupied and 
unoccupied men, 164, 595, 720 ; due to 
dinitrobenzine, 480, 481 ; copper- workers, 
carpenters, earthenware makers, 595 ; 
agriculturists, cotton operatives, 720 ; 
blacksmiths, 757. 

Neuritis, peripheral, in indiarubber workers, 
472. _ 

Neurosis, occupation or fatigue, 764, 

815. 
New Almaden mines, California, 538. 
New Australian Electric Light Co. (Rich- 
mond), 257. 
New South Wales, eight hours' day in, 

8. 
Newcastle-on-Tyne, cases of plumbism at, 

297-300 ; fireclay, 399, 400 ; copper- 
smelting at, 466. 
Newcastle Asylum at Cox Lodge, 799. 
Newcastle City Asylum, 800. 
Newcastle Royal Infirmary, 298, 312, 336, 

360, 732, 793, 799, 806, 808, 823, 
Newett, Dr, Ligoneill, 695. 
Newlands, Archibald, Factory Inspector, 

814. 
Niagara Falls, 498. 
Nieden, Dr, 482, 764. 
Nitrate, of mercury, 446 ; of silver, 441 ; 

of soda, 581. 
Nitrate mixtures, 446 ; as explosives, 

602. 
Nitric acid, 442, 581. 
Nitric peroxide, 555, 556. 
Nitric oxide, 556. 
Nitro- benzine, 591. 
Nitro-cellulose, 600, 603, 614, 619. 
Nitro-compounds, 483, 602. 
Nitro-cotton, 600, 614. 
Nitro-glycerine, 555, 600, 612 ; explosives, 

536, 603, 605 ; physiological effects of, 

613. 
Nitro-powders, 599. 
Nitrogen, and black-damp, 542, 543 ; and 

after-damp, 549. 
Nitrous fumes, 581. 
Nobel, Alfred, discovers blasting gelatine, 

600, 614. 
Noble, 611. 
Non-textile industries, accidents in, 12 ; 

machinery in, 227-30. 

3K 



882 



INDEX 



North Eastern Steel Works, Middles- 
borough, 390. 

Northamptonshire mines, 158-61. 

Northumberland County Asylum, 799. 

Northumberland and Durham Miners' Per- 
manent Relief Fund, 11, 532. 

Northumberland Miners' Mutual Confident 
Association, 9. 

Northumberland mines, 1 58-61. 

Norway, phosphorus necrosis in, 421. 

Norwich, effect of electric shock on dogs 
at, 256. 

Nottingham, annual meeting of British 
Medical Association at (1892), 87. 

Nottinghamshire mines, 158-60. 

Novgorod, Russia, anthrax at, 625. 

Nuisance Removal Act, 29. 

Nuremberg, mirror-silvering at, 435. 

Nurserymen, mortality of, 129. 

Nystagmus, miners', 534, 761-64. 

Oakeshott, Miss Grace, 795. 
Occupation disease, its causation, 15, 16 ; 

difficulty of recognising, 17 ; dust as a 

cause of, 267-77 I due to excessively 

repeated muscular actions, 815-25. 
Occupations, mortality of, 118-33. 
Occupied and unoccupied men, mortality 

of, 162, 594, 595, 719, 720. 
Ocean Accident Insurance Co., 21. 
(Edematous anthrax, 636. 
Official Miners' Permanent Relief Fund of 

the German Empire, 512-18. 
Ogle, Dr, 120, 125, 128, 136, 137, 152, 535, 

755, 800, 809. 
Oil engines, 206 ; safety starting-gear for, 

208. 
Oligocythemia, 484. 
Oliver, a sledge hammer, 759. 
Oliver, Prof. Thomas, on death from 

electric shock, 258 ; Lead Poisoning 

(Gulstonian Lectures), 304 ; on Allbutt's 

System of Medicine^ 309i 477 ; his Report 

on Lead Compounds in Pottery, 351 ; 

Acetylene^ the New lliuminant^ etc.^ 502. 
Olten, death from electric shock at, 

253. 
Omdurman, effect of lyddite shells at, 

600. 
Onimus, Dr (France), on telegraphists' 

spasm — mal telegraphique, 819. 
Openers, tinplate works, 681. 
Ophthalmia, in flax workers, 698 ; hop 

pickers, 783 ; confectioners, 798. 
Ophthalmic Society of the United Kingdom^ 

Transactions of 770. 
Opiates, administered to infants, 78-80. 
Opium, used in fen districts for ague, 

234. 
Oram, R. E. Sprague, Factory Inspector, 

462, 
Orange lead works. Special Rules for, 

846. 
Orthonitrobenzine, 475. 



Osborn, Mr, Factory Inspector, 705, 716. 

Osteoarthritis, in fieldworkers, 232 ; 
quarriers, 564, 

Osteomyelitis, 276. 

Ostlers, subject to glanders and farcy, 
238. 

Ottawa, fire at Dominion Carbide Works, 
501. 

Overwork, on railways, 193. 

Oxidation of iron pyrites causes black- 
damp, 541-43. 

Oxide, lead, 287 ; of cobalt, 348. 

Oxygen, and black-damp, 541-45 ; and 
fire-damp, 547 ; in explosives, 610. 

Oxyhsemoglobin, 484. 

Paakdeberg, 178 ; lyddite fumes at, 

611. 
Pagliani, Professor, 112, 739. 
Paint, manufacture of white, 313, 447 ; 

and colour factories. Special Rules for, 

831. 
Painters, and lead colic, 17 ; lead insanity 

in, 308 ; and plumbism, 333-38, 770 ; 

washing of their clothes, 369 ; eye 

troubles due to arsenic, 770, 
Paints, use of inflammable or spirit, 4*94- 

96. 
Palmar fascia, contraction of the (among 

gardeners), 233, 237. 
Pantin-Aubervilliers, France, match works 

at, 421, 429-32 ; plumbism at, 429. 
Paperhangers, eye troubles due to arsenic, 

770. 
Paper makers, 644. 

Paraffin, cancer among workers in, 812. 
Paralysis, in file-cutters, 343 ; electric 

treatment of, 374 ; treatment of divers', 

746, 748. 
Paranitrobenzine, 475. 
Paris, lead poisoning in, 311, 333, 334; 

tobacco factories in, 794. 
Parkes and Kenwood, Hygiene and Public 

Health, 379. 
Parsons, Dr, 647. 
Pasteur, his treatment of hydrophobia, 

243 ; of anthrax, 623 ; on disease-carry- 
ing germs, 797. 
Pasteur-Chamberland bacterial filter, 175. 
Paterson, Miss, Factory Inspector, 302. 
Pathology and physiology of work and 

fatigue, 104-17. 
Pattinson process for desilvering lead ore, 

287. 
Paul, M. Constantin, 302. 
Peacock, Dr, 382. 

Pearson v. Belgian Mills Company, 213. 
Peel, Sir Robert, 191. 
Pellagra {malattia della miseria), due to 

bad maize, 235. 
Pembrey, Llanelly, dynamite explosion at, 

608. 
Pennsylvania, anthrax caused by tannery 

refuse in, 624, 



\ 



INDEX 



883 



Pens, and writers' palsy, 815, 818, 819. 

Percy, Dr, Fuel^ 396. 

Peripheral neuritis, caused by bisulphide 
of carbon in indiarubber works, 472 ; by 
dinitrobenzine, 486. 

Perron, M., of Besangon, 468. 

Perroncito, Professor, Turin, 743. 

Persulphocyanic acid, 431. 

Petroleum Acts (1871-1881), 499. 

Phenylene-diamine, 483. 

Philatelists, danger of stamp-licking, 804. 

Philip, Dr, Edinburgh, 473. 

Philosophical Transactions (1665), 434. 

Phosphorus, its use limited in Switzerland, 
Holland, and Belgium, 60 ; and lucifer 
matches, 417-33, 592. 

Phosphorus necrosis ("phossy jaw," mal 
chimique)^ 14, 16, 18-20, 22, 418, 420, 
421, 424 ; its cause and prevention, 426- 
428 ; its treatment, 433. 

Phossy-jaw, see phosphorus necrosis. 

Photography, use of bichromes in, 448. 

Phthisis, potters', 15, 135, 136; its inci- 
dence, 131, 132 ; in dusty occupations, 
135 ; earthenware makers, 1 35, 595 ; 
cotton operatives, 135, 720, 721 ; lock- 
smiths, bakers, 135, 505 ; blacksmiths, 
I35> 505, 757 ; coopers, wood-turners, 
rope-makers, bricklayers, masons, carpet 
manufacturers, tin-workers, 135 ; cutlers, 
135, 137, 595 ; file-cutters, 135, 139, 342, 
595 ; glassmakers, 135, 595, 805, copper- 
workers, 135, 140, 595 ; gunsmiths, 135, 
145 ; zinc, iron, and steel workers, 135, 
141 ; stone quarriers, 135, 143, 562 ; lead- 
workers, 135, 143, 595 ; brass-workers, 
135, 145 ; chimney sweeps, 135, 146 ; 
wool-workers, 135, 148 ; agriculturists, 
135, 234, 720; textile workers, 147; 
in certain unhealthy occupations, 149 ; 
bookbinders, 150, 151 ; printers, 1 50, 
151, 275; hatters, 152; tailors, 154; 
■drapers, shoemakers, 155 ; miners, 157, 
159, 161, 162, 535 ; in occupied and un- 
occupied men, 164, 595, 720 ; soldiers, 
168 ; sailors, 1 83 ; gardeners, 237 ; can 
be caused by dust, 272 ; in porcelain 
and cement makers, masons, 274 ; typo- 
graphers, 275, 329, 330 ; mother-of-pearl 
grinders, 276 ; Durham lead miners, 284 ; 
at Limoges potteries, 386 ; indiarubber 
makers, 473 ; millers, 505 ; brewers, 
595, 801 ; carpenters, chemical and flax 
workers, 595 ; laundresses, 669 ; boiler- 
makers and shipbuilders, 754 ; uphol- 
sterers, 789 ; railwaymen, 796 ; publicans, 
801 ; coal heavers and trimmers, 808. 

Physiology and pathology of work and 
fatigue, 104-17. 

Physique,^ working classes, 7. 

Pianoforte-players' cramp, 82 1. 

Picklers, in tinplate works, 682 ; women as 
assistant, 684. 

Picric acid, see lyddite. 



Pidoux, Dr, 327. 

Piecing, of flax, 693. 

Piedmont, anchylostomiasis endemic in, 
743. 

Pig-keepers, 249. 

Pigments, manufacture of, 566. 

Placers in potteries, 383. 

Plague, seamen subject to, 183.. 

Planing machines, 229. 

Plasterers, anthrax in, 244 ; eye accidents 
from lime to, 785. 

Plate-glass factories in England, 804. 

Plate-layers, 195. 

Plate wheels, 218. 

Playfair, Lord, 80. 

Pleurisy, in field - workers, 234 ; steel 
grinders, 410. 

Pliny, Natural History^ 63 ; " diseases of 
slaves," 25. 

" Plug and feather " method of using 
explosives in quarries, 559. 

Plumbers, and white lead, 292 ; lead 
insanity, 308 ; plumbism, 333, 770. 

Plumbism, 14, 16-19, 21, 22, 26 ; colic and 
kidney disease due to, 15 ; in potteries, 
57, 58, 136, 351, 353, 360-62; among 
cutlers, 137, 595 \ file-cutters, 138, 341- 
43, 595, 770 ; glaziers, 142 ; lead-workers, 
142, 595 ; painters, 142, 770 ; occupied 
and unoccupied males, 164, 595, 720 ; 
operatives in electric works (including 
motor cars and tramways), 259, 320, 322, 
323 ; lead smelting works, 286 ; white 
lead works, 295-300 ; mortality tables, 
297, 298, 371 ; and pregnancy, 301 ; its 
symptoms, 304 ; and alcoholism, 30^, 
310 ; encephalopathy (lead insanity), 
307-309 ; preventive and curative 
treatment of, 310-15 ; in Paris, 311 ; 
due to soldering, 323 ; among typo- 
graphers, 324-32 ; plumbers, 333, 770 ; 
house painters, 333-37 ; coach painters, 
337 ; glass-workers, 339, 595 ; earthen- 
ware makers, 360, 595 ; in chromo- 
lithograph and transfer making, 366 ; 
tile-making, 368 ; produced by washing 
lead-workers' and painters' clothes, 369 ; 
lead foil makers, shoe-finishers, 370 ; 
electric treatment of, 373-77 ; in mirror- 
silvering works, 441 ; among chemical 
workers, 595 ; its effect on the eyes, 770. 

Pommata, Dr, Brigue, 741, 743. 

Pneumatic chipper in steel works, 781, 

783. 

Pneumoconiosis, lung disease caused by 
dust, 268, 271 ; in quarriers, 563. 

Pneumonia, in field-workers, 234 ; masons, 
porcelain and cement makers, 274 ; 
typographers, 329, 330 ; steel grinders, 
410; millers, bakers, 505 ; miners, 535 ; 
jute workers, 660 ; agriculturists, cotton 
operatives, 720 ; boiler makers and ship- 
builders, 754 ; engine drivers and fire- 
men, 797 ; glass-makers, 805. 



884 



INDEX 



Poikilocytosis, 484. 

Poincare, Dr, 794. 

Poisoning by dinitrobenzine, 477-86 ; 
acute, 477 ; subacute, 478 ; chronic, 
479 ; precautions against, 487 ; treat- 
ment of, 489, 

Poisonous substances, control of their use 
in manufacture, 42, 

Poisons Industriels^ Paris, 284, 302, 360, 

794. 
Poisson, Dr, 794. 

Pol and Wa telle, MM,, on effects of com- 
pressed air at Douchy mine, 730. 
Polishing of cutlery, 412. 
Pollender, Professor, on the anthrax 

bacillus, 623. 
Ponteau, M., experiments in matches, 

430. 
Pontypool, first tinplate works at, 

681. 
Poole, Dorset, fireclay working at, 400. 
Poore, Vivian, 819. 
Pope, Dr Walter, 26, 434. 
Porcelain, diseases of workers, 274 ; three 

kinds of, 349 ; stoves, 367. 
Porphyry quarries, 558. 
Porter, Dr, 343. 
Potassium and sodium bichromate, lesions 

resulting from manufacture and uses of, 

447-54. 
Potassium chlorate, 419. 
Potassium, cyanide of, in glazed ware, 

807. 
Pott, Percivall, 237. 
" Potteries," the, 346. 
Potters, phthisis of, 15, 389; death rate, 

135- 

Pottery manufacture, 4, 21, 25 ; use of 
lead in, 346-65. 

Pottery Arbitration at Stoke-on-Trent, 
21. 

Pouce, flax dust, 697. 

Power presses, 229, 230. 

Precipitation process in white lead works, 
291. 

Pregnancy, and lead poisoning, 301 ; and 
tobacco, 794. 

Prendergast, Dr Hanley, 384, 388. 

Preservation of Health and Morals of 
Apprentices Act (1802), 827. 

Prevost, Dr, Geneva University, 258. 

Priest and Ashmore, opticians, Sheffield, 
782. 

Priestley, Dr, 280. 

Prime movers, 205. 

Printers, death rate, 1 50; and lead dust, 
275 ; colic, 324 ; their cats suffer from 
plumbism, 327 ; subject to phthisis, 328- 
30 ; and to plumbism, 324-32, 

Probsting, Dr, oculist, Cologne, 806, 

Prospector, mining, 509, 510. 

Protection necessary in factories, 64 ; 
Protection of Infant Life, Select Com- 
mittee (1871) on, 79. 



Protective legislation and Factory Acts, 
32. 

Proust, Dr, 322. 

Pruritus (itchiness), 270. 

Prussian Official Miners' Relief Fund, 
533. 

Public Health Acts, 22, 29, 565. 

Public Health Journal^ 497. 

Public Health Engineer^ 504. 

Publicans, death rate, 800. 

Puddling furnacemen subject to heart 
disease, 756. 

Pulleys, for mill-gearing, 209, 210 ; loose,, 
217. 

Pulling room, for transformation of rabbit 
skins, 724, 

Pulmonary anthracosis, in stokers, 797, 

Pulmonary anthrax, "wool-sorter's dis- 
ease," 637. 

Pulmonary diseases, in china and earthen- 
ware makers, 382-89 ; blast furnacemen, 
756 ; blacksmiths, 757 ; dressmakers,. 
805 ; chimney sweeps, 808, 

Purdon, Dr C. P., 270, 695, 697. 

Putty powder, frequent cause of plumbism^ 

339. 
Pyroxiline, 792. 

QUARRIERS, diseases of, 135, 143, 561-64 • 
accidents, 560, 561 ; eye accidents, 
784. 

Quarries, 557-67. 

Quarries Act (1894), 42, 557, 564. 

Quarry Fencing Act, 565, 

Quicksilver, mining of, 25, 434 ; extraction 
from cinnabar, 438. 

Rabbit down and skins, 724-27. 

" Racing the stone," in wet - grinding,. 
412. 

Rag-grinding, 645, 

Rag-cleaning, dust from, 276, 

Rag-sorters, liable to anthrax, 244 ; health 
of, 645, 

Rags and their products in relation to 
health, 644-47. 

Railway Times ^ 198. 

Railways, 190-202 ; accidents on, 190 et 
^^9') 530 ; Royal Commission (1865) 
on, 192 ; block system and automatic 
couplings, 193 ; overwork on, ibid. ; 
gases in underground, 744-45 ; em- 
ployes' risks, 796. 

Railways Regulation Act (1871), 193 ; 
(1873), 192. 

Rainhill, file-cutting at, 340. 

Ramazini, Dr, Diseases of Artificers {De 
morbis artificium diatriba), 24, 267, 434,. 

789. 
Ransome, Dr, 80, 707, 
Rasch, Professor, 368. 
Rats and sequoia sawdust, 792. 
Ravenal, Dr, Pennsylvania, 624. 
Rawson, C, Manual of Dyeing^ 447. 



INDEX 



885 



Raymondaud, Professor, Limoges, 385. 
Reachers (cotton-spinning), 703. 
Read, Holliday, & Sons, 612. 
Read-Holliday Acetylene Company, 497, 

501. 
Red lead, 287 ; Special Rules for manu- 
facture of, 846. 
Red, or amorphous phosphorus, 417-19. 
Red oxide, 443. 
Redgrave, Alexander, Factory Inspector, 

29. 36. 
Redheugh Bridge, Newcastle, 729, 734. 
Redwick Well, Gloucestershire, 545. 
Reeling, measuring flax yam into hanks, 

695. 
Regent's Park, gunpowder explosion in, 

607, 608. 
Reitz, Dr J., Ueber die giftigen Hutmacher' 

hiizen und deren nachtheiligen Einfluss 

auf die Gesundkeit, 435, 
Renk, Professor von, 436. 
Resin, 619. 

Respiratory diseases, see phthisis. 
Retting, or steeping pond, for jute, 

651. 
Return road (mines), 540. 
Revue d' Hygiene et de Police Sanitaire^ 431, 

739- 

Rex, Wilton, 363. 

Reynolds, Dr, 482. 

Rheumatic fever, in cotton operatives, 147, 
720; wool-sorters, I48 ; drapers, 154; 
brewers, cutlers, carpenters, chemical 
workers, earthenware and glass makers, 
595 ; occupied and unoccupied men, 

• 595, 720 ; agriculturists, 720. 

Rheumatism, in seamen, 183, 186 ; field- 
workers, 232 ; quarriers, 564 ; jute- 
workers, 660 ; jam-makers, 680 ; tin- 
plate workers, 683 ; aerated water 
workers, 689 ; blast furnacemen, 756 ; 
sawyers, 791 ; drivers of public vehicles, 
798. 

Riders' bone, bursse, sprain, 245. 

Ridley, Sir Matthew White, 69, 353. 

Ring frame, in cotton-spinning, 703. 

Ringworm, in cows, 247. 

Ritchie, C. T,, 72, 193, 197 ; his Railway 
Bills, 198, 202. 

Rivers, Dr, 773. 

Riveters, deafness in, 752. 

Rivista de Servizio Miner ario^ 52 1. 

Roads, "intake" and "return" (mines), 

540. 
Roberts, Sir William, 707. 
Robertshaw, Dr, Stockbridge, 400. 
Robertson, Dr John, Medical Health 

Officer, Sheffield, 340. 
Robinson, Dr William, Sunderland, 284, 

819. 
Roburite, 555, 559, 619. 
Roburite Company, 615. 
Rochester Bridge, 731. 
Rodgers, Mr, Factory Inspector, 591. 



Rome, Jews as glass makers in, 804. 

Romiee, Dr, 764. 

Root's blower, 570. 

Rope-makers, death rate, 135. 

Roques, Mouvement Medical^ 303. 

Roscoe, Sir H., 707. 

Rose, Dr Frederick, Consul at Stuttgart, 

Rise, Progress, and Present Condition of 

the Carbide and Acetylene Industries in 

Germany, 504, 
Rosewood, 792. 
Roslin, Edinburgh, gunpowder explosions 

at, 609. 
Ross, Dr, 479. 
Roughers, in flax works, 693 ; addicted to 

alcoholism, 697. 
Roussel, Professor, 422. 
Rove, twisted jute yarn, 653. 
Roving frames, cotton spinning, 703. 
Roving machines, flax works, 694. 
Royal College of Surgeons, 809. 
Royal Commission on : — Labour, 74, 83, 

186 ; Mines (1841), 31 ; Railways (1865 

and 1899), 192, 198. 
Royal Institution, 737, 740. 
Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society, 

457. 
Royal Society, 1 18. 
Royal Society of England, Transactions of 

26, 27. 
Royaume de Belgique — Statistique de Mines ^ 

Minieres, Carrier es, etc., 5 1 9. 
Russell, Dr, 625. 
Russell, Risien, 822. 
Russell, Sir James, Edinburgh, 791. 
Russia, factory inspectorate in, 49 ; ergot- 
ism in, 234. 
Rye, spurred, 234. 

S. S. Powder, 619. 

Saccardo system, for ventilating St Gothard 
Tunnel, 738. 

Sack-sewers (j"^^ works), 652. 

Safe-guarding of machinery, 203-31. 

Safety lamps, in coal mines, 528. 

Saggers, vessels in which earthenware is 
fired, 347, 383. 

Sailing vessels, mortality incident in, 
184. 

Sailors, health of, 182-89 ) ^^^^ ^"d habits 
of, 183 ; diseases due to employment, 
habits, and climate, 184, 185 ; to in- 
sanitary conditions and environment, 
186 ; accident death rate, 530. 

St Bartholomew's Hospital, 237, 245, 
809. 

St Gothard Tunnel, 738. 

St Helens, copper-smelting at, 466 ; 
chemical works at, 571, 579, 582, 584, 
596 ; plate-glass works at, 804. 

St Yriex, near Limoges, kaolin found at, 

385. 
Salt, electrolysis of, 583. 
Salt cake, or sulphate of soda, 570, 573 ; 



886 



INDEX 



hours of work, etc., of makers of, 
586. 

Salt mines (Cheshire), 508 ; accidents in 
German, 513-15. 

Saltash, use of caissons at, 731. 

Saltpetre, 600, 611. 

Sand quarries, 558. 

Sandstone, dust, 274 ; quarries, 558. 

Sanitary Act, 29, 36. 

Sanitary Commissions, 29, 

Sanitary Condition of Labouring Popula- 
tion, Report (1838) on, 45. 

Sanitary Congress, Newcastle, 808. 

Sanitary measures in Factory Act of 1864, 

35. 
Sanitary State of the People of England 

(1858), 76. 
Saturnine poisoning, see encephalopathy. 
Saws, circular, 227. 
Sawyers, subject to rheumatism, bronchitis, 

and asthma, 791. 
Saxony, mines, 518; cancer of lung in 

smaltite miners, 538 ; secret of tinplate 

making brought from, 681. 
Scale tang cutlery, 412, 413. 
Scapula's Lexicon^ 232. 
Scarlet fever caused by cows' milk, 247. 
Schaefer, Dr H., Die Spiegelberger^ 441. 
Scheele, Dr, Berlin, '805. 
Scheele's green, 379. 
Schmeisser, The Goldfields of Australia^ 

509. 
Schmidt, Dr, 340. 
Scholberg, H. A., his chemical analysis of 

a ganister miner's lung, 404. 
Schonbein, Professor, 419. 
Schroter of Vienna, discovers red or 

amorphous phosphorus, 418. 
Schultze powder, 619. 
Schutte, Landsberg, & Co., 492. 
Schweinfurt or Vienna green, 379. 
Schweinitz, Professor de. Toxic Amblyopias^ 

769, 770. 
Sciatica in field-workers, 232. 
Scissors-makers, death rate, 137. 
Scotch Fishery Board, 674. 
Scotland, match works in, 419 ; bichrome 

factories in, 449 ; fishcuring a staple 

industry in, 674. 
Scott, Dr Alexander, Glasgow, 796. 
Scottish Amicable Life Assurance Society, 

801. 
Scottish Council for Women's Trades, 

Scouring china, 384. 
Screws, set (mill-gearing), 209, 214. 
Scriveners' palsy, or spasm, 815-17. 
Scroll- or draw-bands, 225. 
Scurvy, in sailors, 183, 187. 
Scutch mills, flax, 692, 694, 698. 
Seamstresses' cramp, 821. 
Self-acting mules, 223-25. 
Septum, ulceration of the nasal, 450- 
52. 



Sequoia wood, effect of its sawdust, 

791. 
Serpentine quarries, 558. 
Servants, domestic, liable to stomach 

ulceration, 798. 
Sesquisulphide of phosphorus, 421, 430- 

Set-screws (mill-gearing), 209, 214. 

Setters, in ganister works, 398 

Severn Tunnel, nitroglycerine fumes in, 

613. 
Sewing-machine workers, their ailments, 

802. 
Seymour, Lord, his Railway Act, 191. 
Shaft ends, 217. 
Shaftesbury, Lord, 38. 
Shafting, for mill-gearing, 209, 210. 
Shafts, downcast and upcast (mines), 

540. 
Shale quarries, 558. 
Shanghai hides, 629. 
Shears, Professor, 769. 
Sheep, and anthrax, 624. 
"Sheep dip," arsenic in, 378. 
Sheep's wool, 634. 
Sheet-glass factories, 804. 
Sheffield, mother-of-pearl grinding in, 276 ; 

file-cutters, 340 ; high mortality in, 

344, 345 ; snuff, 769. 
Sheffield Royal Infirmary, 777, 779, 

781. 
Shennan, Dr, Edinburgh, 778, 
Shepherds and sheep diseases, 244, 247, 

248. 
Shervvin, J., 363. 

Ship painters, 494. • 

Shipwrights, death rate, 596, 754. 
Shoddy, 646. 

"Shoddy fever," in rag-grinders, 645. 
Shoe-finishing and staining by lead com- 
pounds, plumbism and, 370. 
Shoemakers, death rate, 155, 824; spasm 

(idiopathic tetany), 822 ; instance of 

chest deformity in, 823. 
Shoreditch, cases of anthrax in, 627. 
Shunters, railway, a perilous trade, 195-97- 
Sicily, effects of fatigue in, II2. 
Sick Insurance Fund, Germany, 55, 58. 
Sidemoor, nail-making at, 760. 
Siderosis, lung disease due to metallic 

dust, 273. 
Siemens-Martin furnace, 756. 
Siemens metal, heat of, 772. 
Sierra de Gador, lead mines of, 284. 
Sieve mills, ganister works, 398. 
Sighters of aerated water, 787 ; eye acci- 
dents to, 786. 
Silicate of cotion, 788. 
Silicosis, or chalicosis, lung disease due to 

stone-dust, etc., 273. 
Silk-dust, its effect on workers, 26. 
Silver and gold extraction, 440. 
Silver finishers or burnishers, eye affection, 

of, 771. 



F 



INDEX 



887 



Silvering of mirror?, 440. 

Simon, Sir John, Medical Officer to the 
Privy Council, 24, 26, 29, 76, 77, 81, 
84. 

Simon, Dr R,, 144. 

Simplon Tunnel, 739. 

Size in cotton, its effects on health, 705, 
706; constituents of, 715. 

Skin and hides. Special Rules for dry- 
salting, 856. 

Skin disease due to dust (pneumoconiosis), 
268 ; in flax workers, 260. 

Slag, basic, 276, 390-95. 

Slate quarries, 558. 

Slaughterers liable to anthrax, 244 ; and 
erysipelas, 245. 

Sledge hammer, Or Oliver, 759. 

Sledging, in ganister crushing, 397. 

Slip-makers (pottery), 383. 

Slips, in mill-gearing, 225. 

Slubbing frames (cotton spinning), 703, 

Smallpox, allied to covvpox and horsepox, 
247 ; caused by rags in papermaking, 
644 ; upholsterers liable to, 789. 

Smaltite, causes lung cancer, 538. 

Smelting works (Germany), accidents in, 
513-15. 

Smith, Dr Andrew, New York, 731, 

735. 

Smith, Angus, Air and Rain^ 543. 

Smith, Sir Frederick, Inspector General, 
Board of Trade, 191. 

Smith, Commander Hamilton, 277, 767. 

Smith, Lorrain, 544, 550. 

Smith, Sidney, Factory Inspector, 591. 

Smoke in mines, carbonic acid, its poisonous 
constituent, 553, 554. 

Smyrna, emery rock imported from, 
813. 

Snaefell colliery accident, 554. 

Snell, Dr Simeon, 482, 488, 730. 

Snuff, manufacture of, 767, 

Social Science Congress (1865), 41 1. 

Society of Arts, 501 . 

Society of File - Cutters by Hand in 
Sheffield, 345. 

Soda,. 581, 583, 

Sodium, manufacture of, 447-54 ; Special 
Rules for, 844. 

Sodium nitrate, 581. 

Soft rags, 644. 

Soldering, and plumbism, 323. 

Soldiers, diseases of, 166-81 ; their barracks, 
168 ; tight- fitting uniforms abolished, 
169; "irritable heart" and tobacco, 
ihid. ; night-guard, 1 70 ; life in hot dry 
climates, 171 ; in hot moist climates, 
173 ; specific diseases of campaigns, 

177- 
Sommerfeld, Handhuch der Gewerbekrank- 

heiten^ 439 
Soot merchants, death rate, 145. 
Soot, its effects on the skin, 808 ; and 

cancer, 810. 



Soot warts, 810. 

South London, fur-pullers in, 726. 

South Wales, mines, 158-60; tinplate 

works, 681, 
Southwark, cases of anthrax in, 627. 
Spain, employment of women after child- 
birth in, 54 ; pellagra in, 235. 
Spanish lead ore, 283. 
Spanton, W. D., 354. 
Spear, Mr, Local Government Board, 625, 

626, 630-32. 
Special Rules, in Germany and England, 
55. 59 ; France, 57 ; and Arbitration, 
65-71 ; in potteries, 361, 365 ; under 
Factory Acts, 829-64. 
Spiegel iron, 758. 
Spike nails, 759. 
Spindle ends, 217. 

Spinners (fl;ix), phthisis among, 696-98. 
Spirit or inflammable paints, use of, 494- 

96. 
Splenic fever, see anthrax. 
Sporting explosives, 619. 
Spragging, in coal mines, 527. 
Spur wheels, 216. 
Squire, Miss, 442, 671. 
Stablemen, subject to glanders and farcy, 

238. 
Staffordshire, infant mortality in artisan 
towns of, 73 ; wages of male and female 
workers, 88 ; mines in, 158-61 ; home 
of the pottery industry, 346 ; earthen- 
ware and china makers in, 350, 351. 
Stagnant and compressed air, diseases due 

to working in, 728-48. 
" Stamp-lickers' tongue," 803. 
Stannington clay, 397. 
Starch, 619. 
Starting-gear for gas and oil engines^ 

208. 
Statistik der Knappschafts-Berufsgenossen- 

schaftfur das Deutsche Reich, e^l2. 
Statistique de F Industrie Minerale en France 

et en Algerie^ 520. 
Statisque de Mines, etc., Royaume de 

Belgique. 
Steam engines, 206. 
Steam laundries, machinery in, 665. 
Steamers, mortality incident in, 184. 
Steel and iron industries, 756-60. 
Steel-melters' composition, 400. 
Steel-workers, death rate, 135, 140; eye 
diseases, 771-75 ; eye accidents, 776-83. 
Steel works, use of converters in, 757. 
Steel grinding, 408-16. 
Steel pens, and writers' palsy, 815, 818, 

819. 
Steeping or retting pond, for jute, 651 ; 

for flax, 652. 
Stephenson, George, 191. 
Stephenson, Dr, Medical Health Officer, 

Blackburn, 706. 
Stereotyping, 331. 
Stevenson, Dr, 460, 461. 



888 



INDEX 



Stive room, in basic slag works, 391. 
Stockman, Professor, Glasgow, 426. 
Stoke-on-Trent, Pottery Arbitration at, 21, 

363 ; potteries at, 554. 
Stokers, railway, pulmonary anthracosis in, 

797. 
Stokes, Mr, Report on Whitwick Colliery 

fire, 554. 
Stomach ulceration, domestic servants 

liable to, 798. 
Stone, racing the (wet-grinding), 412. 
Stone, workers in (cutters, masons, quar- 

riers, etc.), eye accidents to, 784. 
Stone-quarriers, death rate, 135, 143. 
Stooping gait (kyphosis), in field-workers, 

133. 
Stourbridge fireclay, 399, 400. 
Strap forks, 2 1 7. 
Strasburg Bridge, Rhine, 731. 
Strassmann and Strecker, 482, 486. 
Strick of flax, 693. 
Strong's " Standard Guard " for engine 

fly-wheels, 207. 
Stiihler, Dr, Berlin, 325, 333. 
Stumpf, Dr, 325. 
Subchloride of mercury (calomel), 442, 

443. 
Sufftt, Dr Courtois-, 431. 
Sugar and alcohol, as muscular food. 

Suicide, in file-cutters, 138 ; chimney 
sweeps, 146 ; bookbinders, printers, 
musicians, 151 ; hatters, 152 ; drapers, 
I54» 155 ; shoemakers, 155 ; ironstone 
miners, 161 ; occupied and unoccupied 
men, 164 ; publicans, 802. 

Sulphate of soda, or salt cake, 570, 
573. 

Sulphide of lead (galena), 348, 538. 

Sulphide of mercury (vermilion), 438, 
443. 

Sulphur, 581, 582. 

Sulphur dioxide, 580, 581. 

Sulphuretted hydrogen, 555, 582. 

Sulphuric acid, 570 ; manufacture of, 580. 

Sulser-Ziegler, Mr, Director of Brandt, 
Brandau et Cie., Zurich, 740. 

Sunderland, 360. 

Sunderland Infirmary, 808. 

Sunstroke, 171, 175, 180. 

Sutton, H., 363. 

Swan, Joseph Wilson, 5. 

Swansea, copper smelting at, 466, 467. 

Sweating System, House of Lords' Com- 
mittee on the, 40. 

Sweden, factory inspectorate in, 47 ; 
ergotism in, 234 ; lucifer match industry 
in, 422, 

Swift, or drum for rag-grinding, 645. 

Swine and anthrax, 624, 

Switzerland, factory inspectorate in, 47 ; 
employment of women after childbirth, 
53, 88, 685 ; use of white phosphorus 
limited, 60 ; yellow phosphorus pro- 



hibited, 422 ; phosphorus necrosis in, 

428 ; chimney sweeping in, 811. 
Sydney, week's work of forty-four hours in 

coal mines and factories, 8 ; death from 

electric shock in, 257. 
Syphilis, sailors and, 184. 

Tailors, death rate, 153. 

Talamon, Dr, 320. 

Tanners, death rate, 244, 245. 

Tannery refuse, and anthrax, 624. 

Tanquerel, Dr, 327. 

Tar, cancer among workers in, 8l2. 

Tardien, M., 303. 

Tasmania, eight hours' day in, 8. 

Tatham, Dr John, Decennial Supplements to 
Registrar-GeneraVs Reports^ 118, 345, 
389, 593, 596, 717, 719, 801, 809. 

Taylor, Dr Frederick, 746. 

Tea lead rollers, lead insanity among, 
308. 

Teagles, 221, 

Telegraphists' spasm or cramp, 819. 

Telfer, Councillor, Edinburgh, 791. 

Templeman, Dr, Medical Health Officer, 
Dundee, 82. 

Tennant, H. J., M.P., 14. 

Terra-cotta, 348. 

Terrier, Professor, 775. 

Tetanus, or lockjaw, 240-42 ; its micro- 
organism, 241 ; in quarrymen, 564 ; jute- 
workers, 659 ; idiopathic (shoemakers' 
spasm), 822. 

Textile factories, accidents in, 12 ; limita- 
tion of hours in, 35 ; death rate of 
workers in, 147 ; machinery in, 225, 
226. 

Thackrah, Dr, Effects of Arts ^ Trades^ 
and Professions on Health and Longevity^ 
458. 

Thermometer-making, 439. 

Thomas, Dr, Limehouse, 280. 

Thomas Gilchrist process, in steel manu- 
facture, 390. 

Thomson, Captain, Inspector of Explo- 
sives, 502. 

Thorpe, Professor T. E., 350-53, 355, 357- 
61, 363, 364, 368, 417, 419, 803. 

Thread mills, 803. 

Threshing, eye accidents in, 783. 

Throstles (cotton spinning), 703. 

Throwing (potteries), 383. 

Tile making, and manufacture of porcelain 
stoves, 367. 

Tillmanns, Professor, Leipzig, 812, 

Times ^ 362. 

Tin-houses, in tinplate works, 685. 

Tin-miners, death rate, 162, 535. 

Tinplate works, processes of manufacture 
in, 681 ; women's labour in, 681-86 ; 
risks to health, 683. 

Tinker and Holliday, Huddersfield, 
501. 

Tinley, Dr, 234, 




INDEX 



Tinning and enamelling of hollow ware, 
319 ; Special Rules for, 848, 863. 

Tizzoni, Professor, the tetanus bacilli, 241, 
242 ; on hydrophobia, 244. 

Tobacco, soldiers use of, 169 ; manufac- 
ture of, 768, 793 ; toxic amblyopia in 
workers, 768 ; pregnancy and, 794. 

Todmorden, cotton sizing at, 705. 

Tolindene, 591. 

Toluene, 475. 

Tonite (cotton powder), 555, 559, 611, 
620. 

Tools, machine, 212. 

Toothed wheels, 216, 217. 

Torticollis, or wry-neck, 762. 

Tow, flax, 673 ; sliver-yarn, 694. 

Towing (pottery), 383. 

Toxic hysteria, caused by bisulphide of 
carbon, 473. 

Trade, Grand Committee (1902) on, 43. 

Trade Accident Associations (Germany), 

Trade Unions, 2. 

Trades Union Congress (1882), 705. 

Tramways, electric, 323. 

Transactions of the Institution of Mining 
Engineers, 508, 516, 517, 541, 543. 

Transtictions of Ophth. Society of the 
United Kingdom, 770. 

Transactions of the Royal Society of Eng- 
land^ 26, 27. 

Transfer making and chromo-lithographic 
works, 365 ; Special Rules for, 840. 

Transformer stations, electric, 250. 

Tremenheere, Mr, Inspector of Mines, 28. 

Triamidobenzine, 483. 

Trichinosis, 249. 

Triger, M., French engineer, 730. 

Trinitrobenzine, 476, 483. 

Trinitrophenol, or picric acid, 619. 

Trinitrotoluene, 476. 

Tropical diseases, in sailors, 185. 

Tuberculosis, common disease in cows, 
247 ; in typographers, 275, 329, 330. 

Tunnels, dangers of making and working 
in, 737-43. 

Tunstall potteries, 346. 

Turbines, 208. 

Turin, Congress of Hygiene at, 288. 

Tuyere holes (steel works), 758. 

Twentieth Century Practice of Medicine, 
442, 819. 

Tyler, Captain, Board of Trade Inspecting 
Officer, 193. 

Tyneside, decay of chemical industry on, 
6 ; lead insanity in, 283 ; plumbism, 
312. 

Typhoid fever, 174, 177, 179 ; among field- 
workers, 234 ; in Dundee, 662 ; among 
boilermakers and shipbuilders, 754. 

T3rpe-setters' spasm, 821. 

Typographers (type founders and setters) 
and lead dust, 275 ; and plumbism, 
324-32. 



Typographical Associations, 328 ; Mor- 
tality Tables, 329, 330. 

Tyrol, milkers' spasm in cowherds of the, 
821. 

Ulceration of the nasal septum, due to 
bichromes, 451 ; of the stomach in 
domestic servants, 798, 

Underground railways, gases in, 744-45. 

Unhealthy trades, Dr Guy's classification 
of, 130, 

United Alkali Co., 570, 579, 

United Society of Boilermakers and Iron 
Shipbuilders, 754. 

Unoccupied and occupied men, mortality 
of, 162, 594, 595, 719, 720. 

Upcast shaft (mines), 540, 

Upholsterers, and flocks, 466 ; subject to 
respiratory troubles, smallpox, ery- 
sipelas, etc, 789. 

Urinary diseases, in potters, 136 ; cutlers, 
I37> 595 ; file-cutters, 138, 595 ; glass- 
makers, 139, 595 ; copper-workers, 140, 
595 ; iron-workers, 141 ; lead-workers, 
I43> 595 ; brass-workers, 145 ; chimney 
sweeps, 146 ; wool-workers, 148 ; book- 
binders, 150; printers, musicians, 151 ; 
miners, 158, 161, 162 ; occupied and 
unoccupied men, 164, 595 ; caused by 
dinitrobenzine, 482-85 ; among brewers, 
carpenters, chemical workers, earthen- 
ware makers, 595 ; publicans, etc., 802. 

Urobilin, 483. 

Uttley, Stuart, 345. 

Vaccinia, or cowpox, cowmen and dairy- 
maids subject to, 246. 
Van der Borght, Dr, his definition of 

industrial disease, 15. 
Van Giesson, 401. 
Van Leyden, 747. 
Varicocele, in carpenters, 791 ; engine 

drivers, 796, 
Varicose veins, 19. 
Vegetable dyes, 317. 
Velten in Brandenburg, plumbism among 

glazed tile makers, 368, 
Venereal diseases, in soldiers, 177 ; sailors, 

183, 185. 
Ventilation of factories, 51. 
Vermilion (sulphide of mercury), 443. 
Verhaegen, Arthur, 14, 16-18. 
Vernati, Su- Philberto, 26. 
Veterinary surgeons, 238, 244, 247, 248. 
Victor guard, 228. 
Victoria, eight hours' day in, 8. 
Vienna, epidemic of idiopathic tetany in, 

822. 
Violinists' cramp, 821. 
Viper bites, in field-workers, 236. 
Vitriol makers, hours of work, etc., 586. 
Vitriol, oil of, 570. 
Volante, Dr, Medical Officer at Iselle 

(Simplon Tunnel), 741, 743. 



890 



INDEX 



Volts, 252, 253. 

Vulcanisation of indiarubber, 768 ; Special 
Rules for, 855. 

Wadsworth's "Self-landing and Deliver- 
ing Hoist," 222. 

Wages, effect of home work on, 103. 

Wall papers, arsenic in, 379. 

Walmsley, J. H., Factory Inspector, Stoke- 
on-Trent, 352, 354. 

Walsrode (sporting powder), 619. 

Ward, Thomas, The Subsidences in and 
around the Town of Northwichin Cheshire^ 
508. 

Warpers, flax, 695 ; cotton spinning, 703. 

Washers, in tinplate works, 682 ; of aerated 
water bottles, 688. 

Washing of lead-workers' and painters' 
clothes, plumbism caused by, 369. 

Water, importance of its source and purity, 

177, 185, 188. 

Water-born diseases, enteric and cholera, 

178, 179, 185, 188. 

Water-gauges on boilers, eye accidents due 

to bursting of, 787, 
Water-gilding, 440. 
Water-wheels, 208. 
Watson, Mr, Secretary, Miners' Permanent 

Benefit Fund, 776. 
Weavers, flax, phthisis and bronchial 

troubles in, 696-98 ; eye accidents to, 

785. 
Weavers' Association, 707. 
Weaving sheds (cotton spinning), 704. 
Weber, Professor H. F., his electric ex- 
periments, 252. 
Wedgewood, 347. 

Wegner, Professor, experiments with phos- 
phorus, 425. 
Weldon process, in bleach powder making, 

575,.576, 580. 
Well-sinkers, eye accidents to, 542. 
West coast of Africa, 173. 
West Riding, Yorkshire, mines, 160 ; wool 

industry in, 634. 
Westphalia, mining laws in, 537 ; anchy- 

lostomiasis in, 537. 
Westphalite, for blasting, 619. 
Wet-grinders, 411-16 ; phthisis in, 412. 
Weyl's Hand buck der Hygiene^ 441. 
Wheat-cleaning, dust from, 276 ; dirt in 

imported, 506, 
Wheels (in mill-gearing), bevel, 212, 217 ; 

toothed, 216, 217; spur, 216, 226; 

plate, 218 ; carriages, 225 ; balance, 

226. 
Whinstone, or basalt, quarries, 558. 
White, Dr Sinclair, 343. 
White, Walter, Month in Yorkshire^ 

644. 
White lead, 288 ; is there a substitute for ? 

293-295. 
White Lead Commission (1893), 259, 286, 
289, 293, 298, 313, 318, 369. 



White lead poisoning, see plumbism. 

White lead works, 36, 39, 42 ; blue and 
white beds in, 289 ; different methods of 
manufacture In, 291, 292; plumbism in, 
295 et seq. ; displacement of female by 
male labour, 297 ; Special Rules for, 
829. 

White or yellow phosphorus, 417-19, 421 ; 
a substitute for, 429, 432. 

White-damp, 554. 

Whitelegge, Dr A., Chief Inspector of 
Factories, 12, 419, 464, 626. 

Whittaker, J. L., 363. 

Whittingham Asylum, Preston, Lancashire, 
800. 

Whitwick Colliery fire, 554. 

Whymper, Mr, on tinplate works, 
682. 

Wiesbaden, plumbism in electric accumu- 
lators works at, 320. 

Wigan, railway accident at, 192. 

Wildmark, Professor, 775. 

Wilkin, Dr, Dresden, 363. 

Wilks, Sir Samuel, 421. 

Williams, G, J., Mines Inspector, 554, 

Williams, W., Factory Inspector, 713, 714, 
716. 

Wilson, H. J., Factory Inspector, 277, 
299, 659, 756. 

Winches, cranes, etc., 221. 

Winders, flax, 695 ; cotton, 703. 

Windmills, 208. 

Windsor Magazine^ 497, 498. 

Winlaton, manufacture of nails, locks, 
and angle iron at, 759. 

Wire-drawing, eye accidents in, 785. 

Wirers, aerated water, 687. 

Wollner, Dr, 441. 

Wolverhampton, iron-plate enamelling 
industry at, 317 ; hollow ware, 319. 

Women, Factory Acts first extended to, 
32 ; appointed Factory Inspectors 
(1893), 41 ; limitation of employment 
after childbirth, 53, 54 ; as dust sorters, 
278-81 ; more susceptible to plumbism 
than men, 296, 318 ; effects of mercurial 
poisoning on, 438 ; in tinplate works, 
681-86 ; in aerated water works, 687- 
90 ; in tobacco and cigar factories, 794, 

795. 
Women's Industrial Council of London, 

98, 795. 

Wood turners, death rate, 135. 

Woodhouse and Mitchell's guard, 229. 

Wool and worsted workers, death rate,. 
135, 148; and anthrax, 244, 634-43; 
Special Rules for, 851-54, 857. 

"Wool-sorters' disease," pulmonary an- 
thrax, 637. 

Woollen rags, 644. 

Woolwich Arsenal adopts eight hours'" 
day, 8. 

Woolwich Testing Station, 616. 

Worcester Porcelain Company, 360. 




INDEX 



891 



Work and fatigue, physiology and patho- 
logy of, 104-117. 

Working classes, and factory legislation, 
3 ; physique of, 7 ; physical, moral, and 
economical evils of, 25 ; indifference to 
the health of, 27 ; divided into artisans 
and labourers. III ; and the use of 
alcohol, 113. 

Workmen's Compensation Act (1897), 9- 
13, 19, 20, 565. 

Workshop Regulation Act of 1867, 
amended 1 870, 36. 

Workshops, survey of legislation for, 44- 
62. 

Wrecks, 184. 

Wright, G. F., Factory Inspector, 370. 

"Wrist drop," 306 ; in file-cutters, 343. 

Writers' palsy, or cramp, 815-19. 

Wry-neck, or torticollis, 762. 

Wutzdorff, Dr, Die in Chromatfabrikeriy etc., 
320, 448, 449, 453. 

Yarn, jute, 652 ; flax, 694. 
Yellow fever in sailors, 183, 186. 



Yellow lead works. Special Rules for, 

847. 
Yellow or white phosphorus, 417-19, 421 ; 

a substitute for, 429, 432, 433. 
Ygonin, Professor, 794. 
Yolk, or grease, in wool of animals, 

636. 
Yorkshire, efforts of labour employers in, 

82 ; child-labour in, 92 ; mines, 161. 
Youatt, Mr, on influenza in horses, 

244. 
Young, Ralph, 9, II. 

Zeitschrift Deutsche Milit., 751. 
Zeitschriftfiir Chirurgie, Deutsche, 8 1 2. 
Zeitschrift filr das Berg-, Hiitten-und 
Salinen-wesen im Preussischen Staate, 518, 

537. 
Ziegler, Sulser-, Mr, 740. 
Zinc chloride, in sizing, 715. 
Zinc poisoning in brass-works, 460. 
Zinc white, a substitute for white lead ? 

293-295. 
Zinc- workers, death rate, 135, 141. 



Printed by 

Oliver & Boyd 

Edinburgh 



From Mr Murray'' s List 



Works by Thomas Maokay 

PUBLIC RELIEF OF THE POOR. Based on Six Lectures. Crown 8vo. 
2s. 6d. net. 

A PLEA FOR LIBERTY: An Argument against Socialism and Socialistic 
Legislation. Essays by VARIOUS Writers. Post 8vo. 2s. 

A POLICY OF FREE EXCHANGE. Essays by Various Writers on 
the Economical and Social Aspects of Free Exchange. 8vo. I2s. 

METHODS OF SOCIAL REFORM; or, The True and False 
Methods of dealing with the Social Condition of the Poor. 
Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. 



Works by Sir Henry S. Maine 

ANCIENT LAW: Its Connections with the Early History of Society, and its 
Relations to Modern Ideas. Sixteenth Edition. 8vo. 9s. 

LECTURES ON THE EARLY HISTORY OF INSTITUTIONS. 

In continuation of the above Work. 8vo. 9s. 

VILLAGE-COMMUNITIES IN THE EAST AND WEST, with other 
Lectures, Addresses, and Essays. Seventh Edition. 8vo. 9s. 

DISSERTATIONS ON EARLY LAW AND CUSTOM. 8vo. 9s. 

POPULAR GOVERNMENT. Four Essays. I. Prospects of Popular 
Government. II. Nature of Democracy. III. Age of Progress. IV. Con- 
stitution of the United States. Fifth Edition. 8vo. 7s. 6d. 

INTERNATIONAL LAW. The Whewell Lectures delivered at Cambridge 
in 1887. 8vo. 7s. 6d. 



The Cheaper Edition of 

Ctiarles Darwin's Works and Life 

THE DESCENT OF MAN and Selection in Relation to Sex. 
1060 pages. With Illustrations. Large Crown 8vo. Green Cloth. 2s. 6d. net. 

"... the Standard Edition of what is certainly a standard work." — The Scotsman, 

THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES by Means of Natural Selection. The 
only Authorised and Complete Edition (The Sixth), of which the copyright 
does not expire for several years to come. In Cloth Boards, Large Type, 2s. 6d. 
net ; or. Smaller Type, Paper Covers, is. net. 

Extract from a Letter of Charles Darwin to H. Falconer. 

''October I, 1862. 
" I suppose you are tired of the Origin^ and will never read it again ; otherwise 
I should like you to have the third edition, and would gladly send it rather than you 
should look at the first or second edition." 

\At the time of writing, the Third was the current Edition, but the remark applies 
" a fortiori " to the Sixth Edition, which embodies three thorough revisions of the 
work, and is the basis of all copies sold by Mr Murray.] 

A NATURALIST'S VOYAGE. Journal of Researches into the Natural 
History and Geology of the Countries visited during the Voyage of H.M.S. 
" Beagle " round the World, under the command of Capt. FitzRoy, R.N. With 
many Illustrations. Large Crown 8vo. Green Cloth. 2s. 6d. net. 

CHARLES DARWIN. His Life, told in an Autobiographical Chapter, and in 
a Selected Series of Published Letters. Edited by his Son, FRANCIS Darwin, 
Fellow of Christ College, Cambridge. With a Photogravure Portrait. Large 
Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d. net. 



From Mr Murray'' s List 



Works by Mrs Bishop (isabeua l. Bird) 

THE YANG-TZE VALLEY AND BEYOND. An Account of Journeys 
in Central and Western China, especially in the Province of Sze-Chuan, and 
among the Man-Tze of the Somo Territory. Dedicated by permission to the 
Marquess of Salisbury, K.G. With Map and numerous Illustrations. 8vo, 
£i^ is. net. 

KOREA AND HER NEIGHBOURS. A Narrative of Travel. An Account 
of the Vicissitudes and Present Position of the Country. With Maps and 
Illustrations from the Author's Photographs. 2 vols. Large Crown 8vo. 24s. 

THE GOLDEN CHERSONESE AND THE WAY THITHER. With 
Map and Illustrations. Post 8vo. 14s. 

UNBEATEN TRACKS IN JAPAN. Including Visits to the Aborigines of Yezo 
and the Shrines of Nikko and Ise. Map and Illustrations. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. 

JOURNEYS IN PERSIA AND KURDISTAN : With a Summer in the 
Upper Karum Region, and a Visit to the Nestorian Rayahs. Maps and 36 
Illustrations. 2 vols. Crown Svo. £1^ 4s. 

HAWAIIAN ARCHIPELAGO : Six Months among the Palm Groves and Coral 
Reefs and Volcanoes of the Sandwich Islands. Illustrations. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. 

A LADY'S LIFE IN THE ROCKY MOUNTAINS. Illustrations. Post 
Svo. 7s. 6d. 



Works by Dr Livingstone 

FIRST EXPEDITION TO AFRICA, 1840-1856. With Notes by F. S. 

Arnot. Containing many new Illustrations, and a Map of South Africa at the 

time of Livingstone, and another of that country at the present time. Crown 

Svo. 7s. 6d. 
SECOND EXPEDITION TO AFRICA, 1858-1864. With Illustrations. 

Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. 
THE LAST JOURNALS IN CENTRAL AFRICA FROM 1865 TO 

HIS DEATH. By the Rev. Horace Waller. With Portrait, Maps, and 

Illustrations. 2 vols. Svo. 15s. 

THE PERSONAL LIFE OF DR LIVINGSTONE. Chiefly from his 
Unpublished Journals and Correspondence in the possession of his Family. By 
Wm. G. Blaikie, D.D,, LL.D. With Portrait and Map. Crown Svo. 6s. 



The Complete Authoritative Edition of George Borrow' s Works. 

Large Crown Svo. 6s. each. 

" It would be impossible to conceive a better Edition than the present one." — County Gentleman. 

THE BIBLE IN SPAIN. Edited, with Notes and Glossary, by Ulick Burke. 
With Two Etchings, a Photogravure, and a Map ; in One Volume. 

LAVENGRO. A New Edition. Illustrated. Collated with and Revised by the 
Original MSS., with the suppressed portions now for the first time restored, and 
the whole annotated. By the author of " The Life of George Borrow." With a 
Photogravure Portrait, and Eight Pen and Ink Sketches by PERCY Wadham. 

THE ROMANY RYE. A New Edition. Illustrated. Collated with and 
Revised by the Original MSS., with the suppressed portions now for the first 
time restored, and the whole annotated. By the author of " The Life of George 
Borrow." Illustrated with Seven Pen and Ink Sketches, and a Photogravure 
by F. G. KiTTON. 

WILD WALES. Its People, Language, and Scenery. Wiih a Photogravure 
and Twelve Illustrations by A. S. Hartrick. 

THE GYPSIES OF SPAIN. Their Manners, Customs, Religion, and 
Language. With a Photogravure and Eight full-page Illustrations by A. 
Wallis Mills. 



From Mr Murray'^ s theological List 



BABINGTON, the Rev. J. A., M.A., 

Assistant Master at Tonbridge School. Formerly Scholar of New Collese. 
Oxford. 

THE REFORMATION. A Religious and Historical Sketch-. Demy 8vo. 
I2S. net. 
" This masterly essay . . . gives evidence on every page of wide reading and of a 
remarlvable power of condensation. . . . It is a notable piece of work, one that deserves to 
be widely read." — Daily Chronicle. 

BOYD-CARPENTER, the Right Rev. William, 

Bishop of Ripon. 

A POPULAR HISTORY OF THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND, 

from the Earliest Times to the Present Daj?. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 
6s. 

" The title is, perhaps, hardly wide enough for the contents ; one would almost call the book 
a history of Christianity in England. ... He has the true judicial spirit, and is passion- 
ately eager to be entirely fair to every one. His history is impartial to the last degree. 
. . . His book should have a very wide circulation, and can do nothing but good wherever 
it is tead."— Morning Post. 

GORE, the Right Rev. Charles, 

Bishop of Worcester, 

THE BODY OF CHRIST. An Enquiry into the Institution and Doctrine 

of the Holy Communion. Crown 8vo. 5s. net. 
THE MISSION OF THE CHURCH. Crown Bvo. 2s. 6d. Sixth 

Thousand. 
THE INCARNATION OF THE SON OF GOD. Bampton Lectures 

for 1891. 8vo. 7s. 6d. Tenth Thousand. 
DISSERTATIONS ON SUBJECTS CONNECTED WITH THE 

INCARNATION. 8vo. 7s. 6d. Second Edition. 

A Series of Simple Expositions of Portions of the New Testament. 

Crown 8vo. Green Cloth. 3s. Btt. each. 

. THE SERMON ON THE MOUNT. Fourteenth Thousand. 
THE EPISTLE TO THE EPHESIANS. Tenth Thousand. 
THE EPISTLE TO THE ROMANS. Vol. I.-Chapters I. to VIII. 

Sixth Thousand. 
THE EPISTLE TO THE ROMANS. Vol. II.— Chapter LX. to the end. 

With Appendices. 

GORE, the Right Rev. Charles— Edited by. 

ESSAYS ON CHURCH REFORM. 8vo. Cheap Edition. 5s.net. 
LUX MUNDI. A Series of Studies in the Religion of the Incarnation. 

Crown 8vo. 6s. 

HOARE, H. W., 

Late of Baliiol College, Oxford. 
THE EVOLUTION OF THE ENGLISH BIBLE. Being an Historical 
Sketch of the Successive Versions. With Illustrations. Large Crown 8vo. 
7s. 6d. net. 
" Mr Hoare . . . has read well and widely. . . . We cordially commend this book 
for what it professes to be— an amateur guide to amateur students and lovers of 'the greatest 
of English classics, and the most venerable of national heirlooms.' " — The Times. 



From Mr Murray'' s Theological List 



( 



HENSON, the Rev. H. Hensley. / 

GODLY UNION AND CONCORD. Sermons preached in Westminster 
Abbey in the Interests of Christian Fraternity. Crown 8vo. 6s. net. 

CHURCH PROBLEMS : A View of Modern Anglicanism. By VARIOUS 
Authors. Edited by the Rev. H. Hensley Henson. Demy 8vo. 12s, net. 

JOWETT, Benjamin, M.A., 

Late Master of Balliol College. 
. SERMONS. Edited by the Very Rev. the Hon. W. H. Fkemantle, D.D., 
Dean of Ripon. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d. each. 
Vol. I.— College Sermons. 
,, II.— Biographical and Miscellaneous. 
,, III.— On Faith and Doctrine. 

THE EPISTLES OF ST PAUL TO THE THESSALONIANS, 
GALATIANS, and ROMANS. With Notes and Dissertations. Edited 
by Lewis Campbell, M.A., LL.D. 2 vols. Crown Svo. 7s. 6d. net each 
Volume. 



MOBERLY, R. C, D.D., 



Regius Professor of Pastoral Theology in the University of Oxford, Canon 
of Christ Church. 

CHRIST OUR LIFE. Demy Svo. 9s.net. 

ATONEMENT AND PERSONALITY. Demy Svo. 14s. 

MINISTERIAL PRIESTHOOD. Six Chapters preliminary to a Study of 
the Ordinal. With an Enquiry into the Truth of Christian Priesthood, and 
an Appendix on the recent Roman controversy. Second Edition, with a 
New Introduction. Svo. 14s. 

SALMON, George, D.D., 

Provost of Trinity College, Dublin. 
AN INTRODUCTION TO THE STUDY OF THE NEW TESTA- 
MENT. Crown Svo. 9s. 

LECTURES ON THE INFALLIBILITY OF THE CHURCH. 

Crown Svo. gs. 

CATHEDRAL AND UNIVERSITY SERMONS. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d. 

"Common sense, clearly put argument, learning without parade, edifying thought, and an 
easy, pleasant style will be found all through ' Cathedral and University Sermons "... 
no one can read them without profit as well as pleasure." — Leeds Mercury. 

WESTCOTT, B. F., D.D., D.C.L., 

Late Bishop of Durham. 
THE GOSPEL OF ST JOHN, With Notes and Introduction. Medium 
Svo. los. 6d. 
" We do not think there is any work on St John's Gospel which equals this one in many- 
sided excellence. It really does appear as if the masterly and comprehensive essay in which 
the question of the authenticity of the Fourth Gospel is here dealt with had left opponents 
little to say for themselves."— Gitardian.. 



London : JOHN MURRAY, ALBEMARLE STREET, W. 



J University of Toronto 
I Library 



# 



8 



DO NOT 

REMOVE 

THE 

CARD 

FROM 

THIS 

POCKET 




Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. "Ref. Index File" 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



