
,/, 



" 









"Cookery is become an art 
a noble science." 



COOKERY 




RECIPES 

compiled by 

St. Mary's Guild 

Mill Valley, Cal. 

1902 



Some are to be tasted, 

others to be swallowed 
and some to be chewed and digested. 
Bacon 



CONTENTS 



Page 

Bread Muffins 5 

Breakfast Dishes Eggs, etc 79 

Cakes, Cookies, etc 53 

Delicate Puddings 49 

Entrees Meats, Vegetables 28 

Fish Crab Shrimps 20 

Miscellaneous 82 

Pickles, Marmalades, Jellies, Preserves 71 

Puddings 37 

Salad, Salad Dressing, etc 26 

Soups 10 



INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS 



Page 

American Insurance Companies 94 

Bayle, Lacosta & Co.. Tripe Dealers, Etc. .101 

City of Paris, Dry Goods 93 

Continental Building and Loan 106 

Crocker Co., H.S., Engraving Dept 91 

Eastland Creamery 105 

Eure ka Market 106 

Fodera, A., Poultry and Game 100 

Fuller & Co., W. P., Paints, Etc 98 

Ghlrardelll's Chocolates and Cocoas 98 

Goldberg, Bowen & Co., Grocers 104 

Grethel, B., Bakery .107 

Hills Bros., Arabian Roast 102 

Klngan's Own Cure Hams and Bacon 96 



Page 

Koenlg's Fine Shoes 93 

Maravllla Ceylon Tea 95 

Mill Valley Drug Store 107 

Mill Valley Market 105 

Muntz & Co., Hay, Grain, Coal, Etc 106 

Nathan-Dohrmann Co 105 

Paladlnl, A., Fish Dealer 102 

Sloane & Co., W. & J., Furniture 92 

Smith & Braid, Grocers 107 

Sresovlch & Co., Pioneer Brand Cocoanut.101 

The Colonial 99 

The Golden Gate Compressed Yeast Co.. .103 

Wellington Coal 108 

Wetmore Bowen Co., Wines, Etc 97 

White, Geo. H.. Groceries and Provlslons.104 



// almost makes me wish, I vow 
To have two stomachs, like a cow .' 

Hood 



1 


BREAD 


- A\UFFirtS 


| 



A loaf of bread, the Walrus said, 
Is what we chiefly need. 

Lewis Carroll. 

CRISPS. 

One pound flour, one-half cup butter, a little salt; 
work the mixture well with enough cold water to enable 
you to roll it out on iron sheets or to pull it as thin as 
possible. Cut in squares or rounds, and bake in a quick 
oven. Mrs. Wm. Boericke. 

SCONES. 

Four cups flour, three teaspoonfuls baking powder, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, three tablespoonfuls sugar, 
three tablespoonfuls butter or drippings, one scant pint 
of milk. Sift flour, powder, salt and sugar; rub in the 
butter and mix in the milk to the consistency of biscuit 
dough. Turn on to a well-floured board, shape into a 
ball and roll to an inch in thickness. Put on two well- 
greased pie plates and divide into eight sections with the 
back of a knife. Bake in a hot oven twenty minutes. 
Rub over with one tablespoonf ul of sugar and one table- 
spoonful milk mixed and stand in the oven a few min- 
utes. Mrs. F. F. Bostwick. 

MUFFINS. 

For one dozen muffins use one pint of flour, a pinch 
of salt, half a pint of milk, one egg, a tablespoon each of 



6 Bread Muffins. 

butter and sugar and two level teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder. Beat the egg and sugar together; melt the 
butter and add to the egg and sugar; beat the mixture 
a minute, then add salt, milk and finally the flour and 
baking powder. Mix quickly and pour into buttered 
muffin rings or gem pans. Bake immediately in hot 
oven twenty minutes. Mrs. F. F. Bostwick. 

SPIDEK CORN CAKE (Sour Milk). 
Three-fourths cup of corn meal, flour to fill the cup, 
one tablespoonful of sugar, one-half teaspoonful of 
salt, one-half teaspoonful soda (scant), one egg, one cup 
sweet milk, one-half cup sour milk, one tablespoonful of 
butter. Mix the meal, flour, sugar, salt and soda. Beat 
the egg ; add half the sweet milk and all the sour milk. 
Stir this into the dry mixture. Melt the butter in a hot 
spider, and pour the mixture into it. Pour the other 
half cup of sweet milk over the top, but do not stir it in. 
Bake twenty minutes in a hot oven. 

Mrs. F. F. Bostwick. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups bread crumbs soaked and rubbed through 
a colander, one cup corn meal, one-half cup graham 
meal, two tablespoons molasses, tablespoon salt, one-half 
teaspoon soda, two cups milk or enough to make a rather 
thin batter. Steam four hours. Mrs. Gerrish. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

One cake of yeast, one pint of milk, one pound cur- 
rants or raisins, one-half pound butter, one-half pound 



Bread Muffins. 7 

sugar, six eggs (yolks only), two quarts flour. Set yeast, 
two cups of flour, one of milk, one tablespoonful salt; 
when light, cream sugar, butter and eggs; mix with the 
flour; add fruit; stir in the yeast, and beat twenty min- 
utes; let raise; make into buns; let raise all night; bake 
in hot oven twenty minutes, by raising this without the 
fruit; then when raised, roll out, cover with butter, beat 
one egg, spread over the butter, chop fruit and nuts, 
roll up and cut into German buns. Mrs. Folker. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Two cups corn meal, two cups graham flour, one cup 
molasses, one teaspoon salt, two* teaspoons of soda, three 
cups buttermilk; mix the corn meal, graham flour, salt 
and soda together; add the \ molasses and buttermilk 
gradually; fill mould two-thirds full, steam in single 
mould six hours in small moulds two or three hours. 

Mrs. D. E. Hayes. 

CORN BREAD. 

At night: One cup corn meal, one tablespoon sugar,, 
butter the size of an egg. Pour over this mixture one 
large cup of boiling water and set to cool until morning. 
In the morning add three eggs (well beaten), one cup 
milk, one tablespoon baking powder mixed in one table- 
spoon of flour; mix together and put in a flat pan; bake 
in a quick oven fifteen minutes. Serve in the same pan 
in which baked. Mrs. S. B. Johnson. 



*/> 

L 4<&^ 

Bread Muffins* 

MUFFINS. 

Mix one coffee cup milk, one well beaten egg, a pinch 
of salt, add flour to make it like a thin cake-batter, and 
beat until bubbles are rising all over the surface, add 
three teaspoonfuls of baking powder and beat with a 
whisk. When it begins to foam put a spoonful into but- 
tered gem pans so hot that they hiss as the mixture 
touches them. Bake twenty minutes in hot oven. 

Mrs. John Finn. 

DELICATE COKN MUFFINS. 
Beat two eggs without separating and add two table- 
spoons white sugar, three cups of flour, two teaspoons 
baking powder, one tablespoon corn meal, one cup of 
milk, one tablespoon melted butter and a pinch of salt. 
Bake half an hour in moderate oven. 

Mrs. John Burt. 

MUSH BKEAD. 

Stir carefully into one pint of hot milk in a double 
boiler two-thirds of a cup of coarse corn meal. Cook 
and stir five minutes. Take from the fire and when cool 
add the yolks of four eggs. Then carefully fold in the 
well beaten whites. Turn this into a baking dish and 
bake thirty minutes in a quick oven. Mrs. Bostwick. 

WHITE BKEAD. 

For use in the morning. Makes four loaves. Dissolve 
thoroughly one cake of Golden Gate Compressed Yeast 
in a quart of lukewarm water, and stir in sifted flour to 




make a rather stin sponge, feet in a warm place, tree 
from draft, until it rises and begins to go back. The 
sponge is then complete. Add to the sponge one pint of 
lukewarm water, one tablespoonful of salt, two of sugar, 
and same of butter; add sifted flour enough to make a 
moderately stiff dough. Knead well. When thoroughly 
light, knead, make into loaves, and place in well-greased 
pans for final rising. The last kneading should be very 
thorough. When light, bake, remembering that it will 
" spring " still more in the oven. When baked, lean it 
against something, throw a cloth over it, and cool by con- 
tact with the air from all sides. We advise all to use 
raorning directions at first, as this yeast is quicker than 
any other known. 

WHITE BREAD. 

Quick bread. Dissolve thoroughly one cake of Golden 
Gate Compressed Yeast in one pint of lukewarm water. 
Add one tablespoonful each of salt, sugar and butter; also 
sufficient flour to make a dough as soft as can be handled. 
Set it in a warm place to rise; when light, make into 
loaves. 

WHITE BREAD. 

To make over night. Makes four loaves. Dissolve 
one cake of Golden Gate Compressed Yeast in one and 
one-half quarts of lukewarm water, mix in sufficient flour 
to make a stiff sponge, and let rise over night. In the 
morning add two tablespoonfuls each of butter, sugar 
and salt, and one quart of warm water, and flour enough 



io Bread Muffins. 

to make moderately stiff dough. Let rise until light 
(about one hour), then place 'in pans for final rising. 

BUCKWHEAT BREAD. 

Three cups of milk, one-half cup of butter or butter 
and lard mixed, one-half cup sugar, a little salt, enough 
self-raising buckwheat to make a moderately stiff dough. 
Bake in a good oven for one-half hour. , 

Mrs. W. C. Hamilton. 

KOPECKS. 

One pint flour, two tablespoons butter, two eggs, salt, 
enough milk to make a stiff dough. Drop from a spoon 
about two inches apart. Bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. W. C. Hamilton. 











s 


o 


u 


p 


s 











Taste of it first. 

King Richard II. 

TOMATO BOUILLON. 

Into a saucepan put one can of tomatoes, one-half a 
bay leaf, one scant teaspoonf ul of salt, a dash of cayenne, 
two sprigs of parsley, one-half of an onion cut in thin 
slices, four cloves and one pint of water. Heat slowly 
and simmer for half an hour, taste to see if well seasoned, 
then strain through two thicknesses of wetted cheese 
cloth. Return to the fire and when boiling add one 



Soups. 1 1 

tablespoonful arrowroot dissolved in cold water. Stir 
until thickened and simmer six minutes. Serve in cups. 

Mrs. H. W. Barnard. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 

Ingredients: two pounds asparagus, two quarts soup 
stock, chicken broth preferred, one cup of cream, one 
tablespoon of flour, one tablespoon of butter, yolks of 
two eggs. Cut off the tips of the asparagus and lay aside. 
Cut the rest of the well-scraped stalks into small pieces, 
boil until tender in the stock, strain and mash through 
colander. Cook the flour in the butter, but do not 
brown, boil for three-quarters of an hour with some 
broth, together with the tips, add the rest of the broth 
with the mashed asparagus. Then beat up the yolks in 
the cream, heat in the soup and serve. 

Mrs. Emil Pohli. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Wash and drain a cupful of rice, put over the fire in 
three pints boiling water, wash and cut in small bits two 
cupfuls of the inner stalks of celery, add to the rice with 
a teaspoonf ul of salt. Boil together gently for one hour, 
in double boiler; rub through fine sieve with potato 
masher, return to fire, add two quarts of hot milk and 
two tablespoonfuls of butter. Pepper to taste and salt, 
also a grating of nutmeg. Boil up together and serve at 
once. A little flour thickening may be added, if desired. 
Croutons or tiny squares of toasted bread may be served 
with this soup. Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 






1 2 SoupS. 

VEAL SOUP. 

Put a knuckle of veal in three quarts of cold water, 
salt it and add one small tablespoon of raw rice. Let 
simmer four hours when it should be reduced half. Re- 
move. Into the tureen put the yolk of one egg, mixed 
with a cup of cream or new milk. Add a small lump of 
butter. Strain the soup on to this, stirring all the time. 
Beat it a moment at the last. Mrs. Bostwick. 

NEW ORLEANS GUMBO SOUP. 

To make two quarts of soup, slice one onion, fry 
brown in sweet drippings or butter, to which add one 
quarter of a pound of ham and a similar amount of veal, 
turkey or chicken chopped. While these ingredients are 
frying, wash one dozen pods of young okra, slice thin, 
throwing away the stems. When onion and m^at are 
brown, add the okra, together with four quarts of boil- 
ing water; a small red chili pepper cut fine and season- 
ing of salt and a little nutmeg. Simmer for two hours. 
Meanwhile pick all the meat from six boiled hard-shell 
crabs, fry brown in hot fat with sliced onion. Peel and 
slice one dozen tomatoes. Four soft-shell crabs may be 
used in place of the hard-shelled crabs. Add the fried 
crab meat and sliced tomatoes to the soup at the end of 
two hours. Stir together carefully one tablespoonful of 
butter and one of flour. Add, boil up and serve after 
straining, small particles of the crab being allowed to 
remain, if desired; also slices of okra. 

Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 



Soups. 13 

BEAN SOUP. 

Wash one pound of dried beans in cold water, soak 
over night, boil until tender, when add one grated onion, 
one quart of fresh milk and one heaping tablespoonful 
of flour rubbed to a cream with two of butter and a lit- 
tle milk. Boil in double boiler, season to taste, strain 
and serve. Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 

VEGETABLE SOUP WITHOUT MEAT. 

" Potage Maigre." 

Cut up one pint of all sorts of fresh vegetables, 
cauliflower, turnips, carrots, cabbage, parsnips and the 
like, with half again as much of chopped onion and 
celery mixed. Allow one cupful of mashed potato or 
cooked navy beans for its thickening. Now put into 
saucepan one-half teacup of clarified soup fat or butter. 
When it smokes, add first the chopped onions, stir well 
to keep from burning; when they redden, add heaping 
tablespoonful of flour, until it assumes the same brown 
or reddish color. Now, add gradually one quart of hot 
water, and when smooth, pepper and salt to taste. Then 
put in all the other vegetables. Simmer in double 
boiler for two hours; press through fine sieve and serve. 

Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 



CKEAM OF SPINACH. 

(A delicate green soup.) 

One pint of spinach pulp, which has been put through 
a fine sieve; one quart fresh milk; one medium-sized 



14 Soups. 

onion, grated ; one medium-sized potato, strained through 
sieve ; one large tablespoonf ul of flour worked smoothly 
into two of butter. Boil for three minutes in double 
boiler before thickening. Then add pepper, salt and 
a grating of nutmeg. Green pea soup may be made by 
this recipe, following it without change except substitu- 
tion of peas for spinach. Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 

CORN SOUP. 

If corn on the ear is used, grate from the cob, scrap- 
ing with a sharp knife, until all the milk is obtained. 
To a pint of this, or grated canned corn, add a quart of 
hot water, boil in granite boiler for one hour. Make a 
thickening of one heaping tablespoonful of flour and 
butter the size of an egg, worked smoothly together. 
Slowly thin by adding the corn pulp, then when well 
incorporated add one cupful rich cream and one-half pint 
boiling milk. Season with a little paprika or cayenne, 
a grating of nutmeg and salt to taste. A little celery 
salt improves the flavor. Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 

VEGETABLE PEA SOUP. 

Cook one pint of split peas until dissolved. When 
nearly done put to cooking one and one^half pints of 
sliced potatoes, one medium sized onion sliced thin. 
When tender rub all through a colander, add water to 
make the consistency of thick cream and salt to taste, 
add pepper if wished. Reheat and serve. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 



Soups. 15 

BEAN AND TOMATO SOUP. 

Take one pint of boiled and mashed beans, one pint of 
stewed tomatoes. Rub together through a colander. 
Add salt, one half cup nicely cooked rice and sufficient 
boiling water to make a soup of proper consistency. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

MACARONI SOUP. 

Into a quart of water put a handful of macaroni broken 
into inch pieces. Let it boil an hour, then add two cups 
of strained stewed tomatoes and just before serving pour 
in half cup of cream. Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

TOMATO AND MACARONI SOUP. 

Break half a dozen pieces of macaroni into small piecea 
and drop into boiling water. Cook for an hour or until 
perfectly tender. Rub two quarts of canned or stewed 
tomatoes through a colander to remove all seeds or frag- 
ments. When the macaroni is done drain thoroughly, 
cut each piece into tiny rings and add to the strained 
tomatoes and boil for a few minutes. If the tomato is 
quite thin thicken with a little flour before adding the 
macaroni. Season with salt to taste. Mrs. Gerrish. 

SCOTCH EGG SOUP. 

One quart milk in which slice one-half an onion, boil 
till the onion is tender. Mix one tablespoon butter, one 
tablespoon of flour into a paste which stir into the soup 



1 6 Soups. 

until it dissolves smoothly and the soup boils. Season 
with one teaspoon of salt, and pepper to taste. Poach as 
many eggs as there are persons, drop them into the soup 
after it is in the tureen. Mrs. Gerrish. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

One pint of black beans soaked in two quarts of cold 
water over night. Next morning strain off water, putting 
two quarts of fresh water, letting it cook over slow fire, 
until noon, then strain the beans, putting back on stove 
until dinner time. Then if too thick add a little water. 
For seasoning: One teaspoonful of salt, one tablespoonful 
of Worcestershire sauce, one of tomato catsup, cayenne 
pepper to taste, three stalks of celery and one-half onion 
fried in butter, all put into soup while cooking, one tea- 
spoonful of flour, cooked in butter and stirred until 
smooth, put in to cream the soup at the last, one cup of 
sherry wine, added to the whole, when cooked, add an- 
other tablespoon of Worcestershire sauce and tomato 
catsup, also salt if needed, one hard-boiled egg cut in 
slices, one lemon cut in slices, and one-half cup of wine 
put into tureen before pouring in soup. Bread cut in 
small pieces fried in butter as crouton, served at table. 

Mrs. Thayer. 

ONION SOUP. 

Four large onions cut small, one-half cup butter, one 
quart soup stock, one pint boiling milk, two tablespoons 



Soups. 1 7 

grated parmesan cheese, one-quarter loaf French bread 
cut very thin and dried in the oven, four yolks of eggs 
beaten well. Fry onions in butter one hour, stir often, do 
not brown; add seasoning and stock, then cook half an 
hour, then add the boiling milk. Put the bread and 
cheese in the tureen, add the yolks the last thing and 
pour all into the tureen and serve. 

Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

CELERY SOUP. 

Four stalks of celery cut in small pieces, two table- 
spoonfuls of butter, let it simmer five minutes, dilute 
with two quarts of boiling milk. Add salt, pepper, nut- 
meg and a little sugar, stir and boil slowly for half an 
hour. Press it through a sieve, return it to the saucepan, 
and boil again. Finish with the yolks only of four well 
beaten eggs, one cupful of cream, half a teaspoon of 
chopped parsley. Mix well on the fire without boiling. 
Serve with small squares of bread fried in butter. 

Mrs. H. A. House. 

POOR MAN'S SOUP. 

One large spoonful butter or good beef dripping, four 
large onions, six potatoes, six tomatoes or one-half a can, 
pepper and salt; cut the onions very fine, brown the 
butter and onions, add potatoes, cover with water, cook 
one hQur; add tomatoes, cook five minutes, pass through 
colander, bring to a boil and serve. It must not stand 
on the fire after cooked. Mrs. Folker. 




A good handful sour 'grass, one onion, two tablespooai- 
fuls butter, one quart water, one quart milk, two eggs, 
one-half cup vermicelli. Chop onions fine; put butter, 
onion, sour grass on ; cover and cook fifteen minutes ; add 
water and cook ten minutes; add boiling milk and take 
from the fire; beat eggs and add to the soup the last 
minute. Mrs. Folker. 

BONKE MAIGKE SOUP. 

Any bones from roast, chicken, or game, boil three 
or four hours with two onions not peeled, one carrot, one 
turnip, three cloves, one clove of garlic; cook this the 
day before needed; skim all the grease. The next day 
chop very fine one head celery, three large potatoes, one- 
fourth spring cabbage, one cup green peas; add this to 
the strained stock; serve with croutons. 

Mrs. Geo. Folker. 

OXTAIL SOUP. 

Two oxtails, two tablespoonfuls of butter, one onion, 
four cloves, one turnip, one bay leaf, one carrot, one 
head celery, salt and pepper to taste, one-half pint port 
wine, one tablespoonful corn starch. Wash and wipe 
the tails; cut into pieces (not chopped); put the butter 
into a pan. When hot, throw in the tails. Stir until 
brown, put into a soup kettle with the vegetables, sim- 
mer four hours; remove the vegetables, add the corn 




<. 

x^^y^-*^ 

T' -J^ 

prtf-t^ei^ 

starch; the last thing stir in the wine (three quarts of s*~ 

water). Mrs. Geo. Folker. 

LOBSTER SOUP. 

One whole lobster, two quarts stock, two tablespoon- 
f uls butter, one and one-half teaspoonfuls salt, two table- 
spoonfuls corn starch, one-half teaspoonful mace. Mor- 
tar the shell, add the butter, put on the fire until the 
butter is boiling hot, add to the stock, boil fifteen min- 
utes, strain, add the lobster picked very fine, add corn 
starch and mace; boil five minutes. 

Mrs. Geo. Folker. 

POTATO SOUP. 

One pound potatoes cut in pieces; soup vegetables also 
cut; boil all together in one quart of salted water until 
quite soft, then put all through a fine sieve and add 
boiling milk enough to make it thin enough. Put in a 
large piece of butter and chopped parsley. Season well 
and let boil up once. Mrs. Gerrish. 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 

Two pounds asparagus, boil in one quart of salted 
water until very tender. Save one pint of the water; 
add to it one pint of cream; salt to taste; rub the aspar- 
agus through a sieve; add a little thickening, if needed; 
return all to the fire and heat. Serve in bouillon cups. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 





PISH, CRAB, 5HRIAVP 





I shall no more to sea, to sea, 
Here shall I die ashore. 

" The Tempest." 

DEVILLED CRAB. 

One crab, two hard boiled eggs, two tablespoonfuls of 
bread crumbs, juice of one lemon, three tablespoonfuls 
of sherry, rod pepper, salt, mix well, melted butter, size 
of an egg, flour to thicken, cook then with milk, and 
season with mustard and mace, mix with the crab, sift 
over browned bread crumbs and bits of butter; heat in 
the oven. Mrs. A. L. House. 

SALT COD CHOWDER. 

Use best boneless codfish. For a family of seven: 
Three teacups codfish, picked up in small pieces; pour 
over hot water and place on back of the stove; fry out 
two slices of salt pqrk cut in small pieces, pare and slice 
five large or eight medium sized potatoes, cut fine a very 
small onion, use eight or ten crackers; put a layer of the 
pork in the bottom of the kettle, then a layer each of 
potatoes, onion, crackers and codfish, add pepper; cover 
with boiling water and boil for one-half hour, then add 
two cups of milk and boil up and serve. 

Mrs. Billings. 



Fish Crab Shrimp. 2 1 

CRAB CREOLE. 

One crab, one good-sized onion, one-half can tomatoes, 
one chili pepper or a pinch of cayenne, butter size of an 
egg, two tablespoons water, one-half cup cream, one table- 
spoon corn starch, salt and pepper; shred the crab not 
too fine, cut up onion and pepper, put in a pan with two 
tablespoonfuls of water and boil briskly for fifteen 
minutes, add tomatoes, and boil ten minutes, or until soft, 
strain, put juice back on fire, add butter, little pepper 
and salt, thicken with the corn starch, add crab and 
cream, when hot serve on diamonds of buttered toast. 

Mrs. Billings. 

ENTREE, SHAD ROE CROQUETTES. 

Two shad roes, one-half pint cream, yolks of two eggs, 
one-quarter of a grated nutmeg, one teaspoonful lemon 
juice, one large tablespoonful of butter, two of flour, one 
of chopped parsley, salt and pepper to taste; wash the 
roes, put them in a saucepan of boiling water; add a 
teaspoonful salt; cover, and simmer slowly fifteen min- 
utes, then take them out; remove the skin, and mash 
them; put the cream on to boil; rub the butter and 
flour together, add them to the boiling cream, and stir 
until it is very thick, add the yolks; take from the fire 
and add all the other ingredients, mix well and turn out 
on a dish to cool; when cool, form into croquettes, either 
pyramids or lolls, dip first in beaten egg, and then in 
bread crumbs, and fry in boiling oil or fat. Serve with 
sauce Hollandaise. 

Sauce One-quarter pound butter, three yolks of very 



22 Fish Crab Shrimp. 

fresh eggs, teaspoonf ul salt, one of vinegar, add half nut- 
meg; cook in double boiler until thick. Mrs. Folker. 

FRESH CODFISH AU GRATIK 
Boil the fish, (remove the bones, dress in shape of a 
dome, put in butter, beaten egg, pepper and salt, chopped 
mushrooms, parsely, a little nutmeg, butter well all over, 
cover with bread crumbs, cut pieces of bread shape of a 
cork, dip in beaten egg, baste with melted butter, brown 
a rich brown all over; serve on the same dish; serve with 
white sauce, to which add the yolk of one egg and one 
spoonful of vinegar. Mrs. Folker. 

STUFFED SOLE. 

For eight people this recipe. Two large sole, fifteen 
cents worth of California oysters, ten cents worth of 
shrimps; skin the sole and cut each fish in four squares. 
Spread a thin layer of mayonnaise on a square of fish, and 
after so doing, a layer of California oysters and shrimps 
and bread crumbs. Now place another square of the 
fish on top of that, then oysters, shrimps and bread 
crumbs, and over all the top layer spread mayonnaise. 
Repeat the same process for the rest of the sole. Bake 
five to eight minutes. For a sauce use one of three, 
Hollandaise, cream sauce, or tomato; but be sure to add 
a few oysters and shrimps to the same. 

Mrs. R. J. Davis. 

FISH PIE. 

This quantity of sauce for three pounds of fish. Boil 
a piece of firm fish. When cold, pick out the bones and 



Fish Crab Shrimp. 23 

sprinkle with salt, pepper and cayenne. Make a sauce of 
one quart of milk; tie in a bag a small bunch of thyme, 
parsley, some nutmeg, a tablespoon salt, pepper and three 
small onions; boil in the milk until the onions are done. 
Mix three tablespoons of butter and three of flour in a 
saucepan. When nicely melted, strain your milk into 
it and stir until it thickens; then add the yolks of two 
eggs. Put in a baking dish a layer of fish, then sauce, 
season well. One top, sprinkle with bread crumbs and 
brown. Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

POTTED SHEIMPS. 

Shrimps, pepper, salt, cloves and butter. Shell the 
shrimps, season with pepper, salt and a taste of pounded 
cloves, and put them down tight in pots, the closer the 
better, as it is not well for the butter to run in between 
them too much; put a little butter over them; set them 
for a few minutes into a moderate oven, and when cold 
just cover over with clarified butter. B. Selwood. 

SALMON PUFFS. 

Two cups of boiled salmon chopped fine, one table- 
spoon of butter (melted), pinch of salt and white pepper, 
saltspoon of grated onion, one cup of bread crumbs, three 
well-beaten eggs, one tablespoon lemon juice or fine vin- 
egar. Mix well and put into cups; set cups in boiling 
water and bake thirty minutes in good hot oven. When 
done, turn out on platter and pour sauce around. For 




sauce use any good white sauce, cream or egg; decorate 
with parsley and slices of lemon. 

Mrs. Henry Bridge. 

FISH CKEAMS. 

This is an excellent way of utilizing cold boiled sal- 
mon or halibut. To two cupfuls of fish, mashed finely 
with a spoon ; add unbeaten whites of two eggs and mix 
thoroughly. Season with pepper and salt and add two 
tablespoonfuls of cream. Pack into small cutlet molds 
and steam twenty minutes. Serve with Hollandaise 
sauce. 

Hollandaise Sauce. Cream one-half cup butter, add 
yolks of two raw eggs, the juice of one-half lemon, one 
saltspoonful of salt and a little cayenne pepper. When 
ready to serve add one-half cup boiling water and cook 
until thick like soft custard. The lemon juice will not 
mix well with the eggs unless added very slowly. When 
all ingredients have been put together, place in double 
boiler and cook until it thickens, stirring constantly. 

Mrs. Williston W. Davis. 

FISH CAKES. 

(For using up cold fish.) 

Ingredients. One pound fish already cooked (cold), 
one-fourth pound stale bread, two ounces butter, one egg, 
pepper, salt and ground mace. Soak bread in milk until 
soft, squeeze from milk and beat out all the lumps ; then 



C2ste~*7\ <x^ ^k^e^Cf 




^^^e^i^- 

^^A^^t^Z^ <2-?t^-i* < 

Crab Shrimp, 



add fish which has been removed from skin and bones; 
butter melted and egg well beaten and mix all well to- 
gether. Sprinkle a few bread crumbs on the board and 
form mixture into small cakes, brush over with beaten 
egg, cover with bread crumbs and fry a nice brown in 
hot dripping. Potatoes may be used instead of bread 
crumbs ; use the same quanity as of fish. 

Mrs. Meyers. 

LOBSTER CHOPS (Served with Tartar Sauce). 

Two cups of boiled lobster, one cup of milk or cream, 
three tablespoons of flour, one tablespoon of butter, one 
tablespoon of chopped parsley, yolks of two eggs, one- 
fourth of a nutmeg (grated), salt and cayenne to taste. 
Add all the seasoning to the lobster. Put cream or milk 
on to boil. Rub the butter and flour together and add 
to the cream when boiling. Now add the beaten yolks 
and cook two or three minutes. Take from fire and 
add lobster. Mix well and turn out to cool. When 
cool, form into chops, roll in beaten egg, then in bread 
or cracker crumbs, and fry in hot oil or lard. When 
serving, place a small claw in each to represent the mut- 
ton bone. Crab or salmon can be made in the same 

W. C. Hamilton. 



** 













SALAD, SALAD DRESSING, Etc. 











Here are lettuces for every man's lips. 

" Diets Dry Dinner." 

COOKED MAYONNAISE DKESSING. 
Four egg yolks and one whole egg, six tablespoonfuls 
of vinegar, one generous teaspoonful of butter. Heat 
the vinegar scalding hot; beat the eggs until creamy; 
pour the hot vinegar over the beaten eggs; cook over 
boiling water, stirring constantly until it thickens; then 
add the butter; season according to the salad to be 
served. Mrs. D. E. Hayes. 

SALAD DKESSING. 

One hard-boiled yolk of an egg; one raw yolk; one- 
fourth teaspoon mustard. Take hard yolk, mustard, 
salt, and pepper, mix well, then add raw yolk, well 
beaten; add two tablespoons vinegar and one-half cup 
whipped cream. Very nice with tomatoes. 

Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

SWISS SALAD DRESSING. 
Grate very fine two ounces of any rich old cheese ; add 
gradually one tablespoonful of vinegar, a little salt and 
pepper; dilute to a creamy consistency with olive oil. 
Serve with any cold vegetables, sliced small. 

Mrs. Cutter. 



\ 'Kf r &eZ,S*^&~ V 




CUCUMBEE SALAD DRESSING. 

(A New Orleans fish sauce.) 

Remove seeds from two large cucumbers, grate and 
drain, add one tablespoon ful finely chopped fresh red 
peppers, a slight grating of onion or a rubbing of the 
dish with garlic. Mix with two tablespoonfuls of fresh 
cream, then add one-half pint mayonnaise dressing. 
Serve with fish, especially sole, like Sauce a la Tartar. 

Mrs*. J. B. Cutter. 

EGG SALAD. 

Put six eggs in cold water, bring to a boiling point and 
simmer for fifteen minutes. Plunge into cold water, re- 
move shells and slice thin. Arrange in bowl lined with 
lettuce leaves and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Serve 
with French dressing. Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 

FKUIT SALAD. 

Three oranges, three bananas, three apples, one-half 
fresh pineapple or half a can of pineapple, the juice of 
half a lemon. Peel the oranges and cut into cubes with 
the scissors, cut bananas, apples and pineapple into cubes 
and mix well with mayonnaise and serve in a bed of let- 
tuce, or if you wish to use as an entree, omit the mayon- 
naise and pour over the mixture sherry wine enough to 
moisten well, if not sweet enough add a little sugar. 

Mrs. Billings. 

APPLE SALAD. 

Equal parts of celery root cooked until tender, or cel- 
ery uncooked cut very fine. Apples cut in small cubes ; 




Dressing 
A? 

moisten with mayonnaise and serve on a bed of lettuce. 
Apples should not be prepared until ready for use, as 
they blacken. Mrs. Billings. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Two eggs beaten, add one-half cup of vinegar: beat in 
about one cup of thick, sour cream; pepper and salt. 
Cook until thick and add cabbage sliced very thin. 

Mrs. Bostwick. 

FRENCH BEAN SALAD. 

Prepare the desired amount of dried French beans, by 
soaking over night in cold water. Cook slowly, until ten- 
der; when cold, dress with oil and vinegar in the propor- 
tion of four tablespoonfuls of oil to two of vinegar; add 
a little onion juice and paprika. Arrange with lettuce 
and stuffed olives. Mrs. Williston W. Davis. 











ENTREE5 

A^EATj VEGETABLES; 











Infinite riches in a little room. 



Marlowe. 



COKN OYSTERS. 

Grate six ears of corn, one tablespoonful of flour, the 
yolks of two eggs; beat up hard. Fry in shape of oys- 
ters, in butter or lard. Mrs. Thayer. 



29 

CKOQUETTES OF BRAINS." 

Two calves' brains, one teaspoon fine powdered sage, 
one-half pint bread crumbs, one egg, milk, pepper and 
salt. Clean, soak and parboil the brains. When done, 
chop fine; beat well together with sage and salt and pep- 
per to taste; add bread crumbs soaked in milk and one 
well-beaten egg. Make into balls and fry in butter until 
they are a golden brown. Mrs. Gerrish. 

HAM PATTIES. 

Chop pieces of cold boiled ham with twice their bulk 
in bread crumbs. Season with pepper, salt and sage. 
Moisten with cold gravy or melted butter and beaten 
egg. Form into flat cakes and fry in hot butter or half 
butter and half lard. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Poach as many eggs as wanted three minutes in boil- 
ing water (to which a little vinegar is added); lift out 
with skimmer and slip on well-buttered toast. Make a 
sauce as follows: Melt a tablespoon of butter and one 
of flour over the fire until they bubble; pour one-half 
pint of hot milk quickly to it, stirring well all the time 
till it boils; have ready a teaspoon of finely chopped 
parsley and one-half teaspoon of chives or little onion; 
add to the sauce with a saltspoon of salt; let boil five 
minutes and pour it over the eggs and toast. 

GATEAU OF BEEF. 

Any kind of cold meat will do. Three cupfuls of 
chopped meat, two cupfuls of bread crumbs, two eggs, 



30 . Entrees. 

one onion, one tablespoon chopped parsley, two cups of 
stock or milk, two teaspoonfuls salt, one saltspoon of pep- 
per. Grease a mold; sprinkle in a few bread crumbs 
and shake them until they adhere to the sides; pack in 
the meat mixed with the bread crumbs and other in- 
gredients. Steam in a dish of boiling water one and one- 
half hours. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Mrs. F. F. Bostwick. 

SPAGHETTI WITH TOMATO SAUCE. 

Two-thirds can tomatoes, one-half onion (large), three 
tablespoons butter (large), one-half pound eastern cheese, 
one package spagetti. Stew tomatoes until well cooked. 
Place butter and sliced onion in saucepan and cook until 
onion is very soft; then press through a sieve into toma- 
toes. Have cheese melted, and after straining tomatoes, 
add cheese. Meanwhile, boil spagetti in pot of salted 
water, boiling very hard about twenty minutes or until 
tender. Drain and add to sauce. Serve very hot. 

Mrs. William S. Wood. 

VEAL CURRY. 

Two pounds of lean veal, one heaping tablespoonful 
butter, one large onion, one apple, one heaping table- 
spoonful flour, two teaspoonfuls curry powder, one pint 
of water, two teaspoonfuls salt, juice of half lemon, 
three tablespoonfuls dessicated cocoanut. Melt butter, 
add onion and apple, fry until onion is light brown. 
Add curry and flour, stir off the stove until smooth. 
Cook two or three minutes and add the water and salt. 



Entrees. 31 

Cut the meat in pieces one inch square. When the 
sauce boils, add the meat and cocoanut. Simmer one 
and one-half hours. Add the lemon juice and serve with 
border of boiled rice. Mrs. Bostwick. 

BOUDINS. 

Chop small pieces of cold meat (veal preferred) very 
fine; add to each pint a teaspoon of salt, dash of cayenne 
and a tablespoon of chopped parsley. Put in saucepan 
one tablespoon butter, one cup stock, two tablespoons 
bread crumbs. Stir until boiling; add meat; take from 
fire; add two well-beaten eggs. Fill in greased molds; 
stand in hot water and cook in oven fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

CKOQUETTES. 

Mince cold meat very fine and season; cup new morn- 
ing milk; beat one egg with tablespoon flour in milk and 
boil in double kettle until thick. Let it cool before 
mixing with meat. Roll in beaten egg, dip in toasted 
crumbs and let stand some time. Cook same as dough- 
nuts. Mrs. Arnold. 

CHICKEN AND OYSTER PATTIES. 
Put two tablespoonfuls of butter and three of flour in 
saucepan ; add one-half teaspoonf ul of salt and one-fourth 
teaspoonful of white pepper; put over the fire, and when 
melted and mixed, add one pint of cream or rich milk; 
stir until it thickens; then add one pint of diced chicken; 
simmer five minutes; add one pint of oysters (drained), 



32 Entrees. 

and cook until the edges have curled; fill heated patty 
shells and serve. A few mushrooms improves them. 

Mrs. j L. House. 

CORN TIMBAL. 

Put through colander one can corn; add salt, red pep- 
per and two tablespoonfuls of melted butter; equal por- 
tion of cream and milk one cupful to one can of corn; 
three eggs well beaten. Grease molds and fill three- 
fourths full; bake like cup custard; molds set in baking 
pan of water. Serve with cream sauce with chopped 
mushrooms or tomato or egg sauce. 

Mrs. George H. Roe. 

ASPARAGUS PATTIES. 

Make a sauce of three level tablespoonfuls each of but- 
ter and flour and half a cupful each of chicken broth, 
cream and the water in which a bunch of asparagus has 
been boiled. Add the beaten yolks of two eggs, a tea- 
spoonful of lemon juice; salt and pepper, and a bunch 
of hot asparagus cut in small pieces and cooked 
until tender. Serve in hot puff paste shells. 

Mrs. H. W. Barnard. 

EGGPLANT. 

Peel and cook whole for ten minutes. Then cut 
lengthwise in half; take out the center; chop fine with 
a tomato and onion; add seasoning, salt, pepper, cay- 
enne. Then put into the eggplant shell and sprinkle 
with bread crumbs and butter; bake in a moderate oven 
for an hour. Mrs. A. A. Martin. 



Entrees. 33 

CORN PUDDING (A Vegetable). 
One ear of sweet corn to each person. To every two 
ears use: One cup milk, one egg, one desert spoon of 
butter, season with salt and pepper. Split kernels of corn 
by passing a sharp knife through the center of the rows, 
then shave from ear. Stir into milk and bake until top 
is brown. Mrs. Henry Bridge. 

BAKED TOMATO AND EGGPLANT. 

Take a deep earthenware dish and pour into it a cup of 
cream; cut several slices of eggplant very thin, salt well 
and line the dish with them ; slice two large tomatoes and 
place a layer of these on the eggplant; next a layer of the 
finest quality of macaroni, sprinkle with half dozen 
lumps of cheese the size of a thimble and as many of 
butter; pepper it thickly and cover this with a layer of 
tomatoes; salt and pepper well and a top layer of egg- 
plant which also salt and pepper well; cook gently one 
hour and twenty minutes in a slow hot oven; serve in the 
same dish it is cooked in; serve with a roast. 

Mrs. A. L. House. 

ENTREE TOMATO OMELET. 

Peel and chop fine four large tomatoes; add to them a 
half teacupful bread crumbs or cracker, salt and pepper 
and add five well beaten eggs. Put into a frying pan a 
good tablespoonful of butter and turn in the mixture. 
Stir rapidly until it begins to thicken. Let it brown and 
fold together; turn onto a hot platter and serve immedi- 
ately. Mrs. Geo. Folker. 





^ DAINTY 

For a dainty, quick, delicious entree, have yc 
made a custard, but without sugar? Instead, season 
red pepper, salt, just a saltspoonful of chopped green 
pepper and parsley; over this pour a cream sauce or to- 
mato sauce, with eggs chopped and added. 

Mrs. K. J. 



SUEPRISE BREAD. 

Cut as many pieces of bread as needed, about one and 
one-half inches thick, remove the crust and cut diamond 
shape; make a hole the size of an egg and fry the bread 
as you would doughnuts; when nice and brown, dry on 
paper; mince chicken, veal, rabbit or game with rich 
gravy, fill and serve with tomato sauce; thin slices of 
bread may be fried and covered over the meat, so that it 
looks just like plain fried bread. Mrs. Folker. 

BEEFSTEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING. 

Time to boil, two hours. One pound rumpsteak, one 
beef kidney, pepper and salt and a little flour, and suet 
paste. Take a pound of nice tender steak and beef kid- 
ney, cut them into pieces about one-fourth inch thick, 
season them well with pepper and salt and dredge a little 
flour over them. Butter a round-bottomed pudding 
basin, roll out the paste to about half an inch thickness 
and line the basin; then put in the beef and kidney, pour 
in four or five tablespoonfuls of water, cover a piece of 
paste over top and press firmly together, then tie the 



Entrees. 

pudding basin in a floured cloth and steam or boil for 
three hours. B. Selwood. ^ 

SCRAPPLE. 

t 

Take pigs head thoroughly cleaned and cut up; put on 
to boil with just water enough to cover well, boil till 
bones come readily from the meat then take out all 
bones and chop the meat rather fine and return to the 
saucepan (or boiler) and thicken with corn meal to the j^ ^ 
consistency of mush. Season very well with salt, pepper ^ N 
and sage or whatever sweet herb is preferred; cook r v^ 
through, stirring often; take out in dishes and set away to N * 
cool. When cold cut in thin slices and have pan very hot ^ ^ 
before attempting to fry. Salt a little as it is frying and 
fry very brown. Mrs. Gerrish. 

RAGOUT OF SWEETBREADS. 
Ingredients for six people: One pound sweetbreads, 
one-half pound fresh mushrooms or one-half can of but- 
ton champignons, one wine glass of madeira or sherry, 
madeira preferred, two cups of stock, one-quarter glass of 
sour cream or sweet, one big spoonful of flour, one big 
spoonful of butter. Seasoning: A dash of Worcestershire 
sauce, a little lemon juice, tomato juice (about a table 
spoonful) pinch of cayenne pepper or paprika, juice of 
one onion. Parboil the sweetbreads, skin, cut in small 
pieces, make sauce as follows: Brown flour in butter, 
add stock, wine, cream, onion juice and the rest of season- 
ing, let boil to a rich brown sauce, add sweetbreads and 
mushrooms and let cook for ten minutes. Serve in rame- 




kins or shells, garnished with croutons of stale bread or on 
a platter on toast. Mrs - Pohli - 

ASPARAGUS ROLL. 

Three tablespoons flour, three tablespoons butter, one- 
half cup milk, one-half cup water asparagus was boiled 
in, one egg, one tablespoon lemon juice, melt butter, stir 
in flour, add well-beaten egg, then milk and asparagus 
water, let all come to boiling point, add lemon juice. 
Have enough asparagus tips boiled in salted boiling 
water, about half an hour, and add to sauce, season to 
taste. Fill French rolls buttered and toasted in oven; 
serve hot. Mrs- William S. Wood. 

MOCK TURTLE FRICASSEE. 
Cut two pounds lean veal into half-inch slices, then 
into half-inch squares. Heat one tablespoon butter in 
frying pan and brown the meat, a few pieces at a time, 
adding more butter, if necessary; as fast as browned, 
transfer them to a saucepan containing one cupful of 
hot, strong veal broth. When all are done, cover the 
saucepan closely, and simmer gently for one hour and 
a half. In the butter remaining in the pan brown one 
small onion cut fine and one dozen medium-sized mush- 
rooms cut in quarters. (Bottled or canned mushrooms 
preferred.) Add them to the contents of the saucepan, 
also a bouquet of parsley cut fine, one-half teaspoon of 
salt, one-third teaspoon of paprika and a small strip of 
lemon peel. Without washing, put in the frying pan 
one large tablespoon of butter or sufiicient to absorb 



Entrees. 

three heaping tablespoons of flour, and stir together 
until well browned; then set aside. When the meat is 
done, add gravy to mixture in frying pan and stir until 
smooth and thick. Add juice of half a lemon, strain 
over meat, add one-third cup of port wine and yolks of 
three hard-boiled eggs cut into quarters. Add more 
seasoning, if necessary; cook two minutes longer and 
serve in little dishes. Mrs. T. H. Reynolds. 











P U D D I fi G S 


I 









The proof of the pudding is in the eating. 

Don Quixote. 

GENERAL DIRECTIONS FOR PUDDING. 

If you intend to boil or steam a pudding, always have 
the water boiling before you put the pudding in. Do 
not let it stop boiling for one instant while the pudding 
is cooking. 

Puddings are boiled in cloths or molds tied in cloths. 
They should be tied tightly and the molds buttered be- 
fore the puddings are put in them. A pudding cloth 
should be made of good twilled muslin and always be- 
fore using is washed out in clean cold water and flour it 
well before pouring the pudding in, allowing room to 



38 Puddings. 

swell. All puddings in which berries are used require 
more flour than those without, the fruit, dusted with 
flour, added the last thing. All puddings of the custard 
kind require a very gentle oven; those made of batter 
should be put into one sufficiently brisk to raise them 
quickly without scorching them; those containing suet 
or fruit must have a well heated, but not a fierce oven; 
be sure and butter the dish well before the pudding is 
turned in. S. B. Johnson. 



PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup suet chopped fine, one cup good black molasses, 
one cup raisins chopped fine, one cup sweet milk, three 
and one-half cups flour, one teaspoonful baking soda; 
salt to taste; boil three and one-half hours. Put in tin 
pudding-bag in cold water. When water begins to boil, 
keep boiling or pudding will be heavy. 

Sauce. Make very thin syrup of brown sugar and 
water. Thicken with cornstarch to required consistency. 
When cooked, put in piece of butter, according to taste. 
Just before serving add vanilla and sherry wine. 

Mrs. John Finn. 

UNCLE TOM. 

Mix two cups of flour, one cup chopped suet and three- 
fourths cup sugar in one bowl. In another mix one 
cup thick sour milk or buttermilk, one-half cup mo- 



Puddings. 39 

lasses (as black as possible), one scant teaspoon soda. 
Pour this second mixture into the first, and beat well; 
add a little allspice, cinnamon and cloves. Grease well; 
quart pudding mold and steam for two hours. This 
pudding is a great favorite with children when served 
with cream. Mrs. John Burt. 

BROD FORTE. 

Nine eggs, juice and rind of one lemon, one-half cup 
of grated chocolate, one heaping cup sugar, one cup 
grated almonds, one tablespoon spices, little citron cut 
very fine, one-half cup grated bread crumbs, two table- 
spoons claret, one tablespoon brandy; bake as soon as 
mixed forty minutes. Stir yolks of eggs and sugar to 
a cream; add rind and juice of lemon, then chocolate, 
then almond, spices and citron, then bread crumbs moist- 
ened with wine, and lastly the well-beaten whites. Put 
in oven immediately. 

Icing. Grated chocolate one-half cup, put on stove 
with little sugar and butter. Garnish with blanched 
almonds. Mrs. T. H. Reynolds. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

Three eggs, yolks beaten light; add gradually one cup 
sugar, three tablespoonfuls sweet milk, four tablespoon- 
fuls cocoa or chocolate, one scanty cup of flour. Beat 
well. Add the whites beaten stiff and two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder. Steam twenty minutes. 

Sauce. One cup powdered sugar rubbed to a cream 
with one-half cup butter; add one-half cup milk. Put 



40 Puddings. 

in a double boiler and stir until it boils; add one tea- 
spoonful vanilla. Mrs. H. W. Barnard. 

BATTEK PUDDING. 

Two eggs, one-half cup sugar, two teaspoons melted 
butter, two cups buttermilk (if sweet milk is used one 
and one-naif teaspoons yeast powder), two scant tea- 
spoons soda, salt, nutmeg, one-half teaspoon grated 
lemon peel, flour for stiff batter, one cup of raisins 
(dredged with flour) or two cups of finely-sliced apples. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, two and one-half 
cups sifted flour, two eggs, one and one-half cups milk, 
two teaspoonf uls of baking powder. Add fruit, if liked, 
salt and any desired spice. Place covered pudding pan 
in a large pan of boiling water, and bake in oven. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

COTTAGE PUDDING No. 2. 
One cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one cup hot 
water, one-half cup melted butter, salt, spice, one scant 
teaspoon soda, one tablespoonful lemon juice or vinegar, 
flour for a stiff batter, two cups sliced apples (dredged 
with flour) ; bake slowly ; serve with favorite sauce. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

JOHN'S DELIGHT (A Dessert). 
One-half cup of finely-chopped suet, two cups of bread 
crumbs, one cup of raisins and currants (or more), one- 



Puddings. 41 

half cup of syrup, one small cup of milk, one egg, one- 
half teaspoon soda, dissolved in tablespoon hot water, 
one teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon each of nut- 
meg and allspice. Steam two hours in pudding dish. 

Mrs. Henry Bridge. 

STRAWBERRY AND CRUMB PUDDING. 

Time to bake, half an hour. One quart new milk, 
four eggs, a little nutmeg, two ounces sugar, one small 
pot strawberry jam, one-half pound bread crumbs. 
Butter a pie dish; put layer of strawberry jam at the 
bottom, then a good layer of bread crumbs. Beat four 
eggs, stir in two ounces powdered sugar, a little grated 
nutmeg, add a quart of new milk, and stir over the fire 
until thick, pour over the preserve very gradually and 
bake in moderate oven. B. Selwood. 

LEMON SUET PUDDING. 

Time to boil, three and one-half hours. Three-fourths 
pound bread crumbs, six ounces beef suet, four ounces 
flour, one-fourth pound fine moist sugar, one large lemon, 
three eggs, and milk. Add to three-fourths pound 
bread crumbs, six ounces suet finely chopped, the sugar 
and the peel of the lemon minced or grated with the 
juice strained; mix all thoroughly together, and then 
stir into it three well-beaten eggs and sufficient milk to 
make the whole into a thick batter; pour into a buttered 
mold and steam or boil for three and one-half hours. 
Serve with sifted sugar over it and wine sauce. 

B. Selwood. 



42 Puddings. 

SUET PUDDING. 

Time to boil, one hour and a quarter. One pound 
flour, one-half pound beef suet, one egg, pinch of salt, 
water to mix. Mix the flour with finely-chopped suet, 
add the eggs and a pinch of salt; make it into a paste 
with the water, beating it all rapidly together with a 
wooden spoon. Put into buttered basin, and cover with 
cloth. Steam two hours, or boil, and serve very hot. 

B. Selwood. 

PKUNE SOUFFLE. 

One-half pound of stewed prunes; take out stones 
and mash; beat yolks of four eggs with three tablespoons 
of sugar and one-half teaspoon of vanilla flavoring. 
Beat whites of eggs very stiff, with a pinch of salt. Mix 
prunes and yolks together, and when ready to bake fold 
in the whites. Bake from ten to fifteen minutes. 

Mrs. Louis F. Monteagle. 

GINGEB PUDDING. 



Four ounces flour, two ounces suet chopped finely, one 
teaspoonful ground ginger, pinch of salt, three table- 
spoonfuls of molasses, two tablespoonfuls of milk, one 
egg. Mix the dry ingredients in a bowl; add the beaten 
egg, then the molasses and milk. Pour into a well- 
greased basin ; cover with greased paper. Steam quickly 
two hours. Serve with sweet sauce. 

* 

Mrs. L. E. Myers. 



Puddings. 47 

PLUM PUDDING. 

One cup chopped raisins, one cup suet or salt pork, one 
cup molasses, one cup milk, four small cups flour, one- 
half teaspoon soda, one teaspoon yeast powder, one tea- 
spoon cloves, allspice and cinnamon. Steam four hours. 

Sauce. Two eggs well beaten; add two cups pow- 
dered sugar; beat well and add brandy or sherry to suit 
taste. Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

NUT PUDDING. 

Two cups graham flour, one-half teaspoon salt and 
soda, two level teaspoons baking powder, one cup 
chopped walnuts, one cup raisins seeded and chopped, 
one cup milk, one-half cup molasses; steam three hours. 

Sauce. One heaping tablespoon butter, one-half cup 
powdered sugar, one cup boiling milk thickened with a 
heaping tablespoon cornstarch; when cool add to the 
butter and sugar, just before serving add beaten white 
of an egg. Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

OLD FASHIONED ENGLISH PUDDING. 

One cupful of suet, one cup of flour, one cup raisins, 
one cup of bread crumbs, the tablespoonf ul molasses mix 
thoroughly; enough to mold into shape, put into a mold 
steam four hours, serve with brandy sauce; this can be 
kept for sometime. Mrs. Folker. 

ENGLISH XMAS PUDDING. 

Out of five hundred recipes sent to Queen Victoria, 
the following was awarded a prize of ten guineas: One 



44 Puddings. 

pound of raisins, one of suet, three-quarters of bread 
crumbs, one-quarter brown sugar, grated rind of one 
lemon and juice, the same of one orange, one-quarter 
pound flour, one pound currants, one-half grated nut- 
meg, five eggs, one-half pint brandy, one-third pound of 
minced candied orange, lemon peel, clean the fruit, mix 
all the dry ingredients together, beat the eggs, add them 
to brandy, then pour them over the dry ingredients and 
thoroughly mix; pack into greased molds, boil for six 
hours at the time of making, and six when wanted ; this 
will make about six pounds; it is better to keep two or 
three months before wanted; serve with sauce, brandy 
or hard; this will keep a year without any trouble in a 
dry place. Mrs. Geo. Folker. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Three eggs, one pint milk, six tablespoonf uls of flour, 
one-half teaspoonful salt, beat the eggs, white and yolks, 
together until light, add to them the milk; put the flour 
in a bowl, moisten it gradually with the eggs and milk, 
beat until smooth, strain through a fine sieve; one hour 
before the meat is done make the pudding, pour nearly 
all the dripping from under the meat into another bak- 
ing pan, and pour in the pudding if possible; it is better 
to let the meat drip into the pudding while it is cooking. 

Mrs. Folker. 

CLEVELAND PUDDING. 

One teacup sherry wine, one lemon juice and rind, 
one large teaspoon gelatine, one teaspoon cornstarch, 



Puddings. 45 

mixed with, yolks of four eggs, one cup sugar. Soak 
gelatine, one-half cup water when dissolved, put in 
wine, sugar and lemon; let come to a boil, then 
strain; take cornstarch and eggs and stir into gelatine; 
mixture leave on fire a minute, beat whites to a froth 
and stir in and mold. 

Sauce. One-half pint sweet cream, three tablespoons 
currant jelly; beat the jelly soft, then put in the cream, 
beat together until light; flavor with, vanilla. 

Mrs. Grerrish. 

CHOCOLATE BREAD PUDDING. 

One heaping teaspoon buttar, one pint milk, one pint 
bread crumbs, five tablespoons grated chocolate or cocoa, 
yolks of three eggs, one cupful sugar; scald or boil milk 
and add bread crumbs and chocolate ; take from fire and 
add sugar and eggs which, have been beaten together and 
then butter; bake fifteen minutes; when cold beat whites 
of three eggs with six tablespoons sugar for the meringue; 
spread on top of pudding and bake a light brown; flavor 
both meringue and pudding with vanilla. 

Mrs. Jno. R. Wood. 

RAISIN PUFFS. 

Two eggs, one-half cup of butter, one cup of sweet 
milk, two cups of flour, three teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, one cup of chopped raisins; put in cups, filling 
them half full and steam one-half hour; serve with 
liquid sauce. Mrs. Bostwick. 



46 Puddings. 

CHOCOLATE PUDDING. 

One scant cup of bread crumbs dried, three sticks of 
Baker's chocolate, one large cup of milk, four or five 
tablespoonfuls of sugar, four eggs beaten separately. 
Steam forty-five minutes and serve with the following 
sauce. 

Sauce. One cup powdered sugar rubbed to a cream 
with one-half cup of butter; add one-half cup of milk. 
Put in a doable boiler and stir until it boils ; add one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla. Mrs. Bostwick. 

BLACKBERRY SPONGE. 

(Or any small fruits that are canned.) 
One pint jar of berries, take juice only, one-quarter of 
box of gelatine dissolved in one-quarter of cup warm 
water; make a syrup of one-half cup sugar and one-half 
cup water; add gelatine, also the juice of a lemon and 
berry juice. Put pan into another of cold water and beat 
five minutes, then add two unbeaten whites of eggs, and 
beat until light and begins to stiffen or thicken. Pour 
in mold until stiff before using. Mrs. Gerrish. 

FIG PUDDING. 

Two heaping cups soft bread crumbs (no crust), one- 
half pound figs, one cup suet, one cup sugar, two eggs, 
one-half cup milk, a little salt. Mix suet, crumbs and figs 
(chopped fine). Mix milk, eggs and sugar, add to bread 
mixture. Steam three hours. 

Sauce. Two eggs beaten very light, add gradually 



Puddings. 47 

one cup sugar, beat until light and add three or four 
tablespoons of sherry. Mrs. Gerrish. 

APPLE SLUMP. 

Pare and core the apples, put in dish with water to 
cover and place on stove to boil. Make a covering of 
biscuit dough, pat out or roll about an inch in thickness 
making a hole in center and cover the apples soon as they 
commence to boil. Cover tightly and boil half an hour. 

Sauce. One tablespoon flour, one of butter and half 
cup of sugar, rubbed together. Pour on boiling water 
(stirring constantly) until it thickens; salt and nutmeg 
or any seasoning preferred. Canned blackberries or any 
other fruit can be used. Mrs. Gerrish. 

LIZZIE'S BATTEK PUDDING. 

Very nice. 

One quart of milk, four eggs, six spoonfuls of flour, a 
little salt; bake twenty minutes, and serve with foam 
sauce. S. B. Johnson. 

FRUIT PUDDING. (Batter). 

One quart of flour, two teaspoonfuls of baking powder 
and a little salt. Add two tablespoonfuls of melted 
butter and mix to a consistency of drop biscuit. Butter 
a mold or deep dish and lay it in in layers, one of the 
batter then a layer of fruit, alternating them until the 
dish is nearly filled; cover it tight and steam an hour and 
a half. Eat with a sweet sauce. S. B. Johnson. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

Soak one cupful of stale bread crumbs in one-half 
cup of milk and beat to a pulp. Mix with it the grated 
rind of one orange and the juice of two, and the yolks 
of two eggs beaten with one-half cup sugar. Butter the 
cups and set in pan of hot water. Beat the whites of 
eggs to a stiff froth and mix them lightly with the other 
ingredients. Partly fill the cups and bake in a moderate 
oven about fifteen or twenty minutes. Serve with: 

Golden sauce. One cup powdered sugar, one-third 
cup cream or milk, two tablespooiifuls wine, one-third 
cup butter, yolks of two eggs. Beat butter to a cream . 
and gradually beat in the sugar; then add eggs and beat 
until very light. Next add the wine, then milk, a little 
at a time, beating all the while. Place bowl in a basin of 
boiling water and stir three minutes. 

Mrs. Bostwick. 

TIPSY CAKE. 

Time, one and three-quarters or two hours to soak 
cake. One large, round, stale sponge cake ; one and one- 
half glasses of brandy; sufficient sherry or raisin wine 
to soak it; juice of half a lemon; three ounces of sweet 
almonds; one pint rich custard. Place a large sponge 
cake in glass dish in which it is to be served. Make a 
small hole in the center and pour in over the cake a 
sufficient quantity of sherry or raisin wine (mixed with a 
glass and a half of brandy and juice of one-half a lemon) 
to soak it thoroughly. Then blanch two or three 



Puddings. 



49 



ounces almonds; cut them into spikes, stick them all over 
the cake and pour round it a pint of rich custard. 

B. Selwood. 





DELICATE PUDDING5 


Jl 



Trifles light as air. 

Othello. 

STRAWBERRY FROZEN PUDDING. 

Beat one quart of cream, crush with a silver fork one 
quart fresh strawberries; mix them with one cupful sugar 
and stir lightly into the cream ; if not sweet enough, add 
more sugar; fill this into a cylinder mold. The mold 
should be filled to overflowing. Then put on the cover. 
Paste fat around the edge of cover to prevent any water 
entering the form. Cover the bottom of a butter tub 
with fine chopped ice; sprinkle over some rock salt; set 
the mold on top of the ice, then fill up with ice and salt. 
Cover the top so the mold is completely buried in ice 
and salt. Cover the tub with thick paper and set in a 
cool place; let it remain four hours. When ready to 
serve, take out the form, free it from all fat, rinse off 
with cold water; hold the mold in hot water for a few 
minutes; then turn the pudding on to a dish; garnish 
with whipped cream and macaroons; preserved straw- 
berries may be taken and no sugar. Mrs. Folker. 



50 Delicate Puddings. 

DAINTY DESSERT. 

A dainty dessert is to half fill a wine-glass with combin- 
ation of fruits, and the remainder of the glass with vanilla 
ice cream. The chief charm of the dessert lies in the 
combination of blending fruits, and the best flavors are: 
First, pineapple and strawberries. Second, pineapple, 
oranges, bananas, grape fruit (the first flavors in equal 
quantities, the grape fruit only half amount). Third, 
raspberries, pineapple, blackberries or loganberries. 
Fourth, strawberries, figs, peaches. In fact, one may be 
original in combinations so long as flavors blend. Pine- 
apple, blending with all flavors, is always a great addition, 
when it can be had fresh. Mrs. R. J. Davis, 

FRUIT PUNCH. 

The juice of two dozen oranges, one dozen lemons, 
one-half dozen limes, one can of pineapples, cut fine; 
sweeten to taste. Before serving, allow the mixture to 
stand for two hours with a large piece of ice; add water 
just before serving. Mrs. Louis E. Monteagle. 

COFFEE MOUSSE. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup strong coffee, one 
pint cream. Beat eggs, add sugar and beat; add coffee 
and beat again. Beat the cream until thick and add to 
first mixture. Beat all together; then put in mold and 
pack in salt and ice three parts salt to one of ice and 
let it stand three to four hours. If necessary add more 
ice as the mousse freezes, so as to keep plenty of ice water 



Delicate Puddings. 51 

around mold. Before putting cover on mold, cover 
mousse with buttered paper, butter side up. 

Susanne Bowman Hayes. 

BROWN BREAD ICE CREAM. 
Dry the crust of Boston brown bread in a very slow 
oven. Roll and sift. Add one pint of crumbs to one 
quart of whipped cream, sweetened to taste and flavored 
with vanilla. As a rule, the brown bread being sweet, 
it makes less sweetening in the cream necessary. 

Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 

PINEAPPLE SPONGE. 

Soak one-quarter box of gelatine in one-quarter cup of 
cold water. Drain syrup from one can pineapple. Add 
water, if necessary, to make one and a half cupfuls. 
Add more sugar, if necessary. Heat to boiling point; 
take from fire and stir soaked gelatine until dissolved. 
Strain and set aside until it begins to thicken; then add 
one-half cup thick cream, whipped to stiff froth; add 
whites of three eggs well beaten. Stir carefully to- 
gether and when quite thick add one cup finely-cut 
pineapple. Turn into wetted mold and stand in cold 
place. Serve with cream. Mrs. T. H. Reynolds. 

SNOW BALLS. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, three table- . 
spoons water, two tablespoons lemon juice, rind of one 
lemon, one and one-half teaspoons baking powder. Stir 
quickly and steam in buttered cups half an hour. 



52 Delicate F*uddings. 

Sauce. One cup sugar, one tablespoon butter, three 
teaspoons cornstarch, three cups boiling water, juice of a 
lemon. Cook until thick. Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

WHITE VELVET SHERBET. 
Juice of six lemons and sugar enough to make a 
batter (about six cups), three pints of milk. If it cur- 
dles, it will all disappear in the freezing and come out 
smooth. It can be varied by using a can of grated pine- 
apple strained, and does not use so many lemons and 
suga*. Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

RASPBERRY PUFF. 

One cup sugar, white of one egg, one cup raspberries 
or strawberries. Beat one hour and serve with cream. 

Mrs. Bostwick. 

RASPBERRY PUDDING. 

Soak one-half cup tapioca over night. Cook until 
clear in water. Then add one glass raspberry jam. 
Serve cold with whipped cream. 

MACAROON PARFAIT. 

One quart rich, fresh cream, beat well; one-fourth 
pound almond macaroons, grate and sift; six table- 
spoons powdered sugar; mix lightly together. Pack in 
ice and salt and let stand one and one-half hours. Serve 
in punch glasses. Add a spoonful of whipped cream 
and a Maraschino cherry before serving. 

Mrs. J. G. Barker. 



Delicate Puddings. 



53 



KICE IMPEKIAL PUDDING. 

One-half cup rice, two tablespoon! uls sugar, one-half 
pint cream, one quart milk, one-third box gelatine, sherry 
to flavor; soak gelatine in enough water to cover; cook 
the rice in milk in double boiler until milk is absorbed ; 
add a little salt and the sugar; dissolve gelatine over tea- 
kettle and add to cooked rice ; when cold, add sherry and 
the cream whipped; serve in punch glasses. 

Mrs. Wm. S. Wood. 

BANANA SPONGE PUDDING. 
One cup sugar, three bananas, one box granulated gel- 
atine, one quart cold water, four eggs, a little brandy and 
flavoring; soak gelatine in water, until soft; separate 
eggs, mix yolks and sugar together; beat until light and 
then add water and gelatine; place on stove and cook 
until gelatine is dissolved ; add brandy and flavoring, and 
set aside to cool; when beginning to set, add whites of 
eggs beaten very stiff, and mashed bananas; pour in 
mold. Mrs. John E. Wood. 











CAKES, COOKIES, Etc. 











I can teach sugar to slip down your throat a million of ways. 

CHOCOLATE LAYEK CAKE. 
One heaping cup sugar, one-half cup butter, yolk of 
two eggs and one whole egg, two cups flour, one-half cup 




54 Cakes, Cookies, etc. 



milk; one even teaspoon soda, dissolved in milk; one- 
half cake chocolate (one heaping tablespoon); dissolve 
chocolate and boil a tew minutes in one-half cup milk, 
stirring constantly; add yolk of one egg, have cake ready 
and stir all in. 

Icing Boil two cups sugar (granulated) in one-half 
cup water until brittle; add teaspoon vinegar and stir 
syrup slowly in beaten whites of three eggs; beat stiff 
and flavor. Mrs. John K. Wood. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Yolks of five eggs, whites of four, beaten separately, 
two cups full of powdered sugar, two cups full of flour, 
sifted twice, one-half cup of cold water, two teaspoonf uls 
baking powder, juice and grated rind of one large 
orange; beat yolks of eggs, sugar and water until very 
light, add orange juice and rind, then flour mixed with 
baking powder; fold in the whites of the eggs, and bake 
iu moderate oven; a pinch of salt. Use the other white 
of egg for frosting, flavoring with grated orange peel. 

Mrs. Bostwick. 

HARRISON FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound flour, one-fourth pound sugar (fine granu- 
lated), twelve eggs, two pounds citron, two small cocoa- 
nuts (grated), two pounds bleached almonds, one wine- 
glass wine, one of brandy, one teaspoon cinnamon, one 
nutmeg, one mace, two teaspoons baking powder. Cream 
butter, sugar and eggs, thoroughly beaten, but not sep- 
arated. Mix baking powder with flour, then add and 



Cakes, Cookies, etc. 55 






lastly throw in the fruit, thoroughly chopped and 
floured. Bake in slow oven. When done the cake will 
leave the sides of the pan. Mrs. Gerrish. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one- 
half cup milk, one and three-fourths cups flour, one and 
one-half teaspoons baking powder, whites of five eggs. 
Bake in three or four layers. 

Icing. Whites of three eggs well beaten, two cups of 
powdered sugar, juice and rind of an orange, juice and 
rind of half lemon, add to sugar and egg, well beaten to- 
gether; then put in pan or dish and put in a pan of boil- 
ing water until it thickens. Let it cool before putting 
between cakes. Mrs. Gerrish. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 

One cup walnuts chopped not too finely, one cup brown 
sugar, two eggs, three tablespoons flour. Put in pan in 
small teaspoonful as it spreads. Watch carefully as it 
spreads; leave on bottom of oven but a few minutes, then 
finish on top. Mrs. Gerrish. 

BLACKBERRY CAKE. 

(Very good.) 

Two-thirds cup butter, one cup sugar, four eggs, save 
whites of two for icing, three tablespoons of milk, one 
level teaspoon of soda, one and one-half cups flour, one 
cup of blackberry jam (or preserve), spice as fruit cake 



56 Cakes, Cookies^ etc. 

(or to taste). Bake in two layers with boiled icing be- 
tween. 

Boiled Icing. Boil one cup sugar in four tablespoons 
of water until it strings, then add the two well-beaten 
whites, pouring the boiled sugar on gradually. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

DKIED APPLE CAKE. 

(Delicious.) 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, one cup milk, five 
cups flour, two cups raisins, one-half cup citron, two tea- 
spoons soda, two eggs, three cups dried apples soaked 
over night then chopped fine and stewed two hours in 
two cups of molasses. Beat butter and sugar, add milk 
in which dissolve the soda, then the beaten eggs and flour, 
lastly the raisins and apples. Bake one and one-half 
hours. Spice with all spices as fruit cake, and add a 
small glass of brandy or wine. It makes a large, delicious 
fruit cake, or it can be baked in two smaller ones. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Six eggs, whites and yolks separated, two cups sugar, 
two cups flour, grated rind and juice of one lemon; beat 
whites very lightly, add the sugar, beating well, then 
add the well-beaten yolks and lemon ; flour the last thing ; 
do not stir flour in too much; add a little salt. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 



Cakes, Cookies, etc. 57 

WHITE CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup milk, 
three cups flour, whites of four eggs, two teaspoons yeast 
powder sifted with flour. Cream butter and sugar to- 
gether, then stir in milk and flour, a little at a time; add 
whites well beaten last ; two teaspoons vanilla. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

NUT CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, 
two cups flour, one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder, two eggs, one cup chopped raisins, one cup 
chopped walnuts. Bake thirty minutes. 

Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

SPICE CAKE. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup lard or beef drip- 
pings, one cup brown sugar, two eggs, one cup sweet 
milk, one cup raisins (chopped), two heaping teaspoons 
yeast powder, one teaspoon each of cloves, cinnamon, 
allspice, nutmeg; about three cups flour. 

Mrs. A. A. Martin. 

SULTANA CAKE. 

Ingredients : Six ounces of butter and lard (three of 
each), six ounces sugar, two eggs, milk, candied peel, 
pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder, twelve 
ounces of flour, six ounces currants and raisins; beat the 
butter and lard to a cream, add the sugar and again beat; 
sprinkle in the flour gradually, add the eggs and milk 



58 Cakes, Cookies, etc. 

until sufficiently stiff, put in the fruit and mix ; then add 
baking powder and a little candied peel. Bake for two 
hours in hot oven. 

SHREWSBURY BISCUITS. 

Ingredients: Six ounces flour, one-quarter pound 
butter, one-quarter pound castor sugar, one small egg, 
one teaspoonful of caraway seeds. Rub butter well into 
the flour, add sugar and seeds, then mix with beaten egg; 
roll the paste out very thin and cut into fancy shapes; 
bake in a slow oven for ten minutes. 

QUEEN'S CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, three-quarters 
of a pound of butter, eight eggs, one nutmeg, currants 
and raisins, one gill of brandy, one cup of cream (if sour, 
one teaspoonful of saleratus). Mrs. Thayer. 

PINEAPPLE CAKE. 

Four layers of cake, shredded pineapple with whipped 
cream, and pineapple between each layer; on top white 
frosting. Mrs. Thayer. 

WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, three and one- 
half cups of flour, two-thirds of a cup sour milk, five eggs; 
small teaspoonful of sale/ratus, one wine glass of brandy 
or wine, one nutmeg, currants and raisins. 

Mrs. Thayer. 



Cakes, Cookies, etc. 59 

EICH PLUM CAKE. 

Time, two hours or more. One pound fresh butter, 
twelve eggs, one quart flour, one pound moist sugar, 
one-half pound mixed spice, three pounds currants, one 
pound raisins, one-half pound almonds, one-half pound 
candied peel. Beat the butter to a cream and stir in 
yolks of twelve eggs, well beaten, with the sugar; add 
the spice and almonds, chopped very ne. Stir in the 
flour, add the currants washed and dried, the raisins 
chopped up and the candied peel cut into pieces. As 
each ingredient is added, the mixture bust be beaten. 
Then butter a paper; place it round a tin; put in the 
cake and bake it for two hours or more, if required. 

B. Selwood. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

Three eggs, beaten separately; one cup sugar (pow- 
dered); one cup flour; three tablespoons water; one tea- 
spoon baking powder. Flavor with lemon and nutmeg. 

Mrs. Barker. 

ANGEL CAKE. 

One and one-fourth goblets of whites of eggs (beat 
well), one scant cup sifted flour, one and one-half cups 
granulated sugar (sift), one teaspoon cream of tartar. 
Sift sugar, flour and cream of tartar together into the 
egg. Stir lightly and pour into an ungreased pan. 
Bake one hour. Put a pan over the cake for the first 
half hour. Mrs. Barker. 



60 Cakes, Cookies, etc. 

PLAIN FRUIT CAKE. 

(Inexpensive.) 

One-fourth square butter, two large cups granulated 
sugar, two large cups flour, four eggs (well beaten sep- 
arately), one-half cup milk, three-fourths cup ground 
chocolate, two teaspoons baking powder, one teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-half teaspoon ground cloves, one teaspoon 
ground nutmeg, one cup citron and currants together, 
one cup walnuts chopped, one cup cold, mashed potatoes, 
one cup raisins (seeded). Add nuts and potato last. 
Grease the pan well. Bake about one hour. This is 
sufficient for two cakes. Mrs. J. G. Barker. 

SOUR CREAM CAKE. 

Sift together, one cup sugar, one and one-half cups 
flour, one and one-half teaspoonfuls baking powder, a 
pinch of soda, a pinch of salt, and flavor. Put two eggs 
in a cup and fill the cup with sour cream. Add this to 
the sifted materials, beat for a few moments and bake 
in a moderate oven. Mrs. H. TV". Barnard. 

WEDDING CAKE. 

(Capt. Hall) 

One pound butter, one pound and two ounces flour, 
one pound sugar, two pounds currants, two pounds Sul- 
tana raisins, three pounds seeded raisins, one-half pound 
citron (currants, raisins and citron well dredged with 
flour), twelve eggs, one-half teacup brandy, one-half tea- 
cup sherry, one-half teaspoon allspice, two teaspoons 






Cakes, Cookies, etc. 61 

cloves, two teaspoons nutmeg, one tablespoon cinnamon, 
one teacup molasses, one-half teaspoon soda, dissolved in 
hot water, and mixed with molasses, one teaspoon yeast 
powder. Mrs. Billings. 

A DELICIOUS CHOCOLATE ICING. 

One egg well beaten, one and one-half cups sugar, six 
tablespoons grated unsweetened chocolate (Bakers), one- 
half cup milk. Boil until thick, then remove from stove 
and add a dessertspoonful vanilla, 

Mrs. John Burt. 

KEVER-FAIL WALNTJT CAKE. 

Two cups flour, one cup cornstarch, mix together and 
keep one for nuts, one cup melted butter mixed with two 
cups sugar, four eggs, two and one-half teaspoonfuls 
yeast powder, one cup of milk, and lastly one cup and 
a half chopped walnuts mixed with the left over cup of 
flour and corn starch, little lemon extract and nutmeg. 

Mrs. T. H. Reynolds. 

ORANGE CAKE. 

Beat the whites of three and the yolks of five eggs 
separately. Stir to a cream two cups of sugar and one- 
half cup of butter, then add beaten eggs, one-half cup 
cold water, two and one-half cups of flour, two teaspoon- 
fuls baking powder, grated rind of one orange and juice, 
except one tablespoonful. If batter seems too stiff add 
orange juice. Bake in two large, square biscuit tins. 

Filling. Whites of two eggs saved from cake, one 



62 Cakes, Cookies, etc. 

tablespoonful orange juice, two small cups powdered 
sugar. Mrs. Williston W. Davis. 

SUNSHINE CAKE. 

Whites of seven eggs, beaten well; yolks of five eggs, 
beaten well; one cup sugar, three-quarters cup flour, 
three-quarters teaspoon cream tartar, salt and flavoring. 
Bake in round, deep pan. Mrs. Arnold. 

LEMON PIE. 

One and one-half cups of sugar, one tablespoon corn 
starch, pinch salt, grated rind of two lemons; mix all to- 
gether dry. Add juice of lemons, beaten yolks of three 
eggs, and two cups water; cook until thick; beat whites 
to a stiff froth, add four tablespoons sugar and spread 
over pie. Mrs. Arnold. 

EGGLESS CAKE. 

One cup sugar, two cups flour sifted three times, one- 
half cup butter, one cup chopped raisins, one cup citron, 
one cup sour milk, one teaspoonful soda sifted in the 
flour, one teaspoon cinnamon, one-quarter teaspoon 
cloves, one-half teaspoon nutmeg. Flour raisins and cit- 
ron well. Mrs. Arnold. 

POTATO CAKE. 

One cup but er. two cups sugar, two cups flour, one 
cup mashed potatoes, one-half cup milk, three-quarters 
cup ground chxjolate, or>c cup chopped walnuts, four 
eggs (beaten separately), good pinch of salt, two tea- 






Cakes, Cookies, etc. 63 



spoons baking powder, one-half teaspoon cloves, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon. Bake, as loaf cake, forty-five minutes. 

Mrs. Arnold. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Three and one-half pounds raisins (stoned), three 
pounds currants, one-half pound citron, one pound brown 
sugar, one pound butter, one pound flour, ten eggs, one 
teacup molasses, three teaspoons soda, one tablespoon 
cloves, two tablespoons cinnamon. Mrs. Arnold. 

LAYEE CAKE FOE ANY FILLING. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar cream; one and 
one-half cups florr, sifted several times; three eggs, but 
reserve whites of two for filling; one level teaspoon bak- 
ing powder put in flour after it has been sifted, one-half 
cup milk, and flavor. Mrs. Arnold. 

HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

One cup sugar, yolks of four eggs beaten to a cream, 
add one-half cup of boiling water, one cup of twice-sifted 
flour, one even teaspoonful of yeast powder, and whites 
of three eggs beaten stiff, reserving one for icing; -heat 
the buttered pan before pouring in the mixture. 

Mrs. Wm. Boericke. 

HERMIT COOKLE> 

One cup bu'ter, two cups '.ugar, 01 ^spoonful soda 
dissolved in three tablespoonfuls sweer milk, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, one teaspoon } cloves, one nutraeg, 



64 Cakes, Cookies, etc. 

one cup stoned and chopped raisins, enough: flour to roll 
out thin bake. Mrs. F. W. Tallant. 

THIN GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup of butter, two cups of sugar, one cup of milk, 
three and one-half cups flour, three-fourths teaspoonful 
soda, one teaspoonful ginger. Beat the butter to a 
cream, add the sugar gradually, and when very light, add 
the ginger and milk, in which the soda is first dissolved, 
and then the flour. Use iron sheets for baking. But- 
ter them, and spread on the mixture very thin. Bake 
in a moderate oven until brown. While hot, cut in two- 
inch squares with a knife. Mrs. Wm. Boericke. 

WALNUT ROUNDS. 

One-half pound walnut meats, broken, not chopped; 
one-half pound brown sugar, two eggs, five tablespoons 
flour, one-fourth teaspoonful salt, one-fourth teaspoon- 
ful baking powder. The amount of flour will vary 
somewhat according to the kind of flour used, but the 
batter must be quite stiff as it drops from the spoon. 
Drop on buttered tins and have oven fairly quick. 
Watch carefully. Mrs. Williston W. Davis. 

LEMON CHEESECAKES. 

Time, fifteen to twenty minutes. One-fourth pound 
warmed butter, peel of two lemons, juice of one, one- 
fourth pound loaf sugar, a few almonds, puff paste. 
Make the butter just warm; stir into it the sugar, and 
when dissolved mix with it the peel of two lemons grated 



Cakes, Cookies, etc. 65 

and the juice of one. Mix all well together and pour 
into patty pans lined with puff paste. Put a few 
blanched almonds on top of each. B. Selwood. 

ALMOND MACAROONS. 

Blanch one-half pound almonds; pound to a smooth 
paste, adding one tablespoon essence lemon; add one 
pound pulverized sugar and whites of three eggs. Work 
paste well together with back of spoon. Dip the hands 
in water and roll mixture into balls the size of nutmeg 
and lay on buttered paper one inch apart. When done, 
dip the hands in water and pass gently over macaroons, 
making surface smooth and shiny; set in a cool oven 
three-fourths hour. Follow strictly. 

Mrs. Arnold. 

MOLASSES COOKIES. 

One cup of molasses, one-half cup of butter, one 
heaping teaspoon of soda, one level teaspoon ginger; 
flour to mix stiff and roll thin. 

Mrs. W. C. Barnard. 

MIT COOKIES. 

One cup sugar, one-quarter cup butter, two eggs, one 
cup flour, grating of nutmeg, and one pound chopped 
walnuts. Add a little more flour if necessary. Roll 
thin, cut with fancy cutters and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. John Burt. 



66 Cakes, Cookies, etc. 

MRS. REYNOLDS' COOKIES. 
One-half roll butter and two cups sugar beaten to a 
cream, four whole eggs added, one-half glass brandy, 
one teaspoon yeast powder, flour to roll out very thin. 
Cut out about two inches in diameter and wash over tops 
with little beaten egg; then sprinkle on a little sugar and 
cinnamon mixed, and a little almond, blanched and finely 
chopped. Mrs. T. H. Reynolds. 

PEANUT COOKIES. 

Pound fine in a mortar three-fourths cup of freshly- 
roasted peanuts, finely chopped; sift together one cup of 
flour, two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one saltspoon of 
salt; cream two teaspoonfuls butter; add gradually one- 
half cup flour and then the pounded nuts. Add one egg 
beaten until light, two tablespoonf uls milk and the flour. 
Drop mixture on buttered tins. Moderate oven. 

Mrs. D. E. Hayes. 

CRISP GINGER SNAPS (Mrs. Cutter's). 
One cup New Orleans molasses, one cup brown sugar. 
Set on stove and let come to a boil; then pour onto a 
cup of mingled butter and lard. Add one teaspoonful 
each of cloves, ginger, cinnamon and one-half of nut- 
meg with a tablespoonful of good vinegar. When al- 
most cold, add flour into which has been well sifted one 
even teaspoonful of baking soda. Mix stiff enough to 
handle easily. Roll very thin, the thinner the better. 
Bake in a quick oven. These should be as brittle as 
glass, and will keep for months. 



Cakes, Cookies, etc. 67 

ROCK CAKES. 

One-half pound flour, one-fourth pound butter, one- 
fourth pound currants, one-fourth pound sugar, two 
eggs, one teaspoonful baking powder, and a little candied 
peel. Warm the butter and add it to the flour and bak- 
ing powder; add the currants, sugar and peel (in thin 
strips), and mix with the eggs well beaten. Set the 
mixture in rough little heaps on a greased, flat baking 
tin. Time, ten minutes in a hot oven. 

B. Selwood. 

HERMITS. 

Two cups sugar, one slice butter, one cup raisins (Sul- 
tanas), one cup currants, one cup chopped nuts, three 
eggs, one teaspoonful soda dissolved in milk, flour to roll 
thin. B. Selwood. 

CITRON TARTS. 

One teacup each of raisins, currants and citron, 
chopped fine; six eggs beaten separately, one coffee cup 
of sugar mixed with then beaten yolks of eggs, one tea- 
cup of milk, one-half teacup of brandy, one teacup of 
wine. Season with nutmeg, cinnamon and a little salt. 
Add the whites well beaten before the brandy and wine. 
Bake in patty pans (with under crust of pastry) in a 
quick oven. Mrs. H. A. House. 

COOKIES. 

One cup flour, one cup butter, one and one-half cups 
sugar, two eggs, heaping teaspoon yeast powder, two 
tablespoons milk, nutmeg or vanilla. 



68 Cakes, Cookies, etc. 

GINGER SNAPS. 

One cup molasses slightly warmed, one-half cup melted 
butter, two teaspoons of ginger, one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in a tablespoon hot water, one egg and enough 
flour to make real stiff. Boll very thin. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

WALNUT WAFERS. 

Three eggs, one cup brown sugar, three tablespoons 
flour, pinch of salt, one cup broken walnuts. Drop on 
buttered tins very little at a time, and bake quickly. 

Mrs. Arnold. 

LEMON PIE. 

Grate the rind and strain the juice of two lemons; 
core, pare and chop fine one large tart apple; pound one 
soda cracker very fine, melt two tablespoonfuls of butter 
and mix with the cracker crumbs, mix the lemon rind 
and juice with the apple, and stir with them two level 
cups of sugar; beat the yolks of two eggs to a thick froth, 
then the whites to stiffness, then both together; beat 
these with the lemon, apple and sugar; mix buttered 
crumbs with all. Bake twenty minutes or until the crust 
is done; then make meringue of whites of three eggs, 
three tablespoonfuls of sugar. Makes one large pie. 

Mrs. A. L. House. 

ORANGE PIE. 

Make a good pie crust and bake. Two large oranges, 
one lemon, squeeze and strain; then add one cup sugar 



Cakes, Cookies, etc. 69 

and place on stove, allow it to become warm ; take yolks 
of six eggs beat in a little of the warmed juice after sugar 
has been dissolved, then add remainder of juice, gradu- 
ally beating all of the time. Then put the mixture into 
a double boiler and stir thoroughly until quite thick. 
Beat the whites of the six eggs to a very stiff froth. Add 
something less than half of the whites to the thickened 
yolks and orange juice; beat the yellow gradually into 
the white. Then pour mixture into crust Add a little 
sugar to remainder of whites spread over the pie, put in 
oven and let remain until meringue has turned a slight 
brown. Mrs. John Finn. 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

Two tablespoonfuls of butter, one cup of sugar, three 
eggs, one-third cup sweet milk, one cup flour, one and 
one-half teaspoonfuls of baking powder, two-thirds cup 
chocolate cut fine, one-third cup boiling water. Cream 
butter and sugar, add whole eggs, stirring rapidly for 
several minutes; then add milk and flour, the baking 
powder having been mixed with the flour. Pour boiling 
water over chocolate and add to mixture; stir rapidly and 
add a few drops of vanilla; put in 10x14 inch pan that 
has been buttered and floured, and bake in quick oven. 

Cream Frosting. One cup sugar, about one-third cup 
milk, stir sugar and milk together and boil briskly until 
sugar is dissolved. Remove from stove and stir until 
cold ; add vanilla and spread on cake. If frosting granu- 
lates, add more milk and re-cook. Mrs. Bostwick. 



70 Cakes, Cookies, etc. 

CHOCOLATE LAYER CAKE. 

Two cups sugar, one-half cup butter (scant), two eggs, 
two squares chocolate dissolved in half a cup boiling 
water, one teaspoon soda in one-half cup sour milk, two 
and one-fourth cups flour; bake either in layers or solid. 
Use frosting or chocolate filling between layers. 

Mrs. Bostwick. 

SAVAKIN" CAKE. 

Make a sponge with one-half cup of milk, one cake 
of yeast and some flour. When light, add three-fourths 
of a cup of milk, two eggs and the rest of a pound of 
flour. Beat very hard, then add one-half pound of 
creamed butter, one-half cup sugar, three eggs and one- 
half pound of Sultanas, one-fourth pound citron cut in 
strips. Set to rise. Bake in a round cake tin and 
sprinkle with chopped almonds. 

Mrs. TV. C. Hamilton. 

COFFEE CAKE. 

One cup of sugar, one cup of butter, one cup of mo- 
lasses, one cup strong coffee, two cups of raisins, four 
cups of flour, one tablespoon of soda, spice of all kinds. 

Mrs. Bostwick. 

DRIED APPLE CAKE. 

Soak three cups of dried apples over night. Chop, 
and put them in one cup of molasses and stew in covered 
pan until clear and dark. Add one cup butter, one cup 
sugar, one cup raisins, one cup currants, three cups flour, 



Cakes, Cookies , etc. 71 

one teaspoonful of soda, four eggs, one teaspoonful 
cloves, one teaspoonful cinnamon, one cup very black 
coffee, a little nutmeg. Mrs. J. C. H. Edwards. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

One pound powdered white sugar, three-fourths pound 
butter, one pound flour (sifted), twelve eggs, two pounds 
raisins (part of them chopped), two pounds currants, 
one-half pound citron (cut in strips), one-fourth ounce 
each of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves mixed, one wine- 
glass of wine, one of brandy. Cream butter and sugar; 
then add yolks of eggs, part of flour, the spices and the 
whites of eggs, well beaten. Then add remainder of 
flour and wine and brandy. Beat thoroughly. Dredge 
fruit with flour. Cover bottom of pan or pans with 
mixture, then layer of fruit, then cake mixture, and so 
on until all is used, having no fruit on top. Bake four 
hours. Mrs. H. A. Marvin. 









1 


PICKLES, MARMALADES 

JELLIES, PRESERVES 











Swooning in sweetness. 



Thos. Reid. 



TOMATO MARMALADE. 

Take the skin off the tomatoes before weighing. Six 
pounds of tomatoes, six pounds of sugar, two lemons. 
Wash the lemons, quarter and slice them very thin and 



72 Pickles, Preserves, etc. 

add to the tomatoes and sugar ; boil until thick ; stir most 
of the time. The faster it boils the lighter colored it will 
be. Mrs. Bostwick. 

ORANGE MARMALADE (Extra good). 
Take one dozen oranges, one-half dozen lemons and 
boil separately three hours; throw away the water, open 
the oranges and lemons, taking out seeds and preserving 
all the pulp, juice, rinds, etc. Out the rinds in small 
strips, and to every pound of this put a pint of water, two 
pounds of sugar, and boil slowly until clear. Riverside 
oranges and Sicily lemons are best for this. When the 
oranges can be pierced with broom-straw, they are done ; 
do not let them break in boiling. Mrs. Gerrish. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

One dozen seedless oranges, sliced very fine; six 
lemons; grated rind and juice of three and the other three 
sliced very fine; six quarts water. Pour all together and 
allow for every bowl of liquid one bowl of granulated 
sugar. Before adding sugar, boil (uncovered) the 
oranges, lemons and water until skin is soft, probably 
from one to one and one-half hours. Then add sugar and 
boil twenty minutes longer. February is the best month 
for marmalade. Mrs. Thomas H. Reynolds. 

ORANGE MARMALADE. 

One dozen largest naval oranges, one-half dozen 
lemons, both sliced thin as paper. To each pint of pulp 
add three pints of cold water. Let stand over night. 



Pickles, Preserves, etc. 73 

Then simmer until the orange peel rubs to nothing; let 
stand over night. To each pint add one pound of sugar. 
Let the pulp come to a boil; add sugar which has been 
warmed. Boil until sugar is dissolved. 

Mrs. Geo. H. Koe. 

PEACH MAKMALADE. 

Peel the peaches, saving the peeling; cover with cold 
water and put on to boil; while they boil cut the peaches 
in quarters; strain the juice from the peelings; then to 
one pound of peaches put three-fourths pound sugar and 
put all together, peaches, sugar and juice; stir very often 
and have the peaches real soft so they will break in stir- 
ring; cook down rich, taking care not to scorch the 
least bit; should cook nearly two hours on a slow fire. 

S. B. Johnson. 

OLD-FASHIONED PEACH PRESERVES. 

One pound of peaches to one pound sugar. Peel 
peaches and let stand over night with the sugar; pour 
off the syrup in the morning and let come to a good 
boil. Pour hot over peaches; repeat that twice. Then 
put on all together and boil until clear looking; will keep 
without sealing. S. B. Johnson. 

DAMSON PLUM CATSUP. 

Cook half a box of plums in a little water. "When 
well done, rub through a sieve. To two cups of the 
plums, add one cup of sugar, one tablespoon of allspice, 
two teaspoons of cinnamon, one-half teaspoon of cloves 



74 Pickles, Preserves, etc. 

and cayenne pepper to taste. Cook slowly one hour; 
then add one cup of boiling vinegar and cook a few min- 
utes longer. Mrs. Louis F. Monteagle. 

MUSHROOM CATSUP. 

Put a layer of mushrooms, sprinkle with salt alternate- 
ly until the mushrooms are used up; let stand forty-eight 
hours, then mash fine and to each quart put one table- 
spoonful of vinegar, one teaspoonful black pepper; turn 
into a stone ja^r, set the jar into the kettle of boiling 
water and let boil two hours; then strain, boil juice a 
quarter of an hour; skim well; let stand to settle; strain 
carefully through a sieve bottle and cork tight. Keep in 
cool place. Mrs. Folker. 

STRAWBERRY AND APRICOT PRESERVE. 

Cover one pound strawberries with one pound sugar; 
one pound apricots with one pound sugar; mix and boil 
slowly until thick. Stone and cut the apricots, but do not 
peel them. Mrs. John Burt. 

GINGER PEARS. 

Eight pounds fruit, eight pounds sugar, one-quarter 
pound green ginger root, four lemons, one tumbler water. 
Pare and slice pears thin ; cut lemon rind thin ; pare and 
slice ginger root. Boil all together until rich and clear. 
(Very nice with ice-cream.) Mrs. H. A. House. 

SPICED CURRAlAs. 

Eight pounds of fruit cooked slowly one hour; add 
four and one-half pounds sugar, three-quarters table- 



Pickles, Preserves, etc. 75 

spoon each cloves, allspice, cinnamon and nutmeg, and 
one-half pint vinegar. Boil one-half hour. 

Mrs. Thomas H. Reynolds. 

CURRANT JELLY. 

Remove all leaves from the fruit; mash and squeeze 
through a cloth bag; take to one bowl of the juice a bowl 
of granulated sugar, put the juice on and let it boil five 
minutes, then put the sugar in and boil three minutes ; be 
sure it boils, not simmers; skim and put it into glasses. 
Let it stand two days to cool ; cover with a paper wet in 
brandy put on next to the jelly, leaving no vacuum. If 
your closet where the jelly is kept is at all damp, or in 
danger of moulding, cover the jelly with granulated 
sugar. S. B. Johnson. 

Never use tin vessels if you want fruit to be a nice 
color when preserved. 

APPLE JELLY. 

"Wash and quarter the apples, removing all soft or 
decayed spots; put in a preserving kettle, and cover with 
cold water; boil until tender, pour into a jelly bag and let 
hang over night to drain. To a large, full bowl of the 
juice add a bowl of granulated sugar, and boil until it 
drops from the spoon. I find the early June apples the 
best. It may not be solid for two days. 

S. B. Johnson. 

PICKLTO RED CABBAGE. 
Three large red cabbages, one-half pound salt, one- 
half cup mixed spices, cloves, pepper, coes, ginger (not 



j6 Pickles, Preserves, etc. 

ground), Chili peppers, mace, cinnamon, three quarts 
vinegar; cut the cabbage into threads, sprinkle with salt; 
mix well. Let stand twenty-four hours with a weight on 
it, squeeze out, boil the spices in one quart of vinegar; let 
cool, put the cabbage in a stone crock, pour vinegar and 
spices over it, cover air tight. In eight days it is ready 
for use. Serve with hot or cold meats. 

Mrs. Geo. Folker. 

CHERRY CHUTNEY. 

Stone the cherries; to one gallon of cherries add one 
and one-half dozen silver skinned onions, chopped very 
fine; cook the onions for ten minutes in one-half gallon 
vinegar, add the cherries seasoned with two ounces of 
ground cinnamon, one teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, 
one teaspoonful of black pepper, two tablijspoons salt. 
Cook on slow fire twelve hours; stir to keep from burn- 
ing. S. B. Johnson. 

A most delicious relish liked by gentlemen. 

Above mixture cover with cold cider vinegar and 
cover jars tightly. 

SWEET TOMATO PICKLES WITH RAISINS. 

One peck green tomatoes, one small cup salt; slice 
tomatoes and sprinkle the salt over them, and let them 
stand over night. Drain in the morning and add one 
pound of raisins, weighed after stoning; one and three- 
quarters pounds brown sugar, one ounce whole cloves, 
cinnamon and allspices, two ounces white mustard seeds. 



Pickles, Preserves, etc. 77 

Tie these in a muslin bag. Vinegar to cover tomatoes. 
Boil until tender, and bottle while hot 

Mrs. Billings.' 

DAYTON PICKLES. 

One thousand pickles; let stand twenty-four hours in 
a strong brine. Wash in cold water and let drain. Mix 
thoroughly : four pounds brown sugar, one pound white 
mustard seed, two ounces whole cloves, two ounces whole 
allspice, two ounces whole black pepper, one ounce stick 
cinnamon, one ounce white ginger, two hands full horse- 
radish cut in thin slices (short), two hands full small 
green peppers cut in rings, two hands full red peppers 
whole, five dozen small white onions, three heads garlic. 
Put the cucumbers in jars alternately. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

PICKLED ENGLISH WALNUTS. 

Procure the green walnuts by the last of June. 
Prick thoroughly, and cover in a jar with salt and water 
for four days. Boil the spices, pepper corns, ginger, 
cinnamon, mace and cloves in vinegar. Pour off the 
water and add vinegar and spices. It will be six weeks 
before they are ready for use. Mrs. Folker. 

PICKLE PEPPERS. 

Take large-sized peppers; soak them in salt and water; 
take out all the seeds; then stuff them with cabbage, 
small onions and mustard seed. Mrs. Thayer. 



78 Pickles, Preserves, etc. 

SWEET PICKLE PEACHES. 

Four pounds of peaches, two pounds of sugar, one 
pint of vinegar, spice to taste. Mrs. Thayer. 

STUFFED BELL PEPPERS. 

Recipe for one hundred and fifty medium size. One 
small head cabbage, one head of celery, one ounce small 
green peppers, one dozen large white onions, one-half 
dozen green tomatoes, one quart ordinary cucumber 
pickles, one-half dozen small fresh cucumbers, two cook- 
ing spoons of white mustard seeds, two cooking spoons 
celery seeds, one cooking spoon tumric powder, one-half 
cup white granulated sugar, one-half cup salt, one pint 
skinned garlic, one-half pint Chili tepins peppers, two 
gallons best vinegar, spices to suit taste. 

To prepare peppers for filling, take one quart vinegar, 
one quart water. Scald peppers in this until white, then 
cut off the tops and scrape out the seeds and fill; tie on 
the tops with a string. Place in stone jars and cover 
with the following mixture: Two gallons vinegar, spiced 
with Chili tepins, white mustard seeds, a little horse rad- 
ish chopped fine, ground spices tied in a bag. Boil and 
pour hot on the peppers in the jars. 

Mrs. A. A. Martin. s 




iLri^l^ &>& **<V-e^tJ? 












BREAKFAST DISHES 

EGG5, ETC. 











Things which in hungry mortal's eyes find favor. 

Byron. 

HOW TO BOIL EGGS. 

Put them into cold water; let it heat gradually; then 
boil two to three minutes as desired. Eggs are inva- 
riably made tough and indigestible by being plunged into 
boiling or even hot water, which ruins the white and 
leaves the yolk quite raw. 

Miss drum's Cooking School. 

EGGS BEEAKFAST DISHES. 
Boil six eggs twenty minutes. Toast thin slices of 
bread; butter and lay on a hot plate or platter. Make 
two cups of cream sauce (milk thickened with flour and 
well seasoned); spread a spoonful on each slice of toast; 
mash the egg yolks and chop the whites fine; put the 
egg on toast; cover with more cream sauce; set in the 
hot oven for a moment. Serve garnished with parsley. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

BUTTEEED EGGS. 

Beat four eggs well; put two ounces of butter in a 
basin; set over boiling water until it melts; pour the 
eggs in with the butter, and stir one way until it is hot 
and the eggs are cooked. Serve on buttered toast. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 



8o Breakfast Dishes, etc. 

FRENCH EGGS. 

Boil the eggs for forty minutes; when cool, remove 
shells and chip a slice from small ends; remove the yolks 
without breaking the whites; in this cavity place an 
oyster, cooked and seasoned; place eggs where they will 
keep hot, but not cook. Spread rounds of toasted bread 
with butter; then cover with the mashed yolks mixed 
with melted butter, pepper, salt and sweet cream; place 
the eggs, small end down, on the toast. Serve with 
parsley garnish. Mrs. Gerrish. 

CEEAMY OMELET. 

The foundation of the creamy omelet is a cream sauce. 
Melt one tablespoonful of butter, add one tablespoonful 
of flour and gradually a half cupful of milk, a scant even 
teaspoonful of salt and a dash of pepper. Cook until it 
thickens, then take from the fire; let stand until slightly 
cool; add slowly the beaten yolks of two eggs and then 
fold in the whites, beaten until stiff. Melt a tablespoon- 
ful of butter in the omelet pan ; pour in the mixture and 
cook slowly on top of the stove about two minutes. 
Then set in the oven until the top is well set and a dainty 
brown. Mrs. Bostwick. 

EGGS ON TOAST. 

One tablespoon butter, six eggs, one gill cream (or 
milk), pepper and salt. Melt the butter in chafing dish, 
add pepper and salt When hot, add cream and eggs, 
stirring constantly two or three minutes. Serve on hot 
toast. Mrs. Gerrish. 



Breakfast Dishes, etc. 81 

SCOLLOPED EGGS. 

Slice hard boiled eggs; smear the bottom of a low, open 
baking dish with butter, pour in a little white sauce, then 
a layer of eggs; cover these with more sauce, another 
layer of eggs and so on putting bread crumbs and a little 
butter on top and browning. 

White Sauce. Melt tablespoon of butter in a sauce- 
pan; when hot, but not brown, stir into it a tablespoon of 
flour and continue stirring until the mixture rolls away 
from the bottom of the pan. While this is cooking, heat 
a coffee cupful of milk or cream or chicken or veal broth 
and when it reaches boiling point stir slowly into the 
flour and butter until smooth; season with salt nd pepper. 

Mrs. Henry Bridge. 

BREAKFAST DISH. 

Mince some remnants of ham; season with pepper, add 
a few bread crumbs, with which cover the bottom of 
scollop shells or small dishes and put in each a bit of 
butter; break an egg on top of each and set in a good 
oven. When the eggs begin to cook, sprinkle with 
cracker crumbs and season with pepper and salt if needed. 
Serve hot Mrs. Gerrish. 

HAM OMELET. 

Beat six eggs separately; take one cup sweet milk, into 
which stir a tablespoon of flour. When the milk boils 
stir in the paste. Add a little salt and one tablespoonful 
butter and let cool; take two tablespoonfuls of minced 



82 Breakfast Dishes, etc. 

ham, a little chopped parsley and thyme (if liked), and 
stir with the yellows; then add the well-beaten whites. 
Have a well-greased skillet and bake in a quick oven. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

EGGS IN THE NEST. 

Beat to a froth the whites of six eggs ; add a little salt 
and pepper. Pour into a buttered bakingpan. Dip 
upon it six tablespoonfuls of nice cream, one only in a 
place. Upon each spoonful of cream drop one of the 
yolks whole, being careful not to break it. Place in a 
moderately hot oven until yolks are set. Serve im- 
mediately. Mrs. Bostwick. 



A deal of skimble skamble stuff. 

Henry IV. 

PINOCHE. 

Three cups light brown sugar, one cup milk, stir in 
well and when it comes to a boil add two tablespoons 
chocolate, butter size of an egg, one pound walnuts 
chopped fine, stir in the last thing, beat well and spread 
on plate. 

HOME MADE COUGH CANDY. 

Soak a gill of whole flaxseed in half a pint of boiling 
water; in another dish of boiling water put a cup of 



Miscellaneous. 83 

broken bits of slippery elm, and let these stand for two 
hours. Then strain both through a muslin cloth into a 
saucepan containing a pound and one-half of granulated 
sugar. (Extract all the liquor you can). Stir the sugar 
until it is melted, then boil until it turns to candy. The 
juice of two lemons is added after it has cooked ten 
minutes. 

ORANGE- SHERBET. 

To half a gallon of lemonade add the juice of four 
oranges; pour in freezer and stir until thick, then stir in 
the beaten whites of three eggs and one-half cup of pow- 
dered sugar. Freeze hard and set aside to harden. 

ALMOND KISSES. 

Whip the whites of four eggs until perfectly stiff and 
stir into them one-half pound of pulverized sugar, one 
cup blanched and powdered almonds. Drop in spoon- 
fuls on well-buttered paper about an inch apart Lay 
the paper on a half-inch board and place in slow oven 
until they begin to yellow. Mrs. Gerrish. 

CREME DE MEOTHE. 

One quart best high proof alcohol, one cupful granu- 
lated sugar, one cupful water, one-half teaspoonful pure 
oil of peppermint, two-thirds teaspoonful spinach green 
coloring (to be bought at all large grocers or confec- 
tioners). Make a smooth syrup of the sugar by boiling 
slowly in double boiler, remove from fire and add alcohol 
and other ingredients; heat thoroughly together, then 



84 Miscellaneous. 

strain through coarse flannel or fine double cheese cloth. 
This should be a clear, fine, emerald green not too 
sweet. Bottle and use as an after-dinner cordial with 
shaved ice. Mrs. Cutter. 

PUNCH (Capt. Hall). 

One and one-half tablespoonfuls of lemon juice to a 
tumbler of water, one heaping desertspoonful granu- 
lated sugar, one pint bottle of champagne or whisky to 
taste. Or, nine tablespoonfuls sugar, thirteen and one- 
half tablespoonfuls lemon juice, one-half bottle cham- 
pagne. Mrs. Billing's. 

MINCE MEAT. 

Simmer until tender six pounds of beef tongue and 
heart. Cool in liquor in which it cooked. Chop fine 
two pounds beef suet and five pounds of juicy apples, 
add one pint of stock in which heart and tongue have 
been, and three pounds of chopped and seeded raisins. 
Wash and dry two and one-half pounds currants, a pound 
of citron cut in very small dice, and one-quarter pound 
each of orange and lemon peel. Next add one pound 
chopped dates and one pound chopped figs. Put one 
quart cooking sherry (California), and two quarts apple 
cider over the fire with three pounds of light brown 
sugar and one pound New Orleans molasses. To this 
add one ounce each of cinnamon, cloves, allspices, one- 
quarter ounce each of mace and nutmeg, with a dash of 
pepper and salt to taste. Next add the grated rind of one 
orange and two lemons with their juice, and a pint of the 



Miscellaneous. 85 

best California brandy. Put away in covered jars. This 
mince meat retails in the East at 75 cents per pint, and 
will keep for years. Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 

KOUMYSS. 

(Dr. Weir Mitchell's Recipe.) 

One gallon fresh milk, one pint hot water, one cake 
Fleishmann's compressed yeast, eight or six tablespoon- 
fuls granulated sugar. Dissolve yeast in a cup full of 
warm water, add the other ingredients, bottle in patent 
stoppered bottles (old beer bottles if perfectly clean). 
Let stand twelve hours in a temperature of about seventy 
to seventy-five degrees, as for bread raising. Then 
remove to ice-box and keep at low, even temperature 
until used. This beverage retails at seventy-five cents 
per quart. Its cost if made at home is about fifty cents 
per gallon. It is invaluable in many cases of chronic 
dyspepsia, and is in reality milk champagne. 

Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 

DELICATE WELSH RAREBIT. 

One-half cup of milk in which melt two good slices of 
broken cheese, add an egg which break in and stir 
rapidly. Season with salt and place on well-buttered 
toast. Mrs. Gerrish. 

ECONOMICAL RECIPE FOR HOLLANDAISE 

SAUCE. 

Good piece of butter, heaping tablespoonful flour, one 
cup boiling water. Let boil ten minutes, with salt and 



86 Miscellaneous. 

pepper to taste. Put in bowl the raw yolk of an egg, 
juice of one-half lemon. To this add the cooked sauce, 
stirring constantly. Can be used for pudding sauce by 
using sugar instead of lemon, Mrs. F. "W. Tallant. 

CHEESE SOUFFLE. 

One cup grated cheese, two tablespoonf uls butter, two 
tablespoonfuls bread crumbs, two tablespoonfuls milk, 
one-third tablespoon salt, one-third tablespoon mustard, 
small pinch cayenne, yolks two eggs, whites three eggs. 
Crumb the bread and boil in milk, add the butter, season- 
ing, cheese and yolks; when beaten thoroughly stir in 
whites. Fill twelve dishes three-quarters full. Bake ten 
minutes and serve immediately. Mrs. B. 

CHEESE BALLS. 

Mix four ounces of grated, dry cheese (any cheese 
suitable for Welsh rarebit), add a little salt, a grating of 
nutmeg and a dash of cayenne pepper. Mix lightly into 
the stiffly-beaten whites of three eggs. Do not stir under 
any circumstances. With the fingers, form into balls 
about the size of a pigeon's egg, drop in deep, smoking 
fat as for doughnuts, and brown. Serve with hot but- 
tered crackers, or with salad. Mrs. J. B. Cutter. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One cup of flour, one cup of old cheese (grated), one 
tablespoonful of butter, a little salt and enough water 
to make a stiff dough. A little cayenne pepper is an 
improvement. Roll out thin and cut into strips a half 
an inch wide and bake. Mrs. F. F. Bostwick. 






Miscellaneous. 87 

CHAFING DISHES TERRAPIN. 
Take two terrapin called " counts," and boil in shell. 
After allo\ving them to cool, remove the shell, take 
out the gall bladder; cut the terrapin in good-sized 
pieces, put in chafing dish, and add small cup of rich 
cream, one-half pound butter, couple of wine-glasses of 
sherry or Madeira, the latter preferable. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

"ENGLISH MONKEY." 

One cup grated cheese put in dish and melt; one-half 
cup of milk; add one-half cup cream and one-half cup 
of bread crumbs, mixed. Season with little cayenne, 
salt and Worcestershire sauce, and one egg, well beaten. 

Mrs. Gerrish. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING. 

Time, one and one-half hours. One and one-half pints 
milk, seven tablespoonfuls flour, three eggs and a little 
salt. Put the flour into a basin with a little salt and 
sufficient milk to make it into a stiff, smooth batter; add 
remainder of milk and the eggs, well beaten. Beat all 
well together, and pour it into a shallow tin, well 
greased. Bake for an hour, then place under the meat 
for half an hour to catch a little of the gravy that flows 
from it. Cut the pudding into small square pieces, and 
serve with hot roast beef. B. Selwood. 

STUFFED PEPPERS. 

First, brown onions and chopped chilis in butter; then 
add chopped tomatoes and veal; cook until done; salt 



88 Miscellaneous. 

and pepper. Fill peppers with mixture; on top of each 
put spoonful of bread crumbs and lump of butter. 
Bake fifteen or twenty minutes and serve hot. 

Mrs. Arnold. 

CHILIS RELLENOS. 

(Stuffed Peppers.) 

Cut a slit in some sweet peppers and stuff them with 
the following preparation: Cucumbers, parsley, hard- 
boiled eggs, all chopped fine and mixed with bread 
crumbs, crumbled cheese and a little butter; salt to taste. 
Tie up the peppers and boil until tender, about one-half 
hour. Mrs. John Finn. 

HOT OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

One can tomatoes, cooked and strained; salt and pep- 
per, one teaspoonful of lime juice, one teaspoonful of 
sugar. Cook until quite thick, or thicken with little flour 
and water three minutes before using. Add fifty Cali- 
fornia oysters. Serve very hot with a small piece of toast 
cut round in top of each helping. 

Mrs. H. A. Marvin. 

SOUTHERN SWEET POTATOES BAKED. 



Boil three large sweet potatoes until tender, peel them 
and cut up in thin slices. Sprinkle a baking dish with 
sugar and butter; then put in a layer of potatoes, alter- 
nating with the sugar and butter until the dish is full. 
Bake in a slow oven until transparent about two hours. 



Miscellaneous. 89 

Use plenty of butter and sugar. Put cover over them to 
prevent burning. One tablespoon water. 

Mrs. W. A. Hamilton. 

TOMATO PILACE. 

Take four or five fresh tomatoes or one-half can of 
canned tomatoes and put them in a frying pan with one 
tablespoon lard, one-half teaspoon salt and pepper to taste. 
Cook until quite thick. In a saucepan or rice-boiler put 
a cup of rice that has been well washed and one and one- 
half cups water. Pour in the tomatoes and let it cook 
altogether until each grain of rice is separate, occasion- 
ally stirring so that the tomatoes are well mixed with the 
rice. Green pea pilace and onion pilace are also very 
good. The peas have to be well cooked before you put 
them in the rice (not cooked rice). The onions are fried, 
but not too dark, then cooked in the same way. 

Mrs. W. A. Hamilton. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

One pint of flour, one-half cup butter, one tablespoon 
lard, two teaspoons baking powder, one pinch of salt. 
Roll out into two sheets. Spread one with a little butter 
and place the other sheet over it. When cooked, split 
open and spread with more butter. Mash some of the 
berries and put between the two crusts; the other ones 
roll in powdered sugar and put on the top with a cup of 
whipped cream. Very good. Mrs. W. A. Hamilton. 



9 o 



Miscellaneous. 



MUSHROOM SAUCE. 



One slice of onion, fried light brown in one tablespoon 
of butter. When done, add one t and one-half table- 
spoonful flour, and stir in well; then add one-half cup 
good beef gravy (or stock), one-half teaspoonful salt, one- 
fourth teaspoonful pepper, one-eighth teaspoonful nut- 
meg, three tablespoonfuls sherry, a little red pepper and 
one can champignons. Cook ten minutes. Very nice 
with broiled steak. Mrs. H. A. Marvin. 




^>&r ^&*^4&^e. 3&^z^&< 

Jst^C <3^SC<# ^-2S^?^jL 

fvP ' ) 




*jfcf 



^t^^f^<- 



s*- >*&4*^<^e_ ste^^f 



<4L*f 




>tati0urrtj and tuijrauiuij 





CARDS 
PROGRAMS 
AND FAVOHS IN STOCK 

UJflQUE AND ORIGINAL STYLES TO OHDEK 



-X 
^^ 

/L^2~^Z^4_j> 



V. 



<f Co. 

Furniture . Dr^perie5 



IIMI6-II8-I20-I22-I21 P06T 6TREET 

SAN FRANGISGO 




wS^-'irr.-^:^ 
R|I ^ r 



P-tsii!Wi! T 




Our Carpet and Rug Department contains an extensive assortment of 
patterns in all the grades manufactured, from the rich Axminster to 
the modest Ingrain and from the luxurious Rugs of Oriental Art to 
the simplest door mat. 

Our Furniture and Drapery Departments embrace the newest things 
suitable for parlor, library, dining room, bed room and hall furnishings 

We respectfully invite all those who are interested in House Furnishings 
to call and inspect the ARTISTIC NOVELTIES of recent importations 
now displayed in our various departments 

Sole Agents Famous Ansonia Brass Bedsteads and Berkey & Gay Furniture 

Largest Stock on the Coast from which to Select. Prices Moderate 

92 



DRESSMAKING 



Telephone Main 1372 



M LLINERY 






ESTABLISHED 1850 




129-111 Geary Street 
128-138 Stockton Street 
Union Square 

SAN FRANGISGO 



NEW YORK, 486 Broadway 

PARIS, 
2 Faubourg Poissonni&re 



G. VERDIER, Pres. G. MOREAU, Vice-Pres. WWI. S. RAINEY, Manager 



KOGNIG'S 



123 Phone 

KearnjJ FlflE SHOES ^ ain 
Street 1028 



San Francisco's Popular 
Shoe Stor& 

93 



LEADING AMERICAN COMPANIES 




JAMES NICHOLS, PRESIDENT 
E. G. RICHARDS, SECRETARY 



NATIONAL 

FIRE INSURANCE Co. 

OF HARTFORD, CONN. 



CAPITAL $1,000,000.00 

ASSETS 5,424,437.00 



SPRINGFIELD 

FIRE AND MARINE INS. Co. 

OF SPRINGFIELD, MASS. 



CAPITAL $2,000,000.00 

ASSETS 5,898,887.43 



PACIFIC DEPARTMENT 

HAYWARD BUILDING 

COR. MONTGOMERY AND CALIFORNIA STREETS 
SAN FRANCISCO, CAL. 

(AFTER JULY 1, 1902) 

GEO. D. DORNIN, MANAGER GEO. W. DORNIN, ABST. MANAGER 

Louis L. JANES, RESIDENT AGENT 
MILL VALLEY, CAL. 
94 








Sold in 1 Ib, packets 
XXX Grade . ; . . 60c per Ib. 
XXXX Grade . . . . 85c per Ib. 



Gold Medal taken at the World's Fair, 1893 
and Paris Exposition, 1900 



SOLE AGENTS 

GEO. W. CASWELL CO. 

Importers and Manufacturers 

TEAS, COFFEES, SPlCES, EXTRACTS, BAKING POWDER 
AND OLIVE OIL 

412-414 Sacramento Street, San Francisco 
TBL. PRIVATE EXCHANGE 52 
95 







Entranced by the praises sung of Kingan's Own Cure 
Hams and Bacon 



96 



Cresta 
Blanco 
Wines 



PURE, MATURE 

UNIFORM 

The Standard Wines 
of California 



WETMOPE BOWEN COMPANY 

410 Post Street San. rrancisco, Cal. 



White Wine Punch for Ladies 

In a punch bowl put two quart-bottles of 
CRESTA BLANCA CHATEAU YQUEM, one 
pint of strong green tea and juice of two cans 
of sliced pineapple. About one hour before 
serving put in bowl lump of ice; when ready 
to serve add sugar which has been boiled and 
skimmed to taste and stir well ; then add one 
quart-bottle CRESTA BLANCA SPARKLING 
and one syphon of sparkling water and serve 
at once. 

(The above will make a punch sufficient for fifteen, persons.) 
97 




A*& 

*s3+stie /e * 



x/- 



<c* 



*& ^if ^ ^U^ 

'^ ^~^ "^e^^L 

^<rx^ ^z-^tv^ O^e-^-^-e 









SAN FRANCISCO. 
PINE & JONES STS. S.B.JOHNSON. 

JOHN G. BARKER 

The Select Hotel of San Francisco, 




/ +7 /&*f*~4& 




Rubber Cement Floor Paint 

Tl^e most durable and serviceable floor paint made. Dries over 
night with a hard gloss. For finish, wearing qualities and 
general excellence it is unsurpassed. Seven shades to select 
from. 

Varnish Stains 

Our varnish stains stain and varnish with one application; tr^ey 
dry with a fine, hard gloss, retain th\eir fine lustre and wear ex- 
tremely well. Every color will match perfectly the natural 
wood it is designed to imitate. 

ASK FOR SAMPLE CARDS FOR SALE BY ALL DEALERS 

W. P. FULLER & CO., Manufacturers 



Cbocolate? 
Cocoas 

The Standard of Excellence 



^e*^ 







SAN FRANCISCO. 
PINE &JONES 5T3 S.B.JOHNSON. 

._4. JOHN G. BARKER 

Select Hotel of San Francisco 







/ s&^r jZ^fC^*^ 
^X,^>/ ^ ^ 



3 

//A>/*^ 




& 





Established 1888 



Telephone Main 777 



A. TOD! PA 



Wholesale and Retail Dealer in 



Poultry and Game 



BUTTER, COGS 7\ND CHEESE 




Imported Olive Oils, Sardines, Rnchovies 
Canned and Dried Mushrooms, Salami 
Rocquefort, Swiss and Holland Cheese 

526-525 Montgomery Street, Corner Clav 



S7W rRRNCISCO, CAL. 
100 



For recipes requiring COCOANUT, use 




Shredded, Desiccated 
The Best in the World The Purest Made Fresh Daily 



LUKE G. SRESOVICH & CO. 

53 1 Sansome Street, San Francisco, California 

Also dealers in Green and Dried Fruits, Nuts, Dates, Figs, Oranges 
Bananas, Lemons, Limes, Etc. 

LARGEST IMPORTING HOUSE IN THE STATE 



DIRECTORS : 

JOHN BAYLE, President. J. LACOSTE, Vice-Pres. E. O. RIESER, Sec'y and Treas. 
J. BAREILLES C. A. ARTIGUES 

BAYLE, LACOSTE 6L Co. 

te INCORPORATED 

Wholesale and Retail Dealers in. 

Tripe, Calves' Heads and Feet, Brains, Tongues 
Sweet Bread, Livers and Ox Tails 

534 CLAY STREET 

SAN FRANCISCO, : CAL. 

BRANCHES: Stalls No. 7 California Market, No. 18 Bay City Market aqd Oakland 
Goods shipped to ar\y part of the Pacific Coast 

Steamers supplied at short notice 
TELEPHONE Factory, BUTCHERTOWN 30. Office, MAIN 1503 



FACTORY. SOUTH SAN FRANCISCO 
101 



IF YOU LIKE GOOD COFFEE 



^ 


W*^ ^Si'SK 


Drink 


<Sxn 




if 


Hills Eros. 




Jfe 


Arabian 




^^ToCHA 




\ 


^ 


Roast 







THERE IS ^[OTHING WETTER 



PALADINI 



271 



Wholesale and Retail 
Dealer in all kinds of 




Fishirig Steamers U. S. Grant and Henrietta 
A. PALADINI, Proprietor 

A.PALADINI'S MARKET, 520 merchant St. 



102 







The Gofden Gate Compressed Yeast Co. 



318 5UTTER 5TREET, 5. F. 
103 




A Necessity 



To have success with the recipes 
in this book it will be necessary 
to obtain the best ingredients. 
You can get these at City prices, 
without going to San Francisco, if 
you call on 



GEO. H. WHITE, Mill Galley 

HIGH GRADE GROCERIES AND PROVISIONS 



104 



EASTLAND 
CREAMERY 



F. SIMAS and M. S. FERNANDEZ 
Proprietors 

Miller Avenue, Opposite Depot 



Milk, Cream, Butter, Eggs and Ice Cream 

Delivered twice a day to any part of Mill Valley, or Mill Wood 



Phone Main 61 



H. FIGUR, Proprietor 



MILL VALLEY MARKET 

Miller Avenue, Opp, Depot 

Stall-Fed Beef, Mutton, Pork, Sausages, Lamb, and Veal 

Cold Meats Always on Hand No Baden or Refrigerated Meat Sold Here 

PROMPT DELIVERY Poultry in. Season. MILL VALLEY, CAL. 



ITS FUN TO COOK 

'when you have All the latest labor-savers in 
your kitchen equipment 

Our "Household Department " 
can fit you out faith all the 

Up-to-date Kitchen Comforts 



THE "CHRISTY" KITCHEN SPATULA 

Flexible blade 8 inches long. 

A Handy Tool for loosening and turning Eggs, 

Cakes, Etc. 

We arc constantly receiving new importations of 

CHINA, GLASS, LAMPS, PL ATEDW ARE 

NATHAN-DOHRMANN CO, 

MA?ONNAISE M,XER 122-132 SUTTER ST., SAN FRANCISCO 

ForSalad Dressing, Whipped PHONES Main J40J Main J4JO 

Cream, Beating Eggs, Etc. 

105 




CONTINENTAL BUILDING & LOAN ASSOCIATION 

301 CALIFORNIA STREET. SAN FRANCISCO 




Subscribed Capital, $13,000,000.00 Paid in Capital, $2,250,000.00 

Profit aqd Reserve Fund, $300,000.00 WM. CORBIN, Sac'y & Gen'l Mgr. 

EUREKA MARKET 

ONE BLOCK EAST OF POST OFFICE MILL VALLEY, CAL. 

GEO. HARK & SON, PROPRIETORS 

Dealers in Fresh Beef, Mutton, Pork, Veal and Lamb of Best Quality 

Salt and Corned Meats Constantly on Hand. Sausages of Every Description 

Best of Hams, Bacon, Lard and Smoked Meats in Stock 

Choice Poultry. Fresh Ogsters. Cooked Meats 



COLD STORAGE 



TELEPHONE MAIN 31 



MUNTZ & CO. 

Dealers in Hay, Grain, Wood, Coal an.d Ice 



A. MUNTZ 

H. B. WESTCOTT 



Agents for Del Monte Milling Co. Feedstuffs 
McCray Refrigerator Co. Salt Bricks 
Ice, Tools, Refrigerators 

Union ICE National 

106 



OFFICE AND YARDS 
ADJOINING P. O. 




To have success with the re- 
cipes in thjs book you must 
have good material and the 
good material may be h.ad at 

YE VILLAGE 
GROCERIE 

SMITH & BRAID, Proprietors 



MILL VALLEY 
DRUG 5TORE 

IN QUALITY A "bit of Market Street" IN PRICE 



ICE CREAtt, SODA WATER ALL KINDS OP CONFECTIONERY 

B. GREThEL, EASTLAND BAKERY 
AMLL VALLEY, A\ARIN CO., CAL. 

SPECIAL ORDERS POR ICE CREAtt WILL RECEIVE PRO/APT 
ATTENTION 

107 



,.n.-m .,GB BAVAROIS. . 

,- Exchange Kditor: 
se. two recipes to your v 



ch 



>me 



help in my~liou.-ol!oia. AS i *M. 
,f fruit I have seK 
., one for a very delicious des- 
7he other for pineapple marma- 
lade. I hope that * JICAL 
them worth trying. 

Srmeeze a sufficient, number of 
anses to produce a half pint of Juice, 
Deluding the juice of half a lemon. 
Vkl to this 6 ounces of sugar and f 
until the sugar is dissolved. , Soak for 

~,,a~tt*'f ,-iimrc Of 



-uly 
to 



,me 
-.e- 
led 
ion 
do 



m- 



1 1 1 1 1 e s >i &, i ' v " a 

t few minutes one-quarter ounco 
Jolatine in a little cold water. The 
-solve in a little hot water. Add 
,l" to the fruit juice and stir until the 1 
mixture begins to set; then fold in a 
half Pint of whipped cream Ha^ e 
roadv a mold lined with sections of 
oranges and fill this carefully. Put 
in a cool place. 
'\f5.\ J '...,; ' .miles 

Wellington 
Coal 



$10.00 per ton 



108 




k 

*T 



| CoJb 

luK) ^GyO 

^ 

v^ 



^^>Cr<^>^ 







t> 







r o*4 










'II 



snn\.i nnoods aqj SB HOAV su 
HH;IU aq} aa.taja.i UIAV ut.ujj 

OOSJOUB.I^ UBS ui saaatiu 
-[u r;uap.iK AUTJUI ST?II U.IOH SB 'A-sq 
am 30 apis sun tnojj pueq uo PMOJO 
ssuamun UB eq I\]M. aaoqj puB 'o3 
ui ^saao;uj jo s;oi si ajoni 



THE BEST AND MOST ECONOMICAL 



Genuine 

Wellington 

Coal 



FOR SALE BY ALL RELIABLE DEALERS 

$10.00 per ton 



1 08 



UV-3 











/v 

tKrf^p- 

/> 




/ 



<&&&!&f 

L 









'-e*^z^e= 
f/ . 






/ 






^ 




/* 
^7< 





