«§ 



PRACTICAL GARDENING 






[E I 

VEGETABLES 






.GEORGE WYTHESV.MH 









Corn 

IRew l£ork 


ell XHniver8it\> 


library 

OF THE 

State College of agriculture 


u 



584 



Cornell University Library 
SB 321.W99 

The book of vegetables, 



3 1924 003 320 979 




The original of this book is in 
the Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924003320979 



HANDBOOKS OF PRACTICAL GARDENING— VII 
EDITED BY HARRY ROBERTS 



THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 




STUDY OF GARDEN PEAS 



THE BOOK OF 
VEGETABLES 



GEORGE WYTHES, V.M.H. 

HEAD GARDENER TO THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND. K.G. 



TOGETHER WITH CHAPTERS ON 

THE HISTORY AND COOKERY OF 

VEGETABLES : BY THE EDITOR 



JOHN LANE: THE BODLEY HEAD 
LONDON AND NEW YORK. MCMII 



Printed by Tnrubull & Spears, Edinburgh, 



CONTENTS 



Editor's Note 



The Culture of Vegetables 



Cabbages 

Broccoli and Cauliflowers 

Borecoles or Kales 

Brussels Sprouts 

Spinach 

Roots 

Beetroot 

Carrots 

Parsnips 

Turnips 

Kohl Rabi . 

Jerusalem Artichokes 

Onions 

Leeks 

Shallot and Garlic 

Potatoes 

Peas . 

Beans 

Dwarf Beans 

Runner Beans 



7 
x 3 
16 
20 
2 3 
J 3 
26 
28 
30 
35 
35 
36 
40 
42 
43 
5' 

64 

66 
70 



Vlll 



CONTENTS 



History and Cookery of Vegetables 

The Cabbage Family 

Spinach 

Beetroot . ? 

Carrots 

Parsnips 

Turnips 

Jerusalem Artichokes 

Onions and Leeks 

Potatoes 

Peas . . 

Beans 



page 

7 2 

7* 
76 
7>* 
79 



83 

85 
88 
96 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

PAGE 

Study of Garden Peas (from a drawing by Ethel 

Roskruge) . . . Frontispiece 

Cabbage — Wythes' Main Crop . , 3 

Cabbage — Kelway's Placebo . 5 

Broccoli — Sutton's Superb Early White . 9 

Brussels Sprouts — Kelway's Prolific 17 

Spinach— The Carter . 21 

Turnip — Carter's Early Forcing . , 31 

Potato — Wythes' English Beauty . 45 

Potato — Sutton's Supreme . 49 

Pea — Main Crop . . 53 

Pea — Cakter's Daisy . 59 

Bean — Green Longpod . . . . 65 

Dwarf Bean" — Progress . . .67 

Amateur's Shed for Storing Potatoes . '93 

Orr's Storing Trays (showing method of stac&ing) . . 94 

Orr's Storing Trays 95 

Dwarf Bean — Canadian Wonder . .105 



EDITOR'S NOTE 

Mr George Wythes, the author of that part of the 
present volume which deals with vegetable culture, 
stands among the dozen leaders of his profession. Like 
most other distinguished practical gardeners, his career 
has furnished him with a very varied experience. 
Descended from a Worcestershire yeoman stock, he re- 
ceived his education at the Queen Elizabeth Grammar 
School, Worcester. After leaving school, he worked for a 
time in various large gardens, both private and municipal.. 
Then Mr Wythes obtained the post of head gardener at 
Thirlestaine Hall, near Cheltenham ; and obtained his 
first measure of general horticultural fame. From 
Cheltenham, he proceeded to Lord Hatherton's seat at 
Teddesley Park in Staffordshire, afterwards taking over 
the post of head gardener to the Duke of Northumber- 
land, about fourteen years ago. To the Duke's gardens 
at Syon House, Mr Wythes has added much beauty" and 
fame. Even those who are not familiar with the name 
of their raiser may have heard of the " Syon House 
Melon," the " Syon House Prolific Potato," and other 
similarly named fruits and vegetables. 

As a writer on various branches of gardening, Mr 
Wythes is well known to all who read contemporary 
garden literature. For many years he has been a 
regular contributor to The Gardeners' Chronicle, The 
Gardeners' Magazine, and The Garden, and an occa- 
sional contributor to The Field. He is a Member of 
the Fruit and Vegetable Committee of the Royal 
Horticultural Society, and was one of the original sixty 
to whom were allotted the Victoria Gold Medal of 



xii EDITOR'S NOTE 

Honour in Horticulture on the occasion of the Jubilee 
of the late Queen. Mr Wythes is a frequent and 
successful exhibitor of fruit and vegetables at the 
Temple Shows as well as at the various other Meetings 
of the Royal Horticultural Society. 

The Editor takes this opportunity of thanking Messrs 
Kelway, the celebrated florists of Langport, for their 
courteous granting of leave to illustrate their Placebo 
Cabbage and Prolific Brussels Sprouts. He also wishes 
to thank Mr J. P. White, of Bedford, for permission to 
illustrate the excellent shed and storing trays, of which 
he holds the patent rights. 

The vegetables dealt with in the present volume are 
those most commonly grown in English gardens. 
Volume I. of the present series dealt with Asparagus, 
Celery, Celeriac, Seakale, Salsify and Scorzonera. 
Future volumes will be devoted to the gourd family, 
and to such lesser grown vegetables as Cardoons and 
Globe Artichokes. 



THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

Cabbages 

In these notes on Common Vegetables my aim will be 
to advise as to the best flavoured varieties, the best 
methods of culture, and the best means whereby an 
extended season may be obtained. 

The Cabbage comes first in my notes, and I am not 
sure but that the cabbage, next to the potato, is the 
most useful of the vegetables with which it is my func- 
tion to deal in this book. With a little timely attention, 
there is no difficulty in having a full supply of good 
cabbage from January to December, though I am aware 
that in many gardens it is none too plentiful in the first 
three months of the year. I do not think I can do better 
than to take Spring Cabbage first, for of course this is 
the most important supply, and the earlier it can be had 
fit for table the better. But a point crops up in advising 
as to the seasons for sowing and cropping ; the right 
date, say, for Cornwall, would be wrong for the northern 
portion of the kingdom. There can be no question 
whatever but that during the past few years there has 
been considerable improvement in this vegetable. The 
large coarse cabbages are now less grown ; and in their 
place we have the smaller compact growers, with better 
.flavour — the last an important point, and one which I am 
pleased that the Editor puts in the foreground. No 
matter how common the vegetable, the flavour plays an 
■ important part. It may be said that a cabbage can be 
grown anywhere, and sown at any time, without any 



% THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

regard to culture at all; but, the better the cultivation, 
the better quality the vegetable will possess. In many 
gardens, owing to the notion that the cabbage will grow 
anyhow, we often see it infested with aphis, irregular in 
growth, yellow, and of poor quality. 

Spring Cabbage. — The best season to sow for an early 
supply is from the middle of July till the middle of 
August, or even until the end of the latter month. 
An exact date cannot be advised, owing to difference 
of locality, but, no matter where, it is advisable to make 
two sowings. It is a common error to sow vegetable 
seeds as one sows mustard and cress, with the result 
that the seedlings are much weakened and a check is 
given from the start. By making two sowings there 
are greater probabilities of success, as, owing to the 
season, the earlier one may be too forward, and plants 
run or bolt. It may be said, "Why sow so early ? Because 
if only a percentage of the earliest sowing remain good 
they are valuable, ag they come in at a season when 
green vegetables, especially those of good quality, are 
none too plentiful. The later sowing forms a succes- 
sion, and will give good heads till midsummer. From 
the last-named date they will not be needed so much, 
other vegetables, such as beans, peas, marrows, and 
what may be termed summer vegetables, taking their 
place. As regards varieties, there is a good Ellams, 
whilst Dwarf Early Spring is very reliable for July 
sowing, and, like most of the spring cabbages, is of 
good flavour. Another very fine type of spring cabbage 
is that typified by Earliest of All, Sutton's April, and 
Flower of Spring. Mein's No. I, a cabbage much grown 
in the north, and a larger cabbage, the Early Rainham, 
largely grown for market in the west, are good kinds. 
There are doubtless many others equally good, but the 
half-dozen named are noted for their good flavour ; and 
for flavour also I would advise Flower of Spring. 



CABBAGES 3 

Planting should be done early, that is, from the 
middle of September till a month later. I advise 
early planting on firm ground ; many plants in a rich 
root run are injured by having made a soft growth. 




CABBAGE — WYTHES MAIN CROP 



The old method, and one still practised, was to manure 
heavily, newly dig a piece of land, and then plant. I do 
not advise this for garden culture, but prefer a firm, 
hard soil. I find that cabbages planted after spring 
onions, in soil that has been trodden and rolled for the 
onion crop, do far better than in newly dug soil, enriched 



4 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

with manure, and the reason is patent. The tender 
seedling, say from October till early in the year, does 
not need food, and all cabbages are much better grown 
quickly. To promote a quick growth, food may be 
given from the surface in the early part of the season in 
the way of nitrates or liquid manure. Cabbages in rich 
land, or loose at the collar, that is, not well firmed at 
planting, make a gross growth, often run badly, and are 
soon injured by severe weather. That is why I advise 
a hardier system of culture at the start. Of course, 
with field culture the plants do not get such rich food 
as in a small plot of land in gardens ; moreover, the 
situation is more open, the growth hardier, and there 
are fewer losses. I am afraid that market growers have 
to study size more than flavour, but in gardens the latter 
should be the main point. The small varieties, most of 
those noted above, may be planted somewhat close, 
fifteen to eighteen inches between the rows, and nine 
to twelve in the rows, as the produce is cut early. 
Plant very firmly in light soil, or, what is better, 
frequently hoe lightly between the rows, but go down 
each side of the plant and tread or firm the roots in the 
autumn. In heavy land the last advice is not so 
necessary, but it is well in all cases to earth up the 
stems in autumn well into the lower leaves, and to pro- 
tect in severe weather, doing the work when the soil 
is not too wet. I may be asked about the second sowing 
advised. As I intended to note, this is to be employed 
in case the first fails, and also as a succession. If 
possible, sow on land that has not grown cabbage for a 
time. Plant a larger proportion of the August seedlings 
if any doubts should exist as to the earlier plants bolting, 
or if insect pests have injured them, or heat and drought 
weakened them. 

Autumn Cabbage. — The Coleworts play an import- 
ant part in the autumn supply, and these delicately 



CABBAGES 5 

flavoured cabbages are not grown nearly as much 
as they deserve. Sown in May and June, they give 
nice heads from October to Christmas. There are two 
varieties mostly grown, the Rosette and the Hardy 
Green. The latter is valuable for a still later supply, 
as it may be had in January or later. Comments are 
often made that our ordinary cabbage lacks the flavour 
of the colewort, and that frequently is so. The reason 




CABBAGE KELWAY S PLACEBO 



is not far to seek. The colewort sown in summer is fit 
for use in three or four months, and the growth being 
made so rapidly tends to improvement of flavour. I 
am aware that these quickly-grown plants do not stand 
severe frost, and are best for autumn supplies, as in 
bad weather when they are solid the hearts of the 
Rosette section split badly. For later use the Hardy 
Green, though less valuable from other points of view, 
makes up for deficiencies. The colewort takes up little 



6 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

room and may be planted closer than the spring 
varieties. There is one point I have overlooked, and 
that is, a supply from the time the late spring supply 
finishes until the coleworts turn in. Here such kinds as 
Main Crop, Matchless, Miniature Marrow, Kelway's 
Placebo, and Sutton's Favourite are useful ; all being 
excellent summer cabbages. These, if sown in spring, 
from April till the end of May, will give reliable supplies ; 
they are noted for their good flavour, and should be 
planted in rich land, as both these and the colewort make 
their growth quickly, and the same conditions are not 
applicable as for the autumn planted for spring supply. 

Winter Cabbage. — This is a class of green vegetables 
more neglected than any of the Brassicas. Of course 
this remark does not apply to the Savoy, but to hardy 
winter cabbage, of which there are some excellent kinds, 
though less numerous than of the other classes. The 
St John's Day is a splendid cabbage for use in mid- 
winter. This should be sown in June, or earlier. It 
is very hardy, and not soon injured by frost. Another 
type is Christmas Drumhead, with a flat or drumhead- 
shaped head, very solid, remarkably hardy, and good from 
December till March. Both these varieties are noted 
for their delicate flavour, and are most useful. Another 
winter cabbage is the new St Martin. This is the 
result of a cross between the Christmas Drumhead and 
Rosette Colewort, and it is a medium-sized cabbage, 
having the Rosette flavour with the hardiness of the 
Drumhead. All the last three types are short-legged, 
and medium growers. These bring up the supply till 
the spring. The last-named variety is distinct, and 
recently received an Award of Merit after a trial of 
cabbages in the Royal Horticultural Society's gardens. 
A very few words will be needed to complete my 
note on this useful vegetable. I have named the Savoy, 
and this may be made more useful than it often is. 



BROCCOLI AND CAULIFLOWERS 7 

Sown too early, the heads are often strongly flavoured, 
badly infested with caterpillar, and not nearly so useful 
as they might be. These do well for a winter supply. 
In the north I have kept them good till early 
in May by growing such kinds as the New Year or 
Bijou. These, though small, remain solid until late in 
the spring. For early supplies, the small varieties, such 
as Green Curled, Tom Thumb, and Early Ulm, are good. 
These sown in April and May give an early autumn 
supply. For mid-winter and later, May and June 
sowings are best. If large heads are required, the 
Drumhead is the best as regards size, but the flavour 
is inferior to the smaller kinds grown for late use. 
A new type, the Perfection, a medium-sized grower, 
is notable for its good flavour when grown for late use. 
I have not noticed the red or pickling cabbages. These 
are best sown in autumn if very large heads are needed, 
the Red Dutch being suitable. I prefer the smaller 
better quality, such as Dwarf Blood Red ; this does 
well sown in March for autumn pickling. 

Broccoli and Cauliflowers 

I bracket these two useful vegetables together, as they 
are near relations. At the same time I may be taken to 
task for including the Cauliflower in my list of common 
vegetables, but this term must be used in a wide sense, 
and the Cauliflower can be grown as readily as any 
other vegetable, and is equally as useful ; for, by 
forcing, the supply may be had ten months out 
of twelve. The Cornish Broccoli industry is of great 
value in the early spring, as at that time good vege- 
tables are scarce, and the southern supply fills in a void 
that is much felt. I am aware that some come from the 
Continent, but these cannot compete with our own as 
regards quality. The firm compact white curl of the 



8 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

Penzance Broccoli is of excellent flavour, and, owing 
to the mode of culture adopted, the flavour is distinct 
from that of those grown in close gardens. Doubtless 
the hardier the plant is grown the better, and in large 
areas there are less losses than in sheltered gardens, 
but, even under the best culture, it is impossible to 
escape losses owing to severe winters. This is why I 
advise growing the plant as hardy as possible, for then it 
suffers less in severe seasons. There can be no doubt 
of its being a paying crop, far more so than the autumn 
Cauliflower, as the former is less plentiful, and the 
Broccoli may be termed a delicious vegetable when not 
too large. 

Culture. — Broccoli culture differs from that of other 
Brassicas. The plant makes the principal growth in the 
summer and early autumn, and a strong, sturdy growth 
should be made by sowing early. On the other hand, 
too early sowings mean weak plants if the seedlings 
remain too long in the seed-bed before being placed 
in their permanent quarters. What then is the right 
time to sow and to plant, and what the best soil to 
plant in ? The plants like a heavy loam. The best broc- 
coli crop I ever saw was grown in well-tilled clay land. 
The autumn and early winter broccoli do not need more 
than six months, or very little more, to mature their 
growth ; and in gardens I consider the early crop to 
be an important one, as, though the early winter crop 
may need protection in the way of lifting into sheds 
or cellars, the plants treated thus will give a home 
supply till Christmas. Such kinds as the Self-Pro- 
tecting Autumn are most valuable if treated as advised. 
This I have sown in April for Michaelmas supply, and 
early in May for the later crop — that is, to fill in the 
gap from late October to Christmas. . But this variety 
by no means exhausts the supply. There are some 
splendid autumn varieties in addition to the one 



BROCCOLI AND CAULIFLOWERS 9 

named ; and the Early Cape Broccoli, grown so largely 
many years ago, should not be overlooked. There are 




BROCCOLI SUTTON S SUPERB EARLY WHITE 



two distinct varieties, the Early White and Early Purple ; 
these turn in during October and November, and are 
most valuable. The same kind is often grown under the 



io THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

name of Grange's Early, and is most reliable for garden 
culture. Of newer introductions, Sutton's Michaelmas 
White, Christmas White, and the well-known Snow's 
Winter White are all. good, but the last-named stock 
is not always reliable. For many years I have grown 
the Walcheren for an autumn supply, and this with 
the other varieties noted above will furnish a full crop 
if sown in April and May, sown very thinly, so that 
strong plants are secured. What is most important, 
the seedlings should be planted early, and not allowed 
to get weak or drawn in the seed-bed. 

Winter Broccoli. — We now come to the second division, 
or what is termed the mid-winter supply. This is less 
reliable than the earlier, as a severe frost in December or 
January will cripple the tender growth of plants just 
forming heads, and the crop will be lost. Hence it 
is essential to grow those kinds with sturdy, short stems, 
as they are less susceptible to injury. There are some 
good selections of winter broccoli. First come the 
Penzance, a famous Cornish variety, and the Sandring- 
ham Winter White, very hardy if the true stock is 
grown. Unfortunately, broccoli stocks so soon become 
mixed unless carefully grown, that it is necessary to 
select with care. Another very fine type for winter is 
Superb Early White ; this has proved one of the best 
and most reliable kinds we have grown. At the end of 
the winter the Sprouting Broccoli are most useful, both 
in the Purple and White forms, the first-named being 
the hardier of the two, as it is of dwarfer growth and 
more compact. 

Spring Broccoli. — This section provides the supply from 
March till June, which is a critical period of the year, 
during which the choice of good vegetables is limited. 
The seed of these should not be sown too soon ; May 
is quite early enough, providing the seedling plant is 
not crowded in the seed-bed, and is grown as advised 



BROCCOLI AND CAULIFLOWERS 11 

for earlier plants in an open position in good land and 
on holding soil. Fortunately some of the latest kinds, 
such as Late Queen, Model and June Monarch, are 
very hardy. To these, to precede them, may be 
added the old but reliable CuttelPs Eclipse, Carter's 
Champion, a fine late kind, Miller's Dwarf and Dwarf 
White. But no matter what kinds are grown, it must 
be borne in mind that spring broccoli are capricious, 
and that varieties for certain seasons will often vary, not 
coming true to season. I do not advise growing too 
many kinds. It is far better to grow less, selecting 
those that are reliable, or at least that are hardy, and I 
find that the largest heads are not the most useful in 
gardens. It is far better to make two sowings of the 
late kinds, if quantities are needed — indeed, I would 
advise sowing for the three seasons noted at different 
intervals, from February till June, and not as is often 
done, making one sowing in the spring. It is a difficult 
matter to advise on the protection of late kinds. The 
old system of heeling over to the north and covering 
up the stem has much to recommend it, but this can 
only be. done with garden culture — indeed, with field 
culture, where the plants are grown more hardily, I do 
not think this necessary. 

Cauliflower. — This plant is even more tender than the 
Broccoli. It gives the summer and early autumn supplies, 
and there can be no question as to its usefulness. When 
well grown it is most delicate ; the flavour of small white, 
quickly-grown heads being most liked. As the plant 
makes its growth in a short time (I refer to the summer 
crop), it needs richly manured land and not too heavy 
. soil. Few plants suffer more quickly from heat and 
drought. The best season is doubtless in the late 
spring or early summer. In the late autumn — indeed, 
in July and August — cauliflowers are not required, there 
being a wealth of other vegetables to select from, so 



12 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

that my note more concerns the seasons when the plant 
is at its best. 

The old system of sowing such kinds as the Early 
London and the Walcheren in the autumn (August or 
early September) still finds favour with many growers, 
and I find it most reliable, as, if the plants are planted 
out on sheltered borders in October, or given hand glass 
protection in winter, there are few failures. At certain 
seasons the cauliflower buttons — as it is termed in 
gardening phraseology — that is, the plants prematurely 
form small heads and are useless. The latter evil is 
often caused by too early sowing. Now, in the south and 
west, September is soon enough to sow, and the middle 
of August in the north. In some gardens planting the 
seedlings at the foot of a south wall will winter the 
plants safely ; in others it is not safe to plant even 
under hand glasses. Here other courses are open. It 
is a good plan to pot up in three-inch pots sufficient 
plants for an early quarter. These, planted out early in 
March on a warm border in rich soil, will soon turn in 
should the weather be genial. The plants in pots are 
best placed in cold frames at the potting. It is much 
better if the po'ts are plunged, abundant ventilation being 
given in all favourable weather, very little moisture being 
permitted. When potting, use porous materials well 
firmed, so as to induce ample fibrous roots. Another 
plan to obtain early small heads in June, or earlier, is to 
sow in heat. In January, prick out when large enough 
into a warm frame or bed in which the heat is partially 
spent, and then harden and plant out on a sheltered 
border, lifting each plant carefully to preserve the roots 
and ball of earth intact ; shading and watering as 
necessary. The best varieties for this work are the 
Snowball, the Early Forcing, and Sutton's First Crop. 
Though small, the heads are quite large enough for 
table, and the flavour is excellent. Another system 



BORECOLES OR KALES 13 

may be adopted with these small kinds, and that is, 
pot culture. I do not advise it, as better results follow 
frame culture at the start. To follow these early kinds, 
either autumn sown or those sown later under glass, 
such kinds as the Pear], Dwarf, Erfurt, Mammoth, 
Purity, and Favourite are good. These, sown in March 
and April in the open, and planted out in rich ground in 
May or June, will give a succession. For autumn, the 
well-known Autumn Giant, the variety so much grown 
in market gardens, is the general favourite. This, sown 
in March or April, will turn in at September or October. 
Being a coarse grower, it needs ample room. Two feet 
is none too much all ways, and a rich root-run suits 
the plant. There are other kinds very good. The 
Autumn Mammoth is of a similar type, and is a good 
flavoured variety if not too coarse. A trial of the 
Dwarf Mammoth will give satisfaction where quality 
is the chief test. Strongly flavoured cauliflowers 
are not liked, and size does not imply quality. 
The autumn kinds should be planted early in the 
spring. 

Borecoles or Kales 

Of late years the Borecole or Kale — the plant being 
known better by the latter name — has become a greater 
favourite, and rightly so, as a few years ago, when the 
winter in February and March was unusually severe, 
the Kales were the only green vegetables left, everything 
else having been killed. In Scotland, the Scotch or 
curled Kale is a general favourite, and, as the plants 
throw a lot of tender sprouts at a season when green 
vegetables are none too plentiful, there should be no lack 
of this useful vegetable in gardens, and few things are 
grown more easily. The season can be a long one if 
desired, from October till April. If the earlier supply is 



i 4 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

needed, sowing should be made in March ; for the later 
in May ; and the same remarks apply as regards sowing 
and planting as advised for other Brassicas. But this 
plant, if needed to give a late supply, should be planted 
in an open position in firm land with not too much manure. 
The latter fosters a strong soft growth ; whereas a 
hard, compact one is best for the_ season named. On 
the other hand, Borecoles for the early autumn or winter 
supply need good culture, the growth being made in a 
shorter period. Where a large supply of green vege- 
tables are required from December to April, the Kales 
are indispensable, and their value is greater in hard 
winters, so that good breadths of Kale should be planted 
for the purpose, selecting the hardest kinds for the late 
supply. 

Culture and Varieties. — I can add little as to culture 
other than by giving dates of sowing for late and early 
kinds. For instance, for October cutting, the Sprout- 
ing Kales, the Dwarf Green Curled and Sutton Al are 
very good. The latter is an upright grower, enormously 
productive and most valuable for early use. These 
sown in March and planted in May make good progress 
during the summer. For midwinter there are some 
excellent selections, and the Read's Improved Hearting 
is very valuable and very hardy. This Kale may be 
described as a Scotch Curled, but it hearts in firmly and 
stands much longer than ordinary varieties. Another 
very fine variety, with leaves much curled, is the Sutton 
Curled Scotch, an extremely handsome variety, very 
hardy and with a mild delicate flavour. Indeed, the 
two last-named varieties are superior to many vegetables 
if only they are given ample space and moisture at the 
start. I find it much the best to sow these kinds for 
the season named and to plant early, as then the plants 
get good root-hold and are not so soon afFected by heat 
and drought. There are other modes of culture. If 



BORECOLES OR KALES 15 

the seed is sown early, it is a good plan to prick out the 
seedlings, six inches apart, as soon as large enough to 
handle, and later on to transplant carefully to their per- 
manent quarters at a distance of two feet apart each 
way. In very cold late districts, I have seen the Kales 
sown in the late autumn and planted out like spring 
Cabbage either late in the autumn or early in the spring. 
The autumn sowing secures a much stronger plant, and 
the plants are better able to stand extremes of weather. 
The later varieties are equally good, and here such kinds 
as the Buda or Asparagus should not be overlooked. 
These are quite distinct from the varieties previously 
described. These plants produce plain large leaves, 
and the smooth stem -growths very much resemble 
Asparagus. Another equally useful is the Cottager's 
Kale, very hardy and one of the best for producing 
sprouts late in the spring. A very fine type of Kale 
is the Welsh Kale, a long branching variety. Other 
remarkably productive varieties are the Ragged Sack 
and the Thousand Headed, the latter being much grown 
in fields. Two new kinds of Kale call for special 
notice, the Sutton Arctic Green and Arctic Purple. 
These are the two best Kales for cold, exposed 
positions, and, as they grow close to the soil, the plants 
frequently get covered with snow and are not injured. 
The leaves of the two last-named are curled like the 
Scotch which they resemble also in flavour. In the 
northern part of the country these are great favourites. 
They should be sown in May for a late spring supply 
in the following season. My note would not be com- 
plete without referring to the Variegated Kales. These 
are most ornamental, and, though the quality is not equal 
to others, their choice colours make them favourites in 
most gardens. 



THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 



Brussels Sprouts 

Few vegetables are more useful in their season than 
this, being of easy culture, and keeping a considerable 
time when fully grown. I am not an admirer of the 
very large, loose sprouts that resemble a small Savoy 
cabbage, as their flavour is not equal to that of the 
small, hard, compact sprout. There is a great art in 
cooking green vegetables, and the Editor's notes on this 
important subject will be read with great interest, for 
vegetables are spoiled in the cooking more than in the 
growing. Vegetables do not receive sufficient atten- 
tion, and fault is often found with the quality when 
the cooking is to blame. I have denounced the large 
coarse sprout, and market growers, who value size, as 
the large sprout soon fills the sieve, will, I fear, not 
r7 agree with my remarks ; but I am pleased to note 
( that even with large growers there is an increasing 
tendency to grow the medium - sized sprout with a 
hard bullet-like growth. There is no loss, as a larger 
quantity of sprouts can be grown on the same space. 
There can be no question whatever but that the 
Brussels sprouts is a profitable vegetable if given a long 
growing season. It may be urged, How can it be 
profitable when the plants occupy the land so many 
months ? Again, it is urged that the plant needs ex- 
ceptionally good soil, and will not thrive in any other. 
This is a mistake. It will do grandly if planted early 
in land that has been dug deeply, or, what is better, 
trenched in winter and thrown up roughly. There are 
many failures, I admit, even with this easily -grown 
vegetable. One — a common one — is to sow the seed in 
March, leaving the seedlings in the seed-bed till June or 
even July, and then planting after a crop of early potatoes. 
Grown thus, there is not time for the plant to develop, 
and the result is a small poor sprout not hard enough 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS 



i7 



to battle against severe weather. In fact, a quick-grow- 
ing cabbage would be more profitable than the sprout, 




BRUSSELS SPROUTS KELWAY S PROLIFIC 



which needs more time. Another plan is to plant be- 
tween a growing crop of potatoes, but this is not fair to 
the sprouts, as the potato haulm often chokes the plants. 

B 



1 8 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

Culture and Varieties. — Many good gardeners assert 
that it is necessary to sow the seed in heat or under 
glass in February or earlier in order to secure a strong 
plant for May planting. There are diverse views, and 
a great deal depends on when the plants are placed 
in their permanent quarters, the state of the soil, and 
the help given to the plants at the start if the weather 
is unfavourable. There is no need to sow under glass. 
I have sown on a warm border late in February in 
the open, covered with loose litter till the plants were 
freely above ground, and as soon as large enough, that 
is, as soon as the fourth leaf showed, planted them in 
their permanent quarters, first drawing drills so that 
moisture was readily conveyed to the plants. There is 
a great gain in this early planting, especially in light 
soils, as the seedlings get a good roothold before the 
heat and drought of July cripple the plants. It may 
be thought that such early planting is a waste of 
ground, but we sow a single row of spinach between ; 
the latter being cleared off before the space is required 
for the sprout. Instead of spinach, such crops as 
lettuce, turnip-rooted beet for early salad, or anything 
that matures before mid-summer may be used. If land 
is not at liberty, it is a good plan to prick out the 
seedlings in April in lines six inches apart, and then 
to lift carefully with a trowel into their permanent 
quarters, drawing drills as previously advised. In no 
case is it advisable to plant Brussels sprouts on land that 
has just been, cleared of a similar crop ; I mean any 
Brassica, especially cauliflower or strong-rooting kales. 
As previously noted, large gross plants are not best by 
any means, and frost soon cripples them. I like plants 
grown as hardy as possible from the start, as if too 
forward before winter the growth is rank, and the 
flavour is much impaired. A very good way to obtain 
early plants for April or May planting is to sow in late 



BRUSSELS SPROUTS 19 

July or early August, according to the locality, Sow 
very thinly on land not too rich, in soil that has been 
well dressed with lime and soot. The plants should 
remain here till October, and then be pricked out in 
rows six inches apart in similar soil not too rich, and 
remain thus till April or May, when they are to be 
planted out in their permanent quarters. This is a very 
good plan in late districts on heavy land, and it saves 
labour in the spring ; glass is not needed, and there are 
few failures. It is also a good plan to make a second 
sowing late in April if this vegetable is in great demand, 
as the second sowing, though not equal in produce, will 
give a later gathering, and the sprouts will be valuable 
in the spring when choice vegetables are scarce. This 
sowing may be made in rich soil, as the plants have to 
make their growth in a short season, and these plants 
may be grown closer — two feet will suffice — whereas 
the earlier ones should get three feet. 

In previous chapters I have not dwelt on the evil 
consequences of the pest known as club, but in gardens 
where the club is in evidence a thorough cleansing of 
the soil is necessary. So far I have found nothing better 
than gas lime dressings in the autumn, the land being 
turned up roughly and the lime broken finely and dug 
in. Other aids, such as soot, wood ashes, and fresh 
lime, are all valuable, but not so effective as the gas 
lime in soils badly infested with any pest that finds a 
hiding-place therein. In the growing season I have 
used ammonia ; nitrates also are not relished, and for 
growing crops are worth a trial. 

I will only devote a brief space to varieties, as there is 
no lack of very fine types both for the private grower 
and the market gardener. The latter will probably not 
thank any one for advice as to variety, he has his 
own selections, and market growers often save their own 
seed, picking out a plant here and there that shows any 



2 o THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

marked advance on the others. In this way a good strain 
is secured. There can be no question but that the 
Holborn Exhibition Sprout is a great favourite both in 
the field and garden, for it is productive, very hardy, 
and not gross, the plants running from two to three feet, 
according to the soil, and to when sown. Another very 
fine variety is Market Favourite, of medium growth and 
producing fine compact sprouts with splendid flavour. 
For many years the imported seed had a great hold on 
the British gardener, but I consider that our own seed 
houses have a much better type, and a very reliable one. 
For early sowing, either in autumn or early in the year, 
I do not know of any variety that can excel the Sutton 
Matchless, one of the most shapely sprouts grown, 
remarkably hardy and of splendid quality. The Dwarf 
Gem may be termed a villa garden variety. The solid 
build of the plant and its close growth make it most 
valuable where room is none too plentiful. It is most 
useful for latest supplies, and not so soon injured as are 
larger varieties in bad winters. Kelway's Prolific is also 
good and handy. 

Spinach 

This cannot be called a popular vegetable in small 
gardens, but few vegetables are more deserving of 
space, as it can be grown so readily, and is often advised 
for those who cannot digest more solid vegetables. 
With a little management spinach can be had all the 
year round, though there are difficult seasons, such 
as the early spring. At times the winter checks 
growth, as north-east winds after frost shrivel up the 
soft, tender leaves. But there is no difficulty in having 
good spinach from May till July. In July and August, 
heat and drought are not conducive to good growth. 
The plant will not thrive with moisture lacking, but at 



SPINACH 



21 



this season a full supply may be obtained by growing 
the New Zealand variety. This, sown in frames in 
March and pricked out two feet apart in rich soil in 
May, will give a full supply from July till September 
or later. It will also do if sown in fine, rich soil early 
in May on the open border, the plants, when large 




SPINACH THE CARTER 



enough, being severely thinned. In appearance this 
spinach resembles the ice plant ; it is less bitter than 
the ordinary form ; the shoots are gathered, not the 
leaves. The culture of the older varieties, of which 
the Carter and Round-leaved Victoria are the best, is 
simple. The first sowing may be made in February on 
a warm border. We sow between rows of early peas, 



22 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

the spinach never being allowed to remain too long, 
but cut as ready, and the roots cleared. If allowed to 
seed, it robs the pea crop, and looks very unsightly. 
Later sowings are best made in the open. Here we 
sow in rows a yard apart, and later on plant between 
the rows a row of Brussels sprouts for early winter 
supplies. 

Another sowing, say in May, should be made on a 
north border, and after that is past the New Zealand 
will give a supply. It will thus be noted that, 
to get a succession, several sowings are made from 
February to June, say every three weeks, and for 
winter use a large sowing is made in August on an 
open quarter in land free from wire worm or grub, 
and well enriched with manure. A good distance for 
planting is eighteen inches between the rows, half that 
distance being allowed in the row. Few plants do 
better if the soil is made suitable. The use of salt, 
soot, and lime will give a clean root run, and in poor 
soils such aids as nitrates, potash and other foods may 
be used to advantage. The old plan of sowing the 
Prickly-leaved Spinach for winter and spring supplies is 
not followed nearly as much as it used to be. The 
round-leaved and the others named above are equally 
hardy if sown early enough to make strong plants. In 
the northern part of the country it is well to sow in 
July. I have also grown spinach under glass for early 
spring supplies. The plant illustrated is the new Carter, 
a very fine fleshy-leaved variety. Another variety, the 
Spinach Beet or the Perpetual Spinach, is invaluable for 
cold soils or late districts. This grows like a beet, and 
the leaves are good though lacking the quality of the 
other varieties. To get the best leaves, sow in May or 
June for a winter and spring supply in rows eighteen 
inches apart, thin the plants to nine inches, give good 
land to get large leaves, cut over frequently, and do not 



BEETROOT 23 

allow the plants to get too large before thinning. This 
plant is very hardy, and is valuable if the better spinach 
runs short. 

Roots 

Under this heading comes a series of vegetables that 
are valuable for their keeping properties for winter 
supplies and for flavouring purposes, and I have placed 
several kinds together, as they need similar culture. Beet 
may be thought to be more of a salad than a vegetable, 
but used as a vegetable in the winter months it is very 
acceptable. Carrots are needed daily in most houses, 
and will repay good culture. On the other hand, 
parsnips are less liked, but much may be done to 
make them palatable, and turnips are general favourites 
at most seasons of the year, so that my aim will be to 
note the best for a year's supply, with a few cultural 
details. 

Beetroot 

The turnip-rooted beets are valuable for summer 
supplies, but I am inclined to think that none of the 
turnip-rooted section can approach the long-rooted 
variety as regards flavour. This is easily accounted 
for, as the long rooting kinds obtain more moisture from 
the soil, and are not so readily affected by climatic 
changes. The beet may be used in several ways, either 
as a vegetable, a salad, or a pickle. As a vegetable 
it may be served in diverse ways. It is excellent served 
as fritters, and can thus be eaten by many who complain 
of its being indigestible in other ways. The cultivation 
is most simple, though it does best in a good friable 
loam. On the other hand, the soil should never get 
any rich food just before sowing, as it causes grossness 
and bad shape and colour, and affects the flavour. 



44 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

However, this plant does well in land that has 
grown celery or been well manured for a previous 
crop. In gardens near the coast I have seen sea-weed 
used as manure for these roots. The weed is laid 
spade deep at the bottom of the trench when digging in 
the winter, and beet grown thus is excellent as regards 
flavour. Salt used during growth imparts a nutty, 
sweet taste which many persons are very fond of. 
There are other advantages in using salt as a surface 
dressing in showery weather, for it keeps down weed 
growth, and beet grown thus is often of splendid colour. 
Beet is much hardier than many persons think it to be. 
There is no necessity for lifting too early in the autumn, 
as a little frost is harmless ; but there is more need 
when the roots are lifted to see that they are stored in 
a cool place not too dry or warm. Once the roots grow 
out badly and get soft or shrivel, the flavour is greatly 
impaired. I have found the best store to be a north 
shed, the roots being well covered with soil, sand, or fine 
ashes, in severe weather some loose litter being used 
as a protector. Many do not even store thus if they 
have large quantities of roots, but bury in clamps like 
potatoes, and the roots are better than when placed in 
a dry place. 

The turnip-rooted, of which the Crimson Ball is a 
splendid type, being highly coloured for this kind of 
root and of good quality, may be sown early in April in 
a warm, well-drained soil, and if given food during 
growth will mature very quickly and be valuable for 
early summer supplies. I have also sown this variety 
under glass, and then pricked out on a warm border, 
which gives a gain of at least three weeks over the 
first sowings in the open. There are other fine Globe 
Beets, such as Sutton's Globe and Dobbie's ; the latter 
being the best flavoured roots I have tasted. The older 
Egyptian turnip-rooted are not to be compared as 



BEETROOT 25 

regards quality with those noted above ; and, though I 
have only touched upon the value of the turnip-rooted 
kinds for early supplies, they are equally useful if sown 
twice or three times during the season in land that is 
poor, shallow, or stony and unsuitable for the longer 
roots. Sowings may be made in April, in June, 
and in August, and thus provide a succession. The 
kinds named are not gross growers. They do not 
require too much space ; twelve to fifteen inches apart 
will suffice, with half that distance between the plants. 
Thin early to prevent the roots being disturbed, and do 
not allow them to remain on the land in the summer 
when full grown, but store in moist earth Under a north 
wall. The colour is affected in hot weather if the roots 
are full grown and the soil is light 'and dry. The most 
useful section, the long-rooting kinds, should not be sown 
too early, May being quite soon enough. The previous re- 
marks apply as regards soil and cultivation. These roots 
do best with ample room. Fifteen to eighteen inches 
between the rows, and half that distance between the 
plants is none too much, and the plants benefit greatly 
by liberal supplies of liquid manure in hot, dry weather. 
I recently saw some wonderful crops of beet on land 
that had a perfect system of irrigation. As regards 
variety, I do not think that any root comes up to the 
Cheltenham Green Top. Many years ago I first ex- 
hibited this variety at a Vegetable Conference of the 
Royal Horticultural Society at Chiswick, receiving an 
Award of Merit, and since then, I am pleased to note, it 
has become a standard variety. There are other beets 
more shapely, but none superior in colour or flavour, 
the latter an important point. The variety named does 
best in rather poor soil ; if at all rich the root grows 
too large. It should not be sown early and should be 
given an open position. There is no lack of varieties. 
Most of our leading seed firms have their own selected 



26 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

Blacks and Reds. For exhibition purposes few varieties 
can beat PragnelPs for its shape and smooth build ; 
other good old kinds are the Pine Apple, the Old 
Dwarf Red of Nutting's, a good quality beet, and the 
Crimson, a root largely used for bedding purposes, and 
of good flavour. For many years I have grown this 
root specially for latest supplies in the spring, as it 
keeps sound longer than larger roots. Where beetroot 
is in demand all the year round, this is a most useful 
root if stored late, and it needs less room even when 
growing than do the turnip-rooted varieties. 

Carrots 

These roots have their peculiarities. They are not 
at home in all soils, but often soils can be made suitable 
for the roots, and means taken to clear the earth of 
various pests that spoil the crop. They delight in a 
sandy soil, not too dry, and need not be sown nearly 
as early as is often advised. To do them justice, they 
should be divided into three sections, the short stump- 
rooted or forcing varieties, the early Short Horn or 
Gem type, for early outdoor crops, and the main crop, 
or intermediate and long-rooted section. Few roots are 
forced with less trouble, and certainly small, sweet, 
carrots in the spring afford a welcome dish. Of 
early carrots in the open there is ample choice, but 
I do not think that the short stump-rooted kinds, that 
are so largely grown for the Paris markets, can be 
beaten. These roots do not equal the Gem or Model 
in appearance or quality, but then the latter are much 
later, and earliness is a great point in May or June. 
The land should be good for the roots, as the growth 
has to be made in a short time, and the food for the 
short-rooted kinds should not be too low down, but 
merely forked in on the surface ; indeed, my best results 



CARROTS 27 

in raising early supplies have been obtained by using a 
rich old marrow or cucumber bed as a surface-dressing 
before sowing the seeds, the first sowing being made in 
the latter part of February or early in March, according 
to the season and locality. Only a small sowing is 
needed, using such kinds as Sutton's Gem and the 
Scarlet Horn, or Model. The second sowing in April 
will provide a midsummer supply, and the roots may 
be kept good for a longer time by lifting and treating 
as advised for summer Beetroot. We now come to the 
main crop supply, and these roots are needed from 
autumn to spring. They maybe sown late in April or 
early in May, according to the locality. Sow in drills 
twelve to fifteen inches apart, allowing half that distance 
between the roots when thinned. The intermediate 
sections do well at twelve inches, but the larger ones re- 
quire more space. I do not advise land newly manured, 
but deeply dug and in good workable condition. This 
root is fairly hardy, and in light land not infested with 
wire worm may be left in the ground and lifted as 
required for use. To this there is the serious drawback 
that in severe weather it is difficult to get at the roots. 
On the other hand, the roots should not be stored in too 
wet soil, or the crowns decay badly. In land infested 
with wire worm, gas lime or the refuse from mustard 
mills should be used in winter, also liberal soot dressings, 
lime, wood ashes and other charred refuse. Change the 
quarters yearly, not sowing near other crops that are 
attacked by these pests, and use less animal manures, 
relying on liquid and surface dressings during growth. 

We make a fourth sowing, and this bears out my 
remark as to the hardiness of the roots, as this sowing, 
though the roots are small, is left in the soil all the 
winter. Needing small roots daily, the roots of the 
main crop are too large for our purpose. Again, there 
is'a great demand for young carrots in spring, a greater 



28 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

demand than can be met by glass culture, so in June 
or early July we thoroughly prepare a small quarter by 
soot, lime, and other additions, and sow the Early Nantes 
in rows nine inches apart, not thinning very hard. 
These roots are then drawn from December to May, as 
needed. They are small, but sweet and good, and only 
make a very small top growth. In severe weather long 
litter or bracken is loosely thrown over a portion of the 
beds to facilitate lifting. The chief drawback to these 
late sown roots is that in hot dry summers the seed 
is some time in the soil before it germinates, so that it 
may be well in late districts to sow at the end of June. 
In all cases it is necessary to sow in clean land. In 
winter the roots are most liable to the attacks of the 
various pests alluded to above. I have not named the 
Long Red Surrey type of carrot for garden work. 
In fields the Altringham is much grown for market, 
but I think the intermediate types, such as James or 
Scarlet, are superior. There are white varieties, such 
as the White Belgian, but they are not popular in 
this country. Those roots having a small core are the 
best flavoured. 

Parsnips 

Few roots are more productive than the Parsnip, and, 
though I shall not advocate the general culture of roots, 
as sometimes seen at shows, quite two to three feet in 
length, I do not think that this vegetable is valued 
enough, as it is one of the hardiest, and very whole- 
some. There are objections to large coarse roots. 
They have a lot of core, and must be cut into pieces 
to cook them properly, and thus the flavour is lost. 
Much better results follow when the roots are grown in 
a shorter time, and only of such a size that they can be 
cooked whole. I find the roots are much better when 



PARSNIPS 29 

a spell of cold weather or frost has checked growth. 
But these roots, like others, should not be dug too 
early or stored in a warm place. If possible it is best 
to leave them in their growing quarters and dig as 
required, or they may be lifted and clamped like 
potatoes ; but care should be taken to throw out all 
diseased roots, and to store in well-drained quarters. 
Of late years some valuable varieties have been added, 
such as the Tender and True. 

There are not, however, many varieties. Doubtless the 
best are the one just named and the Student, if flavour 
is valued. For mere size, such kinds as the Hollow 
Crowned and the Maltese and Jersey Marrow may be 
grown. These latter are much grown for exhibition. 
Few plants are cultivated more easily. In all cases it is 
necessary to dig the soil deeply, and this is best done in 
the winter months ; indeed, trenching is necessary for large 
roots. It is also well to make the soil rich and friable, and 
I have seen an iron bar or large dibber used. This is 
forced into the ground to a good depth, and the large 
hole made is then filled in with rich soil, such as an old 
manure bed or rich fertilisers, and a few seeds dropped in 
each hole, the seedlings, when large enough, being thinned 
so as to leave the strongest. For very large roots, seeds 
are sown in February when the weather is suitable, but I 
find that the best eating roots are those sown in May. 
They are large enough for all purposes, though the 
market grower would not find them so profitable, and 
would find it pay best to sow in March. When sown 
in the ordinary way, fifteen to eighteen inches between 
the rows will suffice, half that distance being allowed 
between the plants. In poor soils I have found the roots 
of better flavour if given some fertilisers during growth, 
and the food well washed down to the roots. In most 
soils the seeds germinate so freely that thick sowing 
should be avoided. 



3o THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

Turnips 

This vegetable may be had in season all the year 
round, though it is not at all plentiful from March 
to May. Of course, in fields there is no lack of 
these roots if clamped, and we may in a measure 
take a hint from the large grower, as in gardens 
the roots of the early summer sown are poor and 
flavourless at the season named. It may be said 
that the demand is not great at the difficult period 
noted, but I find that small, sweet, good-flavoured turnips 
are always in demand. It is useless to sow in summer, 
and expect this sowing to last till the next spring. 
Such roots are too coarse ; they soon grow out, get 
soft, and are flavourless. On the other hand, young 
turnips may be had much earlier than is often attempted. 
The long-rooted variety here illustrated, Carter's Early 
Forcing, is admirably adapted for early supplies. This, 
sown in February, the quarter being covered with 
dry litter at night or in cold weather, will give nice 
roots early in the spring. It is a remarkably quick 
growing variety, and is good for frame culture, as 
it may be had in April in a warm frame. I have 
referred to this variety, as it is even earlier than the 
Milan types, which are much liked on the Continent, 
and are among the best for first crop in the open. 
Both the Red and White Milan should be eaten as soon 
as they are large enough to use, as these varieties so 
soon lose flavour. 

There are other early kinds, such as the Early Paris 
Market, a stump -rooted variety largely grown in 
France. For June or July supplies, I do not know 
of any turnip equal in all respects to the shapely 
Snowball, a white early root of great merit. Again, 
the White Gem is not unlike the forcing turnip that 
is illustrated. It is a splendid root for summer 




TURNIP CARTERS EARLY FORCING 



TURNIPS 33 

work, and does not feel the effects of drought so 
soon as do the flat roots. There are some very fine 
roots to select from. The Red Globe is a beautiful 
late summer variety -, and to this should be added the 
Matchless and Criterion. 

We now come to the autumn turnips, doubtless 
the most valuable roots of the season, as these give 
a supply from October to March, or even later if good 
storage is adopted. The Red Top Mousetail or Strap- 
leaved is good for the early autumn, and none is better 
than Veitch's Red Globe, a very fine solid root that 
keeps well for months if not grown too large. For 
keeping purposes, small or medium-sized roots are 
much the best. For mid-winter such kinds as the 
Orange Jelly and Yellow Maltese are remarkably hardy. 
These will stand in the open without protection if sown 
for late supplies. To these should be added Golden 
Ball, a beautiful root. These yellow-fleshed turnips are 
not demanded nearly so much as they should be. The 
flavour in winter is very delicate, and they make a nice 
addition to the white varieties. The older Chirk Castle, 
or Black Stone, may be termed a winter turnip ; it has 
a black skin, but is not bad flavoured, and is a very 
fine winter turnip in heavy soils. 

Culture. — The best roots are those grown in a sandy 
loam, well dug and manured with decayed manure some 
time in advance of sowing the crop. For very early 
roots, a south border under a wall is a good place ; 
and here I would advise, if the soil is clayey or wet, 
adding some light material, such as burnt refuse. Soot 
and lime may also be added if slugs are troublesome. 
Make the land as fine as possible before sowing the seed. 
The second sowing may be made in an open quarter, and 
the plants thinned as soon as large enough to handle. 
At this season, should the weather be hot and dry, 
the grower's troubles begin, as the seedlings are very 

c 



34 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

subject to the attacks of the fly, though damping overhead 
in the evening, with soot or soot and lime dusted over 
the plants when in a damp state, will check its ravages. 
This root does not like drought, so that summer crops 
may occupy a heavier soil than earlier ones. For 
summer roots, a space of twelve inches between the 
rows should be given, and the seedlings thinned to half 
that distance, and kept as clean as possible during growth. 
I have previously referred to the importance of early 
thinning, as in summer the root bulbs quickly, and 
once this has commenced it is not advisable to loosen 
the roots. 

I now come to the autumn sowing. This should be 
done from the early part of August to the end of that 
month, though in cold or late districts late July sowings 
may be necessary. Those late sown roots will not be 
large, but they will be large enough for all purposes. 
Far better get a solid small, sweet root than a large, 
soft and worthless one. If ground is available, sow 
on a well-drained quarter, as there will be no need 
to harvest this crop till late in the year. Then 
one need merely select the large roots, and place them 
under soil to be just frost-proof, leaving the smaller 
ones to take their chance. These take no harm if 
the soil is hoed over them each side of the row. 
The roots left out have their use as a green vege- 
table in the spring, as they produce the tender green 
tops so much liked at that season. The yellow- 
fleshed kinds and the Chirk Castle are specially good 
for the latter purpose. In storing roots for winter, 
select a store just free from frost — indeed, I have 
placed the roots in heaps in their growing quarters, 
and well covered them with soil to ward away frost. 
Turnips should never be allowed to remain on the soil if 
at all diseased, but cleared away, and only the sound 
roots stored. The land should not be re-cropped with 



JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES - 35 

this root for some time, and a good dressing of 
lime should be given after the roots have been 
removed. 

Kohl Rabi 

This vegetable so much resembles the turnip that I 
include it in my note on roots. Though not a general 
favourite in this country, it is largely grown on the 
Continent. I have alluded to the difficulty of growing 
the turnip in hot weather and in light soils. Under these 
conditions the Kohl Rabi is most useful, as the roots, 
both in shape and flavour, resemble the turnip, and they 
are not so readily affected by hot weather. There are 
only two varieties, the purple and the green, the only 
difference being in the colour ; the Early Purple Vienna 
is a useful garden kind. In India, Kohl Rabi is much 
grown for use in soups and for flavouring. Much the 
same culture is needed as for turnips. Seed should be 
sown twice during the season to get a succession of 
roots, an early sowing in March to produce a mid- 
summer or even earlier supply, and another sowing two 
or three months later to provide an autumn and winter 
supply. The seed should be sown in drills eighteen inches 
apart, and the plants thinned to nine inches in the row. 
These roots should be grown on the flat, so that they 
may get the rainfall in the growing season. I have 
transplanted the seedlings with success when they have 
not been allowed to become too large, lifting carefully to 
prevent the roots breaking. The same kind of storage 
as advised for turnips will be suitable when the late crop 
is full grown, as, if left exposed, severe frost splits the 
roots. 

Jerusalem Artichokes 

The common Artichoke may with advantage be in- 
cluded in my note on roots, as it is very useful for soups 



36 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

and as a vegetable. The old rugged purple form was 
the only variety grown for many years, but, fortunately, 
the Messrs Sutton, after patient selection, obtained the 
white, smoother tuber, which is a great gain both in 
shape and flavour. The peculiar flavour of these roots 
is not liked by everyone, but by those who have studied 
the cooking it may be made a delicious vegetable. For 
some years I have carefully selected the most shapely 
tubers, as it is important to get the eyes shallow, and 
so cause less waste in the cooking. I have also by 
selection obtained a long, smooth white root called 
Veitch's Improved, which is a great gain on the old 
purple form. These roots are often grown in any out- 
of-the-way place, and allowed to occupy the same 
ground year after year, but like all other vegetables 
they well repay good culture, change of land, and a 
good supply of food. The sets should be planted in 
February or March, and need ample room, a yard 
between the rows being none too much, with half 
that distance between the plants. They are often 
given less room, but this should not be. The roots are 
best if left in the soil and lifted as required, or the 
■whole crop may be clamped, the best seed being selected 
for planting. 

Onions 

Of late years, the onion has received more attention 
from growers, some magnificent roots being now grown 
in this country. With more attention to culture we could 
grow bulbs equal to any grown on the Continent. 
There is no need to import these roots, and I am pleased 
to see their extended culture. To get the extra fine roots 
referred to above, of course special culture is needed. 
Many sow the seed under glass at the start and grow 
on, finally planting in the open in very rich soil. 



ONIONS 37 

During growth the plants should have ample supplies 
of liquid manure or approved fertilisers. Another 
plan is to sow in the autumn the ordinary spring 
varieties, such as Ailsa Craig or similar large varieties. 
But most of our old kinds, such as Bedfordshire 
Champion, will make very fine bulbs if given special 
cultivation, by sowing in the early autumn, in land 
specially prepared. The young plants are planted out 
in quarters very highly manured early in the year, 
and the seedlings kept clean, giving the plants ample 
room, eighteen inches between the rows, and nine 
inches apart in the row. Many of our best cultivators 
make a special compost for exhibition roots ; deep drills 
are drawn, in which some rich food, such as soot or 
fowls' manure is placed ; over this being placed some 
of the best soil, and all made firm. The bulbs being 
very carefully lifted from their previous quarters, 
the roots are spread out, and enough space left 
in the trench to admit of liquid food and water. 
The onion is so useful as an article of food that, 
both as a salad plant and for flavouring, it is in 
great demand ; but the larger bulbs I have referred 
to are most useful as a vegetable, few vegetables being 
more wholesome. In many gardens this crop is not 
well managed, but at times it is not the grower who is 
wholly to blame, as the seasons and numerous pests to 
which the plants are subject, are responsible for much. 
Drought, too, is harmful, and to get the best results 
early sowing is advised ; it is necessary to get the 
quarter ready as early in the winter as possible, 
as then the land is in better condition. In heavy 
clay land the soil is not always workable at the 
season advised, and in such land it is well to add 
lighter materials. This allows a more fibrous root 
growth, and gives finer bulbs. The ordinary system 
of culture is to sow on land well worked, which 



38 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

should not have grown a similar crop for some 
seasons. Land is supposed soon to sicken of onions. 
This depends a great deal upon culture, but there 
is no question whatever that fresh quarters will do 
much to ward off disease. I have seen many acres 
of this vegetable destroyed by mildew in wet seasons 
simply through neglect, not thinning, and sowing 
too thickly. The grub is one of the most trouble- 
some pests the crop is subject to, especially in its early 
stages. But I have rarely seen the plant troubled 
with this pest when sown early and the seedlings trans- 
planted. Another remedy is to use salt, soot, and wood 
ashes freely, and in old gardens it is a good plan to 
give dressing of gas lime, say in October, and turn 
the land up as rough as possible, frequently forking 
over the surface early in the year to sweeten and pul- 
verise the soil. It is far better to clear the land of the 
pest than to give remedies during growth. The latter 
are seldom successful, though such aids as soot and salt 
during growth will benefit the crop. 

Spring Onions. — I will take these first, dealing only 
with medium-sized bulbs for general use. As regards 
date of sowing a great deal depends upon the locality 
and state of the soil. If the latter is light the seed may 
be sown at the first favourable opportunity towards 
the end of February, the soil being made as firm as 
possible either by rolling or treading. A firm root 
hold for these plants is desirable, and many good 
growers tread the land over after sowing. In heavy 
land more care is needed ; the labour is greater in 
preparing the bed, and often seed sowing is deferred 
till the soil is sufficiently dry. The drills should be 
shallow, and may be from nine to twelve inches apart. 
The latter space gives the plant a better chance, and 
thinning, weeding, and feeding is done more readily. 
In covering the seed, many give a better compost in 



ONIONS 39 

heavy land, such as the soil from old marrow or 
cucumber beds, the siftings of the potting bench, or 
any fine charred refuse. I have also seen sand used to 
advantage in wet, heavy land, but it should be borne in 
mind that the soil under should be well manured, the 
onion needing much food. Early thinning should take 
place, doing the work in showery weather if possible ; 
but the seed is often sown much too thickly, as in these 
days there is less need to sow thickly, seeing that seed 
from a good house is always reliable. The trials it 
undergoes before being sent out are much more severe 
than formerly. I have referred to feeding, and few 
crops benefit more by surface dressing than does the 
Onion. Nitrates are valuable, as also are fish manure, 
guano, soot, salt, and liquid manure whenever the 
latter is obtainable. One often sees miserable crops 
from want of food, late sowing, and neglect. As soon 
as the seedlings appear through the soil, the hard crust 
should be broken by gently hoeing between the drills. 
This will check weed-growth, and as soon as the seed- 
lings are large enough to handle, thinning should take 
place. It may not be desirable to thin to the required 
distance at the first, merely thinning out where the plants 
are very thick, and making a second thinning when it 
is seen which plants take the lead. The plants at this 
second thinning will be useful for salads. In using the 
hoe, care should be taken that the permanent plants are 
not loosened. On the other hand, severe thinning for 
what are termed medium-sized bulbs is not advised, and 
at the final thinning a few rows may be left for salad, 
or, what is better, another sowing may be made for this 
purpose in May. These also are valuable for pickling. 

Autumn Onions. — These are sown from the middle of 
July till the middle of August. Much depends upon 
the variety. I prefer to sow the White Leviathan and 
Italian at the end of July. These do not keep sowell 



4 o THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

as some kinds, but they are most valuable for spring 
use, and as they bulb early in the summer they are 
more valuable. The Giant Rocca types are notable for 
their size, colour, and good flavour. These are milder 
than others, and are excellent for cooking whole as 
a vegetable. There are several varieties, and all are 
good, in the Rocca section, but I must not omit 
the small Silver Skinned varieties and White Queen. 
These are much liked for their delicate flavour. Much 
the same advice holds good as to distance and soil, but 
the latter need not be so highly manured, as the seed- 
lings remain in the seed bed till February or March, 
when they are planted out in rows twelve to fifteen 
inches apart, and nine inches apart in the row. The 
autumn sown onions are not keepers, but, on the other 
hand, the spring sown should get cool storage ; for 
cold does no harm if the bulbs are not damp". I have 
suspended them when roped to the roof of an open 
shed. If in rooms, they should be laid thinly on racks, 
so that the air can circulate freely round them, and 
they should be often turned to keep the bulbs dry. 

Leeks 

The Leek, like the Onion, has of late years found 
more favour among growers, and is now a favourite 
exhibition vegetable, but, whilst valuing the improve- 
ment made, I am not sure that when the leek is grown 
nearly a yard long it is as useful as a thick, short plant 
such as the Lyon, with from six to nine inches of 
blanched stem. To get the leek of a large size it is often 
sown in heat or under glass, as advised in order to obtain 
large onions, but excellent produce may be obtained 
by sowing in February on a warm border, planting out 
in trenches with ample manure as soon as large enough 
to handle. On the other hand, in heavy soils or cold 



LEEKS 41 

situations it may be well to sow a box of seed in a 
frame for an early supply. These, pricked out in rich 
soil later on, and then transplanted early in the summer 
into the trenches, will provide an early autumn supply. 
For late supplies, indeed, for any season, it is not 
necessary to plant in trenches. A richly manured 
quarter on the flat will grow good plants, but it is 
well to draw drills, and at the time of planting to be 
careful to spread the roots out evenly. If a dibber is 
used, care should be taken to make the hole large and 
deep enough for the roots, to prevent doubling up. I 
think that under any circumstances it is advisable to make 
two sowings in boxes — one early, and one, say six weeks 
later. By this means* leeks may be had from October 
till May — a long period — and, even if not liked as a 
vegetable, they are most useful for flavouring. The 
leek should be planted in an open position, and should 
never lack food or moisture in the summer months if 
size is needed. Planted on the flat in drills, they should 
be eighteen inches apart, allowing half this distance 
between the plants ; indeed, in Scotland, more space 
than this is often given in order to allow of earthing up 
the stems in the winter to blanch them. . If the plants 
are in trenches the latter should be two feet apart, and 
a good coating of decayed manure should be placed in 
the bottom before planting. Few plants are more hardy, 
as, though the points of the leaves may be touched 
by frost, it does not harm the stem ; indeed, cold appears 
to give a delicate flavour, and the latter is also improved 
by salt dressings in damp weather. For hardiness, the 
Musselburgh is one of the best, and, what is more im- 
portant, the flavour is mild, even when the leeks are not 
given the best culture. Other kinds are the Holborn 
Model, one of the largest and longest leeks grown. 
Prizetaker also is a splendid variety, and the Ayton 
Castle Giant is not unlike it as regards size. The last 



42 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

three varieties named are the best for exhibition. I 
need not dwell upon varieties, but would add that few 
plants are more valuable in cold districts, as the leek 
winters well when others fail. 



Shallots and Garlic 

The first-named are so much used in the kitchen, 
both for flavouring and as vegetables, that it would be 
out of place to omit mention of the uses to which they 
can be put. Many persons prefer the shallot to the 
onion, the flavour being more delicate, and having a 
peculiar character liked by many. In many gardens it 
is not looked upon with much favour as a vegetable, 
but the shallot will thrive when the onion fails. I do 
not advise the old method of culture, which was to 
plant in December and harvest in June, for much better 
results are obtained from later planting at a time when 
the plants can make progress. The best plan is to plant 
in March and harvest when the bulbs are ready, which 
will be in August. Ripen thoroughly before housing, 
and then place in a cool, dry store. There are some 
good varieties, the Sutton Giant being much better than 
the old form. At planting, place the roots in rows in 
well manured land, sufficiently deep to render each bulb 
firm, and at a distance of twelve inches between the rows 
and six inches in the row. The plants- like rich food, 
and liquid supplies during growth will give fine bulbs. 
Garlic is largely used for flavouring purposes in large 
establishments, and needs much the same treatment 
as the shallot. There is a large Russian variety well 
worth growing, and in many gardens this plant is grown 
in the open all the year, being transplanted in the spring; 
but I think that the produce is more useful if dried in 
the same way as shallots and stored. 



POTATOES 43 

Potatoes 

The importance of the potato in the vegetable king- 
dom cannot be overlooked. It is in daily use in most 
households all the year round, and is valuable in many 
other forms for commercial purposes. As a food it 
is more common than other vegetables, as it may be 
had good the whole year through with a little care in 
culture. A note on its value as a common vegetable would 
not be complete without referring to its seasons, culture, 
and other details. When forced, the new tubers are a 
delicacy, and, though my note does not go into details 
about forcing, I would add that much may be done to get 
an early supply by timely shelter. The potato does not 
always get fairplay ; in certain soils it is not nearly as good 
as in others, and in some the crop is not nearly as large 
as in others, though frequently the failure is attri- 
buted to the seed or the variety, and not to the cultiva- 
tion. Though a rough-and-ready method will grow 
potatoes, the plant well repays - the best culture. Only 
recently I saw two lots of potatoes in the same kind of 
soil, and of the same variety, one lot planted early in the 
season, the other late. What was the result ? The earlier 
planting, owing to the heat and drought, was quite 
double the weight of crop of the later planting, both 
being on a light soil. This shows how seasons affect 
crops. This year (190 1) I have heard many complain of 
poor crops in light land or on gravelly soil, and on ask- 
ing when the planting was done have been told ; " Oh, 
late in April or early in May : the plants were crippled at the 
start." I have this year noticed a lot of old seed tubers 
in the soil not decayed in the least. This shows the state 
of the soil early in the season. Of late years great 
strides have been made with the potato, and we have 
no lack of shapely tubers. The raiser of new varieties 
needs much patience, though in the end he may be 



44 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

rewarded by a good thing, but even then it takes 
years to work up stock. Still I am proud of such 
seedlings as Syon House Prolific, a good late variety, 
the Syon Main Crop, a mid-season variety, and English 
Beauty, a very early tuber. The last was the result 
of crossing Myatt's Ashleaf, a noted kind for early 
work, with the American, Beauty of Hebron. The 
Messrs. Sutton have of late years raised some beautiful 
tubers, and such are a great boon to our gardens. 
At the same time the field potato has received its 
fair share of attention. There are some notable 
cropping varieties, and if given fair culture few 
crops are more profitable. Our good old friend Mr. 
Fenn, who did so much for the potato many years ago, 
should not be forgotten. Many will still remember his 
good work and the splendid crops obtained from 
his new varieties, like the Magnum Bonum — which is 
still a favourite, though later introductions have partially 
ousted it. 

Early Potatoes. — Many persons can grow early potatoes 
who have not space for the mid-season or later kinds, 
and many place earliness before every other point. 
But flavour should l>e considered as the first point. 
The same flavour does not suit all. For instance, the 
Ashleaf varieties have a peculiar flavour of their own, a 
close firm character, whereas many persons prefer a 
loose flowery potato, so that in selecting early kinds this 
should be borne in mind. In many of the recent 
introductions the old Ashleaf quality is in a great 
measure retained, but the other parents have given 
tubers more flowery, the combination being most 
valuable. The tubers sent from abroad bear no com- 
parison with our own early kinds as regards flavour. 
They are usually of a close or waxy nature, though 
this does not apply to some of the Jersey tubers, 
some of which are excellent. These latter are a great 



POTATOES 47 

boon, coming in, as they do, just as our old tubers are 
fast losing quality through growing out badly. The 
potato is not a hardy plant, and, though it will stand a con- 
siderable amount of heat, will not stand frost. The 
latter greatly hinders early planting, and in our vari- 
able climate the growths are not safe from spring frosts 
till May is well advanced. For years, when I lived in the 
Midlands in a country district, I adopted a simple method 
to get an early supply, and it may not be out of place 
to describe it. We had plenty of fresh leaves every 
autumn, and these were gathered and placed in a huge 
heap till early in the year, when they were turned 
several times, and-; if at all dry, well moistened to make 
them heat all through. They were then placed in position 
in front of some large conifers that gave effective shelter 
from the north, but allowed full exposure to the south. 
The bed when made was trodden as hard as possible, or 
beaten with a rammer as each layer of leaves was placed 
in position, and at the finish the bed was from four to 
five feet in thickness, and as wide as possible, for thus 
more warmth was retained. All round the sides of 
the bed was placed a liberal quantity of long, fresh 
litter. This kept in the warmth, and also kept the 
leaves from blowing about. At the middle of Feb- 
ruary, or a little later, the tubers were prepared 
for the bed. These were placed in boxes to make 
sprouts, and at the planting each tuber had the shoots or 
eyes rubbed out to one or two — the strongest. We 
usually placed the tubers in frames or fruit houses to 
give a start, but they are better not started at all than 
allowed to get too forward. I omitted to say that, when 
the bed was made up, nine to twelve inches of good soil 
was placed on the surface, and we usually saved the soil 
from an old cucumber bed, which was fairly rich, for 
this purpose. This, being made firm, got nicely warmed- 
by the time the sets were planted early in March. The 



48 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

critical period is just when the tops are pushing through 
the soil early in April, and to protect at that season we 
have used straw-thatched hurdles, these being placed on 
stakes supported with cross pieces of wood. I think 
that dry bracken is the best protection, but it must be 
cut green early in the autumn ; for, if allowed to ripen, 
its protecting powers are reduced, it is brittle and 
breaks very quickly. Cut green, it is light and warm, 
and readily placed in position or removed. 

Potatoes forwarded thus will be ready for use in 
May, and are not so small as the first earlies in the 
open. The labour of making up the bed is not lost. 
As soon as the crop is cleared the space does grandly for 
such crops as marrows, cucumbers, capsicums, or any 
crop grown in a similar way, and the bed at the end of 
the year is of great value for potting-soil or as a dressing 
for heavy land. A south border should be selected for 
an early crop in the open, and if possible a light friable 
soil well manured in the previous autumn. The sets 
should have been well matured, and two feet between 
the rows is a fair distance, nine inches being allowed 
between the sets. We draw rather deep drills, and' 
these, when covering with soil, are not quite filled 
up, so that in severe weather it is an easy matter to 
place a little long litter over the sets, removing it 
when it is warm or bright. A fair distance between 
the sets is nine inches, but a great deal depends upon 
the variety. The Ashleaf does well at this distance, 
but strong growers benefit by more space. As re- 
gards variety there is no lack. Such kinds as Ring- 
leader, May Queen, and Ninety fold are very fine for early 
borders. The last is superb, and has a stronger haulm 
than the Ashleaf. To these may be added English 
Beauty, Early Puritan, when large quantities are re- 
quired, and Sharpe's Victor for small borders. This has 
a very dwarf top, and is one of the earliest. For field 



POTATOES 



49 



or market garden culture, Snowdrop is one of the best. 
To this may be added Harbinger and Duke of York. 

Mid Season Varieties. — Some of the best flavoured 
tubers are in this section, and what makes them more 
useful is that, being planted when the soil is in a warmer 
state, the growth is more rapid than with the other 
classes. April is a good time to plant both these and the 




- 



POTATO SUTTON S SUPREME. 



late crops, early in the month in the southern part of 
the country, and later on in the north. As far as space 
is concerned, a great deal depends upon the variety, 
and a kind that grows tall needs more space. In plant- 
ing it is advisable to give land that has not carried a 
similar crop for some time. This cannot always be 
done. When possible, prepare the soil some time in 
advance of planting, avoiding rank animal manures, as 

n 



5o THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

these in some seasons cause scab and other disease. 
I have seen much better results in old garden land 
by omitting animal manures for a season, giving a 
thorough dressing of lime, and using some approved 
artificial food. The land often lacks lime, and such 
aids as burnt refuse or road scrapings from lime- 
stone roads are very beneficial. As regards varieties, 
I place Windsor Castle in the front rank. It is 
one of the best flavoured main crop potatoes grown, 
is good in most soils, turns in early, and keeps 
well. Other kinds are the Snowball (Carter's), Sutton's 
Supreme, Satisfaction, and the Canon. There are many 
others, but those noted are among the cream of this 
section. 

Late Varieties. — These need more care in selection, 
as the season they are required to supply dates from 
October or November to June of the following year. 
The mid-season varieties will give a supply till the 
New Year, and, if possible, this should be arranged, 
as then the late ones will fill in the other portion with 
less difficulty. Even late potatoes are not very palat- 
able in June, but a great deal depends upon the way 
they are stored, on the variety, and on other details 
such as cooking and preparation. There can be no 
question whatever but that many late potatoes are ruined 
during the winter months by being kept too warm or 
allowed to grow out too much. Far better clamp the 
tubers in the open than store in a warm shed or cellar, 
for the latter soon affects the flavour of the tubers. 
Another point of importance is to have fresh seed 
whenever it can be procured. Though at the start 
it adds to the cost, it well repays at the finish by the 
greater weight of crop and the superior quality. No 
crop that shows disease badly should be retained for 
seed. It is as well to have a plot of land specially retained 
for seed purposes, if at a distance so much the better. 



PEAS 51 

For our late tubers we always have our seeds grown 
quite a hundred miles away. These are the Syon 
House Prolific, and we are the gainers by the very 
fine crops of tubers produced annually. The land 
soon sickens if the same thing is grown repeatedly. 
Another point is to give strong growers ample space ; 
indeed three feet between the rows is scarcely sufficient 
for some, and half that distance should be allowed 
between the sets in the row. 

I have briefly touched upon manures, and it must 
not be inferred that I am not in favour of ample food. 
The plant needs food to build up a mass of even-sized 
tubers, but much depends upon the soil. For late 
potatoes ample food is needed, but the tubers must not 
be placed on it. I prefer the food to be under, as the 
roots soon find it, and in dry seasons it is of great benefit 
to them as it supports at a time when the tubers are 
forming. I have named a few of the best varieties in the 
main crop section, and to these may be added Goldfinder, 
a white oval tuber of splendid quality. A floury tuber 
with shallow eyes, King of the Russets, is another very 
fine late variety, and the older Schoolmaster is difficult 
to beat as regards flavour and keeping properties. The 
Bruce and Sutton's Triumph are both good, and many 
persons like the Scottish Champion. For late spring 
supplies it is a great favourite in the north, and the 
newer Up-to-Date is a fine cropper and of good quality. 

Peas 

The green pea is an important vegetable in British 
gardens, and, like other vegetables, has received special 
attention during the last quarter of a century. Though 
I am not disposed to place too much importance upon 
the great improvement made as regards earliness, there 
can be no question whatever but that we have a 



52 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

much better quality, size, and dwarfness of haulm. 
There is now no need to grow the small, white, early 
pea so much seen in our gardens many years ago, or 
what may be termed field peas, that so soon got old 
and flavourless. On the other hand there is a difficulty 
in most gardens in having green peas at the end of May, 
and such peas are worth special culture. Some which 
have a distinct marrow flavour and are good croppers, are 
equally hardy with the old Kentish Invicta or Sangster's 
No. i. I shall not recommend any varieties having a 
thin, weak haulm, even though such peas may be a few 
days earlier than the stronger growers; for though 
earliness, especially in large market gardens, means a 
great difference in the price received for the produce, 
I am sure that the balance would be on the right 
side if a better quality pea was grown, and a variety 
specially selected for the purpose named. I am not an 
admirer of the very small dwarf peas from six inches high. 
I do not think that these very dwarf growers are the best 
if quantities are required, though of course a few rows 
for first supplies, and for frame culture, are valuable, but 
for general use such kinds as Chelsea Gem, the Sutton 
Seedling, Marrowful, and Bountiful are splendid types 
for earliest supplies in the open. To these may be 
added Carter's Early Morn and Daisy, a very fine 
selection, both as regards crop and flavour, with 
earliness combined. Of course there are other varieties 
equally good, but space does not allow me to give a 
long list of names, and those I note are types of the best 
kind for early work ; and the pea being such a favourite 
vegetable, I will endeavour to give as long a supply as 
possible. To do this it will be necessary to divide 
the different kinds into four classes, early, second early, 
mid-season, and late ; though I regret to say that in many 
gardens it is a difficult matter to grow late peas. This 
often happens in a light gravelly soil, and in the 



PEAS 55 

warmer parts of the kingdom. As far as my own 
experience goes, here in Middlesex, we are fortunate in 
our early peas, but not in getting a good late supply ; 
whereas the reverse occurs at Alnwick Castle, in North- 
umberland. In the north, I have splendid late peas 
well into November in a mild autumn, and there are 
some splendid late kinds, a few of which I will note. I 
am not able to devote space to forcing, but for this 
purpose the earlier peas I have named are very suitable 
either in pots or frames. I give an illustration of the 
Daisy pea — a grand forcing variety. I may also refer 
to the Syon House Main Crop, a cross between Duke 
of Albany and Telephone. 

Early Peas. — The earliest peas are always favourites, as 
they come in at a time when there is none too many choice 
vegetables. There is a great difference of opinion as to 
the advantage of sowing in autumn in a favoured quarter, 
say at the foot of a south wall. I am hot in favour of 
the old practice, as, having given this work special atten- 
tion, I find that the best results are obtained by sowing 
in November or early December, and then growing in 
a cold frame till planting out. I am aware that many 
of my readers will term this forcing, and in a measure 
it is, but it is very slow work, and many fruits, flowers, 
and vegetables, are hastened by a little timely shelter 
at the start. I find that peas not given heat of any 
kind are much more reliable than those grown in a 
shorter time. I have never seen the plants suffer 
if sown as advised ; but, let me add, always sow 
new seed (the last season's crop) ; this is more 
vigorous than old seed. We find four or five inch 
pots best for the seed sown in cold frames, and we do 
not crowd the seed. If it should be necessary to sow 
thickly, the seedlings should be thinned to give the 
plants room. Nine to twelve seeds in a pot are ample ; 
thin to six plants evenly distributed over the soil, the 



56 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

seedlings being given ample ventilation on all favour- 
able occasions, and then planted out early in March in 
deep drills, the plants being made firm at the planting. 

The reason that I have not advised sowing in the open 
ground in the autumn is the uncertainty of the crop unless 
grown in the most favoured localities. Mice are very 
troublesome, and at times difficult to get rid of ; and birds 
are troublesome, as also are other pests, such as slugs and 
snails. These have a great liking for the tender pea in the 
winter, and the plant is much weakened by their ravages. 
Another evil is that though for a certain time the plants do 
well, we often get a succession of frosts one after another, 
and then cold east winds, the latter quite crippling any 
growth that may have escaped injury. That is why I 
advise frame culture in the early stages of growth, and 
though I have recommended pot culture there are other 
ways equally good. I have used turf, that is, along strip 
three to four inches wide and three deep, but one must be 
sure that there is no wire worm or grub in the turf. The 
latter is placed in the frames, the grass side downwards, 
and then the seed is sown in lines in the middle of the 
turf and covered with light, rich soil. Many make a 
depression in the turf before sowing, and if this is done 
the seeds should not be crowded but placed evenly ; 
indeed the best plan is to press each seed well into the 
soil at equal distances and then cover with more soil. I 
have also seen shallow wooden boxes used, and the 
plants slid out at one end. At the planting, in fact, any 
method that can be adopted will be worth trying if a 
good plant is secured. In the north, I have seen good 
results follow sowing under hand glasses, and also on 
the north side of land well ridged up, the snow protect- 
ing the plant at a trying period of its existence. As this 
note will show, outdoor sowings in autumn under the 
best conditions are precarious, and it is not well to sow 
large quantities. 



PEAS S7 

We now come to the first sowing in the open, say in 
February, if the land is not frost-bound or too wet. 
It will have been advisable roughly to ridge up land 
in which it is intended to sow the first crop in the open. 
If this is done in the autumn the soil is so much more 
workable, and sowing can be made earlier than in land 
in a wet condition. For this crop I do not think the 
land needs the same quantities of food as for later crops, 
indeed, in wet land there is a danger of marrow peas 
failing to germinate unless the soil is friable, and heavy 
bodies of wet manure add to the difficulty at the season 
named. I have found that, in the case of dwarf varieties, 
we get the best results, if the soil is poor, 4jy taking 
out a few inches deep and replacing with old hotbed, 
decayed leaf soil, or burnt refuse, so that there may be 
some good soil for the roots to push out into and root 
freely. Early in the season, the wrinkled sorts may be 
sown a little thicker than others, as the best peas are not 
so robust as the round. On the other hand, at later 
sowings the large growers, I do not mean tall but strong 
haulm kinds, need more room. I have seen Peas sown 
like Mustard and Cress, but it stands to reason that such 
crops cannot develop properly. I have named a few of 
the leading early kinds; to these may be added Early 
Giant, a splendid three to four feet variety, probably 
the finest pea we have for March sowing in light, 
warm soil, and remarkably early. Much the same 
remarks apply to May Queen, a slightly dwarfer variety, 
and of splendid flavour. I have before referred to 
Bountiful, and this variety can be sown where others 
fail. This is a blue-seeded variety, a very free bearer, 
and, like most of the varieties I have described above, 
a continuous cropper. This latter point should not be 
overlooked in garden peas, as any variety that is over 
in a few days is not valuable. For field culture, the 
crop maturing quickly at one time is a gain, but not so 



58 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

in the garden. The advent of the American Wonder 
Pea many years ago was a great point as regards 
earliness, and it was of better quality than our small 
white round peas, but since the time of its introduction 
great strides have been made. We have had Exonian, 
William the First, and many others, one of the best 
being Chelsea Gem. All these ore vastly superior to 
American Wonder. One of our best peas is Gradus. 
This is a three feet variety, and is a splendidly 
flavoured marrow. The late Mr. Thomas Laxton, who 
raised this pea, certainly gave us one of the grandest 
peas the last century produced. Though a few days 
later than the very dwarf kinds, it may be had as 
early if the points are pinched out when the plants 
are about two feet high ; and I do not know of any 
variety better than Gradus to sow in March to make 
a succession to the first earlies in the open. The Daisy 
is also specially good for the same purpose, as it is a 
very beautiful pea, and bears a large pod in comparison 
to its dwarf growth. 

Second Early Peas In describing the earlier kinds I 

have also included a few that are excellent for growing 
as second earlies, notably Gradus, Daisy, and Bountiful ; 
the latter, where quantities are required, being especially 
good. The culture is much the same as for early kinds, 
except that the soil may be richer, as there is less fear of 
the seed decaying in the soil. Even at the early period 
of the year, or for seed sown in April, I would advise 
either shallow trenches, or rather deep drills, with a 
liberal amount of well-decayed manure in the bottom. 
In sowing in drills, avoid the old method of drawing 
drills, so that the drill is triangular — that is, pointed 
at the bottom. In such a drill the seeds roll down 
one on the other, and cannot get fairplay ; it is far 
better for the drill to have a flat base, and the seeds 
to be at even distances. We see the great advance 




PEA CARTERS D1ASY 



PEAS 6 1 

that has been made in the sweet peas, and much of 
this success is owing to improved culture, ample space, 
and good food at the root. 

To get a succession of peas, it is well to sow 
every three weeks, and even then a few of the main 
crop varieties soon catch up the earlier sowing. As 
regards distance between the rows, this must be 
governed by the height of the plant ; in any case 
it is best to give as much space as possible, and there 
need be no loss of ground, as small crops may be 
grown between. In our own case, we give our first 
earlies, sown in the open, three feet, and between each 
pair of rows we plant a row of lettuce. Though most 
of the peas may be three feet, we pinch or top at two 
feet, and, as we stake heavily with yew or laurel 
branches to ward off cold winds on the side most 
affected, the shelter given to the peas also assists the 
lettuce. Another plan is to sow early spinach in boxes, 
and transplant between the peas ; also early cauli- 
flowers of the Early Forcing or Snowball type are 
suitable to plant, as advised for lettuce. In the second 
earlies there is a wide choice. Dr. Maclaren is still a 
good variety, a wrinkled marrow of great excellence. 
Majestic is a very fine pea among the newer kinds, a 
pure marrow with large pods ; and Stratagem is certainly 
one of the best-flavoured marrows and one of the best 
croppers we have in this- section. Telephone and 
Peerless 'Marrowful are very good in cropping and 
quality. Duke of York and Duke of Albany are 
well known ; both being equally good in the third 
division or main crop varieties. I only have one objec- 
tion to the Duke of Albany. The plant, though it 
crops well, does not bear a long crop, the pods being 
produced in a short time ; still it holds its own on the 
exhibition table. Other good kinds are plentiful, but 
enough are described to show season and mode of culture. 



62 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

Main Crop Peas. — These in many gardens are often 
the last crops, not because the cultivator does not 
require later ones, but because the soil, situation, and 
weather are not favourable for later supplies. As some 
of the best second earlies do well for this crop, I will 
not go over the same ground again, but merely note that 
the main crop may be lengthened by preparing the soil 
specially for the purpose. Much may be done in un- 
suitable soil by growing in trenches, and in this section 
will be found the best of the marrow peas. Such varieties 
as the Eureka (a splendid marrow), the Magnum Bonum, 
Marrowful, Satisfaction, Best of All, Windsor Castle 
and Reading Giant give a list that contains the cream of 
the July and August peas. To these should be added 
Veitch's Perfection for good loamy soil, Main Crop, and 
the splendid Autocrat. The latter rarely fails in any 
soil or situation, and is equally good for later work. 
This with us in the north is one of our best late 
varieties. Another very fine main crop is Alderman, 
and the new E. Beckett promises grandly. To these 
may be added Culverwell Giant, Marrow and Omega. 

Late Peas. — In this section are some splendid marrows. 
The old Ne Plus Ultra is still one of the best if a true 
stock can be secured, and such kinds as Carter's 
Michaelmas which may be termed a dwarf, British 
Queen, Emperor of the Marrows (a tall variety), 
Reading Giant, Sutton's Late Queen, Latest of All, 
and Continuity give a list from which a selection may 
be made. Some kinds do better in some places than 
others, and in poor soils I would advise the robust 
growers and the dwarf or three to four feet varieties. 
In soil where these fail I would adopt another plan, and 
that is, instead of sowing these late kinds, to sow the first 
earlies for the last supply. Such kinds as Chelsea Gem, 
May Queen, Daisy, William the First, and others of a 
similar nature will do when others fail, but the land 



PEAS 6 3 

must be good, ample moisture being given at the start if 
the weather is hot and dry. It is a good plan to soak the 
seeds for a few hours before sowing, to sow in deep 
drills, and to sow the tall varieties in trenches with a fair 
amount of decayed manure in the bottom of the trench ; 
if the border can be partially shaded, so much the better 
when the plants are young, as they do not like too much 
hot sunshine. The dwarf kinds, that is, the earliest, 
are sometimes grown for late supplies ; I have grown 
these on an eastern border, but a great deal depends 
upon the locality. In the north we find that the late 
crop does best in open quarters, so as to get full light 
and sun at the finishing season. To set the late blossom 
and to get best results, give ample room between the 
rows. In this country very few peas are cooked whole, 
as is the Edible Podded or Sugar Pea. They are of 
delicious flavour if gathered in a young state. Of course 
they need good culture, and should not be grown in any 
out-of-the-way corner and then condemned as useless. 
Doubtless the Editor will note the value of these 
varieties as a change from our ordinary kinds, as they 
are most delicious when well cooked. There are not 
many varieties, and though called the Sugar Pea, I am 
not sure that the name is the best, though the pods 
certainly are sweet. The sweetness is not objectionable 
if the pods are gathered when not too much advanced. 
The seeds or peas should not be allowed to harden. 
On the Continent these find great favour, and one 
variety, the Delicatesse or Petit Pois, is well worth 
growing in all gardens where variety and flavour in 
vegetables are valued. The last-named is a great 
cropper, grows about three feet high, and is best 
grown with sticks. Another variety, the Giant Edible 
Podded Pea, is larger than Delicatesse and a taller 
grower, being five feet. This is a better variety in 
heavy land than the former, and crops a long time. 



64 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

They all like ample moisture, and do not thrive well 
in poor dry soil, the pods in such soil being quickly 
infested with thrips. 

Beans 

The Broad Bean comes first on the list, being hardier 
than the Dwarf or Runner, but it is not so much grown 
as the two last-named, as -the produce soon gets old, 
and many persons object to it on that account. I 
fear it is not generally known that the rough, peculiar 
flavour may be got rid of if the beans, when of any size, 
are skinned. Even when the seeds blacken at the outer 
portion, the flavour is much improved by skinning. 
Another point is that it is not necessary to allow the 
plants to mature the pods ; it would be far better if the 
crop were gathered earlier, as by so doing better flavour 
would be secured, and the plants would benefit. I 
briefly note the above, as doubtless the Editor will 
deal fully with the subject as regards cooking. My 
note concerns flavour. 

The culture for an early supply is most simple, if 
the ground is not too wet or heavy. Seed sown in 
November will give a fair return, and, as regards hardi- 
ness, after several years' trials, there is not much differ- 
ence between the Early Long-pod section and the older 
Mazagan. The" last-named is remarkably hardy, and, 
though small, for a private garden this latter point 
should not tell against it. Sown alongside of the 
earliest of the Long-pod section, it is the earlier of the 
two. I would not advise the Mazagan for field culture 
where size is an important point, but in the kitchen 
of course only a limited quantity is needed for a first 
supply. The Early Long-pod section sown in February 
will give a succession until the autumn-sown come in. 
There are several difficulties in growing beans, and 



BEANS 



65 



the worst are caused by the jackdaws and rooks which 
dig them out of the soil. Mice, too, in the winter 
months are fond of them, and worms and slugs eat the 
fleshy root portion ; so that, unless earliness is im- 
portant, I would advise sowing in February. Again, 
in March and April the larger Long-pods and the 
Sevilles are all suitable. The Green Giant broad beans 
are a newer introduction, and notable for their green 
colour and delicate flavour. This variety crops as freely 




BEAN — GREEN LONGPOD. 



as the white-seeded. For latest crops the seed should 
be sown in a holding soil, and for that purpose the 
Broad Windsor types are the most suitable. These 
surpass the others in quality, and are best sown so 
that the pods come in succession. There are several 
good Windsor types, the Old Broad variety, the Im- 
proved Windsor, Taylor's Windsor, and Green Windsor. 
There is another type of bean that should not be 
overlooked, the small cluster known as Royal Cluster, 
a very productive variety with branching habits, but not 



66 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

the best for all soils ; it is valuable for shallow soils and 
early supplies. Another very good small early bean 
is Beck's Dwarf Green Gem, which is very prolific and 
hardy. 

Dwarf Beans 

This is a popular summer vegetable, and most valu- 
able for supplies from June to October. The best 
use is not always made of the dwarf bean. In some 
gardens one or two sowings suffice, whereas if the 
same or very little more seed were spread over half-a- 
dozen sowings made at different dates, the results would 
be better in every way. I am aware that, to do this 
vegetable justice, it should get rich soil and ample 
moisture during growth, as lack of moisture is the 
forerunner of red spider, and the plants fail to set the 
flowers. As regards soils and situation, the best 
position is an open one, selecting a light loamy soil, 
not too clayey or wet ; for the first crop a warm border 
under a south wall is the best. Much can be done to 
forward an early crop by sowing under glass and then 
planting out, but I will not dwell upon this work. No 
matter what the part of the country, it should be borne 
in mind that the dwarf bean is by no means hardy, and 
that there must be sufficient warmth in the soil to 
germinate the seed. It is not a British plant, and very 
early sowing, especially in heavy soils, will often fail. 
The proper season varies. In the south I have sown 
early in April, but the middle of the month is generally 
full early, and the end in later seasons or on heavy soils. 
On the other hand, it well repays the cultivator to 
make the soil suitable for the first sowing, as it is 
not thrown away for other things which require a 
light soil. It is an easy matter to cover the seed with 
any light soil after sowing, and in cold, wet weather 
early in the spring, land well drained should be selected. 



DWARF BEANS 69 

If the seed is sown early in April, the crop will give 
an early July supply, another sowing made, say, four 
weeks later will give a succession, and another sowing 
in June will give a later supply. A still later sowing 
may be made for an early autumn supply, and from 
May till July there will be no doubts as to the seed 
germinating, so that ample room should be given the 
seed ; and though it may be well to sow more thickly 
than the plants can remain, it is an easy matter to thin 
the seedlings when it is seen which are the strongest. 

Varieties and Culture. — For early crops the small-podded 
varieties are best, being earlier ; one of the earliest beans 
to show blossom and mature being Syon House, a good 
flavoured variety. Ne Plus Ultra also is very good, and 
produces freely. This bears a small, thin, green pod, has 
dwarf habits, and is a great cropper. For later cropping 
there are some beautiful types, such as Progress (see 
illustration), Triumph; Perfection, Long Sword, and 
many others. Indeed, it is difficult to give a selection, 
there are so many good kinds. Some in different locali- 
ties have different names, and I note a few to show the 
best type for summer use. For May and June sowing, 
the larger Canadian Wonder is a very fine variety. 
This gives larger pods than any of the former, but I 
should add that no matter what the variety, the crop 
should be gathered regularly, and none allowed to get 
old, as the plant soon fails to crop if allowed to ripen or 
carry old pods. I have touched upon the needs of the 
plant as regards food and moisture. Few plants will 
absorb more food ; they delight in a rich root-run of good 
decayed manure. This placed liberally in the bottom 
of the trench or drill will do much good in hot, dry 
summers, and if the plants are given liquid manure fre- 
quently, so much the better. They delight in overhead 
waterings in the evening after a hot summer day. This 
will do more good to keep them free of red spider than 



70 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

anything else, and daily or every other day gatherings 
will keep the plants healthy. In this country we allow 
many of our vegetables to get much too old before they 
are gathered. On the Continent the Dwarf or French 
Bean, as it is called, is used in a small state, often whole, 
with the result that the pods are greener and more 
tender, and have a beautiful flavour. Doubtless the 
Editor will touch upon the value of pods cooked thus in 
preference to our dry, sliced older beans with the seeds 
half-ripened and the pods stringy. This'also applies to 
the Runner, and indeed to many vegetables. There are 
some delicious butter beans in the Dwarf section, which 
are well worth growing and cooking whole. The Golden 
Beans are noted for their good flavour. Another type 
is the small Haricot Bean, a very good vegetable when 
cooked whole. 

Runner Beans 

Owing to the introduction of the Climbing French 
Bean there are two distinct runners. I will take the new 
ones first. These are mostly about six feet high, and 
the pods more like those of the dwarf than of a runner, 
except that they are all large, long, and slender. These 
new kinds are a great gain, as they continue in bearing a 
longer time than the dwarf, and the quality is excellent. 
The culture is the same, except that the plants 
should have at least six feet between the rows. More 
room is better; indeed, the best way to grow runner 
beans of any kind is to give a much wider space, and 
to plant between the rows with low-growing vegetable 
crops. The new runners have this in their favour, that they 
can be sown sooner than the larger fleshy scarlet runner. 
This is a gain, and they also turn in a fortnight or three 
weeks before the older variety. Another point is, that 
they are more marketable, and are better shaped, and the 



RUNNER BEANS 71 

flavour is superior if well grown. Like all others, they 
need much moisture during growth, and ample room 
from plant to plant. The best way is to place the seed 
in drills or trenches at six inches apart, a double row in 
each trench being best if plenty of space can be allowed. 
By having trenches it is an easier matter to supply 
moisture. The following are excellent — Earliest of All, 
Excelsior, Epicure, Princess of Wales, Tender and True, 
and Veitch's Climbing. The last-named, though a little 
smaller than others, is earlier, which is a great gain. 
In 1900, the Messrs Carter of High Holborn sent out a 
remarkably early Climbing French Bean known as Ten 
Weeks, a decided gain both as regards earliness, crop, and 
productiveness. This, like the others named, should be 
gathered young. 

The ordinary Scarlet Runner is grown so simply that 
my note concerning it will be brief. Much the same 
conditions of culture as advised for dwarfs are applicable, 
except that scarlet runners are sown later. It is not safe to 
sow till the middle of May in cold soils, as should they 
come through the soil freely the plants will suffer badly in 
cold weather. They should be covered at night for a time. 
Sown later there is no trouble, and, like the new climber, 
the plants are best sown in deep drills or trenches, and 
grown thinly. I need not give a long list of varieties, 
such kinds as Chelsea Giant, White Mammoth, Scarlet 
Masterpiece, Mammoth White, Best of All, Abund- 
ance, and the older Champion Runner and Painted 
Lady being all good. A much better crop may be 
secured by making an early sowing in May and one a 
month later, by which means a long season is secured. 
In market gardens the runner bean is not staked, but 
grown in rows like the Dwarfs. However, they do 
much better if given supports. 



HISTORY AND COOKERY OF VEGETABLES 

By THE EDITOR 

The Cabbage Family 

The name Cabbage is derived from the Latin Caulis 
Capitatus (caulis, a stem, caput, a head), and the words 
Kohl, Cauliflower and Kale show of course a common 
origin from the same root-word as caulis itself. 

Several varieties of Cabbage seem to have been 
cultivated by the Greeks and Romans : Selinoides or 
Parsley-Leaved Kale, Corambe, Calabrian Kale and so 
on. The value of this race of plants in providing a 
supply of winter food was early appreciated ; and the 
need which cabbages have for rich deeply-dug soil was 
also an early discovery. Pliny speaks of nitre and sea- 
weed as among the manures commonly applied. The 
Greeks and Romans ate cabbage both as a boiled 
vegetable, and raw, as a salad. Eaten in the raw state, 
cabbage leaves were supposed to ward off" drunkenness 
and post-prandial headache, and were consequently in 
great request in the later days of the Empire. 

The cabbage is a native plant of Britain, occurring 
wild in all parts. It has been here cultivated since the 
earliest times, and was a favourite vegetable of the 
Saxons, who derived their name for the month of 
February from the fact that sprouts began then to be 
ready for cutting. 

Parkinson speaks of certain varieties of cabbage as 
being cultivated for their decorative value : " Many of 
them being of no use with us for the table, but for 
delight to behold the wonderful variety of the works of 
God herein." 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 73 

Gerard describes a number of varieties of cabbage 
— swollen Colewort, double Colewort, Rapecole and 
others; and Johnson in 1633 speaks of "the great 
ordinary cabbage, known everywhere, and commonly 
eaten all over the kingdom." 

Pliny's "Corinthian Turnip," of which "the root is 
all but out of the ground ; indeed this is the only kind that 
in growing, shoots upwards, and not as the others do, 
downwards into the ground," was. probably our Kohl- 
rabi, which was 1 introduced into England in the sixteenth 
century. 

The Cauliflower, in which the flower stems and 
abortive flowers have been artificially developed, was 
introduced into this country, probably from Italy, by 
way of Holland, in the sixteenth century, but for a long 
time it was an expensive luxury. Parkinson refers to it 
as a rare vegetable, and at the beginning of the 
seventeenth century cauliflowers seem to have cost about 
eighteenpence apiece. Gerard refers to the " cole- 
flourey" as the best of all the kales, as indeed it is. From 
the seventeenth c«ntury onwards, it has steadily gained 
in popularity and extension of cultivation. 

The Broccoli is a close ally to the cauliflower. It 
originated in Italy, as its name implies, and seems to have 
been recognised as a distinct garden variety in England 
at about the end of the seventeenth century. 

To boil Cabbage 

In boiling any members of the cabbage family, great 
care should be taken to serve them at the right moment, 
as a very short lack or excess of time spent in boiling 
water quite spoils them. They should first have the 
solid outside leaves removed, and then be placed in cold 
salt water for a time and carefully examined for snails, 
caterpillars, and other creatures. They should next be 
placed in a large quantity of boiling salted water containing 



74 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

no soda, and boiled till just tender. The lid of the pan 
must be kept off during the whole time of cooking, and 
the scum which rises to the surface of the water should 
be removed as it collects. Brussels sprouts take about 
fifteen minutes, whilst broccoli, cabbage, and cauliflowers 
take from fifteen to twenty-five minutes according to 
size. Broccoli and cauliflowers should be placed in 
the saucepan flower downward, and a deep cross be cut 
on the stumps. Cabbages should be cut into two or 
four sections by vertical incisions. All forms of cabbage 
may advantageously be steamed instead of boiled. 
"When boiled they require thorough draining in a 
colander. Brussels sprouts, savoys, or red cabbage 
may be shredded and boiled in a minimum of good 
stock, with butter (an ounce to a pound), and a little 
pepper, salt, and vinegar. 

Cabbage and Cheese 

Cauliflower, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cabbage, or 
indeed, almost any vegetable may be used in pleasant 
combinations with Cheddar, Parmesan, or other cheese. 
The vegetables must first be boiled in the usual manner, 
drained, and fried to a nice brown, though this latter 
proceeding may be dispensed with. The vegetables 
should then be placed in a pie-dish, with (to each pound 
of vegetables) three ounces of butter, a large cupful of 
stock or brown sauce, half a saltspoonful of pepper and 
a saltspoonful of salt. Stir well together, grate cheese 
liberally over the whole, and bake in the oven for about 
twelve minutes. 

Mrs W. G. Waters, in her very readable and very 
suggestive " Cook's Decameron," gives a valuable 
recipe for 

Cavo/i fiori fritti : 

" Break up a broccoli or cauliflower into little bunches, 
blanch them, and put them on the fire, in a saucepan with 



HISTORY AND COOKERY y 5 

good gravy, for a few minutes, then marinate them with 
lemon juice and salt, let them get cold, egg them over, 
and fry in butter." 

Red cabbages may be used in many ways. In " Les 
Dons de Comus" (1758) is a recipe for 

Choux Rouges Comfits. 

Prenez des choux rouges et les faites blanchir une 
demi-heure. Empotez-les avec du vinaigre, une 
dpuzaine de clous de girofle, cinq ou six gousses 
d'ail et du sel. 

Red cabbages, as everybody knows, may also be used 
to make an excellent pickle. 

Mrs Roundell's recipe for 

Co/cannon 

is about the best. Take equal quantities of cold cooked 
cabbage and potatoes. Rub them through a sieve and 
mix them well together. Add pepper and salt, a little 
butter, and a well beaten egg. Butter a small pudding 
basin, press the colcannon into it, and bake in a hot 
oven for from thirty to forty minutes. Turn out into a 
hot dish and serve. The mixture may be fried under a 
plate or dish instead of being baked in the oven. 

Lady Harriet St Clair (who married the German 
Ambassador, Count Munster) gives in her " Dainty 
Dishes " a number of German recipes. Among others, 
she describes the preparation of 

Sauerkraut. 

" Choose firm white cabbage heads, remove the loose 
outer leaves, cut out the stalk and the coarser fibres at the 
back of the leaves. In Germany they have a particular 
sort of knife, more in the nature of a plane, with which 
they cut the cabbage in fine strips, but an ordinary 
large knife will answer the purpose as well. This 



76 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

must now be done, and to about thirty firm middling- 
sized heads you allow half a pound of salt. Mix the 
salt lightly with the cabbage, covering the bottom of a 
small oak barrel or cask with cabbage leaves, and pressing 
the cut cabbage and salt jointly into the cask, either with 
your hand, or, better still, a wooden pestle. When it is 
quite full, place another layer of cabbage leaves on the 
top, then a clean cloth, and after that the wooden cover, 
with stones laid on it to make it heavier. Keep it in a 
moderate temperature till it begins slightly to ferment, 
and then put it in a cold cellar. If it appears not to be 
juicy enough, boil salt and water together and pour it 
over the cabbage. It is usual to strew carraway seeds 
among the cabbage, and in many parts of Germany 
sour apples or unripe grapes, which are said to be a 
great improvement. It is usually made in October, and 
is ready to eat in February." 

To dress Sauerkraut, it must be lightly pressed, and, if 
very sour, washed. It should then be placed in a well- 
tinned saucepan with as much water as will cover it, an 
onion and a piece of lard or goose fat, and boiled slowly 
for from three to four hours. Mix a little flour and butter 
together, stir it up with the cabbage, take out the onion, 
pour a glass of wine over it, and let it stew slowly a 
little while longer. Some people add sugar and apples 
to it. The great art in cooking it is that it should not 
be greasy, and be neither too dry nor too liquid. 

Spinach 

Spinach seems to have been known, as a kitchen 
vegetable in the fourteenth century, though it does not 
appear to have been grown in English gardens before 
the sixteenth. It soon won high favour and Gerard 
said that " of all pot-herbs it maketh the greatest 
diversitie of meats and salads." Parkinson said that 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 77 

"Many English, that have learned it of the Dutch 
people, do stew it in a pot or pipkin without any 
moisture than its own. It is used likewise to be made 
into tarts and many other varieties of dishes, as gentle- 
women and their cooks can better tell than myself." 

In Turner's " Herbal," published in the sixteenth 
century, spinach is referred to as " a herb lately found, 
and not long in use," but it seems to have been known 
if not grown in England as early as the fourteenth 
century. 

Worlidge in his " Systema Agriculturae " makes no 
mention of spinach, but Evelyn makes numerous refer- 
ences to it ; and Gerard said that " of all pot-herbs it 
maketh the greatest diversities of meats and salads." 

In Miller's " Gardeners' Dictionary," it is said that 
"perhaps the Spaniards had this plant from the Saracens; 
but by some it is considered to be indigenous to Spain, 
as many of the old botanists — such, for example, as 
Bock — call it Olus Hispanicum. Ruellius and others 
name it Atriplex Hispaniensis. It does not seem to have 
been known to the Greeks or Romans, and was pro- 
bably introduced into Europe from Asia, as its name 
implies. 

Steived Spinach 

Spinach having been washed in cold water and dried 
by swinging the leaves round in the air, may be stewed 
in the following way. 

Place it in a pan of boiling water, whence remove it 
at the end of four minutes. Throw the spinach next 
into cold water and well dry it in the colander. Chop it 
up moderately finely, and place in a stewpan with salt, 
pepper and butter (half an ounce to the pound). Place 
over the fire and stir till the butter is melted. Add a 
little stock (a teacupful to the pound), and allow to 
simmer for ten minutes. Add a little lemon juice and 



78 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

serve. Spinach cooked in this way may be spread on 
toast and surmounted by poached eggs. 

Spinach may be served whole by placing it, without 
water, in a vessel surrounded by boiling water, for about 
twenty minutes. Dry with a warm cloth and serve. 

Beetroot 

Beet and spinach are allied plants, both belonging to 
the order of Chenopodiacese. Beet occurs wild as a 
native of Britain, as well as of many parts of Europe, 
Asia, and Africa. It was well known and cultivated by 
the Greeks and Romans, by whom a small number of 
garden varieties was recognised. Theophrastus, Aristotle 
and Pliny all wrote concerning the plant, and described 
its uses as food and medicine. 

Alexander Necham, master of St Albans' Grammar 
School, and subsequently Abbot of Cirencester, pub- 
lished in the twelfth century a little book " De Naturis 
Rerum," in which he gives an account of the fruits, 
herbs and flowers then grown in English gardens. He 
refers to beetroot as being then in use, and the plant is 
also included in' the list of vegetables enumerated in the 
survey, made in the ninth century, of the gardens of 
the monastery of St Gall. 

Worlidge, speaking of beet, says: "This ordinary 
Plant is by several made use of; it loves a fat and rich 
Soyl ; it's usually sown in the Spring, and will come 
up several years in the same ground, and may be planted 
forth as Cabbages are." 

The beet was first cultivated for the sake of its sugar 
at about the middle of the eighteenth century. 

To boil Beetroot 

The skin of beetroot must on no account be broken 
before cooking, or the colour and the sugar will escape. 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 79 

Place the roots in boiling water and boil for about an 
hour if the roots are young, or for about two hours 
otherwise. When the roots are cooked, place them in 
cold water and skin them. They may then be served 
hot with butter, pepper and salt, or with gravy, or they 
may be allowed to cool, and then sliced and served in 
vinegar. 

Instead of being boiled, beetroot may be baked in the 
oven, and in many ways this method is to be preferred. 
The time required for baking is about the same as that 
required for boiling. 

Carrots 

Although it was a valued and carefully cultivated 
vegetable among the Greeks and Romans, and was 
described as such by Theophrastus, Pliny and Dios- 
corides, the carrot as an edible plant seems to have been 
introduced into England by the Flemings only in the 
sixteenth century. It very soon attained popularity, and 
Shakespeare makes 'Dame Quickly describe it as "a 
good root." 

The garden carrot was originally derived from the 
wild species, Daucus Carota, which is a native of England. 
It belongs to the order of umbelliferous plants, and from 
its concave umbels of fruits has earned the popular name 
of Bird's-nest. According to Parkinson, ladies in his 
time were wont to use the graceful foliage of the carrot 
as a decoration for their hats, in the same way as modern 
ladies make use of feathers, or even — sad to say — of 
wings of birds. Its use as a vegetable in England dates 
from the sixteenth century, and Hanbury, in 1 77 1, 
wrote that the carrot "is now become, by good culture, 
a principal plant in the kitchen garden, and is one of the 
most useful, beneficial, and profitable esculents at our 
table." He refers to the then novel experiment, " the 



8o THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

culture of carrots for cattle in fields ; a thing that until 
of late years was never known, and which now amply 
shows itself profitable and beneficial in such' places 
where land proper for the growth of carrots is found ; 
and, where that happens, a good crop of carrots will be 
worth nine or ten pounds per acre." 

To boil Carrots 
Carrots are best eaten when very young, and they 
should then be cooked only just long enough to render 
them tender. < This will take from half-an-hour to an hour. 



' To bake Carrots 

The Flemish method of cooking small young carrots 
consists in first scraping them and boiling them till 
tender. Dry them, and fry them in butter for ten 
minutes. Add a sufficiency of stock just to immerse the 
carrots and allow to simmer till the stock is reduced by 
a half. Add a little pepper and salt, a little chopped 
parsley and a little cream. Place in a buttered pie-dish, 
cover with buttered paper and bake for ten minutes or 
a quarter of an hour. 

To make 

Carrot Soup, 
take six medium sized carrots and two onions, slice 
them and place them in a stewpan together with two 
quarts of stock, a teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of 
a teaspoonful of pepper. Simmer for about two hours, 
strain (or leave unstrained) and serve. The vegetarian 
may use as stock the water in which haricot beans or 
lentils have been cooked. 

Almost any vegetables may be used in the making of 
the excellent 

Minestra, 
or thick broths, so frequently served in Italy, yet so 
much more adapted to our colder climate. To make 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 81 

a minestra, one may take three sliced young turnips, a 
small sliced carrot, and a small sliced onion, a sliced stick 
of celery, or two sliced tomatoes, and fry them gently 
for five minutes in oil. Throw these fried vegetables, 
with quarter of a pound of rice, into three pints of 
good stock which is simmering, flavour with pepper 
and salt, and boil for one and a half hours. Serve with 
grated cheese (Parmesan or preferably dried Cheddar 
or Cheshire). Instead of the turnips, sliced cabbage 
may be employed, but this latter should not be fried, nor 
should it be added to the stock until forty minutes before 
the minestra is to be served. 

Parsnips 

Parsnips have long been grown and valued, Pliny 
mentioning them as among the regular contents of 
Roman gardens. They seem to have been used at 
different times for the most curious ends — the making 
of bread and the making of a wine, said by an en- 
thusiast to rival Malmsey and Canary. 

Parsnips are included in the list of vegetables, culti- 
vated by the monks of St Gall in the ninth century, but 
there is no record of their cultivation in England until 
many centuries later, although the parsnip is a native 
plant. The ancients seem merely to have transplanted 
the wild parsnip into their gardens, and to have made 
no serious attempt by selection to find a variety free 
from the extreme pungency which marks the flavour 
of the wild plant. Worlidge speaks of the parsnip as 
" an excellent sweet root, and very pleasing to some 
people." 

Parsnips, like beetroot, must not be cut before being 
cooked, or they will lose half their value. To boil 
them, having first scrubbed them with cold water, place 
them in a pan containing a minimum of boiling water. 

F 



82 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

Boil for about eighty minutes, or until tender. Serve 
whole, with a simple sauce in a separate dish. 

Parsnips may be cooked in any of the ways suggested 
for cooking salsify in " The Book of Asparagus." 

Turnips 

The turnip, in common with several other vegetables, 
seems to have been introduced into England by the 
Flemings in the sixteenth century, though its name 
(terrae napus) rather points to earlier Roman intro- 
duction. In any case, the Romans highly esteemed the 
vegetable both as food for man and as food for cattle. 
Cato and Pliny make frequent references to the turnip, 
and it is obvious that it was more valued than almost 
any other vegetable grown in Rome. Long after their 
introduction into this country, turnips were grown only 
in gardens and market plots for human consumption, and 
Gerard wrote : " The small turnip groweth by a village 
near London, called Hackney, in a sandy ground, and 
are brought to the Cross in Cheapside by the women 
of that village to be sold, and are the best I ever tasted. 
The bulbus or knobbed root, which is properly called 
rapum or turnip, and hath given the name to the plant, 
is many times eaten raw, especially by the poor people 
in Wales, but most commonly boiled." Worlidge, how- 
ever, said in 1 668 that turnips were being frequently 
grown on a large scale by farmers as food for their 
cattle. In the years 1630 and 1693, owing to the 
failure of the corn crops, turnips were largely mixed 
with flour in the preparation of bread. Really, however, 
the food value of the turnip when eaten by mankind is 
not great. 

As a moral symbol, the turnip has been considered to 
possess significance, and Canon Ellacombe quotes from 
Gwillim's Heraldry: "This is a wholesome root, and 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 83 

yieldeth great relief to the poor, and prospereth best in 
a hot sandy ground, and may signifie a person of good 
disposition, whose vertuous demeanour flourished! most 
prosperously, even in that soil, where the searching heat 
of envy most aboundeth. This differeth much in nature 
from that whereof it is said, ' And that there should not 
be among you any root that bringeth forth gall and 
wormwood.' " 

The turnip grows wild in England, but whether our 
wild species be parent or degenerate descendant of the 
garden variety is uncertain. 

To boil Turnips 

Like most other vegetables, turnips should be cooked 
at a much earlier age than usual. They then should be 
boiled whole in slightly salted water, a process which 
takes about twenty-five minutes, and served entire with 
some simple butter sauce. 

Older or less choice turnips, having been boiled till 
tender, may be drained in a colander and then mashed 
and beaten through the colander. They should then 
be placed with a little butter (an ounce to a pound), milk 
or cream, pepper and salt, in a stewpan, stirred over the 
fire for three to five minutes, and served. 

Kohl Rabi may be cooked in the same way. 

Turnip Tops, 

cooked after the manner of minced spinach, afford a 
valuable winter dish. They take somewhat longer to 
cook than spinach. Cold turnip tops may be fried with 
potatoes in the same way as cold boiled cabbage. 

Jerusalem Artichokes 

The Jerusalem Artichoke is a native of North America, 
and was cultivated there by the Indians. Champlain, 



84 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

writing in 1603, speaks of "roots which they cultivate, 
tasting like artichokes," and Gookin speaks of the 
Indians as putting slices of Jerusalem Artichokes into 
their soups. 

The common title " Jerusalem " applied to this tuber 
has no reference to the place of that name, but is a cor- 
ruption of the Italian word " girasola," meaning a sun- 
flower. The plant was introduced into England at the 
beginning of the seventeenth century, but does not 
seem to have been adequately appreciated. Worlidge 
described it as " near of the nature of the potatoes, but 
not so good nor so wholesome ; but may probably be 
propagated in great quantities and prove good food for 
swine. They are either planted off the roots or oft 
seeds." 

The ways in which artichokes may be used in the 
kitchen are many, so many, indeed, that it is difficult to 
select the most useful. To make 

Artichoke Soup, 

take two pounds of Jerusalem artichokes, and, having 
peeled them, place them in cold water, as is done with 
potatoes. Cut them into slices about a fifth of an inch 
in thickness, and fry for a few minutes in butter with a 
couple of small chopped onions or shallots. Then place 
them in a saucepan with a pint of water, a teaspoonful 
of salt, and a little black pepper. Boil for about an 
hour till the vegetables are quite tender. Rub through 
a hair sieve, and add half a pint of milk and a teacupful 
of cream. Bring again to the boil, pour into a tureen, 
and serve with grated cheese. 

To Boil Artichokes 

Peel them and place in cold salted water as above, then 
place them in a saucepan of salted boiling water, and 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 85 

boil for twenty minutes. Drain them and serve with a 
simple sauce. 

Instead of being served as a plain vegetable, the 
boiled artichokes may be mashed with a little butter, 
well-beaten egg, pepper and salt, placed in a buttered 
pie-dish, surmounted with a layer of grated cheese, and 
baked. Or the artichokes, when nearly boiled, may be 
cut into quarter inch slices, dipped in butter, and fried 
to a pale brown colour, which will take from five to ten 
minutes. Artichokes may be baked in butter (an ounce 
to six tubers) in a hot oven, the time occupied being 
from twenty-five to forty-five minutes. Keep well 
basted and season with salt and pepper. 



Onions and Leeks 

In his " Queen of the Air," Ruskin attributes the 
degradation of peasant life very largely to the use of 
the rank-scented onion and garlic. This doctrine is, of 
course, merely ridiculous, but it is in accordance with our 
national traditions, for throughout English literature we 
find frequent references to the grossness of the odours 
of these herbs. One recalls Bottom's directions to the 
clowns : " Most dear actors, eat no onions nor garlic, 
for we are to utter sweet breath " ; and Hotspur's : 
" I had rather live with cheese and garlic in a windmill." 
But it was in no carping spirit of criticism that the 
Israelites muttered regretfully, "We remember the 
garlic we did eat in Egypt," and indeed, onions and 
garlic were highly ranked both as delicacies and as heal- 
alls many thousand years before the birth of Christ. So 
sacred was the position of the onion in ancient Egypt 
that Juvenal evidently had the idea that it was con- 
sidered too sacred to be eaten. 

" Porrum et caepe nefas violare, aut frangere morsu." 



86 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

" Onions as a relish to the wine " were among the 
few dainties placed before Nestor by Hecamede, and a 
jar of onions was one of the wedding presents received 
by Iphicrates. 

The common onion has been found wild in Beluchistan 
and the countries adjoining, whilst the spring onion has 
been discovered wild in Siberia, leeks in Algeria and 
many other places, and chives commonly throughout 
Europe and North America. The onion was introduced 
into England at a very early period, though the shallot 
and the spring onion were not grown in this country 
before the sixteenth century. That, even in the time 
of Chaucer, a taste for onions was scarcely reckoned a 
mark of elegance is shown by his including it among 
the possessions of the Sompnour : — 

"Wei loved he garleek, oynouns, and ek leekes " 

The onion has had a lengthy career as an instrument 
of divination, and Mr Folkard, in his "Plant Lore and 
Legends," quotes an old verse illustrative of one of its 
uses : — 

" In these same days young wanton gyrles that meet for marriage be 
Doe search to know the names of them that shall their husbands be ; 
Four onyons, five, or eight they take, and make in every one 
Such names as they do fancie most, and best to think upon 
Then nere the chimney them they set, and that same onyon then 
That firste doth sproute doth surely bear the name of their good man." 

As with most other pungently odorous plants, onions, 
leeks, and garlic have been — and still are — commonly 
reputed as givers of health and curers of many ills. 

" Eat Leeks in Lide, and Ramsins (/,e. Garlic) in May, 
And all the year after physitians may play." 

says one old couplet, but Gerard took quite another 
view : " The onion being eaten, yea though it be boiled, 
causeth headach, hurteth the eies and maketh a man 
dimsighted, dulleth the senses, and provoketh over- 
much sleep, especially being eaten rawe." 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 87 

To bake Onions 
Take any of the milder flavoured onions of good size 
and, having removed the outer coats, boil them for 
about forty-five minutes in water. Dry the onions with 
a cloth, place them on a baking dish, surmount each with 
a small piece of butter, cover with buttered paper, and 
bake for an hour. Serve with Beurre fondu, or plain 
butter. Season with salt and pepper. 

To steiv Onions, 

peel them and place them in stock (two quarts to six 
large onions) seasoned with salt and pepper. Allow 
to simmer until they are quite tender. Reduce the 
stock, pour it over the onions, and serve. 

Onions and Cheese 

Take some large Spanish onions, skin them and boil 
them until they are quite soft. Drain them in a 
colander, and then pass them through a sieve. Place 
the mashed onions in a pan together with (to each onion) 
an ounce of butter, an ounce of grated cheese, and a 
little pepper and salt. Allow the mixture to simmer for 
a few minutes, stirring the while, and then serve. 

Instead of placing the pulped onions in a stewpan, 
they may be placed with the butter, pepper and salt, 
and a little stock or milk (two tablespoonfuls to each 
onion) in a pie-dish, the cheese being grated over the 
surface, and placed in the oven till baked a nice brown. 

To steiv Leeks, 

cut them into pieces three inches in length and place 
them in boiling salted water for a few minutes. Drain 
off the water and add a minimum of good stock. 
Boil till quite tender, and serve. If the leeks be 
removed from the pan before they are quite cooked, 



88 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

placed in a pie-dish, covered with a grating of cheese, 
and baked in the oven, a very pleasant dish is obtained. 
In Cornwall and many other parts of England a 
popular dish is that known as 

Leeky Broth. 

Take a medium-sized cabbage and two medium-sized 
leeks and cut them into shreds. Place them in a stew- 
pan together with two quarts of stock or haricot water, 
a dessertspoonful of salt, and a saltspoonful of pepper. 
Boil for two hours and serve unstrained. A few lentils 
or haricots materially add to the nutritive value of thif 
broth. 

Potatoes 

In that granary of interesting information, Canon 
Ellacombe's " Plant Lore of Shakspere," two passages 
are quoted from the plays as containing " almost the. 
earliest notice of potatoes after their introduction into 
England." As, however, Gerard knew potatoes only as 
rareties, it is probable that Shakspere's references were 
to the Sweet or Spanish Potatoes, which had for some 
■ time previously been cultivated in Spain and Portugal, 
and imported thence into England. These latter are the 
tubers of a member of Convolvulus family, whereas 
the ordinary potato belongs to the Solanaceae, to which 
also belong such powerfully poisonous plants as the 
Deadly Nightshade and the Henbane. In the frontis- 
piece to his "Herbal," published in 1597, Gerard 
is figured with a potato in his hand. It occurs wild 
in Chili, and its cultivation had spread to the neighbour- 
ing parts of America long before the discovery of that 
continent by Europeans. It was introduced into Europe 
almost coincidentally by certain Spanish adventurers, 
and by Sir Walter Raleigh, who took some roots to 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 89 

Ireland about the year 1584, giving some to his own 
gardener at Youghal, and others to the grandfather 
of S. R. Southwell, who reported to the Fellows of 
the Royal Society that his grandfather was the first 
to grow potatoes in Ireland. The vegetable did not 
immediately win great favour, and we find that Evelyn's 
sole practical advice in the " Kalendarium Hortense" 
on the planting of potatoes is given in one line of the 
February directions : " And plant potatoes in your 
worst ground ; " the only other reference to the vegetable 
being in the section for November, where he writes : 
" Take up your potatoes for winter spending ; there 
will enough remain for stock, tho' never so exactly 
gathered." In Worlidge's "Systema Agriculture," 
of which the second edition — the one of which I 
possess a copy — was published in 1675, n ^ savs or " 
potatoes : " These are very usual in foreign parts, 
and are planted in several places of this country to 
a very good advantage ; . . . they "are commonly 
eaten either buttered, or in milk. I do not hear that 
it hath been as yet essayed, whether they may not be 
propagated in great quantities for food for swine, or 
other cattle." Even as late as 1719 we find Bradly 
writing of potatoes that " they are of less note than 
horse-radish, radish scorzoners, beets and skirret ; but 
as they are not without their admirers, I will not pass 
them by in silence." 

In the Literary Magazine for May 1757, appeared 
a letter from a Staffordshire farmer, strongly urging 
the more extended culture of potatoes. " At a time 
when the nation is in such distress for want both of 
corn and butcher's meat, it may not be amiss to point 
out a method by which people may be kept, and 
kept well, without, any corn or meat at all. ... I 
plant every year four acres of potatoes, which answer 
all the purposes of wheat. For with them we make 



go THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

puddings and pies, and boil or roast them for bread ; 
and we like them better than your bread. ... In 
my family we keep them always boiled in the house, 
and in the morning my people eat milk and potatoes. 
At dinner they have generally bacon or hung beef 
and potatoes, and for supper we mash our potatoes 
and add milk and salt to make a pudding; and 
sometimes for change we have potatoes fry'd in 
the fat that is left in the pan after frying bacon or 
beef; and we also make pies with potatoes and mutton 
or other meat. . . . Many of my neighbours eat 
nothing but potatoes the year round, and are very 
healthy and strong. A bushel of potatoes generally 
sells with us for about eightpence or ninepence, and 
is sufficient to keep a man a fortnight who eats nothing 
else." Here is indeed enthusiasm. 

From about the date of this letter onwards potatoes 
grew steadily in popularity. Hanbury, in his " Complete 
Body of Planting and Gardening," published in 1771, 
wrote that "they are universally admired.' High and 
low, rich and poor, covet them at their tables. In Ireland 
and some other countries they are become the staple 
sustenance of the common people. With the former 
they seem perfectly to agree, though all will not allow 
them to be entirely wholesome ; and a dullness is said to 
attend the constant eating of them. Most allow that 
they are a cloy to genius ; and the Irish, who are 
undoubtedly hardy in the field, are said to be an 
heavy sort of people, probably on account of their 
immoderate use of potatoes." 

To boil Potatoes 

Ability to boil potatoes as potatoes should be boiled 
has been wisely proposed as the index of a good 
cook. Poor sorts of potatoes, or poor specimens of good 
varieties, cannot by any culinary ingenuity be converted 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 91 

into the delicious dish which boiled potatoes may afford. 
In dealing with new potatoes freshly dug from the soil, 
first wash and vigorously rub them in cold water, and 
then place them in a pan of boiling salted water (a 
teaspoonful to a quart), and boil for about a quarter 
of an hour or twenty minutes. Then pour off the 
water, again place the saucepan on the fire, having 
removed the lid of the pan, and keep the potatoes 
on the shake for about five minutes. They should 
be served on a napkin placed in a hot vegetable 
dish, and should be covered only with a warm napkin, 
or adequate evaporation will be impossible. - 

Old potatoes also are best cooked in their skins, but 
they should be placed in a pan of cold salted water and 
boiled for about twenty minutes, testing their condition 
with a fork. They should be dried and served in the 
same way as new potatoes, though, if preferred, the 
skins may be removed after cooking and before serving. 
The ordinary method of peeling potatoes before cooking 
them is destructive of all flavour and diminutive of food 
value. Instead of being boiled, potatoes may be steamed, 
the other steps in the preparation being similar. In 
order that all the tubers may be cooked equally, those 
only of approximately the same size should be cooked 
together. 

To fry Potatoes 

which have been . previously boiled, they should ("if 
old) be peeled, and then cut into slices about a 
quarter of an inch in thickness. The slices are 
then to be placed in the boiling oil (several inches 
deep) of the saute-pan over a good fire, and kept 
moving till they assume a rich golden brown colour. 
They should then be drained on blotting paper or 
a wire sieve, and slightly salted, a little pepper and 
finely-minced parsley being also sprinkled over them 



92 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

if desired. The slices of potato may be dipped in 
savoury egg and bread crumbs before being placed 
in the saute-pan. 

Mashed Potatoes 

is made by boiling a dozen potatoes as directed, and, 
having thoroughly dried them and broken them each 
into two parts, squeezing the contents from the skins 
into a pan containing two ounces of butter, a quarter 
of a pint of nearly boiling milk, and a little pepper and 
salt, the whole being thoroughly mixed and smoothed 
by being beaten with a fork. 

To bake Potatoes 

Of all the methods of cooking potatoes, none are 
more delicious and none so full of romance as that 
of baking. No one can have lived long and freely in 
London without having discovered the infinite charm 
of the fruit of the night potato stall, and there are 
few country boys but know the joy yielded by the 
potato baked in the ashes of the bonfire when the 
more violent glow of the flames has departed. In 
this way, or equally well in an ordinary Dutch oven, 
may baked potatoes of the highest excellence be pre- 
pared. Choose large potatoes, bake for about two 
hours until the outer- jacket bursts. A little salt, 
pepper and butter, or cheese (the latter making delicious 
combinations with starchy foods of all kinds), should 
be served with them. 

Potato Fritters 

The more complicated dishes of which potatoes form 
the chief ingredients are almost infinite in number. 
A pleasant way of frying potatoes is to boil a dozen 
moderate-sized tubers, pound them when cold, with 
half a small cupful of minced parsley, a little mace Or 




AMATEURS SHED FOR STORING POTATOES 




ORR S STORING TRAYS 
(shotving method of slad'tnir) 





ORR S STORING TRrtYS 



96 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

cinnamon, a little pepper, and a little salt, making the 
mixture into small fritters and frying in butter or oil till 
golden. A couple of well-beaten eggs and a teacupful of 
cream may be mixed with the pounded potatoes, and the 
flavouring spices and herbs may be varied to any extent. 

Potatoes and Cheese 

A good dish is made by taking four moderate- 
sized potatoes, peeling them and cutting them into 
slices a quarter of an inch in thickness, placing these 
in a well-buttered baking dish, covering with a mix- 
ture of two ounces of grated cheese, half-a-dozen 
boiled and minced onions, an ounce of butter, and a 
little salt, pepper and sage, and baking for nearly 
two hours until thoroughly cooked and browned. 

Puree of Potatoes 

Cold boiled potatoes may be pleasantly utilised by 
mincing them with cold boiled spinach, cabbage or 
turnip-tops, and frying the mixture with a little butter 
until a nice brown. They may be used in the cold 
state either as a salad, or by being passed through 
a fine sieve and mixed with a little pepper, salt, minced 
parsley, some cream (a breakfast-cupful to four 
moderate-sized potatoes), bechamel sauce (a tea-cupful), 
with gelatine (an ounce to four potatoes) dissolved 
therein, the resulting mixture to be placed on ice, 
and served as a set puree. 

Peas 

Even more delicious to most palates than asparagus 
itself, green peas have long been almost universally 
popular in England. 

"Dig garden, stroy mallow, now may ye at ease, 
And set (as a daintie) thy runcival pease " 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 9 ; 

were among the January "Points " of Tusser, and tha 
there were peas and peas is shown by the record in th< 
privy purse expenses of Henry VIII. : "Paid to a mai 
in reward for bringing pescodds to the King's grace 
iiijs. viiid." 

Worlidge, in his " Systema Agriculturae : Publishec 
for the Common Good," of which the second editioi 
appeared in 1675? enumerates " several sorts of Gardei 
Pease sown or planted in this kingdom, some approvec 
of for their being early ripe, and some for their pleasan 
taste ; others from their being late ripe succeeding the 
other." 

Garden peas have been discovered in old Swiss lake- 
dwellings of the bronze age, and they were among the 
vegetables cultivated in ancient Greece, but theii 
original habitat is uncertain. By some the garden pea h 
thought to be but a variety of Pis urn arvense, the fielc 
pea, which is found wild in Italy, but this seems to be 
doubtful. Peas figured honourably in German mythologj 
and were consecrated to Thor, who was supposed, bein£ 
a god of some gastronomic taste, to have a weak 
ness for this vegetable. 

Shakspere's "Squash" referred to young pods before 
the formation of Peas — or Peason, as the plural was 
almost invariably written previous to the seventeenth 
century : " Not yet old enough to be a man, nor young 
enough for a boy: as a Squash is before 'tis a Peascod, 
or a Codling when 'tis almost an Apple." Most of the 
early English references to Pese and Peason are con- 
cerned with the dried kinds, though even in Normar 
times there are records of green peas being eaten ai 
Barking Nunnery and elsewhere. 

To boil Peas 

There is no room for doubt as to the best methoc 
of cooking peas, providing they be of a good variety. 



98 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

freshly picked, and in good condition. Tender green 
peas should be placed in a stewpan containing only just 
sufficient salted (a teaspoonful to the pint) boiling water 
to cover them. Add nothing else, neither soda, nor 
mint, nor yolks of eggs. Boil quickly for about ten 
minutes until the peas are tender, the lid of the pan 
being kept off the while. Drain in a colander, and serve 
in a hot vegetable dish. That is the one and only way 
in which the better sorts of peas — especially the better 
sorts of marrowfats — should be cooked. But there are 
peas other than the best, and even the most fastidious 
worshipper of the simple will allow some attempts at 
improvement in dealing with such. For example, the 
addition of a few leaves of mint or parsley and a little 
butter (an ounce to the pint) to the water in the stewpan 
may be tried, or even a small onion may be boiled with 
the peas. 

To cook Old Peas 

Old peas are best cooked by being placed, together 
with a little butter and flavourings as suggested 
above, in a screw-stoppered jar, which is to' be set 
in a stewpan of water kept boiling for about three- 
quarters of an hour. A lump of sugar is commonly 
added ; and sometimes a lettuce, cut up into inch squares, 
is boiled with the peas. 

More complicated dishes may be accomplished by 
adding to the peas cooked in any of the above ways the 
yolks of eggs well beaten up with cream (two eggs and 
four tablespoonfuls of cream to a pound of peas), care 
being taken to avoid the boiling point. 

Old peas boiled with a minimum of water, a little 
butter, ham, herbs, pepper and salt, subsequently 
improved by the addition of the egg and cream mixture, 
afford a pleasant dish. 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 99 

Pea Croquettes 
Peas, thoroughly cooked and well drained, may be 
beaten to a pulp, mixed with a little butter, pepper, 
salt, cooked ham finely minced, herbs and breadcrumbs, 
made into little croquettes, dipped in egg and bread- 
crumbs and fried in boiling oil. Or the cooked and 
pulped peas may be rubbed through a sieve, mixed with 
butter, cream, salt and pepper, and served as a puree. 
Pease-pudding may be made either with green peas or 
dried split ones. In either case boil them till tender, 
drain them and pass them through a sieve. Add and 
thoroughly mix a little cinnamon, pepper, salt and butter 
(an ounce to the pint), together with a sliced onion and 
some well-beaten eggs (three to the pint). Place the 
mixture in a screw-stoppered jar, well-buttered, and 
cook in a bain-marie. 

To cook Pea-pods 

The pods of peas are usually wasted in this 
country, although they are lacking neither in nourish- 
ment nor flavour. In the case of very young pods 
they may be cooked entire in salted boiling water, as 
directed in dealing with shelled peas ; but in the case 
of older pods they should be trimmed, sliced, and boiled 
for a considerable time till thoroughly tender. Even 
when the pods themselves are not cared for, the water in 
which they have been boiled goes towards the making 
of stock for vegetable soup. 

Dried Split Peas, 

and, what are very much to be preferred, dried 
green peas, are among the most concentrated and 
valuable of foods. A pennyworth of dried peas 
contains in actual flesh-forming constituents the equi- 
valent of at least a pound of beef-steak, a fact 



ioo THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

which authors who complain of their publishers' terms 
would do well to bear in mind. Dried peas require a 
little more care in their cooking and preparation for the 
table than it is usually their destiny to receive. They 
should be well washed in several waters and then left 
to soak in cold water for at least six hours. It is when 
they appear as pea-soup that dried peas deserve best the 
encomium of the thrifty gastronome. 

To make Pea-soup, 

take a pint of soaked peas and place them, together 
with a sliced onion, a sliced carrot, two sliced turnips, 
a little celery, some thyme, mint and sage or other 
herbs, a dozen peppercorns, a teaspoonful of salt and 
three pints of water, in a large saucepan. Boil until 
the peas are tender, which will take about two hours. 
Strain and pass the vegetables through a sieve, and add 
the puree to the broth. It is a good plan to fry the 
sliced vegetables in a little butter, previously to placing 
them in the saucepan. Mrs Roundell advises that, just 
before the pan is taken off the fire, a little cream or the 
yolk of an egg beaten with milk be added to the soup, 
and either of these certainly is a pleasant supplement. 
Fresh green peas may be used to make soup in some- 
what like manner, but, in their case, soaking is not to 
be practised, nor is so long a period of boiling required. 

Beans 

Few vegetables, as indeed few plants of any class, 
surpass in decorative value the sturdy, self-support- 
ing broad bean, with its fragrant, creamy flowers ; or 
its scarlet-blooming relative, the twining kidney bean. 
Among the ancient Egyptians, however, so far from 
being an object meet for admiration, the bean was 
considered an unclean thing, evil even if but looked 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 101 

upon ; and the fear of the scent of bean flowers has 
lasted in rural England down to quite recent times. 
On the other hand the Greeks and Romans held beans 
in high honour, many believing that they contained the 
souls of the departed. However, there were others 
whose admiration took a more practical form, and Pliny 
reports that beans were eaten boiled, mixed with flour 
and baked, served with vinegar as a hors-d'oeuvre, and 
boiled in the green pod. Pliny also tells us that Roman 
farmers were accustomed to plough the green bean 
plants into the soil with a view of rendering it richer 
and more fertile, thus forecasting our recent discovery 
of the power of leguminous plants to obtain nitrogen 
from the air. 

The broad bean was early introduced into England, 
though its great value as food does not appear to have 
been at first recognised, for we find Chaucer saying : — 

" None other lif, sayd he, is worth a Bene.'' 

The economic value of the bean, however, gradually 
won recognition, and Fuller quotes a common saying of 
his time : " Shake a Leicestershire yeoman by the collar, 
and you shall hear the beans rattle in his belly " ; and 
adds that the " yeomen smile at what is said to rattle in 
their bellies, whilst they know good silver ringeth in 
their pockets." 

The use of the bean in Twelfth Night elections is 
well known, but it is interesting to find that the Greeks 
and Romans used it extensively as an instrument of the 
ballot. Its use at the mayoral elections in one of the 
smaller towns of Leicestershire reduced the expenses of 
contesting candidates to a minimum. The would-be 
mayors having duly seated themselves so as to form a 
semi-circular arc, each holding between his knees his 
inverted hat full of beans, a pig was carefully driven into 
their midst who by his first choice decided the election. 



102 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

The Dutch Kidney Bean, or Haricot, although culti- 
vated in France in the ninth century, was only introduced 
into England at about the beginning of the sixteenth 
century, the scarlet runner being introduced a hundred 
years later. Gerard described several kinds of " kidney 
beans of Brasile," or " Faselles," and said that their 
"fruit and pods boiled together before they be ripe, 
and so eaten, are exceedingly delicate meat." 

To boil Broad Beans, 

the water should be boiling vigorously when the 
shelled beans (which should be much younger than 
the usual age at which they are cooked) are intro- 
duced. A salt-spoonful of salt should be added 
to a quart of water. The beans should be boiled 
for about twenty to twenty-five minutes, until the 
skins crack. They may then be drained from water 
and served with butter, sauce Hollandaise, or Beurre 
fondu ; or the beans may be taken from the pan, and 
their skins rubbed off by means of a warm cloth, the 
centres being heated in a simple sauce, or minced with 
herbs and butter. 

Beans and Onions 

An excellent bean dish is the following : Fry 
in a little butter a moderate-sized onion, with a 
sprig or two of sweet herbs. Place these, together 
with a quart of young broad beans which have been 
shelled, in a saucepan containing a quart of boiling 
water. Season with pepper and salt, and, if desired, 
add also a few tomatoes. Boil gently for about three 
quarters of an hour, adding a little more water if 
needed, and serve. Or a little ham and a tumbler of 
wine with a couple of ounces of sugar may be added, 
instead of the tomatoes, about twenty minutes before 
serving. 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 103 



Beans and Bacon, 

being one of those combinations whose Tightness 
depends, not on the vagaries of fashion, but on phy- 
siological fact, retains its ancient place in the favour 
of hungry men. Mrs Glasse gives to the pre- 
paration of this dish the space which it deserves. 
"When you dress beans and bacon," said she, "boil 
the bacon by itself, and the beans by themselves, for 
the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Always 
throw some salt into the water, and some parsley, nicely 
picked. When the beans are cooked enough (which 
you will know by their being tender) throw them into a 
cullender to drain. Take up the bacon and skin it ; 
throw some raspings of bread over the top, and if you 
have an iron make it red hot and hold over it, to brown 
the top of the bacon ; if you have not one, set it before 
the fire to brown. Lay the beans in the dish, and the 
bacon in the middle on the top, and send them to table 
with parsley and butter in a basin." 

Mrs Roundell's directions are, as usual, wise and 
concisely expressed. " Choose a pig's cheek which is not 
dry and hard, otherwise it must be soaked for four hours, 
and will not be nearly so good as if cooked when fresh. . 
Put it in a saucepan with five quarts of water, and let it 
simmer gently, allowing twenty minutes for each pound 
of meat. Shell two pounds of Broad Beans. Half-an- 
hour before the pig's cheek is done take out two quarts 
of the_ liquid in which it is boiling, and replace instantly 
with two quarts of boiling water. Put the two quarts 
of liquid in another pan, throw in the Broad Beans, and 
boil them in the liquid for from twenty minutes to half- 
an-hour. Serve the pig's cheek in a large hot dish. 
Moisten the Broad Beans with a spoonful of the liquid, 
and put s.ome of them round the pig's cheek in the dish, 



io 4 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

the rest in a vegetable dish. The remainder of the 
liquid makes excellent second stock." 
Another old favourite dish is 

Baked Beans and Pork. 

Put a knuckle of pork and a little salt into an earthen- 
ware jar which holds five quarts. Then fill it half full 
with shelled Broad Beans, and add cold water up to the 
brim. Put on the lid of the jar, which must have a hole 
in it to allow the steam to escape. Set the jar in the 
oven, and let it remain there twelve hours. The beans 
and meat will be perfectly cooked by that time in rich 
gravy. The gravy will form a jelly when cold. 

Like Broad Beans, 

French Beans 

also should be used at a much younger stage than 
is usually the case. They do not then require 
stringing, which process, as Mrs Roundell points out, 
lets out some of the flavour. Neither, unless they 
are very old, should French Beans be sliced. They 
should be boiled, in exactly the same way as directed 
for shelled Broad Beans, until they are tender. Serve 
with Beurre fondu, or Sauce Hollandaise. Unless they 
are too old, French Beans should never be cooked 
in any other way than the above ; but old ones 
may be cooked by slicing them and stewing them in 
a minimum of well-seasoned stock until tender, finally 
thickening the stock with egg and pouring it over them. 
A number of excellent Italian recipes are given in 
"Leaves from our Tuscan Kitchen," by Janet Ross. 
This is a recipe for 

Beans alia Crema. 

Take a pint of French Beans which have been nearly 
cooked by the process of boiling, and, having dried them, 



HISTORY AND COOKERY 



105 



fry them in butter. Mix a teacupful of cream, an egg, 
some grated cheese, and some allspice well together in a 
saucepan, then add some lemon juice, a little white wine 
vinegar, and boil. Pour this sauce over the beans, mix 
well, and serve up hot. 




DWARF BEAN — CANADIAN WONDER 



Beans alio Zabajo?w 

is prepared thus. Clean and remove the strings from 
two quarts of French Beans, and put them into cold 
water ; then boil and strain, and lay them in a dish. 
Put two yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of sugar, 
two of white wine vinegar, and two of water into a 
saucepan on a slow fire. Mix and heat, but do not allow 
it to boil. Pour the sauce over the beans and serve hot. 



io6 THE BOOK OF VEGETABLES 

Haricot Beans, 

or, indeed, any of the beans, in the mature and 
dried state, freed from their pods, are among the most 
valuable and nutritious of articles of food. They 
should be washed and then soaked in cold water 
for the whole of the night previous to cooking them. 
For each pint of soaked beans place in a saucepan two 
quarts of cold water and place the beans therein. Boil 
for three hours. When the beans are about half done 
add a dessertspoonful of salt. Strain in a colander, 
reserving the water in which the beans have been boiled 
to be used as stock. They may be served with Beurre 
fondu, parsley and butter, or with bacon. 

Mixed with sliced carrots, turnips and onions, celery or 
tomatoes, haricot beans make a nutritious and pleasant 
soup. Allow one pint of haricots to two quarts of water, 
season with pepper and salt, and boil for two hours. 

It may interest the impecunious to learn, that for one 
penny spent on haricots they may obtain six times as 
much nitrogen and twenty times as much carbon as for 
the same amount spent on beef. 



