A' 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS 



OF 



PURITY FOR FOODS 
AND DRUGS 



BY 

C. G. MOOR, MA., F.I.C., F.C.S. 

JOINT-AUTHOR OF 
'APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY," "AIDS TO THE ANALYSIS OF FOODS AND DRUGS." 

"WATER ANALYSIS," "MILK AND MILK-PRODUCTS," ETC. 
LATE SENIOR DEMONSTRATOR PUBLIC HEALTH LABORATORIES, KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON ; 

LATE PUBLIC ANALYST TO THE CITY OF EXETER ; 
CHIEF CHEMIST TO THE ASHANTI GOLDFIELDS CORPORATION. 





LONDON 

BAILLIERE, TINDALL AND COX 

8, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN 

1902 

[All rights reserved} 



WORKS BY PEARMAIN AND MOOR. 



AIDS TO THE ANALYSIS OF FOODS AND DRUGS. 

Second Edition. 206 pages. 3s. 6d. 

AIDS TO THE STUDY OF BACTERIOLOGY. 3s. d6. 
APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY (out of print).* 

THE CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL EXAMINATION 
OF WATER. 5s. net. 

MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS. 5s. net. 

SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY FOR FOODS 
AND DRUGS. 258 pages. 7s. 6d. net. 

* APPLIED BACTERIOLOGY being out of print, we direct 
attention to MR. MOOR'S smaller work on this subject, entitled 
AIDS TO THE STUDY OF BACTERIOLOGY, which is a con- 
densation of the larger work. 



BAILLIERE, TINDALL AND COX. 



PREFACE. 

In the year 1897 the author, in conjunction with the late Mr. T. II. 
Pearmain, undertook a work entitled "The Analysis of Food and 
Drugs," Part I. of which, "Milk and Milk Products," was published 
in June, 1897, and followed by Part II., "Water Analysis," in 1899. 
It was intended to complete the work in two more parts, one dealing 
with foods and one with drugs. It appeared, however, that it was not 
so much a work on the analysis of these substances that was required, 
but a book dealing more particularly with the results of analysis 
that is, the interpretation of results. This view was strengthened by dis- 
cussions with Mr. Cecil H. Cribb, with whom the author was engaged 
in writing on "The Statistics of Adulteration " in the British Food 
Journal, in 1900, and led to the final abandonment of Parts III. and IV. 
in separate form. 

THIS work is the outcome of a series of articles on the 
statistics of adulteration published by Cecil H. Cribb 
and C. G. Moor, and the original intention was to have 
issued it under the joint names of Cecil H. Cribb, C. G. 
Moor and Martin Priest. 

Messrs. Cribb and Priest, however, were unable to 
continue their collaboration, owing to pressure of work 
and other circumstances. 

Many years ago an attempt was made by the Society 
of Public Analysts to suggest certain limits or standards 
as indicating the genuineness of certain articles, such as 
milk, butter, etc. Some of the figures then suggested 
are still in use, and the aim of the present work is to 
endeavour to extend the same principle to other articles 



iv PREFACE 

that come within the scope of analysts' duties generally. 
The figures here suggested as indicating genuineness or the 
reverse must be accepted as tentative only, and as by no 
means settled. In the case of some articles it may never 
be possible to place a numerical valuation on any figure 
or figures as indicating genuineness ; still, in most cases, 
in order to form an opinion on an article, some standard 
must be decided on, and in cases where our knowledge is 
not so far advanced as to admit of this, it will be useful 
to compare the figures yielded on analysis with those 
obtained by other observers on samples of known origin, 
and such I have attempted to collect. 

The principle of extending and improving the methods 
of testing and standardizing is noticeable in the 1898 
edition of the British Pharmacopoeia, which contains 
many more requirements in this direction than the 
previous (1885) edition, and the same idea is prevalent 
in the American, in the German, and in all modern 
works of the same nature. Similarly, in this country 
commissions have recently been held to determine on 
standards to insure the purity of dairy products, and to 
fix limits for the permissible quantities of preservatives 
in foods. 

I have to express my indebtedness to the following 
gentlemen, many of whom have taken a considerable 
amount of trouble in replying to questions, in furnishing 
me with specimens and with unpublished work from their 
own laboratories : Messrs. Allen and Sons, J. Barclay, 
Bascombe, F. G. J. Bird, Theo. Brewis, C. M. Caines,* 
Dodd, H. Gadd, Hobhouse and Harvey, E. M. Holmes, 
H. W. Jones, W. E. Lucas, W. H. Naylor, J. C. Stead, 
J. C. Umney. 

A great deal of the practical work embodied in this 

* I am indebted to Mr. Caines for the abstracts of the German 
Pharmacopoeia requirements. 



PREFACE v 

book was carried out by Martin Priest, William Gladwyn, 
and William Partridge, to whom the author is also 
indebted for assistance and suggestions. 

In addition I have to acknowledge my indebtedness to 
the Analyst, the Year-Book of Pharmacy, the Ghemist and 
Druggist, the Pharmaceutical Journal and the American 
Journal of Pharmacy. All these publications contain 
information which is indispensable to a practising analyst, 
and without constantly consulting them he cannot hope 
to keep in touch .with modern work. Many references 
will be found to original papers, but I do not pretend 
that such references are by any means exhaustive, and 
would urge readers to carefully examine the indexes of 
the above publications when dealing with doubtful 
samples. Not only ought the scientific aspect of each 
problem to be considered, but the practical or trade 
applications ; this latter view sometimes does not receive 
the attention it deserves. For example, there are certain 
preparations of medicine which are directed to be made 
up in a particular way, which when tested are found to 
give results not quite in accord with what might at first 
sight be expected, as, for instance, vinum quininae, 
certain tinctures, liquid extracts, and the like. 

Without some knowledge of the actual preparation, 
mode of keeping, and of dispensing, it is impossible to 
come to a just decision as to their quality or genuineness, 
and for this reason I would urge on all analysts holding 
appointments under the Food and Drugs Acts to make 
themselves thoroughly familiar with the current weekly 
literature bearing on these points, and in doubtful cases 
to examine preparations of knoivn origin, side by side ivith 
the sample in question. 

At the present day, deliberate adulteration or substitu- 
tion in the case of drugs is rare, though it does still occur, 
notably in the case of santal oil, bees-wax, essential oils, 



vi PREFA CE 

preparations of ipecacuanha, strophanthus, etc., while 
the large quantities cf foreign matter in many other 
articles must be regarded as an adulteration. 

There is a great tendency on the part of the public to 
try and obtain " bargains " in medicinal preparations, as 
in everything else, and this demand naturally creates a 
supply. Where there is a demand for cheap medicines," 55 " 
they are sure to be made from inferior articles, and less 
care will be taken in their preparation than if a fair price 
were paid for a good article. 

Such attempts at economy on the part of the public do 
not benefit them, and lower the general excellence of 
medicine of known and approved composition, and cause 
an increased demand for patent medicines or secret 
preparations, which may in many cases do more harm 
than good. In the United States, in Germany, and in 
other countries, many such preparations have been 
officially examined, and it is much to be desired that a 
similar course could be adopted in this country, seeing 
that, from the extravagant statements made, there can 
be no possible doubt that many persons are imposed on, 
and gravely prejudiced by being induced to purchase 
remedies that cannot possibly fulfil the claims made for 
them. The moral of the above is that every attempt 
should be made to induce the public to adhere to Phar- 
macopoeial drugs and preparations of the best quality, 
and to leave questionable remedies alone. 

In considering the merits of any particular article, 
whether examined under the Food and Drugs Acts, or 
for other purposes, due regard must be had to the purpose 
for which it is intended, seeing that there may be a 
legitimate use for an article which need not be pure in 
certain cases, whereas if intended for medicinal use its 

* A precisely similar view is to be found expressed very clearly 
on p. 290 of the Year-Book of Pharmacy, 1900, in the Presidential 
Address at the Pharmaceutical Conference of that year. 



PREFACE vii 

purity would be essential ; but when such commercial 
articles are sold they should be plainly marked as 
" mixtures." 

In the following pages a large number of figures on 
commercial tinctures will be found. Those to which the 
names of various observers are attached were examined by 
them, and in most cases the tinctures were prepared under 
their supervision. In the case, however, of all those 
estimations of gravity, total solids* and alcohol which 
were examined in the author's laboratory, and are followed 
by the initials " M. and P." or by the name Partridge 
or Gladwyn, the samples were trade samples, respecting 
the origin of which there is no information; and if 
anomalies are noticeable in these figures, they may be 
due to incorrect manufacture, and are in no loay to be 
taken as standards ; they are only of interest in showing 
the general character of large quantities of commercial 
tinctures, and the variations in the total solids are in- 
teresting, and show what care must be exercised in 
attempting to judge of a sample on this figure. 

Regarding the scope of this work, it will probably 
appear to many readers that some of the articles 
mentioned are of small importance, while more im- 
portant articles are omitted. 

Thus, in the case of beer and of preservatives, the 
author does not feel competent to deal properly with 
subjects which require special knowledge and an experi- 
ence he has had no opportunity of acquiring. 

With regard to medicinal preparations, the original 
intention was to deal with all British Pharmacopoeial 
preparations, but as this proved too large a task, a selec- 
tion had to be made, which led to the omission of most 
chemicals which either are not likely to be adulterated 
or for which there are definite chemical tests presenting 

* These figures are iu grammes per 100 c.c. 



viii PREFACE 

no difficulties. In the next edition it is hoped to largely 
extend the number of articles dealt with, and any sug- 
gestions in this respect will be welcomed. Among the 
large number of analytical figures and statements quoted 
(both from publications and communicated privately) it 
is sure that errors on the author's part have occurred, 
and that credit has not always been assigned to the 
proper authorities. In all such cases the author is very 
desirous of being set right, and will esteem it a favour if 
those who notice such errors will correct him, either 
publicly or privately. 

C. G. MOOE. 

CHEMICAL LABORATORY, 

4, DANE'S INN, STRAND, W.C. 
August, 1902. 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

FOB 

FOODS AND DRUGS. 



Acacia Gum. 

(For Use in Medicine.) 

Definition. The British Pharmacopoeia describes it as 
" A gummy exudation from the stem of Acacia Senegal, 
and of other species of acacia." 

Description. For official description see British Phar- 
macopoeia. 

Remarks. The finest gum arabic, the " gum acacia 
elect," of wholesale drug lists, corresponds closely to 
the description of the drug given in the Pharmacopoeia. 
It occurs usually in rounded tears varying from J- inch 
to 1 inch or more in diameter, externally dull, nearly 
white or with a slight yellowish tint, very brittle, 
minutely fissured on the surface, and readily splitting up 
into small angular glassy fragments under a slight blow. 
Minute fragments of bark occur in some of the tears, 
even in the best samples. It has hardly any odour, a 
slight but characteristic flavour, and is soluble in its own 
weight of water, forming a viscous solution possessing 
adhesive properties. Some samples of gum arabic from 
North-East Africa yield a glassy solution without adhesive 

2 



i8 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

properties, and others contain species that swell up but 
are not completely soluble in water. 

The gums chiefly employed for medicinal use are the 
Soudan gum and the Turkey and Mogador sorts of gum. 
The gum from Khordofan can, as a rule, be depended upon 
to come within the limits denned in the British Pharma- 
copoeia. Ghatti gum, from India, of the best quality, 
makes a mucilage about twice as viscous as gum arabic, 
and makes a better emulsifier, but it does not conform 
to the official description. 

A very considerable trade in picking and garbling of 
gum is carried on in Trieste, and it is not always easy to 
say the exact sources of the various gums consigned to 
this country. 

Standard. The Pharmacopoeia requires the gum to 
be insoluble in 90 per cent, alcohol, but entirely soluble 
in water, forming a viscid solution faintly acid to litmus. 
A solution in an equal weight of water should not form 
a glairy mucilage (i.e., have characters similar to egg- 
albumin), nor after addition of more water yield a 
gummy deposit on standing. 

The solution, when tested with the following reagents, 
should yield : 

With solution of lead subacetate, an opaque white 
jelly ; with solution of borax, a more or less translucent 
white jelly. 

With lead acetate, no precipitate (arabinate of lead) ; 
no blue or brown with iodine solution ; no bluish-black 
with solution of ferric chloride (tannin) ; nor a red pre- 
cipitate with Fehling's solution (reducing sugars). 

The ash should not exceed 4 per cent. (B.P.) ; (G.P. 
4 per cent.). 

Remarks. The following are recent figures of ash : 

Per cent. Authority. 

Soudan gum, picked ... 3'0 to 3'16 ... Umney. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 19 

Per cent. Authority. 

Turkey sorts 3-2 to 3-4 ... Umney. 

Mogadore sorts 3-7 to 4-0 ... ,, 

Acacia gum ... .:. 3-1 Caines. 

Turkey medium, bold ... 3'85 Priest. 

Small Turkey, browned ... 2-5 ,, 

Acacia gum 2-6 M. and P. 

Acacia gum (opt.) 2-6 Dodd. 

Acacia gum (sorts) ... 1'7 ,, 



Aeoniti Radix. 

Definition. " The root of AconitumNapellus, collected 
in the autumn from plants cultivated in Great Britain, 
and dried " (B.P.). 

Remarks. The characteristic features of the root of 
Aconitum Napellus are the gradually tapering conical 
root, having leaf scars at the crown, but no traces of 
a stem (indicating that it has not been exhausted by 
flowering), the brownish- black colour externally, and the 
white, firm, starchy interior showing a central column 
having five to seven projecting angles. When chewed 
it causes a numbing, tingling sensation on the tongue 
in about two minutes, lasting for two or more hours. 
The Japanese root is grayish-black rather than brownish- 
black, and tapers almost suddenly below, so as to present 
a more truly conical outline. It rarely exceeds 2 inches 
in length, being usually about 1J inches, whereas the 
English root is from 2 to 4 inches long. Although it 
produces a tingling and numbing sensation on the tongue, 
it is said to have a very different action on the heart to the 
root of Aconitum Napelhis, and is therefore by no means 
an equivalent for it. German aconite root frequently pre- 
sents remains of the stem at the crown of the root, and 
being generally collected when the plant is in flower, and 
the root is therefore often spongy and exhausted, it is said 
to be of inferior quality to the English drug, and is, more- 

22 



20 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

over, likely to contain the roots of other species having the 
same coloured flowers, but differing widely in the charac- 
teristic constituents from the official species, as is the case 
with Aconitum paniculatum and Aconitum variegatum. 

The following figures have been recently obtained on 
English aconite root : 

Moisture. Ash. Authority. 

8-6* Priest. 

' 5-0 

11-8 4-7 Moor. 

12-8 3-5 Priest. 

11-6 3-8 Gladwyn. 

13-5 3-2 Dodd. 

The ash of properly cleaned roots should not exceed 
5 to 6 per cent. 

Alkaloidal Estimations in Aconite Root. 

The alkaloid aconitine, C 33 H 45 N0 12 , a crystalline 
body, is the chief active constituent of aconite, but con- 
siderable uncertainty still exists as to the constitution of 
the other alkaloids, and it is still open to doubt whether 
the products obtained by different processes of extraction 
do not differ from one another both chemically and in 
their physiological action. 

The standardisation of the preparation of aconite root 
is, in the present state of our knowledge, a matter of great 
difficulty, as the proportion of total alkaloids given by 
most of the older workers is quite unreliable, owing to 
defective methods of analysis; only those analyses in which 
the alkaloids were obtained in a crystalline condition can 
be regarded as satisfactory, as those otherwise obtained 
afford little or no criterion of the physiological activity 
of samples yielding them. On the other hand, methods 
of crystallisation are by no means easily applicable to 
the small quantities necessarily dealt with in analytical 
* Contained mineral matter. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 21 

work, so that no routine process can be at present 
suggested. 

The total alkaloids may be determined by the process 
employed by Farr and Wright (Pharm. Journ., 3, xxi. 
1037) : Moisten 20 grammes of the coarsely-powdered 
drug with alcohol of about specific gravity -890, and 
extract slowly in a conical percolator until 160 c.c. of 
percolate have been obtained. Evaporate the tincture 
thus obtained over a water-bath to a small bulk, to 
drive off the alcohol. Cool, add water to reduce con- 
sistency of the liquid, then add 15 c.c. of ^5- sulphuric 
acid, filter, wash the precipitate with acidulated water, 
shake the filtrate twice with chloroform to remove colour- 
ing matter. Shake the separated chloroform with acidu- 
lated water to remove traces of alkaloids, adding the 
aqueous liquid to the main bulk. Make the latter just 
alkaline with potassium carbonate, and extract the 
alkaloids by two agitations with chloroform (30 to 
40 c.c.). Wash the chloroformic solution with water, 
evaporate over hot water, and dry at 100 0. until 
constant. 

The average amount of ether-soluble alkaloids in 
English roots is about *6 per cent. (Barclay). 

An apparently useful process has been devised by 
Umney for the estimation of aconitine (P. J., April 6, 
1896), but the purification of the galenical preparations 
for the use of this process is not easy. 

In consequence of the higher price of English roots 
(nearly double the German), English consumers have 
used foreign roots, and at present as only a small 
quantity is grown in England the price is often much 
higher than it would be if there were a regular demand 
for it. Much of the liniment and tincture of commerce 
is made from foreign roots. The tincture at least should 
be prepared from the official root. 



22 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

The green extract of the 1885 British Pharmacopoeia 
was of very variable composition (Pharm. Journ., 3, 
xxiv. 901). 

Note. The German Pharmacopoeia (Edit. IV.) gives a method for 
the assay of aconite root, and as the matter is an important one I 
give the working details : Take 12 grammes of root in powder dried 
at 100 C., and shake thoroughly with 90 grammes of ether and 
30 grammes of chloroform and 10 c.c. of a solution of caustic soda 
(15 per cent.), and allow to stand for three hours, shaking occasionally. 
Sufficient water is then added to cause the powder to agglomerate, 
leaving the supernatant mixture of ether and chloroform quite clear. 
After standing for an hour, the liquid is poured on to a filter, covered 
to avoid evaporation, and 100 grammes of filtrate are collected in a 
flask, one-half of the liquid is distilled off, and the remainder poured 
into a separator, the flask being washed out three times with 5 c.c. of 
ether- chloroform. The mixed liquids are shaken with 25 c.c. of 
TTO HC1. After complete separation has taken place, enough ether is 
added to cause the ether-chloroform layer to float above the acid 
liquid, and the latter is filtered through a small filter wetted with 
water into a 100 c.c. flask ; the ether chloroform remaining in the 
separator is washed three times with 10 c.c. of water, and the washings 
passed through the filter, which is also washed till the liquid in the 
flask measures 100 c.c. After mixing, 50 c.c. is taken, and sufficient 
ether added to form two layers. Five drops of iodeosin are added, and 
the mixture titrated with TTrTr NaHO solution ; 8 '5 c.c. of solution 
should be required. 

Note. The G.P. gives no directions as to the procedure to be adopted 
in cases where the root proves to be considerably stronger or weaker in 
alkaloidal contents than indicated by the above official test. 

Lin. Aeoniti.* 

For preparation, see B.P. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, grammes . , -, -, 

15 -5 C. per 100 c.c. 10L 

871 (M. & P.) 5-5 (M. & P.) 80-7 (M. & P. 

930 10-1 73-3 

868 3-3 79-0 

902 10-3 75-5 

861 5-5 82-6 

881 (Caines) 2-8 (Priv. com.) 81-2 (Priv. com.) 

862 (Priv. com.) 4-9 (Gadd) 

These were commercial samples of unknown origin. The variation 
in the total solids is surprising, and far exceeds the variations observ- 
able in the tincture. 

* Barclay suggests a standard of '25 per cent, of ether-soluble 
alkaloids as a standard in the liniment. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



Tinetura Aconiti. 

Aconite root in No. 40 powder, 50 grammes ; alcohol 
(70 per cent.) to make 1 litre (prepared by percolation). 
The following are recent estimations : 



Specific Gravity at Total Solids. A -, -, i 

15-5 0. (Gr. per 100 c.c.) Alcohol. 

893 (Lucas) 1-14 (M. & P.) 64-3 (P. M.) 

890 (Barclay) 1-18 (M. & P.) 67-2 (Priv. com.) 

896 (P. M.) 1-85 (Moor) 69-2(Chattaway 

*893 (Caines) 1*5 (Umney) average of 14 

*888 (Gladwyn) 1'64 (Dodd) estimations) 

900 (Moor) 1-3 (M. & P.) 67'9 (Umney) 

897 (Priv. com.) 1-3 (M. & P.) 691 (Stead) 

899 (Dodd) 1-5 (M. & P.) 61'4 (Dodd) 

897 (M. & P.) 1-3 (M. & P.) 68-4 (M. & P.) 

897 (M. & P.) 1-4 (Lucas) 69'0 (M. & P.) 

895 (M. & P.) 1-8 to 2-1 (H. 69'7 (M. & P.) 

896 (M. & P.) W. Jones) 67 -7 (M. & P.) 

896 to -900 (H. l-7\(Holthouse 70-2 (Barclay) 

W. Jones) 1-6J and Harvey) 68-7 (Gadd) 

899 (Gadd) 1-8 (Gadd) 66-2 (Fletcher) 

894 (Fletcher) 62-2 (Fletcher) 

Barclay proposes *02 per cent, of ether-soluble alkaloid as a 
standard (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898). 

Remarks. On account of the variability in the amount and char- 
acter of the alkaloid that different samples contain, it does not at 
present seem possible to suggest a standard to which this tincture 
should conform as regards the amount of alkaloid it should contain ; 
but some information may be gained by estimating the total solids, 
and by trying whether a drop of the tincture placed on the end of the 
tongue produces the characteristic numbness. 

Barclay assays the tincture by evaporating 100 c.c. with '4 of a 
gramme of tartario acid till syrupy ; he then adds 100 c.c. of water, 
and shakes in a separator with 3 or 4 separate quantities of ether ; the 
ether shakings are collected and washed with water, which is after- 
wards added to the original aqueous liquid, which is made alkaline 
with ammonia, and the alkaloids extracted with ether. 

Adeps Lanae, or Wool Fat. 

Definition. The purified cholesterin fat of sheep's 
wool. 



24 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Description. A yellowish, tenacious, unctuous sub- 
stance, almost inodorous; readily soluble in ether or 
chloroform, sparingly in alcohol. 

The solution in chloroform, poured gently over the 
surface of sulphuric acid, acquires a purple-red colour 
(B.P.). 

Wool fat in its natural condition is a wax in the strict 
sense of the term, and, like beeswax, contains much free 
acid, and a small amount of free alcohols, in addition to 
the wax proper (Lewkowitsch, Journ. Soc. Chem. Ind., 
1892, 135 ; 1896, 14). 

Adulterations. Nitrogenous animal matter, soap. Ex- 
cessive acidity and (until recently) traces of the solvent 
employed in its preparation. 

Standard. Melting-point, 40 to 44 C. (B.P.); about 
40 (G.P.). 

One gramme should dissolve almost completely in 
75 c.c. of boiling alcohol (90 per cent.), the greater part 
separating in flocks on cooling (B.P.). 

Water should be under 2*0 per cent, in the anhydrous 
adeps lanae and not more than 30 per cent, in the adeps 
lanae hydrosus. 

Ash not to exceed 0'3 per cent., which should not be 
alkaline to litmus (B.P.). 

Ten grammes dissolved in 25 c.c. of ether should not 
require more than O'l c.c. of normal sodium hydrate solu- 
tion for its neutralisation to phenolphthalein. 

Heated with solution of sodium hydrate, no ammonia- 
cal odour should be evolved. (Absence of nitrogenous 
animal matter. B.P.) 

Remarks. Ulzer and Seidel (abstract, Analyst, 1896, 
260) consider that for the technical examination of wool 
fat the following determinations should be made : The 
"total acidity number" i.e., the amount of potash 
required to neutralise the whole of the fatty acids and 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 25 

alcohols obtained by saponifying the fat and decompos- 
ing the soap with hydrochloric acid the iodine number, 
the Reichert - Meissl number, and the unsaponifiable 
matter. 

Samples examined from, time to time have required 
practically three times as much solution of soda for 
neutralisation as required by the British Pharmacopoeia, 
but it is now possible to obtain at low prices excellently 
purified wool fat, practically free from acidity, and leaving 
no smell of solvent even when warmed. 

The tests given in the German Pharmacopoeia are as follows : 
2 grammes dissolved in 10 c.c. of ether shall not require more than 
1 c.c. of ^ NaHO for neutrality to phenolphthalein. When melted 
and shaken with water, and the aqueous layer evaporated, no residue 
of glycerine shall be produced. 

Almond Oil (Oleum Amygdalae). 

Definition. " The oil expressed from the bitter or 
sweet almond " (B.P.). 

Description. Pale yellow, nearly inodorous, with a 
bland nutty taste. 

Adulterations. Peach-kernel, apricot kernel* and other 
fixed oils. Olive, arachis, sesame, rape, poppy and lard 
oils are also liable to be used. 

Standard. It should be soluble in ether and chloro- 
form in all proportions (B.P.). 

Specific gravity at 15'5 C., from -915 to -920. It does 
not congeal until cooled to nearly - 20 C. (B.P.). 

If 2 c.c. of the oil be well shaken with 1 c.c. of fuming 
nitric acid and 1 c.c. of water, a whitish, not brownish- 
red, mixture should be formed, which, after standing for 
six hours at about 10 C., should separate into a solid 

* Peach-kernel and apricot kernel oils are sold as "foreign almond 
oil" or "ol. amygdalae persic." "Foreign almond oil" will prob- 
ably consist of whichever of these two oils is cheaper at the time, or of 
a mixture of one of these oils with other fixed oils. 



26 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

whitish mass a nearly colourless liquid (absence of 
apricot-kernel* oil and other fixed oils). 

The iodine absorption of almond oil varies from 98 to 
108, and that of peach and apricot kernel oil is only a 
trifle higher, but this reaction is useless as a distinction 
between them. 

Remarks. Lard and olive oils give granular deposits 
at 5 C. 

The British Pharmacopoeia requirements and tests are 
now practically the same as those of the United States 
Pharmacopoeia, but with the exception of the nitric acid 
colour test, we have no certain means of detecting a con- 
siderable addition of kernel oil in almond oil. 

The German Pharmacopoeia states that almond-oil does not solidify 
above 10 C., and the specific gravity is given as 0'915 to 0'920. The 
fatty acids obtained on saponification are required to remain fluid at 
15 C. One volume of oil shall give a solution with 1 volume of 90 per 
cent, alcohol which will not deposit at 15 C., and on adding another 
volume of alcohol the mixture must not become cloudy. The iodine 
absorption must fall between 95 and 100. 

Barbadoes Aloes. 

Definition and Characters. See British Pharmaco- 
poeia. 

Standard. The Pharmacopoeia states that Barbadoes 
aloes is almost entirely soluble in a mixture of equal 
parts of 90 per cent, alcohol and water, and that not 
more than 30 per cent, should be insoluble in cold 
water. 

A colour test is also given namely, that powdered 
Barbadoes aloes gives a crimson to nitric acid ; and if 
sulphuric acid and the vapour of nitric acid is applied, 

* Umney has shown that almond and peach-kernel oils show this 
separation, but that apricot-kernel oil does not (vide Y. B. P., 1899, 
445). W. C. Allen states ( Y. B. P., 1899, 446) that by far the greater 
quantity of foreign almond oil is prepared from apricot-, not peach- 
kernels. Holthouse and Harvey state that it is very difficult to 
obtain peach- and apricot-kernel oils freejrom adulteration. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 27 

the colour produced should be a slight bluish-green, not 
a bright blue, as is given by Natal aloes (Cripps and 
Dymond's test, vide Squire, p. 69). 

Remarks. This drug might with propriety be called 
" Cura9oa aloes," as the great portion of it comes from 
the Dutch islands of Cura9oa, Aruba, and Bonaire. It 
varies much in appearance, according to the preparation, 
whether by steam or by dry heat. Its appearance is said 
to be also largely dependent upon how long the juice had 
been kept before being made into extract, and how long it 
has been kept after importation. The best qualities are 
of a bright brown colour when fractured, becoming ulti- 
mately dirty black on the surface. When first imported 
it is sometimes translucent, like Cape aloes, becoming 
opaque and crystalline after some time, pieces showing 
the transition being not unfrequently met with. A 
porous and brittle character and black colour through- 
out indicate that it has been heated over a naked fire, 
and has undergone fermentation previous to evapora- 
tion. 

Aloe chinensis is regarded by some botanists as only a 
variety of Aloe vera, which is a polymorphous species, all 
the varieties of which, so far as is known, yield an aloe 
giving a crimson coloration with nitric acid. 

Ash of Barbadoes Aloes. 

1-7 to 2-2 per cent. Umney. 

1*8 ,, ... ... Lucas. 

2-6 M. &P. 

2-7 ... ... M. &P. 

1-6 M. &P. 

2-6 Gadd. 

Soluble in Alcohol 90 per cent, 
and Water (equal parts). 
90 to 95 per cent. .... ... Umney. 

85 to 98 Gadd. 



28 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Soluble in Water. 

55 to 80 per cent. Urnney. 

70 per cent, (average of 12 samples) Lucas. 

68 to 87 per cent. Gadd. 

Percentage of Aloin. 

15 to 30 Schafer.* 

19-7 to 22-5 (6 samples) \ Holthouse and 

10-4 (1 sample) / Harvey. 



Socotrine Aloes. 

Definition and Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. The Pharmacopoeia states that both Soco- 
trine and Zanzibar aloes are almost entirely soluble in 
a mixture of equal parts of alcohol (90 per cent.) and 
water, and that about 50 per cent, should be soluble in 
water (presumably cold water, as is stated in the case of 
Barbadoes aloes). 

In addition, the colour test with sulphuric acid and 
the vapour of nitric acid is given ; and it is stated that 
no blue coloration should be produced, as a distinction 
from Barbadoes and Natal aloes. There seems to be 
some confusion here, as the absence of a bright blue 
colour is mentioned under Barbadoes aloes as indicating 
absence of Natal aloes. 

Remarks. There are several varieties of aloes coming 
into commerce under the name of Socotrine aloes. The 
genuine drug, which may be recognised by giving a 
yellowish or slightly reddish-brown, but never a crimson, 
coloration with nitric acid, is imported sometimes in the 
form of a yellowish-brown or blackish pasty liquid, or in 
a more or less hardened condition sometimes in a 
blackish, porous, brittle mass, with a rank butyric odour. 
When imported from Zanzibar, it often comes in goat- 
skins or in tin-lined cases ; but much of it requires 

* (Ph. Zeit.fiir RussL, xxxvi. 65.) 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 29 

drying in shallow trays before it comes into retail com- 
merce. The best quality of these aloes presents ex- 
ternally a more or less extractiform appearance, and 
internally a dull brown colour, but gives a brownish- 
yellow powder, and is known in commerce as " hepatic 
aloes." When Cura9oa aloes presents the same colour, 
it is known as " Livery Barbadoes"; and when Cape aloes 
resembles it, it is called Natal or "Livery Cape" aloes. 
Both of these are readily distinguished by the crimson 
coloration the powder gives with nitric acid, and by their 
different odour when freshly broken, as well as by the 
colour of the powder when two pieces are rubbed together, 
the Barbadoes having a browner, and the Natal a paler 
greenish-yellow, hue. Some of the aloes sold as Socotrine 
has a slight odour, recalling that of Barbadoes aloes; 
this kind is not true Socotrine, and invariably gives the 
crimson coloration with nitric acid. 

Ash of Socotrine Aloes. 

1'7 to 2-3 per cent. ... ... Umney. 

1-7 to 2-3 ,, Cribb. 

1-7 per cent Dodd. 

4-1 M. &P. 

2-6 Priest. 

Soluble in Alcohol 90 per cent, 
and Water (equal parts). 
70 to 90 per cent. Umney. 

Soluble in Water. 

40 to 62 per cent. ... ... Umney. 

51 per cent, (average of 12 samples) Lucas. 

34 Dodd. 



Extraetum Aloes Barbadensis. 

Preparation. " Barbadoes aloes, in small fragments, 
1,000 grammes, boiling distilled water 10 litres " (B.P.). 
The filtered extract is afterwards evaporated to dryness 



30 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

at a temperature not exceeding 60 C. (to avoid decom- 
position of aloin). 

A sample examined by C. G. Moor yielded : 

Water ... ... 5-4 

Ash 1-7 

Remarks. 

Yield of Extract. 

75 per cent. ... Squire (Companion). 

70 ,, ... Lucas (average of 12 samples). 
80 ... Gadd. 

71 ,, ... Umney (average of 12 samples). 
86 ... Dodd. 

84 ,, ... Bascombe. 

The British Pharmacopoeia makes only Barbadoes aloes official for 
the preparation of the extract, but admits both kinds for the prepara- 
tion of aloin. 

The German Pharmacopoeia apparently recognises only African 
aloes, and requires that 5 parts of aloes shall give a clear solution with 
60 parts of boiling-water, and the solution on cooling deposits 3 parts 
of aloes. 

The following solubility figures were obtained by Cribb, 
using 1 gramme of aloes and washing by decantation 
with hot water, and subsequent filtration until the 
volume of the washings was 250 c.c. 

Solubility in Water hot). 
Per Cent. 

Aloin (Qmney) 85-0 

Aloes, Socotrine 64-25 

,, Barbadoes ... ... 85-25 

Cape 73-92 

Cape 93-44 

,, Cura9oa ... 81-57 

Hepatic 82-87 

Natal 84-54 

False Socotrine 79-85 

It is of great importance to use given amounts of water, 
and of the sample to be tested, and also a given time 
for maceration. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



Tinet. Aloes. 

Preparation. "Extract of Barbadoes aloes 25 grms., 
liquid extract of liquorice 150 c.c., and 45 per cent, 
alcohol to make 1 litre." For mode of preparation see 
British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, grammes A -, > -, 

15-5 C. per 100 c.c. 

975 (Lucas) 6'6 (Lucas) 

970 (Barclay) 7'0* 

980 (P. and M.) 6-2 (M. and P.) 

980 (Caines) 6-4 (Gladwyn) 

975 (Bird) 8'1 (Moor) 

981 (Gladwyn) 7-6 (Dodd) 

977 (Dodd) 7-2 (M. & P.) 
973 (M. & P.) (Fletcher) 

975 to -979 (H. 

W. Jones) 
979 (Gadd) 
971 (Fletcher) 

Standard. The solids 
7 grammes per 100 c.c. 



39-4 (Chattaway), 
mean of 5 estima- 
tions. 

39-5 (P. and M.). 
39-4 (Umney). 
33-9 (Dodd). 
40-9 (M. & P.). 
(Fletcher). 
8-2 (Holthouse & 34-2 (H. & H.). 

Harvey) 32-6 (Gadd). 

8-0 (Gadd) 38'0 (Fletcher). 

8-0 (Fletcher) 

should not be less than 



Ammoniacum. 

Definition. " A gum-resin exuded from the flowering 
and fruiting stem of Dorema ammoniacum, and probably 
other species " (B.P.). 

Description. For official description see British Phar- 
macopoeia. The Pharmacopeia gives various tests for 
the recognition of this gum, and for providing against the 
presence of asafoetida and galbanum. 

Standard. Ash not to exceed 5' per cent. Matter 
insoluble in alcohol not to exceed 40 per cent. 

Remarks. No figure for ash or solubility in spirit is 
given in the British Pharmacopoeia. Dietrich's test for 
Umbelliferone will be found in the C. and D., 1898, ii., 
131. He also gives a limit for ash, 10 per cent., and a limit 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay, P. J., December 17, 1898. 



32 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

for matter insoluble in alcohol, 50 per cent. These 
limits appear unnecessarily lenient. 

Ash (on Tears). 

1-2 per cent. Umney. 

2-3 C. G. Moor. 

2-0 Priest. 

The following figures were obtained by C. G. Moor : 

Quality. Ash. Insol. in Alcohol. 

1 ... .... 2-1 29-2 

2 5-6 28-6 

3 15-4 304 

1 1-6 19-9 

The German Pharmacopeia adopts the umbelliferone reaction given 
in the B.P. but decomposes the compound ether by heating with 
hydrochloric acid before applying the ammonia test. The limit for 
matter insoluble in alcohol is 40 per cent., and the ash-limit is 5 per 
cent. 

Anethi Fruetus (Dill Fruit). 

Definition. " The dried fruit of Peucedanum graveo- 
lens" (B.P.). 

Description. For official description see British Phar- 
macopoeia. No tests are given. 

Adulterations. Excess of mineral matter and ex- 
hausted fruits. 

Ash. Ether Extract. 

7-7 per cent. ... Cribb. 

6-6 ... Umney. 

6-2 ... 8-2 Moor. 

6-0 ... Dodd. 

7-5 ... Priest. 

6-0 ... Gadd. 

The volatile oil, which is present to the extent of 
about 3 per cent., cannot be determined satisfactorily on 
a small scale, but probably the ether extract might be 
useful. 

The fruit of Peucedanum Sowa are frequently imported 
from India, but contain, according to J. C. Umney, an 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 33 

oil that is not identical in composition with that of 
P. graveolens. The fruits are more narrowly oval, and 
are more convex than the official fruits. The oil contains 
less carvol, and does not answer the British Pharmaco- 
poeia requirements. 

Oleum Anethi. 

Definition." The oil distilled from dill fruit" (B.P.). 

Characters. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Tests. The specific gravity at 15*5 C. must be 
between -905 and -920; and the rotation in a 100 milli- 
metre tube at 15-5 C. not less than 70 to the right. 

Remarks. Indian and Japanese oils are excluded by 
the British Pharmacopoeia tests. 

J. C. Umney (P. J., May 4, 1894) states that not more 
than 15 per cent, should distil below 185 C., and not 
less than 40 per cent, above 220 C. 

Theo. Brewis has examined a large number of bulked 
samples of oleum anethi, and found in all cases that they 
fell within the British Pharmacopoeia limits. 

S P .G,atl5<C. 100 ^:iube. 

A. Oil ex. English dill fruit . . . 0-909 ... +75 

B. ... 0-9124 ... +75 

C. ... 0-9132 ... +75 
F. ,, East Indian ... 0-943 ... +54 

Anisi Fructus. 

Definition. " The dried ripe fruit of Pimpinella 
Anisum " (B.P.). 

Description. For official description see British Phar- 
macopoeia. No tests are given. 

Remarks. The fruits which agree most nearly with 
the Pharmacopoeia description are the Alicant and 
Maltese and other large varieties; these being longer 

3 



34 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

than the conium fruit, an admixture of the latter would 
be more easily detected than in the case of the shorter 
Russian varieties. 

Ash. 

4-9 per cent. ... C. G. Moor. 
7-5 Cribb. 



8-1 
6-9 
5-6 
8-9 



J. C. Umney (Spanish fruits). 



Dodd. 



(Russian fruits). 



Holthouse & Harvey. 



A sample of Calcutta anise examined by Priest gave 
11-36 per cent, of ash. 

The volatile oil occurs to the extent of about 2-5 per 
cent., but varies very much according to the source of 
the fruit. 

The yield, according to J. C. Stead, is about 2 to 5 per 
cent. 

Reference. See Pharm. Journ., 1900, 144. 

Oleum Anisi. 

Definition. " The oil distilled from anise fruit, or from 
the fruit of the star anise, Illicium verum " (B.P.). (Most 
of the oil in the market is from the latter source.) 

Description. Colourless or pale yellow, with the odour 
of the fruit and a mildly aromatic taste (B.P.). 

Adulterations. Petroleum, fennel oil, or its stearop- 
tene, spermaceti (?), and the waste liquid portion of the 
oil obtained in the manufacture of anethol (the solid 
odorous constituent of the oil). (Parry, " Chemistry of 
Essential Oils," 242.) 

Standard. Congeals when stirred between 10 and 
15 C., and should not become liquid again below 15 C. 
Specific gravity, -975 to -990 at 20 C, (water at 15-5). 
It rotates the plane of a ray of polarized light slightly to 
the left. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 35 

1 part of oil should dissolve in 3 parts of 90 per cent, 
alcohol (J. C. Urnney). 

Optical rotation, to - 2. Not less than 80 per cent, 
should distil between 225 and 235 C. 

Remarks. Old specimens of oil may exceed the limits 
owing to the presence of oxidation products. In such 
cases, however, a quantity of anisic aldehyde will be 
present, which will yield a precipitate when 5 c.c. of 
the oil is shaken with 20 c.c. of 25 per cent, solution of 
sodium bisulphite (" Notes on Essential Oils," T. H. W. 
Idris, p. 66). 

Anise leaf oil is sometimes used as an adulterant, but 
may be detected by the failure of the oil to crystallize 
between 10 and 15 C. 

A sample of Eussian anise oil examined by Theo. 
Brewis gave a specific gravity of '985. 

Reference. G. F. Pancoast and L. F. Kebler, A. J. P., 
1901, 356. 

The German Pharmacopoeia gives the following standard : 

Melting-point 20 to 21 C. 

Boiling-point 232 to 234 C. 

Specific gravity '984 to '986. 

It must dissolve, forming a clear solution, in 2 parts of 90 per cent, 
alcohol. 

Anthemidis Flores. 

Definition. " The dried expanded flower-heads of 
Anthemis nobilis, collected from cultivated plants." 

Description. For official description see British 
Pharmacopoeia. The flowers, if recently collected and 
carefully dried, are nearly white, but if gathered in wet 
weather, or carelessly dried, or kept for some months, 
acquire a pale buff colour. The oil appears to be most 
abundant in the central tubular florets ; for this reason 
the English chamomiles, which often retain some tubular 
florets in the centre, are to be preferred to Belgian and 

32 



36 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

French double chamomiles, in which the tubular are com- 
pletely turned into ligulate florets. In Scotland the more 
aromatic single flowers are preferred, and are known in 
commerce as Scotch chamomiles; but these are excluded 
by the British Pharmacopoeia description. 

Ash. 

5-6 per cent. J. C. Umney. 

51 Cribb. 

6-2 Dodd. 

4-3 ,, Priest. 

Remarks. The volatile oil is about 0'6 per cent. 
German camomiles do not satisfy the British Pharma- 
copoeia requirements. 

Extractum Anthemidis. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Total Solids. Ash. 

80 to 83 per cent. 8-8 per cent. ... Umney. 

86-0 9-5 ... Moor. 

80-4 9-6 ... Dodd. 

85-9 9-6 ... Gadd. 

Oleum Anthemidis. 

Definition. "The oil distilled from chamomile flowers." 

Characters. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Test. The British Pharmacopoeia requires the specific 
gravity to be from -905 to -915. No other test is given. 

Remarks. Umney ("Notes") believes some samples 
to be slightly adulterated with French lavender oil. 

Schimmel gives the yield of oil at -8 to 1 per cent. 

A sample of Mitcham oil examined by Theo, Brewis 
had a gravity of '906 ; its colour was too dark to deter- 
mine its rotatory power. 

A sample examined by Theo. Brewis gave an optical 
rotation of +O4 in a 100 mm. tube. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 37 

The specific gravity of the German oil does not satisfy 
the British Pharmacopoeia requirements. 

Araroba, or Goa Powder. 

Definition. "A substance found in cavities in the 
trunk of Andira Araroba, freed as much as possible from 
fragments of wood, dried, and powdered " (B.P.). 

Characters. " It varies in colour from brownish-yellow 
to umber brown " (B.P.). 

Remarks. The crude drug as imported often contains 
a large proportion of wood and a considerable amount 
of moisture, and if it has been exposed to an ammoniacal 
atmosphere has a more or less purplish colour. The 
crude drug is but little used, and the percentage of chrys- 
arobin present in it required by the British Pharma- 
copoeia should be regarded rather as a normal or com- 
mercial standard, the article for medicinal use being 
chrysarobin. 

The solvent usually employed in the manufacture of 
chrysarobin is hot benzine. 

Standard. " It should yield to hot chloroform not 
less than 50 per cent, of a substance which, on evapor- 
ating the chloroform from the filtrate, and drying and 
powdering the residue, should have the characters of 
chrysarobin " (B.P.). 

This extraction is most easily performed in a Soxhlet. 

A sample assayed by C. G. Moor gave 60*3 per cent, 
of chrysarobin, which yielded 0*25 per cent, of ash. The 
ash of the araroba was 9 '8 per cent. 

Another sample of araroba examined by Priest gave 
5*3 per cent, of ash. 

The amount of chrysarobin in araroba varies from 
30 to 80 per cent. (J. C. Umney). 

A sample examined by F. C. J. Bird gave 64 per 
cent. 



38 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Araroba, dry, and of gqod quality, should c yield about 
75 per cent, of chrysarobin (Naylor). 

A sample examined by Dodd gave 84 per cent. 

Samples examined by T. H. Pearmain gave very vary- 
ing amounts of ash, as little as 5 per cent, and as much 
as 80 per cent, being recorded. 

Aromatic Spirit of Ammonia. 
Preparation. 

Ammonium carbonate 100 grammes. 

Strong solution of ammonia ... 200 c.c. 
Oil of nutmeg ... ... ... 14'1 c.c. 

Oil of lemon 20-3 c.c. 

Alcohol, 90 per cent. ... ... 3,000 c.c. 

Distilled water 1,500 c.c. 

For process of preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 
Characters. " A transparent liquid having a pungent 
ammoniacal odour and flavour ; nearly colourless when 
freshly prepared, but liable to darken slightly" (B.P.). 

Standard." Specific gravity at 15-5 from -888 to -893 ; 
20 c.c. require for neutralization 25-5 c.c. of normal sul- 
phuric acid = 2-16 grammes of ammonia in 100 c.c. 
Twenty c.c., after the addition of 16 c.c. of solution of 
barium chloride, should yield a precipitate which becomes 
more copious on heating to 71 C., and after filtering 
the filtrate should yield a further precipitate when 
more of the reagent is added and the liquid is again 
heated" (B.P.). 

Specific Gravity. Alcohol. Observer. 

890 to -892 ... 67-9 ... Barclay. 
891 to -893 ... ... Caines. 

67-6 ... Stead. 
66-7 ... Umney. 

See Edmund White (P. J., February 17, 1900) and 
Bird (Y. B. P., 1900, 430), who have criticised this test 
adversely. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 39 

Arnicse Rhizoma. 

Definition. " The dried rhizome and roots of the 
Arnica montana " (B.P.)..* 

Characters. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Remarks. A.VGUS, or herb bennet root, or radix cary- 
phyllata (Geum urbanum\ have been found mixed with it. 
There are also substituted for it other rhizomes similar 
in shape but paler and less aromatic ; both the odour 
and taste of arnica are so characteristic that they are 
excellent tests of its genuineness. Externally it is 
brownish-gray, with blackish brittle rootlets, and in 
transverse section exhibits a brownish bark and pale 
grayish centre. Owing to the great surface of the long 
thin rootlets, much dirt adheres to this drug. Most of 
it can be readily removed by a gentle beating when 

dried. 

Ash of Commercial Arnicas. 
33-7 ......... Gladwyn. 

31-7 ......... Moor. 

25-35 ......... Priv. com. 

15-5 ......... Priest. 






9-2 ......... Umney. 

6-2f ......... Moor. 

9'4t ......... 

8'9f ......... Priest. 

15-5 .......... , 

18-3 ......... 






Standard. Ash not to exceed 10 per cent. 

Tinctura Arnieae. 

Preparation. " Arnica rhizome in No. 40 powder, 
50 grammes ; alcohol, 70 per cent., to make 1 litre. 
Prepared by percolation" (B.P.). 

* The words " cleaned from adhering dirt " should be added. 
f These samples were specially cleaned by beating. 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



The following are recent estimations : 
Specific Gravity Total Solids, A1 i , 


at 15-5 C. 


grammes per 100 c.c. 




894 


(Lucas) 


0-6* 


65-6 (Priv. com.), 


894 (Barclay) 


0-46 (M. and P.) 


mean of 15 estima- 


890 (P. and M.) 


6 to -8 (Umney) 


tions. 


892 


(Caines) 


58 (Moor) 


69-0 (M. and P.). 


891 


(M. and P.) 


59 (Cribb) 


69-0 (Stead). 


892 (Umney) 


49 Moor 


69-0 Umney). 


893 (M. and P.) 


72 to -80 (H. W. 


70-0 (M. and P.) 


892 


> > 


Jones) 


69-3 


894 


tt 


57 (M. and P.) 


68-6 


894 


)> 


56 


70-9 


895 (Bird) 


63 


68-3 (Barclay). 


892 


to -897 (H. 


91 (Dodd) 


62-9 (Dodd). 


W. 


Jones) 


9 (Gadd) 


69-l(Fletcher). 


890 


Dodd) 


78\(Holthouse& 


70-8 (Gadd). 


895 


Fletcher) 


72/ Harvey) 




896 


Gadd) 


90 (Fletcher) 





Reference. Macfarlane (Bulletin, 34, November, 1893) 
shows that tincture of arnica varies widely in its solids 
and alcohol. 

If a tincture is found to yield less than -6 grammes of 
solids per 100 c.c. it may have been due to the use of 
arnica containing an excess of mineral matter. 

Asafetida. 

Definition. " A gum-resin obtained by incision from 
the root of the Ferula Fatida, and probably other 
species " (B.P.). 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

EemarTcs. Only selected tears of the drug come within 
the limits of the Pharmacopoeia. These may be white 
or yellowish when recently imported. The drug in lump 
often shows a deep pink colour, and turns gradually brown 
when kept. As all the drug does not turn pink, and as 
two varieties of fruit are found amongst the tears, it is 
probable that at least two species of ferula yield it. 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (P. J., December 17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 41 

Standard. " The freshly-fractured surface of a tear 
touched with nitric acid diluted with an equal volume of 
water assumes for a short time a more or less distinct 
green colour. If a small fragment be strongly heated in 
a test-tube and then treated with boiling water, and the 
solution largely diluted, a blue colour is produced on 
adding ammonia. Asafetida should contain not less 
than 65 per cent, of matter, soluble in alcohol, and should 
yield not more than 10* per cent, of ash " (B.P.). 

For the present I suggest that a more lenient 
standard be adopted, namely : Ash not to exceed 20 per 
cent. ; extract, on treating with 90 per cent, alcohol in a 
soxhlet, and drying to constant weight, not to be less 
than 50 per cent. The German Pharmacopoeia gives 
50 per cent, as the limit of insoluble matter in 90 per 
cent, alcohol. 

Remarks. When the juice is collected, much of it is 
so fluid that the natives mix it with mineral matter to 
render it portable ; this practice has been extended to 
the addition of stones as large as peas or beans, so that 
it is at present difficult to pick out more than 5 per cent, 
of tears passing the British Pharmacopoeia test from 
even the best of the original cases in which the drug is 
imported, but as not much of this drug is used in 
medicine, the supply is probably sufficient. 

Nine samples recently examined by Barclay gave from 
20 to 60 per cent, of ash, with an average of 40 per cent. 
The average matter soluble in alcohol, 90 per cent., was 
31 per cent. 

Three samples examined by Bascombe gave 11-3 per 
cent, of ash and 62 per cent, of matter soluble in alcohol. 

A large number of samples examined by different 
observers Bird, Cribb, Holthouse and Harvey, Moor, 

* K. Dieteiich (C. and D., 1898, p. 131) : "The limit of ash (10%) 
is right, and should be adhered to." Most Continental Pharmacopoeias 
set the limit of ash at 10 per cent. 



42 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Martin, Priest, Umney, Wilbert, and others show ashes 
varying from 20 to 60 per cent, of mineral matter. 

Tinetura Asafetidae. 

Preparation. "Bruised asafetida, 200 grammes; 
alcohol, 70 per cent., to make 1,000 c.c." For details, 
see British Pharmacopoeia. 

Remarks. The Pharmacopoeia does not give any in- 
dication as to what total solids this tincture should yield ; 
and as the drug is required to yield 65 per cent, of matter 
soluble in alcohol, it might be expected that the tincture 
should contain about 13 grammes per 100 c.c. of total 
solids (Martin and Moor, Analyst, 1900, p. 3). Two 
tinctures prepared by C. G. Moor and by Martin Priest 
from British Pharmacopoeia asafetida (tears) in the pre- 
scribed manner yielded 10 grammes of solids per 100 c.c., 
and this figure should be regarded as the standard for 
the tincture, not 13* grammes per 100 c.c., as 70 per 
cent, alcohol does not in the cold extract all the gum- 
resin. J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898) 
proposed 10 per cent, of solids as a standard. 

A considerable number of tinctures examined by Moor 
and Priest show total solids varying as follows : 3-7, 44, 
5-1, 6-3, 7-2, 7-6, 7*6, 5-3, 8-5 grammes per 100 c.c. 

The amount of alcohol in Tinct. asafetidae found by 
distillation was 64 -6 per cent, (mean of 18 estimations). 

Barclay found an average of 62 per cent, of alcohol in 
Tinct. asafetidae. 

A tincture prepared and examined by Gadd gave 
gravity, -919 ; solids, 10-4 ; of alcohol, 67'8. A similar 
typical tincture prepared by Fletcher gave '916 gravity, 
11-0 solids and 67'5 alcohol. 

There is no difficulty in making the tincture up to 
10 grammes of total solids per 100 c.c. by taking a 

* Note : In the Chemist and Druggist, 1899, p. 984, J. C. Umney 
had already pointed out that less of the asafetida would be dissolved 
by 70 per cent, alcohol than by 90 per cent. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



43 



sufficient amount of the crude gum-resin ; this course 
appears to be the best for the present, and is adopted by 
several makers. 

Aurantii Cortex Siecatus. 

Definition. The dried outer part of the pericarp of 
Citrus Aurantium, var. Bigaradia. 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
The following are recent figures : 

Moisture. Ash. Authority. 

13-7 ... 6-3 Moor. 

14-0 ... 6-5 

12-2 ... 5-6 Priest. 

16-5 6-2 



Tinetura Aurantii. 

Preparation. " Fresh bitter orange 
250 grammes; alcohol, 90 psr cent., 
(B.P.). Prepared by maceration. 



Specific Gravity 

at 15 -5 C. 
875 (Lucas) 
885 (Barclay) 
883 (M. and P.) 
879 to -880 

(Caines) 

883 (M. and P.) 
874 (M. and P.) 
881 (M. and P.) 
880 (Cribb) 
881 (Umney) 
879 (M. and P.) 
880 
886 
880 
879 

887to-885(H.W 
Jones) 



Total Solids, 
grammes per 100 c.c. 
2-0* per cent. 
2-05 (M. and P.) 
1-7 (M. and P.) 
1-7 (M. and P.) 
2-0 (Cribb) 
1-5 to 1-9 (Umney) 
1-8 (M. and P.) 
2-0 
2-2 
1-9 
2-9 
1-8 

1-7 to 2-0 (Jones) 
1-8 (Dodd) 

(K. Fletcher) 
1-7 (Holthouse & 

Harvey) 
1-6 (Gadd) 



881 (Dodd) 
897 (Gadd) 

* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay (Pharui. 
1898). 



-peel cut small, 
to make 1 litre " 

Alcohol. 

75-9(Chattaway), 
mean of 33 
estimations. 

75-5 (M. and P.) 

74-8 (Stead) 

74-7 (M. and P.) 

75-9 (M. and P.) 

| (Umney) 

77-1 (M. and P.) 

76-2 

75-3 

75-6 

74-3 

73-5 (Barclay) 

73-3 (Dodd) 

(Fletcher) 
75-2 (H. and H.) 
75-3 (Gadd) 
Journ., December 17, 



44 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Baking 1 Powder. 

Definition. A salt, or mixture of salts, with or without 
a diluent, such as starch, which evolves carbonic acid on 
moistening or heating. 

Adulterations. Alum, potassium sulphate, calcium 
sulphate, or excess of inert material. 

Standard. Baking powders should be free from alum, 
and not contain more than TO per cent, of potassium or 
calcium sulphates. 

They should yield not less than 8'0 per cent, of carbonic 
acid gas by weight. 

Eeferences. A. McGill (Canadian Bulletin, No. 10, 
June, 1888), after an exhaustive examination of baking 
powders, concludes his report as follows : 

1. The best and safest baking powder is a mixture of good cream of 
tartar with a proper proportion of bicarbonate of soda, and about 
15 to 20 per cent, of pure starch. 

2. Carbonate of ammonia, if pure, and consequently entirely volatile 
at the temperature of the oven, is a perfectly admissible substitute for 
the above. 

3. Tartaric acid, with the proper proportion of bicarbonate of soda, 
and somewhat more starch than is required in the case of cream of 
tartar, is probably a harmless mixture, and may have good leavening 
qualities if not too long kept. I offer this opinion with some hesita- 
tion, since I am uncertain as to the physiological properties of di-sodium 
tartrate. 

4. Superphosphate of lime, when practically purified from the 
sulphate of lime, which is a by-product in its manufacture, and when 
also practically free from neutral calcium phosphate (bone-ash, etc.), 
the raw material used in its manufacture is probably a harmless sub- 
stitute for cream of tartar in baking powders. The sodium phos- 
phate resulting is quite harmless, and the tri-calcic phosphate formed 
is probably in too small quantity to be injurious. 

5. Alum is entirely objectionable as a substitute for cream of tartar, 
and ought not to be allowed a place in any well-appointed bakery. 
Not only is the resulting sulphate of soda a powerful purgative, and 
certain to interfere with normal digestive processes when habitually 
taken into the system, but the alumina, set free by the reaction of the 
powder, is capable of rendering insoluble and unavailable the phos- 
phoric acid and phosphates naturally present in food. 

6. Alum phosphate powders are more objectionable still than the 
foregoing, for reasons given in the body of the report. 

7. Bisulphate of potash is objectionable as a substitute for cream of 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 45 

tartar on account of the purgative character of the residue left after 
its action in baking. 

In Bulletin No. 68 (1900), A. M'Gill gives a large 
number of analyses of baking powders, together with 
valuable suggestions for their analysis. 

Beeswax (Cera Flava and Cera Alba, White Wax). 

Definition. "Prepared from the honeycomb of the 
hive-bee, Apis Mettifica" (B.P.). 

Adulterations. Paraffin wax, tallow, resin, Japan wax, 
spermaceti, carnauba wax, starch, mineral matter. 

Standard. As in British Pharmacopoeia, with the 
addition of the iodine absorption, which should fall 
between 8 and 9 per cent.* A high iodine absorption 
may indicate tallow or resin, and a low one paraffin 
wax, Japanese wax. 

Remarks. For bleaching beeswax, the British Pharma- 
copoeia only recognises the action of air and sunlight. 
Small quantities of paraffin (1 or 2 per cent.) may be 
found in English wax owing to the use of "foundation" 
containing paraffin wax. As a rule, however, the founda- 
tion is now made of pure beeswax. 

Beeswax is imported from France, Italy, Jamaica, and 
the East Indies ; the French is often, and the Jamaica 
seldom, adulterated. 

Reference. G. Buchner, Analyst, xxvi., 107. 

Belladonna Radix. 

Definition. "The root of the Atropa Belladonna col- 
lected in the autumn, and dried " (B. P.). 

Characters. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Belladonna root varies considerably in appearance as 
met with in commerce, a large proportion of the upper 

* Guycr (0. and D., 1897, 574) gives the iodine absorption from 
7'9 to 8-9 percent. 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



woody portion of the root being often present, but the 
description in the Pharmacopoeia limits the drug to the 
younger, sounder, and starchy portions, which have been 
stated to be richer in alkaloidal contents. 

Composition. The ash of unwashed roots has been 
found as high as 19 per cent., but the general average 
is about 10 to 11 per cent. : 



Moisture. 
13-0 
14-1 
11-5 
14-0 
7-7 



Ash. 

6-4 

8-1 

9-2 

7-2 

6-5 

7-3,6-1... 



Authority. 
Moor. 



Theo. Brewis. 
Priest. 



Total alkaloids in belladonna root (by titration) : 



Source. 
English 



Unknown 



English 
Foreign 



Chiefly \ 
foreign J ' 

English . 


Foreign . 


Unknown 



Alkaloid. 
401 
325 
400 
620 
400 
480 

45 to -52 
325 to -375 
442 
466 
545 
387 
344 

32 to -83 



Authority. 
Lucas. 



Moor. 

j> 

i> 
Umney. 

H 

Theo. Brewis. 



(Average -49 on 42 samples). 



Barclay 



49 
64 
38 
53 
53 

60 



F. C. J. Bird. 



Holthouse and 
Harvey. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 47 

It will be seen that the alkaloidal strength of English 
and foreign roots varies considerably, probably owing to 
differences of climate, soil, and method of collection. 

If the root has been exhausted by the leaves having 
been removed the percentage of alkaloid may fall as low 
as *2 per cent. (Priv. com.). 

Extraetum Belladonnas Liquidum. 

Definition. " A liquid extract containing '75 of a 
gramme of the alkaloids of belladonna root in 100 c.c." 

The process of preparation is given in the British 
Pharmacopoeia, and the method of testing the extract so 
as to set it to the required strength. In this process it 
is directed to weigh the residue, and then titrate it. 

The titration is employed to prove that the weighed 
quantity is chiefly alkaloids. The extract is adjusted so 
as to contain '75 of a gramme. Before titrating the 
residue is to be dissolved in decinormal hydrochloric 
acid. It is a hard, glassy residue, and dissolves slowly, 
so that it is important to be sure that it is completely 
dissolved before titrating. 

In this process, as in other alkaloidal assays, it often 
happens that troublesome separations are encountered, 
and the separations must be complete before the next 
operation is performed. 

Composition. The total solids and specific gravity of 
this standardized extract will naturally vary considerably : 

Specific Gravity. Total Solids. Observer. 

927 6-2 ... Moor.* 

922 11-2 

1-022 26-2 

12-4 ... Gadd. 

* In these samples the alcohol strength varied from 527 to 75 '0 
per cent., averaging 65 '0 per cent. The sample yielding 26 '2 grammes 
per 100 c.c. of solids was very dark-coloured, and probably prepared 
by heat. 



48 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Specific Gravity. gl c . c . Observer. 

885 to -903 ... ... Caines. 

920 to -930 ... 16-0 ... Umney. 

...... 17-6 .,. Dodd. 

915 ...... ... Bird. 

918 ...... 14-0 ... Barclay.* 

868 ...... 6-2 

919 ...... 13-0 

976 ...... 23-4 

961 ...... 20-1 

877 ..... 8-7 

909 ...... 6-5 

899 ...... 10-5 ... Bascombe. 

The process for the preparation of ext. belladonnse 
liq. was devised by Cripps, but does not completely 
exhaust the root. He admits this, but contends that 
the object is to prepare a liquid extract containing a 
definite amount of the alkaloids of the root in their 
natural state unaltered by heat. 

In the official process it is hard to see the end reaction 
using ~Q soda, and Bird advises -$ soda, which is better. 
The residue before titration does not consist wholly of 
alkaloids, and it will generally be found that it contains 
about 12 per cent, of matter which is not alkaloid. 
The preparation is to be adjusted to contain -75 of a 
gramme of alkaloid by titration in 100 c.c. 

Theo. Brewis finds F. C. J. Bird's process (P. J. [4], viii., 
pp. 432, 433) most satisfactory, the preliminary removal 
of the fat and resin facilitating subsequent operations. 
Bird's procedure is as follows : 

Liq. ext. belladonna (in the case of ext. 
bellad. rad. ale., take an amount esti- 
mated to yield about 0-075 gramme 
total alkaloids, dissolve in S.V.E. and 
H 2 O, using 10 c.c. in all) ...... 10 c.c. 

* P. J., November 26, 1898. In these samples the alkaloids were 
all fairly in accordance with the B. P. requirements ; the alcohol 
varied from 64 '4 to 82 '6 per cent, by volume. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 49 

Water 40 c.c. 

Diluted sulphuric acid ... ... ... 10 c.c. 

Chloroform 20 c.c. 

Agitate thoroughly, warm and separate. Wash with 
another 10 c.c. chloroform, and again separate. Wash 
the mixed, separated chloroforms with 4 c.c. water 
acidulated with 1 c.c. diluted sulphuric acid ; warm and 
separate. Reject the washed chloroform. Return the 
aqueous washings to the original liquid, viz., the acidu- 
lated liquid extract, to which now add a decided excess 
of ammonia and extract with successive portions, 10 c.c. 
each, of chloroform, agitating, warming, and separating 
as usual. Mix all the chloroform solutions, evaporate 
off the chloroform and dry to a constant weight. Dis- 
solve the residue in a few drops of neutral ether, add 
5 c.c. of ~Q HC1, drive off the ether in a current of air, 
add 2 drops of sol. methyl, orange, titrate back with -^ 
NaHO. 

f No. of c.c. ^ NaOH j _ (No. of c.c.\ 

\ equiv. to 5 c.c. acid, j \soda used.) 

/No. of c.c. -~0- NaOH equivalent to) 

\ 5 c.c. acid. / 

= Required weight of alkaloids. 

Extractum Belladonnas Aleoholieum. 

This is prepared by evaporating the liquid extract and 
mixing with milk-sugar ; it contains 1 per cent, of total 
alkaloids. 

No directions for its assay are given, but the process 
applied to the liquid extract can be applied to 2-5 grammes. 

The average moisture is about 8 per cent. 

* Should the weight of the residue exceed 143 '5 milligrammes, 
then 10 c.c. ^ HC1 must be used to dissolve. 

10 c.c. must replace 5 c.c. 'I . ,, ,. , 
0-287 , 0-1435 ) in the formula. 



50 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

A sample examined by Dodd gave 6*8 per cent, of 
moisture. 

The solid extract of the 1885 British Pharmacopoeia 
contained about three times as much alkaloid as the 
present, but its composition was uncertain. 

Extraetum Belladonnas Viride. 

For preparation, see British Pharmacopoeia. 

No strength is prescribed for this extract, and as it 
will naturally vary (and has been shown by assay to do 
so) it ought to be standardized. 

Naylor and Bryant (Y.B.P., 1898, 361) give the results 
on 10 samples of extract supplied by English growers or 
makers, all made from herb grown in England, which 
they regard as representative samples : 

Percentage of Percentage of 

Alkaloid by Alkaloid by 

Weight. Titration. 

Average of 10 samples ... 1-2142 1-0742 

Maximum ... 1-949 1-763 

Minimum ,, ... 0-699 0-545 

They suggest a standard of 1 per cent, of alkaloids. 

Priv. com.: 

Percentage of Percentage of 

Alkaloid by Alkaloid by 

Weight. Titration. 

* Ext. bellad. virid. ang. (A) ... 0-9814 0-8769 

(B)... 0-9781 0-8802 

Farr and Wright (P. J. [4], vol. v., pp. 517-519) : 

Alkaloid Moisture Dry Extract 
per cent. per cent. per cent. 

Average of 6 samples . . . 0-98 26-23 73-77 
Maximum ... 1-33 29-6 75-2 

Minimum ... 0-52 24-8 70-4 

Barclay (P. J., March 4., 1893) examined 7 samples, 

* These two samples were prepared by an English maker of repute. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 51 

the highest gave 1-24 per cent., the lowest -77 per cent., 
average 1-0 per cent, of alkaloid. 

A sample examined by C, G. Moor yielded 1-0 per cent, 
of alkaloids, 23-5 per cent, of moisture, and 8-9 per cent, 
of ash. 

Tinetura Belladonnae. 

" Liquid extract of belladonna 60 c.c., 60 per cent, 
alcohol to make 1 litre" (B.P.). The British Pharma- 
copoaia states that 100 c.c. of this tincture evaporated to 
a low bulk, and treated by the official process for the 
assay of liquid extract of belladonna root, should yield not 
less than -048, and not more than -052, gramme of 
alkaloids. 

Remarks. 50 c.c. is the least quantity of tincture that can be saiely 
assayed. The solids in this tincture will vary considerably. The 
lower the root is in alkaloid, the higher the solids in the tincture. 



Specific Gravity at 


Total Solids, 


Alcohol. 


15-5 C. 


grammes per 100 c.c. 




911 (Caines) 


'61 \ /p . x 


59-3 (Chatta- 


915 I (-^ ucas ) 


81 (Cribb) 


way), mean of 
35 estima- 


917 (Cribb) 


1-7] 


tions. 


914 (Barclay) 


2-2 l(M. and P.) 


58-3 (Stead) 


919 (P. and M.) 


2-oJ 


58-8 (P. and M.) 


912 (Caines) 


95 to 1-0 (Um- 


60'3 (Umney) 


919 (Gladwyn) 


ney) 


61-1 


914 (J. C. Umney) 


1-7 (Moor) 


60-5 (Barclay) 


917 (Gadd) 


1-4 (Gadd) 


54-3 (Dodd) 


916 (Moor) 


9 (Moor) 


59-7 (Gadd) 


917 


1-1 to 1-3 (H. W. 


61-3 (M. and P.) 


910 (M. and P.) 


Jones) 


57-4 


'919 


1-3 (Dodd) 


58-5 


917 


42 (M. and P.) 


60-7 


916 


1-6 




914 to -919 (H. W. 


6 




Jones) 






914 (Bird) 


1-0 (Bird) 





44 



52 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, . , , , 

15-5 C. grammes per 100 c.c. Alcohol. 

916 (Fletcher) 1-0 (M. and P.) 59-7 (Gadd) 

79 (H. and H.) 
917 (Gadd) 1-4 (Gadd) 

Linimentum Belladonnas. 

For preparation, see British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard. This should contain '375 per cent, of 
alkaloids. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, A , -, -, 

15-5 C. grammes per 100 c.c. Alcohol. 

905 (M. & P.) 5-5 (M. & P.) 66-5 (M. & P.) 

886 2-7 71-1 

859 2-8 82-9 

863 3-4 78-9 

884 31 70-0 

896 (Bird) 6'0 (Bird) 69'5 (Bird) 

See F. C. J. Bird (P. J., 1900, i. 692). 

Ung-uentum Belladonnse. 

For Preparation, see British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard. It should contain -6 per cent, of alkaloids. 
For a process for assay of this and of the liniment, see 
F. C. J. Bird (P. /., 1899, 175). 

Belladonna Plaster. 

This is prepared from the liquid extract, and is required 
to contain '5 per cent, of alkaloids. Being made from the 
root, the extract used in this plaster is brown in colour. 
There is a certain demand for a green belladonna plaster, 
owing to the reputation attained by the old green extract, 
which was made from the leaves. If such a plaster is 
sold, it should be standardized to contain '5 per cent, of 
alkaloids. 

A method of assay is that described by F. C. J. Bird 
(Analyst, 1899, 175) and by Macfarlane (Canadian 
Bulletin, No. 66). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 53 

It is probable that some of the green plasters may 
be artificially coloured, and artificial colour should be 
regarded as an adulteration. 

" Belladonna plasters " are sold which do not contain 
the proper quantity* of alkaloids, and it is stated that the 
British Pharmacopoeia plaster is too strong for some indi- 
viduals ; if a weaker plaster is sold, its alkaloidal contents 
should be plainly marked on it. 

Benzoin. 

Definition. "A balsamic resin obtained from Styrax 
Benzoin, and probably other species of styrax ; known in 
commerce as Siam and Sumatra benzoin " (B.P.). 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia, 

Benzoin of the Sumatra, Penang and Palembang 
varieties vary exceedingly in the amount of bark and 
foreign matter that it contains, and in yield of benzoic acid. 
This is less the case with Siam benzoin, which generally 
consists of tears, sometimes loosely agglomerated and is 
distinguished also by its decided odour of vanilla. 

Standard. Matter insoluble in hot 90 per cent, alcohol 
not to exceed lOt per cent., ash not to exceed 2 per cent. 

Solubility in Alcohol. Samples of fair grade of Sumatra 
benzoin examined by J. C. Urnney yielded from 75 to 85 
per cent., and occasionally 90 per cent., matter soluble in 
alcohol. T. Dunlop (C. and D., 1897, p. 278) found the 
insoluble matter in Sumatra benzoin to vary from 8 to 30 

* Of 6 plasters examined by J. Rutherford Hill (C. and D., 1897, 
118), 2 contained no alkaloid at all. Of 48 examined by Macfarlane 
(Canadian Bulletin, No. 58) only 6 contained over '4 per cent, of 
alkaloid, 20 contained from '1 per cent, or traces, and 6 contained no 
alkaloid ! 

t The Pharmacopoeia states that "it is almost entirely soluble in 
90 per cent, alcohol." Dr. Attfield had explained that the intention 
of the compilers of the Pharmacopoeia was that if a benzoin containing 
bark was employed, a proportionately larger quantity should be taken 
to allow for the insoluble matter. 



54 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

per cent. Dr. Alfred Hill has found 18 per cent., and 
Mr. Seyler 17 '5 per cent., of insoluble matter in Siam 
benzoin. Barclay has found the matter insoluble in 
alcohol to vary from *23 to 40 per cent., with an average 
of 31 per cent., in Sumatra benzoin. He estimated the 
benzoic and cinnamic acids in 24 samples and found from 
8 to 18 per cent., with an average of 14 per cent. 

Three samples of Sumatra benzoin examined by Holt- 
house and Harvey gave 23*9, 12-9, and 13-2 per cent, of 
matter insoluble in hot 90 per cent, alcohol. 

H. W. Jones has found 18 per cent, of insoluble matter 
in Sumatra benzoin (average of whole case), and in 2 
samples of Siam benzoin 1-4 and 4-1 per cent. 

The following are recent estimations : 



Ash. 


Insoluble in 
Alcohol. 


Observer. 


0-5 


9-2 


Moor 


0-8 


15-2 


( 


1-0 


16-7 





( 8-6, 15-6, 6-8, 6-5, 
Sumatra \ 13-3, 181, 8-4, 10-8, Moor 

( 181, 8-4, 7-6 
Siam 0-6, 0-9, -86 

Three qualities of Sumatra gave the following results : 



No. 1 ... 
No. 2... 
No. 3... 

This insoluble matter was mainly bark. The British 
Pharmacopoeia says that benzoin is "almost entirely 
soluble in 90 per cent, alcohol," so that either the de- 
scription should be altered or a limit of insoluble matter 
should be given. It may happen that a benzoin con- 
taining 20 per cent, of bark contains more benzoic acid 
than one containing only 1 or 2 per cent., but we suggest 
the following standard for Sumatra benzoin : Matter 
insoluble in warm alcohol (90 per cent.} not to exceed 
10 per cent. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



55 



Karl Dieterich (0. and D., 791, 1898) recommended as 
limits 1'5 per cent, of ash and 10 per cent, of matter 
insoluble in alcohol as a standard for the Pharmacopoeia. 
He is in favour of making Siam benzoin alone official, and 
suggests an acid-number and a saponification equivalent. 

It has been suggested that to allow for bark, etc., in 
benzoin, a proportionally larger quantity should be taken ; 
if, however, the benzoic and cinnamic acids are the active 
portion, a standard based on them might be laid down. 

The German Pharmacopoaia requires the ash not to exceed 2'0 per 
cent., and the matter insoluble in hot 90 per cent, alcohol not to exceed 
5'0 per cent. Benzoic acid should crystallize out on cooling a solution 
of 1 part of gum in 10 parts of hot carbon disulphide. 

Tinetura Benzoin! Co. 

Preparation. 

Benzoin in coarse powder ... 100 grammes. 

Prepared storax ... ... 75 ,, 

Balsam of tolu ... ... ... 25 ,, 

Socotrine aloes ... ... ... 18*3 ,, 

Alcohol 90 per cent. ... ... to make 1 litre. 

Prepared by maceration. 

Speciac Gravity at Total Solids, 

grammes per 100 c.c. 
15-8 (Moor) 
15-9 (Gladwyn) 

J}(M.andP.) 



15*5 C 

900 (Barclay) 
890 (P. and M.) 
890 (Moor) 
900 (Caines) 
896 (Gladwyn) 
899 (Lucas) 
885 (M. and P.) 

; 88 4 j (Gladwyn) 

896 (Umney) 

886 (Moor) 

890 (M. and P.) 

892 

892 (M. and P.) 

898 

892 



15-01 

16-6 [ (Gladwyn) 

15-7J 

19-0 (J. C. Umney) 

16'1 (Moor) 

14-9 (M. and P.) 

15-1 (M. and P.) 

15-9 to 18-4 (H. W. 

Jones) 

15-8 (M. and P.) 
17-9 
14-4 



Alcohol. 

75-4 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 30 esti- 
mations. 

77-1 (Stead) 



75-4\ (J. C. Um- 

76-OJ ney) 

76-5 (M. and P.) 

76-0 

72-0 (Barclay) 

75-3 (M. and P.) 

73-7 

75-0 



56 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, A1 , , 

15-5 C. grammes per 100 c.c. Alcohol 

899 to -902 (H. 15-8 (Fletcher) 74-7 (Fletcher) 

W. Jones) 14-8 to 16 -7 (H. 81 '0 (Gadd) 

892 (Fletcher) and H.) 

904 (H. and H.) 2O6 (Gadd) 
895 (Gadd) 

J. Barclay* proposes as a standard 2-5 per cent, of 
benzole and cinnamic acids (P. J., December 17, 1898). 
He estimates the benzoic and cinnamic acids thus : 
10 c.c. are heated with 2 grammes of slaked lime and 
50 c.c. of water for thirty minutes on a water-bath, and 
filtered, and the filter well washed with hot water. The 
filtrate is concentrated to 50 c.c. and shaken with chloro- 
form, which is rejected. Then hydrochloric acid is added 
and the liquid shaken with 5 successive quantities of 
chloroform. The chloroformic solution washed with a 
little water, and finally titrated in a stoppered flask with 
deci-normal NaHO, using phenolphthalein as indicator. 

Remarks. It would appear that the solids ought not 
to be less than 18 grammes! per 100 c.c., and probably the 
deficiencies in the above tinctures are due to gum con- 
taining much bark, or to the use of liquid storax.J In 
any case where the solids are notably lower than 18 per 
cent., an estimation of benzoic and cinnamic acids should 
be made. 

Reference. Alfred Hill and J. F. Liverseege (Analyst, 
xxvi., 283). 

Brandy (Spiritus Vini Gallic!). 

" A spirituous liquid distilled from wine and matured 
by age, and containing not less than 36'5 per cent, by 

* A later suggestion of Barclay's will be found in the C. and D., 
March 15, 1902. 

t Certain well-known firms are now standardizing their tincture to 
contain 18 grammes of solids per 100 c.c. 

See Merson (P. J., February, 1901). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 57 

weight, or 43-5 per cent, by volume, of ethyl hydroxide " 
(B.P.). 

Adulterations. The addition of water, spirit from 
other sources, essences, colouring matters, tannin arti- 
ficially added, capsicum. 

Standard* The strength of spirits is laid down by Act 
of Parliament as 75 per cent, of proof spirit, which is the 
strength adopted in the British Pharmacopoeia. 

The specific gravity of brandy is about -930. 

The total solids are usually about 1 gramme per 100 c.c. 

The acidity is usually about *1 per cent, as acetic acid. 

References. Lusson (/. S. C. I.) gives the figures on 
a number of brandies of known origin. 

Remarks. The United States Pharmacopoeia defines 
brandy as "An alcoholic liquid obtained by the distilla- 
tion of the fermented, unmodified juice of fresh grapes, 
and at least four years old." 

The United States Pharmacopoeia requires brandy to 
contain between 39 and 47 per cent, of alcohol by weight ; 
the total solids are to be under 1*5 grammes per 100 c.c.; 
and a limit of acidity is laid down that is, 100 c.c. shall 
not require more than 1 c.c. of normal KHO to make it 
distinctly alkaline to litmus. The total solids should 
have no sweet or distinctly spicy taste (absence of added 
sugar, glycerine, or aromatic substances), and a test is 
applied to the original liquid to detect any excessive 
amount of tannin. 

Macfarlane, wribing in October, 1891, says: "The 
existence of this sort of manufacture (the sophistication 
of brandy and other spirits) has long been known to and 
recognised by the Inland Eevenue Department (Canada) ; 

* In the present state of our knowledge it seems impossible to find 
any tests which will reliably distinguish between genuine old brandies 
and those which are wholly or partly fictitious ; for medicinal purposes 
it is highly important that only a genuine, matured brandy should be 
employed. 



58 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

but it is only recently that the various ethers, essences, 
and oils used in the production of spurious brandy, 
rum, gin, and whisky have been publicly offered for sale." 

Macfarlane also says : " It is notorious that the average 
total production of cognac by the Charente Departments 
does not amount to one-tenth of the quantity exported by 
France to foreign countries." 

Samples of brandy taken under the Food and Drugs 
Act are not usually examined except for their alcoholic 
strength ; in fact, the distinction between genuine and 
artificial brandy is a matter of such difficulty that it is 
very questionable if it is possible to distinguish them 
by chemical means, and it is probable that most of the 
cheaper brandies are entirely artificial products. 

Bread. 

Definition. " A porous substance obtained by moisten- 
ing, kneading, and baking wheat-flour, with provision for 
the mechanical separation of the dough by air or carbonic 
acid gas " (Moor). 

Adulterations. Excessive amounts of water, the addi- 
tion of foreign starches, the presence of alum, millstone 
grit. 

Standard. Water not to exceed 40 per cent. 

Total ash not to exceed 2 per cent. 

Ash, insoluble in acid, not to exceed O2 per cent. 

Eeferences. A. W. Ely the ("Foods: their Composition 
and Analysis," 4th edit., p. 201): " The ash of a properly 
burnt wheaten loaf seldom exceeds 1-5 per cent, unless 
adulterated ; anything above 2 per cent, would certainly 
be suspicious of adulteration." 

Remarks. By the modern processes of milling it is 
possible to remove the "germ," which is an important 
constituent of the wheat grain. This is done for two 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 59 

reasons: first, because the " germ " is itself saleable; 
and, secondly, because, being yellow in colour, the 
residual flour is whiter. This " germ " being a portion 
of the grain itself, and not of the husk, it appears that 
the purchaser is prejudiced by its removal. 

Buchu Folia. 

Definition. " The dried leaves of the Barosma 
betulina" (B.P.). 

Description. See British Pharrnaccepia. 

Standard. Ash from 4 to 5 per cent. ; extract to 
60 per cent, alcohol 17 to 23 per cent. 

Remarks. The characters given in the British Pharma- 
copoeia description are very definite, and permit only of 
one kind of buchu being used. There is, however, 
another variety, Barosma serratifolia, which appears 
under the name buchu (land/olio) in wholesale price 
lists. It contains practically no diosphenol. The leaves 
are linear, and nearly an inch long. 

References. The National Dispensatory states that it 
may be mixed with the leaves of the Empleurum ser- 
ralatum. 

Pharm. Journ., 665, 1893: E. W. Lucas states, while 
Emp. Serr. somewhat resembles Bar. serratifolia, it has 
no oil gland at the actual apex. J. C. Umney gives a de- 
scription of the Emp. serrulatum, p. 133, V. B. P., 1895. 

Buchu leaves yield from 1-5 to 2 per cent, of volatile 

oil.* 

Ash. Observer. 

4-8 Moor. 

4-4 to 4-6 H.W.Jones. 

4-4 Priest. 

* Genuine oil from official buchu is nearly solid at 15*5 C., and when 
melted at 30 C. has a gravity of about *957. Oils from other varieties 
are liquid at 15'5 C., and have a gravity of '912- '935 (Theo Brewis). 



6o 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Tinctura Buchu. 



Specific Gravity at 
15 '5 C. 



Preparation. Buchu leaves in 
grammes, alcohol 60 per cent, to 
pared by percolation. 

Total Solids 
(per cent.). 
3-5 (M. and P.) 
3-8 (Lucas) 
4-0* 

3-7 (M. and P.) 
4-7 (Caines) 
3-9 (M. and P.) 
3-5 (Gladwyn) 
4-0 (M. and P.) 
4-3 (Priv. com.) 
3-9 (Cribb) 



931, -928 (Lucas) 
934 (Barclay) 
930 (P. and M.) 
932 (Caines) 
929 (M. and P.) 
931 (Umney) 
929 (M. and P.) 
929 
-908 
932 to -934 (H. 

W. Jones) 
929 (Fletcher) 



No. 20 power 200 
make 1 litre. Pre- 

Alcohol 
(per cent.). 
58-9 (M. and P.) 
57-0 (P. and M.) 
57-6 (M. and P.) 
57 '4 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 28 esti- 
mations. 
56-7 (Stead) 
55-8 (J. C. Umney) 
55-9 (Barclay) 
57-9 (M. and P.) 
58-0 
62-4 
57-0 (Fletcher) 
57-5 (Gadd) 



3-9 (M. and P.) 

3-5 

3-4 

934 (Gadd) 4-1 to 4-4 (H. 

932 W. Jones) 

(Fletcher) 

3-8 (Gadd) 

4-0 

3-9 (Partridge) 

Reference. Macfarlane (Bulletin, 34, November, 1893) 
found this tincture to be very variable in strength. 

Butter, t 

Definition. "The fatty substance obtained on churn- 
ing cream " (Murray). 

Adulterations. The addition of foreign fats, excess of 
water, salt and preservatives. 

Standard. The water should not exceed 16J per cent. 

* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay. Pharm. Journ., December 17, 
1898. 

t Next to Milk, butter is the most persistently adulterated article 



in this country, and the number of samples taken under the Acts by 

lord a 
consumer. 



local authorities is insufficient to afford" a sufficient protection to the 
J "Sale of Butter Regulations," April, 1902. This standard was 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 61 

The salt should not exceed 5 per cent. 

Borax or boric acid not exceeding -5 per cent, as boric 
acid may be used as a preservative.* 

The fat must be true butter-fat, as shown by the 
results obtained on applying the Eeichert and Valenta 
tests. That is, if the Eeichert figure on the 5 gramme 
quantity falls below 24 c.c. of ^ alkali, and the Valenta 
(or any other process) concurs in indicating foreign fat, 
the amount of foreign fat should be calculated thus : 
Foreign fat yields a distillate equal to not more than 
1 c.c. of y^y alkali, and genuine butter yields a dis- 
tillate equal to not less than 24 c.c.; therefore each 
c.c. of y^ alkali above 10 indicates 4;35 per cent, of 
butter-fat. For example, if a butter-fat gave (on 5 
grammes) a Beichert figure of 12 c.c., the sample would 
therefore contain 47 '8 parts of butter and 52-2 parts of 
foreign fat in 100 parts, assuming that butter and mar- 
garine contain equal amounts of water and curd. 

Fluoride preservatives have been found (Analyst, 
June, 1902) in butter by 0. and C. W. Hehner, who give 
a method for its detection. 

Remarks. Very little is gained by multiplying tests 
in connection with butter analysis. The Eeichert and 
Valenta tests, carried out with uniformity and in the 
light of experience, gave quite as much information, and 
with greater certainty than can be obtained from more 
elaborate and lengthy processes. 

The Valenta test is of great value if the strength of the 
acetic acid is kept constant. When this is done it will be 
found that genuine samples will give figures showing 
variations of only 8 or 9 C., whereas adulterated 
samples exhibit a marked difference both in the tempera- 
ture of turbidity and in appearance. 

suggested in " Aids to the Analysis of Foods and Drugs," p. 19, first 
edition (September, 1895). 

* Suggested by the Committee on Food Preservatives (see Analyst, 
xxvi., p. 332). 



62 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Butter does not decompose on keeping for years, to an extent which 
would invalidate its analysis (A. H. Allen and 0. G. Moor, Analyst, 
xix., p. 28). 

For the official method and apparatus for determining the amount 
of butter-fat in margarine, see the Analyst, 1900, p. 309. 

The Preservatives Committee recommend that the use 
of -5 per cent, of boric acid be allowed in butter. In my 
opinion no preservative is necessary at all if the butter is 
made properly in a clean place, and the permission to 
use unnecessary preservatives only encourages inferior 
foreign produce at the expense of that which is, or ought 
to be, made in this country. 

Calumbse Radix. 

Definition. " The dried transversely-cut slices of the 
root of the Jateorhiza Calumba" (B.P.). 
Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Remarks. Calumba root has lately come into commerce 
mixed with a smaller root of unknown origin, and of a 
distinctly radiate structure. As a rule, it varies but little 
except in size and in being more or less worm-eaten. 
Calumba root is sometimes bleached, and commands a 
higher price when so treated, though its real value is 
more likely lessened. 

Ash of Calumba Boot. 

5-1 Moor. 

5-5,5-7 Partridge. 

7-4 .., ... ... Gladwyn. 

4-3 Umney. 

11-8 (Pulv.) Priest. 

10-3 

5-5 to 8-5 Hockauf.* 

9-6 Holthouse and 

Harvey. 

References. Pharm. Journ., 1891, 438: T. H. Wardle- 
worth has found the root to be substituted by a species of 
Rinospora, perhaps Rinospora Bakis, from the Niger. 
* B. and C. D., xxxiii., 59V. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



Tinctura Calumbse. 

Calumba root in No. 20 powder 100 grammes, alcohol 
60 per cent. 1 litre. Prepared by maceration. 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 
918, -913, -918 

(Lucas) 
920 (Barclay) 
917 (P. and M.) 
918 (Caines) 
917(Umney) 
916 (Moor) 
915 (M. and P.) 
919 
922 
921 
920 to -922 (H. 

W. Jones) 
919 (Fletcher) 
917 (H. and H.) 
918 (Gadd) 



Total Solids, 
grammes per 100 c.c. 
1-08 (M. and P.) 
1-0 (Caines) 
1-0 (Moor) 
1-1 (Priest) 
I'l (Umney) 
M (M. and P.) 

57 

92 
2-3 



Alcohol. 

59-8 (Umney) 
61-9 (P. and M.) 
58-8 (Chattaway), 
mean of 31 esti- 
mations. 
57-4 (Stead) 
59-4 (M. and P.) 
60-5 
56-1 
59-2 
57-7 (Barclay) 
56-6 (Fletcher) 
59-8 (Gadd) 
60-8 (H. and H.) 



1-1 to 1-4 (H. W. 
Jones) 

85 (Fletcher) 
9 (Gadd) 
1-0 (H. and H.) 
1-0 (Gadd) 

Reference. Macfarlane (Bulletin, 34) has found great 
variations in this tincture. 



Cambogia (Gamboge). 

Definition. " A gum-resin obtained from Garcinia 
Hanburii" (B.P.). 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. It is completely dissolved by the succes- 
sive action of alcohol (90 per cent.) and water (B.P.). 

There must not be more than traces of starch, nor 
more than 3 per cent, of ash (B.P.). 

Ash of Gamboge. 

35 Umney. 

84 Moor. 

75 Priest. 

3 to -4 ... Woolsey.f 

7 to 1-4 Holthouse and 

Harvey. 

* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay (P. J., December 17, 1898). 
t A. J. P., I., xx., 440. 



64 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Good samples show a smooth, not a gritty, surface. 

In four samples examined by Holthouse and Harvey 
the resin soluble in 90 per cent, alcohol was 78-3, 79-8, 
82-7, and 81-9 per cent. 

Pills in which the active principle was gamboge have 
been sold as " castor-oil " pills. This is an incorrect 
description, and should be discontinued. 

Camphor. 

Definition. " A white crystalline substance obtained 
from Cinnamomum Camphora, purified by distillation " 
(B.P.). 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. Specific gravity about *995 (B.P.). Melting- 
point 175 C. (G.P.). 

Remarks. Chiefly obtained from Japan and Formosa 
(Dr. Gressman, P. J., 1896). 

Camphorated Oil (Linimentum Camphorse). 

" Camphor in flowers 20 grammes, olive-oil 80 c.c." 
(B.P.). 

Adulteration. Deficiency of camphor, addition of 
foreign oils. 

Standard. The camphor may be determined by expos- 
ing 10 grammes to 110 C. for three hours. The loss 
should be about 21* per cent. 2 grammes of the residue 
may be then examined by Koettstorfer, and should yield 
a figure of not less than 19-0. 

The amount of camphor present may also be deter- 
mined by the refractometer. See Liverseege (C. and D., 
58, 167). 

The specific gravity of genuine samples is about '927. 

Remarks. There have recently been several prosecu- 

* 21'3 per cent. (N. Leonard and H. M. Smith, Analyst, xxiii., 
p. 281). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



tions for the sale of liniment containing a mineral oil in 
place of the olive-oil, and for deficiency of camphor. 

A sample made strictly in accordance with the British 
Pharmacopoeia directions yielded 21-3 per cent, loss on 
heating (Priest). 

Tinctura Camph. Co. 

Preparation. Tinct. opii, 60'9 c.c.; benzoic acid, 4*6 
grammes; camphor, 3-4 grammes; oil of anise, 3-1 c.c. ; 
alcohol, 60 per cent., to make 1 litre. 

Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 
917 (Gladwyn) 

(Gladwyn) 



(M. and P.) 

41 (Gladwyn) 

32 (Cribb) 

35 (M. and P.) 

25 

27 

38 

25 

16 

26 to -29 (H. W. 

Jones) 
27 (Gadd) 
38 (H. and H.) 



Alcohol. 

59-3 (Umney) 
57-5 (P. and M.) 
58-2 (M. and P.) 
58-2 (Stead) 
57-9 (Lucas) 
58-5 (M. and P.) 
59-5 

58-6 
55-4 
58-4 
60-3 
58-4 (Fletcher) 
56-0 (Gadd) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
22 (M. and P.) 
919, -916 (Lucas) 
920 (Barclay) 
917 (Caines) 
918 (P. and M.) 
915 (M. and P.) 
920 (Gladwyn)' 
915) 

913 \ (Cribb) 
920 ) 

917 (M. and P.) 
915 
917 
923 
917 
913 
917to-920(H.W. 

Jones) 
918 (F. C. J. Bird) 
916 (Fletcher) 

(H. and H.) 
923 (Gadd) 

Remarks. This tincture should contain nearly -05 
grammes of anhydrous morphine in 100 c.c. 

References. Macfarlane (Bulletin, 34) has examined 
samples showing great variations in their total solids. A 
certain variation is natural, as the solids in tinct. opii 
vary a good deal. 

5 



66 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Cannabis Indica. 

Definition. " The dried flowering or fruiting tops of 
the female plant of Cannabis sativa, grown in India, 
from which the resin has not been removed" (B.P.). 
Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard. Ash, about 16 per cent. 

Eesin 9 

Remarks. The ordinary drug usually consists of flat- 
tened pieces, which are the resinous tops of the female 
plant, and is usually imported from Bombay. 

Composition. 
A i f 17 per cent. (Umney) 

" \13-8 (Priest) 
Eesin 9-8, 8-8, 9-1 (Theo. Brewis) 

References. Pharm. Journ., iii. 25, 246 ; J. C. S. 
Trans., 1896, 538 ; Lancet, 1897, i. 238. 

Extraetum Cannabis Indiese. 

" Exhaust Indian hemp, in coarse powder, with alcohol 
90 per cent., by percolation ; evaporate the percolate to 
the consistence of a soft extract " (B.P.). 

According to Squire, 1 part of extract (about) is 
obtained from 6 parts of Indian hemp. The yield varies 
from 12 -5 to 16 per cent, according to E. W. Lucas. 

A sample examined by C. G. Moor gave 0-45 per cent, 
of ash. 

There is always a small quantity of matter insoluble 
in 90 per cent, alcohol (2 to 7 per cent., H. W. Jones) 
in commercial samples of ext. cannabis indicse, which 
seems to be unavoidably produced during the evapora- 
tion. See also Squire's " Companion." 

Tinetura Cannabis Indieae. 

Preparation. Fifty grammes of extract of Indian hemp 
dissolved in 90 per cent, alcohol, and made up to 1 litre. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



67 



Specific Gravity 


Total Solids 


at 15-5 C. 


Grammes per 100 c.c. 


846 (Lucas) 


4-0* 


846 (Barclay) 


4*5 (Caines) 


846 (P. and M.) 


4-4 (M. and P.) 


848 (Caines) 


3-5 (Umney) 


844 (Umney) 


3-9) 


847 (Cribb) 


4'l[ (Cribb) 


848 f (Gladwyn) 


4-0) 
4-3 (M. and P.) 


845 (M. and P.) 


3-4 


845 


4-2to4-3(H.W. 


845to-846(H.W. 


Jones) 


Jones) 


4-5 (Fletcher) 


846 (Fletcher) 


3-1 (Gadd) 


842 (Gadd) 


4-4 (H. and H.) 



Alcohol. 

85-3 (Stead) 
89-0 (Moor) 
85-4 (Priv. com.), 

mean of 10 

samples. 
86-6 (Umney) 
871 (M. and P.) 
86-4 
87-0 (Fletcher) 
88-7 (Gadd) 



g.g j (Partridge) 

Standard. Solids should be from 4 to 4*5 grammes 
per 100 c.c. 

Cantharides. 

Definition. The dried beetle Cantharis vesicatona. 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Cantharides may be adulterated with 
beetles of a similar appearance, or with exhausted insects. 

The National Dispensatory says : " Powdered can- 
tharides are said to be sometimes ground with euphor- 
bium." 



Standard. 

Water should not exceed ... 
Fat, by petroleum spirit, about 
Total ash should not exceed 
Cantharidin, from ... 



Per Cent. 
10-0 
15-0 

8-0 (Germ. Pharm.) 
5 to 1-0 



Note. The active principle, cantharidin (C 10 H 12 4 ), 
occurs chiefly free, but not entirely so, about 12 per cent. 

* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 
1898). 

52 



6S SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

being in combination,* and therefore not extracted by a 
solvent without previous treatment. 

Ash of Cantharides. 

5'7 ... ... ... ..- Umney. 

7-4 ... ... Priest. 

6-0 

10-0 Moor.f 

5*3 to 6*7 (six samples) ... Holthouse and Harvey. 

5-0 to 9-4 Gadd. 

References. Five samples assayed by Squire gave the 
following results : -32, -48, '58, -58, -60, and -62 per cent, 
of well-crystallized cantharidin. 

J. B. Nagelvoort (Chemist and Druggist, 1891, 47), on 
examining a number of samples of cantharides found the 
active principle to be about 1-0 per cent., the fat from 
10 to 17 per cent., and the ash from 5 to 8 per cent. 

Barclay has found *51 per cent, of crystallized can- 
tharidin in the official beetle, and 1-57 per cent, in the 
Chinese beetle. 

Bemarks.ThQ United States Pharmacopoeia says : 
" Cantharides should be dried at a temperature not ex- 
ceeding 40 C., and kept in well-closed vessels.'' 

The very considerable variations shown in the per- 
centage of active principle found in the drug by various 
observers show the need of assaying it 4 and an attempt 
should be made to render the preparations into which it 
enters constant in character. 

Cantharides may be assayed by removing fat from the 
finely-powdered beetle by percolation with petroleum 

* H. G. Greenish and H. Wilson (Pharm. Journ., 1898, 255). 

f This sample was in powder, and probably contained a little mineral 
matter (0. and D., 1898, i, 421). 

J M. Cabannes (abst. Y. B. P., 1897, 194) directs attention to the 
desirability of always assaying this drug, and mentions a parcel which, 
on examination, was proved to contain only 25 per cent, of the official 
insects. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 69 

ether, drying, treating with caustic soda solution, and 
drying. The mass is then extracted with dilute HC1, 
and the cantharidin extracted with ether-chloroform. 

M. Debuchy (Journ. Pharm. Chem., xxvi. 13) recom- 
mends methyl-formic ether as superior to chloroform, 
ether, acetic acid, etc., for the separation of cantharidin. 

Gehe and Co. (abst. Y. B. P., 1900, 146) give a method 
of assay, and state that good qualities should yield about 
8 per cent, of cantharidin. 

The German Pharmacopoeia (4th edit.) standardizes cantharides 
as follows : Take 25 grammes of powdered cantharides and treat with 
100 grammes of chloroform and 2 c,c. of hydrochloric acid ; allow the 
mixture to stand for twenty-four hours with occasional agitation, 
then filter off 52 grammes of the chloroform solution through a dry, 
closely-covered filter. Distil off the chloroform and treat the residue 
with 5 c.c. of petroleum ether ; allow to stand for twelve hours with 
occasional shaking, filter the liquid through a 5 -centimetre filter-paper 
which has been extracted with petroleum ether and weighed ; wash 
the residue on to the filter with 10 c.c. of petroleum without en- 
deavouring to detach the crystalline residue adhering to the flask. 
Wash both flask and filter with water containing a drop or two of 
ammonium carbonate solution till the washings are colourless ; then 
wash with 5 c.c. of water, dry and weigh. The crystals must amount 
to at least -1 gramme. (From this it appears that the beetle must 
contain '8 gramme of cantharidin. ) 



Acetum Cantharidis. 

Preparation. 

Cantharides, bruised, 100 grammes, 
Glacial acetic acid and distilled water, mixed 
in equal volumes, a sufficient quantity. 

It is prepared by maceration followed by percolation, 
so that the finished product makes 1 litre. 

Specific Gravity. Authority. 

1-064 to 1-070 Caines. 

1-074 Priest. 

1-071 Moor. 

1-055 

1-068 Lucas. 



70 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Total Solids. 

Grammes per 100 cc. Authority. 

2-6 Priest. 

2-98 

316 Gladwyn. 

2-5 ... ... ... Priv. com. 

2-3 ., Moor. 

3*7 Lucas. 

2-6 Umney. 

4-4 ... Dodd. 

Acidity of 1 c.c. (expressed in c.c. of normal alkali). 

8-2 ... Moor. 

8-2 Cribb. 

8-4,84 Priest. 

8-1 Gadd. 

8 -3 (about) Calculated from the 

mode of preparation. 

Standard. Acetum cantharides should contain not less 
than -05 per cent, of cantharidin (as the beetle should 
yield -5 per cent, or upwards), not less than 2-5 grammes 
of solids per 100 c.c., and not less than 8 c.c. of normal 
alkali, should be required to neutralize 1 c.c. 

Tinctura Cantharidis. 

Preparation. Cantharides in No. 40 powder 12-5 
grammes, alcohol 90 per cent. 1 litre. Prepared by 
maceration. 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, A1 , , 

at 15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 101< 

8335) Ir ., , N -23 (Cribb) 90-1 (Stead) 

8888/V* 1 -12 (Cribb) 89-4 (Umney) 

834 (Lucas) -13 (Moor) 88 -5 (P. and M.) 

838 (Barclay) -16 (M. and P.) 88-1 (Priv. com.), 

835 (P. and M.) -25* mean of 11 

834 (Caines) -24 (M. and P.) samples. 

835 (Umney) -28 (M. and P.) 88-2 (Barclay) 

836 (Gladwyn) -29 (Umney) 89-6 (M. and P.) 

* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay, Pharm. Journ., December 17, 
1898. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 71 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, AIIII 

at 1 5 -5 C. Grammes per 1 00 c. c. 

836 (M. and P.) -20 (Gladwyn) 90-0 (M. and P.) 
834 -26 <M. and P.) 90*0 

834 -18 89-6 

835 -23 

833 to -836 (H. -16 

W. Jones) -25 to -28 (H. 

(Gadd) W. Jones) 88-7 (Gadd) 

22 (Gadd) 88-3 (Fletcher) 

16 (Fletcher) 

The variations in the solids require explanation. 
Two tinctures specially prepared by C. G. Moor gave 
19 and *2 grammes of solids per 100 c.c. 

Caper Tea. 

Description. This product consists of tea-leaves made 
into small balls with gum or starch. 

Adulteration. Excess of mineral matter. 

Standard. The ash, insoluble in dilute hydrochloric 
acid, should not exceed 3 per cent. 

The total ash should not exceed 9 per cent. 

The extract yielded to water should be not less than 
40 per cent. 

Remarks. Much of this tea is probably stopped by 
the Customs authorities when it contains excessive 
amounts of ash. 

Eeference. John White (Analyst, p. 117, 1899). On 
p. 333 of the same volume further information is given. 

See also C. Estcourt (Analyst, 1899, 30). 

Caraways. 

Definition. 11 The dried fruit of Carum Carvi" (B.P.). 
Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 
Adulteration. Exhausted or "drawn" caraways. 
Remarks. Powdered caraways are used in veterinary 
medicine, and when prepared from the cheaper Enssian 



72 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

varieties contain a larger amount of ash than if prepared 
from English, Dutch or German fruits, as the Eussian 
are less carefully collected and contain more extraneous 
matter. 

Standard 

Ash must not exceed ... 8-0 per cent. (B.P.). 

Extract to ether about ... 1OO ,, (Moor). 

References. Dyer and Gilbard (Analyst, p. 207, 1896) 
determined the volatile essential oil in two samples of 
genuine and one sample of exhausted seeds ; the ash, less 
sand, varied from 5-8 to 6'3 per cent., the " approximate 
essential oil" in the genuine seeds being 1-9 and 1-5 per 
cent, in the genuine seeds, and 0-1 only in the exhausted 
seeds. 

Squire (" Companion ") has determined the ash on three 
samples of seed and on three of pulv. carui, the varia- 
tions being from 5-7 to 7-1. 

When caraways are distilled for oil, the seeds after drying are very 
little altered in appearance, and have been used as an adulterant of 
genuine caraways. 

Ash. Ether Extract. Observer. 

5-5 10-2 Moor. 

7-5 13-3 Gladwyn. 

GO Umney. 

6-3 Priest. 

3-6 3-5* 

6-8 Gadd. 

Caraways yield about 5 per cent, of oil (J. C. Stead). 

Squire gives the yield of oil at 3 to 6 per cent., which 
agrees with Schimmel's report (April, 1897), the average 
of whose figures is about 5 per cent. 

For microscopic characters, see P. J., 1900, 303. 

Oleum Carui. 

Definition. "The oil distilled from caraway fruits." 
Characters. As in British Pharmacopoaia. 

* This sample consisted of " drawn " caraways. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 73 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15'5 C. from -910 to 
920 (B.P. and U.S.P.). 

Optical rotation, about +75*0. 

Remarks. Messrs. Schimmel and Co. (October, 1898) 
state that the gravity of genuine oil ranges from -905 to 
915, usually below -910. Squire states that the gravity 
of genuine oil may go up to -925. The German Pharma- 
copoeia values the oil for the carvol it contains, and 
requires the specific gravity to be not less than '960. 
The German Pharmacopoeia also states that it is entirely 
soluble in 2 parts of diluted alcohol. 

The yield of oil from caraways grown in different 
countries is given in Messrs. Schimmel's report for 
April, 1897, that from Dutch caraways being from 
4 to 6-5 per cent., and the optical rotation of oil from all 
sources as from + 70 to + 85 (Pharm. Journ., 1888, p. 856). 
Messrs. Schimmel state that the products brought into 
commerce as carvol are frequently caraway oil from 
which a portion of the carvene has been removed by 
fractional distillation. Pure carvol dissolves at 20 C., 
in the proportion of 1 part by weight in 16 to 17 parts 
by weight of 50 per cent, alcohol. A sample of carvol to 
which 2 per cent, of carvene had been added did not dis- 
solve clear in 20 parts of 50 per cent, alcohol at 20 C. 
It should therefore be required that 1 part by weight of 
carvol should dissolve clear in 20 parts of 50 per cent, 
alcohol at 20 C. The exact strength of the alcohol is 
important. 

Dr. Nicolayeen (Pharm. Journ., 1888, p. 603) obtained 
6-1 per cent, of oil from Christiana caraways, and 6-4 per 
cent, from Tromso caraways. Different samples of oil 
from Norwegian fruit gave specific gravities at 15 C. of 
9064, -9048 and -9053, and on fractional distillation gave 
48-9, 47-1 and 48-0 per cent, of carvol. 

The following figures on oleum carui were obtained by 



74 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Theo. Brewis on oils of known purity drawn by Messrs. 
Stafford Allen and Co. : 



Optical Rotation. 

9168 ............ 

915 ............ +76-5 

920 ............ +75-5 

9175 ............ 

9175 ............ +76-0 

9133 ............ +74-9 

9155 ............ 

9125 ............ +77-5 

9102 

Carvol is removed from caraway oil by some makers, and the 
residual oil is lowered in gravity. 

Carbolic Powder. 

Definition. Powders prepared by absorbing crude 
carbolic or cresylic acid in a dry inert powder. 

Adulteration. Deficiency of tar acids. 

Standard. Tbe percentage and character of the tar 
acids supposed to be present should be stated. 

Eeferences. Methods for assay are given in Allen's 
" Commercial Organic Analysis " and in " Aids to the 
Analysis of Foods and Drugs." 

Remarks. These powders do not contain phenol, but 
they ought to contain cresol in the proportion stated. 
Some of them are quite worthless, and consist of nothing 
but inert powders having a smell of tar acids. 

The carbolic powders of commerce formerly contained 
phenol, but do not at the present time. 

A large quantity of carbolate of lime (so-called) is still 
in demand, and is used privately and for public purposes. 
These preparations, even if genuine, are of very little 
value. 

Cardamom Seeds. 

Definition. " The dried ripe seeds of Eletteria car- 
damomum " (B.P.). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 75 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia.* 

Remarks. Cardamoms should be purchased whole, 
and the seeds extracted from the husks when required, 
as directed in the Pharmacopoeia. But powdered carda- 
moms as met with in commerce appear to be of different 
qualities according to the price, prepared either from the 
whole fruit powdered or from the loose imported seeds, 
which are obtained from overripe fruits that have seeded, 
or from the wild or Ceylon cardamom. Besides these, 
cardamoms called korarima are imported. These seeds 
can only be distinguished by the histological structure 
(see Pharm. Journ. [4], vi. 279, 280, and 1900, 302). 

The whole fruit ground, husks and all, has no legiti- 
mate use in medicine. 

Standard for seeds : 

Ash not to exceed ... 5*5 per cent. (Moor).f 
Ether extract (about) ... 5 ,, ,, 

Fibre (about) ...... 12 

The yield of oil from cardamom seeds is about 5 per 
cent. 

Ash on Cardamoms. 



Seeds. Husks. ?^ Observer. 

3-5 5-9 Umney. 

2-38 10-4 5-5 Squire.} 

2-81 12-0 

3-85 13-4 

4-5 10-4 Priest, t 

* From figures given below, it will be seen that there is good reason 
for believing the British Pharmacopoeia limit is too low. This limit 
was intended to detect powdered pericarps, but, as pointed out by 
Greenish, the microscope is a better means of detecting their presence. 
I am in favour of raising the limit to total ash, 5 '5 per cent. ; in- 
soluble in dilute HC1 not to exceed 2 per cent. ; the British Pharma- 
copoeia limit for total ash is 4 '0 per cent. 

f In these estimations the cardamoms were shelled in the laboratory. 

J Squire's "Companion," 1899. Squire examined three samples 
of pulv. card., which should consist of powdered seeds, but as they 
yielded 7 '56, 6 '33 and 9 '93 per cent, of ash, he concludes that they 
probably consisted of whole fruits ground. 



76 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Ash on Cardamom. 
Seeds. Husks. ^hole Observer. 

5-7 8-8 8-2 ' Priest. 

3-7 8-8- 5-4- 

51 10-5 7-7 

-5*1 - Gladwyn.* 

3'7 

Adulteration. Powdered cardamom seeds are mixed 
with powdered husk, or possibly with other varieties of 
cardamoms which are not official. 

In order to find some means of distinguishing between 
powdered seeds and whole fruit, the ether extract was de- 
termined on seeds and husks, with the following results : 

Seeds = |^J Moor;* 

Husks = 6-0 

From these figures it does not appear that the ether 
extract is likely to be of use, but an estimation of in- 
soluble fibre seems to be useful : 

Seeds 11-0 Moor.* 

Husks 47-2 

Whole fruit 21-2 

In ashing seeds and husks, it was noticed by W. Glad- 
wyn that the ash of the husks differed from that of the 
seeds in being fusible, so estimations of soluble ash and 
its alkalinity were made : 



Whole 
Fruit. 



Seeds. Husks. Observer. 



Total ash ... 7'0 5'0 13-3 Gladwyn.* 

Soluble ash ... 3-2 2-0 7-1 

as K 2 O 0-66 0'52 2-6 

Greenish (C. and D., 1901, 274) gives ashes on the seeds and peri- 
carps of official and unofficial cardamoms, and agrees that the present 
official limit of ash is too low. He also suggests a description of the 
microscopic appearance of genuine ground seeds as distinguished from 
mixtures of seeds and husks. 

* In these estimations the cardamoms were shelled in the laboratory. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



77 



Tinctura Cardamomi Co. 

Cardamom seeds, bruised ... 12*5 grammes. 

Caraway fruit, bruised ... ... 12 5 ,, 

Kaisins of commerce, freed from 

seeds 10OO 

Cinnamon bark, bruised ... 25*0 ,, 

Cochineal in powder ... ... 6*3 ,, 

Alcohol, 60 per cent 1,000 c.c. 



Prepared by maceration. 



Specific Gravity 
at 15-5 C. 



Alcohol. 



948 (Barclay) 
946 (P. and M.) 
950 (Caines) 
944 (M. and P.) 
945 (Gladwyn) 
947 (Moor) 
942--947 (H. W. 

Jones) 

933 (M. and P.) 
940 
943 
944 
932 
943 



54-9 (Stead) 
54-5 (Umney) 
57-0 (P. and M.) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 

6-6 (Gladwyn) 

6-5 (Barclay)* 

4-7 (M. and P.) 

8-1 (Caines) 

6-2 (M. and P.) 

6-6 (P. and M.) 

7-1 (Moor) 

5-4-6-7 (H. W. 
Jones) 

4-3 (M. and P.) 

5*1 

8-1 

6-6 

3-5 

6-3 

7-7 (Fletcher) 
943--950 (H. and 7'3 (Gadd) 

H.) 

948 (Fletcher) 
945 (Gadd) 

Macfarlane (Bulletin, 34) examined a number of 
samples, and found extraordinary variations in their 
total solids. 

Standard. The total solids should not fall below 
6-5 grammes per 100 c.c. 

The colour of several samples varied so much that 
either the full quantity of cochineal cannot have been 

* Suggested as a standard by Barclay. 



55-4 (Chattaway), 
average of 37 
samples 

54-5 (Barclay) 

57-2 (M. and P.) 

56-2 

57-1 

55-9 

56-5 

56-3 

56-0 (Fletcher) 

58-7 (Gadd) 



78 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

added, or the cochineal must have been adulterated (see 
Cochineal). 

Caseara Sagrada (Sacred Bark). 

Definition. " The dried bark of the Ehamnus pur- 
shianus " (B.P.). 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

4-6, 3-9, 7-0, 5-2 ............ Moor. 

3-3 ............ Umney. 

.^QQ P. J., 1900, 23. 



Ext. Casearse Sagradae Liquidum. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 



Composition. 


Specific 
Gravity. 
1-068 


Alcohol. 
25-0 


Solids, 
grammes per 100 c.c. 

17-5 


Observer. 
Barclay. 


1-072 


23-6 


17-8 


Theo. Brewis. 


1-059 


17.8 


27-5 


Gadd. 


1-064 


19-2 


24-3 


F. C. J. Bird. 


1-069 


24-8 





Bascombe. 


1-074 


18-3 


24-9 


Moor. 


1-072 


17-7 


23-5 


Priest. 



Ext. Casearse Sagradae. 

A dry extract prepared by percolation of the powdered 
drug with cold water, and subsequent evaporation to 
dryness. 

Water. Ash. Observer. 

6-8 Umney. 

Cassia Pulpa. 

Definition. " The pulp obtained from the pods of the 
Cassia Fistula " (B.P.). 
Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 79 

Water. Ash. Observer. 

18-9 11-3 Umney. 

5-1 M. and P. 

5-8 Gladwyn. 



Castor-Oil. 

Definition. "The oil expressed from the seeds of 
Eicinus communis " (B.P.). 

Adulterations. Poppy-oil, lard-oil, rosin-oil, cocoanut- 
oil, and blown rape, linseed and cotton-oil. 

Standard. The specific gravity at 15'5 C. must be 
between -950 to -970 (B.P. and U.S.P.). 

It should be soluble in an equal volume of absolute 
alcohol (B.P.). 

It should be soluble in 5 volumes of 90 per cent, 
alcohol (B.P.). 

It should dry slowly to a varnish when exposed to the 
air (B.P.). (The time required for this might have been 
given.) 

Three c.c. of oil and 3 c.c. of carbon bisulphide and 
1 c.c. of sulphuric acid should not become brown on 
shaking (B.P. and U.S.P.). 

Equal volumes of oil and petroleum spirit do not give 
a clear solution at 15-5 if the oil is pure (B.P.).* 

The iodine absorption should fall between 83-4 to 85 -9. 

The saponification equivalent should fall between 
302 to 319. 

Remarks. E. J. Parry considers '950 too low for a 
genuine castor-oil. E. W. Lucas (P. J., January 28, 
1899) states that castor-oil pressed by himself became 
yellowish-brown, so that the British Pharmacopoeia test 
should be altered to " become brown, but not blackish- 

* If temperature is raised 2 degrees the mixture becomes clear 
(Lucas). 



8o SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

brown, on shaking."- He also says that genuine cold- 
pressed oil dissolves in all proportions of absolute alcohol, 
and in less than twice its volume of 90 per cent, alcohol. 
M. Conroy (P. /., 1889, p. 385) gives the specific gravity 
of castor-oil at 60 F. as never above -964, while the 
lowest he met with was a French sample giving -9625. 
In his opinion -963 to '964 is correct. Castor -oil at 
100 F. is -949, while cocoanut-oil (adulterant) at 100 F. 
is -912. Castor-oil is adulterated with " blown " cotton- 
seed oil, made by blowing warm air through the oil. 
Great heat is thereby evolved, and the oil increases in 
density and viscosity. 

Cayenne Pepper. 

Definition. " The dried fruit of the Capsicum mini- 
mum" (B.P.). As the British Pharmacopoeia describes 
this variety, it should alone be employed for medicinal 
purposes ; for other uses the other varieties seem equally 
suited. 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia for description 
of Capsicifructus. Cayenne pepper is not a synonym. 

Eemarks. The capsicum of the Pharmacopoeia consists 
of the fruit of C. minimum, and is chiefly imported from 
Sierra Leone and Zanzibar. In commerce the fruits are 
called Chillies, or Guinea pepper. The Zanzibar kind is 
usually more or less mixed with fruit-stalks ; both are 
more pungent than the bright-red Japanese fruits. The 
capsicum of fruiterers consists of a variety of Capsicum 
annuum. The bright-red cayenne pepper of Natal is 
derived from a red, long, narrow variety of the same 
species, and the yellow, violet-scented cayenne pepper 

* This test is correctly given in the German Pharmacopoeia, 4th edit. , 
in which the colour is described as "blackish-brown." " At C. the 
castor-oil deposits crystalline flakes ; at lower temperatures it becomes 
buttery. It dissolves in all proportions in glacial acetic acid and in 
absolute alcohol, and is soluble in 3 volumes of alcohol ("830) " (G.P., 
4th edit.). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 81 

of Nepal also from a yellowish, long variety of the same 
plant. 

Adulterations. The addition of starchy matters, ex- 
hausted capsicum. 

Standard 

Water should not exceed ... 10 per cent. 

Ash should not exceed ... ... 6 ,, (B.P.) 

The ether extract* should be about 18 ,, (Moor.) 

Starch must be absent. 

References. Three samples examined by Squire ("Com- 
panion ") gave from 3*7 to 6*3 per cent, of ash. 

The ash on several samples examined by C. G. Moor 
varied from 4 per cent, to 7 '5 per cent., the average being 
5 *5 per cent., while the extract to ether was 18 per cent. 

The average ash of samples examined by J. C. Umney 
was 5'2 per cent. 

A sample of official capsicum examined by Priest gave 
4 -6 per cent, ash, and a sample of C. annuum gave 6 '8 
per cent. 

In 1893 brick-dust, red lead, and colouring matters 
were found in two cheap Baltimore samples, and in 
Washington samples rice has frequently been detected. 

C. C. Sherrard (G. D., April 9, 1892) examined four 
samples for the amount of oleoresin,! the average of his 
figures being 17 per cent. 

W. C. Alpers (546) has obtained as much as 19 per 
cent, of oleoresin from good capsicums by ether extrac- 
tion, U.S.P. method. 

A sample examined by Stock in 1896 contained starchy 
matter. 

Tinct. Capsici. 

Preparation. Capsicum in No. 20 powder 50, alcohol 
70 per cent. Prepared by maceration, 

* This standard applies both to the official capsicum and to com- 
mercial cayenne pepper. 

t If samples are wrapped in paper the oil will soak into it. 

6 



82 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 

1*5 per cent.* 
0-68 (P. and M.) 
11 (Caines) 
1-5 (M. and P.) 
0-91 



1'4 (Umney) 
1-2-1-5 (H. W. 

Jones) 
0-72 (M. and P.) 

7 
1-33 (M. and P.) 

83 

92 (Fletcher) 

77 (Gadd) 

1-2 (Partridge) 



Alcohol. 

68-5 (Stead) 

71-3 (Umney) 

70-8 (P. and M.) 

69-9 (M. and P.) 

68-4 

68-4 (Chattaway), 

mean of 18 

samples 

68-5 (M. and P.) 
87-3 
67-7 

68-4 (M. and P.) 
69-1 (Barclay) 
67-6 (Fletcher) 
70-4 (Gadd) 
69-5 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
895 (Moor) 
894 (Lucas) 
896 (Barclay) 
892 (P. and M.) 
896 (Caines) 
893 (M. and P.) 
892 
842 

' 894 |(Gladwyn) 

893 (Umney) 
895--S98 (H. W. 

Jones) 
894 

896 (M. and P.) 
894 

896 (Fletcher) 
895 (H. and H.) 
893 (Gadd) 

Standard. Solids from -7 to 1-5 grammes per 100 c.c. 

Remarks. These large variations in total solids are 
at least, in part due to the fact that the fat deposits in 
cold weather, though the other extractive matters prob- 
ably vary considerably in genuine capsicums. 

The solids in tinct. capsici may vary from 1'5 grammes 
to -7 gramme per 100 c.c. in tinctures prepared strictly in 
accordance with the British Pharmacopoeia directions, 
and therefore it might conduce to uniformity if, instead 
of making the tincture from the fruit as at present, it 
were made by dissolving 10 grammes of oleo-resina capsici 
(U.S.P.) in a litre of spirit. 

Three samples of tinct. capsici specially prepared by 
C. G. Moor gave '7, 11, and -85 grammes per 100 c.c. 
residue, so that Barclay's standard of 1-5 per cent, of 
total solids must not be taken as established. 



* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay (P. J., December 17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 83 

Carbo Ligm 

Definition. "The carbonaceous residue of wood 
charred by exposure to a red heat without access of air." 

Adulterations. Excess of mineral matter. 

Standard. " Ash not to exceed 7 '5 per cent. " (B.P.). 

Remarks. There should not be more than 1 per cent, 
of ash insoluble in HC1, and only a few woods give an ash 
above 4 per cent. In the case of some woods which have 
a low ash, the British Pharmacopoeia standard would 
allow a considerable amount of dirt. 

Reference. Pharm. Journ. (3), xx., 946. Six samples 
examined by L. W. Hawkins gave from 2 to 7 per cent. 
of ash. 

The German Pharmacopoaia requires carbo ligni to 
yield nothing to alcohol and only a slight ash. 

Casearilla Cortex. 

Definition. "The dried bark of Croton Eleuteria" 
(B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash (per cent.). Observer. 

8-5, 7-0, 10-2, 5-9 ... Lucas. 

6*3 ... ... ... Umney. 

8-8 Moor. 

7-5 Priest. 

10-7 

10-0 Gadd. 

Two samples examined by Priest gave 10*6 and 16*5 
per cent, of water. 

Messrs. Schimmel give the yield of oil as 1*5 to 3 per 
cent. 

Tinet. Casearillse. 

Preparation. Casearilla in No. 40 powder 200 
grammes, alcohol 70 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared 
by percolation. 

62 



84 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, ., , , 

at 15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. Alcohol. 

898 (Lucas) 1-6* 67 '1 (Stead) 

900 (Barclay) 2'8 (Caines) 69'5 (P. and M.) 

901 (P. and M.) 1-9 (Fletcher) 65-1 (M. and P.) 

908 (Caines) 3-0 (M. and P.) 64-5 (Chattaway), 

903 (M. and P.) 2-9 (H. W. Jones) mean of 5 sam- 

900 (Caines) 1-9 (Gadd) pies 

896 (Umney) -9 (Partridge) 68-3 (Umney) 

902--905 (H. W. 66-7 (Fletcher) 

Jones) 65-7 (Gadd) 
895--900(H. andH.) 
897 (Fletcher) 
904 (Gadd) 

The variations in the solids are remarkable, and show 
the need for further work. 

Catechu. 

Definition. " An extract of the leaves and young 
shoots of Uncaria G-ambier" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulteration. Starch, mineral matter. 

Standard. " Almost entirely soluble in boiling water'' 
(B.P.). 

" Seventy per cent, should be soluble in 90 per cent, 
alcohol " (B.P.). " No starch " (B.P.). " Not more than 
5 per cent, of ash " (B.P.). 

The ash of a sample examined by Umney was 4'1 per cent. 

A sample examined by C. G. Moor gave ash 3*64 per 
cent., and alcohol extract 76'0 per cent. 

The German Pharmacopoeia, 4th edit., states that the 
strongly diluted alcoholic solution of catechu gives a 
green colour with solution of ferric chloride, and that the 
aqueous solution is acid to litmus paper, and that a 10 
per cent, solution in boiling water gives a reddish-brown 
precipitate on cooling. The residue insoluble in water, 
* Proposed as a standard by Barclay. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



after washing with hot water and dried at 100 C., 
should not amount to more than 15 per cent. The ash 
limit is 6 per cent. 

Tinet. Catechu. 

Preparation. Catechu in coarse powder 200 grammes, 
cinnamon bark bruised 50 grammes, alcohol 60 per cent. 
1 litre. Prepared by maceration. 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
14-50* 

15-7 (M. and P.) 
13-8 

17-9 (Caines) 
13-6 (Moor)f 
14-5 (Umney) 
13-8-14-0 (H. W. 

Jones) 

18-7 (M. and P.) 
18-6 

17-9 (Fletcher) 
15-7 (Gadd) 



Alcohol. 

51-8 (Barclay) 
51-9 (M. and P.) 
52-3 (Priv. com.), 

mean of 40 

samples 
51-6 (Stead) 
52-0 (Umney) 
52-7 (M. and P.) 
52-7 

52-7 (Fletcher) 
57-5 (Gadd) 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
976 (Lucas) 
977 (Barclay) 
979 (M. and P.) 
980 (Caines) 
977 (M. and P.) 
981 (Gladwyn) 
968 (Moor) 
976 (Umney) 
976--9S2 (H. 

W. Jones) 
987 (M. and P.) 
987 

980 (Fletcher) 
977 (Gadd) 

Standard. The solids should be not less than 15*5 
grammes per 100 c.c. 

The German Pharmacopoeia states that tinct. catechu is acid in 
reaction, and gives a dirty-green colour with solution of feme chloride. 
Heated with solution of potassium chromate, it gives a dark-red 
colour. 

Cheese. 

Definition. A solid substance prepared by curdling 
milk and pressing the curd after draining off the whey. 

Adulteration. Addition of foreign fat. The use of 
skim milk | in the preparation of cheese, and additions of 
extraneous matters. Presence of poisonous metals. 

Standard. Cream cheese must contain not less than 

* Proposed by J. Barclay, P. J., December 17, 1898, as standard. 

t Sample of unknown origin. 

J Unless sold as skim-milk cheese. 



86 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

40 per cent, of fat. Any cheese sold without a qualify- 
ing description is to be taken as made from whole milk. 
It must contain not less than 30 per cent, of fat, and any 
cheese containing less than this should be marked and 
sold as prepared from partly skimmed milk (Moor). 

Remarks. Cheese made from unskimmed milk will 
contain a greater percentage of fat than the figure 
obtained by multiplying the N figure by 6*25 (Allen's 
"Chemical Organic Analysis," vol. iv., p. 241). 

In cheese made from whole milk the fat figure divided 
by the casein figure varies between 1 and 1-5 (Vieth). 
The New York State Dairy Commission's experiments 
gave the ratio of 1 to 1*4 for cheeses made from whole 
milk, and partial skimming made the ratio 1 to 1'22. 

References. Tables giving the composition of most of 
the cheeses sold in this country are given in Allen's 
" Commercial Organic Analysis," and in Richmond's 
" Dairy Chemistry," and in " Milk and Milk Products" 
(Pearmain and Moor). 

Chirata. 

Definition. " The dried plant, Swertia Chiratta," col- 
lected when in flower. 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

6-3 Umney. 

3-3 , Moor. 

3-5 Priest. 

Remarks. Kariyat, or creyat (Andrographis panicu- 
ata), and a less bitter species of Swertia, S. angustifolia, 
are occasionally substituted for it. 

Tinet. Chiratae. 

Preparation. Chirata in No. 40 powder 100 grammes, 
alcohol 60 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by per- 
colation. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 87 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, A1 , > 

15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

928 (Gladwyn) 1-3 (M. and P.) 58'5 (Priv. com.) 

922 (Caines) 1-2 57'4 (Stead) 

920 1-6 (Caines) 59'6 (Umney) 

924 11 (Moor) 57O (Fletcher) 

930 (Moor) 11-1-3 (H. W. 59-6 (M. and P.) 

920--926 (H. W. Jones) 60-0 (Gadd) 

Jones) -8 (Barclay) 

920 (Barclay) 11 (Fletcher) 

922 (M. and P.) 1-0 (Gadd) 

922 (Fletcher) 1-2 (Partridge) 

922--924 (H. and 11 

H.) -9 
917 (Gadd) 

Chicory. 

Definition. The cleaned and roasted root of Chichorium 
intybus. 

Adulterations. Excess of mineral matters, and addi- 
tion of foreign vegetable matters and of saccharine 
matter. 

Standard 

Total ash, about 5-5 per cent. 

Extract to hot water ... 45 to 55 ,, 

Ash, insoluble in HC1, not to exceed 2 ,, 

Microscopic appearance genuine. 

Remarks. The best chicory may contain a little sand. 

If the extract to hot water exceeds 55 per cent., it may 
be due to added saccharine matter. 

Reference. E. G. Clayton (Analyst, 1894, p. 12) gives 
figures on roasted chicory, "undoubtedly containing 
added saccharine matter." 

See also Wolff (Analyst, 1899, 261). 

Chloride of Lime (Calx Chlorinata). 

Definition. See British Pharmacopeia. 
Standard. As in British Pharmacopeia. 



88 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Eemarks. Only well-kept samples satisfy the test in 
respect of available chlorine (Squire, " Companion "). 

Pharm. Journ., 1887, p. 902 : J. Pattinson (/. C. S. L, 
March 31, p. 188) kept samples of bleaching-powder for 
eleven months (examined each month) in 4-ounce bottles, 
closed with unsealed corks, at 60 R, 70 F., and 80 R 

The bleaching-powder kept at 60 lost 6 per cent, of 
available chlorine during the eleven months, or 0-55 per 
cent, per month. The bleaching-powder kept at 70 lost 
7 '8 of available chlorine during the eleven months, or 
0-71 per cent, per month. The bleaching-powder kept at 
80 lost 17 per cent, of available chlorine during the 
eleven months, or 1-64 per cent, per month. 

The bleaching-powder originally used contained 36 - 33 
per cent, of chlorine. 



Tinet. Chloroform! et Morphinse Co. 



Preparation. 

Chloroform 

Morphine hydrochloride 

Diluted hydrocyanic acid 

Tinct. capsici 

Tincture of Indian hemp 

Oil of peppermint 

Glycerine ... 

Alcohol 90 per cent 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 

1-012 (Barclay) 
1-010 (Caines) 
1-009 

1-011 (Lucas) 
1-012 (Umney) 
1-012-1-014 (H. 

W. Jones) 
1-013 (Holthouse 

and Harvey) 



Total Solids, 

Grammes per 100 c.c. 

30-2 (Caines) 

27-2 (Umney) 



75 c.c. 

10 grammes. 
50 c.c. 
. 25 c.c. 
. 100 c.c. 

1-5 c.c. 
. 250 c.c. 
. to make 1 litre. 
(B.P.). 

Alcohol. 

52-1 (Umney) 
53-8 (Barclay) 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



89 



Cimicifuga Rhizoma. 

Definition. " The dried rhizome and roots of the 
Cimicifuga racemosa" (B.P.). 

Test. " Both rhizome and roots are blackened by 
solution of ferric chloride " (B.P.). This test distin- 
guishes the root from black hellebore. 

Ash. Observer. 

11-3 Umney. 

7-1, 5-7 ... Priest. 

4-0 Gadd. 

Ext. Cimieifugrse Liq. 

For Preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 

Solids, 



Specific Gravity. 

882 
894 

874 



Grammes per 

100 c.c. 

9-9 

12-7 

4-0 



Alcohol. 

801 
73-4 
81-3 



Observer. 

Umney. 
Barclay. 
Gadd. 



Alcohol. 



The variation of the solids in this preparation and in 
the tincture is remarkable. 

Tinct. Cimieifug-se. 

Cimicifuga in No. 40 powder 100 grammes, alcohol 
60 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by percolation. 

Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
2-8 (Umney) 
2-0* 

1-36 (M. and P.) 
1-02 (Moor) 
1-1 (J. E. K.) 
2-64 (M. and P.) 
1-7 
1-2-1-6 (H. W. 

Jones) 
1-8 



Specific gravity at 

15-5 C. 

924 (CTmney) 
928 (Lucas) 
924 (Barclay) 
925 (P. and M.) 
'917 

920 (Moor) 
922- 927 (H. W. 

Jones) 
918 

924 (Fletcher)) 
920- -925 (H. and 2'7 (Fletcher) 

H.) 1-1 (Partridge) 

919 (Gadd) 2-6f 

* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay 
ber 17, 1898). 

f Specially prepared in accordance with the B.P. directions. 



59-0 (Stead) 
57-8 (Umney) 
57-3 (P. and M.) 
59-0 (M. and P.) 
59-6 

58-3 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 6 sam- 
ples 

59-7 (M. and P.) 
58-6 (Fletcher) 
61-1 (Gadd) 



(Pharm. Journ., Decem- 



90 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Cinchonae Rubrse Cortex. 

Definition. " The dried bark of the stem and branches 
of cultivated plants of Cinchona succirubra." 

Characters and Tests. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard. " When used for other purposes than that 
of obtaining the alkaloids or their salts, it should yield 
between 5 and 6 per cent, of total alkaloids, of which not 
less than half should consist of quinine and cinchoni- 
dine, as estimated by the following methods " (vide B.P.) : 
Ash of Cinchona Bark. Observer. 

2 to 3 per cent. ... ... ... Squire. 

2 to 3 - 5 per cent. ... ... ... Lucas. 

4 per cent. ... ... ... ... Moor. 

3 '3 per cent. ... ... ... ... Umney. 

Squire (" Companion ") quotes Umney (Pharm. Journ., 
3, xvi., p. 407), who points out the necessity for a quinine 
standard, as a bark may satisfy the British Pharmacopoeia 
tests and yet contain only traces of quinine. 

The German Pharmacopoeia directs the titration of the 
extracted alkaloids, and the application of the thallioquin 
test to the neutralized liquid. 

There is a large quantity of cinchona bark on the 
market which does not come up to the British Pharma- 
copoeia requirements for quinine and cinchonidine, and 
as this may be employed for the preparation of either 
the liquid extract or the tincture, it is desirable that the 
methods of assay used for both these preparations should 
include tests for the extracted alkaloids to insure their 
containing quinine and cinchonidine in proper proportions. 

Reference. F. H. Alcock (P. J., 1901, 90) gives an 
improved method of assay. 

Ext. Cinehonae Liq. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard. A liquid extract containing 5 grammes of 
the alkaloids of red cinchona bark in 100 c.c. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



Specific Gravity 
at 15-5 C. 

1-113 

1-100 
1-080 
1-148 
1-150 
1-113 



Total Solids, 

Grammes per 

100 c.c. 

39-8 
33-3 
27-5 
48-7 
47-6 
36-0 



Alkaloids. 

4-6 
2-6 
4-7 
5-1 



Observer. 

Moor. 
Caines. 



M. and P. 



Tinctura Cinchonae. 



" Bed cinchona bark in No. 40 powder 200 grammes, 
alcohol 70 per cent, a sufficient quantity. Prepared by 
the percolation process " (B.P.). 

After carrying out the official directions, the British 
Pharmacopoeia states that the tincture is to be adjusted 
so that it contains 1 gramme of alkaloids per 100 c c. 

Standard. " Assayed by the method given under ext. 
cinchonas liq., should yield between -95 and 1-05 grammes 
of alkaloids per 100 c.c. " (B.P.). 

Total Solids, 

Grammes per 100 c.c. 

4-8 (M. and P.) 

61 (M. and P.) 

Eg. 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 

921 (Umney) 
916 (Lucas) 
918 (Barclay) 



918 (P. and M.) 13'6 (Moor)* 

947 (Gladwyn) 8'3 (Caines) 

916 8-0 (Umney) 

928 (Caines) 3'6 (Gladwyn) 

933 (M, and P.) 4-8 

924 5-4 

924 6-3 (Priest) 

915--920 (H. W. 6-5 (Moor) 

Jones) 3-3 (M. and P.) 

905 (Fletcher) 5'7 

916--921 (Holt- 7-6 

house and Har- 3-9 (Fletcher) 

vey), 8 samples 6-8 (Barclay) 

924 (Gadd) 8-5 (Gadd) 

* On inquiry, it was discovered that this tincture had been prepared 
from a bark so weak in alkaloid that it should not have been used. 



Alcohol. 

62-5 (Stead) 
64-6 (P. and M.) 
65-2 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 11 sam- 
ples 

64-6 (Umney) 
62-6 (M. and P.) 
63-7 
66-3 

62-7 (Barclay) 
66-1 (Fletcher) 
63-1 (Gadd) 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Tinet. Cinehonse Co. 

Preparation. 

Dried bitter orange peel, well bruised ... 50 grammes. 
Serpentary rhizome, in No. 40 powder ... 25 
Cochineal, in powder ......... 3 -2 

Saffron ............... 6-3 

Tincture of cinchona ... ... ... 500 c.c. 

Alcohol 70 per cent. ...... to make 1 litre. 

Standard. " Assayed by the method given under ext. 
cinchonae liq., should yield between 0'45 and 0'55 gramme 
of alkaloids per 100 c.c. The total solids should impart 
a yellow colour to chloroform " (B.P.). 

Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
4-78 (M. and P.) 
3-9 (Umney) 
6-3 (M. and P.) 
4-8 
5-5 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 
913 (Lucas) 
918 (Barclay) 
918 (P. and M.) 
912 (Caines) 
913 (Umney) 
913 (M. and P.) 
910 (Gladwyn) 
912 (M. and P.) 
912 
912 
911 
*921 

906 (Fletcher) 
912--913 (H. 

and H.) 
917 (Gadd) 



5-9 

5-4 (Barclay) 
4-20 (Fletcher) 
5-3 (Gadd) 



Alcohol. 

65-0 per cent. (P. 

and M.) 
66-8 (Umney) 
65-5 (M. and P.) 
63-8 (Stead) 
65-6 (Chattaway), 

mean of 38 

samples 
66-8 (Umney) 
67-5 (M. and P.) 
65-9 
66-4 
64-8 
64-8 

63-02 (Fletcher) 
65-2 (Barclay) 
68-3 (Gadd) 



Cinnamomi Cortex. 

Definition. " The dried inner bark of shoots from the 
truncated stocks of the Cinnamomum zeylanicum, ob- 
tained from cultivated trees. Imported from Ceylon, 
and distinguished in commerce as Ceylon cinnamon " 
(B.P.). 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 93 

Adulterations. Ground walnut shells and other or- 
ganic and mineral matters. 

Standard Volatile oil, about '5 to 1-0 per cent. 

Total extract to ether, dried at 100 C., about 2-0 per 
cent. 

Ash should not exceed 6 per cent. 

Yields to an excess of 70 per cent, alcohol, in the cold 
about 12 per cent. 

Remarks. Cassia lignea is the commercial name for 
Chinese cinnamon i.e., the bark of Cinnamomum cassia. 
Cassia vera is the trade name for several mucilaginous 
hard barks, apparently derived from a species of Cinna- 
momum, and having more or less of the cassia flavour. 

C. and D., 1891, 817, quotes from an Austrian Govern- 
ment circular, giving warning that cinnamon was being 
adulterated with ground walnut shells. 

Ash of Cinnamon. Observer. 

4-26, 4-02, 3-43, 4-61, 4-8, 5-07, 

4 -44 ... ... ... ... Squire ("Companion"). 

5-54 (average of 142 samples) ... A. Bau.* 

3-96, 4-8, 2-97, 4-4, 5-0 Dyer and Gilbard.f 

4-1, 4-8, 4-6 Moor.} 

3*5, 4-1 (6 samples) Lucas. 

5-9, 5-5, 8-2 Priest. 

3-8 Umney. 

Dyer and Gilbard in the paper quoted above give 
valuable figures for the ash and extractive to ether and 
alcohol of cinnamon and of walnut shells, which were 
believed to be then used as an adulterant. 

Remarks. Cinnamon contains starch. Viewed under 
a J, the granules are seen to be very small and chiefly 
oval, and without angles. 

Pharm. Journ. (1893, 1048, Part II., Bull 13, Depart- 
ment of Agriculture, U.S.A.) states that "Cinnamon is 
adulterated with cassia, in fact, not a particle of ground 

* Abstract, Analyst, xxii., 323. t Analyst . 1895, p. 130. 

J These samples were all in quill form, of varying qualities. Pulvis. 



94 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

cinnamon can be found in the New York market." 
Cinnamon is said to have a higher amount of woody 
fibre than cassia. 

Oleum Cinnamomi. 

Definition. "The oil distilled from cinnamon bark" 
(B.P.). 

Description. Yellow when freshly distilled, but grad- 
ually becoming reddish, having the odour and taste of 
the bark. 

The yield of oil is from -5 to 1-0 per cent. (Theo. 
Brewis). 

Adulteration. Cinnamon-leaf oil. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., 1-025 to 1*035 
(B.P.). One c.c. dissolved in 5 c.c. of 90 per cent, 
alcohol tested with ferric chloride solution should give a 
pale green, but not a decided blue (absence of cinnamon- 
leaf oil). If 10 c.c. be well shaken with 50 c.c. of boiling 
30 per cent, solution of sodium hydrogen sulphite, an 
oily layer separates, which when cooled to 15-5 C. 
should not measure more than 5 c.c. (absence of more than 
50 per cent, of constituents other than aldehydes), B.P. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires oleum cinnamomi 
to contain at least 70 per cent, of cinnamic aldehyde. 
The oil must be soluble in 3 parts of diluted alcohol (68 
to 69 per cent.), in all proportions in 90 per cent, alcohol. 
The specific gravity must fall between 1-055 and 1-070. 
On shaking 4 drops of oil with 4 drops of nitric acid at 
5 C., a white crystalline mass results. 1 drop of ferric 
chloride added to 4 drops of oil in 10 c.c. of 90 per cent. 
alcohol should give a brown, not a green or red, colora- 
tion. A solution of oil in 3 to 4 parts of alcohol (90 per 
cent.) treated with half its volume of freshly-prepared 
solution of lead subacefcate should give no precipitate ; 
5 c.c. of oil warmed with 45 c.c. of sodium sulphite solu- 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



95 



tion (30 per cent.), with frequent shaking for two hours, 
should not yield more than 1/5 c.c. of undissolved oil. 
100 parts heated on a water-bath till all volatile con- 
stituents have gone should not yield more than 8 parts 
of residue. 

References. Schimmel (Pharm. Journ., 1895, ii. 329) 
states that the specific gravity of genuine oil may rise 
to 1-038. 

Remarks. Cinnamon- leaf oil has a higher gravity. 

Tinet. Cinnamomi. 

Cinnamon bark in No. 40 powder 200 grammes, alcohol 
70 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by percolation. 

Total Solids, 

Grammes per 100 c.c. AlcohoL 

2-15 (Umney) 67*5 (Stead) 
2-4* 68-3 (P. and M.) 

1-8 (M. and P.) 67'4 (Chattaway), 
2-9 (Caines) 
2-6 (M. and P.) 
1-7-1-8 (H. W. 

Jones) 

3-4 (M. and P.) 
2-0 

2-2 (Fletcher) 
1-9 (Gadd) 
1-9 (Partridge) 
21 
2-2 



Specific Gravity at 

15 -5 C. 

898 (Umney) 
900 (Lucas) 
904 (Barclay) 
903 (P. and M.) 
905 (Caines) 
898 (Gladwyn) 
898--902 (H. W. 

Jones) 

907 (M. and P.) 
901 (Fletcher) 
901--903 (H. 

and H.) 
904 (Gadd) 



mean of 8 samples 
67-9 (Umney) 
67-2 (M. and P.) 
67-4 
70-6 (Gadd) 



Citric Acid. 

"Citric acid, or hydrogen citrate, may be obtained 
from the juice of the fruit of various species of Citrus " 
(B.P.). 

Adulterations. Tartaric acid, traces of lead, calcium 
salts, etc. 

Characters and Tests. As in British Pharmacopoeia, 
excepting that the test for lead should be performed as 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, ]898). 



96 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

suggested by Dr. Teed (C. and D., 1899, 923). As 
carried out as in the British Pharmacopoeia," 1 ' iron would 
be estimated as lead. 

Warington's method of applying the test is as follows : 
10 grammes are dissolved in 20 c.c. distilled water, and 
the solution made up to 100 c.c. with saturated solution 
of H 2 S should not give more than faintest coloration 
when viewed through a cylinder 6 inches high. With 
citric acid this detects -0002 per cent, and with tartaric 
acid -0005 per cent, of lead. Iron does not interfere. 

In the British Pharmacopoeia test, if ever so little 
excess of ammonia is added, darkening occurs with the 
iron which is always present. The German Pharma- 
copoeia contains a test for lead, but performs it in a 
slightly acid solution. 

References. G. Melvin (Pharm. Journ.j 1888, 755) 
remarks that in preparing a large quantity of solution of 
potassium citrate from potassium carbonate and citric 
acid particles of lead were found. The author thus agrees 
with the United States Dispensatory that the lead which 
is sometimes present is due to small particles being 
rubbed off when removing the crystals from the crystal- 
lizing vats. 

Pharm. Journ., 1892, 343 : Lead in tartaric and citric 
acids. 

Buchet (Pharm. Zeit., No. 85, p. 660) has examined 
a number of commercial samples, and found fourteen of 
them contained lead (combined) amounting to 0'0363 per 
cent, and metallic lead 0-0071 per cent. The combined 
lead was probably in the state of sulphate, and the 
metallic lead had been rubbed off the evaporating pans 
by stirring. 

Pharm. Journ., 1892, 687 : E. Warington states that 

* In the "Additions" to the British Pharmacopoeia the test is now 
directed to be performed in a faintly acid solution. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 97 

large crystals of tartaric acid are somewhat freer from 
lead than small crystals. 



Citrate of Iron and Quinine. 

Preparation. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Characters and Tests. As in the British Pharmaco- 
poeia. 

Adulterations. Some commercial samples contain 
alkaloids other than quinine. 

Remarks. The British Pharmacopoeia requires that 
5 grammes of the sample, treated with water and am- 
monia, to set free the alkaloid, which is then extracted 
by ether,* shall yield O75 gramme of alkaloid, and that 
when this residue is neutralized by sulphuric acid it 
shall answer to the characters of and tests for quinine 
sulphate, f 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires this salt to con- 
tain 9 to 10 per cent, of quinine, which is to be converted 
into the sulphate and tested; and if a portion of the 
original sample is incinerated, the residue is to be not 
less than 30 per cent. 

Allen (" Chemical Organic Analysis," vol. iii., part ii., 
p. 421) states that quinine and iron citrate averages 8 per 
cent, of water, and should not exceed 10 or 12 per 
cent. 

Of seven samples examined by Macfarlane (Canada), 
January, 1899, only three were up to standard. 

* Five or six shakings are advisable. 

t It is sufficient to treat the residue dissolved in about 15 c.c. of 
water with 3 grammes of potassium-sodium tartrate, when a crystal- 
line mass of needles should form ; and if this is dried and weighed it 
should amount to nearly four- fifths of the weight of the alkaloidal residue. 
If, however, it is thought necessary to examine the residue as under 
the British Pharmacopoeia tests for quinine sulphate, a much larger 
quantity of alkaloid must be extracted, as one of the tests requires the 
use of 4 grammes of the salt. 

7 



98 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Cloves (Caryophyllum). 

Definition and Description. As in British Pharma- 
copoeia. 

Adulterations. The addition of exhausted cloves and 
of clove-stems, pimento, mineral matter. 

Standard 

Total ether extract about ... 20 '0 per cent. 

Ash should not exceed 7'0* ,, (B.P.). 

" Cloves should emit oil when indented with the 
finger-nail " (B.P.). 

Ash of Cloves. Observer. 

6-94 (average of 78 samples) ... A. Eau (abstract, 

Analyst, xxii., 323). 

4-78, 4-82, 511 Squire ("Com- 
panion "). 

54, 5-2, 5-9 Moor. 

6-0, 6-1 Priest. 

5-2, 5-2 Gladwyn. 

4-8 Umney. 

The ether extract was determined in five samples, and 
found to be : 

20-0, 20-8, 18-2, 25-1 Moor. 

21-9,18-7 Gladwyn. 

The ether extract on some exhausted or distilled cloves 
was 8-3, and ash 7-1. A sample of the same cloves be- 
fore distillation gave 25-1 ether extract, and 5-9 of ash 
(C. G. Moor). 

Another exhausted sample examined by Priest gave 
11'6 ether extract, and 6'8 per cent, of ash. 

Eeference. A. McGill (Analyst, xxvi., 123) gives 
analyses of genuine cloves and a method for determining 
the chief constituent i.e., the essential oil. 

Edgar B. Kenrick (Analyst, xxvi., 291) gives a method 
for detecting clove-stems in ground cloves. 

* A. McGill, Bulletin 73, mentions an ash of 13 per cent, in a pre- 
sumably genuine sample. If it is desired to determine the moisture, 
he advises the use of a reduced pressure in presence of sulphuric acid, 
as drying by ordinary means causes loss of the volatile oil. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 99 

Clove-Oil. 

Definition. 11 The oil distilled from cloves " (B.P.). 

The United States Pharmacopoeia recommends that it 
should be kept cool in the dark in stoppered bottles. 

Standard. " The specific gravity should be not lesb 
than 1-05" (B.P.), 1-07 (G.P.). 

The United States Pharmacopoeia gives it as between 
1-06 and 1-067. 

An alcoholic solution should give a blue colour with 
ferric chloride (B.P.). 

The United States Pharmacopoeia describes the same 
test, but states the colour as a green. L. K. Boseley 
informs us that the genuine samples give either a blue 
or green. 

" Shaken with its own volume of strong ammonia, it 
forms a semi-solid yellowish mass " (B.P. and U.S.P.). 

(Strong potash or soda has the same effect.) 

One c.c. shaken with 2 volumes of strong alcohol and 
1 of water yield a clear solution absence of petroleum, 
most fatty oils, turpentine, and similar oils (U.S.P.). 

One c.c. shaken with 20 c.c. of water and filtered, the 
water should not be acid to litmus, nor yield a permanent 
blue colour with ferric chloride (U.S.P.). 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires the specific gravity 
to fall between 1-072 and 1-074. The acidity of a 5 per 
cent, hot-water solution and its behaviour to solution of 
ferric chloride are required to be the same as in the 
United States Pharmacopoeia (vide supra}, and 1 part of 
oil is required to dissolve in a mixture of 2 parts of 
alcohol and 1 of water. 

Clove-oil distils at about 250 C., and should contain 
from 75 to 90 per cent, of eugenol (L. K. Boseley). 

Messrs. Schimmel (April, 1897) give the gravity of 

72 



TOO SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

clove-oil as from 1*045 to 1-070, and of clove-stem oil 
from 1-040 to 1-065. Both oils are slightly levorotary. 

H. Thorns (Pharm. Journ., 1891, 451) gives a number 
of figures on the gravity of clove-oil and its percentage 
of eugenol. 

Coese Folia. 

Definition. " The dried leaves of Erythroxylum Coca 
and its varieties " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulteration. The substitution of other varieties of 
coca, of which there are many, some of them containing 
little or no cocaine. 

Standard. Total alkaloids not less than 5 per cent. 

Ash from 6 to 10 per cent. 

The amount of total alkaloid varies* very much (Squire's 
"Companion"), the average being -5 per cent. Cocaine 
forms about 70 per cent, of the total alkaloids. 

The highest amount of alkaloid observed by Umney 
was 1-1, and the lowest (in leaves of good appearance) 
49 per cent., while the average was about -6 per cent. 

To assay coca leaves for cocaine the process of Lyon 
modified by Gunn may be used (Y. B. P., 1897, 146). 

0. Hesse (P. J., 1891, 1109) contributes a paper on 
" Coca Leaves and their Alkaloids." 

A method of assay is given by W. R. Lamar (A. J. P., 
1901, 125). He concludes that good coca leaves should 
yield about '7 per cent, of total alkaloids. 

H. M. Gordin (A. J. P., 1901, 167) gives a method of 
assay of coca leaves, and states that they contain 1 per 
cent, of ether soluble alkaloids. 

* Different methods of assay appear to produce very varying yields 
of alkaloid in the case of this drug. In the experiments recorded by 
A. E. L. Dohme, Keller's method gave much higher results than five 
other processes tried side by side, and the whole question requires 
further work. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 101 

Dohme and Kebler (A. J. P., 1896, 513) also give 
methods of assay for extract and leaves. 

Remarks. Cocaine (C ]7 H 21 N0 4 ) and cocaine hydrochloride 
(C J7 H 21 N0 4 HC1) are official in the British Pharmacopoeia. 

Liquid Extract of Coca. 

Preparation. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. Total alkaloids should amount to at least 
5 per cent., but the precise percentage should be deter- 
mined and the liquid extract should be standardized. 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, A1 , , 

at 15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

988 (Umney) 18-7 (Umney) 5OO (Umney) 

989 17-9 51-5 

1-025 (Moor) 19'7 (Moor) 49-4 (Barclay) 

1-029 (Moor) 21-6 (Moor) 

1-011 (Barclay) 20'5 (Barclay) 

A sample examined by C. G. Moor gave alkaloid -49 
per cent. 

J. F. Brown (Pharm. Journ., 1896, 306) states that 
when the official mode of preparation is employed, so 
much chlorophyll passes into solution that a deposit 
is formed on adding wine, and recommends a weaker 
alcohol and repercolation in place of the present official 
process. 

Coca Wine. 

Not official in British Pharmacopoeia.* 

Definition. A wine made by macerating the dried 
leaves of Erythroxylum Coca in a genuine wine, or by 
dissolving the liquid extract in a genuine wine. 

Adulteration. Preservatives, deficiency in alcohol, 
added extracted alkaloids. 

Standard. Alcohol should be between 10 and 16 per 
cent, by volume. 

The total solids should correspond to those yielded by 
* Official in some foreign Pharmacopoeias. 



102 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

the wine used, plus the amount of extractive matter 
from the leaves. 

Preservatives should be absent. 

Remarks. The above suggested standards are intended 
to insure the wine being made from a sound wine that 
will " keep " without preservatives, and from coca-leaves, 
not extracted alkaloids. 

It would be well if the amount of alkaloid were 
stated on the label, and it ought in the future to be 
standardized. 

At present a wine may be an excisable one, and yet 
contain very little alkaloid. 

A good wine should contain 10 grains per pint of coca 
alkaloids. 

To assay coca wine, take 200 c.c. and proceed as 
under Cocse Folia, applying Lyon's method as modified by 
Gunn (see above). 

John Barclay (Pharm. Journ., 1897, i. 341) examined 
seven samples of commercial coca wine for alkaloid. 
Results varied from - 066 to 0*60 grain per fluid ounce ; 
average, 0-29. Nine samples were examined for extrac- 
tive. Results varied from 5*03 to 24*62 per cent. ; aver- 
age, 11-55. Alcohol in nine samples varied from 10*65 
to 23 -58; average, 15*52. 

A number of coca wines of commerce assayed by 
Umney yielded very varying amounts of alkaloid, the 
lowest being 1 grain per pint up to 10 grains per pint. 
The latter figure is the minimum allowed in coca wines 
sold without a license. In addition a certain amount of 
extractive matter is required to be present, but no figure 
is published. This is very properly designed to prevent 
the sale of a wine merely containing dissolved alkaloid, 
which might be used as a beverage. 

J. Barclay (C. and D., 55, 1030) calls attention to the 
adulteration of coca leaves with small jaborandi leaves. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 103 

J. Barclay (C. and D., 1897, i. 618) gives a method for estimating 
the alkaloids in coca wine. 

The extractive matter in coca wine is, unfortunately, likely to be 
very variable, as not only will the extractive in the wines used vary, 
but the extractive in the coca-leaf extract employed will vary, accord- 
ing as whether an aqueous extract or a proof-spirit or 90 per cent, spirit 
extract has been employed. Coca wine should be made official, and 
until this is done the wine should be made by adding a stated quantity 
of the official extract to a sound wine. 

Cocoa. 

Definition. " The roasted and ground seed of the 
Theobroma Cacao, with part of the natural fat removed " 
(Moor). 

Adulterations. Starch, sugar, excess of husk, addition 
of foreign fat. 

Standard. Water should not exceed 8 per cent. 

Ash should not exceed 5 per cent, (except in a sample 
treated with alkali, when 9 per cent, may be passed). 

The cold water extract* should fall between 14 per 
cent, and 18 per cent. 

There must be no added starch or sugar. 

The amount of fat present is immaterial, as it has no 
particular nutrient value. 

References. Allen, " Chemical Organic Analysis," 
vol. iii., part ii., pp. 555-567. 

P. and M., " Aids," 2nd edit., p. 84. 

J. Liverseege (Pharm. Journ., 1892, 922) gives 
analyses of five samples of cocoa : one an English make 
(fat partly removed) ; two of foreign make, which had 
been treated with alkali; and two " homeopathic " cocoas. 

Florence Yapple (A. J. P., 1895, 318, 380) gives 
figures "on twelve samples of cocoa (presumably sold in 
America) ; most of them contained varying amounts of 
added starch, and the matter extracted (by cold water?) 
is in all cases low. 

* This may vary more than is indicated by the above figures 
according to the extent to which the natural fat has been removed. 



104 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

When a sample gives an abnormally low ash, it is 
often due to the presence of added sugar and starch, 
which are nearly free from ash. 

Remarks. Mixtures of cocoa with sugar and starch 
are allowed to be sold under the Food and Drugs Act 
provided they are marked as mixtures ; it is not probable, 
however, that the purchasers are aware how little cocoa 
they are getting in some mixtures. 

It was formerly considered that, as the cocoa-butter is 
a natural constituent of the bean, it ought not to be 
removed, but at the present day most chemists* agree 
that it may properly be removed. 

The minimum " limit " fixed at one of the earliest 
meetings of the British Public Analysts was not less 
than 20 per cent, of fat. 

Cocoa naturally contains from 5 to 10 per cent, of 
starch, which is circular in shape. 

Cacao Butter (Oleum Theobromatis). 

Definition. " A concrete oil obtained by pressing the 
warm crushed seeds of Theobroma Cacao " (B.P.). 

Adulterations. Tallow, cocoanut oil. 

Description. " A yellowish- white solid, breaking with 
a smooth fracture, odour resembling that of cocoa, taste 
bland and agreeable, free from rancidity" (B.P.). 

Standard." It softens at 26'6 C." (B.P.). 

" It melts between 311 and 33-9 C." (B.P.). 

" If 1 gramme be desolved in 3 c.c. of ether in a test-tube 
at 17 C., and the tube then placed in water at C., the 
liquid should neither become turbid or deposit a granular 
mass in less than three minutes ; and if the mixture, 
after congealing, be exposed to a temperature of 15'5 C., 

* This view is not held by A. McGill (Ottawa), who says (Canadian 
Bulletin, No. 72), " The removal of the fat deprives cocoa of much of 
its value as a nourishing food. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 105 

it should gradually afford a clear solution (absence of 
other fats) " (B.P.). 

Remarks. The German Pharmacopoeia requires that 
1 part of oleum theobromatis dissolved in 2 parts of 
ether shall not become cloudy on standing for twenty- 
four hours at 12 to 15 C. 

The specific gravity at 15*5 C. is about *995, and at 
99 C. about -857. 

The saponification equivalent is about 280 (Boseley, 
Allen, etc.). 

The iodine absorption* is from 33'4 to 41*5 (Boseley). 

The iodine absorption shall fall between 34 and 38 per 
cent. (G.P., 4th edit.). 

The Eeichert figure on 2 5 grammes is about 1*5 c.c. 

The refractometer figure (Zeiss, 1898 instrument) is 
about 50 (Boseley). 

Free acid : the United States Pharmacopoeia states 
that the solution in ether, chloroform, and alcohol should 
be neutral to litmus. 

Umney has found samples believed to be genuine with 
a melting-point of 28 to 30 C., and a saponification 
number of 19*2. 

Cacao butter contains no cholesterol, and if any is 
found it will probably be due to an admixture of tallow 
or a similar fat. 

Cochineal (Coccus Cacti). 

Definition. "The dried fecundated female insect 
Coccus cacti, reared on Nopalea coccinellifera, and on 
other species of Nopalea " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulteration. Exhausted insects, other insects, added 
foreign matters such as chalk, calcium sulphate, and 
oxide of iron. 

* About 34 per cent. (Canadian Bulletin, No. 72). 



io6 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Standard. " When cochineal is macerated in water, 
no insoluble powder should separate" (B.P.). 

" Incinerated with free access of air, it should yield 
not more than 6'0 per cent, of ash " (B.P.). 

" Water should not exceed 5 per cent." (B.P.). 

When extracted with 45 per cent, alcohol in the cold 
(as in the preparation of tinct. cocci), it should yield 
about 25 per cent, of matter to alcohol (Moor). 

Ash of Cochineal. Observer. 

3 samples over 40 per cent., 2 over 30 per \ Mersom 
cent., 5 over 20 per cent., 3 over 10 per I (P. J., 
cent., 4 over 6 per cent., 6 over 4 per j Mar. 24, 
cent., and 8 under 4 per cent. ... J 1900). 

30-8,* 8-2f Moor. 

5-0, 36-8* Gadd. 

5-4 to 6*1 ... Umney. 

Umney has examined adulterated samples giving up to 
39 per cent, of ash. 

MersonJ suggests that the British Pharmacopoeia 
ash-limit be lowered to 4 per cent. He also gives a 
method of determining their tinctorial value, which is 
based on the decolorization of an ammoniacal solution of 
the insect by a standard solution of bleaching-powder. 
He shows that the tinctorial value of some samples con- 
taining high ash is nevertheless as high as that of others 
that are presumably genuine. 

A valuation of cochineal may be conveniently made by 
making a tincture according to the British Pharma- 
copoeia directions, and then comparing 1 c.c. of this 
tincture diluted to 50 c.c. with 45 per cent, alcohol in 
graduated glasses against a tincture of good quality. 

* This consisted chiefly of French chalk. 

t Consisted partly of French chalk. It has long been a trade custom 
to "face" the silver-gray insects with some white powder, but this 
custom is sometimes carried to great excess for the sake of making the 
insects weigh more. The method of adulteration is described by 
Dr. J. Loewe (abst., Y. B. P., 1883, p. 253). 

I Y. B. P., 1900, p. 145. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



107 



The total solids of the tinct. cocci should be taken, and 
should not fall below 2-5 grammes per 100 c.c. 

Remarks. The United States Pharmacopeia states 
that the ash should not exceed 5*0 per cent. E. J. Bevan 
has recently found 10-0 per cent, of oxide of iron in 
cochineal. 

Tinetura Cocci. 

"Cochineal in powder 100 grammes, alcohol 45 per 
cent. 1,000 c.c." Prepared by maceration (B.P.). 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
955 (Barclay) 
954 (Umney) 
950 (Lucas) 
951 (Caines) 
948 (Moor) 
952 (Gladwyn) 
952--95S (H. W. 

Jones) 

957 (Fletcher) 
955 (H. and H.) 
951 (11 and P.) 
952 (Gadd) 

Standard. The total 
2-5 grammes per 100 c.c. 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
2*5 per cent.* 
2-4f 

3-5 (Moor) 
2-0 
2-4 (Umney) 
2-5-2-7 (H. W. 

Jones) 

2-0 (Fletcher) 
1-6 (M. and P.) 
1-8 (Gadd) 



Alcoliol. 

43-8 (Chattaway), 

mean of 2 samples 
46-1 (Stead) 
44-5 (Umney) 
44-0 ' 
41-4 (Fletcher) 
43-8 (M. and P.) 
45-8 



solids should be about 



Cod-Liver Oil (Oleum Morrhuse). 

Definition. "The oil extracted from the fresh liver of 
the cod , Gadus Morrhua, by the application of a tem- 
perature not exceeding 82 C. , and from which the solid 
fat has been separated by nitration at about -5 C." 
(B.P.). 

Description. "Pale yellow, with a slight fishy but 
not rancid odour " (B. P.). 

Adulteration. Other fish oils. 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (P. J., December 17, 1898). 
f Specially prepared by C. G. Moor. 



roS SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C. from -920 to 
930(B.P.); -926--931 (G.P.). 

Should dissolve readily in ether or chloroform (B.P.). 

Dissolves slightly in 90 per cent, alcohol (B.P.). 

Gives a violet colour with strong sulphuric acid (B.P.). 

With nitric acid in a tube a ring is formed (B.P.), but 
no time is stated (C. G. M.). 

Exposed at C. for two hours no solid fat should 
separate (B.P.). 

Remarks. The iodine absorption must fall between 
140 and 152 per cent. (G.P., 4th edit.). 

Caines found the iodine absorption on five genuine oils 
to range from 159 to 168-2 per cent. 

Free acid (as oleic) should not exceed 1-0 per cent. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia states that the 
alcoholic solution should be only very slightly acid to 
litmus. 

The German Pharmacopoeia directs that 1 gramme, 
when saponified with 20 c.c. of | caustic potash, shall 
require not less than 13 c.c. of ~ acid to restore neutrality. 

Eeferences. E. J. Parry and C. E. Sage (Y. B. P., 1895, 
p. 334, " Cod-liver oil constants ' ; ) found the saponification 
equivalent to vary from 17'9 to 18'3 per cent, of KHO. 

Caines has found the specific gravity on a number of 
genuine oils to be about '927. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia require the specific 
gravity to be between -920 and -925. 

Squire (" Companion ") gives the specific gravity as 
between -926 and -928. 

The amount of albumin in genuine oils varies con- 
siderably. 

Pharm. Journ., 1887, p. 547, T. A. Ellwood: "Dark 
samples of oil gave specific gravities of about '929, while 
the paler varieties gave about '9265. The Valenta test 
gave on three trials, 94, 98, and 100 C., average 97 C. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 109 

This test is very characteristic, and will detect adultera- 
tions of sperm oil or shark-liver oil." 
Bromine absorption about 80 per cent. 

Coffee. 

Definition. " The roasted seed of the Coffea Arabica." 

Adulteration. The addition of chicory is now almost 
the only form of adulteration practised in this country ; 
but abroad many other adulterations are still found, such 
as roasted cereals, fictitious coffee-beans, etc. 

Standard. Water should not exceed 8-0 per cent. 

Ash should not exceed 6-0 per cent. 

Caffeine should be not less than -5 per cent. 

The extract yielded to boiling water should be from 
21'5 per cent, to 26*5 per cent. 

The sample should be free from starch. 

Microscopic characters must be normal. 

Fat by petroleum ether about 10 per cent. 

Remarks. Coffee extracts are largely sold, and it is 
possible that the exhausted coffee might be either used 
to mix with coffee or employed in the manufacture of the 
artificial coffee-beans that are described from time to time 
(Allen, vol. iii., part ii., pp. 535-537; P. and M., "Aids," 
p. 80 ; Cecil H. Cribb, Analyst, xxvii., p. 114). 

Coffee and chicory may be sold under the Food 
and Drugs Act as coffee, provided the package is marked 
as a mixture, but it would be preferable to insist on the 
two words being in the same sized type, and on dis- 
closure of the percentage of coffee in the mixture. The 
best method for estimating chicory in a mixture with 
coffee will be found in the works quoted above. 

The estimation of caffeine may be made as in tea, but 
the amount is too variable to be of use in judging of the 
amount of true coffee in a mixture. 

Macfarlane (Bulletin 29, April, 1892) gives some 
interesting figures on coffee and its adulterations. 



I io SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Coffee Extract. 

Definition. " A liquid extract prepared from coffee." 

Adulterations. Treacle and other saccharine solutions, 
extract from chicory, caramel, deficiency of caffeine 
through imperfect methods of manufacture. 

Standard. Caffeine not less than O5* per cent. 

Remarks. If sold as " extract of coffee and chicory," 
a preparation ought certainly not to be destitute of 
caffeine, and a sample that shows under - 15 per cent. 
should be considered as adulterated under the Act. 

Salicylic acid may be used as a preservative, so the 
extracted alkaloid should be tested with ferric chloride. 
Caffeine does not yield any colour with this reagent. 

N.B. It will often be noticed that at the bottom of a 
coffee-extract bottle there is a considerable quantity of 
sediment ; this consists chiefly of caffeine tannate, and 
it is easy to see that if a division into three parts made 
without this sediment being also accurately divided, the 
three portions would yield very different amounts of 
caffeine on analysis. 

Reference. C. and _D., 1891, 390, gives figures on 
3 samples of coffee essence. 

In the C. and D., 1892, p. 51, are to be found son.e 
very low figures for caffeine in coffee extracts. See also 
Moor and Priest (Analyst, 1899, p. 281). 

Allen ("Com. Org. Analysis," vol. iii., part ii., p. 533) 
quotes figures by Domergue all of which show very low 
amounts of caffeine, much lower than are found in some 
of the best makes at the present time (M. and P.), 

vide infra. 

Vasey (Lancet, July 7, 1894) gives figures showing the 

* Most so-called "Extracts of Coffee" are unsatisfactory both as 
regards flavour and composition. It appears to be impossible to avoid 
loss of the characteristic alkaloid during manufacture, only one or two 
makes out of several that I have examined can be regarded as suc- 
cessful preparations. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS in 

composition of several of the best known makes of coffee 
extracts. 

Colchici Semina. 

Definition. " The dried ripe seeds of the Colchicum 
autumnale " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard 

Water should not exceed ... 1OO per cent. 

Ash ... ... ... 6-0 

Alkaloid, about ... ... '1 

Ash. Observer. 

5 '1 per cent. ... ... Moor. 

4 '2 ,, ... ... Umney. 

Remarks. Colchicum corms and an extract made 
from them are also included in the British Pharmacopoeia. 
The dried corms contain from -6 to 1-0 per cent, of 
colchicine (Squire's " Companion"). 

C. and D., 1891, i. 518 : Kremel's process for colchicine. 
Extract 10 grammes with rectified spirit, evaporating 
the tincture, to which 25 c.c. of water has been added. 
Extract the residue with four washings of chloroform, 
and evaporate. Dissolve the residue in water, filter, and 
repeat the chloroform treatment, the residue of this case 
being heated in presence of a little water, to decompose 
a compound of colchicine with chloroform, then 
evaporated, and finally dried over H 2 S0 4 to constant 
weight. 

For microscopic characters see P. /., 1900, p. 22. 

Tinctura Colchici Seminum. 

" Colchicum seeds in No. 30 powder 200 grammes, 
alcohol 45 per cent, to make 1 litre." By percolation. 



112 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Total Solids. 

3-0 (P & M.) 
2-6 (Moor) 
T5 (Umney) 
1-5-2-1 (H. 
W. Jones) 
1-9 (M. & P.) 
1-9 (Moor) 
1-5 (Barclay) 
2-0 (Fletcher) 
2-9 (Gadd) 


Alcohol. 

43-0 (P. & M.) 
41-6 
mean of 10 
samples 
43-0 (Umney) 
42-8 (Stead) 
43-4 (Urnney) 
42-3 (M. & P.) 
43-9 
42-9 (Fletcher) 



Alkaloid. 

075%* 



2-2 (Partridge) 44-0 (Barclay) 



Specific Gravity 

at 15 -5 C. 
951 (Umney) 
952 (Lucas) 
953 (Barclay) 
956 (P. & M.) 
952 (Caines) 
958 (Gladwyn) 
955 

952--95G (Jones) 
956 (M. & P.) 
942 

981 (Fletcher) 
9S6--962 (H. & H.) 
958 (Gadd) 

Colchicum seeds contain from -6 to TO per cent, of 
colchicine (Squire's " Companion "), so that the tincture 
may be expected to vary in alkaloid from -12 per cent, 
to -2 per cent, of colchicine. 

Coloeynthidis Pulpa. 

Definition. "The dried pulp of Citrullus colocynthis, 
freed from seeds " (B.P.). 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia.! 
Standard. Must be free from starch and yield only 
traces of fixed oil to ether. When dried at 100 C., it 
must yield not less that 9 per cent, of ash (indicating 
absence of seeds) (B.P.). 

Ash of Pulp. Observer. 

10-8 Umney. 

10-1,121 M. and P. 

7-3, 10-1, 10-5 Priest. 

7-2, 8-6, 9-2 Moor. 

7-8, 7-0, 8-2 Gladwyn. 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 

t The 1898 Pharmacopoeia gives no description of the drug in 
powder. Greenish (P. J., 1901, March 2) gives the following: "The 
powdered drug consists of the debris of large, thin walled, parenchy- 
rnatous cells, with occasional small vascular bundles. It should be 
free from starch, and should not contain more than an occasional 
sclerenchymatous cell or group of such cells." 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 113 

Ash of Pulp. Observer. 

10-1-12-4 Barclay.* 

10-0 Theo. Brewis. 

8-6-13-4 Greenish.f 

In all these cases the seeds were separated by hand in 
the laboratory, and it should be noted that the ash of 
genuine pulp quite free from seeds may fall sensibly 
below the 9 per cent, required by the British Pharma- 
copoeia, so that it must not be concluded that a sample is 
adulterated because it yields less than 9 per cent, of ash. 

Ash of Whole Colocynth. Observer. 

4'9 ... ... ... Umney. 

5'1 ... ... ... Gladwyn. 

5-1, 5-3 Moor. 

4'6 ... ... ... Barclay. 

4-4-5-8 Greenish.! 

The ash of colocynth pulp is difficult to obtain, and any 
limit decided on in future should be on a sulphated ash. 

See Moor and Priest (Analyst, xxvi., 31), and Greenish! 
gives a number of figures on the ash of seeds, whole 
fruit and pulp. 

Ether Extract of Pulp. In the number of the Analyst 
quoted above, figures will be found which throw con- 
siderable doubt on the value of this test. 



Ext. Coloeynthidis Co. 

For Preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 

John Barclay (vide supra) examined eleven samples, in 
various ways. The amount soluble in ether was found to 
vary from 6'57 to 29'56 per cent., and as this practically 
represents the amount of scammony resin, it is of interest. 
(See paper for details.) 

* John Barclay (Pharm. Journ., i. 154, 1896) : The average ash of 
eight samples was 11 "4. 

t Greenish (P. /., 1901, March 2). 



H4 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Condensed Milk. 

Definition. "Milk with or without the addition of 
cane-sugar concentrated so that 100 parts by weight of 
the finished product contain the fat and solids-not-fat of 
300 parts by weight of standard milk " (Moor). 

Adulterations. Deficiency of fat, owing to the employ- 
ment of separated milk ; preservatives ; the addition of 
tiger-nut pulp, or other thickening material. 

Standard. Fat (true butter-fat) not less than 10* per 
cent. 

The solids-not-fat (excluding added sugar) should be 
not less than 25 per cent. 

Ash should fall between 2-0 and 2-4 per cent. 

The sample must be free from all foreign additions 
except sugar. 

Eeferences. Allen (C. O. A., vol. iv., p. 220). "Milk 
and Milk Products," Pearmain and Moor, p. 69.1 

Remarks. On examining the figures given in the 
works cited above, it will be seen that on the whole 
in this country condensed milk is very free from actual 
adulteration, but that the misrepresentation as to the 
dilution that should be employed is very serious, as 
makers' statements would lead the public to believe that 
the concentration was five or six times that of ordinary 
milk, whereas it never exceeds a ratio of 3 to 1. As 
regards the separated or skimmed milks, there are now 
probably few that are sold without such a label as 
satisfies the requirements of the Act; but until it is 
enacted that such preparations must bear a warning 
that they are unfit for the food of children, they will be 
used by the poorer classes for this purpose, for which 

* This standard was proposed in the second edition of ' ' Aids to 
the Analysis of Foods and Drugs," April, 1899, and is identical with 
that now suggested by the Departmental Committee in their Report 
published by Eyre and Spott.iswoode (see Analyst, April, 1901). 

t Figures will be found illustrating the composition of most of the 
condensed milks in use. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 115 

they are totally inadequate. Even in the case of the 
best condensed milks, the directions given for diluting 
for infants' use would result in producing a liquid of very 
low nutritive power compared with human milk, and the 
ordinary purchaser is quite ignorant of this. 

Conii Fruetus. 

Definition. "The dried, unripe fruits of the Conium 
maculatum " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Test. "No marked odour or taste, but when rubbed 
with solution of potassium hydroxide a strong disagree- 
able odour is produced resembling that of mice " (B.P.). 

Ash. Observer. 

10-0 Priest. 

6-5 Moor. 

6-0 Umney. 

References. In the C. and D., 1892, ii. 401, are to be 
found figures showing the great variability of the amount 
of alkaloids in conium fruits. 

Farr and Wright (Pharm. Journ., 1896, ii. 89) give 
figures showing the amount of alkaloid in the different 
parts of the hemlock plant. The average amount of 
alkaloid (as hydrochlorate) was between -9 and I'O per 
cent, on the fresh green fruit, which on drying lost 68 per 
cent, of water. Their figures indicate that the alkaloidal 
yield varies somewhat in different years. 

Cripps (Pharm. Journ., xviii. 511) gives a process for 
the estimation of alkaloid in the dried fruits. He weighs 
as hydrochlorate, and then estimates the chlorine by 
silver, and calculates that 35'5 parts of chlorine indicate 
163-5 parts of coniine hydrochlorate. 

H. M. Gordin (A. J. P., 1901, 217) gives a modification 
of Cripps' process for the determination of the alkaloid 
in conium leaves and fruit. 

82 



ii6 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Tinctura Conii.* 

Conium fruit, recently reduced to No. 40 powder, 200 
grammes, alcohol 70 per cent, to make 1 litre. By per- 
colation. 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
1-54 (Moor) 
1-65 (Umney) 
1-4-1-5 (H. W. 

Jones) 

1-4 (Barclay) 
1-3 (Gadd) 
1-4 
1-4 (Partridge) 



Alcohol. 

70-4 (P. and M.) 
68-2 (Umney) 
68-1 
67-6 (Fletcher) 
70-8 (Gadd) 



Specific Gravity 

at!5-5C. 
896 (Lucas) 
896 (Barclay) 
899 (P. and M.) 
900 (Caines) 
893 (Moor) 
894 (Umney) 
895 (Fletcher) 
896--900 (H. W. 

Jones) 
893 (Gadd) 

References. E. A. Cripps (C. and D., 1893, i. 583) 
gives a table showing the great variability of ext. conii, 
which is excluded from the 1898 British Pharmacopoeia. 

He gives the following process for alkaloids : 10 
grammes of extract rubbed in mortar with 7 c.c. water, a 
mixture of acetic acid 5 c.c., solution of lead acetate 20 per 
cent. 25 c.c., and distilled water sufficient to produce 95 c.c. 
was added with constant trituration. The mixture 
filtered and 70 c.c. of filtrate collected, and sufficient sol. 
sod. phos. (1 in 5) added to produce 100 c.c., and again 
filtered ; 75 c.c. of filtrate are shaken in a separator with 
15 c.c. of chloroform and an excess of caustic soda. The 
chloroform is drawn off and the washing repeated three 
times with 5 c.c. of chloroform. The chloroformic solu- 
tions were agitated with very diluted H 2 S0 4 three times, 
and these acid liquors in turn made alkaline with soda 
and agitated with three successive additions of chloro- 
form. After washing with water, these final chloroformic 
solutions were successively dried by contact with K 2 C0 3 , 

* -09 per cent, of alkaloid was proposed as standard by J. Barclay, 
(PJiarm. Jmirn., December 17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 117 

mixed with solution of dry HC1 in ether, evaporated, 
dried at a temperature not exceeding 90 C., and weighed 
as the crystalline hydrochlorate. 

If the dried conii fructus contain about 2 per cent, of 
alkaloid as chloride (Farr and Wright, Y. B. P., 1893, 368) 
the tincture should contain 0-4 per cent, of conium 
hydrochlorate, supposing all the alkaloid to dissolve 
freely in the spirit. 

Copaiba. 

Definition. " The oleo-resin obtained from the trunk 
of Copaifera Lansdorfii, and other species of Copaifera " 
(B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Gurjun balsam, African copaiba, castor- 
oil, and other fixed oils. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., -916 to -993 
(B.P.) ; -980 to -990 (G.P.) Copaiba should contain at 
least 40 per cent, of volatile oil. (For characters see 
under Oleum Copaibse.) 

The residue, after the volatile oil is distilled, should be 
hard and friable (B.P.), and soluble in 90 per cent, 
alcohol, as required in the United States Pharmacopoeia. 

Colour tests are also given in the British Pharma- 
copoeia to exclude Gurjun balsam. The German Phar- 
macopoeia also gives a saponification test : 1 gramme of 
sample dissolved in spirit shall require from 2*7 to 3'0 c.c. 
of KHO to neutralize it to phenolphthalein ; and after 
20 c.c. more alkali are added and saponification is 
effected,* not less than 19*7 c.c. of f acid must be 
required. 

Eeferences. Pharm. Journ., 1897, ii. 74 Hirschshon's 
test for fatty oils in copaiba : Boil 20 to 40 drops of co- 
paiba with 1 to 2 c.c. of solution of 1 part of NaOH in 
* By heating on a water-bath for twenty minutes. 



ii8 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

5 parts of 95 per cent, alcohol. The presence of oils is 
indicated by a turbidity being produced upon cooling, or 
on the addition of 2 volumes of ether. Pure copaiba 
should yield a mixture with 3 volumes of 90 per cent. 
alcohol, from which no oil globules should separate within 
an hour. 

C. andD., 1898, ii. 139: K. Dieterioh thinks that the 
limits of specific gravity should be closer, to admit only 
the thick balsams e.g., Maracaibo balsams of -980 to 
990. The light fluid Para balsam and the Maturin 
balsam should be excluded, as in efficacy they are far 
behind the Maracaibo. 

A sample of Bahia balsam examined by Theo. Brewis 
had a gravity of -972 and yielded 39 per cent, of oil. 
Gravity, -896 ; opt. rotation, 21-2. 

J. C. Umney and C. T. Bennett give a very complete 
account of copaiba and suggest certain characters being 
made official. See P. J. (4), xii. 324. 

E. Wightman Bell (Y. B. P., 1900, 519) discusses the 
British Pharmacopoeia requirements for copaiba. 

Oleum Copaibae. 

Definition. 11 The oil distilled from copaiba " (B.P.). 

Description. " Colourless or pale yellow, with the 
odour and taste of copaiba " (B.P.). 

Adulterations. African copaiba oil. 

Steward. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., -900 to -910; 
980 to -990 (G.P.). 

Optical rotation, to the left. 

Soluble in equal volume of absolute alcohol. 

References. The yield of copaiba oil from the balsam 
is from 40 to 80 per cent. (Messrs. Schimmel, April, 1897). 

K. A. Cripps (Y. B. P., 1891, p. 414) describes a 
method of estimating the oil in the oleo-resin by dis- 
tilling in a current of steam, and gives the following 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 119 

figures that he obtained on commercial samples : 40*95, 
45-0, 45-3, 46-4, 47-8, 48-2, 49-6, 50-4, 50-8, 53-3, and 
59-6 per cent. 

Qmney ("Notes on Oils") states that most of the 
copaiba oil of commerce is that distilled from the Para 
variety, which yields 60 to 80 per cent, of oil. 

Two samples of copaiba oil examined by Theo. Brewis 

gave the following results : 

A. B. 

Specific gravity at 15-5 C. -900 -905 

Opt. rotation -19-2 -25-2 

" African copaiba oil " is described by Umney (Y. B. P., 
1892, 168, and 1893, 421). 

Copper in Foods. 

Copper sulphate is used to improve or fix the colour of 
various preserved green vegetables, such as peas, French 
beans, gherkins, spinach, and macedoines (mixed vege- 
tables). 

The method in which it is said to be applied results in 
the production of an insoluble leguminate of copper, and 
the quantity used is so small that it would be probably 
quite innocuous, even if such vegetables were continu- 
ously eaten in large quantities. 

Copper in small quantities is frequently a natural con- 
stituent of many articles, such as wheat, coffee, cocoa, 
oysters, etc., and might very probably be contained in 
peas grown on a soil containing copper, so that I suggest 
that in those samples where the copper reckoned as metal 
does not exceed 1* grain per lb., on the mixed sample 
(liquid and peas) the sample should not be regarded as 
adulterated, t 

* Dr. F. W. Tunicliffe is in favour of permitting half this quantity, 
t This standard was proposed in the second edition of " Aids to the 
Analysis of Foods and Drugs," April, 1899. 



120 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

The question of the sampling of such preparations is 
of importance, as it exercises a very great influence on 
the amount found. This question was discussed in the 
Analyst, June, 1897, in connection with a paper on 
"Copper in Peas" (R. Bodmer and C. G. Moor), in which 
a number of figures on copper in various articles were 
given, and methods of analysis were criticised. 

The estimation of copper is best carried out, as described 
by P. and M. ("Aids to the Analysis of Foods and 
Drugs," p. 130), by electro-deposition. The deposited 
copper is usually quite free from other metals, and a 
correct estimation can be made with very little expendi- 
ture of time or trouble, while it is almost certain that 
some published results are much above the truth, owing 
to the use of other methods. 

References. Tschirch (Das Kupfer). 

Paul and Cownley (Pharm. Journ., June, 1896). The 
authors found traces of copper in spirits and in cocoa, 
while in oysters from 1 to 2 grains per pound were found, 
and in preserved peas the amount varied from about *5 of 
a grain to 1 grain per pound. Other observers have found 
considerably more in preserved vegetables. 

Vedrodi (abst. Analyst, xxi., 235) gives figures for 
copper in a number of cereals, and in peas, beans, and 
capsicum. Samples of capsicum and of garden-grown 
peas examined by C. G. Moor failed to yield any copper 
whatever. 

Pharm. Journ., 1891, 1014 (Eeport Dept. of Agric., 
Washington), gives account of some investigations. 
Grapes untreated with any fungicide contained as much 
as 2 parts per 1,000,000, or practically the same as the 
average amount found in apples, plums, and other fruits 
sprayed by Paris green, etc. ; numerous analyses show 
that wheat may contain 4 to 10 parts per 1,000,000, the 
average being 7'2. The liver of sheep contains 35 to 41 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 121 

milligrammes of copper per kilo, liver of oxen 56 to 58, 
and chocolate 125. 

See Eeport of Departmental Committee on Food Pre- 
servatives (Byre and Spottiswoode), in which they re- 
commend " that the use of copper salts in the so-called 
greening of preserved foods be prohibited." 

Corn Flour. 

The flour produced by grinding and bolting maize (Zea 
Mays), after the removal of the husk. 

Standard 

Water should not exceed 16 per cent. 

Ash 2 

Insoluble fibre 3 ,, 

Microscopic appearance must be genuine. 
Acidity should not exceed traces. 

Remarks. This is one of the official starches of the 
British Pharmacopoeia, which describes its microscopic 
appearance as follows : 

" Granules more uniform in size than in the case of 
wheat, but smaller than the large granules of wheat, 
frequently polygonal and having a very distinct hilum, 
but no evident concentric striae." 

Coriander Seeds (Coriandri Fructus). 

Definition. "The dried ripe fruit of Coriandrum 
sativum" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Adulterations. Exhausted fruits, mineral matter. 
Standard. Ash, between 4 and 6 per cent. 
Ash. Observer. 

5-8 Moor. 

4-8 Umney. 

4-7 to 5-7 Squire ("Companion"). 

Remarks. Squire ("Companion") found from 4-69 to 
5-74 per cent, of ash in three samples of fruit, and from 
5 '64 to 7'79 per cent, of ash in four samples of pulvis. 



122 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Oleum Coriandri. 

Definition. "The oil distilled from coriander fruit" 
(B.P.). 

Description. " Colourless or pale yellow, having the 
odour and flavour of the fruit" (B.P.). 

Adulteration. Turpentine, orange oil and terpene. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-0 C., -870 to -885 
(B.P.). 

1 c.c. of the oil should form a clear solution with 3 c.c. 
of 70 per cent, alcohol. 

An oil of known purity examined by Theo. Brewis had 
a gravity of -8768 and an optical rotation of + 9-9. 

Optical rotation + 8 to +13 (Messrs. Schimmel, April, 
1897). In this report Messrs. Schimmel give the yields of 
oil from coriander fruit from seven different sources, the 
Eussian yielding from -8 to 1-0 per cent of oil, the others 
less. 

References. Semmler (abst. Pharm. Journ., 3, xxi. 940) 
states that coriandrol is the chief constituent of this oil, 
and gives figures on it. 

Cream. 

Definition. The fatty substance obtained from milk 
either on standing or by the use of a centrifugal machine. 

Adulterations. The addition of gelatine or any other 
substance for the purpose of imparting a fictitious thick- 
ness, deficiency of fat. 

Standard. Ordinary cream should contain not less 
than 10 per cent, of fat. 

" Double cream " or "clotted cream" should contain 
not less than 50 per cent, of fat. 

A small quantity of boric acid should be allowed if 
its presence is stated. 

References. . and M. ("Milk and Milk Products," 
p. 65). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 123 

Allen, " Commercial Organic Analysis," vol. iv., p. 211. 

"Detection of Gelatine in Cream," A. W. Stokes 
(Analyst, 1897, p. 320), 

Remarks. " The use of a preservative is practically a 
necessity in the cream trade, as separated cream will 
begin to turn sour in as short a time as four hours in the 
summer if no preservative has been added " (P. and M., 
"Milk and Milk Products"). 

The Preservatives Committee* recommend that -25 per 
cent, of boric acid be allowed to be used as a preservative 
for cream. This is by no means an excessive quantity, 
and is indeed hardly sufficient in summer time. 

When gelatine is added to separated cream it will be 
found that, instead of pulling into thread as genuine thick 
cream will, it gives it a buttery consistency which is very 
characteristic. 

Oleum Crotonis. 

Definition. "The oil expressed from the seeds of 
Croton tiglium" (B.P.). 

Description. Brownish-yellow to dark reddish-brown, 
viscid, with a disagreeable odour and an acrid burning 
taste. 

Adulterations. Fixed oils. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15*5 C., -940 to -960 
(B.P. and G.P.). 

"Entirely soluble in absolute alcohol" (B.P.). 

Soluble on warming in 3 parts of absolute alcohol (G.P.). 

Freely soluble in ether and chloroform (B.P.). 

The alcoholic solution should not redden litmus 
paper (B.P.). 

Two c.c. of oil shaken with 1 c.c. of nitric acid and 
1 c.c. of water should not solidify wholly or partially 
after two days (B.P.). 

References. T. A. Ellwood (Pharm. Journ., 3, xviii. 
* Analyst, December, 1901. 



124 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

546) gives a method for detecting croton-oil in mixtures, 
based on its vesicating properties. 

Dunstan (C. and _D., 1895, 2, 22) gives an account of a 
highly-vesicating substance separated by him from croton- 
oil. 

Remarks. Freshly-expressed croton-oil is not readily 
soluble in absolute alcohol, but becomes so after keeping 
some months and simultaneously develops free acid. 

W. Duliere (Y. B. P., 1900, 174) gives the chemical 
characters that in his opinion indicate purity. 

Cubebs. 

Definition. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Test. "The crushed fruit imparts a crimson colour to 
sulphuric acid" (B.P.). 

Standard. Ash not to exceed 8 per cent. 
References. Pharm. Journ., 3, 25, 314, 757, and 797. 
C. C. Sherrard (C. and D., April 9, 1892) found an 
average of 21*5 per cent, of oleo-resin in nine samples of 
cubebs, the highest being 24*8 per cent, and the lowest 
16'1 per cent. 

Messrs. Schimmel's report (April, 1897) gives the yield 
of oil as from 10 to 18 per cent. 

Ash. Observer. 

7-3 Moor. 

5-3 Umney. 

Oleum Cubebse. 

Definition. " The oil distilled from cubebs " (B P.). 

Description. " Colourless, pale green, or greenish- 
yellow, with the odour and camphoraceous taste of 
cubebs" (B.P.). 

Adulterations. Fixed oils. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., -910 to -930. 

References. Messrs. Schimmel (April, 1897) give the 
rotatory power as - 30 to 40. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 125 

Remarks. An oil of known purity examined by Theo. 
Brewis had a purity of -931 and an optical rotation o 
- 34-4. 

Tinetura Cubebse. 

Preparation. Cubebs in powder 200 grammes, alcohol 
90 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by percolation. 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, A1 -, 

at 15 -5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

843 (Umney) 107 (Umney) 86 '3 (Umney) 

846--S45 (Lucas) 2-2 (M. and P.) 87'3 (M. and P.) 

840 (Barclay) 1-9-2O (H. W. 84-8 (Chattaway), 
847 (P. and M.) Jones) mean of 5 sam- 

846 (Caines) 1-5 (Fletcher) pies 

845--850 (H. W. 2-4 (M. and P.) 84-3 (Stead) 

Jones) 2-5 (Gadd) 86'7 (Umney) 

855 (M. and P.) 2-1 (Partridge) 81-9 (M. and P.) 

846 (Fletcher) 2-0 83'9 (Barclay) 

846--851 (H. and H.) 77'2 (Fletcher) 

845 (Gadd) 891 (Gadd) 

J. Barclay (P. ./., December 17, 1898) proposes 20 per 
cent, of oleo-resin as a standard. 

Cuspariae Cortex. 

Definition. " The dried bark of Cusparia febrifuga " 
(B.P.). 

Ash. Observer. 

6-7 ., Moor. 

10-5 Umney. 

The two official preparations are the infusion and a 
"concentrated liquor," which is really a tincture, as it 
is prepared by maceration and percolation with 20 per 
cent, alcohol. 

Digitalis Leaves. 

Definition. " The dried leaves of Digitalis purpurea, 
collected from plants commencing to flower " (B.P.). 
Ash of Dried Leaves. Observer 

8-1 Moor. 

10-6 ... Priest. 

7'4 Umney. 



126 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



References. There has been much discussion as to 
what the efficacy of digitalis preparations are due, and 
the various views of observers will be found in Allen 
(vol. in., part iv., p. 130). 



Tinetura Digitalis. 

Preparation. Digitalis leaves in No. 20 powder 125 
grammes, alcohol 60 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared 
by percolation. 



Specific Gravity at 
15-5 C. 

931 (Lucas) 
928 
932 (Barclay) 
932 (P. and M.) 
927 (Gladwyn) 
^932--940 (H. W. 

Jones) 

926 (M. and P.) 
923 

930 (Fletcher) 
929--933 (H. and 

H.) 
928 (Gadd) 



Total Solids,* 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
4-9 (Umney) 
3 '6 per cent.f 
3-2 (M. and P.) 
4'3 

3-6 (Gladwyn) 
3-9 (Moor) 
3-3-5-0 (H. W. 

Jones) 

1-9 (M. and P.) 
2-9 (Fletcher) 
3-4 (Gadd) 



Ergot. 



Alcohol. 

54-2 (Umney) 

54-0 

57-0 (P. and M.) 

57-2 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 48 sam- 
ples 

55-8 (Stead), 5 esti- 
mations 

61-1 (Moor) 

58-5 (M. and P.) 

57-0 (Barclay) 

55-2 (Fletcher) 

59-4 (Gadd) 



Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard 
Water should not exceed ... 5O percent. 

Ash 3-0-6-0 

Cornutine, not less than ... -25 ,, 

Fixed Oil (by ether), about ... 20 

* Owing to the variation of the extractive matter in this tincture, 
which may naturally be much lower at times than the average, some 
makers have increased the amount of leaves ordered. This is an 
entirely improper thing to do, as it results in a tincture stronger than 
intended by the Pharmacopoeia, and well illustrates a danger of reckless 
employment of an unauthorized "standard" of extractive for which 
there is no warrant. 

t Proposed as standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 127 

Bemarks. The active principle of ergot has been 
variously described as ergotin, sclerotine, picrosclerotine, 
cornutine, etc., and although the activity of the drug pro- 
bably depends on the alkaloid, this is not yet thoroughly 
established, so that no process of standardization can be 
suggested. As, however, it has been shown that different 
samples vary enormously (as much as five or six times) 
in the amount of alkaloid, it is clear that work is required 
both to ascertain whether an ergot of low alkaloidal con- 
tent has a low physiological activity, and if so, whether 
it would not be easy to standardize all the preparations 
of ergot. 

Spanish ergot may contain *3 per cent, of alkaloid, 
German and Russian about *2 per cent., while Beckurts 
has examined Swedish ergot that contained as little as 
04 per cent. 

C. Jacobi (abst. Pharm. Journ., 1897, ii. 84) gives the 
name sphacelotoxin to a resinous substance which he 
believes to be the active constituent of the drug, and 
describes a process for its preparation. 

It is admitted that ergot loses its active properties on 
keeping, and the United States Pharmacopoeia states 
that it is useless when more than a year old. 

Keller (Pharm. Journ., 1896, ii. 378) is of opinion that 
the various basic substances described as ergotinine by 
Tauret, cornutine by Robert, and picrosklerotine by 
Dragendorff are identical. 

H. Beckurts (abst. P. /., 1896, 154) gives a method of 
assay for ergot as follows : 25 grammes of the sample are 
freed from fixed oil by extraction with petroleum spirit, 
dried and shaken with 100 grammes of ether and 
1 gramme of magnesia suspended in 20 grammes of 
water ; 60 grammes of the ethereal solution are then 
drawn off, and shaken with 5 per cent, hydrochloric 
acid to remove the alkaloid from the ether. After this 



128 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

the acid solution is again agitated with ether and 
ammonia. On evaporating the ether, the alkaloid is 
obtained in a state of white crystals. Operating in this 
way, he obtained fro n Russian and Austrian samples 
0-2 per cent, of alkaloid, from German 15 per cent., and 
from Spanish -14 per cent. 

A. E. L. Dohme (Y. B. P., 1896, p. 140) found (method 
of assay not stated) in German ergot '15 per cent., in 
Spanish -29 per cent., and in Eussian -8 per cent. 

H. Beckurts examined samples of Swedish ergot col- 
lected in 1895 and 1896, and found the very low amounts 
of -037 and -046 respectively. 

From the very considerable variations exhibited in the 
amount of the active principle of ergot, the amount of 
which is liable to differ according to the country of 
origin, the season, and the length of time that the ergot 
is kept before use, it seems very desirable that prepara- 
tions should be made from a standardized extract, or 
from the alkaloid itself. 

E. M. Houghton (Pharm. Journ., 1898, ii. 345) de- 
scribes a physiological method of testing ergot by noting 
its effect on fowls. 

Beckurts and Groths (abst. Pharm. Journ., 1896, i. 163) 
state that Eussian and Austrian ergot contain the largest 
amount of cornutine. The smaller-sized grains are pre- 
ferable, as they contain more. In drying ergot, they con- 
sider drying over quicklime the only method admissible. 

Ash on three samples ... 3-48%, 3'46%, 3'68%\ ,,, 

Fat 22-8%, 22-8%, 2M%/ ( Moor ) 

Ash 5-7% (Priest) 

30%(Umney) 

Tinctura Ergotse Amm. 

Preparation. Ergot in No. 20 powder 250 grammes, 
solution of ammonia 100 c c., alcohol 60 per cent, to 
make 1 litre. Prepared by percolation. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



129 



Specific Gravity at Total Solids, 

15 '5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

931, -937 (Lucas) 4-0 per cent.* 

934 (Barclay) 4-0 (M. and P.) 

938 (P. and M.) 4-9 (Umney) 

938 (Caines) 3-9-4-5 (H. W. 

932 (Gladwyn) Jones) 

936 (Umney) 5'7 (M. and P.) 

9S4--937 (H. W. 3-2 (Fletcher) 

Jones) 

936 (M. and P.) 
934 (Fletcher) 
934 (H. and H.) 



Alcohol. 

50-8 (Stead), 3 esti- 
mations 

43-6 (P. and M.) 

41-3 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 4 sam- 
ples 

52-5 (Umney) 

52-0 

52-1 (M. and P.) 

48-3 (Fletcher) 



Ext. Ergotse Liq. 

For Preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 



Specific Gravity at Total Solids, 
15'5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 


Alcohol. 


1-029 (Moor) 16 
1-011 11 


7 
7 


(Moor) 
H 


32-6 
32-9 


(Barclay) 
(M. and P.) 


1-023 


15 


5 


(Barclay) 


31-8 


M 


1-021 


14 


8 


(M. and P.) 


31-6 





1-026 


17 


2 





32-9 


II 


1-015 


15 


5 


> > 


33-4 


(Bird) 


1-019 (Gadd) 13 


2 


ii 






1-014 (Bird) 11 


9 


(Gadd) 






12 


7 


(Bird) 







Eucalyptus Oil. 

Definition. 11 The oil distilled from the fresh leaves 
of the Eucalyptus globuhis and other species of 
eucalyptus " (B.P.). 

Adulterations. Oils deficient in eucalyptol. 

Standard." Specific gravity from -910 to -930 " (B.P.). 

" Optical rotation (100 millimetres) from + 10 to - 10 " 
(B.P.) 

" Should become semi- solid when stirred with half or 

,rm. Journ., Decem- 



* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay 
ber 17, 1898). 



9 



130 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

one-third of its volume of phosphoric acid specific 
gravity T75. 

" 1 c.c. of the oil with 2 c.c. of glacial acetic acid and 
2 c.c. of saturated solution of sodium nitrite, when stirred 
together should not form a crystalline mass (exclusion of 
oils containing much phellandrene) " (B.P.). 

These tests exclude oils containing but little eucalyptol. 

Remarks. Messrs. Schimmel give the yield of oil 
from the fresh leaves as about '8 per cent. 

The oils from " other species " which answer the 
British Pharmacopoeia tests, and are frequently sold, are 
those from Eucalpytus cneorifolia and Eucalyptus oleosa, 
both of which frequently contain 60 per cent, of cineol 
and traces of cuminic aldehyde. The presence of the 
latter body is a disadvantage, and gives the oil an un- 
pleasant odour and taste. 

References. Davies and Pearmain (Y. B. P., 1891, 
465) give analyses of 24 samples. See also P. W. Squire 
(Y. B. P., 1891, 222). 

Euonymi Cortex. 

Definition. " The dried root-bark of Euonymus atro- 
purpureus " (B.P.). 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

9-6 M. and P. 

8-3 Umney. 

The stem-bark is sometimes substituted for the root 
bark. 

Ext. Euonymi Sice. 

This is prepared by evaporating a tincture and mixing 
it with calcium phosphate. 

M. Conroy (Y. B. P., 1891, 401) suggests adding cal- 
cined magnesia instead of milk sugar to obviate the 
difficulty of powdering. This was previously recom- 
mended by Squire in his " Companion." 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 131 

Ferri Perehloridi Liquor Fortis. 

For preparation, see British Pharmacopoeia. 

5 c.c. diluted with water and treated with ammonia 
should yield 1-6 grammes of ferric oxide. 

The official mode of preparation given in detail in the 
British Pharmacopoeia results in a liquor of about the 
specific gravity mentioned i.e., 1-42 but this does not 
yield 1-6 grammes of ferric oxide per 5 c.c. as described. 
A liquor yielding 1-6 grammes would have a specific 
gravity of about 1-49, and can be prepared by slightly 
modifying the British Pharmacopoeia quantities as sug- 
gested by F. C. J. Bird (Y. B. P., 1899, 362). Thomas 
Tyrer and Albert Levy (Y. B. P., 1900, 481) in a very 
exhaustive paper confirm this, and state that manu- 
facturers do not make iron perchloride solutions accord- 
ing to the method described by the Pharmacopoeia. 

In the A. J. P., 1894, 323, are to be found figures 
obtained on samples of solution and tincture. 



Tinctura Ferri Perchloridi. 

Preparation. " Strong solution of Ferric chloride, 
250 c.c., alcohol 90 per cent. 250 c.c., distilled water 
to make 1 litre" (B.P.). Prepared by simple admixture. 



Specific Gravity at 


Total Solids, 


11 i, i 


15-5 C. 


Grammes per 100 c.c. 


JuCOHO&i 


1-086 (Lucas) 


10-5 (M. and P.) 


22-7 (Stead), 3 


1-086 (Barclay) 


13-2 


samples. 


1-086 (P. and M.) 


13-2 


, 


22-3 (Umney) 


1-087 (Caines) 


15-7 


, 


22-3 (P. and M.) 


1-086 (M. and P.) 


14-9 


> 




1-086 


16-4 




22-3 (Chatta- 


1-039 


16-3 




way), mean of 


1-102 


12-2 (Gadd) 


24 samples. 


1-011 (M. and P.) 




23-7 (M. and P.) 


1-087 to 1-09 




24-4 


(H. and H.) 




22-9 



92 



132 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Specific Gravity Total Solids. A 1 nnlinl 

at 15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

1-085 (Umney) 22-8 (M. and P.) 

1-087 to 1-090 21-9 

(H. and H.) 

Remarks. This tincture should not be kept standing 
in direct light, as some of the Fe 2 Cl 6 is reduced to the 
ferrous state (Lucas). 

The British Pharmacopoeia gives no test for this 
preparation, but 20 c.c. treated with an excess of 
ammonia should yield 1*6 grammes of ferric oxide. The 
variations in the solids of some of the tinctures given 
above show that commercial tinctures are sometimes 
carelessly prepared. 

Foeniculi Fruetus (Fennel Fruit). 

Definition. "The dried ripe fruit of F&niculum 
capillaceum collected from cultivated plants " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulteration. The addition of exhausted fennel fruit, 
excess of earthy matter. 

Standard. Ash from 7 to 13 per cent. 

References. Squire ("Companion") determined the ash 
on four samples of whole fruits, the variations were from 
7'7 to 9-75 per cent., and on six samples of ground fruit 
the variations were from 8 - 91 to 13 '0 per cent., with the 
exception of one sample, which contained sand, and 
gave an ash of 24-64 per cent. 

Four samples examined by C. G. Moor gave 12-2, 
121, 8-7, and 91 per cent, of ash. 

A sample examined by Hockauf (C. and D. Diary, 
1899) gave 8-9 per cent, of ash. 

A sample examined by Priest gave 9-1 per cent, of ash. 

The commercial varieties of fennel have been de- 
scribed by Umney (Pharm. Journ., Iviii. 225), who 
strongly deprecates the use of the Indian variety, which 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 133 

up to that time had been principally used, on account of 
its deficiency in essential oil. He prefers the Saxon, 
Galitian and Eoumanian varieties, the two last named 
being very rich in essential oil, the powder produced 
from them being, however, somewhat darker in colour 
than the French and Indian varieties. 

Filix Mas. 

Definition. The rhizome of Aspidium filix-mas, col- 
lected late in the autumn, divested of its roots, leaves, 
and dead portions, and carefully dried. 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Aspidium filix-fwmina and Aspidium spinulosum are 
sometimes substituted (Greenish). 

Composition. 

Ash. Observer. 

4-9, 6-2, 10-9* Priest. 

1-4 to 3-0 Hockauf.f 

Reference. C. C. Sherrard determined the oleo-resin 
on two samples, which yielded 9'27, 9'87, and on three 
peeled samples, which yielded 1-7, 7 -26, and 9 '64. 

Extractum Filicis Liquidum. 

Preparation. " Exhaust male fern rhizome in No. 20 
powder with ether by percolation ; evaporate the ether 
from the clear percolate on a water-bath or by distilla- 
tion until an oily extract remains " (B.P.). 

Specific Gravity. Observer. 

1-020 Barclay. 

1-013 Gadd. 

1-008 Partridge. 

This extract is prepared in this country and abroad. 
The foreign makes are naturally quoted at a lower price, 
as they are made with duty-free ether. Foreign-made 

* Mineral matter present. t B. and C. D., xxxiii., 597. 



134 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

extracts of male fern frequently contain ether, which 
should, of course, have been completely removed. In 
some cases as much as 10 per cent, of ether is present. 

The yield of extract from 100 parts of male fern on 
four batches made on the large scale is about 9*5 per 
cent (Umney). 

Flour. 

Definition. The meal produced on grinding and bolting 
wheat. 

Adulteration. Alum, excess of water, the removal of 
nitrogenous matter (germ), which is a constituent of the 
grain itself. 

Standard. Water not to exceed 10 per cent. 

Ash not to exceed 1O per cent. 

Acidity not to exceed traces. 

Alum must be absent. 

The microscopic appearance must show the absence of 
foreign starches. 

Remarks. Wheat starch is one of the starches which 
are official in the British Pharmacopoeia, which describes 
the microscopic characters as follows : 

" A mixture of large and small granules, the former 
lenticular in shape and marked with faint concentric 
striae surrounding a nearly central hilum." 

If ergot, moulds, corn-cockle, bunt, smut, or any of 
the parasites peculiar to flour are seen in a sample which 
is examined under the Food and Drugs Act, the medical 
officer of the district should be informed, as such a 
sample, while injurious to the health, could not be 
regarded as " adulterated " according to the Act. 

Gelsemii Radix. 

Definition. " The dried rhizome and roots of Gelse- 
mium nitidum " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



135 



Ash. 

2-1 ... 
2-1, 2-3 
2-3 ... 
2-6 



Observer. 
Moor. 
Priest. 
Umnev. 



L. E. 

Standard. Ash from 2 to 3 per cent. 



>ayer. 



References. F. A. Thompson (Pharm. Journ., III., 
xvii., 806) gives a process for the extraction of the mixed 
alkaloids from gelsemium root for the separation of 
gelsemine. 

Farr and Wright (C. and D., 1892, ii. 263) give an 
account of previous work on gelsemium and its con- 
stituents by Kullock, Gerrard, and Thompson. 

L. E. Sayer* found 0'2 per cent, of gelsemine in the 
rhizome. 

Tinetura Gelsemii. 

Preparations. " Gelsemium root in No. 40 powder 
100 grammes, alcohol 60 per cent, to make 1 litre. By 
percolation " (B.P.). 



Specific Gravity at 


Total Solids, 


Alo^.V.^1 


15-5 C. ' Grammes per 100 c.e. **. 


925 (Barclay) 


0-86 (M. & P.) 


581 (Chattaway), 


920 (Caines) 


1-3 (Moor) 


mean of 8 sam- 


920 (Gladwyn) 


2-0 (M. & P.) 


ples 


916 (Moor) 


0-84 


57-6 (Stead), 3 esti- 


917 (M. & P.) 


1-8 


mations 


919 


1'2 


59-1 (Umney) 


917 


^ ' 


60-9 (M. & P.) 


918 


1-5 (Fletcher) 


58-7 


929 


1-1 (Gadd) 


60-9 


921 (Fletcher) 


1-5 (H. W. 


60-4 


920 to -921 


Jones) 


55-4 


(HandH.) 


1-4 (Partridge) 


56-6 (Fletcher) 


924 (Umney) 




59-6 (Barclay) 


917 (Gadd) 




60-5 (Gadd) 


919 (H. W. Jones) 






* A. J. P., 1897, p. 234. 



136 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898) pro- 
poses -025 per cent, of gelsemine as a standard. 

Farr and Wright (C. and D., 1892, ii. 263) found the 
total alkaloids to vary from -02 per cent, to '076 per 
cent. This was the old tincture, which was 1 in 8 ; it is 
now 1 in 10. 

Gentianae Radix. 

Definition. " The dried rhizome and roots of Gentiana 
lutea" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Test. " Gentian root should not yield any definite 
reaction with the tests for starch " (B.P.). 

Ash. Observer. 

3-3 ... ... ... Moor. 

4-0, 2-9, 2-2 ... ... Priest. 

3-3, 41 ... ... Umney. 

C. J. S. Thompson (Pharm. Journ., 1887, 500) states 
that tannin is present in small quantities in combination 
with colouring matter. 

" Other species of gentians are sometimes substi- 
tuted, but they all appear to have the same properties " 
(Greenish). 

Tinetura Gentianae Co. 
Preparation. 

Gentian root cut small and well bruised 100 grammes 

Dried bitter orange peel well bruised ... 37'5 ,, 

Cardamom seeds, bruised ... ... 12-5 

Alcohol 45 per cent. ... ... 1,000 c.c. 

Prepared by maceration. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, Alcohol 

15'5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. (percent.). 

963, -961, -965 5 -0* per cent. 41-9 (P. and M.) 

(Lucas) 5-7 (M. and P.) 44-4 (Stead), 6 esti- 

966 (Barclay) 5-6 ,, mations 

970 (P. and M.) 5-0 (M. and P.) 45-0 (P. and M.) 

* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 
1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



137 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
967 (Caines) 
966 (M. and P.) 
968 
963 
968 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
5-9 (M. and P.) 
5-3 
4-7 
4-1 
6-0 



Alcohol 
(per cent.). 

42-2 (Priv. com.): 
mean of 41 sam- 
ples 

45-1 (Umney) 

44-5 (M. and P.) 

42-7 

44-6 

44-4 

43-3 

43-3 

42-1 (Fletcher) 

42-7 (Barclay) 
34) found great varia- 



962 5-7 (Fletcher) 

962 6-0 (Gadd) 

964 

967 

968 (Fletcher) 

965 (Umney) 

965 to -967 (H. & H.) 

Eeference. Macfarlane (Bulletin, 
tions in this tincture. 

Gin. 

Definition. A liquor usually made from raw spirit, 
flavoured with juniper berries, and sometimes sweetened. 

Adulterations. The addition of water beyond the 
quantity allowed by law, the addition of capsicum. 

Standard. By Act of Parliament the strength of gin 
must not be more than 35 degrees below proof. If, 
however, a " dilution notice " is exhibited in a prominent 
position the vendor may sell any strength he pleases. 

This method of evading the application of the Act is 
likely to lead to great abuses, and it should be com- 
pulsory to mark clearly on all bottles containing less 
than the proper strength of spirit, what the amount of 
added water really is. These remarks, of course, apply 
equally to other spirits. 

Ginger. 

Definition. "The scraped and dried rhizome of Zin- 
giber officinale " (B.P.). 

Adulterations. The addition of exhausted ginger, ex- 
cess of mineral matter. 



138 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Ginger is frequently exhausted by immersing the 
whole or partially crushed root in a weak mixture of 
alcohol and water, the object being to prepare a flavour- 
ing for ginger-beer. This treatment reduces the amount 
of volatile oil, the amount extracted by cold water, and 
the soluble ash, but does not greatly affect the charac- 
teristic resin, which is present in most gingers to the 
extent of 5 to 6 per cent. 

Standard for Commercial Ground Ginger. On account 
of the great variation in the composition of gingers from 
different localities, it may sometimes be impossible to 
detect the addition of a certain percentage perhaps 20 
per cent. of an exhausted ginger in a mixture ; and 
although a considerable amount of original work has 
been done, I am inclined to adhere to the suggestion for 
the present that " A sample of ground ginger should be 
regarded as genuine when it possesses the following 
characters :* 

Total ash not exceeding 5 per cent. ; 
Soluble ash not less than 1*5 per cent. ; 
Cold water extract not less than 10 per cent. ; 
Microscopic examination, genuine." 

By the provisional adoption of this standard I believe 
that there would be no fear of condemning a genuine 
sample as adulterated, while all samples falling below this 
standard should be further examined as to the extract 
they yield to ether, alcohol, etc. Figures on the ether 
extract, alcoholic extract, etc., on gingers of various origin 
may be found in the papers in the Analyst (vide infra). 

It appears that, whereas the soluble ash may be con- 
siderably reduced in exhausted samples, the oleo-resin 
on which the chief value of the ginger depends may 
be reduced to a much less extent, so that one cannot 
fairly calculate the amount of exhaustion on the figure 
* "Aids," 1899 edition, p. 102. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 139 

for the soluble ash. Numerous observations have shown 
that the volatile oil and oleo-resin are present in too 
variable a quantity to be useful as factors on which to 
calculate the amount of exhaustion, but, as the resin is 
the really valuable constituent, it seems that it is in this 
direction that further work should aim. 

One point in connection with ginger requires special 
notice, and this is that the practice of " washing " ginger 
is not sanctioned by the Pharmacoposia, which specifies 
that ginger is the scraped and dried rhizome, and there- 
fore washing cannot be justified at any rate, in the case 
of ginger for medicinal use. 

The ash of genuine unbleached Jamaica ginger free 
from earthy matters is 2-6 to 4 per cent. 

Macfarlane (Bulletin, 48), 1897, found twenty-six 
samples out of ninety-eight to be adulterated. 

E. H. Gane (Pharm. Journ., 1891, 802), gives figures on 
Jamaica, Cochin, African, and Fijian gingers; the ashes 
varied from 4-0 to 4'8 per cent. 

J. F. Liverseege (Pharm. Journ., 1896, ii. 112) gives 
a valuable set of figures showing the effect on the 
analytical figures of exhaustion by strong spirit, proof 
spirit, 25 per cent, spirit, and water. 

E. Bennett (P. J. [4], xii., 522) gives a very valuable 
set of figures of all the gingers of commerce, and his 
recommendations are as follows : A genuine sample 
should yield not less than 5 per cent.* of resin to 90 per 
cent, alcohol, soluble ash not less than 1-5 per cent., and 
the cold water extract should be not less than 8-5 per cent. 

References. Most of the recent work on ginger is 
referred to in " Aids," 2nd edit., pp. 98-102, and will be 
found in detail in the Analyst during 1893, 1894, 1896 
and 1899. 

* Lower figures are recorded by other observers on samples of known 
origin. 



140 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Tinetura Zingiberis. 

Preparation. Ginger in No. 40 powder 100 grammes, 
alcohol 90 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by perco- 
lation. 



Specific Gravity at 
15-5 C. 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
29 (Gladwyn) 
4 per cent.* 
45 (M. and P.) 
54 
59 
33 
67 
67 

68 (Fletcher) 
31 (Gadd) 



Alcohol. 



89-0 (Umney) 
891 (Moor) 
88-0 (Priv. com.), 

mean of 17 

samples 

89-7 (P. and M.) 
87-3 
88-7 
88-8 
89-3 
88-8 

89-0 (Gadd) 
87-7 (Fletcher) 



840 (Lucas) 

835 (Barclay) 

839 (P. and M.) 

839 (Caines) 

839 (Gladwyn) 

835 (P. and M.) 

839 

838 

837 

839 

840 

840 (Fletcher) 

839 (Umney) 

839 (Gadd) 

838 to -840 (H. and H.) 

The variations in the total solids are remarkable, and 
show the need of further work. 

Eeference. Macfarlane (Bulletin, 34) found great 
variations in the strength of this tincture. 

Glyeyrrhizse Radix. 

Definition. The peeled root and peeled subterranean 
stem of Glycyrrhiza glabra and other species. 

A sh . Observer. 

3-6 M. and P. 

3-3 Priest. 

Note. For the examination of commercial liquorice or 
Spanish juice, see under " Liquorice." 

Extraetum Glyeyrrhizae Liq. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 141 

Specific Gravity Total Solids. Alcohol 

at 15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. (percent). 

1-116 (Moor) 36-5 (Moor) 16-8 (Stead) 

1-127 39-4 ; 15-7 (P. and M.) 

1-112 (P. and M.) 35-6 (P. and M.) 17-2 (Barclay) 

1-136 (Barclay) 47'0 (Bascombe) 

1-142 (Bascombe) 39-5 (Bird) 
1-130 (Bird) 
1-128 (Caines) 

Granati Cortex (Pomegranate Bark). 

Definition. The dried bark of the stem and root of 
Punica granatum. 

Ash. Observer. 

14-3 Priest. 

13-1 

13-7 Moor. 

15-5 

E. Ewers (abst. Y. B. P., 1900, 118) found the alkaloid 
to vary from '5 to -7 per cent. 

Stoeder (abst. C. and D., 1902, 768) gives a method for 
determining the alkaloids in this bark. 

Gregory's Powder (Pulv. Rhei Co.). 

Preparation. Ehubarb root in powder 50 grammes, 
light or heavy magnesia 150 grammes, ginger in powder 
25 grammes. 

Adulteration. Carbonate of magnesia is used instead 
of the oxide. 

Eeferences. Paul and Cownley (P. J., October 8, 1898) 
give figures showing the absorption of carbonic acid, and 
conclude that calcined magnesia and its preparations 
should not contain more than 5 per cent, of carbonate. 

Umney (C. and D., liii. 515) deals exhaustively with 
the subject of the liability of this preparation to absorb 
carbonic acid. He shows that the ash of a properly 
prepared sample should be about 69 per cent., while in 
samples prepared with magnesia carbonate the ash will 
be considerably less. He draws attention to the neces- 



142 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

sity of an exact estimation of the carbonic acid, and 
shows that calculations based on the amount of loss on 
ignition may be misleading. 

Chalk in Gregory's Powder (C. and D., 1901, 891). 

Guaiacum Resin. 

Definition. The resin obtained from the stem of 
Guaiacum officinale or of Guaiacum sanctum. 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Colophony, excessive woody matter. 

The Pharmacopoeia does not give any figure for ash, or 
any limit for insoluble matter. 

References. Lucas (Pharm. Journ., 1893, 667) states 
that guaiacum resin is adulterated with pine resin, and 
that this may be detected by adding to the tincture a 
solution of KHO, when, if pine resin is absent, the pre- 
cipitate formed should redissolve in excess of the reagent. 

J. Evans (Pharm. Journ., 1898, i. 508) gives figures 
showing the amount of insoluble matter in guaiacum 
resin. He examined six samples, and obtained the 
following amounts of matter insoluble in alcohol : 2-99, 
7-66, 7-89, 10-0, 1-54, 9-0. 

Chemist and Druggist, 1898, ii. 130. Dieterich states 
that the resin is often adulterated with colophony. 

** 'Tic" Observe, 

1'4 Moor. 

1-3* 4-5 Gladwyn. 

3-7f 12-6 

5-6t 24-6 

0-8 10-6 Barclay. 

1-1 10-6 

3-9 34-8 

24-0 

20-7 

19-0 

38-5 
* First quality. t Second quality. * Third quality. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 143 

Remarks. The wood yields about 26 per cent, of 
resin (Squire). 

A sample of guaiaci lignum gave 1*3 of ash (M. and P.). 

K. Dieterich (C. and D., 1898, ii., 130) gives a limit for 
the acid-number of the respective kinds of guaiacum. 



Tinctura Guaiaei Amm. 



Preparation. 

Guaiacum resin in powder ... 

Oil of nutmeg 

Oil of lemon ... 

Strong solution of ammonia... 

Alcohol 90 per cent 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
15-6 (M. and P.) 
17-7 (M. and P.) 
16-4 (Fletcher) 
15-2 (Gadd) 
14-5 (Partridge) 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 

899 (Lucas) 
900 (Barclay) 
887 (P. and M.) 
898 (Caines) 
897 (M. and P.) 
906 (Gladwyn) 
896 (Fletcher) 
901 to -9015 

(H. and H.) 
900 (Umney) 
909 (Gadd) 

J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898) proposes as 
a standard 15 per cent, of resin. 



200 grammes. 

3-1 c.c. 

2-1 c.c. 

75 c.c. 

to make 1 litre. 

Alcohol. 

79-8 (P. and M.) 
75-8 (M. and P.) 
72-0 (Chattaway), 

mean of 8 

samples 
68 -8 (Stead) 
73-0 (Umney) 
65-0 (Fletcher) 
67-9 (Gadd) 



Hamamelidis Cortex. 

Definition. "The dried bark of Hamamelis virginiana" 

(B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 



Ash. 
4-7, 5-0 



Observer. 
Moor. 
Priest. 



144 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



References. Greenish states that the bark contains 
about 6 per cent, of tannin. 

Hamamelidis Folia. 

Definition. The leaves, fresh and dried, of Hamamelis 
virginiana. 

Ash. Observer. 

8-5 Moor. 

5-1,4-6 Priest. 

7-0 Gadd. 

Extraetum Hamamelidis Liq. 

For preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Gravity. Total Solids. Observer. 

1-063 21-6 Moor. 

1-025 18-0 Barclay. 

1-028 21-2 Umney. 

19-6 Gadd. 

Tinctura Hamamelidis. 

Preparation. 
Hamamelis root in No. 20 powder 100 grammes. 

Alcohol 45 per cent. to make 1 litre. 

Prepared by percolation. 

Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c 
2-0 per cent.* 
1-7 (M. and P.) 
2-2 (M. and P.) 
1-8 (Moor) 
2-6 (M. and P.) 
1-9 (M. and P.) 
2-2 (Fletcher) 
2-1 (Gadd) 



Specific Gravity at 

15 -5 C. 
948 (Lucas) 
952 (Barclay) 
957 (P. and M.) 
955 (Caines) 
953 (Moor) 
951 (Gladwyn) 
954 (M. and P.) 
951 (M. and P.) 
953 (Fletcher) 
955 (Gadd) 
953 to -956 

(H. and H.) 
948 (Umney) 

* Proposed as a standard by 
17, 1898). 



Alcohol. 

44-2 (Stead) 
41-6 (M. and P.) 
43-6 (Chattaway), 
mean of 10 sam- 
ples 

45-7 (Umney) 
43-9 (M. and P.) 
45-1 (M. and P.) 
42-5 (Fletcher) 
45-4 (Gadd) 
42-5 (Barclay) 



Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 145 

Honey. 

Definition, The saccharine substance collected by 
bee, and deposited by them in the honeycomb. 

Characters. A viscid translucent liquid of a light 
yellowish or brownish-yellow colour, gradually becoming 
partially crystalline and opaque. (The above is the 
British Pharmacopoeia description of Mel depuratum, 
which is described as honey of commerce, melted in a 
water-bath, and strained while hot through flannel pre- 
viously moistened with hot water.) 

Standard. Specific gravity not less than 1/365 
(U.S.P.). 

Ash not to exceed 0-25 per cent. (B.P.). 
Water should not exceed 25 per cent. 
Starch must be absent (B.P.). 
Sulphates not to exceed traces (B.P.). 
Eeferences. The ash of honey seems to be very 
variable,* many figures given by Macfarlane running 
above the British Pharmacopoeia limit, while other 
samples contain only traces of ash. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia requires that the 
ash shall not exceed -2 per cent. The British Pharma- 
copoeia does not state anything as regards the polarizing 
power of genuine honey, which is either neutral or 
laevo-rotatory, while glucose is dextro-rotatory. 

Genuine honey which has not been filtered will show 
the presence of pollen grains. 

Macfarlane, in 1897, found 12 samples out of 180 
adulterated, chiefly with starch-glucose. 

Benseman (Abstract, Pharm. Journ., 1887, 1007) 
showed that bees fed on saccharine matter produce a 
honey of abnormal characters. 

Hamlet (Pharm. Journ, 1890, 518) states that the 
so-called " eucalyptus honey " contains no eucalyptol. 
* Canadian Bulletin, No. 47. 

10 



146 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Sieben (Chemist and Druggist, 1898, ii. 803) gives the 
following figures (the average of 60 samples) : 

Dextrose 34-7 per cent. 

Lgevulose ... ... 39*2 ,, 

Water 20'0 

The German Pharmacopoeia has the following require- 
ments : 

A mixture of 1 part honey and 2 parts water shall have 
a specific gravity of at least 1-111. This aqueous solu- 
tion shall contain neither Cl nor S0 3 , nor be altered by 
strong solution of ammonia ; shall not precipitate on 
addition of an equal volume of alcohol (90 per cent.), 
10 grammes honey, diluted with water shall require not 
more than 0-5 c.c. ~ KHO for neutralization; ash not 
more than 0'4 per cent. 

Humanized Milk. 

Definition. " A preparation of cow's milk so adjusted 
as regards fat, albuminoids, milk-sugar and ash as to 
approximate as closely as possible to human milk." 

Adulterations. Deficiency of fat or milk-sugar, the 
addition of other sugars, preservatives, etc. 

Standard Fat 3*4 per cent. 

Milk-sugar ... ... 6*4 ,, 

Albuminoids 1*7 

Ash 0-2 

The above figures are founded on the average of a 
large number of analyses by different observers. 

Remarks. There would be no objection to the ash 
being higher than is indicated in the above average 
figures, and it would generally be so in humanized milks 
made according to any of the published formulae ; but 
the other figures ought not to vary very much. 

Hydrastis Rhizoma. 

Definition. " The dried rhizome of Hydrastis cana- 
densis " (B.P.), 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

8-6 ... Priest. 

12-0 ... Moor. 

13-2 (uncleaned) ... Priv. com. 

The principal alkaloids in hydrastis rhizome are 
hydrastine, which is present to the extent of about 
2-0 per cent., and berberine, which is present to the 
extent of about 4-0 per cent. (Squire's " Companion "). 

E. Collin (C. and D., Ivi. 834) reports finding this 
drug adulterated with serpentaria and other rhizomes. 

H. M. Gordin (A. J. P., 1901, 168) gives a method for 
determining the alkaloids in this root. He found it to 
contain 3-47 per cent, of hydrastine. 

B. Schmidt (abstract, Y. B. P., 1899, 127) found the 
rhizome to yield 2*75 per cent, of hydrastine. 

Dohme and Engelhardt (abstract, Y. B. P., 1896, 104) 
found 2-6 to 3'1 per cent, of hydrastine in the dried root. 



Ext. Hydrastis Liq. 



Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 

984 (M. and P.) 
984 
985 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
11-5 (M. and P.) 
H-7 
6-7 



1-028 (Barclay) 
1-025 (Umney) 
1-045 (Gadd) 
1-030 (Caines) 
1-032 (Bascombe) 



Alcohol. 

46-0 (M. and P.) 

46-8 

35-5 

38-3 (Barclay) 

29-6 (Gadd) 






20-3 (Barclay) 
22-5 (Umney) 
22-4 (Gadd) 
12-1 (Partridge) 
21-9 (Bascombe) 
20-7 (Partridge)* 

The German Parmacopoeia directs the estimation of hydrastin in 
liquid extract of hydrastis as follows : Evaporate 15 grammes of the 
liquid extract to about 5 grammes, treat the residue with about 10 c.c. 
of water and transfer to a flask, add 10 grammes of petroleum ether, 
50 grammes of ether, and 5 grammes of solution of ammonia, and 

* Specially prepared in accordance with the B.P. directions. 

102 



148 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



allow the mixture to stand for one hour with frequent shaking. Filter 
off 50 grammes of the clear ether solution through a dry filter into a 
boiling flask, add 10 c.c. of a mixture of 1 part of hydrochloric acid and 
4 parts of water, and shake for one minute. When clear, draw off the 
acid liquid, and shake the ethereal layer again twice with 5 c.c. of 
water acidulated with hydrochloric acid, adding the washings to the 
acid liquid. Make alkaline with ammonia, add 50 grammes of ether, 
and allow to stand for an hour with occasional shaking. Forty grammes 
of the clear ethereal solution are filtered through a dry filter into a 
weighed flask, the ether distilled off, the residue dried at 100 C., and 
weighed when cold. It should amount to at least '2 gramme. 

The great variations in the solids of ext. hydrastis liq. 
are remarkable, and require investigation. 



Tinctura Hydrastis. 

Preparation. Hydrastis rhizome in No. 60 powder 
100 grammes, alcohol 60 per cent, to make 1 litre. 
Prepared by percolation. 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 

925 (Barclay) 
931 (Caines) 
923 (Lucas) 
922 (Gladwyn) 
931 (M. and P.) 
923 (Fletcher) 
923 (Umney) 
923 (Gadd) 
921 to -924 
(H. and H.) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
2-5 per cent.* 
2-0 (M. and P.) 
2-4 (Gladwyn) 
2-3 (M. and P.) 
2-3 (Fletcher) 
2-0 (Gadd) 



Alcohol. 

57-7 (Chattaway), 
mean of 4 sam- 
ples 

59-1 (Stead) 
58-8 (Umney) 
55-5 (M. and P.) 
55-7 (Fletcher) 
57-8 (Gadd) 



Hyoscyami Folia (Henbane Leaves). 

Definition. "The fresh leaves and flowers, with the 
branches to which they are attached, of Hyoscyamus 
niger, also the leaves and the flowering tops, separated 
from the branches and carefully dried. Collected from 
the flowering biennial plants" (B.P.). 

J. B. Nagelvoort found the ash of the whole plant 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ.. December 17, 
1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 149 

(cultivated) to be 19 -0 per cent., and of the wild plant 

15*6 per cent. In both cases the roots were removed. 

Ash. Observer. 

11 -S Moor. 

8-6 Priest. 

References. Gerrard (Pharm. Journ., xxi. 3, 212) gives 
the yield of alkaloid from different portions of plants 
grown in different localities. 

W. A. Puckner (A. J. P., 1899, 499) found -91 per cent. 
of alkaloid in henbane leaves ; for process, see original 
paper. 

Extraetum Hyoscyami Viride. 

This is prepared with the aid of a regulated tempera- 
ture from the juice of the fresh leaves, flowering tops 
and young branches, as it must be variable in alkaloid, 
and should be standardized. 

Two samples examined by F. C. J. Bird yielded -086 
and '116 per cent, of alkaloids by titration. 

The German Pharmacopoeia gives the following process for the 
determination of the alkaloidal contents in extract of hyoscyamus : 
Dissolve 2 grammes of extract in 5 grammes of water and 5 grammes 
of alcohol in a beaker ; to the solution add 50 grammes of ether and 
20 grammes of chloroform and 10 c.c. of a solution of E odium carbonate 
(1 in 3) with frequent shaking, which is continued for an hour. 
Fifty grammes of the clear ether chloroform solution are filtered 
through a dry well-covered filter into a flask, and about half of this is 
distilled off. The remainder is placed in a separator, and the flask 
washed out three times with 5 c.c. of ether, and the united liquids 
shaken with 10 c.c. of T ^ HC1. When clear, sufficient ether is added 
to cause the ether-chloroform layer to float on the top of the acid 
liquid, which is filtered through a small wet filter into a 200 c.c. flask. 
The ether-chloroform is washed three times with 10 c.c. of water and 
the liquid made up to 100 c.c. Sufficient ether is added to form a 
layer of 1 centimetre ; 5 drops of iodeosin solution are added, and the 
liquid is titrated with -^ KHO solution, of which not more than 
6'5 c.c. shall be required. 

Tinetura Hyoscyami. 

Preparation. Hyoscyamus leaves and flowering tops 
in No. 20 powder 100 grammes, alcohol 45 per cent, to 
make 1 litre. Prepared by percolation. 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Specific Gravity at 

15'5 C. 
950 (Lucas) 
953 (Barclay) 
955 (P, and M.) 
956 (Gladwyn) 
956 (M. and P.) 
956 
956 
952 
951 
*953 

954 (Fletcher) 
955 to -958 

(H. and H.) 
957 (Gadd) 
950 (Umney) 
953 
954 
957 

If it is desired to attempt an estimation of the alka- 
loidal contents of this preparation the quantity taken 
for assay should not be less than 100 c.c., and the 
method employed should be that recommended by Fair 
and Wright (P. J., xxii. 255). 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
2-9 (M. and P.) 

3-1 (Gladwyn) 

3-4 (M. and P.) 

3-0 

3-0 

1-6 

1-6 

2-0 

2-1 (Fletcher) 

3-1 (Gadd) 

2-3 (Umuey) 



Alcohol. 

45-5 per cent. (P. 
and M.) 

43-3 ( ), mean 
of 47 samples 

45-3 (Stead), 5 esti- 
mations 

45-7 (Umney) 

44-7 (M. and P.) 

44-7 

45-1 

44-0 

44-0 

44-8 

45-0 (Gadd) 

43-0 (Fletcher) 

42-3 (Barclay) 



Ice Creams and Ices. 

The number of bacteria found in such articles cannot 
be regarded as a criterion of their purity or the reverse. 
The manufacture and sale of such products might well 
be subject to supervision, but in the present state of our 
knowledge it is neither possible nor likely to be possible 
to form an opinion as to their purity by the chemical or 
bacteriological means at our disposal, and it is therefore 
not advisable to attempt their examination under the 
Sale of Food and Drugs Acts. 

J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898) proposes '008 per 
ent. of alkaloid as a standard in tinct. hyoscyanii. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 151 

Infants' Foods. 

These products are very rarely examined under the 
Food and Drugs Acts, so there is far less published 
information as to their composition than is available in 
regard to many articles of infinitely less importance. 

It is admitted by medical men that the heavy mortality 
among children up to the first and second years of life 
is in large part due to the improper way in which they 
are fed, particularly among the lower classes. 

Special legislation is therefore indicated in respect of 
all articles offered for sale as infants' foods, and the 
following suggestions would cover some of the most 
important points : 

1. An infants' food should not consist chiefly of starch, 
and should contain no woody fibre, and no mineral matter 
insoluble in acid. 

2. It should be free from all "preservatives."* 

3. Clear directions as to the weight or bulk of the food 
required to be used for a child for twenty-four hours. 

4. Foods which are low in fat must be directed to be 
made with milk, and claims which are not in accordance 
with fact should be made an offence. 

5. Any article termed a " milk " food must contain 
milk not deprived of its fat. 

References. The best modern account of infants' foods 
is to be found in Macfarlane's Bulletin, No. 59, 1898. 

Tincture of Iodine. 

Preparation. Iodine . 25 grammes, potassium iodide 
25 grammes, distilled water 25 c.c., alcohol 90 per cent, 
to make 1 litre. 

* The Departmental Committee on Food Preservatives, appointed 
in 1899, recommend in their report, issued in 1901, " that in the case 
of all dietetic preparations intended for the use of invalids or infants, 
chemical preservatives of all kinds be prohibited." 



152 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Adulteration. The potassium iodide is sometimes 
omitted, and the iodine deficient. 

Standard. If 10 c.c. of the tincture be diluted with 
20 c.c. of water, it should require for complete decolora- 
tion 19-6 c.c. of the volumetric solution of sodium 
thiosulphate (B.P.). 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, . , , -, 

15 '5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. loi< 

878 (Lucas) 2-63 (M. and P.) 87'3 (P. and M.) 

878 (Barclay) 2-7 (Cribb) 85-5 (Chattaway), 

879 (P. and M.) mean of 36 

879 (Caines) samples) 

877 (M. and P.) 85*0 (Stead) 

885 (Fletcher) 87'9 (Umney) 

879 to -881 87-3 (M. and P.) 

(H. and H.) 85-0 (Barclay) 

882 (Gadd) ' 86-6 (Fletcher) 
878 (Umney) 
880 (Cribb) 

Beferences. A. Gunn (Pharm. Journ., 1898, ii. 330) 
recommends the estimation of the alcohol to be made by 
first adding hyposulphite to decolorization, and then 
enough KHO to neutralize the sulphurous acid. After 
this the alcohol may be distilled off. 

Ipecacuanhas Radix. 

Definition. " The dried root of Psychotria Ipecac- 
uanha" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

3-2 Moor. 

2-9, 2-1, 2-5, 3-1 Priest. 

2-0 to 5-3 Hockauf. 

The Rio root alone is official, and may be distinguished 
from the Carthagena root by the British Pharmacopoeia 
description. 

In powder the two roots may be distinguished 
(Greenish, Pharm. Journ., 1895, ii. 137) by their micro- 
scopic characters. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 153 

Alkaloid in Official Root. Observer. 

2-0, 1-7, 1-7, 2-3, 1-8 Moor. 

1-8 (average of 28 samples) Urnney. 

The Pharmacopoeia gives no directions for the assay of 
ipecacuanha root. Probably the best way is to prepare 
the liquid extract, and to assay that. The root must be 
finely ground, and no gruffs must be allowed to separate, 
as the tough inner fibrous matter contains much less 
alkaloid than the outer portions. 

The alkaloids are chiefly emetine and cephaeline, the 
former predominating. 

F. C. J. Bird (P. /., 1900, 414) gives a useful process 
for the determination of the total alkaloids in ipecacu- 
anha root and also a quick method of comparative 
assay. 

Lyons (Pharm. Journ., xvi. iii. 1627) found the average 
alkaloids in forty-eight samples to be 2 '5 per cent. 

Caesar and Lorenz (abst., Pharm. Journ., 1892, 267, and 
1893, 687) give figures on a number of samples of root. 

Paul and Cownley (Pharm. Journ., 1896, i. 321) give 
figures on the alkaloids in Brazilian and Columbian 
Carthagena roots. 

F. C. J. Bird (Pharm. Journ., iii. xxiv. 211) gives a 
method for deemetinizing ipecacuanha root. 

The German Pharmacopoeia gives the following directions for the 
assay of ipecacuanha root : 12 grammes of finely ground root are 
shaken in a flask with 90 grammes of ether and 30 grammes of 
chloroform, then 10 c.c. of 30 per cent, caustic soda solution is added 
and allowed to stand for three hours with occasional shaking. After 
this sufficient water is added to cause the powder to agglomerate, and 
after standing an hour 100 grammes of the ether-chloroform solution 
is filtered off through a dry, well-covered filter into a flask. Half is 
distilled off, the remainder transferred to a separator and the flask 
washed with three quantities of ether (5 c.c. each). The liquid is then 
shaken with 12 c.c. of ^ HC1, and when quite clear enough ether is 
added to cause the ether-chloroform to float on the acid layer. The 
latter is filtered through a wet filter into a flask, and the ether- 
chloroform solution washed with three quantities of water (10 c.c. 
each), which are also passed through the filter. The filter is washed 
with water till the total acid liquid amounts to 100 c.c. Half of this 



154 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

is placed in another flask, and enough ether added to form a separate 
layer. Eight drops of iodeosin solution are added, and the liquid is 
titrated with -^~ KHO, of which not more than 20 c.c. shall be 
required. No factor is given to calculate the weight of the alkaloids 
present. 

When ipecacuanha root is ground, there is a separa- 
tion of gruffs, consisting of the woody fibre, which contain 
less alkaloid than the bark. These gruffs should be 
finely ground and the whole bulked. 

Eetailers, when purchasing powdered ipecacuanha 
root, or any British Pharmacopoeia preparations of this 
drug, should ask for a guarantee that it is made from 
Eio root only." 

NOTE. Deemetinized ipecacuanha should yield about 10 per cent, 
of extractive to alcohol (90 per cent.). The dried exhausted marc 
from ipecacuanha preparations has sometimes been substituted. 

Paul and Cownley (A. J. P., February, 1900 et seq.) 
contribute a paper on " The Chemistry of Ipecacuanha." 

Aeetum Ipecacuanhas. 

Preparation. The following are mixed : 

Liquid extract of ipecacuanha ... 50 c.c. 

Alcohol, 90 per cent. 100 c.c. 

Dilute acetic acid ... ... ... 850 c.c. 

After filtering, the liquid is made to 1 litre with dilute 
acetic acid. 

The following are recent estimations : 
Specific Gravity. Observer. 

990 Caines. 

9905 Priest. 

990 Gladwyn. 

992 Moor. 

990 Lucas. 

992 Barclay. 

992 Umney. 

* As mentioned above, the powdered roots can be distinguished 
microscopically, but there is no means of ascertaining whether the 
official or non-official root was employed in the case of the liquid 
extract or the wine. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 155 



Total Solids. 
(Grammes per 100 c.c.) 
0-73 
0-23 


Observer. 

Umney. 
Gladwyn. 


0-73 


Priest. 


0-56 


Moor. 


0-46 


Priest. 


0-36 
0-45 


Lucas. 
Dodd. 


Acidity of 10 c.c. 
(expressed in c.c. 
of normal alkali). 
5-4 


Priest. 


6-2 




4-6 




6-0 


Cribb. 


6-1 (about) 


Calculated from the 
mode of preparation. 



Standard. Acetum ipecacuanha should contain about 
1 gramme of mixed alkaloids per 100 c.c. 

The variations in the above total solids are not ab- 
normal, as liquid extract of ipecacuanha varies from 5 to 
12 per cent. 

F. C. J. Bird gives a good process for examining this 
preparation (Pharm. Journ., 1900, 414). 

Extraetum Ipecacuanhas Liquidum. 

Definition. " A liquid extract containing from 2 to 2-25 
grammes of the alkaloids of ipecacuanha root in 100 c.c." 
(B.P.). 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. See British Pharmacopoeia. Squire re- 
commends Wilson's process (Pharm. Journ., 1898, ii. 3) 
as being quicker and more accurate than the official 
British Pharmacopoeia method. F. C. J. Bird, however, 
regards the British Pharmacopoeia process as satis- 
factory, and overcomes the difficulty of filtering and 



156 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

washing the precipitates by using a filter-pump (Pharm. 
Journ., 1900, 176). 

Whatever process is used, it will be found that some 
samples are more troublesome to deal with than others, 
and separations must bo complete before proceeding to the 
next operation. 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, 

at 15-5 C. y Grammes per 100 c.c. AlcohoL Observer. 

897 10-7, 11-9 Moor. 

78-9 Stead. 

908 12-3 Umney. 

899 Bascombe 12-2 Bascombe 
885-915 (Bird) 6-12 (Bird) 

Three samples assayed by C. G. Moor gave 1*7, 2*1, 
and 2-3 grammes of alkaloid per 100 c.c. 

References. Naylor and Bryant (Y. B. P., 1899, p. 34), 
and Farr and Wright (Y. B. P., 1899, p. 337). 

F. C. J. Bird has also shown that in the assay of the liquid extract 
the residue weighed as alkaloid really consists of two substances, the 
one being pure alkaloid, pale in colour and titratable, whilst the 
other, produced by the action of heat and alkali on the alkaloids 
during manufacture, is dark brown in colour and combines with acids 
either with difficulty or not at all. It is soluble in chloroform and 
accompanies the unaltered alkaloid throughout the assay process. 
The colour of the residue indicates approximately the amount of de- 
composition product present. With different samples of extract this 
may vary from 5 to 30 per cent, or more of the total residue. Nothing 
is known of its therapeutic activity, and until this has been investi- 
gated obviously gravimetric results alone must be relied on for the 
valuation of the liquid extract of the British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ipecacuanha Wine. 

Preparation. " Liquid extract of ipecacuanha 50 c.c., 
sherry 950 c.c." (B.P.). 

Adulterations.- Deficiency of alkaloid, alcohol, etc. 

Standard. Alcohol should be not less than 16 per 
cent, of alcohol by volume. 

Total alkaloids not less than -1 gramme per 100 c.c. 

Salicylic acid should be absent. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 157 

Three samples assayed by C. G. Moor gave -1 gramme 
mixed alkaloids per 100 c.c. 

Remarks. The British Pharmacopoeia prescribes that 
there shall be no salicylic acid in sherry, and therefore 
the extracted alkaloids should be tested for salicylic acid. 

As the liquid extract of ipecacuanha is standardized 
to contain from 2 to 2-25 grammes of alkaloids, the 
vinum ipecacuanhas ought to yield not less than -1 of a 
gramme per 100 c.c. 

To assay vinum ipecacuanhas, take 100 c.c., and, after 
evaporating off the alcohol, apply the official process as 
described in the British Pharmacopoeia for the liquid 
extract. See also Naylor and Bryant (T. B. P., 1899, 
p. 347), and Farr and Wright (Y. B. P., 1899, p. 342). 

Note. Some observers have reported a loss of alka- 
loidal strength in ipecacuanha preparations on keeping. 
See also F. C. J. Bird (Pharm. Journ., 1900, p. 414). 
My experience does not confirm this, but it is very 
probable that different batches may vary considerably 
in their keeping qualities (C. G. Moor). 

E. G. Guyer (P. J., 4, ix. 622) also draws attention to 
loss of alkaloidal strength in both the wine and the 
liquid extract, and this is confirmed by J. C. Umriey 
(P. J., 4, x. 8). 

The Pharmacopoeia does not specify the use of de- 
tannated sherry, and some samples produce a consider- 
able precipitate on mixing with the liquid extract. This 
precipitate contains alkaloid, so that a detannated wine 
should always be used. 

To determine the alkaloids take not less than 100 c.c. 
and employ Bird's method (P. /., 1900, 414). 

Jaborandi Folia. 

Definition. " The dried leaflets of Pilocarpus Jabo- 
randi " (B.P.). 



158 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulteration. A number of other varieties appear to 
be used in addition to the official one, and they vary 
very much in the quantity, and possibly in the character, 
of the alkaloid that they contain. 

Ash. Observer. 

6-0,8-0 Moor. 

11 ? (powdered) Priest. 

Remarks. Genuine jaborandi leaves should yield 
5 to -6 per cent, of crystallizable pilocarpine nitrate 
(Chemist and Druggist, 1892, ii. 147). 

Holmes (Pharm. Journ., 1895, ii. 520, 539) gives the 
characters of various species of jaborandi found in 
commerce. 

Paul and Cownley (Pharm. Journ., 1896, ii. 2) give 
figures on the alkaloidal contents of jaborandi, and of 
P. spicatus, P. trachylophus, and P. micropliyllus. 

At the present time the official jaborandi leaves are 
hardly obtainable in commerce, and non-official varieties 
are substituted for them. Some of these contain very 
little pilocarpine, and in addition many samples contain 
an excessive amount of stalks. 

Tinctura Jaborandi. 

Preparation. Jaborandi leaves in No. 40 powder 200 
grammes, alcohol 45 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared 
by percolation. 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, Mil Alkaloid 

at 15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. (percent.). 

950 (Lucas) 3-3 (M. & P.) 44-2 (P. & M.) -048* 
953 (Barclay) 2-7 (Moor) 43'4(Cbattaway), 
956 (P. & M.) 2-5 (Fletcher) mean of 5 sam- 
956 (Caines) 2'4 (Gadd) pies 

959 (Moor) 2-4 (Partridge) 42-8 (Stead), 2 
953 (Gladwyn) 3'6 ,, estimations 

* Suggested as standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 
17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 159 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, AVnlml 

1 5 -5 C. Grammes per 1 00 c. c. 

960 (Fletcher) 47'4 (Umney) 

952 (Umney) 40-8 (Fletcher) 

957 (Gadd) 42-6 (Gadd) 

Remarks. SQQ under Jaborandi respecting the scarcity 
of official leaves. 

Farr and Wright give figures on the alkaloids found in 
three tinctures (Y. B. P., 1899, p. 382). 

Ext. Jaborandi Liq. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific' Gravity at Total Solids, AlllniHq 

15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. Allcal( 
1-011 (Moor) 11-75 (Moor) -33 (Moor) 

1-020 (Barclay) 18-5 (Barclay) 

1-016 (Bascombe) 17-1 (Bascombe) 

Estimation for Total Alkaloids. 

Process. Evaporate down to small bulk until all spirit 
is distilled off ; add as much water as residue ; mix ; 
add 10 drops of strong nitric acid ; filter ; place filtrate 
in a separator; add excess of ammonia, avoiding too 
great an excess ; shake out with chloroform ; evaporate 
or distil over water-bath : the residue is the impure total 
alkaloids. Warm this with diluted nitric acid ; filter, 
and evaporate over water-bath to neutralization : the 
residue should be crystals of pilocarpine nitrate. This 
may be dissolved up in hot water, slight excess of 
NH 3 OH, added in a separator, and shaken out with 
chloroform, when a fairly pure alkaloid will be obtained. 

Reference. Farr and Wright (Y. B. P. 1899, p. 382) 
give figures for the alkaloid obtained from twelve liquid 
extracts, and describe a process for its estimation. They 
found -15 per cent, to be the average of twelve samples. 
The highest was '24 per cent, and the lowest -03 per cent. 



160 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Jalapa. 

Definition. " The dried tubercles of Ipomma Purga." 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. False jalap (Ipomcva simulans), or 
Tarnpico jalap and Orizaba jalap. 

Standard. " When assayed by the process described 
under Jalapae Eesina should yield not less than 9 nor 
more than 11 per cent, of resin, having the properties of 
the official resin " (B.P.). 

Ash. Observer. 

4-0 Moor. 

6-6, 6-2, 5-4, 4-8, 4.2 Priest. 

The amount of resin appears to be variable, judging by 
published results: Squibb (Pharm. Journ., 1887, 1067), 
Cripps (Pharm. Journ., 1888, 422), and C. J. Warden 
(Pharm. Journ., 1887, 129). 

The foreign Pharmacopoeias also indicate considerable 
variations (Squire, " Companion"). 

France (Codex), 16 to 18 per cent. ; United States 
Pharmacopoeia, 12 per cent. ; and German, 9 per cent. 

Squire (" Companion ") also calls attention to the 
confusion arising from the application of the term 
"jalapin" to the resin of Tampico jalap (false jalap), 
which is soluble in ether, whereas true jalap resin yields 
very little to ether. 

Vera Cruz yields about 10 per cent, of resin, of which 
10 per cent, is soluble in ether. 

Tampico yields about 10 per cent, of resin, which is 
soluble in ether. 

Orizaba yields about 11 per cent, of resin, which is 
soluble in ether. 

Note. It is important to distinguish between the ether 
insoluble and the ether soluble resins. The resins of 
Vera Cruz, Tampico, and Orizaba jalaps and the resin 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 161 

from scammony are confused with each other, the names 
jalapin, scammonin, and convolvulin being used some- 
times for one and sometimes for the other. English and 
Continental nomenclatures are at variance. 

F. H. Alcock (Pharm. Journ., 1892, iii. 107) gives a 
method for estimating the resin in jalap by extraction 
with amylic alcohol. He considered the official require- 
ment of 10 per cent, too high. 

Umney finds the average resin in the root to be 9 per 
cent., and in powdered jalap 11-1 per cent., the total ex- 
tractive to alcohol being from 12-5 to 16 per cent. 

T. Waage found the average resin from a large number 
of samples to be 9*14 per cent. 

A sample examined by C. G. Moor by the official 
method gave 9-2 per cent, of resin. 

John Barclay, in examining thirty-nine samples of 
jalap, found the average resin 9*5, the lowest was 5-1, 
and the highest 15 -9. 

Reference. 0. Schweissinger (Analyst, xxvi., 104) gives 
a method for the valuation of jalap tubers. 

L. F. Kebler (A. J. P., 1900, 298) gives the results 
obtained on a number of samples in the United States of 
America during the past six years. 

C. E. Eobinson (Pharm. Journ., 1893, 533) examined 
ten samples of jalap, and found the total resin to be 
from 7-5 to 17'7 per cent. ; of this from 8 to 27 per cent, 
was soluble in ether. 

Extractum Jalapae. 

This is prepared by extracting jalap first with alcohol 
(90 per cent.) and then with water, and evaporating and 
mixing the two extracts according to the official 
directions. 

If the yield of extract varies from 33 to 50 per cent, of 
the jalap, the resin should be from about 30 to 20 per cent. 

11 



162 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

It seems strange that no standard for resin should 
have been fixed for this preparation, especially as its 
composition is known to be so variable. 

Squire (" Companion ") finds that jalap yields half its 
weight of extract. 

Cripps (Pharm. Journ., iii. 23, 779) found the resin to 
vary from 12 per cent, to 50 per cent, in a number of 
commercial samples examined by him. 

Jalapae Resina. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Characters. " In dark-brown opaque fragments, 
translucent at the edges, brittle, breaking with a resinous 
fracture; readily reduced to a pale-brown powder; 
sweetish in odour, and acrid to the throat" (B.P.). 

Adulterations. See under Jalap. 

Standard. It is easily soluble in 90 per cent, alcohol ; 
insoluble in oil of turpentine (B.P.). 

Nearly insoluble in warm water, and not more than 
10 per cent, is soluble in ether (absence of scammony 
resin and resin of Tampico jalap). 

A solution in alcohol is not coloured bluish-green by 
ferric chloride (absence of guaiacum resin) (B.P.) 

References. C. E. Robinson (Pharm. Journ., 1893, 
531) examined a large number of samples of jalapin. 
The moisture averaged about 6 per cent., resin soluble in 
ether 5 per cent., and resin insoluble in ether 89 per 
cent. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires that 1 gramme 
exhausted with warm chloroform shall not yield more 
than ! gramme of residue. 

Tinctura Jalapae. 

Preparation. Jalap in No. 40 powder 200 grammes, 
alcohol 70 per cent. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



163 



A strong tincture is first prepared, and 10 c.c. of this 
is then tested for the amount of resin that it contains, 
and enough 70 per cent, alcohol is added to reduce 
the strength so that the resulting tincture contains 
1*5 grammes of resin per 100 c.c. 

Standard. "Treated as described under Jalapse 
Eesina, 10 c.c. of the tincture should yield between -145 
and '155 gramme of resin" (B.P.). 



Specific Gravity at 
15-5 C. 


Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 


Alcohol. 


910 (Lucas) 


3-9 (P. and M.) 


69-1 (P. and M.) 


906 (Barclay) 


2-9 


68-1 (Stead), 4 esti- 


906 (P. and M.) 


4-9 


mations 


905 (Caines) 


4-8 


67-6 (Umney) 


905 (Gladwyn) 


3-8 


69-2 (P. and M.) 


899 (P. and M.) 


3-4 


68-5 


907 


4-3 (M. and P.) 


67-9 


908 


5-8 


67-9 


908 


3-5 (Gadd) 


68-3 


903 




67-9 (M. and P,) 


908 (M. and P.) 




65-7 


914 




69-5 (Gadd) 


905 (Gadd) 




64-5 (Fletcher) 


907 (Fletcher) 




67-6 (Umney) 


-912 (H. and H.) 






907 (Umney) 







Jam. 

Definition. A mixture prepared by boiling fruit with 
sugar. 

Characters and Adulterations. A jam should consist 
essentially of the fruit after which it is named, with the 
addition of sugar. Cane-sugar was formerly used, but is 
now to a large extent replaced by beet-sugar or glucose. 

In the case of certain fruits for instance, raspberry 
and strawberry in order to get the finished jam to a con- 
sistency which will make it marketable and give it suffi- 
cient keeping properties, it is either necessary to boil it 

112 



164 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

down to the consistence of a thick gluelike solid or to 
add some thickening agency either gelatine or juice 
from apples or gooseberries. As the addition of the 
fruit juices mentioned above is not made for the purpose 
of increasing the bulk, it does not seem to come under 
the head of adulteration. If such addition is to be 
regarded as improper, it would probably cause a recourse 
to the employment of preservatives, which are otherwise 
not necessary. 

The addition of apple-pulp to other jams which contain 
sufficient pectinous material to enable them to set with- 
out any such additions is, in my opinion, an adultera- 
tion, and I am inclined to class as adulterations the 
following : apple-pulp, all preservatives, gelatine, and 
excessive amounts of water. 

Colouring matters are used in such very small quan- 
tities that they are not of any importance. 

Standard. A jam should not contain more than 
50 per cent, of water. With the exceptions stated 
above, it should consist solely of the fruit stated on the 
label, together with sugar. There should be no gelatine 
nor any preservative. 

References. W. Blyth ("Foods: their Composition 
and Analysis," 4th edit., p. 158) gives descriptions and 
illustrations of some of the structures of fruits used in 
jam-making. 

It does not appear that any observer has done 
sufficient work on the microscopy of fruit structures to 
be able to pronounce with authority how far it is possible 
to recognise with accuracy the varying appearances that 
are met with. 

Remarks. The analysis of jam is a matter which is far 
from easy. Even the estimation of the water is a matter 
of great difficulty, and it is nearly impossible to expel the 
water by drying ; it is preferable to estimate the sugars 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 165 

present, and to add 5 per cent, for the fibre and other 
matters that may be contained in the fruit, and to sub- 
tract the sum from 100. 

To detect apple-pulp, take 1 part of jam and boil 
with 5 parts of water, cool, and test with iodine and 
examine for starch cells under a low power. 

To detect gelatine, clarify a 10 per cent, solution of the 
jam in water with acetate of lead, and apply Stokes* 
picric acid test. 

NOTE. In the Analyst, xxvi. , 229, is an account of a case taken to 
the High Court, in which an addition of 13 per cent, of glucose to 
marmalade was held to be legal. In my opinion, such an addition is 
unjustifiable unless stated on the label, and it is easy to see that unless 
some check is placed on additions of this kind, that jams and similar 
compounds may come to be made from substances very different from 
those that the purchaser expects to be supplied with. 

I am greatly indebted to Leonard K. Boseley for the information 
from which this section is compiled. 

Juniper-Oil. 

Definition. " The oil distilled from the full-grown 
unripe fruit of Juniperus communis " (B.P.). 

Characters. Colourless or pale greenish-yellow, with 
the characteristic odour of the fruit and a warm, 
aromatic, bitterish taste (B.P.). 

Adulteration. Juniper-wood oil, turpentine oil. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5, from -865 to '890 
(B.P. and U.S.P.), -865 to -880 (G.P.). 

Soluble when fresh, with slight turbidity, in four times 
its own volume of a mixture of equal parts of absolute 
alcohol and 90 per cent, alcohol (B.P. and U.S.P.). 

The so-called juniper-wood oil is probably a solution 
of juniper-oil in turpentine. If there is a demand for 
this, it should be sold properly labelled. 

Remarks. Messrs. Schimmel and Co. (October, 1898) 
remark that the British Pharmacopoeia is in error in 
describing juniper-oil as distilled from unripe berries, 



1 66 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

and also that the solubility in alcohol required by the 
British Pharmacopoeia is only given by a freshly dis- 
tilled oil 

This observation as to the effect of time in causing 
samples to become less soluble in alcohol is confirmed by 
other observers. 

J. C. Umney has shown that this oil undergoes 
marked changes on keeping. An oil kept for three years 
altered in specific gravity from -875 to -893, and the 
optical rotation, which was originally 5'5, became 0'5. 

Two samples of known purity examined by Theo. 
Brewis had gravities of -8713 and -8717, and both 
formed turbid solutions with the prescribed strength of 
alcohol. 

Kino. 

Definition. " The juice obtained from incisions in the 
trunk of Pteroocarpus Marsupium, evaporated to dry- 
ness " (B.P.). 

Description. In small angular, glistening, opaque, 
reddish-black, brittle fragments, which in thin laminse 
and at the edges are transparent and ruby red; 
inodorous, very astringent, and when chewed tinges the 
saliva red. 

Substitutions. African Kinos. 

Standard. Partially soluble in cold water (B.P.). 

Almost entirely soluble in 90 per cent, alcohol (B.P.). 

Yields little or nothing to ether (B.P.). 

Not less than 80 per cent, should be soluble in boiling 
water (B.P.). 

Ash should not exceed 2 per cent. (Moor). 

References. An editorial article in the Chemist and 
Druggist, 1896, i. 460, gives figures on six samples of 
kino. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



167 



Watson Will and Branch (Chemist and Druggist, 
1898, ii. 57) give figures on six samples, and, both from 
these and the above-mentioned article, it appears that 
the British Pharmacopoeia " tests " partially soluble in 
cold water and almost entirely in 90 per cent, alcohol 
require amendment. 

Remarks. A sample examined by C. G. Moor gave 
ash 1-4 per cent. 

Tinctura Kino. 

Preparation. Kino in powder 100 grammes, glycerine 
150 c.c., distilled water 250 c.c., alcohol, 90 per cent, to 
make 1 litre. For preparation, see official directions. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, 

15'5 C. ' Grammes per 100 c.c. 

998 (Lucas) 15-9 (M. and P.)* 

27-7 

26-3 

22-5 

27-2 

27-1 

25 (Partridge) 

26-5 



Alcohol. 

49-8 (P. and M.) 
48-5 (M. and P.) 
50-4 (Priv. com.), 

mean of 17 

samples 
53-6 (Umney) 
46-9 (M. and P.) 
50-8 
51-2 
51-0 
511 

(Gadd) 



995 (Barclay) 
999 (P. and M.) 
993 (Caines) 
999 (M. and P.) 
1-008 
995 
998 
994 
998 
989 to -996 (H. 

and H.) 
998 (Umney) 
(Gadd) 

J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December, 17, 1898) pro- 
poses as standard 5 per cent, of kinotannic acid. 

Tinct. kino has a curious tendency to gelatinize, but 
this is less likely to occur in samples kept in the dark. 

According to Bother and others, this change is due to 
oxidation. 

* This sample is remarkably low in extractive, and, like all other 
tincture estimations followed by the initials " M. and P.," is of un- 
known origin. 



1 68 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Krameriae Radix (Rhatany Root). 

Definition. The dried root of Para rhatany, a species 
of krameria, attributed to Krameria argentea, or of 
Peruvian rhatany, Krameria triandra. 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Ash. Observer. 

1-6 M. and P. 

1-0 ... ... Gadd. 

References. Holmes (P. J., xvi. 878) ; Hockauf (B. 
and 0. _D., xxxiii. 597). 

Tinctura Krameriae. 

Preparation. Krameria root in No. 40 powder 

200 grammes, alcohol 60 per cent, to make 1 litre. 
Prepared by percolation. 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
41 (M. and P.) 
5*0 per cent.* 
4-4 (Moor) 
5-5 

4-3 (M. and P.) 
4-2 (Fletcher) 
5-2 (Gadd) 
6-2 (Partridge) 
6-4 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 
930 (Lucas) 
938 (Barclay) 
939 (P. and M.) 
937 (Caines) 
935 (Gladwyn) 
933 (Moor) 
936 

935 (M. and P.) 
938 (Gadd) 
933 (Fletcher) 
932 (Umney) 
935 to -942 (H. 
and H.) 

NOTE. Tincture prepared from Para Rhattany mixes bright with 
water ; that prepared from Peruvian Rhattany does not. 

Lard (Adeps). 

Definition. " The purified fat of the hog. Sits scrofa " 
(B.P.). 

* Proposed as standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ.. December 17, 
1898). 



Alcohol. 

56-6 (Stead) 
56-6 (P. and M.) 
58-6 (Chattaway), 
mean of 4 sam- 
ples 

55-9 (Umney) 
56-5 (M. and P.) 
57-6 (Barclay) 
55-6 (Gadd) 
561 (Fletcher) 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 169 

Lard for medicinal purposes should be prepared from 
the fat of the abdomen, but commercial lard is prepared 
from the fat of the entire animal. 

Adulterations. Added water, cottonseed-oil and other 
oils, beef-fat. 

Standard. Specific gravity about -932 at 15-5 C. 
(U.S.P.). Specific gravity about -860 at -99 C. 

Melting-point about 37'8 C. (B.P.). From 36 to 
42 C. (G.P.). 

Absence of cottonseed -oil by Conroy's test (B.P., 
U.S.P. and G.P.). 

Water should not exceed 1 per cent. 

Crystallization from ether should show no beef- 
crystals. 

The free acidity should not exceed that indicated by 
2 of normal KHO on 10 grammes of the sample (B.P., 
U.S.P. and G.P.). 

The iodine* absorption should fall between 50 and 
63 per cent. 

Remarks. If abnormal crystals are found in the 
residue from ether, Stock's method for the estimation of 
beef stearine may be applied (P. and M., 2nd edit., 
p. 159). 

The presence of cottonseed -oil in lard raises the 
iodine absorption. 

Tinetura Lavandulae Co. 

Preparation. 

Oil of lavender ... 4-7 c.c. 

Oil of rosemary ... ... -5 c.c. 

Cinnamon bark 8 '5 grammes 

Nutmeg, bruised 8'5 

Bed Sanders wood 17-0 ,, 

Alcohol 90 per cent 1 litre 

(BP.) 
* From 46 to 66 per cent. (German Pharmacopoeia). 



170 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

The solid constituents are macerated in the spirit, and 
the oils added at the end of the process. 



Specific Gravity at 
15-5 C. 


Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 


Alcohol. 


837 (Lucas) 
836 (Barclay) 


6 per cent.* 884 (Stead) 
42 (M. and P.) 89'7 (P. and M.) 


838 (P. and M. 


77 


88 


3 (Priv. com.), 


840 (Caines) 


62 




mean of 32 sam- 


835 (Gladwyn) 


40 




ples 


839 (M. and P.) 


52 


88 


5 (Umney) 


835 


61 


88 


6 (M. and P.) 


837 


64 


89-7 


839 


59 (Fletcher) 89 


2 


835 


32 (Gadd) 88 


7 


836 




89 


8 


839 (Fletcher) 




89 


5 


836 (Umney) 








837 to -838 (H. 




88 


4 (Barclay) 


and H.) 




87 


6 (Gadd) 



Oleum Lavandulse. 

Definition. "The oil distilled from the flowers of 
Lavandula vera " (B.P.). 

Description. Pale yellow or nearly colourless, with 
the fragrant odour of the flowers and a pungent, bitter 
taste. 

Adulterations. Turpentine, spike lavender oil. 

Standard. Specific gravity! at 15'5 C. not below -885 
(B.P.). 

It should dissolve in 3 volumes of 70 per cent, alcohol 
(B.P.). 

Theo. Brewis has examined three genuine oils distilled 
from plants grown in Bedfordshire in the years 1898, 
1899 and 1900 : 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ. , December 17, 
1898). 
f From '885 to '895 (German Pharmacopeia). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 171 

Specific Gravity 
Year - at 15 -5 C. 

1898 '9433* 

1899 '9316 

1900 '8880 

The German Pharmacopoeia includes a saponification 
test. 

Eemarks. Messrs. Schimmel (April, 1897) give the 
characters of lavender oil as from Lavandula vera as 
follows : 

Specific Gravity. ^Jjj* 

English flowers -885 to -900 - 7 to - 10 

French flowers -885 to -895 - 3 to - 9 

Reference. L. F. Kebler (A. J. P., 1901, 223) gives 
figures on four genuine oils. 

NOTE. English oils should not contain more than 10 per cent, of 
esters, and French oils should not contain less than 36 per cent, of 
esters. Any French oil containing less than 36 per cent, of esters 
would in all probability be mixed with oil of spike lavender, either 
after distillation, or the plants mixed before distillation. No English 
oil should contain more than the above-named percentage of esters 
mentioned, or its adulteration with French oil may be suspected. 



Lead in Foods and Beverages. 

In water there should not be the least detectable 
traces of lead, as it is a cumulative poison. 

For the estimation of lead and other poisonous metals 
in foods and drinks, see p. 136, 2nd edit., " Aids to the 
Analysis of Foods and Drugs." 

Lime- and Lemon-Juice. 

Definition. The British Pharmacopoeia defines lemon- 
juice (Succus Limonis) as the "freshly expressed juice of 
the ripe fruit of Citrus medica." 

* The gravity of this oil in 1898 was '9012. 



172 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Description. " A slightly turbid yellow liquid with a 
sharply acid taste." 

Adulterations. Tartaric acid, preservatives, sugar. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15'5 C. from 1-030 to 
1-040 (B.P.). 

Citric acid from 7 to 9 grammes per 100 c.c. (B.P.). 

Total solids about 10 to 14 grammes per 100 c.c. 

Ash not to exceed 3 per cent, of the total solids (B.P.). 

Remarks. The United States Pharmacopoeia requires 
about 7 per cent, of citric acid, and states that the ash 
on 100 c.c. should not exceed -5 gramme. 

As regards preservatives, while lime- and lemon-juice 
can be preserved by sterilization, it would be liable to go 
bad when the bottle was opened, so that it is customary 
to employ some preservative, such as salicylic acid, 
sulphurous acid, sugar or brandy. 

In the case of lemon-juice intended for medicinal 
purposes, as the British Pharmacopoeia specifies fresh 
juice, no preservative should be employed, but in the 
case of the ordinary commercial articles sold as beverages 
there is need for some preservative, in all other respects 
such preparations should conform to the British Pharma- 
copoeia standard. 

In order to avoid coming under the provisions of the 
Food and Drugs Act, the terms lime-juice and lemon- 
juice have been altered to lemon-juice cordial, lemon- 
squash, etc. This should not be an excuse for the 
partial or entire substitution of the citric acid by tartaric 
acid, or the presence of an amount of citric acid very 
much below the British Pharmacopoeia standard. 

Thus, in four samples examined by the author the 
citric acid was very low, being from 1-8 to 3 per cent., 
while the total solids were from 27 to 38 per cent., and 
consisted largely of added sugar. 

The Inland Revenue authorities allow for the addition 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 173 

of brandy to lime-juice for the purpose of preserva- 
tion. 

The Board of Trade have a standard for lime-juice, 
which is required to be carried and served out as a 
ration on all ships which are on a voyage of more than 
30 days. 

Oleum Limonis. 

Definition. " The oil obtained from the fresh lemon 
peel"(B.P.). 

Description. Pale yellow, with the fragrant odour of 
the lemon, and a warm, bitterish, aromatic taste. 

Adulterations. Turpentine and terpenes from lemon 
oil. 

Standard. Specific gravity >t 15-5 C., -857 to -860, 
858 to -861 (G.P.). Optical rotation, not less than 59 
to the right in 100-millimetre tubes ; and if 100 volumes 
be fractionally distilled, the 10 volumes first collected 
should not produce a rotation differing by more than 2 
from that produced by the original oil (B.P.). 

This test is a severe one, and it is generally admitted 
that there are genuine oils that show a difference of 
from 3 to 4. 

Eeferences. Messrs. Schimmel give the specific gravity 
of lemon-oil as from 858 to -861 (April, 1897), and the 
optical rotation from + 59 to + 67. 

A. Soldini and E. Berte (Chemist and Druggist, 1897, 
25) give figures on the optical rotation of lemon-oil. 

Eemarks. The United States Pharmacopoeia states 
that the oil is insoluble in 3 volumes of strong spirit, and 
in all proportions of absolute alcohol, carbon bisulphide, 
and glacial acetic acid. 

Oil of lemon is now usually sold according to the per- 
centage of citral that it contains. The absolute deter- 
mination, however, of citral is not easy, and it has been 



174 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



shown by Umney and Swinton (see Pharm. Journ., Ixi. 
196, 370) that the oil of lemon contains other constituent 
esters which are of considerable importance in modifying 
the aroma of the Palermo and Messina varieties. 
See also Messrs. Schimmel's Beport, May, 1901, 28, 



Tinctura Limonis. 

Preparation. Fresh lemon-peel, cut 
grammes, alcohol 90 per cent. 1,000 c.c. 
maceration. 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 0. 
876 (Lucas) 
888 (Barclay) 
880 (P. and M.) 
879 (Caines) 
873 (Moor) 
875 (M. and P.) 
879 
885 

876 (Umney) 
873 (M. and P.) 
879--8S2 (H. 

and H.) 
877 (Gadd) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
2-0 per cent.* 
1*34 per cent. 

(Gladwyn) 
1-5 (Moor) 
1-5 (M. and P.) 
1-5 ,, 

1-0 

I'l 
1-7 
1-2 (Gadd) 



Lime-Water* 



small, 250 
Prepared by 

Alcohol. 

76-7 (Stead), 3 esti- 
mations. 

77-0 (P. and M.) 

75-7 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 3 sam- 
ples. 

76-3 (Umney) 

75-9 (M. and P.) 

75-8 

78-0 

73-8 

79-5 (Gadd) 



Preparation. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. " 24 c.c. should require for neutralization 
10 c.c. of decinormal solution of sulphuric acid. Lime- 
water should yield no characteristic reaction with the 
tests for lead or for chlorides " (B.P.). 

Eemarks. As lime-water readily absorbs carbonic acid 
from the air, it should be kept in small bottles, so as to 
avoid the necessity for frequent opening. 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 
17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 175 

Linimentum Saponis. 

Preparation. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, A1 , -, 

15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

899 (M. and P.) 6-9 (M. and P.) 62-3 (M. and P.) 

900 7-1 60-7 

899 6-3 63-1 

900 6-6 62-7 

903 ,, 6-3 60-3 

901 6-0 61-3 

S95--897 (Caines) 

898--902 (Barclay) 63'0 (Barclay) 

Linseed and Crushed Linseed. 

Definition. The British Pharmacopoeia defines linseed 
as "the dried ripe seeds of Linum usitatissimum" and 
specifies that crushed linseed should be recently pre- 
pared. 

Adulterations. Foreign seeds, earthy matters, etc. 

Standard. "Mixed with warm water, it should have 
a bland, not a pungent or rancid odour. It should yield 
not less than 30 per cent, of oil to carbon bisulphide, and 
must be free from starch, and not yield more than 5 per 
cent, of ash " (B.P.). 

Ash. Oil. Observer. 

4-4 ... 29-4 ... Moor. 

3-6 ... 

3-2 ... 

3-6 ... 

Remarks. The odour when mixed with warm water is 
of importance, as cruciferous seeds which would con- 
stitute an impurity may be defected by their odour. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia requires only 25 per 
cent, of oil. 

A linseed from which the oil has been extracted is sold 



1 76 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

under the name of " dry linseed" or "linseed-meal." 
The sale of this for poultice-making should be discon- 
tinued, except possibly where it is intended for export, 
when it may be preferred as not being liable to become 
rancid. 

Oleum Lini (Linseed-Oil). 

Definition. "The oil expressed from linseed at ordi- 
nary temperatures" (B.P.) 

Description. Viscid, yellow, with a faint but distinct 
odour and bland taste. 

Adulterations. Resin-oil, fish-oil. 

Standard." Specific gravity at 15 5 C., -930 to -940.* 
It is soluble" in 10 parts of alcohol 90 per cent, and in oil 
of turpentine. It gradually thickens by exposure to the 
air, forming, when spread in a thin layer on glass, a hard 
transparent varnish. It does not congeal above - 20 C." 
(B.P.). 

The German Pharmacoposia gives the gravity at -936 
to "940, and to secure freedom from unsaponifiable 
matter requires that the soap produced on saponification 
shall dissolve in water giving a clear solution. 

Remarks. The British Pharmacopoeia definition 
should prescribe precisely between what temperatures 
the oil should be expressed, as the present form of defi- 
nition is vague. 

Linseed-oil of commerce, particularly boiled linseed 
oil, is grossly adulterated, chiefly with resin-oil and 
fish-oils. 

Liquorice. 

Definition. An extract made by exhausting liquorice 
root with water, straining, and evaporating, with sufn- 

* Tichborne (P. J., 4, xi. 573) suggests the limits for specific 
gravity to be from '930--935 ; he also draws attention to the fact that 
the requirement of solubility in 90 per cent, alcohol needs amendment. 
He is in favour of adding a Maumene test. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 177 

cient starch to give the required consistency. Sold in 
sticks or blocks. The British Pharmacopoeia does not 
recognise commercial liquorice. 

Adulterations. Deficiency of glycyrrhizin, excess of 
water, starch, the- addition of lampblack, gelatine, and 
dextrine, etc. 

Standard. Liquorice should not yield more than 
20 per cent, of water (17 per cent., G. P.). 

The ash should be from 5 to 8 per cent. 

Ammonium glycyrrhizate, not less than 10 per cent. 

Liquorice should be free from lampblack, and if any 
diluent is necessary, it should be limited to sugar or 
starch. The United States Pharmacopoeia states that 
in the case of commercial liquorice not less than 60 per 
cent, should be soluble in cold water. 

References and Remarks. G. Py. (Journ. Pharm. Chim., 
1897, 280 ; abst. Analyst, xxii. 192 and 219) gives methods 
for the examination of liquorice, and figures on a number 
of samples. He regards any extract which contains less 
than 10 per cent, of glycyrrhizin as having been made 
from partially exhausted liquorice. 

The following suggested scheme of analysis is based 
on the paper quoted above : 

Dissolve 5 grammes of the sample in 50 c.c. of hot 
water, and wash any insoluble residue on a filter, adding 
the washings to the filtrate. Examine the residue for 
starch and lampblack. Evaporate the filtrate and wash- 
ings to about 20 c.c., cool, add 80 c.c. of 90 per cent, 
alcohol, stir, allow to remain for twelve hours, filter, and 
wash with alcohol. Evaporate off the alcohol, dry, and 
weigh. Take up in water and add 10 per cent, sulphuric 
acid, filter, and wash. Finally, dissolve off the filter with 
dilute ammonia, evaporate, and weigh the ammonium 
glycyrrhizate. The residue insoluble in spirit will con- 
tain gelatine if present. 

12 



1 78 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

C. O. Kinzey (A. J. P., 1898, Ixx. 23; abst. Analyst, 
xxiii. 75) gives figures on a number of commercial 
liquorices which show enormous variations in the 
amount of glycyrrhizin and of insoluble matter. He 
prefers to use a mixture of alcohol and ammonia and 
water to extract with. 

A. Mellor (A. J. P., 1898, Ixx. 36 and 137; abst. 
Analyst, xxiii. 94) gives a method which has been 
adopted by manufacturers and large consumers in the 
United States. The moisture, ash and insoluble matter, 
gummy matter, glycyrrhizin, saccharine matter, and 
extractive matter, are determined. 

It would be of great interest to know on which figures 
the valuation of the article is based, and whether it is 
found practicable to apply any limits as denoting a 
genuine article. 

Bernard Dyer (Analyst, xiii., p. 124) shows that com- 
mercial liquorice at that date varied very greatly in com- 
position and price. 

Dowzard (Chemist and Druggist, Iv. 561) : Good stick 
liquorice should yield 80 per cent, of extractive to cold 
water. The author gives the moisture, ash and matter 
soluble in water on 16 samples of stick and block 
liquorice. 

B. Hafner (abst. F. B. P., 1900, p. 194) gives a method 
of assay in which he weighs the glycyrrhizin as the 
barium salt, which should, he states, contain 18-76 per 
cent, of barium. 

Two samples of liquorice (well-known makes) examined by C. G. 
Moor (1900) gave the following results : 

A. B. 

Moisture 14'9 14'9 

Ash 6'9 5'5 

Soluble in water 3'2 2'6 

Insoluble substances and gummy matters ... 28 '4 28 '7 

Glycyrrhizin 12-2 7'9 

Insoluble in water , 227 27 '9 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



179 



50 grammes 
50 
25 
25 
150 

root has been 



Liquorice Powder (Pulv. Glycyrrhizse Co.). 

Preparation. 

Senna in fine powder ... 
Liquorice root in fine powder . 
Fennel fruit in fine powder 
Sublimed sulphur 
Eefined sugar ... 

Adulterations. Extracted liquorice 
employed. Absence of sulphur. 

Standard. Water should not exceed 6*0 per cent. 

Ash should be about 4 to 5 per cent. 

Soluble ash about 2*5 per cent. 

Sulphur, 8 per cent. 

References. G. Coull (Chemist and Druggist, 1895, 
ii. 797) examined a sample which he considered contained 
exhausted liquorice. 

The figures below were obtained by J. E. Kirkpatrick 
and C. G. Moor on commercial samples of liquorice 
powder : 

Soluble 

Ash 
(per cent.). 

2-71 
2-73 

2-82 
2-45 
2-57 
2-29 
1-39 

The tinctures were made by macerating 5 grammes in 
20 c.c. of 70 per cent, alcohol for forty-eight hours, and 
percolating to yield 60 c.c. of tincture. 

From the above figures it will be seen that No. 7 
differs from the rest in having a low soluble ash and a 
high insoluble ash. In cases where it appears possible 
that exhausted liquorice was employed, an estimation of 
insoluble fibre might also be advantageous. 

122 



Moisture 
(per cent.). 



4-68 
5-90 
3-52 
4-74 
3-72 
4-44 
5-16 



Ash 
(per cent.). 

4-10 
4-16 
4-95 
4-74 
4-90 
4-32 
512 



Insoluble 
Ash 
(per cent.). 


Extractive 
in Tincture 
(Grammes 
per 100 c.c.). 


1-39 


4-90 


1-43 


4-96 


2-13 


5-29 


2-29 


513 


2-33 


4-86 


2-03 


5-14 


3-73 


5-02 



i8o SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Lobelia. 

Definition. " The dried flowering herb of Lobelia 
inflate " (B.P.). 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard 

Water, about 12.0 per cent. 

Ash 12-0 

Alkaloid -3 ,, 

Remarks. A sample examined by C. G. Moor gave 
10'8 per cent, of moisture and 90 per cent, of ash. 

A sample examined by Dott (Chemist and Druggist, 
Hi. 463) gave 12 - 6 per cent, of ash. 

Farr and Wright (Chemist and Druggist, 1893, i. 454) 
give estimations of the alkaloid (lobeline) which indicate 
3 per cent, of alkaloid in the drug, and an average of 
038 in the tincture. (It is now twice as strong.) 

J. F. Liverseege (P. J., 1895, ii. 141) points out the 
difficulty of preparing a No. 40 powder on account of the 
separation of gruffs from the stalks, and that if these 
are discarded and a tincture prepared from the fine 
powder alone, it will be relatively too strong in alka- 
loids. 

Tinctura Lobeliae .Etherea. 

Preparation. Lobelia in No. 40 powder 200 grammes, 
spirit of ether to make 1 litre. Prepared by percolation. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, Aiini 

15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

816 (Barclay) 1-3 (M. and P.) 

816 (Lucas) 1-9 63-9 (M. and P.) 



822 (Caines) 1-5 

818 (Gladwyn) 1-1 

-814 (M. and P.) 1-4 

814 2-0 

821 2-0 



62-0 
67-3 
61-2 
64-2 
64-9 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 181 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, Alpnhnl 

at 15 -5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

815 (M. and P.) 1-5 (Gadd) 59*8 (Barclay) 

819 
815 
816 (Gadd) 

References. Dowzard (P. /., 1899, 170) gives a process 
for estimating the alcohol in this preparation. 

Lupulus (Hops). 

Definition. " The dried strobiles of Humulus Lupulus, 
collected from cultivated plants." 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Remarks. A sample examined by C. G. Moor gave : 

Moisture ... ... ... 12'5 per cent. 

Ash 10-8 

Lupulin. 

Definition. "Glands obtained from the strobiles of 
Humulus Lupulus" (B.P.). 

Standard. Matter insoluble in ether not to exceed 
40 per cent. (B.P.).* 

Ash not to exceed 12 per cent. (B.P.). 

References. A sample examined in 1899 by C. G, 
Moor gave 15 '6 per cent, of ash. 

Two samples examined by Umney (in 1900) yielded 
13-5 and 13-7 per cent, of ash. 

A sample examined by C. C. Sherrard (Chemist and 
Druggist, April 9, 1892) yielded 66-5 per cent, oleo-resin 
to ether. 

Squire ("Companion") determined the ash on eight 
samples, with the following results: 28 -2, 33'8, 29-0, 
27-9, 20-6, 12-1, 18-7 and 254 per cent. 

Greenish states that commercial samples contain from 

* '07 per cent, of alkaloid was proposed as a standard by J. Barclay 
(Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898). 



182 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

39 to 54 per cent, of resin soluble in ether, and from 
20 to 30 per cent, of ash. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia requires the ash not 
to exceed 10 per cent. 

Tinctura Lupuli (Tincture of Hops). 

Preparation. Hops 200 grammes, alcohol 60 per cent. 
1,000 c.c. Prepared by maceration. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, A1 ., 

15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

931 (Lucas) 4-0 per cent.* 57-1 (Stead) 

938 (Barclay) 3-8 (M. and P.) 56-0 (P. and M). 

934 (P. and M.) 4-4 (Moor) 55-4 (Priv. com.), 

931 (Caines) 3-9 (M. and P). 1 sample 

939 (Gladwyn) 4-1 (Fletcher) 57-5 (M. and P.) 

930 (Moor) 3-9 (Gadd) 55-1 (Fletcher) 

931 (M. and P.) 56-8 (Barclay) 

929--93T (H. and H.) 57*2 (Umney) 
931 (Umney) 
933 (Gadd) 
933 (Fletcher) 

Mace. 

Definition. " The outer coat or arillus of the nutmeg, 
Myris tica fragrans . ' ' 

Adulterations. Bombay mace, exhausted mace, 
starches, turmeric, etc. 

Standard 

Per Cent. 
Water not to exceed ... ... ... 10*0 

Ash 6-0 

Ether extract not less than ... ... 8*0 

Absence of foreign starch. 

References. Messrs. Schimmel (April, 1897) give the 
yield of oil as from 4 to 15 per cent. 

M. Hefelman (Pharm. Zeit., 1891, 122) gives an 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 

1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 183 

account of the adulterating substances found in mace, 
the principal of which is Bombay mace. When this is 
present, the alcoholic extract is yellow or red, and an 
addition of basic acetate of lead causes a red precipitate, 
while true mace gives a white precipitate. Turmeric 
behaves in a similar manner, and may be distinguished 
by the boric acid test. 

A. Schneider (Pharm. Journ., 1897, i. 288) also gives a 
colour test for the detection of Bombay mace. 

Solstein (Abstract, Pharm. Journ., 1898, i. 353) states 
that Bombay mace gives a much higher extract to ether 
than Banda mace (true mace). 

In the German Pharmacopoeia, edit, iv., the oil is 
directed to be prepared from nutmegs, and not from 
mace as formerly. 

Malt-Extract. 

Definition. " A honey-like substance prepared by 
concentrating an aqueous extract of malt at a tempera- 
ture not exceeding 130 F." 

Adulterations. Glucose, dextrine, preservatives, defi- 
ciency of diastatic power, excess of water. 

Standard. Acidity, as lactic acid, should not exceed 
1-0 per cent. 

Water should not exceed 25 per cent. 

Ash should be between 10 per cent, and 1-5 per cent. 

Diastatic power should be able to convert twice its 
own weight of pure starch in ten minutes at 100 F. 

There should be no preservatives. 

The specific gravity of the semi-solid malt-extracts now 
sold is about 1-381-40. 

References. Some American malt-extracts are very 
little more than a kind of thickened beer (Emanuel, 
A.J.P., 1896, 387). 



1 84 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

E. White (Chemist and Druggist, 1892, ii. 273) pub- 
lished figures on four samples of malt-extract (said to be 
well-known brands), which showed their diastatic power 
to be very small. 

Squire (" Companion ") gives a method for the assay 
of malt-extract, which I have used and found convenient, 
though it seems to me better to employ always a 
standard time say ten minutes and to vary the amount 
of starch, so as to be able to compare one sample with 
another. 

It is very essential to have the starch purified from 
fibre, and free from acid or alkaline reaction. 

E. A. Cripps (Pharm. Journ., 3rd series, xx. 481) calls 
attention to the discordancy of the published figures on 
the diastatic power of malt-extracts. He gives details 
for a method of determining diastatic power, and con- 
siders that an extract of malt should completely digest 
its own weight of potato-starch in ten to fifteen minutes 
at 98 to 100 F. 

J. C. Umney (Y. B. P., 1890, 490) gives figures showing 
the great variability in diastatic power of commercial 
malt-extracts. He recommends certain details to be 
observed in the process of manufacture, and considers 
alcohol (equal to 15 per cent, of proof spirit on the 
finished product) as the most suitable preservative. The 
specific gravity of liquid malt-extract, prepared as he 
recommends, is 1-250, and its diastatic power is equiva- 
lent to the conversion of its own weight of starch in six 
minutes. 

D. B. Dott (Y. B. P., 1890, 494) recommends a slight 
modification of Duggan's process (A. J. P., 1886, 9211) for 
the valuation of the diastatic power of malt-extracts, and 
considers that the tendency of most writers has been to 
accept too low a limit for diastatic power. 

K. E. Owen (Pharm. Journ., 1892, 931) gives results 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 185 

on the examination of ten extracts of malt showing very 
varying diastatic power. 

W. J. Sykes and 0. A. Mitchell (Analyst, xxvi. 227) 
give an account of a number of recent analyses of malt 
extracts. 

Malt-Extract and Cod-Liver-Oil. 

Definition. "An emulsion composed of malt-extract 
and cod- liver-oil." 

Adulteration. Deficiency of cod-liver-oil. 

Standard. The percentage of cod-liver-oil should be 
stated. 

References. H. W. Jones (Y. B. P., 1894, 402) examined 
four samples of cod-liver-oil and malt-extract, which con- 
tained 29-5, 24-0, 201, and 2-0 per cent, by volume of 
cod-liver-oil. Jin the discussion on this paper it was 
stated by Conroy that 25 per cent, was usual, but that 
years ago emulsions containing as much as 50 per cent, 
were made. 

Oleum Menthae Piperitae. 

Definition. " The oil distilled from fresh-flowering 
peppermint, Mentha piperita." 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoaia. 

Adulterations. Eemoval of menthol ; other oils. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C. from -900 to 
920 (B.P.); -900 -910 (G.P.) 

It should dissolve in four times its volume of 70 per 
cent, alcohol. 

When cooled to - 8-3 C., and a few crystals of menthol 
are added, a considerable separation of menthol should 
take place. 

This requirement is very vague. Five samples examined 
by C. G. Moor (January, 1900) showed very little men- 



1 86 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

thol, even when cooled below -8'3 C., and some 
samples even dissolve menthol at this temperature. 

The temperature to which the peppermint oil can be cooled without 
crystallization depends very largely on the percentage of esters con- 
tained in it. (See a paper by J. C. Umney, P. J., Ivi. 123.) 

Black peppermint oil will frequently crystallize on a cold night. 
White peppermint oil never will. The total percentage of menthol is 
practically the same, but the percentage of esters in the white variety 
is very much greater, even as much as 13 or 14 per cent. 

The following figures were obtained by Theo. Brewis 
on bulked samples of genuine oils, distilled in Bedford- 
shire and Suffolk, in 1899 and 1900 : -909, -909, -9099, 
9095, -9097. 

References. Messrs. Schimmel (April, 1897) give the 
yield of oil from fresh German-grown peppermint at 
1 to -25 per cent. ; the specific gravity at 15-0 C., -900 
to -915 ; and the optical rotation, - 25 to - 32. 

Oleum Menthse Viridis (Oil of Spearmint). 

Definition. " The oil distilled from fresh-flowering 
spearmint, Mentha viridis " (B.P.). 

Description. Colourless, pale yellow or greenish- 
yellow when recently distilled, but becoming darker by 
age. It has the odour and taste of the herb. 

Adulteration. Turpentine (A. J. P., 1901, p. 9). 

S tandard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., -920 to -940. 

The oil forms a clear solution with its own volume of 
a mixture of equal parts of absolute alcohol and 90 per 
cent, alcohol. 

Remarks. Messrs. Schimmel give the yield of oil at 
3 per cent. ; the specific gravity at 15O C., -920 to 
980 ; and the optical rotation up to - 43. 

Much of the spearmint of commerce is derived from 
Mentha crispa, and seems to be practically identical with 
that obtained from the official plant. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 187 

Mezereon Cort. 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

3-0 Moor. 

3-1 Priest. 

Three species are official, viz., Daphne mezereon, 
D. laureola, D. gnidium. 

Milk Sugar (Saeeharum Laetis). 

Definition. " A crystalline sugar obtained from the 
whey of milk" (B.P.). 

Characters. In crystals or in crystalline masses 
grayish- white, hard, odourless, faintly sweet. 

Standard. Water not to exceed 5 per cent. 

Soluble in 70 parts of cold water (B.P.). 

Soluble in about 1 part of boiling water (B.P.). 

Ash not to exceed '25 per cent. (B.P.). 

One gramme dissolved in 10 c.c. of water must not 
give a red colour with 3 drops of standard soda solution 
and phenolphthalein . 

Absence of cane sugar by sulphuric acid test (B.P.). 

Eeferences. J. 0. Braithwaite (Pharm. Journ., 1894, 
xxiv. 853) showed that the coagulating effect produced 
on milk by some samples of milk sugar is due to the 
presence of magnesium lactate, and recommended that 
the ash should not be allowed to exceed -25 per cent. 

Le Wall and Pursel (A. J. P., Ixx. 343) draw attention 
to the fact that in applying the sulphuric acid test to 
milk sugar a brown colour may be produced by frag- 
ments of the threads on which the sugar is crystallized. 
(Milk sugar also occasionally contains fragments of wood 
from the barrels in which it is packed, or the sticks on 
which it is crystallized. C. G. M.) 

Bemarks. When milk sugar is employed for the pre- 



1 88 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

paration of humanized milk, it is of great importance 
that it should not cause coagulation when heated with 
milk. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires that when 15 grams are treated 
with 50 c.c. of diluted alcohol, with shaking for an hour and filtered, 
the liquid when mixed with an equal bulk of absolute alcohol shall 
not become cloudy, and the residue, if any, when dried on a water- 
bath, shall not exceed '04 of a gram ; '2 of a gram shall not yield a 
deliquescent ash. 

G. Deniges (Abstract, Pharm. Journ., 1892, 887) has 
examined milk sugars separated from the milk of a 
number of mammals, and considers them to be identical. 

Meat Preparations. 

C. B. Valentine (Journ. Soc. Arts, xlvi. 305) classifies 
meat preparations into four chief classes : 

1. The original Liebig's extract and its modifications. 

2. Flavoured or medicated solutions or bouillons. 

3. Meat-juices. 

4. Meat-jellies.* 

Valentine considers that a meat-extract should have 
the following characters : 

Water about 16 - per cent. 

Extractive matter insoluble in alcohol about 53 per cent. 

Mineral matter about 18 per cent. 

The reaction should be acid. 

A characteristic brown colour. 

An agreeable meat-like odour. 

It should be entirely soluble in cold water. 

It should be free from albumin, fat, and gelatine. 

(Some meat-extracts contain very large amounts of 
common salt, in some cases the total ash being 33 per 
cent, of the total solid matter. Moor.) 

In the case of any preparation sold as a meat-juice, 
etc., the word "meat" should be taken to mean any 

h " Calf's Foot Jelly " is sold which appears to be merely a solution 
of gelatine in water. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 189 

portion of the flesh of an animal which is usually eaten ; 
this definition excludes the liver, which is not flesh. 

Meat- Juices. 

A meat-juice should be understood to mean a juice 
prepared from meat by the cold process, and should 
contain coagulable albumin. Such a preparation cannot 
be preserved by sterilisation, and must therefore contain 
either a large quantity of salt or a preservative of some 
kind. 

It is said that some preparations are adulterated with 
egg-albumin. There are several meat- juices in existence, 
which vary very much in their degree of concentration. 
It is very desirable that such preparations should bear 
on their labels the amount of coagulable albumin which 
they contain. 

References. Allen (C. O. A., vol. iv., p. 305) has 
tabulated the references to all important papers dealing 
with meat preparations between the dates of 1880 and 
1897. A study of these papers will show that the 
analysis of meat preparations is in a very unsatisfactory 
state at the present time. While there is not probably 
much that can be called actual adulteration, very ex- 
travagant claims are put forward on behalf of some 
preparations. 

Milk.* 

Definition. The entire mixed milk of cows. 

Description. An opaque white or slightly yellow 
liquid, having a pleasant taste and smell. 

Adulterations. The addition of water, skimmed milk, 
preservatives, and occasionally artificial thickening 
agents, colouring matters. 

* This most important article of food is systematically adulterated 
in the most disgraceful manner. The only way in which a consumer 
can protect himself is by dealing with one of the larger companies who 
examine all milk received from farmers, and employ means to secure 
its proper distribution. 



190 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Standard. Fat not less than 3-0* per cent. 

Solids-not-fat 8 -53 per cent. 

Remarks. The question of milk adulteration is one 
which needs special and immediate legislation. The 
term "genuine milk" should be abandoned, and the 
term " standard milk " adopted in its stead. " Standard 
milk " should be required to come up to a certain com- 
position, which should be fixed at 3-25 per cent, of fat, 
and the Department Committee propose that all pre- 
servatives and colouring matters should be prohibited. 

Mustard. 

Definition. " The dried ripe seeds of Brass ica nigra 
and Brassica alba powdered and mixed." 

Adulterations. Starches, turmeric, excess of husk.f 

Standard. Mustard must be free from added starch. 

Water should not exceed 5 per cent. 

Ash should be about 5 per cent. 

Albumenoids, 25-30 per cent. 

Turmeric should be absent from mustard meant for 
medicinal use. 

In P. and M. (" Aids," 2nd edit., p. 102). Macfarlane's 
work on mustard is quoted here from Bulletin, No. 19, 
1890, and also work by Clifford Eichardson (U. S. 
Bulletin, xiii., 182). 

Remarks. It is the view of some observers that com- 
mercial mustard should contain not less than 30 per 
cent, of oil ; but as the fixed oil is tasteless, and has 
none of the flavour or pungency for which mustard is 
valued, there does not seem to be any reason for insisting 
that the full amount of oil present in the natural seeds 
should be present. The same thing appears to apply in 

* "Sale of Milk Regulations," August, 1901. These regulations 
require skimmed or separated milk to contain not less than 9 per cent. 
of total solids. 

f This varies from about 5 to 18 per cent. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 191 

this case as in the case of cocoa that is, that whereas 
it may be argued that as the oil or fat is natural to the 
substance it ought not to be removed from the manu- 
factured article, yet the purchaser who buys the article 
from which some of the oil or fat has been removed is 
getting better value for his money. In addition to this 
the mustard is less liable to become rancid if part of the 
oil is removed. 

The volatile oil of mustard is present in too variable a 
quantity to render its estimation of service in judging 
the amount of true mustard present in a mixture ; so 
that if foreign starch is detected by the microscope, and 
it is desired to ascertain its amount, it should be esti- 
mated by conversion into sugar, after removal of all 
matters soluble in ether and proof spirit (Allen), which 
must be extracted as some of them yield sugar on treat- 
ment with acid. 

It is difficult to express an opinion as to the amount 
of husk which may reasonably be present in commercial 
mustard. 

The German Pharmacopoeia gives a process for de- 
termining the volatile oil of mustard, and a standard for 
the amount that should be present. 

Charta Sinapis (Mustard Paper) is official in the 
1898 British Pharmacopoeia, and is made by taking 
5 grammes of mixed ground white and black mustard 
(freed from oil by benzol), and mixing with 18 c.c. of 
solution of indiarubber, and spreading over about 
30 square inches of cartridge-paper. 

In the case of other plasters (belladonna, emplastrum 
calefaciens) no area is directed. 

Myrrh. 

Definition. A gum resin obtained from the stem of 
Balsamodendron myrrha, and probably other species. 



192 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. " Moistened with nitric acid it assumes a 
violet colour " (distinction from bdellium or false 
myrrh) (B.P.). 

Ash should not exceed 6 per cent. (Moor). 

Matter insoluble in alcohol should not exceed 70 per 
cent. (Moor). 

Eeferences. Tuckolka (Abstract, Pharm. Journ., 1897, 
ii. 459) gives an analysis of Bisabol myrrh, and a colour 
test to distinguish between it and true myrrh. 

Holmes (Pharm. Journ., 1898, ii. 547) contributes a 
paper on myrrh and bdellium. 

Dieterich (Chemist and Druggist, 1898, ii. 131) 
suggests a limit of 10 per cent, ash, and 70 per cent, of 
matter insoluble in alcohol. 

H. G. Greenish (P. J., 1901, 666) suggests an improve- 
ment on the official test. 

C. F. Merson (P. J., 1900, 44) states that the ash 
should not exceed 5 per cent., and that not less than 
40 per cent, should dissolve in 90 per cent, alcohol. 

Yield of oil 2-5 to 8-5 per cent. (Schimmel). 

The following samples were examined by C. G. Moor : 



Ash. 


OU1UUJLU 111 ^IJUUUUJl 

90 per cent. 


Description. 




17-0 


34-4 


No. 3 quality 




6-8 


30-7 


Unknown 




4.4 


31-3 


Unknown 




3-8 


37-9 


No. 1 quality 




9-9 


41-8 


No. 2 quality 




9-0 


36-3 


Unknown 




3-9 


42-3 


Unknown 




4-6 


41-2 


Unknown 




3-6 


45-0 


No. 1 quality 




4-2 


35-5 


No. 2 quality 




3-2 


43-9 


No. 3 quality 




The German 


Pharmacopoeia directs 


that myrrh, when exhausted 


ith boiling 90 


per cent, alcohol, shall n 


ot yield more than 70 pei 


f cent. 



of insoluble matter, and that the ash of myrrh shall not be more than 
6 per cent. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



193 



Tinctura Myrrhae. 

Preparation. Myrrh in coarse powder 200 grammes, 
alcohol 90 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by 
maceration. 

Specific Gravity at 

15'5 C 

852, -850 (Lucas) 
854 (Barclay) 
853 (P. and M.) 
856 (Caines) 
853 (M. and P.) 
848 

854 (Gladwyn) 
848 

853 (M. and P.) 
853 
848 
850 

855 (Gadd) 
848 (Umney) 
855 (Fletcher) 
852 to -856 (H. and H.) 

J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898) pro- 
poses as a standard 5-6 per cent, of resin. 

References. Macfarlane (Bulletin, 34) found great 
variations in the solids of this tincture. 

Remarks. The variations in the solids of this tincture 
are readily explained by the variations in the alcohol- 
solubilities of the gum. If myrrh contains 30 per cent. 
of alcohol-soluble matter, of which only about 5 per 
cent, is volatile, the tincture should yield about 
5'5 grammes of solids per 100 c.c. 

See also Merson (P. J., 1900, 44). 

Nux Vomica. 

Definition. "The dried ripe seeds of Strychnos nux 
vomica" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

13 



J.UUtl QUJ.1US, 

ammes per 100 c.c. 


Alcohol. 


6-1 (Gladwyn) 


85-6 (Umney) 


4-7 


85-3 (P. and M.) 


3-5 


82-7 (M. and P.) 


4-7 


83-6 (Priv. com.), 


6-3 (M. and P.) 


mean of 26 


4-8 


samples 


3-0 


85-9 (Stead), 7 esti- 


4'1 


mations 


4-4 (Gadd) 


83-1 (M. and P.) 


4-3 (Fletcher) 


84-1 


4-2 


85-6 


4-1-4-4 (Jones) 


85-8 




85-2 (Barclay) 




85-5 (Fletcher) 




86-8 



194 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Total alkaloids vary from T25 to 3'9per cent. (Squire). 

Remarks. In addition to the great variability of the 
total alkaloid the variability in the relative proportions 
of brucine to strychnine is very great (Squire). 

F. C. J. Bird's process for the determination of total 
alkaloid and strychnine in Nux Vomica will be found in 
the Pharm. Journ., 1900, p. 574. 

The percentage of strychnine in a number of samples 
of Nux Vomica bean examined by him varied from 0'5 to 
1-5 per cent. 

The German Pharmacopceia gives a process for the estimation of the 
alkaloidal contents of Nux Vomica. The alkaloids are titrated, not 
weighed, and no attempt is made to ascertain the relative proportions 
of strychnine and brucine present. 

Liquid Extract of Nux Vomica. 

Definition. A liquid extract containing 1-5 grammes 
of strychnine in 100 c.c. 

Preparation and Assay. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Gravity. Solids.* Alcohol. 

930 (Moor) 12-8 (Moor) 49-3 (Moor) 

965 (Gladwyn) 11-6 57 to 61 (Barclay) 

950 to -960 (Bar- 9-6 (Gladwyn) 61*6 (Brewis) 

clay) 12-6 (Brewis) 624 
949 (Brewis) 
954 

Remarks. In washing the strychnine ferrocyanide 
the washings should be limited to 200 c.c., as otherwise 
the salt may, if washed till free from bitterness, be 
nearly all washed away, and the temperature during the 
washing operation should be kept at 98 F. Farr and 
Wright (Y. B. P., 1900) have shown that the influence of 
temperature on the solubility of the solution is enormous. 

In the light of Farr and Wright's investigations the precipitation of 
the strychnine ferrocyanide should be carried out at a temperature of 
70 F., and 200 c.c. of wash-water at a temperature of 98 F. employed 

* Grammes per 100 c.c. The solids in the liquid extract may pro- 
bably vary much more than is shown by the few figures collected here. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



195 



for the removal of the bruoine ferrocyanide, the result being corrected 
for strychnine ferrocyanide dissolved by adding 8 milligrammes to the 
weight of strychnine obtained. See also F. C. J. Bird, Pharm. Journ., 
1900, pp. 574 and 765. 

The addition of 2 c.c. of amylic alcohol to the final chloroformic 
solution of strychnine permits of its rapid evaporation in a flat open 
dish on a water-bath without the slightest risk of loss by decrepitation 
(F. C. J. Bird, Pharm. Journ., 1900, p. 286). 

Experiments by F. C. J. Bird have shown that when the above con- 
ditions are observed, accurate results are obtained if either 5 or 10 c.c. 
of liquid extract be taken for assay, or if the time for precipitation be 
reduced from six to two hours. 

Tinetura Nucis Vomiese. 

Preparation. Liquid extract of nux vomica 100 c.c., 
distilled water 150 c.c., alcohol 90 per cent, to make 
1 litre. Prepared by admixture. 

Standard. Treated by the assay process given under 
Extractum Nucis Vomicae Liquidum, 100 c.c. should 
yield not less than 0*24 nor more than 0*26 gramme of 
strychnine. 

Total Solids, ., , , 

Grammes per 100 c.c. 
3-0 per cent. 66*8 (Umney) 

(Caines) 
2-2 (M. and P.) 
2-2 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 
912 (Lucas) 
912 (Barclay) 
914 (P. and M.) 
912 (Caines) 
907 (M. and P.) 1-1 
909 1-9 

890 2-4 (Fletcher) 

907 2-1 (Gadd) 

918 

908 (Gadd) 
910 (Umney) 
907 to -911 (H. 
and H.) 

Eemarks. The total solids in 



63-7 (P. and M.) 

63-5 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 42 sam- 
ples 

64-8 (M. and P.) 

64-7 

71-8 

65-7 

58-1 

63-6 (Fletcher) 

63-7 (Barclay) 

67-9 (Gadd) 



this tincture must of 
necessity vary, and will be high when the seeds from 
which the extract was made were low in alkaloid ; still, 
the variation must fall within certain limits, which will 
be ascertained in the future. 

The British Pharmacopoeia states that "100 c.c. yield, 

132 



196 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

etc.," so that when possible the assay should be per- 
formed on this quantity ; but it is possible to obtain an 
accurate result by using half the above quantities. 

There is a variable amount of fat in the Nux Vomica 
bean, and consequently in the liquid extract and tincture, 
which causes different examples of these preparations to 
produce varying appearances on admixture with water. 

The presence of this fat in the bean and its preparations 
sometimes causes troublesome emulsions in the assay of 
the liquid extracts. These can be avoided by the use of 
a special solvent as suggested by Bird. 

Nutmeg 1 (Myristica Fragrans). 

Definition. " The dried seed of Myristica fragrans 
divested of its testa " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Adulterations. Exhausted nutmeg, cereals, etc. 
Standard. Ash should not exceed 4 per cent. 
Volatile oil about 9 per cent. 

Ash. Observer. 

About 5 per cent. ... Squire ( "Companion"). 

2-1, 2-4 ... Priest. 

3-0 ,, ... Moor. 

Oleum Myristieae (Nutmeg 1 Oil). 

Definition. " The oil distilled from nutmeg "* (B.P.). 

Description. " Colourless or pale yellow, having the 
odour and taste of nutmeg " (B.P.). 

Adulteration. Concrete oil of nutmeg. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., '870 to -910. 

The oil forms a clear solution with its own volume of 
a mixture of equal parts of absolute alcohol and 90 per 
cent, alcohol. 

* This definition should be altered to ' ' distilled from nutmeg and 
fractionated," if the oil is required to evaporate entirely without 
leaving a residue. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 197 

A little evaporated on a water-bath should not leave a 
residue which crystallizes on cooling.] 

Remarks. Yield of oil, 8 to 15 per cent. (Messrs. 
Schimmel, April, 1897). 

Specific gravity at 15'0 C., -865 to -920; optical rota- 
tion, + 14 to +30. 

A sample examined by C. G. Moor (January, 1900) gave 
49 '0 per cent, of concrete oil, which crystallized on cooling. 

The nutmeg-oil obtained on the first distillation con- 
tains concrete oil, and requires redistillation to free it 
from the concrete oil, which is supposed to be mechani- 
cally carried over. 

Reference. 3 . C. Umney (Pharm. Journ., 3, xxiv. 935); 
also M. W. Allen and Theo. Brewis (P. J., 4, xii. 328). 

Oatmeal. 

Definition. The meal produced on grinding oats 
(Avena sativa) after the removal of the husk. 

Adulterates. Maize, rice, etc. 

Standard. Water should not exceed 10 per cent. 
Ash 2-0 to 4-0 per cent. Fat should be about 8'0 per 
cent. Insoluble fibre should not exceed 4-0 per cent. 

Albuminoids about 13 to 18 per cent. 

References. John White (Analyst, xx. 30) reports 
finding maize flour as an adulterant in oatmeal. Bernard 
Dyer (Analyst, 1901, 153) gives the analytical results on 
a number of samples of oatmeal. 

Olive-Oil (Oleum Olivae). 

Definition. " The oil expressed from the ripe fruit of 
Olea europc&a" (B.P.). 

Description. Pale yellow or greenish-yellow, with a 
faint odour, and a bland taste (B.P.). 

Adulterations. Sesame, cottonseed, arachis, poppy, 
rape, ground-nut, sunflower, fish, and mineral oils. 



198 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., from -914 to 
919 (B.P.) ; -915 -918 (G.P.). 

At 50 F, it is liable to become pasty, and at 32 F. to 
form a nearly solid granular mass (B.P.). 

If 10 c.c. of the oil be shaken with 2 c.c. of a reagent, 
prepared by dissolving 1 gramme of silver nitrate in 
100 c.c. of absolute alcohol, with the addition of 20 c.c. 
of ether and 1 drop of nitric acid, no blackening should 
occur when the mixture is heated on a water-bath for 
ten minutes (absence of cottonseed-oil B.P.). 

The iodine absorption* should fall between 80 and 84 
per cent. (G.P.). 

The refractometer figure should fall between + 1 and 
+ 3-5. 

The saponification equivalent should fall between 19 '0 
and 19-6. 

Remarks. Olive-oil intended for food should not 
contain more than 1-0 per cent, of free acid. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia includes the test 
for sesame-oil (which is directed to be performed on the 
fatty acids), also a colour test with nitric acid : 6 grammes 
of oil are treated with 1-5 c.c. of nitric acid and 
5 grammes of water, and shaken for two minutes, and 
then heated in a water-bath for fifteen minutes ; the 
oil should retain a light yellow colour, not becoming 
orange or reddish-brown, and after standing at the 
ordinary temperature for twelve hours, it should form a 
perfectly solid, light yellowish mass (absence of appre- 
ciable quantities of cottonseed and most other seed oils). 

Eeference. " Aids," second edition, p. 154. 

Opium. 

Definition. " The juice obtained by incision from the 
unripe capsules of Papaver somniferum, inspissated by 
spontaneous evaporation" (B.P.). 

* 77 to 86 (Pearmain and Moor). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 199 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Adulterations. Poppy capsules, and other vegetable 
matters. 

Standard. Opium of any strength may be employed 
for making the tincture or extract of opium, provided 
that when dried it contains not less than 7 '5 per cent, of 
morphine ; but when opium is used for any other purpose, 
it must be standardized by the admixture of another 
opium of suitable strength, or by the addition of milk 
sugar. 

The British Pharmacopoeia does not lay down any 
limit for water in opium, but says that when dried it is 
to contain between 9-5 and 1O5 per cent, of anhydrous 
morphine. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires that opium shall 
contain from 10 to 12 per cent, of morphine, and not more 
than 8 per cent, of water. 

Four samples examined by Bascombe gave an average 
of 21 per cent, of water. 

The official process for the assay of opium differs 

from that of the British Pharmacopoeia, 1885, in 

.directing that the morphine shall be titrated, and also 

makes an allowance for the loss of morphine in the 

washings. 

References. Eecent figures on the morphine content 
of various opiums are given in the Chemist and Druggist 
(vide infra). 

.Remarks. It is well known that the very low standard 
for morphine adopted by the British Pharmacopoeia 
causes the addition of all sorts of diluents to opium, and 
it would be better if a higher standard were adopted 
(vide Chemist and Druggist, 707, ii. 1898). 

The diluents generally added may be of a harmless 
nature, but it is obvious that vegetable matter of a 
poisonous character might be used. Greenish (Materia 



200 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Medica) gives an excellent account of the opium of 
commerce. 

The German Pharmacopoeia gives a method of assay of opium, 
extract of opium, and tincture of opium, which differs principally 
from the British Pharmacopoeia method, in that sodium salicyate is 
employed instead of lime. 

The morphine is not weighed but titrated, and the margin of allow- 
able variation is much greater than that permitted by the British 
Pharmacopoeia. As these methods do not appear to be of much 
interest to British readers, they are not detailed here. 

Extraetum Opii Liq. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Total Solids, A1 , , 

Gravity. Grammes per 100 c.c. 101 ' 

989 M. and P. 3'0 M. and P. 

987 3-0 18-9 M. and P. 

917 -991 31 Barclay. 18-3 Barclay. 

Barclay. 3 -2 Partridge. 17'6 Partridge. 

991 Partridge. 

Tinetura Opii. 

Preparation. 
Opium ... 150 grammes. 

90 peTce^t. ( a **"* *>** " <**>. 

After preparing a strong tincture according to the official 
directions, it is to be standardized by assaying 80 c.c. of 
tincture, and having ascertained the amount of morphine 
present therein, diluting the bulk with a mixture of 
equal parts of water and 90 per cent, alcohol, so that the 
finished tincture contains 0*75 per cent, grammes of 
morphine in 100 c.c. 

Standard. " Treated by the foregoing process, tinc- 
ture of opium should yield an amount of morphine 
reckoned as anhydrous, corresponding to be not less than 
70 of a gramme, and not more than - 8 of a gramme in 
100 c.c. " (B.P.). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



201 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 
953 (Lucas) 
958 (Barclay) 
953 (P. and M.) 
954 (Caines) 
959 (M. and P.) 
973 
959 
955 
956 
957 

950 (Fletcher) 
952 (Unrney) 
954 -960 (H. and H.) 
955 (Gadd) 



Total Solids, 

Grammes per 100 c.c. 

3-18 per cent. 

(Caines) 
3*15* 

4-3 (M. and P.) 
5-8 
4-1 
3-5 
3-7 
4-5 

3-3 (Fletcher) 
4-3 (Gadd) 
5-3 (Partridge 



Alcohol. 

43-5 (Stead), 9 esti- 
mations 

47-4 (Umney) 

45-5 (P. and M.) 

44'9 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 58 sam- 
ples 

43-0 (M. and P.) 

43-3 

44-8 

44-9 

46-8 

46-6 (Fletcher) 

42-5 (Barclay) 



42-9 (Gadd) 

Remarks. The British Pharmacopoeia states (in a 
foot-note) that this preparation contains on the average 
the soluble matter of 32*8 grains of opium in 1 fluid 
ounce ; but it is clear that the total solids in tinct. opii 
are likely to vary to a much larger extent than most of 
the other tinctures, according as they are prepared from 
opium containing high or low percentages of morphine. 
The range of alcohol in this tincture should fall within 
43 to 48 per cent. 

Opium has an average of 20 per cent, of water, and 
the extractive matter varies from about 44 to 58 per 
cent., so that a tincture made from an opium rich in 
morphine may have only half the solids of one made 
from an opium low in morphine. The total solids might, 
therefore, vary as 2 to 1, but hardly 3 to 1, as suggested 
in the Chemist and Druggist, 1898, ii. 707. 

Macfarlane (Canada, January 10, 1899) gives results on 
fifteen samples of tinct. opii, ten of these samples being 
genuine as regards the morphine they contained, but 

* Average of ten genuine samples, Macfarlane's Bulletin. No. 60, 
1899. 



202 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

two were low in alcohol; the other five samples were 
deficient in morphine. The alcoholic strength of the 
samples differed very considerably. The highest total 
solids was 3*77, and the lowest 2-27. 

Tinctura Opii Amm. 

Preparation, 

Tincture of opium 150 c.c. 

Benzoic acid 20'6 grammes. 

Oil of anise 6-25 c.c. 

Solution of ammonia ... . . 200 c.c. 

Alcohol 90 per cent to make 1 litre. 

For preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, A , , 

15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. Alcohol. 

900 (Lucas) 2-5 (M. and P.) 66'3 

895 (Barclay) 2-9 (Partridge) 63 -4 (Chattaway), 
898 (P. and M.) 4-9 mean of 8 sam- 

894 (Caines) 2-2 pies 

991 (H. and H.) 63-6 (M. and P.) 

898 (M. and P.) 
900 (Umney) 

Remarks. This preparation should contain about 
113 gramme of morphine per 100 c.c. 

Pareira Radix. 

Definition. "The dried root of Chondrodendron tomen- 
tosum " (B.P.). 

Adulteration. Bahia pareira, or excess of stems. 
Ash. Observer. 

6-2 (P. Brava) Caines. 

3-4, 3-6, 3-5 (P. Brava) Priest. 

8-5, 5-4, 2-7 (Stem) 

1-9, 1-5 (Bahia) 

3-7, 5-3, 3-6 (P. Brava) Moor. 

Lucas (Pharm. Journ., xxii. 3, 703, 711) states that 
the petroleum ether extract in the true Pareira brava is 
over 8 per cent., and in the false only -3 per cent. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 203 

A number of experiments by Martin Priest on the 
petroleum ether extract of genuine Pareira root and 
Bahia root supplied us by E. M. Holmes did not enable 
him to confirm Lucas's observations. 

Much of the pareira root on the market at the present 
time is spurious. 

Extractum Pareirae Liq. 

Preparation. See B.P. 

Q .(, n ., Total Solids, 

Specific Gravity. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

1-023 (Moor) 12-4 (Moor) 

1-048 (Barclay) 171 (Moor) 

1-037 (Caines) 11-9 (Gadd) 

1-022 (Gadd) 

E. W. Lucas (P. /., iv., viii., 525) criticises the method 
of preparation, and states that a deposit occurs on 
keeping. 

Pepper. 

Definition. "The dried fruit of Piper nigrum" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Long pepper, poivrette, mineral matter, 
pepper husk, rice-starch. 

Standard. Water should not exceed 10 per cent. 

Ash should fall between 4 and 7 per cent. 

Insoluble fibre should fall between 10 and 18 per cent.* 

Extract to hot alcohol (resin, etc.) about 7 per cent. 

Microscopic appearance must be that of genuine pepper. 

References. See under White Pepper. 

Remarks. A. Eau (Abstract, Analyst, xxii., p. 323) 
examined 212 samples of black pepper, and found the 
average ash to be 6-35 per cent. 

E. Davies (Pharm. Journ., 1887, 1001) gives figures 

* These figures apply to fibre estimations made by using acid and 
alkali solution after removing resin, etc., by ether. If acid treatment, 
not followed by an alkaline solution, is employed these figures do not 
apply. 



204 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

on both black and white pepper. The amounts of fibre 
found by him differ somewhat from other observers 
(see p. 94, 2nd edition, "Aids"), but so much depends 
on the method of estimation that great differences are to 
be expected. 

Chevreau (Abstract, Pharm. Journ., 1889, 60) states 
that if ground olive stones are added, they may be 
detected by their turning bright yellow on boiling with a 
solution of aniline in acetic acid. 

White Pepper. 

Definition. Black pepper which has been decorticated, 

Adulterations. Calcium salts, bleached pepper-husk, 
rice. 

Standard. Water should not exceed 10 per cent. 

Ash should be from 1-5 to 3 per cent. 

Insoluble fibre" should fall between 3 -5 and 9 per cent. 

Extract to hot alcohol (resin, etc.) about 7 per cent. 

References. A. Eau (vide supra) examined 155 samples 
of white pepper, and found the average ash to be 4-0 per 
cent. 

This figure is higher than would be obtained on 
genuine samples. 

The practice of "grading" pepper causes the finer 
(more costly) grades to consist chiefly of starch, while 
the lower grades are richer in fibre. This is not a matter 
of importance, as the resin which gives pepper its value 
is contained in the husk as well as in the inner portions. 

Pepper is now very rarely adulterated in this country, 
the only known adulterant being rice, which is readily 
detected by microscopic examination under a polariser. 

A complete account of the work of different observers 
on pepper will be found in the second edition of " Aids," 

pp. 90-96. 

* See foot-note on previous page. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 205 

Pepsin. 

Definition. " An enzyme obtained from the mucous 
lining of the fresh and healthy stomach of the pig, sheep, 
or calf." Tested as described in the following paragraph, 
it should dissolve 2,500 times its weight of hard-boiled 
white of eggs. 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia.* 

Standard. -The British Pharmacopoeia process should 
be employed, except that, as it is not possible to weigh 
out accurately so small an amount as -005 of a gramme, 
a standard solution should be prepared by weighing 
5 of a gramme into 1,000 c.c., and 10 c.c. of this should 
be used. 

References.F. C. J. Bird (T. B. P., 1900, 423) pointed 
out that the British Pharmacopoeia description as to 
the solubility of pepsin in alcohol and in water requires 
amendment. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia states that pepsin 
should digest 3,000 times its weight of boiled white 
of egg. 

A limit for water and ash might have been set for 
pepsin. 

Two samples examined by C. G. Moor, supposed to be 
twice British Pharmacopoeia strength, were found to be 
of the strength claimed. 

See Allen (Pharm. Journ., Ix. 416), who draws atten- 
tion to the precautions necessary for obtaining correct 
results. 

The standard for pepsin given in the German Pharmacopoeia is as 
follows : If 10 grammes of egg-albumin in small particles are treated 
with 100 c.c. of water at 50 C. and '5 c.c. of hydrochloric acid and 
1 of a gramme of pepsin, and the mixture allowed to stand with 
frequent shaking for an hour, only a few white specks shall remain 
undissolved. 

* The British Pharmacopceia gives no account of any method of 
preparation. 



206 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Glyeerinum Pepsini. 

The British Pharmacopoeia directs, under Pepsinum, 
that - 005 gramme of pepsin should be taken with 125 c.c. 
of water acidulated with -2 per cent, of hydrochloric acid 
and 12 '5 grammes of white of egg, and gives directions 
regarding the method of digestion. 

Glyeerinum pepsini is directed to be made so that 
80 grammes of pepsin are contained in 875 c.c. of the 
finished product, but no official test is given. 

The preparation may be tested as follows : 

Dilute 10 c.c. of sample to 360 with distilled water ; 
2 c.c. of this solution then contain -005 gramme of 
pepsin. 

The test as directed under Pepsinum may then be 
applied. 

The precautions essential in testing pepsin are equally 
necessary in this case namely, the absolute freshness of 
the eggs and the attention to stirring. 

Two samples examined by Moor and Priest gave 
satisfactory results. 

Peruvian Balsam. 

Definition. " A balsam exuded from the trunk of 
Myroxylon Pereirce after the bark has been beaten and 
scorched " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adidtemtions. Alcohol, gurgun balsam, deficiency of 
cinnamein, various oils, storax, benzoin, colophony, 
copaiba, tolu balsam. 

Standard. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

References. Dieterich (C. D., 1898, ii. 130) suggests 
the elimination of the qualitative tests of the British 
Pharmacopoeia as unreliable, and proposes the estima- 
tion of the acid, ester, and saponification figures and the 
amount of cinnamein. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 207 

Squire (" Companion ") gives the specific gravities re- 
quired in other Pharmacopoeias. 

Gehe and Co. (Pharm. Journ., xviii. 3, 1072) recom- 
mend a test for detection of storax or benzoin. 

Dieterich (/. S. 0. L, 1898, 268, 806) gives a 
comparison between commercial samples with some 
obtained first-hand from the producers, and a process 
for assay. 

The German Pharmacopoeia gives the specific gravity of Peruvian 
Balsam at 1-140 to 1-150. 

If 1 gramme is dissolved in 20 c.c. of 90 per cent, alcohol, mixed 
with 20 c.c. of ?? alcoholic potash, and heated for an hour on the water- 
bath, and afterwards diluted to 300 c.c. on neutralizing with ^ JJC1, 
not more than 4 '2 c.c. shall be required. 

If 25 grammes of Peruvian balsam, 5 c.c. of water and 5 c.c. of solu- 
tion of soda are shaken out three times with 10 c.c. of ether, the residue 
on evaporating the ether shall be at least 1'4 grammes. The residue is 
then dissolved in 25 c.c. of 90 per cent, alcohol, and 25 c.c. of ** 
alcoholic potash is added, and the mixture heated on a water-bath for 
an hour. On neutralizing with ^ HC1 not more than 13 '2 c.c. shall 
be required. 

The indicator is phenolphthalein. 

Physostigmatis Semina. 

Definition. The ripe seeds of Physostigma venenosum. 

Ash. Observer. 

3-9 Moor. 

The alkaloid eserine, or physostigmine is present to the 
extent of about -12 per cent. (Squire's " Companion "). 

P. MacEwen (C. D., xxx. 193) gives a method for the 
extraction of the alkaloids of Calabar bean. 

Fix Carbonis Praeparata. 

Preparation. Commercial coal-tar is stirred frequently 
during 1 hour while maintained at a temperature of 
120 F. 

This will remove most of the water and some of the 
lighter oils. 



208 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Liquor Pieis Carbonis. 

Preparation. Prepared coal tar 4 parts by weight, 
quillaia bark in No. 20 powder 2 parts, alcohol 90 per 
cent., a sufficient quantity. 

For details of preparation see B.P. 

The resulting preparation is directed to be decanted 
or filtered. (All coal-tar contains a certain proportion, 
sometimes considerable, of matter insoluble in 90 per 
cent, alcohol.) 

The specific gravity of the preparation varies consider- 
ably,* and hence the total solids are better means of 
judging of it. 

Total Solids. 

(Grammes per 100 c.c.) Observer. 

2-75-3-0 Umney. 

21,3-1 Bird. 

3-7,3-7 Priest. 

A variation therefore of from 2-1 to 3'7 has been found 
in samples properly prepared by the B.P. process. 

This official preparation is probably the outcome of 
the Liquor Carbonis Detergens (Wright) which is pre- 
pared by special apparatus and has a total solids of about 
5 grammes per 100 c.c. 

Pimento (Allspice). 

Definition. "The dried, full-grown, unripe fruit of 
Pimenta officinalis " (B.P.). 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Adulterations. Oxide of iron. 
Standard 

Ash should not exceed ... .., 5'0 per cent. 

Oil should be about ... 3 to 4 ,, 

Microscopic appearance genuine. 
Eeferences. J. C. Saver (Pharm. Journ., 1896). 
C. A. Macpherson (Pharm. Journ., 1897). 

* The specific gravity of coal-tar varies very considerably. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 209 

A sample examined by C. G. Moor gave 4-2 ash. 

A. Kau (abst., Analyst, xxii. 323) examined eighty- 
four samples of pimento, and found the average ash to 
be 6*38 per cent. (These probably contained some 
mineral matter Moor.) 

Note. Pimento contains a starch. 

Oleum Pimentae. 

Definition. " The oil distilled from pimento " (B.P.). 

Description. Yellow or yellowish-red when recently 
distilled, but gradually becoming darker. It has the 
taste and odour of pimento. 

Adulteration. Clove-oil. 

Standard. Specific gravity not below 1*04:0 (B.P.). 

It should be converted into a semi-solid mass when 
shaken with an equal volume of strong solution of ammonia 
(B.P.). (This is to insure a proper proportion of eugenol). 

Eeferences. Messrs. Schimmel state that the gravity 
required by the British Pharmacopoeia would exclude 
certain genuine oils which have gravities as low as 1-024. 
They give the specific gravity at from 1 024 to 1*055, and 
the optical rotation to - 4. 

Remarks. The oil is imported from the West Indies 
and Jamaica, and also distilled in this country. 

The United States Pharmacopoeia requires a gravity 
of not less than 1*045. 

J. C. Umney (Pharm. Journ., May, 1895) gives the 
characters of English and foreign pimento oils. 

A genuine oil examined by Theo. Brewis had a gravity 
of 1-025. 

There appear to be genuine pimento oils which do 
not satisfy the British Pharmacopoeia requirements as 
regards specific gravity, but as the chief value of the oil 
is due to the eugenol it contains, the British Pharma- 
copoeia is right in requiring the gravity stated. 

14 



210 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Oleum Pini (Oil of Pine). 

Definition. " The oil distilled from the fresh leaves of 
Pinus Pumilio " (B.P.). 

Description, " Colourless, or nearly so, with a pleasant 
aromatic odour and pungent taste" (B.P.). 

Adulterations. Oil from Abies excelsa and other 
varieties. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., -865 to -870 
(B.P.). 

Optical rotation from 5 to 10 to the left at 60 F. in 
a 100-millimetre tube. Not more than 10 per cent. 
should distil below 165 C. (B.P.). 

Remarks. Yield of oil from -2 to -8 per cent. 
(Schimmel, April, 1897). 

J. C. Umney (Z B. P., 1895, p. 337) describes the 
characters of pine-oils of various kinds. 

Oil is distilled from the needles of a variety of pines, 
and the characters of these oils are given in Messrs. 
Schimmel's report for April, 1897. 

Podophylli Rhizoma. 

Definition. " The dried rhizome and roots of Podo- 
phyllum peltatum " (B.P.). 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. Ash about 4 per cent. 

Remarks. ft. J. Millard (P. J.,1898,i. 304) points out 
that Indian podophyllin is not suitable as a substitute for 
the official podophyllin, as the resin from it gelatinizes 
with ammonia. He gives a method for testing both 
resin and tincture. 

Podophyllum Resin. 

Definition. The Pharmacopeia directs that this is to 
be prepared by exhausting 400 grammes of podophyllum 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 211 

rhizome with 1,500 c.c. of 90 per cent, alcohol; the 
alcohol is recovered by distillation, and the fluid extract 
that remains is poured into three times its bulk of dis- 
tilled water acidulated with one twenty-fourth of its 
volume of hydrochloric acid, with constant stirring. 

The mixture is allowed to stand twenty-four hours to 
deposit the resin, which is then washed on a filter with 
distilled water, and dried at a temperature not exceed- 
ing 37-7 C. 

The characters of the resin so obtained are given as 
follows : " An amorphous powder of a bitter taste, vary- 
ing in colour from pale yellow to deep orange-brown, 
grayish if well washed." See Dr. Senier's paper, Pharm. 
Journ. (3), viii. 443. 

Standard. " Soluble, or nearly so, in alcohol (90 per 
cent.) and in solution of ammonia ; precipitated from 
the former solution by water, from the latter by acids. 
Partly soluble in ether. It should not yield more than 
1-0 per cent, of ash incineration " (B.P.). 

References. Gravill and Sage (Pharm. Journ., 1893, 
421) give figures on genuine and adulterated speci- 
mens, and state that some samples were adulterated 
with earthy matters and with powdered podophyllin 
root. 

Holthouse and Harvey examined eight samples and 
found three of them to yield from 1 to 2 per cent, of ash. 
The remainder were under 1 per cent. 

The German Pharmacopoaia requires podophyllin resin 
to be soluble in 100 parts of liquor ammonias and in ten 
parts of 90 per cent, alcohol. 

Squire states that more than half its weight of the 
resin should be soluble in chloroform. 

The above tests require more accurate definition, and 
a limit of insoluble matter in alcohol and ether should 
be laid down. 

142 



212 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Tinctura Podophylli. 

Preparation. " Podophyllum resin 36-5 grammes, 
alcohol 90 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by 
maceration." 

Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
3-25 (M. and P.) 
3'3 

1-4* 86-5 (Chattaway), 

3*4 ,, mean of 12 sam- 

3-6 (Fletcher) pies 



Specific Gravity at 
15 -5 C. 



Alcohol. 



87-5 (P. and M.) 
86-7 (M. and P.) 



1-3* (M. and P.) 
3-4 
1-6* 
3-0 

3-0 (Gadd) 
3-4 (H. and H.) 
2-8 to 3-0 (H. W. 
Jones) 



87-3 (Umney) 

88-9 (M. and P.) 

87-3 

86-4 (Fletcher) 

87-6 (M. and P.) 

88-0 

87-9 

88-6 



3-5 (H. W. Jones) 88-4 (Gadd) 



844 (Lucas) 

850 (Barclay) 

846 (P. and M.) 

844 (Caines) 

844 (M. and P.) 

844 (Gladwyn) 

842 (M. and P.) 

847 

844 (Fletcher) 

848 (H. and H.) 

841 (M. and P.) 

849 

841 

847 

844 (Umney) 

840 (Gadd) 

849 (H. W. Jones) 

J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ,, December 17, 1898) proposes as a 
standard, 3 '65 per cent, of resin. 

Standard. The solids should be not less than 3-6 
grammes per 100 c.c. 

Potassium Bromide. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopeia. 
Adulteration. Excess of water, presence of KC1, or 
bromate of potash. 

Standard. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Water should not exceed 2*0 per cent. 

Squire ("Companion") points out that if a sample is 

* These tinctures were either prepared according to the 1885 
British Pharmacopoeia, though they were supposed to be tinctures of 
1898 Pharmacopoeia, which prescribed Ixalf the resin now used, or 
made with adulterated resin. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 213 

moist the present test enables the presence of water to 
mask the presence of a certain quantity of chlorides, and 
suggests that the titration should be directed to be done 
on the dried salt. 

The German Pharmacoposia directs the test to be 
done on the dried salt. 

At the present time samples are met with which do not pass the 
British Pharmacopeia test on account of the chlorides they contain. 

Preservatives. 

The question as to the propriety of adding preserva- 
tives to foods is one which has excited much attention, 
and is still a source of frequent contention. Some 
analysts do not regard the addition of preservatives as 
constituting adulteration, while others do. 

The question appears to have a different bearing 
according to the kind of article in question, and preserva- 
tives should be allowed in some articles (but their 
presence should be in all cases acknowledged), and in 
certain others they should not be allowed under any 
circumstances. 

In the case of those articles in which they are allowed, 
a limit should be agreed on of those preservatives which 
are generally considered to be harmless, and official 
methods should be published for their estimation. 

In the case of those articles which can be readily 
made and sold without any addition of preservative, I 
consider that they ought to be preserved by sterilization 
alone. 

References. Methods for the recognition and estima- 
tion of preservatives will be found throughout all ana- 
lytical literature. 

The Kepoi t of the Departmental Committee on Food 
Preservatives is issued by Messrs. Eyre and Spottis- 
woode. 



214 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Otto and Charles W. Hehner (Analyst, June, 1902) 
give a process for detecting fluoride preservative in 
presence of boron compounds. They also give experi- 
ments showing that fluoride preservatives have a power- 
ful inhibiting effect in artificial digestion experiments. 
Fluoride preservatives should be condemned entirely, 
and warnings against their use published by local 
authorities. 

Pruni Virglnianae Cortex. 

Definition. " The bark of Prunus serotina, collected 
in autumn." 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Ash. Observer. 

4-2, 4-0 Priest. 

4-6,5-2 M. and P. 

The bark of commerce varies much in age and thick- 
ness. 

Tinetura Pruni Virginianae. 

Preparation. Virginian prune bark in No. 20 powder 
200 grammes, alcohol 90 per cent. 625 c.c., distilled 
water 375 c.c. 

The powder is mixed with the water, and the mixture 
set aside for twenty-four hours; the alcohol is added, 
and the maceration process completed. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, AWiml 

15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

934 (Barclay) 3-0* 54-0 (Chattaway), 

935 (Caines) 3-4 (Moor) mean of 3 samples 

935 (Gladwyn) 2-9 (Fletcher) 53-9 (Fletcher) 

934--937 (H. 3-3 (Gadd) 54-7 (Gadd) 

and H.) 3-4 (H. and H.) 
939 (Fletcher) 
939 (Umney) 
934 (Gadd) 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 215 

Pyrethri Radix. 

Definition. " The dried root of Anacyclus Pyrethrum." 
Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard 

Water, about 8 '0 per cent. 

Ash 6-0 

Ash. Observer. 

6-0, 5-3, 4-9 Moor. 

18-5, 17-5 (pulvis) Priest. 

The samples examined by Priest were in powder and 
contained mineral matter. 

Pyrethrum root is liable to become worm-eaten. 

Tinctura Pyrethri. 

Preparation. Pyrethrum root in No. 20 powder 
200 grammes, alcohol 70 per cent, to make 1 litre. 
Prepared by percolation. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, Alcohol 

15*5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

900 (Barclay) 1-6 per cent.* 68'3 (Stead) 

897 (Caines) -56 (Moor)t 67-3 (Umney) 

893 (Moor) 1-4 (M. and P.) 66 -8 (Fletcher) 

847 (M. and P.) 2-3 (Fletcher) 72-1 (Gadd) 

901 (Fletcher) -61 (Gadd)f 

899--900 (H. 2-6-2-7 (H. W. 

and H.) Jones) 

900- -904 (H. 1-9 (Partridge) 

W. Jones) 
904 (Umney) 
894 (Gadd) 

Quassias Lignum. 

Definition. " The wood of the trunk and branches of 
Picrcena excelsa " (B.P.). 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pliarm, Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 

t These samples are curiously low in solids, but were prepared 
according to the British Pharmacopeia directions. 



216 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 



Ash. 
3-4 
3-7 



Observer. 

Moor. 

Priest. 



Surinam quassia is sometimes substituted. 



Tinctura Quassise. 

Preparation. Quassia wood (rasped) 100 grammes, 
alcohol 45 per cent. 1,000 c.c. Prepared by maceration. 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
941 (Lucas) 
946 (Barclay) 
947 (P. and M.) 
945 (Caines) 
945 (M. and P.) 
944 (Moor) 
948 (M. and P.) 
944--949 (H. and 

H.) 

945 (Fletcher) 
942 (Umney) 
941 (Gadd) 
946 (H. W. 

Jones) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
4 (M. and P.) 
53 
26 
33 

54 (Moor) 
45 (M. and P.) 
31 (Fletcher) 
46 (Gadd) 
31 (H. W. 

Jones) 
65--75 (H. 
and H.) 
28 (Partridge) 
69 



Alcohol. 

44-8 (P. and M.) 

46-2 (Umney) 

44-0 (M. and P.), 
A. H. 

44-0 (Chattaway), 
mean of 15 sam- 
ples 

43-3 (M. and P.) 

44-2 (Fletcher) 

44-3 (Gadd) 



J. Barclay suggests '016 per cent, of quassin as a 
standard (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898). 



Quillaiae Cortex. 

Definition. " The inner bark of the Quillaia sapon- 
aria" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 



Ash. 
11-7 
14*1 
14-6 



Observer. 
Umney. 
Priest. 
Moor. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



217 



Tinetura Quillaiae. 

Preparation. Quillaia bark in No. 20 powder 50 
grammes, alcohol 60 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared 
by percolation. 



Specific Gravity 

at 15 -5 C. 
919 (Barclay) 
923 (Caines) 
913 (Gladwyn) 
920 (Fletcher) 
917--921 (H. 

and H.) 
922 (Umney) 
922--925 (H. W. 

Jones) 
922 (Gadd) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
1*25 per cent.* 
1-2 (M. and P.) 
1-2 (Fletcher) 
1-2 (Gadd) 
1-1-1-3 (H. W. 

Jones) 
1-2 (H. and H.) 



Alcohol. 

58-2 (Stead), 4 esti- 
mations 
57-6 (Umney) 
58-6 (Fletcher) 
58-7 (Gadd) 
60-0 (H. and H.) 



Tinetura Quininse. 



Preparation. " Quinine hydrochloride 20 grammes, 
tincture of orange 1,000 c.c. Dissolve the quinine hydro- 
chloride in the tincture of orange " (B.P.). 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
894 (Barclay) 
886 (Caines) 
8S4--894 (H. 

and H.) 
888 (Umney) 
884 (Gadd) 
890 (H. W. Jones) 
895 (Partridge) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
3-1 (Gadd) 
3-9 (H. and H.) 
3-7 
3*7 
3-6 (Partridge) 



Alcohol. 



73-6 (Umney) 
77-8 (Gadd) 



Tinetura Quininae Ammoniata. 

Preparation. Quinine sulphate 20 grammes, solution 
of ammonia 100 c.c., alcohol 60 per cent. 900 c.c. The 
ammonia is mixed with the alcohol and the quinine 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 



218 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



added, shaken, and set aside for three days, and then 
filtered. 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
928 (Lucas) 
925 (Barclay) 
926 (Caines) 
926 (P. and M.) 
925 (M. and P.) 
925 

925 (Gladwyn) 
925 (M. and P.) 
925--92S (H. 

and H.) 

926 (M. and P.) 
927 
927 

926 (Gadd) 
928 (Umney) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
1-8 (M. and P.) 
1-8 
1-9 

* 

1-3 

1-8 (Gadd) 
1-8 (H. and H.) 
1-8 



Alcohol. 

54 '2 per cent. (P. 
and M.) 

55-4 (Umney) 

53-3 (M. and P.) 

53-0 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 8 sam- 
ples 

53-6 (M. and P.) 

53-2 

52-2 

53-2 

53-5 (H. and H.) 

53-7 

54-4 

55-2 (Gadd) 



Quinine Wine. 



Preparation. Dissolve 2 grammes of quinine hydro- 
chloride in 875 c.c. of orange wine, set aside, filter. 

Adulterations. Deficiency in alcohol or quinine, 
presence of salicylic acid, the substitution of other 
alkaloids of the quinine group. 

Orange wines (q. v.) contain tannin, some samples 
containing sufficient to throw down* 10 per cent, of the 
quinine in seven days (Moor), so that either adetannated 
wine should be used, or enough quinine to allow for what 
is precipitated. 

Standard. The wine should yield '187 gramme of 
alkaloid dried at 120 C. per 100 c.c. ; the alcohol should 
be from 10 to 12 per cent, by volume, and the solids 
should correspond to those given under Vinum Aurantii 
(see p. 252). 

* Alcock pointed out that a notable proportion of quinine was 
precipitated by some orange wines. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 219 

Rhei Radix. 

Definition. " The erect rhizome or so-called root of 
Eheum palmatum, collected in China and Thibet, de- 
prived of more or less of its cortex and dried " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

References. T. 0. Hesse (Pharm. Journ., 1895, ii. 325) 
deals with the chemistry of rhubarb in an exhaustive 

paper. 

Ash. Observer. 

12-2 Moor. 

11-0, 7-4 ... ... ... Priest. 

7-3 H. andH. 

11-3 F. C. J. Bird. 

Maize starch has been found as an adulterant of 
powdered rhubarb. F. H. Alcock (C. and D. } 1898, 416). 

Note. Ehubarb contains a starch. 

Dietrich (Y. B. P., 1894, 169) gives figures on the 
moisture and ash of several samples. 

Extraetum Rhei. 

For preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 
Moisture. Ash. 

10-5 (Moor) ... 4-1 (Moor) 

Liquor Rhei Cone. 

Preparation. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Observer. 

Moor. 
Gadd. 
Bascombe. 

Tinetura Rhei Co. 

Preparation. Rhubarb root in No. 20 bruised powder 
100 grammes, cardamom seeds (bruised) 12 -5 grammes, 
coriander fruit (bruised) 12'5 grammes, glycerine 100 c.c., 
alcohol 60 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by 



Specific Gravity 
at 15-5 C. 


Solids. 


Alcohol. 


1-033 


13-3 


18-4 


1-028 


10-9 





1-036 


13-6 






220 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



percolation, until 900 c.c. have been 
glycerine is added. 



obtained when the 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c 
4*5 per cent.* 
16-7 (Caines) 
17-0 (Fletcher) 
15-5 (M. and P.) 
16-7 
16 '4 

14-6 (Gadd) 
14-0-15-7 (H. W. 

Jones) 
13-3 (Partridge) 



Alcohol. 



51-9 (P. and M.) 
50-8 (M. and P.) 
50-8 (Priv. com.), 
mean of 25 sam- 
ples 

51-7 (Stead), 8 esti- 
mations 
51'9 (Umney) 
49-8 (Fletcher) 
52-7 (M. and P.) 
52-0 
51-8 

50-8 (H. and H.) 
50-3 (Gadd) 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
971 (Lucas) 
970 (Barclay) 
972 (P. and M.) 
974 (Caines) 
971 (M. and P.) 
969 (Gladwyn) 
964 (M. and P.) 
972 
970 
968- -977 (H. 

and H.) 
964 (Fletcher) 
970--973 (H. W. 

Jones) 

972 (Umney) 
973 (Gadd) 

References. Macfarlane (Bulletin, 34). 

Oleum Rosae. 

Definition. The oil distilled from the fresh flowers of 
Rosa damascena. 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulteration. Geranium oil, citronellol, etc. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 30 C., -856 to -860. Con- 
gealing and melting points between 19 -4 C. and 22-2 C- 

Begins to congeal between 18 C. and 21 C. (G.P.) 

The optical rotation should be to the left. See corre- 
spondence (Pharm. Journ., November and December, 
1897). 

Yield of oil -02 (Schimmel's Eeport, 1897). 

The presence of stearoptine up to a certain amount is a test of a 
genuine attar, but beyond a certain point its presence is not advan- 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). It is evidently a slip, as it represents the 1885 tincture. 
In every other case Barclay's suggestions appear very valuable. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 221 

tageous, as, being itself odourless, it reduces the fragrance of the 
oils. 

The ottoes of commerce are the bulked and blended oils from different 
places and from various roses. 

A great deal of literature is to be found on otto in the Pharm. Journ., 
Chemist and Druggist and Journal of the Chemical Society. See in par- 
ticular correspondence in the Chemist and Druggist. 

Oleum Rosmarinse. 

Definition. The oil distilled from the flowering tops 
of Rosmarinus officinalis. 

Character. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Oil of turpentine, etc. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., '900 to '915. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires the gravity to be 
not less than -900, and the oil must be soluble in half 
its volume of 90 per cent, alcohol. 

It should dissolve in twice its volume of alcohol 
(90 per cent.). Its optical rotation should not exceed 
10 to the right. 

Eeferences. The characters for rosemary oil given by 
Messrs. Schimmel (April, 1897) are in agreement with 
the British Pharmacopoeia tests. 

E. A. Cripps (Pharm. Journ., 3, xx. 415) states that the 
addition of solid magenta to pure rosemary-oil produces 
no effect, but if alcohol is present the dye dissolves. 

Messrs. Schimmel (abst., J. S. C. I., 1896, 925) state that 
French and Italian oils are slightly dextro-rotatory, and 
have a specific gravity of '900. 

Eight samples of English oil of rosemary examined by 
Theo. Brewis all fell within the British Pharmacopoeia 
limits. 

Rum. 

Definition. A spirit obtained by the distillation of the 
fermented juice of the sugar-cane or molasses. 

Adulterations. The addition of water, capsicum, and 
artificial flavouring and colouring matters. 



222 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Standard. Alcohol not less than 25 degrees under 
proof. 

The extractive usually varies from 1-0 to 20 per cent. 

Remarks. It is impossible to say from the results of 
analysis if a given sample is genuine rum that is, was 
prepared from the proper materials or not. 

See reference to Macfarlane under " Brandy." 

Saffron (Crocus). 

Definition. " The dried stigmas and tops of the styles 
of Crocus sativus" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Barium sulphate, gum, oil, safflower, 
crocus stamens, dyed marigold leaves, rootlets of carex 
(Pharm. Journ., 3, xxi. 337). 

Standard. Rubbed on the wet finger, it leaves an 
intense orange-yellow tint (B.P.). 

When pressed between folds of white filtering paper, 
it leaves no oily stain (B.P.). 

When a small portion is placed in a glass of water 
(warm), it colours the liquid orange-yellow, becomes 
itself paler in colour, and does not deposit any white or 
coloured powder (B.P.). 

Incinerated with free access of air, dried saffron does 
not deflagrate (absence of nitrates), and yields about 
7 per cent, of ash (B.P.).* 

It should not lose more than 12 f 5 per cent, of moisture 
when dried at 100 C. (B.P.). 

Every fragment should, on contact with strong sul- 
phuric acid, afford a deep, transient bluef colour (Moor). 

Genuine saffron should add but little colour to ether 
or petroleum spirit. 

* There is some reason to believe that some genuine samples may 
yield more ash than 7 per cent. 

f I believe this test will detect most if not all dyed fibres or foreign 
additions. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 223 

References. The United States Pharmacopoeia re- 
quires the moisture not to exceed 14 per cent., and 
the ash not to exceed 7*5 per cent. ; it also states that 
1 part of saffron agitated with 100,000 of water should 
cause the liquid to acquire a distinct yellow colour. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires moisture not to 
exceed 12 per cent., and the ash on the dried sample 
must not exceed 6*5 per cent. 

Cassar and Loretz (abstract A. J. P., 1891) give the 
moisture on a number of samples as 10 to 12 per cent., 
and the ash as 4-5 to 5*5 per cent. 

E. Dowzard (G. and D., 1898, ii. 669) gives a method for 
estimating the colouring power of saffron. 

Six samples examined by Holthouse and Harvey 
yielded 12-1 to 14-8 per cent, of moisture and 4-1 to 4'7 
per cent, of ash, and three samples when treated with 
60 per cent, alcohol, yielded 55-9, 55-0 and 55 '8 per cent, 
of extract. 

The British Pharmacopoeia standards for ash and 
moisture seem to be founded on, or, at any rate, accord 
with, the observations of J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., 
xxiv. 692), who found, on examining thirty - three 
samples, the average ash (calculated on the dry sample) 
to be 6-32 per cent., and the average moisture to be 
12-37 per cent. 

Six samples recently examined by Bascombe gave an 
average of 11-4 of moisture and 6 -8 of ash. 

Dr. Herz and Professor Hanausseck (A. J. P., 1893) 
state that wheat-flour is added to saffron, and recommend 
suspending the sample in olive-oil for its recognition. 

Dyed marigold leaves were found in a sample of saffron, 
to the extent of 33 per cent. (G. and D., 1891, 518). 

A sample was found containing 36 per cent, of barium 
sulphate (Pharm. Journ., 1897, i. 223). 

Four samples examined by Moor and Priest gave 



224 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

ashes varying from 4-7 to 5-0 per cent., and a sample of 
"Alicante" saffron gave 25 per cent, of ash. This 
sample was adulterated both with dyed vegetable fibres 
and with mineral matter. Samples from the same bulk 
of adulterated saffron often vary very considerably in the 
amount of ash which they yield/ 1 ' 

Two samples examined in 1900 by W. Fresenius and 
L. Griinhut (Abst., Analyst, xxvi., 272, proved to be 
grossly adulterated. 

Remarks. Saffron has always been subject to gross 
adulterations. 

Tinctura Croci. 

Preparation. Saffron 50 grammes, alcohol 60 per cent. 
1,000 c.c. Prepared by maceration. 

Specific Gravity at Total Solids, Alcohol 

15 '5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

927 (Barclay) 3-0 per cent. I 574 (Fletcher) 

924 (Caines) 2-3 (M. and P.) 57 -8 (H. and H.) 

920 (Gladwyn) 2-2 (Moor) 

929 (Moor) 2-8 (Moor)+ 

921 (Moor) 2-6 (Fletcher) 

926 (Fletcher) 2-7 (H. W. Jones) 

926 (H. W. 2-4 (H. and H.) 

Jones) 2-5 ,, 

925 (Umney) 2-6 

Sambuci Flores (Elder Flowers). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

9-9 Moor. 

Santal Oil. 

Definition. " The oil distilled from the wood of 
Santalum album" (B.P.). 

* Owing to the weighting matter collecting at the bottom, 
t Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Fharm. Journ., December 
17, 1898). 

+ Specially prepared by C, G. Moor from genuine saffron. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 225 

Description, Somewhat viscid in consistence, pale 
yellow in colour, having a strongly aromatic odour and 
a pungent and spicy taste. 

Adulterations. Oils from unofficial varieties of santal- 
woods, cedar-oil, and saponifiable oils. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 C., from -975 to 
980 (B.P.), -975 to -985 (G.P.). 

It forms a clear solution with six times its volume of 
alcohol, 70 per cent. absence of cedar-oil (B.P.). 

Optical rotation (100 millimetres) from 16 to 20 to the 
left (B.P.). 

Bromide of tin with genuine santal-oil gives a red 
colour. West Indian oil gives a blue or green colour 
(C. G. Moor, Analyst, 1895, 174). 

Remarks. The specific gravity of the British Pharma- 
copoeia is identical with that given by Messrs. Schimmel 
(April, 1897), who give the yield of oil as 3'5 per cent. 
for East Indian, and 1-6 to 3 per cent, for Macassar 
sandal-wood, and the optical rotation as from - 17 to - 19. 

West Indian santal-oil is frequently supplied in cap- 
sules as " Santal-oil." This is a fraud, as the oil is 
derived from a totally different tree, and has absolutely 
no resemblance to the official oil. It is clearly dis- 
tinguished by the official tests. A sample examined by 
J. C. Stead gave 

Specific gravity, -9656. 
Optical rotation, + 25. 
Solubility in alcohol ) not soluble in 
70 per cent. j 20 volumes.) 
Santalol ester, 2-8 per cent. 

,, acetylized oil, 21*0 per cent. 

Santal oil has an iodine absorption of about 158. It 
should contain about 94 per cent, of santalol (W. Duliere, 
abst., Y. B. P., 1899, 172). 

L. F. Kebler (A. J. P., 1901, 223) gives figures on 
santal oils. 

15 



226 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Mustard-Oil (Oleum Sinapis Volatile). 

Definition. " Distilled from black mustard seeds after 
maceration with water." 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Alcohol, petroleum. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15-5 G., 1-018 to 1-030 
(B.P.), 1-018 to 1-025 (G.P.). 

Distils between 147*2 to 152-2 C., and the first and 
last portions of the distillate should have the same 
gravity as the original oil (absence of alcohol and petro- 
leum) (B.P.). 

The German Pharmacopoeia gives a process for the 
examination of mustard-oil. 

Sarsse Radix. 

Definition. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

6-5 M. and P. 

The dried root of Smilax ornata is imported from 
Costa Eica, and commonly known as " Jamaica Sarsa- 
parilla." 

The various kinds imported are Honduras, Lima 
Guayaquil, Mexican or Vera Cruz and Nativa Jamaica. 
The latter is often washed in England and coloured with 
oxide of iron to improve its appearance. 

Witold and Schutz (abst., G. and D., 1897, 473) give 
an account of research on the active principles of sarsae 
radix. 

Liquor Sarsse Co. Cone. 

For preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, A-I i i r\\ 

at 15-5 0. Grammes per 100 c.c. Alcoho1 ' Observer. 

1-026 11-1 20-4 M. and P. 

1-045 15-1 15-6 Gadd. 

1-038 11-9 Bascombe. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 227 

Extractum Sarsae Liq. 

For preparation see British Pharmacopoeia. 



Specific Cavity. Gr p0 WO ,c. Observer. 

1-090 ......... 28-8 Moor. 

1-050-1-052 ... Caines. 

1-094 ... ... ... 27-5 Gadd. 

1-084 ......... 27-6 Bascombe. 

Scoparii Caeumina (Broom Tops). 

Definition. " The fresh and the dried tops of Cytisus 
scoparius " (B.P.) 

Ash. Observer. 

3-5 ......... Moor. 

Seammoniae Radix. 

Definition. " The dried root of Convolvulus Scam- 



Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

The British Pharmacopoeia states that it yields to 
90 per cent, alcohol a resin which should have the 
properties of scammony resin, but gives no indication of 
the amount that should be present (Pharm. Journ., 1897, 
i. 245). About 5 per cent, should be present, but the 
amount is variable. 

Ash. Observer. 

11-1, 10-9 ...... Priest. 

Seammoniae Resina. 

A resin prepared by exhausting scammony root with 
90 per cent, alcohol by percolation, distilling off the 
greater part of the alcohol, pouring the residual liquor 
in water, and washing and drying the precipitated resin. 

Characters. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Standard. Its solution in alcohol must not give a 

152 



228 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



blue colour with solution of ferric chloride or with 
hydrogen peroxide (absence of guaiacum resin) (B.P.). 

It should dissolve almost entirely in ether (distinction 
from jalap resin) (B.P.). 

Ether- Soluble. Ash. Observer. 

95 '8 ...... Moor and Priest. 

See a criticism of the requirement as to the solubility 
in ether by P. Guigues (abst., A. J. P., 1901, 147). 

Seammonium. 

Definition. "A gum resin obtained by incision from 
the living root of Convolvulus Scammonia " (B.P.). 

Characters. See British Pharmacopeia. 

Standard. It forms an emulsion with water. 

Only the slightest reaction for starch must be yielded. 

It must yield 70 per cent, of resin soluble in ether (B.P.). 

Ash not to exceed 3 per cent. (B.P.). 

An alcoholic solution must not give a blue colour with 
solution of ferric chloride (absence of guaiacum resin) 
(B.P.). 



Starch. 



Absent 



Absent 



Ether Extract. 

30-0 
301 
63-9 

28-3 

73-5 
73-5 

77-4 
79-0 
86-6 
71-2 
70-5 



Ash. 

7-9 
4-9 

6-1 
61 

5-5 
3-0 
5-6 
2-7 
3-2 
3-3 



Observer. 
Moor. 



Umney. 



F. C. J. Bird. 



From these figures it would appear that the British 
Pharmacopoeia limit of 3 per cent, for ash is a little too 

stringent. 

* Present in large quantities. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 229 

Scilla. 

Definition. "The bulb of Urginea Scilla, divested of 
its dry membranous outer scales, cut into slices, and 
dried " (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

2-5, 3-4, 2-5, 3-8 ... Priest. 

2-8, 2-9 Moor. 

3-2 Holthouse and Harvey. 

3-2 Gadd. 

Eemarks. The amount of water in squills* is very 
variable, but the Pharmacopoeia requirement is "cut in 
slices and dried." 

Standard. The moisture in squills should not exceed 
20 per cent. Ash from 2-5 to 4 per cent. 

Acetum Scillse. 

Preparation. 125 grammes of bruised squills are 
macerated with dilute acetic acid and made up to 
1,000 c.c. 

The following are recent estimations : 

Specific Gravity. Authority. 

1-040 Caines. 

1-028 Gladwyn. 

1-035 , Priest. 

1-034 ... Moor. 

1-043 .. ... Lucas. 

1-039 Barclay. 

Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 

5-9 Priest. 

5-9 Gladwyn. 

8-5 Priv. com. 

5^3 Moor. 

9-2 Lucas, 

* Two or three qualities of squills are listed by wholesale houses. 
These differ considerably both in the amount of water they contain 
and also in the extractive they yield to alcohol and to acetic acid. 



230 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Acidity of 10 c.c. 
(expressed in c.c. 
of normal alkali). 

8-0 

6-0 

6-5 

7-0 

6-9 (about) 



Authority. 

Caines. 
Priest. 



Barclay. 

Calculated from the mode of 
preparation, supposing squills 
to contain about 20 per cent of 
water. 

Standard. Total solids 7 to 9 per cent.- Acetic acid 
10 c.c. should require from 6 to 8 c.c. of normal alkali. 

Tinct. Scillse. 

Preparation. Squill, bruised, 200 grammes, alcohol 
60 per cent. 1,000 c.c. Prepared by maceration. 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
960 (Barclay) 
972 (Lucas) 
973 (P. and M.) 



970 
970 
966 
969 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
10-0 per cent.t 

8-4 (M. and P.) 
12'7 

11-4 (Moor) 
12-2 (Fletcher) 
12-0 
13-6 
13-3 
14-8 

9-3-10-4 (H. W. 

Jones) 

12-4 (H. and H.) 
12-0 
10-4 
11-9 
12-1 (Gadd) 



Caines) 

M. and P.) 

Moor) 

Gladwyn) 
972 (M. and P.) 
959--961 (H. W. 

Jones) 

965 (M. and P.) 
975 
973 
970 

970 (Umney) 
968 (Fletcher) 
966 (Gadd) 

Standard. Tincture of squills should yield 10 or more 
grammes of solids per 100 c.c. 

* Reference. In the C. and _D., May, 1902, are to be found several 
figures on the solids and acidity of acetum scillse. The solids mostly 
fell between 7 and 9 per cent. 

t Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 



Alcohol. 

53-6 (Stead) 

54-8 (Umney) 

53-8 (P. and M.) 

53-6 (M. and P.) 

52-8 (Chattaway), 
mean of 42 sam- 
ples) 

53-9 (Fletcher) 

541 (M. and P.) 

55-2 

53-8 

54-4 

53-5 

51-9 (H. and H.) 

53-7 (Gadd) 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 231 

References. Macfarlane (Bulletin 34, November, 
1893). 

Seidlitz-Powders (Pulvis Sodse Tartratse Effer- 
vescens). 

Preparation. Sodium potassium tartrate in dry 
powder 7 '77 grammes, sodium bicarbonate in dry 
powder 2 '59 grammes (these are to be mixed and 
wrapped in blue paper), tartaric acid in dry powder 
2*46 grammes (this is to be wrapped in white paper). 

Beferences.3. Eutherford Hill (., C. and D., 1897). 

Note. Inaccurate weighing is common in cheap 
powders. 

J. H. Hoseason in 1889 found sugar in a number of 
samples. 

C. E. Sage in 1891 found great variations from the 
proper weights in both white and blue powders. 

Seneg-se Radix. 

Definition. " The dried root of Poly gala Senega " 
(B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard. Ash from 2 to 5 per cent. 

Ash of Senega Root. Observer. 

4-0 Moor. 

9-0 (pulvis) 

2-2 Partridge. 

3-1 Moor. 

4-6 Priest. 

24-0 (pulvis)- 

Standard. Ash not to exceed 6 per cent. 
C. Hartwich (abst., Pharm. Journ., 1896, i. 290) reports 
that Triosteum perfoliatum is used as an adulterant ; 
root of Asclepias vincetoxium (Pharm. Journ. (3), ix. 410) 
is also found. 

* Contained mineral matter. 



232 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Liquor Seneg-se Cone. 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Specific Gravity at 15 '5 C. Total Solids. Alcohol. Observer. 
1-011 18-0 18-3 M. and P. 

1-030 Caines. 

1-048 20-2* 16-4 Bascombe. 

1-015 10-8* Gadd. 

1-001 10-0* F.C.J.Bird. 



Tinetura Seneg-se. 

Preparation. Senega root in No. 40 powder 200 
grammes, alcohol 60 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared 
by percolation. 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, A ln ^ 


at 15-5 C. 


Grammes per 100 c.c. 




938 (Barclay) 


4-8t 


55-8 (Stead) 


935 (Lucas) 


5-2 (M. and P.) 


55-9 (Umney) 


941 (P. and M.) 


4-6 




57-0 (P. and M.) 


942 (Caines) 


3-9 




56 -5 (M. and P.) 


934 (M. and P.) 


5-3 




56-6 (Chattaway), 


934 (W. G.) 


5-5 




mean of 29 sam- 


930 (M. and P.) 


4-5 




ples 


933 


6-3 




56-8 (Fletcher) 


934 


5-7 




57-2 (M. and P.) 


939 


6-2 




57-2 


937 


5-7 (Fletcher) 


57-9 


939 


4-7-5-2 (H. W. 


54-1 


938 


Jones) 


57-4 


936--941 (H. 


5-4 (H. and H.) 


57-4 


and H.) 


5-6 (Gadd) 


57-1 


935 (Fletcher) 


5-9 


56-3 (Gadd) 



935 (Umney) 
93S--943 (H. W. 
Jones) 

* These figures are of interest as showing the great natural varia- 
tions possible in this preparation when made strictly in accordance 
with the B.P. directions. 

f Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 233 

Senna. 

The British Pharmacopoeia recognises two varieties of 
senna, namely, Alexandrian senna, "the dried leaflets 
of Cassia acutifolia "; and East Indian senna, " the 
dried leaflets of Cassia angustifolia" from plants culti- 
vated in Southern India. 

Descriptions. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Adulterations. Senna stalk, mineral matter. 
Ash. Observer. 

8-9,8-6 Priest. 

10-5,10-4,9-1 Moor. 

14-3 H. andH. 

10-9 Gadd. 

Standard. Ash from 8 to 14 per cent. 

References. L. E. Sayre (A. J. P., 1896, 585, and 1897, 298) gives a 
method for detecting ground chestnut leaves in senna by treating the 
powder under the microscope with ferric chloride. The chestnut 
leaves contain tannin, and a dark blue or black colour is produced. 

Greenish (C. and D., 1901, 275) states that the ash should not 
exceed 14 per cent., and should be entirely soluble in hydrochloric 
acid. He gives a number of figures on the ash of senna, which vary 
from 9*8 to 13 per cent. In addition, he gives the following descrip- 
tion of powdered senna : "The powder exhibits fragments of epidermal 
tissue consisting of polygonal cells, and bearing stomata and hairs or 
the scars of fallen hairs. Each stoma is enclosed between or bordered 
by two cells arranged parallel to it ; the hairs are one-celled, thick- 
walled and warty. It also exhibits groups of sclerenchymatous fibres, 
which, however, should not be present in excessive quantity." (If 
present in excessive quantity they indicate an admixture of stalk. 
C. G. M.) 

Tinetura Sennse Co. 

Preparation. Senna (broken small) 200 grammes, 
raisins of commerce (freed from seeds) 100 grammes, 
caraway fruit (bruised) 25 grammes, coriander fruit 
(bruised) 25 grammes, alcohol 45 per cent. 1,000 c.c. 
Prepared by maceration. 
Specific Gravity Total Solids, A1 , , 

at 15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

991 (Lucas) 10-0 per cent.* 39-8 (Stead) 

988 (Barclay) 9-7 (M. and P.) 38-8 (P. and M.) 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 



234 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Specific Gravity at 


Total Solids, 


AT 1 1 


15 -5 C. 


Grammes per 100 c.c. 


Alcoliol. 


995 (P. and M.) 


11-1 (M. and P.) 


38-8 (M. and P.) 


983 (Caines) 


9-7 


38-4 (Chattaway), 


996 (M. and P.) 


12-0 


mean of 16 sam- 


994 (Gladwyn) 


12-8 


ples 


999 (M. and P.) 


10-2 


37'4 (Fletcher) 


992 


11-7 


38-0 (M. and P.) 


992 


12-2 (Fletcher) 


42-7 


984 


9-19-10-2 (H. 


40-3 


994 (Fletcher) 


W. Jones) 


42-3 


98G--993 (H. 


10-3 (H. and H.) 


42-0 (H. and H.) 


and H.) 


9-9 


39-0 


993 (Umney) 
994--99S (H. W. 


101 (Gadd) 
10-0 (Partridge) 




Jones) 


7.0 

9 ,, 






9-7 (Gadd) 





Serpentarise Rhizoma. 

Definition. " The dried rhizome and roots of Aristo- 
lochia Serpentaria or of Aristolochia reticulata."* 
Description. As in the British Pharmacopoeia. 
Adulterations. Excess of mineral matter. 
Standard. Ash from 7 to 10 per cent. 

Ash. Observer. 

8-9 Gladwyn. 

8-0, 101, 13-4 Priest. 

18-Ot, 18-4f Moor. 

17-9J (pulvis) ... ... Gladwyn. 

30-7J 



Tinetura Serpentarise. 

Preparation. Serpentary rhizome in No. 40 powder 
200 grammes, alcohol 70 per cent, to make 1 litre. Pre- 
pared by percolation. 

* The words "cleaned from adhering dirt" should be added, 
t These samples had dirt adhering to them. 
Contained mineral matter. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



235 



Specific Gravity 
at 15-5 C. 

895 (Lucas) 
896 (Barclay) 
900 (P. and M.) 
897 (Caines) 
896 (M. and P.) 
897 
897--900 (H. 

and H.) 
898 (Fletcher) 
894 (Umney) 
894 (H.W.Jones) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 

2'0 per cent.* 
1-9 (M. and P.) 
2-0 

1-7 (Fletcher) 
2-0 (H.W.Jones) 
2-2 (Gadd) 
1-7 (Partridge) 
2-2 (Gadd) 



Sherry. 



Alcohol. 

67-9 (Umney) 

68-3 (P. and M.) 

67-6 (M. and P.) 

67-3 

67-6 (Fletcher) 



Definition. " A Spanish wine " (B.P.). 
Description. "Pale yellowish-brown, containing not 
less than 16 per cent, of ethyl hydroxide by volume " 

(B.P.). 

Adulterations. Addition of alcohol from other 
sources. 

Standard. Alcohol not less than 16 per cent, by 
volume " (B.P.). 

Salicylic acid must be absent (B.P.). 

Total solids about 2 to 5 per cent. 

Eeferences. Lucas (Pharm. Journ., 1896) gives figures 
on two samples of fortified sherry and on four genuine 
samples, and suggests that a limit might be set for the 
amount of sugar namely, that it should not exceed 
4 per cent., and that the acidity in genuine samples falls 
within an amount equal to 5 to 10 c.c. of decinormal 
alkali per 100 c.c.; while the specific gravity at 15*5 C. 
in genuine samples should fall between -985 and 1-01. 

The National Dispensatory gives, as averages of 
genuine samples, a specific gravity varying from '978 to 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898.) 



236 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

995, and 20'3 per cent, of alcohol by volume, and 3-27 
per cent, as the average amount of sugar. 

Remarks. The British Pharmacopoeia requires sali- 
cylic acid to be absent, and it is an wholly unnecessary 
addition to wines containing the prescribed amount of 
alcohol. 

If sherry is detannated by gelatine care must be taken 
to keep the mixture cold, or gelatine will pass into 
solution. 

Starch (Amylum). 

Definition. The British Pharmacopoeia recognises 
three starches as official, namely, wheat, maize and rice 
starch. Descriptions of their microscopical characters 
are given. 

Adulterations. Excess of water, ash, fibre, acidity, 
presence of foreign starches. 

Standard. Water should not exceed 16 per cent. 
(Moor). 

Ash should not exceed 1 per cent. (U.S.P.). 

When rubbed with cold water, it should be neutral to 
litmus (B.P.). 

The German Pharmacopoeia only recognises wheat 
starch, which must not contain more than 1 per cent. 
of ash. 

Stramonii Folia. 

Definition. " The dried leaves of Datura Stramonium" 

(B.P.). 

Description. As in the British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard 

Ash about 20 percent. 

Alkaloid '3-'5 

Ash. Observer. 

18-1 Moor. 

20-5 ... Priest. 

20-1 

20-8 Gladwyn. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



237 



Eeferences. F. A. Thompson (abst., C. and _D., 1892, ii. 
401) found the alkaloid to vary from -32 to -47 per cent, 
in eleven samples of leaves, with an average of *38 per 
cent. 



Stramonii Semina. 

Definition. " The dried ripe seeds of Datura Stra- 
monium" (B.P.). 

Standard 



Ash 
Alkaloid 



about 4 per cent. 
4 



F. A. Thompson (C. and D., 1892, ii. 401) found the alka- 
loids in stramonium seeds to vary from '17 to *5 per 
cent., with an average of -35 per cent, in fifteen samples. 

The seeds contain a fixed oil to the extent of about 
25 per cent. 

Tinctura Stramonii. 

Preparation. " Stramonium leaves in No. 20 powder 
200 grammes, alcohol 45 per cent, to make 1 litre. Pre- 
pared by percolation." 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
3-82 (M. and P.) 
3-92 (Gladwyn) 
3-7 (Fletcher) 
3-7 (H. W. Jones) 
3-7 (Gadd) 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
952 (Lucas) 
962 (Barclay) 
963 (P. and M.) 
966 (Caines) 
962 (Gladwyn) 
961 

962 (Fletcher) 
966--96S (H. 

and H.) 
953 (Umney) 
960 (H. W. Jones) 

04 per cent, of alkaloid was proposed as a standard by 
J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898). 



Alcohol. 

43-6 (P. and M.) 

42-4 (Chattaway), 
mean of 9 sam- 
ples 

46-2 (Umney) 
42-4 (Fletcher) 



238 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Strophanthi Semina. 

Definition. " The dried ripe seeds of Strophanthus 
Kombe, freed from, the awns " (B.P.).* 

Description. As in the British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Exhausted seeds, seeds from other 
plants. 

Remarks. Seeds from some of the non-official varieties 
when cut up and tested with H 2 S0 4 do not give the 
strophanthin reaction (a dark green), but a more or less 
rose-red colour. 

Ash. Ether Extract. Observer. 

10-8 ... 31-0 ... Moor. 

3'8 ... 24-9 ... Gladwyn. 

3-8 ... ... Priest. 

3-4 ... ... Moor. 

4-0 

At the present time there is more spurious seed than 
official seed in commerce. 

References. A considerable number of papers on stro- 
phanthus will be found scattered throughout the Phar- 
maceutical Journal. 

Some uncertainty still exists as to the value of the 
sulphuric acid colour test given in the British Pharma- 
copoeia as a means of recognising the official seed. A 
very complete paper on the pharmacognosy of strophan- 
thus will be found in the Pharm. Journ., September 2, 
1900, by Perredes, in which most of the references of 
importance are given. 

* E. M. Holmes states that the only way to obtain the official seed 
pure is to purchase it in the form of pods and test a seed out of each 
one, since the loose seed that comes into the market is almost invari- 
ably mixed with other varieties in different proportions (and under 
these circumstances uniformity of preparations is practically im- 
possible). 

He also points out (P. J., iv., xiv., p. 254) that the sulphuric acid 
used in testing the seed must be of a definite strength, and finds 
80 per cent, preferable. The colour may not develop instantly. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



239 



Specific Gravity 
at 15-5 C. 



Tinctura Strophanthi. 

Preparation. Strophanthus seeds in No. 30 powder 
25 grammes, alcohol 70 per cent, to make 1 litre. Pre- 
pared by percolation. 

Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
9 (Fletcher) 
56 (M. and P.) 
85 
54 to -6 (H. W. 

Jones) 

36 (H. and H.) 
40 (Partridge) 
51 (Gadd) 



Alcohol. 

68-9 (Chattaway), 
mean of 23 sam- 
ples 

69-6 (Umney) 
69-8 (M. and P.) 
68-9 

69-0 (Fletcher) 
68-9 (H. andH.) 



893 (Fletcher) 
891 to -893 (H. 

and H.) 
890 to -892 (H. 

W. Jones) 
892 to -893 

(Caines) 
890 (Umney) 
892 (Gadd) 

If 2 c.c. are evaporated on a water-bath and tested 
with H 2 S0 4 (80 per cent.), the colour will be partly 
reddish, but streaks of green should be distinctly 
visible ; the green colour is, however, transient. If the 
colour yielded is wholly red without any green the 
sample should be condemned. 

See Moor and Priest (Analyst, xxvi. 33) for results 
yielded by a number of commercial tinctures. 

J. Barclay (P. J., December 17, 1898) proposes -3 per 
cent, of strophanthin as a standard. He gives (loc. cit.) 
a process for its estimation. 

Sulphur. 

The British Pharmacopoeia describes precipitated sul 
phur and sublimed sulphur. 

Description. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulteration. In the case of precipitated sulphur cal- 
cium sulphate is occasionally found, or sublimed sulphur 
may be substituted for precipitated sulphur. 

Standard. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires not more than 



240 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

1 per cent, of ash, and gives a test for freedom from 
arsenic. 

References. Norman \ Leonard (Analyst, xxvi. 319) 
points out that samples of sublimed sulphur usually are 
slightly acid. 

Foreign sublimed sulphur frequently yields acid when 
washed with water. 

Remarks. The milk of sulphur of commerce differs 
from the sulphur precipitate of the British Pharma- 
copoeia in being precipitated with sulphuric acid, and 
therefore containing a very large percentage of calcium 
sulphate 

Sumbul Radix. 

Definition. " The dried transverse slices of the root of 
Ferula Sumbul" (B.P.). 

Description. As in the British Pharmacopoeia. 

References. P. H. Utech (T. B. P., 1894, p. 176) found 
6 per cent, of resin in sumbul root, and describes its re- 
actions. 

A sample of sumbul root examined by C. G. Moor gave 
5-6 per cent, of ash. 

J. H. Hahn (abst., Analyst, xxi. 265) obtained 17-25 per 
cent, of fixed oil from sumbul root by exhaustion with 
petroleum benzine, 

E. M. Holmes (P. /., iv. 1896, 347) draws attention 
to the inferior quality of sumbul root in commerce at 
that date. 

Tinctura Sumbul. 

Preparation. Sumbul root (bruised) 100 grammes, 
alcohol 70 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by perco- 
lation. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



241 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
898 (Barclay) 
893 (Caines) 
898 (M. and P.) 
904 (Fletcher) 
900 to -902 (H. 

and H.) 
900 (Umney) 
899 (H. W. 

Jones). 
894 (Gadd) 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
2-5 per cent.* 
2-25 (M. and P.) 
2-8 

2-2 (Fletcher) 
2-8 (H.W.Jones) 
2-9 (H. and H.) 
2-5 (Gadd) 
2-7 (Partridge) 



Alcohol. 

67-7 (Chattaway), 
mean of 3 sam- 
ples 

70-0 (Stead) 
68-4 (M. and P.) 
65-2 (Fletcher) 
68-8 (Gadd) 



(Sugar Refined Sugar). 

Definition. "A crystallized sugar (C 12 H 22 O n ) obtained 
from the juice of the sugar-cane " (B.P.). 

Description. " Colourless and inodorous separate 
crystals. Eeadily and completely soluble in half its 
weight of water, forming a clear bright syrup " (B.P.). 

Standard. Glucose not to exceed traces (B.P.). 

Chlorides, sulphates, and calcium salts must be 
absent (B.P.). 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires the absence of 
acidity, heavy metals, chlorides, sulphates and calcium 
compounds, also -5 gramme must not yield any weighable 
ash. 

Adulteration. The substitution of one sugar for 
another, dyes, essences. 

Remarks. Retailers should be required to label all 
sugar clearly, as most, if not all, purchasers desire cane- 
sugar to be supplied ; and if they are given beet-sugar 
they do not get what they expected. 

It is hardly possible to distinguish analytically between 
the various kinds of sugar namely, cane, beet, maple, 
and sorghum sugar but action could be taken under 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 

16 



242 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

the Merchandise Marks Act in the case of a sugar falsely 
described. 



(Sweet Spirit of Nitre Spiritus Athens Nitrosi). 

Definition. " An alcoholic solution containing ethyl 
nitrite, aldehyde, and other substances." 

Preparation. See British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulteration. Water, deficiency in alcohol, nitrous 
ether, methyl alcohol. 

Standard. Specific gravity at 15 '5 C. from -838 to 
842 (B.P.). 

An acid solution of ferrous sulphate gives a deep olive- 
brown ring with spirit of nitrous ether in a test-tube 
(B.P.). 

Ten c.c. with 5 c.c. of normal soda and 5 c.c. of water 
should not become brown on standing for twelve hours 
(B.P.). 

Shaken with sodium carbonate solution, it should not 
produce more than a very feeble effervescence (B.P.). 

Tested in a nitrometer according to the official direc- 
tions, it should yield when freshly prepared between 
6'25 and 7 volumes of nitric oxide, and even after keep- 
ing it should yield not much less than five times its 
volume of the gas, corresponding to nearly 2 per cent, 
by weight of ethyl nitrite, or a minimum of 1'75 per cent. 
(B.P.). 

Remarks. A sweet spirit of nitre is sold having a 
gravity of -850. If it is considered necessary to stock 
this it should be clearly labelled Not British Pkarma- 
copmia, and the yield of gas should be stated. 

In winter the sale of sweet spirits of nitre is much 
more rapid than in summer, and the tendency to decom- 
pose is less. Several samples examined by C. G. Moor 
from 1 pound and | pound bottles opened a certain 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 243 

number of times in the ordinary course of business 
showed very much lower yields of gas than the British 
Pharmacopoeia minimum. In fact, when the drug is 
sold in small quantities (as it usually is), it is impossible 
to keep it up to the British Pharmacopoeia requirements 
as regards yield of gas. The only way in which this 
drug can be dispensed at proper strength by retailers is 
for them to obtain it at the full strength (7 volumes) and 
dispense it from 4-ounce bottles only. 

See a paper by Farr and Wright (T. B. P., 1901, p. 447) 
on the causes of loss of strength on keeping. 

Taraxaci Radix. 

Definition. The fresh and dried roots of Taraxacum 
officinale. Collected in the autumn. 

Ash. 

5-7 per cent. (Nat. Dispensatory). 

References. Sayre (A. J. P., 1895, 465; 1896, 518, 
and 1897, 543). 

Extractum Taraxaci Liq. 

For preparation see British Pharmacopeia. 

Specific Gravity. Total Solids. Alcohol. Observer. 

1-046 22-7 M. and P. 

1-039 16-0 26-2 

1-054 19-9 24-4 

1-052 19-6 Bascombe. 

25-6 Gadd. 

22-9 Partridge. 

Tea. 

Definition. " The dried leaves of the Thea Sinensis." 
Adulterations. Exhausted leaves, foreign leaves, 
mineral matter, " facing." 

162 



244 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Standard 

Water should not exceed 8 per cent. 
Total ash is usually from 4 - 8 to 7 per cent. 
Soluble ash ... ... 2-8 to 4 

Soluble ash as KjO ... 1-3 to 2 

After being dried at 100 C., tea should yield between 
35 and 40 per cent, of matter soluble in hot water. 

References. Allen, "(7. 0. A." vol. iii., part ii.; "Aids," 
2nd edit., p. 74. 

Remarks. In the Canadian Government " Instruc- 
tions to Analysts," G. 120 (1884), the minimum total ash 
in tea is laid down as 5*75 per cent, and the soluble ash 
as 3 per cent., but Macfarlane (Bulletin 24, 1891) states 
that he considers the limit for total ash somewhat too 
high. 

Tolu Balsam. 

Definition. " A balsam obtained by making incisions 
in the trunk of Myroxylon Toluifera" (B.P.). 

Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Adulterations. Gurgun balsam, copaiba, resin. 

Standard. It is soluble in 90 per cent, alcohol, and 
the solution is acid (B.P.). 

If 5 grammes are gently warmed with two successive 
portions of 25 and 10 c.c. of carbon bisulphide, the 
solution should yield when evaporated to dryness a dis- 
tinctly crystalline residue, which should require not less 
than one third of its weight of caustic potash for its 
saponincation (presence of a sufficient proportion of 
benzoates and cinnamates). 

The British Pharmacopoeia fails to state what per- 
centage of the balsam should be dissolved by carbon 
disulphide. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires that if 1 gramme be dissolved 
in 50 c.c. of 90 per cent, alcohol, not more than 4 c.c., and not less 
than 6 c.c., of ^ KHO shall be required to make the mixture neutral 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 245 

to phenolphthalein, and that when a total quantity of 20 c.c. of ^ KHO 
has been added and the mixture saponified for thirty minutes on the 
water-bath, and titrated with g HC1, not less than l3'2 c.c., and not 
more than 14 '5 c.c., shall be required. 

Three samples examined by C. G. Moor gave the 
following results : 

CS 2 solution residue -357, -662, -831 gramme. 
KOH required for 

saponification ... -12, -25, -27 gramme. 

J. O. Braithwaite (Pharm. Journ., 1895, ii. 145) gives 
figures on a number of genuine and adulterated samples 
of Tolu balsam. 

The same author (Pharm. Journ., 1897, i. 307) stated 
that owing to the high price the balsam was adulterated 
with another resin. 

Dietrich (C. and D., 1898, ii. 130) suggests that the 
acid number might be inserted in the British Pharma- 
copoeia. 

J. Spilsbury and T. G. Joyce (P. /., 1900) point out 
that the official test, while it is sufficient to distin- 
guish between spurious and genuine Tolu balsams, does 
not exclude exhausted balsam which has been treated 
with water. They incline to the adoption of a standard 
of about 18 per cent, of cinnamic acid, 

Tinctura Tolutana. 

Preparation. Tolu balsam 100 grammes, alcohol 
90 per cent, to make 1 litre. Prepared by maceration 
and percolation. 

Specific Gravity Total Solids, Alpnlml 

at 15-5 C. Grammes per 100 c.c. 

867 (Lucas) 8'3 (M. and P.) 81-8 (Stead) 

860 (Barclay) 9'2 (Fletcher) 81 "0 (P. and M.) 

867 (P. and M.) 94 (M. and P.) 81-8 (Chattaway), 

864 (Caines) 10 - 3 ,, mean of 5 sain 

pies 



2 4 6 



SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 

8-1 to 8-9 (H. W. 

Jones) 
7-9 (H. and H.) 

8-3 
8-1 
7-7 (Gadd) 



Alcohol. 

804 (Umney) 
82-0 (Fletcher) 
81-2 (M. and P.) 
8-9 



Specific Gravity at 

15-5 C. 

868 (Gladwyn) 
866 to -869 (H. 

and H.) 
868 (Fletcher) 
868 (M. and P.) 
871 

866 (Umney) 
864 to -867 (H. 

W. Jones) 

J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., December 17, 1898) suggests 
2 per cent, of benzole and cinnamic acids as a standard. 

Uvse Ursi Folia (Bearberry). 

Definition. The dried leaves of Arctostaphylos Uva- 
ursi. 

Characters. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 

Ash. Observer. 

3-5, 3-2, 3-7, 4-5 Moor. 



Valerianae Rhizoma. 

Definition. "The dried erect rhizome and roots of 
Valeriana officinalis, collected in the autumn "* (B.P.). 
Description. As in British Pharmacopoeia. 
Standard 

Water, about ... ... 10 per cent. 

Ash, about ... ... ... 9 ,, 



Ash. 
8-6f 

13-7, 15-1, 19-5 
29-0, 8-Of ... 



Observer. 
Gladwyn. 
Moor. 
Priest. 



Two foreign valerians are described (Pharm. Journ., 
1892, 262, and 1893, 81). 

* The words " cleaned from adhering dirt " should be added, 
t Cleaned by beating. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 



24? 



Good samples should contain about 1-0 per cent, of 
volatile oil. 

Tinetura Valerianae Amm. 

Preparation. Valerian rhizome in No. 40 powder 
200 grammes, oil of nutmeg 3'1 c.c., oil of lemon 2'1 c.c., 
solution of ammonia 100 c.c., alcohol 60 per cent. 900 c.c. 
Prepared by maceration after admixture of the liquids. 



Total Solids, 
Grammes per 100 c.c. 
3'0 per cent.* 
4-35 (M. and P.) 
3-87 (Moor) 
2-5 (M. and P.) 
3-0 
3-4 

4-0 (Gladwyn) 
2-5 (Fletcher) 
3-5-3-7 (H. W. 

Jones) 

3-0 (H. and H.) 
2-9 
3-3 (Gadd) 



Alcohol. 

51-4 (Stead) - 
54-2 (P. and M.) 
52-8 (Chattaway), 
mean of 16 sam- 
ples 

53-6 (Umney) 
52-8 (M. and P.) 
56-5 
52'7 

51-8 (Fletcher) 
53-9 (H. and H.) 
50-7 (Gadd) 



Specific Gravity 

at 15-5 C. 
936 (Lucas) 
942 (Barclay) 
936 (P. and M.) 
940 (Caines) 
938 (Gladwyn) 
935 (Moor) 
935 (M. and P.) 
935 
932 

932 (Gladwyn) 
937 (Fletcher) 
934--940 (H. 

and H.) 
940--942 (H. W. 

Jones) 
939 (Umney) 
936 (Gadd) 

Vinegar. 

Definition. The product of the alcoholic and acetous 
fermentation of a vegetable juice or infusion. 

Adulterations. The addition of acetic acid from other 
sources,, deficiency of acetic acid, the addition of sul- 
phuric acid. 

Standard. The acetic acid should not be less than 
3'0 per cent. (P. A. Standards Committee). t 

* Proposed as a standard by J. Barclay (Pharm. Journ., Decem- 
ber 17, 1898). 

f This is a very low standard ; it would be better to raise it to 
5 per cent. 



248 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

The total solids in a genuine brewed vinegar are 
seldom less than 2-5 per cent., and contain phosphoric 
acid and nitrogenous matter.* 

The ash of a genuine brewed vinegar is seldom less 
than 0'4 per cent, (except in wine vinegar). 

Added sulphuric acid causes the total solids to become 
black when evaporated to dryness. 

Remarks. It has been proposed to test for tar-acids 
in vinegar with the expectation of detecting acetic acid 
from the distillation of wood. This is not likely to be 
of service, since if an acetic acid were used, it is easy 
to obtain acetic acid entirely free from such impurities 
at a very low price. 

The limit of acetic acid fixed by the P. A. Standards 
Committee is too low, and should be raised to 4 per 
cent. 

Owing to waters containing sulphates being used in 
vinegar-making, some analysts have reported vinegars as 
containing added sulphuric acid when no such addition 
had been made. 

Before one can be certain that sulphuric acid has 
been added, it must be ascertained that there is more 
sulphuric acid present than the mineral bases could have 
been combined with. 

The Massachusetts statute requires 4 '5 per cent, by 
weight of absolute acetic acid in apple or cider vinegar 
and 2 per cent, of total solids. 

The German Pharmacopoeia requires that vinegar 
shall contain not less than 6 per cent, of acetic acid, and 
by means of certain specified tests excludes more than 
small amounts of sulphates and chlorides. 

* Vinegar may also be made by the acetous fermentation of alcohol. 
This is a true vinegar ; it will not contain any extractive, except pos- 
sibly some added colouring matter. It is chiedy used on the Continent. 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 249 

Malt Vinegar. 

Definition. A vinegar prepared from malt and un- 
malted barley, the mixture containing not less than 
one-third malt (Moor). 

Adulterations. The addition of acetic acid from other 
sources, deficiency of acetic acid, and the addition of 
sulphuric acid. 

Standard. The acetic acid should not be less than 
3-0 per cent.* 

The total solids in a genuine malt vinegar bear a 
proportion to the amount of acetic acid. Thus, in one 
of the higher strength vinegars containing 5*5 per cent, 
of acetic acid there will be about 2'5 per cent, of total 
solids, which will yield about one-fifth of its weight of 
ash, and in such a vinegar there will be about 0*08 per 
cent, of phosphoric acid (as P 2 O 5 ), and if no process has 
been employed for its removal there will be about 0-08 per 
cent, of nitrogen (as N), but as it is the custom among 
some makers to precipitate out part of this by means of 
potassium ferrocyanide, with the object of securing the 
better keeping of the finished article, this figure is not 
of such importance as that of the phosphates. 

References. Several papers on malt vinegar will be 
found in the Analyst during 1893 and 1894. 

Remarks. Eegarding sulphuric acid in malt vinegar, 
see under " Vinegar." 

Wine Vinegar. 

Definition. A vinegar prepared from wine. 

Adulteration. The addition of acetic acid from other 
sources, or the entire substitution of acetic acid not 
derived from wine. 

Standard. The acetic acid should be about 6-0 per 
cent. 

* See foot-note (f) on page 247. 



250 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

The total solids should be not less than 1-0 per cent. 

The ash should be not less than 0'25 per cent. 

References. A. H. Allen (Pharm. Journ., 1896, ii. 104) 
gives results on fourteen samples, and states that genuine 
wine vinegar always contains acid potassium tartrate. 

Remarks. Although much of the " white wine 
vinegar " of commerce is not genuine, it is quite possible 
to obtain the real article, and if there is a demand for 
the fictitious article it should be plainly labelled as being 
an artificial product. 

K. Farnsteiner (abst., Analyst. 1899, 151) gives figures 
on genuine wine-vinegars. 



Waters (Aerated). 

Definition. Water impregnated with carbonic acid gas 
under pressure. 

Adulteration. Deficiency of salts supposed to be 
present. 

Standard. Aerated waters must be free from lead, 
and the water employed must be organically pure. 

A clear statement as to the contents should be binding 
on the vendor. 

Effervescing soda, potash, and lithia waters were 
official in the 1885 British Pharmacopoeia, but are now 
omitted. 

Eemarks. There have been prosecutions from time to 
time for the sale of soda and potash waters deficient in 
these salts. 

The term " soda-water" is now so universally applied 
to a plain aerated water that the absence of sodium 
carbonate (unless stated to be present) can hardly be 
regarded as a fraud ; but this is not quite the case with 
potash water, and it would be best for makers to state 
plainly on the label what salts are present and their 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 251 

quantities. The carbonic acid gas should amount to at 
least 2-5 times the volume of the liquid, and should be 
free from oxides of nitrogen and contain not more than 
5 (?) per cent, of air. 

Whisky. 

Definition. The United States Pharmacopoeia defines 
whisky as " An alcoholic liquid obtained by the distilla- 
tion of the mash of fermented grain (usually of mixtures 
of corn, wheat and rye), and at least two years old." 

Description. The United States Pharmacopoeia de- 
scribes whisky as "An amber coloured liquid having 
a distinctive odour and taste and a slightly acid re- 
action." 

Standard. The United States Pharmacopoeia states 
that the specific gravity should fall between -930 and 
917, that the total solids should not exceed -25 gramme 
per 100 c.c., and that the last traces during evaporation 
should not have a harsh or disagreeable odour, the 
residue should not contain added sugar, glycerine, or 
aromatic substances, and should dissolve almost com- 
pletely in 10 c.c. of cold water, and on testing with a 
few drops of ferric chloride should yield only a light 
green tint, showing absence of more than traces of oak 
tannin from casks. Also that 100 c.c. should be rendered 
distinctly alkaline to litmus by the addition of 1-2 c.c. of 
normal solution of caustic potash. 

The general remarks under brandy are also applicable 
to whisky. 

The Wines of the British Pharmacopoeia. 

There are eight wines in the present British Pharma- 
copoeia, namely : 

Antimonial Wine. Prepared by adding together 



252 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

tartarated antimony 4 grammes, distilled water 44 c.c., 
sherry to make 875 c.c. 

Colchieum Wine. Prepared by macerating 200 
grammes of colchicum corrns (in No. 20 powder) in 
1,000 c.c. of sherry. 

Iron Wine. Prepared by digesting 50 grammes of 
iron wire in a closed vessel, the iron wire being almost, 
but not quite, immersed in the liquid, the vessel being 
frequently shaken; the whole operation is to occupy 
thirty days. 

Remarks. As pointed out by Squire, the amount of 
iron in the wine so prepared is dependent almost entirely 
on the acidity of the sherry. The preparation should be 
made in a less cumbrous manner, and either standardized 
or omitted from the British Pharmacopoeia. 

J. A. Forret (P. J., 3, xxi. 640) examined 10 samples 
of vinum ferri and found very varying amounts of iron. 
He also states that the wine ceases to take up iron after 
21 days and that a deposition is liable to occur. 

Wine Of Iron Citrate. Prepared by dissolving 18-3 
grammes of iron and ammonium citrate in orange wine, 
and making up to 1,000 c.c., agitating occasionally for 
three days, and filtering. 

Orange Wine (Vinum Aurantii). Definition. 
" Wine made by the fermentation of a saccharine 
solution to which bitter orange peel has been added " 
(B.P.). 

Description. " A vinous liquid, having a golden sherry 
colour, and a taste and aroma derived from the bitter 
orange peel " (B.P.). 

Standard. Alcohol should be between 10 and 12 per 
cent, by volume (B.P.). 

It is but slightly acid to test paper (B.P.). 

Salicylic acid must be absent (see test under " Sherry' 5 ) 
(B.P.). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 253 

It should not yield more than the slightest reactions 
with the tests for sulphites (B.P.). 

The following results were obtained by C. G. Moor : 

Specific Gravity. Solids. ^t^ 

1-064 ... 19-6 ... 12-5 
Three samples examined by F. C. J. Bird gave the 
following results : 

Specific Gravity. Solids. ^^^ 

1-063 ... 18-5 ... 12-9 
1-046 ... 14-7 ... 13-4 
1-016 ... 7-3 ... 14-8 

Remarks. The British Pharmacopoeia omits to give 
any direction as to the quantity of peel that should be 
employed, and no indication is given as to the total 
solids that should be present. These vary in good 
samples between 16 and 20 per cent. 

In wines in which a fair quantity of peel was used 
tannin will be found in quantity sufficient to give a pre- 
cipitate with quinine, and possibly other alkaloids. 
Tannin may also be derived from the barrel in which the 
wine is received from the original maker. 

Inferior samples may contain little or no tannin, and 
possibly consist of an admixture of sugar, potato spirit, 
and essence of orange. A genuine wine (unless detan- 
nated) will give a distinct reaction for tannin. 

The remarks on detannating by means of gelatine 
under " sherry " apply equally to orange wine. 

The quantity of orange-peel should be fixed. 

(Ipecacuanha Wine, Quinine Wine, and Sherry have 
been already dealt with.) 

Wine. 

Definition. The fermented juice of the grape, with or 
without the addition of alcohol. 



254 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

Adulterations. The addition of water, preservatives, 
colouring matters, fruit juice, and sugars. 

Standard. The British Pharmacopoeia gives standards 
for sherry and orange wine (q.v.). 

The United States Pharmacopoeia gives standards for 
red wine and white wine for use in pharmaceutical 
preparations. 

The Paris Municipal Laboratory has certain require- 
ments for all wines not sold under special descriptions, 
and the German Commission laid down certain ratios 
between the various constituents which should charac- 
terize genuine wines. 

E. Borgman also gives figures representing the ratios 
in much the same way as the German Commission. 

All the above are to be found on page 131, 2nd edition 
"Aids" (P. and M.). 

Remarks. It will be seen on careful consideration 
that we are not in a position to pronounce with any 
certainty on the genuineness or otherwise of a sample 
of wine. The method of selling wines under a Govern- 
ment guarantee of purity is to be commended, such as is 
now done in the case of certain South Australian wines. 

The definition and tests given by the United States 
Pharmacopoeia are as follows : 

Both red and white wines are defined as " Alcoholic 
liquids made by fermenting the juice of fresh grapes, 
the fruit of the Vitis vinifera " (in the case of the red 
wine the fermentation is carried out in presence of the 
skins). 

Red Wine. White Wine. 

Specific gravity at 15-5 C. -989-1-010 -990-1-010 
Total solids 1 '6-3-5% 1-5-3-0% 

Free Acid. Fifty c.c. of red or white wine should 
require from 3 to 5'2 c.c. of normal potash (using phenol- 
phthalein as indicator). 



FOR FOODS AND DRUGS 255 

Alcohol in both wines is to be from 10 to 14 per cent, 
by weight of absolute alcohol. 

A test to indicate the presence of tannic acid is 
included. 

Artificial Colouring Matters. These are prohibited, 
and various tests are described for their detection in 
red wine. 

Macfarlane (Bulletin, 38, June, 1894) describes the 
main provisions of the French Law of 1889 as follows : 

"1. It is forbidden to sell, ship, send, or offer for sale 
under the name of ' wine ' anything else than the pro- 
duct of the fermentation of fresh grapes. 

"2. The product of the fermentation of the' marc,' 
or murk (residual skins, seeds, stalks, etc.), of fresh 
grapes with water, with or without the addition of 
sugar, and also the mixtures of the product with wine 
in any proportion, shall not be shipped, sent, sold, or 
offered for sale, unless under the name of ' murk wine ' 
or ' sugar wine.' 

" 3. The product of the fermentation of dried grapes 
with water shall only be sold, shipped, or offered for 
sale under the name of ' vin de raisins sec.' This pro- 
vision applies to any blends of this product with true 
wine in any proportion. 

" 4. The barrels and vessels which contain ' sugar 
wine ' or ' raisin wine ' must be marked with these 
names in large characters. 

" 5. The papers and permits used for, or which 
accompany, shipments of wine, sugar wine, or raisin 
wine, must be of different colours. 

"6. If the fermentation product or distillation product 
of wheat, rice, barley, or any other material is added to 
wine, sugar wine, or raisin wine, this is to be regarded 
as an adulteration of food." 

E. J. Millard (Pharm. Journ., 1887, 856) gives figures 



256 SUGGESTED STANDARDS OF PURITY 

on three samples of so-called unfermented wines used 
for sacramental purposes. 

The German Pharmacopeia requires that the propor- 
tion of sulphuric acid in wine shall not exceed '2 per 
cent, calculated as H 2 SO 4 . Sherry and other Southern 
wines, such as Madeira, Marsala, etc., shall not contain 
less than 11 or more than 16 per cent, of alcohol, and 
not more than 8 per cent, of extractive matters. 



INDEX 



ACACLE gummi, 17 
Acidum citricum, 94 
Aconiti radix, 19 

,, linimentum, 22 

,, tinctura, 23 
Adeps lanse, 24 
Almond oil, 25 
Aloes, Barbadensis, 26 

Socotrina, 28 

extractum, 29 

tinctura, 31 
Ammoniacum, 31 
Anethi fructus, 32 

,, oleum, 33 
Anisi fructus, 33 

,, oleum, 34 
Anthem idis flores, 35 

,, extractum, 36 

,, oleum, 36 

Araroba, 37 
Arnicse rhizoma, 39 

,, tinctura, 39 
Aromatic spirit of ammonia, 38 
Aeafoetida, 40 

,, tinctura, 42 
Aurantii cortex, 43 
,, tinctura, 43 
,, vinum, 252 

Baking-powder, 44 
Balsamum Peruvianum, 206 

Tolutanum, 244 
Bees'-wax, 45 
Belladonna radix, 45 
Belladonnse emplastrum, 52 

extractum alcoholi- 

cum, 49 

Belladonnas extractum liquidum, 
47 



Belladonnas viride, 50 

linimentum, 52 

,, tinctura, 51 

,, unguentum, 52 

Benzoinum, 53 

,, tinctura, 55 

Brandy, 56 

Bread, 58 

Buchu Folia, 59 

Buchu tincture, 60 

Butter, 60 

Bynes extractum, 182 

Cacao butter, 104 
Calcis liquor, 174 
Calumbse radix, 62 

,, tinct., 63 
Cambogia, 63 
Camphor, 64 
Camph. co. tinct., 65 
Cannabis Indica, 66 
Cannabis Indicse extractum, 66 

,, ,, tinctura, 66 

Cantharides, 67 
Cantharidis, acetum, 69 

,, tinct., 70 

Caper tea, 71 
Capsici tinctura, 81 
Capsicum, 80 
Caraway, 71 

oil, 72 

Carbolic powder, 74 
Carbo ligni, 83 
Cardamom i semina, 74 

,, tinctura, 77 

Caryophyllum, 98 
Caryophylli oleum 99 
Cascara Sagrada, 78 
Cascarse Sagradse extractum, 78 

17 



2 5 8 



INDEX 



Cascarae Sagradae liquidum, 78 
Cascarillae cortex, 83 

,, tinctura, 83 
Cassiae pulpa, 78 
Castor-oil, 79 
Catechu, 84 

,, tinctura, 83 
Cayenne pepper, 80 
Cera alba, 45 
Cheese, 85 
Chicory, 87 
Chirata, 86 

,, tinctura, 86 
Chloride of lime, 87 
Chloroformi et morphinae tinctura, 

88 
Cimicifugae ihizoma, 89 

,, extractum Hquiduin, 

89 

,, tinctura, 89 
Cinchonas rubrae cortex, 90 

,, extractum liquidum, 90 
,, tinctura, 91 
Cinnamomi cortex, 92 
,, oleum, 94 

,, tinctura, 95 

Citrate of iron and quinine, 97 
Citric acid, 95 
Cloves, 98 
Clove-oil, 99 
Cocae folia, 100 

extractum liquidum, 101 
Coca wine, 101 
Cocci tinctura, 107 
Coccus, 105 
Cochineal 105 
Cocoa, 103 
Cocoa butter, 104 
Cod-liver-oil, 107 
Coffee, 109 

,, extract, 110 
Colchici seminae, 111 

,, seminum tinctura, 111 
Colocynthidis pulpa, 112 
Condensed milk, 114 
Conii fructus, 115 
,, tinctura, 116 
Copaiba, 117 
Copaibae oleum, 118 
Copper in foods, 119 
Coriandri fructus, 121 
,, oleum, 122 



Com flour, 121 
Cream, 122 
Croci tinctura, 224 
Crocus, 222 
Crotonis oleum, 123 
Cubebse fructus, 122 

,, oleum, 124 

,, tinctura, 125 
Cuspariae cortex, 125 

Digitalis folia, 125 
,, tinctura, 126 

Ergota, 126 

,, extractum liquidum, 129 

tinctura, 128 
Eucalyptus oleum, 129 
Euonymi cortex, 130 

,, ext. siccum, 130 

Fennel fruit, 132 

Ferri et quininae citras, 97 

,, perchloridi tinctura, 131 

,, vinum, 252 
Filicis, ext. liquidum. 133 
Filix mas, 133 
Flour, 134 

Gelsemii radix, 134 

,, tinctura, 135 
Gentianae radix, 136 

,, tinctura, 136 
Gin, 137 
Ginger, 137 
Glycyrrhizae radix, 140 

,, extractum liquidum, 

140 

Granati cortex, 141 
Gregory's powder, 141 
Guaiaci resina, 142 
,, tinctura, 143 

Hamarnelidis cortex, 143 

,, extractum liquidum, 

144 

,, folia, 144 

,, tinctura, 144 

Honey, 145 

Humanized milk, 146 

Hydrastis rhizoma, 146 

extractumliquidum,147 

Hydratis tinctura, 148 



INDEX 



259 



Hyoscyami folia, 148 

,, tinctura, 149 

,, ext. viride, 149 

Ice-cream and ices, 150 

Infants' foods, 151 

lodi tinctura, 151 

Ipecacuanhas radix, 152 
,, acetum, 154 

,, extractum liquid um, 

155 
,, vinum, 156 

Jaborandi folia, 157 

extractum liquidum, 

159 

,, tinctura, 158 
Jalapa, 160 

5/ extractum, 161 
,, resina, 162 
tinctura, 162 
Jam, 163 
Juniperi oleum, 165 

Kino, 166 

,, tinctura, 167 
Kramerise radix, 168 
,, tincture, 168 

Lard, 168 

Lavandulse tinctura, 169 

,, oleum, 170 

Lead in foods, 171 
Lime- and lemon-juice, 171 
Lime-water, 174 
Limonis oleum, 173 

,, tinctura, 174 
Lini oleum, 176 
Linimentum camphorse, 64 

,, saponis, 175 
Linseed, 175 

Liquor Picis Carbonis, 208 
Liquorice, 176 
Liquorice powder, 179 
Lobelia, 180 
Lobelise tinctura. 180 
Lupulinum, 181 
Lupulus, 181 

,, tinctura, 182 

Mace, 182 

Malt extract, 183 



i Malt extract and cod - liver oil, 

185 
I Meat preparations, 188, 189 

Mel depuratum. See Honey 

Menthse pip. oleum, 185 
,, viridis oleum, 186 

Mezerei cortex, 187 

Milk, 189 

Milk-sugar, 187 

Morrhuae oleum, 107 

Mustard, 190 

oil, 226 

Myristica, 196 

Myristicss oleum, 196 

Myrrha, 191 

Myrrhee tinctura, 193 

Nutmeg, 196 
Nux vomica, 193 

extractum liquidum, 

194 

tincture, 195 

Oatmeal, 197 
Olive-oil, 197 
Opii, extractum liquidum, 200 

,, tincture, 200 
Opium, 198 

Pareira radix, 202 

Pareirse extractum liquidum, 203 

Pepper, 203 

Pepsinum, 205 

Peru balsam, 206 

Physostigmatis semina, 207 

Pimenta, 208 

Pimentse oleum, 209 

Pini oleum, 210 

Piper nigrum, 203 

Podophyllise rhizoma, 210 
,, resina, 210 

,, tinctura, 212 

Port. See Wine 

Potassii bromidum, 212 

Preservatives, 213 

Pruni Virginianse cortex, 214 
tinctura, 214 

Pyrethri radix, 215 
,, tinctura, 215 

Quassiee lignum, 215 
,, tinctura, 216 

172 



260 



INDEX 



Quillaiae cortex, 216 

tinctura, 217 
Quininae tinctura, 217 

tinct. ammoniata, 217 

,, vinum, 218 

Rhei radix, 219 

extractum, 219 

,, liquor cone., 219 

tinctura, 219 
Ross?, oleum, 220 
Rosmarini oleum. 221 
Ram, 221 

Saccharum lactis, 187 

,, purificatnm, 239 

Saffron, 222 

Sambuci flores, 224 

Santali oleum, 224 

Sarsse radix, 226 

,, liquor co. cone., 226 
extractum liquidum, 227 

Scammoniae radix, 227 
,, resina, 227 

Scammonium, 228 

Scilla, 229 

Scillse, acetum, 229 
,, tinctura, 230 

Scoparii cacumina, 227 

Seidlitz-powders, 231 

Senegae radix, 231 

,, liquor cone., 232 
tinctura, 232 

Senna, 233 

Sennae tinctura co, 233 

Serpentaria rhizoma, 234 
,, tinctura, 234 

Sherry, 235 

Starch, 236 



Stramonii folia, 236 

semina, 237 

,, tinctura, 237 
Strophanthi semina. 238 

,, tinctura, 230 

Sugar, 241 
Sulphur, 239 
Sumbul radix, 240 

,, tinctura, 240 
Sweet spirit of nitre, 242 

Taraxici radix, 243 

,, extractum liquidum, 243 
Tea, 243 

Tolu balsam, 244 
Tolutana tinctura, 245 

Uvae ursi folia, 246 

Valerian ee rhizoma, 246 
,, tinctura, 247 
Vinegar, 247 

malt, 249 
wine, 249 
Vinum antimonii, 249 
aurantii, 252 
colchici, 252 
ferri, 252 
ferri citratis, 252 
ipecacuanhas, 156 
quininae, 218 
zericum, 235 

Waters, aerated, 250 
Whisky, 251 
Wine, 253 

Zingiber, 137 
Zingiberis tinctura. 140 



Price 5.s. 



CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL 
EXAMINATION OF WATER. 

BY 

T. H. PEARMAIN and C. G. MOOR, M.A. 

IPIRIESS nSTOTICES. 

British Medical Journal. 

" A serious gap iu the literature of practical hygiene has been filled by the 
publication of this volume. Of the books which have hitherto been accessible to 
students and practitioners it may fairly be said that none have exactly supplied 
the every day wants of the practical investigator. They have either been of a 
purely chemical and descriptive nature, or else have dealt with the subject from 
an academical point of view. The volume before us has the advantage of hitting 
the happy medium between these two classes of treatises, for on one hand it 
contains in sufficient detail for practical work descriptions of all the chemical and 
bacteriological processes likely to be required iu routine practice, and on the 
other hand it devotes a large amount of space to criticism of existing methods, 
and to the all-important subject of the interpretation of results." 

Medical Press and Circular. 

" Over fifty pages of ihe book before us are taken up with the consideration of 
the bacteriology of water. It is very concisely and tersely put, and the authors 
run on an even keel as regards the rather controversial questions conuecttd with 
bacteriological water analysis. We think they have done it full justice, without 
attaching undue valuj to its practical bearing. They do not underrate the patho- 
logical value of the science as applied to such an important food as water, but it 
is quite clear that the authors have a grasp of the subject upon which tljey are 
writing. This part of the work is exceedingly well written, and will be found of 
immense use to students of sanitary science." 

Journal of State Medicine. 

"The chapters devoted to the physical examination of waters and the micro- 
sc.ipic examination of suspended matters are the best in the book, and these 
alone, being amply illustrated, impart a considerable value to the work. The 
section devoted to the bacteriological examination of water is eminently practical, 
and contains a very judicious selection of processes, and the conclusions to be 
drawn from a bacteriological examination are fairly stated. The final chapters 
deal with the law relating to water supply and aerated table waters. The work is 
clearly written, and the processes described lucidly and succinctly. Altogether 
it is the most practical and useful work on the subject which has appeared during 
recent years." 

Journal of Tropical Medicine. 

" We have read with much pleasure this second part of Messrs. Pearmain and 
Moor's book on ' The Analysis of Food and Drugs.' It deals with the chemical 
and biological analysis of water, and does so in a very lucid and concise manner." 

Daily Chronicle. 

" The book may be safely recommended to those who wish to have an intelligent 
understanding of the subject of water analysis. H is not overburdened with 
technical details, but yet is sufficiently full for all practical purposes. At the 
same time it is fairly complete, well and clearly written, and not too expensive." 



LONDON : BAILLIERE, TINDALL & COX, 

8, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN, 



Demy 8vo., pp. 140. Price 5s. net. 

MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS. 

BY 

T. H. PEARMAIN and C. G. MOOR, M.A. (Cantab.). 



British Medical Journal, March 12, 1898. 

" The book is written in a very concise style, and appears to contain accounts 
of all the processes likely to be required in ordinary work. It presents several 
novel characters. Thus, statistics are given of the numbers of samples of many 
articles examined by public analysts during the last few years, and of the number 
reported as adulterated. An excellent example is set by the authors in giving 
standards to which milk, cream, butter, and cheese should in their opinion 
conform. . . . The book embodies a considerable amount of material which is the 
personal work of the authors, notably in the case of condensed milk and cheese. . . . 
The present volume promises well for the rest of the series, and if the following 
parts come up to the same standard, the completed work will form a very 
valuable addition to the literature of food analysis." 

The Dairy World, October 16, 1897. 

' The work as a whole, as its generic title suggests, is primarily intended for 
analytical chemists who have to do with food questions ; but there is also in it a 
good deal of sound and useful information that will be useful to progressive dairy 
farmers, to dealers in milk, and to students who seek to master the science of the 
dairy. The authors declare in favour of a ' formulation of standards to which 
foods should conform,' and express an opinun to the effect that such standards 
would be generally productive of good." 

Sanitary Record, September IT, 1897. 

"The aim of the authors, we are told in the preface, is to produce a book 
' convenient for laboratory use, which shall contain all that is required for every- 
day routine work, without in any way pretending to be an exhaustive manual on 
the subject.' We have gone through the book, and can testify to its value for the 
purpose for which it is intended. The methods described are clear and concise. 
Some of them are new, and so will be of especial interest to those who are 
entrusted with the analysis of food and drugs. But the book is one which will 
also be found valuable to a much wider class than analysts. . . . This volume 
treats of milk, cream, condensed milk, butter, and cheese. It is a valuable addi- 
tion to our knowledge of milk and milk products, and we can recommend it to 
public analysts, medical officers of health, food inspectors, and all those who 
require to know what is worth knowing on these subjects." 

Chemical News, August 13, 1897. 

"... The authors are to be congratulated on having produced a most usefuf 
and readable book, and we can only hope the parts yet to come will be worthy of 
Part I." 



LONDON : BAILLIERE, 1 INDALL & COX, 
8, HENRIETTA STREET, COVENT GARDEN. 



BY THE SAME AUTHORS. 

Price 3s. 6d. 



STUDY OF BACTERIOLOGY. 

The Lancet, May 29, 1897. 

" This is an admirable presentation of the outlines of bacteriology. 
The necessary apparatus is fully described, although, unfortunately, not 
illustrated, and the methods of cultivation and staining are clearly 
given, the authors wisely giving only a limited number of methods, but 
giving those in such detail as to make it easy for anyone to follow out 
the processes. The little work is well up to date, and the authors have 
succeeded in giving the most clear and useful account of this important 
subject in brief form with which we are acquainted." 

The British and Colonial Druggist, February, 1897. 

" Well suited to the needs of the student who is beginning the study 
of bacteriology, or to those who wish to gain a general elementary 
knowledge of the subject. The facts are well ordered in their arrange- 
ment in its columns, and are conveyed in a clear and concise manner. 
The student of pharmacy especially would find the book just the thing 
wanted for gaining acquaintance with a subject of which it is in- 
expedient that he should be ignorant, and yet is not required to 
possess a deep knowledge." 

Price 3s. 6d. 

AIDS TO THE 

ANALYSIS of FOOD and DRUGS. 

ffor practical public fbealtb Xaboratorg IKaorfc. 

PRESS NOTICES ON FIRST EDITION. 

The Analyst, November, 1895. 

" Both Mr. Pearmain and Mr. Moor are favourably known for their careful work 
on various kinds of food and drugs, and their extensive laboratory experience in 
these subjects is an ample guarantee that the processes they describe are in 
general trustworthy and of a practical kind. Their information is in most 
respects well up to date, and many original figures are given." 

Chemical News, November 15, 1895. 

1 ' This little book at once commends itself to our good wishes by its preface. . . . 
The analytical procedures here recommended are trustworthy, and indicate that 
the authors are not compilers, but men of experience." 

The Hospital, January 4, 1896. 

"As at the present time we are not acquainted with any handy work in the 
English language which covers this particular ground, we are pleased to welcome 
its appearance, and congratulate the authors on accomplishing their work in so 
convenient and suitable a form." 



LONDON : BAILLIERE, TINDALL & COX, 
8, HENKIETTA STKEET, COVENT GAKDEN. 



IN THE PRESS. 



DRUGS: 

f) robuctioiT, preparation, anb f ropcrtics, 



BY 

H. WHIPPELL GADD, F.C.S., 

LECTURER ON PHARMACY AND MATERIA MEDICA TO THE ROYAL ALBERT 

MEMORIAL COLLEGE, EXETER ; MEMBER OF THE PHARMACEUTICAL 

SOCIETY. 



Specially written for Medical and Pharmaceutical 
Students. 



BY THE SAME AUTHOR. 

A SYNOPSIS OF THE BRITISH 
PHARMACOPEIA (1898). 

Fifth Edition. Tenth Thousand. 

224 PAGES. BOUND IN CLOTH. Is. net. 



-3 


1 






p. 

ss i 


00: 

1 




University of Toronto 


! 


Hi 










TJi 




Library 




CD 1 


1 








CD : 










O> i 


BI 








LO i 








>^ 


| 


gi 






//A 




<VH; 




DO NOT 


fi 


| 


cS 




REMOVE It 


\ 




^ 




II 






Hi 

M| 




THE // 


\ 


| 


Oi 




CARD 


\ 




coi 






i 




'Si 




FROM f 


1 


i 



1 




THIS \ 


\l 


q 


00 






\ ^ 


q 


-sl 




POCKET 


V 




-Pi 






xs 


jj 


Si 











1 








^5^ 


3i 










CO) 








I* 

o 






Acme Library Card Pocket 





JJ 




Under Pat "Ref . Index File- 


^ 


P 




Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 



