t 17 W T C" ' C 




/.>?j,s //\? .? 



S2/B 




n 




HYGIENE: 

A MANUAL 

OF 

Personal and Public Health. 



HYGIENE: 



A MANUAL 



OF 



Personal and Public Health 



BY 

ARTHUR NEWSHOLME, M.D., F.R.C.P., LOND., 

UNIVERSITY SCHOLAR IN MEDICINE; DIPLOMATS IN PUBLIC HEALTH, UNIV., LOND.; MEDICAL 

OFFICER OF HEALTH OF BRIGHTON ; MEMBER OF THE COUNCIL AND EXAMINER TO THE 

SANITARY INSTITUTE ; EXAMINER IN STATE MEDICINE TO THE UNIVERSITY OF 

LONDON ; LATE EXAMINER IN PREVENTIVE MEDICINE TO THE UNIVERSITY OF 

OXFORD, AND PRESIDENT OF THE INCORPORATED SOCIETY OF MEDICAL 

OFFICERS OF HEALTH. 



NEW EDITION, 1902. ILLUSTRATED. 




LONDON : 
GEO. GILL & SONS, LD., MINERVA HOUSED WARWICK LANE. 



PREFACE. 



THE writing of a preface is perhaps superfluous for a book which has 
had a large and steady sale for nearly twenty years, and which has 
evidently met with the approval of a large constituency. A few words 
of introduction appear, however, desirable in view of the facts that the 
present edition has been almost entirely re-written ; that a large amount 
of new matter has been introduced ; and that, so far as is known, the 
comments on each subject represent the most recent and authoritative 
knowledge upon it. 

An attempt has been made to meet the requirements of medical 
students, as well as of science students and general readers, for whom 
former editions were chiefly intended. A large class of medical students 
and practitioners do not require the detailed statement of the subject 
contained in the larger text-books. For them, and, it is hoped, also for 
a large number of candidates for diplomas in public health and in sanitary 
science, the present edition will prove to be useful. At the same time, 
the subject has been treated as non-technically as is consistent with 
accuracy, in order to retain its suitability for non-medical readers. A 
large number of new illustrations have been introduced. 

The new chapters dealing with Dietetics, Trade Nuisances, 
Meteorological Observations, Tuberculosis, Disinfection, and Vital 
Statistics will, it is believed, enhance the value of the book. 

Attention is also drawn to the solutions of mathematical problems 
in the different branches of hygiene, of which a table of contents is given 
on page viii. 

In its new form, it is hoped that this work will be found to have 
retained its value as a plain and straightforward account of its subject 
for the general public and for science students ; and to have become a 
practical guide to sanitary inspectors and to medical students, whether 
preparing for a diploma in public health, or studying hygiene as an 
important branch of medicine. The use of smaller type for specially 
technical matter of less general interest will facilitate discriminative 
reading. 



ARTHUR NEWSHOLME. 



BRIGHTON, 

February 28th, 1902. 



TABLE OF CONTENTS. 



CHAPTER. PAGE 

I. INTRODUCTORY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . i 

II. FOOD . . ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 

III. THE VARIETIES OF FOOD 9 

IV. DISEASES DUE TO FOOD . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 

V. DIET . . 29 

VI. THE PREPARATION AND PRESERVATION OF FOOD . . . . 38 

VII. CONDIMENTS AND BEVERAGES . . . . . . . . . . 45 

VIII. FERMENTED DRINKS 55 

IX. WATER 65 

X. THE STORAGE AND DELIVERY OF WATER . . . . . . 74 

XI. IMPURITIES OF WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 

XII. ORIGIN AND EFFECTS OF THE IMPURITIES OF WATER . . 89 

XIII. THE PURIFICATION OF WATER 94 

XIV. COMPOSITION AND PROPERTIES OF AIR 100 

XV. SUSPENDED IMPURITIES OF AIR 105 

XVI. GASEOUS AND OTHER IMPURITIES OF AIR .. .. .. in 

XVII. TRADE NUISANCES .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 120 

XVIII. THE EXAMINATION OF AIR 125 

XIX. THE PURIFICATION OF AIR .. .. .. .. .. 129 

XX. GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF VENTILATION .. .. .. 132 

*. XXI. PROBLEMS AS TO VENTILATION .. .. .. .. .. 137 

XXII. METHODS OF VENTILATION 146 

XXIII. VENTILATION BY THE INTRODUCTION OF WARMED AIR .. 155 

XXIV. THE WARMING OF HOUSES 158 

XXV. HOUSE DRAINAGE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 165 

XXVI. CESSPOOLS AND MAIN SEWERS 183 

XXVII. PROBLEMS AS TO FLOW IN SEWERS 187 

XXVIII. THE DISPOSAL OF SEWAGE 190 

XXIX. CONSERVANCY METHODS 194 

XXX. POSITION OF THE HOUSE .. .. ..201 

XXXI. THE MATERIALS USED IN THE CONSTRUCTION OF A HOUSE 205 

XXXII. CONSTRUCTION OF THE HOUSE 209 

XXXIII. THE SOIL .. ..219 

XXXIV. CLIMATE AND WEATHER 227 



viii. TABLE OF CONTENTS. 

CHAPTER. PAGE 

XXXV. METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS 237 

XXXVI. PERSONAL HYGIENE ... >..'_ -; 245 

XXXVII. PERSONAL HYGIENE EXERCISE .. ..249 

XXXVIII. PERSONAL HYGIENE REST AND SLEEP 257 

XXXIX. PERSONAL HYGIENE CLEANLINESS 260 

XL. CLOTHING 265 

XLL PARASITES 273 

XLII. THE ROLE OF INSECTS IN SPREADING DISEASE .. .. 281 

XLIII. INFECTIVE DISEASES .. .. 284 

XLIV. ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES . . . . . . . . . . 291 

XLV. TUBERCULOSIS 39 

XLVI. NOTIFICATION AND ISOLATION 317 

XLVII. DISINFECTION 324 

XLVIIL VITAL STATISTICS 335 



SPECIAL TABLE OF CONTENTS FOR ARITHMETICAL 
PROBLEMS IN HYGIENE. 

PAGE 

PROBLEMS IN MILK ANALYSIS 12 

,, DIETETICS .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 35 

,, ,, WATER ANALYSIS.. .. .. .. .. .. .. 86 

,, ,, AIR ANALYSIS .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 126 

,, AS TO VENTILATION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 137 

,, ,, FLOW IN SEWERS . . . . . . . . . . . . 187 

IN METEOROLOGY . . . . 1 . . . 242 

,, AS TO WORK.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 254 

,, IN VITAL STATISTICS.. .. .. .. .. .. .. 336 



HYGIENE. 



CHAPTER I. 
INTRODUCTORY. 

IN classical mythology, ^Esculapius was worshipped as the god of 
Medicine, while his daughter Hygeia had homage done to her as 
the sweet and smiling goddess of Health. The temples of these 
two deities were always placed in close contiguity ; and statues 
representing Hygeia were often placed in the temple of ^Esculapius. 
In these statues she is represented as a beautiful maid, holding in 
her hand a bowl, from which a serpent is drinking the serpent 
typifying the art of medicine, then merely an art, now establishing 
its right more and more to the dignity of a science. 

That considerable attention was paid in very early times to 
matters relating to health, is also shewn by the elaborate directions 
contained in the Mosaic law as to extreme care in the choice of 
wholesome foods and drinks, in isolation of the sick, and attention 
to personal and public cleanliness. It is not surprising, therefore, 
to find that the Jews, throughout the whole of their history, have 
apparently enjoyed a high standard of health. 

In this country great ignorance of the laws of Health has prior 
to the last fifty years prevailed, and consequently preventible 
diseases have been rampant, and have claimed innumerable victims. 
Each century has been marked by great epidemics, which have 
swept through the country, scattering disease and death in their 
course. In the fourteenth century, for. instance, there was the Black 
Death, a disease so fatal that it left scarcely one-fourth part of the 
people alive ; while Europe altogether is supposed to have lost 
about 40 millions of its inhabitants, and China alone 13 millions. 
A century and a half later came the Sweating Sickness (though 
there were a score of minor epidemics in between). This was 
carried by Henry the Seventh's army throughout the country, and 
so great was the mortality, that " if half the population in any town 
escaped, it was thought great favour." Considerable light is thrown 
on the rapid spread of this disease after its importation, when we 
remember that there were no means of ventilation in the houses ; 
that the floors were covered with', rushes which were constantly put 
on fresh without removing the old, thus concealing a mass of filth 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 2 



2 HYGIENE. 

and exhaling a noisome vapour ; while clothing was immoderately 
warm and seldom changed ; baths were very seldom indulged in, 
and soap hardly used. 

In the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries there were five or six 
epidemics of The Plague, and it was only eradicated from London, 
when all the houses from Temple Bar to the Tower were burned 
down in the Great Fire of September 2nd, 1666, which destroyed 
the insanitary and necessitated the building of new and larger 
houses. 

Scurvy, jail-fever, and small-pox, are other diseases which were 
formerly frightfully prevalent. Jail-fever, the same disease as the 
modern typhus-fever, has now become practically extinct in its 
former habitat, owing largely to the noble work of John Howard, 
" whose life was finally brought to an end by the fever, against the 
ravages of which his life had been expended." This disease was 
fostered by overcrowding, ill-ventilation, and filth. 

Scurvy formerly produced a very great mortality, especially 
among sea-faring men. In Admiral Anson's fleet in 1742, out of 
961 men, 626 died in nine months, or nearly two out of every three, 
and this was no solitary case. Captain Cook, on the other hand, 
conducted an expedition round the world, consisting of 118 men; 
and although absent over three years, only lost one life. He was 
practically the first to demonstrate the potency of fresh vegetables 
in preventing scurvy. 

The striking facts respecting small-pox will be found on page 
293. The general death-rate has also greatly declined. Thus while 
the annual death-rate in London 200 years ago was 80 per 1,000, it 
only averaged 18*8 in the four years 1896-99 ; and the death-rate of 
England and Wales has declined from 22*4 in 1841-50 to 18*7 per 
1,000 in 1891-95 and 17*6 in 1896-99. 

That much still remains to be done is evident on every hand. 
There is little doubt that the general death-rate might be reduced 
to 15 per 1,000 per annum, instead of the present 18, were the laws 
of health applied in every household and community. It has been 
estimated that on the average at least 20 cases of sickness occur for 
every death ; therefore nearly half of the population is ill at least 
once a year. A simple calculation will show how much loss the 
community annually suffers from this vast mass of preventible 
sickness. It amounts to many millions of pounds, leaving out 
of the reckoning the suffering and distress which are always 
associated with sickness. For details relating to special diseases, 
see page 297. 

In the prevention of this mass of sickness, the knowledge of its 
causation is half the battle ; when once a disease is traced to its 
source, as a rule, the agency which produces it can be avoided. 

The reason why even more progress has not been made in the 
prevention of disease is not far to seek. In order to prevent a 
disease it is necessary to remove its causes. The causes of disease 
can only be ascertained by a careful investigation of its phenomena ; 
and it is only within the last century that these have been studied 
to any large extent scientifically. Such knowledge of morbid 



INTRODUCTORY. 3 

processes not only results in improved measures of treatment, but 
in more rational and complete measures of prevention. Thus, not 
only is the number of diseases which are curable becoming gradually 
augmented, but the number preventible is even more rapidly on the 
increase. 

Inasmuch as the preservation of health involves the prevention 
of disease, Hygiene, the science of health, is sometimes called 
Preventive Medicine. 

The subject of Hygiene naturally divides itself into two parts, 
the health of the individual, and that of the community, or 
Personal and Public Health. 

The former treats of the influence of habits, cleanliness, 
exercise, clothing, and food on health ; while the latter is concerned 
with the interests of the community at large, as affected by a pure 
supply of air and water, the removal of all excreta, the condition of 
the soil, and with the administrative measures required to secure 
the removal of evil conditions. It is obvious, however, that these 
two divisions are not mutually exclusive. What is important to the 
health of the community, is equally so to each individual member 
of it. The purity of air and water, for instance, is of immense 
importance both personally and collectively. 

- It will be convenient to study first the three main factors in 
relation to health food, water, and air subsequently con- 
sidering other matters of importance to health (see pages 4-157). 



(4 ) 



CHAPTER II. 
POOD. 

PHYSIOLOGICAL CONSIDERATIONS. All substances are foods 
which, after undergoing preparatory changes in the digestive organs 
(rendering them capable of absorption into the circulation), serve to 
renew the organs of the body, and maintain their functions. Foods 
have been classified as tissue producers or energy producers, the first 
class renewing the composition of the organs of the body, and the 
second class supplying the combustible material, the oxidation (or 
more correctly the metabolism) of which is the source of the energy 
manifested in the body. The two main manifestations of energy in 
the body are heat and mechanical motion, which are to a 'large 
extent interchangeable. 

All foods come under one of these heads ; they are either tissue 
or energy producers. They may be both, and in many cases are 
so. Thus, all nitrogenous foods (as meat, legumens, etc.) not only 
help to form the nitrogenous tissues of the body, but their largest 
share becomes split up into fats and urea, and so forms a source of 
heat to the body. Similarly fats may possibly, after assimilation, 
enter into the composition of the various tissues containing fat (of 
which the brain is the most important), though they usually 
supply an immediate source of heat. Proteid foods are, however, 
the tissue producers par excellence, other foods serving as the imme- 
diate sources of energy when metabolised in the body. 

Certain foods do not directly serve either as tissue or energy 
producers, but are useful in aiding the assimilation of food. Such 
are the various condiments which may be classed as adjuncts to 
food. Salt is so necessary to the assimilation of food and to the 
composition of the various tissues, that it may be ranked as an 
important food. Water, again, though already oxidised, and so not 
an immediate source of energy, is absolutely necessary to the assimi- 
lation of food, to the interchange between the various tissues and 
the blood, and to the elimination of effete products. 

CLASSIFICATION OF FOODS. Inasmuch as milk supplies all the 
food necessary for health and growth during the first year of life, it 
may reasonably be expected to afford some guidance as to the 
necessary constituents of a diet for the adult ; although the condi- 
tions of life being altered in the latter, we can hardly expect the 
same proportions of the different materials to hold good. In the 
infant rapid growth and building up of new tissues and organs are 
going on, involving the necessity for a larger proportional amount 
of nitrogenous food than in the adult. 



NITROGENOUS FOODS. 5 

The following is the average composition of 100 parts of 





HUMAN MILK. 


COW'S MILK. 


Casein 


2'4 


4'0 


A Ibumin 


6 . 


9 


Fat.. 


2-9 


3'5 


Sugar 


5'9 


4-0 


Salts 


16 


7 


Total Solids 


11-96 


13-1 


Water 


88-04 


86-9 



It is evident from this analysis of milk that our food must 
contain (at least) representatives of all the above divisions. We 
have, therefore : 

1. Nitrogenous Foods. 

2. Hydrocarbons or Fats. 

3. Carbohydrates or Amyloids. 

4. Salts. 

5. Water. 

Condiments and stimulants (tea, coffee, alcohol) are not foods 
in the strict sense of the word, and will be discussed in a later 
chapter. 

Nitrogenous Foods include albumin, casein, gluten, legumen, 
fibrin, and gelatin. They all agree in consisting of a complex 
molecule containing many atoms of carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and 
nitrogen, with the addition of smaller quantities of sulphur, and 
in some cases phosphorus. The nitrogenous substances used as 
food may be divided into two groups, (a) those containing gelatin, and 
(b) numerous bodies which receive the common name of proteids 
or albuminoids. 

The per-centage composition of gelatin is : 



CARBON. 


HYDROGEN. 


NITROGEN, 


OXYGEN. 


50-0 


6-6 


18-3 


25-1 



The per-centage composition of all proteids lies within the 
following limits : 



CARBON. 


HYDROGEN. 


NITROGEN. 


OXYGEN. 


SULPHUR. 


527 to 
54'5 


6-9 to 

73 


15-4 to 

l6- 5 


20-9 to 
23'5 


0-8 to 
1-6 



Proteids also contain a small amount of phosphorus, chiefly as 
phosphate of lime, but also in minute quantity in their essential 
structure. Various proteids are used in food, e.g. serum-albumin in 



6 HYGIENE. 

the blood and tissues of animals ; egg-albumin in the white of 
eggs ; myosin in flesh ; casein in milk ; legumin, or plant-casein, in 
the seeds of leguminous platits ; gluten in wheat-flour, etc. 

Proteid foods are pre-eminently important, as they construct 
and keep in repair the tissues of the body. They are not used solely 
for this purpose. A large share of the energy of the body is derived 
from the metabolism of proteids. The amount required for these 
purposes will be discussed on page 32. Meanwhile, it may be said 
that it is not found to be compatible with efficient health simply to 
supply an amount of proteid food which will suffice to replace the 
wear and tear of the tissues, leaving fats and carbohydrates to 
supply the energy of the body. Deficiency of proteid food always 
leads to ill-health ; and it would appear that in all cases proteid food 
determines, to a large extent, the metabolism of non-nitrogenous 
food, and so is favourable to all vital action. The action of nitro- 
genous food in thus increasing metabolism may make it, when in 
relative excess, a tissue waster. Banting's cure for corpulence is 
founded on this principle, lean meat alone being taken, all starchy 
and saccharine foods being carefully avoided. 

By metabolism is meant the changes undergone by food before 
it reaches the state in which it is finally eliminated from the 
body. It is commonly spoken of as oxidation, but this word less 
exactly represents the facts. The complexity of the changes 
undergone by food in the body may be better appreciated by a 
glance at the following schematic statement, which only gives an 
approximation to the truth : 

HYPOTHETICAL TYPICAL FAT GRAPE- 

ALBUMINOID. (STEARIN). STARCH. SUGAR. 

CwHmNaSOg. C 3 H 5 (C 18 H 35 O 2 ) 3 . *(C 6 H 10 O 5 ). (C 6 H 12 O fi ). 

Various intermediate products, which are finally broken down 
into and eliminated as 

! 

Urea, CH 4 N 2 O, Carbonic acid, CO 2 . Water, H 2 O. 

Hydrocarbons, or fats, consist of three elements, carbon, 
hydrogen, and oxygen, the amount of oxygen present not being 
sufficient to oxidise completely either the hydrogen or the carbon. 
Thus the molecule of stearin, which may be taken as a typical fat, 
has the formula C 3 H 5 (C^H^O.^- 

In respect to their comparatively unoxidised condition fats 
compare favourably with starch and sugar, C 6 Hj O 5 and C 6 H 12 O C 
respectively. It is evident that in starch the H 10 O 5 = 5H 2 O, and 
that in sugar H 12 O 6 = 6H 2 O, so that in both cases only carbon 
remains uncombined with oxygen. Dried fats produce by their 
oxidation 2^ times as much heat as a corresponding amount of 
sugar or starch ; but the relative advantage of fat is not quite so 
great as would appear from this comparison, inasmuch as 
metabolism within the body is not identical with oxidation. 

The fat obtained from food is not simply deposited in the body 
as such, to form a store of combustible matter, and to fill up the 



FOOD. 7 

interstices between the different tissues. If this were so, the kind 
of fat deposited would vary with the food, which is not the case. 
The fat of the body is probably not formed directly from fatty food, 
but as the result of the metabolism of nitrogenous foods when this 
metabolism is incomplete. In the formation of milk this can be 
distinctly proved : the fat cells are formed from the protoplasm of 
the cells of the mammary gland. 

Possibly carbohydrate food may be a source of fat, as well as 
nitrogenous and fatty food. This appears to be the case in the 
Strasburg goose, which is kept penned up in a warm room, and fed 
entirely on barley-meal, in order to produce an enormous fatty liver 
for the delicacy termed pate de foie gras. But it may be that the 
large accumulation of fat in the liver is due to the warmth and 
inaction of the goose diminishing metabolism, and producing a fatty 
degeneration of the nitrogenous material of the liver. 

P'ats and carbohydrates, unlike proteids, do not excite metabo- 
lism in the system, and so, if in excess of the requirements of the 
system, can be stored up with comparative ease. Quiet and warmth, 
diminishing metabolism, conduce to the accumulation of fat in 
animals being fed for the market ; and the same applies to human 
beings. 

Carbohydrates or amyloids include the various starchy 
and saccharine foods. They are inferior to fats in nutritive power, 
but, being very digestible, are in much greater favour. In the 
process of digestion, starch is converted into grape sugar, and starch 
and sugar are practically equal in nutritive power. 

Even when carbohydrates are entirely absent from the food, 
they may be produced in the organism by the breaking up of nitro- 
genous matter. This certainly happens in diabetes, in which the 
nitrogenous food rapidly becomes converted into sugar and urea. 

The deprivation of carbohydrate food is much better borne than 
that of fats, because in the latter the hydrogen is not completely 
oxidized, and because fats aid the assimilation of other food. 

Salts, and especially common salt (chloride of sodium), are 
essential to health. An average adult human body contains about 
seven pounds of mineral matter, of which about five-sixths is in the 
bones. On analysis the whole body yields about five per cent, of ash. 

Chloride of sodium is necessary for the production of the acid 
(hydrochloric) of gastric juice, and of the salts of bile ; half the 
weight of the ash of blood consists of it. An adult requires 150 to 
200 grains of salt per day ; a large part of this is taken in meat, 
bread, etc, ; and but little need be taken as a condiment. Potassium 
salts form an important part of milk, muscle juice, and the blood 
corpuscles. They are obtained from bread and fresh vegetables and 
fruits. It has been maintained that deficiency of potassium salts 
causes scurvy (see page 28) ; but this is now discredited, and 
probably potash is chiefly useful because of the vegetable acids 
with which it is associated in fruits and vegetables, which when 
oxidised, help to maintain the alkalinity of the blood, e.g., tartrates, 
citrates, and malates, which become carbonates in the circulation. 
Calcium phosphate (bone earth) is essential for the growth of bones, 



8 HYGIENE. 

and is very important for the young. The best source for it is milk. 
There is more lime in a pint of milk than in a pint of lime water. 
Next to milk, come eggs; and then cereals, especially rice as a 
source of calcium. Lime salts and phosphates as drugs do not 
benefit like the same substances taken in natural food, and rickets 
is not curable by taking such drugs. 

Oxide of iron is always present in the ash of blood and muscles, 
and in smaller quantities in milk. Fish and veal are usually deficient 
in it, while beef and yolk of egg are foods richest in iron. The 
amount of iron required in food is minute, and it is amply supplied 
by ordinary diet. 

Phosphorus is an essential building material for the body. It 
is contained in foods chiefly in organic combination. The foods 
richest in it are yolk "of egg, sweetbread (thymus), fish-roe, calves' 
brains, and the germ of wheat. Milk and cheese are very rich in 
phosphates. 

Water forms an important article of diet. This is evident from 
the fact that 80 per cent, of the blood consists of it, and 75 per cent, 
of the solid tissues ; and from the fact that the daily loss of water 
from the system averages 50 ounces (2^ pints) by the kidneys, and 
about 40 ounces by the skin and lungs. Water is not simply 
received into the system as a liquid. It forms a large proportion of 
the solid food taken. Thus, 87 per cent, of milk, 78 per cent, of 
fish, 72 per cent, of lean meat, 38 per cent, of bread, 13 per cent, of 
peas, and 92 per cent, of cabbage, consist of water. 

Solid food is dissolved in the alimentary canal by the watery 
secretions derived from the blood. Water swallowed as food, 
begins to pass on into the intestine at once. The statement that 
free consumption of water at meals delays digestion by diluting the 
gastric juice is therefore not well grounded. In the blood, water 
serves to carry nutrient materials to all the tissues ; and, at the same 
time being circulated all over the system, equalises the temperature, 
favours chemical changes, and washes all the tissues. By water 
again, the effete matters which have been separated by the kidneys 
are washed out of its tubes. 

tozwThe Oxygen of the air, in a broad sense, forms one of the foods 
of the system. This will be considered later. 

^2?cBesides the above classification, foods have also been classified 
as follows : 

i. Inorganic food Oxygen, salts. 

Animal -I Nitrogenous. 

(\ Non-nitrogenous. 

VpaptahU / Nitrogenous. 

\ Non-nitrogenous. 
Or, as 

, Animal j Nitrogenous. 

[ Non-nitrogenous, 
i. Solid foods | vegetable 1 Nitrogenous. 

Non-nitrogenous. 

{Water. 
Milk and its products. 
Tea and similar beverages. 
Alcoholic beverages. 
3. Gaseous foods Air. 



( 9 ) 



CHAPTER III. 
THE VARIETIES OP FOOD. 

NITROGENOUS ANIMAL FOODS. These are divided into two 
groups, the one containing gelatin, and the other all the proteid or 
albuminoid substances, which are taken in the flesh of various 
animals, and in milk and eggs. 

Gelatin is obtainable from bones, and from connective tissue 
wherever found. Being easily digested, and absorbed, it has been 
very popular as an invalid's food ; but the fact that animals cannot 
sustain life on it without the addition of proteids proves that its 
value is limited. It is incapable of building tissues, but is a valuable 
proteid-savev, being able to save from metabolism half its weight of 
proteid, or twice as much as is spared by an equal weight of 
carbohydrate. Its utility in this direction is, however, limited, 
because of the dilute form in which it is taken in ordinary foods. It 
is useful for invalids, partly because it forms a bulk, and prevents 
the evil tendency to give their food in too concentrated a form ; 
partly because it forms a source of easily metabolised material, and 
so prevents tissue- waste ; and partly because it commonly contains 
phosphate of lime, derived from the bones forming the source of 
gelatin. 

Gelatin as prepared for the table contains a considerable pro- 
portion of water ; as little as one per cent, of gelatin in water will 
cause it to gelatinise on cooling. Isinglass obtained from the 
floating bladder of the sturgeon is an example of the purest kind of 
gelatin ; glue is an inferior sort, made from bones, etc. 

Gelatin is only a cheap food when obtained, for instance, from 
bones which cannot otherwise be utilised. When made from veal 
it is costly out of proportion to its dietetic value. 

The Flesh of various animals is 6ne of the main sources of our 
nitrogenous and fatty food. Meats may be divided into two kinds, 
viz., red meat and white meat. These gradually merge into one 
another. As common examples of red meats, we have beef, mutton, 
pork, game, wild fowl, and salmon. 

The common fowl and turkey, most fishes, rabbits, crustaceans, 
and molluscs, are examples of white meat. As a rule white meats 
are more digestible than red, having more delicate fibres, and con- 
taining a smaller proportion of nitrogenous matter. 

Flesh consists almost entirely of muscular tissue, of which there 
are two kinds, striped and unstriped. 

The striped is the variety most commonly used as food. 
Unstriped muscle has a softer texture, but is not so easily masticated 



io HYGIENE. 

as striped, and for this reason may be indigestible. Tripe is 
composed of the unstriped muscle and connective tissue of the 
stomach of the cow, and if well cooked forms a cheap and easily 
digested dish. 

The influence of feeding on the quality of the meat is great. In 
ill-fed or old animals, connective tissue is more abundant, and the 
meat is tougher. Well-fed 'and fattened meat contains for equal 
weights much more nutritious matter than non-fattened meat, the 
fat which is deposited in the muscle replacing water and not 
proteid. Hence the gain in nutritive value is an absolute one, and 
is not attained at the expense of the proteid part of the meat. Young 
animals, again, contain more water and fat and a larger proportion 
of connective tissue than the full-grown, and are consequently not 
so nourishing. 

Meat ought to be eaten either before the onset of rigor mortis, 
or near its end, before putrefaction has commenced. During rigor 
mortis it is denser, tougher, and more difficult to digest than after it. 

The proportion of fat in meat varies greatly in different indi- 
viduals of the same species, in different animals, and in different 
parts of the same animal. According to Dr. Ed. Smith, the pro- 
portion of fat in fat oxen is , in fat sheep J, in calves , lambs ^, 
and fat pigs |. 

Good meat, whether beef or mutton, ought to have a marbled 
appearance, a medium colour, neither pale pink nor deep purple ; its 
texture should be firm, and not leave the impress of the finger ; its 
odour slight and pleasant, the juice reddish and acid, the bundles 
of fibres not coarse, and free from foreign particles imbedded 
in them ; and lastly, it should not be taken from an animal 
killed near the time of parturition, nor in consequence of any 
accident or disease. 

Beef is, as a rule, more lean than mutton or pork ; it has a 
closer texture, and more nutritive material in a given bulk. It is 
also fullest of the red-blood juices, and possesses a richer flavour 
than the two others. 

Liebig's beef extract contains little if any albumin or gelatin. 
It is a useful stimulant to the gastric secretion, as in soups at the 
beginning of a meal, but is not a food. Its chief constituents are 
the various extractives of meat, the most important of which are 
inosinic acid, kreatin (C^gNgCXHaO), and inosite, or muscle sugar 
(C 6 H ia O 6 , 2H 2 O). Even in substances like Bovril, containing 
powdered meat fibre mixed with Liebig's extract, the amount of 
nutritive material is very small. The white of one egg contains as 
much nutritive matter as three teaspoonsful of bovril. None of these 
substances can be trusted like eggs or milk to keep a patient alive 
for several weeks, 

Mutton is regarded as being more suitable for people of seden- 
tary occupation than beef. Lamb is more watery than mutton, and 
less nutritious. 

Veal, as ordinarily prepared in this country, is difficult of 
digestion ; its shreddy, juiceless fibres eluding the teeth, and conse- 
quently not undergoing proper mastication. 



VARIETIES OF FOOD. ir 

Pork is not so digestible as beef or mutton, partly because oi 
the large proportion of fat, and partly because its fibres are hard and 
difficult to masticate. Its digestibility varies greatly with its age., 
breeding, and proportion of fat. 

The Flesh of Birds contains very little fat, and that found 
separate from the meat is rarely nice. Most birds are edible, but 
fish-eating birds are apt to be nasty. As a rule, the flavour of the 
male bird is richer than that of the female. The chief virtues in 
poultry are their tenderness, and the large proportion of phosphates 
they contain. They are deficient in fat and in iron. To compen- 
sate for the former, one commonly takes with them melted butter 
and fat bacon or pork sausages ; to compensate for the latter, the 
addition of Liebig's extract to the gravy is useful. Young, and 
consequently tender, birds are known by their large feet and leg- 
joints. When a bird appears at table with violet-tinged thighs and 
a thin neck, if possible avoid being helped to the leg. Wildfowls 
are harder and less digestible than tame. In ducks and geese fat is 
more abundant, and of a stronger flavour ; they are, consequently,, 
not so digestible as fowls. 

Fish forms an important article of diet. It is easily cooked, 
and usually very digestible ; it possesses a larger bulk in proportion 
to its nutritive quality, and hence is very valuable for those who 
habitually take an excess of meat food, which is commonly the case 
with those leading sedentary lives, and in declining years. There 
appears to be no foundation for the statement that fish is rich in 
phosphorus, and is thus a good brain food. Generally, white-fleshed 
fish is more digestible than red-fleshed (such as salmon), the latter 
usually containing more fat than the former. When the fat is dis- 
tributed throughout the flesh, as in the salmon, iish is more satisfying 
than when it is mainly stored up in the liver, as in the cod-fish. 
According to Payen, the per-centage proportion of fat in soles is 
only 0-248, in whiting 0383, conger eel 5-021, mackerel 5-758, eels 
23-861. The addition of some fatty food, as melted butter, is very 
advisable to such meats as poultry, rabbits, soles, whiting, plaice, 
haddock, cod, turbot, and other fishes ; whereas sprats, eels,, 
herrings, pilchards, salmon, etc., are more or less rich in fat. 

A Hen's Egg usually weighs a little under two ounces. It 
consists of 74 per cent, of water and 26 per cent, of solid matter. 
The white of the egg is chiefly albumin, the yolk consists of a very 
digestible oil, rich in phosphorus and iron, each particle of the oil 
being enveloped in a form of albumin called vitellin. The salts are 
chiefly contained in the shell. There is no sugar in the egg, the 
necessity for such oxidisable material for the chick being obviated 
by the heat produced by incubation. Eggs, when kept for some 
time, lose weight, owing to evaporation through the porous shell ; 
similarly, air entering from without sets up decomposition. In 
a solution of brine containing an ounce of common salt to half a 
pint of water, fresh eggs sink, stale ones float ; rotten eggs may 
even float in fresh water. Eggs may be- preserved by keeping them 
in brine, or, better still in lime water, or by smearing them over 
with lard or butter, as soon as possible after they are laid. 



12 HYGIENE. 

Cow's Milk has a specific gravity of 1028 34, and on allowing 
it to stand in a long narrow vessel ought to form ten or twelve per 
cent, of its volume of cream. The per-centage composition of 
human and cow's milk has been given on page 5. The legal 
minimum standard for dairy milk, which is presumably derived 
from a number of cows, is now 3 per cent, of fat, and 8-5 per cent, 
of " solids not fat." This standard is unfortunately very low, and 
allows a considerable margin of adulteration, which cannot be 
prevented by legal means. Thus ordinary milk derived from a herd 
of cows would probably contain 4*5 per cent, of fat ; and it is, there- 
fore, practicable to mix pure new milk with a large proportion of 
separated milk, and yet keep within the legal standard. This is 
largely done in towns, and infants suffer much from the deficiency 
of cream in their sole food (see page 28). The lactometer determines 
the specific gravity, which should be taken at a temperature of 
60 F. In skimmed or separated milk it will be over 1034 ; 
watering on the contrary lowers the specific gravity. If the 
milk has been both watered and skimmed the specific gravity will 
give an uncertain indication. Measurement of the cream in a tall 
narrow glass will enable one to detect the second possible source of 
fallacy ; but the composition of milk can only be certainly determined 
by analysis. This is done (a) by evaporating a weighed amount 
of milk to dryness and then re-weighing, (b) From a separate 
amount of dried milk the fat is extracted by ether, the ether 
then evaporated, the remaining fat weighed, and its percentage 
calculated. The weight of fat deducted from the total solids i.e. 
(b) from (a), gives the " solids not fat." The following example will 
make the method then followed clear. The sample gives 7-9 per 
cent, of "solids not fat." Genuine milk contains at least 8-5 per 
cent, of " solids not fat." 

Then the sample contains 

100 x 7*9 
g-7 = 92-9 per cent, of genuine milk, 

i.e. 7- 1 per cent, of water has been added to it. 

Half a pint of milk supplies as much nitrogenous nutriment as 
two good-sized eggs, and as three and a half ounces of beef. Milk 
may be deteriorated (i) by skimming or " separating " by machinery, 
or (2) by the addition of water the first diminishing the proportion 
of fats, and the second the total amount of solids. 

Skim Milk still contains nearly i per cent, of fat, but 
Separated Milk, in which the cream has been removed by 
centrifugal apparatus, contains less than per cent. 

Skim or separated milk forms a cheap source of nitrogenous 
food ; but when it is sold mixed with new or alone as new milk, 
the public is defrauded, and infants fed on it are robbed of the fat 
which is so essential for their growth. 

Condensed Milk is milk deprived of a large part of its water. 
It represents three times its volume of fresh milk. There are in the 
market (a) unsweetened and condensed whole milk, (b) sweetened 
and condensed whole milk, and (c) sweetened and condensed skim 



VARIETIES OF FOOD. 13 

or separated milk. Unfortunately the latter is most largely sold 
because cheapest ; and infants are thus often robbed of fat, a most 
important element in their food. Always examine the label of each 
tin carefully, to ascertain whether the milk has been deprived of its 
cream. The law requires that this fact should be stated on the 
label. Tins which have bulged should be rejected. Condensed 
milk is more easily digested by infants than new cow's milk, 
but it lacks the anti-scorbutic properties of new milk (see page 
28). Even the condensed whole milk if diluted beyond i part of 
milk to 3 of water is deficient in fat. Sweetened condensed milk 
has one-third its weight of extraneous sugar added to it, and on 
this account it tends in children to produce fatness, and a distaste 
for simple food ; in children fed on it alone ossification (formation 
of bone) is retarded, and resistance to illness is diminished. The 
only dietetic advantages it possesses over fresh cow's milk are 
its freedom from possible disease germs and easier digestibility. 

The digestion of milk is preceded by its clotting in the 
stomach. The same thing happens when junket is formed by the 
addition of rennet to milk. This is a different process from the 
curdling of milk, which occurs when milk turns sour. The latter is 
caused by the splitting up of milk sugar and the formation of lactic 
acid by certain micro-organisms in the milk. When milk is heated, 
a skin is formed, consisting of coagulated albumin, in which is also a 
little casein, fat, and salts of lime. Boiled milk becomes sterilized. 
Cow's milk should always be boiled, unless it is quite certain that 
the cows from which it is derived are perfectly healthy, and that 
the milk has not been exposed to infection before reaching the 
house. The disadvantages of boiling which are outweighed by 
its advantages, are that the taste of the milk is altered, some 
nutritive matter is lost by the formation of the " skin," and the 
casein is not quite so easily digested. Pasteurization of milk, i.e. 
keeping it at a temperature of 70 C. (158 F.) for 20 to 30 minutes 
has been proposed as an alternative to boiling. This appears to 
destroy the bacilli causing tuberculosis (see page 312). The typhoid 
bacilli are killed at 60 C. in five minutes when suspended in 
emulsion. Pasteurization is not, however, so certainly efficacious 
for other disease-germs as is boiling, and is not so easily carried 
out in domestic life as boiling. By boiling milk in a double 
saucepan, i.e. in a water-bath, very little change occurs in the taste 
of the milk, especially if it be cooled rapidly and strained. 

Cheese is prepared by coagulating milk by "rennet," the 
mucous membrane of the fourth stomach of the calf, salted and 
dried before using. By this means the casein is precipitated, 
carrying down with it the cream, and a large proportion of the salts 
of milk. The whey, containing the sugar, soluble albumin, and 
remaining salts, is separated by straining, while the mixed curd and 
fat are pressed in moulds. Cheese thus consists of casein, fat in 
varying proportions, water and salts, especially phosphate of lime. 
It is coloured with annatto, a vegetable colouring matter. When 
new, cheese is tough ; when old, its oils tend to become rancid ; 
the best age is from nine to twenty months. It is probable that 



i 4 HYGIENE. 

cheese in small amount helps the digestion of other foods, though it 
is itself a highly concentrated and comparatively indigestible food. 
When toasted it is proverbially indigestible. 

There are many different kinds of cheese. The following 
classification gives the more important varieties : 

(1) Cream cheese is the new curd only slightly pressed, and is more 
digestible than ordinary cheese. 

(2) Next to these are. cheeses made with whole milk rich in cream, such as 
Stilton, Gorgonzola, Cheshire, and Cheddar. 

(3) Cheeses made of poor or partially skimmed milk, such as Shropshire. 
Single Gloucester, and Gruyere. 

(4) Cheeses made of skimmed milk, such as Suffolk, Parmesan, and Dutch. 

American cheeses may belong to any of these classes ; they are 
generally pure, but occasionally are made from separated milk, 
margarine being added to take the place of cream. The sale of 
such cheeses, except under the name of " margarine cheese," is now 
illegal. 

NON-NITROGENOUS ANIMAL FOODS. These are all fats, and 
the most important are the various meat fats and butter. They 
possess a higher food value than carbohydrates in the proportion of 
2 to i. The composition of the various fats differs somewhat; 
they usually contain varying proportions of olein, palmitin, and 
stearin, which are compounds of glycerine with the radicle of a fatty 
acid (stearin = CsH 6 (C 18 H as O 2 ) 8 ). Thus mutton suet consists of 
stearin, olein, and palmitin, with a preponderance of stearin. Beef 
suet contains less stearin and more olein than mutton suet. The 
more olein a fat contains the less solid it is. Olive oil is composed 
almost entirely of olein. Palmitin, which melts sooner than stearin, 
is the chief solid constituent of butter, while olein is its chief liquid 
constituent. Butter is specially distinguished by containing 7 to 8 
per cent, of " volatile fatty acids," such as butyric, caproic, etc., 
combined with glycerine. The presence and amount of these 
compounds is an important test for the freedom of butter from 
adulterating fats. 

Cod-liver oil is next to butter the most digestible animal fat 
known. The best cod-liver oil is frozen at a low temperature, by 
which means the stearin is frozen out, and nearly pure olein is left. 
Traces of iodine have been found in it, and more commonly a small 
amount of bile, which probably increases its digestibility. 

The temperature at which a fat becomes hard is a fair guide to 
its digestibility. Thus we know that beef, and still more, mutton 
fat, would become solid, under conditions in which bacon dripping 
is still soft. Where digestion is weak, there may be an instinctive 
loathing of fat meat ; for such persons, especially for children, 
some other fat should always be substituted. Thus the addition 
of butter to the potatoes makes up the deficiency. 

Butter forms 3^ to 4^ P er cent - of cow's milk. It is separated 
from milk by churning, the oil particles being deprived by this 



VARIETIES OF FOOD. 15 

means of their albuminous coats. The more completely the butter- 
milk is separated the longer the butter keeps. It can be kept longer 
if salt is added, or in hot weather by keeping it under frequently- 
changed water. Rancidity indicates the decomposition of traces of 
the fat of butter into its fatty acid and glycerine. 

Cream contains about 30 per cent, of butter fat, Cheshire 
cheese 25 per cent., and skim milk cheese 7 per cent. 

Butter milk differs from skim milk in the presence of lactic 
acid. It is more digestible than skim milk, the casein bemg in a 
more flocculent condition. 

The odour and flavour of butter are not due to olein and 
palmitin, the two chief constituents, but to a smaller quantity of 
butyrin, caproin, and caprylin fats of a much lower series. Ordinary 
butter contains a considerable proportion of water, and the presence 
of about 8 per cent, renders it more palatable; if it is over 15 per 
cent., the butter is considered adulterated. An excessive amount of 
salt is sometimes present. The most frequent adulteration is the 
substitution of foreign fats for butter fat, e.g. lard, palm oil, rape seed 
oil, or cocoa-nut oil. Margarine is most frequently used for this 
purpose. 

Margarine is prepared from beef-fat by melting, the stearin 
becoming solid again at a temperature at which olein and margarine 
still remain liquid. It forms a wholesome and cheap food, being 
nearly as digestible as butter, for which more expensive food it is 
often fraudulently sold. When mixed with a small proportion of 
butter its recognition by smell, etc., is almost impossible, but on 
careful chemical analysis, it is found to have a higher melting point 
and a lower specific gravity than butter, and a much smaller per- 
centage of soluble fatty acids than the latter. Thus : 



Butter 
Margarine 


MELTING 
POINT. 


SPECIFIC 
GRAVITY. 


SAPONIFICATION AND FORMATION OF 
INSOLUBLE FATTY ACID. 


32 C. 
35 C.* 


913 
904 -Q07 


88 per cent, insoluble fatty acid 
95t 



CEREAL FOODS. Gluten is peculiar to plants, and is chiefly 
found in plants belonging to the great family of grasses. Gluten is 
to bread what casein is to milk, and myosin to flesh. If one takes 
a piece of dough made from wheat flour, and holds it under a stream 
of water from the tap, a large part of it is washed away, while a 
sticky adherent mass is left behind. This is gluten, and it is its 
tenacity which enables bread to be made. If the fluid with which 
the dough was washed is collected, it will be .found to contain 
a large quantity of starch, a small amount of sugar, of albumin, and 

* While the addition of animal fat like margarine raises the melting point, rape-seed oil and 
other vegetable oils lower it. 

t The fat to be analysed is saponified with soda or potash, and then the fatty acid set free by 
hydrochloric acid. If water be now added, 11 or i per cent, of the fatty acid will be dissolved, if 
the fat is butter ; less than this if it is a mixture ; and not more than 5 per cent, if no butter is 
present in the fat. 



i6 



HYGIENE. 



certain salts. All cereals possess these constituents in various 
proportions, as may be seen from the following table : 





WATER. 


PROTEID. 


FAT. 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES. 


CELLU- 
LOSE. 


MINERAL 
MATTER. 


Wheatmeal.. 


12*1 


12-9 


rg 


70-3 


1-6 


I'2 


Fine wheat flour 


13-0 


9-5 


0-8 


75'3 


0'7 


0-7 


Oatmeal* 


7-2 


14-2 


7'3 


fiS'Q 


3'5 


1-9 


Barley meal 


11-9 


IO'O 


2'2 


7I-5 


1-8 


2-6 


Maize meal 


11-4 


8-5 


4'6 


72-8 


J> 4 


i'3 


Rice (husk removed] 


I2'0 


7-2 


2'O ' 


76-8 


I'O 


I'O 



The proteid varies in character in the different cereals ; wheat 
flour has the largest proportion of gluten (8 to 12 per cent.) and 
therefore makes the best bread. 

Good wheat flour ought to be white, not gritty or lumpy, not 
acid or musty, forming a coherent stringy dough. Examined 
microscopically, it should show the absence of any fungi, or acarus 
farinae, or of foreign starches, such as barley, maize, rice, potato, 
known by the different shape of their starch granules. (See Fig. 
i.) Alum has been occasionally added to flour, to enable the 
baker to make a white and porous bread from damaged wheat 
flour. It can be detected as follows : Pour over the freshly cut 
surface of a slice of bread some freshly prepared decoction of 
logwood chips, and then a solution of carbonate of ammonia. If 
alum is present, the bread turns a marked blue to violet colour ; but 
if the bread is pure, it is only stained pink. 

The wheat grain may be used as food in its entirety. Thus 
boiled in milk, after having been soaked in water, it forms the chief 
constituent of frumenty. Usually it is converted into flour by 
grinding or milling. A grain of wheat consists of three parts, an 
outer envelope, the bran, consisting chiefly of indigestible cellulose, 
and composing 13! per cent, of the grain ; the kernel, or endosperm, 
which makes up 85 per cent, of the grain ; and the germ, forming i^ 
per cent, of the grain. In the old method of stone grinding, the bran 
was removed, and the germ left along with the endosperm. In the 
elaborate processes of modern roller milling, the bran is removed as 
in the old grinding, because it cannot without the greatest difficulty 
be reduced to powder ; and the germ is also removed, because the 
oil abundantly present in it is apt to become rancid and spoil the 
flour, and because the soluble proteids in it are apt to change some 
of the flour into dextrin and sugar, which become brown in baking 
and spoil the appearance of the bread. The germ is easily removed, 
because its toughness causes it to be flattened out in the milling, 
while the endosperm becomes powdery. The central part of the 
endosperm is the source of ' patents.' It is very rich in starch and 
is used for making fancy breads and pastry. The outer part of the 
endosperm is ' households.' ' Households flour ' is subdivided into 
(a) second patents, or whites ' ; (b) first households ; (c) second 
households or seconds .' ' Seconds ' is richest in gluten, whites ' 



VARIETIES OF FOOD. 17 

in starch. Ordinary bread is normally derived from a blend of 
these three. Some * strong ' wheats, e.g. Australian, yield a 
' patents ' which is rich in gluten, and such flour is used for making 
Vienna bread. ' Strong ' wheats take up most water in baking, and 
so yield most loaves per sack. ' Seconds ' flour yields a bread which 
is richer in proteid than most other kinds ; but the dark colour of 
the loaf makes it unpopular. Various schemes have been devised 
to utilise the germ and the bran, which are ordinarily discarded. In 
the preparation of Hovis flour the separated germ is partially cooked 
by superheated steam. This kills the ferment contained in the 
soluble proteids, and thus prevents it from changing starch into 
maltose and dextrin. The action thus prevented is represented 
by the following formula : 

STARCH. MALTOSE. DEXTRIN. 

10 C 12 H 20 10 + 6 H 2 = 6 C 12 H 22 U + 4 C lz H m O w . 

The germ thus treated is ground to a fine meal, of which one part 
to three of ordinary flour, forms Hovis flour. Other germ breads ' 
are also in the market. In the making of Frame food the bran is 
boiled with water under high pressure. The watery extract, 
containing the mineral and part of the nitrogenous constituents of 
the bran, is evaporated to dryness, and forms the basis of various 
preparations. It is doubtful if this food possesses any great 
value. 

Brown bread is a somewhat vague expression, meaning either 
an admixture of bran or of germ or of both with flour, or bread 
made from whole wheat flour. In each of these cases the loaf would 
be brown. The bran is rich in fat as well as in phosphates. It acts 
as a mechanical irritant, ill borne by delicate stomachs, but very 
useful where a tendency to constipation exists. The excess of 
nitrogenous matter in brown bread and its richness in fat, do not 
prove its greater nutritiveness, as it is present in a condition in 
which only a portion is absorbable from the alimentary canal into 
the circulation. 

The harder wheats, such as Sicilian wheat, contain a larger 
percentage of gluten ; and from them macaroni and vermicelli are 
obtained, which are nearly pure gluten. They are very nutritious 
and useful foods. Semolina is prepared from wheat, the millstones 
being left sufficiently apart to leave the product in a granular 
condition. In malted breads, a syrupy infusion of malted barley 
(malt extract) is added to the flour. Malt extract contains in 
addition to malt sugar (maltose) and dextrins, a ferment (diastase) 
which, like the saliva, is able to convert starch into the soluble 
substances, maltose and dextrin (see formulae above). The action 
of this ferment is stopped by the temperature of baking. Hence 
even when the malt extract is allowed a considerable time for its 
operation on the dough, only about 10 per cent, of the starch in the 
loaf becomes soluble, as compared with 4 per cent, in an ordinary 
loaf. 

Oatmeal, obtained from the common oat, contains very little 
gluten, and so cannot be made into vesiculated bread. It contains 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 3 



i8 HYGIENE. 

a large proportion of other nitrogenous material and of fat. As 
porridge and oatmeal cake it forms a very nutritious diet. The husk 
ought to be carefully removed from the meal intended for human 
food, as, although very nitrogenous, it acts as a mechanical irritant. 
Groats consists of oats from which the husk has been entirely 
removed. The substitution of rolling for grinding in preparing oats 
for food and the application of heat during the rolling process, have 
made oatmeal more digestible, as in Quaker, Provost, and Waverley 
oats. 

Barley contains very little gluten ; on this account, like 
oatmeal, it does not admit of being made easily into bread. 

Malt is barley which has been made to germinate by heat and 
moisture and then dried, " diastase " being formed in the process. 
Extract of malt, containing diastase in an active condition, is 
useful in cases of impaired digestion and deficient assimilation of 
food. 

Rye is rarely used in this country for making bread. In 
Germany it is known as " black bread," but its colour and acid 
taste make it disagreeable, and it is laxative in its action. 

Maize, or Indian Corn, is deficient in gluten, and so not 
suitable for making vesiculated bread. Like oatmeal, it is made 
into cakes, called in America "Johnny cake." It contains much 
fatty matter, and is largely used for fattening poultry and other 
animals. Oswego flour and corn flour are maize flour deprived by 
a weak solution of soda, of its proteids and fat ; hominy contains all 
its constituents. Maize is a cheap and nutritious food. When 
wheat flour is dear, it is occasionally adulterated with maize. The 
adulteration can be detected by the forms of the starch granules, 
examined under a low power of the microscope. 

Rice contains less proteids and fat than any other cereal. Its 
chief value as a food depends on the large amount of starch it 
contains (table, page 16). 

LEGUMINOUS FOODS. The chief seeds belonging to this group 
are peas, beans, and lentils. They contain a smaller proportion of 
starch, and a larger proportion of nitrogenous materials than cereals. 
Thus while flour contains 9*5 and bread 8 per cent, of proteid, lean 
meat 15*18 per cent., and cheese about 30 per cent., peas and beans 
contain 21 to 26 per cent, (green peas only 4 per cent., dried peas 21 
per cent.) of proteid. The nitrogenous material exists chiefly as 
legumin, which has been called vegetable casein. Although 
leguminous seeds contain more nutritive material in a given weight 
than cereals, dietetically they are inferior, owing to the fact that they 
are less digestible, often causing flatulence and other dyspeptic 
symptoms. Cereals, again, are more palatable than leguminous 
seeds, and are more prolific, and consequently cheaper. In the 
absence of animal food, legumens form a useful substitute. They 
are advantageously diluted with oily substances, or with rice. The 
farm-labourer's dish of broad beans and fat bacon is founded on strict 
physiological principles. A mixture of lentil and barley flour is 
sold under the name of Revalenta Arabica. Lentil flour costs 2|d., 
Revalenta 35. 6d. per Ib. Green peas, French beans, and scarlet 



VARIETIES OF FOOD. 19 

runners are much more easily digested than are dried peas or beans. 
Lentils contain the largest proportion of proteid of any of the pulses. 
They also contain very little sulphur, and so do not give rise to the 
same liberation of sulphuretted hydrogen in the intestine, as other 
pulses. The ash of the Egyptian lentil is particularly rich in iron. 

AMYLACEOUS FOODS. Amylaceous or starchy substances are 
contained in many of the preceding foods ; but some other foods 
consist almost entirely of starch. The chief of these are sago, 
tapioca, and arrowroot. 

Sago is obtained from the pith of the stems of various species 
of palm ; a single tree may yield several hundred pounds. Alone it 
is easy of digestion. Boiled with milk it forms a light, nutritious, 
and non-irritating food. Fictitious sagos are frequently sold, made 
from potato starch. 

Tapioca and Cassava are derived from the tubers of more 
than one species of the poisonous family, Euphorbiaceae. The juices 
are removed, and the prussic acid removed by heat. Tapioca only 
differs from cassava in being a purer form of starch ; the latter is 
more nutritious, and among the Indians takes the place of bread. 

Arrowroot is obtained from the tubers of Maranta Anindinacea. 

ToTis-les-mois is a form of starch obtained from the tubers of a 
West Indian plant, the Canna edulis. 

The detection of the varieties of starch is usually possible 
owing to their fairly characteristic appearance under the microscope. 
Fig. i shows the most important starches. It must be noted that in 
oats, maize, and rice the contour is completely marked by facets or 






Potato. 



Wheat. 



Rice. 






Oats. Barley. Pea. 

FIG. i. DIFFERENT FORMS OF STARCH GRANULES. 

surfaces, while there are less complete markings in tapioca and sago. 
In wheat, rye, pea, bean, barley, potato, and arrowroot the contour 
is even, though there are minor differences of size and shape. 



20 HYGIENE. 

OTHER VEGETABLE FOODS. Green Vegetables contain com- 
paratively little nutriment, but form valuable additions to other 
foods. Cellulose, which forms their main constituent, although 
indigestible, forms a bulk in the alimentary canal, which is necessary 
to ensure peristalsis. Concentrated nourishment can only be 
digested in limited quantity, and is very apt to produce digestive 
disorder. Cabbage contains 92 per cent, of water, and o.\ per cent, 
nitrogenous matter. Carrots contain 6 per cent, and turnips 2 per 
cent, of nitrogenous matter ; parsnips are intermediate between 
these. Green vegetables possess valuable anti-scorbutic properties. 
They may be made an important vehicle for giving fatty food, by 
adding butter, etc. 

Rhubarb and sorrel contain oxalates and tartrates of potash and 
lime, to which they owe their tartness. Spinach is cooling and 
laxative, like rhubarb, but not tart. Sea-kale, artichoke, and 
asparagus are all wholesome vegetables. Asparagus is somewhat 
diuretic, and gives a peculiar, disagreeable odour to the urine. 
Salads, such as mustard and cress, watercress, endive, and the 
garden lettuce are very useful as anti-scorbutics. Some of them 
possess a peculiar pungency due to a volatile oil analogous to that 
contained in horse-radish. 

The Potato contains 26 solid parts in 100, of which nearly 20 
are starch and 2| nitrogenous matter. It forms one of our best- 
appreciated vegetable foods, and as it possesses valuable anti- 
scorbutic properties, its universal use is, perhaps, the chief cause of 
the present rarity of scurvy. Alone, it possesses too small a 
proportion of nitrogenous material to support life, but the addition 
of butter milk makes up this deficiency ; and these two together 
form a sufficient diet to maintain life and health for a long time. 

The Onion, Garlic, Leek, and Shalot, all members of the lily 
family, are chiefly used as condiments. They contain an acid 
volatile oil, which gives them a peculiar odour and flavour. By long 
boiling, this is dissipated (as in the case of the Spanish onion), and 
the onion is then fairly digestible, as well as nutritious. 

Celery possesses a more delicate flavour and odour than the 
preceding, but even the most tender celery is digested with 
difficulty ; less so, when boiled or stewed, or a constituent of soups. 

Only four Fungi are, with us, commonly regarded as safe 
mushrooms, champignons, morels, and truffles ; but there are many 
others which are equally edible. The food value of fungi has been 
exaggerated. They are difficult of digestion and contain little 
nutritive material. Poisonous fungi usually have an astringent 
styptic taste and a disagreeable pungent odour. In any doubtful 
case it is better to abstain. 

Oily Seeds contain a considerable amount of fixed oil which 
renders them unfit for persons of weak digestion. The almond, 
walnut, hazel-nut, and cocoa-nut are common examples. The 
sweet almond, when eaten unbleached, occasionally produces nettle- 
rash, and its solid texture and large proportion of fixed oils render 
it difficult of digestion. The chestnut contains less oil, but a large 
amount of carbohydrate. It is extensively used as a food in Italy 



VARIETIES OF FOOD. 21 

and some other countries. In the uncooked condition it is very 
difficult of digestion. 

Fruits are chiefly used as adjuncts to other foods ; but the 
vegetable salts and the cellulose and sugar which they contain, 
make them very valuable. Cucurbitaceous fruits are used as 
vegetables rather than as fruits. Vegetable marrow is wholesome 
and agreeable, but not very nutritive. Cucumber is most digestible 
when rapidly grown and freshly gathered. 

Stone-fruits or drupes, such as the peach, nectarine, plum, 
cherry, are rather luxuries than foods, like many other fruits. 
Before ripening they are unfit for food ; when ripening is complete, 
the acids and astringent matter largely disappear. The date 
contains chiefly sugar, and forms an important food in the East. 

Pomaceous Fruits, as the apple, pear, and quince, are more 
digestible when cooked ; and, speaking generally, all fruit not 
perfectly ripe should be cooked before eating. The presence of 
vegetable acids in fruit soon converts the sucrose of cane sugar 
into dextrose, a less sweet variety of sugar. It is therefore more 
economical to sweeten after than before cooking. 

The chief Berries are the grape, currant, gooseberry, cranberry, 
and elderberry. The grape is the most important, and 1,500 
varieties of it have been described. Its juice contains a large 
amount of grape sugar (dextrose), and small quantities of glutinous 
material, bitartrate of potash, tartrate of lime, malic acid, etc. 

Besides the above fruits, we have strawberries, mulberries, figs, 
plantains, melons, etc., which are all refreshing and anti-scorbutic. 
The orange family furnishes us with the orange, lemon, citron, 
lime, shaddock, and pomelo, of which the orange is by far the 
most important, and possesses most valuable refreshing qualities. 

Sugar exists in two chief forms, viz. sucroses and glucoses. 
Sucroses, known chemically as disaccharids (Sucrose = C 12 H 22 On ; 
compare starch = C 12 H 20 O 10 ) are exemplified in cane, beet, maple, 
malt (maltose), and milk sugar (lactose). Cane sugar has been 
gradually displaced by beet sugar. The two are chemically identical, 
and equally nutritious. Maltose is given in malt extract as a food, 
and because of the digestive action of the ferment also contained in 
the extract on starchy food. Thus : 



STARCH. MALTOSE. 

Ci 2 H 20 O 10 + H 2 O = C 12 H 22 O U . 



Lactose is comparatively free from sweetness, and is hardly capable 
of being fermented by yeasts. 

Of Glucoses the best example is dextrose = C 6 H 12 O 6 , H 2 O, 
which can be seen crystallised in dried raisins ; it only possesses 
one-third the sweetening power of sucrose. Starchy food becomes 
changed into glucose by the action of saliva and pancreatic juice in 
the alimentary canal. Grapes, cherries, gooseberries, figs, and 
honey contain laevulose in addition to glucose (glucose = C 6 H 12 O 6 , 
H 2 O, laevulose = C 6 H 12 O 6 ). Laevulose resembles dextrose except in 
being uncrystalline, and in its effect on polarised light. Many ripe 



22 HYGIENE. 

fruits, such as pineapples, strawberries, peaches, citrons, contain 
sucrose and laevulose, the latter being not quite so sweet as 
sucrose. " 

In the alimentary canal sucroses are inverted into dextrose and 
laevulose. TJius natural foods containing these sugars are more 
readily assimilated than those containing sucrose. 

The sweetening power of the varieties of sugar depends on 
their degree of solubility in water. Sucrose is soluble in one-third 
of its weight of cold, and in rather more of hot water. Dextrose is 
soluble in its own weight of water ; laevulose is more soluble, and 
therefore sweeter than dextrose. Lactose requires five to six parts 
of cold and two of hot water, and is therefore not so sweet as the 
other varieties. 



CHAPTER IV. 



DISEASES DUE TO POOD. 

DISEASES may arise from the noxious character or from deficiency 
or excess of some particular food, or of the food as a whole. 

DISEASES FROM UNWHOLESOME FOOD. I. The Meat of 
Diseased Animals. 

(1) The flesh of animals which have not been slaughtered should be 
prohibited from sale, whether death has resulted from accident or 
disease. The meat from diseased animals is also generally 
dangerous, sometimes owing to the drugs with which the animals 
have been dosed before death, e.g. tartar emetic, or opium. 

(2) Meat may be unwholesome from the presence of parasites. 
Of these the most common is 

(a) The cysticercus cellulosse, which is the undeveloped 
embryo of the tape-worm ; that from the pig becomes the taenia 
mediocanellata. The cysticercus of the pig is the most common ; 
it forms a cyst about the size of a hemp-seed, commonest on the 
under surface of the tongue. In hams oval holes are found or 
opaque white specks, which are the remains of the cysts converted 
into calcareous matter. When meat containing the cysticercus 
alive (as in under-cooked or raw meat) is swallowed, it develops 
into the tape-worm, which consists of a number of flat segments, 
each capable of producing numerous ova of new cysticerci, with 
a minute head at the narrow end surrounded by hooklets. A 
temperature of 174 F. kills the cysticercus. Another kind of 
tape-worm common on the continent, called bothriocephahis latus, is 
derived from the cysti- 

cercus of fish. 

(b) The trichina 
spiralis is not a solid 
worm like the tsenia, but 
possesses an intestine. 
In pork it forms a minute 
white speck, just visible 
to the naked eye, which 
forms a nest, and in this 
one or two coiled up 
worms can be seen by a 
magnifying glass in active 
movement. They are 
effectually killed by the 

temperature of boiling water ; but no form of drying, salting, or even 
smoking at a low temperature is sufficient for this purpose. Boiling 
or roasting does not suffice to destroy all the trichinae unless the 




FIG. 2. 

CYSTICERCUS ("MEASLES") IN PORK. 
(NATURAL SIZE.) 




24 HYGIENE. 

joint is completely cooked in its interior. When trichinous pork is 
swallowed, the eggs develop' in the alimentary canal in about a week 
into complete worms, and in three or four days more each female 

produces over a hundred young 
ones. These burrow into every 
part of the body, producing 
great irritation and inflamma- 
tion. In one case after death 
upwards of 50,000 worms were 
estimated to exist in a square 
inch of muscle. Most of the 
FIG. 3. cases of trichinosis have 

TRICHINA CAPSULATED IN FLESH. occurred in Germany, from 
(MAGNIFIED.) eatm S ^perfectly cooked 

sausages. The pig becomes 

trichinous by eating offal, and man is infected by .eating pork. 
This disease is rare in England. 

(3) Tuberculous Meat, from animals suffering from tuber- 
culosis, has been found to cause tuberculosis in small animals 
experimentally fed on it. Koch has recently thrown doubt on the 
communicability of bovine tuberculosis to man ; but this point must 
be regarded as still unsettled (see page 312). Sheep are rarely affected 
by it, but it is very common in cattle, especially in cows, and it is a 
serious economical question whether the meat of all such animals 
should be condemned. The ideal would be to condemn all such 
animals, as tuberculosis is an infective disease, and the bacillus 
which causes it (as well as the toxic products of its activity) may be 
present in meat which shows no actual signs of disease, except in 
the lungs or other internal organs. In practice, however, the rules 
laid down by the Royal Commission on Tuberculosis, in 1898, 
should be followed for the present. These state that : 

" The entire carcase and all the organs may be seized (a) when there is 
miliary tuberculosis of both lungs, (b) when tuberculous lesions are present on 
the pleura and peritoneum, or (c) in the muscular system, or in the lymphatic 
glands embedded in or between the muscles, or (d) when tuberculous lesions exist 
in any part of an emaciated carcase. The carcase, if otherwise healthy, shall 
not be condemned, but every part of it containing tuberculous lesions shall be 
seized (a) when the lesions are confined to the lungs and the thoracic lymphatic 
glands, (b) when the lesions are confined to the liver, (c) or to the phayngeal 
lymphatic glands, or (d) to any combination of the foregoing, but are collectively 
small in extent." They also add that any degree of tuberculosis in the pig 
should secure the condemnation of the entire carcase, owing to the greater 
tendency to generalisation of tuberculosis in this animal ; and that in foreign 
meat, seizure should ensue in every case where the pleura has been " stripped." 
(See also page 312.) 

(4) Other Infective diseases besides tuberculosis may render 
meat wholly or partially unfit for food. Of these pleuro-pneumonia 
may not require condemnation of the entire carcase; but in the 
following this course should be adopted, cattle-plague, pig typhoid 
(pneumo-enteritis), anthrax, and quarter ill, as well as in sheep-pox. 
In puerperal fever, actinomycosis, and sheep-rot (liver flukes) each 
case must be decided on its merits. 



DISEASES DUE TO FOOD. 25 

II. Decomposed Meat. Putrid meat has often produced 
diarrhoea and . other severe symptoms. Putrid sausages are 
especially dangerous, and incipient putridity seems to be more 
dangerous than advanced. 

Tinned Meats occasionally produce severe illness, which 
has been in several cases fatal. It is important to secure a good 
brand, and to eat the meat as early as possible after the tin is 
opened. Tins in which any bulging is present, showing the presence 
of putrefactive gases, must be rejected ; and still more tins which 
have been pricked and resoldered in a second place. All tinned 
meats and fruits are stated by Hehner to contain compounds of tin 
in solution. These do not seem to be perceptibly injurious, unlike 
lead salts, which are now rarely found. 

The general subject of Meat Poisoning has had much light 
thrown on it during the last few years. Brieger, about 1886, 
showed that during the cultivation of bacteria, alkaloidal bodies 
known as ptomaines and leucomaines, were formed, which were 
virulently poisonous. It was commonly supposed that the poisoning 
occasionally produced by eating meat pies, sausages, hams, brawn, 
and similar food, was due to these ptomaines. It is now known, 
however, that there are far more important toxines than the 
alkaloidal, which result from bacterial life in meat, etc. (see page 
286. These are more closely related to substances of an albuminous 
or proteid nature than the ptomaines. These toxines may be fatal 
when as small a dose as a fraction of a milligramme (mgm. = about 
-gi- grain) is given subcutaneously. The evidence now shows that 
neither ptomaines nor other toxines (albumoses) or any other 
bacterial products besides these, cause the outbreaks of acute 
poisoning occasionally traced to food, but that these are due to 
bacteria. There is, in other words, actual infection, as well as 
poisoning. The microbe chiefly found as the cause of these outbreaks 
is the Bacillus enteritidis of Gaertner, and some allied microbes. In 
an outbreak at Oldham, 160 pies made on a Thursday, from the 
veal of a calf killed on the preceding Tuesday, were baked in 
several batches, and of the persons eating these pies fifty-four became 
ill. That the contamination was not introduced after cooking was 
shown by the fact that several persons were made ill who ate pies 
still warm from baking. The facts indicated that one batch was 
imperfectly cooked, the time allowed ' being only twenty minutes, 
as compared with fifty minutes allowed in corresponding cooking in 
domestic life. Experimentally it has been found that an exposure 
for one minute to 70 C. kills the Bacillus enteritidis of Gaertner. 
That this bacillus was the cause of the outbreak was subsequently 
shown by the fact that the serum of blood taken . from some of the 
patients showed characteristic clumping with a pure culture of this 
bacillus, just as happens with the blood of a patient suffering from 
enteric fever when a cultivation of the microbe of this fever is mixed 
with it (see page 301). In this outbreak the symptoms were usually 
diarrhoea, vomiting, intense thirst r desquamation of the skin, and a 
slow convalescence, lasting from three to six weeks. (See page 26 
for poisoning by Bacillus enteritidis sforogenes.) 



26 HYGIENE. 

III. Meat injuries from the food eaten before killing. 

Pheasants fed on laurel, haces on rhododendron chrysanthemum, 
and other animals fed on the lotus, wild cucumber, and wild melon 
of Australia, have caused dangerous symptoms. 

IV. Fish, especially some kinds, occasionally produce nettle- 
rash and other disorders, especially in warm weather. Leprosy has 
been ascribed to the eating of decomposing fish, but it occurs in 
countries where a fish diet is impossible. 

Shell-fish and crustaceans (as lobster, crab) are very prone to 
produce evil results. Shell-fish (mollusca), such as mussels, 
cockles, and oysters, are dangerous foods. They are generally 
grown in estuaries, to which the sewage of towns has access ; and 
not infrequently cases of enteric (typhoid) fever, as well as 
more acute attacks of diarrhoea and vomiting, have been traced to 
them. Mussels and cockles are seldom sufficiently cooked to 
render them safe ; and oysters are eaten raw. They should never 
be eaten, unless from personal direct knowledge it is certain that 
they have been derived from an estuary in which there was no 
possibility of contamination by sewage. 

V. Milk has been a common carrier of disease. Cows eating 
the rhus toxicodendron get the "trembles," and their milk produces 
serious gastric irritation in young children. The milk of goats fed 
on wild herbs or spurgeworts has produced severe disorders. 

The milk of animals suffering from foot-and-mouth disease, 
although frequently drunk with impunity, occasionally produces 
inflammation of the mouth (aphthous ulceration). The milk derived 
from cows fed on grass from sewage farms is, per se, as wholesome 
as any other, and its butter has no more tendency to become putrid 
than that derived from any other source. 

The great dangers in respect to milk are of its becoming mixed 
with contaminated water ; or of its absorbing foul odours. The 
absorptive power of milk for any vapour in its neighbourhood, is 
shewn by exposing it in an atmosphere containing a trace of carbolic 
acid vapour : the milk speedily tastes of the acid. 

Milk also tends to undergo rapid fermentative changes, especi- 
ally in warm weather, or when tainted by traces of putrefying 
animal matter. Diarrhoea in children is frequently due to such a 
condition, or to the rapid decomposition of milk in an imperfectly 
cleaned bottle. Milk should always be boiled in warm weather ; 
and it should never be stored in ill-ventilated larders, or where 
there is a possibility of the access of drain effluvia ; nor ought it to 
be kept in lead or zinc vessels. 

Epidemic diarrhoea has been ascribed by Klein to a microbe called the 
Bacillus enter itidis sporogenes. This is not killed by heating the liquid containing 
it to 8oC. for twelve to fifteen minutes, as is the typhoid bacillus and other non- 
spore-forming bacilli. In an outbreak of diarrhoea among the patients in St. 
Bartholomew's Hospital, London, there was strong evidence that this microbe 
taken in rice pudding had caused the mischief. Eighty-four patients and two 
nurses were attacked, and the patients who had eaten rice pudding were almost 
exclusively attacked. A portion of this pudding after being kept twenty-four 
hours was found sour and acid. The Bac. enteritidis sporog. was found in it. 



DISEASES DUE TO FOOD. 27 

Furthermore it was shewn that the temperature at which the rice puddings 
were cooked never exceeded 98 C., whereas the spores of this microbe withstand 
iooF. a considerable time. 

Very many epidemics of enteric fever and scarlet fever, and a 
smaller number of epidemics of diphtheria have been traced to 
contaminated milk. Usually in enteric fever the contamination of 
the milk was traced to the use of water " for washing the milk- 
cans," derived from specifically polluted sources, and doubtless the 
water was the real source of the disease. In most of the milk 
outbreaks of scarlet fever, either there was scarlet fever in the dairy, 
or persons employed in the dairy were in attendance on patients 
suffering from the disease ; but in an outbreak connected with a 
supply of milk from Hendon, it was suspected that a certain 
eruptive disease of the udders of the cow might have been the cause 
of scarlet fever in man, without infection from a previous case of the 
disease. This point is still sub judice. 

Tubercular disease of the intestines and mesenteric glands may 
be produced by taking milk derived from tuberculous cows. This 
was proved in the case of calves (page 311), and there are strong 
reasons for thinking that the same is true for infants, though 
doubt has been thrown by Koch on the communicability of bovine 
tuberculosis to the human being. The only safe plan is to sterilise' 
the milk (page 13). 

VII. 'Vegetable Food (especially greens) is indigestible if 
stale, and all mouldy vegetables are dangerous. Over-ripe and 
rotten fruit is liable to produce diarrhoea ; but the diarrhoea 
prevalent in summer j's due much less to this than to other 
decomposing foods, particularly milk. 

Poisonous symptoms have been produced by the admixture of 
darnel (lolium temulentum) with flour. 

The eating of damaged maize in Italy is the cause of an endemic 
skin disease, called pellagra, which commonly proves fatal. 

Ergotism is due to the growth on cereals (and most commonly 
on the rye) of a poisonous fungus, the claviceps purpurea, which 
produces a deep purple deposit on the grain. If bread made from 
such flour is eaten for prolonged periods, severe symptoms result ; 
in some cases, a dry rotting of the limbs. There have been several 
epidemics on the continent, due chiefly to eating bad rye bread. 

Starvation Diseases. Simple Starvation causes death in a 
period varying with the previous state of nutrition. Usually death 
occurs when the body has lost two-fifths of its weight, whether this 
be after days, months, or years (Chossat). A supply of water 
prolongs the duration of life, to as much as three times what it 
would otherwise be. Good nourishment doubles the power of 
resisting disease ; while deficient food prepares the way for many 
diseases. A large share of the decline in the English death-rate 
during the last forty years is due to free trade, and the great 
cheapening of wholesome food which has resulted from it. 

An ill-balanced is more frequent than a deficient diet. 
Deficiency of tat is more serious than deficiency of carbohydrates, 
and deficiency of proteid is most serious. 



28 HYGIENE. 

IScurvy is caused by the absence of fresh vegetables. The use of 
the potato and the orange, as well as of lime juice (the juice of 
citrus limetta), has led to its extinction among adults in this 
country. In former times, it caused more deaths among seamen 
than all other causes put together, including the accidents of war. 
In infants fed upon tinned foods, whether condensed rnilk or patent 
foods, a form of scurvy still occurs. Infants fed on new-milk never 
suffer in this way. If, therefore, it is necessary to feed an infant on 
condensed milk for many consecutive months, potato gruel or raw 
meat juice or fresh milk must occasionally be given. 

Rickets is chiefly due to improper feeding in childhood. The 
substitution of artificial foods (most of them containing starch) for 
the natural milk is its chief cause. The lower incisor teeth of an 
infant appear between the sixth and seventh months. Starchy food 
given before this age is undigested. Such food likewise leads to less 
fat and proteid being given, which are essential for growth. 
Deficiency of lime salts in the food does not cause it, and giving 
them in food or medicine will not cure it. Enrichment of the diet 
by cream or failing this by cod liver oil is the best means of 
preventing and curing it. Abundant fresh air and warm clothing 
are also necessary. 

Relapsing fever generally follows epidemics of typhus fever, and 
is greatly favoured by starvation. Ophthalmia has been chiefly 
prevalent in charity schools in which the children are underfed, 
though its essential cause is contagion. 

Diseases Connected with Over-Feeding. A fire may go 
out for want of fuel, or from becoming choked with ashes ; and 
it is the latter state of things which occurs in Gout and allied 
diseases. Weakness is commonly complained of, but this is due to 
excess of food embarrassing vital action ; and abstinence and 
exercise are required to restore the balance. Excess of nitrogenous 
food especially if combined with the use of sweet, or strong, or 
very acid wines, and beer is particularly prone to produce gout. 
In these cases, animal food should only be taken once a day, and 
vegetable food should be allowed to preponderate. 

Obesity is favoured by excess of starchy food and sugar, and 
by copious drinking of water or other beverages. The plan of 
curing obesity by restricting oneself almost entirely to meat food is 
only advisable, however, under certain conditions. Gall-stones are 
favoured by rich foods and excess of sugar ; also by alcoholic 
indulgence. Dyspepsia is commonly due to loading the stomach 
at too frequent intervals ; but on the other hand, it not infrequently 
leads to the taking of insufficient food, because of the discomfort 
produced. The result of this is that a chronic starvation results, 
with impaired vital powers. Dyspeptic patients should abstain 
from pastry and from tea and coffee, except in small quantities. 
Alcohol in any form, as a rule, does harm. Not uncommonly 
mastication is imperfectly performed, and a good dentist may cure 
the indigestion which has resisted all other treatment. 



CHAPTER V. 
DIET. 

THE importance of a duly proportioned and sufficient dietary 
is shown by its great influence on health and constitution. An ill- 
proportioned or deficient diet is certain to lead to failure of health. 
The anatomy of an animal may be modified in the course of 
generations by altered diet, as well as its character ; thus, the 
alimentary canal of the cat has increased in length to adapt it to 
its omnivorous habits. In the case of the bee we have a still 
more remarkable instance. If by any accident the queen bee dies, 
or is lost, the working bees (which are sexually undeveloped) select 
two or three eggs, which they hatch in large cells, and then feed 
the maggot on a stimulating jelly, different from that supplied to 
the other maggots, thus producing a queen bee. 

The food of mankind varies naturally with 

I. Climate. A cold climate leads to increased metabolism,, 
and consequently a large amount of fatty matter can be eaten 
without producing nausea. Witness the difference between a 
Laplander's and a Hindoo's diet. 

The season of the year has likewise some influence. Vital 
processes are more active in spring than autumn, and more food is 
consequently required in the former season. 

II. Occupation. Although muscular exercise is not associated 
with an immediate increase of elimination of urea, yet as a matter 
of experience more nitrogenous food is required and can be 
metabolised by hard workers than by. idlers. The trappers on the 
North American prairies can live for weeks together on meat alone,, 
accompanied by copious draughts of tea. They are constantly in 
the open air, undergoing fatiguing exercises, in a dry and rare 
atmosphere. For brain workers no special food is required. 
Foods containing phosphorus have no special value, so far as is 
known, for mental work. Such work, however, is apt to affect 
digestion ; consequently the digestibility of food is more important 
for those engaged in sedentary occupations than its chemical 
composition. 

III. Sex. As a rule, women require about one-tenth less 
food than men, but probably this rule hardly holds good in the case 
of women engaged in laborious work. 

IV. Age. Infants require only milk, and the less they have 



3 o HYGIENE. 

of any other food before a year old the better. Atwater has 
calculated that 

A child under 2 requires & the food of a man doing moderate work. 

,, of 3 to 5 
of 6 to 9 

., of 10 to 13 
A girl of 14 to 16 
A boy of 14 to 16 

Vital processes are more active in early life, and food is required 
not only to carry on the functions of the body, but also to furnish 
the materials for growth. Hence, while the proportion of proteids 
to carbohydrates and fats should be 

As i : 5-3 in adults, it should be about as i : 4-3 in children. 

After the age of thirty-five or forty, the tendency is to take too 
much food. All the tissues of the body are established, and excess 
of food (especially nitrogenous food) is liable to produce tissue 
degeneration by loading the system with partially metabolised 
matter, and may lead to gouty diseases. It is much safer to. take 
what may be regarded as too little than too much food after this 
period. 

Times for Eating. The best arrangement seems to be to 
have three meals, each fairly nutritious, and containing all the 
constituents required. The Romans only had two meals daily, 
prandium and coena. This is common among the French at 
present, but it tends to overloading the digestive organs at these 
meals. 

An ordinary full meal has usually passed from the stomach in 
four hours. Fresh food ought never to be introduced before this 
period ; it is advisable to allow an interval of five hours between 
meals for the healthy, so as to give time for the digestive organs to 
rest, and for the absorption of food. The practice of taking tea 
with the chief meal, or a " meat tea," is bad. Tea is better taken 
an hour or two after food. 

Regularity in the time of taking meals is important, as the 
digestive organs acquire habits like other parts of the body. Work* 
ought not, if possible, to be resumed immediately after meals, nor 
active exercise of any kind. These tend to abstract blood from the 
digestive organs, and so diminish the efficiency of digestion. 

Vegetable and Animal Poods. The fact that the food we 
require can be obtained from the vegetable world has led to the 
proposition that vegetable food should be taken alone. It is urged 
in favour of this plan, that a large amount of suffering to animals 
would be prevented. Also that animal food is not so economical 
as vegetable, land being more economically employed in producing 
corn than in feeding cattle. Thirdly, there is the indubitable fact 
that health can be maintained for prolonged periods on vegetable 
food (including nuts, cereals, fruits, etc.) 

On the other hand, the chief objections to a purely vegetable 
diet are that the undigested refuse is greater than with an equal 



DIET. 31 

quantity of animal food ; that a longer time and more exertion than 
for animal foods are required in digesting the most nutritious 
vegetable foods, such as legumens, while other vegetable foods 
do not contain a sufficient proportion of nitrogenous material. 
Also, if one lived entirely on vegetable food, a greater bulk would 
be required, and owing to the fact that such food is less easily 
absorbed, satisfaction to the appetite would not so soon be pro- 
duced. Animal food has a great advantage as regards convenience. 
Man is not an eating machine.; he requires food which is easily 
converted into the body substance, and this is supplied by the flesh 
of animals, milk and' eggs, with a due proportion of non-nitrogenous 
food ; sheep and oxen work up indigestible vegetable materials into 
easily assimilable mutton and beef. The greater convenience of 
animal food as a supply of proteid is shown by the following 
examples of foods after the removal of water : 

zoo parts of rice contain 7 parts of proteid. 

wheat ,, 1 6 

pea flour ,, 27 ,, 

fat beef ,, 51 

,, dried lean beef ,, 89 ,, ,, 

On the other hand, vegetable foods are a cheaper source, not 
only of carbohydrates and fats, but also of proteids as well. Thus 
the approximate cost of 

i lb. of proteid in beef is 2s. 8d. 
milk is 2s. 2d. 
bread is is. 6d. 
oatmeal is 7^d. 
peas is 7d. 

Under the ordinary conditions of town life, there is considerable 
danger of indulging in an excess of nitrogenous food, and vege- 
tarians may therefore do good by showing that meat is not 
absolutely necessary, and can often with advantage be largely 
replaced by vegetable food. 

If we include milk, cheese, and eggs in the vegetarian diet, the 
objections to it partially disappear ; and it would be well if it were 
rmfbh more widely known, especially among the poor, that on these, 
together with vegetables, health can be maintained with the addition 
of little or no meat. 

The Determination of Diet. The first principle in making 
a dietary is that it must be mixed, containing all the necessary 
constituents, proteids, hydro-carbons, carbo-hydrates, water, and 
salts. No one of these alone will support life for. any considerable 
period. Carbo-hydrates (sugar and starch) can be most easily 
dispensed with; fats, on the other hand, are essential for the 
maintenance of health. 

The next point is to ascertain the proportion in which these 
different foods are required. Salts are commonly taken with other 
foods, common salt being the only one taken alone. The amount 
required is given on p. 7. The amount of water required varies 



3 2 



HYGIENE. 



with the season of the year, the amount of exercise and perspiration, 
and other factors. As a rule, not more than two pints of water are 
required per day, and still less if fruit is freely taken. We may 
therefore confine our attention to the carbonaceous and nitrogenous 
foods, and try to ascertain the amount of each of these required. 
Every diet must be subjected to the following tests, to fully ascertain 
its value : 

i. The Chemical Test. The metabolism undergone by food 
in the body being essentially a process of oxidation (though 
partially modified and incomplete), the amount of heat yielded on 
complete combustion of a food may be taken as a measure of its 
value as a source of energy, of which heat and work are convertible 
forms. The standard of heat production is the calorie, the amount 
of heat required to raise the temperature of one gramme of water 
i C. This is the small calorie. The kilo-calorie (called the 
Calorie) is the amount of heat required to raise i kilo (i litre) of 
water i C., or i Ib. of water 4 F. In calculations on this basis, 
allowance must be made for foods which are incompletely oxidised 
in the body. Rubner has shown that the heat value of i gramme 
( = 15 J grains) of each of the chief food stuffs is as follows : 



Proteid 

Carbohydrates 
Fat .. 



4' i 
4' 1 
9'3 



Calories. 



The method of applying this standard to a food is as follows : the 
percentage of proteid or carbohydrate given in the following table is 
multiplied by 4-1, and the per-centage of fat by 9-3 : 





IN IOO PARTS. 


WATER. 


ALBUMIN- 
ATES OR 
PROTEIDS. 


FATS. 


CARBO- 
HYDRATES. 


SALTS. 


Uncooked meat with little fat . . 


74'4 


20-5 


3'5 


_ 


1-6 


Cooked meat without loss 


54 


27-6 







2 '95 


Salt beef 




29-6 


O'2 





2I'O 


White fish 


78-0 


18-1 


2-9 





ro 


Bread, white wheaten 


40- 


8- 


j-e 


49'2 


*'3 


Wheat flour 




ii- 


2' 




1-7 


Rice 


IO 


5 


8 


83-2 




Oatmeal.. 


15 


12-6 


5*6 


63-0 


3' 


Peas (dry) 


15 


22 


2' 


53' 


2-4 


Potatoes 


74 


1 '5 


I 




i- 


Butter 


8 


2' 


88 





variable 


Eggs (including shell, for which \ 
deduct 10 per cent.) j 


73'5 


I3-5 


ir6 





i 


Cheese 


36-8 


33'5 


24-3 





5'4 


Milk 


87-0 


4- 


3'5 


4-8 


7 



Thus for bread 

Proteid 

Fat 

Carbohydrate 



8 x 4'i = 32'8 

i'5 X 9'3 = I3-95 

49-2 x 4-1 = 201-72 



Total Caloric value of 100 grammes of bread = 248-47 



DIET. 33 

The total fuel value in Calories of one pound of certain typical 
foods is given by Hutchison as follows : Butter 3,577, peas 1,473, 
cheese 1,303, bread 1,128, eggs 739, beef 623, potatoes 369, milk 322, 
fish (cod) 315, apples 238. 

2. The Physiological Test. Not only is a proper proportion 
of proteid, fat, and carbo-hydrates required, but these must be 
capable of digestion and absorption and of oxidation in the body. 
Cheese is a highly concentrated food, but its value is less than its 
percentage composition would indicate, because of the difficulty of 
digesting considerable quantities of it. Green vegetables consist 
largely of cellulose, which is only imperfectly capable of absorption 
into the blood, although it can experimentally be oxidised by 
combustion. The proportion between absorbed food and food 
rejected in the fosces can be ascertained by analysis. Many 
experiments made on these lines show that on a purely animal diet 
(meat, eggs, milk) but little nitrogen is lost, while with vegetable 
foods (carrots, potatoes, peas, etc.) the waste of nitrogen is 
considerable. Fats are very completely absorbed from the 
alimentary canal. The amount remaining unabsorbed is greatest 
with mutton fat (10 per cent.), least with butter (2^ per cent.). 
Experimentally it has been found that an amount up to 150 grammes 
(about 5^- oz.) of fat can be absorbed without appreciable loss. 
Carbohydrates are very completely absorbed, even starchy foods 
rarely escaping digestion. Completeness of absorption from the 
alimentary canal is not desirable for all foods ; a certain amount 
of unabsorbed residue is required to stimulate peristalsis. With 
a purely vegetable diet this amount is excessive, and there is 
physiological waste of effort. 

3. In practical dietetics the Economic test is important. 
Carbohydrate is by far the cheapest food, and generally vegetable 
are cheaper than animal foods. Thus a shilling's-worth of bread 
yields 10,764 Calories, while the same sum spent on milk would 
only yield -J, and on beef ^ this number of heat units. Similarly a 
shilling's-worth of peas contains 572 grammes of proteid, about 
double as much as the same money's-worth of cheese ; while to 
obtain the same amount of proteid from eggs would cost more than 
eight, and from beef more than five times as much as from peas 
(Hutchison). The market price of foods is no certain indication 
of their nutritive value. Thus haddock will supply as much 
nutriment as sole at a fourth of the cost ; Dutch as much nutriment 
as Stilton cheese at less than half the cost. Similarly the most 
economical fats are margarine and dripping. 

4. An Examination of Actual Dietaries under various 
conditions has strikingly confirmed the results obtained by other 
methods. It has been found that (a) the potential energy required by 
a healthy man weighing n stones, and doing a moderate amount 
of muscular work is 3,000 to 3,500 Calories ( = 310 grains) ; and that 
(b) about 20 grammes of nitrogen and 320 grammes ( = 4,960 grains) 
of carbon are excreted by such a man. (c) Expressing the 3,000 
Calories required in terms of grammes of food, it is found that 125 

Newsholme's Hygiene,] 4 



34 



HYGIENE. 



grammes of proteid, 500 of carbohydrate and 50 of fat are necessary. 
These facts are expressed in" the following table (Hutchison) : 



Proteid 
Fat 
Carbohydrate 


STANDARD AMOUNT 
OF FOOD CON- 
STITUENTS REQUIRED 

(IN GRAMMES). 


SAME AMOUNT OF FOOD IN 
TERMS OF 


YIELDING 
ENERGY IN 
CALORIES. 


CARBON. 


NITROGEN. 


125 
500 
50 


62 
2OO 
38 


20 


5I2-5 
2050- 
465- 


675 


300 


2O 


3027-5 



Three of the best known standard dietaries give the amounts in 
grammes of each food constituent as follows : 



Proteid 
Fat 

Carbohydrate 


PLAYFAIR. 


MOLESCHOTT. \ ATWATER. 


AVERAGE. 


119 
51 
531 


130 
4 
550 


125 
125 
450 


125 
72 
510 


Calories 


3140 


3160 


3520 


3273 



Expressing the same facts in English ounces instead of 
grammes, 4! oz. of proteid, 2^ oz. of fat, and 18 oz. of carbohydrate, 
would represent the ounces of each constituent required according to 



Proteid 
Fat 

Carbohydrate 


AVERAGE OF ABOVE THREE 
DIETARIES. 


HUTCHISON, 


4f 

2* 

18 


4| 

i7i 


Ounces of -dry food 


24& 


23| 



The chief point of divergence in the above standard dietaries is 
in the relative proportion of carbohydrate and fat. Probably the 
correct proportion between these is as i to 10; but it will vary 
according to climate and other circumstances. Detailed exami- 
nation of a large number of dietaries shows that the amount of daily 
proteid should be about 125 grammes, or 4f ozs. This is contained 
in 20 eggs, or in 18 oz. i.e. about 4^ ordinary platesful of cooked 
meat. 

It must be noted that the 23-24 oz. of food given above as the 
standard daily amount represents dry food. This represents 40 oz. 
or nearly 3 Ibs. of ordinary food. 

The following example by Waller, gives a rather liberal 






standard English diet, for a 
muscular work. 



35 



man doing a moderate amount of 



Foundation 



Accessories 



i Ib. bread .. 

Ib. meat 

^ Ib. meat . . 

i Ib. potatoes .. 

J pint milk . . 

| Ib. eggs 

| Ib. cheese . . 

Total . . 



CARBON. 

117 
34 
84 
45 
20 
15 
20 

335 



NITROGEN. 

5-5 

7-5 

1-3 
1-7 
2-0 
3-0 



This divided up into meals works out roughly as follows 
(Hutchison) : 



-D i r j. 
Breakfast 

yy 

Tea . . 
Supper 



Two slices of thick bread and butter. 
Two eggs . 

One plateful of potato soup. 

A large helping of meat with some fat. 

Four moderate sized potatoes. 

One slice of thick bread and butter. 

A glass of milk and two slices of thick bread and butter. 

Two slices of thick bread and butter and 2 oz. of cheese. 



From the preceding data, practical problems as to dietaries are 
easily solved. Thus if it be required to find 

how much oatmeal, milk, and butter would be required to give a sufficient quantity of 
albuminoids, fiits, and carbohydrates to an adult male, 

the calculation may be based on the figures in the table on 
p. 32, or the following figures may, for the sake of convenient 
calculation, be taken as representing the per-centage amount of 
each of these chief food principles contained in the foods named : 



Oatmeal 

Milk 

Butter 



ALBUMINOIDS. 

12 

4 



FATS. 

6 



CARBOHYDRATES. 

60 
5 



3 
2 88 

Let o number of ounces of oatmeal required. 
m = ,, ,, ' milk 

b = ,, butter 

Then I2 + 4W + 2& = 4-5 ozs. of albuminoid 
100 

IOO 

600 + 5m _ Qzs Q car bohydrate, 

IOO 

according to Moleschott's diet. 

When these equations are worked out by substitution and transference 



o = ig - 2 ounces. 
m = 55'4 
b 0-24 



36 HYGIENE. 

Similarly if it is required to find how much meat, bread, and butter of the following 
percentage composition will be required* to give a man a sufficient amount of albuminoids, 
fats, and carbohydrates. 

ALBUMINOIDS. FATS. CARBOHYDRATES. 

Meat 25 15 o 

Bread 8 1-5 50 

Butter 2 88- o 

Let m = number of ounces of meat required. 
b = ,, bread ,, 

B = butter 

Then I2W + 8b + 2B = 4-5 ozs. of albuminoid 

100 

i 5 m + r 5 b + S8B = Qzs of fat 
100 

5L = 14-25 ozs. of carbohydrates 
100 

When these equations are worked out 

m = 6-28 ounces. 
b = 28-5 
B = 1-15 

Relation of Pood to Mechanical Work. In the body . the 
movements of every part are constant sources of heat. Ii is evident 
therefore that the potential energy of food can be expressed by (a) 
the amount of heat obtained by its complete combustion, or (b) by 
the amount of work capable of being obtained from it. Joule 
discovered by exact experiment that the mechanical power obtain- 
able from a given amount of fuel is directly proportional to the 
amount of fuel used, being in fact due to the oxidation of this fuel, 
the heat produced being transformed into mechanical power. -The 
heat unit or calorie has been already given (p. 32). The gram- metre 
is the work unit. The heat unit corresponds to 425-5 units of work. 
Thus the same energy required to heat one gramme of water i C. 
will raise a weight of 425-5 grammes to the height of i metre. 
Conversely a weight of 425 grammes if allowed to fall from a height 
of i metre, will by its concussion produce heat sufficing to raise the 
temperature of i gramme of water i C. In England the amount 
of work done is commonly expressed as foot tons, i.e. tons lifted one 
foot ; while in France it is similarly expressed as kilogrammetres. 
Gramme-metres can be converted into foot-pounds by multiplying 
them by .007233, and kilogrammetres into foot-tons by dividing by 

3 

Frankland estimated that 

i oz. dry albumin yields 174 foot-tons of potential energy, 

i oz. fat ,, 378 

i oz. starch ,, 135 

i oz. cane sugar ,, 129 

i oz. glucose or lactose ,, 122 

In practical dietetics digestibility of food as well as chemical 
composition is an important factor. Furthermore metabolism in the 
body is not in every instance so complete as oxidation outside it. 
Hence estimates of potential energy can only be regarded as 



DIET. 37 

theoretically correct. Examination questions like the following are 
occasionally asked : 

A man does work equal to 176-8 foot-tons in a day. Supposing that he eats 
only bread, how much will he require to give the amount of energy required, if 
bread contains 8 per cent, proteid, 1-5 per cent, fat, and 49-2 per cent, 
carbohydrate ? 

On the above basis, from 100 ounces of bread the amount of potential 
energy obtainable is : 

8 x 174 = 1,392 foot-tons 
1-5 x 378 = 567 
49-2 x 135 = 6,642 

Total energy = 8,601 ,, obtained from 100 ozs. bread. 

Let b = number of ounces of bread required to develop 176-8 foot-tons of 
energy. 

Then 8,601 : 100 : : 176-8 : b. 
Therefore b = 2-05 ounces. 



CHAPTER VI. 
THE PREPARATION AND PRESERVATION OP POOD. 

OBJECTS OF COOKING. Food may be taken in its crude 
condition, as directly derived from the animal or vegetable world, 
or after it has undergone a preparatory process of cooking. Man is 
the only animal who cooks his food. Many foods, in the uncooked 
condition are almost entirely incapable of digestion by him such as 
the proteid and farinaceous materials contained in the seeds of cereal 
and leguminous plants. But cooking, as a preparatory help to the 
digestion of food, is not equally required by all foods. Thus, fruit 
is commonly taken uncooked, and does not undergo any important 
alteration on cooking. Salads are taken uncooked, but not for their 
nutritive properties so much as for a relish to other foods, and for 
their quasi-medicinal properties. Milk, again, may be taken cooked 
or uncooked. The oyster is the only animal which is eaten 
habitually, and by preference, in the uncooked condition ; and there 
is a physiological reason for this universal custom. The large 
fawn-coloured liver, which constitutes the delicacy of the oyster, is 
little else than glycogen, associated with its appropriate ferment 
diastase, so that the oyster is almost self-digestive. When cooked, 
the ferment is destroyed, and digestion of the oyster becomes more 
difficult. 

Cooking is intended i. To malic the food softer, and in part to 
mechanically disintegrate it, thus rendering it more easily masticated 
and digested. In fact, cooking, in the best sense, is an artificial 
help to digestion ; and digestion may well be said to commence in 
the kitchen. 

2. To produce certain chemical changes. Thus, starch is par- 
tially converted into dextrine ; gelatin is formed from connective 
tissue, etc. 

3. To destroy any noxious parasites present in the food, or 
obviate any ill effects from putrefactive changes. Diseased meat 
chiefly produces bad effects when imperfectly cooked. 

4. To make the food more pleasant to the eye and agreeable to 
the palate. The improved savour in cooked meat, for instance, 
has a very appetising effect, and consequently makes digestion 
easier. 

THE COOKING OF FLESH. i. Roasting is, perhaps, the most 
perfect way of cooking meat. It exalts its flavour more than any 
other method. In roasting, place the meat at first sufficiently near 
a brisk fire, so that the albumin on its surface may be readily 
coagulated, and the juices retained in the interior of the joint. After 



COOKING. 39 

about fifteen minutes, the joint ought to be removed somewhat 
further from the fire, and allowed to cook slowly. Frequent basting 
is desirable to obtain a good result. Brown meats, such as beef, 
mutton, and goose, require a quarter of an hour per pound weight ; 
veal and pork require about ten minutes additional, to ensure the 
absence of redness. White-fleshed birds require a somewhat 
shorter time. The time required in roasting will be a little more if 
the joint is large, or the fire not very clear. To ascertain if the 
meat is sufficiently cooked, press the fleshy part ; if it remains 
depressed, it is done ; if not done, it retains its elasticity. At the 
first incision, gravy should flow out of a reddish colour. 

The changes undergone during roasting are, that the connective 
tissues uniting the muscular fibres is converted by the gradual heat 
into gelatin, which is soluble and easily digested ; the muscular 
fibres, consequently, become more separable, and the myosin of 
which they consist is rendered more digestible. The fat is partly 
melted out of its fat cells, and partly combines with the alkali from 
the blood-serum. Empyreumatic oils (i.e. fat partially burnt), 
developed by charring of the surface of the joint, are carried off 
when it is roasted in front of the fire ; and so, to a large extent, is 
acrolein. Acrolein (CsH 4 O) is always produced by the destructive 
distillation of neutral fats containing glycerine, and is the cause 
of the intolerably pungent odour accompanying the process. 
Osmazome, a peculiar extractive matter, on which the flavour 
and odour of meat depend, is developed better by roasting than 
by any other method of cooking. 

It is useful to remember, in buying beef or mutton, that 20 per 
cent, must be allowed for bone and 20 to 30 per cent, for the loss 
during cooking. 

The following figures are by Johnston : 

IN ROASTING. IN BAKING. IN BOILING. 

4 lb. of mutton lose in weight . . i Ib. 6 oz. i Ib. 4 oz. 14 oz. 

besf ,, ,, .. i lb. 5 oz. i lb. 3 oz. i lb. 

Thus roasting is the least economical method of , cooking. The 
chief loss, however, is of water ; the dripping and gravy are 
recoverable. 

2. Baking of meat in a closed oven does not produce so 
agreeable a result as roasting in front of an open fire. The oven 
ought always to be very hot before the meat is put in, in order to 
rapidly coagulate its surface. Baked meat may have an unpleasant 
flavour, owing to its saturation with empyreumatic oils, which escape 
in open roasting. The unpleasant flavour can be prevented by 
covering the meat with a layer of some non-conducting material, as 
a pie-dish or a crust, no empyreuma being then formed. Baked 
white of egg, as in the dish of fried ham and eggs, is one of the 
most indigestible forms of albumin obtainable. 

3. Boiling of meat requires the same time as roasting. If the 
flavour and juices are to be retained, , the joint ought first to be 
plunged into soft boiling water, and then, after three minutes, 
allowed to stand aside in water at 170 Fahr. The preliminary 



4 o HYGIENE. 

boiling forms a coating of coagulated albumin over the joint. 
Where there is no thermometer to guide the cooking after the 
preliminary boiling for three to five minutes, add three pints of 
cold water to each gallon of boiling water, and retain at the same 
temperature for the rest of the process, i.e., at about 170 Fahr. 
If the meat is boiled in an inner vessel surrounded by water 
(water-bath), the temperature of the inner vessel does not rise above 
i6o-i7o F. Ordinary " simmering " means that the meat is kept 
all the time at a temperature of 212 F. and is thus spoilt. The 
boiling of an egg is an example of the same point. If an egg is kept 
in water at a temperature of 170 F. for 10 to 15 minutes, its contents 
form a tender jelly, while an egg kept in water at 212 F. for the 
same length of time is hard and tough. An egg is more digestible 
when cooked in water at 170 F. for 10 minutes than when boiled 
in water for 2^ minutes. 

The use of soft water for cooking purposes is always advisable ; 
otherwise a longer period must be allowed. A preliminary boiling 
for a few minutes renders hard water softer, and the addition of a 
little carbonate of soda has a like effect. 

When meat is inserted in water at a temperature below its 
boiling point, the juices are gradually extracted, while the meat is 
left a mass of indigestible fibres. A good soup is produced, but the 
meat is almost valueless. In order that the soups and broths may 
be nutritious, the less heat is employed in their preparation the 
better. If a soup is strained to make it clear, much of the most 
valuable part is removed. 

Stewing is a process intermediate between boiling and baking. 
It possesses the great advantage over dry baking that no 
empyreumatic gases are produced, and there is no charring. The 
temperature of the stew-pan ought never to be above 180 Fahr. ; 
at this heat the roughest and coarsest kinds of meat are made 
tender. The only objection to stewing is that the meat becomes 
saturated with fat and gravy, and is too rich for weak stomachs. It 
is advisable to stew lean meats only. 

Hashing is a process of stewing applied to meat which has 
been previously cooked. The consequence of this double cooking, 
is that the meat becomes tough and leathery. A modified hash in 
which the meat is simply well warmed throughout is preferable. 

Prying, unless carefully done, renders meat difficult of 
digestion, each fibre becoming coated with fat. The art is to " fry 
lightly," that is, to burn quickly and evenly, so that no charring is 
produced. Two methods of frying are described. In the first, the 
substance to be fried, as an omelette or pancake, is placed with a 
little fat or oil in a frying-pan. This is really a modified process of 
roasting, the fat merely serving to prevent the object from adhering 
to the shallow pan. In the second, the substance to be fried is 
immersed in fat ; for this purpose a frying kettle is required. Olive 
oil or good cotton seed oil is best for use in the frying-kettle. Lard 
is a bad material for frying; both it and butter are apt to burn 
unless heated slowly. Dripping is a good substance for frying. 
The fat used must be heated to from 350 to 390 F., and then the 



COOKING. 41 

substance to be fried, e.g. a sole, plunged into it and left for two or 
three minutes. In this process the substance of the sole is really 
being steamed by the steam generated in the substance of the sole. 

6. Broiling and Grilling are really processes of roasting 
applied to small portions of meat. In grilling, it is important that 
the gridiron should be hot before putting anything on it. An 
external coagulation of albumin is produced, as in good roasting 
and boiling. 

THE COOKING OF MIXED DISHES. A few instances may be 
given of common errors in preparing compound dishes. An egg in 
a custard, or just coagulated in a poached egg, is a light and easily- 
digested food ; baked half an hour in a pudding, it is much less 
digestible ; fried with ham, it is almost as indigestible as leather. 
Spices, if mixed with a dish before it is boiled, lose nearly all their 
flavouring power, while they remain irritating. They ought to be 
added near the end of the cooking process. A soup containing 
vegetables, as well as meat juices, should be prepared in two parts. 
The vegetables require prolonged boiling ; gravy is spoilt by this. 
Similarly, the jam in a tartlet, if inserted before baking, loses its 
proper fruity flavour ; and oysters baked in a beef-steak pie are 
indigestible. 

THE COOKING OF VEGETABLE FOODS. Bread is either 
vesiculated or unvesiculated ; the latter being what is called 
unleavened bread. Vesiculation of bread has usually been produced 
by fermentation of some of the sugar of the flour. The starch first 
becomes sugar (dextrose) and then the growth of the yeast plant in 
the dough splits this up into alcohol and carbonic acid gas. The 
carbonic acid percolates the substance of the dough, rendering it 
porous. When it has "risen" sufficiently, the dough is placed in 
the oven. The heat of the latter kills the yeast plant, thus 
preventing any further fermentation, but at the same time expands 
the carbonic acid gas in the bread, rendering the latter still more 
porous, and drives off in a gaseous condition the greater part of the 
alcohol produced by the previous fermentation. 

It is objected to this plan of making bread, that a little of the 
sugar is wasted in producing alcohol and carbonic acid. To remedy 
this, another plan is sometimes adopted, as first proposed by Dr. 
Dauglish. In it the dough is charged with carbonic acid dissolved 
in water under considerable pressure.' The gas escapes in the 
substance of the dough, and on baking expands as in the ordinary 
method of making bread. Bread made in this manner, is called 
"aerated bread." Nevill's bread has a solution of carbonate of 
ammonia incorporated in the dough, which is dissipated by heat, 
thus causing vesiculation of the bread. 

On the continent, a mixture of hydrochloric acid and carbonate 
of soda is commonly used, carbonic acid and common salt being 
formed in the dough. Thus NaHCO 8 +HCl-NaCl + H 2 O + CO 2 . 
The hydrochloric acid employed should be perfectly pure and free 
from arsenic. Baking powders are also largely used for making 
cakes. " Self-raising " flour is flour with which baking-powder has 
already been mixed. Most baking-powders consist of a mixture of 



42 HYGIENE. 

carbonate of soda and tartaric acid or bitartrate of potash, diluted 
with starch. When wetted, 'carbonic acid gas is evolved. A few 
contain alum, which is now an illegal material for this purpose. 

Ten pounds of flour ought to make thirteen to fourteen of 
bread. The use of stale bread is much more economical than of 
newly-made bread ; besides this, it is more digestible. Newly-made 
bread is more palatable than stale, but it is more cohesive, and does 
not crumble into separate particles like stale bread. The consequence 
is, that it is less digestible, being less easily penetrated by the saliva 
and other digestive juices. The effect of toasting is to render 
bread more friable, and consequently more digestible. It ought, 
however, to be thin and eaten soon after it is made ; when thick 
and kept too long, it becomes tough and leathery. 

Pastry is less easily digested than ordinary bread. The lard or 
dripping added renders it more flaky and less easily pulverised ; 
and, in addition, the fat coats over the starch cells ; and thus the 
action of the digestive juices on the pastry is impeded. 

Potatoes -ought to be boiled in their jackets, or steamed, to 
avoid loss of nitrogenous material and salts. Moist heat causes 
the starch granules to swell, and ultimately softens and bursts, the 
cellulose envelopes in which these are contained. Dry heat, as 
when potatoes are baked, converts starch into a soluble form, and 
ultimately into dextrine ( = C 6 H 10 O 5 ), an intermediate stage towards 
the formation of dextrose (i.e. glucose = C 6 H 12 O 6 ). 

Peas and Beans ought to be boiled slowly and for a long 
time to render them more digestible. If old, they ought to be 
soaked in cold water for twenty-four hours, then crushed, and 
stewed. Hard water must be avoided in the cooking of peas and 
beans as well as of other vegetables, as the lime-salts form 
insoluble compounds with legumin. 

Green vegetables require thorough and prolonged cooking. 
This renders their tissues softer and more easily attacked in 
digestion. The members of the cabbage tribe and carrots can 
hardly be boiled too long. Soft water ought always to be used ; 
this is one reason why steaming is preferable. Before boiling, all 
vegetables should be well washed in cold water. A little vinegar 
will remove any insects present. 

COOKING APPARATUS. The apparatus required in cooking may 
be divided into kitchen utensils and cooking ranges. 

To ensure good cooking, perfect cleanliness of all apparatus 
is indispensable. The use of the frying-pan, gridiron, spit, and 
oven has been sufficiently indicated under the description of the 
different methods of cooking. The form of stove to be used for 
cooking meat is gradually being settled against the old open stove. 
Although this secures a somewhat more savoury joint than when 
meat is baked, it is extravagant in working. The closed kitchener 
in which coal is employed is less economical than a gas stove at the 
present price of gas, if the latter is carefully used. 

Various appliances for economising fuel have been devised, and at 
the same time of allowing of the prolonged action of a moderate degree 
of heat. These are usually constructed on the principle of an ordinary 



PRESERVATION OF FOOD. 43 

bath, consisting of a double pan, with a layer of water between the 
two compartments. Warren's cooking-pot belongs to this type. 
The Aladdin oven consists of an iron box with an opening above to 
let off superfluous steam. This box is surrounded by another 
composed of non-conducting material, while a lamp below furnishes 
the heat. Dr. Atkinson has calculated that in an ordinary oven 
2 Ibs. of fuel must be expended for every pound of food cooked, 
while in his Aladdin oven 2-| Ibs. of fuel will cook 60 Ibs. of food. 
Time is an important element in cooking. Food is most thoroughly 
cooked and most digestible when subjected to a temperature below 
that of boiling water for a prolonged period. 

THE PRESERVATION OF FOOD. All organic foods tend rapidly 
to decompose and putrefy. Putrefaction only occurs when a warm 
and moist substance is exposed to the air. The problem of 
preserving any food, therefore, may be solved (i) by keeping it at a 
very low temperature, (2) by desiccating it, or (3) by boiling or 
steaming it so as to destroy any microbes in the food which would 
otherwise start putrefaction, and then fastening it in an air-tight 
case. 

Milk is commonly preserved as condensed milk, and in this 
condition is very valuable. A pure condensed milk is now supplied, 
prepared without the addition of sugar or any antiseptic, but in 
which, as in other condensed milks, all disease-producing or 
decomposition-producing microbes have been destroyed during the 
process of concentration. Milk may also be desiccated ; in this 
condition it is difficult of digestion. 

In addition to the household methods of preserving fruits, large 
quantities of fruits both moist and dry are now imported, 
protected by syrup or sugar, in sealed canisters ; and they retain 
the original flavour almost unchanged. 

The preservation of meat is effected by 

1. Drying. This must be done rapidly. It is a process 
which is best applicable to fish, but has been applied also to beef. 
Dried Hamburg beef is used for making sausages. Pemmican, 
largely used by Arctic voyagers, consists of a mixture of meat and 
fat, dried and powdered along with some spices ; it is generally 
eaten with some kind of meal. 

2. Cold. Frozen meat now forms a very large part of the 
food of the English people. If the meat has been frozen before 
rigor mortis (rigidity after death) has commenced, it keeps well ; if 
frozen later, it rapidly decomposes after being thawed. Freezing 
arrests putrefaction and tends to conceal its odour. Hence the bad 
condition of frozen fish may not be .detected until it is cooked. 
In cooking frozen meat, time should be allowed for thawing to 
occur, before the meat is placed in the oven. Much of the 
ill-founded prejudice against frozen meat arises from inattention 
to this point. Frozen meat is equal in nutritive value to and does 
not lose more in cooking than fresh meat. 

3. Salting may be done with brine or saltpetre (nitrate of 
potassium) ; the latter does not decolourize the meat like the 
former. Salted meats have lost much of their nutritive material, 



44 HYGIENE. 

in the form of albumin and salts, and the remaining meat is harder 
and more difficult of digestion than fresh meat. 

4. Immersion in antiseptic liquids or gases, as sulphite of 
soda, is objectionable, on account of the addition of extraneous, and 
not altogether innocuous, salts. Boric acid powder is largely used 
for sprinkling on meat, particularly rabbits, etc., and for preserving 
hams and other meats. Its use is to be deprecated. All such 
meats should be thoroughly washed with water, before being 
cooked. 

Solutions of boric acid and borax are frequently added to milk. 
Their use is objectionable (a) because they tend to conceal incipient 
decomposition, but do not prevent its possible evil effects, and (b) 
because they enable the farmer to palm off dirty milk on the public. 
Were the addition of preservatives to milk forbidden, the farmer could 
perfectly well keep his milk sweet until it reached the town- 
consumer by adopting strict measures of cleanliness, and by cooling 
his milk before it leaves the farm. At the least it should be made 
obligatory on the milk retailer to declare the presence of preser- 
vatives in milk sold by him. 

The presence of borax or boric acid can be detected by evaporating the milk 
to dryness, incinerating and then moistening the ash with a drop of strong 
sulphuric acid. If a little alcohol be now added, on applying a light, a green 
flame indicates boric acid. Milk or cream containing boric acid turns blue 
litmus paper red. 

Formalin is also sometimes used as a preservative for milk in 
very weak solution. 

Its presence can be determined by diluting the milk with water in a test- 
tube, and running strong sulphuric acid down the side of the tube, taking care 
to prevent mixing. At the junction of the acid and diluted milk a violet ring is 
seen if formalin is present. 

Salicylic acid was formerly used as a milk preservative, but is 
now seldom used except in beers. All these preservatives are 
objectionable in milk, although their injurious action may be 
difficult to prove. 

5. Coating with fat or gelatine has only succeeded in 
conjunction with the exclusion of air. This process is especially 
applicable to fishes, as tinned sardines. In a modified form, it is 
useful in coating potted meats, etc. 

6. Heating and Air-tight Cases. Tinned meats prepared 
according to this method are imported in large quantities. In the 
process of preparation, the cases are packed with meat and filled up 
with gravy, and then closed with a cover which is hermetically 
sealed, except at one point. The case is then heated to 250 Fahr., 
in order to drive out all air, and destroy any putrefactive germs 
present. The open point is sealed while the gravy is still boiling, 
thus making the case completely air-tight. Albumin is coagulated 
at about 170 Fahr. ; the higher temperature, which it is found 
necessary to employ, overcooks the meat and renders it less 
digestible (see also p. 40). 



( 45 ) 



CHAPTER VII. 
CONDIMENTS AND BEVERAGES. 

CONDIMENTS, ETC. The name condiment is used in various 
senses by different writers. In its strictest sense it is- a substance 
containing a volatile oil or ether, which may be taken with salt, and 
the object of which is to excite the senses of taste and smell, and 
consequently produce an appetising effect. This definition excludes 
spices, substances allied to condiments, but usually taken-with sugar, 
as cinnamon, ginger, etc. ; also flavouring agents, such as vanilla ; 
and acids, such as vinegar and lemon-juice. If we use the word in 
its widest sense, to include these various groups of substances, we 
find that all condiments are taken with the object of improving the 
taste or flavour of food, or of assisting its digestion ; but that they 
are *not foods in the sense of supplying any elements towards 
building up the body or maintaining its heat. The only partial 
exception is lemon-juice, the salts of which have a quasi-medicinal 
use. 

Taste is usually a compound sensation, the organs of which are 
the nerves of taste and smell. True taste is confined to the 
appreciation of sensations of bitter and sweet ; but the flavour of 
meats is nearly entirely appreciated by the sense of smell. This is 
shown by the fact that meats appear tasteless and insipid, during 
" a cold in the head." In the appreciation of acid, astringent, and 
fiery substances, the sense of touch is also employed. The excite- 
ment of these different nerves results in a stimulus which is carried 
up to the central nervous system, and causes by reflex action an 
increased flow of the digestive juices. Hot substances, like cayenne 
and ginger, also cause an increased flow of gastric juice, by directly 
congesting the mucous membrane. This action is not so desirable 
as that through the influence of the nervous system. All natural 
foods are sapid and possessed of flavour, and thus stimulate 
secretion ; but any local irritating effect ought to be avoided. 

i. Condiments proper comprise chiefly mustard, pepper r 
cayenne, garlic, onion, capers, mint, sage, morels, mushrooms, 
truffles. The last three on the list are also foods, but are more 
commonly used as condiments. 

All these act as stimulants to the digestive organs, and in small 
quantities aid digestion. The active principle of mustard and 
horse-radish is sulphocyanide of allyl. Horse-radish is not so 
wholesome as mustard, the scraped root being apt to adhere to the 
stomach like the skins of grapes, and produce indigestion. Pepper 
contains an acrid resin, a volatile oil, and an alkaloidal substance,. 



46 HYGIENE. 

called pipeline. Cayenne contains an analogous substance, called 
capsicin. Cayenne, unless in extreme moderation, is harmful, as its 
small particles adhere to the mucous membrane of the stomach, and 
may set up considerable irritation. 

2. Spices are those condiments which contain an aromatic 
oil, and which harmonize with sugar. They are, as a rule, less 
irritating to the stomach than those t)f the pepper group. 
Cinnamon, cloves, camphor, ginger, and curry powder are the chief 
of these. Curry powder really belongs to both the first and second 
divisions. When genuine, it is said to contain turmeric, cardamoms, 
ginger, allspice, cloves, black pepper, coriander, cayenne, and a few 
other substances. 

3. Flavouring agents, such as vanilla, lemon peel, and fruit 
essences, are used to give a pleasant flavour to various dishes. 

4. Acidulous substances are taken chiefly because of their 
sharp and agreeable taste. Vinegar is the chief acid employed. It 
is produced by the action of a fungus (Mycoderma aceti) on alcoholic 
liquids, as wine, or beer, C 2 H 5 OH (alcohol) becoming C 2 H 4 O.j 
(acetic acid). It is also produced by the destructive distillation of 
wood. In small quantities it does not stop digestion, but, by 
exciting the nerves of taste, may be of actual service. It helps to 
soften the vegetable fibres in a salad ; and is also useful for the 
same purpose with hard meats, as lobster, etc. In large quantities 
it diminishes the power to assimilate food. 

Good vinegar ought not to contain less than 3 per cent, of acetic acid ; and 
sulphuric acid beyond i in 1000 in vinegar is to be regarded as an adulteration. A 
specific gravity below 1015 indicates the addition of water. 

Citric acid and lemon-juice are useful for their refreshing properties, 
and the latter also because of its alkaline salts. 

Oils, such as olive oil, have been sometimes classed under 
condiments, but as they have great nutritive properties, this is 
hardly accurate. For the same reason, salt is not classed under 
this head. 

BEVERAGES. 

Water is the universal beverage, and for healthy persons is 
preferable to any other. All other beverages necessarily contain it 
as their basis. 

It will be convenient to consider first aerated and other natural 
waters ; then tea, coffee, and cocoa ; and finally, alcohol. 

1. Aerated Waters contain carbonic acid (carbon dioxide) in 
solution, which gives to them their characteristic sharp taste and 
sparkling character. Thus distilled water charged with gas is sold 
as Salutaris or Puralis water. Soda water contains three to five 
grains, and medicinal soda water fifteen grains of bicarbonate of 
soda to the bottle. Potash water contains fifteen grains of bicar- 
bonate of potash to the pint, in each case carbonic acid being 
dissolved under pressure. In lemonade, ginger-beer, etc., the basis 
is sweetened water, rendered tart by the addition of an acid, and 



TEA. 47 

finally charged with carbonic acid. Lemonade frequently contains 
acetic or phosphoric acid instead of citric or tartaric, and ginger- 
beer the same constituents with some added tincture of ginger. 
Home-made lemonade prepared from fresh lemons is a much more 
wholesome drink. Ginger-beer (stone ginger) is produced by the 
fermentative action of yeast on a solution containing sugar, bruised 
ginger, tartaric acid, and oil of lemon. It usually contains at least 
two per cent, of alcohol. 

Natural Mineral Waters usually contain common salt 
(chloride of sodium) and alkaline salts of soda or lime, and are 
impregnated with carbonic acid gas. Apollinaris, Rosbach, and 
Johannis possess these characteristics. The carbonic acid in 
natural waters is partially combined, and is given off more gradually 
than that in artificial mineral waters. 

In all the preceding waters there is considerable carbonic acid. 
This acts as a sedative to the mucous membrane of the stomach, 
and is useful in indigestion. An aerated water added to milk 
renders it more digestible by diluting it, and by preventing the 
formation in the stomach of a heavy clot of casein. In the making 
of artificial aerated waters, it is essential that the water employed 
should be pure, that the acid used in generating the carbonic acid 
should be free from arsenic or other impurities, and that the w r ater 
should not be allowed to come into contact with lead at any stage, 
as in pewter fittings. One per cent, of proof spirit is allowed in 
temperance beverages by the Excise. 



TEA. 

Tea is the leaf of an evergreen shrub, the Camellia thea, which 
is cultivated in China, Japan, British India, Ceylon, Java, and 
other countries. The tea leaves, as seen in this country, uncurl in 
hot water. They are lanceolated, with a serrated edge, and the 
veins do not extend to the edge of each leaf. By these character- 
istics they may be distinguished from foreign leaves, e.g., the sloe 
and willow used as adulterants (Fig. 4). The use of old and 
exhausted leaves can be detected by a determination of the per- 
centage of soluble matter dissolved by boiling water from a given 
weight of tea. This on evaporation to dryness should be 28 to 30 
per cent, of the total weight of the original tea. The presence of 
clay, iron dust or other forms of dust is detected by igniting a given 
amount of tea and determining the amount of ash. This should be 
only about six per cent. 

In black tea, the leaves are dried in the sun, rolled and allowed 
to become soft and to ferment. During this process, some of the 
tannin appears to be converted into less soluble forms. The leaves 
are afterwards sun-dried, and these " fired " in a furnace. Green tea 
leaves are dried in the fresh condition over wood fires. Indian teas 
have more " body " and astringency than China teas. The smallest 
and topmost leaves of the tea "plant give the finest sort of tea 
(Orange Pekoe) ; next to this comes Pekoe ; the next largest leaves 



4 8 



HYGIENE. 



producing Souchong ; after these Congou ; while the coarser leaves 
nearer the base used to yield Bohea, which is now seldom seen. 

Tea consists of three important constituents volatile oil, 
theine or caffeine, and tannin and soluble and insoluble extractive 
matters. 

The amount of caffeine varies from 2 to 4 per cent. 
,, tannin ,, ,, 10 to 12 ,, 
,, volatile oil is about 

(i) Volatile Oil gives the aroma and flavour to each particular 
tea. It is this which causes the headache, trembling, wakefulness, 




(a) ELDER. 



(b) TEA. 



(d) SLOE. (e) ELDER. 



and restlessness, occasionally produced by tea, especially by green 
tea. 

(2) Theine or caffeine, is an alkaloidal crystalline principle. 
Its composition is represented by the- formula C 8 H 10 N 4 O 2 , H 2 O. 
Ceylon tea, broken leaf contains 4*03 per cent., Assam (Indian) tea, 
broken leaf 4*02 per cent., while Chinese teas contain from 2*89 
(Moyune Gunpowder) to 3-74 (Moning, black leaf) per cent, of 
caffeine (Allen). 

Theine is the most important constituent of tea and coffee. It 
is a stimulant, but unlike alcohol, acts even more upon the central 
nervous system than upon the heart. It removes the sense of 
fatigue, and may, especially if taken in excessive doses, produce 
sleeplessness. Its stimulant action on the heart is followed by 
increased flow of urine, and it thus helps in the removal of waste 
products from the system. The effect on the tissue-changes of the 



TEA. 



49 



body is somewhat doubtful. It has been stated to arrest or 
diminish the waste, i.e., the metabolism, constantly going on in the 
system, and so diminish the amount of food required to repair this 
waste. This is highly improbable ; we cannot conceive the 
likelihood of the development of energy without a corresponding 
expenditure of material, and that is what would be the case if 
theine increased the activity of various organs while retarding their 
waste. The experiments of Conty and Guimares on the action of 
coffee show that this (and tea has the same essential constituent) 
does not diminish tissue waste. It does not prolong life in starva- 
tion, though it may lessen the feeling of hunger. Hence tea and 
coffee, which owe their value mainly to the caffeine or theine 
contained in them, are in no sense foods. 

(3) The amount of Tannin varies from i2'3i in Ceylon tea 
(broken leaf, Pekoe) to 1176 in Moning, black leaf, and 9-9 per 
cent, in Natal Pekoe Souchong (Allen). The difference in tannin 
between Chinese and Indian teas is not therefore so great as is 
usually supposed. Tannin is a powerful astringent, and possesses 
a bitter styptic taste, and a constipating effect on the bowels. Its 
amount is increased by long " brewing," as is shown by the 
following results (Hale White) : 

Three Minutes' Fifteen Minutes' 

Infusion. Infusion. 

Finest Assam .. .. ii'so per cent. .. i7'73 per cent. 

China .. .. 777 ,, .. 7-97 ,, 

Common Congou .. .. 9-37 ,, ,, .. iri5 

The Mode of Preparation of Tea is important. It is clear 
that the percentage of tannin to weight of leaf used in making the 
infusion increases with the protraction of the infusion. On the 
other hand caffeine is so soluble that it is nearly completely dis- 
solved as soon as infusion has begun. Dittmann found that five 
minutes infusion of Indian tea extracted 3-63 and ten minutes 
infusion 373 per cent, of caffeine. The Chinese put the tea leaves 
in a cup, and having poured boiling water on them, drink the 
resulting infusion after a very short time, without adding anything. 
The Russians drink the infusion with a squeeze of lemon, and with 
or without sugar. We add cream or milk and generally sugar, 
and so render it more nutritious, though the delicate flavour is 
veiled. The Chinese plan of infusion for a short time is the best, 
as it ensures the extraction of the aromatic and stimulant principles 
of the tea with only a proportion of the tannin. 

In making tea it is important to use a tea-pot which is quite 
dry, in order to avoid mustiness ; to pour a small quantity of 
boiling water into the tea-pot and then out again, so that the 
infusion may be made at the temperature of boiling water ; and to 
use water which has only freshly come to the boil, and so has not 
been rendered flat, and not to infuse longer than five minutes. For 
persons of weak digestion, the best kind of tea is that obtained by 
pouring boiling water on the leaves, and then immediately pouring 
the resulting infusion into another hot tea-pot. In all cases where 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 5 



5 o HYGIENE. 

tea has to be kept a considerable time, it should be poured into a 
second tea-pot, the leaves being left behind. 

Indigestion is not an uncommon consequence of tea-drinking ; 
caused by the excess of tannin in the tea, by the other constituents 
of the tea, or more commonly by the practice of drinking tea in 
small sips, with bread and butter. The tea infusion usurps the 
place of the saliva, the secretion of saliva remaining partially in 
abeyance. The presence of tannin in tea renders it an undesirable 
part of a substantial meal. Tannin coagulates albumin, and 
retards its solution by the digestive juices. Hence " high teas " 
and " tea-dinners," unless the tea is very weak, are objectionable. 
The practice of drinking tea with every meal is inexcusable. 

For quenching thirst during active exercise, and rendering 
possible prolonged exertions, tea is unsurpassed. 

COFFEE. 

Coffee is the seed of the berry of the Caffea Arabica. Each 
berry contains two seeds, or beans as they are sometimes 
incorrectly called. The coffee is prepared by roasting the seeds 
until they assume a reddish-brown colour, in which process they 
lose 15 per cent, in weight and gain 30 per cent, in bulk. During 
the process of roasting, a volatile oil having a powerful aromatic 
smell is developed. This is not produced in such large quantities 
from fresh seeds ; the best time for roasting varying, however, for 
different varieties of coffee. 

The amount of Volatile Oil in coffee is much less than in tea. 
As it is elicited during the process of roasting, this should be done 
with nicety and care. It is effected in an iron cylinder made to 
revolve over a fire. After the roasting, the sooner the seeds are 
ground the better the coffee. When it cannot be immediately used, 
it should be kept in closed canisters, and not in paper or open jars. 

In addition to the volatile oil, which is contained in roasted 
coffee in the proportion of about i part in 50,000, coffee contains 
caffeine, of which there is f to i per cent., and an astringent 
acid, called caffeo-tannic or caffeic acid, which differs from ordinary 
tannin in that it does not blacken a solution of an iron salt. 

The chief adulteration of coffee is Chicory, which is thought 
by some to improve the coffee. It is generally harmless, though in 
some people it produces heartburn and diarrhoea. Chicory is 
prepared from the root of the wild endive. It contains a volatile 
oil and a bitter principle, but no caffeine. It is, therefore, of no 
utility as a stimulant. Its presence can be detected by shaking a 
little of the suspected coffee on to the surface of the water in 
a wine-glassful of cold water. Coffee swims on the surface, 
and gives little or no colouration to the water; while chicory 
sinks, and gives a deep red tint. The aqueous extract of pure 
coffee (extracted by boiling water) is, when evaporated, 25 to 30 
per cent, of the weight of the original decoction of coffee ; while 
that of chicory is 65 to 70 per cent. ; and on this basis, as well as 
on the fact that a filtered decoction of 10 grammes of coffee in 100 
c.c. of distilled water, cooled to 60 F. has a specific gravity of 1009, 



COFFEE. 51 

while that of a similar solution of chicory would be 1021, the 
proportion of chicory in a mixture of coffee and chicory can be 
calculated. The microscopical appearances of the two powders 
differ, coffee showing hexagonal cells and no laticiferous vessels, 
unlike chicory. There is no law against selling mixed coffee and 
chicory, if the fact that it is a mixture is stated; and the 
proportion of the two unfortunately is not required to be stated. 
As a pound of coffee costs five times as much as a pound of chicory, 
it is obviously to the purchaser's advantage to make his own 
mixture in the proportions desired. 

The Praparation of Coffee ought to be effected as in the case 
of tea by making an infusion and not a decoction, i.e. by pouring 
boiling water on the coffee and allowing it to stand, but not 
continuing the boiling. Continuance of boiling dissipates the 
delicate aroma. 

Inasmuch as coffee contains a much smaller percentage of 
theine than tea, more of the former must be used to obtain a 
beverage equally refreshing with tea. Two ounces to a pint of 
boiling water are required. The infusion thus made should be 
mixed with an equal part of boiled milk. The coffee ought, if 
possible, to be freshly roasted. 

The colour of coffee is no guide to its strength. Many of the 
black coffees, especially " French coffee," owe their colour to the 
caramel (burnt sugar) contained in the chicory mixed with them. 

Coffee has similar properties to tea, with some minor differences, 
(i) Like tea, it is restorative and sustaining in its action, but seems 
to act more quickly than tea. (2) Unlike tea, it does not tend to 
produce perspiration, but rather a dry hot skin. (3) With some it 
is decidedly laxative ; while tea, especially if badly made, has an 
opposite effect ; but this is not always true. (4) It seems to have 
a greater power of antagonising the effects of alcohol than tea ; and 
is a valuable antidote, after the action of an emetic, in poisoning by 
opium or arsenic or alcohol. 

As a rule, coffee is not so prone to disorder the digestion as 
tea, but this is not universally true, and in some persons it always 
produces " biliousness." When taken in excess, it produces 
besides indigestion palpitation, restlessness, irritability, sleepless- 
ness, and a condition of general nervous prostration ; in fact, 
similar symptoms to those produced by a prolonged over-indulgence 
in tea. 

While the consumption of tea is rapidly on the increase, that 
of coffee is steadily diminishing. This is partly owing to the 
greater expense of coffee a larger quantity being required to form 
a good beverage ; atnd partly to the greater difficulty in preparing 
good coffee. 

COCOA. 

Cocoa, or more properly cacao, is obtained from the seeds 
of the Theobroma Cacao a native of the West Indies, Mexico, 
and the central parts of America. Its name Theobroma was given 
it by Linnaeus, and means the " food of gods." The fruit is a large 



HYGIENE. 



leathery capsule, having nearly the form of a cucumber. It contains 
from 25 to 30 seeds, each about the size of an almond. Before 
using, these are roasted like coffee berries, and a peculiar aroma is 
developed in this process as in the case of coffee. The beans or 
seeds are then manufactured into three different products, (i) 
They are simply deprived of their husks and broken to pieces ; this 
forms Cocoa-Nibs. (2) They are ground, husk and all, between 
hot rollers into a paste, and mixed with starch and sugar ; this 
forms Cocoa. (3) They are shelled and then ground into a paste, 
as in making cocoa ; sugar and some seasoning, usually vanilla, 
being subsequently thoroughly mixed ; this paste is Chocolate. 

The purest form is the cocoa-nibs. When these are boiled in 
water, a brownish decoction is formed, with the fat as a scum at 
the top; this may be removed, and the decoction flavoured with 
milk and sugar. In this form, cocoa can be taken by invalids with 
weak digestion, who would be nauseated by the fat of ordinary cocoa 
or chocolate. 

The best cocoa is prepared as above ; but the lowest quality 
contains the husks of the beans, with hardly any of the beans in it ; 
a somewhat better, though still inferior sort, is made from the 
smaller fragments of the nibs, and a good deal of husk. In some 
cases the cacao butter is removed during the process of preparation, 
and starch or sugar substituted. This form is less likely to disagree 
with dyspeptics than whole cocoa. 

The action of the Volatile Oil (not the cacao-butter) developed 
during roasting, is probably similar to that of tea and coffee, 
though it is less in amount. The bitterness is greater than that of 
coffee, but the astringency less than in either tea or coffee. 

The Concrete Oil, or fat of cocoa, forms about half its weight. 
It is white, and not apt to turn rancid, and possesses an agreeable 
flavour. Cocoa also contains a certain amount of starch and cellulose. 

Theobromine is a white crystalline alkaloid, the exact 
analogue of caffeine. The latter, in fact, is methyl-theobromine 
that is, theobromine plus the theoretical group CH 2 . Theobromine 
possesses similar properties to caffeine. It amounts to 1.5 to 2 per 
cent, of the whole bean. The ordinary preparations of cocoa differ 
considerably in composition as may be seen from the following 
table of per centage composition (Ewell). In each instance other 
nitrogenous and non-nitrogenous constituents go to make up the 
total 100 : 





FAT. 


FIBRE. 


CANE- 
SUGAR. 


ASH. 


ADDED STARCH. 


Fry's Cocoa Extract . . 


30-9 


3'9 


_ 


4'2 


None. 


Schweitzer's Cocoatina . . 


Sri 


37 





6-3 


Do. 


Rowntree's Cocoa Extract 


27-6 


4'4 





8'5 


Do. 


Van Houten's Cocoa 


29-8 


4'4 





8-6 


Do. 


Epps's Prepared Cocoa . . 


25-9 


i'5 


26 


3'i 


Much arrowroot. 



Some of the preparations of cocoa (e.g. Van Houten's) have 
added to them alkaline salts to increase their solubility. Cocoa is 
not such a valuable food as might appear from the large amount of 



OTHER STIMULANTS. 53 

fat in it, because only moderate quantities of this can be taken 
without deranging digestion. In Vi-Cocoa a certain amount of kola 
is added, which contains a considerable proportion of caffeine. 
The addition of such a drug to a beverage is distinctly to be 
deprecated. 

Minor Stimulants. Beverages containing theine, or some 
analogous principle, appear to be employed in most countries. In 
moderate doses, they may assist the assimilation of other foods, but 
their main influence is on the nervous system. Theine-containing 
substances may be described as both sedative and exciting. They 
are sedative, in that they allay nervous irritability, and tend to 
"take the edge off" the disturbance caused by outward circum- 
stances ; and they are exciting, inasmuch as they are known to form 
an admirable antidote to the stupefying effects of opium or alcohol. 
The wakefulness from tea is an instance of the same thing, while 
the allaying of sensations of cold and hunger by a cup of tea is an 
instance of the sedative effect. 

In Brazil, Guarana (from Paullinia sorb His) is used as a drink ; it contains 
theine, the quantity of which is twice as much as in good black tea, and five 
times as much as in coffee. Like green tea, a cup of guarana infusion is some- 
times extremely valuable in nervous headaches. 

In Peru, the natives use the leaves of the Coca plant (Erythroxylon coca), 
which must be carefully distinguished from cocoa. It is chewed somewhat in the 
same way as the betel-nut. It contains two alkaloids cocaine and hygrine, as 
well as tannin. In its stimulant action it resembles tea and coffee. The active 
principle of this plant, Cocaine, is a valuable local anaesthetic. Internally it 
has been taken as a stimulant and restorative. Various wines containing Coca, 
with vaunted restorative powers, are advertised. They are mischievous when 
taken frequently. Nature's remedy for fatigue, whether mental or body, is rest 
and recreation. Stimulants of this class, even though they enable work to be 
continued for awhile, eventually increase the exhaustion for which they are 
taken. 

The Kola-nut is used in some parts of Western Africa as a stimulant. It 
is about the size of a pigeon's egg, and has a bitter taste. The natives of Guinea 
generally take a piece of the seeds before each meal, and sometimes nibble it 
throughout the day. 

Kava is prepared from the root of a kind of pepper. The natives of the 
Fiji islands commonly indulge in it. Its effects resemble those of coffee. In 
large doses, it destroys the power of walking, and may possibly produce impair- 
ment of vision. 

The leaves of the Ilez Paraguay erne, Ilex Gongorrha, and Ilex Theezans are 
made into the beverage commonly known as Paraguay tea or mate. 

The leaves of the Hydrangea Thunttergii are made into a beverage, 
which is designated in Japan "the tea of heaven." 

Among certain nations of Asia, the Betel-nut (from a palm called Areca 
Catechu] is chewed, after mixing small fragments with pepper and quick-lime, 
and rolling in a palm leaf. The saliva is tinged blood-red, and a narcotic effect 
is said to be produced. 

The dried flowering tops of the Indian Hemp (Cannabis Indica) are smoked 
by the Malays and others, or made into a beverage, called haschisch, which 
produces a kind of intoxication, in which murder has often been committed 
(hence, assassins equals haschascheens). 

The Kamtschatkans drink an infusion made from a fungus, known as the 
Fly Agaric (Amanita Muscaria], thus producing an intoxication similar to 
that from haschisch. 

Opium in small doses is a stimulant, in large doses narcotic. The crude 
drug is sometimes taken, and less frequently the active principle, Morphia. It 
is frequently smoked, as well as taken internally. It is to be feared that secret 



54 HYGIENE. 

opium taking is considerably increasing. The taking of morphia, especially 
hypodermically, is too common. Generally it has been first prescribed for 
neuralgia or some other complaint causing acute pain ; and the patient, having 
experienced relief by its means, is tempted to revert to the practice apart from 
medical advice. Such a line of action is most pernicious. Eventually both 
the physical and the moral nature of the victim are shattered by it ; and to break 
off this insidious habit, when once thoroughly established, is most difficult. 

Tobacco may be conveniently mentioned here, though its usual effects are 
certainly not stimulant. It is smoked, chewed, or taken as snuff; when indulged 
in to excess it produces serious depression of the heart's action, with frequent 
intermittence. In moderate doses it is sedative as well as slightly laxative. 
Prolonged indulgence in tobacco has produced many cases of incomplete 
blindness (tobacco amblyopia), in some cases it comes on with much smaller 
doses, and in all cases is only curable by ceasing to smoke. There is no 
sufficient ground for the statement that cigarette smoking is more injurious 
than smoking tobacco in a pipe or cigar, unless in the former case the smok* 
is inhaled into the lungs. The practice of smoking is injurious to growing boys, 
and should be strictly forbidden. 

Other Drug's are now not infrequently taken, apart from medical advice. 
Of these the most commonly used are Antipyrin and Phenacetin, for 
headaches. Their use is injurious, and should not be entertained as a frequent 
practice. Sleeplessness frequently leads to the practice of taking chloral or 
sulphonal, or occasionally the inhalation of chloroform to induce sleep. (See 
also page 259) . Remedies to induce sleep should never be taken except under 
immediate medical advice. They are only justifiable in extreme conditions, 
and if frequently taken tend to aggravate the conditions for which they are 
given. 



(55) 



CHAPTER VIII. 
FERMENTED DRINKS. 

Properties of Alcohol. When a saccharine solution is 
subjected to the influence of warmth and moisture, and exposed to 
the air, it rapidly undergoes a process of fermentation. The most 
favourable temperature is about 70 Fahr. The ferment or agent 
exciting the change in the sugar is derived from the atmosphere ; 
it is a minute fungus (torula cerevisice), the spores of which are 
constantly floating in the air. When once fermentation has started, 
exposure in the air is no longer necessary ; the process continues in 
closed vessels. The essential change occurring in the vinous 
fermentation is that grape sugar (C G H 1;2 O 6 ,H 2 O) becomes split up 
into alcohol (C>H 5 OH) and carbonic acid (CO. 2 ). Thus 



p 2 TT G Q | Two' of alcohol 

pp.' 2 | Two of carbonic acid. 



There are other fermentations allied to the vinous. Thus the 
Acetous fermentation results in the conversion of alcohol into 
vinegar, as in the souring of beer or wine. The Lactic fermentation 
leads to the conversion of milk-sugar into lactic acid, with conse- 
quent souring of the milk. 

Alcohol, or more correctly ethylic alcohol, is a colourless 
liquid, having a pleasant vinous odour, and evaporating rapidly on 
exposure to air. It burns with a bluish sootless flame, and is a 
capital solvent for resins and other substances. 

Rectified spirit is absolute alcohol mixed with 16 per cent, of 
water. Proof-spirit is a mixture of 42-7 per cent, by volume of 
absolute alcohol, and 57*3 per cent, of water. Thus the ratio of 
alcohol to proof-spirit being as i : 176, the amount of alcohol in 
any liquid being given, the amount of proof-spirit can readily be 
calculated. The fermented drinks containing alcohol may be 
classed as (i) malt liquors, (2) wines, and (3) distilled spirits. The 
relative properties of these will be considered .afterwards ; in the 
next two sections will be considered the effects of diluted alcohol in 
whatever form it is taken. 

Effects of Moderate Doses of Alcohol on the System. 
In studying the physiological effects of alcohol, one has to guard 
against the fallacy that these are the same, only differing in degree, 
whatever the dose may be. The effects of large doses of alcohol are 
almost exactly the reverse of those produced by small doses. It 



5 6 HYGIENE. 

will be necessary to define, therefore, what we mean by a moderate 
dose. By a moderate dose, we understand the amount of alcohol 
which can be taken without any alcohol being eliminated in the 
urine. Dr. Anstie found that if ounces, that is three table- 
spoonsful, of absolute alcohol, taken in twenty-four hours, caused 
its appearance in the urine ; and Dr. Parkes and Count Wollowicz 
obtained almost precisely the same result. Anything below some 
quantity between i and if fluid ounces per day can be disposed of 
in the system, and is probably oxidised like ordinary foods. 

The amount of alcohol, in the form of alcoholic beverages, 
corresponding to this maximum dose of absolute alcohol is 
approximately as follows : 

One imperial pint (20 fluid ounces) of bottled beer (5 per cent, of alcohol) . 

v (of claret, hock, andl , 
One tumblerful (10 ) { other weaker ^ ines j(i ). 

, x (of port, sherry, and") / \ 

2* glasses (5 ){ ot Lr strong wines } < 20 " 

One glass (2 ,, ,, ) of brandy or whiskey (50 ,, ,, ). 

It will be understood, therefore, that in describing the effects 
of a moderate amount of alcohol on the system, an amount below 
if ounces of absolute alcohol per day is meant, freely diluted, and 
taken as a rule with meals. 

1. Effect on the Stomach. In very small quantities, alcohol 
seems to stimulate digestion in the same way as mustard. But 
like all other artificial helps to digestion, it is best avoided in the 
healthy condition. 

2. The Effect on the Liver is similar to that on the stomach 
a temporary redness and congestion being produced ; this effect 
soon disappearing if the dose is small and well diluted. But in all 
cases where there is a tendency to biliousness, even small doses of 
alcohol are injurious. 

3. The Effect on the Heart and Blood- Vessels is first to 
increase the force of the heart's action and the rapidity of the 
pulse. The stimulation of the heart is rapidly followed by a 
universal dilatation of the small arteries of the body, which diminishes 
the blood-pressure. Parkes and Wollowicz found that the daily 
administration of from i to 7f ounces of rectified spirit raised the 
pulse rate by ten beats per minute, as compared with other periods ; 
and that this effect was followed by a period of depression in which 
the beat was both slower and feebler than usual. 

4. The Effect on the Nervous System varies. In persons 
unaccustomed to its effects, even small doses dull the power of 
thought 'and the rapidity of perception, owing to the paralyzing 
effect which it exerts on nerve cells. In most cases, however, 
it at first produces increased rapidity of thought and excites the 
imagination, though even here it makes it more difficult to keep to 
one train of thought. This is clearly owing to the more rapid 
circulation of blood through the brain. Dr. E. Smith's experi- 
ments show that it diminishes the acuteness of the senses. Its 
influence even in dietetic doses, on the capacity for mental work, 
is slightly to diminish it. 



FERMENTED DRINKS. 57 

5. The Effect on the Muscular System is never beneficial. 
Even when only small quantities are taken, the power of controlling 
delicate movements is slightly diminished. For persons engaged 
in laborious occupations, a small quantity does not produce much 
apparent effect, but where the quantity exceeds two fluid ounces per 
day the capacity for strong and sustained muscular work is 
manifestly lessened (Parkes). This effect is probably due partly to 
the dulling of the nervous system, rendering the muscles less 
amenable to the will, and partly to the over-excitation of the heart 
causing palpitation and breathlessness. 

6. The Effect on Metabolism is to diminish it, thus favouring 
the deposit of fat in the tissues. It acts as a poison to the proto- 
plasm of the cells of the body, diminishing their power to break 
down the floating nutriment, especially fat and carbohydrate. 

The Effect on the Temperature is to lower it ; but unless 
the dose is excessive, this effect is hardly appreciable. The 
resistance to excessive cold is diminished by even moderate doses of 
alcohol, still more by large doses. In the Arctic regions, this has 
been abundantly proved. This effect is produced, notwithstanding 
the fact that alcohol becomes oxidised in the system. The dilatation 
of the surface blood vessels leads to a greater loss of heat than that 
produced by the oxidation of the alcohol. 

EFFECTS OF IMMODERATE DOSES OF ALCOHOL ox THE SYSTEM. 
Bearing in mind the definition given of a moderate dose, one is 
bound to admit that a large number of individuals exceed this 
amount daily, apparently without any very serious results. The 
system becomes habituated to large doses, and if the occupation is 
a laborious one, they may in part be oxidised in the system. Such, 
however, are exceptional cases. In the majority of cases evil 
results are by no means confined to those who indulge in very large 
quantities of alcohol at varying intervals. In fact these very often 
escape comparatively free, while others who never take a quantity 
sufficient to incapacitate them for their work, are sowing the seeds 
of chronic and oft incurable disease. The labourer who has a 
drinking bout at intervals is thoroughly nauseated ; and the 
condition of liver and stomach induced, enforces abstinence on him 
for a time sufficient to bring his organs back to a normal condition ; 
while the city merchant who indulges , more moderately, but whose 
organs are almost continuously impregnated with alcohol, becomes 
gouty and prematurely old. 

The Stomach may become acutely inflamed, when a large dose 
of alcohol is taken. The chronic irritation of alcohol, especially 
when taken apart from meals, causes atrophy of the walls of the 
stomach, and a change analogous to that in the liver. 

The Liver, when alcohol is daily taken immoderately, becomes 
seriously diseased. In some cases it becomes large and fatty ; in 
others the chronic irritation excites an overgrowth of fibrous tissue 
between the lobules of the liver, which, gradually shrinking, squeezes 
the liver cells and causes them to atrophy, at the same time 
obstructing the small branches of the portal vein in the substance 
of the liver. The consequence of this obstruction to the flow of 



5 8 HYGIENE. 

blood through the liver is that all the organs from which the portal 
vein brings blood become overloaded with blood, and vomiting of 
blood and dropsy of the abdomen occur at a later period. 

The Lungs are irritated to a less extent by alcohol in large 
doses. The tendency to chronic bronchitis is increased, followed 
by emphysema, and sometimes an overgrowth of fibrous tissue 
(cirrhosis) like that in the liver occurs. 

The Heart and Blood-vessels tend to become diseased, owing 
largely to the gouty condition of system developed. 

The powers of Metabolism are diminished. Corpulence is, 
consequently, a common result of alcoholism. There may also be 
fatty deposit in the internal organ's, such as the heart. This must 
not, however, be confounded with a much more serious condition, 
fatty degeneration of the heart, in which the substance of the 
muscular fibres becomes partially converted into fat, and which 
also is sometimes due to alcoholism. 

The Nervous System is more prone to suffer in chronic 
alcoholism than any other part of the body, except perhaps the 
liver. The first effect of a large dose of alcohol is to stimulate the 
nervous system, as already described. This is followed by a dulling 
of the nervous faculties, which comes on rapidly in proportion to 
the amount taken. The phenomena of intoxication are unhappily too 
familiar to require description, mental incoherence and muscular 
incoordination (lack of control over the muscles) being the most 
prominent features. 

When the dose of alcohol is still larger, a condition of profound 
unconsciousness is produced (coma), which may be difficult to 
distinguish from other forms of unconsciousness. 

Delirium Tremens is another nervous condition, which may 
rarely follow a single debauch, but much more commonly affects 
the chronic toper. In some cases the immediate exciting cause is 
a mental shock, or lack of food, or a surgical injury. Alcoholic 
subjects suffering from any acute disease are liable to this form of 
delirium, and their chance of recovery is greatly diminished. 

Insanity of a more prolonged character than that character- 
ising delirium tremens is an occasional result of alcoholism. 

Besides the 'nervous diseases already named, a chronic 
thickening of the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord, 
gradually progressing and finally fatal, is often the consequence 
of prolonged alcoholic indulgence. 

Various Degenerative Diseases are produced by alcohol. 
It has been well called by Dickinson the very " genius of 
degeneration." Such degenerations are by no means confined to 
the intemperate ; they are seen in those who are of what would 
usually be considered moderate habits. The stomach, liver, lungs, 
and probably the kidneys, are the main organs to suffer in this 
way. It is probable that the effect on the kidneys only occurs 
when a. gouty condition is developed. In all these cases there is 
an overgrowth of fibrous tissue, with atrophy of the proper gland 
structures. 



FERMENTED DRINKS. 59 

Gout is the common nemesis of those indulging in alcoholic, 
beverages, more especially wine and beer, due to the- excessive, 
formation or retention of urate of soda in the body. This produces 
inflammation of the joints, and other evils among them the gouty 
kidney, named above, which is always ultimately fatal. Rigid 
arteries are likewise commonly due to alcoholism and gout. If 
one of these bursts in the brain, apoplexy results. 

Longevity is diminished by immoderate indulgence in alcohol., 
The statistics of Temperance Insurance Societies, show much 
better results among teetotalers than among moderate drinkers.. 
It is only fair to add that although the latter are supposed to 
consist of moderate drinkers and particular enquiries are always, 
made on this point before insurance it is probable that a large 
proportion of them exceed i| ounces of alcohol per day. Making 
due allowance for this fact, the statistics show a great superiority 
in the expectation of life of teetotalers. 

Factors Modifying the Effects of Alcohol. i. Age 
and Sex. Until adult life is reached, total abstinence from alcohol 
should be enforced. The delicate nervous system of children is 
easily disturbed by it, and it appears in some measure to retard 
growth. Another argument against giving alcohol before adult 
age is reached, is still more important. It is at this period of life 
that habits are chiefly formed, and a craving for alcohol may be 
insidiously produced, destined to have most baneful results. 

Old people, if ordered spirits for medical reasons, should drink 
them well diluted. 

Women are much more easily affected by alcohol than men,, 
and if they acquire the habit of excess, the hope of reformation 
is even less than with men. 

2. Exercise has a most important influence in modifying the 
effects of alcohol. Those of sedentary occupations and living in 
towns, cannot oxidise as much as those engaged in active out-door 
work, and are consequently much more prone to suffer. A game- 
keeper in the Scotch Highlands may possibly live to a good old 
age, notwithstanding the fact that he consumes an amount of 
whiskey that would have sent a sedentary man to his grave in 
the course of a few years. 

3. The Condition of the Stomach has also great influence. 
When the stomach is empty, alcohol produces at once a powerful 
reflex stimulation of the heart, and becomes quickly absorbed into 
the circulation. Thus intoxication may be produced by a quantity 
that would have had little effect if taken with a meal. 

4. The State of Concentration or Dilution modifies greatly 
the action of alcohol, the local action on the stomach and the 
reflex stimulation being much greater than when it is concentrated, 
and injurious effects being much more likely to occur. 

5. Cold and Heat modify the action of alcohol. A smaller 
quantity of hot spirits and water will intoxicate than of cold ; the 
heat stimulating the heart, and so making the absorption of the 
alcohol more rapid. A glass of hot spirits and water will often 
cause sleep, by drawing the blood towards the abdominal organs. 



60 HYGIENE. 

The fact that persons, who have been drinking spirits in a warm 
room, on going out into the. cold air become suddenly intoxicated, 
seems opposed to what has been already said. But probably this 
is due to the cold causing contraction of the arteries of the skin, 
and so driving more of the blood loaded with alcohol to the 
internal organs and the brain (Brunton). 

6. Mental Occupation has some influence in modifying the 
effects of alcohol. Topers have found that if they try to con- 
verse during their debauch the conversation implying increased 
functional activity of the brain, and therefore a freer circulation 
of blood in it intoxication occurs much more readily, than when 
the mind is not active. 

7. Disease modifies greatly the effects of alcohol. In some 
diseases, as in inflammation of the lungs and in fevers, it can be 
given in large quantities without producing intoxication ; and in 
these conditions it lowers the temperature. In other diseases, 
especially gout and kidney disease, its use is nearly always followed 
by bad results. 

The Advisability of Alcohol as an Article of Diet in 
Health. In dealing with this difficult point, two sets of facts 
require consideration, those obtained as the result of Physiological 
observations (see page 56), and those which are the result of 
Experience. There can be no doubt that the former are much 
more reliable than the latter. Experience is very prone to give 
fallacious results, especially when questions of appetite are 
concerned. In making a trial of abstinence, the mistake has been 
commonly made of only prolonging the investigation for a few 
weeks, and then comparing results. Such a method is, however, 
very unfair, and is certain to lead to an unreliable conclusion. 

The records of experience under certain conditions have, 
however, been so extensive, as to lead to trustworthy results. 
It has been abundantly proved that prolonged muscular work is 
best undergone during total abstinence from alcohol ; and that 
the extremes of heat and cold and the exposure and exertions of 
marching armies, are best borne under similar conditions. 

The artificial character of town life is commonly adduced as 
an argument for the moderate use of alcohol. In the case of 
healthy workers, this does not hold good ; many of our hardest 
workers and thinkers take no alcohol. 

The universality of the habit of taking stimulants is a curious 
argument on the same side, though if the habit be bad, this can 
be no more reason for continuing it than can the prevalence of 
vice be an excuse for indulgence in it. 

The two chief physiological points bearing on the advisability 
of alcohol as a part of one's daily diet are its food properties, and 
its effect on the appetite and digestion. 

It has been already stated that a quantity of alcohol under i or 
i^ ounces may become oxidised in the system, and may thus form 
a source of heat. But in all probability, although it may be 
regarded as a food, it is a most inconvenient one, inasmuch as it 
diminishes the oxidation of other foods. It has been aptly com- 



FERMENTED DRINKS. 61 

pared in this respect to sulphur, which is an oxidisable material, 
but which, when it is burnt in a chimney, in which the soot is on 
fire, will put an end to the combustion of the latter. Its value as 
a food, under normal conditions, is practically nil. 

Its Effect on the Digestive Organs is three-fold, (a) The 
contact of alcohol with the mucous membrane of the mouth and 
stomach, acts as a reflex nervous stimulus, which in moderation 
excites an increased flow of gastric juice, (b) It also increases the 
activity of the movements of the stomach. In cases of weak 
digestion, therefore, small doses of alcohol may, at times, be useful. 
(c) The effect of alcohol on the food taken varies with its degree of 
dilution. Concentrated alcohol coagulates albumin, and so stops 
digestion ; largely diluted alcohol has no such effect. 

The late Dr. Parkes, the greatest authority on the dietetic use 
of alcohol, has summarised the argument as to the dietetic use of 
alcohol as follows : 

" But what, now, should be the conclusion as to the use of 
alcohol in health after growth is completed ? Admitting the 
impossibility of proving a small quantity to be hurtful, and at the 
same time acknowledging the dangers of excess, there arises an 
argument which seems to me somewhat in favour of total absti- 
nence. No man can say when he has passed the boundary which 
divides safety from harm ; he may call himself temperate, and yet 
may be daily taking a little more than his system can bear, and be 
gradually causing some tissue to undergo slow degeneration. He 
may be safe, but he may be on the verge of danger. 

" This uncertainty, coupled with the difficulty at present of 
saying what dietetic advantage is gained by using alcohol, seems to 
me rather to turn the scale in favour of total abstinence instead of 
moderate drinking. But if any one honestly tries, and finds he is 
better in health for a little alcohol, let him take it, but he should 
keep within the boundary line, viz., that i-| ounces of pure or 
absolute alcohol 'in twenty-four hours form the limit of moderation. 
I do not then think he can do himself any harm." 

The Varieties of Fermented Drinks. The three chief 
kinds of alcoholic beverages are malt liquors, wines, and ardent 
spirits. In addition, we may mention cider and perry, which are 
the fermented juices of apples and pears respectively ; and koumiss, 
which the Tartars prepare by fermenting mare's milk, though it may 
also be made from the milk of other animals. 

All Beers, Ales, and Porters are prepared from malt, which is 
the germinating grain of barley. The fermentation of the sugar 
in the barley produces alcohol, the amount of which varies in 
different cases. In Pilsener beer it is 3^ per cent, of absolute 
alcohol ; in stout and porter 5 to 6 per cent. The hop which is 
added to the fermenting barley, gives to beer its characteristic 
bitterness. 

London Porter is coloured with black or roasted malt ; stout 
is only a stronger form of porter. Bottled ales are generally stronger 
than those on draught, and being slightly effervescent, may agree 
better. 



62 HYGIENE. 

The effect of alcohol in beer is modified by the hops, which help 
in producing drowsiness. Beer has a marked tendency to produce 
obesity, more so than any other alcoholic beverage. Its influence 
in the production of gout is also very great. 

Substitutes for Malt have been largely used. Thus by the 
action of sulphuric acid on starch, an artificial form of sugar is 
produced, which is largely used in place of malt for making beer. 
Many recent cases of poisoning by arsenic have been traced to the 
use of impure sulphuric acid in manufacturing this form of sugar. 

The detection of arsenic in organic liquids requires great . care, as 
so many compounds of arsenic are volatile, especially in the presence of 
chlorides, as in beer. To detect arsenic in beer a pint of the beer is evaporated 
to dry ness, and treated with 20 c.c. of strong sulphuric acid, heated, and 
20 c.c. of strong nitric acid added drop by drop. Violent action occurs : if 
possible 20 c.c. more of nitric acid are worked in. Transfer the liquid to a 
small flask, and expel the nitric acid by boiling. By this means all chlorine 
is expelled, the arsenic is oxidised and the organic matter destroyed. SH 2 gas 
is now passed into the acid liquid for some hours, the precipitated sulphur 
and any sulphide filtered off and extracted with ammonia, which dissolves any 
sulphide of arsenic. The liquid so obtained is subjected to Marsh's test. (See 
page 216.) 

In the making of beer from malt, the first stage is to malt the 
barley, i.e. leave it spread on floors for ten days after soaking. 
This allows germination to take place, in which process the 
insoluble starch is converted into starch, dextrine, maltose and 
glucose. After the dried malt has been screened to break off the 
sproutings, the brewer places it in the mash-tub, with water, at a 
temperature of 160 F. This completes the transformation of the 
starch into glucose. The wort is now boiled to stop the process, 
and the albumin from the grain is thus coagulated. Hops are 
added at this stage. The boiled liquid is passed into shallow 
vessels and cooled. The proper temperature for " top " yeast is 
60 F., for "bottom," or Bavarian yeast, a much lower temperature 
is desirable. When the desired temperature is reached, the liquid 
is run into the fermenting tun along with yeast. The varieties of 
beer are due in part to the degree of completeness of fermentation of 
sugar allowed. If too complete, the beer does not keep well. 

Wines are produced by the fermentation of the juice of the 
grape. The wine produced may be bottled before or after fermenta- 
tion is complete ; in the former case, an effervescing wine is 
produced, such as the sparkling wines of the Rhine and the 
Moselle, or champagne. When the sugar is nearly all fermented a 
dry wine is obtained, of which Bordeaux and Burgundy, Hock and 
Moselle, are examples. -^ 

The difference in colour between red and white wines is pro- 
duced by allowing the juice in the former to ferment in contact with 
the skins, from which the colouring matter is extracted by the alcohol. 
Both red and white wines may be obtained from either red 
or white grapes. From the skins also are extracted a salt of iron, 
and a peculiar form of tannin. Tartaric and acetic acids, and 
tartrate of potass, are present in varying quantities in wines ; in old 
wines the tartrate separates as bi-tartrate of potass, forming with 



FERMENTED DRINKS. 63 

tannin and colouring matter the " crust" of port and other wines. 
The " bouquet " of wines is due chiefly to certain volatile bodies, 
such as pslargonic ether. The proportion of alcohol in wines varies 
from 6 to 14 per cent. As fermentation is stopped by the presence 
of 14 per cent, of alcohol, any larger amount of alcohol than this 
must have been added to the wine. 

Wine, like beer, has a strong tendency to produce gout, especi- 
ally the sweet and strong wines. It has not, however, the same 
tendency to induce obesity. 

Spirits differ from the two last groups, to begin with, in the 
amount of alcohol they contain. Thus, English beers contain from 
3 to 6 per cent., German beers from 2 to 5 per cent., wines from 
8 to 20, and all kinds of spirits from 37 to 58 per cent, of alcohol. 
They differ in the absence of the bitter principle of beer and much 
of the salts and sugar and ether of wines. They are all prepared 
by the distillation of some previously fermented liquor. Brandy 
ought to be made by the distillation of wine; and then contains, 
besides alcohol and water, small quantities of acetic, oenanthic, 
butylic, and valerianic ethers. But much of the brandy sold is 
simply made from potato spirit, by the addition of acetic ether, 
burnt sugar, etc. The starch of potatoes is converted into dextrin 
and dextrose by dilute acids, and then fermentation allowed. By 
the use of patent stills, all bye-products can be separated, a fairly 
pure alcohol known as silent spiv it being produced. This is largely 
employed in manufacturing spirits and in fortifying wines. 

Whiskey is prepared from malted barley, or from a mixture of 
grains, to which a sufficiency of malt to convert their starch into 
sugar has been added. In grain whiskey the distillation is effected 
by steam in a patent (Coffey's) still, which separates most of the 
bye-products (fusel oil, etc.) from the spirit. In malt whiskey, 
distilled in the old-fashioned pot-still, these bye-products are not 
separated. 

The improvement of whiskey effected by keeping is not due 
(Bell) to the diminution of fusel oil. Such a diminution does not 
occur. The per-centage of alcohol diminishes by keeping, 6 to 
8 per cent, proof spirit being lost by five years' storage in wood. 
" Fusel oil" is a mixture of alcohols of higher boiling point than 
ethylic alcohol (amylic, propylic, etc.). Even in a bad whiskey 
not more than ^ per cent, of fusel oil is present (about one grain in 
a glassful). Experimentally no marked effects have been produced 
by fusel oil, when it is less than i per cent. Possibly the presence 
of furfurol, of which there is a trace in malt whiskey, which dis- 
appears on keeping, may partially explain the disagreeable flavour 
of new whiskey. But it is fairly clear that those who argue that it 
is bad whiskey and not good whiskey which does harm are speaking 
without knowledge. It is not the quality but the quantity of 
whiskey which is responsible for so much moral and physical evil. 

Gin and Hollands are obtained from barley, and flavoured with 
juniper berries and other materials. The oil of juniper stimulates 
the urinary excretion. 

Rum is obtained by the distillation of molasses, and is usually 



64 HYGIENE. 

kept for a long time in oak barrels. It is said thus to acquire more 
astringent matters than other spirits contain. 

The legal limits of dilution of whiskey, brandy and rum is 
down to 25 degrees under proof, and of gin down to 35 degrees 
under proof. (For definition of proof spirit, see page 55). The 
amount of alcohol in an alcoholic liquor is determined by distillation 
of 100 c.c., making up the distillate to 100 c.c. by the addition of 
distilled water, and then taking the specific gravity of a portion of 
this liquid by the aid of the specific gravity bottle. The per-centage 
of alcohol corresponding to a given specific gravity is given in tables 
prepared for this purpose. 

Prolonged indulgence in spirits produces the various organic 
diseases already described, and unless well diluted they are more 
harmful than beers or wines. They differ from wines and beers in 
not tending to produce gout, and from beer in not leading to obesity. 



CHAPTER IX. 
WATER. 

Uses of Water. Water is a prime necessity of life. In its 
absence life can only exist in lowly organised beings, and in them 
only in a dormant state. From a hygienic point of view, the uses 
of water are four-fold : (i) It is an essential part of our food, 
not only serving to build up the tissues of the body, but also 
preserving the fluidity of the blood and aiding excretion of effete 
matters. (2) It is necessary for personal cleanliness, of which 
the importance can scarcely be exaggerated. (3) In the household 
it is essential for cooking, as well as for washing the house, the 
linen, and various utensils. (4) By the community at large it is 
required for water-closets and sewers, for public baths, for cleansing 
the streets, and for horses and other domestic animals, as well as 
in many manufacturing processes. It is obvious that the water to 
be used for domestic and general purposes, need not be so pure as 
that for drinking purposes. Hence, a double supply was proposed 
for London in 1878, by the Metropolitan Board of Works a less 
pure river supply for general purposes, and a deep chalk-well supply 
for drinking purposes. The scheme, however, rightly fell through, 
because of the expense of a double source of supply, and the danger 
that the impure water would, through carelessness or ignorance, be 
often used for drinking purposes, when it happened to be nearest at 
hand. 

Quantity of Water Required. The quantity of water 
required for all purposes has been variously stated by different 
authorities. The quantity required for drinking purposes is found 
to bear a relation to the weight of the individual, being nearly half 
an ounce for every pound weight, or i| gills for every stone weight. 
Thus, a man weighing 150 Ibs. would require 3f pints. Of this 
water, about one-third is taken in the food ; the remainder, 
averaging i\ pints, being required as 'drink. If we add the water 
required for other purposes, according to De' Chaumont, i gallon is 
required for drinking and cooking, 2 gallons (not including a bath) 
for personal cleanliness, 3 gallons for a share of utensil and house 
washing, 3 gallons for clothes washing ; and if a general bath be 
taken, 3 gallons more ; making a total of about 12 gallons, to which 
5 gallons must be added if there is a water closet. 

In hot summer weather the consumption is about 20 per cent, 
above the average of the year ; and frost, often increases the amount 
30 40 per cent, above the average. ow r ing to the bursting of pipes, 
or the loss from taps foolishly left open to prevent bursting. 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 6 



66 HYGIENE. 

Water companies usually reckon 30 60 gallons for each 
individual, to allow for the water required for scavenging and 
manufactories and for waste. In large houses and hotels where baths 
are freely used, often as much as 70 gallons per head is used, and in 
hospitals the amount averages from 60 to 90 gallons per head. The 
following is Parkes' estimate of the daily allowance for all 
purposes : 





GALLONS PER HEAD 
OF POPULATION. 




12 




4 




6 




3 


Total house supply 
Municipal purposes 


25 
5 
; 


Total 


35 







It has been proposed to put a water-meter to each house, so 
that the rate may be in proportion to the amount of water used. 
The plan is objectionable for two reasons : ist Because it tends to 
restrict the necessary use of water for purposes of cleanliness. A 
scant supply of water is always followed by uncleanliness of house 
and person, with its consequent diseases ; at the same time closets 
may be imperfectly flushed, and may become choked. 2nd 
Because of the primary expense of the meter, and of its maintenance. 

SOURCES OF WATER SUPPLY. All our drinking water is 
obtained in the first instance, by a natural process of distillation on 
a large scale. The sun is constantly causing evaporation from sea 
and land. The vapour produced, being condensed by a lower 
temperature, returns to the earth as snow, dew or rain. All these 
natural products have been at times utilised as sources of drinking 
water. 

1. Dew has on rare occasions been utilised at sea by hanging 
out fleeces of wool at night and wringing them out in the morning. 
A much better plan is 

2. The Distillation of Sea-water. This can easily be 
managed now that steam power is so largely used. It has even 
been employed on land, when it was necessary temporarily to 
continue the use of water derived from an impure source. The first 
part distilled should always be rejected, as it is always impure. 
Distilled water is " flat " in taste, owing to its containing no 
dissolved gases. It can be aerated by letting it drop a considerable 
distance from one cask into another, through small openings in the 
upper one, and by filtration through charcoal. Non-aerated water 
is not easily absorbed into the circulation, and occasionally causes 
illness. 

3. The utility of Melted Snow and Ice is obviously very 



RAIN WATER. 67 

limited. Moreover, its use is not free from danger if the ice is 
derived from contaminated water. Outbreaks of enteric fever have 
been traced in the United States to the taking of ice obtained from 
impure water. 

4. Rain-water is a much more important source of water 
supply, and after passing through the soil it constitutes the chief 
part of the water we drink. The term, however, is properly 
restricted to the water collected immediately after its descent from 
roofs, etc. Its purity depends on three conditions the character of 
the air it passes through, the cleanliness of and absence of lead 
from the channels through which it runs, and the condition of the 
water-butts in which it is stored. Rain-water is soft ; in fact, too 
soft to be pleasant to the palate. In passing through the air, it 
carries with it a certain proportion of its constituents ; in towns 
especially ammonia, soot, etc. ; near the sea, it generally contains 
some salt ; and being soft and having dissolved oxygen from the 
air, it dissolves an appreciable amount of lead from roofs or 
gutters. 

The Rivers Pollution Commissioners found that out of eight 
samples of stored rain-water only one was fit to drink. They came 
to the conclusion that rain-water, collected from the roofs of houses 
and stored in underground tanks, is " often polluted to a dangerous 
extent by excrementitious matters, and is rarely of sufficiently good 
quality to be used for domestic purposes with safety." Also, that 
in Great Britain, and more particularly in England, we shall " look 
in vain to the atmosphere for a supply of water pure enough for 
dietetic purposes." 

The use of rain-water for drinking purposes is only justified in 
isolated country houses where no better source is available ; and 
under these circumstances the greatest care should be taken to 
prevent contamination with lead or organic impurities. 

The amount of water falling on any impervious material 
obtainable from rain can easily be estimated, if the amount of 
rainfall and the area of the receiving surface are known. The 
average annual rainfall in this country is 33 inches (see page 236). 

We may assume the amount practically available to be 20 inches per 
annum, and the area of the receiving surface 500 square feet. Multiply the 
area by 144, to bring it into square inches, and this by the rainfall, and the 
product gives the number of cubic inches of rain which fall on the receiving 
area in a year. One cubic foot, or 1,728 cubic inches, of water being equivalent 
to 6-23 gallons, the number of gallons of water can be easily calculated. To 
calculate the receiving surface of the roof of a house, do not take into account 
the slope of the roof, but merely ascertain the area of the flat space actually covered 
by the roof. This may be done roughly by calculating the area of all the rooms 
on the ground floor, and allowing an additional amount for the space occupied 
by the walls. It has been estimated that, even if a rain-water supply for towns 
were desirable, the amount collected from the roofs of houses would scarcely 
average two gallons per person daily assuming the average rainfall to be 20 
inches, and that there was a roof area of 60 square feet for each individual. 

The amount practically available from rain falling on different 
soils varies with their porosity and slope. Thus, according to 



68 HYGIENE. 

Professor Rankine, the proportion of the total rainfall available is 
as follows : 

Nearly the whole on steep surfaces of granite, gneiss, and 

slate ; 

From three to four-fifths on moorland hilly pastures ; 
From two-fifths to half on flat cultivated country ; and 
None on chalk. 

By available rainfall is meant the amount remaining after 
allowing for percolation, etc., which can be stored in reservoirs. 

5. Upland Surface Water is the water collected in hilly 
districts, as on moorlands, at the head of a river. By its utilisation 
for drinking purposes, the sources of water for the river are inter- 
fered with, and any water company or local authority using such a 
source is, therefore, required to run into the stream a quantity of 
water equal to a third of the available rainfall. The limited and 
regular supply thus furnished to the stream is found to be 
advantageous for industrial purposes as its flow is equalised, and 
the violence of floods mitigated. 

In the utilization of upland surface water the water from the 
surrounding hills is collected at the bottom of a valley, in an 
artificial, strongly-constructed lake ; or in a natural lake, as in 
Loch Katrine (from which Glasgow is now supplied). 

Upland surface water is nearly always soft. Its use is much 
more economical than that of hard water. It may be brownish, 
from the presence of peat, but this is not objectionable, so far as 
health is concerned. Its occasionally solvent action on lead is a 
more serious objection. The population of many parts of Yorkshire 
and Lancashire have suffered severely from chronic lead poisoning, 
due to the action of certain upland surface water or lead service 
pipes. Only the waters giving an acid reaction possess this plumbo- 
solvent power. (See also page 82.) 

6. Springs supply water which, originally derived from rain- 
water, has percolated through the soil until it reaches some 
impervious stratum, and has then run along this, until it arrives 
at the point at which the impervious stratum reaches the surface of 
the soil. A spring is thus the outcrop of the under-ground water. 
Springs are divided into (i) land springs, and (2) main springs. 
The former flow from beds of drift or gravel lying on an impervious 
stratum. They are very subject to seasonal variation, and may dry 
up in certain years ; while main springs occurring in chalk, green- 
sand, or other regular geological formation, constantly supply a 
certain amount of water. Springs often occur in connection 
with " faults " in geological strata, and then may appear on table- 
lands and high elevations, unlike springs caused by alternation of 
strata in valleys of denudation. The two kinds of springs are shewn 
in Fig. 5 and 6. 

In the land spring water crops out at the point where the 
porous stratum ceases. Deep springs may crop out in the same 
way as land springs, except that they appear at the bottom of 
deeper strata. Or they may be formed by faults. Both these are 



WELLS. 



69 



shown in water having percolated through the chalk beneath the 
superficial clay, is stopped at the " fault" by the lack of continuity 
of the chalk stratum, and is consequently confined under pressure. 
It therefore makes its way to the surface, forming a spring. In its 
passage underground, water (owing partly to the carbonic acid it 
has obtained from the air and soil), is able to dissolve small 
quantities of chalk, sulphate of lime and of magnesium, and traces 
of oxide of iron, aluminium oxide, and silica. Spring-water possesses 
an equable temperature, generally about 50 Fahr., while impounded 
or river water is always warm in summer and cold in winter. 








FIG. 5. LAND SPRING. 




FIG. 6. 
MAIN SPRINGS FORMED IN VALLEY OF DENUDATION AND BY A FAULT. 

Spring water is well-aerated, while river water, and still more rain- 
water, are flat. 

7. Wells may form the best or worst sources of water-supply 
according to their depth and the means of protection against 
contamination. There are two kinds Surface wells and deep wells. 

Surface Wells do not usually descend further than 15 or 20 
feet, and have no impervious stratum between the source of water 
and the surface of the well. They catch the subsoil or underground- 
water, which percolates into them from the surrounding soil, and 
the character of the water they receive will therefore vary with the 
nature of their surroundings. If there is a cesspool near, this may 
simply drain into the well. All the soakage from a considerable 
distance may find its way into the well. In villages and isolated 
places the water of surface wells is commonly contaminated. One 
hole may be dug in the garden fora well, and another for a cesspool, 
while there is possibly a farmyard near at hand the soakage from 



70 HYGIENE. 

the cesspool and farm-yard soaking into the well. Danger may 
also arise from more distant contamination. The ground water 
which is tapped by the well is an underground stream flowing 
towards the nearest brook. Heavy rains swelling the ground water 
may wash impurities from cesspools, leaky drains, etc., at a 
considerable distance, and carry these into wells lying between 
these sources of pollution and the brook into the bed of which the 
underground water ultimately discharges. The danger of contami- 
nation of the water in the well by the contents of the cesspool is 
much greater in the relative position shown in A than in the 
position shown at B, Fig. 7. After heavy rain, when the underground 
water is swollen, the danger of contamination is still further 
increased. The model bye-laws of the Local Government Board 
state that a cesspool must be at least 40 feet distant from any well, 
spring, or stream. Probably this is insufficient for safety ; cesspools 
ought to be entirely forbidden. If necessary to retain a surface well, 
it should be protected nearly to the bottom with brick, lined with an 




FIG. 7. 

SHOWING VARYING DANGER OF CONTAMINATION OF A SHALLOW WELL, 

ACCORDING TO LEVEL OF UNDERGROUND WATER AND RELATIVE POSITION OF 

CESSPOOL AND WELL (after Galton). 

impervious layer of cement so as to prevent water from entering 
the well except near its bottom. In modern wells iron cylinders 
are employed to line the upper part of the well ; and large glazed 
earthenware pipes arranged vertically and with water-tight joints 
are sometimes used for the same purpose. 

Deep Wells are made by digging a surface well, as above, 
except that the ground water is prevented from entering the well by 
means of impervious steining ; and then boring from the bottom 
down through the subjacent impervious stratum until a water- 
bearing stratum is reached. The difference between a surface well 
and a deep well is shown in Fig. 8 by A and B. Where the water 



DEEP WELLS. 71 

in this stratum is retained under pressure, deep wells are known as 
Artesian Wells. Such Artesian wells have been sunk in London. 
Rain, falling on the chalk hills which lie to the south and north of 
London, percolates through the chalk downwards, and then laterally, 
until it lies in the concave London basin. Here the clay stratum 
above it prevents its escape upwards ; and being confined under 
considerable pressure, it rises to the surface, or into a well in the 
superficial gravel, when the clay is tapped. In Fig. 8, B is an 




FIG. 8. 

SHOWING DIFFERENCE BETWEEN DEEP AND SUPERFICIAL WELL. 

A. SURFACE WELL IN GRAVEL. B. DEEP WELL, GOING THROUGH GRAVEL 

AND CLAY TO CHALK. C. WELL IN CHALK DISTRICT. 

Artesian well if the pressure is such as to make the water rise 
through the London clay, when this is cut through and the 
underlying chalk is reached. C is a well in the chalk, which does 
not pass through an impervious stratum, and therefore comes within 
the above definition of a surface well ; but as regards depth required 
to be dug before water is reached it is more like a deep well. 

Among the deepest Artesian wells are Crenelle (1,800 feet), and 
Kissingen (1,878 feet.) The sinking of a deep well and severe 
pumping of its water may exhaust all the neighbouring wells for 
two or three miles. There is also danger of contamination from 
neighbouring cesspools when the upper part of the deep well is not 
properly constructed. The area exhausted by a deep well undergoing 
pumping is represented by an inverted cone, having a very wide 
base, and with a convex inner surface pointing towards the well. 

For country places deep-well water is much preferable to water 
from streams, as streams are very liable to be contaminated by the 
sewage of houses higher up in their course, or even by that of 
houses close by. A good well should be at least thirty feet deep 
preferably fifty feet and should always be lined with impervious 
material, except near its bottom. The absolutely water-tight and 
impervious condition as well as the distance of all drains or 
cesspools in the vicinity should be ascertained before deciding 
whether the drinking water from a given well is above suspicion. 
The direction of flow of the underground water should also be 
determined. This may be done by measuring the level of all the 
wells in the neighbourhood. Possible sources of pollution at points 
from which ground water is flowing towards the well are much more 
dangerous than those nearer than the well to the river towards 
which the underground water is flowing (see Fig. 7). Steam 
pumping greatly increases the area from which contamination may 
be derived. 



72 HYGIENE. 

An excellent plan to obtain water for villages, in a gravelly 
soil, is to sink a Norton's Abyssinian tube well for fifty or sixty 
feet. 

In towns it is preferable to trust to the public water supplied, 
rather than to any private well ; and in villages, a general supply 
from a pure source should also be provided. 

The water is obtained from a well by a pump or a draw-well. 
The former is a safer as well as a less laborious plan. The pump 
should be fixed some distance from the well, and the aperture 
through which the pump pipe passes should be rendered water 
tight. Lead pipes should be avoided, as well water not infrequently 
has plumbo-solvent properties. 

8. Rivers and running streams originate in upland surface water 
or springs, and their water should be of the same quality as these. 
Unfortunately, they acquire a large amount of impurities in their 
course. Towns commonly pour their more or less clarified sewage 
into them ; and the discharge of crude sewage from hamlets and 
single houses on the banks is still far from uncommon. With the 
more rigid enforcement of the Rivers Pollution Acts, this pollution 
of rivers will become less frequent ; but river water previously 
contaminated by even small amounts of sewage cannot be regarded 
as an ideal source of water-supply. 

If no contamination be present in the water of a river, it forms 
a good source of water-supply ; being running water, it is always 
fairly well aerated, and is not usually so hard as spring-water. 

Even if sewage has entered a river, it is asserted that it becomes 
a safe source of water-supply, after passage through filter beds, the 
sewage having been got rid of in four ways. 

i st. By subsidence, the organic matter settling to the bottom. 

2nd. By the influence of water-plants, which assimilate am- 
monia, nitrates, etc., and give out nascent oxygen. 

3rd. Oxidation. Doubtless a large amount of the nitrogenous 
matter does become oxidised in its course down a river, and in this 
condition is harmless. The river Seine becomes greatly polluted 
as it passes through Paris, but so far as chemical analysis can 
determine its condition, it is purer 30 miles below the city than 
it was before it received the sewage of the city. 

4th. It is highly probable that the germs (or micro-organisms) 
of enteric fever and other diseases known to be propagated by 
polluted water, are practically or wholly destroyed in the struggle 
for existence with the natural micro-organisms of river-water. 
When to this is added the fact that river-water supplied to large 
communities is carefully filtered through sand, after having been 
stored in reservoirs, in which the chief impurities have time to 
settle, it is not surprising that the experience of those communities 
like London, which are supplied with river-water, usually shows 
no evidence of evil ascribable to drinking this water. For over 
30 years the inhabitants of London have been drinking filtered water 
from the river Lea and from the Thames above Teddington, and 
this gigantic experiment on a population which has increased from 



WATER. 73 

i\ to 5 millions has not been accompanied by any conclusive 
evidence of evil effect. 

In regard to the comparative merits of the various waters 
described, it will be useful to give here the classification made by 
the Rivers Pollution Commissioners in their sixth report : 



st& s ain watr r at . e . r :: :: 

Suspicious < 5. Surface Water from Cultivated 
( Land ........ 

(6. River Water to which Sewage gains - Palatable. 
access . . . . . . 
7. Shallow-well Water 

Passage through certain geological strata has a great influence 
in rendering water palatable, colourless, and wholesome by per- 
colation. 

The following strata are said by the Commissioners to be the 
most efficient : (i) Chalk, (2) oolite, (3) greensand, (4) Hastings 
sand, (5) new red and conglomerate sandstone. Fissures or cracks 
in these strata may cause the water to pass through them unpurified 
by nitration. 



( 74) 



CHAPTER X. 
THE STORAGE AND DELIVERY OP WATER. 

THE methods of storing and delivering water will vary with its 
source. In rural districts, deep wells and springs are the best 
sources of supply ; but in large towns they are found to be 
insufficient for the wants of a rapidly-increasing population ; and 
they can only be multiplied in a given district within certain limits, 
as every well drains a large surrounding area. The supply from 
surface wells in gravel or sand beds or in chalk districts is liable 
to fail in seasons of drought ; but deep wells in oolite or chalk 
formations, and in the new red sandstone, generally yield a 
constant and abundant supply. 

When the water is supplied from upland surfaces, springs, 
or small streams, a collecting reservoir is required. This is 
generally a natural valley below the level of the source of supply, 
but of sufficient elevation above the place supplied to allow the 
water to be distributed by gravity, without any pumping apparatus. 
The reservoir should be large enough to hold five or six months' 
supply, and its embankment should be perfectly water-tight, and 
of great strength. 

When water is collected from upland surfaces, it is important 
to know the amount of rainfall to be reckoned on. If we know 
the area of the surface which drains towards the reservoir, and 
the average rainfall, the total rainfall is easily calculated. This 
will, however, differ greatly from the available rainfall, owing to 
the losses from penetration into the ground, evaporation, and other 
causes. The amount lost will vary, according to the season, from 
one-half to seven-eighths of the total rainfall ; and according to 
the soil (page 68). The proportion of percolation in the chief 
water-bearing strata surrounding London varies from 48 to 60 per 
cent. (Prestwich). It is less when the ground is steep and the 
rainfall rapid, and usually less in winter than in summer. 

Water collected near its actual place of fall, and from 
uncultivated districts, is always purer than that collected further 
from its source, and from cultivated land. 

From the collecting or impounding reservoir, water is carried 
by the aqueduct or conduit either directly into the service-pipes, 
or when the pressure is too great, into a second service-reservoir, 
resembling the impounding reservoir in general structure, and 
capable of holding a few days' supply. 

This must be high ground, above the level of the highest 



WATER PIPES. 75 

houses to which water has to be supplied, as water cannot rise 
above its own level. When this cannot be arranged, the water 
is pumped into tanks at a higher level, and distributed from 
them. 

The greatest hourly demand for water being double the 
average hourly demand, the water-mains supplying a town must 
have double the discharging power that would be required, 
supposing the demand was uniform. The first requisite of a 
supply of water is that it should be abundant, and sufficient in 
amount for any extra strain on its capacities. Water ought to 
be laid on to every house, and to at least two floors of the house. 
Anything preventing free access to water, militates against 
cleanliness. 

Cast-iron is the most serviceable material used in the 
construction of the main water-pipes ; it is coated with pitch, or 
Dr. Angus Smith's varnish, or with magnetic oxide of iron (Barff). 
The service-pipes to each house are generally made of lead, and 
the ease with which this material can be bent and curved, and 
carried to the different floors of a house, makes its use very 
convenient. Lead pipes, furthermore, can be easily obliterated 
in case of bursting, and so any waste of water and flooding of 
the house minimised. Some kinds of water, unfortunately, act on 
and dissolve lead ; this is especially true of soft waters and those 
containing organic matter. Shallow w r ells, being very liable to 
organic pollution, ought never to have the supply-pipe of their 
pumps made of lead. With hard waters, lead pipes may generally 
be used safely. When the quality of the water renders lead pipes 
objectionable, the use of iron, tin, zinc, tinned copper, earthenware, 
gutta-percha, and other materials, has been suggested. Of these, 
cast and wrought-iron pipes are the most serviceable, or pipes 
composed of an inner lining of block-tin and an outer of lead, a 
layer of asbestos intervening to prevent galvanic action between 
the metals. According to Rawlinson, " supply-pipes of wrought- 
iron are cheaper, stronger, and more easily fitted than service-pipes 
of lead ; " but it is urged against them by Perry, that with soft 
water they become choked by rust in a few years. If galvanized 
they are more durable. Cast-iron pipes are rusted less easily 
than wrought-iron. 

When the water-supply is from a river, filtering beds are 
needed, in addition to the parts of a water-service hitherto 
described. Moreover, since the river is usually at a low level, 
the water, after passing through the filtering beds, requires to be 
pumped into raised tanks, from which it is delivered. 

In laying down water-pipes, in the streets and to houses, it 
is very important to make the distance between them and all drains 
and gas-pipes as great as possible. Suction of gases or liquids 
may occur into leaky pipes, even though these contain water, and 
still more when they are empty ; and disease has occasionally been 
traced to this source. Thus if sewers and water-mains are laid 
in the same trench, foul matters which have escaped into the soil 
from the former may be sucked into the latter. This may happen 



76 HYGIENE. 

if the water-mains are leaky, even when they are running full. 
Experiments have shewn that the flow of water causes a partial 
vacuum and insuction at .the defective points. During inter- 
missions of supply when the mains are partially or entirely empty, 
the danger of leakage into them is still greater. Coal-gas has been 
similarly sucked into water-mains. 

The pipes bringing the water to a house may be kept 
constantly filled with water, or only for a limited time once or 
twice a day. The intermittent system of supply necessitates the 
provision of cisterns or water-tanks, in which water can be stored 
in the intervals of flow of water. With a sufficient and properly- 
distributed public supply of water, no cistern ought to be required. 

Cisterns. Cisterns for the supply of potable water may be 
made of iron, slate, stone, glass, glazed earthenware, or brick lined 
with Portland cement. Other materials have been used, as timber, 
lead, and zinc. Timber is inadvisable, as it easily rots ; lead is very 
objectionable, owing to the possible solvent action of the water on 
it. Zinc or galvanized iron cisterns are also acted on by soft 
water ; but they may be used with most waters. Galvanized iron 
is iron coated with a thin layer of zinc. Iron cisterns soon rust ; 
but this may be prevented by giving them a coating of boiled 
linseed oil before they leave the foundry. Stone cisterns are' too 
heavy for use, except in basements. Slate cisterns are good, but are 
apt to leak ; the points of leakage have occasionally been stopped 
with red lead, which is attacked by the water, and thus lead 
poisoning results. If the slate is set in good cement (not mortar, 
as this makes the water hard), it is a good material for a cistern. 

Every cistern should have a well-fitting lid, always kept closed, 
to avoid the entrance of dust of various kinds, or even dead cats, 
birds, etc. Noxious gases may be absorbed by the stagnant water. 

The cistern should be easy of access. If it is indoors, the cistern 
room should be well ventilated ; and in any case the cistern should 
be periodically visited and cleaned out. When the cistern is full, a 
ball-tap prevents any further flow of water ; and if this does not act 
properly, an overflow pipe carries off the excess of water. 

Cisterns badly arranged or neglected have been in the past a 
common source of disease, (i) The overflow pipe should not pass 
into any part of the water-closet apparatus or the soil-pipe, or into 
the supply pipe to the water-closet. 

Where the overflow-pipe discharges into the soil-pipe or closet 
pan, foul gases or even solid particles may find their way into the 
cistern. 

(2) No water-closet ought to be supplied from the same cistern 
as supplies drinking water, as the pipe leading down to the closet 
may when the cistern is accidentally empty carry noxious effluvia 
into the cistern. A separate flushing cistern capable of discharging 
two to three gallons of water should be provided for each closet. 

With a constant supply of water, cisterns are only required for 
water-closets and for hot-water apparatus (see pages 168 and 164). 

Constant and Intermittent Services. With an inter- 
mittent service of water, during the intervals of supply, water is 



CONSTANT SERVICE. 77 

only obtainable from cisterns, water-butts, etc. The objections 
against this system are that (i) The cisterns required are 
expensive, and liable to get out of order and become foul. (2) Their 
overflow pipes may improperly communicate with the soil pipe or with 
some other part of the drainage, instead of opening into the external 
air. (3) Putrid gases, from neighbouring ventilating-pipes or other 
parts of the drainage system, are liable to be absorbed by the 
stagnant water in the cistern. (4) The chief objection to an 
intermittent supply is that, during the intervals in which the water- 
mains are empty, foul air and liquids from the contiguous soil and 
drains are liable to be sucked through imperfect joints into the pipes. 
(5) In case of fire, the supply of water in the system is insufficient. 
In certain towns rates of insurance against fire have been reduced 
on replacing an intermittent by a constant service of water. 

On the other hand it is urged that more expensive fittings are 
required for a constant service ; and that, when taps are left open or 
pipes burst, the waste of water is much greater than with a cistern 
supply. The balance is decidedly in favour of a constant supply 
without storage cisterns. Where storage cisterns are in use, the 
taps for drinking-water should be connected with the " rising-main," 
before it supplies the cistern. 

The Advantages of the Constant Service may be thus 
summarised : 

(1) Owing to the absence of cisterns, the risks connected with 
stagnant water, and with improper arrangement of over-flow pipes, 
are obviated. 

(2) The risk of suction into supply mains of external contami- 
nations is reduced to a minimum, since the pipes are never empty. 

(3) The pipes are less liable to rust. Air in the presence of a 
little moisture, causes rapid corrosion. 

(4) There is an abundant supply of water in case of fire. 

Of course, when there is a temporary stoppage of supply, as for 
repairs, some of the dangers incurred by an intermittent supply will 
arise. 



(78 ) 



CHAPTER XI. 
IMPURITIES OP WATER. 

Properties of Water. When pure, water is colourless, or 

bluish when seen in large quantity. It should be quite inodorous. 
If, after keeping it for some time in a perfectly clean vessel, or if on 
heating it a smell is developed, the water is bad. Its taste should 
be pleasant and sparkling from the atmospheric gases dissolved in 
it. Bitterness generally indicates the presence of sulphate of 
magnesium (Epsom salts). Saltness is always a suspicious 
property, except in water obtained in the neighbourhood of salt 
mines or brine springs, or near the sea. It should be soft to the 
touch, and should dissolve soap easily. It should be bright and 
clear, and contain no suspended matters. Clear water is not 
necessarily pure, but turbid water is always to be rejected ; the only 
exception being the brownish-tinged water from moors, which is not 
hurtful. In all other cases, printed matter should be legible through 
at least 18 inches of water in a clear glass cylinder. Thoroughly 
dissolved organic matter is less dangerous than suspended ; the 
turbidity of water is therefore of great importance. But water may 
be bright and sparkling and apparently perfectly clear, and yet 
highly dangerous. The most important of the physical properties of 
water in regard to health are the absence of smell and turbidity, 
and these can be ascertained by even the most inexperienced. The 
chemical tests for the more important impurities are given (pages 85 
to 87). 

The impurities of water may be classed under four heads 
gaseous, mineral, vegetable, and animal. 

The gases ordinarily present in water cannot properly be 
regarded as impurities, inasmuch as they are always present, and 
greatly increase its palatableness. The dissolved nitrogen and 
oxygen bear to each other the proportion i -42 to i ; where sewage 
contamination occurs, the oxygen will be diminished or disappear, 
owing to oxidation of the organic matter. 

The amount of carbonic acid gas in water varies greatly. It 
may be considerable in chalk waters, and in contaminated well- 
water. 

Mineral Impurities. Mineral impurities are dissolved by 
water in its course through the soil, and so will vary with the 
character of the latter, i. The water obtained from granitic 
formations contains very little mineral matter, often not more than 
two to six grains per gallon. Clay slate water is also generally very 
pure, as is the water from hard trap rocks. 2. The water from 



HARDNESS OF WATER. 



79 



millstone grit and hard oolite is very pure, often containing only four 
to eight grains per gallon, chiefly calcium and magnesium sulphate 
and carbonate. 3. Soft sand-rock waters usually contain thirty to 
eighty grains per gallon of sodium salts, with a little lime and 
magnesia. 4. Loose sand and gravel waters vary greatly. They may 
be almost free from mineral matter, or the solids may be more than 
seventy grains per gallon, including much organic matter. 5. 
Waters from the lias clays vary somewhat, but commonly contain a 
large quantity of calcium and magnesium sulphates. 6. Chalk 
waters generally contain from seven to twenty grains of calcium 
carbonate, with smaller quantities of other salts. 7. Limestone and 
magnesian limestone waters differ from the last, in containing more 
calcium sulphate and less calcium carbonate, as well as much 
magnesium sulphate and carbonate in the dolomite districts. 8. 
Selenitic waters contain calcium sulphate in considerable quantities. 
9. Clay ivaters usually possess the characters of water from surface 
wells, and are objectionable. 10. Alluvial waters generally contain a 
large amount of various salts, including the various calcium,, 
magnesium, and sodium salts, n. Artesian well water varies greatly 
in composition. It may contain a large amount of sodium and 
potassium salts, or a small quantity of iron, or calcium salts. 

The commonest and most important mineral constituent of 
water is calcium carbonate, next to this calcium sulphate. These 
two salts are the chief causes of hardness of water. For practical 
purposes as regards use in domestic matters and in manufactures, 
the most important classification of waters is into hard and soft. 
The degree of hardness varies within wide limits from rain-water, 
which has no hardness at all, to the water from new red sand- 
stone rocks which sometimes possesses a hardness of 90 degrees ;, 
or wells in the gravel, in which it may be as much as 152 degrees. 

The following classification of waters, according to the degree of 
hardness, beginning with the least hard and gradually increasing 
in hardness, is from the sixth report of the Rivers Pollution 
Commissioners: i. Rain-water. 2. Upland surface. 3. Surface 
from cultivated land. 4. River. 5. Spring. 6. Deep-welL 
7. Shallow-well water. 

Calcium carbonate is the most common cause of hardness, and 
the hardness produced by it is remediable by boiling or chemical 
means. Calcium carbonate (chalk) is rendered soluble in water, 
by the carbonic acid contained in the latter, a double bi-carbonate 
being thus formed. The air contained in the interstices of the 
soil through which water passes, often contains 250 times as 
much carbonic acid as ordinary air. The water, in percolating 
through the soil, dissolves this carbonic acid, and thus is able to 
take up a considerable amount of chalk. 

The amount of hardness in any given water is expressed in 
degrees, one degree being equivalent to a grain of calcium carbonate 
in a gallon of water. Clarke's soap test is employed to detect 
the amount of hardness. It consists of a solution of soap of a 
known strength. Soft water will form a lather at once with this ; 
hard water will only form a lather after all the calcium salt is 



8o HYGIENE. 

neutralised. The amount of Clarke's solution required before a 
lather is produced, will give an estimate of the amount of hardness. 

To Determine the Total Hardness take 70 c.c. of the water and place 
in a stoppered bottle. From a burette run in a sufficient quantity of the standard 
soap solution (of which i c.c. equals i of hardness), to produce a lather on shaking 
the water, which remains unbroken after standing five minutes. Thus, if 
7-5 c.c. of the soap solution were required, the hardness is 6'5, as i c.c. of 
the solution is required to produce a lather in soft water. The 6 '5 means 
6'5 milligrammes of calcium carbonate in 70 c.c. or 6'5 grains in a gallon of 
the water. 

To Determine the Permanent Hardness boil 70 c.c. of the water 
in a flask for half-an-hour ; allow the precipitated carbonates of calcium and 
magnesium to settle. Some of the latter will be re-dissolved. Carefully 
decant, and make up the liquid to the original 70 c.c. with distilled water. 
Filter through fine filter paper and estimate hardness as above. 

The amount of soap wasted in consequence of the hardness of 
water is very great. Thus, in the case of water of one degree of 
hardness, as every gallon contains one grain of chalk, 7,000 gallons 
would contain 7,000 grains that is, a pound. But every grain of 
chalk wastes 8 or 9 grains of soap ; therefore, a pound of chalk, 
contained in 7,000 gallons, would waste about 8| pounds of soap. 
But nearly all waters are harder than this, and they not uncommonly 
possess a hardness of 20 or more. If the hardness be 20, the 
waste would be 170 pounds of soap. This quantity would be easily 
used annually in a family of seven or eight persons, if we include 
the washing of clothes. The amount of money thus wasted can be 
easily estimated. 

Not only does soft water require less soap, but it is much more 
suitable for making tea and soup, and for boiling meat and 
vegetables both time and fuel being saved. The reason why 
better tea is made when a little carbonate of soda is added to the 
water is that the chalk is by this means precipitated. 

Carbonate of calcium is precipitated from water by boiling it ; 
carbonic acid being driven off, the neutral salt falls to the bottom of 
the vessel. This is the origin of the " fur " inside kettles, which 
lessens their/ conductivity to heat, and renders necessary a greater 
consumption of fuel. 

The chalk may also be removed by adding to the water, while 
still in the reservoir, some milk of lime that is, quicklime made 
into a milky solution with water. This is done on a large scale at 
various waterworks. The reaction may be expressed thus : 

Calcium bicarbonate + calcium oxide = calcium carbonate -f 
calcium carbonate. 

The calcium carbonate, as it is precipitated, carries down with 
it organic and other matters, thus clearing and purifying the 
water. 

The hardness due to calcium sulphate is not removable by 
boiling. It is, therefore, called permanent hardness, to distin- 
guish it from the temporary hardness of chalk waters, which is 
removable by boiling. It may, however, be partially removed by 
the addition of washing soda to the water, as well as the nitrate 
and chloride of calcium which are also present. The magnesium 



CHLORIDES AND NITRATES. 81 

salts are not removable by boiling or soda. This is shown by the 
fact that the " fur " inside kettles does not usually contain 
magnesium salts. 

The amount of hardness varies greatly in different waters. In 
the deep wells in magnesium limestone, it varies from 14 57 ; 
in the deep wells from chalk beds, it varies from 13 to 27 and 
may be higher. In the water from Bala Lake, Wales, the 
temporary hardness is o-i, the permanent hardness o'3 ; in the 
Loch Katrine water there is no temporary hardness, o*9 permanent 
hardness ; in the water from the new red sandstone (Nottingham), 
the temporary hardness is 9 P 6, permanent io'2 ; in a chalk spring 
at Ryde, temporary hardness i6*7, permanent 3'9 (Wanklyn). 
The total hardness in the metropolitan water supplies from the 
rivers Thames and Lea, varies from 13- 2 (Southwark Company) 
to i4'6 (New River Company) ; in the Kent Deep Wells 2o-i ; 
in deep wells from the chalk at Brighton it varies from 12 to 13. 
In all these, the hardness is chiefly temporary. 

The amount of permanent hardness is always great in water 
from clays, as the London, Oxford, Kimmeridge, and Lower Lias 
clays ; or in places where there are large deposits of calcium sulphate, 
as at Montmartre, near Paris (hence the name Plaster of Paris, 
given to desiccated calcium sulphate). Water from fissures in the 
clay often contains, also, a large amount of organic matter. 

Chlorides are always present in small quantities in water. 
As a rule the presence of more than i grain per gallon, i.e. "/ parts 
per 100,000 of water, indicates contamination with some animal 
refuse, unless the water is derived from new red sandstone, or brine 
springs, or from the neighbourhood of the sea. This rule does not, 
however, hold universally good. The absence or the presence of 
only a minute quantity of chlorides indicates the probable absence 
of animal contamination ; but in exceptional cases waters of the 
highest organic purity may contain more chlorides than the same 
bulk of sewage. 

To determine the amount of Chlorine take 70 c.c. of the water, add 
a few drops of solution of potassium monochromate (KCrO 4 ). From a burette 
run in gradually a standard solution of silver nitrate (of such a strength that 
i c.c. of the solution is equivalent to i milligramme of chlorine). The silver 
solution forms milky chloride of silver (AgCl) by combination with the 
chlorine of the chlorides in the water. When all the chlorine is thus com- 
bined, the next drop of the silver solution forms a deep red tint with the chromate. 
The number of c.c.'s of the silver solution required to produce this effect, 
equals the number of milligrammes of chlorine in 70 c.c. of water, or the number 
of grains of chlorine in a gallon of water. To convert this into parts per 100,000, 
divide by 7 and multiply by 10. 

To express the amount of chlorine in terms of common salt (NaCl), 
multiply the parts per 100,000 of chlorine by i'65- 

Nitrates in any water are suspicious ; but their import varies 
with the circumstances under which they occur. A minute quantity 
of ammonium nitrate is present in nearly all waters ; and the water 
of deep wells, especially of wells in the chalk, which, as a rule 
is perfectly free from sewage, may be highly charged with nitrates. 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 7 



82 HYGIENE. 

Nitrates, when derived from sewage, represent a completely oxidised 
condition of its nitrogenous matter. Crude sewage generally contains 
no nitrates. Nitrites as a rule indicate more recent contamination, 
and therefore greater danger than nitrates. The presence of more 
than a trace of phosphates is a strong indication of contamination 
with sewage matter. 

To determine the amount of Nitrites and Nitrates the best known 
methods are by the indigo, the phenol-sulphuric, the aluminium, or the zinc- 
copper couple tests. For nitrites the metaphenylene-diamine test is employed 
(page 85). The following qualitative tests will suffice for elementary work. 

Nitrates. An equal amount of a solution of brucine is added to the 
suspected water in a test-tube, then a little pure sulphuric acid is poured 
down the side of the tube. A pink zone is produced if nitrates are present 
in considerable amount. 

Nitrites. A few drops of each of diluted sulphuric acid and of 
metaphenylene-diamine solution give a red colour with water after standing 
for a few minutes, if nitrites are present. 

Lead is an occasional contamination of slightly acid waters. 
The purest and most oxygenated waters act most readily on lead ; 
as also those containing organic matter, nitrates or nitrites. Waters 
containing chlorides also act on lead, the chloride of lead being 
sufficiently soluble to produce poisonous symptoms. Upland 
surface waters derived from moorlands in certain districts, e.g. 
around Sheffield, have been found to be capable of dissolving 
considerable lead from lead service-pipes. The water taken first 
from the tap in the early morning is the most heavily charged with 
lead. Such waters are very soft ; but other moorland soft waters do 
not dissolve lead. It is the water having a slightly acid reaction 
which possesses this property. The source of this acid, whether 
sulphuric acid from the products of combustion in neighbouring- 
town, or an organic acid, is uncertain. The plumbo-solvent action 
of such water is greatest in autumn, when the amount of acid is at 
its maximum. The property of dissolving lead is removed by 
passing the water on a large scale over filters of sand, spongy iron, 
chalk, or limestone. The addition of a small quantity of carbonate 
of soda has the same effect. In such districts the use of tin-lined 
iron pipes for domestic services has been recommended, but these 
are liable to fracture when bent. Pipes consisting of an outer case 
of lead and an inner pipe of tin with a layers of asbestos between 
have also been placed on the market. (See also page 68.) 

Hard waters have the least action on lead ; a coating of 
insoluble carbonate of lead being formed on the interior of the pipe, 
which prevents any further action. Thus the use of lead pipes for 
water containing carbonates or sulphate, or calcium phosphate, is 
comparatively safe. Hard water containing carbonic acid gas under 
pressure will dissolve a small amount of carbonate of lead ; this 
explains the cases of lead poisoning from soda water which was 
formerly supplied in syphon bottles with lead tubes. 

Lead is dissolved much more easily by water if other metals are 
in contact with it, as iron, zinc, or tin, galvanic action being thus 



ORGANIC IMPURITIES. 83 

set up. Zinc pipes containing some lead are very dangerous, 
especially with the distilled water used on board ships. 

To determine the presence of lead in water, place a given quantity, 
say 100 c.c. in a white dish, and stir with a rod dipped in a solution of 
ammonium sulphide; if the water becomes coloured, this is generally due to 
the presence of iron or lead. If the colour remains after adding a drop or 
two of hydrochloric acid, lead is present. 

To determine the amount of lead, a standard solution of lead acetate 
containing ^ milligrammes of lead in i c.c., is made by dissolving -183 gramme 
of crystallised lead acetate in a litre of distilled water. Place 100 c.c. of the 
water to be examined in a Nessler glass, acidify by a few drops of acetic acid ; 
now add J c.c. of a saturated solution of ammonium sulphide. A brownish- 
black discoloration is produced if lead is present. To a second Nessler glass, 
containing 100 c.c. of distilled water, the same amounts of acetic acid and 
ammonium sulphide are added, and then a sufficient quantity of the standard 
lead ^solution is added, until the tints of the contents of the two Nessler glasses 
are identical. The amount of the standard solution added being known, we 
know the amount of lead in 100 c.c., and the amount per litre (1,000 c.c.) 
will be tenfold. Thus if 2 c.c. of the solution were required for matching colours, 
there were -2 parts of lead per 100,000 of water, or -14 grains per gallon. _--, 

Traces of Iron are sometimes present in water, giving it an 
astringent taste. Such water is apt to turn brown ; and tea made 
from it is very dark. 

Organic Impurities. Organic impurities may be either 
vegetable or animal, the latter being by far the most dangerous. 
The water from moorlands is often brown, but this is not noxious. 
Growing plants, again, may be beneficial to water, by absorbing 
dissolved organic matter, and aiding its oxidation. Decaying 
vegetable matter is objectionable in water, and may set up 
diarrhoea. 

The most important organic impurity of water has an animal 
origin from sewage ; the liquid or solid excreta (i.e. the urine or 
fceces) gaining accidental access to the water. Besides sewage, the 
eggs of various intestinal worms have been swallowed with water ; 
and in a few cases, even leeches. But whatever the source of the 
organic matter contained in water, it contains nitrogen as an 
essential constituent ; and tends under the influence of warmth, and 
therefore especially in summer, to undergo putrefactive changes, 
owing to the action of bacteria. These split up the more complex 
molecules of organic matter into simpler matter ; ammoniacal 
compounds and salts, of which the most important are nitrites and 
nitrates, being final products of their activity. The detection of 
nitrates, and still more of nitrites, is important, as they may 
indicate the occurrence of previous sewage contamination. These 
products are quite harmless in water, except as an indication that 
the water has been polluted, and that possibly a certain proportion 
of the nitrogenous matter in the form of the complex organic 
matter forming the germs of such diseases as enteric fever, may still 
be present. Organic matter may be suspended or dissolved, the former 
being most dangerous to health. The germs or microbes causing 
disease consist of suspended, i.e. particulate matter. The amount 
of organic matter is determined by the amount of free ammonia 



84 HYGIENE. 

and albuminoid ammonia which are present (Wanklyn's process), 
by Frankland's combustion process, or by Forschammer's oxygen 
process ; all of which give indications, rather than an exact estimate 
of its amount. 



METHODS OF WATER ANALYSIS. 

The following scheme of qualitative examination may be followed, when 
an immediate opinion is required as to a water. It can only be trusted when the 
examination shows pollution. The following results will be obtained, for instance, 
when a minute quantity of urine is added to a gallon of water. 

(1) The water has a faint odour. 

(2) Its colour is greenish yellow in bulk. 

(3) On adding a few drops of Nessler's solution, a deep yellow colour 

appears. 

(4) A few drops of an acid solution of permanganate of potassium become 

yellow when added to it. 

(5) Acidify some of the water in a test-tube with nitric acid, then add silver 

nitrate solution. Distinct cloudiness is produced, much greater than 
with pure tap water. 

(6) Addition of hydrochloric acid and barium chloride solution, shows a much 

greater quantity of sulphates than the same quantity of tap water.- 

(7) A quantity of the water evaporated in a porcelain dish over a Bunsen's 

flame gives a white residue, which speedily turns brown, with a 
urinous odour. 

(8) Ignite the ash and add some nitric acid to oxidise it more completely. 

Then dissolve in distilled water, and add acid molybdate solution. A 
yellow colour, followed by a precipitate, indicates high phosphates and 
sewage pollution. 

The Complete Systematic Examination is (a) physical, (b) bacteriological, 
and (c) chemical. Of the physical tests, colour, which should never be yellow 
or brown except for peaty water, is important. Taste is a somewhat uncertain 
guide, but any badly-tasting water should be rejected. The odour on heating 
to 80 F. in a closed flask may indicate pollution. The degree of hardness can 
be roughly tested by rubbing between the hands. The absence of turbidity is 
most important, as suspended impurities are more dangerous than all others. 
Printed matter should be legible through a column of 18 inches of water. 

Microscopally the suspended matter in water which has been allowed to 
settle should be examined. Particles of vegetable matter, e.g. fibres of cotton, 
linen, cells of potato, or spiral cells of cabbage, are important as indicating 
domestic impurities. Bits of wool, hair, wings and legs of insects and epithelium 
may be discovered. The presence of algas, diatoms and desmids, or of water- 
fleas, cannot be held to indicate pollution, as these are found in all running streams 
and in many wells. The eggs and embryos of worms are much more serious. 

Bacteria are almost invariably present in water. The majority of these 
micro-organisms are harmless. But as they may number among them the germs 
producing diseases like enteric fever and cholera, the estimation of their number 
and particularly of any deviation from the number usually present in a given 
water, and if possible the detection of special disease-producing bacteria, are 
very important. This method has been made more practicable since Koch's 
method of "plate cultivation" of bacteria was discovered. A small quantity 
of the water to be examined (kept surrounded by ice until this test is applied, 
to prevent multiplication of bacteria in the bottle), is mixed with sterilised 
gelatine which has been melted over a water bath. Then the mixture is 
spread in a thin layer on a glass plate and allowed to solidify, having been 
covered to prevent atmospheric germs from settling on the gelatine. The 
bacteria in the water thus become fixed, each growing and forming " colonies " 
dotted over the plate. These colonies can be recognised by their size and 
appearance, and by sub-culturing according to recognised methods. The 



ANALYSIS OF WATER. 85 

number of such colonies, and the number of bacteria, from which, pre- 
sumably, such colonies sprang in i c.c. of filtered Thames water is usually 
much below 100 ; in the water before filtration many thousands are present. 
It has been suggested that no water should be regarded as wholesome which 
contains more than 100 bacteria in each c.c. 

This standard is, however, obviously arbitrary. Chalk water ought to 
have a smaller number than this ; river waters may have more, and yet be 
wholesome. Everything depends on the character of the bacteria found. The 
detection of the Bacillus coli communis, which is present in sewage, and normally 
in the human intestine, is very suggestive of contamination by sewage. The 
bacteriological method of examination of water is still in its infancy. 



CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. 

(1) The total solids are ascertained by evaporating a given quantity of 
the water to dryness, and weighing. 

(2) Determination of Chlorine (see page 81). 

(3) Determination of Hardness (see page 80). 

(4) The Determination of Nitrites is based on the reddish-brown 
colouration produced when an acid solution of metaphenylene diamine is 
brought into contact with a weak solution of nitrous acid '100 c.c. of the water 
under examination are placed in a clean glass cylinder. Add i c.c. of H 2 SO 4 
solution (i in 3), then i c.c. of metaphenylene diamine solution (5 grains in 
i litre of water with a little H 2 SO 4 added). Stir well with a glass rod. If a 
colouration is produced at once, a smaller quantity of water must be taken, and 
made up to 100 c.c. with pure distilled water. The quantity of nitrous acid 
present is measured by introducing different fractions of a c.c. of the standard 
sodium nitrate solution* into similar glass cylinders. Each is then made 
up to 100 c.c. with distilled water, and the metaphenylene diamine solution 
and acid added as before. The colour develops slowly ; time must, therefore, 
be allowed in matching. 

(5) The Determination of Nitrates can be conveniently made by the 
following method. When phenyl-hydrogen sulphate solution is poured upon 
a nitrate, and sulphuric acid is formed, picric acid is formed: 

(C 6 H 5 )HS0 4 + 3 HNO 3 = C 6 H 2 (NO. 2 ) 3 OH + H 2 SO 4 + 2 H 2 O. 

The addition of free ammonia in excess forms yellow ammonium picrate, 
the intensity of the colour of which is an index of the picrate, and of the 
nitrate from which it was produced, (a) Evaporate 25 c.c. of the water under 
examination, and (b) 5 c.c. of standard KNO 3 solution (containing i part N 
in 100,000) to dryness in two porcelain dishes over the water bath. Add 
i c.c. of phenyl-sulphate solution to each of these as soon as cool, stir well 
with a glass rod, then add i c.c. distilled water to each dish and 3 drops of 
strong H 2 SO 4 . Next add 25 c.c. of water to each dish, and after heating for 
five minutes over the water bath, add solution of ammonia to each dish in 
excess. A yellow colour is produced in proportion to the amount of nitrate 
present. Transfer the liquids to glass cylinders, and dilute each to 100 c.c. 
Take 50 c.c. of the solution showing the least colour, and dilute the other with 
distilled water, until it has the same tint. 

Supposing the 100 c.c. of the sample required to be diluted to 150 c.c. 

Then the amount of N will be ^ x 1- = -3 parts per 100,000. 

100 25 

If the two solutions (a) and (b) when diluted have the same tint, then the 
Amount of N in the sample = JL = -2 parts per 100,000. 

(6) Determination of Organic Matter. Frankland's combustion 
process involves the use of delicate and costly apparatus, and is seldom 

* Freshly made; of which i c.c. = -ooooi grm. of N 2 O 3 



86 HYGIENE. 

employed. In this process the organic carbon is evolved as carbonic acid, 
and the nitrogen as such. 

Wanklyn's ammonia process is based on the reduction of organic 
matter to ammonia. Part of this ammonia, free or saline ammonia, is 
simply combined with carbonic, nitric, or other acids, or is easily derived 
from the urea of urine, CH 4 N 2 O + 2H 2 O = 2(NH 4 ) 2 CO 3 . Another part is only 
set free when the water is boiled with a strongly alkaline solution of permanganate 
of potassium. This is called the albuminoid ammonia. 

In carrying out this method, a retort is taken, and after having been washed 
out, first with a little sulphuric acid, and then with some of the water to be 
analysed, 500 c.c. of the latter is put in, and the retort is connected with a 
condenser, and distillation begun ; 50 c.c. of the distilled water is collected in 
a cylindrical glass tube called a Nessler glass. To this i$ c.c. of Nessler's 
reagent (mercuric iodide dissolved in a solution of potassic iodide and made 
alkaline by potass) are added. A rich brown colour is produced, if any 
ammonia is present in the distillate. The amount of ammonia in the distillate 
is determined by exactly imitating its colour by adding a known quantity of 
a standard solution of ammonium-chloride to 50 c.c. of ammonia free distilled 
water, and then Nesslerising as before. Each c.c. of the dilute standard 
ammonium chloride solution is equivalent to -00001 gramme of ammonia (NH 3 ). 

If the first 50 c.c. of water distilled over gives only a slight colouration with 
the Nessler solution, no more water needs to be distilled over for free ammonia. 
If more is present, two more 50 c.c.'s must be distilled over, and the amounts 
of the standard solution required for imitating the test in each Nesslerised 
50 c.c. added together. Thus, if 2 c.c. were needed. This 

= -00002 grm. NH 3 , which is contained in 500 c.c. of the water 
= -00002 x 200 = -004 parts saline NH 3 in 100,000 of water. 

The free ammonia having been distilled over, 50 c.c. of an alkaline 
permanganate solution (containing 8 grammes KMnO 4 and 200 grammes of NaOH 
in iioo c.c. of distilled water, boiled until the bulk is reduced to 1,000 c.c.) is 
poured into the retort, and distillation is begun again. Three successive 50 c.c.'s 
of water are collected, and then the distillation stopped. Each of these is 
Nesslerised, and the tint imitated as before with standard ammonia solution. 
The three amounts of ammonia thus found to be present are added together ; 
and when multiplied by 200, we obtain the amount of albuminoid ammonia in 
100,000 parts of water. This test is universally employed by water analysts" 
along with the next test. 

The amount of Oxygen Absorbed from permanganate of potassium is 
regarded as an approximate test of the amount of organic matter in water. 
Qualitatively this forms a favourite method of testing the purity of water. Two 
glass cylinders are taken, one filled with distilled water, one with the water to 
be tested. To each is added a given small amount of an acid solution of 
permanganate of potassium. The distilled water to which permanganate has 
been added will retain its pink colour ; while, if the water being tested is very 
impure, it will speedily become decolourised. The rapidity and degree of 
decolourisation are a rough test of the amount of impurity. A rapid decolourisa- 
tion proves the presence of organic matter having an animal origin, or of 
sulphuretted hydrogen, iron, or nitrites. Sulphuretted hydrogen is rarely 
present, and can be easily recognised by its smell ; iron or nitrites are readily 
distinguished by their appropriate tests. In the absence of these, the rapid 
discolouration is an indication of animal contamination. 

To Determine the Amount of Oxygen Absorbed, two glass-stoppered 
bottles, each holding about 350 c.c. are required. Into one, 250 c.c. distilled 
water, and into the other the same amount of the water under examination 
are placed. To each are then added 10 c.c. of standard permanganate of 
potassium solution* and 10 c.c. of a standard pure 25 per cent sulphuric acid 
solution. The two bottles, after being shaken, are placed in a water-bath at 

* Made by dissolving -395 grm. of KMnO4 in 1,000 c.c. of water. Each c.c. of this solution =- 
oooi grm. of oxygen available for oxidation. 






INTERPRETATION OF ANALYSES. 87 

27C for four hours. At the end of this time add a few drops of potassium 
iodide solution to each bottle. The pink is now replaced by a yellow colour.* 
A standard thiosulphate solution (Na 2 S 2 O 3> 5H 2 O)f is placed in a burette. 
From this the thiosulphate solution is run into the control bottle until the yellow 
colour almost disappears. Now a few drops of starch solution are added, and a 
blue colour is produced. The thiosulphate is then added cautiously until all 
the blue colour disappears. The amount of thiosulphate necessary for this is 
read off on the burette. The same process is repeated with the bottle containing 
the sample of water. The starch acts as an indicator. The amount of iodine 
liberated is an index of the amount of permanganate in the water, which has 
not been used up by its impurities. The amount of iodine liberated is measured 
by the amount of thiosulphate required to decolourise the solution. Thus 

2 Na 2 S 2 O 3 + I 2 = 2 Nal + Na 2 S 4 O 6 . 

Suppose that 20 c.c. of thiosulphate solution were required to decolourise 
the iodine liberated in 250 c.c. of a sample of water, while the distilled water 
required 25 c.c. Then 25 c.c. thiosulphate represents 10 c.c. of the permanga- 
nate solution = - ooi grains of available oxygen. 

25 - 20 = 5 
As 25 c.c. = - ooi grm. O, 5 c.c. = of -ooi = -0002 grm. 

This is the amount of O absorbed by 250 c.c. of the sample. 
Therefore ,, ,, ,, 100,000 ,, = -08 grm. 

It is usual to make a similar determination of the amount of oxygen 
absorbed in fifteen minutes. 

The Interpretation of Results of analysis is more difficult 
than the analysis. A single analysis may be misleading, unless the 
source of the water is known. Constancy in composition or analysis 
is almost as important a criterion of purity as the actual character 
of the constituents. A knowledge of the source is essential in 
interpreting results of analysis, as the chemical composition of water 
varies with its source. The following rules are only approximately 
correct, and are subject to the above general considerations. The 
total dissolved solids in river- water are usually 10 to 30 parts in 
100,000. Shallow well-water may contain from 30 to 200 parts or 
even more, and deep well-water from 20 to 70 parts. 

Saline Ammonia in water is commonly of animal origin, 
ammonia (NH 3 ) being one of the first products of decomposition 
of nitrogenous animal refuse. Upland surface water usually 
contains about "002 parts per 100,000, but it may reach -008 
or more if the land over which the water passes has been 
manured. Shallow well-water may be free from ammonia, or this 
may be very excessive in amount. Deep well-water may contain no 
ammonia or any amount up to -i per 100,000. Its presence is 
suspicious if the albuminoid ammonia is above a trace, or if the 
oxygen absorbed is appreciable in amount. Generally water is 
suspicious if saline ammonia is up to *oi per 100,000. Albuminoid 
A mmonia indicates the amount of organic nitrogenous matter present 
in the water. It should not exceed -005 parts per 100,000, while at 
the same time the saline ammonia should not usually exceed -01 per 

* Caused by the liberation of iodine. Thus 

K 2 Mn 2 8 + 8 H 2 S0 4 + 10 KI = 6 KaSO 4 + 2 MnSO 4 + 8 H 2 O + 5 I* 
t Of the strength of i grm. of crystalline sodium thiosulphate to i litre of water. 



88 



HYGIENE. 



100,000. For Oxygen consumed the following table of the weight of 
oxygen required for 100,000 parts of water is given by Clowes and 
Coleman : 



Water of 
Great purity 
Medium puritv 
Doubtful purity 
Impure 


UPLAND SURFACE WATER. 


WATER FROM OTHER 
SOURCES. 


Not exceeding -i 
From -i to -3 
From -3 to -4 
Exceeding -4 


Not exceeding -05 
From -05 to -15 
From -15 to -20 
Exceeding -20 



The presence of more than i and still more so of 2 grains of 
Chlorine per 100,000 of water is most suspicious, except in saline 
districts. Nitrites if present in an appreciable quantity indicate 
comparatively recent contamination by sewage. In deep well- 
water they may be produced by deoxidation of nitrates. Nitrates in 
upland surface waters should not be equivalent to more than -03 of 
N. per 100,000 ; in shallow well-waters the amount varies greatly ; 
in deep well-waters it may be excessive. As a rule it ought not to 
be equivalent to more than 5 parts of N. per 100,000 of water ; but 
the significance of nitrates depends greatly on the source of the 
water and on the amount of the other constituents present. 

Chemical analysis alone cannot ascertain the safety of a given 
drinking water. A minute amount of impurity inappreciable to 
analysis may be competent to produce disease ; while another water 
may be drunk with impunity, which contains considerable organic 
matter. Chemical analysis " can tell us of impurity and hazard, 
but not of purity or safety " (Buchanan). An accurate opinion as 
to the character of a drinking water can only be expressed when one 
knows the amount of each chief constituent (as above), and whether 
these amounts deviate from the same water at other times or from 
other waters in the vicinity. 



( 8 9 ) 



CHAPTER XII. 

ORIGIN AND EFFECTS OF THE IMPURITIES OF 

WATER. 

Origin of Impurities of Water. Parkes classifies im- 
purities of water as : 

1. Those Received at the Source. The character of water 
varies with the geological structures through which it has passed ;. 
with its origin from the subsoil or cultivated land, or deep wells, or 
graveyards, or near the sea, etc. It is a mistaken policy to 
commence with an impure water and proceed to purify it ; though 
communities supplied from rivers may be compelled to submit to 
this. They must then insist on the most stringent measures of 
purification (see p. 96). Inorganic impurities are of much smaller 
consequence as regards health than organic ; hence the great 
advantage of deep well-water over river water. It has been 
suggested, however, that when deep well-water becomes polluted, 
it is more dangerous than equally polluted river-water, because in 
the latter the normal bacteria of water are more abundant, and 
possibly interfere with the continued life in water of disease pro- 
ducing bacteria. This statement is unproved ; and if correct, is 
rather an indication for further precautions being taken to prevent 
access of pollution to deep wells, than in favour of the continued use 
of river -water. 

2. Impurities of Transit from Source to Reservoir, 
acquired during the flow in rivers, canals, or other conduits. These 
impurities have been broadly divided by the Rivers Pollution 
Commissioners into " sewage " and ft manufacturing ; " the 
former including the solid and liquid excreta, the house and waste 
water, etc. ; the latter including the .refuse from manufacturing 
processes, as from dye and bleaching works, tanneries, etc. 

3. Impurities of Storage, whether in wells, reservoirs, or 
cisterns. Organic impurities are commonly received at this stage. 
A well, for instance, drains the soil around it in the shape of an 
inverted cone, with a very broad base, unless the entrance of water 
from its sides is prevented. 

4. Impurities of Distribution. Lead, and occasionally other 
metals, are dissolved by certain waters. If the pipes are left empty,, 
as with an intermittent supply, sewage may be drawn into them ; in 
a few cases coal-gas has found its way into the water pipes 
(page 76). 

Effects of Impure Water. i. Effects of Mineral 



go HYGIENE. 

Impurities. Suspended Mineral matters in unfiltered water occa- 
sionally produce diarrhoea. The hill diarrhoea of some parts of 
India has been traced to water containing fine mica particles in 
suspension. 

Hard water is said by some to be hurtful, but the salts 
causing hardness are probably innocuous when not amounting to 
more than 12 or 16 grains per gallon. Persons in the habit of 
drinking hard water find soft water unpalatable. Hard water has 
been thought to favour gout and calculus (stone), but this is not so. 
The salts producing permanent hardness are said to be injurious, 
producing indigestion, but this is doubtful in the amounts ordinarily 
drunk. 

Goitre, a swelling of the thyroid gland in the neck, is often 
associated with the use of drinking water from magnesian lime- 
stone formations ; but that any kind of excessively hard water causes 
goitre is very doubtful. 

Lead dissolved in water may produce serious and lasting 
ailments, and they are often present for a long time before their 
cause is detected. The amount of lead capable of producing 
poisonous symptoms has been as little as T ^ grain per gallon of 
water (Dr. Angus Smith). According to De Chaumont, ^ grain per 
gallon, that is i part in 700,000 is usually required to produce such 
symptoms. In the well-known case of the poisoning of Louis 
Phillippe's family at Claremount, there was ^ grain of lead in a 
gallon of water ; and this affected 34 per cent, of those who drank 
it. The symptoms produced by lead poisoning are those of indi- 
gestion, accompanied by colic ; a blue line at the junction of the 
gums with the teeth ; " wrist drop," a paralysis of the muscles of 
the forearm, or some other paralysis ; and if the poisoning is 
continued, attacks of gout, followed by its usual consequences, 
chronic kidney disease. The latter affections chiefly occur when 
the poisoning is continued for a long time, as in the case of painters 
or type-setters : poisoning from water is generally discovered before 
any other than dyspeptic symptoms and colic are produced. 

The presence of traces of iron in water may give it a slightly 
astringent taste ; and such water is liable to cause headache and 
constipation. 

2. Effects of Vegetable Impurities. Living plants are 
unobjectionable, but decomposing vegetable matter may produce 
diarrhoea and other severe symptoms. 

3. Effects of Animal Impurities. Animal impurities of 
water are by far the most important from a sanitary point of view. 
They are most commonly derived from leaky drains or cesspools, or 
from surface accumulations of filth. The quality of the contamina- 
tion is more important than its quantity ; and this will explain why 
water containing a large amount of sewage may be drunk for 
a prolonged period with impunity, while at another time the least 
trace, if it contain the active germs of disease, will lead to serious 
mischief. 

Suspended animal impurities are much more dangerous than 
those completely dissolved. Hence the examination of the colour 



DISEASES FROM IMPURE WATER. 91 

and turbidity of drinking water is very important. Pascal contami- 
nation is by far the most dangerous of all, and chiefly so when it is 
derived from a patient suffering from some communicable disease, 
like enteric fever or cholera. 

Certain Parasites occasionally are swallowed w r ith water in 
the form of embryo or egg. The liver fluke, round worm, and less 
frequently other kinds of entozoa have been introduced in this way. 
The occasional swallowing of small leeches has occasionally given 
rise to haemorrhage. 

Diarrhoea may be caused by animal contamination of water. 
It most often occurs in summer, when all the circumstances are 
favourable to active fermentative changes. The summer diarrhcea 
of infants is caused by similar changes in milk or other foods. The 
presence of foetid gases in water may lead to diarrhoea. This may 
occur when the overflow pipe of a cistern opens into the soil pipe or 
into the trap of the W.C. 

Dysentery, like cholera and enteric fever, may be propagated 
by water contaminated with the stools of a patient suffering from 
the same disease. 

Malaria or Ague has been stated to be caused by the water 
of malarious marshes. The evidence on this point requires revision, 
in view of the part which the mosquito is now known to play in the 
propagation of this disease (pages 282 and 307). 

Enteric (otherwise called Typhoid) fever is most often due to 
the drinking of water contaminated with sewage. 

The balance of evidence is in favour of the view that in order 
to produce enteric fever water must be contaminated with the stools 
or urine of a patient who has suffered from this disease. Numerous 
instances are on record in which villages, the inhabitants of which 
drink sewage-contaminated water, have remained free from enteric 
fever, until a patient suffering from it has come to the village, when 
the spread by water has been very rapid. Occasionally no known 
contamination from a case of enteric fever has preceded the outbreak 
of this disease which has been caused by sewage-contaminated 
water. It must be remembered on this point that the urine of an 
enteric fever patient may occasionally contain large numbers of the 
bacillus causing this disease for several months after the patient is 
well (page 301). 

The contamination of water with sewage may occur in 
various ways. In country places surface wells and small streams 
commonly supply the drinking water, and these are frequently 
contaminated. The illustration (Fig. g) shows the percolation 
of excretory matters from an out-door closet through the porous 
gravel, into a neighbouring well ; the result being an epidemic of 
enteric fever among those who drank the water of the well. 
Alterations in the level of the subsoil water are sometimes followed 
by an outbreak of enteric fever (p. 70). A sudden fall of rain 
occurs, and the excess of water in the soil absorbs the soakings 
from country privies or cesspools, and carries them into the nearest 
well. The percolation of tainted water through a considerable tract 
of land, possibly along fissures, is sometimes insufficient to purify it, 



92 HYGIENE. 

as proved by a remarkable epidemic in the small village of Lausen, 
in Switzerland. 

In other cases sewage gains access into leaky water-pipes. 
Formerly contamination was occasionally due to improper 
connection between the overflow pipe of the cistern and the soil- 
pipe, or to the water-closet being flushed by a pipe directly 
connected with a water-main (as in the Caius College outbreak at 
Cambridge), or connected with the drinking-water cistern (page 76). 

Milk may, by the admixture of water, become contaminated 
with enteric matter, and produce widespread epidemics. Where the 
water is very impure, the small amount used in washing cans may 
suffice to cause infection. 

Cholera was first proved by Dr. Snow, in 1849, to be due to the 
specific contagium of cholera gaining an entrance into drinking 
water. This contagium is derived as in enteric fever from the 
intestinal evacuations, the urine, and the vomit of patients suffering 
from the same disease. 




FIG. 9. 

The close connection of the spread of cholera with an impure 
water supply has been repeatedly shown in this country. The 
cholera epidemic of 1854 was verv severe in the southern districts 
of London. At that period these districts were supplied with 
water by the Southwark and Vauxhall Company, deriving its water 
from the Thames at Battersea, and by the Lambeth Company, 
having its intake at Thames Ditton, where the water was purer. 
The two companies were acting in rivalry, so that in many streets 
their mains ran side by side ; and houses in the same street similar 
in all other respects, received a different water supply.^An 
investigation of the distribution of cholera in these districts gave 
the following results : 



Houses supplied by Southwark Co. 
Lambeth Co. 



CHOLERA CHOLERA DEATHS 

POPULATION DEATHS IN PER IO.OOO OF 

IN 1851. 14 WEEKS. POPULATION. 

266,516 4,093 I 53 

1 73. 748 461 26 



EFFECTS OF AN INSUFFICIENT WATER SUPPLY. 93 

The facts, when examined in detail, brought out still more 
strikingly the exemption of the houses supplied by the Lambeth 
Company ; the infection picking out in a given street the houses 
supplied by the Southwark Company. The great epidemic of 
cholera at Hamburg in 1892 proves the same point. Hamburg, 
Wandsbeck and Altona are three towns adjoining each other, and 
really forming one large community ; but while Hamburg suffered 
terribly, the two other towns had no cases of cholera, except the 
few that were brought into them. In all respects except water- 
supply the conditions were alike ; but Wandsbeck obtained filtered 
water from a lake, Altona obtained filtered water from the Elbe 
below the town, while Hamburg was supplied, previous to the 
epidemic, by unfiltered water from the Elbe just above the town. 

Diphtheria and scarlet fever have never been traced to 
polluted water. 

Effects of an Insufficient Supply of Water. The 
influence on personal health is most baneful. Water is used 
sparingly for purposes of cleanliness, with the necessary results that 
cutaneous diseases become more common, and the whole body 
suffers ; the linen is imperfectly and infrequently washed ; the 
house becomes dirty ; drains are imperfectly flushed ; the streets 
are not cleaned ; and the whole atmosphere becomes loaded 
with impurities. According to Parkes, it is probable that the 
almost complete disappearance of typhus fever from civilized and 
cleanly nations, is not merely owing to better ventilation, but also 
to more frequent and thorough washing of clothes. 

Insufficient cleansing of the surfaces of streets and of sewers, 
owing to a deficient supply of water, has a very important influence 
on the spread of enteric fever and epidemic diarrhoea. A heavy fall 
of rain often causes a rapid diminution in the prevalence of the 
latter disease. 



( 94 ) 



CHAPTER XIII. 
THE PURIFICATION OF WATER. 

WHEN a public water-supply is provided, it may reasonably be 
expected to be furnished pure and fit for use ; but this, occasionally 
is not so. The reports, for instance, of the condition of the London 
Water Supply, occasionally show that it is turbid and contains a 
slight excess of organic matter. This is especially the case when, 
after heavy rainfall, storm-water is brought into the reservoirs, and 
owing to deficient storage, sufficient time is not allowed for deposit. 
Rain-water always and other waters frequently require to be purified 
before use. 

Methods of Purification. The only certain way of 
obtaining pure water is by Distillation ; but this plan is scarcely 
applicable to water on a large scale. Furthermore distilled water 
is not so palatable as ordinary water. The distillation of water is 
more especially required on board ship, during long voyages. It 
should be followed by the use of some measure to secure efficient 
aeration. 

2. Boiling water serves to remove the temporary hardness, 
and the chalk carries down with it a large proportion of any organic 
matter that may be present. Boiling deprives the water of its 
dissolved gases, and renders it flat ; it is desirable, therefore, to aerate 
it by filtration or from a gazogene after boiling. All the microbes 
which are known to produce disease are destroyed by efficient boiling. 
Certain putrefactive microbes are more persistent of life, owing to 
the fact that they form spores, which are not killed at the 
temperature of boiling water. Tyndall showed that by boiling the 
liquid containing these spore-forming microbes on three successive 
days, thus giving time for the spores to deve)op into less 
resistant microbes, they could be effectually destroyed. Boiled 
water will not cause enteric fever or cholera, the two chief water- 
borne diseases. 

3. The exposure of water in divided currents to the air by 
passing it through a sieve has been proposed as a means of 
purifying water, but it is inefficient when trusted to alone. Plants 
in reservoirs help to absorb organic matter ; and fish, by destroying 
small crustaceans, have been found useful. Hard waters do not 
bear exposure to light, as a thick green growth of chara occurs, 
which may block pipes, and give a bitter taste to the water. 

4. The Addition of Chemical Substances. (i) Clarke's 






CHEMICAL PURIFICATION OF WATER. 95 

process consists in adding milk of lime, i.e. an emulsion of quick- 
lime with water, to the water in the reservoir on a large scale. By 
this means calcium carbonate is precipitated, but no effect is 
produced on calcium and magnesium sulphates and chlorides. The 
hardness of the Thames water can thus be reduced from 16 to 3 
or 4 (Clarke's scale). The calcium carbonate carries down with it 
suspended and possibly dissolved organic matter. In the Porter- 
Clarke process lime-water, i.e. milk of lime diluted, and the excess of 
lime separated by settlement or nitration, is mixed with the water to 
be purified, the water being freed from the precipitated calcium 
carbonate either by subsidence or by being forced through a filter 
of stretched canvas. 

(2) Carbonate of Soda added to boiling water throws down 
calcium carbonate, and possibly lead if present. Much less is 
required when added to boiling than to cold water. Maignen's 
process consists in adding anti-calcaire powder, containing chiefly 
carbonate of soda, lime, and alum. 

(3) Aluminous salts are very effectual in removing suspended 
organic matter, if the water contains calcium carbonate. On the 
addition of alum, calcium sulphate and aluminium hydrate are 
formed, both of which fall to the bottom, carrying with them other 
impurities. The amount of alum required is about 6 grains per 
gallon of water. If the water is not hard, a little calcium chloride 
and carbonate of soda should be put in before the alum is added, 
in order that a precipitable substance may be formed. 

(4) Potassium permanganate readily removes the offensive smell 
of stagnant water, but it gives a yellow tint to the water. The 
addition of a little alum will help to carry down the decomposed 
permanganate. 

(5) Pevchloride of Iron, in the proportion of 2-| grains to a 
gallon of water, has been found to completely purify water from 
finely suspended organic matters and clay. 

(6) More recently, other substances, such as iodine and hypo- 
sulphite of soda, have been recommended. These are supposed to 
act by sterilizing the water, and iodine in suitable quantities 
undoubtedly effects this. 

Chemical processes for the purification of water, with the 
exception of the softening process, are not to be recommended for 
general use. Efficient filtration, or boiling, is safer than chemical 
treatment ; and it would only be justifiable to trust to the latter, 
when, as in a military campaign, an attempt at purification was 
necessary, and no means were available for filtering or boiling 
water. 

7. Filtration. The object of filtration is . to remove the 
impurities of water. The most dangerous impurities are suspended 
in it, especially the microbes causing infectious diseases. Hence 
the most perfect filter is the one which most completely prevents 
the passage through it of microbes. If the water supply is pure, 
domestic filtration is not only useless, but likely to do more harm 
than good. This is true for such upland surface waters as those 
supplied to Liverpool, Glasgow, and Manchester; for such deep 



96 HYGIENE. 

well-water supplies as those of Brighton (deep chalk), of Notting- 
ham (new red sandstone), and others, when pumped from wells 
remote from inhabited houses. For upland surface waters known 
to attack lead pipes, nitration through charcoal or spongy iron may 
be advisable ; for river water, filtration through a germ-proof filter 
is best. 

Filtration on a large scale is generally carried on as follows : 
A preliminary step consists in collecting the water into settling 
reservoirs, wherein the more bulky substances subside. The water 
is then filtered through beds of gravel and sand, containing 
perforated tubular drains below, into which the filtered water flows. 
The drains are covered by a bed of gravel about 3 feet deep, over 
which is spread a layer of sand about i^ to 2 feet deep. Sharp 
angular particles of sand are the best ; and the gravel should 
gradually increase in its coarseness as it descends. 

The effect of this filtration is chiefly mechanical ; it separates any 
suspended matter, whether organic or inorganic. A certain amount of 
biological action possibly also takes place. Piefke found that a perfectly 
cleaned and sterilised filter when first used, increases the microbes 
in water, instead of decreasing them. Gradually a gelatinous 
layer of slimy matter is formed on the top of the sand ; the 
water now filters through much more slowly, but it gradually 
becomes freer from microbes, these being intercepted by the slimy 
layer. It is important that this layer should not be disturbed by 
too rapid or forced filtration, and that when the surface layer 
requires to be removed, because the filter has become impervious, 
time should be allowed for another thin film to form before the 
filtered water is again utilised. Koch concluded that the rapidity 
of filtration should never be allowed to exceed 100 millimetres 
(about 4 inches) per hour ; and that the number of microbes per 
c.c. in the filtered water should never exceed 100. Some oxida- 
tion of organic matter, as well as detention of microbes, may take place 
during the filtration of water, nitrates being formed by the vital 
activity of certain " nitrifying microbes in the filter. (On nitrifica- 
tion, see pages 195 and 274.) P. Frankland's observations show 
that the number of microbes in Thames water is reduced by filtra- 
tion through sand and gravel beds, as practised by the London 
Water Companies, so that only 3-4 per cent, of those originally 
present remained. He also concludes that the majority of the 
microbes present in filtered water are derived from post -filtration 
sources. Thus the number is greater in tap-water than in water 
derived from near the reservoirs. 

Other materials besides sand have been used for filtration on a 
large scale, but none with proved success. 

Domestic Filtration ought, as already explained, not to be 
needed, but circumstances often arise in which the public supply is 
open to suspicion, and a second domestic line of defence against 
infection through the water supply is desirable. When this is so, 
the form of filter which will best protect the household is one 
attached to the house-tap, so that all drinking-water is perforce 
filtered. When filtering involves the transfer of water from the 



FILTRATION OF WATER. 



97 



tap to the interior of the filter, opportunity is left for carelessness or 
f or getf ulness. The one essential point of a domestic filter is that 
it will prevent the passage through it of microbes. Every filter 
rmist be tested from this standpoint. 

On this point the experiments of Woodhead and Cartwright 
Wood are conclusive. They first of all experimented on various 
filters with fine artificial ultramarine containing particles i6/x to 
O'6 p or even less in diameter in suspension ; and milk containing 
granules and globules of fat 0*5 /x to 30 ^ or more in diameter, 
freely diluted. with water. 





TIME IN MINUTES 
REQUIRED FOR 


PRESENCE OR 
ABSENCE OF 


PRESENCE OR 
O 




FILTRATION OF I 


ULTRAMARINE IN 






PINT OF WATER. 


FILTRATE. 




Silicated carbon filter 


68 


+ + 


+ + + 


Carbon filter 


18 


+ 


+ + + 


Maignen's Filtre Rapide . . 


4 


o 


+ + 


Spongy iron filter 


14 





+ + + 


Pasteur -Chamber I and filter 


420 








Berkefeld filter 


140 









The number -f indicates the relative amount of the experimental 
substances that made their way through the filtering medium. 

Experiments were then made with the actual microbes of 
certain infectious diseases, and it was found that certain filters allow 
these to pass. Thus a silicated carbon filter allowed 1,000 out of 
15,000 typhoid bacilli suspended in water to pass through its 
substance ; a manganous carbon filter allowed 600 to 800 out of 
10,000 cholera vibrios to pass through ; Maignen's filter on the 
second day of experiment allowed 150 out of 5,000 cholera vibrios 
to pass through ; Lipscombe's charcoal filter experimentally only 
reduced typhoid bacilli from 20,000 to 5,000 ; the magnetic carbide 
filter only reduced them from 20,000 to 10,000 ; the spongy iron 
filter from 20,000 to 3,000 ; while, on the contrary, the Pasteur - 
Chamberland and the Berkefeld filter completely stopped all 
microbes and produced a sterile water. (As to these two, see 
page 98.) 

Of the materials enumerated animal charcoal was formerly 
regarded as an excellent filtering medium. It is capable of 
oxidising organic matter dissolved in water, but so far from 
sterilizing water, it favours the growth of microbes in it. Water 
filtered through charcoal, after the first few days of use of the 
charcoal, deteriorates, as the charcoal yields up impurities to it. 

Manganous Carbon consists of animal charcoal and black 
oxide of manganese mixed with oil, and heated strongly together 
out of contact with the air. The oxidising power of the carbon is 
said to be thus greatly increased. It shares the objections to 
carbon. 

Silicated Carbon consists of 75 per cent, of charcoal" and 
22 per cent, of silica, with a little oxide of iron and alumina. 
It is not an efficient filtering medium. 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 8 



9 8 



HYGIENE. 



Spongy iron is prepared by the reduction of haematite ore with 
fusion, so that the iron is obtained in a porous and finely-divided 
condition. The Rivers Pollution Commissioners found spongy iron 

to be " a very active agent, not 
only in removing organic matter 
from water, but also in materially 
reducing its hardness, and other- 
wise; altering its character." It 
is a powerful oxidising agent, some 
of the water being decomposed, 
and hydrogen set free, and the 
oxygen acting upon any organic 
matter present. It also removes 
lead from water. As already seen, 
it does not, however, fulfil the 
primary object of water, by de- 
priving it of any microbes con- 
tained in it. 

Magnetic carbide of iron is 
obtained by heating haematite ore 
with sawdust. Its action is 
similar to that of spongy iron. 

The Pasteur-Chamberland 
filter consists of a cylinder of 
unglazed fine porcelain made from 
a well-baked Kaolin of a certain 
degree of porosity and hardness. 
(Fig. 10.) 

The water passes through the 
porcelain from without inwards, 
and with the pressure of i to 
2 atmospheres which is usually 
present in the pipes of a water- 
service, passes through at the rate 
of about three quarts per hour. 
The filter can easily be cleaned by 
brushing it in a stream of hot 
water, or by subjecting to the 
heat of a Bunsen burner. The 
filtration is entirely mechanical, 
the filtered water being quite freed 
of microbes. No chemical action 
takes place. 

The Berkefeld filter is cylin- 

FIG. 10. drical like the Pasteur- Chamber - 

PASTEUR-CHAMBERLAND FILTER. land filter, and is used in the 
A. Outlet of filtered water. B. Pasteur same way. It is made of infusorial 
tube. C. Metal tube containing un- earth, which is soft and friable 
filtered water. D.-Unfiltered water and Hable to break> The cy li n der 
delivered through tap. , j 1 1 A. u 

becomes gradually worn thin by 

cleaning, and it then ceases to filter efficiently. Its sole advantage 




PASTEUR-CHAMBERLAND FILTER. 99 

over the Pasteur-Chamberland filter is the more rapid rate of 
filtration ; and against this is to be set the greater liability to 
fracture and the lack of continuance of efficient filtration. Woodhead 
and Wood in the report already quoted, state : " The Berkefeld 
filter appears to have the largest pores among the efficient filters, 
as is evidenced by the fact that the water organisms were not 
apparently weakened, that more species of organisms appeared in 
its filtrate, and that lowering the temperature to 11 C. did not 
prevent their appearance. The Pasteur-Chamberland filter, on the 
other hand, at II Q C. was able to give an apparently sterile filtrate 
for a prolonged period." More recent experiments have shewn 
that pathogenic (disease-producing) microbes contained in water 
after awhile grow through the substance of a Berkefeld filter, 
and that this does not happen with a Pasteur-Chamberland filter. 
The latter is therefore preferable. 

In determining the number of bougies required for any filter 
to secure a given amount of pure water, it is necessary to 
calculate on the basis of the output after several weeks' use, not 
on the original output. If this is done, pure water will be secured 
without disappointment as to the amount supplied. 



CHAPTER XIV. 
COMPOSITION AND PROPERTIES OF AIR. 

AN abundant supply of fresh air is necessary at all times. 
And yet its importance is commonly ignored in practical life. 
Strenuous efforts are made to ensure a supply of food, and 
water is commonly filtered or otherwise purified before drinking ; 
but many are content to live in an impure atmosphere, which 
hardly suffices for the preservation of life, and certainly not of 
health. Deprivation of food, or even of water, only kills after 
several days or weeks ; deprivation of air kills in a few minutes. 
Only about three pints of water are required daily, while at least 
1,500 gallons of air are necessary every day for carrying on the vital 
functions. 

Composition of Air. The air constitutes a gaseous ocean in 
which we live, as fishes live in water. In virtue of its weight, it 
exerts a pressure of about 15 Ibs. on every square inch. This 
pressure is usually measured by the barometer, and is equivalent on 
an average to that of a column of 30 inches of quicksilver. (See 
page 331). 

Chemically, air consists of a mixture of various gases and 
vapours. These are chiefly Oxygen and Nitrogen ; but in addition, 
there are minute quantities of carbonic acid, argon, hydrogen, waiter 
vapour, ammonia, ozone, and suspended matters. 

The oxygen and nitrogen exist in the proportion by volume of 
20*9 of oxygen to 79- 1 of nitrogen, or of 23-16 grains of oxygen to 
76^84 of nitrogen, by weight. 

These two gases do not exist in chemical combination, but 
mechanically mixed. This is proved by the fact, that they do not 
exist in air in the proportion of their combining weights, or any 
multiple of these ; that the proportion varies slightly at different 
parts ; and that the air which is dissolved in water does not contain 
the nitrogen and oxygen in the proportion 4 to i (as in the atmos- 
phere), but in the proportion 1-87 to i. This means that oxygen, 
being more soluble in water than nitrogen, has dissolved in a larger 
proportion; as it certainly would not have done, had the oxygen 
and nitrogen been chemically combined. The oxygen dissolved in 
water supplies fishes with the necessary oxygen for their respiratory 
processes. Similarly the oxygen in the atmosphere is its most 
essential constituent, being required in all processes of oxidation 
(i.e., combustion), whether in living organisms or in the inanimate 
world. Nitrogen serves as a diluting agent. It is incapable of 



COMPOSITION OF AIR. 101 

supporting life alone ; and many of the fatal accidents which have 
occurred through men descending deep wells without first testing, 
by means of a lit candle held well below them, the quality of the 
air near the bottom, have been due to an accumulation of nitrogen 
in the well. 

Ozone is a condensed form of oxygen, which is present in 
minute quantities in pure air, and especially during a thunder-storm 
or after a fall of snow, and in the air near the sea. In it three 
volumes of oxygen are condensed so as to occupy two volumes. 
In this condensed condition it has powerful chemical affinities ; 
often oxidising substances which oxygen cannot attack. It is 
generally absent from the close air of towns and dwelling houses, 
having been used up to oxidise the organic matter present in these 
places. Air without it is said to be " devitalised " ; and ozone has 
been described as the scavenger of the air. 

Ozone can be produced by hanging a piece of moist phosphorus 
in a room ; and it is stated by Dr. Daubeny, that part of the oxygen 
given out by plants, especially by scented flowering plants, is in the 
condition of ozone. A small quantity is produced when an 
electrical machine is worked ; its presence is evidenced by a 
peculiar smell (the name ozone is derived from the Greek word for 
smell). 

Test of Ozone in Air. Traces of ozone in air are detected by exposing 
strips of blotting paper moistened with a mixture of a solution of potassic iodide 
and starch. If ozone is present, the paper assumes a blue tint, due to the 
liberation of iodine, and its combination with the starch. Other acid gases may, 
however, produce the same effect. A second test should, therefore, be tried. 
Soak red litmus paper with a very dilute solution of potassic iodide, and expose 
as before. Potassic oxide is produced if ozone is present, and this turns the 
litmus blue. 

Aqueous Vapour is always present in air, though the amount 
varies greatly. It is invisible in the ordinary condition, but by 
condensation becomes cloud or fog, rain, snow, or hail. The 
quantity of moisture present varies with the temperature of the 
air ; the higher the temperature, the more water can be vaporised, 
without the point of saturation being reached. An increase of 
27 Fahr. doubles the capacity of air for moisture. The amount of 
moisture that would saturate air at 50 Fahr. only gives 71 per 
cent, of the saturation amount at Fahr. The amount of 
moisture is estimated by the hygrometer (page 240). 

Air saturated with moisture at 32 Fahr., holds vapour equal 
to riir of its weight ; at 59 it holds H V, at 86 &, at 113 ^, and at 



Ammonia in normal air does not exceed one part in a million 
of air ; but it is always present either as free ammonia or as 
sulphate, chloride, carbonate, or sulphide of ammonia. From this 
source, plants derive some of the nitrogen they require as food ; 
some also from the free nitrogen, which is fixed by certain 
microbes, growing in the nodules connected with the roots of peas, 
lentils, and other plants (page 274). 



102 HYGIENE. 

Traces of nitrous and nitric acid are also present in the air, 
produced by the direct combination of nitrogen and oxygen 
occurring as the result of the electric spark during lightning. 

Carbonic Acid or carbon dioxide is always present in air, in 
the proportion of 3*36 to 4 parts in 10,000 ; but in impure air may 
be present in much larger amount. It is a heavy gas, incapable of 
supporting combustion, and therefore of supporting animal life. 
Being a heavy gas, it tends to accumulate where it is produced, as 
about lime-kilns by the heating of chalk. Thus CaCO s (heated) = 

(chalk) 

CaO -f- CO. 2 . Tramps have occasionally died of carbonic acid 

(lime) (carbonic acid) 

poisoning through sleeping near lime-kilns. 

It is produced by the oxidation of carbonaceous matters, hence 
in all ordinary combustion, in many cases of putrefaction and 
fermentation, and in the respiratory processes of all animals. 

Plants diminish the amount of carbonic acid in the atmos- 
phere. Two processes occur in most plants : a process of 
respiration, as in animals ; and a process of assimilation, by which 
the leaves and all other green parts of a plant under the influence of 
sunlight decompose the carbonic acid of the atmosphere, fixing its 
carbon and liberating its oxygen. Plants such as fungi, which are 
destitute of green colouring matter, cannot decompose carbonic acid ; 
nor can any plants during the night. During the day green plants 
are air purifiers ; during the night all plants vitiate the air to a 
slight extent. 

The Air in Relation to Respiration. The oxygen of air 
is absolutely essential for the continuance of life. In every 
organised animal, lungs or analogous organs are provided, in order 
to supply the necessary oxygen to the system, and to remove the 
impure air from it. 

The act of breathing occurs in man about seventeen times per 
minute. While the inspired air is in contact with the interior of the 
lungs, it undergoes important alterations. It comes into contact 
with the five or six millions air-vesicles which form the minute 
dilated terminations of the windpipe, and have an aggregate area of 
ten to twenty square feet. Each of the air-vesicles has extremely 
thin walls ; and outside these delicate walls lie capillary blood- 
vessels, full of impure blood. An active interchange now 
occurs between the air and the gases dissolved in the blood. 
Oxygen passes through the intervening membrane into the blood, 
while carbonic acid and other impurities of the blood pass 
into the air-vesicle. The consequence of this is that the impure 
dark-coloured blood becomes bright scarlet and pure. This 
purification is not confined to any one portion of the blood ; for the 
heart contracting 60 or 70 times per minute, pours successive 
portions of blood into the capillaries surrounding the air-vesicles ; 
while at the same time, pure air is brought into the air-vesicles 
seventeen times per minute, and so the interchange is constantly 
kept up. 

In view of the incessant character of respiration and circulation, 



EXPIRED AIR. 103 

it is clear that all the blood will be purified if the external air is 
pure ; and that if there is any detrimental matter in the air, it 
probably will come into contact with the blood in the lungs. 

The amount of air taken in with each inspiration is about thirty 
cubic inches. This is called the tidal air, as it is constantly ebbing 
and flowing from and to the lungs. By means of a very forced 
inspiration, about 100 cubic inches of additional air can be inspired ; 
and similarly after an ordinary inspiration, one can expire forcibly 
an additional 100 cubic inches, though there will still be left in the 
lungs another 100 cubic inches of air. Thus : 



Tidal air 
Complemental air 
Supplemental air 
Residual air 


30 

100 
100 
100 


cub. in. 


Total capacity of lungs . . 


330 





Corresponding to the respiratory changes in the lungs, there 
are changes in the tissues throughout the body. The pure and 
oxygenated blood leaving the lungs, is carried to all parts of the 
system. Oxidation and allied processes are actively carried on, the 
result of which is the formation of urea, carbonic acid, and smaller 
quantities of other effete matters. These are then carried by the 
blood to the excretory organs, urea being chiefly eliminated by the 
kidneys, and carbonic acid by the lungs. 

Examination of Expired Air shows that i. It is heated; in 
its passage through the nose and deeper respiratory passages it has 
acquired a temperature approaching that of the blood. 

2. Its moisture is increased. By the skin and lungs from 25 to 
40^ ounces of water pass off in the twenty-four hours ; the relative 
amount varies somewhat. 

3. It contains 4 to 5 per cent, less oxygen, and 4 per cent, more 
carbonic acid than inspired air. The carbonic acid, instead of being 
4 parts in 10,000 of air, becomes over 400 in 10,000, while the 
oxygen is diminished in a somewhat larger proportion. Thus : 

OXYGEN. NITROGEN. CARBONIC ACID. 

Inspired air contains . . . . 20-81 , 79" 15 '04 

Expired .. 16-033 79'557 4'3 8 

The amount of carbonic acid expired varies under different 
circumstances. It is increased by active work, by an increase of 
food, by a diminution of the external temperature ; it is greater 
when the surrounding air is pure, and when it is moist ; and it varies 
with the season, being greatest in spring, and* least in autumn. 

Children require more oxygen, and expire more carbonic acid 
than adults, weight for weight. A child six or seven years old 
requires nearly as much oxygen as one twice that age. Boys 
usually require more air than girls, as they are more active and 
exhale a larger amount of carbonic acid and other impurities. 



104 HYGIENE. 

The average amount of carbonic acid eliminated by a healthy 
adult is at least o'6 cubic foot per hour, or 14^4 cubic feet per day. 
This reckoned as carbon. is equivalent to 160 grains per hour, or 
half a pound of carbon in the twenty-four hours. Liebig gives the 
amount of carbonic acid expired as 079 cubic foot per hour, or 
19 cubic feet per day. 

4. It contains organic impurities. These are chiefly gaseous, 
solid particles only being expired during coughing, or possibly 
during conversation. The danger from the " breath " of patients in 
infectious diseases is really associated rather with the dried 
discharges on handkerchiefs, etc., than from the "breath" itself; 
unless droplets of saliva discharged during speaking, or mucus 
during coughing, are directly inhaled. 



CHAPTER XV. 
SUSPENDED IMPURITIES OF AIR. 

PURE air being essential to life and health, it is important to 
ascertain the character and origin of the impurities of air. 
Innumerable substances in the condition of gases, vapours, or 
solid particles constantly pass into it, and deteriorate its quality. 
To counteract this, certain purifying agencies are at work, the 
mechanism of which will be considered hereafter. 

Impurities are much commoner and more abundant in the air 
of enclosed spaces than in the external air, as the natural processes 
of purification cannot be brought to bear so efficiently in the former 
case. In sick rooms, hospitals, etc., impurities arise, which are 
not present where only healthy people are collected. The most 
important impurities are derived from the respiration of animals, 
and the combustion of gases, candles, or lamps in rooms, from 
sewage emanations, from various occupations, and the air of 
marshes, mines, church-yards, etc. These may be classed under 
two heads solid and gaseous ; the solid being simply suspended in 
the air in a finely divided condition, or floated about in a coarser 
condition by currents of air. They are revealed in an atmosphere 
in which one did not previously suspect their existence, by the 
passage of a beam of sunlight. Light itself is invisible, but its 
course is rendered visible by the particles from which its rays are 
reflected. Tyndall demonstrated the presence of minute particulate 
matter in the air of all ordinary situations, and showed that a large 
proportion of this matter consists of germs (microbes). In his 
experiments with vapours in closed tubes, floating matter was 
always revealed by a concentrated beam of light, even though the 
air entering the tube had been first drawn through sulphuric acid 
and through a strong solution of caustic potash. If this air was 
then passed through a red-hot platinum tube and across folds of red- 
hot platinum gauze, it became optically empty ; the floating matter 
had been burnt, and disappeared. It was therefore organic. In 
subsequent experiments, he took organic solutions, as of meat, 
turnip, and the like, and rendered them sterile by repeated boiling. 
They remained sterile when kept in air-tight vessels or in vessels 
covered with a thick layer of cotton-wool, which would efficiently 
filter any entering air ; but when exposed to the air, they invariably 
became turbid, owing to an enormous multiplication of germs. 
Clearly, therefore, air contains organic, matter, and much of this 
organic matter consists of living germs. Most of these germs are 
comparatively harmless under ordinary conditions. They are, 



io6 HYGIENE. 

however, the causes of fermentation, putrefaction, and all the 
processes of decomposition which occur in organic substances. 
The importance of the exclusion of the dust of air has received an 
important application in Lister's antiseptic and in the aseptic system of 
treatment of wounds. Formerly accidents and operations were 
frequently fatal ; now vast numbers of lives are saved by improved 
surgical methods. The original antiseptic method acted on the 
supposition that some germicidal application to the wounds was 
necessary ; now it is realized that if, during the operation, germs 
are not allowed to remain in the wound, all that is afterwards 
necessary to insure rapid recovery is that they shall be prevented 
from entering the wound from the external air during its process of 
recovery. By the adoption of such means, large wounds can be 
made to heal, without the formation of a drop of " pus " or 
" matter." (See also page no.) 

Suspended Matters are mineral or organic, the two being 
commonly associated together. The mineral matters consist largely 
of fine particles of common salt, silica, clay, iron rust, dried mud, 
chalk, coal, soot, and similar substances. Not uncommonly the 
mineral particles are coated by, or mixed with, organic matter, the 
comparative lightness of the organic matter enabling the mineral 
matter to float about more easily. The objection to dust is 'thus 
intensified, for not only is it irritating to the respiratory passages 
and generally disagreeable, but it carries with it putrescent and 
possibly morbific particles. The prevention of infectious diseases 
resolves itself largely into means for preventing the inhalation of 
dust. 

Organic Suspended Matters in the open air are, most 
commonly, minute fragments of wood and straw, dried horse litter, 
fragments of insects, the spores and pollen of plants, and microscopic 
plants and animals. In addition, there is the putrescent organic 
matter resulting from respiration and other organic functions. 

Indoors, the air commonly contains, in addition, fragments of 
cotton, linen, silk, or other fibres, fragments of vegetables, starch 
cells, soot, charred wood, splinters from floors, etc. 

In Sick Rooms, products of the morbid conditions may be 
evolved ; thus, pus-cells, particles from the expectoration, blood 
cells, fat particles, epithelium, or the special germs or microbes to 
which infectious diseases are due. These are disturbed by the 
movements of persons, causing the dust to rise ; and thus the 
infection of consumption, and of the acute infectious diseases, is 
frequently spread. 

Flies and other winged insects are important auxiliaries in the 
diffusion of disease-carrying particles. Receiving some morbid 
secretions on their limbs, or other parts of their bodies, they have 
occasionally been the means of spreading erysipelas in hospitals, 
and glanders in veterinary stables. The specific contagia of 
cholera, enteric fever, and summer diarrhoea are occasionally 
conveyed to food by flies which have previously alighted on latrines 
or privies or other places where the stools of such patients have 
been deposited (page 281). The excreta of flies, which are not 



DUSTY OCCUPATIONS. 107 

uncommonly deposited on food, or on articles of furniture, have 
occasionally being found to contain the minute ova of intestinal 
worms. 

Effects of Suspended Matters. The inhalation of dust is 
followed by deleterious effects. We may divide the solid substances 
inhaled as dust into three kinds : dead substances, living sub- 
stances, and the contagia (microbes or germs) of various diseases. 

i. Dead Substances inhaled for a prolonged period in various 
occupations are a common cause of premature death. The potter 
draws into his lungs a fine silicious dust, which irritates his lungs, 
and finally produces a fatal disease, known as potter's asthma. 

Mill-stone Cutters and Stone Masons inhale the fine particles 
of stone given off from the material which is being chiselled. These 
produce serious disease of the lungs. 

Pearl Cutters inhale fine particles of pearl-dust, and as they 
generally work in close rooms, and the dust is light and tasteless, 
serious disease of the lungs results. 

Sand-paper Makers inhale minute portions of glass and sand ; 
and needle and knife grinders are exposed to similar dangers, and 
at one time the mortality among them was frightful. It has greatly 
diminished since the introduction of wet grinding, the use of steam 
fans, and wearing of respirators. 

Hemp and Flax Dressers inhale a dust which is peculiarly 
irritating. Workers in rags and in wool suffer in like manner 
from dust. The dust from fleeces of wool, and especially from the 
alpaca fleece, has produced in many cases (in the neighbourhood of 
Bradford and elsewhere) an acute disease (anthrax) proving fatal in 
a few days. The spores of this disease are very persistent of life 
(page 274), and remain active for mischief for months after the 
death of the animal which had suffered from it. The fleece can be 
disinfected by steam ; and the use of fans for diverting the dust 
created during " sorting " minimises the danger from it. 

The miller commonly suffers from a form of asthma, not so 
severe as potter's asthma, as the particles in this case are not equally 
irritating. The hairdresser is liable to inhale the short fragments 
of hair cut by the scissors, and the mortality of this class of workers 
is high. Miners in coal have a surprisingly low mortality, when 
accidents are excluded from the calculation ; except in South Wales, 
where it is slightly higher than for all males in the same district. 
Coal dust is relatively free from sharp angles, and is therefore not 
so irritating to the lungs as metallic dust. Consumption is 
relatively rare among miners. 

The Fur-dyer is very prone to suffer from the dust of the dyed 
furs, great irritation and disease resulting in many cases. 

Artificial Flower-makers, and those engaged in colouring 
arsenical wall-papers, suffer from the inhalation of arsenical vapours, 
as well as from the irritating effects of its absorption by the skin. 
These are now seldom seen, owing to the almost complete abandon- 
ment of the use of arsenic for wall-pigments. 

Cigar-makers are liable to have their lungs irritated by 



io8 



HYGIENE. 



inhalation of the dust of the tobacco-leaf ; and may suffer from 
tobacco-poisoning. 

Workers in Lead are Very liable to be poisoned by the metal, 
e.g., house painters, potters engaged in the glazing process, in which 
the ware is dipped into a solution containing lead, manufacturers of 
white lead, and others. The lead is partly absorbed by the skin ; 
in some cases it is inhaled as dust ; and more often it is swallowed, 
when the workman eats his meals with unwashed hands. Of the 
symptoms " painter's colic " and " drop- wrist " are the two most 
important, though, in some cases, lead shews its effects more 
insidiously, leading to gout and chronic renal disease. It is now 
compulsory on employers to provide in the workshop, complete 
washing arrangements for the use of workers in lead. Every 
doctor called to attend a case of lead or phosphorus or arsenic 
poisoning or anthrax, which has been acquired in an industrial 
occupation, must notify the same to H.M. Inspector of Factories. 
This implies inspection of the factory or workshop and the sub- 
sequent adoption of further measures of precaution. 

Brass-founders occasionally inhale the fumes of oxide of zinc ; 
and diarrhoea, cramp, waterbrash, and other troubles are the result. 
Those engaged in the manufacture of bichromate of potass, are 
liable to partial destruction of the mucous membrane of the nose, 
and to irritation of the skin, with the formation, in some cases, of 
small ulcers. 

Workers with Phosphorus, as those engaged in the making 
of phosphorus matches, not uncommonly suffer from a gradual 
necrosis (death) of the jaw-bone. Those having carious teeth are 
especially attacked by this disease, which is due to the fumes of 
oxide of phosphorus, attacking the jaw. Improved ventilation of 
workshops, careful attention to the teeth, and other measures, have 
greatly diminished this disease ; and it has disappeared where safety 
matches made from red non-volatile phosphorus, have replaced 
matches made from the yellow variety. 

Chimney Sweeps occasionally suffer from irritative skin 
diseases, as well as bronchitis. In some cases the chronic irritation 
of the soot has produced cancer of the skin. 

The effect of dust on workers can be seen in the mortality returns : Among 
men aged 25 to 65 years in 1881-90, the comparative mortality figure in England 
and Wales was as follows^ill males throughout the country being taken as a 
standard and given as i.oooT- 

COMPARATIVE MORTALITY FIGURES. 

All males 1,000. 

OCCUPATIONS WITH NO DUST. 

Clergyman 533 

Gardener . . . . . . 553 

Farmer 563 

Teacher . . . . . . . . 604 



DUSTY OCCUPATIONS. 

Coal miner (Derby and Notts.) 

Carpenter 

Bricklayer, mason 

Coal miner (Lane.) 

Tool and scissors maker 

Potter 

File-maker 



727 

783 
1,001 
1,069 
1,412 
1,706 
1,810 



Remedial Measures. Means have been taken to diminish 



CONTAGIA. log 

the prevalence of the above dust diseases, in several cases with 
remarkable success. In the case of steel-grinding, for instance, the 
mortality is greatest with dry grinding, and least with wet grinding. 
Wet processes have been applied to others of the industries named, 
with a like success. Where the dust cannot be avoided, the use of 
steam or electric fans, to deflect the dust away from the workman, 
has been found successful ; and in many cases, free ventilation of 
the workshops has greatly diminished the mortality. \Vhere none 
of the above measures suffice, the use of respirators ought to be 
insisted on. Breathing through the nostrils ought to be carefully 
maintained, as thus the dust is to a large extent stopped before 
reaching the lungs. 

The dangers of lead poisoning may be avoided by absolute 
cleanliness, the hands being always washed before taking meals, 
and the nail-brush used to secure complete cleanliness beneath the 
nails. 

2. Living Substances. The pollen of plants in some persons 
produces a distressing form of disease, called hay-asthma, which is 
apt to recur each year, and is sometimes only curable by living in 
a town or removing to the sea-coast. The amount of pollen 
floating about in the atmosphere is considerable ; 95 per cent, of it 
is grass-pollen, and this form and the pollen from pine-trees appear 
to be the most powerful in inducing hay-asthma. According to 
some authorities, hay-asthma is rather due to the minute particles 
constituting the scent of various flowers, than to the pollen ; but 
that is probably not the usual mode of origin of the disease, 
though it may be in some cases. In some cases, true asthma 
results from smelling particular plants. Here as in the case of 
hay-asthma a peculiar idiosyncrasy is involved, only a very small 
proportion of those exposed to the minute particles suffering from 
asthma. 

The spores of many fungi and of other living organisms are 
constantly being floated about in the air, until they find a suitable 
resting place, when they settle and proceed to grow and multiply. 
The souring of milk, the fermentation of a saccharine solution, the 
moulding of bread, the presence of mildew, the blighting of corn, 
and numerous other phenomena are due to the growth of organisms 
carried by the atmosphere from one part to another. 

3. The Contagia (microbes or germs) of the acute infectious 
diseases are minute living organisms, known as bacteria. Hence these 
diseases may be carried about by currents of air, some much more 
easily than others. Some of the contagia have a persistent 
vitality. Thus the contagia of scarlet fever, diphtheria, or small- 
pox may infect a room for months, causing the disease in question, 
when infected articles in the room are disturbed. The contagia 
of typhus fever and of measles, on the other hand, are short-lived, 
and do not usually resist free ventilation and exposure to sunlight. 

Besides the contagia of the acute fevers, septic organisms may 
be carried by the atmosphere. Formerly, blood-poisoning from 
operation and other wounds was common ; but Lister, by insisting 
on absolute cleanliness of wounds, and only allowing air to have 



no HYGIENE. 

access to the wound which had been filtered through layers of 
gauze and deprived of its septic germs, has secured that wounds 
can now be kept perfectly " sweet," the suppuration in them 
reduced to a mimimum, and the danger of blood-poisoning almost 
annihilated (page 106). It had often been noticed that recovery 
from even very severe injuries was common, if only the skin 
remained unbroken; while the same injuries, with the addition of 
a rupture of the skin, and consequent access of air, were rapidly 
fatal. But to Lister is due the great honour of proving that it was 
not the air which produced the mischief, but the germs it contained, 
and that filtered air might be admitted with impunity. 

Erysipelas and hospital gangrene have occasionally been carried 
about in hospital wards by dirty sponges and dressings ; and if the 
ventilation is not perfect, particles of epithelium and pus from 
diseased persons may be carried to other patients at a distance. 
Some forms of purulent disease of the eyes are transferable from 
patient to patient, and in children some forms of eczema are also 
contagious. 



( III 



CHAPTER XVI. 
GASEOUS AND OTHER IMPURITIES OF AIR. 

GASEOUS impurities of the air are very commonly associated 
with suspended matters, and it is often difficult to separate the 
effects of the two. 

Different gases are also often associated, and so produce 
modified results. It will be convenient to consider, first of all, 
certain well-marked gaseous impurities, and then others in which 
there is a mixture of several gases, or of these with suspended 
solid particles. 

Under the first head the most important impurity is 
(i) Carbonic Acid. This is reckoned an impurity if 
amounting to more than 5 parts in 10,000 of air. Owing to the 
large amount produced in the respiration of animals, in the 
combustion of fires, gas, lamps, etc., and in other natural 
processes, it would be much greater in populous parts, were it 
not for the rapid diffusion occurring in the air, and the purifying 
action of plants. The following analyses (Angus Smith) illustrate 
the facts that in towns the amount rises, and is greatest in the 
most populous parts, while during fogs it is greatly increased. 



On the mountains and moors of Scotland mean of 57 

analyses 

In the streets of Glasgow mean of 42 analyses 
London, N., N.E., and N.W. postal districts mean of 

30 analyses 

London, E. and E.G. mean of 12 analyses .. 
Manchester streets, ordinary weather 
During fogs in Manchester 



VOLUMES OF CARBONIC ACID 
IN 10,000 VOLUMES OK AIR. 



3-36 
5-02 



4745 

4^3 

679 



The effects of carbonic acid gas alone must be carefully 
distinguished from those of the same gas plus the organic impurities 
from respiration, with which it is commonly associated. Dr. 
Angus Smith found that air containing 3 per cent, of carbonic 
acid produced difficulty of breathing, but he was able to breathe 
comfortably an atmosphere containing 0-2 per cent, carbonic acid. 
Other observers have found they could breathe without discomfort 
air containing i per cent, carbonic acid. When the carbonic acid 
is derived from respiration, headache and giddiness are produced 
in many persons when the carbonic acid amounts to 0-15 per cent. 



ii2 HYGIENE. 

A fatal result has occasionally occurred from the inhalation of the 
carbonic acid at the bottom of brewing vats, or about limekilns. 
The gaseous impurity at the bottom of wells is more commonly 
nitrogen than carbonic acid (page 102). 

The presence of an excess of carbonic acid diminishes the 
elimination of carbonic acid from the lungs, nutrition and muscular 
energy being consequently impaired. This is seen in workshops 
where the air is confined and gaslight is commonly employed ; 
though the air here also contains carbonic oxide, sulphurous acid, 
and organic impurities, and these probably have a large share in 
producing the evil results. 

(2) Carbonic Oxide in the proportion of more than i per 
cent, is rapidly fatal, and has poisoned when under \ per cent. 
Poisoning by its means occurs where charcoal stoves are used, and 
especially when the charcoal is burnt in rooms with no chimney 
flue. This is an occasional mode of suicide on the continent. 
Carbonic oxide is a much more deadly poison than the dioxide 
(carbonic acid) ; it forms a stable compound with the haemoglobin 
of the red blood-corpuscles, displacing oxygen from them, and is 
got rid of with great difficulty. Lace-frame makers place a coke 
stove under their work, and thus inhale the invisible gas. Head- 
ache, giddiness, irregular action of the heart, and depression of 
the general health result. Carbonic oxide is the most poisonous 
constituent of coal-gas, and is present in much larger quantity in 
carburetted water-gas with which coal-gas is now commonly mixed, 
than in pure coal-gas (page 115). 

(3) The inhalation of Sulphuretted Hydrogen produces 
headache, nausea, and diarrhoea ; but in manufactures involving 
the inhalation of a small proportion of this gas the symptoms are 
much slighter. 

(4) Sulphurous Acid is always present in small quantities 
in the air of towns, derived from the combustion of coal and 
coal-gas. Straw-bleachers and the bleachers in cotton and worsted 
manufactories, often suffer from severe cough and bronchitis due 
to inhaling its irritating vapours. 

(5) Carbon Bisulphide when vaporised and inhaled produces 
headache, general muscular pains, and nervous depression. It is 
used in the manufacture of waterproof coats, toy-balloons, etc. 

(6) Ammonia produces irritation of the eyes and bronchial 
irritation. Hat-makers commonly suffer from its effects, being 
generally pale and feeble. It is difficult to say how much is due 
to the ammonia, and how much to the high temperature at which 
they work. 

(7) Acid Fumes are very irritating to the lungs, and in the 
case of alkali manufactures, they destroy all vegetation for 
considerable distances. Hydrochloric acid produces great irritation, 
and chlorine even more so. The fur-dyer is not only subject to 
the dangers of dust, but also of the fumes of nitric acid, used to 
remove fat and give certain shades of colour to the fur. 

(8) Other Vapours evolved in various processes produce 



EFFECTS OF RESPIRATORY IMPURITIES. 113 

special symptoms. House-painters suffer from the inhalation of 
turpentine vapour, headache and loss of appetite commonly resulting. 
The symptoms from the commonly coexistent lead-poisoning are 
distinct. Brush-makers have a persistent cough, due to the 
inhalation of resinous fumes, evolved in making brushes. 

Workers in paraffin are liable to an irritative disease of the 
hair -follicles of the body, followed by the formation of scars, 
almost like smallpox marks. 

Workers in quicksilver, as those engaged in making mirrors or 
thermometers, are prone to suffer from mercurial poisoning. The 
gums become spongy, and there is profuse salivation, also generally 
alimentary disturbance ; and in some cases nervous affections, 
resulting in persistent muscular tremblings, etc. 

Under the second head cases of inhalation of mixed gaseous 
and particulate contamination we must consider 

(i) The Effects of Air Rendered Impure by Respiration. 

It has been already stated that an amount of carbonic acid which 
could easily be borne alone, is intolerable when other products of 
respiration are mixed with it. These are chiefly organic gases and 
solids, which (unless removed quickly) render the atmosphere close 
and " stuffy " an effect which is readily perceptible by the sense 
of smell of those entering an occupied room immediately from 
the outer air. When such a room is inhabited for a few hours, 
headache, langour, drowsiness, and yawning (which is really a cry 
for purer air) result. The soporific effects so commonly produced 
in churches, etc., are commonly due to the vitiated atmosphere, 
rather than as is supposed to the soothing effects of the sermon. 

When the exposure to foul air is more chronic, and occurs day 
after day, there results a general lowering of strength and vigour 
both bodily and mental even where no actual disease is set up. 
Oxidation processes are retarded ; the consequence is an anaemic 
sallow complexion, which compares badly with the ruddy 
complexion of those spending a great part of the day out of doors. 

The prolonged breathing of air, foul from the products of 
respiration, is perhaps more common in workshops and schools than 
in private houses ; but in both, a faint smell is commonly perceptible 
on entering from the open air, indicating imperfect ventilation and 
accumulation of organic putrescible matter. The preceding remarks 
are left as in the last edition. It must be noted, however, that 
recent research attaches more importance to the particulate matter 
(dust) in the atmosphere than to the amount of gaseous impurity, 
though the latter remains a convenient index of impurity. 
Experiments made by Drs. Haldane and L. Smith on themselves 
negative the older conclusion that a special organic poison exists in 
expired air. They were able without any appreciable effect on 
themselves to breathe air which was vitiated to such an extent as to 
completely prevent a match from burning ; and they conclude that 
excess of carbonic acid and deficiency of oxygen are the sole cause 
of danger from breathing air highly vitiated by respiration. This 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 9 



ii4 HYGIENE. 

conclusion may be accepted under the conditions of these 
experiments. Under ordinary conditions, however, the evil effects 
produced by breathing the air of crowded rooms, are due not only 
to the excess of carbonic acid and deficiency of oxygen, but also to 
the dust which is usually associated with them. This dust, which 
may be derived from handkerchiefs of patients suffering from 
influenza, consumption, sore throat, &c., or from other sources, is 
apt to be inhaled by the persons occupying such rooms. 

The tendency to catarrhs is greatly increased by living in a 
vitiated atmosphere. In the causation of " colds " two elements are 
concerned, the infective agent, and the condition of the patients. 
" Colds " are caused primarily by infection from previous patients. 
The nasal discharge of a" cold in the head " contains the contagium. 
This is dried on handkerchiefs, and is subsequently scattered as 
dust, and thus conveyed to others. Ordinarily there is considerable 
resisting power against such catarrhs. When, however, the general 
vitality or the local vitality of the mucous membrane of the nose, 
throat, and lungs is impaired by the breathing of impure air or by 
sitting in wet clothes after exposure to wet and cold, a catarrh is 
produced. 

The close connection of phthisis (consumption) with over- 
crowding and the breathing of a vitiated atmosphere will be 
discussed hereafter (page 313). The polluted air acts in producing 
consumption by depressing vital functions, and diminishing the 
powers of resistance against the actual contagium of the disease, 
which is inhaled as dust, produced by the drying of the expectora- 
tion of consumptive patients. 

The germs of infectious diseases are propagated very rapidly in 
an impure atmosphere ; and typhus fever occurs almost solely in 
conditions of overcrowding. 

In the cattle-plague of 1866, it was found that nearly all the 
cows died when crowded together in unventilated sheds, while only 
a third died when there was free ventilation. 

The effects of air containing the products of respiration in a 
concentrated condition, and of a deficient supply of air, have been 
shown only too well in the oft-quoted case of the. Black Hole 
of Calcutta. In this case, 146 persons were confined in a space 
eighteen feet every way, with two small windows on one side. 
Next morning 123 were found dead, and the remaining 23 were 
very ill. 

In the experience of this country, the highest death-rates are in 
the most densely populated districts. The death-rate from phthisis, 
child-birth, and typhus fever for instance, is far higher in cities than 
in country-places. The fact may be explained in various ways. 
Density of population commonly implies insufficient or unwholesome 
food, unhealthy work, and poverty ; but especially impurity of the 
air, uncleanliness, and imperfect removal of excreta. Of these 
factors, the vitiated air is probably the most powerful for evil. 
Children suffer more than adults from close aggregation of 



COAL-GAS. 115 

population, largely owing to the greater ease with which infectious 
diseases spread in towns. 

(2) Coal-gas is obtained by the destructive distillation of coal, 
free from access of air. The average composition of London coal- 
gas is hydrogen 50 to 53, saturated hydrocarbons 33 to 66, 
unsaturated hydrocarbons 3-5 to 3*6, carbonic oxide 5*7 to 7*1, 
carbonic acid o to 0-6, nitrogen 2-5 to 4/1, and oxygen 0*2 to 0-3 per 
cent. Of these the illuminants are olefiant gas (C 2 H 4 ) and the 
higher hydrocarbons. Sulphuretted hydrogen and other sulphur 
compounds are present in small quantities, averaging 12 grains of 
sulphur per 100 cubic feet of London gas. 

The inhalation of coal-gas, even in small quantities, is liable to 
produce headache, and may lead to chronic poisoning if allowed to 
continue. Where the escape of gas is more extensive, as when a 
tap is left turned on accidentally during the night, two dangers may 
arise. If a light is struck in the room an explosion occurs ; or 
persons may be poisoned in their sleep by inhalation of the gas. 
The most poisonous gas in coal-gas is the carbonic oxide. The 
chief product of the combustion of coal-gas is carbonic acid. Some 
sulphurous acid is also produced, which is irritating to breathe, 
and injurious to bookbindings, picture-frames, etc. If the flame is 
imperfect, as when the pressure of gas is too great, some carbonic 
oxide may also escape. 

In recent years Carburetted water-gas has been largely 
mixed with coal-gas in certain districts. This is made by passing 
steam over heated coke. Thus 

C + H. 2 CO 4- H 2 

(coke) (steam) (carbonic oxide) (hydrogen) 

The product is water-gas which burns with a non-luminous flame 
and has no smell. For illuminating purposes it is enriched with 
vaporised paraffin oil, which gives it a high illuminating power, and 
a smell rather like that of coal-gas. In some towns as much as 60 
per cent, of this carburetted water-gas is mixed with 40 per cent, of 
coal-gas. Now as the former contains about 30 per cent, of 
carbonic oxide, and the latter only 7 per cent., a mixture of equal 
parts of the two gases would contain 18-5 per cent, of carbonic 
oxide, and would therefore be much more dangerous than coal-gas. 
This has been found to be so in actual experience of escapes of 
gas. 

In speaking of these products of different illuminants, it is 
necessary to adopt a standard of light. In this country the 
standard has hitherto been a light known as " one-candle power " 
which is given by a sperm candle burning 120 grains per hour, or 
in V. Harcourt's standard flame by a mixture of air and pentane 
(C 5 Hi 2 ). A good fish-tail or bat's wing burner for coal-gas gives an 
illuminating power equal to 16 candles, and burns from 4 to 5 cubic 
feet of gas per hour. Most flat flame burners known as 4 or 5, and 
supposed to burn that number of cubic feet of gas per hour, really 
consume nearly double this amount of gas. In the following table 
the amount of various products produced and of vitiation of air 



u6 



HYGIENE. 



caused by various forms of illuminants is compared, when 
illumination equal to 16 candles is produced in each instance : 



an 













AMOUNT OF 












VITIATION PRO- 












DUCED STATED 












IN TERMS OF THE 












NUMBER OF 






CARBONIC 






ADULTS WHO 




AMOUNT 


ACID 


MOISTURE 


OXYGEN 


WOULD CAUSE 




BURNT. 


PRODUCED. 


PRODUCED. 


REMOVED. 


AN EQUAL 












VITIATION. 


Sperm candles 


1740 grains 


6-6 c. ft. 


6-6 c. ft. 


9-6 c. ft. 


II 


Paraffin oil 


992 


4'5 


3'5 M 


6-2 


7 


Coal gas burned in 












A rgand burner . . 


4-8 c. ft. 


2'5 ,. 


6'4 


5'8 


4 


Flat-flame burner 


55 ,. 


3'5 


7'4 n 


6'5 


6 



Thus as an adult expires 0-6 cubic feet of carbonic acid per 
hour, it follows that the amount of carbonic acid produced in one 
hour by the various illuminants named in the above table, burning 
so as to give a light equal to 16 standard candles, varies from 4 to 
1 1 times the amount produced by the adult. Candle and oils possess 
the advantage over coal-gas that no sulphurous acid is produced in 
combustion. If the pressure in the mains is excessive, some gas may 
escape through the burner unburnt or carbonic oxide may escape. 

In England the flashing-point of mineral oils has been fixed at 
73 Fahr. The material of which the reservoirs of lamps are com- 
posed should not be glass or other breakable material, and the wick 
should be contained in a small wick chamber extending nearly 
to the bottom of the reservoir. Only a tight fitting wick must 
be used. 

The best illuminant for domestic purposes is incandescent 
electricity, in which no products of combustion are formed, and 
only a comparative small amount of heat is produced. Electrical 
illumination possesses the further advantages that there is no 
blackening of ceilings and no damaging of other decorations as in 
illumination by gas. 

(3) Air Rendered Impure by Exhalations from the Sick. 

In addition to the ordinary impurities of occupied rooms, special 
impurities are produced, varying with the character of the disease. 
They may include infectious particles from the sick. In wards for 
consumptives and for diphtheria, dust in the room has been found 
to contain the special microbes of these diseases. Making beds, 
sweeping floors, &c. may help to scatter infectious dust ; hence the 
importance of adopting means of cleansing which will not scatter 
dust, and of keeping sick-rooms spotlessly clean. In many diseases 
e.g. consumption, a patient may re-infect himself with such 
infectious dust, and thus diminish his own chance of recovery 
(see page 311). Hospital wards can scarcely be too freely ventilated ; 
but even more important than ventilation is the strictest cleanliness 
in every minute detail. 

(4) The Air of Sewers, Cesspools, etc., may contain the 



EMANATIONS OF DRAINS, Etc. 117 

products of decomposition of sewage, such as volatile foetid organic 
matter, carbo-ammoniacal substances, sulphuretted hydrogen, 
carbonic acid, etc. The amount of these various products varies 
greatly under different circumstances, such as dilution of the 
sewage, ventilation of sewers, temperature, etc. The effluvia from 
cesspools are usually more concentrated than those from sewers. It 
appears fairly certain that the emanations from sewers or drains 
may give rise to diarrhoea and gastric disturbances, and to certain 
forms of sore throat, which favour the production of diphtheria. 
On the other hand, there is much evidence showing that the danger 
from sewer-emanations has been exaggerated. Carnelley and 
Haldane found that the air of the sewers of the Houses of 
Parliament and of certain sewers of Dundee was not very impure, 
containing a smaller number of bacteria than external air. There 
is reason to believe that the emanations from well-ventilated sewers, 
possessing a good gradient, so that the contents of the sewers are 
hurried away to the outfall, are free from danger. The chief source 
of possible danger would be the escape of the bacteria of such 
diseases as enteric fever or diphtheria, which had been discharged 
into the sewer from patients suffering from these diseases. But, in 
the absence of splashing, these bacteria could not escape from a 
liquid medium. Their escape could only occur when the sewer 
became dry, and the dust was carried up by rapid currents of air, a 
very improbable occurrence in sewers. Hence in the majority of 
instances sewer emanations must be freed from the accusation of 
producing infectious diseases. Sewer-men usually enjoy good 
health, and there is no excess of infectious diseases among them. 

The emanations from obstructed drains or sewers may cause 
serious mischief, similarly to that occasionally produced by the 
emanations from cesspools. Under such conditions, sulphuretted 
hydrogen, carburetted hydrogen, and other gases are evolved, and 
fatal asphyxia has been caused by these. In other instances acute 
sewer-gas poisoning, without pneumonia, has followed. 

The exhalations from cesspools or privies while cleaning them 
out, may produce severe disorders, which are sometimes fatal. 
When a drain is newly opened or sewer gas gets into a house, 
a less marked form of poisoning sometimes occurs, chiefly 
characterised by languor, headache, vomiting, and diarrhoea. In 
some cases there may be febrile attacks lasting a few days. Children 
are especially sensitive to such conditions and quickly fall into ill 
health. 

The direct origin of acute infectious diseases from the effluvia 
from drains or cesspools has occasionally occurred. Leaky and 
choked drains under a house are especially dangerous. The sub- 
soil becomes contaminated more and more as time goes on ; foul 
gases are aspirated into the house, owing to its interior being 
warmer than the subsoil ; and finally infectious matter may find 
its way into the house, or carried by insects or vermin, through 
cracks in the earth. 

Diphtheria has been ascribed to emanations from drains and 
sewers. There is reason to believe that a non-specific form of sore 



n8 HYGIENE. 

throat may originate in this way ; but diphtheria is generally, if 
not always, spread by personal infection. Diarrhoea has been 
occasionally ascribed to sewer-emanations. It chiefly occurs in hot 
weather, and is usually associated with a foul condition of the 
surface soil, and speedily ceases after this has been scoured by 
copious rain. 

Enteric or typhoid fever, has been frequently ascribed to drain 
and sewer effluvia. It was formerly thought that putrefactive 
changes alone, under certain conditions of temperature, etc., would 
produce it, and Dr. Murchison, one of the greatest authorities on 
the subject, who adopted this view, proposed for enteric fever the 
name " pythogenic fever " (i.e. filth-produced). Isolated cases of 
enteric fever, occurring where there is no system of drainage, 
support the same view, as does also the fact that, with the adoption 
of drainage, the enteric mortality has steadily diminished. On the 
other hand, numerous cases can be quoted to show that emanations 
from excreta have been breathed, and sewage-contaminated water 
drunk, for years, without the production of a single case of enteric 
fever until a case is accidentally imported. The weight of 
evidence is clearly on the side of the view that only emanations from 
the liquid or solid dejecta of previous enteric patients will produce 
enteric fever, and that it is the solid particles of the urine or fceces, 
either inhaled as dust or carried on to food by flies, &c., or mixed 
with food by contaminated water, &c., which cause infection. 
Furthermore, modern investigation shows that infection by dust 
is the exception in England ; and that the enteric infection is 
usually swallowed and not inhaled, being taken in infected water or 
milk or other food. 

(5) Effluvia from Decomposing Organic Matter. (a) 
The air of marshes contains an excess of carbonic acid, marsh 
gas, etc., in addition to other organic matters. Malarial diseases 
are commonly ascribed to the inhalation of the marsh effluvia under 
certain conditions, though the recent proof of the part played by 
the mosquito in spreading malaria, puts the inhalation of such 
effluvia in the background as cause of this disease (page 307). Some 
forms of diarrhoea and dysentery have been ascribed, with a less 
degree of probability, to the same cause. In this case, as in that of 
emanations from other organic sources, the impurities received by 
the air are both gaseous and particulate. 

(b) The Air of Graveyards contains an excess of carbonic 
acid. The older intramural graveyards appear to have been a 
cause of illness ; but modern graveyards, kept under good regula- 
tions have never been shown to cause illness. 

(c) The Effluvia from Decomposing Carcases, especially 
of horses on the battle-field, have led to outbreaks of diarrhoea 
and dysentery among the soldiers. 

(d) The Effluvia from Manure and Similar Manufactories 
do not seem to injure the workmen as a rule, but attacks of diarrhoea 
have been produced in the neighbourhood when the wind has 
wafted the effluvia towards any particular part. Sore throat, and 



MOISTURE AND TEMPERATURE OF AIR. 119 

occasionally diphtheria, have been ascribed to the inhalation of 
London manure taken into Essex. 

(6) The Effluvia from Certain Manufacturing Processes 

seem to be rather nuisances than actually productive of ill health. 
The vapours given off by tallow-making and bone-burning processes 
are most disagreeable, but there is little or no positive evidence of 
their direct insalubrity. 

The air of brickfields and cement works is peculiarly disagreeable. 

The Degree of Moisture and the Temperature of air are 
of great importance in relation to health. Air which is unduly 
moist or dry, hot or cold, may be injurious apart from any foreign 
matters it contains. 

The relative amount of moisture is of greater importance than its 
actual amount. An atmosphere which contains aqueous vapour up 
to the point of saturation is very oppressive ; the normal evaporation 
of insensible perspiration (and with it of the organic impurities 
removed from the skin) is interfered with ; and consequently the 
" oppressiveness of the day " is complained of. 

An unduly hot air is generally productive of pallor and ill 
health, though it is difficult to know how much to ascribe to the 
high temperature, and how much to the commonly co-existent 
vitiated atmosphere. The temperature of living-rooms ought not 
to be over 60 to 65 Fahr., and of bed-rooms not over 60 Fahr. 

The devitalising influence of extreme cold is well known. Its 
effects are more particularly seen in young children and the very 
old, who require to be carefully tended during severe and long- 
continued cold weather. Dry, cold weather, with the temperature 
near the freezing point of water, and a cutting east wind 
prevailing, is not uncommonly described as " bracing." This is so 
far from being the case, that it requires all the vital powers of the 
strong and healthy to resist its depressing influence, and the feeble 
of both extremes of age succumb. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
TRADE NUISANCES. 

MANY occupations are the source of considerable danger to the workers 
engaged in them. They are chiefly injurious by the inhalation into the lungs 
of some foreign agent, which produces serious local inconveniences and irritation, 
and may be also absorbed into the circulation and produce more remote effects. 
The injurious agents may be classified under four heads : 

(1) Insoluble particles or dust. 

(2) Soluble or partially soluble substances. 

(3) Injurious gases or vapours. 

(4) Effluvia from offensive trades. 

It is evident that, as regards the effluvia named under (4), they might 
generally be included under the three previous heads, though it is convenient 
for our present purpose to keep them separate. 

The occupations in which dust and soluble substances are productive of 
injurious effect have already been described, pages 107 to 109. 

Injurious gases and vapours have received consideration on pages in and 
112. The special offensive trades still require attention. 

Offensive Trades. The legal enactments relating to offensive trades are 
contained in sect. 112 of the Public Health Act, 1875, which states, any person 
who, after the passing of this Act, establishes within the district of an urban 
sanitary authority, without their consent in writing, any offensive trade, that 
is to say, the trade of 

Blood boiler, or Soap boiler, or 

Bone boiler, or Tallow melter, or 

Fellmonger, or Tripe boiler, or 

any other noxious or offensive trade, business, or 
manufacture, 

shall be liable to a penalty not exceeding fifty pounds in respect of the establish- 
ment thereof, and a penalty not exceeding forty shillings for every day on which 
the offence is continued. 

These provisions can only be enforced in rural districts with the sanction 
of the Local Government Board. 

The "other noxious or offensive trades," in order to be brought within the 
operation of the section, must be analogous to those which are specially 
enumerated. 

The most exhaustive and authoritative report on this subject is by the 
late Dr. Ballard, whose report is largely quoted in the following remarks. 

We may consider (i) the extent to which the public is inconvenienced by various 
effluvium nuisances. The majority of the nuisances arise from trade processes 
in which animal matters are chiefly used. Among the most disgusting are 
the effluvia from gut-scraping, and the preparation of sausage skins and catgut, 
the preparation of artificial manures from "skutch" (the refuse matter of the 
manufacture of glue), the manufacture of some kinds of artificial manures, and 
the melting of some kinds of fat. Manufacturing businesses dealing with 
vegetable substances are often offensive, but rarely give out disgusting effluvia. 
The most offensive vegetable effluvia are probably those thrown off during the 
heating of vegetable oils, as in the boiling of linseed oil, the manufacture of 
palmitic acid from cotton oil or palm oil, the manufacture of some kinds of 



TRADE NUISANCES. 121 

varnish, the drying of fabrics coated with such varnishes, and the burning of 
painted articles, such as disused meat-tins. 

Occasionally offensive effluvia arise in connection with industries in which 
neither vegetable nor animal matters are used ; as in the manufacture of sulphate 
or chloride of ammonia, and some other processes in which sulphuretted 
hydrogen is copiously evolved ; and in the making of gas and the distillation 
of tar. The fumes from the manufacture of alkali and bleaching powder are 
acid and irritating, and produce very injurious effects on vegetation in the 
neighbourhood. 

The distances to which nuisances extend vary greatly according to circum- 
stances as, for instance, the elevation at which the effluvia are discharged into- 
the air. Discharge from a high chimney may relieve the immediate vicinity 
of the works at the partial expense of those living at a greater distance. With 
a damp and comparatively stagnant atmosphere, effluvia have a much greater 
tendency to cling about a neighbourhood. 

(2) The industrial processes in which offensive effluvia are produced are: 
classified by Dr. Ballard as follows : 

1. The keeping of animals. 

2. The slaughtering of animals. 

3. Other branches of industry in which animal matters or substances 
of animal origin are chiefly dealt with. 

4. Branches of industry in which vegetable matters are chiefly dealt 
with. 

5. Branches of industry in which mineral matters are chiefly dealt 
with. 

6. Branches of industry in which matters of mixed origin (animal, 
vegetable, and mineral) are dealt with. 

(3) It is important to inquire to what extent offensive trade effluvia are injurious 
to the public health. It is impossible to bring statistics to bear on the inquiry, as 
other influences, apart from occupation, can scarcely be eliminated. The term 
"injurious to health" is capable of a double interpretation. It might mean 
either serious damage to health, or the mere production of bodily discomfort 
or other functional disturbance by the offensive effluvia, leading by its con- 
tinuance to an appreciable impairment of vigour, though not to any actual 
disease. 

In the latter sense offensive effluvia have a deleterious effect on health. 
Such symptoms as loss of appetite, nausea, headache, occasionally diarrhoea, 
and general malaise are produced by effluvia of various kinds, but agreeing in 
being all offensive. " A condition of dis-ea.se or mal-a.ise is produced." 

There is little difficulty in proving bad effects on the workmen, though 
the invariable defence of manufacturers is an appeal to the condition of health 
of their workmen. The workmen only remain such so long as they are healthy, 
and as they become disabled they necessarily cease to rank among workmen. 
The decomposition of putrefying organic matters is unquestionably dangerous. 
The general doctrine of sanitation that filth is one of the chief factors in 
producing disease is certainly applicable to trade effluvia as well as to general 
sanitation. It has been alleged on behalf of such effluvia as chlorine sulphurous 
acid and tar vapours that they are useful disinfectants ; but modern research 
has shown that disinfectants, in order to be of practical use, must be in such 
a concentrated condition that the air containing them is irrespirable. Probably 
such septic diseases as erysipelas are favoured by organic trade effluvia. 

(4) The means available to prevent or minimise the nuisances arising from 
trade effluvia vary with the character of the processes. The general principles 
on which treatment must be founded depend, as Dr. Ballard points out, on a 
recognition of the following kinds of effluvia : 

Effluvia dependent 

1. On the accumulation of filth on or about business premises, or on 
its removal in an offensive condition. 

2. On a generally filthy condition of the interior of buildings and 
premises and utensils generally. 



122 HYGIENE. 

3. On an improper mode of disposal of offensive refuse, liquid or 
otherwise. 

4. On insufficient or .careless arrangements in reception of offensive 
materials of the trade, or in removal of offensive products. 

5. On an improper mode of storing offensive materials or products. 

6. On the escape of offensive gases or vapours given off during some 
part of the trade processes. 

It is evident that under the first two headings the proper remedy is 
cleanliness. Filth should be removed in impervious covered vessels, at regular 
intervals. Structural arrangements should be made, which will facilitate 
cleansing operations. Solid refuse should, as far as possible, be separated 
from liquid refuse, as thus putrefaction is retarded. 

Under the last head important remedies are applicable. In many cases a 
careful selection of the materials of manufacture will form an effective remedy. 
Thus much of the nuisance connected with soap or candle works arises from 
the putrid condition of the fat collected from butchers and marine store dealers, 
and might be obviated by more regular and more frequent collection of the 
materials of manufacture. The offensive vapours arising during processes of 
manufacture may be intercepted before reaching the external air, and so 
treated that they lose their obnoxious character. Various methods of inter- 
ception are adopted, according to the processes involved. Occasionally it is 
necessary to have the air of the entire workshop drawn by means of artificial 
ventilation in a special direction ; usually the interception of air from special 
chambers suffices. When thus collected, the offensive air may be dealt with 
by (i) passing it through water or some other liquid capable of absorbing the 
offensive materials ; or (2) passing it through some powder with which it has 
chemical affinity ; or (3) if its offensive materials are capable of condensation 
by cold, passing them through an appropriate condensing apparatus ; or (4) if 
the evolved matters are organic in nature, conducting them through a fire. 
(5) Occasionally it is sufficient to discharge the offensive gases into the air from 
a high chimney ; and this always produces a mitigation of nuisance, as compared 
with discharge at a low level. 

It is usually found that the adoption of one or other of these methods is 
directly or indirectly profitable to the offender. 

Nuisances from the Keeping- of Animals. The 47th section of the 
Public Heath Act prohibits the keeping of pigs in towns so as to be a nuisance, 
and, as a general rule, it is possible to obtain a magistrate's order, entirely 
prohibiting the keeping of pigs in towns. The excreta of the pig have a very 
offensive and penetrating odour, and however carefully kept, pigs in towns form 
an intolerable nuisance. 

Not only is there nuisance from the accumulation of manure and dirtiness 
of the piggeries, but also from the storage and subsequent preparation of 
food. The boiling of hog-wash is often an even greater nuisance than the 
filth of the styes. 

Cow-keeping and horse-keeping in towns are still allowed and, as compared 
with pig-keeping, form a small nuisance. Mews, if kept clean and well drained, 
need not be offensive, though it is objectionable for persons to sleep over stables. 
The removal of manure also constitutes a difficulty. The manure should not be 
allowed to accumulate in deep wet pits, but in an iron cage-work over a cement 
paving at or above the ground-level, thus allowing free drainage, and keeping the 
manure dry, and reducing ammoniacal decomposition to a minimum. 

Cowsheds are generally very badly ventilated, as the cowkeeper finds that 
more milk is produced by the cows when the temperature of the shed is main- 
tained at 65 or higher ; and he does not see the necessity for providing artificial 
means of warmth. The grains which are used so largely for food are stored in a 
wet condition, and speedily give rise to nuisance. Cowsheds and stables should 
be well paved and well drained. At least 800 cubic feet should be allowed for 
each cow in the shed. 

Cowsheds are regulated under the Dairies', Cowsheds', and Milkshops' Order 
of the Local Government Board. This order provides for and insists on the 
registration of cowkeepers, dairymen, and purveyors of milk, by the local 



TRADE NUISANCES. 123 

authority. It also provides that no cowshed or dairy shall be occupied as 
such, unless provision is made to the satisfaction of the local authority, for 
the lighting and ventilation, including air-space, and the cleansing, drainage, 
and water-supply of the same ; and for the protection of the milk against 
infection or contamination. With the view of preventing contamination of 
milk, no person suffering from an infectious disorder, or having recently been 
in contact with a person so suffering, is allowed to milk cows or take any part 
in any stage of the business of a milk-seller. The milk of a cow suffering from 
cattle plague, pleuro-pneumonia, or foot and mouth disease must not be mixed 
with other milk, must not be sold or used for human food, nor for food for swine 
or other animals, unless it has been boiled. By the order of 1899 this regulation 
is made to extend to tubercular disease of the udder. 

Slaughtering of Animals. Nuisance may arise in slaughter-houses from 
various causes : (i) the uncleanly way in which animals are kept in the pound 
or lair before being killed ; (2) the insanitary condition, bad paving, lack of lime- 
whiting of walls, etc., of the slaughter-house; (3) the accumulation of hides, 
blood, fat, offal, dung, or garbage on the premises ; (4) the uncleanly condition 
of the blood-pits, or the receptacles for garbage ; (5) the flowing of blood or offal 
into the drains and thence into the public sewer. 

^Private slaughter-houses ought to be abolished, and all animals intended for 
human food slaughtered in public abattoirs under efficient supervision. When 
a large number of private slaughter-houses exist in different parts of a large 
town, it is impossible for the sanitary officials to properly supervise the 
slaughtering, or to ensure that diseased meat shall not enter the market. The 
inspector may only have the opportunity of examining the flesh, the internal 
organs which more particularly show the presence of a diseased condition 
having been concealed. Such concealment and the consequent foisting of 
diseased meat upon the public, can only be efficiently prevented by forbidding 
the slaughtering of any animal intended for food in a private slaughter-house. 

Most local authorities have bye-laws regulating the slaughtering of animals. 
These provide for a cleanly condition of the lairs, and prevent keeping the 
animals longer in the lairs than is necessary for the purpose of preparation 
for slaughtering. They also insist on the provision of proper covered 
receptacles of iron or other non-absorbent material for the reception of 
garbage, and similar receptacles for blood ; for cleansing of the floor, etc. 
after slaughtering ; for lime-whiting of the walls four times a year ; and for 
other matters of detail. 

For knackers' yards similar regulations are applicable. The flesh should not 
be kept until it becomes putrid before being boiled, and the boiling of the flesh 
and fat should be so arranged as to avoid the escape of offensive vapours into 
the external air. 

In smoking bacon, the singeing has formed a serious nuisance. Fish -frying in 
small shops is often a most troublesome nuisance. A hopper over the pan in 
which the frying is conducted has not been always successful in carrying the 
fumes up the chimney. The frying should preferably be done in a closed out- 
house, close to a chimney with a good up-draught. 

The fellmonger prepares skins for the leather-dresser, the chief operations 
being taking off the wool, liming the skins, etc. .The skins deprived of wool are 
called " pelts." The pelts are thrown into a pit containing milk of lime, and 
thence sent direct to the leather-dresser. Nuisance may arise from (i) the odour 
of the raw skins ; (2) the ammoniacal odour from the lime-painted skins hanging 
in the yard; (3) the emptying and cleansing of the "poke" or tank in which 
the hides are washed ; (4) the foul condition of the waste lime taken from the 
exhausted lime pits ; (5) the odour from the dirty unpaved yards. 

The leather-dresser only deals with "pelts," derived from sheep-skins; the 
tanner with bullocks' -hides. The skins brought from the fellmonger to the 
leather-dresser are first deprived of lime, and then soaked in a solution of dog's 
dung, called " pure," until they become soft. In winter this "pure" solution 
is warmed for use. The odour is very abominable, both from the "pure" tub, 
and from the discharge of the exhausted " pure" liquid into the drain. 

At each stage of tanning nuisance may arise unless great precautions are 
taken, as when the hides are soaked in lime and water, when the hair is being 
removed, when the loose inner skin of the hide is being removed, and especially 



i2 4 HYGIENE. 

when the hides are soaked in pits containing pigeons' or other dung. Nuisance 
may arise again during the passage of offensive hides through the street. 
Cleanliness is the great rule. If, every process is carried on with due precaution, 
including frequent washing out of receptacles and the free use of disinfectants, 
little complaint need arise 

The manufacturers of glue and size boil out the gelatine from bits of hides 
and " fleshings " from leather dressers and tanners, from damaged "pelts," ox 
or calves' feet, horns, and other similar substances. The raw material is apt 
to be offensive in collection or while accumulating on the premises. The process 
of boiling causes offence by the effluvia from the steam. The residue remaining 
after the process is known as " scutch," and this, unless frequently removed, is 
a most serious source of nuisance. 

Prussiate of Potass is manufactured by heating carbonate of potass with 
refuse animal matters. In order to avoid nuisance the pot in which the boiling 
is done should have a pipe to conduct away the steam, first running horizontally 
and then vertically down to the back part of the fire. 

Fat-melting and Dip -candle-making, as usually carried on, give rise to 
nuisance. The fat which is melted down usually comes from butchers and 
marine-store dealers in a rancid or even putrid condition, and it may be stored 
on the premises for some time before it is boiled. The vapours from the melting- 
vat are very offensive. They should be carried by means of a pipe down until 
they discharge just under the boiler-fire. The residue from the fat-melting 
process (known as "greaves") requires frequent removal to avoid nuisance. 

Bone-boiling, in order to extract the fat and gelatine, is most offensive, and 
most difficult to deal with. After boiling, the bones are apt to give off offensive 
smells. The vapours from the closed boiler should be condensed as .far as 
possible in a worm condenser, and the remainder passed through a furnace 
fire. 

In the manufacture of artificial manures nuisance is apt to arise (i) from 
the reception and accumulation of the raw materials, as putrid fish, putrid 
blood, scutch (the residue from the manufacture of glue), recently boiled bones, 
etc. ; (2) from the preparation of the raw material for use. Thus the drying 
of condemned fish or meat on open kilns is very offensive ; similarly the drying 
of sewage sludge. (3) From the process of mixing the materials of manufacture, 
irritant and offensive vapours being evolved, as for instance in the manufacture 
of manure by crushing bones, and converting into super-phosphate by the 
addition of sulphuric acid. (4) From the removal of the manure from the hot 
den, after it has been dried. When sulphuric acid is mixed with coprolites 
or other mineral phosphates, most irritant and offensive vapours are produced, 
which may be perceived in some cases at the distance of a mile. 

Blood-boiling is now almost obsolete, having been replaced by albumen- 
making and clot-drying. Nuisance may arise from the blood collected from 
slaughter-houses being in a putrid state ; and from the effluvia evolved during 
the drying process. 

Gutscraping, gut-spinning, and the preparation of sausage-skins are very closely 
akin. In gut-scraping the putrid intestines are deprived of their interior soft 
parts by scraping with pieces of wood, and are then, after being cleansed, 
ready for sausage-skins. In gut-spinning the prepared gut is twisted into a 
cord. The small intestines of hogs and sheep are used for this purpose. The 
stench from these establishments is indescribably horrible. Extreme cleanliness 
is desirable. Immersion of the guts in common salt is useful ; so also the use 
of impervious vessels, early removal of all refuse material, etc. 

Brick and ballast burning are a frequent source of complaint in the 
neighbourhood of towns. Brick burning is conducted either in kilns or clamps. 
When bricks are burnt in closed kilns comparatively little nuisance arises ; but 
when they are burnt in open clamps the effluvia are very irritating, partly owing 
to the fact that very commonly house refuse, containing vegetable and animal 
matters, is burnt with the bricks. Clamp burning should be absolutely 
prohibited in the neighbourhood of large towns. 

In Ballast burning stiff clay is converted by the agency of heat into a 
brick-like material, which is of use in road-making. The clay is usually 
burnt in heaps, mixed with ashes and breeze from dust-bins. The process is 
offensive unless carried on with precautions similar to those for brick-burning. 



CHAPTER XVIII. 
THE EXAMINATION OF AIR. 

THERE are various methods of ascertaining the quality of the 
air in enclosed spaces, of which not the least useful is the informa- 
tion furnished by the sense of smell, on entering a room from the 
external air. Besides the evidence given by the senses, chemical and 
microscopical examination of the air gives important information, 
while the thermometer and hydrometer ascertain the temperature and 
degree of moisture. 

Examination by the Senses. The dull grey haze hanging 
over a town, when it is viewed from a distance, indicates compara- 
tive impurity of its atmosphere, and the presence of a considerable 
amount of suspended matter, including smoke. 

The smell of a stagnant atmosphere is a good preliminary guide 
to its condition. The fact that a room has been occupied for some 
time without efficient ventilation can be at once detected on entering 
a room from the external air. The sense of smell is extremely 
delicate ; it has been estimated that the lmni " )())lo part of a grain of 
musk can be apprehended by it. But nothing is so soon dulled as 
the sense of smell. An atmosphere which did not appear to be 
unpleasant while remaining in a room, is intolerable when one 
returns to it after a few minutes in the open air. It is important not 
to confound the " closeness " perceived by the sense of smell, with the 
oppression due to the high temperature of a room. The two are 
easily distinguished (unless the two co-exist) by a reference to the 
thermometer, which ought always to be. placed in rooms inhabited 
during the evening. The remedy for a close room is to allow free 
entry of fresh air, and not allow the fire to go down, as is so 
commonly done, under the impression that the closeness is due 
to heat. 

De Chaumont has made many experiments, shewing how 
accurate is the information given by an acute sense of smell. Car- 
bonic acid is destitute of odour, but as its amount is usually 
proportionate to that of the organic matter producing closeness, it 
may be taken as an index of the amount of impurity present in living 
rooms. De Chaumont found that the limit of smell is reached when 
carbonic acid amounts to 6 parts in 10,000 of air, or half as much 
again as in the external air. In the following extracts from his 



126 



HYGIENE. 



experiments, there was a close accordance between the evidence of 
his sense of smell and the amount of carbonic acid : 



At 14-8 per 


f Extremely close 
I0 ' 000 \ and unpleasant. 


At 8- 43 per 10,000 
,, 8-04 


. . Not very foul. 
.. Close. 


,, 10-90 


. . Extremely close. 


6-58 


. . Not very close. 


,, 9-62 


. . Very close. 


,, 5-68 ;; 


. . Not close. 


9'2i 


.. Close. 







He also found that humidity of the air had marked influence 
in rendering the smell of organic matter perceptible, even more 
than a rise of temperature. The sense of smell is doubtless aided 
in detecting impurities in the air, by the besoin de respiver, a feeling 
of oppression caused by the deficiency of interchange between the 
blood and air. The state of cleanliness of the room as well as of 
the persons in it influences smell ; hence there may not be in 
particular instances exact correspondence between excess of 
carbonic acid and of organic matter. 

Chemical Examination. The estimation of nitrogen and 
oxygen in air is usually unnecessary, as these vary but little. The 
oxygen is, however, reduced in frequently re-breathed air. The ill 
effects of an often-breathed atmosphere are due not only to deficiency 
of oxygen, but also to the addition of carbonic acid and organic 
matters, rendering difficult the interchange between oxygen and the 
blood. 

The Estimation of Carbonic Acid is of great importance, as 
under ordinary circumstances, its amount is a fairly exact indication 
of the amount of contamination in the air. 

Pettenkofer's Method. A carefully dried glass vessel containing a 
gallon of water is rilled with the air to be examined, by emptying the water in 
the room, the air of which is to be examined. Fifty cubic centimetres of clear 
freshly prepared baryta water are then added, and the stopper of the bottle 
then replaced. It is then well shaken, and afterwards allowed to stand for an 
hour. The carbonic acid combines with part of the baryta to form barium 
carbonate ; and the baryta water remaining is consequently diminished in 
alkalinity. Given the alkalinity of the baryta water before and after the 
experiment, and the difference will give the amount of baryta which has 
combined with carbonic acid. 

The alkalinity of the baryta is estimated by a standard solution of oxalic 
acid, of such a strength that i c.c. is the equivalent of 0-5 c.c. of CO 2 . The 
indicator used in making this test is phenolphthalein, which colours baryta 
water red, but its colour disappears when neutralization is reached. 

The following example is taken from " Fakes' Laboratory Text Book of 
Hygiene," p. 292: 

The jar is found to contain 3,950 c.c. 

As 50 c.c. baryta water were run into the jar, the air experimented on = 
3,950 - 50 = 3,900 c.c. 

On titrating 25 c.c. of the original baryta water, 22-50 c.c. standard acid 
solution were required to neutralise it. 

The baryta water in the jar required 19-35 c.c. 

22-50 19-35 = 3' T 5 c - c - = difference of acid used. 
But i c.c. acid = 0-5 c.c. CO 2 at o C. and 760 mm. of mercury. 

Therefore CO 2 taken up by 25 c.c. of baryta = 2 5 = 1-575 c.c. 

As 50 c.c. were used the CO 2 absorbed by the baryta = 3-15 c.c. 
This was present in 3,900 c.c. of air. Therefore theCC>2 = 0-80 per cent. 



EXAMINATION OF AIR. 



127 



Correction may be required for variations from the normal pressure of 760 
mm. and normal temperature of o C., in accordance with ordinary rules. 

In Lunge and ZeckendorPs Method, the air to be examined is 

N 
pumped through a glass bottle in which is 10 c.c. of a - solution of Na 2 CO ;; 

containing phenolphthalein as an indicator. The air is pumped by a hand 
pump through this solution until the phenolphthalein is decolourized. The 
number of times the ball of the pump has been squeezed indicates the amount 
of CO 2 present in accordance with a table prepared from separate experiments 
by Pettenkofer's method. 

Dr. Angus Smith's plan for the estimation of carbonic acid in air is similar 
in principle to the last calculations. It is based on the fact that the amount of 
carbonic acid in a given volume of air will not render turbid a given amount 
of lime water, unless the carbonic acid is in excess. 

TABLE. Jo be used when the point of observation is " No precipitate." Half an 
ounce of lime water containing "0195 gramme lime. 

AIR AT o C. AND 760 M. M. BAROMETRIC PRESSURE. 



CARBONIC ACID IN 
THE AIR 
PER CENT. 


VOLUME OF AIR IN SIZE OF BOTTLE IN 
CUBIC CUBIC 
CENTIMETRES. CENTIMETRES. 


SIZE OF BOTTLE IN 
OUNCES 
AVOIRDUPOIS. 


03 


571 584 


20-63 


4 


428 


443 


I5-60 


05 


342 


356 


I2- 5 8 


06 


285 


299 


I0'57 


07 


245 


259 


9-13 


08 


2I 4 


228 


8-05 


09 


190 204 


7'2! 


'ID 


171 185 


6 '54 


II 


156 


170 


6'oo 


'12 


153 


157 


5-53 


'IS 


132 146 


5-i5 


-I 4 


123 137 


4-82 


15 


114 128 


4'53 


20 


86 100 


3-52 


25 


69 83 


2-92 


3 


57 7i 


2-51 



The foregoing table shows how to apply this method. The first and second 
columns state the ratio of carbonic acid in a quantity of air which will give no 
turbidity or precipitate in half an ounce of lime water ; the third column gives 
the corresponding size of the bottle in cubic centimetres ; and the fourth column 
gives the same in ounces. Thus different sized bottles, each containing half an 
ounce of lime water, will indicate with a fair 'degree of accuracy the ratio of 
carbonic acid in the air containing them, by giving no precipitate when the 
bottle is well shaken. For instance, if a pint bottle is used and there is no 
precipitate with half an ounce of lime water, it indicates that the ratio of 
carbonic acid does not amount to -03 per cent. ; if an eight-ounce bottle be used, 
and there is no precipitate, it indicates that the ratio does not amount to -08 per 
cent., and so on. The air of a room ought never to contain more than six 
parts of carbonic acid in 10,000 of air, or -06 per cent., i.e. a 10^ ounce bottle 
full of the air shaken up with half an ounce of clear lime water ought to give 
no precipitate. 

Dr. Haldane has recently described (Journal of Hygiene, No. i, 1901) a 
method of estimating CO 2 , which, although it appears complicated, is really 
both simple and convenient. For particulars, see tlie above Journal. 

The Estimation of Organic Impurities may be accomplished approxi- 
mately by drawing a definite amount of air by means of an aspirator, through a 



128 HYGIENE. 

dilute solution of permanganate of potassium of known strength. The result is 
stated by giving the number of cubic feet of air required to decolourise '061 
gramme of the permanganate in solution. Sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphurous 
acid, and other substances in air likewise decolourise the permanganate ; these 
ought to be separately tested for, and allowance made. 

The Estimation of Ammonia, whether free or derived from albuminoid 
impurities, is a matter requiring very delicate processes. It is accomplished in 
the same way as the estimation of ammonia in water, the air being drawn 
through perfectly pure distilled water, and then the analysis proceeded with as 
a water analysis. The mere presence of free ammonia may be determined by 
exposing to the air strips of filtering paper dipped in Nessler's solution, which 
become brown if there is any ammonia in the air. 

Microscopical Examination is required for the detection of 
suspended matters. These are the most potent for harm, containing 
sometimes the germs of infectious diseases. The suspended 
matters scattered throughout the air may be collected by Pouchet's 
aeroscope. This consists of a small funnel drawn out to a fine 
point, under which a slip of glass is placed moistened with glycerine. 
Both funnel and glass are enclosed in an air-tight chamber, con- 
nected by tubing with an aspirator, by means of which when water 
is allowed to escape from it, air is drawn through the funnel 
and its particles impinging on the glycerine are there arrested. 
Glycerine may be objectionable from the foreign particles previously 
contained in it. Various other plans have been devised, one of 
which is to draw the air through a small quantity of pure distilled 
water and then examine a drop of it. By microscopic examination 
large particles can be detected. For the detection of bacteria and 
their spores more delicate methods are required. 

The Bacteriological Examination of air is usually conducted 
as follows. Air is drawn through a wide glass tube (Hesse's tube), 
which has been previously sterilised, and on the inner side of which 
liquid gelatine has been allowed to solidify. The air as it passes 
over the gelatine deposits any germs present in it. The entrance of 
any further germs is prevented by closing the tube, and it is then 
left to stand for two or three days. Moulds and colonies of bacteria 
will develop in the gelatine, and these can be counted and 
differentiated by their appearance and by further tests. In closed 
rooms the number of microbes (i.e., bacteria and moulds) ought not 
to be more than 20 per litre of air in excess of those in the outside 
air ; and the ratio of bacteria to moulds ought not to exceed 30 to i . 

Examination of Temperature and Moisture. The tem- 
perature should be observed at the point most remote from an open 
fire-place, and compared with the external temperature. For 
methods of estimating moisture, see page 240. 

It may be useful to recapitulate at this point the desiderata in 
an inhabited room. The temperature should be 60 62 Fahr., 
the amount of carbonic acid should not exceed -06 per cent, and 
the humidity should range between 73 and 75 per cent, of the 
amount required to produce saturation. The dry bulb thermometer 
should read 6365 Fahr., the wet bulb 58 61 Fahr., and the 
difference between the two should not be less than 4 or more 
than 8. 



CHAPTER XIX. 
THE PURIFICATION OP AIR. 

IN addition to the artificial measures which will be discussed in the 
next chapter, various natural agencies are constantly at work for 
the removal of the impurities discussed in preceding chapters. Of 
these, the most important are the action of plants, the fall of rain, 
natural methods of ventilation, and certain natural constituents of 
the atmosphere. 

1. Plants, by virtue of the chlorophyll contained in their green 
parts, absorb carbonic acid from the atmosphere, liberating oxygen 
in an active condition. In addition, ammonia and nitrous and 
nitric acids are dissolved from the air by rain-water, and assimi- 
lated by plants. During the night plants only give off carbonic 
acid. 

2. The Fall of Rain clears the atmosphere of any solid par- 
ticles contained in it, the impurities being transferred to rain-water 
which generally contains an appreciable amount of ammonia as 
well as other impurities. Rain not only washes and purifies the 
air, but by washing the ground, diminishes dust, and prevents its 
escape into the air. It is the great natural scavenger. 

3. Ventilation that is, the interchange of pure and impure 
air, is constantly being effected. Before entering on the details of 
ventilation, we must consider the physical causes at work which 
tend to purify the air, apart from all artificial contrivances. These 
are three in number namely, diffusion, winds, and differences of 
temperature of masses of air. 

(i) Diffusion causes the rapid mixture of gases placed together. 
Every gas diffuses at a certain rate namely, inversely as the square 
root of its density. In any room which is not air-tight, diffusion 
is constantly occurring, air passing in and out at every possible 
point. Through chinks and openings in the carpentry-work of a 
room, the air diffuses rapidly. Bricks and stone commonly allow 
air to pass through them ; diffusion occurs to a slight extent even if 
the wall is plastered, but very little through paper. Diffusion 
alone is quite insufficient to purify a room under ordinary circum- 
stances ; and solid particles including the organic matter evolved 
from the skin and lungs, not being gaseous, are unaffected by it. 
To remove these, the room must be periodically flushed with air, 
and washing of all dirty surfaces must be carried out. 

Diffusion sometimes produces evil results, when the sanitary 
arrangements of a house are bad. If there is a leakage of sewage 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 10 



130 HYGIENE. 

under the kitchen floor, the foul gases from it diffuse upwards ; 
occasionally foul air diffuses from the dust-bin through the wall 
into the rooms of a house. These results are helped by the fact 
that the internal temperature of a house is commonly higher than 
the external. 

(2) Differences of Temperature cause active movements of 
air. In fact winds are caused by movements between large masses 
of air of unequal temperature and consequently of unequal density. 
Light gases ascend, as familiarly illustrated by the smell of dinner 
perceived in bedrooms, or the smell of a cigar lit in the hall 
perceived in the attic. In rooms differences of temperature of the 
air are caused by the heat of fire, gas, and our own bodies. 
Currents of air result ; the warmer and lighter air ascends up the 
chimney or towards the ceiling, while colder and denser air rushes 
in under the door or through the floor, etc. The lighter gases carry 
with them solid particles in suspension and thus tend to remove the 
most important impurities. Assuming that the external air is colder, 
if admitted into the lower part of a room, it produces a draught ; if 
admitted at the top of a room, being heavier, it falls by its own 
weight on the heads of those in the room. The problem of 
ventilation is to secure a sufficient interchange of air without the 
production of perceptible currents. 

Movements of air are constantly occurring, so long as the 
temperature of the air is subject to changes. This cause alone 
will suffice to ventilate all rooms in which the air is hotter than the 
external air. It may thus happen that a room with windows and 
doors closed in winter, may possess purer air than the same room 
in summer with these thrown widely open. The value of diffusion 
of air through the walls, and the influence of temperature on this 
diffusion are well illustrated by some experiments of Pettenkofer. 

When the difference between the outside and inside temperatures was 34 
Fahr. (66 inside and 32 outside), and the doors and windows were shut, an 
ordinary room in his house, of the capacity of 2,650 cubic feet, which was built 
of brick, and furnished with a German stove instead of an open fire-place, had 
its entire atmosphere changed once in an hour. With the same difference of 
temperature, but with the addition of a good fire in the stove, the change of air 
rose to 3,320 cubic feet per hour. On lessening the difference between the 
external and internal temperature to 7 Fahr. (64 and 71) , the change of air 
was reduced to only 780 cubic feet per hour. In these experiments, all crevices 
and openings in doors and windows were pasted up. 

It is instructive to note the greater amount of ventilation 
effected through the walls, etc., than by the draught of the stove. 

The amount of ventilation through walls varies with the 
material of which they are built. Mortar is exceedingly porous 
when dry ; sandstones and bricks are easily permeated by both 
water and air. Limestone is almost impervious to air, but requires 
much mortar in building, which effects a partial compensation 
(see page 206). 

The rise of temperature caused by the bodily heat and by the 
combustion of illuminating agents, is well shown by some figures 
of Dr. Angus Smith. He found that the rise of temperature of 170 



NATURAL MEANS OF PURIFYING AIR. 131 

cubic feet of air in one hour, produced by the bodily heat of one man 
was 5-6 Fahr. ; by the combustion of a candle 3-8 Fahr. Thus, in 
a room 8 feet high, 4 feet broad, and 6 feet long, a man burning a 
candle would in an hour raise the temperature from 60 to 70 
Fahr. This rise in temperature would not only cause currents of 
hot air towards the upper part of the room, but would probably 
make the room uncomfortable, and so lead to the opening of a 
door, etc. 

(3) Winds are of great value in flushing rooms with fresh air. 
They ought to be utilised as often as possible, by throwing windows 
widely open ; without, however, taking the place of constant 
ventilation in the intervals. They are especially valuable in getting 
rid of organic matters which are unaffected by diffusion. 

The wind will pass through wood, and even brick and stone 
walls. When it is allowed to pass directly through a room, as 
from window to door, it produces a more powerful effect than can 
be produced in any other way. The average rate of movement of 
winds in this country is 10 feet per second, or about 7 miles an 
hour. If the surface which a man exposes to this average wind 
= 6' X ii' = 9 square feet, then 90 cubic feet of air flows over 
him in one second, and 324,000 in an hour. If 3,000 cubic feet 
were the allowance for each person indoors a much greater 
allowance than is usually given he only receives T $ 5 of the air with 
which he is supplied in the open. 

Winds act as a ventilating agent in two ways directly by 
perflation, driving impure air before them, or freely mixing with 
it ; and indirectly by aspiration, drawing the impure air along 
with them. In the last case, the wind causes a partial vacuum 
on each side of its path, towards which all the air in its vicinity 
flows. Thus, the wind blowing over the top of a chimney 
causes a current at right angles to itself up the chimney. In a 
spray-producing apparatus we have a familiar instance of the 
same principle, the current of air or steam along the horizontal 
tube causing the fluid to rise in the vertical tube till it is scattered 
in spray. In Sylvester's plan of ventilation, both these forces are 
used (see page 150). 

4. Certain Constituents of the Atmosphere have an 
important purifying effect. Of these- oxygen is by far the most 
important. By its means organic impurities become oxidised, and 
thus rendered harmless. It is probable that much of this oxidation 
is effected by means of ozone a peculiarly active and concentrated 
form of oxygen. A large part of this ozone is probably produced 
during thunder-storms and similar electrical disturbances of the 
atmosphere. The ammonia and organic impurities in air become 
changed into nitrites and nitrates chiefly of ammonium and 
being washed down by rain, form an important part of the food of 
plants. 

5. For Chemical Measures of purification of the atmosphere 
see page 324. 



132 



CHAPTER XX. 
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OP VENTILATION. 

The Amount of Air required. Ventilation is chiefly 
concerned with the removal of the products of respiration, just as 
sewage is chiefly concerned with the removal of the solid and liquid 
excreta. 

In a less degree it is required for removing the impurities 
produced by the burning of gas, candles, and lamps. The main 
problem, however, is the removal of the respiratory products. 

The amount of carbonic acid in air is usually fairly pro- 
portional to that of the other respiratory products. It may 
therefore be taken as a measure of the impurity of the' air. 
There are, however, certain fallacies in this test. In soda water 
manufactory, for instance, there would be a comparatively harmless 
excess of carbonic acid. In dirty rooms, and in hospitals and 
other institutions where rooms are not vacated for a considerable 
period, the amount of organic matter present is often in excess of 
what would have been anticipated, judging by an estimation of the 
carbonic acid. This is strikingly shown by some valuable 
researches at Dundee, which are summarised in the following table. 
If we take the average amount (in excess of outside air) of carbonic 
acid, organic matter, and micro-organisms respectively in houses of 
four or more rooms as unity, then in one or two-roomed houses or 
'tenements we have as follows : 





HOUSES OF FOUR 


TWO-ROOMED 


ONF.-ROOMED 




ROOMS 
AND UPWARDS. 


HOUSES. 


HOUSES. 


Carbonic acid 


I 


i*5 


2'0 


Organic matter 


I 


1-6 


4'4 


Micro-organisms 


I 


5'i 


67 



It is evident that in these cases the carbonic acid did not 
increase in the same proportion as the organic matter and 
micro-organisms, and that it alone does not form a sufficient test 
of the impurity of any given atmosphere. The amount of 
carbonic acid, however, is a valuable and convenient test of 
the condition of the air of a room, and the problems of ventilation, 
of which examples are given on page 137, are based on its amount. 

The Standard of purity is somewhat difficult to fix. The 
external air ought only to contain 4 parts of carbonic acid to 10,000 



STANDARD OF PURITY OF AIR. 133 

parts ; but it is almost impossible to maintain this degree of purity 
in inhabited rooms. The experiments made by Drs. Parkes and 
De Chaumont showed that when the carbonic acid is -06 per cent., 
or in the proportion of 6 parts in 10,000 of air, the air begins to be 
perceptibly stuffy (page 125) ; this may therefore be taken as the 
limit of impurity. Pettenkofer has adopted the limit of '07 per 
cent* 

The problem then is to discover the amount of pure external 
air (containing -04 per cent, of carbonic acid) that will be required to 
pass hourly through a room, for every person in that room, in order 
to keep the carbonic acid at the ratio of -06 per cent. 

This may be ascertained by actual observation of the air of 
rooms in which a given number of persons are placed ; or by 
calculations from physiological data. 

As the result of numerous experiments on the atmosphere of 
prisons, barracks, etc., where the amount of fresh air supplied per 
hour is exactly known, it is found that in order to keep the carbonic 
acid at -06 per cent., 3,000 cubic feet of pure air are required per 
head per hour ; 2,000 cubic feet keep the carbonic acid at '07 per 
cent. ; 1,500 cubic feet at *o8 per cent. ; and 1,200 cubic feet at '09 
per cent. 

For the removal of the products of combustion of gas, an 
additional supply of air is required, for the amount of which, see 
page 1 1 6. 

Where a number of sick persons are collected, as in hospitals 
and workhouses, a much freer supply of air is required. Much 
depends, however, on the cleanliness of the wards, and on whether 
the ventilation is constant in character. In St. Thomas's Hospital, 
the space allotted to each ordinary patient is 1,800 cubic feet, and 
to each patient in the fever wards 2,500 cubic feet. Thus, by 
changing the air of the wards twice in the hour, an abundant 
supply of fresh air is ensured. The mortality after operations, 
and in all fevers, is much diminished by a free supply of air. 

Soldiers are allowed 600 cubic feet of space per head in their 
sleeping rooms, which involves a change of the air five times per 
hour, in order that the carbonic acid may be maintained at *o6 per 
cent. The limit of overcrowding for lodging-houses is usually fixed 
at 300 to 500 cubic feet, but this is too little. 

The amount of pure air required in order to keep the carbonic 
acid in a room at -06 per cent., may also be ascertained from 
physiological data, 

An average adult expires f ('6) cubic foot of carbonic acid per 
hour. Now as the carbonic acid in air to be breathed must not 
contain more than two parts in 10,000 ("02 per cent.) in excess of 
what is present in external air (-04 per cent.), it follows that if x = 



exceed i part per 1,000 of air; and if the room is clean and free from dust, 
this higher limit may be accepted. 



134 HYGIENE. 

the amount of fresh air required by an adult per hour in order to 
keep the carbonic acid in the room down to '06 per cent., then : 

02 : '6 : : 100 : x. 
x = 3,000 cubic feet. 

Relation of Air Required to Cubic Space of Room. If 

we accept 3,000 cubic feet of air as the amount required per head 
per hour, this may clearly be furnished by having a large room with 
comparatively little circulation of air, or by having a small room 
with frequent interchanges. Thus, supposing the cubic space 
allowed to each individual is 1,000 cubic feet that is, 10 feet in 
every direction the atmosphere will require changing three times 
per hour. 

Now, it is found that when a current of air, at the temperature 
of 55 60 Fahr., is moving at the rate of less than one mile per 
hour, it is not perceptible that is, produces no draught. The rate 
of a breeze, which is just perceptible, is 18 inches per second, or 
one mile per hour. As draughts are objectionable, ventilation, in the 
best sense of the word, means the supplying of abundant fresh air 
at a rate of less than one mile per hour, or warmed air at a higher 
rate. Air moving at the rate of 2j miles per hour, or 3^- feet per 
second, is perceived as a slight draught by all, at the average 
temperature of our climate (about -50 Fahr.) 

Where natural ventilation is employed, the difficulties of 
thoroughly ventilating a small space, without draught, are very 
great. 

A change of air three or four times in an hour is all that can be 
borne under ordinary conditions in this country, and this necessitates 
a supply of 1,000 or 750 cubic feet of space respectively for each 
individual. And a change of this frequency is commonly not 
effected ; the ventilating apparatus may fail temporarily, or may be 
wilfully stopped up, or there may be no means of ventilation ; it is 
essential therefore to have as large a cubic space as possible. A 
large cubic space, does not obviate the necessity for efficient 
circulation of air. It is, however, advantageous, not only on 
account of the initial longer time before the air reaches the limit 
of impurity, but also because there are less draughts, and there is a 
larger wall surface and larger windows for unperceived ventilation. 

Common Errors as to Ventilation. (i) In relation to the 
cubic space of a room, it is most important to note that a lofty 
ceiling does not compensate for deficiencies in floor-space. One hears, 
" lofty " and " airy " rooms spoken of as though the two terms were 
necessarily synonymous. This is by no means the case. The 
impurities produced by respiration tend to accumulate about the 
persons who have evolved them, although it is true that in rooms 
heated by gas-light, a large amount of hot and impure air collects 
near the ceiling. The necessity of an abundant floor-space is 
shown by the fact that a space enclosed by four high walls and 
without a roof, will, if crowded, speedily become offensive. Twelve 
feet is quite high enough for large rooms in schools, hospital wards, 
etc., and nine feet suffices for the rooms of a private dwelling-house. 



RULES RESPECTING VENTILATION. 135 

There is no objection to a greater height, if it is remembered that in 
reckoning the practical cubic dimensions of a room, the height should 
only be reckoned as twelve feet. Supposing 500 cubic feet is the 
amount allowed per individual, then the floor-space should be 
forty-two square feet, which would be furnished by a room about 
8^ feet long and 5-^ feet wide. In barracks, soldiers are allowed 
fifty square feet of floor-space. In school-rooms the Education 
Code requires that at least ten square feet of floor-space, and at 
least 120 cubic feet shall be allowed for each child in average 
attendance. 

(2) It is commonly supposed that a large room compensates for 
a deficient circulation of air. The cubic space of a room is really of less 
importance than the capacity for frequent interchanges of air. Even the 
largest enclosed space can only supply air for a limited period, after 
which the same amount of fresh air must be supplied, whether the 
space be small or large. Thus, supposing that as large a space as 
10,000 cubic feet per head were allowed, the limit of purity would 
in the absence of ventilation be reached in three hours, and after 
that time an hourly supply of 3,000 cubic feet of air would be just 
as necessary as if the space were only 200 cubic feet. 

(3) It must not be overlooked that the furniture in a room must 
be deducted from the breathing space, as the amount of air is 
diminished by the space occupied by the furniture. About 10 cubic 
feet ought to be allowed for each bed, and 3 to 5 cubic feet for each 
individual in a room ; projecting surfaces must be allowed for by 
subtraction, and recesses by addition. The deductions to be made 
for furniture are not of any great consequence, if there is a free 
interchange of air ; as the cubic space is of less importance than 
free ventilation. 

General Rules respecting Ventilation. The two great 
objects in ventilating being to remove all impurities from the air, 
and to avoid draughts, it is important that 

1. The entering air should be, if possible, of a temperature of 
55 to 60 Fahr. Whenever the temperature of a room differs from 
the external temperature by 10 Fahr., a draught is certain to 
ensue. It is impossible at all times to ensure the incoming air 
being of the temperature of 60, without some artificial means of 
warming it. In this country it is seldom necessary to cool the 
incoming air, but this may be managed in artificial systems of 
ventilation by passing the incoming air over ice, or by using 
compressed air which becomes cooled on expansion, or by passing 
the incoming air through subterranean tunnels. 

2. The entering air should be pure. When a room is hotter than 
the passages and kitchens, air from the latter, whatever may be its 
character, is drawn into the room. Similarly the ground-air under 
the kitchen-floor or the air from ash-pits may be drawn into the 
house, when no other means of ventilation are provided ; and this is 
often followed by evil results. 

3. No draught or current should be perceptible from the incoming 
air, except when it is wished to flush the room with air, by opening 



136 HYGIENE. 

the windows wide. It is a common complaint that a room is 
draughty, and, to remedy this, keyholes are stopped up, and mats are 
placed at the bottom of the door, etc. The draught can often be 
remedied by increasing the size and number of the openings through 
which air is admitted, so that the current of air is not concentrated 
and rapid. When this does not remedy it, the incoming air should 
be warmed. A feeling of draught is very often due to the radiation 
to and from a window, and disappears when a curtain or screen is 
placed between the radiating surface and the occupant of the room. 

4. The entry of air should be constant, not intermittent. The 
occasional opening of a window or door will not compensate for the 
lack of a constant interchange of air, although it forms a very 
valuable adjunct, especially in the removal of organic particles 
which do not follow the law of diffusion. 

5. An exit should be provided for impure air, as well as an entrance 
for pure air. The chimney furnishes this in most living-rooms, and 
diminishes the necessity for other means of exit. 

If the openings in a room for entrance and exit are properly 
regulated, a rate of 5 feet per second (about 3^ miles per hour) will 
provide sufficient air without any unpleasant draught in a room. 
For instance, if the opening measure i square foot, then a rate -of 5 
feet per second will give five cubic feet of air per second, that is, 
18,000 cubic feet per hour. But as only 3,000 cubic feet are 
required, it follows that an opening one-sixth this size, i.e. 24 square 
inches, is sufficient for each individual. Reckoning the same 
amount for means of exit, 48 square inches is the size of the 
ventilating orifices required by each individual. 

6. A number of small divided openings are not collectively equal in 
ventilating power to one large one having the same area. Thus, when a 
ventilating orifice is divided into four parts, which have the same 
collective area as the original orifice, it is found that only half as 
much air passes through these as through the original orifice. In 
order to obtain as much air, therefore, each opening must be equal 
in size to half the original opening. This is in accordance with the 
rule that the friction for air passing through openings is inversely to 
the diameter of these openings, i.e. inversely to the square-root of 
the area of the openings. 

7. The most important requirements of perfect ventilation may 
be recapitulated as follows : 

i st. The maximum impurity of air vitiated by respiration 
should not exceed 6 parts carbonic acid per 10,000 volumes. 

2nd. To ensure the maintenance of this standard, 3,000 cubic 
feet of pure air must be supplied per head per hour. 

3rd. In order to supply this amount of pure air, with ordinary 
means of ventilation, 1,000 cubic feet at least must be allowed per 
head in buildings always occupied. 



( 137 ) 



CHAPTER XXI. 
PROBLEMS AS TO VENTILATION. 

THE following formula enables many problems relating to ventila- 
tion to be solved. Let p = the amount of poison (carbonic acid) 
in every cubic foot of fresh air, viz. '0004 cubic foot. Let A = the 
number of cubic feet of fresh air delivered or available, P the 
amount of carbonic acid exhaled, and x = the amount of carbonic 
acid per cubic foot in the room at the end of a given time. Then 

P P 

x = p + , whence A = -. 

A X P 

If the carbonic acid in the air of a room is -75 per 1,000 volumes (that in the 

outer air being -4 per 1,000 volumes), and there are five persons in the room, how 
much air is entering the room per hour? 

Here x = -00075. 
p = -0004. 

P = -6 (i.e. number of cubic feet of carbonic acid expired by each 
person per hour). 

Now x = p + . 
A 

00075 = '0004 + _. 
Therefore A = about 1,700. 

Thus 1,700 cubic feet are required for each individual to keep the air 
within the given limit, and five times this amount will be required for five 
persons = 8,500 cubic feet. 

-- .^o" /*"*" t- 

A room has been occupied for one hour, at the end of which the total carbonic 
acid present was found to Ue i'i per 1,000 parts. The carbonic acid in the open air 
amounting to -0004 per cubic foot, find the quantity of air supplied per hour. 

Here x = *oon. 

p = -0004 and P = -6. 
Hence -oon = -0004 + _. 
Therefore A = 857 cubic feet. v^ a*~~*^ vwju. tau. CrJdJfc J 

// six persons are in a room containing 3,000 cubic feet, and there is a supply of 
2,000 cubic feet of air per head per hour ; how much carbonic acid is there in the air 
of the room at the end of 4 hours ? 

Here p = -0004. 

P = '6x6x4= i4'4- 

A = (2000- x 6 x 4) + 3,000 = 51,000. 

x = -004 + - T 4 4 = -000682 = 6-82 parts CO 2 in 10,000 of air. 
51,000 



138 HYGIENE. 

The air of a room occupied by 6 persons and containing 5,000 cubic feet of 
space, yields 7-5 parts of CO 2 per 10,000 parts of air. How much air is being 
supplied per hour ? 

A = -JL- = 12L? = 10,280 cubic feet. 

x - p -00075 - '04 ~^~ 

In the same room what would be the condition of the air at the end of 4 hours ? 
6x6x4 



0004 + 



(10280 x 4) + 5,000 



= '0004 + xJ_ = -000712 = 7'i2 of CO in 10,000 of air. 
46,120 * 

'- Given two sleeping rooms, Y 10 ft. by 15 ft. and 10 ft. high, Z 15 ft. by 20 ft. 
and 12 ft. high, with three adults in each ; how much fresh air would you supply in 
each? What would be the condition of the air of each of the rooms after J, , i, 
and 2 hours respectively? 

Amount of fresh air to be supplied in Y 

A - = - 3 - = 9,000 cubic feet per hour. 
x p -0006 -0004 

Condition of air in Y after ^ hour 
Here p = -0004. 




x = -0004 + 

3,750 

At the end of 2 hours 

x = -0004 + - 3_6 - = . 0005 8 4 . 

18,000 + 1,500 
And similarly for Z. 

Suppose two rooms, one 10 feet cube, the other 50 feet by 20 feet and 15 feet 
high, have continuously admitted into each of them a volume of fresh air containing -04 
parts carbonic acid per 100 parts, amounting to 2,000 cubic feet per hour, so as to 
replace to that extent the air of the room; suppose also that an average adult be 
placed in each room : show by detailed calculation what would be the condition of 
impurity of air in each room, as measured by carbonic acid, at the end of 4 hours 
and 12 hours respectively. 

In the case of the first room 

P = -6 x 4 = 2-4. 

A = (2,000 x 4) + 1,000 = 9,000. 

p = -0004. 



The amount of impurity at the end of 12 hours, and in the second room 
may be similarly ascertained. 

Ventilation in relation to Temperature. The temperature 
of a given atmosphere is a most important factor in determining 
the ease with which it is replenished from the external air. Speak- 
ing generally, the greater the difference between the temperature of 
two masses of air the more rapidly an interchange occurs. 

Air has weight. A column of it one inch square and extending 
to the uppermost limit of the atmosphere weighs about 14-6 Ibs., 



PROBLEMS AS TO VENTILATION. 139 

and exerts this pressure on all substances at the surface of the 
earth. This pressure is exerted uniformly in all directions ; but for 
this fact our chests would be crushed in by the external pressure on 
them, which amounts to over four tons. If the atmospheric pressure 
is diminished at any point, it is evident that the surrounding air will 
tend to press in this direction. Now, when air is heated it expands, 
and consequently the heavier fresh air flows in from all sides and 
pushes the lighter air upwards. 

The expansion of air for every increase of i Cent, is -003665 (27-3), for 
every increase of i Fahr. is -00203 (1^2) Thus if the air in a room is 20 F. 
warmer than that outside, it will be expanded to Jg- additional bulk. 

Thus if M = volume of a given air at 32, with the barometer at 30 
inches, and 

M! = volume at temperature t above 32, while a = coefficient 
of expansion for each degree of elevation of temperature, then the dilatation 
effected by heat will be expressed by the formula 

M! = M (i + at). 
When the temperature is decreasing 

Mj = M (i - at). 

If the air in a chimney flue is cooler than the air of the room with which 
it communicates, it will flow down into the room. It is the object of an 
economical fireplace to cause the chimney to act as an outlet for the products of 
combustion and for the impurities of the air of the room with the smallest 
possible waste of heat. Short of producing a down draught of cold air and 
smoke, the smaller the difference between the temperature of the air of a room 
and of the air escaping near the top of the chimney, the greater the economy of 
fuel. 

The movement of air in flues and other outlets is governed by 
general laws, like those governing the general movements of fluids, but allowances 
require to be made for friction in the channels of entrance and outlet. 

The theoretical velocity, when friction is not taken into account, may be 
calculated by a formula based on what is known as the law of Montgolfier, or the 
law of spouting fluids. According to this law, fluids pass through an 
opening in a partition ,with the same velocity as a body would attain in 
falling through a height equal to the difference in depth of the fluid on 
the two sides of the partition, i.e. to the difference of pressure on the 
two sides. Thus, if AB equals the height of a column of air at, say, B 
50 F., and AC is the height of the same quantity of air heated to 60, 
then the velocity with which the warmer air ascends will be that which 
a body would acquire in falling from C to B. 

Now the velocity in feet per second of falling bodies is about eight 
times the square root of the height from which they have fallen ; and 
the formula for determining this is 



In this formula v = required velocity in feet per second ; 
g = 32-17 feet per second ; 
h distance fallen through by the body ; 
c = a constant determined by experiment, and expressing 
the proportion of the actual to the theoretical velocity. 

Adapting this formula to the special circumstances under which Montgolfier' s 
formula holds, we find that the force which drives the warm air up the flue is 
the force of gravity, i.e. of the excess of the weight of a column of cold air over 
the weight of a column of warm air of exactly the same size (represented by BC 
in the preceding diagram). The difference of the two weights or pressures is 
found by multiplying the distance from the point of escape of heated air out of 
the room (fireplace or elsewhere) to the point of escape into the outer air (top of 



140 HYGIENE. 

chimney or other point of exit), by the difference in temperature inside and 
outside, and again multiplying this product by ^^ for degrees of Fahrenheit 
temperature, or 2 } 3 for degrees Centigrade. 
Thus omitting c for the present, we have 



492 492 

Where t = temperature in the chimney, 

t l = temperature of the external air, and 
h = height of chimney. 

Example. The chief means of ventilating a given room is by its open fireplace. The 
temperature in the chimney is 100 F., that of the external air 40, and the height of the 
chimney 50 feet ; what is the velocity with which air is leaving the room ? 



v = S-2 A/ (IPO - 40) x 50 
492 

= 20. 

This gives the theoretical velocity, but the real velocity will differ from the 
theoretical by an amount varying from 20 to 50 per cent. 

It will be evident, from what has been said, that the movements of the air 
in a confined space are dependent upon (i) the difference between the internal 
and external temperatures ; (2) the area and friction at the apertures through 
which air enters and leaves the room ; and (3) the height of the column of 
ascending warm air. The higher the chimney (assuming it to contain warm 
air), the greater the draught and the more efficient the ventilation of the 'room 
communicating with it. Hence ventilation is more difficult in upper rooms of 
large houses and in single-storeyed houses than in the lower storeys of large 
houses. 

Allowance for Friction. Practically the friction varies greatly according 
to the size, form, and material of outlet for air. A rough or sooty or angular 
chimney greatly impedes the outgoing current of air. 

It is usual to reduce the theoretical velocity by 20 to 50 per cent. Apart 
from the friction which is governed by roughness and length of channels, that 

due to bends in the channel may be calculated by the formula ^ =~2~Z 6 being 
the angle at any bend in this channel. 
(It may be convenient to note that 

sin" 90 = i, sin 2 60 = f 

s 2 45 = , sin 2 30 = |.) 

Thus every right angle in a bent shaft reduces the velocity in it by one-half. 

The loss by friction in two similar tubes of equal sectional area varies (i) 
directly with the square of the velocity of the air currents ; and (2) directly with 
the length of the outlet channel. In two similar tubes of unequal size the loss 
by friction is (3) inversely as the diameter of the cross-section in each. 

When two tubes are of different shapes, the loss by friction is inversely as 
the square roots of the sectional areas. 

Owing to the variable value of the coefficient of friction (called c in the first 
formula given) , it is usually preferable to measure the actual rate of progress of 
air through a given flue by means of an anemometer (wind measure). Then 
the velocity of the current of air and the area of the cross section of the flue 
being given, the volume of air discharged in a given time is represented by the 
product of these two and the time which has elapsed. 

Thus, q = a x v. 

Where q = quantity of air discharged in a given time, a = area of cross 
section of flue, v = velocity of current. 

By means of this formula, the area of chimney required to discharge a 
given volume of air at a given average velocity can be ascertained. Thus 

_ 9 



PROBLEMS AS TO VENTILATION. 141 

The application of the preceding principles and formulae will be rendered 
clearer by the following examples. 

How much inlet and outlet area per head will be required to give 10 persons in a 
room of 5,000 cubic feet capacity, 2,000 cubic feet of air per head per hour, supposing 
that the outside temperature is 40, while the internal temperature is 60, and the height 
of the heated column of air 20 feet ? 

First ascertain the velocity of entrance and exit of air. 



v = 8-2 x/M* ~ '*) 
V 492 



20 (6o 40) _ o. 

492,~~ 
= 7-3964 = velocity in feet per second. 

If we allow one-fourth for friction, then there remains a velocity of 5 '5473 
feet per second. 

5-5473 feet per second = 19700-8 feet per hour. 



Now, a = " 

v 



2 '' - "1015 square feet. 



19700-8 
= 14-6 square inches. 

Thus the size of the outlet required per head is 14-6 square inches. The 
size of the room and the number occupying it do not enter into the question, 
except for a short time at the beginning. (See page 135.) 

The amount of inlet required will also be 14-6 square inches per head. 
Theoretically it ought to be slightly less than that required for outlet, as the 
outgoing air is more expanded than that entering the room ; but practically no 
allowance need be made for this fact. 

The total amount of inlet and outlet required per head = 29-2 square inches. 

// the mean temperature of a room is 61, the external temperature 45, while the 
heated column of air is 50 feet, and the required delivery of air 2,000 cubic feet per 
hour, find the size of inlet and outlet. 



50 (61 - 45j 

492 
= 10-55 feet per second. 

= 37,980 feet per hour. 
If we make no allowance for friction, then 



a=i 

v 



2 ' 000 square feet. 



= 2.00Q x 144 = 7 . 58 square inches. 
37,980 

This gives the required size of outlet. The size of inlet and outlet together 
= 15-16 square inches. 

// 3,000 cubic feet of air are supplied in one hour through an aperture of 12 square 



i 4 2 HYGIENE. 

inches to a room containing 1,000 cubic feet of space, at what rate does the air enter the 
room ? 

12 square inches = ^ square foot. 

a = ^- 

v 

i _ 3,000 

12 V 

Therefore v 36,000 feet per hour. 
10 feet per second. 

// a room is supplied with 3,000 cubic feet of air per hour, through a sinqls 
opening, what must be its area, if the rate of movement of the air is 5 feet per second ? 
5 feet per second = 18,000 feet per hour. 

=>&$&- . square foot. 
= 24 square inches. 

As already stated, the difficulties connected with the estimation of amount 
of friction greatly detract from the practical value of the formulae just given. 
Even the results given by anemometers are not always trustworthy, but by com- 
paring the results given by them with those obtained by the use of Montgolfier's 
formula an approximation to the truth can be obtained. 

The ordinary anemometer consists of four tiny vanes fixed to a spindle, so 
that revolutions are caused by the current of air the velocity of which is to be 
measured. The revolutions are counted by a mechanical arrangement. The 
value of the revolutions of the vanes has to be first determined by' direct 
experiment ; a known bulk of air being forced through a channel of known size 
at a uniform rate, and the instrument graduated accordingly. In Fletcher's 
anemometer a modification of the manometer or pressure-gauge has been used 
for the same purpose. 

Inlets and Outlets. Having given the average velocity of the wind, the 
size of a room, and the number of persons occupying it, the size of inlet opening 
required can easily be calculated. 

Find the size of inlet for air in a room occupied by one person, the air moving at 
the average velocity of 5 feet per second, assuming that 3,000 cubic feet of air are to be 
supplied per hour. 

Let x = size of inlet. 

Then x x 60 x 60 x 5 = 3,000. 

Therefore x = T 3 gVA i? square foot. 

= 24 square inches. 

Given that the air moves at a velocity of 10 feet per second, and that the area of 
the inlet aperture into a room is 12 square inches, find how much air enters the room in 
an hour. 

Let y = amount of air. 

Then 10 x 60 x 60 x T ^ = y. 

Therefore y = 3,000 cubic feet of air. 

Calculations as to supply of air in a room founded on the average velocity 
of air-currents are, however, much less trustworthy than when the velocity is 
determined, as previously explained, by means of Montgolfier's formula, or, 
better still, by an anemometer. 

The Commissioners on Improving the Sanitary Condition of Barracks and 
Hospitals, in their report (1861) recommended for inlets, one square inch for 
every 60 cubic feet in the contents of the room ; or one square inch for every 
120 cubic feet in the contents, if warm air is admitted round the fire-grate. For 
outlet shafts on lower floors, one square inch to every 60 cubic feet, slightly 
increasing for the higher storeys. 

Amount of Air-space required. We may take 3,000 cubic 
feet of air as the average amount of air required hourly by each 
individual, and inasmuch as the air of a room cannot be changed 






FLOOR SPACE AND CUBIC SPACE. 143 

oftener than three times an hour without producing an unpleasant 
draught, it follows that at least 1,000 cubic feet of space must be 
allowed per person. 

This may be compared with the amount actually supplied under various 
circumstances. 

In the British Army for each soldier 

In permanent barracks 600 cubic ft. 

In wooden huts . . . . . . . . . . . . 400 

In hospital wards at home . . . . . . . . . . 1,200 

In hospital wards in the tropics .. .. .. .. 1,500 

In general hospitals .. .. .. .. .. 1,000-1,500 

In fever hospitals . . . . . . . . . . 2,000-3,000 

In workhouse hospitals .. .. .. .. 850-1,200 

In common lodging houses. . . . . . . . 300 or 350 

Do., if occupied night and day . . . . . . 350 or 400 

In workhouses . . . . . . . . . . . . 300 

In schools 

London School Board requires per scholar . . . . 130 

English Educational Code per scholar (minimum), in 

old schools . . . . . . . . . . . . 80 ,, 

Do., in new schools .. .. .. .. .. .. 120 ,, 

Floor-space has an important bearing on ventilation. In 
calculating the available cubic space of a room, the height over 12 
feet should be disregarded. Thus, if 500 cubic feet is allowed for 
each individual, the floor-space should be 42 square feet. In 
barracks, soldiers are allowed 50 square feet of floor-space. 

In the Government regulations for workhouses it is stated that 
there must not be more than two rows of beds, and that the height 
of rooms above 12 feet must not be reckoned. This gives a 
minimum floor-space of 25 square feet per occupant, or with 
dormitories 17 feet wide, a bed-space of about 3 feet. 

In hospitals, the question of floor-space is extremely important, 
as it regulates the distance between the sick inmates and the 
convenience of nursing. Assuming each bed to be 3 feet wide and 
6J feet long, the distance between any two beds should be at least 
5 feet. This makes the wall-space for each bed 8 feet long, and 
allows from 80 to 96 square feet of floor-space per bed. At St. 
Thomas's Hospital, London, the floor-space is 112 square feet, and 
in fever hospitals it is from 150 to 300 square feet per bed. In 
regard to the ventilation of hospitals,' it has been well said that 
nothing less than too much is enough. 

Means of ascertaining Cubic Space. Circumference of a circle = 
Diameter (D) x 3-1416. 

Area of circle = D 2 x "7854. 

Area of square = square of one of its sides. 

Area of rectangle = product of two adjacent sides. 

Area of triangle = base x height, or height x base. 

Area of ellipse = product of the two diameters x 7854. 

Circumference of ellipse = half the sum of the two diameters x 3-1416. 

Area of any polygon found by dividing into triangles, and taking the sum of 
their areas. 

Cubic capacity of a cube found by multiplying the three dimensions together. 

Cubic capacity of a cylinder = area of base x height. 

Cubic capacity of a cone or pyramid = area of base x height. 



i 4 4 HYGIENE. 

Cubic capacity of a dome = area of base (circle) x height. 
Cubic capacity of a sphere = D 3 x '5236. 

Area of segment of a circle found by adding to of product of chord and 
height, the cube of the height divided by twice the chord. 

(Ch x H x |) + -^.. 

Give the dimensions of a circular ward for 12 patients, each to have 1,750 cubic 
feet of available air-space. 

Capacity of ward = 1,750 x 12 = 21,000 cubic feet. 

If we allow 1 20 square feet floor-space for each patient, then the total 
floor-space will be 1,440 square feet. Consequently the height of the ward 

= # = 1475 ^et. 

Area of circle = D 2 x '7854. 

M4Q = D2 

7854 
Therefore D = 43-2 feet. 

Circumference of circle = D x 3-1416. 
= 43-2 x 3-1416. 
= 1357 feet. 

The dimensions of the circular ward required are therefore a height of 
1475 feet, diameter of 43-2 feet, and circumference of 1357 feet. 

Find the cubic capacity of a circular hospital ward 28 feet in diameter, 10 feet high, 
and with a dome-shaped roof 5 feet high. 
Area of floor-space = D 2 x 7854. 

= 614-8 square feet. 

Cubic capacity of the cylinder below the dome is 614-8 x 10 = 6, 148 cubic feet. 
Cubic capacity of dome = 614-8 x x 5 = 2049-3 cubic feet. 
Total cubic capacity of the ward = 8197-3 cubic feet. 

In practical measurements of rooms, deductions must be made from the 
cubic space for the furniture contained in it and for its inmates. About 10 cubic 
feet ought to be allowed for each bed and bedding, and 2^ to 4 cubic feet for 
each individual. Projecting surfaces must be allowed for by subtraction, and 
recesses by addition. 

A circular ward with a diameter of 36 feet has a dome-shaped roof, the height of 
whose centre is 18 feet. The height to the dome is 12 feet. Find the floor -space and 
total cubic contents. How many patients ought the ward to accommodate? 

Area of floor-space = (36)2 x 7854. 

= 1017-8784 square feet. 

Cubic capacity of cylinder below dome = 1017-87 x 12 = 12214-5 cubic feet. 

Cubic capacity of dome = 1017-87 x x 6 = 4071-48 cubic feet. 

Total cubic capacity of the ward = 16285-98 cubic feet. 

Assuming that 1,500 cubic feet are required for each patient, then the ward 
is large enough for 10 patients. It is well to test this conclusion by calculating 
whether sufficient floor-space has been allowed for each patient. The floor-space 
has been found to be about 1,018 square feet, which would give 100 feet for each 
of 10 patients and more than the minimum standard previously stated. 

What number of people should be allowed to 
sleep in a dormitory 40 feet long, of which the 
accompanying sketch is a section ? 

The cubic capacity of the quadrilateral 
space below the roof =16x9x40= 5,760 
cubic feet. 

Area of floor = area of base of roof = 
40 x 10 = 640 square feet. 

Cubic capacity of roof = 640 x * (13 9). 

= 853-3 cubic feet. 

Total cubic capacity of dormitory = 
1 6 feet. 6613-3 cubic feet. 




PROBLEMS AS TO VENTILATION. 145 

If we take the low standard of common lodging houses and allow 350 cubic 
feet of space for each inmate, then 18 persons may be allowed to sleep in the 
dormitory. 

von 1 How much space would a man occupy supposing him to weigh 175 Ibs. P How 
much is usually allowed for a man with his clothes, bed and bedding ? 

The space occupied by a man is stated by Parkes to be from 2^ to 4 cubic 
feet (say 3 for the average) . He gives the following rule : The weight of a man 
in stones divided by 4 gives the cubic feet he occupies. Thus, a man weighing 
175 Ibs. would occupy 3^ cubic feet of space. 

^o > About 10 additional cubic feet must be allowed for clothing, bedding, and 
bed for each person. 

What size of inlet and outlet aperture should be allowed per head ? Hoiv large 
should each individual inlet be made ? If an inlet aperture 100 square inches in area is 
divided into four, with apertures of 25 square inches each, what is the loss by friction? 

A size of 24 square inches per head for inlet and the same for outlet meets 
common conditions. 

.>" It is desirable to make each individual inlet not larger than 48 to 60 square 
inches in area, i.e. large enough for two or three men ; and each outlet not 
larger than one square foot, or enough for six men (Parkes). This ensures more 
uniform diffusion of the air throughout a room. On the other hand, the loss by 
friction is greatly increased by having a number of small openings instead of one 
large opening. This loss is inversely to the square roots of the respective areas. 
Thus the square root of 100 is 10 ; the sum of the square roots of the four 
apertures of 25 square inches each is 20. The loss by friction is double in the 
second case what it was in the undivided opening. It is evident, therefore, that 
in order to get as much air through the four openings as through the original 
large opening, each must be equal in size to half the original opening. 

Why is ventilation more difficult in upper rooms of large houses and in single- 
storied houses than in the lower storeys of large houses ? 

Cold external air being heavier than the internal warm air, presses down- 
wards to the lowest point, and -pushes up the warmer air. If there were a 
vacuum in the room, air would rush into it with a velocity which, as seen before, 
is represented by the formula 



Where g = 32, s = height of column of air, which we may take as roughly 
5 miles. 

From this formula we obtain v = 1,306 feet per second. 

It is evident that in such a case the velocity of entry of air into a vacuum 
on the ground floor would be greater than into a vacuum on any of the higher 
storeys, owing to the greater velocity acquired through the increased action of 
gravity. 

And the same increased facility of entry of air into lower rooms must hold 
good under ordinary circumstances, inasmuch as by Montgolfier's formula (which 
is founded on the fundamental formula v A/ 2^5) 



492 

h = distance between top of chimney and floor of room in question, and thus 
the velocity with which air enters is governed by the difference between the 
internal and external temperature, and the height from which the cold air 
descends in order to take the place of the air which has escaped. 



Newsholme's Hygiene. 1 1 



( 146) 



CHAPTER XXII. 
METHODS OF VENTILATION. 

IN most houses no special means of ventilation are provided, 
windows, doors and fireplaces being trusted for ensuring a sufficient 
supply of fresh air. These do not suffice in well-built houses, 
unless the inhabitants train themselves into enduring the currents of 
air necessarily associated with open windows and doors. They are, 
however, aided in the majority of houses by the porosity of walls, 
by currents of air through crevices of wood-work, and so on. It is 
desirable that adequate special provision for ventilation should be 
made for every house when it is built, and that as much care and 
forethought should be exercised in this respect as in the laying on 
of a water-supply or sanitary appliances connected with drainage. 

Whatever the system of ventilation adopted, it is wise to flush 
rooms frequently with fresh air. This is best effected by throwing the 
windows wide open whenever a room is left unoccupied. In this 
way a much more thorough and complete purification is effected 
than by any other means. This is especially important in the case 
of bed-rooms, in which organic impurities are most prone to 
accumulate. 

Not only should rooms be ventilated, but likewise the furniture 
they contain. This again is most important for bedrooms. Beds 
should not be "made" till sometime after using; and in the 
interval, should be freely exposed to the air. The same applies to 
night apparel. 

It is well to allow rooms to lie fallow at intervals. Organic 
matter accumulates about a room, and devitalises any air which 
enters. If the room is vacated, and -flushed with air for a con- 
tinuous period, it becomes sweeter and purer. The importance of 
this is now well recognised in the case of hospital wards. Such 
temporary disuse of rooms must not, however, be regarded as 
sufficient without thorough cleansing of every surface in them, in 
order effectively to remove all organic and other dust. 

An Inlet and Outlet for air should both be provided. Accord- 
ing to some an inlet only is required, while others would only 
provide an outlet ; but a perfect system of ventilation requires both. 
As heated air expands, the outlets should theoretically be larger 
than the inlets ; but as the average difference of temperature is only 
10 15 Fahr., the expansion is only slight, and may be practically 
neglected. 



INLETS AND OUTLETS. 




1 1 . 



ILLUSTRATING 

NECESSITY OK 

INLET AND 

OUTLET. 



The necessity for both inlets and outlets may be illustrated by a single 
apparatus like that shown in Fig. n. A taper is burning at the bottom of 
the jar, in the stopper of which two tubes, A and B, are 
placed. So long as both tubes are kept open the candle will 
keep alight, but if A be blocked, the candle goes out. 

Inlets should bring air -from a pure source, 
and should be arranged at intervals in large rooms. 
Externally, inlets should be protected from the 
wind ; and the shorter the inlet tubes the better, as 
thus a current is ensured, and they can be easily 
cleaned. The position of inlets should not be too 
near the outlets, otherwise the fresh air may escape 
immediately. The best position for inlets is at the 
floor, but this necessitates warming the entering air, 
as otherwise it would be intolerable, except in 
summer time. If the air cannot be warmed, it 
should be admitted about seven feet above the floor, 
and" directed upwards. For size of inlets, see page 
142. 

Outlets, under ordinary circumstances, are best 
placed near the ceiling. They should be enclosed 
as far as possible within walls, so as to prevent the 
out-going air being cooled ; and should have smooth 
walls, reducing friction to a minimum. Where 
artificial warmth increases the temperature of the 
air, the discharge of outlets is much more certain and 
constant. The chimney with an open fire forms one of the best 
outlets. Gas, again, may be made to heat an outlet tube, which 
carries off the products of combustion. 

Two forms of ventilation are usually described natural and 
artificial. The former term is used to describe any plan not 
requiring heating apparatus or the motive power of steam, or gas, 
or electricity, while the latter implies the use of some such motive 
power or source of heat. Obviously, however, there is no sharp 
line of demarcation between the two. A lighted fire is strictly an 
artificial plan of ventilation, but inasmuch as no apparatus intended 
for ventilating purposes is required, it is hardly a means of artificial 
ventilation. 

Natural Ventilation. The most important means of natural 
ventilation are the window and the chimney ; but openings in outer 
walls and over the door may form valuable adjuncts. 

The Window is perhaps the most important agent in purifying 
a room both the light and air it admits being essential for health. 
The window is invaluable (i) for flushing the room with fresh air 
at intervals. Where possible, opposite windows should be opened, 
or window and door. Cross-ventilation by opposite windows open 
at the top forms one of the best means of natural ventilation, 
in large rooms, such as school-rooms. This can, as a rule, be borne 
without discomfort, while the room is occupied, unless the wind is 
very high. 

(2) The Upper Segment of a window may be made to work 



148 



HYGIENE. 




inwards on a hinge, and turned so that the current of air may be 
upwards. Where this plan is adopted, triangular pieces of glass 
should be placed at the two sides to prevent cold air from falling 
directly down at the sides of the opening. 

(3) A Block of Wood, two or three inches wide, may be 
inserted at the bottom of the window sash at A (Fig. 12), and then 
the window pulled down on this. The consequence is that air is 
admitted between the two sashes at B, its current being necessarily 
directed upwards (Fig. 12). This plan answers admirably in 
admitting pure air ; but it possesses a disadvantage common to all 
the plans in which external air much colder than the internal is 
admitted into a room. The current of cold air passes upwards for 
some distance, but may then fall down on the heads of those 
occupying the room. 

(4) The top sash of the window may be opened, 
and some zinc gauze fastened across the open part. 
This is practically the same as the last arrangement, 
except that the air is admitted through the aper- 
tures of the zinc, and the amount admitted is 
greatly diminished (page 136). 

(5) In Louvre Ventilators, a number of 
parallel pieces of glass, each directed upwards, are 
substituted for a pane of glass. They may be fixed 
or made movable, as in Moore's ventilator. The 
incoming current of air may be similarly directed 
upwards, in an open window, by arranging Venetian 
blinds with the laths inclined upwards. 

(6) In windows that will not open, Cooper's Ventilators are 
often used. Each of these consists of a circular disc of glass, 
having five oval apertures in it, which works on a pivot through its 
centre, close in front of one of the panes of a window, which has 
five similar holes pierced in it. Consequently, when the disc is 
turned, so that its holes are opposite those of the window, fresh air 
is admitted. The amount thus admitted is necessarily small. 

The Chimney forms the best means of escape of foul air. No 
room ought to be built without a fireplace, which should never 
subsequently be boarded up. In bedrooms the chimney forms a 
most important means of ventilation. If there is no fire, the 
chimney occasionally furnishes an undesirable source of air ; but as 
a rule the current is upwards, owing to the aspirating action of 
winds at the top of the chimney. The downfall of air from a 
chimney chiefly occurs when there is an insufficient inlet for pure 
air. This is the explanation of smoky chimneys in nine cases out 
of ten ; then the cure is easy by laying on a pipe from the outside 
of the house to the hearth. When the smoky chimney is due to the 
contiguity of higher buildings, the chimney must be raised, or a 
cowl placed over it. 

(i) The action of the chimney in carrying impure air away 
from the room may be considerably increased by narrowing the 
two ends, so as to produce a more rapid current at the entrance 
and exit of air. 



FIG. 12. 

WINDOW 
VENTILATION. 



NATURAL VENTILATION. T49 

(2) The heat of the chimney may be utilised by having a 
separate smaller flue alongside it, with openings from the rooms 
on each floor. The air in this being heated aspirates the air from 
each room in succession. 

Openings may be made into the chimney-flue at a higher point 
than the fire-place. These are very valuable for carrying off the 
heated and impure air resulting from the combustion of gas, as well 
as for carrying off the respiratory products, which, in their warmed 
condition, tend to rise towards the ceiling. 

(3) Dr. Neil Arnott first devised a valve for this purpose. 
An opening being made through the upper part of the wall into the 
chimney, an iron box was inserted, in which was placed a light 
metal valve capable of swinging towards the chimney flue, but not 
towards the room. The objections to this apparatus are that it is 
apt to make irregular clicking noises, and to admit blacks from the 
chimney w r hen out of order. 

(3) In Boyle's Valve these objections are partially obviated. 
It consists of an iron frame, across which lie iron rods ; and from 
these are suspended thin talc plates, only capable of moving in the 
direction of the chimney (Fig. 13). Even this apparatus is rather 
noisy when there is a strong wind. 

Neither of these plans answers so well as a second flue alongside 
the chimney flue, com- 
municating with each 
room near its ceiling ; but 
the latter can only be 
arranged for when the 
house is built, while the 
valves may be inserted at 

any time. 

View from room. View from chimney. 

The Ceiling may be FlG 

utilised for removing foul 

8 BOYLE s MICA FLAP VENTILATOR. 

air ; and thus serve to 

diminish the draught which is often produced by the currents of air 
towards the chimney, when this forms the only means of outlet. 
In large rooms (i) a sunlight gas-burner forms an important 
means of ventilation. It causes a strong up-current from every 
part of the room. If there is a fire in 1 the room, the burner is apt 
to become an inlet for air, or the chimney to smoke, according to 
the relative strength of the two currents. 

(2) Benham's and other forms of Ventilating Gas Burners 
serve the same purpose. In each of them the products of com- 
bustion are conveyed by special ducts above the ceiling to the 
outer air. 

(3) McKinnell's Ventilator is useful in single-storied build- 
ings, like certain barracks. It consists of two tubes encircling one 
another, the inner forming an outlet tube, because the casing of the 
outer tube maintains the temperature of the air in it. It is made 
higher than the outer tube, and is protected by a hood. The 
outer tube forms the inlet for fresh air. The entering air is throwc 




HYGIENE. 






up towards -the ceiling and then to the walls by a flange placed at 
the bottom of the inner tube. The air after traversing the room, 
and becoming heated, passes upwards to the inner tube. When 

doors and windows are open, both 
tubes become outlets ; if there is. 
a fire in the room, they may both 
become inlets ; but this may be 
prevented by closing the outlet 
tube. 

(4) Various other means 
have been devised for carrying 
foul air from the ceiling through 
channels between the ceiling and 
the floor of the room above. All 
share the disadvantage that the 
channels become dirty and are 
difficult or impossible of access 
for cleaning. 

(5) Various cowls connected 
by metal tubes with the ceilings 
of rooms have been placed on 
roofs, and their aspirating effect 
used in ventilating these rooms. 
When a room is furnished with a 
chimney such cowls are most 
undesirable. In large rooms 

without a fireplace they are helpful, but much more confidence can 
be placed in cross-ventilation by hinged windows. It is doubtful if 
any of the advertised fixed cowls produce materially greater 
aspiration of air from rooms than a simple open tube of the same 
size. It is desirable that the tube should be protected at its upper 
end against the entry of rain, and that a grating should be provided 
to prevent birds building their nests in the tube. 

In the preceding plans of ventilation, the ceiling serves almost 
entirely as an outlet for impure air. In the following plan, it is 
used as an inlet for pure air. 

(6) In Sylvester's Method of Ventilation, the perflating 
force of the wind is employed to produce an abundant entry of fresh 
air. A cowl is placed, always turning towards the wind ; the air 
received is conducted to the basement, where it is warmed by a 
stove or hot-water pipes, and then passed through tubes into the 
upper rooms. From these it is carried by tubes above the roof, 
these tubes being covered with cowls turning from the wind, so 
that in this way the aspirating power of the wind is likewise used. 

Ships are often ventilated in a somewhat similar manner. The 
tube to which a windward cowl is attached above, ought to be bent 
at right angles, so as to lessen the velocity of the entering air. By 
covering other air-shafts w T ith movable cowls, turning from the wind, 
the aspirating action of the wind is brought into action to aid the 
escape of foul air. 



FIG. 14. 
MCKINNELL'S ROOF VENTILATOR. 




NATURAL VENTILATION. 151 

The Walls of a room, unless covered with an impervious 
material, are constantly traversed by gentle currents of air, which 
play an important part in the ventilation of rooms. Special 
apertures may be made to furnish a freer supply, and these may be 
in various forms. 

(1) A Simple Grating, may be inserted ; but this is apt to 
become blocked with dirt, and does not allow a large amount of air 
to enter. Louvred openings in the walls are objectionable, except 
for very large rooms. 

(2) Sheringham's Valve is the most convenient means of 
ventilating through the wall. An 

opening in the external wall is made 

by a ventilating brick or grating ; 

into the wall is fixed an iron box, 

which has in front of it an iron valve 

hinged along its lower edge, so that 

it can open towards the room. On FIG. 15. 

the sides erf the valve cheeks are SHERINGHAM VENTILATOR. 

attached, which fit into the box when 

the valve is shut. A heavy piece of iron pressing against the valve 

from within the box, tends to keep it constantly open. By means 

of a string and pulley, the valve can be opened or closed at will, 

or fixed in any intermediate position. 

In a very large room, it is better to have several medium-sized 
valves, than a few larger ones, the air being thus more completely 
diffused. If there are two valves, they should not be opposite one 
another, as the air may then simply pass from one to the other, 
without becoming diffused through the room. If there is only one 
valve, it may occasionally serve as an outlet when the wind is to 
leeward. By means of this form of valve, the air is projected 
upwards in a diverging current towards the ceiling. The valve 
should be placed above the level of one's head, but not too near the 
ceiling ; as in the latter case, the current of air is driven hard 
against the ceiling, and falls thence with considerable force towards 
the floor. A combination of Sheringham's inlet and Boyle's mica 
outlet into the chimney at the opposite side of the room ensures 
efficient ventilation in a dining-room. Better than the outlet into 
the chimney is an opening into a special flue alongside the chimney- 
flue, if this be available. 

(4) Ellison's Inlet consists of a brick pierced with conical 
holes, the apex of the cone being towards the external air. By this 
means any great draught is avoided, and the air is distributed over 
a considerable area. In order that this may prove an efficient 
means of ventilation, a considerable number of bricks are required. 

The Floor of a room is always the source of considerable 
currents of air, even when well carpeted. Air mounts up through 
the crevices of the wood-work, being aspirated into the room when 
its temperature is higher than that of the rooms below. In the 
case of rooms on the ground floor, air is often drawn from the 
subjacent soil, or through dust-bins, etc. 



152 HYGIENE. 



Theoretically, in all measures of ventilation, the floor would 
be the best point for the entry of cold air. This, however, is 
intolerable when the incoming air is cold, and the floor must 
therefore be abandoned as a means of ventilation, apart from 
heating apparatus. 

The floor may be used as a means of entry of fresh air in a 
modified manner, by directing the air entering at the floor-level for 
some distance up a tube at the side of the wall. This apparatus is 
known as Tobin's tube. It consists of a rectangular or cylindrical 
tube from 4 to 6 feet high, which communicates at the lowest point 
with the external air by means of a perforated brick or grating. 
The air enters the room in an upward direction, and is consequently 
sent towards the ceiling, where it becomes mixed with warmer air, 
before diffusing itself throughout the room. But when the incoming 
air is very cold, it may fall more rapidly, causing cold draughts on 
the heads of those in the room. 

As the air enters directly from outside the house, it often carries 
with it particles of dirt, soot, etc. This may be remedied by 
placing a pan containing a shallow layer of water at the lowest 
part of the tube, or by placing cotton wool at the point of entry, of the 
tube into the room. The tray of water soon dries up and is rarely 
replaced, while the cotton wool diminishes the amount of entering 
air. It is very useful however in cold weather, or when fogs occur. 
A gauze funnel is sometimes inserted in the tube, or a sheet of gauze 
arranged diagonally across the tube from its highest to its lowest 
point. The gauze does not keep out minuter particles of dust, and 
requires occasional cleaning. All Tobin's tubes, like other ventilating 
openings, should be made to open, so that their interior can be 
frequently cleaned, 

Summary as to Domestic Ventilation. Open windows, doors, and 
fire-places may be in most instances trusted. If gas is used as an 
illuminant, they should be combined with special arrangements 
for carrying off the products of combustion from the room. For 
delicate people, and especially in small rooms, outlet ventilation 
into the chimney breast combined with a Sheringham's valve on the 
opposite wall is desirable. 

Artificial Ventilation. Artificial ventilation may include 
two important and very different measures. In one of them 
currents of air and an exchange of pure for impure air are effected 
by means of various forms of heating apparatus. In the other 
mechanical measures are used for the same purpose, the air being 
either driven out of the room or drawn out of it. In this chapter 
we shall consider only the mechanical means of artificial 
ventilation. There are two kinds, the first being known as 
ventilation by aspiration, or the vacuum system ; and the second 
as ventilation by propulsion, or the plenum system. 

In Ventilation by Aspiration the foul air is drawn out of 
the room by machinery, its place being supplied by fresh air, which 
may be warmed before entry or not. This plan and the next have 
been employed chiefly in connection with large buildings, such as 
hospitals, etc., and in mines. 



ARTIFICIAL VENTILATION. 



153 



The extraction of foul air may be effected by (i) a steam-jet > 
which is allowed to pass into a chimney, and sets in motion a body 
of air more than 200 times its own bulk. Tubes from each room 
of the building are connected with this chimney, and the strong 
upward current extracts the air from them. This plan is useful 
in factories, where there is a superfluous supply of steam. 

(2) A fan or screw may also be used. The vanes of the fan, 
when set in motion by electrical or some other motive power, 
produce a powerful current of air, which can be regulated according 
to requirements. As in the last plan, the aspirating influence of 
the fan may be exerted over a system of rooms, by means of 
connecting tubes. 

In Ventilation by Propulsion a fan is used as in the last 
plan, the air being propelled along conduits leading from it into the 
room to be ventilated. The size of the conduits being known, the 
amount of air to be discharged can be regulated by timing the 
rapidity of the revolutions of the fan. 

This plan is suitable for crowded places, where a large amount 
of air is required in a short time. It is excellent for large schools,, 
churches, and theatres. Its superiority for large elementary schools 
has been proved at Dundee by the experiments of Drs. Carnelley,, 
Haldane, and Anderson, the results of which are summarised in the, 
following table : 









CUBIC FT. 


CARBONIC 


MICRO-ORGANISMS 








ALLOWED 


ACID IN 


PER LITRE. 




NO. OF 


NO. OF 


PER 


10,000 OF 








SCHOOLS. 


ROOMS. 


PERSON. 


AIR. 


BACTERIA. 


MOULDS. 


Mechanical ventilation by] 
wanned air . . . . J 


6 


32 


1 60 


I2'3 


I7'5 


I'O 


Natural ventilation and] 
hot pipes . . . . j 


17 


43 


I 7 6 


16-3 


96-5 


I'l 


Natural ventilation and] 
open fires . . . . f 


33 


84 


145 


IQ-2 


I53-2 


4-8 



The air to be admitted may be warmed by passing it over hot- 
water or steam-pipes. In large establishments, as in hospitals, 
theatres, etc., it has been arranged so that the incoming air is 
passed through a screen of coarse cloth, which is kept wet by water 
trickling down each cord. The air is thus kept moist and freed 
from dust. 

The great advantage of the plan of propulsion, is its certainty.. 
By it the temperature, moisture, and freedom from suspended 
matters of the incoming air can be exactly regulated and controlled.. 
Its chief disadvantages are that (i) it is somewhat costly, and (2) 
the apparatus requires skilled supervision. On the other hand it 
maintains the air in crowded rooms in a condition which cannot be 
secured by any other method. When combined, as is done in the 
Houses of Parliament, with the use of a flue for the extraction of. 
foul air, this plan answers admirably. 



i 5 4 HYGIENE. 

The Relative Value of Artificial and Natural Ventilation 

scarcely needs to be discussed. They are both valuable, but under 
different circumstances. In dwelling-rooms natural ventilation by 
doors, windows and chimney usually suffices, especially if the 
products of combustion of gas are removed through a special flue-. 
Natural ventilation is always occurring, and only needs a little aid 
in domestic life. For large rooms occupied by many persons 
artificial ventilation is necessary to maintain pure air. 

Whatever method of ventilation is adopted, the atmosphere 
will remain to some extent polluted, if the room and its occupants 
are dirty. In certain experiments made by Carnelley in schools, 
it was found that dirty children increased the number of micro- 
organisms per litre of air more rapidly than dirty rooms. Thus : 



DEGREE OF CLEANLINESS OK 


CLEAN. 


MEDIUM. 


DIRTY. 


Children I 


63 


99 


159 


Rooms 


85 


94 


139 



Number of micro-organisms per litre of air. 

Hence cleanliness of rooms and of their occupants is quite as 
important as a good system of ventilation. 



( 155 ) 



CHAPTER XXIII. 

VENTILATION BY THE INTRODUCTION OF 
WARMED AIR. 

Ventilation by the Burning of Coal. In winter and at any 
time of the year when the out-door temperature is below 50 Fahr., 
the warming and ventilation of a room are necessarily combined. 
If air is admitted unwarmed it will produce draughts, unless 
directed upwards by Tobin's tubes or otherwise. In dwelling- 
rooms such contrivances may suffice ; but in any larger building, 
in order to ensure sufficient ventilation, it is necessary to warm 
the incoming air. 

The Open Fire-place forms the most common means of 
ventilation by heat (see also page 159). The ascent of warm air up 
the chimney, causes cold air to rush along the floor to the fire-place 
from all parts of the room, especially the door. Part of the air 
thus approaching the fire is carried up the chimney with the smoke, 
while the remainder, after having been warmed, flows upwards 
towards the ceiling near the chimney-breast. It passes along the 
ceiling, and cooling in its progress towards the opposite wall, 
descends, and is again drawn towards the fire-place. Thus there 
is a continuous circulation of the air in a room. 

In the experiments of the Barrack Commissioners (1861), it 
was found that the amount of air passing up the chimney while a 
fire was lit, ranged from 5,300 to 16,000 cubic feet per hour, the 
mean of 25 experiments being 9,904 cubic feet. We may conclude, 
then, that with an ordinary grate, a chimney provides outlet for 
impure air sufficient for four or five persons. Its lack of economy 
as a heat-producer will be considered later. Its efficiency as a 
ventilator within the above limits is evident. 

When a fire is burning in the grate, all other openings in the 
room, except openings into the chimney, serve as inlets. If the 
room is insufficiently supplied with openings, a double current may 
be established in the chimney, with the result that occasional 
down-puffs of smoke occur. 

As a rule the chimney serves only as an outlet for impure air. 
It may by appropriate means be made to serve as an inlet for pure 
and warmed air, the heat which would otherwise escape up the 
chimney being utilised for this purpose. Galton's stove is one of 
the best for this purpose. At the back of this stove is an air- 
chamber, communicating with the external air, and in which the 
fresh air is heated before it enters the room. On the back of the 



156 



HYGIENE. 



stove broad iron flanges are cast, in order to present as large a 
heating surface as possible: They project backwards into the air 
chamber ; and their heating surface is aided by the iron smoke-flue, 







A. 



FIG. 16. 



B. 



Vertical Section through Two Rooms, showing A. Currents of cold air with an 
ordinary fire; B. Direction of currents of warmed fresh air with a Galton's 

Ventilating Stove. 

which passes through the air-chamber. The warmed fresh air enters 
the room by a louvred opening above the mantel-piece, or by an 
opening in each side of the chimney breast. By this stove' one- 
third of the total heat of the fire is utilised, as against one-eighth in 
an ordinary fire-place. 

Shorland's Manchester and other stoves are constructed on the 
same principle as Galton's. 

The Ventilation of Mines is effected by lighting a fire at the bottom 
of a shaft. The air for the combustion comes down another shaft (the intake 
shaft), or down another half of the same shaft separated by a partition. The 
consequence is that constant up and down currents of air are produced. The 
air from the intake shaft is made to traverse the galleries of the mines, its 
course being directed by partitions, before it is allowed to reach the fire and so 
be carried up out of the mine. 

In addition to, or instead of, an ordinary coal-fire, the power 
for extracting impure air may be obtained from Hot Water or 
Steam Pipes. There are various plans founded on this principle. 

When hot-water pipes are used for baths, etc., they may also 
be utilised for ventilation, in two ways : ist. The hot- water pipe 
may be made to coil round the tube by which fresh air is admitted 
into a room, thus warming the air as it enters. 2nd. The hot-water 
pipe in its course upwards may be enclosed in a shaft, which opens 
into the external air above. The air in this shaft being heated, the 
impure air may be collected and removed from the different rooms 
by tubes connected with it. Thus, a hot-water apparatus, when 
well arranged and complete, may furnish pure warm air, and carry 
away impure air. The ventilation by this plan is found in practice 
to be somewhat irregular. 

The plan proposed by Drs. Drysdale and Hayward of Liverpool is similar 
in principle : Fresh air is warmed by a coil of hot- water pipes in the basement, 
and is admitted into the staircase and landings, when it is supplied to the 
different rooms by openings provided with valves. From the rooms, special 
outlets converge to a foul-air chamber under the roof. This is connected with a 
shaft leading from the kitchen-fire, the latter, therefore, acting as an extraction 
furnace. 



VENTILATION BY WARMED AIR. 



Lighted Gas may be employed to produce a current for 
ventilating purposes, as well as fire or hot-water. 

Sunlight and Benham's Ventilating Gas-burners, have 
already been mentioned in this connection (page 149). They are 
extremely valuable means of ventilation, producing powerful 
currents of air from all quarters of the room unless they are 
specially enclosed. 

In theatres and similar buildings the Chandeliers may be 
made to extract vitiated air. Where a number of chandeliers exist, 
they may be connected by tubes with a main shaft, and all made to 
contribute to the same object. According to the experiments of 
General Morin, the discharge of 1,000 cubic feet of air is produced 
by the combustion of one cubic foot of gas. 

Various forms of gas-stoves are now sold, which act as venti- 
lators as well as sources of heat. Among these is George's 
Calorigen Stove (Fig. 17). It can be obtained in various forms 
suitable for burning coal-gas, or coal, or 
oil. Within its outer case is contained 
a special iron tube, which communicates 
at its lower end with the outer air, and 
opens at its upper end into the room. 
The heat generated in the stove warms 
the air in the spiral tube, which accord- 
ingly ascends into the room. The ascent 
of warm air causes a draught from below, 
and the consequence is, that so long as 
the combustion is going on, a current of 
warm air continues to ascend into the 
room. The products of combustion are 
carried out of the room by the pipe F. 
This stove is free from most of the ob- 
jections appertaining to gas-stoves ; it can 
be fixed into an ordinary fire-place, and 
made to keep the temperature of a room 
uniform. 

Bond's Euthermic Stove is simi- 
larly constructed to the above, but is 
open below so that the air needed .for 
the gas combustion is drawn from the 
interior of the room, and the continuous 
change of air is thus favoured. 

Objections to Ventilation by 
Heating Apparatus. When warmed air 
is admitted into a room, it is very apt 
to be dry and irritating. This can be 
usually avoided by having water standing 
in the room, so as to allow evaporation. A more difficult problem 
is to ensure the complete absence of all products of combustion, 
particularly of the products of incomplete combustion. 




FIG. 17. 
GEORGE'S CALORIGEN STOVE. 

A The interior of room. 

B Exterior of building. 

C Wall. 

D The Calorigen. 

E A cylinder. 

FF Pipes communicating 
with stove and cylinder to 
supply air for combustion, 
and to carry off the products 
of combustion. 

G Pipe for passage of 
fresh cold air to Calorigen. 
Can be carried above the 
floor or between the joists, as 
may be most convenient. 

H Outlet for air into the 
apartment after being made 
warm. 



158 



CHAPTER XXIV. 
THE WARMING OP HOUSES. 

Physiological and Physical Considerations. The warmth of 
our bodies is naturally kept up by the oxidation changes constantly 
going on in the system. In Chapter XL., p. 265, are discussed the 
modes in which heat is lost by the system, and the influence of 
clothing in controlling the amount of this loss. Artificial warming 
of houses has a similar action to clothing. It diminishes the 
demand on the system, and so economises the amount of food 
required. 

The degree to which this diminution of loss of heat by clothing 
and artificial warming of houses may be carried varies with 
circumstances. There can be no doubt that if food be abundant, 
exposure to external cold, if not too extreme, is on the whole 
beneficial, for vigorous people. But for old people and young 
children, means of artificial warmth require to be more carefully 
provided. Severe cold is for them often the harbinger of death. 

The Degree of Temperature at which living-rooms should be 
kept will vary with circumstances. 

For healthy adults, any temperature between 50 and 60 Fahr., 
will be moderately comfortable ; for delicate children and old people it 
may be 65 with advantage. 

For sick rooms and hospitals the temperature of 60 is usually 
adopted, but this is by no means always necessary. A temperature 
of the room as low as 50, except for such diseases as whooping 
cough and bronchitis, suffices if the patient is well covered with 
warm personal and bed coverings. 

Convalescents from any acute illness bear low temperatures badly. 

The Different Kinds of Heat. Heat may be communicated 
by radiation, conduction, and convection. By radiation of heat 
is meant the process by which heat passes from a fire or other 
source of heat, through a vacuum, dry air or any other medium, 
without heating any of the media through which it passes, but only 
the bodies against which it finally impinges. The solid bodies 
(including ourselves) which are warmed by radiant heat, by a 
process of conduction then warm the surrounding air. This method 
is the nearest imitation of the natural warmth of the sun. 

Conduction of Heat is the passage of heat from one particle 
to another, whether it be of a gas or solid. It is an extremely slow 
process when air is concerned, and may be practically ignored. 



WARMING OF HOUSES. 159 

Convection of Heat is the process by which a gas or liquid 
actually carries the heat in itself from one part to another. The 
heated particles are relatively lighter, and ascend to the higher parts 
of a room, while colder and heavier particles descend, and are 
subjected to the same process. Heat can be carried by convection 
only by gases and liquids. It is quite possible, therefore, for a 
person to be cold in a room filled with warm air, if the walls, etc., 
are cold ; and on the other hand, to feel comparatively warm in a 
room filled with cold air, if more heat is radiated from an open fire- 
place or the warm walls to his body than he radiates to his 
surroundings. The feeling of " draught " when sitting near a wall 
is sometimes caused by radiation of heat from the body to the colder 
wall. The ideal arrangement, were it practicable, would be to have 
cool air to breathe, but to be surrounded by warm walls, floors, and 
furniture. A room warmed by an open fire is more comfortable 
than a room warmed by hot air from a furnace, assuming the 
temperature of the air is the same in both instances, because the 
walls of the room are several degrees lower in temperature in the 
latter than in the former. For warming walls as well as the air 
high pressure steam pipes are more efficient than hot-water pipes. 
The great advantages of radiant heat are that (i) it heats the 
body without appreciably heating the air ; while at the same time 
(2) there is no possibility of impure gases being added to the air. 

It has, however, considerable disadvantages, (i) It is costly, 
though its expense may be greatly diminished by a well-constructed 
fire-place. (2) It only acts on bodies near it to any useful extent. 
Its effect lessens as the square of the distance ; thus, its warming 
effect at five feet distance, is twenty-five times less than at a 
distance of one foot. It is evident, therefore, that for long rooms, 
and for large assembly-rooms, a single source of radiant heat is 
quite inadequate. The immense loss of heat in our ordinary fire- 
places is slowly leading to their modification ; and although it is 
probable that radiant heat will always be the favourite source of 
warmth in dwelling-houses, it will be used for larger buildings chiefly 
as an adjunct to convection of heat. 

The different sources of heat are employed, either singly or 
combined, in the following methods of warming our dwellings and 
other buildings : 

1. Warming by the open grate. 

2. Warming by closed stoves, 

3. Warming by hot-water pipes. 

4. Warming by steam in pipes. 

5. Warming by hot air. 

6. Warming by electricity. 

Warming by the open Grate. In the open fire-place 
radiation is the source of heat chiefly employed. 

The position of the fire-place is important. It should not be 
on the external wall of the house, as thus a large proportion of heat 
is lost ; but should be placed where the heat from the flue may be 
utilised in keeping up the temperature of the house. 



160 HYGIENE. 

The construction of a fire-place is commonly faulty in several 
respects, (i) The fire-place may be too far included in the wall, so 
that the heat at once passes up the chimney. (2) It may be 
composed chiefly of iron, which rapidly conducts away the heat, 
and does not furnish a surface for radiation. (3) The bars and 
bottom of the grate may be so arranged, that coal and cinders fall 
out in an incompletely burnt condition. 

It has been estimated that with an ordinary fire-place, seven- 
eighths of the possible heat is lost, one-half being carried up the 
chimney with the smoke, one-quarter carried off in the ascending 
current of warm air, and one-eighth of the combustible matter 
remaining unconsumed, forming the solid matter of the smoke. 

^The defects which have been indicated may be remedied by 
bringing the fire-place rather further out into the room ; by 
substituting fire-brick for iron behind and at the sides of the fire, 
and by having a layer of fire-brick at the bottom of the grate, or the 
grate lowered, so that as in Teale's stove, it lies on a bed of fire- 
brick at or below the floor level. 

The shape of the grate is important. The width of the back 
of the grate should be about one-third that of the front, the sides 
sloping out towards the front of the recess. The depth of the. grate 
from before backwards should be equal to the width of the back. 
The sides and back of the fire-place must be made of fire-brick, thus 
ensuring the heat being retained in the grate. And finally, the 
chimney throat must be contracted so as to ensure more complete 
combustion. The chief objections to an open fire-place are (i) 
the great waste of fuel involved, even after the improvements 
indicated have been carried out. (2) The unequal heating at 
different distances from the fire. (3) The smoke and dust always 
produced to some extent, from accidental smoking of the fire, or 
from the escape of ashes. (4) The trouble involved in frequently 
replenishing the fire. (5) The cold draughts produced by the 
currents of air towards the chimney. These travel chiefly along the 
floor, when, as is commonly the case, the space between the bottom 
of the door and the floor forms the chief place for the entry of fresh 
air. 

Many patents have been brought out for the introduction of 
the fuel at the lowest part of the fire. The uppermost part of 
the fuel being first burnt, and the remainder attacked from above, 
the smoke is consumed in passing through the red part of the fire. 
Thus a comparatively smokeless fire is produced, and the amount of 
heat evolved is greatly increased. So far none of these have been 
altogether satisfactory. The production of a comparatively smokeless 
fire is a great boon. Smoke means so much unburnt fuel, and not 
only so but the sooty particles float about in the atmosphere, 
rendering it impure, and changing comparatively harmless mists 
into town fogs, which are loaded with soot and the products of 
combustion, and do incalculable mischief to health and property. 
The prevention of this smoke nuisance demands more consideration 
than it has yet received. The Public Health Acts constitute the 
emission of black smoke from the chimneys of manufacturing 



WARMING OF HOUSES. 161 

premises a nuisance ; and manufacturers can if they use proper 
boilers, especially those in which mechanical stokers are employed, 
almost completely obviate this nuisance. The great principle is to 
prevent the escape of smoke before it is completely burnt. 
This may be accomplished by careful stoking, by keeping the 
unburnt coal at the front of the fire, and by ridges exposing the 
smoke to red-hot fireclay before it escapes. In domestic fires, gas 
is gradually replacing coal for cooking, with a corresponding 
reduction of the smoke-nuisance. 

The Utilization of the Heat Produced in the fire-place to 
warm the air on its way into the room, as in Galton's and other 
similar stoves has been already described (page 156). 

A larger amount of heat can be obtained out of a given 
quantity of fuel by cutting off some of the cold air, which rushes 
through the fire, and carries the half -burnt gases and much of the 
heat up the chimney. This is effected by having a solid fire-brick 
bottom to the grate, or by closing up the front of the open chamber 
under the grate, by means of a close-fitting shield or door. These 
" Economisers," as Mr. Teale calls them, appear to answer better 
than solid fire-brick bottoms, as they do not prevent the ashes 
falling under the grate. 

The Fuel burnt in an open fire-place may be either coal or 
coal-gas. Occasionally coke is also employed. Coke and coal-gas 
have the advantage over coal, that (i) no smoke is produced. Coal- 
gas presents the additional advantages, that (2) it can be turned on 
at any moment, without having to go through a tedious process of 
lighting the fire ; and that (3) the amount of heat can be exactly 
graduated by regulating the supply of gas. A gas fire is however, 
as a rule, more expensive than a coal fire. 

Open Gas-stoves are made in various forms. In the common 
one, small jets of gas are lit under the grate, which is filled with 
pieces of asbestos. These become red hot, and radiant heat is 
emitted. To obtain the greatest value from the heat generated by 
the combustion of gas, a stove should be chosen in which the heat 
generated is brought into contact with a large surface of the grate 
before the products of combustion are allowed to escape to the flue. 

Gas stoves which are advertised as not needing a flue, should 
be avoided. A large amount of carbonic acid is discharged by them 
into the room, and the sulphurous acid also produced by the 
combustion of gas is not completely absorbed in the water of 
condensation which collects in a tray under such stoves. 

Closed Stoves form the most economical and efficient warmers 
for rooms of moderate size, and coal, coke, coal-gas or paraffin may 
be burnt in them. 

The advantages rightly claimed for coal stoves of this type are 
that (i) the amount of fuel consumed is small ; (2) by adjusting the 
damper, combustion may be rendered as slow as desired, so that 
but little heat is lost by the flue or chimney ; and (3) heat radiates 
from all parts of the stove into the room, and not simply from a 
small area of fire-front. 

Ncwsholme's Hygiene. 12 



162 



HYGIENE. 



M FRESH AlS 
OUTLEY 



The chief objections to closed stoves are, that (i) they dry the air 
excessively, rendering it somewhat unpleasant. (2) They produce 
a peculiar close smell, apparently caused by the charring of minute 
particles of organic matter in the air, coming in contact with the 
stove. If the air of the room is not heated above 75 Fahr., no 
smell is produced, and the relative humidity is not lessened to any 
appreciable extent (Parkes). But when the heat produced by the 
stove is excessive, these results do follow. The unpleasantness 
may be modified though not entirely removed, by placing shallow 
pans of water near the stove. 

(3) Portions of the products of combustion may pass through 
cracks or fissures in the stove, or even through the joints of the 
stove. Independently of such accidental cracks, cast-iron stoves, 
when red hot, appear to allow gases to pass through them with 
comparative ease. Thus carbonic oxide and other gases may find 
their way into the room, and it is probable that this rather than the 
dryness of the air, is the cause of the unpleasant symptoms some- 
times complained of in rooms where closed stoves are in use. This 
escape of carbonic oxide does not occur with earthenware stoves 
properly encased with fire-clay. 

Many modifications of the older closed stoves are now in 

common use. In the 
stove shown in Fig. 18, 
excessive heating of the 
air is prevented by the 
presence of two air 
chambers, only the outer 
one, which brings external 
air to be warmed, having 
its air emptied into the 
room. 

Warming by open 
grates or closed stoves is 
specially applicable to the 
rooms of private houses ; 
warming by hot air or 
steam, or hot water, is 
chiefly used for large 
buildings. It is quite 
possible that these me- 
thods will be applied at 
some future time on a 
large scale to the warming 
of private houses. In some large towns of the United States this 
has been already done, blocks of a hundred or more houses being 
warmed from the same centre, by the same system. 

But apart from such a central system, hot air and hot water 

lend themselves to the heating of houses on what may be called the 

Whole House System (page 156). We have mentioned in the last 

chapter some methods of doing this, and shall now describe others. 

Hot- water Pipes are probably the best means of carrying heat 




FIG. 18. 
SLOW COMBUSTION STOVE. 



HOT WATER SUPPLIES. 163 

to various parts of a large house, and hot water is more thoroughly 
under control and less dangerous than either hot air or steam. 
There are two systems of heating by hot water. 

In the first, which we may call the low pressure system, 
there is a boiler from which water circulates through pipes to every 
part of the building, and as it cools down returns again to the 
boiler. At the highest points of the pipes, outlets are provided for 
air. In this system the water is not heated above 200 Fahr., and 
there is consequently no great pressure on the pipes. 

In the high pressure system (Perkin's patent), the pipes have 
an internal diameter of about \ an inch, and have thick walls made 
of two pieces of welded iron. There is no boiler, but one portion of 
the tube passes through the fire and the water is heated to 
300 350 Fahr., thus subjecting the pipes to great pressure. In 
dwelling-houses with the low pressure system, for every 1,000 cubic 
feet of space to be warmed to 50, 12 feet of 4-inch pipe should 
be given ; with Perkin's pipes, probably about two-thirds of this 
will suffice. 

Steam Distributed by Pipes may be employed instead of hot 
water. This method has been used in factories in which there is a 
surplus supply of steam. 

Warming by Hot Air is only applicable on a large scale, and 
should only be used in association with a system of ventilation by 
propulsion (page 153), in which the temperature, humidity, and 
freedom from dust of the entering air are carefully regulated. 

Warming by Electricity both for cooking food and for 
warming rooms has a large future, but in most districts the supply 
of electricity is not hitherto sufficiently cheap to be used for these 
purposes. By its means the atmosphere will be prevented from 
becoming impure, labour will be reduced, and life rendered more 
pleasant. 

Hot Water Supplies. Nearly every modern house is supplied 
with a bathroom, and this may be supplied with hot water either 
from a geyser or from the kitchen boiler. In a geyser the water is 
made to flow over a large heating surface furnished by burning 
coal-gas, and with the best varieties a bath of 98 F. can be supplied 
in from five to ten minutes. As the bathroom is usually small and 
unprovided with an open fireplace, persons have occasionally been 
suffocated by remaining in such a room while the gas continues 
burning. This is due to the production and in-breathing of carbonic 
oxide. No geyser ought to be allowed to be used which is unpro- 
vided with a flue passing into the chimney flue or in its absence 
through an external wall of the house. Short of fatal poisoning, 
violent headaches often occur when a warm bath obtained by means 
of a geyser is taken, unless such a flue is provided. In Ewart's 
lightning geyser, additional protection is furnished by the fact that 
a dual valve is so arranged, that immediately the water is turned off 
or the supply fails from any cause, the supply of gas is also cut 
off. 

Hot water supplies from kitchen boilers, unless carefully 



i6 4 



HYGIENE. 



arranged, may be responsible for serious explosions during severe 

frosts. 

- 

Four plans are in common use. (i) The worm-boiler system. This system is 
unsafe unless the supply of water to the boiler is attended to ; and as the hot 
water supply to the kitchen is drawn from the boiler itself and not from the 
worm, the hot water supply for the rest of the house may be deficient. Usually 
the small feed cistern for the boiler in this system is too near the boiler to freeze. 
(2) The cylinder system is very effective. In this system a metallic cylinder, 
capable of withstanding a pressure of 20 Ibs. to the square inch, is placed in the 
kitchen or bath-room between the cold and hot supplies, its contained water 
being heated by circulation from the boiler, hot water ascending and cold 
descending. On the top floor of a house is a cistern from which cold water is 
supplied. Both the supply pipe and escape pipe for hot water may become 
frozen during frost. Then the supply of water is stopped, and the boiler and 
reservoir may boil dry. This would not occur without some indication in 

unusually vigorous boiling. Boilers 
sometimes explode, and cylinders 
sometimes explode. This can be 
effectually prevented by (3) A Double- 
cylinder apparatus one within another. 
In this the water in the outer 
cylinder supplied from the main 
cistern can only be heated to 
212 F., and the water in the boiler 
and inner cylinder supplied from a 
lower feed cistern can only be heated 
to 214 F., on account of the small 
head of water. Two escape pipes give 
free communication with the atmos- 
phere. (4) In the tank system, which 
being cheap, is usually adopted in 
poor houses, the tank is placed high 
up in the system. The hot water 
branch pipes are usually taken from 
the flow-pipe between the boiler and 
tank. Hence when the supply fails, 
as during frost, the tank is drained 
empty, the circulation of water ceases, 
and the system is changed from a 
circulation system to a high-pressure 




CYLINDER SYSTEM. 




TANK SYSTEM 



Safety valves cannot always be 
relied on to prevent explosions. If 
they lead to the lighting of fires in 
frosty weather, when pipes are frozen, they may cause explosions. Explosions 
from frost only occur when both pipes are blocked. Incrustation of the boiler 
and pipes increases the danger of explosions ; hence the necessity for their 
periodical cleaning. 



CHAPTER XXV. 
HOUSE DRAINAGE. 

THE Removal of Impurities. In order that health may be 
maintained in any inhabited house, it is essential that the impurities 
produced by animal life should be removed. These impurities may 
be divided into two classes the first including the gaseous and 
volatile products evolved from the lungs and skin ; and the second, 
the liquid excretion from the kidneys, and the solid from the bowels. 
The former are got rid of by efficient ventilation and by cleanliness ; 
the latter, ought to be as quickly removed, but require more elaborate 
arrangements to ensure this. 

The average daily amount of solid excreta is about 4 ounces, 
and of fluid excreta about 50 ounces for each adult male. Taking 
all ages and both sexes into consideration, the amount per head is 
about 2-f ounces of faeces and 32 ounces of urine. When dried, the 
daily faeces amount to 1*04 oz., the daily urine to 1*74 oz., so that 
the manurial value as well as the possible polluting power of urine 
is much greater than that of the faeces. 

After a variable interval urine and faeces begin to decompose, 
ammonia and foetid gases being disengaged in large quantities. 
Urea the chief constituent of urine is decomposed into carbonic acid 
and carbonate of ammonia. Thus 

C H 4 N 2 O + 2 H 2 O =(^ T ^ 4 ) C 3 

In addition to the excreta, house-slops have to be got rid of, and 
"dust." House-slops vary greatly in quantity, but probably 
amount to as much as sixteen gallons per head daily. They consist 
chiefly of the water used in cooking and washing and for baths. It 
would be a mistake to suppose that only urine and faeces need 
careful disposal. There are masses of decaying epithelium from 
lavatories and baths, organic matters from soiled apparel, and 
various organic matters from culinary operations, all of which may 
cause serious nuisance unless promptly disposed of. 

The Dust consists chiefly of the ashes from fires; but the 
dust-bin also forms a favourite refuge for kitchen refuse, composed 
of various animal and vegetable matters, as well as for broken pots 
and tins. It is dealt with apart from the house-slops and excreta, 
except in certain dry methods of disposal of sewage. 

Two chief plans of getting rid of the sewage have been proposed, 
though there are many varieties of these'. They are 

1. The Water Method, and 

2. The Dry Methods. 



166 HYGIENE. 

For towns the water carriage of sewage is indispensable, and 
in this chapter we shall confine ourselves to the part of this system 
which relates to the Drainage of the House. 

The chief sanitary appliances of a house, which empty their 
contents into the drain and thence into the street sewer, are (i) 
Rain-water Pipes ; (2) Bath-room and Sink-pipes ; (3) Water- 
closets ; (4) Soil-pipes ; and (5) The House Drain. We will 
consider these in detail. 

Rain-water Pipes collect the water from the roof by means of 
gutters, and carry it down to the house drain, except in the few 
cases in which the rain-water is collected for use. The rain-water 
or stack pipe was formerly joined directly at its base with the 
underground drain. This was evidently bad, because the upper 
end of the pipe was frequently near windows, and foul gases from 
the drain might be conducted by it into the house. It is equally 
objectionable to connect the rain-water pipe with the soil pipe and 
for the same reasons as above. 

The general rule with regard to all pipes carrying away water from 
the house, with the sole exception of the soil-pipe, is that they must be dis- 
connected from the underground drain and discharge into the open air ever 
a gulley-trap. This rule applies to 

rain-water pipes, and to 
waste pipes from baths, 

lavatories, 

sinks. 

It does not apply to the soil-pipes leading from 

water-closets and 
slop-sinks, 

which must discharge directly into the drain. 

Overflow or waste-pipes from cisterns for drinking water or 
from cisterns for flushing w.-c.'s or to safe trays under the seat of 
water-closets should all be made to discharge into the open air, 
where the leakage can at once be discovered. 

The form of gully-trap to be used at the junction with the drain 
is described on page 167. 

Other Waste-pipes as from bath, lavatories, and sinks, must 
be similarly disconnected from the drain, and made to discharge 
over gully-traps. When the pipe leading from the bath, lavatory 
basin, or sink, is long, it is apt to become foul from the accumulation 
on its inner surface of slimy matter, consisting of soap, dirt, and 
other offensive matter. For this reason it is wise to have a syphon 
bend in the waste-pipe near its junction with the sink or basin. 
Such a trap is shown in Fig. 19. 

The syphon bend alone in the waste-pipe without disconnection 
from the drain at its lower end would not suffice to ensure complete 
absence of nuisance, especially for sinks and lavatories which may 
be disused for a considerable period. Under these circumstances 
the water in the syphon trap may become evaporated, and then foul 



SINKS. 



167 





drain gases be wafted into the house. Furthermore, even if the 
water in the syphon trap remained, foul gases may be absorbed from 
the drain and given out at the end nearest the house (a, Fig 19). 

Hence it is always best to disconnect all 

waste-pipes from the drain, except the soil- 
pipe which cannot be treated in this way. 
The waste-pipe from the upstairs lavatory 
or bath may be made to discharge over a 
hopper-head and thence into the rain-water 
pipe, which is disconnected below from the 
drain. This plan should only be adopted 
when the hopper-head is not close to a 
bedroom window. 

Under the bath is usually placed a 
leaden tray, called a safe, to catch any 
accidental spillings of water. The overflow 
pipe from this safe should discharge direct 
into the open air. Formerly much evil was 
caused by allowing waste-pipes from baths, 
sinks, and lavatory-pipes, or over-flow pipes 
from drinking-water cisterns or from the 
bath-safe, to be connected directly either 
with the trap of the w.c., or with the soil- 
pipe beyond it. 

Sinks are not uncommonly the source 

of ^offensive smells, when made of wood or stone. A hard glazed 
sink should be provided ; as this is non-porous and can be kept 
clean. The sink should be placed against an external wall, so 
that the waste pipe can be carried through the wall to a gully- 
trap outside the house. Formerly the sink-pipe was joined below 
directly into the drain, the only obstacle to the entry of sewer or 
drain gases into the kitchen being a bell-trap at the sink. This 
is quite insufficient for the purpose. The waste-pipe from the 
sink should have a syphon trap under it, with an inspection opening 
at its lowest point (Fig. 19), and should discharge in the open air over 



FIG. 19. 

SYPHON TRAP UNDER 
SINK, WITH SCREW- 

OPENING jFOR CLEANS- 
ING. W2?C . . 




FIG. 20. 




STONEWARE GULLY-TRAP. 



SECTION OF THE SAME, SHOWING A 
WATER-SEAL 3 INCHES IN DEPTH. 

a gully-trap (Fig. 20), as in the case of rain-water and bath-waste 
pipes. It is usually stated that the waste-pipes from sinks, etc., 



168 HYGIENE. 

should discharge at least 18 inches distant from the grating of the 
gully. This is too far, because some of the foul water may become 
dried up in the channel, and its solid particles be blown about. 
They may be allowed to discharge directly over the grating of 
the gully (Fig. 20) or even into the side of the gully below the 
grating, but above and on the house side of the water-seal shown 
at B. Fig. 20. 

The gully-trap is connected with the socket of the first drain- 
pipe, and the junction is made water-tight by means of a cement 
joint. On this account, and because it gives a better water-seal 
than the bell-trap or D trap, the gully-trap should be always 
used. The best form of gully-trap, the P trap, is shown in 
Fig. 20 B. This is better than the S trap (Fig 19), which 
involves a bend in the drain at its junction with the trap. 

Water-closets require to be skilfully constructed and well- 
situated, if they are not to become a serious nuisance. In building 
a house, the position of the closet should be carefully considered. 
In all cases it should be in an out-standing part of the house, 
against an external wall, and separated from other parts of the house 
by a passage, preferably a passage which is cross-ventilated. 
Instead of this, one commonly finds it in any convenient recess, 
abutting on a bed-room, or where it cannot be properly ventilated. 
Usually the closet is placed at the back of the house ; and as the 
main-sewer is generally situated in the front street, it follows that the 
drain must in terrace houses pass under the house. Hence the 
importance of having it completely water-tight. Water-closets in 
bathrooms are very inadvisable. 

The ventilation of the closet should be good if possible, by two 
opposite windows ; and where practicable a cross-ventilated lobby 
should intervene between the closet and the rest of the house. This 
is now always provided in hospitals. 

The water-supply to the closet should be abundant. Every 
flush of water should be sufficient to carry the contents of the basin 
through the soil-pipe and the drain into the sewer. The quantity 
allowed by the Water Companies in London is two gallons, which 
is barely sufficient for this purpose, unless the form of closet pan is 
good, and the down-pipe to it of sufficient diameter. Each closet 
should have a separate cistern, the best being the so-called "water- 
waste preventer," by means of which a certain quantity of water, 
and no more, can be discharged each time the handle is pulled. 
One of the best of these is shown in Fig 21. When the handle of 
this is pulled, the whole of the water in the cistern is syphoned out 
by the syphon and carried down to the water-closet, whether the 
handle be held down or not. 

The amount of fall from the cistern to the closet should not be 
less than four feet, and the pipe should be free from bends in order 
to ensure a thorough scouring of the trap and soil-pipe ; and the 
flushing-pipe should have an internal diameter of not less than i 
inches. It is commonly supposed that a small flow of water, 
trickling continuously down a closet, tends to keep it clean, and 



WATER-CLOSETS. 



169 



prevent smells ; but the water thus used is simply wasted. Others 
fasten up the handle of valve-closets so as to allow a large flow of 
water. This does not answer the desired end, and renders the 
offending person liable to a penalty for wasting water. 

Many different forms of water-closet are in use. In all of them 
the main requisites are that there should be (i) a good flush of 
water, (2) a rapid removal of the excreta, and (3) no possibility of 
reflux of gases. The chief varieties of closets are the pan, valve, 
wash-out, and wash-down closets. 

Pan-closets (sometimes called double-pan closets] are essentially 
bad, though largely employed in the past. The construction is 




FIG. 21. 
SYPHON FLUSHING CISTERN. 

In Fig. 21 a portion of the bell of the syphon is shown cut out, so as to 
display the movable plug at the bottom of the cistern. An objectionable feature 
in most cisterns is their noisiness in use. In the above cistern, the pipe 
admitting water is carried down to within an inch of the bottom of the cistern, 
thus ensuring noiseless entry of water. 

shown in Fig 22. Below the conical basin there is a metal pan 
capable of holding a certain amount of water, the lower end of the 
basin dipping into this water. By means of a pull-up apparatus the 
contents of the pan can be tilted into a second larger pan OT container, 
and the bottom of the container is connected by means of a short 
pipe with a leaden D shaped trap, from the side of which the soil- 
pipe passes out to be carried down to the drain. The arrangement 
insures the production of nuisance. The container and O trap 



170 



HYGIENE. 




FIG. 22. 

INSANITARY PAN 
CLOSET, SHOWING 
D TRAP BELOW. 



always arrest a certain amount of foul matter ; and each time the 
handle of the closet is pulled up a puff of foul air comes into the 
operator's face. Occasionally the D trap becomes corroded by the 
filth it contains, and foul gases from the drain 
escape into the house. 

Valve Closets differ from the last in having 
no container, but only a small box containing a 
movable water-tight valve, exactly fitting the 
lower edge of the basin (Fig. 23). They are much 
superior to the pan-closet, but require an over-flow 
pipe in order to avoid accidental flooding of the 
closet. The over-flow pipe should be made with 
a syphon bend in it, and the flushing of the closet 
should be so arranged that each time it is performed 
water enters the over-flow pipe. (See Fig. 23.) 
The trap below the valve should be in the form 
of a syphon (see under traps, page 179), as this is 
not easily fouled. It is preferably made of lead, 
securely jointed to the soil-pipe and to the valve box 
of the closet. A lead tray or " safe " is required on the floor beneath a 
valve closet, in view of accidental spillings or overflow ; and this 
should be provided with an overflow pipe discharging into the 
open air. 

Valveless or Hopper Closets, of which the Wash-out, 
Wash-down and Syphonic Closets, are the chief forms, present 
certain advantages over the valve closet. There is less apparatus 
to get out of order and no metal to become foul. They do not 
require an over-flow pipe, as 
water can escape freely 
through the trap of the closet. 
Valveless closets need not be 
encased by wood-work, thus 
ensuring freedom from spil- 
lings of foul water, and they 
are more easily used than 
valve closets for the discharge 
of bedroom slops, thus obvia- 
ting the necessity for a special 
housemaid's sink. Valveless 
or hopper closets are cheaper 
and simpler in use than valve 
closets, and when in use are 
equally sanitary. If a house 
is left empty for a consider- 
able time, the water in the 
trap may, however, become 
evaporated, an event much 




FIG. 23. 
VALVE CLOSET. 



A Pan 



B Overflow pipe with syphon 
trap. C Valve shut. C l Valve open. 



less likely to occur with a 
valve-closet. The latter are 
furthermore less noisy when flushed. 



D Valve box. E Floorline. F Water- 
seal of trap. 



With a valve to hold 



up 



the water in the pan, as in the valve-closet, a much larger quantity 



WATER-CLOSETS. 



171 



of water can be retained than with a hopper closet. Hence the 
importance of the latter having such a shape as shall prevent 
fouling of the basin by faeces. 

One of the older hopper 
closets was the long hopper 
shewn in Fig. 25. In this 
form the pan is conical in 
shape, its sides necessarily 
becoming fouled by its use, 
and the spiral flush, the point 
of entry of which is shewn in 
the figure is quite insufficient 
for cleansing the pan. 

Of Short hoppers the 
best has a nearly vertical back 
as shewn in Fig. 24, a rim- 
flush, by means of which at 
least two gallons of water are 
discharged with the faeces, 
and the pan is thoroughly 
cleansed. 




The wash-out closet is 



FIG. 24. 
RIM FLUSHING WASH-DOWN BASIN. 



shewn in Fig. 26. In it a 

certain amount of water is kept in the upper part of the pan by a 
ridge over which the faeces have to be driven before entering the trap. 
The force of the flush is thus broken. In this closet a large area 
is liable to be fouled, and it is now almost entirely disused. 





FIG. 25. 
SHORT HOPPER CLOSET. LONG HOPPER CLOSET WITH SPIRAL FLUSH. 

Syphonic water-closets are wash-down closets, in which 



172 



HYGIENE. 




FIG. 26. 
WASH-OUT CLOSET. 



the flushing out is aided by syphonic action. They need to be 
fitted with a flushing cistern, giving an after-flush as well as a 
flush ; otherwise the basin is left untrapped. One of the most 
elaborate closets of this type is Jennings' 
Closet of the Century. Fig. 27 shows that 
the flushing cistern has two connections with 
the closet, one in the usual manner with the 
flushing rim of the pan, the other connected 
to the long arm of the syphon (A Fig. 27). 
B is a puff pipe allowing the escape of air 
from this syphon when started. Thus while 
one part of the flush scours the basin, the 
other expels the air from A through the puff- 
pipe B, fills both arms of the syphon with water, and thus starts 
the syphonic action by which all the contents of the basin are 
sucked out of it. In this form of w.-c., syphonage is intended to 
be produced, and the after-flush prevents the w.-c. from being left 
untrapped. 

Syphonic water-closets appear to me to be unnecessarily 
elaborate and complicated, and the only advantage over the wash- 
down closet is the deeper layer of water in the basin. With a 
well-shaped wash-down closet this is of little importance. 

In other forms of wash-down w.c., unsy phoning may also 

Syphanicjet 




FIG. 27. 
SYPHONIC CLOSET. 



occur, for instance, by pouring the contents of a slop-pail into the 
pan. This is particularly apt to occur, when two or three water- 



ANTI-SYPHONAGE PIPES. 





A. FIG. 28. B. 

A Elevation. B Section through wall of house, showing connection of 
w.c. s on three floors, with soil-pipe and anti-syphonage pipe, b Junction of 
closet trap with soil-pipe, a being a P and b an S trap, c Junction of soil-pipe 
with earthenware drain, rf Anti-syphonage pipe, seen best in elevation A. e 
Soil-pipe. /Anti-syphonage pipe, g Underground drain, h Soil-pipe ven- 
tilator, t Cage-work protecting top of h. j Point at which anti-syphonage 
pipe is connected with soil-pipe ventilator, above the highest w.c. 



174 HYGIENE. 

closets are on different floors of a house, one over another. This 
unsyphoning is prevented in the case of the highest w.c. by the 
soil-pipe ventilator, but not "always for the lower w.c.'s. For these 
it may be necessary to carry a pipe from the highest point of the 
trap of the closet, where it joins the soil-pipe, through the wall into 
the external air. Such a pipe is called an anti-syphonage pipe 
(Fig. 28). It effectually prevents the water being sucked out of 
the trap of a lower w.c. when the w.c. on a higher floor is being 
flushed. 

In the forms of w.c. already described, clean water is used for 
flushing, and we have seen that two gallons, the quantity usually 
allowed, does not suffice for this purpose, unless the closet pan is 
of the best possible shape, and the service pipe sufficiently wide to 
project the water by means of a rim-flush forcibly over the pan and 
into and beyond its trap. Other forms of w.-c. have been employed 
of which the most important are slop-water closets, and trough- 
closets. 

In Slop- Water Closets the waste water from sinks and baths 
is utilised for flushing, and thus a saving of water is effected. This 
form of closet is used considerably in manufacturing districts, and 
is less liable to freeze than an ordinary w.c. The sink discharges 
on to a gully in the usual manner, but the outlet of this gully is 
connected with a tilting vessel or tipper, holding 3% gallons in 
Duckett's closet, which is the best known of this type. The tipper 
is balanced on brass bearings, and tips over when full, discharging 
its contents into the closet trap, which is thus flushed. The slop.- 
closet is a great improvement on the privy-middens or pail-closets, 
which in some towns it has superseded, but is not so cleanly as an 
ordinary w.c. 

Trough Closets are also known as " latrines." The best type 
consists of a glazed earthenware trough under a series of w.c. *>eats. 
The trough is slightly inclined towards the outlet, at which is a 
weir, beyond which is a trap. An automatic flushing tank con- 
nected with the upper end of the trough and five to six feet above it, 
discharges water at intervals and drives the faecal matter over the 
weir and through the trap. This form of closet is only suitable for 
factories. It is to be deprecated for schools, and even for factories, 
unless there are exceptional reasons for its continuance, as faecal 
matter possibly of an infectious character may be retained a 
considerable time in the trough. 

The domestic Slop Closet or " housemaid's sink " must not be 
confused with slop-water closets mentioned above. The slop-closet 
or sink is used for emptying the contents of bedroom pails. These 
being necessarily foul and liable to early putrefaction must be 
treated exactly like other sewage matters. An ordinary pedestal 
w.c. with a lift-up seat answers excellently as a slop-closet ; but in 
large houses and public establishments a separate slop-sink is 
desirable with a larger surface than most water-closets. The slop- 
closet must be connected with the soil-pipe, just in the same way as 
a w.c. 

The soil pipe is the vertical pipe carrying the contents of 



SOIL-PIPES. 175 

the water-closets into the drain. It must be distinguished from the 
drain, which is chiefly, if not entirely, underground. The exact 




FIG. 29. SECTION THROUGH A HOUSE FROM FRONT TO BACK SHEWING 



DRAINAGE ARRANGEMENTS. 



position of the soil-pipe and its relation to the drain can be seen in 
Fig. 28 and 29, which should be carefully studied. The soil-pipe should 



i 7 6 



HYGIENE. 



be made of drawn lead without seam, of uniform thickness through- 
out, and of at least 7 Ibs. or better 8 Ibs. weight per superficial foot. 
Any joints in the lead pipe 'should be of the kind known as " wiped," 
not a "slip" joint. The outside of a wiped joint is shewn in 
Fig. 3oB. Iron pipes if used must be $ inch thick, and have 
sockets sufficiently wide and strong to permit of the joints being 
caulked with molten i.e. " blue " lead, in the same way as water- 
mains are laid. 

oux,. The soil-pipe should be throughout its course under observation. 
It should not be built into a wall, where it might be accidentally 
pierced by nails, nor within the house, allowing foul gases to 
escape from weak points in the joints. It should be carried 
through the wall of the house immediately beyond the closet trap. 
The soil-pipe should not be more than four inches in diameter. 
It'should be continued from its highest point at the junction with 
the closet-trap above the roof by a pipe of the same diameter, with 
its end wide open (Fig. 29 K). This ventilation of the soil-pipe is 
essential (a) to prevent the entry of foul effluvia into the house, 
especially when the water in the closet-trap is dried up ; (b) to 





A. FIG. 30. B. 

-A SECTION SHOWING A GOOD METHOD OF CONNECTING SOIL-PIPE TO DRAIN 

BY BRASS THIMBLE. 

B. OUTER VIEW, SHOWING BRASS THIMBLE WIPED ON TO SOIL PIPE. 
prevent unsyphoning of the upper by the lower water-closets in a 
house. (On this point see p. 172). 



HOUSE DRAINS. 177 

The upper end of the ventilating pipe should be made to open 
remote from any window. It may have a cowl attached to it, but 
it is doubtful if this materially aids the aspiration of foul gases. It 
is wise to cap the upper end of the ventilating shaft with a dome of 
large meshed wire-netting to prevent birds building their nests in it. 

The connection of the soil-pipe with the closet-pan is its 
weakest point, and the most liable to leak. The main difficulty 
consists in forming joints between earthenware and metal. 
Socketed connections are not safe. The use of an india-rubber ring 
inserted between the lead and earthenware flanges and bolted 
together by means of a brass collar and hooked bolts makes a fairly 
good connection. Various screwed connections are made. In 
another form the earthenware collar is covered outside with lead, 
so that a soldered joint can be made between the earthenware trap 
and the soil-pipe. In the " metallo-keramic joint " the earthenware 
joint is painted over with a metallic solution and fired. To the 
metal film thus formed, lead or other metal can be firmly soldered. 

The connection of the soil-pipe into the socket of the first pipe 
of the earthenware drain requires also to be carefully made. This 
pipe is curved, and at its upper end has a socket, into which the 
soil-pipe enters. A length of brass or copper tubing known as a 
" thimble " (about a foot long) should be soldered to the bottom of 
the soil-pipe ; the rim of this thimble rests in the socket of the 
drain-pipe and the space between the two is filled with Portland 
cement (Fig. 30 A). With the ordinary connection between lead 
soil-pipe and drain, the former is apt to become dented by blows, 
and the latter is very liable to be partially blocked by the dropping 
of cement inside the pipe when making the joint. 

The House Drain under ordinary circumstances receives 
waste water from sinks and baths, rain-water, and the discharge 
from the closets. 

We may consider drains under the following heads : material, 
form, joints, gradient, ventilation, trapping. The first essential is 
that they should be water-tight, so that their contents do not 
percolate into the surrounding soil. Socketed glazed stoneware pipes 
and iron pipes best fulfil this condition. The best material for 
making stoneware pipes is Devon or Dorset, or similar fine clay, 
which makes a very strong pipe. Tested pipes free from cracks 
and flaws must alone be used. The pipes should 
straight lines, each pipe being 
arranged with the spigot and not 
the socket end directed towards the 
flow of sewage. The fall should 
not be less than I foot in from 40 
to 60. If the fall is less than this 
amount, artificial flushing from FIG. 31. 

the upper end of the drain is SHOWING DEPTH OF FLUID AND 
necessary. Usually branch drains CONSEQUENT FLUSHING FORCE OF 
are made 4 inches in diameter, ^ ^S^S^SS^" 
the mam house-drain having a 
diameter of 6 inches. A larger size than this is seldom necessary. 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 13 




178 , HYGIENE. 

Thus if A, B, and G be three drains with an equal fall and 
conveying an equal amount of sewage, the rate of travel and 
therefore the flushing force will be greater, because the depth 
of the fluid is greater, in A than in B, and in B than in C. Small 
drains are more completely self-cleansing than large drains. The 
water-tightness depends on the character of the joints. In this 
respect iron drains present the great advantage over earthenware 
that there are fewer joints and that these can be rendered permanently 
water-tight without difficulty by being run with blue lead and well 
caulked. To render an earthenware drain water-tight, (a) it must be 
laid on a solid bed of cement concrete at least 6 inches thick, so as 
to prevent sinking, and under the house it should be covered with 
an equal thickness of cement concrete (I, Fig. 29). (b) The joints 
must be made with extreme care, the best Portland cement being 
used for the purpose. Clay is inadmissible, as the fibrils of tree-roots 
easily find their way through it. The inside of the joint must be 
raked by the workmen, before the next pipe is laid, to make sure 
that no fragments of hard cement are left projecting in its interior. 
Such projections are not uncommon causes of subsequent blockage. 
Various patent joints have been used, but they are no better than 
the above when properly laid. Just before the drain leaves the cur- 
tilage of the house and near its junction with the sewer, it is trapped, 
and on the house-side of the trap (E, Fig. 29) an inlet ventilator is 
provided. The general arrangement should be studied in Fig. 29. 
Ventilation of the house drain from end to end is important, 
a free escape of foul gases out-of-doors being induced. The exit is 
provided by carrying the soil-pipe up full bore above the eaves, and 
remote from windows. One opening alone would not induce a 
current of air, and the other end of the drain being trapped from the 
sewer (B, Fig. 29) it is necessary to provide an inlet for fresh air at 
E. This may be placed a few feet above the ground or at the 
ground-level. Usually a mica-flap valve is provided at its upper 
end, which closes whenever a puff of foul air attempts to escape from 
the drain. The necessity for this is doubtful. Ordinarily air enters 
at the inlet and circulates through the drain, escaping at the upper 
end of the soil-pipe ventilator. 

It has been advocated that the soil-pipe ventilator should form 
a means of ventilating the sewer as well as the house-drain, the 

intercepting trap in the latter (B, Fig. 
29) being removed. This is inexpedient, 
an element of risk being introduced, 
in view of the possibility of the drain 
or some of the connections of internal 
sanitary fittings being defective. 

The drain as ordinarily arranged 
is trapped from the sewer by an 
intercepting trap. This is not 
FIG. 32. merely a trap, but a trap provided 

WEAVER'S INTERCEPTING TRAP, with ventilation at its end nearest the 

house. A form commonly employed 
is shown in Fig. 32. B is the junction with the house-drain, at D 




TRAPS. 



179 



is the water-seal, while at C fresh air enters the house-drain. E is 
a cleaning eye, through which any chokage can be cleared towards 
A, leading to the public sewer. It is important that the intercepting 
trap should be accessible in the event of accidental stopping. This 
is provided by an inspection chamber or man-hole. This if 
close to the house is provided with an air-tight cover, the inlet 
ventilator being conveyed above ground to a convenient point. The 
manhole itself is built with brick set in cement and lined with 
cement. Note that in the man-hole itself half-channel pipes convey 
the sewage instead of complete pipes. 

Sometimes more than one drain-pipe converges to the same 
man-hole, and then a more elaborate arrangement than that shown 
in Fig. 29 is required, the branch-pipes converging into half-channel 
pipes in the man-hole. 

Varieties of Traps. Traps are placed at various points of the 
house-drainage system to prevent the admission of currents of foul 
air into the house. They are all constructed so as to intercept a 
water-seal between the drain and the house or yard at the upper end 
of the trap. Traps are placed in four positions in connection with 
the drainage of a house : (i) near the junction of the house-drain 
with the sewer ; (2) under the pan of each w.c. ; (3) in the open 
air at the ground level to receive waste water from bath, sink, and 
lavatory basin ; and (4) in the waste-pipe close under the bath, 
sink, or lavatory, when the waste-pipe is long and apt to become 
foul ; (5) inside sinks at the upper end of their waste-pipes. 

Intercepting traps between the drain and sewer have already been 
described. They must always be ventilated (C, Fig. 32 and Fig. 
29). A syphon shape with a water-seal of 3 inches is required, and 
the trap should be self-cleansing, that is, whenever the w.c. is used, 
the faeces ought to be carried beyond the intercepting trap into the 
sewer. Other forms cf intercepting trap were formerly used, one of 
the worst of which is shown in Fig. 33. With such a trap as this, 
an accumulation of filth is inevitable. 

Water-Closet and Slop-Closet Traps are of the syphon or 
anti-D type. The water-seal 
in these must be at least 3 
inches deep, and the trap must 
be ventilated by an upright 
extension of the soil-pipe, 
otherwise the water in the trap 
may be syphoned out when 
the w.c. is used. Hellyer's 
" anti-D " trap is a lead 
syphon trap, the calibre of 
which is diminished at its 
bent portion, while the portion 
of the trap nearest the soil-pipe 
or drain is square instead of 
circular. The constriction 
increases the force of the flush 




FIG. 33- 

DEEP DIPSTONE TRAP, WITH ACCUMULA- 
TION OF FILTH IN IT. 

A Drain 'entering trap. B Drain leaving 
trap. C Dipstone. 



of water and thus cleanses the whole trap, while the square shape 



i8o HYGIENE. 

impedes the free flow of water, and thus diminishes the risk of 
syphonage. Various forms of trap are shown in Fig. 19 to 34. The 
most objectionable of these is the old-fashioned D trap (Fig. 22), 
the corners and angles of which become fouled, and consequently 
the lead becomes corroded. 

Gully-traps are placed in the yard, for the discharge over 
them of waste-pipes (Fig. 20). A complete disconnection from the 
drains is thus effected. Formerly bell-traps were used for this 
purpose. In the Bell-trap not much water can get through, the 





FIG. 34. 
BAD FORM OF TRAP: BELL TRAP. BAD FORM OF TRAP: ANTILL TRAP. 

space A becomes blocked with dirt, the cover B is often taken off 
and lost, and then the drain is untrapped ; and even without this, 
the water-seal is very slight, and the water quickly evaporates. 

Traps under sinks, etc., have been already described (page 166). 

Traps were formerly placed at the upper end of the waste-pipe 
of the sinks when this was directly connected with the drain. Of 
these the Bell-trap and Antill's trap were most common. The 
Bell-trap has been described above. In the Antill-trap the trap 
is not removable, and the water-seal is deeper than with a bell-trap. 
This trap is sometimes used instead of a gully-trap, but is not so 
good. 

Efficiency of Traps. Eassie has said " honestly speaking, 
traps are dangerous articles to deal with ; they should be treated 
merely as auxiliaries to a good drainage system." 

(1) The trap may have been imperfectly laid to begin with. 

(2) It may be emptied by evaporation. 

(3) Unless the precautions already mentioned (pages 172 to 
173) are adopted, the flushing of one trap may empty another. 

(4) The water of the trap may become impregnated with foul 
gases, and these then escape on the house-side of the trap. When 
a sewer becomes suddenly charged with a large amount of water, as 
during heavy rain, sewer-gases may force their way through the 
intercepting trap. With a ventilated drain and soil-pipe these 
dangers are so small that they may be ignored. 

Unsyphoning of traps has been already mentioned. It occurs 
particularly when there are several water-closets one over another, 
connected with the same soil-pipe. The method of preventing it is 
shown in Fig. 28. 

The Examination of Drains and Sanitary Appliances. 
This examination will involve the detection of (a) any deviations 



TESTING DRAINS. 



181 



from the details of construction and ventilation of drain and soil- 
pipe, form of w.c., disconnection of waste-pipes, already insisted 
on ; and (b) any defect or leakage in any part of these. 

1. Testing of Water-closet. The interior of the basin or pan 
may be painted with a mixture of lamp-black, size and water. If 
the usual flush applied immediately afterwards clears this off, the 
form of pan and the flushing power are satisfactory. By removing 
the wood-work around the w.c., leakage or spillings of slop-water 
around the w.c. can be detected. 

2. Testing of the soil-pipe may be effected by one of the volatile 
tests named under the next heading. To give the test a fair trial, 
the upper end of the ventilating pipe should be temporarily sealed 
over. 

3. Testing of the drain cannot be efficiently carried out unless 
access can be obtained to the drain near the sewer. In a properly 
constructed house-drain a manhole is provided for this purpose. 
Two chief methods of testing drains and soil-pipes are in use, by 
smoke or volatile agents and by water. 

The smoke-test consists in filling the drains with smoke, the 
assumption being that this will find its way through any faulty joint 
or trap, thus indicating the site of the defect. Various arrangements 
are employed for pumping the smoke into the drain from the 
combustion chamber of a pumping apparatus ; or smoke is produced 
by means of specially prepared rockets. All outlets or ventilating 
pipes must be carefully stopped during the operation, and the place 
where the smoke is smelt will then indicate any leaky point. 




FIG. 35. 
SHOWING STOPPER FOR WATER-TESTING OF DRAINS. 

Drain grenades are largely employed for the volatile testing of 
drains, the essential constituent being phosphide of calcium. The 
grenade, which is attached to a piece of string, is passed beyond the 
trap of the w.c., and as the string unwinds the grenade opens and 
discharges its contents into the soil-pipe. Or a tablespoonful of 
strong oil of peppermint, mixed with hot water, is poured down the 
highest water-closet in the house. If this is smelt by another 
person in the lower closets, it indicates defective traps or soil-pipe. 



182 HYGIENE. 

All volatile and smoke tests have but a limited utility. They 
are useful in detecting defective joints in traps and in the soil- 
pipe. They may detect defects in an underground drain ; but 
if no smell or smoke is perceptible when a drain is tested by this 
means, the drain may still be seriously defective. The only 
absolutely trustworthy test for drains is the hydraulic or water 
test. The lower end of the drain is stopped up by a suitable water- 
tight stopper. Then the drain is filled with water by means of a 
tap in the yard, the amount of water used being approximately 
estimated by the rate of flow from this tap. The drain is filled up 
to the level of the gully-traps in the yard. If it remains at this 
level for half an hour, the drain is sound. More often it leaks so 
rapidly that it will not fill, or the level of the water falls quickly 
after filling, and it is necessary to strip and repair, or more generally 
to relay the drain so as to make it water-tight. 

Rats are an important indication of defective drains. The 
presence of rats in a house should always lead to a thorough 
investigation of its drains. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 
CESSPOOLS AND MAIN SEWERS. 

THE terms Sewer and Drain are used somewhat confusedly. 
The term drain should be used to designate the pipes bringing the 
sewage from the house into the street-sewer, or any pipes by which 
the subsoil is drained ; the term sewer being confined to the trunk 
canals into which the house drains empty their contents. 

Where the water-carriage system of sewerage is adopted, in- 
volving the use of water-closets as described in the last chapter, the 
sewage may be carried from the house either into cesspools or into 
the main sewer. 

Cesspools are only permissible in isolated country-houses 
supplied with water-closets. They should always be situated a 
considerable distance from the house, and should be emptied at 
regular intervals, the sewage being placed in shallow trenches on 
the land. 

The construction of the cesspool requires careful attention. 
Its walls should be of brickwork set in cement, lined inside with 
cement, and surrounded by clay puddle. The bottom should have 
a fall towards one side, where a pump can be fixed, to remove the 
more liquid contents. The depth of the cesspool should never 
exceed 7 feet. The drain emptying into the cesspool should be 
trapped and ventilated, near its junction with the cesspool ; and the 
cesspool itself should be ventilated. 

In connection with many old houses in towns, cesspools still 
exist, sometimes under the basement or near the house, and so built 
as to allow soakage in every direction. The surrounding soil 
becomes contaminated for a considerable distance, the water in any 
neighbouring well is tainted, or leaky water-pipes receive the 
soakage. The cleansing of cesspools is always a disgusting 
process, and even dangerous to the workmen employed. They 
incur the risk of suffocation, and are very subject to ophthalmia. 
To avoid these dangers a pump and hose connected with a partially 
exhausted barrel is employed, but even with this provision some 
nuisance arises. In the Bexley cart, which is used for this purpose, 
a hose is used to connect the cesspool with an air-tight cylinder in 
the cart, into which the contents of the cesspool are pumped. 

A modification of the cesspool system, called the Pneumatic 
System has been proposed by Captain Liernur. In it the cesspool 
is not placed under the house or the courtyard of the house, but 
under the street at the angle of junction of several streets. It is 



184 HYGIENE. 

made of cast-iron and air-tight, and is connected with all the houses 
of several streets by iron pipes. By means of a powerful air-pump 
worked by steam, the cesspool is emptied into barrels in which it is 
sent directly to farms; and the barrels being placed on ploughs 
of peculiar construction, the manure is discharged from the bung- 
hole of each barrel and covered over with earth in the progress of 
the plough. The pipes tend in this and similar systems to get 
clogged with faecal matter, and large quantities of water are required 
to keep them clean, so that the system merges into that of the use of 
water-closets, but without the thoroughness of the latter. 

Cesspools have been almost improved out of existence in some 
continental towns, by the introduction of movable cesspools, fosses 
mobiles, to which would correspond strictly the tubs and pails used 
in some of our large towns. Such movable receptacles have been 
still further "improved " by the adoption of separators, by which the 
liquid parts are allowed to escape into the sewer, while the solid 
parts remain comparatively inoffensive. But when this is done, the 
cesspool may be as well abolished, as the foulness of the sewage is 
not greatly increased by allowing solid as well as liquid excreta to 
enter it. 

Sewers are built of glazed stoneware or of impervious brick laid 
on a bed of concrete to prevent sinking of any part, the parts being 
most solidly put together with cement. Iron and steel pipes are also 
used especially when extra strength is required, as when there is 
some danger of the pipes sinking. For most small streets circular 
stoneware sewers suffice. Oval brick sewers are more suitable for 
main streets in which the amount of flow varies greatly. The cross- 
section of these should be an egg-shaped oval with the small end 
downwards, as this ensures the most rapid current. Sewers should 
be laid in as straight a line as possible, and with a fall which 
will ensure a flow of at least 2f feet per second. The following 
rule gives approximately the fall required for smaller sewers and 
drains : 

A 4-inch pipe requires a fall of i in 40. 

A 6-inch pipe requires a fall of i in 60. 

A g-inch pipe requires a fall of i in 80. 
For further particulars as to the velocity of flow see page 187. 

Where a town is very flat, and a proper fall of sewer impossible, 
Shone's ejectors are sometimes used to raise the sewage. The 
sewers are laid in sections, each section falling to a certain point, 
from which the sewage is raised by the ejector to a higher level and 
so carried to the next section of sewers. Each section has a separate 
system of ventilation. The provision of manholes for inspection of 
an intercepting trap and of ventilation of the house drain near its 
junction with the sewer has already been considered (page 179). 

As sewers have commonly to carry away the rain-water in 
addition to the waste matter from houses, their size must be 
regulated accordingly. The rainfall being very various, the sewers 
may occasionally become overcharged and flood the basements of 
houses. During heavy rainfall large quantities of road grit are 



A 



SEWERS. 185 

washed into the sewers, the intercepting gully tanks at the road 
sides being insufficient to prevent this. 

In addition to the above disadvantages associated with dis- 
charging storm water into sewers, the sewage owing to its increased 
bulk is more difficult of disposal, whatever method of disposal be 
adopted. The size of the sewers and of storm-outfalls into the nearest 
river or the sea must be regulated so that they are equal to these 
sudden strains on them ; or the Separate system, by which the rain 
is carried in special conducts to the nearest river, must, in the 
alternative be adopted. The objections to this plan are that it 
necessitates a double system of sewerage, and does not allow of the 
useful scouring effect of rain on sewers. Where it is feasible, and 
particularly in small country towns, its adoption is advisable. In 
such cases the old brick drains are used for carrying off rain-water, 
while new pipe-sewers are employed for carrying the sewage. Such 
pipe sewers are not liable to become fouled, and on account of the 
decreased dilution of the sewage can be made smaller than brick- 
sewers. 

Sewers being closed conduits containing sewage, it is highly 
desirable that the gases resulting from decomposition should be 
freely diluted. Such gases in unventilated sewers may find their way 
through intercepting traps into the house drain. The danger from 
this source has been considerably exaggerated. Ventilation of 
the sewer is, however, desirable. This has been commonly 
accomplished by gratings opening at intervals directly into the 
middle of streets. In narrow streets, the stench from street-grids is 
occasionally a source of complaint, and may cause malaise and 
ill-health. Charcoal traps placed below sewer grids to intercept 
offensive gases have been found to be of little use. The best plan 
is to do away entirely with surface ventilators, and carry up iron 
shafts or brick shafts lined with stoneware pipes above the level of 
all neighbouring houses. The only difficulty in adopting this plan 
is the difficulty in securing premises to erect such shafts up houses, 
although no danger attaches to the practice. 

Ventilating shafts should be erected at intervals and particularly 
at the highest points of the sewage system of a town, the upper end 
of these shafts being remote from the windows of any dwelling- 
house. When sewers are laid with too steep a gradient, they act as 
chimneys, the gases mounting to the higher part of the town, 
and frustrating attempts at ventilation on lower levels. Various 
attempts have been made to ventilate sewers by artificial means, as 
by the aspirating effect of street lamps, etc., but these efforts have 
not been successful, as the effect of the up-current only influences a 
short length of sewer. The usual method of combined up-shafts and 
street grids answers fairly well, but when any complaint of smell 
from street-grids occurs they should be replaced by up-shafts. In 
Bristol and a few other towns no provision is made for sewer- 
ventilation, and no ill effects have apparently resulted. There can 
be no question that the importance of sewer-ventilation has been 
exaggerated. If the sewer has a sufficient gradient, and is properly 
laid, and efficiently flushed, so that no offensive deposits occur, the 



.i86 HYGIENE. 

provision of up-shafts at favourable points is all that is necessary. 
Sewer effluvia have been credited with causing enteric fever, 
diphtheria, and other diseases. These diseases rarely if ever owe 
their origin to this cause. The microbes discovered in sewer-air 
have always been those of the outside atmosphere, and not derived 
from the sewage. Sewer effluvia might, however, predispose to 
such diseases, if exposure to them were frequent or protracted, by 
lowering the powers of resistance of the constitution. 

Flushing of Sewers is required at intervals, in order to remove 
any deposits of grit or other solid matter. Flushing is effected by 
filling special flushing shafts placed at intervals in the sewers with 
clean water and then suddenly releasing this. 

Whenever there is stagnation, a foul odour is certain to be emitted. 
The cardinal rule with regard to sewage is to keep it in rapid 
onward motion, until it has passed the outlet of the sewer. The 
introduction into a sewer of hot water or waste steam is an occasional 
cause of nuisance. 

The Outfall of a sewer requires to be large and perfectly iree 
in order that the progress of the sewage may not be impeded. 
When the sewage is discharged into the sea above the low water 
level, it becomes backed up in the main sewers when the tide is 
high. The same condition of things has occurred when the outfall 
is into a river below the water line, or into a tank out of which the 
sewage has to be pumped. In all these cases the ventilation of the 
sewers requires to be -perfect, and great precautions taken to prevent 
obstruction of the outflow. 

In low-lying sewers where the outfall is impeded, mechanical 
aids are required to prevent blocking of the sewers. This may be 
obtained by pumping at the outfall, to enable sewage to escape at 
all conditions of the tide, or to raise the sewage on to land for 
irrigation. In the Shone system the sewage is raised to the 
required height by means of compressed air. In this system the 
sewage is received into " ejectors." These are cylindrical reservoirs, 
in which is a float on a counterpoised lever. When a certain 
quantity of sewage has entered, a valve opens admitting the 
compressed air, which forcibly raises the sewage into a higher 
length of sewer or to the outfall. 



( 187 



CHAPTER XXVII. 
PROBLEMS AS TO FLOW IN SEWERS. 

IN order to prevent deposit of solid matter, sewers should be constructed with a 
sufficient gradient, and of a shape which presents the least surface for friction in 
proportion to the amount of liquid to be conveyed. 

All brick sewers should be egg-shaped, with the narrow end downwards. 
The egg is formed by two circles touching one another, the diameter of the 
upper circle being twice that of the lower. 

This shape possesses the great advantage that when the depth of the stream 
is diminished the amount of wetted surface of sewer (wetted perimeter] is 
diminished in equal proportion, whereas in every other form of sewer it is 
relatively increased. Thus the friction, which depends on the extent of the 
wetted perimeter, is kept down to a minimum. Where, as in outfall sewers, the 
volume of sewage is large, and does not vary greatly in amount, the circular 
form may be preferable, as it is cheaper and stronger than the egg-shaped sewer. 
Below 18 inches internal diameter, sewers should be circular in section, and 
made of stoneware, not brick. 

The velocity of flow depends upon (i) the hydraulic mean depth of the 
stream, and (2) its inclination or fall. 

The hydraulic mean depth means the depth of a rectangular channel whose 
sectional area (and therefore the volume of whose current) equals that of the 
curved sewer or pipe, concerning which the calculation is made, and whose 
width equals the entire wetted perimeter of the sewer or pipe. It is thus equal 

sectional area 
to - 5- . 

wetted perimeter 

In the case of circular pipes, if we take the diameter to be i, and assume 
the pipe to be running full, the sectional area = TT/-, where TT = 3' 1416 and r = 
half diameter. 

The wetted perimeter = 277T, that is, the circumference of the circle formed 
by the pipe. 

Therefore hydraulic mean depth = h ^ 1. 

27rr 

Similarly when the pipe runs half full 



2 

The solution of problems where a smaller arc of a circle is occupied by 
fluid requires trigonometrical methods, and is not usually needed in practice. 

The quantity of fluid discharged in a given time is represented by the product 
of the sectional area of the stream into its velocity. The greater the hydraulic 
mean depth the greater is the velocity, if the inclination remains the same. 

The velocity of flow is determined by Eytelwein's formula, which states 
that the mean velocity per second of a stream of water similar in form to those 
now under consideration is nine-tenths of a mean proportional between the 



i88 HYGIENE. 

hydraulic mean depth and the fall in two English miles, if the channel were 
prolonged so far. 

Thus if / = the fall (in feet) in two miles, 
h = hydraulic mean depth in feet, 
V = mean velocity per second, 
Then V = -9^/hf, 
or if v = velocity per minute, then 

= 55^/hf. 

It is more convenient to let / = fall in one mile. 
Then the formula becomes v = 55 ^//& x if. 

How much sewage will a circular drain 3 feet in diameter running half full 
convey, the fall being i in 400 ? 



2 

i in 400 = x in 5,280 feet (i.e. a mile). 
/ = 13-2 in a mile. 
v = 55 x 4-4 = 242 feet per minute. 




3,343. 

w x S = 242 x 3 '5 343 = 855-8 cubic feet, discharged per minute. 

In what way does the size and shape of a sewer affect the velocity of the sewage 
flowing through it ? If a 12-inch pipe sewer, laid at a gradient of i in 175, gives a 
velocity of 3^ feet per second, what would be the velocity if the sewer had a gradient of 
i in 700 (the pipe running half full in each case) ; and would this latter velocity suffice 
to keep the sewer clear of deposit ? 

An elliptical sewer gives greater velocity to flow of small quantities of sewage 
than a circular one because it exposes a smaller surface for friction. 

By formula = v = 55^/A x 2/. 

h = i /. ^l = j. 

/ = i in 175 = 30 feet in one mile. 

v = Af >y/6o = 212-85 ft. per min., i.e. slightly over 3^ ft. per sec. 
In the second case / = i in 700 = 7-56 feet in one mile. 

= 106-97 feet per minute. 



Thus in the first case there is a velocity of 3-55 feet per second, and in the 
second case of 1-78 feet per second. The latter velocity is quite insufficient to 
keep the sewer free from deposit, 3 feet per second being the minimum velocity 
required for that purpose. 

Given a sewer 3 feet in diameter, with a fall of i in 1,760, what would be the 
relative discharge if the fall were i in 5,280 ? 

In the first case, i in 1,760 = 3 in mile. 
i in 5,280 = i in mile. 




In second case v = 55 ,y/| x 2 = 55 

Thus the velocity of the two streams would be as 118 : 67-9. 



PROBLEMS AS TO SEWERS. 189 

Supposing a sewer to have a gradient of i in 300, how much would the velocity and 
discharge be increased by altering the gradient to i in 100 ? 

i in 300 = 17-6 in mile. 
i in 100 = 52- in mile. 

As h is not given, we must assume it = , as it does in circular sewers 
running full or half full. 



= 55 



55 \/ ^^ = 163 feet per minute. 



_4 
z; 1 = 55 y^ = 281- 

The increase in discharge may be similarly calculated. 

Describe the relation existing in a sewer between gradient, volume, velocity, and size. 

By the formula v = 55 ^/h . f . 
Where v = velocity in feet per minute. 

h = hydraulic mean depth = area of cross section of stream 

wetted perimeter 
/ = fall in feet in two miles. 

In circular sewers h = diameter . 

4 

Thus the velocity varies as the square root of h or /. 

The volume discharged varies with the value of the factor v x 5 where s = 
sectional area of stream. 

If h remains constant, with a varying volume of s, then the volume dis- 
charged may remain constant. Thus h and v in a circular sewer are the same, 
whether the sewer runs full or half full. In a V-shaped channel the velocity 
remains the same whatever the depth of the stream, as its bed and area preserve 
the same proportions. An egg-shaped sewer approximates the V shape in form. 

Similar volumes of sewage have velocities which vary not only with the 
amount of fall, but the size of the sewer. The friction, as represented by the 
wetted perimeter, would be much less with sewage half filling a circular sewer, 
than with the same amount of sewage forming a broad shallow stream on the 
invert of a large sewer. 



( 190 ) 



CHAPTER XXVIII. 
THE DISPOSAL OP SEWAGE. 

THE water-carriage system of sewage is, as the late Dr. Parkes 
put it, ''the cleanest, the readiest, the quickest, and in many cases 
the most inexpensive method." But when the sewage is conveyed 
to the outfall of the sewer, its ultimate disposal is still one of the 
most difficult problems of the present day. Various plans have been 
adopted, of which the following are the chief : 

1. Discharge into running water. 

2. Discharge into the sea. 

3. Separation of solid and liquid parts { g ^}' n _ 

4. Filtration through various artificial media or through land. 

5. Irrigation. 

6. Bacterial methods. 

Discharge at once into running water was formerly the 
favourite plan, as it was certainly the most convenient. The sewage 
was turned into the nearest watercourse, regardless of the facts that 
this might have to supply the drinking water of people at a lower 
point, that the mouth of the river tended to become obstructed by 
sewage mud, that valuable stocks of fish were destroyed, and 
that the river which had practically become a sewer was a source 
of annoyance and danger to all on it or near it. The enforcement 
of the Rivers Pollution Prevention Act of 1876 has not been 
followed by as great improvement as is desirable. 

The sewage entering rivers undergoes considerable purification 
by subsidence, by oxidation, by the influence of water plants, and 
still more by the active work of microbes, causing nitrification of 
nitrogenous matter. The vitality of the typhoid bacillus and of the 
cholera vibrio when discharged by sewage into a large river is 
probably not very protracted ; but water from such a river would 
form a very dangerous source of domestic supply. 

Discharge into the Sea is resorted to in seaboard towns. The 
outfall must be carried well below the lowest low-water mark, and 
to such a point that the incoming tide or wind will not bring the 
sewage back upon the shore, or on the shore of neighbouring 
places. 

Discharge into an Estuary is only justifiable when the flow 
of the river is rapid, when the volume of water passing out to sea is 
very greatly in excess of the volume of sewage, and when there is no 



SEWAGE DISPOSAL. 191 

possibility of contaminating oyster-layings or beds of mussels or 
other molluscs. 

Objection has been taken to the above method on the ground of 
waste of manure ; but modern sewage is so dilute that its profitable 
utilization on land still remains a dream. 

For a single house or small village, the sewage may be stored in 
a tank, with an overflow-pipe, out of which the liquid parts 
escape, and are systematically used to irrigate land, while the 
solid parts are removed at intervals. 

A similar subsidence system has been employed on a larger 
scale, the liquid parts being irrigated over land, while the solid parts 
are mixed with street sweepings, and sold as manure. 

If the liquid parts in any such system as this are turned into a 
stream, they are as dangerous as the entire sewage, and the legal 
prohibition to discharging sewage into streams applies equally 
to them. 

The precipitation of the solid parts of the sewage is rendered 
much more perfect by the use of chemical agents, and at the same 
time the dissolved matters are to some extent removed. 

Milk of lime has been employed, 6 to 12 grains of quicklime 
being used for each gallon of sewage. Secondary decomposition is 
apt to occur in the effluent, causing an offensive smell. Salts of 
alumina, iron salts, and various combinations of these have also 
been employed, but with imperfect results. 

The London sewage for some years has been treated by adding 
2*5 grains of sulphate of iron^and 3-7 grains of lime to every gallon 
of sewage ; a reduction of 15 to 20 per cent, in the amount of 
dissolved organic matter being secured. Polarite or magnetic 
spongy carbon is used as a filter in certain places, the solid and 
some of the dissolved sewage being first precipitated by magnetic 
ferrous carbon (ferrozone). The Amines process consists in 
applying a mixture of herring brine and lime to the sewage. The 
sewage is stated to be sterilized by this means. Electrolysis has 
also been applied to the purification of sewage, as in the Hermite 
process. In this process sea-water is electrolysed, oxygen-yielding 
compounds and chlorine being produced. 

With regard to all the chemical processes hitherto introduced, 
the following general statement appears to hold good : they are 
expensive and not thoroughly efficient. 

Sewage sludge is deposited in the tanks in chemical processes 
and needs separate disposal. At Birmingham the amount of sludge 
produced daily from the sewage of a thousand persons is nearly a 
ton. This sludge has been run into rough filter beds and left to dry 
or carted away for manure, but in its crude state its manurial value 
is very slight. At Baling it is mixed with house-refuse and burnt in 
a destructor. The more modern method is to pass it through a 
filter-press, thus compressing it into solid cakes which can be sold 
for manure. 

Filtration of the sewage matter has been accomplished in 
various ways. 



192 HYGIENE. 

Intermittent downward filtration through a considerable depth of 
soil was stated by the Rivers Pollution Commission to be attended 
with good results. A porous soil is chosen, and the purified water 
is received in drains under it. A large part of the organic matter is 
removed by bacterial agency. Frankland's experiments shewed 
that upward filtration through the same media did not purify. 

Filtration through artificial media has not been successful with 
crude sewage. Precipitation by ferrozone followed by filtration 
through polarite is said to be satisfactory. 

Broad Irrigation purifies the sewage efficiently under 
favourable conditions, the possible exceptions being during rain- 
storms and during frosty weather. The effluent into the river 
cannot, however, be regarded as certainly innocuous, though it is 
better than the effluent from most other processes. Sewage farms 
are not a commercial success. In such a farm liquid sewage is 
allowed to flow at intervals over the land, different fields being 
irrigated in rotation. Immense crops of grass are obtained, but the 
grass is coarse and rank. 

The soil to be irrigated should have a gentle slope, and the 
effluent be conveyed by sub-soil drains about 5 or 6 feet deep into 
the nearest water-course. The sewage should be delivered in as 
fresh condition as possible, and should be freed from its coarser 
portions by settlement or precipitation. The amount of land 
required is about i acre for the sewage of 100 persons. The 
irrigation must be on the intermittent plan, in order that the soil 
may undergo aeration ; as it is only in this way that the best 
purifying results can be obtained. The sewage farm should be well 
drained by deep-laid agricultural drains. The chief purification of 
the sewage occurs in the superficial layers of the soil. Nitrification 
ceases at a depth of about 18 inches. The great point, therefore, is 
to keep the superficial soil in good condition. A similar nitrification 
occurs in earth-closets (page 195). No nuisance need arise in 
connection with a sewage-farm, and the supposition that milk and 
other products from such a farm are less wholesome than the same 
products from other farms has proved to be unbased. 

Bacterial Methods of Treating Sewage. Chemical precipi- 
tation of sewage is likely to be completely superseded by biological 
or bacterial methods of sewage disposal. When sewage is treated by 
filtering through land or by broad irrigation the process is bacterial, 
bacteria or microbes in the soil converting injurious organic matter 
into innocuous mineral products. The typical process is one of 
nitrification. The novelty of recent methods is in utilising bacteria 
for the whole process of purification, and not only for its final stages. 
The object is, in fact, not as in chemical processes to arrest, but by 
confining the sewage in tanks to aid and hasten decomposition or 
putrefaction. Two kinds of microbes serve in this process ; those 
living in air, known as aerobic, and those living in other gases than 
air, called anaerobic. 

Three biological methods of preliminary treatment of sewage 
are employed. (i) Mr. Scott Moncrieff passes the sewage slowly 



SEWAGE DISPOSAL. 193 

upwards through a filter 14 inches thick, consisting of successive 
layers of flint, coke, and gravel. This is called a " cultivation tank" 
The solid sewage becomes liquefied in passing through this medium, 
the microbes in the filter dissolving the sewage. (2) In the " septic 
tank method" introduced by Mr. Cameron at Exeter, a tank is 
employed which is covered in to exclude light, and to a large extent 
air. The tank is large enough to hold 24 hours' flow of sewage. 
The microbes in the sewage under these conditions multiply rapidly, 
attack, and liquefy the sewage. As in the first process little or no 
sludge is left. The ultimate products of the decomposition are water, 
ammonia, and carbonic acid, and other gases. The effluent from the 
tank is comparatively clear and inoffensive. (3) Aerobic biological 
filters are employed, as in Mr. Dibdin's installation at Sutton, where 
the filtering material is coke. The sewage slowly passing through 
the filtering medium becomes liquefied, the solid matter being 
peptonised. This action is in part at least due to anaerobic 
microbes. The filtering beds are used intermittently to allow of 
aeration, and the liquefaction of solid organic particles entangled in 
the filter probably chiefly occurs at this stage. It is desirable to 
have small subsidence tanks, for the removal of large suspended 
matters and of road debris, etc., before the sewage is spread over 
the filtering beds. The material used in the filter varies. Most 
commonly coke-breeze has been employed, but coal slack and other 
material have also been utilised. 

After the preliminary treatment above described, the sewage 
requires to be passed over finer filtering beds, in which aerobic 
microbes complete the purification by changing the dissolved organic 
matter into inert inorganic compounds, by the process known as 
nitrification. The two processes run into one another, to some 
extent going on together. 

Hitherto the Local Government Board have required filtration 
of sewage through land before any sewage effluent is allowed to pass 
into a stream. In view of the successful results now obtainable by 
bacterial processes this requirement will be occasionally waived. It 
is unsafe to assume, however, that the clear effluent obtained is 
free from all disease-producing microbes ; and drinking water should 
not be obtained from even a very large river below the point of 
discharge of such an effluent, without the most efficient sand 
filtration. 



Newsholme's Hygiene.] 14 



CHAPTER XXIX. 
CONSERVANCY METHODS. 

THE refuse to be removed from a house consists of fouled water, 
which is at least equal in quantity to the water-supply of the house ; 
the excreta of the inhabitants ; and " dust," which contains, besides 
ashes, considerable kitchen refuse; consisting of both vegetable and 
animal matters. 

In dry methods of removing refuse, the " dust " is often added 
to the excreta, and the two removed together ; or the " dust " may 
be separately removed. In either case the foul water, and to a 
large extent the urine, remain to be dealt with, and require special 
drains for their removal. Thus in large towns, whether dry or wet 
methods of removing sewage are adopted, drains for the removal of 
foul-water and rain-water will be required, and it is found that they 
are practically as foul as if they contained the solid excreta. 

The dry methods of removing sewage involve a certain amount 
of retention about the house ; hence the general name of conserv- 
ancy methods. Of these the most important are 

1. The pail system. 

2. The dry-earth system. 

3. The midden or privy system. 

The Pail System implies in reality the use of a movable 
cesspool. The pail may be used alone, or may contain ashes and 
house refuse, or some deodorant. Where the pail is used without 
any admixture of foreign matter, it should be emptied daily, and 
care should be taken that the pails for different houses are not 
exchanged. 

In the Goux System the tubs are lined with a composition 
containing clay and furnished at the lowest part with some 
absorbent material such as chaff, straw, or hay, which serves to 
absorb the urine and retard putrefaction. This is, when well 
managed, somewhat less offensive than the ordinary pail system.. 

The pails may be supplied with a deodorant, such as sulphate 
of iron, as at Birmingham, Leeds, etc. ; they may be packed with 
absorbent material, as in the Goux system (Halifax) ; the ashes 
and house-refuse may be deposited in the same pail (Edinburgh, 
Nottingham) ; or coal ashes may be scattered over the excreta 
(Manchester, Salford) ; but all these systems are rapidly being 
superseded. 

Although the pail or tub system is an improvement on the 
midden system, it is necessarily a cause of considerable nuisance, 



EARTH CLOSETS. i 95 

and its replacement by water-closets should be recommended in 
towns. In detached country houses it may be retained without 
nuisance, if the pail or tub is emptied daily, and its contents at 
once placed in the garden beneath a shallow layer of earth. The 
pails in large towns are usually collected in specially-constructed 
closed wagons. In some towns the pail contents have been burnt 
in a " Destructor " (page 200) after having been mixed with ashes. 
In other towns attempts have been made to utilise the excreta, 
either by selling in their crude condition or after drying and 
deodorising them by heat. None of these methods repays the cost 
of collection. Mixing ashes with the excreta diminishes any 
possible value they may possess as a manure. 

The Dry-earth System is an important modification of the 
pail system. In it dry earth or some other material is added to the 
excreta, thus converting them immediately into an inodorous mass. 
Probably the best contrivances for thus deodorising the excreta, as 
soon as they fall into the receptacle, are Moule's or Moser's 
Earth-Closets. 

It is found that i-| Ibs. of dry earth completely deodorise the 
closet each time it is used. Loamy earth is the most valuable 
material ; a mixture of peat and earth or ashes is very good ; sand, 
gravel, and chalk are practically useless. It is necessary that the 
earth should be very dry, and that it should be finely sifted. If 
the earth is damp, decomposition of the excreta speedily occurs. 
The act of sitting and rising works a hopper which scatters a 
supply of earth. 

Charcoal and saw-dusthave also been used in connection with 
Moule's or Moser's closet, and with good results. Charcoal has been 
obtained cheaply for the purpose from street sweepings, and from 
seaweed, as in Stanford's closet, in which \ Ib. of charcoal from 
seaweed is used each time. Mr. Stanford found that while dry clay 
absorbs only 4 to 5 per cent, of water, dry charcoal prepared from 
seaweed absorbs 147 per cent. The best material, however, is 
dry earth, but it must be thoroughly dry. The microbes in the earth 
disintegrate the excreta, converting them into mineral compounds, 
such as nitrates. Even the paper used disappears. Hence the 
same earth may be used over again after being stored dry for six 
weeks. Whether the excreta of an infectious patient are freed from 
infection by this process is doubtful ; if not, the infection might be 
scattered by means of dust. 

The dry earth system is more expensive in use than the pail 
system, and although applicable to villages and isolated houses, 
is quite unsuited to large towns, owing to the practical difficulties 
connected with the procuring and storing of dry earth. The dry 
earth closet requires frequent attention, in addition to not being so 
convenient as the pail closet ; and there is much less manurial 
value in the contents of earth closets than in those of pail closets. 

The advantages of the earth-closet as compared with the water- 
closet have been thus summarised by the late Sir Geo. Buchanan. 
"It is cheaper in the original cost, it is not injured by frost, it is 



196 HYGIENE. 

not damaged by improper substances driven down it, and it very 
greatly diminishes the quantity of water required by each house- 
hold." These advantages only accrue when the system is perfectly 
worked, and do not counterbalance the immense advantage and 
greater safety of the water-carriage system in towns. 

The Privy or Midden System, involving the use of a fixed 
receptacle, is still prevalent in many towns as well as in innumerable 
villages. In its worst form, the receptacle consists of a pit with 
sides of porous materials, allowing percolation of filth in every 
direction ; and in this pit the excreta of whole households are 
allowed to collect for months. It has been improved by providing 
a cover to keep out the rain, and thus retard decomposition ; still 
more by providing a drain for the excess of liquid ; and by making 
the sides and bottom of the pit impervious to moisture. The 
addition of dry ashes to the excreta tends still further to prevent 
any smell ; and the greatest improvement of all consists in raising 
the receptacle above the ground level, and providing for easy 
cleaning from the back. The raising of the receptacle involves a 
diminution in its size, and so prevents the retention of putrefying 
matters near a house for a long time. 

The model Bye-laws of the Local Government Board recom- 
mend a capacity for the privy not exceeding 8 cubic-feet, the 
provision of means for the frequent application of ashes, dust, or 
dry refuse ; they forbid any connection between the privy and the 
drain ; insist on its being at least 6 feet from a dwelling-house (too 
low a limit) ; and require a flagged or asphalted floor at least 3 
inches above the level of the surrounding ground. 

The Nottingham tub-closet forms a link between the pail and 
midden system. It is really a small movable middenstead, used for 
receiving excreta, vegetables and ashes. 

Even when carefully supervised, middens are almost certain 
to be productive of evil. They possess two great disadvantages 
as compared with pails or dry closets. (i) The time between 
collections of excreta by the scavengers is much longer; and (2) 
the receptacle for the refuse is part of the structure of the building, 
and cannot easily be renewed when it has become saturated with 
excreta. 

The use of pails or dry-earth closets is a great improvement on 
the old middens, but even these compare very unfavourably with 
water-closets in two respects. (i) The excreta require to be 
retained about the house for a longer or shorter period, whereas 
with an efficient water-carriage system, they are at once projected 
into the sewer. (2) In removing the excreta, the weight of the 
receptacle has to be added to that of the excreta, while in the 
water-carriage system, the water serves as the means of transport. 

In villages and isolated houses, where no drains are provided 
for waste water, and the dry system of closets is adopted, the 
disposal of waste water requires special provision. Very 
commonly the slops are thrown out of the door, and soak into the 
ground about the house. They should be carried by means of a 
waste-pipe into a water-tight cesspool, remote from the house, 



CONSERVANCY v. WATER-CARRIAGE SYSTEMS. 197 

whence they can be pumped into a field, or carried away by special 
conduits. 

Relative Merits of Dry and Wet Methods. No absolute 
answer can be given in exclusive favour of either plan. Each is 
the best under different circumstances ; the dry method being 
chiefly suitable for small villages, and for temporary collections of 
people, as in camps ; and the wet method for towns. The question 
of value of manure does not enter into the problem, as it seldom 
repays for carriage. 

The objections to the water-carriage system are really 
due to its not being carried out in an efficient manner. When 
sewers are properly laid ; when they, as well as house-drains, are 
freely ventilated ; when house-drains are efficiently trapped and 
ventilated near their junction with the sewer ; when the drains are 
efficiently flushed, and the outflow from the sewer is unimpeded, 
the objections disappear. 

These objections are that (i) the sewers, as underground 
channels, transfer effluvia and the germs of disease from one place 
to another ; (2) pipes become disjointed owing to being badly laid, 
and the ground is contaminated ; (3) the water supply is in danger 
of receiving impurities from the sewers. These objections do not 
hold good in practice. The contamination of water-mains or of 
wells from sewers implies gross carelessness in the method of laying 
of sewers or pipes. 

The only objections which are of any force, are (4) that water- 
closets require a large amount of water, and the sewage obtained is 
greatly diluted, and consequently diminished in value ; while (5) 
the disposal of such an amount of water, in the case of a large inland 
town, is a problem of the utmost difficulty. Modern engineering 
enterprise by bringing water from a greater distance, and by aiding 
the discharge of sewage when necessary by pumping, has overcome 
these difficulties. 

There are many objections to the dry methods of removing 
excreta, (i) Whatever dry method be adopted, the excreta are 
retained for some time in or about the house, instead of being 
immediately removed. 

(2) Although the initial outlay in closets and sewers is less than 
with the water-carriage system, there is the constantly recurring 
expense of removing the excreta, 'as well as of cleansing the 
pails, etc. 

(3) In the dry-earth closets, the provision of dry earth or other 
material involves some expense. 

(4) Whatever dry method be adopted, sewers are always 
required to carry off the foul water, as well as liquid trade products, 
and a certain proportion at least of the urine. It is impossible to 
supply sufficient dry earth to absorb all the urine and slops of the 
population. 

Thus, as the Indian Army Sanitary Commission said, speaking 
of barracks, "to have two systems of cleansing stations a foul- 
water system, and a dry-earth system would simply be paying 
double where one payment would answer ; or, if all the excreta, 



1 9 8 HYGIENE. 

solid and liquid, are to be carried away, this must be done at a cost 
ten times greater than tha.t which would be necessary, if all the 
excreta were removed by drains." 

With some of the dry methods, as where middens or cesspits 
are drained into the sewers, the sewer- water is more offensive than 
in towns supplied with water-closets. When a midden or cesspool 
is drained, the principle of conservation, which distinguishes the 
dry system from the wet, is practically abandoned ; and not only so, 
but the solid matters still remain to be disposed of, by a tedious 
process. 

(5) The dry systems, involving the retention of excreta about 
the house, poison the atmosphere. In all towns where the refuse 
matters are not removed immediately, there is a high mortality, 
especially among children. 

On the other hand, the introduction of the water-carriage system 
into large towns, with the abolition of midden-heaps and cesspools, 
has been followed in nearly every case by a diminution in the 
death-rate, and especially a considerable diminution in that from such 
diseases as enteric fever. It has furthermore increased the comfort 
of life, and removed those serious nuisances which are inevitably 
associated with privies and pail closets, and to a less extent, when 
care is not exercised, with earth closets. 



HOUSE REFUSE. 

In an ordinary household the disposal of ashes from fires, of 
broken pots and cans, of waste-paper, and of vegetable and animal 
debris form a serious difficulty. The difficulty is one that can be 
minimised by the careful housekeeper. Old newspapers, etc., may 
be sold, though their value is very small ; other waste-paper should 
be burnt. All vegetable and animal debris should be burnt. This 
may be effected without nuisance if coal-fires are in use, by placing 
potato-peelings, cabbage leaves and similar substances under the 
fire until thoroughly dried, and then burning them. The careful 
housewife will not waste bones, but utilise them for soup. After 
being boiled they are much less liable to putrefy in the dust-bin ; 
but should even now be burnt in the fire. If this plan be pursued, 
the contents of the dust-bin will be simply ashes, broken pots and 
cans, and a few cinders here again a sifter is desirable and no 
nuisance can arise. It is only organic refuse that smells. If only gas 
or paraffin stoves are in use, as during the summer months, any 
possible nuisance in connection with the dust -bin is minimised by 
allowing all refuse to dry before it is placed in the dust-bin, or by 
wrapping all putrefiable substance inside several layers of 
newspaper. 

In emptying the dust-bin or ash-pit, care must be taken that the 
bottom is thoroughly scraped out. It is well to keep some quicklime 
(thoroughly dry) for sprinkling on the bottom and sides of the 
receptacle each time after it is emptied. This greatly helps in 
keeping it dry and diminishing nuisance during summer. 



HOUSE REFUSE. 199 

In many households a separate receptacle is kept for what is 
known as " hog-wash," containing waste-food, often in a foul and 
putrefying condition. In well-ordered households, except in hotels 
and similar establishments, there is no necessity for a " hog-wash " 
tub, and its presence argues wastefulness and carelessness. Food 
which cannot be eaten because it has "gone bad" should be 
burnt. 

Two forms of receptacle are used for house-refuse, an ash-pit or 
a dust-bin. An ash-pit is a fixed receptacle for the reception of 
house-refuse. In many towns the same receptacle is used for 
excreta. Then we have a privy or privy midden, according to size 
(see page 196). Ash-pits for household refuse alone should be small, 
so as not to hold more than a week's refuse. No part should be 
below the ground level. The floor and walls should be lined with 
impervious smooth cement, and the ash-pit should have a hinged 
cover to keep out rain, and a door on one side to facilitate emptying. 
The ash-pit should be at least six feet distant from any wall of the 
house. Even the best constructed ash-pit is as much worse than a 
dust-bin, as a privy is worse than a pail closet. A fixed is always 
less easily cleansed than a movable receptacle. 

A dust-bin is usually made of galvanized iron with a tight- 
fitting lid. This receptacle can be kept clean, and can be carried 
without any transference to another tub direct to the cart. 

The removal of house refuse constitutes an important part of 
municipal work. In most towns it is carried out weekly, sometimes 
less frequently, while in some towns removal twice or three times a 
week is secured. A daily removal is carried out in a few towns, and 
this is by far the best plan, as decomposition and the dangers 
associated with it have then no chance of becoming serious. The 
house refuse should always be conveyed through the streets in 
covered carts. 

The disposal of house refuse constitutes a problem of 
increasing difficulty. Unfortunately in the suburbs of many towns 
it is deposited on low-lying land in disused quarries and brickfields. 
When land has been thus levelled, it often next appears as "an 
eligible building site." A very common practice has been to 
excavate gravel and sand upon the site of proposed dwellings, and 
allow the excavation to be filled with dust-bin refuse. Before 
building on such a soil it is necessary to excavate down to the 
virgin earth, and to render it impervious by a layer of cement 
concrete. 

A second method is to sift and sort the refuse, separating by 
means of sieves the finer ash and dust from the coarser parts. This 
is usually carried out in a large dust-yard adjoining a river 
or railway-siding. The " breeze," consisting of cinders and 
coals, along with the fine ash, are sold to brickmakers ; the 
" hard core," consisting of clinkers, broken crockery, etc., is used 
for road making ; and the " soft core," consisting of animal and 
vegetable refuse, to which is often added stable manure, is sold for 
manure. Iron, tin, paper, rags, bottles, and corks are separately 



200 HYGIENE. 

collected and sold. This disgusting process, often carried on by 
women, is now gradually being disused. 

A third method is to cremate the house refuse. This has 
been done to a large extent by burning the house refuse for 
making bricks (page 124). This method of slow and imperfect 
combustion necessarily involves a nuisance. A more elaborate 
means of securing the same end is by the modern Destructor, 
which has been gradually brought towards perfection. A 
destructor is a large furnace, in which, after the fire has been 
first lit, the combustible matter in the house refuse suffices 
to keep it alight. Various mechanical devices are in use for 
emptying the trucks of house refuse on to the fires without handling 
it, for clearing out of the fire the inorganic refuse, and for ensuring 
sufficiency of draught. The amount of draught has in the older 
destructors been dependent upon the height of the chimney. In 
some more recent destructors the same end has been more efficiently 
secured by injecting a steam blast into the furnaces. A temperature 
of about 2,000 F. is reached in certain parts of the destructor, 
the rapid draught ensuring enormous heat. In view of the 
possibility of a portion of the smoke not being completely burnt, a 
second " fume cremator " is often provided, through which the 
products of combustion in the furnace are passed. The fuel in the 
" fume cremator " is coke. Besides incomplete combustion of 
combustible material, which is rare when the fume cremator is 
provided, the escape of fine dust up the chimney requires to be 
guarded against. This is partially prevented by ledges near the 
bottom of the chimney. In a destructor the house refuse is reduced 
to about one-third of its original bulk, the residue being innocuous 
clinker, metallic refuse, and dust. This material can be utilised for 
making roads, and in the manufacture of mortar. The waste heat 
of the destructor has been partially utilised for various purposes. 
This method of disposal of house refuse is usually the best available 
for large towns, and offers the additional advantage that no nuisance 
is caused by the deposit of offensive material in neighbouring 
districts. 



201 ) 



CHAPTER XXX. 
POSITION OF THE HOUSE. 

LORD BACON said: " He who builds a fair house upon an ill seat 
committeth himself to prison." The first considerations, therefore, 
in choosing a house are those of aspect, surrounding objects, and 
soil. On the first of these considerations, that of aspect, 
Thomas Fuller's quaint remarks give the essential points. He 
says : 

"Light (God's eldest daughter) is a principal beauty in a building; yet it 
shines not alike from all parts of heaven. An east window welcomes the beams 
of the sun before they are of strength to do any harm, and is offensive to none 
but a sluggard. A south window in summer is a chimney with a fire in it, and 
needs the screen of a curtain. In a west window in summer towards night the 
sun grows low and even familiar, with more light than delight. A north window 
is best for butteries and cellars, where the beer will not be sour from the sun 
shining on it." 

A workroom or study requiring steady light, should point north 
or some point between north-east and north-west. A breakfast 
room should face north-east to south ; while one aspect of a drawing- 
room should be south-east to north-east. Store-rooms, dairies, 
larders, should have a northerly aspect. It is preferable, as a rule, 
for the house not to face in the direction of the four points of the 
compass, but diagonally to these. 

Surrounding Objects of an objectionable character, as 
factories, noisy or offensive trades are to be avoided. The possibility 
of neighbouring cesspools contaminating the water supply must 
be considered. Trees close to a house are objectionable, rendering 
it damp, and preventing the free access of sun and air. More 
remote from the house they form a useful shelter, especially when 
to the north or east. 

The banks of water courses are 'to be avoided for similar 
reasons. If there is a choice, the slope of a hill should be selected ; 
and it is essential that no part of the dwelling should rest against 
sloping ground at a higher level. Rank vegetation indicates a 
damp clayey soil. 

The main point is to secure that the house shall receive 
ample light and ventilation. In calculating the amount and 
intensity of sunshine which a house built on a given site will 
secure the variations according to season must be remembered. 
The direction (orientation) of the sun is the same all the year 
through ; but the altitude of the sun varies with the latitude. 
Thus in a house facing directly south in the latitude of the south 
of England the sun's altitude at noon on the 2ist of December is 



202 



HYGIENE. 



15 4', on the 2ist of June 62 4'. A ray of light entering the 
highest point of a window facing south at each of these seasons 
will illuminate a much larger part of the room in summer than 
in winter. Not only so, but inasmuch as it enters the room more 
nearly vertically it is more powerful than when entering at an angle 
more nearly approximating a horizontal direction, in accordance 
with the general law that the intensity of illumination falling on a 
horizontal surface (as the floor of a room) is inversely as the 
square of the width of the area embraced within the same angle 
of incidence of light. 

In houses in a street the angular aperture through which 
light enters is greatest in the upper stories. It may be increased 
(a) by increasing the height of rooms ; (b) by carrying the window 
heads nearly to the level of the ceiling ; and (c) by avoiding the 
proximity of other buildings which would impede the access of 
light. Fig. 36 shows the importance of the last consideration. 
This represents a three-storied house in a street, of which the 
opposite house L is of the same height. It will be observed that 
each room is divided into two regions of different degrees of 
illumination by a plane Lm, formed by a line connecting the ridge 
of the roofs of the houses on the opposite side of the street' with 
the interior surface of the rooms and touching the uppermost point 
of the window in transit. Below this line there is "sky-light" 
sufficient in quantity ; above this line light is insufficient in amount 
and is diffused and reflected. The area receiving sufficient light 
increases from the ground floor upwards. We have already seen 
that its intensity similarly increases in the higher stories, the rays 
of light being more nearly vertical in these. 




FIG. 36. 
SHOWING VARIATIONS OF ILLUMINATION IN DIFFERENT STORIES. 

The amount of sky-light visible can be expressed in terms of the angle of 
aperture, i.e. the arc of sky visible at any given point a in the room. Thus in 



WIDTH OF STREET. 



203 



Fig. 36 the triangle of aperture bac is greater than b'a'c', and this greater than 
b"a"c" . The sides of the angle of aperture, it will be seen, are formed by 
drawing one line from the point a to c, which, if prolonged, would touch L, and 
another line to b, which passes through the highest point of the window. 

The amount of light received in a dwelling-house is largely 
determined by the width of the street and the distance between 
the backs of the houses 
in adjacent streets. The 
model Bye-laws of the 
Local Government 
Board insist that no new 
street shall be less than 
36 feet wide if it exceeds 
100 yards in length or is 
intended to be a carriage 
road, not less than 24 
feet in any case. Fur- 
thermore, a new house 
must have in the rear an 
open space exclusively 
belonging to the house, 
at least 150 square feet 
in area, and free from 
any erection above the 
ground level. This must 
extend along the entire 
width of the house, and 
must never measure less 
than 10 feet from every 
part of the back wall of 
the house ; the distance 
must be at least 15 feet, 
if the house is 15 feet 
high ; 20 feet if 25 feet 
high, and 25 feet if 35 
feet high or more. 

Streets should never 
be less in width than 
the height of the houses 
in them ; and a line 
drawn from the ridge of 
the roof to the foot of 
the wall of the opposite 
houses (Fig. 37) or in 
the rear to the foot of 
the wall or fence dividing 
the back yards of con- 
tiguous houses, should not make an angle of more than 45 with 
the ground (Fig. 37). This is the angle required for new 
buildings in the residential parts of Liverpool, and was proposed for 
London, but unfortunately not made obligatory. The size of 




204 HYGIENE. 

windows is discussed on page 216. The light received in a given 
house is often diminished at corners of streets by contiguous houses. 

The Soil has an important influence on the healthiness of a site. 
The relative merits of the different kinds of soil are discussed on 
page 219. Undrained soils of whatever kind are bad, and made- 
soils are always to be regarded with profound distrust. 

The planning of a house should be carefully considered. The 
principle is that the sun should enter every living room at some 
time of the day. The relative positions of fireplace, window, and 
door in each room are important. With the sole window of a room 
in the same wall as the fireplace the area ventilated is the least, with 
it situated on the opposite wall the area ventilated is the greatest. 
The door should be as remote from the window as possible, in order 
to secure occasional perflation of air; the two being preferably on 
opposite walls. Staircase windows are indispensable to secure 
through ventilation of a dwelling. Houses constructed "back to 
back " cannot be properly ventilated as no through current of air is 
possible. Hence the necessity for open yards at the area, as well as 
air-space in front of the house. (Fig. 37). 

In the construction of a house, apart from access of light and 
air, the main problems are to secure dryness and equability of 
temperature. We shall consider in this connection the materials 
used in the construction of walls, floors, and roofs. 



( 205 ) 



CHAPTER XXXI. 

THE MATERIALS USED IN THE CONSTRUCTION 
OP A HOUSE. 

IN this country walls of houses are usually built of brick, stone, 
timber, or concrete, of which the first two are the most important. 
Timber is, owing to its inflammability, only allowed to be used in 
towns under special restrictions. Bricks and stones are bonded 
together and imbedded in mortar or cement. 

There are several kinds of bonds in brickwork, of which the 
strongest is the English. This consists of alternate courses ot 
"headers" ['and "stretchers," the former being bricks carried 
through the wall from face to back, the short end showing on the 
face, and the latter bricks laid lengthwise along the face of the 
wall. Hence the wall is held together in every direction. A 
Flemish bond consists of alternate headers and stretchers in the 
same course. It is used where a specially smooth wall is desired, 
but is not so strong as the English bond. 

Bricks are generally of a uniform size, of 9 inches in length by 
4-| in width and 2f inches in thickness. Those bricks which are 
heaviest and hardest are generally the most durable ; bricks of good 
quality when knocked together give a clear ringing sound. 

The relative conductivity for heat of brick as compared with 
other materials, is shown in the following table, from Galton, which 
gives the units of heat transmitted per square foot per hour by 
a plate i inch thick, the two surfaces differing in temperature i 
Fahr. : 



Stone ordinary free stone . . . . ... . . . . i3'68 

Glass 6-6 

Brickwork . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4^83 

Plaster 3'86 

Fir planks 1-37 

Brick dust 1-33 



It is evident that in this respect, brick walls compare very 
favourably with stone walls, and are much more economical of heat. 
Increased conductivity of a material may be counteracted by 
increased thickness. 

Brick is very porous, as shewn by its power to absorb moisture. 
A good brick can absorb from 10 to 20 per cent, of its weight of 
water ; while good granite only takes up | per cent., sandstone 



206 



HYGIENE. 



usually from 8 to 10 per cent., marble only a trace, and Portland 
limestone 13^ per cent. 

Being porous, brick allows the passage of a considerable amount 
of air, unless its pores are occupied by moisture. The following 
table, from Galton, shews the number of cubic feet of air which 
every hour pass through a square yard of wall-surface of equal 
thicknesses, built of the following materials, there being a tem- 
perature of 72 Fahr. on one side the wall, and of 40 on the 
other : 



Wall built o) brick 
quarried limestone 
sandstone . . 
limestone 
mud 







7-9 cubic feet. 
6'5 

47 

IO'I 

M'4 



Mortar should consist of clean sharp sand and slaked lime, 
usually in the proportion of three of the former to one of the latter. 
Grouting, or liquid mortar, is merely ordinary mortar to which a 
larger quantity of water has been added. It is used for filling up 
the crevices between the brickwork about every fourth course, and 
is required to a greater extent in stone work, owing to the difficulty 
in filling up spaces left by inequalities in the stone. 

The sand used in mortar should be free from small stones. It 
should not contain any earthy or clayey matters, as these greatly 
diminish the adhesive quality of the mortar, which depends on the 
combination of the sand and lime. All the sand used in a building 
should be washed, unless it is perfectly clean, in order to remove 
impurities. Many builders use an inferior mortar, in ^which 
other materials, such as " road scrapings," are substituted for sand. 
Sand taken from the sea-shore is unfit for making mortar, as the 
salt contained in it is apt to deliquesce and weaken the mortar. 

Lime is obtained by burning chalk or limestone in a kiln. 
Thus Ca CO 3 = Ca O 4- CO 2 . There are three kinds of lime : (i) 
Fat or quicklime, used for internal plastering, (2) stone lime, used 
for ordinary building work, and (3) hydraulic lime, used for building 
in damp situations. The last named contains a quantity of silicates, 
and sets under water. 

Common mortar crumbles away, if laid under water before it 
has had time to harden. 

Portland cement is an artificial cement, of a dark grey colour. 
It is made by grinding chalk, mixing it with blue clay or river-mud 
in certain proportions, and then burning it in a kiln and afterwards 
grinding it to a fine powder. It is used, mixed with sand, for 
external plastering (" compoing ") of walls, for making concrete, 
or instead of lime for making mortar if extra strength is required. 

Compo consists of Portland cement and sand, and is used for 
covering walls when an impervious smooth surface is required, and 
for keeping out rain. It is laid on in two coats. The first or rough 
coat f inch thick, is composed of one part cement to 5 parts compo 



BUILDING MATERIALS. 207 

sand, i.e. coarse sand mixed with fine beach. The outer or fine coat 
is composed of two parts fine or washed sand to one part cement. 
To " render " or " compo " a wall is to cover it with this material. 
The internal plastering of a chimney flue is called " pargetting." 

Concrete is of two kinds, lime or cement concrete. It is 
composed of three parts broken ballast or large beach, two parts of 
sand, and one part of lime or cement. Lime concrete has no 
resisting strength, and is only used for surrounding drain-pipes, or 
where no great strength is required. 

Stone varies very greatly in character. It is uncommon for 
the whole thickness of the walls of a house to be built of stone ; 
usually there is merely a facing of stone and a backing of 
brickwork. If good stone is not available, the less it is used the 
better. 

The stone chosen should be durable, and able to resist the 
action of the sulphuric, sulphurous, and carbonic acids absorbed 
from the atmosphere, and brought in contact with it by means of 
rain. The stone of which a considerable part of the Houses of 
Parliament consists is dolomite, a double carbonate of lime and 
magnesia. The acid fumes in the air produce on its surface 
sulphate of magnesium, which is washed away in successive layers. 

If the stone presents any stratification, it should be laid in the 
wall in the same position as that in which it was originally 
deposited in the quarry. Thus, any planes of stratification will be 
horizontal, and the scaling off by the action of frost and rain is 
minimised. Comparatively homogeneous stones, such as granite 
and millstone-grit, can be laid in any position. In testing the. 
character of any stone, the least porous, densest, and most resistent 
to crushing, will as a rule be the most durable. 

The chief difficulty in the use of stone for the walls of houses, is 
that of keeping out the wet. To obviate this, stone-houses are often 
built of great thickness, and are consequently cooler in summer and 
warmer in winter. 

In and near large towns brick is chiefly used for walls of 
houses, and stone employed only for window-sills, columns, steps,, 
etc. It is even more important in these cases to carefully select 
the stone, as the parts where it is placed are those most exposed to 
the weather. If a soft, friable freestone is used, after a sharp frost 
large scales are seen falling off in flakes, owing to the freezing and 
subsequent thawing of the moisture in the stone. 

Portland stone is the best-wearing stone to be had in the 
neighbourhood of London. Bath stone is also considerably used, 
but it varies greatly in quality, and should be very carefully 
selected. For landing-steps and paving, Yorkshire stone is exten- 
sively used, but artificial cement pavings are replacing it to some 
extent. Most kinds of stone can only be economically used near 
the quarries from which they are derived. 

The Slate used for roofs is an altered, form of clay, possessing a 
laminated structure. The ease with which it splits along the 
planes, renders it peculiarly suitable for this purpose. The Welsh 
slates are considered the best. 



208 HYGIENE. 

Terra-cotta is made from certain kinds of clay, mixed with 
glass, pottery or sand ; then ground up, strained, and kneaded ; and 
lastly thrown into moulds and baked in a kiln. 

Iron and Wood have occasionally been employed alone in 
building houses. The former, owing to its good conducting powers 
for heat, is cold in winter and hot in summer; while the latter 
becomes rotten from exposure to wet, and is also very combustible. 
Corrugated iron buildings lined with wood are also employed, but 
are not very satisfactory. 

For roofs, slates or tiles are the materials most frequently 
employed ; but occasionally lead and corrugated iron are used, also 
thatch in country places, and tarred felt for temporary buildings. 

Lead is the most suitable metallic covering for roofs, as it is 
durable and easily worked. It is, however, heavy and demands 
considerable strength in the timbers by which it is supported. 
Galvanized iron has also been largely used. It is cheaper and 
lighter than lead. Both lead and zinc require very careful laying if 
they are to be weather-tight. 

Thatch protects the interior of a house well from extremes of 
heat and cold. 



CHAPTER XXXII. 
CONSTRUCTION OF THE HOUSE. 

IN preparing to build a house, or in entering into a house already 
built, the following requisites should each receive careful atten- 
tion : 

1. The site of the house should be healthy, and its relation to 
surrounding objects in accordance with the laws of health. (See 
page 201). 

2. The house should be warm in winter, and cool in summer. 

3. It should be always dry. 

4. There should be an abundant and uninterrupted supply 
of air. 

5. The water supply should be abundant, conveniently arranged, 
and pure. 

6. The excreta and waste-water should be immediately removed 
from the house and its annexa. 

The three last requisites have already received consideration. 
Of those still to be considered, dryness is the most important. 
A damp house is certain to be an unhealthy one. It is this for two 
reasons : ist, it is a cold house, as damp walls, like damp clothes, 
conduct the heat of the body away much more rapidly than dry 
walls ; 2nd, if the pores of the bricks are occupied by water, air 
cannot pass through, and thus the ventilation and purification of 
the house are greatly impeded. Damp may arise from the ground 
on which a house stands, or from the rain beating against the walls, 
or from a defective roof. Unless special means are taken to prevent 
it, moisture rises by capillary attraction through brick after brick. 

The Foundation requires to be soUd and substantial, otherwise 
sinking occurs, with cracking of the walls, resulting in an unsafe 
condition, and an exposure to rain and wind. 

In making the foundation for a house, the ground should be 
excavated, so as to secure a solid bed of earth or rock not liable to 
be affected by the weather. A continuous bed of the best cement 
concrete should then be laid, not only under the walls, but covering 
the entire site of the house, and extending on every side at least 6 
inches beyond the footings of the wall ; and for footings it should 
never be less than 18 inches thick. The concrete serves two 
purposes : it, to a large extent, cuts off the entrance of the ground- 
air through the basement floor into the house ; and prevents the 
entrance of damp into the house from below. To further ensure 
dryness where the floor is below the level of the adjacent ground, a 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 1 5 



210 



HYGIENE. 



dry area is frequently provided, that is, a closed chamber lined with 
stone or cement below the ground level of the house, and surrounding 
the underground part of its four walls, or a hollow wall is built 
below the ground-level, as shown in Fig. 38. Neither a dry- 
area nor a hollow wall constitutes the best arrangement, as the 
cavity is usually inaccessible, and rather aids than hinders the 
entry of the ground air into the house. The best plan is to 
provide a solid wall, impervious to both moisture and air. A 
vertical layer of roofing slates is sometimes used for this purpose ; 
or, still better, a narrow cavity about -| to f -inch wide is provided 
in the body of the wall, and this is run full with molten asphalte. 

The Walls of the house must be provided with a " damp -proof 
course" carried through their whole thickness, slightly above the 

highest point at which the 
ground is touched. It may 
be formed by (i) sheet lead, 
which possesses the dis- 
advantage of being costly ; 
(2) two layers of ordinary ' 
roofing slate, set in cement, 
with " broken joints," i.e. 
the joints of the upper layer 
over the centre of the slates 
below them ; (3) a layer of 
good asphalte, about -f-inch 
thick ; (4) perforated glazed 
stoneware slabs ; or (5) two 
or three courses of hard blue 
Staffordshire bricks, laid 
without mortar. The use of 
asphalte is an excellent plan, 
and is now commonly 
adopted in good buildings. 

This suffices when there 
is no basement. If there is 
a basement an open area 
around the house is de- 
sirable. Where for a given 
wall this cannot be secured, 
the vertical damp-proof 
course already described 
must be made to extend from 
the foundations well above 
the ground level. The open 
area, however, should be 

insisted on whenever practicable. The damp-proof course protects 
the walls from damp proceeding from the soil around or beneath the 
house. 

It is necessary also that the walls above the level of the ground 
should, as far as possible, be kept free from damp. Damp walls, 
not due to ascent of moisture, may be caused by 




FIG. 38. 

DOUBLE DAMP-PROOF COURSE AND HOLLOW 
WALL. 

a, a Damp-proof courses. b Level of 
neighbouring ground, c Floor-boards, d 
Floor joist. / Vertical space in wall. 
g Concrete under foundation and over site 
of house. 



PREVENTION OF DAMP WALLS. 



211 



(1) Rain falling on window-sills which do not project beyond 
the walls, and consequently do not throw the water clear of them. 
This is remedied by constructing the window-sills so as to project 
beyond the walls, and "throating" them to prevent rain from 
running along the bottom of the sill. The throat is shown at 
0, Fig. 39. 

(2) Rain falling on cornices and other projecting portions of the 
wall itself. The evil from this source may be diminished by 
sloping the top of the projection, downwards from the face of the 
wall. 

(3) Parapet walls, gables, etc., not being properly covered with 
coping. All such walls should be topped with a projecting slab of 
stone, or with a damp-proof course under the top course of bricks, 
which should be laid on edge. 

(4) Overflow from defective roof-gutters or rain-water pipes. In 
this case, either clearing out, repair- 
ing, or renewing is required. 

(5) Rain beating against the 
walls. This as a rule produces no 
great harm, if the walls are well 
constructed. Most of the water runs 
off as it falls on the surface. It 
is advisable, however, to protect a 
much exposed wall by a coating 
of Portland cement, or in extreme 
cases with slate. Various im- 
pervious paints have also been 
employed. 

If it is not proposed to coat 
exposed surfaces of brickwork, the 
wall may be formed of two parallel 
walls, two inches apart, and tied 
together by a sufficient number 
of bonding-ties of iron or glazed 
stoneware, or some other non- 
absorbent material. This arrange- 
ment is shown in Fig. 40. 

An excellent plan is to fill in 
the narrow space between two such 
walls, as the building proceeds, 
with asphalte or slab slate, thus 
forming a vertical damp course, in the 
same way as below the ground level. The evils arising from 
damp can be avoided in every new house by proper methods of 
construction. In an old house, however, they are much more 
difficult to remove. The dampness is indicated on entering, by 
a peculiar mouldy smell, and by the discolouration and destruction 
of wall-papers, and dry rotting of floor timbers. In such a case 
a damp course may, with care and patience, be inserted in the 
wall, and the soil under the basement may be covered with concrete, 




FIG. 39. 

SECTION THROUGH WINDOW, 
Showing stone sill "weathered" 
at i, and " throated " at a. b Wall. 
c Inside plaster of room, d Win- 
dow-board, e Oak sill. /Beading 
and g bottom rail of window-sash. 
k Window, j Iron tongue let into 
slot in * and e to prevent rain driving 
in. 



212 



HYGIENE. 



and a dry-area excavated around the basement. Free ventilation 

under the floor-boards of the lower floors also helps in keeping 

the house dry. 

The thickness of the walls of a house requires to be sufficient to 

ensure stability, to keep 
out the damp, and to 
prevent a too rapid loss of 
heat from the walls. The 
relative merits of the 
different materials em- 
ployed for these purposes 
have been already con- 
- -d. ' ' c sidered. A thin-walled 

house is hot in summer, 
and cold in winter. The 
upper stories of houses 
are often built with too 
thin walls, the result being 
chilly bedrooms. A single- 
brick wall (9 inches thick) 
will rarely keep out the 
weather effectually, and 
frequently a brick-and-a- 
half wall (14 inches thick) 
is insufficient for this 
purpose. The bricks 
should be so interlaced as 
to "bond" or tie the wall 
together in all directions. 

The strength of walls may be increased by the introduction of 

hoop-iron between the courses of brickwork. 

In the construction of fire-places and chimneys, it is important 

to avoid the proximity of timber and wood-work to the inside of 

flues, as this is a common cause of fires. 




$ f-^V?o? w:p:\.tp-', ^ t. V& 



( 

" 



>.?:* W.^'^^R-i'wWftfg 

FIG. 40. 

SHOWING HOLLOW WALL AND BONDING-TIES 
OF GLAZED STONEWARE. 

a Cavity, b Tie. c Floor-joist, d Wall- 
plate, e Concrete foundation of wall. 



Inside Coverings of Walls. 

Plaster is made of lime mortar, or cement mortar ; the former 
is generally preferred for domestic dwellings because it remains 
porous and moisture does not condense on it. 

In houses built by speculative builders, the plaster commonly 
used consists of a mixture of lime with road scrapings. The result 
is a composition which unless supported by the wall-papering, is 
soon damaged. 

Ordinary piaster consists usually of three layers. The first is 
laid on with a mixture of about equal parts of lime and sand with 
long ox-hairs if required for ceilings. The second coat consists of 
slaked lime, mixed to the consistency of cream. The last or setting 
coat consists of a thin layer of slaked lime called plasterers' putty. 
Some plaster of Paris (gypsum) may be added, to ensure rapid setting, 



WALL COVERINGS. 213 

but it should only be used in small quantities. For the internal 
plastering of rooms sevapite (a form of cement) is now commonly 
employed. This is not so absorbent as mortar, but is sufficiently so 
to prevent condensation of moisture on the walls. Its chief 
advantage over plaster is that it hardens quicker and is smoother, 
and can be used in a single thin layer. This, however, diminishes 
the impermeability of ceilings for sound. 

Keene's cement and Parian cement are mixtures of calcined 
gypsum and other substances ; Keene's cement being the hardest, 
and capable of receiving a high polish. 

Selenitic cement contains a small proportion of plaster of Paris 
ground along with lime. Lime may also be selenised by the addition 
of any other sulphate, or of sulphuric acid. The presence of the 
sulphate causes the lime to set rapidly. Selenitic cement is useful 
in plastering, as a backing of cements, such as Parian. 

The treatment of the internal wall-surface of a room differs 
according to circumstances. Lime-washing is suitable only for 
stables and other outbuildings. It is made by the addition of water 
to quicklime, no size being added. 1 1 is an excellent germicide and 
insecticide. Whitewashing is quite different from limewashing. 
" Whiting," i.e. finely-ground chalk, to which a certain proportion 
of size and alum had been added is mixed with water. The size and 
alum are added to prevent the whitewash from being rubbed off. 
Distempering is identical with whitewashing, except that pigments 
are added. It is distinguished from painting in oils, by the fact 
that the pigments are mixed with size, instead of with linseed-oil and 
turpentine. Painting in distemper is practically limited to plaster, 
which should first receive a coat of whitewash to diminish its 
porosity. Oil-paints are impervious, distemper is as absorbent as 
plaster or whitewash. Various washable distempers, as duresco, 
are made, which are more durable and non-absorbent. Water- 
glass consists of silicate of potash, which in the gelatinous form is 
soluble like size in hot-water, but when allowed to dry forms an 
impervious film. It can be used for protecting porous stone from 
the effects of weather ; and renders internal surfaces of walls non- 
absorbent and washable. 

Oil-painting renders wall-surfaces impervious, and enables 
them to be easily washed. The importance of this in the event of 
any infectious disease occurring, is obvious. The question arises 
whether distempered or papered walls, which are porous, or painted 
walls, which are non-porous, are preferable from the standpoint of 
health. The difference between the two is seen during damp 
weather, when moisture condenses and runs down the latter and is 
invisible in the former. In practice in domestic dwellings the former 
are preferred ; but although some advantage is thus secured in 
ventilation through the wall-substance, there is the serious 
disadvantage that particles of dirt accumulate and may seriously 
interfere with the purity of the air of a room. Hence the 
importance of rubbing down the internal surface of a room, whether 
distempered or papered, at intervals with bread crumb or dough 
(see page 332). This effectually removes all accumulations of dirt. 



2i 4 HYGIENE. 

A painted wall presents the enormous advantage that it can be 
frequently washed ; while the loss of ventilation may be ignored, if 
windows and doors be properly utilised for this purpose. The 
presence of poisonous pigments in oil-paints is of importance to the 
workman, but not to the householder except during the painting, as 
paint, unlike distemper, does not rub off the wall. Lead is the chief 
poison present, as white lead (carbonate of lead). Various 
substitutes for lead paints have been introduced. 

Painting wood or iron-work is valuable, not only as a preser- 
vative from the effects of the weather and the oxidising action of 
the air, but also because it tends, to a large extent, to prevent the 
absorption of organic matters ; and its surface can be frequently 
cleansed. 

Paper is the material most commonly employed for covering 
walls. It is more absorbent and retentive of moisture than 
distemper. 

Light-coloured papers should be chosen, as they are more 
cheerful, and are not so likely to harbour dust. Glaring patterns 
are objectionable, as they tire the eyes. The paper should not 
present any surface-projection for the lodgment of dust. 

In bath-rooms and water-closets, *the wall-surface should be 
non-absorbent. Paper, unless varnished, should therefore be 
avoided. The best covering for these places is glazed tiling, or 
painted cement. 

Not uncommonly, a new paper is pasted over an old one ; and 
this may be repeated several times. Under these circumstances 
dangerous dirt accumulates. Before new papering is put on, the 
walls should be cleared of all vestiges of the old, thoroughly washed 
down, and subsequently coated with size (that is, " clear coloured"). 
The sizing diminishes the absorptive power of the wall, and gives a 
good surface for applying the paper. 

Bed-room papers require to be more frequently changed than 
those of other rooms. Bed-rooms in regular use should be 
re-papered at least every two years. It is still better to use 
distemper for such rooms, as this can be washed off in a few hours 
with comparatively little expense, and can be made of any tint 
desired. 

Rooms in the basement should not be papered, as the walls 
require frequent washing down and cleaning. Here also a washable 
distemper colour can be used. 

Various kinds of sanitary paper are now sold which are 
washable, and relatively non-absorbent. Some of them require 
varnishing ; others do not. Such papers are certainly cleaner than 
ordinary paper ; but it would not be safe to trust to their non- 
absorptive character. Lincrusta Walton is non-absorbent, and can 
be scrubbed with soap and water ; but it is expensive. Other 
cheaper materials possessing the same properties can now be 
bought. 

Arsenic in Wall-Papers and Paints has until a few years ago 
been a not uncommon source of prolonged ill-health the cause of 
which has possibly not been detected until the illness disappears, 



ARSENICAL WALL PAPERS. 215 

when the offending room is vacated for a period. Arsenical 
pigments are now only rarely used for wall-papers. The symptoms 
produced vary greatly, and may closely simulate those of different 
diseases. In some cases repeated attacks of diarrhoea and abdominal 
pain occur. Or there may be nausea, headache, frequent griping 
pains, and loss of appetite. In other cases restlessness, loss 
of sleep, and general malaise are the chief symptoms, with the 
occasional addition of conjunctivitis (superficial inflammation of 
the eye). Out of 100 cases collected and reported on by a 
Committee of the Medical Society of London, diarrhoea, nausea, 
and intestinal mischief occurred in 85 ; severe depression in 16 ; 
conjunctivitis in 19; and cough, asthma, etc., in 9. 

The severity of the symptoms produced will vary with the 
amount of arsenic contained in the paper, and the length of time 
daily that the patient is exposed to the fumes. 

Some persons again are much less susceptible to the influence 
of arsenic than others. This will explain why some escape 
while occupying the same room in which others suffer severely. 
More commonly, however, the exemption is due to shorter 
exposure. 

The most dangerous preparation occasionally employed in wall 
paper printing is Scheele's green (arsenite of copper). Emerald- 
green an aceto-arsenite of copper is sometimes used to produce 
more delicate tints. Aniline dyes, especially the red, may contain 
much arsenious acid (white arsenic). The arsenic compound is 
made to adhere to the paper by size or some other material. When 
dry, it cracks and peels off, and minute particles get into the air as 
dust. In addition, arsenic compounds easily volatilise, and become 
diffused in a gaseous condition throughout the atmosphere of a 
room, even when its temperature is not greatly raised. The 
virulence of the arsenical colouring is in proportion to its volatility. 
Arsenic seems to be much more dangerous when associated with 
size. It has been shown that a mixture of white arsenic and starch 
paste, or other organic substance, leads to the formation of gaseous 
arseniuretted hydrogen, while this does not occur when no organic 
matter is present (Dr. Fleck). Distemper frequently contains 
arsenic, and as it also contains size, arseniurretted hydrogen is liable 
to be given off at any time. Size is largely used for fixing colour ; 
thus, the proper conditions for the development of arseniurretted 
hydrogen the most dangerous compound of arsenic are present. 
As much as 17 grains of arsenic have been discovered in each 
square foot of a wall-paper. Now, arsenic is sometimes given 
internally for certain skin and other diseases, but the dose is only 
from g^ to yL grain ; the capacity for poisoning of such a paper as 
the above will therefore be evident. 

Papers of other colours than green have been found to contain 
dangerous quantities of arsenic ; thus blue, mauve, red, and brown 
may contain large quantities ; the delicate greys often yield a 
considerable amount, and some white papers are heavily loaded 
with it. Arsenic is occasionally present in stockings and other 



216 HYGIENE. 

wearing apparel, artificial flowers, toys, etc. In these cases, it may 
produce irritation of the skin, and even eczema. 

The presence of arsenic may be detected by the following 
tests : 

(a) Reinsch's test. A portion of the suspected paper (two or three inches 
square) is cut into small pieces, and placed in a good-sized test tube ; water is 
added until the tube is about a third full and then one or two teaspoonfuls of pure 
hydrochloric acid, and a small piece of pure copper foil. If the test tube is now 
heated for a few minutes over a spirit lamp, arsenic, if present, will be deposited 
as a black or dark steel-coloured coating on the copper. A mere tarnish of the 
copper must not be accepted as evidence of the presence of arsenic, but an 
almost complete obliteration of the colour of the copper. 

(b) Take the copper covered with arsenic, dry it, and then heat it in a 
perfectly dry test tube. Crystals of white arsenic, which may be identified under 
the microscope, will be deposited higher up in the tube. 

(c) Marsh's test. The ordinary apparatus for developing hydrogen by the 
action of diluted sulphuric acid on zinc is employed, the suspected paper being 
inserted in the bottle. The hydrogen coming off is burnt, and a clean porcelain 
surface is applied to the flame. If there is arsenic in it, it is deposited on the 
porcelain in a black patch. 

Windows are required to open directly into the external air in 
every habitable room. The window area according to the model 
bye-laws of the Local Government Board and the London Buildings 
Act of 1894, m ust be at least one-tenth of the floor area, and half 
of this at least must be made to open. The following rules have 
also been given. (B = breadth, L = length and H = height of room. 





B x L 


London 


Area 
of - 


10 
B x L x H 




window. 


100 






A/B x L x H 





Gwilt 
Morris 

In a room measuring 15 x 20 x 12 feet, the preceding rules 
would give a superficial area of window space of 30, 36, and 60 
square feet respectively. Plate glass dissipates heat less quickly 
than sheet glass. 

Objection may be taken to plate glass windows, in passing, 
especially for shops, banks, etc., in view of the fact that they are 
commonly made without any arrangement for ventilation (see also 
page 148). 

The hygienic necessities of Floors are that they shall be 
impervious to moisture and to dust. On the ground floor the 
ordinary arrangement is to provide a joisted and boarded floor 
raised about a foot above the ground. Dry rot is one of the dangers 
in connection with such boarded floors on the ground floor. The 
chief causes which tend to induce rotting, are damp walls, lack 
of ventilation, contact with mortar, damp earth, or vegetable mould, 
and worst of all, alternations of damp and dryness, or wet along with 
heat. 

In order to avoid these dangers in connection with boarded 
floors, the ends of all timbers resting on walls should have a clear 
air-space around them, and communicate with the external air by 



FLOORS. 



217 



means of perforated bricks. The larger timbers, girders, etc., 
should rest on stone templates, and the smaller joists on hoop-iron 
bonds. In all cases, the timber used should be well seasoned, and 
properly ventilated. The ends of oak posts, which are to be 
driven into the ground, should be charred, if the timber is old, 
or steeped in a solution of chloride of zinc. 

The ends of the joists should be trimmed, so as not to come too 
near to chimney flues. 

The best (plan for flooring is to place an impervious flooring 
resting on the solid ground. This is more secure against rot than 
the boarded floor, and affords no space for dirt and vermin to lodge. 
Such an impervious floor may be formed of concrete over a layer of 
asphalte, as in the well-known terrazzo flooring. This is very 
suitable for corridors, pantries, etc. For living-rooms wood-block 
flooring is placed over the cement, molten pitch connecting the 
two. The blocks are 2 to 3 inches thick. If the wood is soft, as 
deal, it must be kept clean by washing ; if hard, as oak or teak, 
it can be wax-polished. Parquetry consists of small pieces of hard 
woods carefully fixed and polished. 

For upper floors the ordinary flooring is of floor-boards 
supported on wood joists, beneath which are w^ood laths and plaster. 
The floor-boards should be thoroughly seasoned, otherwise they will 
shrink, and the joints be filled with dirt. This dirt may accumulate 

for years between the floor 
and the ceiling of the room 
below, vitiating the air and 
helping to increase the 
stuffiness characteristic of 
dirty houses. Various plans 
are adopted for uniting the 
edges of floor-boards and 
preventing dust from drop- 
ping between the boards. 

The one most com- 
monly employed is the 
ploughed and tongued floor 
(Fig. 41). In this, both edges 
of the floor are grooved so as to receive strips or tongues of iron or 
wood, an equal half of each strip being in the groove of each of two 
boards when they are in place. A less expensive method than 
the above is to splay the ends of the boards so that they slightly 
overlap each other. This is not so efficient as the above, but is. 
much better than simply placing the boards side to side as is 
commonly done. 

Solid wood floors resting on a bed of concrete are free from the 
risk of harbouring dust, and are relatively fire-proof. 

Oak or teak in narrow boards, made with close joints, and then 
oiled and beeswaxed and rubbed to a polish, makes a good and 
almost non-absorptive floor. One of the best floors is made of 
concrete, with iron joists, and oak boards laid above this. 




FIG. 41. 
TONGUED FLOOR. 



218 HYGIENE. 

Carpets are commonly made to cover the entire floor of rooms. 
This cannot be too much "deprecated. Carpets, like curtains, are 
mere dirt-traps, which become loaded with filth of every descrip- 
tion. This is abundantly proved when a carpet is swept, and the 
dust allowed to settle on all the articles in the room. Such dust, if 
examined, will be found to consist not only of mineral matter, but 
also of every description of vegetable and animal impurities. The 
inhalation of such dust, which may contain particles of faecal 
matter, as well as the dried expectoration from consumptive or 
other infectious patients, is a not infrequent cause of infection to 
healthy persons. 

The substitution of a central carpet, for one covering the entire 
floor, is a great improvement. 

The carpet should be easily removable, in order that it and the 
floor may be thoroughly cleaned at intervals. 

In bedrooms, the less carpet the better. Good Chinese or 
Indian matting is serviceable, as it does not retain the dust and 
other impurities which are apt to become fixed in the woolly 
texture of the carpet. Oil-cloth, linoleum, and similar materials 
are in common use for covering halls, passages, etc. They are 
particularly useful in preventing dust from gaining access to the 
spaces between floor-boards. 

The prevention of dust should be the great aim of the 
householder, as dirt frequently carries infection. Sweeping as 
ordinarily done scatters dirt over the room, and dusting with a dry 
cloth fails to remove it. Mechanical sweepers, in which the dirt is 
collected in a box are valuable. The best plan is to have movable 
carpets, roll them up for shaking or beating at a distance from any 
house, and wipe the boards with damp cloths. All wooden and 
leather furniture, picture frames, etc., should be wiped down with 
-cloths rung out of water so as to be just damp. 



CHAPTER XXXIII. 
THE SOIL. 

The Varieties of Soil. The following facts summarise what 
.is regarded as the relative healthiness ot various sites for 
dwellings. The differences between different sites may, however, be 
reduced to a minimum by having the dwelling well above the 
ground-level and by protecting it from dampness. 

1. Granitic, Metamorphic, and Trap Rocks usually form 
healthy sites for houses. The slope is generally great, and the 
ground consequently dry. 

2. Clay Slate resembles the last in its effects on health. 
Water is, however, often scarce, owing to the impermeability of the 
rocks, and for the same reason occasional floods occur. 

3. Limestone and Magnesian Limestone Rocks resemble 
the last in possessing considerable slope, so that the water passes 
away quickly. The hard oolite is the best formation under this 
head, and magnesian limestone the worst. 

4. Chalk is a healthy soil when unmixed with clay, and 
permeable. Goitre is not so common as in limestone districts. If 
the chalk be mixed with clay, it is often damp and cold. 

5. The Sandstones are healthy, soil and air being dry. If 
mixed with clay, or if clay lie under a shallow layer of sand-rock, 
the site may be damp. The hard millstone grit is a healthy 
formation. 

6. Gravels of any depth are healthy, unless they are water- 
logged, as near rivers. Then a house on impervious clay may be 
drier than one on gravel. 

7. Sands are healthy when of considerable depth ; they may 
be unhealthy when shallow, and lying on a clay basis ; or when the 
ground water rises through them from ground at a higher level. 

8. Clay, Dense Marls, and Alluvial Soils generally, are 
apt to be cold and damp. Water is retained in them, and is often 
very impure. Thorough drainage improves a clay soil, and a house 
on a clay soil may be so constructed, as not to be damp. 

9. Cultivated Soils are not necessarily unhealthy ; but 

10. Made Soils are always to be carefully avoided, as sites for 
houses. The materials with which inequalities have been filled up 
are commonly the contents of dust-bins, or some other refuse. The 
gradual putrefaction of organic matters renders the air about the 
nouses impure. Such soils require free sub-soil drainage, in order 



220 



HYGIENE. 



to keep them dry. It appears that the organic matters in soil are 
gradually removed by oxidation and bacterial purification. At least 
three years should be allowed before any such site is built on. 

The following table places different geological formations in 
their order of healthiness for the purposes of a site (Parkes) : 





PERMEABILITY OF 
WATER. 


EMANATIONS 
INTO AIR. 


i. Primitive rocks, clay slate, millstone grit 
2. Gravel and loose sands, with permeable subsoils 
3. Sandstones 


Slight. 
Great. 
Variable 


None. 
Slight. 
Slight 


4. Limestones 
5. Sands with impermeable subsoils 

6. Clays, marls, alluvial soils 
7. Marshes, when not peaty 


Moderate. 
Arrested by 
subsoils. 
Slight. 
Slight. 


Considerable. 

Considerable. 
Considerable. 



The general geological conditions have an important bearing on 
the choice of a site for a house in so far as they affect the local 
climate, and the difficulty of keeping the house warm and .dry. 
Pettenkofer expressed this in his dictum, that we take holiday for 
change of soil, rather than for change of air. The character of a 
soil has an important influence on humidity, radiation, evaporation, 
and in fact most of the factors going to make up " climate." The 
immediate local surroundings of a house (page 201) have an even 
greater influence on its salubrity than the underlying geological 
formation. 

The soil consists of mineral and organic matters. On the 
amount and character of the animal and vegetable matters (along 
with the condition of moisture and aeration), the healthiness of a 
given soil depends. The presence of vegetable matter, subject to 
alternate wettings and dryings, and to heat, has until recently been 
regarded as the condition on which malaria depends ; but it is now 
known that malarial places owe their character to their being 
favourable to the growth of the larvae of certain mosquitoes (page 
307) ; and that drainage of the soil cures malaria by removing the 
ponds in which these develop. The two ^chief agencies at work to 
rid the soil of organic impurities, are nitrification and the influence 
of growing plants. The organic matters become oxidised into 
ammonia, nitrites, and nitrates, and these are eagerly assimilated by 
vegetation. 

Nitrification is effected by micro-organisms in the soil. 
Ordinary garden mould and agricultural humus contain large 
numbers of micro-organisms. Their number diminishes with the 
depth of the soil, and below 12 to 15 feet there are few. Apart from 
the occasional presence of pathogenic (disease-producing) micro- 
organisms, the most important are those producing oxidation of 
organic matter, especially nitrification. This occurs at a less depth 
than 4 feet from the surface of the ground. The operation of these 
micro-organisms is necessary to convert sewage and other impurities 
into harmless nitrites and nitrates, and it is regularly going on in all 



GROUND AIR. 



221 



normal soils. That the power of purification of sewage by soil is 
due to the micro-organisms in the latter, can be proved by the fact 
that when the soil is baked, it loses for a time its purifying power. 

The Air contained in the Soil varies greatly in amount 
with the character of the soil, and with the level of the ground- 
water. As the ground-water rises, the ground-air is driven out. 
Thus, after a heavy rainfall a large proportion of this air will be 
displaced. Variations in barometric pressure, and a rise or fall 
of temperature, cause movements in ground-air. A house artifi- 
cially warmed is liable to receive air from underground, unless 
means are adopted to make the floors impervious. The warmth of 
the house acts as an air-pump, aspirating the colder air into its 
interior. The air from cesspools or defective drains may be 
similarly aspirated into the 
house ; and the same cause 
particularly explains the 
unhealthiness of houses 
built on " made soils." 
Coal gas has occasionally 
made its way into houses 
when not laid on to them, 
by the gas escaping from 
leaky pipes in the street 
often following the track of 
water or drain-pipes until it 
is aspirated from beneath 
the house into its interior. 
This has resulted in one 
instance in an explosion, and 
in others in poisoning by 
the gas. 

The occurrence of cur- 
rents of air in soil may be 
illustrated by a simple 
experiment. In Fig. 42 B 
is filled with fine sand in 



which is imbedded the tube 

A with its open end F at 

the bottom of the sand C. 

The upper end of A is con- FlG 42 

nected by the rubber tubing 

D with the U-shaped tube E, in which is inserted some coloured 

water. When the experimenter blows on the surface of the sand 

at A, the impulse passes through the sand up the tube from F, 

and deflects the water in the syphon bend at E. 

The amount of ground-air varies greatly. Loose sands often 
contain 40 to 50 per cent., soft sandstone 20 to 40 per cent., and 
loose surface-soil many times its own volume. 

The nature of the air is not accurately known. It is, however, 
extremely rich in carbonic acid, of which it contains from i to 10 per 
cent, or even more. The carbonic acid is derived from the organic 




222 HYGIENE. 

matter in the soil, by the action of bacteria, in a manner analogous 
to nitrification. 

The Water contained in the Soil is divided into moisture 
and ground or subsoil-water. When air is present in the soil 
as well as water, the soil is merely moist. Pettenkofer defines 
the ground-water as that condition in which all the interstices are 
filled with water, so that, except in so far as its particles are 
separated by solid portions of soil, there is a continuous sheet 
of water. 

The Moisture in the soil varies in amount. Open gravel will 
absorb from 9 to 13 per cent, by weight of water ; gravelly surface 
soil 48 per cent ; light sandy soils from 23 to 36 per cent. ; loamy 
soil 43 per cent. ; stiff land and clay soils from 43-3 to 57*6 per 
cent. ; sandy and peaty soils from 61*5 to 80 per cent. ; peat 103 
per cent. (B. Latham). The moisture being derived from the 
rainfall on one side, and the ground-water on the other, will vary 
with the amount of these. Some soils are practically impermeable 
to water, such as trap or metamorphic rocks, unweathered granite, 
hard limestone, and dense clay ; while others, such as chalk, sand, 
sandstone, vegetable soils are permeable. Commonly the metamorphic 
rocks and hard limestones present fissures, which render them 
pervious. The rainfall which does not penetrate the soil flows into 
the streams and rivers at once, or is re-evaporated.- The amount of 
percolation of rainfall is estimated by an artificial soil-gauge. Most 
percolation and least evaporation of rainfall occurs from October to 
March inclusive. The difference between the percolation and 
rainfall is the loss caused by evaporation and vegetation. 

The Ground- water forms a subterranean sheet of water, which 
is in constant motion. There is first of all, an irregular rise and 
fall of the water, according as it receives new additions from the 
rainfall, or loses a certain amount of its substance by percolation 
and evaporation; and there is, secondly, a constant movement 
towards the nearest water-course or the sea. Many towns derive 
their drinking-water from the ground-water, especially that in the 
chalk. Thus in Brighton there are no streams ; but wells are dug 
in the South Downs about 150 to 180 feet deep down to the level of 
the subterranean water. Then long adits are tunnelled, parallel to 
the coast at or near the level of this water, which is thus intercepted 
on its way towards the sea, and pumped up to supply the town. In 
Munich, Pettenkofer reckoned the rate of movement of the ground 
water towards the outlet as 15 feet daily. It is impeded by 
impermeability, or a deficient slope of the soil. The roots of trees 
also greatly impede its flow. 

The level of the ground-water is constantly changing (see Fig. 7). 
The alteration in level may be only a few inches either way, while 
in some parts of India it is as much as 16 feet. The level is 
generally lowest in October and November, highest in February 
and March. 

A fall in the level of the ground-water may be due to a dry 
season, or to improved subsoil drainage. A rise in its level is due 
to an increase in the rainfall, or some obstruction in the outflow, 



GROUND WATER. 



223 



as from a swollen river. The tide may influence the level of the 
ground-water at a great distance. A sudden alteration in the level 
of the ground-water is a common cause of floods in mines. 

The distance of the ground-water from the surface may be only 
two or three feet, or several hundred feet, the difference being due 
to the varying level of the nearest impervious stratum of soil. Its 
distance below the surface of the soil can easily be measured by 
ascertaining that of the water of a shallow well in the neighbour- 
hood. It should preferably not be nearer the surface than five or 
six feet. Sudden changes in the level of the ground-water from 
inundations render any soil unhealthy, and are even more objection- 
able than a persistently high level. This is especially true in the 
case of permeable soils. A sudden rising of ground-water expels 
the air in the soil, together possibly with particles which may 
comprise infectious material ; it also washes similar impurities out 
of the subsoil, and carries them into neighbouring wells. Numerous 
epidemics have been traced to this source. 

The Temperature of the Soil varies greatly with its 
geological character, as well as with the temperature of the atmos- 
phere. The daily changes in the temperature of the atmosphere do 
not affect the soil beyond a depth of about three feet. The annual 
changes in the atmosphere will affect the soil in a varying degree, 
the amount being dependent on the character of the soil as regards 
conductivity and retentiveness for heat. Such annual variations do 
not penetrate below forty feet, and are very small below twenty-four 
feet. The temperature of the earth increases with its depth, the 
rate of increase in England being stated to be about i Fahr. for 
every 54^ feet. 

In England the water of permanent springs has a fairly constant 
temperature of 49 to 51 Fahr., which is the temperature of the 
deeper part of the subsoil. The method of taking the daily tem- 
perature of the subsoil at a depth of 4 feet is described on page 240. 

Although the average temperature of any soil depends on the 
climate, soils conduct heat in a very varying degree, and therefore 
absorb unequal quantities. This has an important bearing on the 
comfort of those living on a particular soil. Schiibler's experiments 
give the absorbing power of the chief kinds of soil, 100 being taken 
as the standard. 



Sand, with some lime . . 


lOO'O 


Clayey earth 


. . 68-4 


Pure sand 


95'6 


Pure clay 


667 


Light clay 


76-9 


Fine chalk 


. . 6r8 


Gypsum 


73'2 


Humus 


. . 49-0 


Heavy clay 


71-1 







It is evident from this table that sand is very retentive of heat, 
while clays and humus are very cold. Green vegetation lessens the 
absorbing power of the soil, and radiation of heat is more rapid, 
evaporation occurring constantly from the herbage. The influence 
of trees on the temperature of the soil is considered on page 228. 

Damp soils are colder than dry soils because of the evaporation 



224 HYGIENE. 

going on. Buchan finds as the result of drainage of the soil, that 
(i) the mean temperature of arable land is raised 0*8 Fahr. ; (2) 
cold is propagated more quickly through undrained land ; (3) drained 
land loses less heat by evaporation ; (4) the temperature of drained 
land is more equable, and (5) in summer is often 1-5 to 3 above 
that of undrained land. 

DISEASES ARISING FROM THE SOIL. The soil may be a cause 
of disease : (a) indirectly and (b) directly. 

Indirectly a damp soil may cause disease by acting as a means 
of lowering the vitality of man and diminishing his resistance to 
disease. It is in this way that it has been credited with causing 
such diseases as neuralgia, catarrhs, and rheumatism. It is one of 
the elements in producing a climate unfavourable to health. As to 
rheumatism, see page 225. 

Directly the soil may transmit the actual contagia (micro- 
organisms) of disease either by means of the subsoil water or its air. 
In the former case the disease-causing material gains access to the 
drinking water of wells, springs, or rivers ; in the latter case it may 
be borne to the surface of the soil by currents of the ground-air or 
by insects, and then inhaled as dust, or gain access to food. 

Certain disease-producing micro-organisms have been proved to 
be capable of living for some time in the soil. The chief of these 
found in the soil are the bacilli of tetanus (lock-jaw), of anthrax, of 
malignant oedema, and of enteric (typhoid) fever. There are reasons 
for thinking also that the micro-organisms causing diphtheria, 
rheumatic fever, and epidemic diarrhoea, and possibly some other 
diseases, may occasionally live in the soil. In some diseases as 
enteric fever, cholera, dysentery and anthrax, the contamination of 
the soil can be shown to be derived from a patient suffering from 
the same diseases. In others, and particularly in tetanus, the same 
chain of evidence is obtainable. 

(1) The conditions favourable to the production of malarial 
diseases have been generally considered to be the presence of 
a certain proportion of dead organic matter, the exposure of the 
soil to alternations of heat and moisture, with a limited access of 
air, and a temperature of at least 65 F. Though most common in 
marshy districts, and in recent alluvial soils, malaria may develop 
in connection with any geological formation. That it may be 
removed by drainage of the subsoil, is well known. The true 
nature of the connection between soil and malaria is stated on 
page 220. 

(2) According to observations made by Pettenkofer in Munich, 
attacks of enteric (typhoid) fever are connected with fluctuations 
of the subsoil-water. He states his conclusions as follows : 

" Between the fluctuations of subsoil water and the amount and severity of 
enteric fever there is an unmistakable connection in this wise, that the total 
number of cases of and deaths from enteric fever falls with a rise of the subsoil 
water, and rises with fall of it ; that the level reached by the disease is not in 
proportion, however, to the then level of the subsoil water, but only to the 
variation in it on each occasion ; or in other words, that it is not the high or low 
level of the subsoil water that is decisive, but only the range of fluctuation." 



SOIL AND DISEASE. 225 

His observations have not been confirmed in this country ; and the 
coincidence between excess of enteric fever and lowness of ground- 
water has been explained by the fact that under these circumstances 
the water in wells is low, and the area of drainage and the con- 
sequent risk of contamination are proportionately increased. There 
can be no doubt that the most common origin of enteric fever is 
from the infection of water or milk by infective matter from a recent 
case of the disease. This does not exclude the fact that enteric 
fever in this country is more prevalent in hot dry autumns, in which 
the ground-water is low. Probably under such conditions the 
contagium of the disease multiples more rapidly in the soil, in 
privies and other polluted places, and consequently the risks of 
infection of water and food as well of infection by dust carried 
from the contaminated spot are greatly increased. 

(3) In regard to cholera, Pettenkofer holds similar views. He 
believes that the contagium of cholera can only be developed when 
there is a damp porous subsoil to receive the infected stools from a 
cholera patient ; the damp porous subsoil forming a second host in 
which the poison of cholera must pass through one stage of its 
existence, before it is again capable of producing the disease. Such 
an essential relationship of the soil is not borne out by observations 
in India ; and in England cholera has been repeatedly shown to be 
due to contamination of food (e.g. oysters) or water by the stools of 
preceding cholera patients, without the intervention of any agency 
of the soil. 

(4) It has been repeatedly stated that a damp soil favours the 
prevalence of diphtheria. I have shown elsewhere, however, that 
this is not true, and that the greatest epidemics of diphtheria have 
occurred in exceptionally dry years, especially when several years 
of exceptionally small rainfall have succeeded each other ; and 
have suggested that this may be associated with an intermediate 
stage in the life-history of the diphtheria-bacillus in the soil. A 
low ground-water and a comparatively high temperature of the 
soil go along with deficient rainfall, and would probably favour 
the multiplication of this bacillus in the soil. 

(5) In rheumatic fever I have similarly shown that the 
supposed connection between damp soil and this disease is erroneous, 
the disease being most prevalent, both in this and other countries, 
in years of exceptional drought. 

(6) Epidemic or Summer Diarrhoea has been supposed to 
have a special relationship with soil-temperature, Ballard having 
found that the summer rise in the mortality from this disease does 
not commence until the mean temperature recorded by the four-foot 
earth thermometer has attained somewhere about 56 F. The soil- 
temperature may be accepted as a convenient index of the conditions 
causing this disease. The disease I have elsewhere shown occurs 
most severely with a high temperature of the air and a deficient 
rainfall, and its fundamental cause is an unclean soil, the particulate 
poison from which infects the air, and is swallowed most commonly 
with food, especially milk. 

(7) The close connection of consumption (phthisis) with a 

Newsholme's Hygiene.J 1 6 



226 HYGIENE. 

damp soil has been independently stated by Drs. Buchanan and 
Bowditch. Buchanan found that in the districts where improved 
sanitary arrangements had led to a drying of the soil, the death-rate 
from phthisis diminished ; but where with sanitary improvements 
the soil was not dried, the death-rate from phthisis remained in one 
or two instances almost stationary. In Salisbury, Ely, Rugby, and 
Banbury, the death-rate from phthisis fell from 141 to 49 per cent. 
The amount of reduction in the death-rate from phthisis did not 
appear to be consistently proportional to the amount of drying of the 
subsoil. In a later investigation into the incidence of deaths from 
phthisis in the south-east of England, Buchanan came to the 
further conclusions that (a) there was less phthisis among popula- 
tions living on pervious soils than among populations living in 
impervious soils ; (b) less phthisis among populations living on 
high-lying pervious soils than among populations living on low- 
lying pervious soils ; and (c) less phthisis among populations living 
on sloping impervious soils than among populations living on flat 
impervious soils. He, therefore, concluded that wetness of soil is a 
cause of phthisis to the population living upon it. (See also page 313). 

Drainage of the Soil. There are two chief plans for ren- 
dering the soil drier deep drainage and opening the outflow. 

Sub-soil Drainage should always be carried out by drains, 
separate from those for sewage. If the sewers are utilised for this 
purpose, their contents when full contaminate the surrounding 
soil. The sub-soil drains should be composed of agricultural, i.e. 
unglazed, drain-pipes laid in towns in the same trench, but above 
the sewers, and they should discharge into the nearest water-course. 
If it is necessary to join them with a sewer, they should not pass 
directly into it, but into a disconnecting man-hole. 

Opening the Outflow, in order that water may not remain 
stagnant in the soil, is occasionally required. This may be done 
by clearing water-courses, removing obstructions, and forming 
fresh channels. 

The provision of sufficient surface-drains to carry off ordinary 
water and storm-water helps in drying the soil of urban districts. 

Vegetation tends to diminish dampness of soil by causing 
rapid evaporation, and at the same time uses up the organic matter 
in the soil. Certain plants are more active in producing these 
effects than others : the Eucalyptus genus, including many species, 
and represented by the well-known blue-gum tree of Australia, is 
noted for its power in this respect ; and the common sun-flower, 
which is very easy of cultivation, has a powerful influence in the 
same direction. 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 
CLIMATE AND WEATHER. 

The Climate of a country has an important influence on the health 
and character of its inhabitants. The character of a^ climate 
depends on four main conditions : 

1. The distance from the equator. 

2. The height above the sea. 

3. The distance from the sea. 

4. The prevailing winds. 

There are other conditions which are of subsidiary importance, 
but which have great influence in modifying the climate of any 
given locality. Thus : 

5. The nature of a surface its aspect, shelter, slope ; the 
colour of the soil or rock, the reflection from rocks or sheets of 
water, and the influence of vegetation. 

6. The cultivation of the soil. 

7. The drainage of marshes and damp soils. 

8. The planting and clearing away of forests. 

The Distance from the Equator is the most important 
factor in relation to climate. The sun's rays become less powerful 
as they fall more obliquely, in travelling from the equator. This 
primary factor in producing climate is largely modified, however, 
by the relative distribution of land and water, and by the character 
of the prevailing winds of a district. 

The Elevation of a locality affects the temperature and the 
barometric pressure, both falling as the height is increased. The 
amount of fall varies with the latitude of the place, with its 
situation in regard to surrounding districts, the degree of moisture 
of the air, the presence of winds, the hour of day, and the season 
of the year. It is usual to allow i Fahr. for every 300 feet of 
ascent above the level of the sea, and one-thousandth part of an 
inch depression of the barometer for every increase of one foot in 
height. 

Hills, Plain and Valley. The law of decrease of temperature 
with increase of altitude, is liable to great modifications, and even 
subversions, from various causes. The chief cause producing such 
modification of the law is the elevation in, relation to the surrounding 
district. Thus, in the case of rising ground, the higher parts 
become rapidly cooled by radiation. The air here is likewise 
cooled by contact, and becoming heavier in consequence, flows 



228 HYGIENE. 

down to low-lying ground. Hence places on rising ground are not 
so fully exposed to the intensity of frosts at night as places in 
the valley. 

Valleys surrounded by hills and high grounds, not only retain 
their own cold and heavy air, but serve as reservoirs for the cold 
air falling from neighbouring heights. One finds, in consequence, 
mists in low situations, while adjoining eminences are quite clear. 

The air of mountains is (i) cooler than that of lower, districts 
with the exception already named. (2) It is less dense in propor- 
tion to the altitude ; its pressure at the height of 16,000 feet being 
only half that at the sea level. (3) Its absolute humidity is 
decidedly diminished ; there is some difference of opinion as to the 
relative humidity. (4) The air is as a rule purer. It is generally 
free from dust, and to a large extent aseptic (that is, free from 
microbes). (5) The amount of ozone is commonly greater than in 
lower regions. In addition to these characters, (6) the light is 
intense, and (7) the direct heat of the sun is greater, and the 
difference between sun and shade greater than in lower regions. 

Owing to these peculiarities of mountain air, it is of great value 
as a restorative. The circulation of blood is increased, nutrition 
is improved, the chest expands, and the increase in its size may be 
permanent. 

The presence of forests and sheets of water counteracts the 
effects of radiation from the earth. Thus if a deep lake fills the 
basin of a valley, the cold air descending from higher levels cools 
the surface water, which sinks and is replaced by warmer water 
from below. In this way deep lakes are sources of heat in winter, 
and places on their shores are free from the severe frosts which are 
peculiar to other low-lying situations. 

If the slopes of a hill are covered with trees the temperature of 
its sides and base are considerably increased, as the trees obstruct 
the descending currents of cold air. The frosts of winter are felt 
most severely in localities where the slopes above them are 
destitute of vegetation, and especially of trees. It follows that in 
any given locality, the best protection against the winter cold is 
ensured by a dwelling situated on a slope a little above the plain or 
valley from which it rises, with a southern exposure, and sheltered 
by trees planted above it. Such local conditions should always be 
carefully enquired into, when a choice of site is possible, as the 
temperature of one part of a neighbourhood may differ by several 
degrees from that of another part near at hand. This is particularly 
important in the case of invalids. 

Forests tend to modify a climate, and mitigate its extremes, 
whether situated on the slopes of mountains or on plains. In 
America, as elsewhere, the effect of destruction of forests has been 
to produce greater variation in the annual rainfall, to lengthen 
periods of drought, and to increase the power of floods and cloud 
bursts. Trees are heated and cooled by radiation like other bodies, 
but from their slow conducting power, the periods of their maximum 
and minimum temperatures are not reached for some hours after the 
same phases of the temperature of the air, and the effects of radiation 



SEA AND CLIMATE. 229 

are not confined to a small surface on the soil, but distributed to 
the level of the tree-tops. For these reasons, trees make night 
warmer and day cooler, thus giving to forest districts something of 
the character of an island climate. Evaporation occurs slowly 
from the damp soil beneath trees, as it is screened from the sun, 
and the trees prevent a free circulation of wind. Hence the relative 
humidity and rainfall are increased. At the same time forests 
mitigate the disintegrating effect of the rainfall on the soil. 

Ground covered with Vegetation has a more uniform 
temperature than bare soil, the effect being much the same as that 
of forests, though on a smaller scale. 

All growing vegetation evaporates a large quantity of water. 
A plant evaporates 200 pounds of water while it forms one pound 
of woody fibre ; the effect of a forest must, therefore, be enormous. 
At the same time, vegetation, and especially trees, retain moisture 
in the soil. The water-supply of barren regions may be greatly 
increased by planting trees. 

The absence of vegetation leads to extreme fluctuations of tem- 
perature. An extent of sand, for instance, raises the temperature 
of the air greatly during the day, as it is a bad conductor ; but at 
night, radiation is very great, and the temperature falls accordingly. 

Relation of Sea to Climate. Water has the greatest specific 
heat of any known substance, being four times greater than that 
of the earth's crust. On this account it takes longer to heat and 
to cool than the earth. Unlike the earth, likewise, it allows free 
penetration of the sun's rays, in clear water probably to a depth 
of at least 600 feet ; consequently, the surface of the water becomes 
less rapidly heated. The freezing point of fresh water is 32, while 
that of sea-water is 27-5 28'4. Thus, the sea remains open at 
a temperature at which inland lakes freeze, and has, therefore, a 
greater influence in moderating winter cold and summer heat. 
Another factor rendering it more competent to mitigate extremes 
of temperature than lakes, is the presence of currents, causing 
admixture of the water of different climates. Of these currents the 
most important for this country is the Gulf Stream, an immense 
stream of water which, when it leaves the Gulf of Mexico, is 
travelling at the rate of four to five miles an hour, and has a 
surface temperature of 88 F. 

It is important to distinguish between the surface temperature 
and the deep-sea temperature, the latter being fairly constant. 
The whole of the depths of the sea is filled with water at or 
near 32 Fahr., which in the tropics is 40 50 below the tem- 
perature of the surface-water. 

The influence of seas on climate is so great as to lead to a 
classification of climates into oceanic, insular, and continental. 

An oceanic climate is least liable to violent changes of 
temperature. It can only be obtained by a sea-voyage. 

An insular climate presents smaller differences between the 
temperature of summer and winter than the interior of great 
continents, especially when the island is small and in the midst of 
the ocean. In the British Islands, the prevailing winds being 



2 3 o HYGIENE. 

westerly, places on the east coast are less truly insular than 
similarly situated ones on the west coast ; and their climate 
approaches more nearly that of inland countries. 

A continental climate is drier and more subject to extreme 
alternations of temperature than insular and oceanic climates. 

Isothermal lines (lines of equal mean temperature) around 
the world bend up and down, the bendings being determined by the 
relative position of continents and oceans. New York has the same 
mean temperature as London, though New York is as far south of 
London as Madrid. This fact illustrates the fallacy in judging of 
the climate of a locality by the annual mean temperature. Means, 
it has been well said, are general truths but particular fallacies. One 
should know the extremes of temperature, and the extremes for each 
month of the year, as well as the amount and distribution of the 
rainfall, and the amount of sunshine, before judging of a local 
climate. 

Winds are due to differences in atmospheric pressure caused 
by changes in temperature and moisture. Inasmuch as the tem- 
perature and degree of moisture of air vary with the prevailing 
winds, their consideration becomes very important. Winds , bring 
with them the temperature of the air they have traversed : thus, in 
England, south winds are warm, while north winds are cold. 
Winds coming over an ocean cause less variation in temperature 
than those which have passed over an extensive tract of country. 
Thus, moist ocean winds are accompanied by a mild winter and cool 
summer, while dry continental winds cause the reverse conditions. 
The amount of moisture capable of being carried by a current of air 
increases with its temperature ; therefore, equatorial winds become 
moister as they proceed, while north winds become drier. The 
south-west winds, in the British Isles, being both oceanic and 
equatorial, are very moist, while the north-east winds, being both 
northerly and continental, are peculiarly dry and parching. 

Owing to the atmospheric pressure diminishing from the south of 
Europe northwards to Iceland, south-west winds are the most 
prevalent in Great Britain ; and as this diminution of atmospheric 
pressure is greatest in the winter months, south-west winds are 
most common at this season. The result is that the temperature of 
these islands is higher than that due to mere latitude, and the 
temperature on the west coast is fairly uniform from Shetland to 
Wales. 

Mountain ranges have an important bearing in determining the 
character of the prevailing winds. If the range is perpendicular to 
the direction of the winds, the latter lose the greater part of their 
moisture, and the places to leeward being exposed more completely 
to solar and terrestrial radiation (from comparative absence of 
aqueous vapour), winter becomes colder and summer hotter. The 
difference between the climates of the west and east parts of Great 
Britain is largely due to this cause. In Ireland, the mountains are 
not grouped in ranges running north and south, but in isolated 
masses, and the difference in climate between the east and west 
coasts is consequently less marked. 



BAROMETRICAL PRESSURE. 



231 



The prevailing winds have a great influence on the 
rainfall, (i) Thus if the wind has traversed a considerable extent 
of ocean, the rainfall is moderately large. (2) If a wind reaches 
into a colder region, its saturation point is lowered, and the rainfall 
is greatly increased ; and if a range of mountains lies across its 
path, the rainfall on the side facing the wind is greatly increased, 
but diminished on the opposite side of the range. (3) If a wind 
after reaching land proceeds into lower latitudes or warmer regions, 
the rainfall is small, or absent. This accounts for the rainless 
summers of California, North Africa, and South Europe. 

The Barometric Pressure varies daily, being at its maximum 
at about 9 a.m. and 9 p.m. The average range in the tropics 
amounts to O'i inch, but in this country does not usually exceed 
O'O2 inches. During the year the minimum barometric pressure 
usually occurs about the end of October, while the maximum is 
usually at the end of May or early in June. The ordinary variations 
in barometric pressure with changes of weather have little apparent 
effect on health ; but more extreme changes produce marked effect. 
In mountain-climbing faintness and nausea may be caused at great 
altitudes. At the opposite extreme, in pier-driving and laying the 
foundations of bridges, men have to work in air-chambers at a 
pressure of from three to four atmospheres. Then what is known 
as " caisson disease " may be produced. The usual symptoms are 
discomfort or pain in the ears, giddiness, bleeding at the nose, 
vomiting, or even temporary paralysis. In such occupations it is 
most important that on leaving the air-chambers the atmospheric 
pressure should be gradually lowered. 

The use of the barometer as a weather indicator is based on the 
fact that moist air is lighter than dry air. Hence, if the air is 
moist and rain imminent, the barometer falls rapidly. The 
maximum daily range in this country is rarely greater than 3 inches. 
Weather observations can be based on records kept at one spot. 
Their value is greatly enhanced, when such observations are 
compared with others distributed over a wide area. The wider the 
area from which such observations are collated, the more accurate 
the deductions that can be secured. If observations of places at 
which the barometrical pressure is identical be recorded on a map, 
we have a synoptic map, and the lines of equal barometrical pressure 
connecting these points are called isobars. The modern development 
of meteorology, enabling forecasts of weather to be made with 
approximate accuracy, is based chiefly on telegraphic communication 
of information, enabling isobars to be constructed. 

It is found that isobars arrange themselves into seven chief 
forms (i) Cyclones. (2) Secondary cyclones. (3) V-shaped 
depressions. (4) Anti-cyclones. (5) Wedge-shaped isobars. 
(6) Cols. (7) Straight isobars. 

Each of these varieties is shown in Fig. 43, which embraces 
the conditions in Europe, the eastern part of the United States, 
and over the North Atlantic on a certain day. 

The closeness of the isobars, i.e. the rapidity of changes in 
atmospheric pressure determines the barometric gradient. The steeper 



2 3 2 



HYGIENE. 



this gradient, the greater the velocity of the wind in any given place. 
The distance between two is'obars is equal to a change of a tenth of 
an inch in the mercury in the barometer. The direction of the wind 
in a given place is from the higher to the lower isobars. This 
is expressed in Buys Ballot's law, which states that in the northern 
hemisphere, if you stand with your back to the wind, the lowest 
pressure is to your left and in front. 

Cyclones or depressions are areas of low barometric pressure. 
A cyclonic system (Fig. 43) is formed by circles of concentric 



30-1 




30-1 



FIG. 43. 
THE SEVEN FUNDAMENTAL SHAPES OF ISOBARS (after Abercrombie). 

isobars. The differences between cyclones and anti-cyclones are 
as follows : 



Cyclones. 

Wind moves in the opposite direction 

to the hands of a watch. 
Barometer is lowest in the centre. 
Area comparatively small. 
Gradient from centre to circumference 

steep. 

Short duration. 
Velocity of wind great. 
Weather bad ; much rainfall. 
Cool in summer ; warm in winter. 



Anti-cyclones. 

Wind moves in same direction as the 

hands of a watch. 
Barometer is highest in the centre. 
Area comparatively large. 
Gradient not steep. 

Long duration. 
Air comparatively quiet. 
Weather fine. 

Hot in summer; cold and frosty in 
winter. 



Cyclones usually travel from west to east, and are always 
associated with bad weather. The essential point in determining 
the character of the weather, both in cyclones and anti-cyclones, is 
the barometric gradient. Thus, according to the gradient, a cyclone 
may mean mild wet weather, a gale, or a hurricane. The turning 
point of a cyclone, just before the barometer begins to rise again, is 
called the trough. Cyclones are usually oval in shape, except in the 
tropics, where they are smaller and circular. The ordinary course 
of events in a cyclone is shown in Fig. 44, reading it from left to 
right. 



ISOBARS. 233 

In Secondary Cyclones, bad weather is usually associated 
with a stationary barometer and no wind. They are incompletely 
circular looped concentric isobars, with the lowest pressure in the 
centre. They frequently follow primary cyclones. 

V-shaped Depressions are angular areas, with the lowest 
pressure in the centre, frequently forming between adjoining anti- 
cyclones (Fig. 43). In the northern hemisphere the tip usually 
points south. They usually move with great rapidity from east to 
west, and are always associated with squalls or thunderstorms. 




ffato. Watery. Drizzle. Rain. SqiuM: Showers. Gun? Blue. 

FIG. 44. 
WEATHER SEQUENCE IN A CYCLONE (after Abercrombie). 

The tracing indicates the line which a self-recording barometer would have 
marked. The arrows mark the shift of the wind, and the number of barbs 
denote the varying force of the wind. 

Their movement is very uncertain, and their forecast therefore more 
difficult than that of cyclones and anti-cyclones. 

Anti-cyclones are associated with calm and cold in the centre, 
while on the borders the wind blows around the centre, spirally 
outwards in the direction of the hands of a clock. An anti-cyclone 
is usually accompanied by a blue sky, dry cold air, a hot sun, a 
hazy horizon, and little or no wind. 

Wedge-shaped Isobars, unlike V's, 'usually points north. 
They are areas of high pressure moving along between two 
cyclones, being really projecting parts of an anti-cyclone. The 
fine weather accompanying them is only temporary, because they 
are never stationary, and are generally followed by cyclonic 
disturbances. At the narrow end of the wedge thunderstorms or 
showers often occur, and at the wide end fog is common. 

Cols or necks of relatively low barometric pressure occur 
between two anticyclonic areas. Like straight isobars they are 
intermediate systems. Over cols the weather is dull and gloomy ; 
in summer they may be associated with thunderstorms. 

Straight Isobars obviously do not, enclose any area of high or 
low pressure. They form an intermediate condition, preceding the 
formation of a cyclone ; and are usually associated with a blustering 
wind and hard sky. 



234 HYGIENE. 

Weather forecasting is necessarily somewhat difficult and 
uncertain. If one is dependent on observations at a single point the 
following rules are useful : 



(a) If the barometer falls slowly and steadily bad weather will follow. 

(b) The barometer falls for rain with S.W., S.E., and W. winds. 

(c) When the barometer falls rapidly, heavy storms may be expected. 

(d) The barometer rises rapidly for unsettled weather. 

(e) The barometer rises gradually for fine, settled weather. 



The Thermometer also is of great value as a weather indicator, 
especially if one knows what is the average temperature at the place 
of observation for each day of the year. Thus : 

(a) A temperature continued for some time above or below the average, 

indicates a probable change. 

(b) Electric storms follow unusual warmth in summer. 

(c) A low thermometer and almost steady barometer are succeeded in winter 

by gales from N.N.W. or N.E. 

The veering of the wind in England is also useful as an 
indicator. Thus : 

(a) When the wind, in shifting, goes round in the same direction as the 

hands of a clock i.e., from N. by E. to S., or from S. by W. to N., 
favourable changes of weather may be looked for. 

(b) When the wind backs that is, veers round in the opposite direction 

bad weather generally follows. 

The direction of the wind is an important factor. Thus : 

(a) Settled N.W. winds bring cold and fine weather. 

(b) Continued W. and S.W. winds are followed by rain. 

Clouds give useful indications. Thus : 

A mackerel sky, that is, one covered with lines of cirrus clouds, causing 
halos around the sun and moon, presages rain in summer and thaw in 
winter. By degrees the light clouds descend and pass into either 
masses of cumulus, or into dense, horizontal stratus, which form at 
sunset and disappear at sunrise. Both these kinds pass into the grey, 
shapeless nimbus, which soon covers the entire sky and is followed by 
rain. 

When numerous observations can be synoptically studied, 
forecasting becomes much more nearly certain. For this purpose 
telegraphic communications are indispensable. The continent of 
Europe is better placed than England for accurate forecasting. 
Areas of high pressure coincide usually with large areas of land, of 
low pressure with large surfaces of water. Thus England is placed 
near the boundary of the usual anticyclonic and cyclonic systems, 
and its chief disturbances come from the Atlantic from which early 
communication is impracticable. Furthermore cyclonic disturb- 
ances may be diverted from their course by a coastline or mountains 
or by the formation of an anticyclonic area. In view of these 
uncertainties, the large proportion of correct forecasts is somewhat 
surprising. 

The Moisture of the Air depends upon the amount of vapour 
present in it, and the ratio of this to the amount which would 
saturate the air at the actual temperature. The former is called the 



RAINFALL. 235 

absolute humidity, the latter the relative humidity. The dew point is 
the point at which condensation of some of the vapour in the 
atmosphere occurs, either as dew, rain, snow, or hoar-frost. The 
amount of moisture which the atmosphere can retain before such 
condensation occurs, varies with the temperature (see page 101). 
Thus the air is drier at noon than at midnight, though the amount 
of vapour present in the two cases be the same ; and it is for the 
most part drier in summer than in winter. This refers to the 
relative humidity, which is highest in cold weather. The absolute 
humidity is higher in summer than in winter ; it varies more in 
continental than in maritime and insular climates ; and there are 
daily variations according to the state of the sky, the movements of 
air, etc. The relative humidity is expressed as a per-centage of 
what would be required to produce saturation at the given 
temperature. The usual relative humidity is 50 to 75 per cent. A 
moist air prevents excessive changes of temperature due to radiation. 
It protects the earth from too great intensity of the solar rays by 
day and from too rapid loss of heat by radiation at night. The 
inhalation of a dry air plays an important part in the cure of 
consumption. When the air is almost saturated with moisture, 
evaporation from the skin and lungs is diminished, and there is a 
feeling of oppression and disinclination to work caused by the 
interference with the tissue changes of the system. 

Rainfall is caused by over- saturation of a column of moist 
air. This may be due to the contact of the air with a cold surface, 
as the ridge of a mountain or a large surface of water, or to the 
impact of a colder wind. 

The amount of rainfall varies greatly. In some parts there is 
no rain, as in the desert of Sahara ; while on the south-east slopes 
of the Himalayas, which are exposed to winds laden with moisture, 
it may be several hundred inches. 

The latitude of a place has a great influence. As a rule the 
rainfall decreases with increasing distance from the equator ; but 
local conditions may produce great modification, or even alterations 
of this law. 

The elevation above the sea-level has a varying influence. In the 
Swiss Alps it is said that the rainfall increases with the elevation ; 
but this rule does not hold good in America. 

The nearness of large surfaces of water in summer tends to 
increase the rainfall, when water is colder than its surroundings, 
while in winter it has the opposite effect. The neighbourhood of the 
sea is for the west of England and islands adjacent, a cause of 
increased rainfall. 

The influence of winds on the rainfall has been already 
considered. In Great Britain south-west winds more especially 
increase the rainfall. In their course they have travelled over the 
Gulf Stream and the general equatorial current, and have thus 
received warmth and moisture. The condensation of their moisture 
liberates a large amount of latent heat, thus raising the temperature 
of this country. In summer, however, south-west winds are cool 



236 HYGIENE. 

and moist, as the Atlantic is not so hot as the continents of Asia 
and Europe over which other winds have travelled. 

In England the average rainfall is about 33 inches, in Scotland 
46, and in Ireland 38 inches. In the east of Great Britain, the 
rainfall is from twenty to twenty-eight inches. On the west coasts 
of Scotland and Ireland it is from 60 to 80 inches ; and in some 
parts of Cumberland may be about 150 inches per annum. The 
annual rainfall varies greatly from the average for a number of 
years. In this country it has been estimated that the maximum 
annual rainfall exceeds by one-third, and the minimum annual 
rainfall is less by one-third than the average rainfall of a series of 
years. 

The number of rainy days by no means corresponds with the 
amount of rainfall. There are fewest rainy days at the equator, 
where the rainfall is greatest. The rain diminishes the relative 
humidity of the air, and purifies it from dust. 



237 ) 



CHAPTER XXXV. 
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS. 

THE Royal Meteorological Society recognises stations for the 
making and recording of observations of three kinds : (i) Second 
Order Stations, at which observations are taken twice daily at 9 a.m. 
and 9 p.m. ; (2) Cliinatological Stations, at which the observations 
are taken once daily, at 9 a.m. ; (3) Stations at which one or more 
elements only, e.g. rainfall, are observed. All instruments used should 
have been previously verified at Kew 
Observatory, so that the corrections for 
index error may be known. 

The Barometer used should be of a 
standard kind. Five chief kinds of 
barometer are in use, only the last two 
of which are sufficiently accurate for 
scientific purposes. 

1. The Dial or wheel barometer consists of a bent 
tube A B, the open end of which supports an ivory 
float B. This, as it rises and falls with the mercury, 
by means of the rack C turns a wheel, in the axle 
of which a needle is fixed. The needle turns in 
one direction, or the other as the mercury rises or 
falls (Fig. 45) ; the dial is divided by comparing 
it with a standard barometer. As the ordinary 
variations of the barometer are from 28 to 31 
inches, the circumference of the wheel is made 
exactly ij inches, and thus the float B will rise or 
fall i inches for a rise or fall of 3 inches in the 
barometer. 

2. The ordinary syphon barometer (Fig. 46) 
consists of a bent tube attached to a piece of wood, 
and furnished with a screw v. The atmospheric 
pressure acts on the mercury at d, and the difference 
between the level of the mercury in the two arms 
of the syphon is the height of the barometer. To 
find the true height of the barometer the screw is 
turned till the shorter column stands at a opposite 
zero. 

3. The aneroid barometer is made by exhausting 
the air from a small round metal box. This box is 
closed by a flexible lid of metal which, being elastic, 
yields to changes in the atmospheric pressure. To 
the lower end of the lid a spring is attached which 
runs downwards to the floor of the box and resists 
the atmospheric pressure. The movements thus 

produced by variations in pressure are magnified by a rack and pinion, and so 
communicated to a long index which moves over a graduated scale. 




FIG. 



HYGIENE. 



The standard Kew and Fortin barometers are both cistern 
barometers, the mercury in the inverted tube communicating with 
the mercury in a cistern below. 

4. The Kew pattern barometer has a closed cistern below, the 
area of which being accurately known, the 

inches on the scale are not real inches, but 
inches of pressure, i.e. inches so shortened 
as to compensate for the rise of the 
mercury in the cistern. This compensa- 
tion is necessary inasmuch as changes in 
atmospheric pressure affect the level of 
the mercury in the cistern as well as of 
that in the tube. 

5. In the Fortin barometer (Fig. 47) the 
cistern has a pliable base of leather, which 
can be raised or lowered by means of a 
screw. The upper part of the cistern is 
made of glass, a piece of ivory indicating 
the zero of the scale. Before taking a 
reading, the level of the mercury must 
always be set exactly to this point by 
means of the screw. The Fortin is the 
most sensitive form of barometer, and the 
adjustment required in order to take a 
reading is easily performed. 

To ensure more accurate reading 
of the barometer, a secondary scale 
or vernier is used, which slides 
upon the principal scale. This 
vernier is so graduated that 25 of 
its divisions correspond to 24 of the 
divisions on the fixed scale. The 
fixed scale is divided into inches, 
tenths (*i), and half -tenths ('05). 
Each division of the movable scale 
or vernier is therefore shorter than 
each division of the scale by ^ of 
05, i.e. -002 inch. Consequently 
the vernier shows differences of two 
thousands of an inch. 

Method of reading Fortin' s Barometer. 
FIG. 46. First note the reading of the attached 
thermometer ; next turn the screw at the 
bottom of the cistern, so that the ivory point just touches 
the surface of the mercury. Next adjust the vernier by 
means of the rack and pinion at the side of the barometer 
(Fig. 47) so as to bring its two lower edges exactly on a 
level with the convex surface of the mercury. In 
reading the barometer, first read off the division next 
below the lower edge of the vernier. In Fig. 48 this is 
29'O5. Then the true reading is 29-05 plus the vernier 
indication. Next look along the vernier until one of its 
lines is found to agree with a line on the scale. In Fig. 
48 this is at the fourth division on the vernier. But 
each of the figures marked on the vernier counts as T ^ 
(01), and each intermediate division as YITGV ('002); 
hence the reading of the vernier will be '008 inch, and 



FIG. 47. 

FORTIN BAROMETER. 
a Attached ther- 
mometer, b Screw 
of vernier, c Screw 
for setting level-' of 
cistern. 



THERMOMETERS. 



239 



the reading of the barometer 29.05 + -008 = 29-058 inch. If two lines on the 
vernier are m equally near agreement with two on the scale, the intermediate 
value should be adopted. 

Certain corrections are required in the actual reading for (i) 
index error ; (2) temperature ; and (3) height 
above sea-level. 

The index error is found by comparison 
with a recognised standard at Kew. Correction 
for temperature is required. Every barometer has 
a thermometer attached, and the reading is reduced 
to the standard temperature of 32 F, by means 
of tables such as are given on page 32 of Marriott's 
Hints to Meteorological Observers. 

The height of the cistern of the barometer 
above sea-level should always be exactly obtained. 

The correction necessary to reduce observa- 
tions to sea-level (i.e. mean half-tide level at 
Liverpool), depends on the temperature and 
pressure of the air, as well as on the altitude. 
The data for this correction are given in Table 
III. of Marriott's Hints. 

Thermometers. The maximum ther- 
mometer may be on Negretti and Zambra's, or 
on Phillips' principle. In the former (Fig. 49) 
the bore of the tube is reduced in section near the 
bulb (A) in such a way that while the expanding 
mercury forces its way into the tube, the column 
of mercury breaks off on contraction, so that its 
upper limit shows the highest temperature that has been reached. 
The thermometer is set by holding it bulb downwards and shaking 
to make the mercurial column continuous. It is mounted in the 
screen horizontally (Fig. 51). 




FIG. 

SCALE OF BAROME- 
TER (TO RIGHT) 
AND OF VERNIER 
(TO LEFT). 




FIG. 49. 
NEGRETTI AND ZAMBRA'S MAXIMUM THERMOMETER. 

The minimum thermometer chiefly used is Rutherford's. 
It contains spirit in which is an immersed index (A, Fig. 50). 
With a falling temperature the spirit draws the index along with it ; 
but on rising again, the spirit passes the index, leaving it at the 
lowest point to which it has been drawn. Thus the end farthest 
from the bulb registers the minimum temperature. The instrument 
is set by raising the bulb and allowing the index to slide to the end 
of the column of spirit. The thermometer must be firmly fixed and 
mounted quite horizontally. 



240 



HYGIENE. 



Thermometer Screen. The above thermometers, as well as 
the dry and wet bulb thermometers are mounted in a Stevenson's 
screen (Fig. 51). This is a doubled-louvred box through which the 




FIG. 50. 
MINIMUM THERMOMETER. 



air 



can pass freely, but the sun cannot enter. The horizontal 
position ;of the maximum and minimum and the vertical position of 
the dry and wet bulb thermometers are shown in Fig. 51. 

Three additional thermometers are usually included in a well- 
organised meteorological station. 

A minimum thermometer placed on the grass gives the .lowest 
temperature on the grass, which is often considerably lower than 
that of the neighbouring gravel walk. This record is chiefly useful 
for agricultural purposes. 

The earth thermometer chiefly used 
is shown in Fig. 52. It consists of a 
sluggish thermometer mounted in a short 
weighted stick attached to a strong chain, 
and of a stout iron pipe which is drawn 
out at the bottom to a point and driven 
into the earth, usually to a depth of 4 feet. 
Solar radiation is measured by black- 
bulb and lightrbulb thermometers in vacua, 
which are mounted on a post 4 feet above 
the ground and record the maximum 
temperature. 

Humidity in the air is measured by 
direct or indirect hygrometers. Of the 
former Dines', Daniell's, and Regnault's 
are the best known, but as they are not 
used in observations acknowledged by the 
Royal Meteorological Society, the reader 
may be referred to their description in 
books on physics. The indirect hygro- 
meter which is universally employed in this 
country is that furnished by the dry and 
wet bulb thermometers. In frosty 
weather they require much attention, and 




FIG. 51. 



STEVENSON'S THERMOMETER then a Saussure ' s hair hygrometer may be 
SCREEN. , J)s ^, 

used as supplementary. The general 

arrangement of the dry and wet bulb thermometers is shown in Fig. 53. 
The wet bulb is covered with a single layer of soft muslin, 



DEW POINT TEMPERATURE. 



241 



while a noose of six to eight strands of darning cotton connects the 
neck of the wet bulb with a covered water receptable 2 to 3 inches 
distant, below and at its side. This receptacle is kept filled with 
rain-water. 

From the readings of the dry and wet bulb thermometers three 
deductions can be made : 

1. The temperature of the dew point. 

2. The elastic force of aqueous vapour. 

3. The relative humidity. 

The dew point tem- 
perature is that temperature 
at which the outside air at 
the time the observation is 
taken will deposit the 
moisture contained in it. It 
is the temperature at which 





FIG. 52. 

SYMONS' EARTH 
THERMOMETER. 



FIG. 53. 
DRY AND WET BULB THERMOMETERS. 



the air is saturated with moisture. It is calculated from the readings 
of the wet and dry bulb thermometers 

(a) by Glaisher's tables ; (u) by Apjohn's formula. 
Glaisher's tables are based on a series of numbers called 
Greenwich or Glaisher's factors, which he determined by comparison 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 17 



242 



HYGIENE. 



between observations made with the dry and wet bulb thermometers 
and with Daniell's hygrometer. The formula for using the factors 
is as follows : 

d = D - { (D - W) X /} 

where d = dew point, D = dry bulb temperatures, W = wet 
bulb temperature, and / = factor. 

The following examples are from Glaisher's table of factors. 



READING OF DRY BULB 
THERMOMETER FAHR. 


FACTOR. 


55 


9 6 


56 


'94 


57 


92 


58 


90 


59 


8 9 . 


60 


1-88 



Thus, if D = 60, 

then dew point = 60 | (60 55) i'g6\ 
= 5'2. 



The dewpoint may also be obtained by Apjohn's formula; which 



D - W. 

"87 



for a pressure of about 30 inches is F = / - 

D being dry and W wet bulb temperature, 
F elastic force of vapour corresponding to dewpoint, and 
/, elastic force corresponding to wet bulb temperature (ascertained from a 
table of tensions). 

The elastic force of aqueous vapour, i.e. the amount of barometric 
pressure due to the vapour present in the air is dependent upon the 
temperature of the dew-point. It is given for every tenth of a 
degree of temperature in Table VI. (p. 42) of Marriott's Hints. 

The relative humidity is a term expressing the percentage of 
saturation of the air with water vapour. It is obtained from Table 
VI. (above) as follows : 

Relative \ _ Elastic force .of water vapour at the temperature of the dew-point 
Humidity j Elastic force of water vapour at the temperature of the air (i.e. the 

dry-bulb reading.) 

Thus elastic force with dry bulb = 55 is '433 in. 
,, dew-point = 46. 5 is -317 in. 



in the table. 



433 



= 73 . 



If saturation = 100, relative humidity is 73. 



In Table VII. of Marriott's Hints, a table is given which 
enables the relative humidity to be found by mere inspection. Thus 
if the dry bulb temperature is 58 0> 5, wet-bulb 5i7, and the 
difference 6-8, the relative humidity given in the table is 62. 

The Rain-Gauge is best made of copper in the shape of a 
circular funnel, usually 5 or 8 inches in diameter, leading into a 
bottle underneath. It must always be set in an open situation away 
from trees, walls, and buildings. According to Scott no object 
ought to subtend a greater angle with the horizon than 20 in any 



RAIN GAUGE. 



243 



direction from the gauge. The rain is measured by pouring the 

contents of the bottle into a glass measure, which is graduated to 

represent tenths and 

hundredths of an inch 

on the area of the 

gauge, the measure 

holding half an inch 

of rain on this area. 

Snow is melted before 

being measured. 

Observations of 
wind should include 
its direction and 
force. The direction 
is observed by means 
of a well-oiled and 
freely exposed vane. 
There are 32 points 
to the compass, but 
a reading to eight 
points suffices. The 
force of the wind 
should be estimated 

by Beaufort's scale, FIG. 54. 

from o to 12. SNOWDON PATTERN RAIN-GAUGE. 

TllUS : A - Copper Upper Part of Gauge. B. Funnel. C. Bottle. 

To the right is shewn the glass measure inverted. 




FORCE. 




MILES PER H< 


0. 


Calm 


3 


I. 


Light air 


8 


2. 


Light breeze 


13 


3. 


Gentle 


18 




Moderate 


23 





Fresh 


28 




6. 


Strong 


34. 


7- 


Moderate gale 


4 


8. 


Fresh 


48 


9- 


Strong ,, 


56 


10. 


Whole 


' 6 5 


n. 


Storm 


57 


12. 


Hurricane 


QO 



Robinson s anemometer is also employed, but it is not altogether 
trustworthy. 

Sunshine is recorded by the Campbell-Stokes burning recorder, 
and the Jordan photographic recorder. Of these the former is the 
more easily worked and gives more uniform results. It consists of 
a sphere of glass 4 inches in diameter, supported on a pedestal in a 
metal zodiacal frame (Fig. 55). The setting of the recorder should 
be due south, level from east to west, and with the axis of the ring 
inclined to the horizon at an angle equal to the latitude of the place, 
and so that the image of the sun, when the sun is due south, shall 



244 



HYGIENE. 



fall on the/meridian line marked on the ring. The sun burns away 
or chars the surface of the cards inserted in the proper groove, and 
so gives a record of the duration of bright sunshine. 




FIG. 55. 
CAMPBELL-STOKES SUNSHINE RECORDER. 

The amount of Cloud should be estimated daily, according to a 
scale ranging from o to 10, i.e. clear sky up to completely overcast. 
The form of cloud should also be stated, as cirrus, cirro-cumulus, 
cirro-stratus, cumulus, cumulo-stratus, stratus, and nimbus. 



( 245) 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 
PERSONAL HYGIENE. 

CERTAIN personal factors are very important in relation to health. 
The chief of these are constitution, temperament, heredity, idiosyn- 
crasy, age, sex, and habits. 

Constitution. Health may vary in degree without the presence 
of actual disease. This fact is expressed by the use of such terms 
as "perfect," "strong," "feeble," "delicate," in speaking of the 
health of the same person at different times, and also as distin- 
guishing one person from another. The constitution is an 
important factor in resisting disease, and a robust constitution may 
determine recovery from a severe illness, while the patient with a 
feeble constitution falls a victim to it. 

The constitution of an individual is partly acquired, partly 
inherited. A feeble or delicate constitution may be acquired by 
unhygienic conditions, such as deficient exercise, the prolonged 
breathing of impure air, unhealthy occupations, some imperfection 
in diet, or dissipation. 

But while many a robust constitution is enfeebled by such 
conditions, a weak constitution may happily be strengthened by 
careful and prolonged attention to the laws of health. This is 
especially well seen in the case of those who strengthen their 
muscular system by carefully-graduated and not excessive exercise. 

Heredity has a great influence on health. As a rule the 
children of healthy parents are robust, and on the contrary, any 
"weak point " in the parents' constitutions is liable to be participated 
in by their children. Both mental and physical conditions may be 
inherited. A peculiar habit of mind, as well as the same expression 
of features, may be inherited. 

As regards physical diseases, the influence of parents is not less 
remarkable. The son of a gouty father requires to be particularly 
abstemious in order to avoid his father's disease. Certain specific 
febrile diseases, e.g., enteric fever, diphtheria, and still more rheumatic 
fever, are hereditary in the sense that the members of certain families 
are more prone to them than others. Insanity, epilepsy, asthma, 
neuralgia, and hysteria are also hereditary in the same sense, and 
it is noticed that they occasionally alternate in different generations. 
Cancer, consumption, certain skin diseases, and a tendency to the 
early onset of degenerative diseases, appear also to occur more often 
in certain families than in others. 

In most cases it is the tendency to disease which is transmitted, 
and not the disease itself. When an actual disease is inherited, as 



246 HYGIENE. 

happens very rarely in tuberculosis and often in syphilis, the actual 
infection is transmitted before birth from the parent. 

A peculiarity of form, character, or tendency to disease has been 
known to disappear in one generation and re-appear in the next ; 
this variety of heredity is termed atavism. The evidence showing 
the inheritance of acquired characters, i.e. those which arise in 
consequence of the effect of external forces on the organism is not 
conclusive. Weismann believes that only those forces that influence 
the germ-plasm are inherited. It must be admitted that the instances 
of inheritance of acquired characters can be better explained other- 
wise. Thus the long neck of the giraffe was formerly explained on 
the supposition that the neck became gradually lengthened owing to 
the efforts made generation after generation in reaching food ; but is 
better explained by Weismann on the supposition that those giraffes 
which, during times of famine were able to reach higher and obtain 
food from the twigs of trees would survive and pass on their 
characteristics to their young, while shorter necked giraffes would be 
exterminated. 

The inheritance of proclivity to or immunity from attacks of 
infectious diseases is a problem of great difficulty ; but there is no 
substantial reason for thinking that the efforts being made to 
diminish the prevalence of these diseases (including consumption) 
are likely to produce a weaker race or one more likely to suffer with 
excessive severity from these diseases should they be introduced 
after a long absence. (See also page 309). 

Temperament indicates a peculiarity in constitution, causing 
a liability to particular diseases, or to a special character in any 
disease to which a person becomes subject. Four temperaments 
are usually recognized the sanguine, phlegmatic, bilious, and 
nervous, but unmixed specimens of these temperaments are rarely 
seen. 

By idiosyncrasy is understood a peculiarity limited to a 
comparatively small number of individuals. Four varieties of 
idiosyncrasy may be described. 

The first consists in an extreme susceptibility to the action of 
certain things, or an extreme lack of susceptibility. Thus most 
people at some time or other inhale the pollen of grasses, but only 
in a few cases does it produce that troublesome and distressing 
complaint hay asthma. In certain persons a very minute dose of 
iodide of potassium produces distressing symptoms ; in most cases 
these symptoms arise if the drug is taken for a prolonged period ; 
but in a few cases it may be taken for an indefinite period without 
troublesome result. The case of a physician at Bath is very curious. 
The smell of hyacinths in bloom always made him faint away ; so 
constant was this result, that before entering a room during the 
hyacinth season, he always asked the servant if there were any 
hyacinths in it. 

The second form of idiosyncrasy consists in the production of 
poisonous results by common articles of diet. Thus some people 
cannot partake of shell-fish or lobsters without having severe nettle- 
rash. In rare instances the smallest amount of egg, or in other 



HABITS. 



2 47 



cases mutton, or pepper, or some other substance will produce 
severe indigestion or nettlerash. 

The third form consists in an inversion of the usual effects of 
certain substances, especially drugs. Thus opium in rare cases 
produces convulsions ; while the aperient Epsom salts have been 
known to produce constipation. 

A fourth form, that of mental idiosyncrasies, may be added, as 
where there is a strange preference or aversion for objects usually 
regarded as indifferent. Many cases of mental peculiarity, short of 
actual insanity, will come under this head ; as will instances of 
depraved appetite for food, etc. 

Age and Sex. According to the period of life, danger arises 
Iroin different sources. In infancy and old age extreme changes of 
temperature are especially dangerous, and additional protection is 
required (see also page 271). Thousands of deaths occur in the first 
year of life, from substituting starchy foods for milk, the natural 
food for infancy and childhood (see page 303). In childhood the 
danger from bad feeding is still present, and is evidenced by the 
frequency of rickets (page 28) ; infectious diseases claim their 
thousands ; and the disorders associated with dentition are common. 
In youth rapid growth is proceeding, and so the food must be 
abundant and nutritious. A proportionately larger amount is 
required than by an adult, as the functions of the body not only 
require to be carried on, but material is necessary to build up the 
growing tissues. 

Manhood is the period of greatest stability of health. The 
health now depends on the use made of the previous periods of life, 
and on the habits acquired. 

With the onset of old age come various degenerative diseases. 
The tendency is to death by gradual decay a euthanasia or easy 
death, which is too seldom seen. Commonly, bronchitis or 
apoplexy or kidney diseases bring the scene to a somewhat 
premature end. 

The mortality of man is greater than that of woman at all 
ages except 5 20. 

Habits. The immense power of habits in the formation of 
character is perhaps duly appreciated ; but their influence on 
physical health is not so well appreciated, though it would be 
difficult to exaggerate it. The laws of health are as inexorable 
and unaltering as all other laws of nature ; and whether broken 
through carelessness or ignorance, the Nemesis of disease inevitably 
follows. Whatever a man sows he reaps, in health as in other 
matters. 

Habits are easily formed ; but, when once formed, not so easily 
broken. They ought to be our servants ; very commonly they 
become our masters. 

In reference to eating and drinking, habits regular as to time 
and moderate as to quantity are especially important. The habit 
of eating hastily and masticating the food imperfectly, is certain, 
sooner or later, to produce disease. Over-eating, again, is a fertile 
source of disease, especially when the excess is in animal food. 



248 HYGIENE. 

The amount of stimulation produced by a given dose of alcohol, 
gradually diminishes with its repetition ; the consequence is, that 
in order to produce the amount of stimulation to which the system 
has become habituated, the stimulant requires to be gradually 
increased. The craving for stimulants is often a sign of ill-health, 
owing to disregard of hygienic laws or actual disease. Not infre- 
quently it is due to badly-ventilated rooms or long hours of work 
without food, producing a sense of depression which food does not 
immediately allay. When the cause is unknown, recourse should 
be had to competent medical advice, and not to the brandy bottle. 

Attention to the Action of the Bowels is a matter which is 
commonly neglected. The importance of a regular habit in this 
respect cannot be exaggerated ; the bowels should always be 
relieved at a particular time each day. Where this does not 
occur the condition of constipation results. Owing to the retention 
of the faeces in the intestines beyond the normal period, the 
stomach and higher parts of the intestines do not perform their 
functions normally ; indigestion and " dyspepsia," accompanied 
by headache, flatulence, and other symptoms follow. Haemorrhoids 
(piles) are another frequent consequence. At the junction of the 
small and large intestines is a dilated sac (in the caecum). This 
becomes distended when constipation occurs ; inflammation may be 
set up, and an operation required, or the condition is fatal. Power- 
ful purgative medicines are injurious to the bowels, and they tend 
afterwards to increase constipation. It is better to take slow-acting 
aperient remedies, and better still not to take any at all, but relieve 
the condition by means of such articles of diet as stewed fruit, pears, 
figs, olive oil, or brown bread. As a rule more exercise is required 
in this condition, and always a prompt attention to the calls of 
nature. 



249 



CHAPTER XXXVII. 
PERSONAL HYGIENE EXERCISE. 

Physiological Considerations. In the strict sense of the 
word, exercise signifies the performance of its functions by any 
part of the body ; thus, digestion is exercise of the stomach, respira- 
tion is exercise of the lungs, thinking is an exercise of the brain. 
But the term is usually applied chiefly to muscular contraction, and 
restricted to contraction of voluntary muscles. Involuntary 
muscles, which are concerned in the carrying on of the unconscious 
organic functions of life, are not directly controllable, and so their 
growth and state of nutrition cannot be regulated. There are two 
sets of involuntary muscle, which are of special importance the 
heart and the muscles of respiration. The heart contracts at least 
sixty times per minute ; the respiratory muscles contract about 
seventeen times per minute ; and this amount of exercise goes on 
throughout the whole day. But although we cannot make our hearts 
beat quicker by a direct volition, and cannot breathe more rapidly 
than usual beyond a few seconds, yet a brisk walk will cause 
increased action of the heart and respiratory muscles, as well as a 
vigorous contraction of the muscles directly concerned in walking. 
Going uphill is a valuable exercise for the heart. The vermicular 
contractions of the intestines are to some extent also increased by 
voluntary exercise, through the indirect excitation of the whole 
system ; thus, exercise is an important element in the treatment of 
constipation. 

The muscles contain about a fourth of the whole blood of the 
body, and a very large share of the metabolism (page 4) of the body 
occurs in them. 

Hence the importance of keeping them in a healthy condition 
by exercise. The great danger is of not equilibrating the muscular 
and nervous functions. The ideal condition is where neither mental 
nor muscular culture is neglected, but both are co-ordinated to the 
production of a healthy man. 

Effects of Healthy Exercise. i. The Nutrition of the Mtiscles 
is improved. The volume, density, and energy of the muscles are 
increased. 

2. The action of the lungs is increased. Dr. E. Smith found that 
if the air inspired while lying down be represented by unity, the 
amount inspired when erect is 1*33 ; when walking at the rate of one 
mile per hour, i -9 ; at four miles per hour, 5 ; at six miles per hour,. 
7 ; riding on horseback, 4-05 ; swimming, 4*33 . Or, putting it in 



250 



HYGIENE. 



another way, under ordinary circumstances a man inspires 480 cubic 
inches per minute ; if he walks four miles per hour, he inspires 
2,400 cubic inches ; if six miles an hour, 3,260 cubic inches. 

At the same time the amount of carbonic acid expired is 
increased. Its amount bears a nearly constant relation to the 
amount of muscular exercise, and consequently the amount of 
carbonic acid eliminated in various forms of exercise affords a just 
estimate of their relative value. The increased elimination of 
carbonic acid, the corresponding increased absorption of oxygen, 
and the absence of increase of elimination of urea are shown in the 
following summary of observations by Pettenkofer and Voit : 





ABSORPTION OF 


ELIMINA 


TION IN GRAMMES 


OF 




OXYGEN 
IN GRAMMES. 


CARBONIC ACID. 


WATER. 


UREA. 


Work day 
Rest day.. 


955 
709 


1284 

912 


2042 
828 


37'0 
37'2 



The above amounts are for the entire day. During actual 
exercise the excess of elimination of carbonic acid is much greater. 
Thus, Dr. E. Smith experimentally found that if the amount of 
carbonic acid eliminated during rest be represented by one, the 
amount walking at two miles an hour and carrying 7 Ibs = 1*85, 
the amount walking at three miles an hour = 2*64. 

Alcohol diminishes the excretion of carbonic acid, and should 
therefore be avoided during muscular training. 

By muscular exercise the size of the lungs is increased, and 
their vital capacity, that is, the amount of air capable of being 
expired after a forced inspiration, is considerably increased. 
Corresponding with this increase of vital capacity, exercise, 
especially that in which the arm and chest muscles are systema- 
tically developed, increases the size of the chest. A perceptible 
difference in the circumference of the chest may be noticed after 
only a few weeks' methodical exercise. 

3. The action of the skin is increased. Sensible perspiration is 
commonly induced, but less readily in those habituated to hard 
work. Insensible perspiration is always increased. 

4. The temperature of the body is not increased, so long as 
perspiration occurs. Every muscular contraction involves the 
production of heat ; but this is counteracted by increased evaporation 
from the skin, and by the circulatory current carrying the hotter 
blood to every part of the body, and so rapidly equalising its 
temperature. Chilblains are due to the defective circulation of the 
blood, and can in most cases be cured by active exercise aided by 
warmer clothing and an abundant supply of oxidisable food. 

5. The Heart and Blood-vessels. By exercise the heart's action 
is increased in frequency and force. The pulse usually increases 
from ten to thirty beats per minute above the rate while at rest. 



EXERCISE. 251 

After prolonged exercise it may temporarily fall below the normal 
standard. 

6. The Digestion and assimilation of food are aided by exercise, 
especially when taken in the open air. 

7. The nervous system is improved in nutrition and power by a 
moderate amount of exercise. In fact, a certain amount of muscular 
exercise is' essential for a healthy mind. 

8. The elimination of urea is not increased by exercise. Evidently 
then it is not the metabolism of the nitrogenous substance of the 
muscles which supplies the energy for muscular contraction ; but of 
the other oxidisable and non-nitrogenous substances (such as 
glycogen and sugar) contained in them. 

In practice it is found that with exercise more nitrogenous and 
non-nitrogenous food are both required. 

Effects of Excessive Exercise. After prolonged exertion 
muscles become exhausted. This is associated with an accumulation 
in the muscles of the products of their action (especially sarcolactic 
acid). Then rest becomes necessary, in order that the effete 
products may be removed, and the nutrition of the muscles restored. 

Long-continued over-exertion produces chronic exhaustion, which 
may, if excessive, cause wasting of muscles. Exhaustion is much 
more liable to occur when a small group of muscles are exercised 
out of all proportion to others. Thus, in clerks, we have what is 
known as the writer's or scrivener's palsy. The muscles of the hand, 
and especially of the thumb, cease to respond to the volition of 
the writer, but are seized with spasm every time writing is 
attempted ; and the muscles of the thumb tend to waste. A similar 
condition sometimes arises in violinists, tailors, etc. The practical 
inference from these facts is, that one group of muscles should not 
be exercised disproportionately to the muscles of the rest of the 
body, and that proper intervals of rest should be allowed. 

Excessive exercise of the whole muscular system is very apt to 
harm those of previously sedentary habits. A walking tour entered 
on with more zeal than discretion, and not taken by easy stages for 
the first few days, is often productive of more harm than good. 

In the intervals of great mental labour, as with students, the 
amount of exercise should not be suddenly increased, but should be 
regular and moderate in amount. 

Competitive exercise should be strictly regulated. The Oxford 
and Cambridge crews have been said to acquire heart-disease more 
commonly than the average, but this is not correct. Hypertrophy 
of the heart may occur as the result of severe exercise, and this 
within certain limits is not an abnormal condition. Occasionally 
dilatation of the heart has been produced in weakly lads. 

Amount of Exercise Desirable. According to Parkes, the 
average daily work of a man engaged in manual labour in the open 
air is equivalent to the work involved in lifting 250 to 350 tons one 
foot high ; this is a moderate amount, 400 tons being a heavy day's 
work. The amount of muscular exercise involved in this may 



252 HYGIENE. 

be easily known by remembering that a walk of 20 miles on a level 
road is equivalent to about 353! tons lifted i foot ; and that a walk 
of 10 miles while carrying 60 Ibs. is equivalent to 247^ tons lifted i 
foot. (Haughton). 

The amount of work done by a healthy adult per diem is stated by M. Foster 
to be about 150,000 metre-kilogrammes (i.e., 150,000 kilogrammes lifted i metre). 
Metre-kilogrammes can be converted into foot-pounds by multiplying by 7'233; into 
foot-tons by multiplying by '003229 ; 150,000 metre-kilogrammes therefore equal 
484,35 foot-tons. This is considerably in excess of Parkes' estimate, but in 
certain laborious occupations this high amount is reached. 

In addition to this amount of external work, there is the internal work of the 
heart, muscles of respiration, digestion, etc. This is estimated by Parkes at 
about 260 foot-tons. 

The internal and external muscular work of the body together amount to 
about i yth to i 8th of the total force obtainable from the food. 

Every healthy man probably ought to take an amount of 
exercise represented by 150 tons raised i foot, which is equal to the 
work done in walking 8J to 9 miles on a level road. A certain 
amount of this exercise is taken in performing one's daily work ; but 
apart from this, out-door exercise should be taken equivalent .in 
amount to a walk of five or six miles. It is impossible to lay down 
rules to suit all cases, but a less amount of exercise than that named 
is probably incompatible with perfect health. 

Effects of Deficient Exercise. The muscles themselves 
become enfeebled and wasted. Some wasting of muscle occurs after 
a few days' confinement to bed ; and a limb confined in a splint 
speedily loses its healthy, rounded contour. Oxidation processes are 
diminished ; less carbonic acid is eliminated, and it tends to 
accumulate in the system, owing to the diminished activity of 
respiration. In consequence of the diminished oxidation, the 
temperature of the body is not well maintained, and the heat is not 
uniformly distributed. Cold feet are a common complaint of those 
who lead sedentary lives, though seldom complained of by others. 

Along with the other muscles, the heart becomes enfeebled and 
the circulation less perfect. Digestion is enfeebled ; the appetite is 
poor. The nervous system also suffers ; nervous irritability is a 
common result, while sleeplessness a thing almost unknown 
among those who live by the sweat of their brow is becoming 
much more common among the worried and ill-exercised inhabitants 
of our towns. 

Many diseases are favoured by deficient exercise, and can be 
averted by systematic exercises and the concomitant increased 
supply of pure air. It is often difficult to appraise the relative 
merits of exercise and pure air ; but there can be no doubt that both 
are of extreme importance. 

The prevention of consumption, even in those with a strong 
hereditary tendency, is greatly helped by systematic exercises, 
especially those directed to the expansion of the chest cavity. In 
cases of consumption there is commonly a history of deficient 
exercise or an occupation involving a cramped position, .as well as 
of living in an impure air. 



EXERCISE. 



253 



Various deformities are induced by defective exercise of particular 
groups of muscles. Thus drooping shoulders may be caused by 
shoulder-straps confining the action of the shoulder-muscles in the 
earlier years of life. Stooping is favoured by sitting in cramped 
positions in school, and by the use of desks not inclined at the 
proper angle. Lateral curvature of the spine is due to weakness of 
the muscles of the back, and is best treated in its earlier stages by 
gymnastic exercises specially directed to strengthening these 
muscles. The tendency to such curvatures is greatly increased in 
girls by the fact that their trunks are imprisoned in corsets as if in 
splints, and so exercise of the trunk muscles is reduced to a 
minimum. 

Rules respecting Exercise. i. The clothing during exercise 
should not be excessive, and should not interfere with the free play of 
the limbs, nor with full expansion of the chest. Flannel is the best 
material to wear next the skin, as it absorbs perspiration without 
becoming non-porous. 

2. Avoid chill after exercise. It is well, if there has been any 
perspiration during exercise, to strip and scrub the skin, particularly 
about the chest and arm-pits, with a rough towel. 

3. Exercise should be systematic and regular. It is important to 
avoid sudden, violent, and competitive exercise. No severe exercise 
ought to be undertaken without a gradual training. 

4. The amount of exercise must be regulated by individual fitness. A 
chain is no stronger than its weakest link. The muscles may be 
stronger than the heart or lungs, and the latter may be fatally 
injured by an amount of exercise which the muscles can well bear. 
Hence the importance of ascertaining the condition of the vital 
organs before entering on a course of training. 

Another important bearing of this rule is in relation to the 
exercise of growing boys and girls. When we remember that a 
boy at school will sometimes grow six to eight inches in a year, it is 
evident that much energy is being expended in this direction, and 
that excessive gymnastic exercise can only do harm. Between the 
ages of fifteen and seventeen there is usually the greatest amount of 
physical development, and if there is great muscular strain at this 
period, growth is interfered with, and the power of resistance to 
disease may be seriously lowered. 

5. Every part of the body oiight to be exercised. This is done 
spontaneously by the infant. Every muscle of his body acts in 
sheer delight. The evils of exercise confined to particular groups of 
muscles have been already described. Lawn tennis is very valuable 
as affording exercise for both limb and trunk muscles. 

6. Exercise should not be taken immediately after meals, as thus 
digestion is interfered with. 

7. Exercise should be taken, as far as possible, in the open air. A 
small amount of exercise out of doors is much more invigorating 
than a large amount indoors. 

The Forms of Exercise taken may be divided into recreative 



254 



HYGIENE. 



and educational, though bottj of course may be recreative under 
many circumstances. 

The primarily recreative exercises, such as rowing, cricket, 
football, tennis, hockey, will, it may be hoped, be never replaced by 
educational gymnastics, though the latter possess a high value. 
The recreative influence as well as the influence on the power of 
self-control of such games as cricket and football render them of 
national importance. 

Educational gymnastics can be applied to exercise the muscles 
of any part of the body, and can be exactly graduated to individual 
requirements. Singing, speaking, and reading aloud, are forms of 
muscular exercise very much neglected, and they are particularly 
important, as the lungs and voice are by these means greatly 
strengthened, and rendered much less liable to the inroads of 
disease. 

Professor Haughton has shown that the work done by a man walking on a 
level surface at the rate of three miles an hour is equivalent to raising his own 
weight, plus, the weight he carries through -fa of the distance walked. 
Thus, if W = weight of the man, 

W 1 = weight carried by him, 
D = distance walked in feet, 

C = co-efficient of traction (fa at three miles an hour) , 

then we obtain by the following formula the amount of work done, the co-efficient 
of traction being multiplied by 2,240 (the number of pounds in a ton) to obtain 
the result in foot-tons. 

(W + W 1 ) x D 

C x 2,240 

In ascending a height, a man raises his whole weight through the height 
ascended. 

A regiment of soldiers marches ten miles, each carrying a weight of 60 Ibs. What 
amount of work is performed by each soldier ? 

If we assume the average weight of each soldier to be 150 Ibs., and that the 
march was at the rate of three miles an hour, then 

(150 + 60) x 10 x 5,280 = foot . tons . 

20 X 2,240 

In this example it is assumed that the march is on entirely level ground 
that all weights are carried in the most convenient manner, and that the rate of 
travel is three miles an hour.. Velocity is gained at the expense of carrying 
power. It has been found that the amount of work is generally inversely as the 
square of the velocity. Haughton has determined from Weber's calculations 
the co-efficient of resistance for three velocities. 



VELOCITY. 


CO-EFFICIENT OF TRACTION 
OR RESISTANCE. 


1-818 miles per hour 


I 


4'353 M 


I 
I3-70 


io-577 ., 


I 



Parkes has extended these calculations to show the distance in miles 



PROBLEMS ON EXERCISE. 



255 



required to be travelled at various velocities to do work equal to 300 foot-tons, 
and the time required in each instance. 



VELOCITY IN 
MILES PER HOUR. 


CO-EFFICIENT OF 
RESISTANCE. 


DISTANCE FOR MEN OF 
156 LIJS. TO EQUAL 
300 FOOT-TONS. 


TIME REQUIRED IN 
HOURS AND MINUTES. 




I 




hrs. mins. 


2 


26-74 


I2'2 


IO 36 




I 






3 




16-3 


5 24 


20-59 




I 






4 




I3-3 


3 18 


16-74 




I 






6 




9-6 


i 36 


12-18 


8 


I 
9'60 


7'6 


o 57 




I 






10 




6-3 


o 38 



The co-efficient fa corresponds very nearly to 3-1 miles per hour, and it 
appears that at this rate of travel the greatest amount of work can be done with 
the least expenditure of energy. 

How much work is done by a man weighing 150 Ibs. who walks 15 miles up an 
incline i in zoo ? 

The number of feet ascended in 15 miles 

= 5 - 28 x I5 = 396. 

200 

The amount of work done by the man in raising his own weight 396 feet high 

_ 39 x I 5 = 26-5 foot-tons. 

2,240 

The amount of work done in walking 15 horizontal miles at the rate of 3 
miles an hour 

= 150 x 15 x 5,280 = foot . tons . 

20 X 2,240 

Total amount of work done = 265-2 + 26-5 

= 291-7 foot-tons. 

Eight palanquin bearers carry an officer weighing 180 Ibs. and a palanquin weighing 
250 Ibs., a distance of 25 miles. Assuming that each man weighs 150 Ibs., what amount 
of work was done by each man ? (Parkes.) 

250 + 180 = ' 430 

150 x 8 = 1,200 

W + W 1 = 1,630 
1,630 x 25 x 5.280 = 4 8o2 . 7 foot . tons . 

20 X 2,240 

This being the total work done, the work per man = nearly 600-3 foot-tons. 

A hill-coolie weighing 150 /6s. goes 30 miles with an ascent of 5,500 feet in three 
days, carrying 80 Ibs. in weight. What is the work per day ? (Parkes.) 

Work of the ascent = < I5 + 8o > x 5. SOP) = #4-7 foot-tons. 

2,240 

Work of 30 miles walk = 23 x 3 X 5 ' 28 - 813-2 foot-tons. 

20 X 2,240 

Total work = 564-7 + 813-2 = i,377'9- 

Total work per day = I>377 9 = 459-3 foot-tons. 



256 HYGIENE. 

Suppose a man weighing 150 Ibs. in his clothes, carries a load of bricks weighing 35 
Ibs. up a perpendicular ladder 30 feet nigh, 100 times daily, what amount of work does he 
do ; and what will it equal in miles walked upon a flat road at the rate of 3 miles an 
hour ? 

(I5Q + 35) X 30 X IPO = 8 foot . tons 
2,240 

I8 5 >< D = 247-8. 

20 X 2,240 

Therefore D = 60,056 feet 

= about 1 1 -4 miles. 

Suppose a man strikes 12,000 strokes in 5 hours with a i^-lb. hammer, raising it at 
each stroke 4 feet, how much work does he do ? Compare this with a walk of 15 miles 
on a level ground at 3 miles an hour, the weight of the man and what he carries being 
180 Ibs. 

(a) 12,000 x 14 x 4 = 672,000 foot-lbs. of work 
= 300 foot-tons. 

(6) I8 XI5X5 ' 28 = 318-2 foot-tons. 

20 X 2,240 

The two amounts of work are related as 300 : 318-2. 



257 



CHAPTER XXXVIII. 
PERSONAL HYGIENE (continued) REST AND SLEEP. 

Physiological Considerations. Life is made up of alterna- 
tions of rest and action. The exercise of any organ is followed by 
a necessary period of repose, during which the oxidised materials 
produced by functional activity are removed by the blood, and 
carried to the excretory organs ; while at the same time fresh 
nutritive material is supplied by the blood to make good the losses 
thus sustained. 

The only apparent exceptions to this rule of alternation of rest 
and exercise are the heart and lungs, and some less important organs 
acting out of the control of personal volition. But even these 
organs obey the universal law. The difference is that their rest is 
very frequent and momentary ; the heart having to contract sixty 
or seventy times per minute, rests T fi T of a second each second, or 
more than thirteen hours in the twenty-four. The lungs and 
respiratory muscles rest a shorter time than this, but probably about 
three hours per day. 

The necessity for rest is well shown by the sense of taste. If 
salt is kept in the mouth for a considerable time, the power of 
tasting it disappears, and only returns in its original strength after 
several hours. The gustatory nerve has been exhausted. 

The other sense-organs illustrate the same principle. Persons 
are not uncommonly made deaf by the sounds of machinery. 
After looking at a particular colour for some time, the nerves 
receiving impressions from this colour are exhausted, and only 
its complementary colour is visible. 

Rest may be either partial or general. 

The principle of partial rest has very useful practical bearings. 
Such rest is illustrated by the student who takes a walk, or uses 
methodical gymnastic exercises ; a concert may provide agreeable 
exercise for the auditory nerves and the part of the brain connected 
with them, while allowing the over-tired intellectual part of the 
brain to rest in peace; similarly, light literature may prove a 
pleasing rest after severer studies. 

Walking is more especially the exercise of the brain-worker. 

Partial rest is the same thing as change of occupation, and by a 
careful regulation of the relative amount- of cerebral and muscular 
work, energy can be largely economised. The horse, which exercises 
chiefly his muscles, requires only five or six hours to recuperate his 
energy ; and our muscles require less sleep than our brain. 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 18 



258 HYGIENE. 

Sleep is the only form of complete and general rest. In 
attaining this condition, the muscles sleep first, then the eyes close 
(owing to muscular rest), and the thoughts wander ; hearing is the 
last sense to lose cognizance of the surrounding world ; dreaming 
succeeds wandering thoughts, and even dreaming may cease if the 
brain repose is complete. 

During sleep the brain diminishes in size, and becomes paler ; 
the amount of blood in the brain being diminished. Probably the 
cerebral anaemia is rather a consequence of the functional inactivity 
of the brain during sleep than a cause of the sleep. 

During sleep the heart and lungs continue their work ; the 
blood is circulated and purified, the intestines continue their 
vermicular contractions, and absorb food from the alimentary canal, 
and the organs nourish themselves at leisure. 

Two facts relating to sleep have important practical bearings. 
First, during sleep metabolism is less active, and so the temperature of 
the body tends to be somewhat lowered. Secondly, assimilation is 
move energetic ; this favours the absorption of noxious vapours, if 
any are present. There is probably, therefore, slightly less danger of 
remaining in a stuffy, impure atmosphere during the day than at 
night. 

Practical Rules Concerning Sleep. i. Amount of sleep 
required. It is impossible to lay down any fixed rule applicable to 
all persons and circumstances. The amount of sleep required, like 
the amount of food, varies greatly. 

Habitual deficiency of sleep produces a condition of wretchedness 
and prostration, with great restlessness. Prolonged watching 
inevitably breaks down the constitution. Not the least evil 
consequence of irregular and deficient sleep is, that sleep, when 
desired, is often courted in vain. 

Habitual excess of sleep produces a condition of brain less active 
than usual, and less favourable for thought and action. Impres- 
sions are received less readily, and the power of will is 
correspondingly diminished. 

The amount of sleep required varies with 

(1) Age. The infant, if healthy, spends the larger part of his 
existence in sleep ; gradually the amount required diminishes until, 
for the adult, seven or eight hours suffice. Children over two 
or three years old require sleep only during the night. In advanced 
life there is a tendency to revert to infantile habits, sleep occurring 
in frequent short snatches. 

(2) Sex. Women have been stated to require rather more 
sleep than men, but this is doubtful. The hours of sleep required 
have in accordance with this view been stated to be, "Six for a 
man, seven for a woman, and eight for a fool." A reversal of 
this order would more nearly approximate to the requirements of 
town life. 

(3) Temperament. Those of a cold lymphatic temperament 
require more sleep than sanguine or nervous people, though the 
latter sleep more deeply. Frederick the Great, John Hunter, and 



SLEEPLESSNESS. 259 

Napoleon I. are said to have required only five hours' sleep per 
day ; but the last of these had the faculty of taking short naps at 
a few moments' notice. 

(4) The sick and convalescent require much more sleep than those 
who are healthy. 

(5) Habit has a very important influence. Many people appear 
to sleep too much, and thus dull to some extent their mental 
faculties ; but on the other hand, modern life, with its nervous 
strain, keen competition, and constant hurry and worry may make 
a larger amount of sleep necessary than that required by our 
forefathers, who invented the foregoing proverb. 

(6) Occupation. Mental work requires more repose than 
physical. 

2. Relation of sleep to food. The molecular life of the tissues 
that is, the processes of nutrition ought to be undisturbed. These 
go on most perfectly when no active function, such as that of 
digestion, is being performed. But while the stomach carries on 
the digestive functions to only a small extent during sleep, the 
intestines continue still to digest and absorb food. In accordance 
with these facts, it is advisable to allow at least two hours between 
the last meal of the day and sleep, especially if animal food has 
been taken. 

3. As absorption is increased and the temperature is lowered 
during sleep, it is important to sleep in pure air, and to have warm 
coverings, especially about the shoulders and arms. Many an 
obstinate cough might be cured by the simple expedient of wearing 
a flannel jacket at night. 

4. Sleep during the night and not during the day. It should hardly 
be necessary to say this, as the universal instinct of animals shows 
its advisability ; but, unfortunately, the habits of mankind have 
commonly led to a partial reversal of the natural arrangement. 

5. The room should be dark ; light, like sound, is inimical to 
sleep. The head should be moderately raised. The temperature of 
the room for robust persons need not be artificially raised. 

Sleeplessness, as a rule, occurs only when some physiological 
law has been broken. To relieve it, it is essential to equilibrate 
muscular and mental functions. Increase of muscular exercise is 
an important element in its treatment. In addition it is advisable 
not to have any severe mental work during the evening, nor to 
indulge in late suppers. Sleeplessness is the bane of many men of 
a nervous temperament, and chiefly attacks those of sedentary habits. 
It is apt to recur, and for this reason, if for no other, narcotics 
ought to be scrupulously avoided. The habit of taking such 
soporifics is unfortunately becoming much more common, and is 
productive of many evils. Death from accidental overdose is a 
frequent calamity ; and, apart from this .possibility, the invalid's 
nervous system is completely ruined by persistence in the habit, his 
power of will is annihilated, and he becomes the miserable slave of 
an evil habit, whose end is death (see also page 54). 



( 260) 



CHAPTER XXXIX. 

PERSONAL HYGIENE (continued) CLEANLINESS. 

Physiological Considerations. The skin consists of a superficial 
part or epidermis, and a deeper part called the dermis or cutis. 

Tubes of two kinds open on the surface of the skin, penetrating 
at their deeper ends into the cutis, viz. sweat or sudoriparous glands 
and sebaceous glands. The sudoriparous glands are simple tubes, the 
lower ends of which lie coiled up in the dermis. Each tube when 
straightened out is about a quarter of an inch long. It has been 
estimated that in the palm of the hand there are 3,528 orifices of 
sudoriparous and sebaceous glands on a square inch of surface; 
reckoning each gland at J- inch long, this means 73^ feet of tubes 
in this small space. Assuming that there are 2,800 tubes to every 
square inch, and that the amount of surface in a man of ordinary 
height and bulk is 2,500 square inches, it follows that there are 
seven million pores in a man that is, 1,750,000 inches, or nearly 
twenty-eight miles. 

The perspiration secreted by the sudoriparous glands is 
constantly evaporating from the surface of the body. It is very 
important that the orifices of these glands should be kept open in 
order that the secretion may not be interfered with. Animals have 
been killed by covering their skin with gelatine, and so preventing 
the escape of perspiration. 

The sebaceous glands are shorter than the sudoriparous, and 
commonly end alongside the hairs before the latter issue from the 
skin. They secrete an oily material which serves the purpose of 
a natural pomade. The sebaceous secretion also keeps the general 
surface of the skin unctuous and supple. The smell of the sebaceous 
secretion may be unpleasant, especially in the arm-pits and some 
other parts. Frequent washing is therefore desirable. 

The Conditions Due to Uncle anliness are due to obstruction 
of the excretory ducts, to accumulation of debris on the general 
surface of the skin, and to the consequent interference with the 
circulation. 

i . The obst motion of the sudoriparous pores of the skin interferes 
with the elimination of waste products by the perspiration ; these 
are re-absorbed or retained in the system ; consequently more work 
is thrown on the lungs and kidneys, and the equilibrium of health 
is destroyed. 

Sebaceous obstruction causes an accumulation of oily secretion 
in the ducts. The black spots so commonly seen about the nose, 



USES OF SOAP. 261 

are the blocked up orifices of sebaceous glands, and by squeezing 
the nose tiny threads of fatty matter are forced out from the interior 
of these glands. Pimples on the face are usually due to obstruction 
of the sebaceous glands ; sometimes the obstruction leads to 
inflammation around the sebaceous gland (acne) which often per- 
manently injures the skin. 

2. Accumulation of effete matter on the skin occurs, unless 
frequent ablutions are performed. The epidermis is constantly 
shedding its older and more superficial parts, in the form of minute 
scales or " scurf." In the absence of frequent washing, the scales 
of epithelium tend to accumulate, the sebaceous secretion matting 
the scales together, and rendering them more adhesive. The saline 
matters of the perspiration also accumulate along with the scales 
and sebaceous secretion, and in virtue of their hygroscopic properties 
tend to keep the skin clammy and cold. 

The obstruction of excretions and the accumulation of debris 
lead to other consequences. Thus : 3. The sensibility of the skin 
is dulled when the sensory papillae are covered with dirt. The 
sensations received by the skin are important in regulating the 
temperature of the body. A cold external temperature should 
cause a reflex contraction of the small arteries bringing blood to 
the skin, thus diminishing the flow of blood and preventing undue 
loss of heat. Similarly, if the external temperature is high, or the 
internal development of heat is too great, these arteries dilate, and 
sending more blood to the skin, cause a greater loss of heat by 
radiation and conduction. Impaired sensibility of the skin leads 
to imperfect action of the reflex nervous mechanism to which the 
above effects are due, and consequently the dangers resulting from 
sudden alterations of temperature are greatly increased. 

4. The tendency to chills is increased, not only by deficiency of 
the nervous tone of the skin, but also by obstruction of the pores 
of the skin, and by the hygrometric action of the saline matter 
collected on it. 

5. Cutaneous diseases are due to, or favoured by, uncleanliness. 
These are of two kinds parasitic and non-parasitic. Acne, which 
is the chief non-parasitic disease favoured by uncleanliness, has 
been already mentioned. 

Parasitic skin diseases are greatly favoured by the presence of 
a dirty skin, which affords a suitable soil for the development of 
the parasites. (See also page 275). 

Uses of Soap. Soap is produced by an action of an alkali on 
an oil. The alkali displaces glycerine from the oil, and forms an 
alkaline stearate, which is soap. Soft soap is chiefly stearate of 
potassium ; hard soap is stearate of sodium. There may also be 
present the alkaline salts of oleic and palmitic acid. Soft soap is 
not used for washing the skin, as it is too irritating. All soaps 
contain a slight excess of soda ; the greater this excess, the more 
irritating is the soap to delicate skins. Hard soaps may be also 
made with potash, if the fat employed be a solid one ; but such 
soaps are rather softer than ordinary hard soaps, and more caustic. 
Cocoa-nut oil is used in making marine soaps, because, unlike all 



262 HYGIENE. 

other kinds, it is not rendered insoluble by brine, and so will form 
a lather with sea- water. Normal soaps contain from 15 to 35 per 
cent, of water. " Liquoring " a soap consists in adding 5 to 25 per 
cent, of soluble silicates. By this means the soap may be made to 
hold 70 per cent, of water, which is obviously very wasteful. 

In washing the skin, the water washes away a considerable 
amount of epidermis, and the saline matters which have collected. 
For the oily sebaceous secretion soap is required. The alkali in 
soap combines with the oily matter, forming an emulsion which 
carries away with it a quantity of the dirt which previously blocked 
the orifices of the sebaceous and sweat ducts. When the skin is 
rubbed by the towel after washing, the softened epithelium, and 
with it any remaining dirt, are rubbed off, leaving the skin clean, and 
able to perform its normal functions. 

The Use of Baths. The primary object of bathing is clean- 
liness. A secondary consideration is the pleasure derived from 
bathing. Baths are especially necessary for those persons who lead 
sedentary lives. When the skin is kept in an active condition by 
exercise, it to some extent cleanses itself. Thus, a farm labourer 
who has a weekly bath, may be really cleaner than a person of 
sedentary habits, who has two baths per week. 

Baths are classified according to temperature as follows : 
Below 70 Fahr. they are described as cold ; tepid up to 85 ; warm 
up to 97 ; and hot over this temperature. It is important in 
deciding the temperature of a bath not to trust to one's sensations ; 
the only accurate measure is by the thermometer. A cold morning 
tub in the summer will commonly contain water at 55 to 60 ; 
while the same in winter will be down to 40, or occasionally to 32. 

For purposes of cleanliness the warm bath is the most efficient, 
combined with the free use of soap. The chief objection to it is 
that it produces an increased flow of blood to the skin, by relaxing 
the cutaneous blood-vessels, thus increasing the danger of chills if 
there is subsequent exposure. The increased sensibility to cold 
resulting from a warm bath may be obviated by afterwards rapidly 
sponging the body all over with cold water, and then drying the 
body quickly, and using the friction of a moderately rough towel. 
It is desirable for both cold and warm baths to have a " bath- 
sheet," in which the person may be completely enclosed on coming 
out of the bath. Drying is thus much more quickly accomplished, 
and the danger of chill is minimised. 

A daily morning cold bath is a most important agent in the 
maintenance of robust health. The first sensation on entering a 
cold bath is of shock, due to the cooling of the surface of the body. 
This is followed in a few seconds by a glow, due to the blood 
returning with considerable force to the skin. A cold bath ought 
to be taken as rapidly as possible. If soaping the body is desired, 
it should be done before entering the bath, and the stay in the latter 
should be little more than momentary. In this way the best 
reaction or " glow " is obtained. 

If a feeling of cold and chilliness remains after a cold bath, it 
has done more harm than good. This condition may often be 



PERSONAL CLEANLINESS. 263 

avoided by quick drying and brisk friction ; if after this a good 
reaction is not obtained, the temperature of the water should be 
increased. For those who are not very robust, the " cold tub " in 
winter is to be deprecated. If the water be raised to 60 by the 
addition of warm water, or in some cases even to 70, a good 
reaction may be obtained. In other cases, in which a reaction is 
not experienced even after a bath of the latter temperature, a tepid 
bath may be taken, and then the body rapidly sponged with colder 
water. 

Cold baths increase the tone of the skin, rendering it less 
susceptible to changes of temperature. The tendency to "catch 
cold " is diminished, the blood-vessels and nerves of the skin both 
responding more readily to any stimuli. 

Swimming is a valuable combination of bathing and exercise. 
A sudden plunge into cold water for swimming purposes is 
dangerous to those who are not hardened to it, and especially so 
in the case of running water, as in rivers or the sea. Here the 
water around the swimmer is constantly being changed, and each 
layer of water coming in contact with him abstracts a considerable 
amount of heat. Many of the cases of so-called death from 
" cramp " are really due to the benumbing and depressing influence 
of continued cold on the vital organs. 

Swimming, under proper superintendence, ought to be univers- 
ally enforced. The exercise accompanying it serves in most cases 
to counteract the depressing action of the cold water ; but it is 
important in all cases to attend to certain rules. The immersion 
should not be prolonged ; the body should be warm at the time of 
entering the water ; and the bath should not be taken until about 
two hours after a meal ; nor after prolonged fasting, as before 
breakfast. 

Personal Cleanliness. Personal cleanliness involves not 
only attention to the skin, which we have already considered, but 
to the hair, nails, mouth, and other parts of the body. 

The hair ought to be carefully brushed and combed, but it is 
not desirable to use soap to it as often as to the skin. Soap 
removes the sebaceous secretion from the hairs, and renders them 
dry and brittle. Artificial pomades are, as a rule, unnecessary. 

The nails should be cut square, and not down at the sides. It 
is hardly necessary to say that they should be kept clean : they 
may convey serious infection. 

The mouth and all mucous orifices should be kept scrupulously 
clean. A foetid breath is not uncommonly due to the discharges 
from carious teeth, or to the decomposition of food which has been 
allowed to accumulate in the cavities of teeth. Such decomposing 
matters when swallowed, are apt to produce indigestion ; and this 
also occurs from imperfect mastication of food by the bad teeth. 
It is important that the teeth should be frequently cleansed, and 
that all carious teeth should be " stopped " at an early period, and 
tartar and other accumulations removed. Whether bad teeth, 
which are so extremely common, are due to the drinking of very 
hot liquids, or to the fact that the more perfect cooking of food 



264 HYGIENE. 

gives less healthy friction to the teeth, is doubtful. Whatever the 
cause, by keeping the mouth thoroughly sweet and clean, and by 
having the carious teeth stopped as soon as discovered, their 
vitality may be greatly prolonged. Teeth should be periodically 
inspected by a competent dentist. Irregularities of the teeth may 
be corrected, if they receive early attention. Carious " milk-teeth " 
should receive attention from a dentist, as well as the permanent 
teeth. 

General Cleanliness. Next to cleanliness of the skin, that 
of the apparel is most important. 

There is a general preference for colours " that do not show 
the dirt " ; the fact that it is still there, though not seen, being 
partially ignored. Changing of apparel is commonly confined to 
underclothing. It is forgotten that vests, trousers, dresses, etc., 
acquire a large amount of dirt and organic matter, and ought to be 
changed and well aired at intervals. 

Cleanliness in respect to bed-clothes is very important. Organic 
matters evolved from the skin, lungs, etc., hang about the bed- 
linen, and give the bed-room the "close smell" which can be 
perceived on entering it in the morning straight from the fresh air. 
The beds should not be made directly after being evacuated, but 
the clothes should be thrown over the bottom of the bed, the 
bolsters and mattress well shaken, and every part exposed to a free 
current of air during the greater part of the morning, before 
re-arranging the clothes. Eider-down quilts, unless frequently 
ventilated by exposure to outside air, are unwholesome. Super- 
fluous bed-room furniture should be avoided, as it all takes away 
from the breathing-space. Bed-hangings should be reduced to a 
minimum, and all excretory matters covered up during their stay 
in the room, and removed as early as possible. 

Cleanliness of the house is also very important as a means of 
health. Dust, in however obscure a corner it rests, attracts to 
itself organic matters, and forms a soil in which disease germs may 
grow. Besides this, it devitalises the air, depriving it of its active 
oxygen. (See also page 101). 

Dust in the streets serves to carry about various diseases, 
besides mechanically irritating any part it comes in contact with, 
producing bronchitis, etc. 



265 



CHAPTER XL. 

CLOTHING. 

Physiological Considerations. The average temperature of 
the surface of the body in man is 98-4 to 98-6. The maintenance 
of a tolerably uniform temperature is an essential condition of life. 
The factors governing the temperature of the body are the amount of 
heat produced and the amount lost. If more heat escapes, more has 
to be generated ; and the source of all the heat produced in the body 
is the food taken. This becomes changed by the metabolic 
processes occurring in the body which produce heat. 

Heat is lost, (i) by the skin ; (2) in respiration, the expired air 
having been heated during its stay in the lungs ; (3) with the food 
and drink taken, if not at the temperature of the body ; (4) with the 
excreta ; and (5) by transformation of heat into mechanical energy. 
Of the whole loss by these different channels, probably eighty to 
ninety per cent, is through the skin. 

The Loss of Heat by the Skin is in three different ways. 
First, by conduction, when the skin comes in contact with anything 
cooler than itself ; secondly, by radiation into space ; and thirdly, by 
evaporation of the perspiration. The last cause produces a 
considerable reduction of temperature, even when the perspiration 
is not so abundant as to be visible, but is in the form of insensible 
perspiration. The losses by these different sources vary in amount ; 
when one is increased, another is diminished, by way of 
compensation. Thus, in very cold weather, the amount of radiation 
and conduction of heat are increased ; but evaporation greatly 
decreases, and the diminished loss of heat in this respect counter- 
balances in some degree the increased loss by radiation and 
conduction. 

When the external warmth is considerable, increased 
evaporation occurs ; while when the weather is cold, the cutaneous 
arteries contract, and less blood goes to the skin, and so the loss of 
heat is diminished. In most climates, however, this action of the 
skin requires to be supplemented by some kind of clothing. 

Requisites of Dress. i. The first and most important 
requirement is that clothing should maintain a uniform and equable 
temperature in all parts of the body. 

In hot climates clothes are required in order to protect the body 
from external heat. In this country, they are required to prevent 
the too rapid escape of heat from the body. For both these 



266 HYGIENE. 

purposes, dress must be of a non-conducting material, in order 
not to encourage transfer of heat into or from the surrounding 
atmosphere. 

The loss of heat by the skin may be prevented by interfering 
with radiation or conduction of heat, or with evaporation from its 
surface. Radiation of heat from the skin is prevented by clothing, 
the dress taking the place of the skin as a radiating surface. The 
amount of radiation from the dress will depend on the rapidity of 
conduction of heat from the skin. The amount of conduction and 
of radiation of heat will vary considerably with the material and 
colour of the dress. 

As regards conductivity, the two extremes are represented by 
linen and fur. It is found that if the conducting power for heat of 
linen = 100, then that of wool = 50 to 70. This partly explains 
why woollen goods are so much warmer than linen. We shall find 
that there is another explanation in the relative hygroscopic 
properties of the two materials. 

As regards radiation of heat, in one experiment it was found 
that while a piece of linen took io| minutes to cool, a corresponding 
piece of flannel took n-| minutes. 

Apart from the material, the colour of dress has some influence 
in regulating the loss of heat. Dark-coloured materials absorb 
more light and heat than lighter coloured materials ; they may be 
good or bad conductors of heat, according to the nature of the 
material. White reflects the rays of light and heat ; hence it is a 
poor absorber. In summer it prevents the passage of heat inwards, 
and, in winter, may prevent its passage from the body. It is thus 
well adapted for both winter and summer clothing, and has the 
additional advantage of being the cleanest colour. 

Franklin placed a number of squares of different coloured 
cloths of the same material on snow, and found after a time that 
the snow covered by the black piece was most, and by the white 
piece least melted. In another set of experiments, shirting materials 
dyed various colours were taken, and it was found that if the rays 
of heat received by white were represented as 100, pale straw 
received 102, dark yellow 140, light green 155, Turkey red 165, 
dark green 168, light blue 198, black 208. 

The influence of colour is antagonised to a large extent by the 
nature of the material ; the increased heat absorbed by a dark 
material may be counterbalanced by the material being a good 
conductor. Also the influence of colour is only exerted superficially ; 
hence, although it produces considerable effect in thin textures, as 
gauze, it has little influence on thick materials. 

2. The dress should not interfere with perspiration. In order 
that it may not do this, it should be competent to absorb 
moisture easily, without its surface becoming wetted. Materials 
like linen which lose their porosity and rapidly become 
wetted by perspiration, cause rapid loss of heat from the 
body, inasmuch as water is a better conductor of heat than 
air. Pettenkofer found that while the maximum hygroscopic power 
of wool (flannel) is 174 and the minimum in; the maximum of 



CLOTHING. 



267 



linen is 75 and the minimum 41. Hence, with a flannel vest next 
the skin, the liability to chill is much less than with a linen one. 
There is one slightly counterbalancing drawback ; hygroscopic 
materials absorb moisture from the air, as well as from the skin. A 
woollen coat during a damp day, without rain, increases considerably 
in weight. 

_ Waterproof clothing is injurious when worn beyond a short 
period, on account of its being non-porous and consequently keeping 
the body enveloped in a vapour bath composed of its ' own 
perspiration. For a similar reason India-rubber boots are objec- 
tionable, except for short periods ; they make the feet damp, and 
even sodden. Sealskin jackets are objectionable for walking, not 
only because of their weight, but because they are not porous. 

3. The warmth of clothing should be uniformly distributed 
throughout the body. This principle is very frequently departed 
from ; and consequently one part may be chilled while another is 
over-heated. This is seen especially in female apparel. The same 
evil is seen in the short sleeves, and short and low-necked dresses of 
young children. " Combination " garments for women, and sleeves 
and leggings for young children are happily becoming more generally 
adopted, and will diminish the diseases due to exposure to cold. 

4. The clothing should not be tight ; and this for three reasons. 
First,_ because loose clothing is warmer than tight ; this everyone has 
experienced in the case of gloves. The retention of air in the 
meshes of clothing is one of the main causes of its warmth, air 
being a bad conductor of heat. The imprisonment of air in the 
meshes of the material largely explains the warmth of eider-down 
quilts, furs, and flannels as contrasted with linen. 

Secondly, clothing should not be tight, in order to avoid inter- 
ference with the action of the muscles. Tight sleeves prevent the 
muscles of the arms and chest from being exercised. Tightly laced 
corsets imprison the trunk muscles, prevent their contractions, and 
so lead to muscular weakness and occasionally spinal curvature. 
Tight skirts similarly prevent free play of the lower limbs, leading 
to a halting gait, a diminished amount of exercise, with all the evils 
following deficient exercise. Tight clothing is not confined to one 
sex, and in all cases leads to hampered movements and deficient 
muscularity. 

Thirdly, tight clothing tends to impede the functions of circulation, 
respiration, and digestion. The fashion which more than any other 
interferes with important functions is tight-lacing. This produces 
(i) compression and displacement of the viscera ; the liver and the 
stomach especially suffer. (2) Respiration and circulation are 
impeded, the act-ion of the diaphragm being impeded. (3) The 
muscles of the trunk being tightly encased, are incapable of 
movement, and consequently tend to waste and atrophy. The 
general outline of the body is altered. Instead of the waist being 
elliptical, as it naturally is, it becomes nearly circular ; and instead 
of its circumference averaging twenty-six to twenty-seven inches, it 
may be eighteen to twenty-one inches. Tight garters tend to produce 
varicose veins. 



268 HYGIENE. 

Tight boots are injurious, as they tend to destroy the natural 
elasticity of the movements, "and confine them within narrow limits. 
They act to some extent the part of splints. By interfering with 
the circulation of blood through the feet, they cause cold feet, and 
not uncommonly chilblains. High-heeled boots do not allow the 
natural elasticity of the foot to come into action. They distort the 
movements of the body and cause corns and bunions. Similar 
effects are produced by boots which are too narrow and have pointed 
toes, thus not allowing free movement of the toes. 

5. The weight of the clothing should be the smallest amount consistent 
with warmth, and it should be evenly distributed. The chief weight 
should not be suspended from the waist, as here the parts are not 
well supported by bones. The shoulders and hips should share in 
the suspension of clothing, thus diminishing the danger of com- 
pression and displacement of internal organs. In order that 
garments may be as light as possible, they should be made to fit 
to each limb separately, thus diminishing the amount of material 
required. 

6. The materials of dress should be as far as possible non- 
inflammable. This may sometimes be disregarded, but is often 
important, as in the nursery. In this respect, as in many others, 
wool possesses great advantages. Woollen fabrics smoulder rather 
than burst into flames, and thus the injury resulting from any 
accident is limited. Cotton is more inflammable than linen, linen 
than silk, and silk than wool. A closely woven cloth is less 
inflammable than one with open meshes. 

Dress materials, and more particularly muslin, have been 
rendered non-inflammable by treating with a solution of ammonic 
phosphate, or ammonic phosphate and ammonic chloride mixed. 
The best material, however, is sodic tungstate, which, unlike the 
others, is not affected by ironing. Sodic molybdate is used in 
arsenals to render the workmen's clothing non-inflammable. All 
the above plans are objectionable, as the weight of the material 
is increased 18 to 29 per cent., and they all wash out. To remedy 
this, a "fire-proof starch," containing sodic tungstate has been 
devised. 

Perfect non-inflammability is only required in certain dangerous 
occupations. The plans hitherto mentioned simply prevent the 
fabric breaking out into flame. The only cloth absolutely unaffected 
by fire is asbestos cloth. 

7. Elegance of dress, although not so important as utility, is not 
to be neglected, and the two are perfectly compatible. In fact, 
elegance is indirectly associated with utility, for nothing which is 
awkward, or leads to obstructed movements or distortions of the 
body, is really elegant. A sudden constriction, as in a very tight 
waist, is not only bad from a hygienic point of view, but is also ugly. 

Materials for Clothing. The materials used are derived 
partly from the vegetable world, as hemp, flax, cotton ; and partly 
from the animal world, as silk, wool, hair, feathers. The most 
important materials are wool, silk, cotton, and flax. 



CLOTHING. 



269 



i. Wool varies somewhat in character, according to the animal 
from which it is derived. In all its varieties, however, it preserves 
the character of a bad conducting and porous substance, the two 
most important requisites in a dress material. 

(1) Wool from the sheep is really a soft and elastic hair, 
composed of fibres three to eight inches long, and about TIRT^ inch 
thick. The finer and shorter wools are used for fine cloth, the 
longer and coarser for " poplins," " worsted pieces," etc. Flannel is 
a woollen stuff of rather open and slight fabric. Wool is irritating 
to delicate skins, and may be so much so, that it cannot be worn 
next the skin, whether as flannel, worsted, or merino. In these 
cases, it may be worn outside a linen or gauze vest, and so all its 
advantages secured. It is one of the worst conductors of heat, and 
ought always to be worn in winter ; while even in summer, it 
ensures a greater immunity from chill after perspiration than any 
other material. 

(2) Cashmere is made from the down found about the roots of the 



IF I 





B 




A. B. C. D. 

FIG. 56. 

MICROSCOPICAL APPEARANCE OF FIBRES OF 
A COTTON. B SILK. C LINEN. D WOOL. 

hair of the Thibet goat. Imitation cashmere is made of various 
materials mixed together. 

(3) Alpaca is obtained from the fleece of the llama, alpaca, and 
vicuna. It is longer than the fleece of the sheep, the fibres, which 
are soft and strong, averaging six inches in length. It is commonly 
made up with cotton or silk. 

(4) Mchair is the hair of a goat inhabiting the mountains near 
Angora. It is woven into an almost waterproof cloth, and used in 
making plush, braid, etc. 

2. Hair derived from the horse or cow differs from the hair 
usually called wool, in the greater solidity of its structure, which 
makes it ill-adapted for clothing. Its chief use is in the manufacture, 
of felts, of which hats are made. 

3. Leather is a kind of natural felt, very close and firm in its 
texture. It is used in this country chiefly for boots, but in some 



270 HYGIENE. 

colder climates also for coats, etc. It is impervious to moisture, 
like sealskin, and is consequently not very healthy. The same 
objection applies to chamois- leather underclothing, which is non-porous, 
and consequently keeps the skin hot and clammy ; also, it cannot 
be washed without becoming stiff on drying. This necessitates 
wearing the material after it has become impregnated with 
perspiration. 

4. Silk. The thread spun by the silk-worm is composed of 
filaments ^-foii inch wide, and is the strongest and most tenacious 
of textile fabrics. Its thread is three times as strong as a thread 
of flax of the same thickness, and twice as strong as a thread of 
hemp. 

Its fibres are round like those of linen, but softer and smaller ; 
it gives an agreeable sensation of freshness to the skin even more 
than linen. It is a worse conductor of heat than cotton or linen. 
Its great disadvantage for wearing next the skin, apart from its 
expense, is that it irritates delicate skins. Satin is silk so prepared 
as to form a smooth, polished surface. 

Velvet is a silk fabric of which the pile is due to the insertion of 
short pieces of silk thread under the weft or cross-thread. Cheaper 
kinds are made, containing a certain proportion of cotton. 

Crape is made of raw silk gammed and twisted to form a gauze- 
like fabric. Taffety, moire, brocade, and plush are made of silk 
alone or combined with cotton. 

5. Cotton consists of the downy hairs investing the seeds of the 
gossypium plant. The threads of which it is composed are flat, 
ribbon-like, and twisted, about F ^ to ^^ inch wide. Owing to 
its flat fibres with sharp edges, it is apt to irritate delicate skins ; 
linen is preferable for dressing wounds for a similar reason. 
Cotton is warmer than linen, being a worse conductor of heat. 
It also absorbs moisture better, not becoming wet so soon ; but it 
lacks the "freshness" which makes linen materials pleasant to 
wear. Calico, fustian, jean, velveteen, and muslin are the chief 
cotton fabrics 

6. Flax is formed from the fibres of the flax plant. Linen is 
made from it. Cambric and lawn are very fine and thin linen 
materials. The fibres of linen are round and pliable ; thus it is 
smooth and soft, and peculiarly agreeable to the skin. It is, how- 
ever, a good conductor of heat, and consequently " it feels cold " to 
the skin. Furthermore its pores quickly become filled with 
perspiration, which escapes rapidly, thus chilling the body. 

7. Mackintoshes are valuable as a temporary protection against 
external wet. Worn for more than a short period, they produce 
great heat and a sense of closeness, owing to retention of the 
perspiration. The best form of mackintosh is one having a cape, 
with a space for evaporation between it and the rest of the garment. 

The Amount of Clothing required varies with circumstances, 
i . Health ; those of robust constitution require less than the feeble. 
The more active are digestion and assimilation, the less is the 
amount of clothing required. If heat is preserved by clothing, less 
food is required. Thus a distinct saving of food is effected by warm 



CLOTHING. 271 

clothes. Warm clothes are the equivalent of so much food that 
would have been required to keep up the temperature of the body, 
if the clothes had not been worn. Thinly clad persons under 
conditions of starvation die more quickly than those who are better 
protected. 

2. Clothing requires to be adapted to climate and season. In 
winter and in cold climates the amount of clothing must be 
increased, and warmer materials chosen. In the changeable 
climate of Great Britain, it is difficult to adapt the character of 
one's dress to the requirements of the weather. Clothing ought, 
however, not to be changed according to the calendar, but according to 
the weather. The tendency is to assume summer clothing too early 
in the spring, and to continue it too far into the autumn. According 
to Boerhave, winter clothing should be put off on Midsummer day, 
and resumed the day after. This, although rather exaggerated, may 
serve to impress the caution required. The same authority says 
that only fools and beggars suffer from cold, the latter not being 
able to procure sufficient clothes, the former not having the sense 
to wear them. 

3. Age. Those at the two extremes of life are specially suscep- 
tible to cold. The mortality of infants during the first three months 
of life is nearly doubled in winter. Bronchitis and pneumonia 
prove fatal chiefly at the two extremes of age. 

The younger a child the larger is its surface as compared with 
its bulk, inasmuch as the area of a body varies as the square of its 
dimensions, while its mass varies as their cube. Thus a cube i inch 
each side has 6 square inches of surface to i cubic inch of bulk, 
while a cube 10 inches each side has 600 square inches of surface to 
1000 cubic inches in bulk. Similarly a child J^ the size of its 
mother, besides its feebler powers of producing heat, has ten times 
as much surface in proportion to its size by which heat is lost. 

After the age of thirty-five, it is better to exceed than to be 
deficient in clothing. A degree of cold that would act as a useful 
tonic to the robust and middle-aged, produces serious and even 
fatal depression of the vital powers in children or aged people. 
For the same reason it is advisable to discontinue cold baths as age 
advances. 

A very pernicious delusion is prevalent, that children ought 
to be " hardened " to the influences of cold, and that too much 
clothing " makes them tender." Excessive clothing may possibly 
increase the tendency to "catch cold," owing to -its exciting 
perspiration, or owing to the fact that the extra clothing is 
commonly thrown off at irregular intervals witness the effects of 
wearing a scarf round the neck occasionally. But to suppose that 
children can be hardened by exposure of arms and legs, and other 
parts of their bodies, is irrational. A large amount of heat is lost 
from these bare surfaces, and apart altogether from the danger 
of chill, more food must be taken to compensate for this loss of 
heat, and keep up an equable temperature. Also if the food taken 
is expended in preserving the warmth of the unprotected body, less 
material is left for the purpose of growth. From these causes it 



272 HYGIENE. 

frequently happens that children remain stunted in growth, even if 
latent disease is not actually developed by the extra strain on their 
resources. 

The children of the very poor are often pointed to as demon- 
strating the power of hardening. It is forgotten how many of 
these poor children have perished under the hardening system, and 
that the good health of those remaining is in spite of the hardening. 

Poisonous Dyes in Clothing. These, like poisonous wall- 
papers, were formerly much more common than at present, and, as 
in wall-papers, the poisonous agent has most frequently been arsenic, 
large quantities of which were formerly used in the preparation of 
certain dyes. Occasionally such poisonous pigments are still 
employed. 

The means of detecting arsenic in any fabric or wall-paper are 
given on page 216. 



273 



CHAPTER XLI. 

PARASITES. 

Parasites (Greek, para, upon, and siteo, I feed), in the broadest 
sense of the word, are living organisms, which derive their nourish- 
ment from other living organisms. They may belong to the 
vegetable or animal kingdoms, and may live on the skin, in the 
alimentary canal, or in some one of the internal organs. Some, like 
the fungus causing ringworm, feed on the living tissues of the 
animal infested ; others, like tape-worms, on the partly digested 
food ; while other parasites, like fleas, only pay temporary visits to 
the surface of the body, for the purpose of obtaining food. 

Vegetable Parasites. Vegetable parasites all belong to the 
class of fungi, and more accurately to the two lowest divisions of 
this class which have been provisionally formed, viz. Schizophyta, 
and Zygophyta. The Schizophyta include two orders, Schizomy- 
cetes and Saccharomycetes. 

BACTERIA. 

Bacterium, is the generic name given to the micro-organisms 
belonging to 'the schizomycetes, whether a bacillus (rod-shaped), 
coccus (rounded), spiral-formed (spirillum or vibrio), or filamentous 
(leptothrix and spirochceta). All these are destitute of chlorophyll 
and multiply by fission.* They are all extremely small, the width 
usually not exceeding i // = ^thru inch. Various names are given 
to them, which are synonymous, thus : germs, 

microbes, 

micro-organisms, 

microzymes, 

bacteria (singular bacterium). 

When they cause disease they are called contagia. They multiply 
rapidly, and may reach maturity in 20 to 30 minutes. One 
bacterium may, under favourable conditions, become 16,000,000 
in 24 hours. 

Methods of Examination. Until Koch discovered the 
method of cultivating bacteria on solid media, the science of 
bacteriology remained in its infancy, as it was impracticable to 
obtain pure, i.e. unmixed cultures of a given bacterium. Koch hit 
on the idea of mixing minute portions of cultivations of bacteria 

* Some bacteria form in their interior minute spores, by means of which 

they are able to resist ordinary destructive agents. These spores again 
develope into bacteria. 

Newsholme's Hygiene.J 19 



274 HYGIENE. 

which were growing in liquid broth with liquefied gelatine, and then 
spreading the mixture on glass plates, and allowing it to solidify 
under cover, so that no atmospheric bacteria could contaminate 
the growth. When this was done, individual bacteria formed 
individual "colonies" scattered over the gelatine, and these could 
be identified by sub-culturing and other methods, for the details of 
which books on bacteriology must be consulted. 

The food supply of most bacteria is vegetable or animal refuse. 
Some of them have a most useful purpose in nature, that of breaking 
down complex organic substances and reducing them to a simpler 
form. Thus bacteria play an essential part in purifying the soil, 
and in the operations in sewage tanks and on sewage farms (pages 
192, 195 and 220). A thimbleful of ordinary garden soil which has 
received a periodical manurial dressing contains one to three million 
bacteria. Certain bacteria have been found to be capable of 
exercising an opposite effect, i.e. fixing the atmospheric nitrogen and 
building it up into the nitrogenous tissues of plants. Thus the 
nodules on the roots of leguminous plants consist of bacteria living 
in symbiosis with the protoplasm of the plant and supplying it with 
nitrogen in an assimilable condition. Pure cultures of these bacteria 
have been put on the market as nitragin, for enriching land poor 
in nitrogen. Thus a fairly complete cycle of nature is secured, and 
by rotation of plants (legumes alternating with other seeds), 
manures, especially nitrogenous manures, may be partially saved. 

The souring of milk is caused by the bacillus lactis. This souring 
is an indispensable preliminary to the making of cheese, and the 
bacillus can now be used in pure culture to hasten the natural 
process. The peculiar aroma of good butter is due to a bacterium 
which has been isolated ; and it can now be supplied in pure culture 
for butter-making, thus obviating bad butter. 

Certain bacteria are disease-producing or pathogenic. The 
largest of these is the Bacillus of Anthrax, a disease common in sheep 
and oxen, and sometimes communicated to man. This bacillus is 
i'2 p thick and 6 to 8 ju, long. When an animal dies of this disease 
it should be buried without cutting the skin. When exposed to the 
air this bacillus forms minute spores, very difficult to destroy. They 
may live for several years in pits in which animals dying from 
anthrax have been buried. Butchers have died when inoculated 
through cracked fingers when dressing the carcase of a cow 
which has had anthrax. Similarly men handling the hides of 
such animals may be inoculated, either with a form of disease 
in which rapid blood-poisoning is produced, or with a malignant 
carbuncle, from which recovery is possible if it be treated 
promptly. Wool sorters of mohair wool are very liable to 
suffer from a fatal form of pneumonia due to the dust from wool 
derived from animals which have died from anthrax (page 107). 
This disease gives a good instance of possible attenuation of virus, 
of which another example is seen in small pox (page 293). Pasteur 
grew anthrax bacilli in broth at a temperature of 110 Fahr. 
At this temperature the bacilli multiplied by division, and no 
spores were formed. By repeatedly sub-culturing after the bacilli 



RINGWORM. 275 

had become old (i.e. by putting minute quantities of the growth 
into fresh broth) and exposing to air, he obtained anthrax 
bacilli which were only slightly virulent, only producing slight 
constitutional disturbance when inoculated, i.e. injected under the 
skin of sheep, and yet protected them against ordinary infection 
by anthrax. Other methods of attenuation of virus have been 
discovered. For instance the growth of the bacillus in the presence 
of a feeble antiseptic, or passing it through the circulation of an 
animal which is relatively insusceptible to the 'particular bacillus 
has this effect. 

Other important pathogenic bacteria will be considered later 
(pages 298 to 398). It is only necessary here to mention that 
suppuration, erysipelas, puerperal fever, and a number of forms of 
blood-poisoning are due to the invasion of the system by cocci. A 
single round cell (commonly not more than v-gfav inch in diameter) 
is called a micrococcus. When in pairs as in the micro-organism 
causing pneumonia they are called diplococci ; when in chains, 
streptococci (i.e. twisted) ; when in masses, staphylococci. When cocci 
and other micro-organisms are kept out of wounds, healing occurs 
without suppuration ; this is the principle of the antiseptic and 
aseptic methods of treating wounds (pages 106 and no). The 
question of immunity is discussed on page 288. 

Saccharomycetes occur in fermenting substances, as in the 
fermentation of saccharine solutions. The only organism belonging 
to this order, which is associated with diseased conditions, is the 
Sarcina Ventviculi. This is found occasionally in the vomit or even 
in the urine of some persons. 

The Zygophyta occur as thread-like growths, forming a 
mycelium. This is composed of jointed branching tubular cells, in 
which minute spores are produced. Each spore, when liberated 
from its tube, is capable of producing another mycelium, and thus 
the growth spreads. The spores may be carried through the 
atmosphere, thus producing infection at a distance. They have an 
average diameter of 6 //, -= about f^ inch. 

The following are the chief Zygophytous parasitic diseases : 
Thrush is associated with the growth of a minute filamentous 
fungus, the oidium albicans. It is common in babies, who are 
improperly fed, and in old people, or in persons exhausted by any 
chronic disease. Small white patches collect on the tongue and 
neighbouring parts, and these are often followed by the formation 
of minute ulcers. When it occurs in children, the food must be 
carefully attended to, and feeding bottles frequently scalded, etc. 

Ringworm is due to the growth of a large spored or a small 
spored fungus (known under the names of Microsporon A udouini ; 
Trichophyton megalosporon endothrix, Trichophyton megalosporon ectothrix) 
which attacks the skin. It is most difficult to eradicate when it 
occurs in hairy parts, as the growth penetrates to the roots of the 
hairs, and continues to live here long after it has been destroyed on 
the general surface of the skin. The fungus spreads on the skin in 
gradually enlarging circles, forming rings with a slightly raised 
margin. It is extremely contagious, being especially apt to spread 



276 HYGIENE. 

in schools. The spores may be carried about by means of hats or 
bonnets, by gloves, towels," razors, and other means. The disease 
often remains undetected for some time ; and many cases, especially 
where the scalp is affected, remain contagious after they have been 
apparently cured. 

The removal of ringworm, as of all other skin parasites, is 
effected by some local parasiticide. Prolonged treatment, including 
the pulling out of diseased hairs, is required for ringworm of the 
scalp. A special cap should be worn, when the patient mixes with 
others. 

Favus, or " scald-head," is due to the growth in the skin of a 
minute fungus called the Achorion Schonleinii, which invades the same 
parts as those affected by ringworm, but differs in its mode of forma- 
tion of spores ; yellow cupped discs from i to ^ inch in diameter 
being produced. It is very rare in England, and almost confined 
to persons (especially children) who are kept in a filthy condition. 
It is a common and fatal disease in mice. The treatment is similar 
to that of ringworm. 

Tinea versicolor is caused by the growth in the epithelial cells 
of the skin, of a fungus called the microsporon furfur, which, unlike 
the two last, does not invade the hair or nails. It forms light 
brown patches covered with a horny scurf, which gradually spread, 
until nearly the whole trunk may be covered. It does not attack 
children, and never affects uncovered parts of the body. It chiefly 
occurs in those who do not take frequent baths, and who perspire 
freely. It can be removed by daily washing with soap and water 
and rubbing with a rough towel, followed by the application of a 
weak carbolic lotion. 

Animal Parasites. Animal parasites are found on the skin or 
in internal organs or in the blood or lymphatic vessels. The 
following are the most common : 

The Acarus Scabiei is a minute animal not unlike a cheese mite, 
which causes the disease known as scabies or the itch. It is pro- 
bably never more than -fa of an inch in length. The female has 
eight legs, with terminal suckers on the four front legs and hairs on 
the hind legs. The male is smaller than the female, and in the 
adult condition the two hindmost legs have suckers, as well as the 
four anterior. It remains on the surface of the skin, while the 
female burrows deeply in the substance of the epidermis. At the 
bottom of the oblique burrow it deposits ten to fifteen or more eggs, 
which hatch in a fortnight and then commence similar operations on 
their own account. Scabies generally starts between the fingers, 
whence it rapidly spreads. The disease is acquired from some 
patient suffering from the disease, or by contact with his apparel. 
It may become very severe when suspicion as to its parasitic 
character has not been entertained. Formerly it was called " the 
seven years' itch," from the great difficulty in curing it before its 
true cause was discovered. 

The irritation caused by the insect produces eczema, and this 
may be thought to be the only disease present, unless careful 
examination is made for the burrows of the insect. 



ANIMAL PARASITES. 277 

To remove this parasite, first the skin is softened, the superficial 
epidermis is removed, and the burrows are laid bare, by the daily 
use of hot baths with soft soap, and subsequent rubbing with flesh 
towels. Then some parasiticide, such as the well known sulphur 
ointment, is rubbed into all the affected parts of the skin. A few 
days' perseverance in this treatment usually suffices for a cure. 
The patient's clothes and bed clothes ought also to be thoroughly 
purified by boiling or by steam disinfection or by baking in an oven ; 
otherwise he may become re-infected. 

The Larvse of several insects have been found embedded in the 
skin. In the ox, the larva or bot of the gadfly produces a trouble- 
some disease, a large boil being formed under the skin as the larva 
grows. This larva has, on rare occasions, attacked human beings. 
Rare cases are recorded where other larvae have become developed 
in men, in all upwards of twenty separate kinds of insects having 
been recognized. The treatment consists in removing the parasite. 

The Chigoe, commonly known as the jigger or sand-flea, is a 
minute parasitic insect, found in the West Indies and northern 
parts of South America. It is so small as to be scarcely visible ; 
but the impregnated female possesses a proboscis, by means of 
which it penetrates the skin generally near the nails and there 
develops a bladder the size of a pea, which sets up severe inflamma- 
tion. To get rid of the intruder, the orifice by which it entered must 
be dilated with a needle, until large enough to admit of its extraction, 
without rupturing the cyst. 

Several species of Pleas infest the human frame. They are 
propagated by means of eggs, the worms from which enclose them- 
selves in a tiny cocoon before assuming the adult form. 

Three varieties of Lice occur on the human skin. The first 
(pediculus capitis) infests the head, especially of children, and 
multiplies with astonishing rapidity, the female laying altogether 
about fifty eggs. The other two varieties are the body louse 
(pedicukis corporis) and the crab louse (pediculus pubis). 

Strict attention to cleanliness is the best means of getting rid of 
fleas and bugs. A wash made of carbolic acid and vinegar painted 
over bed crevices is very efficient. Lice may be removed from the 
head by cutting the hair short, and carefully cutting out any hairs 
to which nits are attached. The nits are cemented to the shafts of 
hairs. Washing the hair with methylated spirit or paraffin is also 
helpful in removing them. Afterwards the use of white precipitate 
ointment will prevent their re-appearance. 

The Trematoda or Flukes furnish two human parasites, viz. 
the liver-fluke (Distoma hepatis), and the Bilharzia hoematobia. 
The liver-fluke occasionally produces jaundice in man. In sheep it 
is the cause of the disease known as the " rot." The Bilharzia 
hoematobia is chiefly found in Egypt, and the Cape Colony. It is 
about a quarter of an inch long, and infests the blood vessels, more 
particularly of the kidneys ; setting up severe irritation and the 
discharge of blood. It is probable that the eggs of this parasite are 
received in drinking water or on salads, though occasionally inocu- 
lation may occur through the skin when bathing. 



2 7 8 



HYGIENE. 



The family of Nematoda possesses numerous parasitic members. 
The common thread worm (Oxyuris Vermicularis) is one of the most 
common of these. The female is ^ to | inch in length, and inhabits 
chiefly the lower bowel. The ova, which are from JW to Tt W inch 
in diameter, often gain access to drinking water, or are carried by 
flies, or received on salads, etc. The injection of salt and water 
into the bowel, and treatment tending to improve the general health, 
are the proper remedies. 

The round worm (Ascaris Lumbricoides) inhabits chiefly the 
small intestine ; hence medicines for its removal require to be given 
by the mouth. The female is from 10 to 14 inches long ; the ova, 
of which each female discharges on an average 160,000 daily, are 
from jfa to ^j inch in diameter. 

The whip-worm (Trichocephalus Dispar) is a smaller nematode, 
which is rarely met with in this country. The Dochmius Duodenalis 
is met with chiefly in Italy and Egypt. It sucks the blood in the 
intestine, causing dangerous anaemia. The Strongylus Gigas is 
chiefly found in the kidneys of. the ox, dog, etc., and is very rare in 
man. It resembles a very large round worm. In the kidney it 
produces severe disorders. How it gets there is not known. 

The Trichina Spiralis has been already described (page 23). , 

The Filar ia Dracunculus (Guinea Worm) seems to gain access 
into the stomach along with water, or possibly in some cases, by 
perforating the skin. It burrows among the tissues, especially of 
the legs, and attains a length of several feet. It causes large boils 
and sores, and through these the eggs escape and pass into water. 
Here the embryo which has escaped from the egg meets with a 
fresh water crustacean (cy clops], enters its body, undergoes larval 
growth, and is swallowed with its host by a man, in whom it 
burrows and undergoes its next stage of life. 

The embryos of three species of Pilaria infest the blood of 
man, chiefly in the tropics. One embryonic species is found in 
the blood of infested patients by day, one by night, and one during 
both day and night. The length of the embryos varies from fa to 
T Js inch, and its width from 3^ to ^sW inch. The night embryo, 
which is the most common, is produced by the Filaria Bancroft*. 
This adult worm infests the lymphatic system of man, sometimes 
reaching a length of three to four inches. Its embryos may 
obstruct lymphatic vessels, causing obstruction of the flow of chyle 
(hence originates chyluria), and elephantiasis, in which enormous 
swelling of the legs and other parts ensues. 

The nocturnal migration into the lymphatic vessels, and thence 
into the blood of the embryo of the F. Bancvofti, is an adaptation 
to the nocturnal habits of a particular mosquito (culex pipiens or 
ciliaris). When the mosquito bites an infested person, his proboscis 
removes some embryo filariae, whieh are quickly transferred to its. 
stomach. Some of these escape digestion, develop within the 
mosquito, and when the mosquito dies in water they bore their way 
out, and are subsequently swallowed by man. 

It is essential, therefore, in order to prevent this disease to boil 
or efficiently filter all drinking water, and to prevent the access of 



TAPE-WORMS. 279 

mosquitoes to water. Persons infested with filariae should sleep 
inside mosquito nets, in order that they may not, when bitten by 
mosquitoes, spread the disease. 

Tape-worms are found infesting the alimentary canal of man. 
Each has a double phase of existence. In the first, the character- 
istic head, or scolex, along with a bladder-like body, lies embedded 
in the solid tissues of an animal ; in the second, the strobilus or 
tape-worm, occupies the alimentary canal of another animal. The 
tape-worm consists of a number of flat segments, each of which is 
capable of producing a large number of eggs, from each of which 
a six-hooked embryo is developed. The segments escape from the 
alimentary canal, and their ova are discharged and scattered broad- 
cast. These eggs are swallowed by another animal, the hooked 
embryo escapes from its case, migrates into the solid tissues, and 
there produces a scolex. When the host is eaten by another animal 
or by man, the scolex enters the alimentary canal, loses its bladder- 
like body, and developes a chain of segments. It follows from the 
above that two distinct hosts are necessary to complete the cycle of 
existence of these creatures, one being commonly a herbivorous, 
and the other a carnivorous animal. Thus : 



Cystic Form. Tape-worm Form. 

Cystic ercus Celluloses in the 1 T&nia Solium in the alimentary canal 

muscles of the pig . . ' of man. 

Cysticercus Bovis in the muscles Tcenia Mediocanellata in the alimentary 

of the ox . . . . " canal of man. 

Ccenurus Cerebralis of the Tcenia Ccenurus in the alimentary canal 

sheep's brain . . . . " of the dog. 

Echinococcus of man, etc. . . Tcenia Echinococcus in the alimentary 

canal of the dog. 



The cysticercns celluloses, has been already described (page 23). 
The cystic form of the dog's tape-worm (echinococcus) is a most 
dangerous parasite for man. When the egg of the dog's tape-worm 
is swallowed by man, the embryo escaping from this egg burrows 
from the alimentary canal, and forms large cysts, chiefly in the 
liver, but occasionally in the lungs, brain, and other organs. For 
the removal of these, surgical interference is required. This form 
of cyst is commonly known as a hydatid. It is most frequently 
seen in Iceland and Australia, though not uncommon in this 
country. Its frequency depends largely on the number of dogs, 
and on the facility with which the ova of their tape-worms can 
gain access to water. 

The adult Tape-worms are usually derived in man from eating 
meat containing the cystic form. The cysticercus of the pig produces 
Tcenia Solium ; that of the ox, the Tcenia Mediocanellata. 

These are the two most common forms of tape-worm in man. 
The minute head of T. Solium has four suckers and a double row of 
booklets, 28 in number ; while the head of T. Mediocanellata has 
four suckers but no booklets. The segments of T. Solium are 



2 8o HYGIENE. 

smaller than of T. Medioc., and the structure of the segments of the 
two is somewhat different. 

Preventive Measures. In avoiding the various Entozoa 
described, it is important (i) to carefully avoid all underdone meat. 
The eating of smoked sausages, or of meat which is not cooked 
throughout, is a common source of tape- worm and of trichinosis. 

(2) All vegetables should be thoroughly washed: this is especially 
important in the case of water-cress, lettuce, etc., which are eaten 
raw. 

(3) If the purity of the water is not ensured, it should be boiled 
or filtered through a Pasteur- Chamberland filter (page 98), especially 
in tropical climates, and where many dogs are kept. Dogs should 
be kept out of the kitchen, lest ova accidentally gain access to 
articles of food. 

(4) The possibility of flies and mosquitoes acting as carriers of 
parasitic disease must be remembered, and precautions taken. 



( 23 1 ) 



CHAPTER XLII. 
THE ROLE OP INSECTS IN SPREADING DISEASE. 

INSECTS are now known to be important agents, (a) as 
carriers and (b) as intermediate hosts of disease-agents. 

The common domestic fly (Musca domestica) is the unwelcome 
companion of man in nearly every country. The eggs are usually 
laid and the larvae undergo their development in excrement, but the 
female sometimes selects meal, bread, or fruit for the purpose. In 
practice, however, one of the best means of diminishing the number 
of domestic flies is to insist on the daily removal of all manure, 
especially horse manure, and to sprinkle the manure receptacle in 
the interval with lime. The fly may obviously be the means of 
conveying infected material from place to place. Anthrax has been 
ascribed to this cause. Nuttall has proved experimentally that flies 
are able to carry the infection of plague, and that they die of the 
disease. The presence of enormous numbers of flies in cholera 
times has been noted. Experimentally, flies caught in cholera wards 
have been found to harbour the cholera spirillum. It is probable 
that they play a serious role in spreading the infection of cholera. 
Hence all infectious dejecta (stools and urine) should be covered 
until finally disposed of, and food should be protected against flies. 
The same remarks apply for enteric fever. Flies fed with pure 
cultures of the bacillus of enteric fever pass these bacilli in their 
dejecta in a still virulent condition. In camps, especially in 
connection with large armies, there is the strongest reason for 
believing that flies carry infection from latrines to food. Flies have 
been known to feed on the expectoration of consumptive patients ; 
and it is possible therefore that they may thus infect food. 

The bed bug (Cimex lectulavius) has been stated to be capable 
of conveying by its bite the infection of plague and other diseases 
from an infected to a healthy person ; but NuttalTs experimental 
results were entirely negative. 

Fleas (pulex) probably do not play any part in spreading 
anthrax. Experimentally, anthrax bacilli die off rapidly in fleas. In 
India, persons who had handled rats dead of plague frequently 
acquired the disease. This was explained by Simond on the 
supposition that the fleas abandoned the dead rat for the human 
subject. The rats which appeared to have caused plague in 
man were stated to have died but a short time before; and the 
handling on the day after their death of rats dead of plague was 
stated to be safe because the rats' fleas had then deserted the dead 



2 8 2 HYGIENE. 

rat. It is assumed that the flea injects the poison of plague under 
the skin. On the contrary it is to be remembered that the fleas 
infesting rats and mice belong to a different family from that which 
attacks man. Whether this is a usual means of conveying plague 
may therefore be regarded as still doubtful. That rats convey 
plague to man is certain ; whether fleas act as an intermediary 
remains somewhat uncertain. 

The Mosquito family (Culicidce] has been found to be an 
important if not the sole means of spreading certain serious diseases 
to man. To this family belong all true gnats or mosquitoes ; but 
the only two genera which have been proved to be able to cause 
disease are Culex and Anopheles. The culex may usually be 
distinguished by the fact that when alive and at rest its head is 
below the level of the thorax and abdomen, thus giving the insect a 
hump-backed appearance, while the body of the anopheles under 
the same circumstances is all in a line.* The anopheles is more 
slender and its head smaller than that of the culex. The anopheles 
usually confines its blood-sucking operations to the evening and 
night. During the day it remains in dark corners. It lays its eggs 
usually in a natural pool or pond on the ground, on the surface of 
the water. In about two days a minute larva is hatched out. This 
grows rapidly, assumes the pupa form, from which the perfect insect 
emerges. The female insect alone is blood-sucking. In about 20 
days after birth, it lays from 150 to 200 eggs. Its relation to malaria 
may be gathered from the following historical sketch. In 1880 
Laveran found in the red blood corpuscles of malarious patients 
minute bodies which he regarded as not bacteria, but a very low 
form of animal life, possessing amoeboid movements. These grew 
at the expense of the blood corpuscles, deposited a dark pigment, 
and often assumed the appearance of a " rosace," a rounded body 
with little spherules at its circumference. Golgi in 1889 observed 
differences between the rosaces of tertian and quartan fever, and 
found that the periods of occurrences of the fever corresponded with 
the times of maturation of the rosaces. It was concluded therefore, 
that the rosaces caused the fever by shedding their sporules into the 
blood. These sporules when thus shed were found to attach 
themselves to, and grow in, other red blood corpuscles. It is now 
known that there are three species of the parasite, in one of which 
the parasites are crescentic in shape. The examination of a drop of 
blood from a patient now enables a doctor to recognise which of 
these three forms of malaria he is dealing with. 

Laveran observed that certain forms of the parasite presented 
" flagella," i.e. filaments exhibiting very active movements. Manson 
having observed that flagella were not found in blood first drawn, 
but only appeared after a little time had elapsed, conceived the idea 
that the function of these must be that of spores. Having previously 

* Furthermore, it is stated that when at rest on a plane surface the Culex 
assumes a position with the axis of the body more or less parallel to the surface ; 
while the Anopheles, under the same circumstances, has the axis of its body 
more or less at right angles to the surface. 



MALARIAL PARASITES. 283 

observed that a microscopic worm, filaria, is drawn with the blood 
into the stomach of a kind of mosquito (page 278), and finds in the 
latter a secondary host, he concluded that a similar cycle of events 
might occur in malaria. Ross tested this theory, and by causing 
mosquitoes bred in bottles from the larva to bite persons affected 
with the crescent form of malaria, after repeated unsuccessful 
attempts, was eventually able to find in comparatively rare 
mosquitoes which had thus bitten a malarious patient, small 
rounded bodies embedded in the wall of the stomach. These were 
watched and found to present appearances identical with those of 
the parasite of malaria. Similar pigmented bodies were subsequently 
found in other mosquitoes. 

The malarial parasite belongs to the Protozoa, of which it is 
one of the smallest members. Man is its intermediate host, and the 
anopheles its definitive or final host. In the red blood corpuscle of 
man it is a unicellar organism, from i/x to 8 ^ in diameter. It has 
two methods of reproduction, endogenous by spore formation and 
exogenous or sexual. The former occurs in man ; the latter in the 
mosquito. Without the latter, the parasite being unable to pass 
from man to man, would die with its host. In endogenous multi- 
plication spores are formed which separate from the original 
parasite and gain access to other red blood corpuscles. The large 
pigmented spheres and the crescent bodies require to enter the 
stomach of the anopheles to attain full development. In the 
anopheles the crescents become spherical, flagella are shot out, 
having a length of 4 to 5 times the diameter of a red blood corpuscle. 
These represent the male element, while other spheres without flagella 
are the females. By the fusion of these two a fertilised cell is 
produced (the travelling vermicule), which now assumes the shape of 
a spear-head and is actively mobile. The travelling vermicule 
pierces the stomach wall of the mosquito and develops into a zygote. 
If an infected mosquito is examined on a succession of days under 
the microscope, the following stages can be traced. The zygote 
consists of pigmented spheres 7 to 8 ^ in diameter, lying in the 
muscular fibres of the mosquito. These grow, and become surrounded 
by a capsule. Smaller spheres form and sub-divide, bud-like 
processes develop on their surfaces ; these gradually become sickle- 
shaped and protrude into the body cavity. They increase in size 
until they attain dimensions of from 40 to 60 //,. Eventually they 
rupture, and the sickle-shaped bodies (sporozooites) escape and are 
carried in the body fluid of the mosquito to its salivary glands. 
These sporozooites are about 14 //- long, and human infection is 
caused by them. They have been traced as far as the end of the 
proboscis of the mosquito. (See also page 307). 



( 284) 



CHAPTER XLIII. 

INFECTIVE DISEASES. 

THE prevention of disease depends largely on a knowledge of its 
causes. Disease may be due to a personal life not in accordance 
with physiological laws ; or to some cause or causes acting 
ab extra. With advance of knowledge the number of diseases 
which can be proved to be caused by a contagium vivum introduced 
from without is steadily increasing. We have already discussed 
the influence of habits, of clothing, exercise, sleep, and food on 
health, and have shown how errors in these respects may lead to 
disease. It now remains to consider more particularly the 
prevention of diseases, due to the introduction into the system of 
contagia. 

In the study of such diseases three chief factors require 
consideration : (i) the contagium itself ; (2) conditions of environ- 
ment, as climate, soil, season, weather, etc., which may favour or 
impede its spread ; and (3) personal conditions which similarly 
influence it. Of these age, heredity, fatigue, injury, diet, and race 
are specially important. 

The first two groups of diseases given in the Registrar- 
General's classification of causes of death are (i) Specific Febrile 
or Zymotic Diseases, and (2) Parasitic Diseases. The objection 
to the word " specific " is that, although in most instances diseases 
in this group are "specific" in the sense that they are caused by 
a particular microbe, e.g. tetanus, anthrax, tuberculosis, in a few 
instances the same lesions may be caused by several microbes, e.g. , 
septicaemia (blood-poisoning), pneumonia. " Zymotic " was the 
name given by Farr, in view of the analogy of the febrile process to 
that of alcoholic fermentation. In both there is the introduction of 
a living germ or germs ; in both a period of " incubation " in which 
nothing can be observed ; then follows the active disturbance ; and 
in the disease, as well as in the fermenting liquid, the process is 
stopped, when the microbes have multiplied to a certain extent, 
a temporary or permanent protection being the result. The best 
name for the diseases in this group is " Infective." Parasitic 
diseases, like ringworm, scabies, or trichinosis, are also infective ; 
but for convenience may be described separately as " parasitic." 

The relation between the words " infectious " and " contagious " 
requires explanation. A disease like measles or smallpox, which 
can be transmitted from person to person, without immediate 
contact between the two, is termed infectious. In these cases the 



INFECTIVE DISEASES. 285 

infection is conveyed by mucus expectorated or by dust blown 
about, or carried in apparel, etc., from the first patient. Such 
diseases may also, of course, be communicated by direct contact. 
If direct contact between the sick and well is indispensable for 
the transmission of a disease it is called contagious. There is no 
such hard line in nature, although some diseases can be more easily 
communicated than others. The term contagious is usually applied 
to parasitic diseases like ringworm and scabies, but even these 
can be communicated by means of infected articles as well as 
persons. The word contagious should be abandoned for all the 
acute febrile diseases. The word infective is used to include all 
specific febrile diseases, however spread. This word, therefore, 
includes not only infectious and contagious diseases, but also 
diseases spread by inoculation, i.e. injection of the infection under 
the skin. Thus malaria is not infectious from patient to patient ; 
but can be inoculated by the mosquito. 

Infective Diseases are either acute or chronic. Of acute 
infective diseases smallpox and enteric fever are typical examples ; 
of chronic, tuberculosis and syphilis. 

It was formerly supposed that in certain diseases the contagium 
or infective agent grew in external noxious matter, a miasm being 
produced ; while in other diseases contagion was only produced 
direct from patient to patient ; and others originated in either way. 
Hence the classification of infective diseases into (a) miasmatic, 
(b) contagious, and (c) miasmatico-contagious diseases. This 
classification has now been abandoned. Thus influenza and ague 
were formerly thought to be miasmatic ; but the former is spread 
by personal infection ; the latter by inoculation of the contagium by 
an infected mosquito. 

Bacteriology has thrown an immense light on the causation 
of infective diseases. A large number of these have been proved 
to be caused by bacteria, and by analogy we infer the same thing 
for many others. Koch has laid down the following postulates 
as necessary before it can be stated that a particular disease is 
directly caused by a given microbe : 

(1) The microbe shall be demonstrated in the diseased tissues or blood of 
man or an animal suffering or dead from the disease. 

(2) The microbes shall be isolated from these and cultivated in suitable 
media until obtained in pure culture. That is to say, matter containing the 
microbe, taken from the infected source, must be cultivated in artificial media 
outside the animal body, under conditions excluding the possibility of the 
introduction of other microbes, until pure cultures of these microbes are obtained, 
and these microbes must be transplanted from generation to generation, until 
it is certain that no trace of non-living matter derived from the original animal 
body remains in the culture. 

(3) A pure culture of the microbe, thus obtained, shall, when introduced 
into the body of a healthy susceptible animal, reproduce the disease in question. 

(4) The microbe in question shall be found in the animal so affected. 
Kanthack adds a further condition, that 

(5) The toxins and poisonous substances obtained from the artificial culti- 
vations shall agree chemically and physiologically with those obtained from the 
diseased animal. 



2 86 . HYGIENE. 

All the preceding conditions have been fulfilled for anthrax, 
diphtheria, and tetanus ; and the first four conditions have been 
fulfilled in regard to tuberculosis, glanders, gonorrhoea, malignant 
cedema, and actinomycosis. In enteric fever and influenza the first 
two conditions have been met ; but inoculation experiments (3) have 
failed. In leprosy and relapsing fever the first condition is met, 
but (2) has failed. 

In the following diseases the specific microbe has not been 
isolated, though from analogy it is believed that each of them is 
caused by such a microbe : 

Measles. Variola (smallpox). 

Rubella (German measles). Whooping Cough. 

Typhus fever. Mumps. 

Scarlet fever. Hydrophobia, etc. 
Varicella (chicken pox). 

Erysipelas occupies a special position. It is a specific disease 
due to a microbe, which, when it attacks other parts than the skin, 
may produce abscesses, boils, or blood-poisoning. 

Bacteria are either saprophytes, i.e. they can grow on dead 
organic or even inorganic matter ; or parasites, i.e. they are 
dependent for their existence on a living plant or animal which they 
invade. There are two varieties of each of these, obligate and 
facultative. An obligate parasite can develop only within a 
living host ; while a facultative parasite can, according to 
circumstances, lead either a parasitic or saprophytic form of 
existence. The fact that certain contagia are completely, and 
others only partially, parasitic brings out important differences in 
their life-history. Thus, so far as we know, the contagia of scarlet 
fever, measles, smallpox and hydrophobia do not multiply outside 
the body. Hence there is a reasonable prospect of annihilating 
them by measures of disinfection and isolation. The position of 
diphtheria is doubtful. It may have a saprophytic phase of life. 
The contagium of tuberculosis, as well as of erysipelas, may have a 
life outside the host, though to what extent is doubtful. Cholera and 
enteric fever, although generally communicated by infection, appear 
sometimes to be communicated by contagia grown in saprophytic 
life, remote from preceding cases. 

The infection caused by bacteria may be local or general. Thus 
in tetanus and in diphtheria the invading bacteria usually remain 
at their original point of invasion (under the skin in tetanus, in the 
throat in diphtheria). In anthrax always, and often in enteric 
fever, they are present in the general circulation. In both instances 
the symptoms of disease are due chiefly to the toxic products or 
toxins formed by the bacteria. These toxins are enzymes, 
ptomaines, tox-albumins, etc. The specific toxins of anthrax, 
diphtheria, and tetanus have been identified ; and by this means 
the possibility of neutralising them is created. 

The channels of infection, i.e. of invasion of contagia, are the 
skin and the mucous membranes, particularly of the digestive and 
respiratory tracts. 



IMMUNITY. 



287 



The Incubation Period of an infectious disease is the interval 
elapsing between the receipt of infection and the earliest develop- 
ment of symptoms. The period of incubation of the chief infectious 
diseases is shown in the following table : 



DISEASE. 


BEGINS USUALLY ON THE 


BUT MAY POSSIBLY BE AT ANY 
PERIOD BETWEEN 


Scarlet fever 




4th day. 


i and 7 days. 


Diphtheria . . 




2nd 




2 5 .. 


Smallpox . . 




1 2th 




i 14 .. 


Chicken pox 




I4th 




10 ,, 18 ,, 


Typhus fever 




1 2th 




i ,, 21 


Enteric fever 
Cholera 




I4th-2ist 
ist-3rd 




i 28 
A few hours and 10 days. 


Measles 




I2th-i4th 




10 and 14 days. 


Rotheln (German me 


asles) 


1 4th 




12 ,, 18 ,, 


Mumps 




i gth 




16 ,, 24 


Whooping cough . 




1 4th 




7 ,, J 4 .. 


Influenza 




2nd 




2 ,, 6 



The period of incubation is several weeks in hydrophobia and 
syphilis, and may be several years in leprosy. 

Following the period of incubation, come the premonitory 
symptoms, which usually are somewhat sudden in onset. For the 
chief symptoms of onset see page 318. 

Persons vary in susceptibility to attack by different infective 
diseases. The intensity of an attack depends on the condition of 
the patient, and on the number and the virulence of the particular 
microbes infecting the patient. In certain families attacks of 
particular diseases are more severe, and attacks are more liable to 
occur than in others. 

It has been shown in certain diseases that the cells and the 
fluids of the body have a protective effect against infection. This 
protective action varies in different persons, and in the same person 
at different times. The cells of the body (phagocytes) swallow up 
and destroy a certain number of bacteria. This action is called 
phagocytosis. It is overcome when the dose of contagium is 
excessive, or when the vitality of the individual is lowered, 
especially the local vitality at the part attacked. Thus children 
with " weak throats " are particularly prone to scarlet fever and 
diphtheria. 

The protection afforded by one attack of an infective disease 
against its recurrence varies greatly. A second attack of smallpox 
is very rare, of scarlet fever less uncommon, of diphtheria common. 
In erysipelas, influenza, pneumonia, and rheumatic fever, second 
or even more numerous attacks are common. 

Immunity against an infective disease may be natural, but is 
more often acquired by an attack of the disease in question. This 
latter immunity is active, and is due to the formation in the tissues of 
the immunised person or animal of substances produced by the 
reaction of these tissues to the stimulus of the contagium. Thus a 
pig when it has recovered from an attack of swine-plague has 



288 HYGIENE. 

produced what are called in German antikorpers, and its tissues are 
now a medium unfavourable^ to the growth of the bacillus of swine- 
plague. If the serum of the" protected pig is injected under the skin 
of another pig, the latter acquires passive immunity against swine- 
plague, which is not so persistent as active immunity. 

Active Immunity can be produced (i) by an attack of an 
infective disease, or (2) by artificial inoculation (under the skin) of 
the contagium of the disease, producing a milder attack of the 
disease. This may be done (a) by inoculating small doses of a virulent 
contagium, as in the inoculation of smallpox from a previous patient ; 
or (b) by inoculating an attenuated virus, as iri vaccination. Inocula- 
tion of smallpox virus usually produced a milder attack than 
infection by ordinary means ; but patients thus inoculated were a 
great source of danger to other persons. In vaccination the virus 
of smallpox is employed, which has become attenuated by passing 
through the calf. In its passage, it has lost the power of producing 
anything beyond a vesicle at the point of inoculation. The principle 
of protecting by attenuated virus was extended by Pasteur, who 
was able to render animals resistant against anthrax, swine-fever, 
and quarter-evil, and hens against fowl-cholera, by inoculating them 
with attenuated cultures of the contagia of these diseases. Haffkine 
has applied the same method on a large scale for cholera. 

The above are methods of bacterial vaccination. Salmon and 
Smith have shown that artificial active immunity can be produced 
also by (3) toxin-injection. They artificially cultivated the hog- 
cholera bacillus in broth. This broth was then sterilized, the bacilli 
being killed, but their products remaining. 'By injecting pigeons 
with this sterilized broth they made them resistant to subsequent 
infection by the bacillus itself, thus proving that immunity can be 
produced by chemical as well as by biological means. The im- 
munity was proportional to the dose of the toxin absorbed. By 
gradually increasing the dose, it was found practicable to confer 
immunity,- not only against doses of toxin that would otherwise have 
been fatal, but also against bacterial infection by the particular 
bacillus used in manufacturing the toxin. 

Passive Immunity. Behring and Kitasato found that if the 
toxin (free from the bacilli) of tetanus be injected into an animal in 
increasing doses until it becomes immune against infection by the 
bacilli of tetanus, the blood serum of the animal in question injected 
into white mice confers the same immunity on them. The protection 
thus conferred is only temporary. Exactly the same procedure has 
een adopted for diphtheria, and it is now found that by injecting 
anti-diphthenhc serum into children who are exposed to the infection 
: diphtheria, they can for several weeks be prevented from 
leveloping the disease. This is of great practical importance, as 
neanwhile the source of infection can have been removed. Further- 
more the protective serum is also curative, and by its means diphtheria, 
disease ^ ' an be reduced from a dangerous to an insignificant 

Various theories have been propounded to explain immunity. 
Pasteur supposed that the special pabulum or food of the bacillus of 



EPIDEMIC AND ENDEMIC DISEASES. 289 

the given disease became exhausted ; but this does not fit in with 
the immunity that can be produced by toxins and anti-toxins. 
Chauveau supposed that certain bacterial products are retained in 
the body, rendering it unsuitable for further growth of the particular 
bacillus ; just as more than 14 per cent, of alcohol in a saccharine 
solution prevents further fermentation. This does not explain all 
the facts. Metschnikoff concluded that the fight of the leucocytes 
and phagocytes of the body against weaker bacilli, gave the power 
of fighting and overcoming a more virulent bacilli, and that these 
properties of the cells were transmitted to later generations of body 
cells. This theory fails to explain the acquired immunity against 
toxins as well as against bacteria which occurs. The discovery 
that the blood and other normal tissue fluids possess some power of 
destroying bacilli has relegated the phagocytal theory to a secondary 
position. 

Natural Immunity varies in different animals. Thus enteric 
fever, scarlet fever, and measles are not known to occur except in 
man. Tuberculosis, anthrax, hydrophobia (called rabies in the dog), 
glanders and tetanus are common to man and certain other animals. 
Man, cattle and pigs frequently suffer from tuberculosis ; goats, 
sheep, horses, and dogs are practically immune to it. 

Epidemic and Endemic Diseases. Infective diseases may 
occur sporadically, in epidemics, or \T\. pandemics, i.e. epidemics spread 
over a number of countries. The word epidemic is used here to 
mean specially prevalent, and not to apply only to infective diseases. 
Thus there may be an epidemic of arsenical poisoning from 
contaminated beer. 

Certain infective diseases are endemic or topical, i.e. they have 
special homes or centres, from which they occasionally spread as 
epidemics. Yellow fever, cholera, and malaria belong to this group. 
In a minor degree enteric fever, epidemic diarrhoea, and tuberculosis 
may be described as endemic. 

Each infective disease has a special seasonal incidence. Of 
these the most important are the autumnal group, viz. 

Epidemic Diarrhoea, maximum prevalence in July and August. 

Enteric Fever ,, ,, ,, November, but exces- 

sive, Aug. to Dec. 
Erysipelas ,, ,, ,, Nov. to Dec. 

Diphtheria ,, ,, ,, Nov. and Dec., exces- 

sive, Sept. to Dec. 
Scarlet Fever ,, ,, ,, Oct., excessive in Aug. 

to Dec. 

Of other infective diseases 
Smallpox has its maximum prevalence in May, but is excessive 

Jan. to June. 

Whooping Cough ,, ,, ,, Dec. to May. 

Measles commonly has two seasonaLmaxima, in June and December 
with intervening minima. 

Newsholme's Hygiene. 20 



2 9 o HYGIENE. 

Causes of Epidemics. Measles recurs in the large towns of 
England every alternate year. Other infective diseases occur at less 
regular intervals. The recurrence of epidemics is not solely due to 
personal infection and the accumulation of a population at susceptible 
ages. There are longer cycles of the causes of which but little is 
known. Thus scarlet fever has been shown by LongstafF and 
Gresswell to become epidemic chiefly in dry years ; and I have 
shown that diphtheria and rheumatic fever become widely epidemic 
under the same conditions, diphtheria becoming so only when a 
series of dry years occur in immediate succession. 



CHAPTER XLIV. 

ACUTE INFECTIVE DISEASES. 

ACUTE Infectious Diseases are characterised by certain definite 
characters. 

i. They are usually infectious or contagious. It is preferable to 
use these two terms as interchangeable. The modes in which 
infection is received vary greatly with different fevers. 

(1) Some can only be propagated by inoculation the introduc- 
tion through an abraded surface of a minute quantity of the poison ; 
as in glanders and hydrophobia. Others, again, may be introduced 
in this way, but are usually acquired in another manner, as scarlet 
fever, small-pox. 

(2) Some are carried through the atmosphere. The contagium 
of small-pox can be carried as far as any, while that of typhus fever 
only traverses a few feet. The atmosphere acts as a conveyer 
of infection, and the infectious matter must 'necessarily, in most 
instances, be in the condition of dust to enable it to be wafted by 
currents of air or disturbed by the movements of persons in an 
infected room. 

(3) Clothes, books, and furniture are not uncommonly carriers 
of infection. An old letter, or a lock of hair, has even after many 
years' concealment in an enclosed space produced infection on being 
brought to light. Woollen articles convey infection more easily 
than calico, and dark clothes better than light coloured. A fever 
nurse's clothes should never be woollen, but some washable 
material. 

(4) Drinking water and food often form a vehicle for infection. 
Milk and water are the two usual sources of infection ; but uncooked 
food, especially oysters and mussels, fed in sewage-polluted 
estuaries, may produce the same effect. Cholera, enteric fever, 
dysentery, and summer diarrhoea are the chief diseases from this 
source ; but scarlet fever and diphtheria occasionally have a similar 
origin. Milk may be infected from having been handed by an 
infectious patient ; or it may possibly convey infection of the 
disease from which the cow at the time is suffering, e.g., tuberculosis 
(see also page 312). Water may be contaminated with sewage or 
the excreta of a single infectious patient. 

2. They retain their specific character and origin. Small-pox never 
produces scarlet fever, nor vice versa ; and it is found universally 
that all the specific fevers " breed true," each one retaining its 
identity. More than this, a previous case of the same fever can 



2Q2 



HYGIENE. 



nearly always be detected on careful examination. Overcrowding 
and other insanitary conditions diminish the resistance to infection, 
and may increase its virulence. 

3. The behaviour of contagia, when received into the system, is 
characteristic of these diseases. There is first of all a period of 
latency or incubation, during which no symptoms are manifested 
(see page 287.) The incubation period is followed by the character- 
istic symptoms of the particular fever, which disappear in a variable 
period, leaving the patient, as a rule, more or less insusceptible to a 
second attack (see page 288). 

Throughout the progress of the disease, except in the period of 
incubation, the patient is able to communicate his disease to persons 
about him who have not been rendered safe by a previous attack. 
The way in which he thus communicates his disease varies in 
different cases. In scarlet fever, the throat and skin are the chief 
sources of contagion ; in influenza, whooping-cough, and measles, 
the secretions from the respiratory passages ; in hydrophobia, the 
saliva ; in enteric fever and cholera, the vomit and stools. 

Prevention of the Spread of the Chief Acute Infectious 
Diseases. We may divide these into three classes, (i) Those 
which are infectious by contact with the patient or by the atmos- 
phere around him. (2) Those in which the intestinal and renal 
evacuations are almost alone infectious ; as enteric fever and cholera. 
(3) Those in which inoculation through an abraded surface is 
generally if not always necessary to produce infection. 

SMALL-POX OR VARIOLA. 

The contagium of small-pox is very tenacious of life. All 
parts of the body, and all secretions and excretions contain it. As 
in typhus it adheres to every article in the room, but unlike typhus 
is possessed of great vitality, and if not exposed to the air may be 
active after many years. There is considerable evidence indicating 
that the contagion of small-pox may occasionally be conveyed aerially 
for a considerable distance, for even a quarter or half a mile from 
hospitals in which small-pox patients are isolated. Whether this is 
the aerial convection of infection, or in part at least due to careless- 
ness of persons connected with the hospital in their movements to 
and fro, may remain an open question ; but such hospitals in the 
midst of towns are in practice a mistake ; and in London small-pox 
has been found to be more manageable since its small-pox patients 
were all conveyed to extra-urban hospitals. The means for the pre- 
vention of small-pox are (i) Isolation of infectious patients (2) 
Disinfection of all infected articles. For particulars under these 
two heads, see pages 319 and 324. They must be carried out most 
rigidly in this disease. (3) Vaccination and re-vaccination. 

Inoculation of small-pox virus was largely practised as a 
means of ensuring a comparatively mild attack, until it was made 
illegal in 1840. Sometimes, however, the attack thus produced was 
fatal, and every case of inoculated small-pox became a new focus of 



VACCINATION. 293 

infection, and a source of high mortality, especially among young 
children. 

Vaccination. About the year 1795 Dr. Edward Jenner was 
informed by a milk-maid that she could not take small-pox, as she 
had already contracted the natural cow-pox during milking. Many 
had previously heard this same statement made ; but Jenner was 
the first to put the matter to the test. He took the lymph or virus 
from a woman who had accidentally acquired cow-pox (vaccinia) 
from a cow, and inoculated a boy with it. Some months later he 
inoculated the same boy with small-pox, and a second time five 
years afterwards, without producing small-pox on either occasion. 
Many other experiments were made, all confirming these results ; 
and in 1798 Jenner published his results. 

The practice of vaccination gradually became more general, 
and was followed by a progressive decrease in the mortality from 
small-pox. 

Cow-pox or vaccinia is small-pox modified and mitigated by its 
passage through the system of the cow, and not a spontaneous 
disease of the cow. By its passage through the cow it has become 
attenuated and altered. Instead of a general eruption all over the 
body, there are vesicles only at the point of inoculation ; and 
vaccinia, unlike small-pox, is not communicable from person to 
person except by inoculation. Furthermore it is in the vast 
majority of instances an extremely mild ailment, not involving more 
than a few days discomfort. 

Objection is taken to vaccination for small-pox on the ground 
that serious diseases such as syphilis, erysipelas, and tuberculosis 
may be inoculated at the same time. With lymph obtained from 
healthy children this is impossible. Most of the cases of infection 
described have been in reality hereditary disease, the local irritation 
of vaccination serving to call into activity the morbid tendencies of 
the child. The risk of such infection is infinitesimal ; it may be 
reduced to zero by moderate care and attention to detail. With 
modern antiseptic methods, it is very rare for a vaccination sore to 
" go wrong." Erysipelas may be inoculated from dirt getting into a 
vaccination sore, as it may be into any other sore ; but with cleanli- 
ness this need not occur ; and in fact very seldom does occur. The 
risks are so small as to be negligeable ; and if the protection afforded 
is one tithe of what is claimed for it, no parent is justified in with- 
holding this protection from his infant. The law as to vaccination 
requires that every infant shall be vaccinated within six months of 
its birth, domiciliary visits for this purpose being made by the 
public vaccinator. The obligation can only be avoided by a state- 
ment on oath before a magistrate by the parent of conscientious 
objection to vaccination. 

Does Vaccination protect against Small-Pox P The 
registration of deaths for the whole country only began in 1837, and 
before this period death-rates from small-pox in terms of the 
population cannot be accurately stated. . Since that time there has 
been less or more vaccination, sor that it is difficult to obtain a true 
comparison between periods with and without vaccination. Some 



294 



HYGIENE. 



indication of the facts in London prior to 1801, when the first 
English census was taken, may be obtained from the fact that in 
1796 (two years before the 'date of Jenner's " Inquiry,") small-pox 
reached its highest point, causing i8| deaths out of every 100 total 
deaths from all causes. In the prae- vaccination period small-pox 
was 9 times as fatal as measles, and 7$ times as fatal as whooping- 
cough (McVail), while since vaccination has been practised it has 
sunk to an insignificant position, when compared with these diseases. 
Dr. Guy found that in London there were in 48 years of the 
seventeenth century ten epidemics, in the whole of the eighteenth 
century 19 epidemics, and in the nineteenth century no epidemic 
during which the deaths from small-pox caused one-tenth or more 
than one-tenth of the total deaths from all causes in any year. The 
worst year under obligatory vaccination in London was 1871, in 
which barely 4^ per cent, of the total deaths was due to small-pox, 
a proportion which was exceeded in the eighteenth century ninety- 
three times. 

In Sweden, the highest death-rate before vaccination (1774-1800) was 
7*23 per i, ooo inhabitants, the lowest 0*31 ; under permissive vaccination 
(1801-1815) the highest 2-57 per 1,000 inhabitants, the lowest 
0*12 ; under compulsory vaccination (1816-85) the highest 0-94 per j,ooo 
inhabitants, the lowest 0-0005. It nas been stated that these results, 
which might be extended by quotations from the statistics of other 
countries, have been obtained not by vaccination, but by improved 
sanitation, including in this term not only improved housing and 
better water and food supply but also increased means of isolating 
the infectious sick. Improved housing may by diminishing over- 
crowding aid in diminishing the spread of this disease. Whether in 
view of the immense increase in the proportion of the population 
which lives in towns, it can be said that this has occurred is 
doubtful. Hospital isolation undoubtedly prevents the spread of 
infection when promptly effected. But a. large share of the improve- 
ment in small-pox mortality occurred before either hospital or 
home-isolation of small-pox patients was generally enforced. There 
is no reason for supposing that impure water or food, or nuisances 
about houses have any connection with the origin or spread of 
small-pox, any more than they have with the origin or spread of 
measles or whooping-cough ; which still remain as prevalent as in 
the past. Further light can be thrown on the subject by an 
examination of the age-incidence of small-pox, and of its attack-rate 
and severity in vaccinated and unvaccinated respectively. 

The age incidence of deaths from small-pox has, since 
1847, when returns classified according to age became available, 
undergone a remarkable alteration. Prior to 1870 the small-pox 
deaths in infants nearly always formed 20 per cent, or more of the 
total mortality from this disease, between 1870 and 1890 they did 
not greatly exceed 10 per cent, of the total, while since 1890 they 
have again begun to form an increasing proportion of the total 
small-pox mortality. At ages 15 the change is even more remark- 
>le. Before 1870 deaths at these ages nearly always exceeded 30 
per cent, of the total ; since 1870 they have varied between 5 and 14 



VACCINATION, 



295 



per cent, of the total ; and since 1890 they have, like the proportion 
of deaths under one, again increased. At the higher ages the 
proportion of deaths has correspondingly increased, so that the 
curves of age incidence have become curiously inverted. 

The lowered birth-rate can only account for a small portion of 
this transference of the chief mortality due to small-pox from 
childhood to adult life. 

Furthermore it must not be supposed that the only change 
which has occurred is that the deaths which formerly occurred in 
childhood now occur in adult life. The death-rate at all ages has 
greatly declined. The only explanation which in my judgment 
satisfactorily explains this remarkable change in age-incidence of 
small-pox mortality is the fact that vaccination protects children 
from small-pox and that the protection diminishes, though it never 
entirely disappears, with advancing years. This conclusion is 
confirmed by the evidence obtained as to the proportion of vaccinated 
and unvaccinated attacked, and as to the severity of the attacks 
occurring when a community is invaded by small-pox. 

Attack-rate among Vaccinated. If the protective effect of 
vaccination, like that of a preceding attack of small-pox, wears off, 
it will not be expected that no attacks of small-pox will occur 
among the vaccinated. For evidence of immunity from attacks we 
must examine the records as to revaccinated persons exposed to 
infection. During the six years 1890-95, out of a staff in the 
London small-pox hospitals varying from 64 to 320, the percentage 
attacked by small-pox was nil, except in 1892 when it was 1-4, and 
in 1893 when it was 1*9. 

Taking the experience of towns in which during recent years 
epidemics of small-pox have occurred, the following attack-rates 
have occurred. By attack-rate is meant the percentage number of 
attacks occurring among persons living in infected houses. By 
fatality is meant the number dying out of 100 attacked. 





ATTACK RATE UNDER 10 YEARS OF AGE. 


ATTACK RATE OVER IO YEARS OF AGE. 


VACCINATED. 


UNVACCINATED. 


VACCINATED. 


UNVACCINATED. 


Dewsbury 
Leicester 
Gloucester 


I0'2 
2'5 

8-8 


50-8 
35'3 ' 
463 


077 
22'2 
32-2 


53'4 

47-6 
50-0 



Severity (Fatality) among Vaccinated. The experience of 
the same three towns comes out as follows : 





FATALITY UNDER IO YEARS OF AGE. 


FATALITY OVER IO YEARS OF AGE. 


VACCINATED. 


UNVACCINATED. 


VACCINATED. 


UNVACCINATED. 


Dewsbury 
Leicester.. 
Gloucester 


2'2 
O'O 

3'8 


32-1 

i4> 
41-0 


2-6 

I'D 

10. 


I8'7 

7-8 
397 



29 6 HYGIENE. 

In view of such results as the above it is not surprising that 
the Royal Commission, in their majority report, summed up the 
advantages of vaccination is follows : 

" (i) That it diminishes the liability to be attacked by the disease. 

" (2) That it modifies the character of the disease, and renders it (a) less 
fatal, and (b) of a milder or less severe type. 

" (3) That the protection it affords against attacks of the disease is greatest 
during the years immediately succeeding the operation of vaccination. It is 
impossible to fix with precision the length of this period of highest protection. 
Though not in all cases the same, if a period is to be fixed, it might, we think, 
fairly be said to cover in general a period of nine or ten years. 

" (4) That after the lapse of the period of highest protective potency, the 
efficacy of vaccination to protect against attack rapidly diminishes, but that 
it is still considerable in the next quinquennium, and possibly never altogether 
ceases. 

" (5) That its power to modify the character of the disease is also greatest 
in the period in which its power to protect from attack is greatest, but that its 
power thus to modify the disease does not diminish as rapidly as its protective 
influence against attacks, and its efficacy during the later periods of life to modify 
the disease is still very considerable. 

" (6) That re-vaccination restores the protection which lapse of time has 
diminished, but the evidence shows that this protection again diminishes, and 
that, to ensure the highest degree of protection which vaccination can give, the 
operation should be at intervals repeated. 

" (7) That the beneficial effects of vaccination are most experienced by 
those in whose case it has been most thorough. We think it may fairly be 
concluded that where the vaccine matter is inserted in three or four places, it is 
more effectual than when introduced into one or two places only and that if 
the vaccination marks are of an area of half a square inch, they indicate a better 
state of protection than if their area be at all considerably below this." 

SCARLET FEVER. 

Scarlet Fever and Scarlatina are the same disease. It is 
extremely infectious, the contagium retaining its virulence for 
protracted periods. It occurs in epidemics at irregular intervals. 
During recent years the type of scarlet fever has become greatly 
attenuated, and this constitutes one of the difficulties of prevention, 
as the mild form of the disease is apt to be overlooked. The 
fatality per 100 persons attacked varies greatly with age. It is 
highest in children under four, rapidly declining with increasing 
age. Hence the importance of protecting children from attack in 
early life. Two results follow from the wise precautions taken to 
prevent attack early in life, (a) With each successive year of life 
the liability to attack, when exposed to infection, diminishes ; (b) 
the danger of the attack if it occurs and its liability to be fatal 
becomes rapidly less with greater age. The most common mode of 
infection is by contact with a previous patient. Outbreaks due to 
milk infected by a scarlatinal patient also occur. Infected cream 
has also been known to convey infection. In a milk outbreak the 
patients would be found chiefly among the customers of a special 
dairyman, the cases occur almost simultaneously, except secondary 
cases which may be infected from the first. The simultaneous 
occurrence of two or more attacks in one house, especially if the 
same thing happens in a number of houses should throw suspicion 



MEASLES. 297 

on the milk supply. It has been suggested that scarlet fever may 
originate apart from human infection, from a special disease of the 
cow, but the evidence on this point is inconclusive. 

The duration of infection is usually reckoned until the desquam- 
ation of the skin is complete, i.e. about six or seven weeks from the 
onset of the attack. Occasionally it is more protracted even though 
desquamation is complete, infection appearing to persist in discharges 
from the nose and ear and in sore places inside the nostril and 
possibly in other parts. The period of greatest infectivity is in the 
earlier part of the disease, when the throat is inflamed. The 
common notion that the disease is most infectious during the later 
period, that of desquamation, is erroneous. The micro-organism 
causing scarlet fever has not certainly been identified. The 
measures of prevention are those common to infectious diseases 
(page 317). 

MEASLES. 

Measles is an extremely infectious disease, before as well as 
after the rash appears on the fourth day of the disease. The 
infectivity of. the catarrhal stage constitutes one of the main 
difficulties in preventing its spread, as measles may be un- 
recognisable at this stage. The common notion that measles and 
whooping-cough are comparatively harmless infantile complaints 
will be dissipated by a study of the comparative death-rate for the 
five years 1891-5 per million persons living in England and 
Wales : 

ENGLAND AND WALES. DEATH RATES PER MILLION OF POPULATION. 



Small-pox . . . . 20 
Measles . . . . 408 
Scarlet fever . . 183 



Typhus fever . . 4 

Enteric fever . . 174 

Whooping-cough . . 398 



Diphtheria . . 253 
Diarrhoea . . 630 



It is a mistake also to suppose that measles and whooping- 
cough are only serious when neglected. Such neglect greatly 
increases the likelihood of death from bronchitis or pneumonia ; but 
the diseases themselves, especially measles, are frequently fatal 
during the acute early stage. More children are attacked with 
measles under the age of five than at any other age, and the 
greatest number between two and four years of age. The greatest 
fatality is in the second year of life, when it may be 24 per cent, of 
those attacked, as compared with between two and three per cent, 
in the fourth year of life, and a trifling amount at higher ages. 
These facts explain the folly of allowing children to have an 
infectious complaint when another child in the house is attacked, 
"to have it over at one trouble." Such action is pregnant with 
evil results. (ist) Severe cases occur, in which a fatal result 
ensues ; and even where death does not occur, the child may be left 
weakly and very prone to become tuberculous. (2nd) Every 
additional case forms a new centre of infection. It is like the old 
practice of inoculation for small-pox ; the individual is protected, 
but becomes a source of danger to all around him. If there is only 



298 HYGIENE. 

one case of measles in a family the risk to neighbouring households 
is much smaller than where several children are infected. (3rd) 
Every year that a child's* attack can be delayed, increases his 
chance of recovery if he is subsequently attacked, and diminishes 
the likelihood of his being attacked. 

The duration of infection should be reckoned as at least three 
weeks. The contagium of measles does not appear to hang about 
rooms with the persistence of that of scarlet fever, and less stringent 
disinfection is required. 

WHOOPING COUGH. 

Very few people have reached adult life without having suffered 
from this disease, as well as measles. This is chiefly due to the 
carelessness in mixing infected with healthy children. One frequently 
hears the peculiar and characteristic cough of a child with whooping- 
cough, in public assemblies, in railway trains, or in the out-patient 
rooms of hospitals. The contagium of whooping-cough is conveyed 
chiefly by the expectoration, which becoming dry, may be scattered 
like that of phthisis, as dust. Clothing conveys infection easily ; 
visits to infected children should, therefore, be prohibited to all 
who have to mix with susceptible children. 

The duration of infection should be reckoned as at least six 
weeks from the first ^recognisable symptoms. It may be longer 
than this. 

DIPHTHERIA. 

This disease has become increasingly prevalent in the last ten 
years after a period of only slight prevalence for about twenty-five 
years. I have shown that epidemics of diphtheria occur during a 
succession of years of protracted drought. Diphtheria is more 
common in girls than boys, possibly owing to their more affectionate 
habits ; and occurs chiefly under ten years of age, the fifth year of 
life being that of greatest prevalence. Unlike the acute infections 
hitherto considered, the bacillus causing diphtheria has been 
identified and cultivated in the laboratory (called the Klebs-Loeffler 
bacillus or diphtheria bacillus). Direct infection from patient to 
patient is probably more common than indirect infection by clothes, 
etc., though the latter occurs. The infection may hang persistently 
about a house and its belongings, in the absence of complete purifi- 
cation. When diphtheria is prevalent slighter sore throats occur, 
sometimes before true diphtheria is detected. This led to the theory 
that under conditions of overcrowding, especially in schools, there 
occurred in the micro-organisms causing these sore-throats " the 
progressive development of the property of inf ectiveness . ' ' Possibly 
these were slight non-typical attacks of diphtheria. Such attacks 
occur also during epidemics of diphtheria, and unless specimens 
" throat swabs ") from these sore-throats are examined bacterio- 
Jgically, are likely to spread diphtheria by attendance at school, 
A\ , A &.S re g atlon ln schools seems to intensify the contagium of 
diphtheria. The practices of kissing, of transferring sweetmeats 



DIPHTHERIA. 299 

from mouth to mouth, of cleaning slates with saliva, are common 
means of spreading it. Effluvia from foul drains and sewers have 
been commonly held to cause diphtheria. If they aid in producing 
it, it is rather by lowering the vitality and causing ordinary sore 
throat. Sore throats and catarrhs make the subjects of them much 
more prone to diphtheria (see also page 117). Damp houses have 
been stated to favour the development of diphtheria. Probably 
they do so in the same way as effluvia from drains. It is likely 
that the diphtheria bacillus has a saprophytic stage of existence in 
the soil, as indicated by its excessive prevalence in dry warm 
years. Besides direct infection from patient to patient and indirect 
infection by fomites (i.e. in clothing, etc.), milk occasionally causes 
epidemics of diphtheria. The infection has been usually caused by 
the handling of the milk by an infectious person. In certain 
outbreaks no human contamination of the milk could be discovered ; 
and it has been surmised that an analogous disease in the cow may 
cause diphtheria in man. This is still a moot point. Fowls, cats, 
and other animals are the occasional victims of diphtheria, and may 
convey it to man. 

The duration of infection in diphtheria is usually less than six 
weeks ; but it may be much more protracted. In some instances 
long after all naked-eye evidences of diphtheria has disappeared, 
bacteriological examination may still show the presence of the 
diphtheria bacillus for two or three months ; in rare cases even 
longer. The protection afforded by one attack of diphtheria against 
a second is slight and only temporary. The means of prevention are 
isolation and disinfection as for other infectious diseases. Two 
additional means are available (a) bacteriological diagnosis; (b) 
prophylactic injection of antitoxic serum. Many sore throats 
without membrane on the throat are due to the diphtheria bacillus. 
Even if membrane be present there may be doubt as to whether the 
case is true diphtheria. Hence the importance of bacteriological 
examination. 

The patient's throat is swabbed with cotton-wool which has been rolled 
around a metal probe and sterilised. The wool is then smeared over sterilised 
and solified blood serum in a test tube. It is then incubated over night at a 
temperature of 37 C. Next morning the minute growth that has occurred on 
the surface of the blood serum is spread on a microscopic cover-glass, appro- 
priately stained, and examined microscopically. If diphtheria bacilli are present, 
they can be recognised by their form and arrangement. The same means 
enable us to ascertain when a patient has recovered, whether he is fit to be 
released from isolation. 

Antitoxic serum has been found to be a valuable [prophylactic 
and curative agent. 

The serum is obtained as follows : Sterilised broth is inoculated with 
virulent diphtheria bacilli, and grown at 37 C. for a week or more. The broth 
is then filtered through a Pasteur filter. The filtrate contains toxine free from 
bacilli. Some of this toxine is injected under the skin of a horse. A few days 
later the dose is repeated, gradually increasing amounts being injected until 
injection of further quantities of the toxine is found experimentally not to increase 
the antitoxic value of the horse's blood serum. Next the horse is bled. Its 
serum is found to have acquired the power of protecting a guinea-pig against 



3 oo HYGIENE. 

doses of the toxine of diphtheria which would otherwise be fatal. Ten times the 
quantity of the horse's serum which will protect a guinea-pig (of 250 grammes 
weight) against ten times the ^minimum fatal dose of the toxine is called an 
antitoxic unit. 

The treatment of diphtheria in man by the antitoxic serum thus " 
obtained has proved to be remarkably successful. Furthermore, if 
a susceptible person who has been exposed to the infection of 
diphtheria, is injected with a small dose of antitoxic serum, he 
becomes temporarily immune, and does not fall a victim to 
diphtheria. This is a most important point especially for young 
children, who may already be incubating a disease which but for this 
prophylactic injection might occur and prove fatal. 

TYPHUS FEVER. 

This disease was formerly known as spotted or jail-fever, and 
for many ages has been the scourge of prisons and armies, and all 
collections of people living in over-crowded and insanitary districts. 
The history of typhus is the history of human misery. It is 
essentially associated with filth, over-crowding, and destitution ; but 
when once established by these conditions, it can be carried by 
infection to others who live amidst healthy surroundings. It 
generally occurs in winter, when over-crowding is greatest. With 
free ventilation, the disease cannot be carried more than a few feet. 
It can be transmitted by clothing. The micro-organism causing it 
has not been discovered. With the clearance of the rookeries of our 
great towns, it is rapidly decreasing, and appears likely to become 
extinct. The means of prevention, in addition to the abatement of 
nuisances, including over-crowding, are isolation and disinfection 
(pages 319 and 325). 

RELAPSING FEVER. 

This disease was formerly common in this country, but except 
in some parts of Ireland has entirely died out. It is caused by a 
micro-organism (Spirillum Obermeieri) which can be detected in the 
blood. Inoculation of this will produce the disease in man or in 
monkeys. 

Epidemics of relapsing fever commonly follow in the track of 
typhus fever ; over-crowding and filth being especially associated 
with typhus, and starvation with relapsing fever, hence its name of 

,,/.- A O 

" famine fever. 

ENTERIC OR TYPHOID FEVER. 

Enteric fever causes its highest death-rate in early adult life, 
though it is not peculiar to any age. Eberth in 1880 discovered the 
Bacillus typhosus in the spleen and other organs of enteric fever 
patients. This is commonly known as Eberth's bacillus, and is the 
cause of enteric fever. A few years later it was isolated and can 
now be grown on agar or gelatine in laboratories. It closely 
resembles other bacilli which are normal inhabitants of the human 



ENTERIC FEVER. 301 

intestine ; but can be distinguished by certain tests. It is a small rod, 
rounded at its ends, and from 2 to 4 ju- long and three times as long 
as broad. In the living state it is freely motile, and possesses a 
number of minute cilia or flagella. Apart from other means of 
distinction between it and other bacilli, Griiber's serum reaction 
enables its identity to be ascertained. The bacillus suspected to be 
the Bac.-typhosus is cultivated in broth in the bacteriological 
laboratory. A small quantity of blood is taken from the finger of a 
patient known to be suffering from enteric fever. The serum is 
separated from the blood corpuscles of this blood by a centrifugalising 
machine. A drop of the blood serum is diluted with 100 drops of 
broth culture of the suspected bacillus. If the latter is not the 
Bac.-typhosus, the individual bacilli when a drop of the mixture is 
examined under the microscope, will continue to move about freely ; 
if it is the Bac.-typhosus, the bacilli will adhere together in " clumps " 
and become immobile. Conversely a valuable means of ascertaining 
whether a suspected case is really suffering from enteric fever is 
secured, as this blood added to 30 times the amount of a pure 
culture of the Bac.-typhosus in broth will cause the latter to " clump " 
within half-an-hour (Widal reaction). Higher dilutions are usually 
unnecessary. 

The chief means of spread of enteric fever is by the urine 
and fceces ; and nurses who have to empty bed-pans unless 
very careful to wash their hands afterwards, using the nail-brush, 
are very liable to become infected, probably when eating food 
afterwards. The urine in a considerable proportion of cases, 
contains the typhoid bacilli, and it is therefore most important that 
care should be exercised in the cleansing of all chamber utensils, 
and that the urine as well as the fceces should be rigidly disinfected 
(see page 331). The infectivity of enteric fever has been underrated 
in the past. When patients with this disease are nursed at home by 
relatives who do not appreciate the full importance of the necessary 
precautions, it is rather the rule than the exception for them to fall 
victims to its infection. Probably, sometimes the infection has been 
scattered as dust, owing to small particles of fceces or of urine 
having become dried on bed linen. The most absolute cleanliness 
is essential in nursing this disease. In hot climates there is reason 
to believe that infective dust may be blown about from privies. 

Insanitary local circumstances are an important means of spreading 
enteric fever. It is more prevalent where there are privies than 
where there are pail-closets ; and more prevalent where there are 
pail-closets, than where water-closets are the rule. Defective drains 
or soil-pipes are frequently found in houses in which enteric fever 
originates, and there can be little doubt that the former are at least 
partially responsible for the latter. The exact link is doubtful. 
Probably infective dust is blown or aspirated into the room and is 
inhaled. 

The most common cause of enteric fever is infected food or water. 
Of foods milk not infrequently has been the means of spread of 
enteric fever. Large epidemics have been traced to this source. 
Usually this has arisen by washing the milk cans with or wilfully 



3 o2 HYGIENE. 

adding contaminated water to the milk. Water, whether added to 
milk or taken independently, must have contained the specific 
contagium (the Bac.-typhosus) of enteric fever, to enable it to cause 
enteric fever. Hence water from a contaminated stream is more 
likely to have produced this effect than well-water, unless a patient 
has had enteric fever in the house to which the well is attached, and 
his dejecta have contaminated the water. Surface waters or spring 
waters may be contaminated with sewage (as at Maidstone) or 
deep well waters through fissures (as at Worthing) and thus 
widespread epidemics be produced. After floods, rivers and wells 
are most likely to contain the specific contagium of enteric fever, as 
at such times surface impurities from middens, etc., are apt to be 
washed into the water. (See also pages 91 and 224). 

The means of prevention of enteric fever are the discovery and 
removal of the cause of an outbreak, and the isolation of each 
patient and disinfection of all discharges. An early means of 
diagnosis is secured by Widal's reaction. This is especially useful 
in cases not presenting characteristic clinical symptoms. The 
recognition of a disease or at least the suspicion of its presence is 
an indispensable first step for the taking of precautionary measures. 

CHOLERA. 

Cholera, which was formerly so prevalent, now seldom occurs 
in this country, and at each successive visit to England its inroads 
have become less serious. At its last visit in 1893 it scarcely 
obtained a footing in the country. Thus in the epidemic of 1854 i n 
England it caused 1080, in that of 1866 it caused 672, and in that of 
1893 only 45 deaths per million of population. In this country at 
least it is chiefly spread by infected water and foods, especially by 
infected water ; and the preceding figures form an excellent testimony 
to our improvement in this respect. For particulars of the 
Hamburg outbreak, see page 93. In its mode of prevalence and 
propagation it is very similar to enteric fever, being infectious by 
means of the evacuations. The means of prevention are the same as 
for enteric fever. Cholera was shown by Koch to be caused by 
what is known as the comma bacillus or spirillum of Asiatic cholera, 
so called because of its curved shape. It is from 1-5 ju to 2-6 p long 
and -5 p broad. For the supposed connection of enteric fever and 
cholera with movements of the ground-water, see page 225. 

SUMMER OR EPIDEMIC DIARRHCEA 

is a most fatal disease among infants in the third quarter of each 
year. It is chiefly a disease of urban life, and occurs to a prepon- 
derant extent among the children of the artisan and still more of the 
unskilled labouring classes. It is much less abundant in towns 
which have adopted the water-carriage system of sewage than in 
those retaining the conservancy methods of removal of excrement 
(page 198). Towns with the most perfect domestic and street 



DIARRHOEA. 303 

scavenging arrangements have the least epidemic diarrhoea. An 
impervious soil favours a low diarrhoeal mortality ; while persons 
living on porous soils usually have much diarrhoea. I have shewn 
elsewhere that given two towns equally placed so far as social and 
sanitary conditions are concerned, their relative diarrhoeal mortality 
is proportional to the height of the temperature and the deficiency 
of rainfall of each town, particularly the temperature and rainfall of 
the third quarter of each year. In other words there is a general 
inverse relationship between rainfall and diarrhoea and a direct 
relationship between temperature and diarrhoea. Thus wet and cool 
summers are adverse to diarrhoea. Ballard concluded that the 
summer rise of diarrhoeal mortality does not commence until the 
mean temperature recorded by the 4-foot earth thermometer has 
attained somewhere about 56 F., no matter what may have been 
the temperature previously attained by the atmosphere. This is a. 
convenient index, as the summer warmth does not immediately 
cause diarrhoea. All the above facts point to the conclusion that, 
the fundamental condition favouring epidemic diarrhoea is an 
unclean soil, the particulate poison from which infects the air, and 
is swallowed most commonly with food, especially milk. Thus 
diarrhoea, like enteric fever, is a " filth-disease." As the contagium 
appears to gain entrance by food, the following card of precautions 
which is distributed each year in the poorer districts of Brighton 
may be reproduced here : 



HOW TO PREVENT DIARRHffiA. 

During the summer a large number of infants die from diarrhoea. Scarcely 
a single baby who was being suckled dies from this cause. It is evident, 
therefore, that in the prevention of this very fatal summer disease, precautions, 
as to food are most important. 

Attention to the following points would save many infants' lives : 

1. Do not wean your infant during the hot months of July, August and 
September. To begin artificial feeding during hot weather is very dangerous. 

2. If feeding by hand is absolutely necessary, carefully follow these 
directions : 

(a) All milk should be boiled before being given to the infant. 

(b) The infants' food must be prepared fresh each time. (For particulars see- 

below.) Milk and water, and still more "pap" or patent foods, if 
left two or three hours, " go bad,' and are then very highly dangerous 
to the 1 infant. 

(c) All jugs or other utensils used for storing milk must be scalded out and kept 

absolutely clean. They should be covered to prevent access of dust. 

(d) The feeding bottle must be thoroughly scalded after each meal, and the tube 

thoroughly cleansed. It is best to use alternately two boat-shaped 
bottles without tubes. If the bottle smells sour, something is not clean, 
and the infant will suffer. 

3. Decomposing refuse, such as decaying vegetables, bones, fish-heads, &c.,is 
a fertile source of Diarrhoea. It should be burnt, and not placed in the dustbin. 

4. Scrupulous cleanliness of the house, especially of the rooms where food is 
stored, is most important. Dust in every form is dangerous to health, and for 
removing it wet cleansing is preferable to dry. Thus washing and scrubbing are 
safer means of cleansing floors, &c., than sweeping. 

5. Report to the Sanitary Office, Town Hall, any smells or choked closet or 
drain. 

[Circular continued over. 



(i part fresh milk ) 

i part water 8 tablespoonsful. 

2 teaspoonsful cream j 



3 o 4 HYGIENE. 

DIRECTIONS FOR PREPARATIONS OF INFANTS' FOOD. 
For a Child aged Mix and then boil For each Meal 

(i "part fresh milk \ 
2 parts water 4 tablespoonsful. 

i teaspoonful cream J 

Mix and then boil 

part fresh milk 
. part water 
2 teaspoonsful cream 

Mix and then boil 

(2 parts fresh milk j 
a or 1 " Spoonsful 8 tablespoonsful 

cream. 

The infant should be fed at regular intervals only, at first every two hours, the 
interval being gradually increased. 

The infant should be fed slowly. 

If the milk as prepared above disagrees, freshly boiled barky water should be 
used instead of water. 

The addition of cream is necessary because cows' milk is poorer in cream than 
mothers' milk, and because it is very often made poorer still by mixing with 
separated milk before sale. Deficiency of cream causes rickets. A little sugar may 
also be added to the milk, but this must not be regarded as a substitute for the 
cream. 

TETANUS. 

Tetanus or lockjaw is not infectious, but is conveyed to man by 
the inoculation of a wound by dirt or earth which contains the 
tetanus bacillus. For this reason it is more apt to follow injuries 
to the hands or feet. Extreme cleanliness of wounds is the only 
practicable preventive means. Little is known of the history of the 
tetanus bacillus outside the body ; and as to what soils contain it 
most abundantly. Wounds contaminated by horse manure appear 
to be especially dangerous. 

GLANDERS. 

Glanders is common in horses. It attacks the mucous 
membrane of the nose, causing ulceration. It is extremely 
infectious. Farcy is a more chronic form of the same disease, in 
which the so-called " farcy-buds " are produced. Its prevention can 
best be ensured by killing both actually diseased and suspected 
animals, if the latter give a reaction to mallein. Mallein is a 
product allied to tuberculin, obtained from cultivations of the 
bacillus of glanders. It sets up febrile reaction in glandered, but not 
in healthy horses. Further preventive measures are the temporary 
closing of public drinking fountains for horses, and the thorough 
cleansing and disinfection of stables. Men, especially grooms, are 
sometimes infected by the horse, and the disease is commonly 
fatal. 



INFECTIVE DISEASES, 305 

HYDROPHOBIA. 

Hydrophobia is the disease in man which is caused by the bite 
of a dog or other animal suffering from rabies. It is seldom if ever 
communicated otherwise than by inoculation. The incubation period 
in the dog varies from three to six weeks, and in man is usually 
about the same ; but occasionally it is much longer, occasionally 
even more than a year. 

At the Pasteur Institute, Paris, patients who have been bitten 
by rabid dogs are treated by the inoculation of an attenuated virus 
of rabies derived from rabbits, with promising results. 

Dogs only acquire rabies from dogs or other animals already 
rabid. So far as is known, it does not arise de novo. Hence the 
necessity for an extensive area of muzzling when cases of rabies 
occur. The enforcement of this plan has greatly reduced the 
amount of hydrophobia in this country in recent years. There has 
been much misplaced sympathy with dogs on this score. In the 
dog the symptoms of rabies occur in three stages : a premonitory 
stage, in which the dog's habits change, he becomes morose and 
quiet, and dribbles ; a second stage, in which he has paroxysms of 
fury, his voice is high-toned and croupy, and he cannot swallow 
water ; and a third or paralytic stage, in which his jaws drop, he 
drags his hind legs and soon dies. 

ERYSIPELAS. 

Erysipelas occurs on various parts of the skin. It is caused by 
the inoculation through an abraded surface of a virulent form of 
the same streptococcus that commonly causes suppuration. It 
occurs chiefly in debilitated subjects. Some persons are specially 
prone to it, and may have many attacks. Erysipelas, like scarlet 
fever, occurs most in years in which there is deficient rainfall ; and 
is probably conveyed by dust. It may spread, though exceptionally, 
from case to case. 

YELLOW FEVER. 

Yellow fever never occurs in England, except when imported 
from the West Indies or other countries in which it is endemic. It 
clings to seaport towns in hot countries ; and as a permanent 
disease is only found when the mean winter temperature is at least 
68-72 F. A frost always stops an epidemic of this disease. The 
germs of this disease are communicated by mosquitoes, which act 
as an intermediate host. Dr. J. W. Lazear, although isolated from 
yellow fever cases, died of it seven days after submitting to the 
puncture of an infected mosquito, thus proving the communicability 
of this disease, and entitling himself to an honoured position among 
scientific martyrs. 

PLAGUE. 

Plague is an Eastern disease, which occasionally shows a 
tendency to become widely epidemic. It is due to a rod-shaped 
bacterium, averaging -8 /* to 1*6 /A in length, which does not form 

Newsholme's Hygiene. 21 



3o6 HYGIENE. 

spores. In its characteristic form patients suffering from this 
disease have inflammary swellings (buboes) of various glands : hence 
the name Bubonic Plague.' In other cases it simulates ordinary 
pneumonia, typhus or septicaemia; or the patient may be so 
slightly ill as to be able to walk about. It appears probable that 
the bacillus enters the body through cracks or other lesions of the 
skin, possibly also by inhaling infective dust. The rat is an 
important factor in the spread of plague. Very commonly plague 
has been widely prevalent and fatal among them before it attacks 
human beings. Rats also bring it in ships from infected ports. 
Hence one of the most important preventive measures is to kill all 
rats on board ship, before the cargo is unloaded. This has been 
done by sulphurous acid fumigation in the holds. The use of 
carbonic oxide gas will probably be found practicable for the same 
purpose. Manson has put the importance of this point tersely as 
follows : " To prevent cholera the tea-kettle, malaria the mosquito 
net, and plague the rat-trap." Flies may carry the infection (page 
281). It has been suggested that the fleas of rats carry the infection 
(page 281). 

ANTHRAX. 

Anthrax is a very fatal disease in cattle and sheep, occasionally 
in pigs. Butchers may inoculate themselves with it when dressing 
a diseased carcase ; the tanners similarly when handling the hide ; 
and woolsorters may inhale it when sorting wool derived from a 
diseased animal (page 107). To prevent the latter, suspected wool 
must be disinfected by steam, and special arrangements made for 
carrying off the dust produced during sorting. 

PUERPERAL FEVER 

occurs after childbirth. It is caused like erysipelas by the 
inoculation of septic material. This may be conveyed by dirty 
instruments (syringes, etc.), or by dirty hands. Hence the 
importance of extreme cleanliness of hands, finger-nails, and all 
articles used during and after childbirth. 

RHEUMATIC FEVER 

has been commonly attributed to a damp condition of the 
atmosphere and soil. I have elsewhere shown that this is a 
mistake, probably arising from the fact that these conditions 
produce what are called " rheumatic " pains, though they have no 
true relationship with acute rheumatism (rheumatic fever). I have 
shown that rheumatic fever occurs chiefly in very dry years, the 
excess of prevalence in such years being sufficient to justify the use 
of the term "epidemic." There is strong reason to believe that 
rheumatic fever is an infective disease, derived, not from other 
patients suffering from the same disease, but from some outside 
micro-organism which is ordinarily saprophytic. It follows the 
rule that when the lesion produced by an infective disease is deep- 



INFECTIVE DISEASES. 307 

seated (in the joints in this instance), no infection can be communi- 
cated to other persons. Some families are much more prone to 
rheumatic fever than others. 

INFLUENZA 

is, like diphtheria, a somewhat mysterious infectious disease. Like the 
latter it almost disappeared for a series of years, and then again 
became epidemic in 1889. The previous epidemics of influenza in the 
igth century had occurred in 1803, 1833, 1837-8, and 1847-8. The 
causes of this recurrence of influenza are unknown. It is spread 
from person to person by direct infection, the infection being 
conveyed by the mucous discharge from the nose, throat, and lungs. 
Pocket-handkerchiefs probably are largely responsible for conveying 
the infection as dust. The disease is particularly fatal to the old ; 
and these should not expose themselves to possible sources of 
infection, as in public places of assembly, during an epidemic. 
Every patient attacked with the disease should remain indoors for 
at least ten days. This is in his own interest, as he thus minimises 
the risk of such dangerous complications as pneumonia ; and it is 
his duty in the interest of the rest of the community. Many lives 
might have been saved, had not influenzal patients " struggled 
about " during the early stages of the disease. 

MALARIA. 

Malaria, or Ague, is a generic name given to a disease caused 
by the invasion of the body by the plasmodium malaria, discovered 
by Laveran in 1880. It occurs in two chief types, remittent fever 
and intermittent fever. For many generations it has been regarded 
as due to a marshy condition of the soil, associated with decaying 
vegetable matter, and a moderately high temperature. It is now 
clear that these conditions are necessary, only because they are 
necessary for the life of the mosquito. The well-known danger 
of being out of doors at night in a malarious country is explained by 
the nocturnal habits of the mosquito. The higher salubrity of the 
upper stories of houses is explained by the fact that the mosquito 
does not rise high from the ground ; and of high-lying localities 
by their greater dryness. The value of the mosquito net, of smoke, 
and of fire as protections from malaria are due to their keeping 
mosquitos at a distance. The mosquito clings to the puddle or 
swamp where she was born, and where she will deposit her eggs. 
Hence the special danger of the immediate vicinity of such 
collections of water. Thus the prevention of malaria resolves 
itself chiefly into means for preventing the development of certain 
species of Anopheles (page 282). The conditions necessary for the 
multiplication of these are (i), an atmospheric temperature from 
75 to 104 F. ; (2) collections of fresh or slightly brackish water ; 
and (3) the presence in these of low forms of animal and vegetable 
life. We have already described the cycle of life of the plasmodium 
malaria (page 282). Man is the chief, if not the only source, 



3 o8 



HYGIENE. 



from which the mosquito derives this parasite. In native communities 
the young children, even when apparently not ill with malaria, nearly 
always harbour these parasites in their blood corpuscles. Hence 
the importance of Europeans having their dwellings as remote as 
possible from native houses. Mosquitos do not travel far. 

Instances of the prevalence of malaria in the absence of 
mosquitos are not substantiated. The outbreaks of malaria 
where the soil has been disturbed after long lying uncultivated, 
probably mean the formation of puddles favourable to the breeding 
of the larvae of mosquitos. 

The necessary preventive measures are classified by Manson as : 

1. Suppression of mosquitos. 

2. Prevention of infection of mosquitos. 

3. Prevention of infection by mosquitos. 

The suppression of mosquitos involves the draining or 
filling in of swamps and ponds, the cleansing and canalisation of 
sluggish streams, and the afforestation of hills to prevent floods. 
Cultivation of rice and other plants entailing the prolonged flooding 
of land should be restricted to fields remote from dwellings. Sub- 
soil drainage is helpful. The " painting " of stagnant waters with 
petroleum, which should be renewed every week or two, frees 
water for a considerable time from the larvae of mosquitos. 
Eucalyptus and other balsamic trees may help to dry up pools, &c. 
The prevention of infection of mosquitos is secured by 
insisting on all malarial patients using mosquito nets. This 
prevents the access of mosquitos. At the same time patients 
should vigorously and persistently take quinine, which kills the 
malarial parasites in the blood, and thus diminishes and finally 
removes the danger to other persons produced by the intermediation 
of the mosquito. 

The prevention of mosquito bites is secured by rendering 
the house mosquito-proof by filling in all openings by fine wire 
gauze, and by having mosquito curtains to all beds ; also by 
fumigating the rooms occasionally with the dried flowers of the 
chrysanthemum, by strict cleanliness of rooms, and by flushing 
them with sunlight. The proof of the mosquito theory as to the 
causation of malaria has been recently supplied by two test 
experiments, (a) In the first, a number of mosquitos which had been 
fed on the blood of malarious patients were sent to London from 
Rome. These were allowed to bite Dr. Hanson's son, who had 
never previously had malaria. A few days later he had a 
characteristic attack of fever. Malarial parasites were found in 
his blood. He recovered in a week's time after free dosage with 
quinine, and the parasites disappeared from his blood. He suffered 
from a slight relapse about a year later, (b) On a fever-haunted spot 
in the Roman Campagna a wooden hut was built, and Drs. Sambon 
and Low, and three others took up their abode here during the 
malarious season, the only precautions taken being the use of 
mosquito nets and wire screens in doors and windows. They 
went about the country daily, but were always home before sun- 
set. They all remained at the end of the season free from malaria. 



CHAPTER XLV. 

TUBERCULOSIS. 

CONSUMPTION AND OTHER TUBERCULAR DISEASES. 

CONSUMPTION (also called phthisis or phthisis pulmonalis) in the year 
1899 caused a recorded death-rate of 1,336, and tubercular diseases 
of other parts of the body a death-rate of 575 per million of the 
population. In the same year the chief infectious diseases, includ- 
ing smallpox, measles, scarlet fever, whooping cough, typhus, and 
enteric fever, and diphtheria, were together responsible for a 
death-rate of 1,248 per million. In the five years, 1861-65, the 
mean death-rate from consumption was 2,527 per million, so that 
a reduction of nearly 50 per cent, has apparently occurred. 
Notwithstanding this great decline, consumption and other 
consumptive diseases, which may together be classed under the 
name tuberculosis, still cause more deaths than all the acute 
infectious diseases put together. Its importance is emphasised 
by the fact that between the ages of 20 and 45, one-third of all the 
deaths of males, and between one-third and one-fourth of all the 
deaths of females occurring at these ages are due to consumption 
of the lungs. 

Formerly great stress was laid on the hereditary character 
of consumption. It would appear, however, that what is inherited 
is simply an increased vulnerability of tissues. Judging by the 
analogy of other animals it may be said that infants are rarely, if 
ever, born tuberculous. Bang examined 6,000 head of cattle with 
the tuberculin test (see page 311), and found that in calves under 
6 months old only 10*7 per cent, reacted, i.e. showed evidence of 
tuberculosis, between 6 and 12 months old 187 per cent., i to 2 
years 23-2 per cent., and over this age 31-3 per cent, reacted ; from 
which it may be inferred that the infection is nearly always received 
after birth. 

The real cause of tuberculosis was shewn by Koch, in 1881, to 
be the tubercle bacillus. This is a minute bacillus, the length of 
which is from a quarter to half the size of a blood corpuscle. 
These bacilli, obtained from tuberculous growths in the body, 
Koch was able to cultivate on glycerine agar at blood-heat outside 
the body. By sub-culturing he obtained pure cultures, and after 
growing the bacilli for as long" as fifty-four days, he inoculated 
various animals, producing tuberculosis in every case, while in 



3IO HYGIENE. 

similar check experiments in which all the conditions were the 
same, barring the absence of bacilli, no tuberculosis resulted. 

The tubercle bacilli are easily distinguished from most other 
bacilli by the fact that after being stained by aniline dyes, such as 
carbol-fuchsin, the colouration is not removed when the preparation 
is soaked in dilute acid. By this means the presence of tubercle 
bacilli in the sputum (expectoration) of a phthisical patient is 
easily discovered, and a valuable means of early recognition of the 
disease secured. This is most important, as in its early stages 
consumption is an easily curable disease. Tubercle bacilli are 
discharged from the lungs in consumption of the lungs, from 
the bowels in consumption of the bowels, and so on. Hence 
the essential necessity for disinfecting these discharges. Such 
discharges while in a moist condition have, unless they are actually 
swallowed, little or no capacity for evil. It is when they become 
dry that they become dangerous. Thus the expectoration of a 
consumptive patient spat on to the floor or deposited in a pocket 
handkerchief is, so long as it remains moist, perfectly innocuous. 
What is evaporated from the wet surface is simply steam, harmless 
as the steam escaping from the domestic tea-kettle. But when it 
becomes dry, then comes danger. Dust is formed, which contains 
the living tubercle bacilli, and with the mere shaking of the 
handkerchief or the disturbance of the dust on the floor these are 
inhaled, and often cause consumption. The person thus infected 
may be a new patient. Often also it is the consumptive patient 
who is thus re-infected. Consumptive patients tend to recover. 
But if the patient's disease is daily recruited by fresh doses of the 
tubercle bacilli inhaled with the dust of previous expectoration, 
fresh centres of disease are produced, and thus the patient is 
unwittingly helping to cause his own death. 

The infectious character of tuberculosis has been long 
suspected. In the i8th century, in Naples, there were enactments 
insisting on the isolation of consumptive patients and disinfection 
of their furniture, books, etc. We now know, however, that these 
were counsels of panic, and that for practical purposes the infection 
may be regarded as confined to the sputum. The expired breath is 
free from infection except during coughing. That the sputum is 
infectious can be easily proved by feeding guinea-pigs or the 
domestic fowl on it. These rapidly become affected by generalised 
tuberculosis. The simple character of the precautions against 
infection which are required may be gathered from the following 
copy of a card which is given to consumptive patients in 
Brighton : 

Precautions for Consumptive Persons. 

Consumption is, to a limited extent, an infectious disease. It is spread 
chiefly by inhaling the expectoration (spit) of patients which has been allowed 
to become dry and float about the room as dust. 

Do not spit except into receptacles, the contents of which are to be destroyed before 
they become dry. If this simple precaution is taken, there is practically no danger of 
infection. The breath of consumptive persons is free from infection. 



PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION. 311 

The following detailed rules will be found useful, both to the consumptive 
and to his friends : 

i. Expectoration indoors should be received [into small paper bags and 
afterwards burnt. 

2. Expectoration out of doors should be received into a suitable bottle, to 
be after ward swashed out with boiling water ; or into a small paper handkerchief , 
which is afterwards burnt. 

3. If ordinary handkerchiefs are ever used for expectoration, they should 
be put into boiling water before they have time to become dry ; or into a 
solution of a disinfectant, as directed by the doctor. 

4. Wet cleansing of rooms, particularly of bedrooms occupied by sick 
persons, should be substituted for " dusting " and sweeping. 

5. Sunlight and fresh air are the greatest enemies of infection. Every 
should si 



patient should sleep with his bedroom window open top and bottom, a screen 
being arranged, if necessary, to prevent direct draught ; and, if possible, occupy 
a separate bedroom. The patient need not fear going out of doors in any 
weather, if warmly clad. 

N.B. The patient himself is the greatest gainer by the above precautions, 
as his recovery is retarded and frequently prevented by renewed infection derived 
from his own expectoration. 

6. Persons in good health have little reason to fear the infection of con- 
sumption. Over-fatigue, intemperance, bad air, dusty occupations, and dirty 
rooms favour consumption. 

The most common source of infection is undoubtedly the dried 
expectoration. Infection may, however, probably be derived from' 
infected food, as milk or meat. 

The danger from meat is much less than that from milk, 
because the former is more generally cooked than the latter, and 
because the diseased portions of the former would be at least partially 
removed before it was sold. The conditions under which the 
meat derived from tuberculous cattle should be destroyed are given 
on page 24. The abolition of private slaughter-houses, the general 
establishment of public abattoirs, and efficient meat inspection 
would do much towards aiding in eliminating tuberculous cattle 
from herds ; because it would no longer be found remunerative to 
keep tuberculous cows until they become seriously diseased. 

The danger from infected milk is probably very great. This 
has been repeatedly proved experimentally for bovine tuberculosis 
by experimenting on calves and pigs. A cow may suffer from 
tuberculosis of its udder, and yet go on freely secreting milk. The 
milk from such an udder readily produces tuberculosis in calves or 
pigs drinking it ; but if another animal be fed during the same 
period with boiled milk obtained from the same udder, it remains 
well. 

The presence of tuberculosis in cattle can be determined with 
almost complete certainty by the tuberculin test. A glycerine 
extract of pure cultivations of tubercle bacilli (filtered so as 
to be free from bacilli) was found by Koch to contain sub- 
stances which, when injected into guinea-pigs suffering from 
tuberculosis, produced a febrile reaction, and appeared likely 
to cure the disease. So far as man and larger animals are 



3I2 HYGIENE. 

concerned the hope of cure by this means has not been realised ; 
but as a means of diagnosis, i.e. detection of tuberculosis, injection 
of a small quantity of * tuberculin under the skin, has been 
found most valuable. If the cow thus injected is suffering 
from the slightest tuberculosis, it becomes feverish for a few 
days; if it is healthy no " febrile reaction" occurs. By using 
this test tuberculous cattle can be detected, they can then be kept 
in separate sheds, the former sheds cleansed and disinfected ; the 
milk of these cattle kept separate from that of the rest of the herd, 
and boiled before being drunk, or the infected cattle sent to the 
butcher. If the disease is strictly localised the carcases can be 
utilised for food, after careful destruction of all diseased portions. 
If these means were generally adopted, tuberculosis might gradually 
be eliminated from the cattle of the entire country, and a serious 
source of loss to farmers, as well as of danger to children drinking 
the infected milk, removed. The presence of tubercle bacilli in 
cow's milk is detected by microscopic examination and by injection 
of small quantities of the suspected milk into guinea-pigs. The 
proportion of infected samples found when examinations of milk 
supplies have been made in different towns has varied from 10 to 
over 50 per cent. 

It is probable that tuberculosis is conveyed by cow's milk only 
when the tuberculous disease affects Jhe udder. But inasmuch as 
the udder of a tuberculous animal may become tuberculous very 
rapidly and without being detected for a considerable time, it is 
evident that no tuberculous animal of any kind should be allowed to remain 
in any cowshed where milch cows are kept. 

Recently (July, 1901) Koch has thrown doubt on the identity 
of bovine and human tuberculosis, which was previously accepted, 
because (unlike some other observers) he has been unable to 
produce in 19 cattle, on which he experimented, tuberculosis by 
mixing with their food expectoration of consumptive persons, or 
inoculating under their skins similar material. Even if these 
negative results should subsequently be confirmed, the converse 
proposition does not follow, that bovine tuberculosis cannot be 
communicated to man; and apart from this possibility milk 
containing the bacilli of bovine tuberculosis cannot be regarded 
as wholesome. 

The boiling of milk destroys tubercle bacilli. So does a 
temperature considerably below 212 F. In Denmark, where 
butter and cheese are manufactured on a large scale, and the raw 
milk is collected in central dairies, a law was passed in 1898, 
obliging every proprietor of a dairy to heat all skimmed milk, or 
butter milk, to a temperature of 85 C. (185 F.) before returning 
it to the farms. Pasteurization, i.e. the heating of milk in a special 
apparatus to a temperature of 70 C. (158 F.), and keeping it at 
this temperature for 30 minutes kills tubercle bacilli. If it is 
rapidly cooled, the nutritive value and taste of the milk are not 
spoilt. It is safer, however, to go beyond this point, and the use 
of an apparatus like the Aylmer or Sentinel Sterilizer can be 
recommended. More recent experiments have made it doubtful 



PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION. 313 

whether tubercle bacilli in milk are always killed in milk at a 
temperature of 70 C., the pellicle formed on milk when it is 
heated appearing to shield the bacilli from the effect of the heat. 
Hence it is desirable that " no sterilizer should be looked upon 
as thoroughly efficient for the purpose in which a temperature of 
at least 85 C. (185 F.) is not attained." 

The following test may be used to determine whether milk has 
been efficiently pasteurized : 

Natural milk contains a ferment or enzyme, which is destroyed at a 
temperature of 176 F. This enzyme splits up hydrogen peroxide (H 2 O 2 ) into 
water and oxygen, but this effect is not produced in milk heated above 176 F. 
Take one drop of a dilute aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide, add it to one 
teaspoonful of the milk. Next add two drops of a watery solution of paraphenyl- 
diamin. A dark indigo colour is produced with uncooked milk, no change of 
colour if the milk has been pasteurized. The same test can be used for 
determining whether butter has been made with pasteurized milk. 

Infection is not the sole determining cause of tuberculosis. 
Certain conditions of environment may determine whether the 
infection will succeed in "taking root" or not. Of these the 
following are important : 

The nutrition of the individual if defective favours infection. 
Probably one chief reason why consumption has declined nearly 
50 per cent, in the last 50 years is the better, more varied and 
more abundant food of the population. 

Improved housing of the population has greatly helped in the same 
direction. Tubercular diseases increase with density of population, 
and are most prevalent in overcrowded tenements. Probably 
overcrowding chiefly acts by favouring direct infection, but it must 
also lower the health and power of resistance of the individual 
against infection. 

The drying of the subsoil has been regarded as a chief cause of 
the reduction of consumption (page 226). It is probable, however, 
that the wet soil merely predisposed to consumption, because it 
was commonly associated with cold and wet houses, which would 
favour catarrhs, and open the way for the infection of consumption.. 

The dyyness of the house is a most important matter. If a damp 
soil means also a damp house it must favour consumption and 
other chest affections. Damp air, like water, rapidly abstracts heat 
from the body. Compare, for instance, the discomfort of sitting 
clad in water at a temperature of 65 F. with the comfort of sitting 
clad in a dry room at the same temperature ! The domestic fowl 
is naturally immune to anthrax ; but by being kept for a few hours 
with its feet in cold water, it can be rendered susceptible to inocula- 
tion with this disease. 

The effects of breathing foul air are clearly shewn by the varying 
death-rate from phthisis in different occupations. Thus, if the 
comparative mortality figures of agriculturists be represented as 
100, that of a commercial clerk = 176, of a draper = 200, of a tailor = 
211, of a printer =244, of a bookbinder =^246. 

The effects of breathing dusi -laden air are even more marked. 
Thus, if the comparative mortality figures from phthisis of 



3H HYGIENE. 

agriculturists =100, that of a coal-miner =i 66, of a mason = 2i5, 
of a chimney-sweep = 249, of a file-maker = 373, of a cutler=4O7, 
of a potter = 453. The last figure probably also shows the influence 
of alcoholism, which greatly favours tuberculosis. 

Means for Preventing Tuberculosis. The means for 
preventing tuberculosis from infected milk and meat have been 
already indicated. They comprise 

(a) Means of eradicating tuberculosis from cattle ; 

(b) Means of preventing harm from tubercle bacilli in milk 

or meat ; 

Under the first head improved conditions of housing of cattle, 
greater air-space, improved ventilation, a larger proportion of 
out-door life are important. The use of the tuberculin test, the 
separation of healthy from diseased cattle ; the disinfection of sheds 
occupied by infected cattle are also essential. 

Under the second head come efficient sterilization of suspected 
food (see p. 13), and the rejection of diseased meat. (See p. 24). 

The most important measure against tuberculosis is the 
prevention of infection from patients with consumption. Under 
this head are comprised the following steps : 

A. Means of ascertaining the existence of the disease 

1. Bacteriological diagnosis. 

2. Notification of cases, voluntary or compulsory. 

B. Direct preventive measures 

1. Law against expectoration in places of public resort. 

2. Disinfection and cleanliness. 

3. Isolation. 

4. General sanitary improvement. 

C. Education of the public and of patients as to the importance of 
the preceding measures. 

The gratuitous examination of suspected sputum is now being 
undertaken in certain towns. The earlier the infectious condition 
of expectoration is detected, the sooner can the necessary precautions 
be taken. 

The notification to the medical officer of health of all cases of 
consumption I have repeatedly advocated. This is already carried 
out for the chief acute infectious diseases, and although the 
difficulties of acting on the information received in regard to a 
chronic disease like consumption are considerable, they can be 
overcome with tact and discretion. Voluntary notification is 
already practised in Brighton, Manchester, and a few other towns. 
Notification gives increased and more exact opportunities of 
preventing phthisis by i. Enabling disinfection and cleansing 
affected rooms to be effected ; 2. Enabling instructions to be 
given to the patient and his relatives as to the exact precautions 
required; and by 3. Facilitating the removal of the insanitary 
conditions of home and work which may have caused the case 
or favoured its untoward progress. 



PREVENTION OF CONSUMPTION. 315 

The following scheme of measures of disinfection was prepared 
by Drs. Niven and Newman and myself for the National Association 
for the Prevention of Consumption, and is issued by them in 
pamphlet form : 

In preventing a consumptive person from spreading the disease, two sets of 
preventive measures are required: ist. The removal or destruction of the 
infective matter already disseminated by the patient's discharges, especially 
by his phlegm ; and, 2nd, the prevention of future dissemination. For the 
latter purpose the main object is not to permit any discharge to become dry 
before being destroyed. Before the consumptive person has learned the personal 
precautions which must be taken, and up to the time when he has been trained 
to carry them out carefully, he has probably distributed a considerable amount 
of infective matter. This is especially liable to accumulate in a dangerous 
form at home, where the space is small, and light and ventilation are defective. 
Infective particles will be found in greater abundance on and near the floors, 
on ledges, and in room-hangings. But the personal clothing and bedclothes 
will also have become infected. Hence it is necessary to disinfect the floor, 
walls, and ceiling of the rooms occupied by the patient, as well as the furniture, 
carpet, bedclothes, &c. 

When this has been done, if the personal precautions advised are carried 
out by the consumptive, further disinfection should not be needed. 

It is, however, difficult to make sure that personal precautions are fully 
carried out, and rooms should therefore be subsequently cleaned at least once 
in six months, the floors being scrubbed with soft soap, the furniture washed, 
the walls cleaned down with dough, and the ceiling whitewashed. 

Confined workshops in which a consumptive has worked for some time 
should be cleansed, and a notice in reference to spitting should be suspended 
in all workshops. The latter precaution should also be observed in all public- 
houses and common lodging houses, both of which require special attention 
to cleansing. 

Disinfection of rooms which have been occupied by consumptive patients 
may be secured in various ways, but the following are the practical rules which 
must underlie any methods adopted : 

1. Gaseous Disinfection of Rooms, or " Fumigation," as it is termed, by 

whatever method it is practised, is inefficient in such cases. 

2. In order to remove and destroy the dried infective discharges, the 

Disinfectant must be applied directly to the infected surfaces of the 
room. 

3. The Disinfectant may be applied by washing, brushing, or spraying. 

4. Amongst other chemical solutions used for this purpose a solution of 

Chloride of Lime (i to 2 per cent.) has proved satisfactory and 
efficient. 

5. In view of the well-established fact that it is the dust from dried 

discharges which ib chiefly infective, emphasis must be laid upon 
the importance of thorough and wet cleansing of infected rooms. 

6. Bedding, carpets, curtains, wearing apparel, and all similar articles 

belonging to or used by the patient, which cannot be thoroughly 
washed, should be disinfected in an efficient steam disinfector. 

7. After all necessary measures of Disinfection have been carried out, 

the essential principle governing the subsequent control of a case 
of consumption is that all discharges, of whatever kind (especially 
expectoration from the lungs), should under -no circumstances be 
allowed to become dry. 

Besides measures of disinfection and cleanliness, the patient 
must be placed under the best conditions for overcoming the 
disease. The same measures tend to prevent infection. Thus 
abundant food, an open-air life, sleeping with bedroom windows 
widely open, avoidance of dust, abundance of sunshine, are all 



316 HYGIENE. 

important. The importance of sunlight in the prevention of con- 
sumption can scarcely be exaggerated. Koch found that tubercle 
bacilli were killed in from a few minutes to some hours, according 
to the thickness of the layer in which they were exposed to the 
sunlight. He found that even ordinary daylight produced the same 
effect, if it lasted long enough ; cultures of tubercle bacilli dying in 
from five to seven days if exposed at the window in compact 
masses. These experimental facts emphasise the importance of 
abundant open space about dwelling-houses (see p. 203), the 
provision of a large window-area (see pages 202 and 216), of 
staircase ventilation, and lighting, &c. 

Scrofula means a tubercular affection of the lymphatic glands. 
It occurs most commonly in the neck. The infection is usually 
received from some neighbouring mucous surface, as from the 
throat, being derived from dried expectoration or diseased milk. 
The same indications as for the prevention of phthisis hold good 
for scrofula. 



( 317 ) 



CHAPTER XLVI. 

NOTIFICATION AND ISOLATION. 

WE are confident from the actual discovery of the micro-organisms 
causing certain infective diseases, that the other diseases of an 
analogous nature are similarly caused by living contagia. On this 
supposition, action is taken for the prevention of these diseases. 
This action comes under a number of different heads, which may be 
classified as follows : 

i. Means for the early recognition of the infectious 
character of a disease. The bacteriological aids to recognition 
in diphtheria (page 299), enteric fever (page 301), and phthisis (page 
310) have been already mentioned. It is important to call in medical 
aid when any suspicious symptoms arise, even when these symptoms 
do not appear to be urgent. If an infectious disease is not recognised 
in its early stage, it may be easily overlooked, and the patient cause 
a serious epidemic. The following hints for teachers are in Brighton 
sent with each circular letter as to excluding infected children from 
school. The list is not exhaustive, but may aid in drawing attention 
to suspicious symptoms. The only safe rule when in doubt is to act 
as though a case is infections until a skilled opinion can be obtained. 

HINTS AS TO INFECTIOUS DISEASES. 

As infection is sometimes spread by means of children attending school while 
suffering from undetected infectious diseases, the following hints may be useful to 
the teacher : 

1. Any scholar having a sore throat should be sent home and regarded as 
infectious until the throat has been examined by a doctor. 

If a scholar has enlarged glands in the neck, and especially if he or she is 
very pallid, the suspicion of possible diphtheria should be entertained. Many 
slight cases of diphtheria escape detection. 

2. Any scholar suffering from a severe cold, with sneezing, redness of the 
eyes and running at the nose, should be sent home. It may mean an influenza 
cold or the commencement of measles, and both are infectious. This recom- 
mendation is particularly important when measles is known to be prevalent. 

3. A child with a violent cough, especially if it is severe enough to cause 
vomiting or nose-bleeding, should be suspected of whooping-cough, and sent 
home, even if the characteristic " whoop " is not heard. 

4. Slight cases of scarlet fever sometimes escape notice, and the patients 
are sent to school with the skin on the hands, etc., freely " peeling." 

5. In any of the above instances, or any other case of suspicion, the 
Medical Officer of Health, on receiving a confidential intimation, will be glad to 
make an investigation. 

[Circular continued over. 



3l8 HYGIENE. 

SYMPTOMS OF ONSET OF SCARLET FEVER. 

Sudden onset. 

'Usually vomiting. 

Always headache. 

Feverish, with dry, hot skin. 

Sore throat. 
Red rash on chest in a few hours. 

MEASLES. 

Severe " cold in the head " for 72 hours before the blotchy rash appears. 

Measles is extremely infectious in this preliminary stage. 
Consider every severe influenza cold as possibly measles. 

DIPHTHERIA 

may be very indistinct. 

Languor and sore throat. 

Glands under and behind jaw are enlarged. 

Patient very pallid. 

White or yellow patches seen on examining inside throat. 
Whenever doubtful, send the scholar home. 

WHOOPING COUGH. 

In a child under seven, a severe cough should always be regarded as possibly 
whooping-cough, although no " whoop" has yet been heard. 



2. The notification of all cases of infectious diseases to the 
medical officer of health, is clearly a means to an end, that of 
securing that the preventive measures to be next named are 
effectively carried out. 

3. Means for the production of an artificial immunity. 
This is only practicable at present for two diseases of this country, 
small-pox by means of vaccination (page 293), and a temporary 
immunity against diphtheria by a dose of anti-toxic serum (page 299). 
Apart from these means, any measures for improving the health of 
a child tend in the same direction. Enlarged tonsils, "adenoids " 
at the back of the nose (causing the child to snore at night and to 
breathe through his mouth), discharges from nostrils or ear, and 
similar conditions should receive early medical attention. 

4. Isolation : preventing the conveyance of the contagium 
from the sick to the healthy. 

5. Disinfection, . i.e. destruction of the contagium of the 
disease. 

The Infectious Disease (Notification) Act, 1889, and the cor- 
responding London Act of 1891, impose a dual duty of notification 
(a) on every medical practitioner attending on or called in to visit 
an infectious patient, as soon as he becomes aware of its nature ; 
and (b) on the head of the family to which the patient belongs or 
the nearest relative. The intimation must be sent by each of these 
to the local medical officer of health, the practitioner being paid a 
small fee for his trouble. Usually notification by the householder 



ISOLATION. 319 

is only enforced when no doctor is in attendance. The diseases to 
which this Act applies are small-pox, cholera, diphtheria, mem- 
branous croup :1: , scarlet fever, erysipelas, and the fevers known by 
any of the following names : typhus, typhoid, enteric, relapsing, 
continued or puerperal. The list of notifiable diseases may be 
extended by resolution of the Local Authority. 

The enforcement of notification is most important for the public 
health, (a) It enables the medical officer of health to take immediate 
steps to prevent the spread of infection, by enforcing proper 
isolation of the patient, efficient disinfection, and by preventing the 
attendance of children from infected houses, at school, etc. (b) It 
enables the links of evidence connecting a series of cases to be 
identified, e.g. cases due to a common milk supply, or attendance at 
a particular school, (c) It has a valuable educational effect on all 
concerned in the cases. 

ISOLATION. 

Both the patient and his attendant need to be isolated in diseases 
like scarlet fever, diphtheria and small-pox. The rule is less absolute 
in enteric fever. In the following description the standard of 
requirements taken is that of the most dangerous infectious disease, 
small-pox. The first point to decide is whether the patient may 
be safely isolated at home. For small-pox this ought never tc be 
allowed in a town. For other diseases, this may be permitted, if 
the following conditions can be fulfilled. 

For Isolation at Home a couple of rooms are required, 
preferably on a higher floor or in a detached wing of the house. 
The w.c. used for the dejecta of the patient must not be used by 
any other members of the household. All linen, towels, handker- 
chiefs, etc., should be immersed in actually boiling water containing 
some washing soda, before leaving the sick-room. Other articles 
to be washed, if they will be deteriorated by soaking in boiling 
water or a chemical disinfectant, must be tightly wrapped in bundles, 
and covered with a clean wet sheet saturated with a strong disinfectant 
solution (page 331). Solid and liquid excreta, expectoration and other 
discharges must be treated as described on page 331. The nurse 
should not eat her meals in the patient's room. She should wear a 
cotton dress to be changed before going out for a walk. Her 
hands must be thoroughly washed and brushed after handling or 
helping the patient, particularly in enteric fever. It is advantageous 
if the nurse has previously had the patient's complaint. Attention 
on the part of the nurse to minute detail is essential, especially in 
view of the possibility of receiving infection from infected articles 
as well as directly from the patient. The measures required for the 
subsequent disinfection of the sick-rooms and of clothing, bedding, 
books, etc., are given on page 332. 

The use of hospital isolation has rapidly increased in recent 
years, thus releasing private families from a serious burden. The 

;;: This is diphtheria attacking the larynx 



320 HYGIENE. 

number of beds which a Local Authority should supply for their 
district is usually stated as one for every 1,000 inhabitants, but in 
poorer districts this does nqt suffice. The site of the hospital should 
be well removed from houses. There must be a minimum zone of 
40 feet between all infected buildings and the boundary walls, and 
the same distance between neighbouring buildings. A wall at least 
6 ft. 6 in. high should enclose the hospital site. The hospital is 
divided into separate detached pavilions for the treatment of 
different infectious diseases. A floor space of 156 square feet 
should be allowed for each bed. The height of the ward 
should be about 13 feet, its width from 24 to 26 feet, and the 
total cubic space for each patient should be 2,000 cubic feet for 
scarlet fever, 2,500 for diphtheria. The lavatories and water-closets 
are separated from the main ward by a cross-ventilated lobby. In 
an isolation hospital every surface should be washable ; all corners 
should be rounded off, and all projections on which dust can lodge 
avoided. The proportion of window space should be about i square 
foot to every 70 cubic feet. Special isolation pavilions are required 
for cases of doubtful diagnosis. The ventilation and warming of 
wards must be carefully regulated. Cross- ventilation by windows 
open on opposite sides of the ward can be maintained in nearly all 
weathers. The temperature of the ward should be maintained at 
55 60 F. 

Ambulances are usually provided by the Local Authority for 
the removal of infectious patients. The ambulance should be 
cleansed and disinfected after each journey. The use of private 
conveyances for infectious patients is forbidden, except under special 
limitations. 

The hospital isolation of small-pox is beset with special 
difficulties. There is a considerable body of evidence indicating 
that small-pox may be aerially carried from patients in hospitals to 
people living within a zone of half a mile, or possibly further. 
Without accepting the view that aerial dissemination of small-pox 
to considerable distances from the patient frequently occurs, it still 
remains true that, either by this means or by errors in the administra- 
tion of small-pox hospitals, they do frequently constitute a source 
of danger to persons living in the vicinity. The Local Government 
Board recommended that a Local Authority should not contemplate 
the erection of a srnall-pox hospital, (a) On any site where it would 
have within a quarter of a mile of it as a centre either a hospital, 
whether for infectious diseases or not, or a workhouse, or any 
similar establishment, or a population of 150 200 persons ; (b) on 
any site where it would have within half a mile of it as a centre a 
population of 500600 persons, whether in one or more institutions 
or in dwelling-houses. 

QUARANTINE. 

This term has been chiefly employed to denote the limitation of 
the movements of vessels coming from infected ports, for a term 



NOTIFICATION AND ISOLATION. 321 

which, as the name indicates, was formerly forty days, but is now 
shorter. It may be conveniently employed, however, to signify the 
restriction of the movements of all persons who have been 
apparently exposed to infection, or who continue to live in infected 
dwellings. In this sense we may speak of : 

1. Domestic Quarantine. 

2. Scholastic Quarantine. 

3. National and International Quarantine. 

Domestic Quarantine, to a varying extent, is desirable for 
the members of a family of which one member.has been attacked by 
an infectious disease. For small-pox every member of a household 
should be kept under strict watch until sixteen days have elapsed 
since the last contact with the case of small-pox, or until successful 
vaccination has been secured. For enteric fever this strict watch 
would be unnecessary, but the remaining members of the household 
should be warned to call in a doctor on the first symptom of malaise. 

Quarantine is specially indicated for certain occupations. 
Thus if the child of an out-door labourer had been removed to a 
hospital with scarlet fever, it would be unnecessary to keep the 
latter away from work during the following week. If, however, he 
were a milk-carrier, or a tailor, or an assistant in a sweet-stuff shop 
this would be a desirable measure. 

The Quarantine of School Children is more necessary than 
that of adults, because the former are more susceptible to infection. 
Children are kept from school : 

(a) Because the infectious patient still remains in the house. 
In this case the healthy children must be kept from school until the 
patient has ceased to be infectious and disinfection has been 
thoroughly carried out ; and for a further period longer than the 
longest known period of incubation of the disease in question 
(page 287), a margin being left for contingencies. It would probably 
be 8 plus 2 weeks for scarlet fever. 

(b) Children are kept from school for a period exceeding the 
longest period of incubation when the patient has been removed to 
hospital. 

The table on page 322, modified- from the Author's School 
Hygiene, is introduced as furnishing a convenient summary of the 
subject. 

Objection is sometimes taken to the exclusion of children under 
the above circumstances from school, on the ground that they 
continue to mix with others in the street or in neighbouring houses. 
Clearly, however, in a school-room, a suspected child may 
communicate infection to children coming from widely .scattered 
streets, while out-of-doors the danger is comparatively slight, and 
among neighbours the danger is very limited in area. 

It is assumed in the following table that all infected articles have 
been disinfected before the termination of the period of quarantine. 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 22 



3 22 



HYGIENE. 



DISEASE. 


DURATION OF INFECTION. 


DATE AT WHICH 
SCHOOL ATTENDANCE MAY 
BE RESUMED. 


DURATION OF 
QUARANTINE OF 
CHILDREN EXPOSED 
TO INFECTION. 


Scarlet fever . . 


From 5 to 8 weeks; 
ceases when all peel- 


Not less than 8 weeks 
from the beginning 


14 days. 




ing of the skin has 


of the rash, and 






been completed, and 


then only if no sore 






when the child is free 


throat or sore 






from discharge from 


places. 






the nose or ear or 








sore places. 






Diphtheria . . 


At least 21 days ; often 
much longer. Ab- 


Not less than 2 
months, and not 


12 days. 




sence of infection 


then if strength not 






should be confirmed 


recovered, or if any 






b y bacteriological 


sore throat or any 






tests. 


discharge from 








nose, eyes, ears, etc. 




Small-pox and \ About 4 to 5 weeks . . 


When every scab has 


18 days. 


Chicken pox 


fallen off. 




Measles 


From 3 to 4 weeks ; 


Not less than 4 weeks 


21 days. 




when all cough and 


from beginning of 






branny shedding of 


rash. 






skin has ceased. 






Rotheln (Ger- 


2 to 3 weeks 


From 3 to 4 weeks 


21 days. 


man measles] 




from beginning of 








rash. 




Mumps . . j About 21 days from the 


4 weeks from the 


24 days. 




beginning. 


beginning. 




Whooping 


6 weeks from the be- 


In about 8 weeks . . 


21 days. 


cough 


ginning of whooping, 








or when the cough 








has quite ceased. 






Typhus and en- 


4 to 5 weeks 


When strength suffi- 


28 days. 


teric fevers 




cient. 




Influenza 


2 to 3 weeks 


i month 


10 days. 



School Closure is occasionally required to prevent the further 
spread of an infectious disease. This can be enforced on the order of 
any two members of the Local Sanitary Authority acting on the advice 
of the medical officer of health. This ought to be only occasionally 
necessary if notification of infectious diseases is strictly enforced, 
and if suspicious individual children are excluded from attendance 
at school. In diphtheria school closure may occasionally be 
rendered unnecessary by systematic bacteriological examination of 
the throats of children who had been exposed to infection (see page 
299). School closure is more useful for country than for town 
schools, as in the former the homes of children are more remote 
from each other, but it is occasionally necessary for both. For 
measles school closure is specially indicated in Infants' Schools. 
We have already seen that this disease is chiefly fatal when caught 
at a tender age (page 297). The early closure of Infants' Schools, 
and particularly of the Babies' Class is therefore indicated. It is 
unfortunate that the attendance at school of children under six years 
of age is encouraged. Such children have more severe and more 



NOTIFICATION AND ISOLATION. 323 

frequently fatal attacks of diphtheria, scarlet fever, measles, and 
whooping-cough ;. and these are frequently acquired at school. 

International Quarantine was originally enforced against 
plague ; but in many countries has been extended to other diseases, 
as cholera, yellow fever, typhus fever, small-pox and leprosy. In 
England cholera is the only disease in connection with which it has 
been in the past enforced. It has now been entirely abandoned. 
It consists in the compulsory isolation at the port of entry of all 
persons who have come from an infected district, or have been in 
contact with a case of the infectious disease against which 
quarantine is enforced, for a length of time which will enable it to 
be determined whether the persons detained are or are not 
incubating the disease. If this measure could be strictly enforced, 
and if infectious diseases were conveyed only by infectious persons, 
quarantine would undoubtedly be effective. But in practice 
quarantine cannot be enforced in Europe ; and as it cannot be 
efficiently enforced it forms an ineffective and irrational derange- 
ment of commerce. Thus if plague prevailed in France it would 
be impracticable to detain for ten or twelve days every person 
entering England. Furthermore, in this instance, infection is 
brought by rats as well as persons ; and measures effective for the 
latter do not prevent the former from importing infection. Because 
of its impracticability and of the disorganization of commerce which 
would be associated with any attempt to enforce it, England has 
abandoned quarantine and other countries are gradually following 
its example. England bases its action on the ground that (a) 
sanitation is the true chief means of defence, especially against cholera. It 
does not trust to this alone but to this along with (b) medical 
inspection at the ports, (c) and subsequent medical supervision of persons 
landed from suspected vessels. By these means a watch can be 
kept over persons who have been in contact with infection. 

Regulations are issued at intervals by the Local Government 
Board requiring the disinfection by steam of all rags and similar 
materials imported from towns in which small-pox, cholera, etc., are 
prevalent. 



( 324 ) 



CHAPTER XLVII. 

DISINFECTION. 

BY disinfection is meant the destruction of the active cause of each 
infectious disease. A disinfectant is therefore synonymous with a 
germicide. Disinfectants must be distinguished from deodorants or 
deodorisers, such as charcoal, and from antiseptics, which are 
antagonistic to the growth of bacteria, without necessarily killing 
them, e.g. common salt. Disinfection may be effected by chemical 
or physical means. 

CHEMICAL DISINFECTANTS. 

A chemical disinfectant should fulfil the following conditions : 
i. It must be an efficient germicide. 2. Its germicidal power should 
not be destroyed by the fcecal or other polluting matter, with which 
the bacteria of infection are associated. 3. For many purposes, it 
must not be destructive to or liable to stain the skin, or fabrics, or 
other articles to which it is applied. 4. It should preferably not be 
a virulent poison ; and should be moderately cheap. The search 
for a completely non-poisonous disinfectant is a chimera. 

There are three great classes of chemical disinfectants. 

1. Oxidising agents, as the halogens (chlorine, etc.) and 
permanganates. 

2. Deoxidising agents, as sulphurous acid (SO 2 ) and formic 
aldehyde (CH 2 O). 

3. Other disinfectants, which act by coagulating protoplasm or 
otherwise, as carbolic acid, corrosive sublimate. 

The number of disinfectants is legion. Only the chief ones 
can be mentioned and their chief properties described. It is a good 
rule to eschew the use of all disinfectants of which the exact 
composition is not given ; and all disinfectants which are described 
by "fancy " names, which are not descriptive of their composition. 

A. OXIDISING AGENTS. 

Chlorine has been most commonly used as chloride of lime 
(CaCl 2 ,Ca (C1O) 2 ). This is somewhat unstable in composition. 
A solution of sodium hypochlorite containing 10 per cent, of 
available chloride is preferable. Chloride of lime for sprinkling on 
decomposing matter should contain at least 10 to 15 per cent, of 



DISINFECTION. 325 

available chlorine. Sulphuretted hydrogen and other offensive 
gases are decomposed by it. Thus 

SH 2 -f-Cl 2 = S-{- 2HC1. Its chief action is as an 
oxidising agent. Thus H 2 O + C1 2 = 2HC1 + O. 

A large excess must be used in disinfecting, otherwise the 
chlorine may simply oxidise fcecal or other organic matter, and not 
effectually destroy contagia. 

Methods of Use (a) As a gas, by the action of hydrochloric 
acid on strong chloride of lime. The molecular density of chlorine 
is 35*5, of formic aldehyde 15, of sulphurous acid 32; and the rate 
of diffusion of gases being inversely to the square-root of their 
densities, clearly chlorine does not compare favourably as a gas 
with formic aldehyde. The bleaching effect of chlorine on coloured 
articles of apparel is a disadvantage. 

(b) As a liquid : used thus chlorine is very efficient, applied 
either as a spray or brushed on walls and other surfaces. Delepine 
found that a solution of one part of chloride of lime in 100 parts of 
water applied to wall paper impregnated with tubercular matter, 
disinfected it in a few hours, or in a few minutes if the layer of 
infected matter was not thick. 

Bromine, Iodine, and Euchlorine (a mixture of chlorine and 
C1 2 O 4 ) are efficient disinfectants. 

Iodine Trichloride (IC1 3 ) was found by Behring to share 
with corrosive sublimate (HgCl.J carbolic acid and cresol mixed 
with acids (see page 327), the halogens (Cl,Br, and I), and chloride 
of lime a superiority over other disinfectants in their power of 
killing anthrax spores in a short time. 

Permanganates have been largely used as disinfectants, but 
their value is small. Impure sodium manganate (Na 2 MnO 4 ) with 
much common salt (NaCl) containing some permanganate is known 
as " Condy's Green Fluid." " Condy's Red Fluid" consists of 
permanganate and sulphate of soda. To be of any use it must be 
employed in 5 per cent, solution. It stains fabrics brown, and it 
exhausts its feeble disinfecting power in first oxidising decomposing 
organic matter. 

B. DEOXIDISING AGENTS. 

Sulphurous Acid (SO 2 ) acts chiefly as a reducing agent on 
organic matter. It is used chiefly as a gaseous disinfectant, and 
for this purpose is generated (a) by burning i Ib. of sulphur for 
every 1,000 cubic feet of space in the room (which will equal 1-12 
per cent, of SO 2 ). The windows and chimney of the room are first 
closed ; the sulphur is placed in a saucepan supported over a 
bucket of water, and its ignition is aided by a small quantity of 
methylated spirit. The door of the room is then sealed, and the 
room left until the next morning, (b) Carbon disulphide may be 
burned in a benzoline lamp. (c) SO 2 liquefied under pressure is 
supplied in cylinders available for convenient use. The experi- 
mental results of the action of SO 2 on various bacteria are somewhat 
discrepant. It probably is fairly efficient for some diseases, but not 
in tuberculosis. 



3 26 



HYGIENE. 



Formaldehyde or Formic Aldehyde (CH 2 O) is produced by 
the slow and incomplete oxidation of methyl alcohol (CH 8 OH) 
under access of air. A saturated solution in water containing 40 
per cent, of the formaldehyde gas is known as formalin. The 
simple evaporation or heating of formalin is liable to produce the 
polymeric paraform which is solid and inert. To prevent the 
formation of paraform when formalin is evaporated, Trillat adds to 
it a solution of calcium chloride (GzO 2 ), the mixture being known 
as forvnochloral. It is stated that when the air of a room is charged 
with less than one per cent, of the vapour, rapid and complete 
disinfection of surfaces occurs, and that it possesses a certain 
amount of penetrating power into loose fabrics. No damage is 
done to textile fabrics ; and disinfection by this means possesses 
the advantage over disinfection by sulphurous acid or chlorine that 
the room can be entered without serious discomfort soon after the 
disinfection is carried out. In solution formalin is undoubtedly a 
powerful disinfectant, and in the gaseous condition it is at least 
equal in value to SO 2 , probably better. Formaldehyde is used as 
a disinfectant. 

(a) By evaporating a 60 per cent, solution of CH 2 O in methyl 
alcohol (trade name holzine) over pieces of glowing coke -placed 
under an asbestos plate (Opperman- Rosenberg apparatus), (b) By 
subliming tabloids of paraform by the heat of a lamp. A 
methylated spirit lamp is employed, and the moisture from the 
combustion in this causes the transformation of a considerable 
proportion of paraform into CH 2 O vapour. It is doubtful if the 
quantity of the latter evolved is sufficient for efficiency, (c) In 
Trillat's apparatus formalin (i.e. the 40 per cent, solution in water of 
CH 2 O) with C0C/2 solution is heated in an autoclave worked at a 
pressure of 40 Ibs., provided with a pressure gauge and thermometer. 
In all these methods the room must be carefully sealed, as the 
tendency for the disinfectant to escape is greater than with SO 2 or 
Cl. (d) The best method is to spray a solution of formalin 4 oz. to 
one gallon of water on all the surfaces of the room (see page 333). 
This is equal to a strength of i in 40 of formalin, or i in 100 of 
formic aldehyde. 

C. OTHER DISINFECTANTS. 

Tar Acids. When coal tar is treated by acids and alkalies in 
succession, it becomes separated into (i) hydrocarbons, (2) phenols 
or tar acids, carbolic, cresylic, etc., (3) aniline and other basic 
substances. The hydrocarbons are known in commerce as 
"neutral tar oils." They are brown and syrupy, turning milky 
with water, and feebly disinfectant. The two most important " tar 
acids" are phenol or carbolic acid (C 6 H 6 OH) and methyl-phenol, 
also called cresol or cresylic acid (C 6 H 4 (CH 8 ) OH). The higher 
members of this same group yield milky emulsions with water, and 
are less poisonous than phenol. Various mixtures of them are used 
as disinfectants, and sold as creolin, Jeye's and Lawes' fluids. 
Izal belongs to the same series. 



DISINFECTION. 327 

Carbolic Acid (phenol) did not kill anthrax spores until a 3 
per cent, strength of its solution was used for 7 days (Koch), but 
sporeless anthrax bacilli were destroyed in a few minutes by a i to 
2 per cent, solution. The disinfecting power of carbolic acid is 
greatly increased by adding mineral acids. Carbolic acid and lysol 
are superior to creolin for disinfecting stools. A 5 per cent, 
solution of carbolic acid destroys tubercle bacilli in sputum in 24 
hours. Carbolic acid powders are in common use. In my opinion 
quicklime is more valuable. 

Cresol is obtained from "crude carbolic acid" by fractional 
distillation at a temperature between 185 and 205 C. A one-half 
per cent, solution has equal disinfecting power to a 2 or 3 or 
sometimes a 5 per cent, of phenol (carbolic acid). 

Creolin consists of cresol emulsified in a solution of hard 
soap. Behring classifies the comparative germicidal power of 
phenol, cresol, and creolin on bacteria in broth as i, 4, and 10 
respectively. When albumen is present, creolin loses a part of its 
disinfectant power. 

Lysol contains 50 per cent, of cresol, dissolved by means of 
neutral potash soap. It is completely soluble in water and does 
not turn milky as creolin does when water is added. It is more 
effective than creolin, and still more than HgCl 2 in albuminous 
liquids. 

Soap has, owing to its alkalinity, disinfectant as well as 
cleansing action. A temperature of 55-75 C. greatly aids its 
action. Antiseptic soaps possess no special value as germicides, but 
carbolic soap is a useful insecticide. 

Lime in a one-tenth per cent, solution destroys typhoid and 
cholera microbes. 

Mercuric Chloride (HgCl 2 , corrosive sublimate) was found 
by Koch to destroy anthrax bacilli in a dilution of i in 20,000. 
Others have obtained less favourable results, but it is certainly a 
powerful germicide. The germicidal effect is greatly diminished by 
contact with organic matter, an insoluble albuminate of mercury 
being produced. For this reason HgCl 2 is not the best disinfectant 
for faeces unless mixed with acid, as in the following solution : 
HgCl 2 \ oz., HC1 i oz., aniline blue 5 grains to three gallons of 
water. This gives a solution of i in 960. The colouring is added 
to avoid accidental poisoning. HgCl 2 is not a good disinfectant 
for linen. Stains are apt to be fixed by it, and if linen soaked in it 
is subsequently washed with soap, without first carefully washing 
out the HgCl 2 , it is darkened in colour. It attacks metals, and 
must not therefore be placed in metal receptacles. 

Chloride of Zinc in a solution containing 25 grains to the 
fluid drachm is known as " Sir William Burnett's solution." It is 
a good deodorant, but an inefficient disinfectant. 

Chinosol (CgH 6 NKSO 4 ) belongs to the quinoline group. 
It is an almost inodorous powder, very soluble in water, non- 
corrosive, and does not stain. A solution of i in 1200 forms an 
efficient germicide. 



328 



HYGIENE. 



DISINFECTION BY PHYSICAL MEANS. 



Natural processes tend to the destruction of pathogenic microbes 
after their elimination from the patient. Of these desiccation, sun- 
light, and fresh air are the most potent. Heat and cold have a 
similar effect. Filtration or mechanical separation deprives a 
contaminated liquid of its microbes. 

Desiccation attenuates the virulence of and finally kills most 
microbes. In laboratory experiments the vibrio of Asiatic cholera 
when dried dies in from three hours to two days, according to the 
degree of desiccation. The bacilli of enteric fever, tuberculosis, and 
diphtheria only die after drying for a few weeks or even months. 
The anthrax bacillus may retain its vitality for several years in a 
desiccated state. Clearly, therefore, desiccation has no administra- 
tive value in the prevention of disease, and on the contrary it aids 
the dissemination of the microbes of tuberculosis, small-pox, scarlet 
fever, etc. 

Direct Sunlight kills a large proportion of the sporeless 
pathogenic microbes. Diffuse is less energetic in its action than 
direct sunlight. The bacillus of diphtheria is destroyed by a half to 
one hour's exposure to sunlight. As to tubercle bacilli, see page 316. 
Downes and Blunt showed that diffused sunlight retards the putre- 
faction of organic infusions, and that direct sunlight inhibits 
putrefaction. Sunlight cannot, however, be trusted as an efficient 
disinfectant. It only secures surface disinfection, and could not be 
relied upon for pillows, mattresses, etc. M. Ward's experiments 
showed that the actinic rays of the sun are germicidal, independent 
of the heat. 

Fresh Air, like sunlight, should be employed as a valuable 
auxiliary, not as an agent to be depended upon apart from systematic 
disinfection. The experiments of Downes and Blunt showed that 
light and oxygen together accomplished what neither alone could do. 
The presence of air in anthrax increases danger. The anthrax 
bacillus does not form spores in an animal suffering from this 
disease, and does not do so post mortem, unless the animal is 
dissected. Hence the importance of keeping the skin unbroken in 
this disease, only examining a drop of blood to establish the 
diagnosis. 

Filtration is a means of separating microbes from the gases or 
liquids containing them. For the filtration of water see page 96. 
The carbolic sheet outside a sick-room is supposed to filter the air 
leaving the room from microbes. It is probably useless except as a 
reminder to the nurse to change her dress and adopt other precautions 
on leaving the sick-room. 

Settlement of dust also acts as an aerial disinfectant. If a 
room be locked up, its air next day is almost free from particles, 
and all that is then required is disinfection of the surfaces of the room 
and of the articles in it. Whatever method of disinfection is 
employed, it is not disinfection of the air, but of the surfaces of a 
room which is the end in view. 



DISINFECTION. 329 

Washing is the most efficacious means of removing infection. 
It is a mechanical means of removing the particular matter of which 
the contagium consists from the person or article to which it 
adheres into the water, which subsequently enters the drain, in the 
same way as do urine and faeces. Washing is an absolutely efficient 
means of purifying articles that can be completely submitted to it. 
A consideration of the physical laws governing the spread 
of infection will make this clear. The contagia are passive. 
When contained in a liquid they cannot escape from it under 
ordinary circumstances. Thus foul smelling gases may escape 
from sewage, but bacteria do not escape, except rarely during 
bubbling, or . from dried portions of the invert of the sewer. 
Barring 'rare accidents " microbes submerged are imprisoned.'' 
Contagia are harmless until they become dust. Hence the danger 
associated with the use of pocket handkerchiefs in such diseases as 
influenza and phthisis ; and the importance of keeping all infectious 
discharges wet, until they can be finally disposed of. 

DISINFECTION BY HEAT. 

Heat may be applied in various ways : (i) Prolonged boiling 
in water of materials which are not spoilt by this means. (2) 
Destruction by fire of infected articles. (3) Dry hot air. (4) 
Steam. 

Boiling kills most pathogenic microbes. The cholera vibrio 
is killed in four minutes at a temperature of 52 C. (126 F.) ; the 
typhoid bacillus at 59. 4 C. (i38.8 F.) in ten minutes. If boiling 
be continued for five minutes, the spores of pathogenic microbes 
are killed. The addition of one to two per cent, of washing soda 
to the water hastens this effect. For infected linen nothing beyond 
this is required. 

Destruction by Fire is to be recommended for comparatively 
worthless articles, such as toys, straw from beds, rags, old clothing 
and bedding. 

Dry Hot Air has been largely used in the past in ovens, for 
the disinfection of bulky bedding. It is now entirely superseded 
by steam. Its disadvantages are that (a) heat penetrates very 
slowly into the interior of bedding. Disinfection in test experiments 
was not accomplished in the interior of' small bundles of clothes in 
three or four hours, (b) Scorching of articles often occurs. The 
sole advantage of this method is that bound books and leather 
goods are less liable to be damaged by it than by steam. If no 
other apparatus is available a baker's oven will serve to kill the 
non-sporiferous microbes of cholera, enteric fever, and diphtheria, 
as well as animal vermin. If, however, we accept the proper test 
proposed by Buchanan of the efficacy of disinfection, the " destruc- 
tion of the most stable known infective matter," dry heat is 
unsatisfactory. 

Steam may be employed as a disinfectant either (a) superheated, 
or (b) saturated, i.e. close to the temperature at which condensation 
occurs. This temperature depends upon the pressure under which 



330 



HYGIENE. 



the water has been boiled. At ordinary atmospheric pressure it is 
100 C. (212 F.). The temperature of boiling is raised by subjecting 
the water to pressure. Consequently boiling water and the steam 
produced from it may be at any temperature. Thus steam may be 

(a) Under pressure, with a temperature above 212 F. 

(b) Not under pressure, at a temperature of 212 F. 

Steam when admitted into a disinfecting stove comes into 
contact with cold objects. // the steam is saturated, immediate 
condensation to T ?rW P art of i* s original volume occurs. Its latent 
heat is at the same time evolved. The condensation causes 
enormous shrinkage in bulk. More steam is thus insucked into 
the partial vacuum produced, and this is repeated, until in every 




FIG. 57. 
EQUIFEX SATURATED STEAM DISINFECTOR. 

A Disinfection chamber. B Partition wall separating infected from disinfected side. C Door 
on disinfected side. D Door on infected side. EE Safety-locking bolt for securing door. 
FF Stiffening rings on doors. G Steam inletfrom boiler. H Steam separator for arresting water 
condensed in G. I Valve controlling admission of steam to disinfecting chamber. K Valve 
controlling admission of steam to coils. LM Safety valves regulating steam pressure in chamber 
and coils respectively. NU Pressure guages indicating steam pressure in chambers and coils 
respectively. OO Objects after disinfection. P Wheeled carriage and cradle for OJ. Q Hinged 
rails on which P runs. R Exhaust pipe for steam and air on first admission S Thermometer 
showing rise of temperature (to control complete air evacuation). T Valve for closing exhaust 
pipe R when air is completely evacuated. V Sluice valve to cause sudden escape ol steam. 
W-^Cock to admit steam to ejector. X Exhaust pipe fitted with ejector for escape of steam before 
and of air during drying. Y Valve for admission of air for drying under suction of ejector. [In 
some types of this machine this valve is placed on the lower part of C.] 

part of the mattress or other material undergoing disinfection 
equality of temperature is reached, when condensation of steam will 
cease, and disinfection is complete. // the steam is superheated and 
no condensation allowed, disinfection occurs by the relatively slow 
method occurring with dry heat. In practice at the early stage 
cooling causes some conversion of superheated into saturated 
steam, though subsequently the much slower process of disinfection 



DISINFECTION. 331 

by conduction of heat goes on. Hence superheated steam is a less 
efficient disinfecting agent than saturated steam. 

Superheating is produced in disinfecting stores in two ways : 

(1) By a jacket around the stove, which is kept at about double the 
pressure and about 20 to 30 F. hotter than the interior of the 
stove ; as in the older patterns of the Washington Lyon stove. 

(2) By having a jacket containing a solution of calcium chloride, 
which is heated by a furnace under the stove. This solution 
is kept at a constant strength by an automatic supply from a 
cistern. The temperature of the boiling water is thus raised 
without pressure to 225 F. This is the principle of Thresh's stove. 
The object of superheating steam is to assist in rapidly drying 
materials ; but this object can equally well be secured by 
periodically allowing the sudden escape of the steam confined 
under pressure, in pressure disinfectors. This last method is the 
best, as it can not only be utilised at the last stage of the disinfection 
for drying the articles ; but at the earlier stage for sweeping the 
air out of the stove, and thus removing what, owing to its low 
conductivity for heat is one of the most serious obstacles to rapid 
and efficient disinfection. 

In the above description it has been assumed that the steam, 
whether saturated or superheated, is confined, except when the 
exhaust is employed for drying purposes. Steam may also be 
employed as current steam. Current steam disinfectors are 
initially cheap, but more steam, and therefore more fuel, is required 
in their use ; and unless pressure is used by impeding the escape of 
the steam a temperature of only 212 F. can be secured. Accepting 
Buchanan's dictum, a stove supplying saturated steam under 
pressure at a temperature in the interior of the stove of 234 F. is 
to be preferred. This temperature with saturated steam destroys 
the spores of the most resistant known microbe (that of symptomatic 
anthrax). With superheated steam or hot air stoves on the same 
basis a temperature of 280 F. would be required, which is damaging 
to most textures, except horsehair. 

THE PRACTICE OF DISINFECTION. 

The Management of the Sick-room and Patient requires 
careful and conscientious attention to detail. Certain details are 
given on page 319. All unnecessary furniture, carpets, and hangings 
should be removed as soon as the nature of the illness is known ; 
but unless these articles have been contained in close trunks or 
drawers, and not opened since before the onset of the illness, they 
must be disinfected. Food left over from the patient's meals must 
be burnt, if solid, in the patient's room ; if liquid, emptied down 
the water-closet. Dry sweeping of the floors is to be avoided, only 
wet brushing or cloths being used. Volatile aerial disinfectants 
during the sickness are valueless. 

The Treatment of Discharges from the Patient is the most 
important point in the management of infection. The stools should 
be received into a bed-pan containing a 5 per cent, solution of 



332 HYGIENE. 

carbolic acid, a 3 per cent, solution of cresol or lysol, or a 5 per 
cent, solution of chloride of lime. Milk of lime (20 per cent, 
strength) is very reliable, when added like the preceding solutions 
in bulk equal to that of the stool to be disinfected. The urine and 
vomit, if any, should be treated in exactly the same way. The 
infection of enteric fever is often spread by undisinfected urine. 

Discharges from the throat, nose and mouth of patients 
should be received into a solution of 

lysol 5 oz. to i gallon of water, or 

carbolic acid 7 oz. ,, ,, ,, 

The efficacy of the carbolic acid solution is increased by adding 
2 oz. of NaCl, or 12-14 oz. of NaCl to each 'gallon. Pocket- 
handkerchiefs must be avoided, linen rags being employed instead, 
and placed at once in one of the above solutions or burnt. 

The skin may scatter infection, especially in small-pox and 
scarlet fever. Frequent baths and inunction with vaseline or oil 
are useful. 

The disinfection of hands is most important for all attendants 
on the infectious sick. A solution of corrosive sublimate i-iooo, 
or one of the above solutions may be used for this purpose ; but 
this is to be supplemented by the free use of the nail-brush and soap 
and water. The treatment of linen has been described (page 329). 

Woollen articles of underclothing, and blankets can be 
disinfected by steam, which shrinks them less than boiling water. 
The ordinary laundry processes appear, however, to suffice to rid 
them of infection, without boiling. 

Bedding, curtains, and carpets should be disinfected by steam. 
Certain precautions are required in removing these to the disinfect- 
ing station. Surface disinfection of the room must have been first 
effected (see below) ; and the infected bedding should be encased in 
canvas bags or sheets. When a steam disinfector is inaccessible, 
the mattress and pillows should be taken to pieces, the covers 
washed, and their contents disinfected by spraying with formalin 
solution (i in 40) or HgCl 2 solution (i in 1,000), and subsequently 
exposing to sun and air. For disinfection of suits of clothes, 
current steam may be improvised as follows : Over two bricks at 
the bottom of the kitchen " copper" thin floor-boards are placed, 
above the level of 2 or 3 inches of water previously placed at the 
bottom of the copper. The cover of the copper is put on, and by 
means of a brisk fire steam is kept streaming through the clothes. 
This is continued for an hour, and the clothes then hung out to dry. 

Furniture, when wooden, can be washed. If upholstered it 
can be disinfected by spraying (see p. 333), and then beating and 
dusting in the open air. 

Purs, Boots, and Shoes are spoilt by steam. For the first, 
spraying freely with formalin (i in 40), or exposure over a formalin 
lamp (page 326) is recommended. Boots and shoes should be filled 
and washed with a solution of HgCl 2 , chinosol, or formalin. 

The sick-room can only be efficiently disinfected after the 
patient has left it. The aim is surface disinfection. Aerial disin- 



DISINFECTION. 



333 



feetion" is >" sufficiently effected by open windows. Four chief 
methods of surface disinfection are practised. (a) Fumigation by 
SO 2 , formalin, cresol, or other vapours (see page 326). (b) Spraying 
the ceiling, walls, floor, and furniture with a disinfectant solution 
is probably the most convenient method of disinfection. It is more 
effectual than fumigation, less laborious than rubbing down walls, 
etc., by bread or wet cloth, and less likely to damage wall-papers 




FIG. 58. 
EQUIFEX SPRAY DISINFECTOR IN USE. 

than brushing a disinfectant solution on them. Solutions of HgCl 2 
i in 1,000, or- chinosol i in 1,200, or formalin i in 40 are efficient. 
A special spray'apparatus (Fig. 58) is usually employed. A practical 
point is to spray the wall from below upwards, to prevent the solution 
running down the wall and producing streaks of discolouration. 
(c) Washing ceiling and walls with the disinfectant solution may 
be substituted. A one per cent, solution of hypochlorite of lime 
is largely used for this purpose, applied by a long-handled 



334 



HYGIENE. 



white-wash brush, (d) Attrition of walls, etc., by means of bread 
or dough sterilises them by mechanically removing microbes. The 
bread is cut into pieces suitable for grasping in the hand, the cut 
surface being applied to the wall. The crumbs must afterwards be 
burnt in the room. This is the official method in Germany. 

Floors may be treated like walls and ceiling after the patient 
has left the room. During his occupancy of the room, tea-leaves 
or saw-dust thoroughly impregnated with lysol or cresol should be 
sprinkled on the floor before it is swept, or washing substituted for 
sweeping. Scrubbing with soap and water constitutes the best 
disinfectant for floors and all other washable surfaces. 

Books are difficult of disinfection. Steam damages leather. 
The penetrating power of dry heat is doubtful. Cheap books 
should be burnt. Abel discovered virulent diphtheria bacilli on 
toys six months after the patient, to whom they belonged, had 
diphtheria. Formalin and phenol vapours have been used to 
disinfect books in closed chambers, the books being stood on end. 
Letters can be rendered safe by steam disinfection. 

Corpses of infectious patients should be placed in the coffin and 
buried as early as possible. A thick layer of sawdust saturated with 
lysol or cresol should be placed at the bottom of the coffin, and the 
corpse enveloped in cotton wool. Cremation is better than burial. 



335 ) 



CHAPTER XLVIII. 
VITAL STATISTICS. 

VITAL ^Statistics ,]g p thg_ * ftn nft f numbers applied to the life- 
|iistory of communities. Its significance is similar to that of the 
more recently coined word Demography though the latter dose 
not necessarily confine itself strictly to study of life by statistical 
means. Another term has been frequently used in recent years 
" Vital and Mortal Statistics." The continued use of the word 
" mortal " in this connection is undesirable and objectionable. The 
term " Vital Statistics " is comprehensive and complete, as death 
is but the last act of life. 

Of the problems of life with which the science of Vital 
Statistics is concerned, population, births, marriages, sickness, and 
deaths, possess the chief importance ; and in the following sketch of 
the subject I shall concern myself chiefly with these. The subject 
naturally divides itself into two sections : the sources of information, 
and the information derived from these sources, and both of these will 
require consideration. 

The importance of numerical standards of comparison in 
science increases with every increase of knowledge. The value of 
experience, founded on an accumulation of individual facts, varies 
greatly according to the character of the observer. As Dr. Guy 
has put it : " The sometimes of the cautious is the often of the 
sanguine, the always of the empiric, and the never of the sceptic ; 
while the numbers i, 10, 100, and 10,000 have but one meaning for 
all mankind." Hence the importance of an exact numerical state- 
ment of facts. The sneering statement that statistics cannot be 
made to prove anything can only be made by one ignorant of 
science. In fact, nothing can be proved without their aid, though 
they may be so ignorantly or unscrupulously manipulated as to 
appear to prove what is untrue. Instances of fallacious use of 
figures will be given as we proceed. 

An accurate statement of population forms the natural basis 
of all vital statistics. Thus the comparison of the number of deaths 
in one with the number of deaths in a second community has 
no significance unless we know also the number living out of which 
these deaths occurred. Even then our knowledge would be 
defective, without further particulars as to the proportion in each 
population living at different ages, and the number dying at the 
corresponding ages. For other purposes we should require to know 



33 6 HYGIENE. 

the number married and unmarried, the number engaged in different 
industries, and so on ; in Qrder that the influence of marital con- 
ditions, of occupation, etc., on the prospects of life may be 
calculated. The first desideratum of accurate vital statistics is a 
census enumeration of the population at such intervals as will not 
cause the intervening estimates of population to be very wide of the 
mark. In this country a decennial census is taken, the last 
occurring in 1901. In the intervals the population of the entire 
country, and of each town or district is estimated. Various methods 
of estimating the population have been adopted, (i) If a strict 
record of emigration and immigration is kept, then in a country in 
which a complete registration of births and deaths is enforced, the 
population can be easily ascertained by balancing the natural 
increase by excess of births over deaths, and the increase or decrease 
due to migration. This is done in New Zealand, but is impracti- 
cable in England, as no complete account of migration can be kept. 

(2) The increase of inhabited houses in a district being known 
year by year, the increase of population may be estimated on the 
assumption that the number of persons per house is the same as at 
the last census. This may not be strictly accurate. In 1901 it was 
found that in England and Wales the average number of persons 
per house was fractionally less than in 1891. 

(3) It may be assumed that the annual increase during the 
present decennium will be ^ of the increase during the last 
decennium 1891-1901. If so, the population, e.g. in 1905, is the 
enumerated population in 1901 plus 4^ times the annual increase 
occurring during 1881-91. (The fourth is required because the 
census is taken early in April, and the population is estimated to 
the middle of the year). This method is fallacious, because it 
makes no allowances for the steadily increasing numbers who year 
by year attain marriageable age and become parents. It assumes, 
in other words, simple interest, when compound interest is in 
operation. 

(4) The Registrar-General's method, the one generally adopted, 
assumes that the same rate of increase will hold good as in the pre- 
ceding intercensal period, i.e. that the population increases in 
geometrical progression, and not in arithmetical progression as 
under (3). 

The application of this method will be best understood by an 
example. If the census population of a town is 32,000 in 1891, and 
36,000 in 1901, what is the mean population in 1905 ? 

(a) Find the rate of increase in 1891-1901. 

If P = population at census 1891, 
and if P 1 = ,, IQOI> 

and if R = rate of increase of population then 

P 1 = P + Rn in the nth year 
log Pi = log P + 10 log R. 

1 (log pi - log P) = log R. 
4-556303 - 4-505*50 



VITAL STATISTICS. 337 

(b) Apply this to the increase in the next 4^ years. 
Here P 1905 = P 1901 R 

tog PIOOS = 4-556303 + - (-0051153) 
= 4-578043- 

By consulting the table of logs, the population corresponding to this 
number will be found to be 37,848 = population at the middle of 1905. 

Estimates made by the last-named " official " method are liable 
to error, even for the entire country, and still more when applied 
to special districts. Thus the decennial rate of increase of the 
population of England and Wales in the 100 years has varied from 
15-8 percent, in 1821-31 to 11*6 percent, in 1891-1901. The anomalies 
are even greater when the official method is applied to great towns. In 
one decennium such a town may, owing to brisk trade, have a rapid 
increase of working population with many children, and in the next 
decennium in consequence of emigration or transmigration there 
may be little or no increase. The declining birth-rate, which is 
having a greater effect on the number of population than the 
declining death-rate, is another cause of disturbance which increases 
the difficulty in forming a correct estimate of the population in inter - 
censal periods. A quinquennial census is highly desirable, in order 
to avoid the doubts necessarily associated with estimates of 
population in the later years of a decennium, and with the birth and 
death-rates which are based on these estimates. 

The Registration of Births and Deaths. Civil registration 
of births and deaths began in 1837, but was not compulsory till 1870. 
It will be going beyond the scope of this chapter to give details of 
the enactments as to registration. It suffices to state that it is the 
duty of the practitioner to give a certificate stating the cause of 
death of his patient to the best of his knowledge and belief. There 
is no registration of still-births in this country. Many deaths are 
registered of which the cause of death is not medically certified, and 
the value of our national vital statistics is considerably diminished 
on this account. Much improvement is desirable in the medical 
certification of causes of death. Every medical student ought to 
receive instruction on this subject before the completion of his 
studies. Names of symptoms as dropsy, haemorrhage, convulsions ; 
and obscure names, as abdominal disease, should be avoided. If 
the patient has recently suffered from injury, or recently passed 
through child-birth, or had a specific febrile disease, this must not 
be omitted from the certificate. 

The Registration and Notification of Sickness forms another 
valuable source of information. Various attempts have been made 
to secure a general registration of disabling sickness, but with only 
partial success. District and workhouse medical officers appointed 
since February, 1879, are required to furnish the medical officer of 
health with returns of pauper sickness and deaths. This source of 
information might with advantage be more fully utilised by medical 
officers of health. Sec. 29 of the Factory and Workshops Act, 

Newsholme's Hygiene.] 23 



338 



HYGIENE. 



1895, requires that every medical practitioner attending on or called 
in to visit a patient whqm he believes to be suffering from lead, 
phosphorus, or arsenical poisoning, or anthrax, contracted in any 
factory or workshop, shall send to the Chief Inspector of Factories 
at the Home Office, London, a notice stating the name and full 
postal address of the patient, and the disease from which he is 
suffering ; a fee of 2s. 6d. being payable for each notification, and a 
fine not exceeding 405. being incurred for failure to notify. 

The Compulsory Notification of Infectious Diseases is 
enforced by the Act of 1889, which now applies to the whole 
country. The list of diseases to be notified is as follows : 

" Small-pox, cholera, diphtheria, membranous croup, erysipelas, the disease 
known as scarlatina or scarlet fever, and the fevers known by any of the following 
names : typhus, typhoid, enteric, relapsing, continued, or puerperal, and also any 
infectious disease to which the Act has been applied by the Local Authority in 
manner provided by the Act." 

It is the duty of the medical practitioner to ascertain whether in 
his own district, such diseases as whooping cough and measles 
have been added to the schedule of notifiable diseases. It is the 
duty of (a) the head of the family to which the patient belongs ; 
in his default, of (b), the nearest relatives in the house ; in their 
default, of (c), every person in attendance upon the patient ; 'and in 
default of any such person, of (d) the occupier of the building, as 
soon as they become aware that the patient is suffering from an 
infectious disease to which this Act applies, to send notice thereof 
to the Medical Officer of the District, (e) The more formal duty 
of sending to the Medical Officer of Health a certificate stating 
the name of the patient, the situation of the building, and the 
infectious disease from which in his opinion the patient is suffering, 
is imposed on every medical practitioner attending on, or called 
in, to visit the patient, on becoming aware that the patient is 
suffering from an infectious disease to which this Act applies. He 
is entitled to a fee of 2s. 6d. if the case occurs in his private practice, 
and of is. if the case occurs in his practice as medical officer 
of any public body or institution. He is subject to a fine not 
exceeding 403. if convicted of failure to notify. The value of 
returns of infectious diseases as enabling preventive measures to 
be taken is increased by interchange of notification returns of 
different districts. This is now undertaken weekly for a large 
number of districts by the Local Government Board, and the 
Registrar- General publishes quarterly summaries of such returns, 
as well as weekly returns of infectious diseases for the metropolis. 
Marriages are usually stated in proportion to the total 
population, or the number per thousand of population ; but a 
more accurate method would be to base the marriage-rate for 
comparative purposes on the number of unmarried persons living 
at marriageable ages. In England the marriage-rate is always 
higher in large towns than in rural districts. Thus in 1900 the 
marriage-rate in London was 17-6 as compared with an average 
marriage- rate in 1891-95 of 15-2 per thousand of the estimated 
population in England and Wales. The higher marriage-rate in 
towns is chiefly owing to the fact that higher wages and greater 



VITAL STATISTICS. 



339 



scope for remunerative work attract young country people of 
marriageable ages to towns. 

Births are usually reckoned as a rate per thousand of 
population. Clearly, however, if one population had a larger 
proportion than another of women of child-bearing years this 
method of comparison would not be free from possible error. 
Even were the proportion of women of child-bearing ages equal, 
the comparison might be fallacious if in one population the pro- 
portion of single women was much higher than in the other. 
Illegitimate births do not materially vitiate this conclusion, as 
such births do not constitute more than 4 per cent, of the total 
births, and this number is not excessive in the districts in which 
there is the greatest excess of single women, viz. in districts 
in which a large number of domestic servants are employed. 
The only strictly accurate method is to subdivide the births into 
legitimate and illegitimate, stating the former per 1,000 married 
women of child-bearing years, and the latter per 1,000 unmarried 
women of child-bearing years. I append an example of the 
relative accuracy of the three methods above indicated* : 







BIRTH-RATE 






PER 1,000 
INHABITANTS. 


PER 1,000 WOMEN 
AGED 15-45. 


PER 1,000 MARRIED 
WOMEN AGED 
15-45 YEARS. 


Kensington . . 
Whitechapel .. .: 


21-8 
39'9 


6l'6 
I72-I 


2i5'4 
328-3 


Percentage excess of birth-rate in 
Whitechapel over that in Kensington 


83% 
A 


179% 

B 


53% 
C 



Thus, according to the ordinary method (A) of stating the 
legitimate birth-rate, it is 83% higher in Whitechapel than in 
Kensington, whereas it is really only 53% higher. Similarly a 
statement of the illegitimate birth-rate in the two districts "per 
1,000 inhabitants," shows an excess of only 6/ in Whitechapel, 
while a statement " per 1,000 unmarried women aged 15-45 
years " shows the real excess of 144%. Both in this and other 
civilised countries there has been in the last 25 years a steady 
decline in the birth-rate. In England the maximum birth-rate was 
36-3 per 1,000 of population in 1876, and the minimum 29-3 in 1899. 
This diminution is only caused to a minor degree by postponement 
of marriage to more mature years, and by a larger proportion of 
celibacy. Nor is there any reasonable ground for the view that 
a diminished power of either sex to produce children has been 
produced by alcohol, syphilis, tobacco, or other causes. The main 
cause of the diminution of the birth-rate is "the deliberate and 
voluntary avoidance of child-bearing on . the part of a steadily 
increasing number of married persons." 



* From " Elements of Vital Statistics," by A Newsholme. 



340 



HYGIENE. 



Deaths are calculated in proportion to every 1,000 of the 
population, the unit of time being a year. This unit is preserved 
even when death-rates for shorter periods, e.g. a week, are stated. 
Thus the death-rates for the 33 great towns published weekly in 
the chief newspapers are annual death-rates; they represent the 
number who would die per 1,000 of the population, supposing 
the same proportion of deaths to population held good throughout 
the year. The best plan to obtain the weekly annual death-rate 
is as follows : the correct number of weeks in a year being 52-17747, 
if the population of a town be 143,956, and the number of deaths in 
a given week are 35, then the death-rate is 12-687. Thus : 



143.956 
52-17747 



i ,000 _ This is the factor by which the weekly 

2 75- ^^8 ~ 3 ' number of deaths must be multiplied. 
35 x 0-3625 = 12-6875 or 12-7. 

The above is the crude death-rate. Various corrections are required, 
which must now be considered. The most important of these are 
for public institutions, for visitors, and for age and sex. A public 
institution, e.g. a workhouse, infirmary, or asylum, in a given 
district may consist almost entirely of persons belonging to another 
district. The rule is to relegate to the district to which they belong 
all deaths of inmates of an institution, i.e. subtract all deaths of 
outsiders occurring in inside institutions, and add all deaths of 
inhabitants occurring in outside institutions. The population as 
well as the deaths of these institutions should be excluded, in so far 
as they are derived from the outside district, in order to make the 
net death-rate approximately correct. 

Theoretically the correction ought to be extended so as to 
apply to visitors who do not die in public institutions. In practice, 
however, this cannot be effected, until a central " clearing house" 
is established. The exclusion of deaths of visitors from the district 
in which they occur is easy ; their inclusion in the returns of the 
district from which they come is more difficult to secure. For 
the present, they should be included in the death-rate of the 
district in which they occur. 

Death-rate according to Age and Sex. To obtain a true 
conception of the death-rate in a community, it is necessary to 
state the number of deaths in each sex in proportion to the number 
living at different ages. The importance of this is shown by the 
following extract from the Registrar- General's report for 1899. 

England and Wales. Deaths to 1,000 living at each of 12 groups 
of ages. 





ALL 
AGES. 


AGED 
O- 


5- 


10- 


15- 


20- 


25- 


35- 


45- 


55- 


65- 


75- 


85 AND 
UPWARDS. 


Males .. 


19-5 


60'4 


3-8 


2'2 


3-6 


5-3 


7-1 


I2'3 


20-0 


37'2 


6q-8 


152-6 


300-3 


Females . 


17-3 


507 


3'9 


2- 3 


3'3 


4'3 


6-1 


IO'O 


I5H 


29-8 


6i-5 


142-6 


272-0 



Thus at ages over 5 and under 45 for males, and under 55 for 
females, the death-rate is lower than is the total death-rate for all 



VITAL STATISTICS. 



34 1 



ages. For females at all ages except from 5 to 15, the death-rate 
is lower than for males. From the above statement it will be 
clear that a considerable excess of women (as in a residential 
district with a large number of domestic servants) or a considerable 
excess of either sex at the ages of 15 to 45 (as in most large 
towns) in proportion to the number living at other ages, would 
produce a lower total or crude death-rate, which does not imply 
any truly more healthy condition than that of another district, 
which is less favourably constituted so far as the proportion of 
the sexes and the numbers living at different ages are concerned. 
By a means of correction now to be described this source of error 
can be eliminated. The method of obtaining the factor for correction 
can be best understood by an example. The annual death-rate 
of England and Wales in 1881-90 was igviS, and the death-rate 
at each age-group is given in the following table: 



AGES. 


MEAN ANNUAL DEATH-RATE 
IN ENGLAND AND WALES, 
1881-90, PER I,OOO LIVING AT 
EACH GROUP OF AGES. 


POPULATION 
OF HUDDKRSFIELD IN 
iSgi. 


CALCULATED 
NUMBER OF DEATHS 
IN HUDDERSFIELD. 




Males. Females. 


Males. Females. 


Males. Females. 


Under 5 . . 


61-59 .. 51-95 


4,551 .. 4,785 


280 . . 249 


5 


5'35 5'27 


4,691 .. 5,081 


25 27 


10 


2-96 .. 3-11 


5,113 .. 5,165 


15 .. 16 


15 


4'33 4'42 


4.905 5-549 


21 25 


20 


573 5'54 


4,541 .. 5,461 


26 .. 30 


25 


7-78 .. 7-41 


7,466 . . 8,834 


58 -. 65 


35 


12-41 .. io'6i 


5,576 .. 6,265 


69 .. 66 


45 


19-36 .. 15-09 


3,944 . . 4,649 


76 .. 70 


55 


34-69 . . 28-45 


2,393 3-017 


83 .. 86 


65 


70-39 . . 60-36 


1,128 .. 1,590 


79 .. 96 


75 and upwards. . 


162-62 . . 147-98 


250 . . 466 


41 .. 69 






44,558 .. 50,862 


773 799 


Totals 





95-420 


1.572 



The population of Huddersfield at each of the corre- 
sponding periods as given by the census of 1891, is also 
shown in this table, and in the last column the number 
of male and female deaths that would occur by applying 
the death-rates for England and Wales to the population 
of Huddersfield are shewn. The total number of deaths thus 
calculated is 1572 in a population of 95,420, and the total death- 
rate = 16-47 per 1000. This is the standard death-rate, i.e., the 
death-rate at all ages calculated on the hypothesis that the rates at 
each of 12 age-periods in Huddersfield were the same as in England 
and Wales during the ten years of the last intercensal period, viz. 
19-15 in 1881-90.* But the standard death-rate of Huddersfield 



* This was written before the figures for the period 1891-1900 were available ; 
but the method adopted is the same, substituting the death-rates, etc., for the 
later period. 



342 HYGIENE. 

would have been 19-15 instead of 16-47, were it not for the fact that 
the distribution of age and sex in the Huddersfield population is 
more favourable than in the country as a whole. Hence it must be 
increased in the ratio of 19-15 : 16-47, i.e., multiplied by the factor 

I 9' I 5 _ 1-1627. When the crude or recorded death-rate for 1900 

16*47 

of 16-78 is multiplied by this factor we obtain the corrected death-rate 

of 16-78 X 1-1627 = 19-51 per 1000, which is the correct figure to 

compare with the death-rate of 18-31 for England and Wales in that 

year. If the death-rate of England and Wales be stated as 1000, 



then I00 x I 9$ I = 1066, is the comparative mortality figure for 

1831 

Huddersfield. Similarly in the year 1900 the comparative mortality 
figure of London was 1093, of Croydon 831, of Norwich 919, while 
that of Liverpool was 1539, of Salford 1541. In all the towns 
except Plymouth and Norwich the corrected death-rate is higher 
than the crude or recorded death-rate. This implies that, in all 
except these two towns, the factor of correction is greater than 
unity. 

This is a convenient point for briefly discussing the relationship 
between the birth-rate and death-rate. The opinion is commonly 
held that a high birth-rate is a direct cause of a high death-rate, 
owing to the great mortality amongst infants. The table on 
page 340 shows that the death-rate at ages under five is three times as 
high as at all ages together, and it is therefore natural to suppose 
that a high birth-rate by producing an excessive proportion of 
persons of tender years will cause a high general death-rate. This 
might be so, if the birth-rate were to remain high for only five years. 
But if the high birth-rate continued longer, the proportion of the 
total population at ages of low mortality would be increased, and 
the general death-rate would be lowered. We have already seen 
that in nearly all the great towns, in which the birth-rate is higher 
than;in rural districts, the age distribution of the population is more 
favourable to a low death-rate than in rural districts ; and their 
higher crude death-rate is made still higher than that of rural districts 
when the necessary factor of correction is applied. 

The Infantile Mortality should be stated in terms of the 
infantile population. This is more accurately assumed to be equal 
to the number of births in the given year, than estimated from the 
number stated to be under one year of age at the last census. The 
number of deaths under one year of age per 1000 births was 163 for 
England and Wales in 1899, being lowest in the agricultural counties 
and highest in manufacturing counties. In the 33 great towns it 
averaged 172 in the year 1900, ranging from 132 in Croydon, 
Huddersfield and Halifax to 236 per 1000 births in Preston. Of 
1000 male children born in England and Wales in 1881-90, the 
number surviving at the age of three months was 921, at the age of 
six months 889, twelve months 839, while the number of female 
children surviving one year of 1000 born was 869. In towns a 
smaller number survive. Of the conditions causing this high 



VITAL STATISTICS. 343 

infantile mortality, ignorance and inexperience on the part of parents 
bear a considerable part, especially as influencing the food and 
mode of feeding. The death-rates at other age-groups beyond 
infancy are given in the table on page 340. Season influences the 
death-rate. The third quarter of the year has the lowest death-rate, 
unless the amount of Epidemic Diarrhoea has been excessive. In 
the first quarter of the year, the highest death-rate usually occurs. 
Mild winters and cool summers both lower the mortality. The 
seasonal incidence of infectious diseases need only be mentioned 
in passing. 

Density of Population has important bearings on the death- 
rate. Thus the urban districts in 1899 had a death-rate of 19-2 and 
the rural of 16*3 per 1000 of population. Farr found that the death- 
rate increased with the density of populations, not in direct 
proportion, but in proportion to the 6th roots of the contrasted 
populations. This rule does not now hold generally good. It is 
only after the density has reached a certain degree of intensity that 
it begins to exert an appreciable effect. Even then it is what is 
implied in aggregation rather than the aggregation itself that is 
pernicious. In particular, poverty is usually greater in densely 
populated districts than elsewhere, with its accompaniments of 
deficient food and clothing and bad housing. Hence the excess of 
phthisis in tenemented houses, especially in houses with only three 
rooms. I have shown that the true density that should be considered 
is the number of persons to each room, not the number of persons 
on a given area (" The Vital Statistics of the Peabody Buildings," 
Roy. Statist. Soc., Feb., 1891). 

Occupation and Mortality. To obtain correct statistics 
showing the influence of occupation on vitality, one must know the 
number and age of those engaged in each industry, and the 
corresponding number of deaths. A statement of the mean age at 
death of those engaged in different occupations would be most 
fallacious (page 344). The best plan is to restrict the statistics to 
men aged 25-65, and calculate for these death-rates in a standard 
population, after the fashion already described (page 340). By 
this means a " comparative mortality figure " can be obtained. 
For all males it is 1000, for farmers 563, teachers 603, lawyers 821, 
doctors 966, butchers 1096, plumbers 1120, brewers 1427, innkeepers 
1659, potters 1706, file-makers 1810. Speaking generally, the 
occupations are most unhealthy in which there is most exposure to 
dust, to the breathing of foul air, and to excessive indulgence in 
alcoholic drinks (for further details see the author's Elements of 
Vital Statistics, page 169 et seq.). 

Deaths from Various Causes. These may be stated in 
proportion to total deaths from all causes, or in terms of the 
population. The first plan must be adopted only when it is desired 
to ascertain the proportional share of a given cause of death in the 
total mortality. In 1899, in England and Wales the diseases 
named in the first column of the table (page 344), were the most 
prolific causes of deaths. 



344 



HYGIENE. 



ENGLAND AND WALES, 1899. 

DEATHS FROM VARIOUS CAUSES TO 10,000 DEATHS FROM ALL CAUSES. 

Bronchitis . . . 880 | Influenza 213 

Phthisis ... . -729 Whooping cough . . . . 174 

Pneumonia . . . 685 Measles 172 

Old age ... . . 541 Diphtheria . . . . . . 160 

Diarrhoea, Dy sen ery . 511 Enteric fever 108 

Cancer ... . . 452 Scarlet fever 64 

Apoplexy . . . 327 Small-pox 3 

The diseases in the second column are given in order to 
indicate their proportional share of the total number of deaths. 

The proper plan of stating the death-rate from a given disease 
is in terms of the population, or better still sub-divided into death- 
rates from the disease for different age-groups as in the table on 
page 340, if the number of deaths is not too small to admit of this. 
The importance of stating the death-rate for different age-groups is 
greatest for such diseases as diarrhoea, whooping cough, and measles, 
in which most of the deaths occur at ages under five. In the 
following table are given the death-rates from the causes of death 
which are most important, either from their magnitude, or because 
of their preventible character : 

ENGLAND AND WALES, 1899. DEATH-RATE PER 1,000 PERSONS LIVING. 



Small-pox 


005 


Intemperance 


09* 


Bronchitis 


1-61 


Measles 


'32 


Cancer 


'83 


Pneumonia 


1-26 


Scarlet fever 


12 


Phthisis .. 


I- 34l 


Gastro-enteritis 


61 


Influenza 


'39 


Other tubercular 




Bright' s disease . . 


29 


Whooping cough 


'32 


diseases 


58) 


A cci dents 


'59 


Diphtheria 


29 


Premature birth . . 


58 


III defined and not 




Enteric fever 


20 


Old age .. 


99 


specified causes . . 


'73 


Typhus fever 


ooi 


Apoplexy 


60 






Cholera 


04 


Convulsions 


'57 






Diarrhoea, Dysentery 


'94 


Valvular disease of 




A 11 causes . . 


18-33 






heart . . 


38 







Determination of Longevity. We have hitherto considered 
only death-rates, i.e. the number dying each year out of each i,oooof 
population. The mean duration of life involves another aspect of 
the same problem. Although nothing is more uncertain than the 
duration of individual life, the duration of life for the entire 
community is subject to so little variation that annuities and life 
assurance can be made the subject of exact calculations. Of the 
tests employed to measure the duration of human life the most 
commonly employed is the mean age at death.! 



Mean age at death 



This is a fair method 



sum of ages at death. 
number of deaths, 
of stating the average longevity of a particular group of persons, if 
the group is sufficiently large to avoid the possible error caused by 
paucity of data (page 349). But it would be entirely unsafe to 
assume that by this means a safe standard of comparison between 

* The death-returns greatly understate the actual death-rate from this cause, 
f There is no general agreement as to the exact sense in which the words 
average and mean should be used. They are used here interchangeably. 



VITAL STATISTICS. 345 

two groups can be formed. Thus in 1890 it was stated that the 
mean age at death of workmen was 29 30 years, of the well-to-do 
classes 55 60 years. This statement throws no lighten the relative 
vitality of the two classes under comparison. The well-to-do 
classes consist largely of those whose working days are past ; and 
it is as untrustworthy to compare their mean age at death with that 
of workmen, as it would be to base any conclusion on the fact that 
mean age at death of bishops is much higher than that of curates. 
The mean age at death is lowest in countries with a high birth-rate. 
Hence it would be very fallacious to compare the mean age at 
death in England and France. 

The probable duration of life (vie probable) is a term some- 
times employed to denote the age at which any number of children 
born into the world will be reduced to one half. In practice it can 
only be ascertained from a life-table. 

The true mean duration of life or expectation of life can only 
be ascertained from a Life Table, and this must therefore be briefly 
described. This is the true biometer, of equal importance in all 
inquiries connected with human life with the barometer or ther- 
mometer and similar instruments employed in physical research. 
The Life Table represents "a generation of individuals passing 
through time." The data required for its construction are the 
number and ages of the living, and the number and ages of the 
dying, i.e. the data required for ascertaining the death-rate for each 
year of life. Theoretically the best plan for forming a Life Table 
would be to observe a million children, all born on the same day, 
through life, entering in a column (headed l x ) the number who 
remain alive at the end of each successive year until all have died ; 
and in a second column (headed d x ) the number dying before the 
completion of each year of life. This method is impracticable, 
and were it otherwise, the experience would be obsolete before it 
could be utilised. The method employed in constructing the 
national Life Tables for England is, without tracing the history 
of individuals through life, to assume that the population being 
given by the census returns and the death-rate for each age for a 
given decennium being known, that the same death-rate will 
continue during the remainder of the lives of the population 
included in the census returns. 

The total mean number living and the total number dying for 
a given age-period are known. The mean chance (p x ) of living 
one year during this age-period is found by the fraction 

Population - \ Deaths __ , 
Population + | Deaths ~~ ** 

It is usual to start with a million or 100,000 children at birth, 
and to make a separate table for the proportionate number of males 
and females at birth. Thus in Brighton in 1881-90 these were in 
the proportion of 51,195 and 48,805. Starting with 51,195 male 
infants at birth, and multiplying this number by '84608, the 
probability of surviving for one year, we obtain 5i,ig5x '84608 = 



346 



HYGIENE. 



43 315- For the second year of life, the probability of surviving 
was -93398 ; hence the number of survivors is 

43,315 X -93398 = 40,452, and so on. 

The general arrangement is shewn in the following example of 
a Life Table, which only gives the data at or near the two extremes 
of life, the intermediate figures having been omitted from consider- 
ations of space. 

BRIGHTON LIFE TABLE. MALES. 
(Based on the mortality of the 10 years 1881-90.) 









SUM OF THE NUMBER 










LIVING, OR YEARS OF LIFE 


MEAN AFTER LIFE- 


AGE. 


DYING IN EACH YEAR 
OF LIFE. 


BORN AND SURVIVING 
AT EACH AGE. 


LIVED AT EACH AGE, 
X + I, AND UPWARDS, TO 
THE LAST AGE IN THE 
TABLE. 


TIME (EXPECTATION 
OF LIFE) 

AT EACH AGE. 


X 


d x 


I* 


2/* + i 


e x 


o 


7,880 


51-195 


2,206,174 


43^9 


I 


2,863 


43,315 


2,162,859 


50-43 


2 


996 


40-452 


2,122,407 


52^6 


3 


733 


39-456 


2,082,951 


53^9 . 


4 


440 


38,723 


2,044,228 


53-29 


97 


12 


29 


43 


,1-60 


98 


7 


17 


26 


i '53 


99 


4 


10 


16 


1-48 



The 43,315 males surviving to the end of the first year of life 
out of 51,195 born will each have lived a complete year in the first 
year, or among them 43,315 years. Similarly the 40,452 males will 
live among them 40,452 further complete years, and so on, until all 
the males started with become extinct at the age of 105. Evidently, 
therefore, the total number of complete years lived by the 51,195 
males started with at birth will be 

43,315 + 40452 + 39,456 + 38,723 + ....+ 10 + 6 + 4 + 3 + 2 + i 
= 2,206,174 years, this sum being obtained by adding together the 
numbers living at each age beyond (i.e. below on this table) the age 
in question right down to its last item. This number of years is 
lived by 51,195 males. Hence the number of complete years lived 
by, i.e. the expectation of life of, each male 

2,206,174. 

' '-? 43-09 years. 
5i,i95 

This is the curtate expectation of life. It deals only with the complete 
years of life, not taking into account that portion of life-time lived 
by each person in the year of his death, which may be assumed to 
be on an average half a year. Hence the complete expectation of life 
according to the above table is 43-59 years. 

In the following table the expectation of life (comptete) for 
various towns and for England is given : 



VITAL STATISTICS. 347 



LIFE TABLE. EXPECTATION OF LIFE AT BIRTH. 



English Life Table, 1838-54 (Farr) 
1871-80 (Ogle) 
1881-90 (Tatha 

London, 1881-90 (Murphy) . . 
Brighton, 1881-90 (Newsholme) 
Manchester City, 1881-90 (Tatham) 
Glasgow, 1881-90 (Chambers) . . 



Male. Female. 

39-91 .. 41-85 

41-35 .. 44-62 

43-66 . . 47-18 

40*66 . . 44-91 
43-59 



37-70 



Formulae of varying degrees of accuracy have been devised 
for giving in the absence of a Life Table an approximation to the 
expectation of life. 

Willich's Formula is as follows: If x = expectation of life, 
and a = present age, then x = % (80 - a). Thus, at the age of 50 years 
the expectation of life, according to this formula, is 20 years. By 
the English life-table for 1881-90 it was 18-82 for males, and 
20-56 for females. Farr's formula is based on the birth and 
death-rates. If b = birth-rate and d = death-rate per unit of popula- 
tion, then 



Expectation of life = ( X -$} -f- (-XT 



Thus b for England and Wales, 1889-98 = * * = "0303. 

1,000 

and d = J^Ii = -0884. 

1,000 

I - X ) 4- i - X I = 47 '2 years, as compared with the 

\3 '0303' \3 -01847 

expectation of life for 1881-90 shown in the above table. 

In a life-table the number out of which one dies annually j are 

the mean age at death ( identical 
and the expectation of life ) in value 

when the whole duration of life from birth to death is included 
in the calculation. This is only true for a stationary or life-table 
population, in which the number dying is assumed to be regularly 
replaced by a corresponding number of persons of the same age. 

Life Capital. The life-tables now in use are those based on 
the experience of 1881-90. The gain in any subsequent year, as in 
1900, may be ascertained as follows : the mean population and the 
death-rate for each age-group as 0-5, 5-10, etc., are calculated. 
Then the mean death-rate of the same community for 1881-90 is 
applied to this population. By this means the " calculated number" 
of deaths in 1900 is obtained. The difference between these numbers 
and the " actual number " obtained from the death-registers, gives 
the gain or loss during the year. Next multiply these differences 
by the mean expectation of life for the corresponding groups of 
years. By adding the gains thus ascertained and subtracting any 
losses, we obtain the net gain in " life-capital " (Tatham) during 
the year 1900. 



HYGIENE. 



Tests of the Health of a Community. i. The general 
death-rate is the test most commonly applied, and generally trusted. 
It has its limitations in this respect. It may usually be trusted 
in comparing a town or district for a single year with preceding 
years, as the age and sex distribution of a given population only 
changes slowly. But when comparison with other towns or 
districts is made, the possibility that erroneous conclusions may 
be drawn becomes considerable, (a) Before the death-rates of two 
districts can be compared, either this comparison must be made 
by means of death-rates for age-groups (0-5, 5-10, ... 65-75, etc.) 
or the factors of correction, the method of obtaining which is 
described on page 341, must be applied, (b) It must be ensured 
that in the two compared districts, an equal amount of correction 
has been made for deaths occurring in public institutions and 
among visitors (page 340). (c) Even when the above precautions 
are taken, it is conceivable that a town with a death-rate of 15 per 
1,000 may really be as healthy as another with a death-rate of 12 
per 1,000, though a statistical justification of this statement is a 
difficult task. 

Social conditions quite irrespective of the sanitary condition or 
the natural salubrity of a district have an important influence on 
the death-rate. Poverty and all that it connotes, necessarily involves 
a higher death-rate than occurs among the well-to-do. Furthermore, 
the domestic servants employed by the latter frequently die in 
districts other than those in which they are employed, without any 
possibility of the requisite correction being made. 

2. The zymotic death-rate is frequently quoted as a test of 
sanitary condition. This is a death-rate based on the deaths from 
the " seven chief zymotic diseases," small-pox, measles, whooping- 
cough, diphtheria, scarlet fever, fever (chiefly enteric), and diarrhoea. 
This death-rate should be entirely discarded, the death-rate from 
each infectious disease being separately stated. A high death-rate 
from enteric fever would be a much more serious reflection on the 
health of a town than a high death-rate for whooping-cough. 

The death-rate from each of these diseases in London and in 
England in 1899 was as follows : 

DEATH-RATE IN 1899 PER 1,000 LIVING. 

Small-pox 
Measles . . 
Scarlet fever 
Diphtheria 
Typhus . . 
Enteric fever 
Whooping cough 
Diarrhoea 

A statement of the death-rate from each of these diseases for a series 
of years is a much more trustworthy test than a similar statement 
for a single year, in which accidental causes may have caused a 
temporary increase, or than a statement of the average result for a 
series of years, which tends to conceal the epidemic variations of the 



i gland and Wales. 


London. 


005 


nil 


32 

12 


'47 
08 


29 

ooi 


'43 
nil 


'20 


18 


3 2 


38 


94 


92 



VITAL STATISTICS. 349 

disease in question. The danger of such averages has been well 
exposed by Chadwick in the remark that " a mean between the 
condition of Dives and Lazarus tends to make it appear that after 
all Lazarus has not so much to complain of." 

3. The infantile mortality (page 342) is a delicate test of mixed 
sanitary and social conditions, and stress may always be laid on it 
from these standpoints. The importance of comparing death-rates 
at other age-groups has already been explained. 

4. The most delicate and exact method, if all the data are 
accurate and complete, is to construct a Life Table, and ascertain 
the expectation of life in comparison with that of other communities. 

The preceding statistical tests of the salubrity of a community, 
and any others that may be available, should all, when practicable, 
be utilised ; and it should always be remembered that these tests, 
especially the general death-rate, are most trustworthy when 
contrasting the experience of a community with its past experience, 
and least trustworthy when contrasting its experience with that of 
others ; owing to the difficulty in the latter case of ensuring the 
avoidance of error arising from non ceteris paribus. 

Statistical Fallacies. If "fallacies" be regarded as 
synonymous with " errors," clearly they may occur at every step. 
They may be classified as errors of data, and errors of methods. 
The most important errors of data are erroneous estimates of 
population, and erroneous returns of deaths, especially in the 
direction of exclusion of certain deaths (page 340). Death-rates 
for short periods are relatively untrustworthy. The erroneous use 
of the mean age at death as a test of longevity has been mentioned 
(page 344). These are in part also errors of methods, and numerous 
mixed examples are given below. 

Errors from Paucity of Data frequently arise, the "fallacy 
of small numbers," a too hasty generalization, being the most 
common fault in medical writings, especially in therapeutics. The 
degree of approximation to the truth of a varying number of 
observations is estimated by means of Poisson's formula. 

p. = [total number of cases recorded in two groups. 

m = number in one group. 

n = number in the other group, so that //, = m + n. 

The extent of variation in the proportion of each group to the whole will 
vary within the proportions represented by 



and _ 
f* 

The larger the number of the total observations (/A), the less will be the 
value of 2A/^-^, and the less will be the limits of error in the simple 



proportion . 

Thus, of 147 cases of enteric fever, 17 died, a fatality of 11-4 per cent. The 
possible error is determined by the second half of the above formula 



V 



,420 , 

-i2 = -0746. 

3,176,523 



35 o HYGIENE. 

i.e. the possibility of error=-o746 to unity or 7-46 per cent. In other 
words, in a second series of cases of enteric fever under the same 
conditions as the above, the fatality may vary from 3-94 to 18-86 
per cent., a vague result which indicates that the first series cannot 
be regarded as establishing more than a primd facie case in favour 
of any special method of treatment that may have been adopted. 

Non ceteris paribus. The necessity that data to be compared 
shall be collected on a uniform plan, and be of a strictly comparable 
nature, is very frequently ignored. The conclusion that the 
administration of a given antiseptic is a valuable means of treating 
enteric fever is not demonstrated by the fact that the fatality in the 
series of cases thus treated is 7 per cent., while in another series 
treated without antiseptics it is 14 per cent., unless it is shown that 
the age and other previous conditions of the patients in the two 
cases were not widely different, and unless the series are sufficiently 
long to avoid the fallacy due to paucity of data. 

Errors from the Composition of Rates. If the death-rate 
of A having a population of 10,000 is 10 per 1000, and of B 
having a population of 20,000 is 15 per 1000, the combined death- 



rate is not - Jl_ = i2'5. To obtain the correct combined death- 
2 

rate, the number of deaths in A (=100) and in B ( = 300) must first 
be ascertained, and the death-rate on a population of 30,000 in which 
400 deaths occurred will then be found to be 13'3 per 1000. 

Errors from Stating Deaths in proportion to Total 
Deaths. There is nothing erroneous per se in stating the propor- 
tion of deaths at one age as a ratio of the total deaths at all ages, 
or the deaths from one cause as a ratio of the total deaths from all 
causes. It is a useful and in fact the only method practicable when 
it is required to give the proportion of one of these to the other. 
But beyond this, such a ratio cannot be trusted. For instance, the 
proportion of fatal accidents among male infants is 12*2, and among 
female infants 25-1 per cent, of the total fatal accidents in the male 
and female sex respectively. But it would be erroneous, if it were 
concluded from these figures that female are more subject to fatal 
accidents than male infants. The only conclusion that they justify 
is that at higher ages females are much less subject to fatal 
accidents than males. In actual facts, for every 1000 infants 
born, only 2-9 female as against 3-1 males die under one year of 
age as the result of accident. 

Again, suppose the case of two towns, A and B. A with 
a population of 10,000 has 150 annual deaths, of which 20 are 
caused by cancer; the general death-rate therefore being 15, and 
the death-rate from cancer 2-0 per 1000, while the deaths from 
cancer form ^ of the total deaths. B, with the same population 
as A, has 300 deaths, its death-rate being 30 per 1000, and 40 
deaths from cancer, its cancer death-rate being 4-0 per 1000 ; while 
the proportion of the deaths from cancer to the total deaths is 
& as before. It is useful to know in regard to each of these 
individual communities that cancer causes & of its total mortality, 



VITAL STATISTICS. 351 

but no comparison between the two is practicable on this basis. 
The only proper comparison is between the death-rate from cancer 
per 1000 of population in A and B, which shows that it is twice 
as high in B as in A. A still more accurate method is to ascertain 
the number of deaths from cancer, and the number living at different 
age-groups, thus avoiding any errors due to variations in age and 
sex distribution of population. 

Errors as to Averages. The most common of these results 
from paucity of data (page 349). Note that the results obtained 
from an average cannot be applied to a particular case. The 
mean duration or expectation of life, obtained from a life-table, 
expresses with almost mathematical certainty, the number of years 
of life of the members of a community taken one with another, but is 
often not accurate when applied to a single individual. 

In Army statistics errors have arisen by failure to comprehend 
what is meant by the average strength of a force. The statistics 
must comprise the lives of a given number of persons as well 
as the deaths occurring among them for an entire year, or allowance 
must be made in this respect when required. 

Hospital statistics for similar reasons are frequently fallacious. 
Thus death-rates have been frequently given per 100 occupied 
beds, which are most misleading, as the frequency of succession 
of patients as well as the nature of the patients' complaints will 
vary greatly in different hospitals. The only proper method of 
stating hospital-returns is on the basis of the aggregate annual 
number of cases treated to a termination. The cases should be 
further subdivided according to age and sex and disease. Average 
death-rates for epidemic diseases when used to compare one community 
with another may give rise to erroneous conclusions. This is 
inseparable from the nature of such diseases. During the period 
under comparison, one town may happen to have, say, three 
epidemics, and the other four ; possibly if two or three additional 
years had been added to the series, the place of the two towns 
would have been reversed as regards their average death-rate 
from the disease in question. The proper plan is to give the 
death-rates from the epidemic disease for every year recorded, to 
draw a curve of these death-rates for the two towns on the same 
scale, and to compare the height, the variations of height, and 
the trend of the curve in each instance. ' 



INDEX, 



ACARUS SCABIEI .. .. 276 

Achorion Schonleinii . . . . 276 

Acne 161 

Aerated Waters 46 

Ague (see Malaria) 
Air Bacteria in .. 109,121 
Composition, Properties of 100 
Contagia and .. 109,114 
Degree of Moisture of 119, 128 
Gaseous and Other Im- 
purities of . . . . in 
Examination of .. .. 126 
Moisture of . . . . 234 

In Soil 221 

Suspended Impurities of . . 105 
Temperature of .. 119,128 

of Mountains . . . . 228 

Purification of .. .. 129 

Air-space, amount required . . 142 

Alcohol .. 55 

Amines process . . . . . . 191 

Ammonia in Air . . . . 101 

in Water . . . . 86 

Amyloids 7 

Amylaceous Foods . . . . 19 

Anopheles (see Mosquito) 

Anthrax . . . . . . 274, 306 

Anticyclones . . . . . . 233 

Antidiphtheritic Serum 268,299 

Antisyphonage . . . . . . 174 

Antill Trap 180 

Apjohn's Formula . . . . 242 

Arnott's Valve . . . . . . 149 

Arrowroot . . . . . . 19 

Arsenic in Beer . . . . 62 

in Wall Papers . . 214 

in Clothing . . . . 272 

Artesian Wells . . . . ' . . 71 

Artificial Ventilation . . . . 152 

Relative Value 154 

Ascaris . . . . . . . . 278 

Ash-pits . . . . . . . . 199 

Aspect . . . . . . . . 201 

Atavism 246 



B 
BACTERIA.. 



273 



Bacterial Methods, Sewage 

Treatment 192 

Ballard's Researches . . . . 303 

Barley 18 

Barometers 237 

Barometric Pressure .. .. 231 

Baths 262 

Beaufort's Scale .. .. 243 

Beef 10 

Beer 61 

Bell-trap 180 

Benham's Gas Burners .. 157 

Berkefeld Filter . . . . ' 98 

Beverages . . . . . . 46 

Bilharzia Haematobia . . . . 277 

Birds, Flesh of n 

Birth-rate 339 

Black Death i 

Bonds, English, Flemish . . 205 

Borax and Boric Acid . . . . 44 

Boyle's Mica Valve . . . . 149 

Bowels, Attention to . . . . 248 

Brandy . . . . . . . . 63 

Bread, brown and white 17, 41 

Bricks 205 

Broad Irrigation . . . . 192 

Burnett's Solution .. .. 327 

Butter 14 

Buys Ballot's Law . . . . 232 



CAFFEINE . . . . . . 48 

Calorigen Stove 157 

Carbohydrates . . . . . . 6 

Carbolic Acid as Disinfectant.. 327 

Carbon Filters 97 

Carbonic Acid in Air .. 102, in 

estimation of . . 126 

Carbonic Oxide .. .. ".. 112 

Calorie 32 

Carpets 218 

Cement 213 

Cereal Foods 15 

Cesspools 183 

Cheese 13 

Chicory 50 

Chigoe 277 

Chlorides in Water 81 



353 



PAGE 

Chlorine as Disinfectant . . 324 


E PAGE 


Cholera 92,225,302 


EARTH-CLOSETS 195 


Cisterns . . . . , . . . 76 


Eggs ii 


Clarke's Process . . . . 94 


Ellison's Bricks .. .. .. 151 


Soap Test . . . . 79 


Endemic Diseases . . . . 289 


Climate . . . . . . . . 227 


Enteric Fever . . . . 91, 224, 300 


Closets 1 68 


Epidemic Diarrhoea . . 26, 225, 302 


Clothing . . . . . . . . 265 


Epidemic Diseases . . . . 289 


Coal Gas . . . . . . 115 


Erysipelas .. .. 110,305 


Cocoa . . . . . . . . 51 


Excreta . . . . . . . . 165 


Cod Liver Oil . . . . . . 14 


Exercise . . . . . . . . 249 


Coffee . . . . . . . . 50 


Expectation of Life . . . . 346 


Cols . . . . . . . . 233 




Comparative Mortality Figures 342 




Concrete . . . . . . . . 207 


p 


Condiments . . . . . . 45 




Condy's Fluid . . . . . . 325 
Conservancy Methods . . . . 194 
Constipation . . . . . . 248 


FARCY (see Glanders) 
Farr's Formula . . . . . . 347 
Fats 6 


Constitution . . . . . . 245 


Favus . . . . . . . . 276 


Consumption (see Tuberculosis) 


Fermented Drinks . . . . 55 


Container 169 


Filaria . . . . . . . . 278 


Cooking . . . . . . . . 339 


Filters . . . . . . . . 97 


Cooper's Ventilators . . . . 149 


Filtration . . . . . . . . 95 


Corrosive Sublimate as Disin- 


Fire Grates . . . . . . 159 


fectant . . . . . . 327 


Fish . . . . . . . . ii 


Cotton . . . . . . . . 270 


Dangers of . . . . . . 26 


Cream .. .. .. .. 15 


Flax . . . . . . . . 270 


Cyclones . . . . . . . . 232 


Fleas . . . . . . . . 277 


Cysticercus Cellulosse .. 23,279 


Flesh Food . . . . . . 9 




Floors . . . . . . . . 217 




Flour 16 


D 


Flukes (see Trematoda) 




Fomites . . . . . . . . 299 


D-TRAP .. 169 


Food . . . . . . . . 4 


Damp, Cause of .. .. .. 211 


Diseases due to . . 23 


Damp-proof Course . . . . 210 
Death-rate . . . . . . 2 


Heat value of . . . . 32 
Preparation and Preserva- 


Crude .. .. 340 


tion of . . . . . .38, 43 


Corrected . . . . 342 


Relation of, to Mechanical 


Zymotic . . 297, 348 


Work 36 


Decomposed Meat . . . . 24 


Variations from Climate, 


Demography . . . . . . 335 
Density of Population . . . . 343 


Age, &c. . . . . . . 29 
Vegetable and Animal . . 31 


Destructors . . . . . . 200 


Forests and Climate . . . . 229 


Dew Point . . . . . . 241 


Formalin . . . . . . . . 44 


Diarrhoea, Epidemic . . . . 302 


and Formaldehyde as 


Diet 29 


disinfectants.. .. 326 


Dietaries . . . . . . . . 33 


Fortin's Barometer . . . . 238 


Diffusion .. .. .. .. 129 


Fruits . . . . . . . . 21 


Diphtheria .. .. 225,298 


Fuel 161 


Diseased Animals, Meat of . . 23 


Fungi . . . . . . . . 20 


Disinfection . . . . . . 324 




Distillation . . . . . . 94 




Drainage !66 


G 


of Soil 226 




Drains 177 


GAERTNER'S BACILLUS .. 25 


Examination of . . . . 180 


Galton's Stove . . . . . . 155 


Drugs ..54 


Gas Stoves . . . . 157, 161 


Dust in Air . . . . . . 105 


Gelatin . . . . . . . . 9 


Dust-bins 199 


Gin 63 


Dyspepsia . . . . 28, 248 


Glanders . . . . . . . . 304 



354 



INDEX. 



PAGE 


PAGE 


Glaisher's Tables . . . . 241 


K 






Gluten .. .. 


KOCH'S POSTULATES . . . . 285 


Gout .. .. 28 '59 




Goux System J 94 




Grave-yards, Air of .. II8 


L 


Green Vegetables . 2O - 42 




Ground- water 222 


LATRINES.. .. .. .. 174 


Gully-trap .. 167,180 


Laveran . . . . . . . . 282 




Lead in Water . . . . 82, 90 




Workers in . . . . 108 


H 


Lice (see Pediculi) 




Liebig's Extract of Meat . . -10 


HABITS 2 47 


Life Capital . . . . . . 347 


Haffkine's Cholera Vaccine .. 228 


Tables .. .. .. 345 


Hardness of Water . . . . 79- 9 


Linen . . . . . . . . 270 


Heat, kinds of ., .. . . 159 


Lysol as Disinfectant . . . . 327 


Hendon Disease ....... 2 7 




Heredity .... .... . . 2 -45 




Hermite Process.. .. .... . . J-9* 


M- . .- 


Hopper-closets 17 
Hot Water Supplies . . . . 163 


. 


Pipes .. ..162 


MACARONI . . . . . . 17 


House Construction . . . . 209 


Main Sewers 183 


Drainage 105 


Maize . . . . . . 18 


Materials of Construction 


Malaria 91,224,307 


of .. .. -.205 


Mallein . . . . . . . . 304 


Position of . . . . 201 


Malt 18, 62 


Refuse *9% 


Malted Bread . . . . . . 17 


Slops l6 5 
Humidity, absolute and relative 235 


Margarine . . . . . . 15 
McKinnell's Ventilator . . 149 


Measurement of .. 240 


Metabolism .. .. .. 6 


Hydatids 2 79 


Measles . . . . . . . . 297 


Hydrocarbons . . . . . 6 


Meat 9 


Hydrophobia 35 


Diseased . . . . . . 24 


Hygrometers .. .. 101,240 


Tinned . . . . ' . . 25 




Parasites in . . . . 23 




Meat Poisoning . . - . . . . 25 


1 


MetchnikofF s. Theory . :'~ . . 289 




Meteorological Observations . . 237 


IDIOSYNCRASY. 246 


Metallo-keramic Joint .. .. 177 


Illuminants '.-.. . * .. i*5 


Miasm .. .. - .-. .. 285 


Immunity . . , . . 287 


Microbes (see Bacteria) 


Incubation Periods . . . 287 


Microscoporon Audouini . . 275 


Infantile Mortality . . . 34 2 


Milk .... .. .. .. 12 


Infective Diseases . . . 284 


and Disease 26, 296, 299, 301 


of Animals . . 24 


Boric Acid in . . . . 44 


Infectious Diseases, Hospitals for 320 
Notification of 338 


Souring of 274 
and Tuberculosis . . . . 311 


Influenza 39 


Mineral Waters 47 


Insects and Disease . . . . 281 


Mortar . . . . . . . . 206 


Intermittent Downward Filtra- 
tion 192 


Mosquito 282,308 
Moule's Closet 195 


Iron in Water 83 


Mountain Climate . . . . 228 


Isobars 231 


Mutton .. .. ..." .. 10 


Isolation 319 




Isothermal Lines . . . . ^ 230 




t! * > ** 


N 


J 






NATURAL VENTILATION . . . 147 


TENNER'S DISCOVERIES.. .. 293 


Relative value 154 





INDEX. 


355 




PAGE R 


PAGE 


Nematoda . . T : . 


.. 278 






Nitrogen . ." 


.. 274 


RABIES -(see Hydrophobia) 




Nitrates in Water 


81 


Rainfall 


235 


Nitrification 


IQ2, 220 


Rain Gauge 


242 


Nitrogenous Foods 


5 


Water 


6 7 


Notification of Consumption 


314 


Pipes 


1 66 


Infectious Diseases 


318,338 


Rats and Plague 


306 


Trade Diseases 


337 


Registration of Births and 








Deaths 


337 






Relapsing Fever .. .. 28, 


300 







Respiration . . . . 102 


H3 






Rest 


257 


OATMEAL 


17 


Rheumatic Fever . . 225 


306 


Obesity 


28 


Rickets 


28 


Occupation and Mortality 


343 


Ringworm 


275 


Offensive Trades 


120 


Rivers 


72 


Oidium albicans. . 


275 


Roasting 


38 


Oils 


.. 4 6 


Roofs 


208 


Onion 


20 


Rum 


63 


Over-feeding 


.. 28 


Rye 


18 


Oxygen in Air 


100 






Oxygen Absorbed 


.. 86 






Oxyuris 


.. 278 


S 




Oysters and Disease . . 


.. 291 






Ozone .%-.- 


IOI 


SACCHAROMYCE FES 


275 






Sago .. .. .. 


19 






Salts as Food 


7 


P 




Saprophytes" 


286 






Scarlatina or Scarlet Fever 


296 


PAN-CLOSETS 


169 


Schools, Closure of 


322 


Pandemics 


. . 289 


Scott Moncrieff Process 


192 


Parasites 


.. 276 


Scrofula . . 


316 


in Meat 


23 


Scurvy . . " . . . . " . . 2, 27 


Pasteur-Chamberland Filter 


.. 98 


Seasonal Incidence of Diseases 


289 


Pasteurization of Milk . . 


13, 312 


Sea Relation to Climate 


229 


Pediculi 


.. 277 


Sebaceous Glands 


260 


Personal Hygiene ..245, 


2^7 260 


Semolina . . 


17 


Pettenkofer's Method . . 


*J / t <>w 

. . 126 


Septic-tank 


i93 


Phagocytosis 


.. 287 


Sewage Disposal of 


190 


Phosphorus, in Food . . 


5 


Dry and Wet Methods 




Workers with 


.. 108 


of Removal of 


197 


Phthisis 


225, 310 


Sewers 183 


184 


Piles . . 


. . 248 


Air of 


117 


Plaster . . . . * 


212 


Problems as to flow in . . 


187 


Plague .. ..*" ..'* 


28l, 305 


Shell-fish arid Disease 


291 


Pneumatic System, Lierniir 


.. I8 3 


Sheringham's Valve .. 


J 5i 


Poisson's Formula 


349 


Shone Systerii 


186 


Population, Density of . . 


343 


Sinks 


167 


Estimation of 


336 


Silk . . ' 


270 


Pork 


ii 


Sleep 


258 


Porter-Clarke Process . . 


95 


Slop-closets 


174 


Portland Cement 


.. 206 


Small- pox.. .. .. 2 


, 292 


Potato 


20 


Smoke Nuisance. . 


1 60 


Privy or Midden System 


196 


Test 


181 


Proof Spirit 


.. 6 4 


Soap . . " 


261 


Proteids 


5 


Soil .. .. ,. 


219 


Propulsion, Ventilation by 


153 


Diseases in Relation to . . 


224 


Puerperal Fever 


.. 306 


Drainage of ..";. 


226 






Soil-pipe . . . . . . 


174 


Q 




Spices . . " 


46 






Spirits 


63 


QUARANTINE 


.. 320 


Springs .. 


68 



356 



INDEX. 



PAGE 

Starch, Detection of . . 19 

Starvation . . . . . . 27 

Statistical Fallacies . . .* 349 

Steam as Disinfectant . . . . 329 

Stoves , 157, 161 

Streets, Width of . . . . 203 

Sugar 21 

Sulphuretted Hydrogen .. 112 

Sulphurous Acid (Disinfectant) 325 

Summer Diarrhoea . . . . 225 

Sunshine Recorders . . . . 243 

Sweat Glands . . . . . . 260 

Sweating Sickness . . . . i 

Sylvester's Method .. .. 150 

Synoptic Map ... . . . . 231 

Sy phonic Closet.. .. .. 172 



TANNIN .. .. .. .. 49 

Tapeworms . . . . . . 279 

Tapioca . . . . . . . . 19 

Tea 30, 47 

Temperature of Rooms .. .. 158 

Tetanus . . . . . . . . 304 

Thermometers, Maximum and 

Minimum . . . . . . 239 

Thermometers, Dry and Wet 

Bulb 240 

Thrush 275 

Tight Lacing . . . . . . 267 

Tinea . . . . . . . . 276 

Tobacco . . . . . . . . 54 

Tobin's Tubes . . . . . . 152 

Toxins . . . . . . . . 286 

Trades and Disease .. 107, 118 

Offensive . . . . . . 120 

Traps 179 

Trematoda . . . . . . 277 

Trichina Spiralis . . . . 23 

Trichophyton . . . . . . 275 

Trough-closets . . . . . . 174 

Tuberculin Test .. .. .. 311 

Tuberculosis . . . . . . 309 

Prevention of . . 314 

Tuberculous Meat . . . . 24 

Typhoid Fever (see Enteric Fever) 

Typhus Fever . . . . . . 300 



V-SHAPED DEPRESSIONS 

Vaccination 

Valve-closets 

Variola (see Small-pox) 

Veal .. 

Vegetables 

Ventilation 

Methods of . . 
Problems as to 
By Propulsion 



233 
293 

170 

10 

20 

132 

146 

153 



PAGE 

Ventilation by Introduction of 

Warmed Air . . 155 

Of Mines . . . . 156 

Of Drains . . . . 178 

Vermicelli 17 

Vernier 238 

Vinegar 46 

Vital Statistics 335 



w 

WALL-PAPER . . . . . . 214 

Walls of House . . . . . . 210 

Wanklyn's Ammonia Process . . 86 

Warming of Houses . . . . 159 

Wash - out and Wash - down 
Closets . . . . . . . . 172 

Waste-pipes . . . . . . 166 

Water 65 

As food 8 

Analysis of . . . . 84 

Classification of supplies 

of 73 

Constant and Inter- 
mittent Services . . 76 
Enteric Fever and . . 72 
Hardness of . . . . 79 

Impurities of .. 78, 89, 90 
Sources of . . 66 

Storage and Delivery of . . 74 
in Soil . . . . . . 222 

Purification of . . . . 94 

Water-closets . . . . . . 168 

Water-gas, Carburetted 

Water-test of Drains . 

Weather Forecasting . 

Weissman on Heredity. 

Wells 

Whiskey 

Whooping Cough 

Widal Reaction . . 

Willich's Formula 

Windows 

Winds 

Wines 

Wool 

Wool-sorters' Disease . . 

Work, Amount done 

Relation of Food to 

Wort 

Writers' Palsy 



.. 115 

.. 182 

. . 234 

. . 246 

.. 69 

.. 63 

. . 298 

. . 301 

347 
.. 216 
131, 230, 243 
.. 62 
.. 269 
. . 274 
252 
36 
62 
252 



Y 

Yellow Fever 

Z 
Zygophyta 



275 



I 
zz > 

. I W 



UNIVERSITY OF TORONTO 
LIBRARY 



Acme Library Card Pocket 

Under Pat. " Ref. Index File." 
Made by LIBRARY BUREAU 




