Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 




Schlesinger Library 
Radcliffe College 



Purchased with funds 

contributed by the 

Radchffe Cuhnary Friends 



V 



not 






GUIDE-BOOK 

To Natural, Hygienic ^ 
Humane Diet 



A Comprehensive 

GUIDE-BOOK 

To Natural, Hygienic £^ 
Humane Diet 



By 

SIDNEY H. BEARD 

Editor of 
"The Herald of the Golden Age" - 









alLflfcfllfllfrii 



New York 
Thomas Y. Crowell ^ Co. 

Publishers 






' ,< 



Copyright, 1900 
by Sidney H. Beard 

Copyright, 1902 
by Thqmas Y. Crowell ^ Co. 

PywjsRiD, May, 190a 






PREFACE 

THE subject of Food- Reform is beginning 
to be seriously considered by thoughtful 
and enlightened persons in all parts of the 
world, and the extent of this newly awakened 
interest is increasing every day. The fact that 
the nature, quality, and quantity of our daily 
food largely determines our physical, mental, 
and spiritual condition, and that consequently 
our own welfare and that of our children de- 
pends upon our holding correct ideas concern- 
ing diet and upon our living in accordance with 
the same, is becoming generally recognized. 

In addition to this, the realization that the 
abandonment of the carnivorous habit by the 
Western Nations would bring about the eman- 
cipation of the animal world from the system 
of ruthless tyranny and wholesale massacre 
which prevails in what are called Christian 
countries, is now exercising a powerful influence 
upon the minds of a large number of men and 

[V] 



PREFACE 

women who, in consequence of having reached 
a comparatively advanced stage of evolution, 
feel humanely disposed toward all creatures 
who share with them the gift of life upon this 
planet. Such souls cannot avoid the convic- 
tion that man was never intended by the Infi- 
nite Spirit to play the part of a remorseless and 
bloodthirsty oppressor toward the sub-human 
races. 

On every hand those who are laboring to 
bring about the adoption of dietetic customs 
which neither violate those laws of Nature that 
regulate our physical well-being nor outrage 
the humane sentiments of the " higher self" 
within us, are now met by earnest requests for 
information concerning the way of escape from 
the bondage of ancestral barbaric custom and 
the path to a healthy and harmonious existence. 
" How may we live out our full length of days, 
joyfully and vigorously, instead of dying of dis- 
ease or premature senile decay ? " " How may 
we avoid the painful maladies which afflict our 
friends and neighbors, and escape the sur- 
geon's knife ? " " How may we be delivered 
from participation in the guilt of needlessly 
shedding innocent blood, and wash from our 

[vi] 



PREFACE 

soul-garments the stain of the shambles ? ** 
" How may our dinner-tables be sufficiently 
spread with the kindly fruits of the earth, in- 
stead of with the remains of fellow-creatures 
who love life and happiness just as we do ? ** 
Such questions as these are being asked by 
thousands of earnest souls, and it is to help 
such inquirers that this guide-book is published. 
My aim has been to give useful, practical, 
reliable and up-to-date information in a concise 
form, avoiding superfluous matter and " fadd- 
ism," and only supplying such recipes as are 
not so elaborate as to require the skill of a 
French "chef" for their interpretation. By 
spending a few hours in the thoughtful study 
of the following pages, and by practising this 
reformed system of diet and cookery in daily 
domestic life for a few weeks, any intelligent 
person can master the chief principles of Food- 
Reform and become qualified to prepare and 
provide natural, hygienic, and humane diet 
which should satisfy the taste of an ascetic or a 
bon vivanty provided that its possessor be not 
hopelessly enamoured of the "flesh-pots of 
Egypt " and the taste of cooked blood. A 
system of living which is enthusiastically recom- 

[vii] 



PREFACE 

mended by thousands of disinterested advocates 
who speak from experience, which comes to us 
so full of promise both for ourselves and others, 
which bids fair to humanize and transform So- 
ciety and to solve many of the world's social 
problems, and which is now endorsed by so 
many of the highest authorities in the medical 
world, merits such attention and study, and is 
worthy of a serious trial. 

As I am writing a Guide to reformed diet for 
domestic use — not an elaborate treatise to jus- 
tify it — I have refrained from introducing medi- 
cal and experimental testimony concerning the 
dangerous and injurious nature of flesh-food 
and the advantages of living upon the kindly 
fruits of the earth. Numerous works are ob- 
tainable which demonstrate that the principles 
and arguments upon which the Food-Reform 
Movement is based are supported by an array 
of scientific evidence which is more than suffi- 
cient to convince any unprejudiced, logical, and 
well-balanced mind. For such information I 
must refer my readers to other publications 
dealing with this phase of the subject — books 
and papers which are multiplying day by day, 
as the interest in the movement increases. 

[ viii ] 



PREFACE 

For many of the recipes contained in the fol- 
lowing pages I am indebted to certain of the 
members of the Order of the Golden Age, 
and to other workers in the Food-Reform 
Cause. Most of them are original, being the 
result of thoughtful experiment. All have 
been proved to be valuable, and they should, 
if carefully followed^ result in the production of 
dishes which will give satisfaction ; but if certain 
recipes do not commend themselves to some of 
my readers they must remember that human 
palates differ considerably, and must try other 
dishes which they may like better. 

In the hope that every reader of this book 
will make some sincere endeavor to seek eman- 
cipation from the barbaric habits which are 
still prevalent, and from that physical trans- 
gression into which our forefathers, at some 
period of the world's history, appear to have 
fallen with such disastrous consequences to 
themselves and their posterity, it is sent forth 
upon its humble but beneficent mission. Hav- 
ing proved that such a way of living is both possi- 
ble and desirable, some will, I feel sure, strive to 
induce their fellows to live as becomes the Chil- 
dren of God rather than as the beasts of prey. 

[ix] 



PREFACE 

Those who have reached that spiritual plane 
where the vital relationship of all sentient creat- 
ures is recognized, and who find it painful to 
contemplate the wanton and cruel slaughter 
which at present prevails throughout Christen- 
dom — involving the death of a million large 
animals every day — will instinctively experi- 
ence a longing to apprehend some way by 
which this inhumanity and injustice can be 
brought to an end. Such will be able to per- 
ceive the real significance of the twentieth-cen- 
tury crusade against Carnivorism. They will 
also feel individually constrained to co-operate 
in the great work of bringing about this benef- 
icent Reformation of thought and custom, and 
in giving to mankind the blessings that will 
result from it. 

Sidney H. Beard. 



[X] 



CONTENTS 






Page 


Animal Food, Substitutes for 


41 


Appliances, Labor-Saving 


131 


Artistic Cookery . . . . , 


22 


Christmas, What to do at . 


116 


Drinks, Summer and Winter 


112 


Fish, Substitutes for . 


51 


Flesh, Substitutes for . 


55 


Food, Chemical Composition of . 


142 


Food Values 


145 


Gravies and Sauces . . . , 


95 


Hygienic Information . . . , 


146 


Ideal Diet 


I 


Invalids, How to Feed 


> 34 


Luncheon Dishes . . . . 


86 


Moderation, A Plea for . . . 


19 


Physical Vitality . . . . < 


162 


Puddings and Desserts 


. 102 


Qualities, Medicinal and Dietetic . 


• 134 


Simple Savory Dishes . . . . 


66 


Simplicity, A Plea for . 


' 13 


[xi] 





CONTENTS 

Page 

Soups ...... 44 

Travelling, What to do when . . 29 
Useful Information . . . .119 

Vegetables, How to Cook . . .125 



[xii] 



I 

IDEAL DIET 

A NATURAL, hygienic, and humane diet 
is one which is in harmony with the 
Laws of Nature, the Laws of Health, and the 
Law of Love. The physical structure of man 
is declared by our most eminent biologists to 
reveal the indisputable fact that he is at this 
present day, as he was thousands of years ago, 
naturally a frugivorous (fruit-eating) animal. 
It is obvious, therefore, that our Creator's in- 
tention is that we should subsist upon the va- 
rious fhiits of the earth — not upon the prod- 
ucts of the shambles. 

The accepted scientific classification places 
man with the anthropoid apes, at the head of 
the highest order of mammals. These ani- 
mals bear the closest resemblance to human 
beings — their internal organs being practically 
identical with those of man — and in a natural 
state they subsist almost entirely upon nuts, 
seeds, and fruit. And those who have studied 



IDEAL DIET 

this subject thoroughly can hardly entertain 
any doubt that the more largely our diet con- 
sists of these simple products of nature, the 
more likely we shall be to enjoy health and to 
secure longevity. 

The number and variety of such fruits and 
seeds is very great, and recent discoveries have 
proved that nuts can, for the benefit of those 
who possess weakened digestive organs as a 
result of artificial living, be prepared in various 
ways which make them easily digestible and 
very savory when cooked. To such food may 
be added, for the sake of convenience and va- 
riety, pulses, cereals, macaroni, farinaceous sub- 
stances, vegetables of various kinds, and ani- 
mal products, such as milk, butter, cheese and 
eggs. 

I would record my personal conviction — a 
conviction formed by seven years of abstinence 
from flesh-food, by continuous study, obser- 
vation and experiment during that period, and 
by the knowledge obtained through helping 
hundreds of men and women to regain health 
by reforming their habits of living — that a well- 
selected fruitarian diet will prove beneficial to 
all who seek health of body and souL The 

[2] 



IDEAL DIET 

numerous supplementary foods mentioned in 
this book, which cannot strictly be considered 
as being fruitarian in their nature, are recom- 
mended because of the difficulty which is ex- 
perienced by many persons in adapting them- 
selves suddenly to such a simple style of living 
as Nature would dictate, or in obtaining ad- 
equate provisions in their present domestic 
environment. Through lack of knowledge, 
mistakes are often made by those who com- 
mence to abstain from flesh-food; certain 
necessary elements are often omitted from 
their new diet and failure sometimes results; 
therefore variety is essential for beginners to 
insure complete nourishment. The majority 
of carnivorous human beings must be helped 
forward to a purer and better way of living by 
successive steps, and it has been found that the 
policy of proceeding slowly but surely " a step 
at a time " is the wisest in the end. 

The first step must be abstinence from the 
flesh and blood of animals and birds, and the 
adoption instead of what is popularly known 
as " mixed vegetarian diet." This will gradu- 
ally lead in course of time to a distaste for fish 
— which should at first, however, be retained 

[3] 



IDEAL DIET 

as an article of food by those who are com- 
mencing to reform their ways, until experience 
has been gained, and any serious domestic dif- 
ficulties which may exist have been removed. 
Then this mixed vegetarian diet should be 
purified, as the perverted taste becomes re- 
stored to its natural condition, until it is largely 
" fruitarian " in its nature. Circumstances and 
individual taste must regulate the rate of this 
progress toward what may be termed Edenic 
living ; I can but show the way and give help- 
ful information. 

A FEW of the reasons which lead me to 
advocate " Fruitarianism " as being de- 
sirable are as follows : 

Persons who live principally upon fruits of 
all kinds are not often tempted, like those who 
partake of savory and toothsome dishes, to eat 
after the needs of the body are satisfied. They 
thus escape one of the chief causes of disease 
and premature death — excessive eating. Even 
if fruit should be taken in excessive quantity, 
very little harm results from such indiscretion. 
They also avoid, to a great extent, the temp- 
tation to eat when they are not hungry, and 

[4l 



IDEAL DIET 

thus they are more likely to obey the dictates 
of natural instinct concerning when to eat. 

Fruitarians lessen the amount of work put 
upon the digestive organs, and consequently 
have more energy to expend upon mental or 
physical labor. The grape sugar contained in 
sweet fruits — such as bananas, figs, and raisins 
— is assimilated almost without effort and very 
quickly, while starch food makes a demand 
upon our vitality before it is transformed into 
grape sugar, and is, in some forms, almost as 
difficult to digest as flesh. If taken in exces- 
sive quantity it often causes trouble. 

The juices of sweet fruits have the power of 
eliminating urates and other earthy deposits 
from the blood and tissues, as they act as sol- 
vents. Fruit therefore tends to prevent and 
to remove the cause of old age, gouty and 
rheumatic disorders. Fruit in general, how- 
ever, does not contain the earthy and cal- 
careous matter which is found in flesh and 
which produces ossification of the arteries and 
premature senility. 

Fruitarian diet — if well chosen and contain- 
ing all the elements required by the body — 
prevents the development of the "drink 

[5] 



IDEAL DIET 

crave," and it will cure nearly all cases if prop- 
erly and wisely adopted. Dipsomania is in- 
duced by eating stimulating food such as flesh, 
by malnutrition, or by eating to excess. 

Pure blood is secured by living principally 
upon fruits and nuts, and consequently there 
is little or no tendency to develop inflam- 
matory maladies. The wounds of Turkish 
and Egyptian soldiers have been found to heal 
three times as quickly as those of shamble-fed 
Englishmen ; the reason being that the former 
live chiefly upon dates, figs and other fruits, 
milk and lentils. A wonderfiil immunity from 
sickness is enjoyed by those who live in accord 
with Nature's plan ; microbes and disease 
germs do not find a congenial environment in 
their bodies. 

Fruitarian diet — if complete — tends to lessen 
irritability, to promote benevolence and peace 
of mind, to increase the supremacy of the 
" higher self," to clear and strengthen spiritual 
perception, and to lessen domestic care. 

Those who aspire to the attainment of the 
higher spiritual powers which are latent and 
undeveloped in Man, to cultivate the psychic 
or intuitive senses, and to win their way to 

[6] 



IDEAL DIET 

supremacy over their material environment, 
will find fruitarianism helpful in every respect. 
Such have only to try it intelligently in order 
to prove this truth. It may thus become an 
important factor in the great work of uplifting 
our race from the animal to the spiritual plane. 
Herein lies the great hope for mankind — ^in 
fact the only one — ^and already the harbingers 
of the " Coming Race *' are treading this earth, 
known, and recognized by those whose eyes 
have been opened to the vision of the higher 
and transcendent life. That which tends to 
accelerate the development of spirituality is 
worthy of our consideration and of our ad- 
vocacy. 

SUCH diet as is recommended in this book 
does not necessitate the horrible cruelties 
of the cattle-boat and the slaughter-house. It 
is much less likely to contain germs of disease 
than the dead bodies of animals which are fre- 
quently afflicted with tuberculosis, cancer, foot 
and mouth disease, incipient anthrax, swine 
fever and worms of various kinds. It is free 
from that potent cause of physical malady, uric 
acid — ^which is contained in all flesh — and from 

[7] 



IDEAL DIET 

" ptomaines," which develop in corpses quickly 
after death and often prove fatal to consumers 
of meat ; and it will be found, if wisely chosen 
and eaten in strict moderation, to produce a 
stronger body, a clearer brain, and a purer 
mind. The testimony of thousands of living 
witnesses, both in cold and warm climates — 
many of whom are medical men, or athletes 
who have accomplished record performances 
which demanded prolonged endurance and the 
exhibition of unusual stamina — bears evidence 
to this fact, and those who are desirous of 
commencing this more excellent way of living 
need not, therefore, fear that they are making 
a reckless or dangerous experiment. 

THE food which our Creator intended us 
to eat must be the safest and best for 
us. Man does not resemble either internally 
or externally any carnivorous animal, and no 
unprejudiced student of the subject can well 
escape the conclusion that, when we descend to 
the level of the beasts of prey by eating flesh, 
we violate a physical law of our being, and run 
the risk of incurring the inevitable penalty 
which Nature exacts for such transgressions. 

[8] 



IDEAL DIET 

This penalty is being dealt out with inexorable 
impartiality and with a lavish hand in the civil- 
ized lands of the Western world, where, in 
spite of the rapidly growing host of medical 
men and the wonderful discoveries and boast- 
ings of the materialistic devotees of unscru- 
pulous scientific research, such maladies as 
scrofula, cancer, lunacy, uric acid diseases, 
premature old age and other human ills are 
steadily increasing. And although the fact is 
not so apparent to the superficial observer, a 
still heavier punishment and loss is being suf- 
fered by those who err in this respect ; carnal 
food promotes carnal-mindedness, dims the 
spiritual vision, chains the soul to the material 
plane of thought and consciousness, and makes 
the complete supremacy of the " Spirit " over 
the " flesh " well-nigh impossible. 

It is natural for every man and woman to 
live at least a century. The fact that thou- 
sands have done so proves that the majority 
might attain this age if they would cease from 
transgressing Nature's laws. Seneca truly said, 
Man does not die, he kills himself." By 
eating to live," instead of " living to eat " — 
by introducing into our bodies a pure and vi- 

[9] 



(C 

it 



IDEAL DIET 

talizing stream of energy in the form of wisely 
chosen natural food, and by amending our 
ways generally in accordance with the dictates 
of wisdom, most of us may live to benefit the 
world by useful service when our faculties have 
become ripened and our minds have been 
stored by the teaching of experience. Instead 
of being in our dotage when we reach three- 
score years and ten, we should then be in our 
prime, and fitted to serve our generation and 
our brethren in the world. 

THOSE who decide to adopt this reformed 
system of diet will be fortified in their 
resolve if they are actuated by the powerful 
motive — " Loyalty to Principle *' instead of by 
reasons which, although in themselves sound 
and wise, are to some extent based merely 
upon self-interest. The desire to be just and 
humane, to lessen suffering and to live in ac- 
cordance with God's laws furnishes a much 
stronger incentive than the wish to escape dis- 
ease and to secure health and long life. 

The altruist or humanitarian who embraces 
the lofty ideal of helping forward the great 
work of lifting mankind to a higher plane of 

[ 10] 



IDEAL DIET 

experience, of delivering our Race from some 
of the worst evils with which it is afflicted, and 
at the same time of preventing the infliction 
of most cruel treatment and the death penalty 
in a most revolting form upon countless mill- 
ions of innocent animals, will either find a 
way resolutely to conquer the initial difficulties 
which confront those who make practical pro- 
test against the sin of carnivorism, or will, if 
necessary, cheerfully endure temporary incon- 
venience or discomfort "for Righteousness' 
sake." 

The would-be fruitarian should therefore 
commence by giving such preliminary study to 
the subject as will produce the conviction that 
flesh-eating is an unnatural habit for man, that 
it is totally unnecessary, that reliable medical 
and statistical evidence proves it to be gen- 
erally injurious, and often dangerous, and that 
it involves cruelty and bloodshed which are 
both barbarous and indefensible because quite 
needless. A deaf ear will then be turned to 
the warnings of those well-disposed friends 
who, because they are under the spell of an- 
cient fallacies or are ignorant concerning the 
nutritive advantages which the products of the 

[ XX ] 



IDEAL DIET 

earth possess over the products of the shambles, 
would seek to deter him from the path of self- 
reform by prophesying physical shipwreck and 
disaster. Popular superstition concerning ani- 
mal food is rapidly being swept away, and pub- 
lic opinion has already changed to such an ex- 
tent that several insurance companies will grant 
policies to abstainers from flesh on more favor- 
able terms than to any other section of the com- 
munity — teetotalers not excepted. Leaders of 
thought in every land are becoming impressed 
with the full import of this far-reaching refor- 
mation, and so many forces are now converging 
to influence and impel mankind in this direction 
that the " signs of the times " point most dis- 
tinctly to a rapidly approaching era in which 
Man will return to his original food, and by 
so doing enter into a much happier and more 
peaceful state of existence upon this planet. 



[ 12] 



II 

A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

SIMPLE meals and simple dishes involve 
less trouble in preparation and thus lessen 
that almost omnipresent source of unhappi- 
ness, domestic care; they are less likely to 
cause indigestion, and in a very short time 
they become most appreciated. Few persons 
perhaps realize how little they know concern- 
ing the true taste of many vegetable produc- 
tions; the majority have never eaten them 
separately or cooked in a proper manner. A 
cauliflower skilfully served as a separate course, 
either " au gratin " or with thin melted butter 
which is slightly flavored with a few drops 
of good vinegar, or with tomato sauce, has 
quite a different taste from that which is ex- 
perienced when it is mixed up with gravy, 
meat, potatoes, and other articles of food. 
Young green peas or new potatoes (steamed 
in their skins with some mint, and dried oflF in 
the oven so as to be " floury ") will, if eaten 

[ 13] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

with a little salt and butter, have a delicacy 
of flavor which is scarcely noticeable if they 
are served with a plate of meat, gravy, and one 
or two other vegetables. The same remarks 
apply to most vegetables and to many pre- 
pared dishes. 

IT is a mistake to think that a reformed diet 
necessarily involves a larger amount of 
cooking, for the reverse is the fact if simplicity 
is aimed at and its advantages are appreciated. 
An excellent lunch can be made of some well 
chosen cheese and a delicate lettuce (dressed 
with pure French olive oil, and a small quan- 
tity of French wine vinegar), followed by fresh 
and dried fruits such as bananas, almonds, 
raisins, and figs. Such a repast is inexpen- 
sive, highly nutritious, and easily digestible. A 
large variety of foreign cheeses are now obtain- 
able, so that even such a simple meal as this 
can be varied constantly. At almost all sea- 
sons of the year, delicate crisp lettuce can be 
had from our market gardeners. 

In most vegetarian households the custom 
of cooking for breakfast soon becomes dis- 
carded. Fresh and dried fruits, nuts, brown 

[ 14] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

bread, butter, and preserves are found to be 
quite sufficient as accompaniments to the 
morning cocoa or chocolate. French plums, 
figs, and other dried fruits, when carefully 
stewed in the oven for some hours, and served 
with whipped cream or sauce are very appetiz- 
ing and most nutritious. A small plate of 
porridge (stewed for two hours on the pre- 
vious day and eaten with cream), or some 
"grape nuts" eaten with boiled milk and 
sugar, or an egg occasionally, can be added 
so as to make a more solid meal. Such per- 
sons, however, as have been long accustomed 
to an elaborate breakfast consisting of bacon, 
eggs, and fish, because of the difficulty of ob- 
taining a mid-day substantial meal, will, perhaps, 
do wisely to substitute for these one of the 
cooked dishes which are numbered in the list 
of recipes under the heading of " Breakfast 
Dishes." 

ONE strong reason for urging simplicity is 
that, owing to the prevalent general 
ignorance concerning food values and the 
requisite amount of albumin, starch, sugar, fat, 
and other substances, required to keep the 

[15] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

human body in health, it is somewhat difficult for 
the semi-fruitarian, or vegetarian, to choose a 
properly balanced diet at first. Animal flesh 
contains very nearly the same chemical con- 
stituents as human flesh, and therefore, so far 
as correct chemical proportions are concerned, 
it must be admitted that until experience has 
been gained it is more easy for the food- 
reformer to make dietetic mistakes in this par- 
ticular respect than the flesh-eater. Many per- 
sons have hastily and thoughtlessly commenced 
to abstain from animal food, and have then 
brought upon themselves severe attacks of fer- 
mentation and dyspepsia by eating excessive 
quantities of starch in the form of porridge, 
bread and potatoes. Others have eaten such 
concentrated foods as haricots and lentils to 
repletion, being ignorant of the fact that they 
are so much more nutritious than lean beef 
that only a small quantity is needed for a suf- 
ficient meal. By partaking freely of fruit and 
vegetables at the same meal, instead of com- 
bining fruit with cereals, they have committed 
hygienic blunders, and, for want of proper in- 
struction, have hastily come to the conclusion 
that " vegetarian diet does not suit them," and, 

[ i6] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

returning to the flesh-pots, have henceforth 
blasphemed the evangel of dietetic reform, in- 
stead of profiting by the useful lesson Nature 
tried to teach them. 

The wisest plan is to make one's diet gen- 
erally as varied as possible, but not to mix 
many articles together at the same meal. And 
one of the most important facts to be borne in 
mind is that our food must contain a suflficient 
quantity of fat, of phosphates, and of proteid 
matter. These are found in nuts, olive oil, 
brown bread, pulse foods, macaroni, cheese, 
milk, and other products. 

Abstainers from flesh should begin to live 
to some extent (say two days a week) in picnic 
style, and the practice will soon become habit- 
ual. A picnic which is considered enjoyable 
in the woods or open fields will be found 
just as pleasant at home if the articles pro- 
vided are well chosen and tastefully prepared. 
Variety can be obtained by introducing such 
things as sandwiches made with mustard and 
cress, tomato paste, potted haricots, lentils, 
and scrambled eggs. Fresh and dried fruits, 
nuts, almonds, raisins, fruit-cakes, and cus- 
tard or other puddings provide useful addi- 

[ 17] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

tions ; and it will soon be found that the old- 
fashioned three- or four-course dinner which 
involves such laborious preparation is a need- 
less addition to life's many cares. 



[ i8] 



Ill 

A PLEA FOR MODERATION 

ONE of the most frequent mistakes made 
by those who commence to live upon a 
fleshless diet is that of eating too much — an 
error which is, perhaps, also committed by 
three-fourths of the general public. Often 
through ignorance of the fact that lean beef 
consists of water to the extent of nearly 
seventy-five per cent., and through having 
been brought up in the popular superstition 
that meat is the chief source of strength and 
stamina, they jump to the conclusion that they 
must consume large quantities of cereals and 
vegetables in order to make up for their ab- 
stinence from animal food. Certain establish- 
ments in England, labelled " Vegetarian Res- 
taurants," have, in the past, sometimes done 
considerable harm to the cause of food re- 
form by the unattractive, erroneous, and in- 
adequate manner in which they have repre- 
sented the fleshless diet, and they have also 

[ 19] 



A PLEA FOR MODERATION 

done much to encourage this particular form 
of blundering. To young clerks and others 
who require a large meal at a small cost, some 
have been in the habit of furnishing plates of 
food which cause the experienced food-re- 
former to gaze both in wonder and amazement 
— the quantity often being such as would al- 
most tax the digestive apparatus of an ostrich 
— to say nothing of the unappetizing way in 
which it was served. These restaurants are 
now being much improved, however, and 
many are already doing splendid work as cen- 
tres of instruction. 

Nothing does more injury to this move- 
ment than the discredit which is brought upon 
it by those who have upset themselves by 
over-eating, and who feel led to justify their 
defection by attacking the system they have 
forsaken. Among the numerous cases which 
have been brought to my notice I remember 
one of a minister's wife, who by partaking of 
seven substantial meals a day and finishing up 
at ten o'clock in the evening with cocoa, cheese 
and porridge, brought herself to such a state 
of nervous prostration that her doctor ordered 
her return to a flesh diet, "as she required 

[20] 



A PLEA FOR MODERATION 

nourishment." He described her case as one 
of " lack of nutrition," instead of preposterous 
over-feeding. 

A GOLD EN Rule for every food-reformer 
is this — Eat only when you are hungry ^ 
and never to repletion. Drowsiness and stu- 
por after a meal are sure signs of excess, and 
I cannot too strongly urge temperance and 
abstemiousness. During seven years' expe- 
rience of active work as an advocate of nat- 
ural and hygienic living, I have seldom heard 
of any person suffering any ill effects from eat- 
ing too little, whereas cases of the opposite 
sort have been rather numerous. There is 
one habit which characterizes ninety-nine per 
cent, of the centenarians of the world — abste- 
miousness ; however much their ways and cus- 
toms may have differed otherwise, in this one 
respect they are practically unanimous — de- 
claring that they have always been small eaters^ 
and have practised moderation in all things. 



[21 ] 



IV 

ARTISTIC COOKERY 

IN every household where a reformed diet is 
adopted, the effort should be made to pre- 
pare the meals in an artistic manner. If a dish 
is both skilfully cooked and tastefully served 
it is not only more enjoyable but more easily 
digested. The general custom in English 
homes is to serve vegetables in a clumsy and 
slovenly style, as they have hitherto been re- 
garded as being only of minor importance. In 
America more attention is paid to such things 
as legumes, vegetables, salads and fruits both 
in the homes and in the hotels, and it has been 
found quite easy to make such dishes look 
tempting and appetizing. 

ONE of the first lessons to be learned is 
how to fry rissoles, cutlets, potatoes, and 
the like quite crisp and free from any flavor of 
oil or fat. To do this a wire basket which will 
fit loosely into a frying-pan is necessary, and 

[22] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

It can be purchased at any good hardware store. 
" Nucoline " (cocoanut butter) is a well pre- 
pared form of vegetable fat, which keeps for 
an indefinite period, and is equally useful for 
making pastry — three quarters of a pound be- 
ing equal to one pound of butter. " Albene " 
and " Cocolardo " are similar productions, but 
where these cannot be obtained good olive oil 
should be used, although it is slightly more 
expensive. The temperature of the fat or oil 
must be past boiling-point, and should reach 
380 degrees. When it is hot enough it will 
quickly turn a small piece of white bread quite 
brown, if a finger of it is dipped in the fat. 
Unless this temperature is reached the articles 
to be fried may turn out greasy and unbear- 
able. If the fat is heated very much beyond 
400 degrees it may take fire. The use of a 
maximum thermometer is recommended until 
experience is gained, and a hot fire or powerful 
gas-jet is necessary. Haricots and lentils are 
much more tasty if made into cutlets or ris- 
soles, and (after being mixed with bread-crumbs 
and seasoning) fried in this manner, than they 
are if served after being merely boiled or 
stewed in the usual crude style. 

[23] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

THE art of flavoring is one which should 
be studied by every housewife. By 
making tasty gravies and sauces many a dish 
which would otherwise be insipid can be ren- 
dered attractive; a list of recipes for "gravies" 
will give the requisite information on this 
point. 

COOKING by gas appliances is much more 
easily controlled and regulated than if 
the old-fashioned fire were employed — consid- 
erable labor is also saved in the matter of 
stoking and cleaning. Those who can do so, 
should obtain a small gas-stove, consisting of 
two or three spiral burners, and a moderate- 
sized gas-oven. This is very economical for 
cooking single dishes, and for warming plates. 
A gas cooking-jet without the oven can be 
obtained at small cost. In the summer-time 
the kitchen-range is a superfluity unless it is 
required for heating bath water. 

EVEN in so simple a matter as boiling an 
egg, artistic care is required. If the al- 
bumen is boiled it becomes hard and indigest- 
ible, whereas if it is only coagulated this is not 

[24] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

the case, and yet the cooking is complete. To 
do this the heat should only reach a temper- 
ature of about 200 degrees. A simple method 
of accomplishing this, if a thermometer is not 
used, is as follows: — Put an egg into a fair 
amount of cold or lukewarm water, let the water 
reach boiling-point, and then stand the sauce- 
pan on one side for five minutes or so; if the 
water is kept just warm the egg will be found 
to be perfectly cooked, and it will not make 
any difference if it remains in the water for five 
minutes or fifteen. 

SOME of the most valuable of the modern 
food preparations are quite unappreciated 
because of lack of knowledge how to cook 
them artistically. Take "Nuttose," for in- 
stance (a very useful substitute for flesh which 
is made from malted nuts). If slightly stewed, 
and eaten without flavoring, the taste of the 
nuts is detected, and some persons at once 
take a considerable prejudice to it. If, how- 
ever, it is well and properly cooked, accord- 
ing to the recipes given later on in this book, 
and served with such garnishings as are recom- 
mended, it is generally highly appreciated, even 

[25 ] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

by those who are much prejudiced against all 
vegetarian fare. 

FRENCH plums, if stewed with some lem- 
on-rind and sugar in a jar in the oven for 
three or four hours, are mucn more enjoyable 
than if only stewed in a saucepan for a short 
time. The juice should be thick, and the 
plums quite soft. Bordeaux plums are supe- 
rior to those which are being at present raised in 
other countries, the skins being much thinner. 

CARE should be taken to see that fruit and 
vegetables are perfectly free from insect 
life. Purity and cleanliness should ever be 
aimed at as being the first principles of hygienic 
living. Dried figs and mushrooms require care- 
ful inspection, and all green vegetables should 
be well washed in running water. 

THE ordinary public have no idea of the 
constant variety and delicacy of a well 
chosen bloodless diet if it is artistically pre- 
pared. Ignorance and prejudice cause thousands 
to turn a deaf ear to the evangel of Food-Re- 
form, simply because they know nothing at 

[26] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

all about that which they reject with disdain. 
It is, therefore, the duty and privilege of 
all (and especially all women) who aspire to 
help on the work of abolishing butchery by 
promoting the adoption of natural and hu- 
mane dietary, to educate themselves in artistic 
cookery and then to help to instruct others. 
To illustrate the truth of these remarks I may 
mention that at a banquet given by the Ar- 
cadian Lodge of Freemasons, at the Hotel 
Cecil, in London — the first Masonic Lodge 
which has passed a resolution to banish animal- 
flesh from all its banquets in perpetuity — one 
of the Chief Officers of the Grand Lodge of 
England attended. He came filled with prej- 
udice against the innovation and prepared to 
criticise the repast most unfavorably. In his 
after-dinner speech, however, he admitted that 
it was one of the best Masonic banquets he 
had ever attended, and said that if what he had 
enjoyed was "vegetarian diet," he was pre- 
pared to adopt it if he found it possible to get 
it provided. 



[27] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

BY practising the recipes which are given in 
the following pages, and by utilizing the 
hints which accompany them, readers of this 
book will find no difficulty in acquiring the 
skill which is requisite to win many from the 
flesh-pots even when they cannot be induced 
to abandon them from any higher motives than 
self-interest or gustatory enjoyment. Vir- 
chow's declaration — **The future is with the 
Vegetarians " — was a prophetic utterance which 
is destined to be fulfilled. Every woman should 
resolve to learn how to feed her children with 
pure and harmless food. Every mother 
should make her daughters study this art and 
thus educate them to fulfil worthily their do- 
mestic responsibilities. Here is a new pro- 
fession for women — for teachers of high class 
vegetarian cookery are in great demand and 
can command high salaries. This demand will 
soon be increased a hundred-fold. 



[28] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVEL- 
LING 

THE difRculty of being properly catered 
for when staying at hotels is a very real 
one, but owing to the enlightenment which is 
now taking place, and the rapid increase of 
foreign restaurants and cafes in English-speak- 
ing countries, it is becoming lessened every 
day. In large towns the wisest plan, generally, 
is to order breakfast at the hotel, and to take 
other meals at a high class restaurant, where 
several well cooked vegetarian dishes will be 
found upon the daily menu card. For break- 
fast it is generally a wise plan to order what 
one wants the previous night, if one requires 
any cooked dishes, and it is not necessary to 
inform the waiter that one is a vegetarian. It 
is generally possible to obtain such dishes as 
porridge, grilled tomatoes on toast, poached 
eggs, stewed mushrooms, and fried potatoes, 
without giving extra trouble or exciting com- 

[29] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVELLING 

ment. Where these cannot be obtained, a 
plain breakfast should be taken, and it can 
easily be supplemented by fruit purchased 
afterwards outside the hotel. 

AT large hotels a restaurant is provided in 
addition to the dining-room and cafe. 
The food-reformer should always go to the 
restaurant for his dinner, as he will there be 
able to obtain various well-prepared dishes at 
any hour of the day, and at a moderate cost. 
The dishes should be ordered **a la carte,'* 
and one " portion " of any particular dish will 
often suffice for two persons, thus enabling 
those whose means are limited to obtain 
greater variety without increasing expenditure. 
Care has to be exercised, however, concerning 
certain dishes ; for instance, if " macaroni a 
ritalienne " is required, it is well to ask the 
waiter to caution the cook not to make a mis- 
take by introducing chopped ham. He should 
be told to say that you wish macaroni served 
with tomato and cheese sauce only, in the Ital- 
ian style ; this will make the cook realize that 
he is serving " one who knows," and that he 
must do his work in a proper manner. Those 

[30] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVELLING 

who have never learned how to dress French 
lettuce in the Parisian way, can here gain this 
useful information by ordering a "lettuce 
salad," and asking the waiter to fix it (with oil 
and vinegar only) on the table. 

THE general rule to be adopted in small 
hotels is to think beforehand what dishes 
the cook is in the habit of making which are 
free from flesh; these should be ordered in 
preference to those which are strange and not 
likely to be understood. At the same time 
it is well to insist upon being supplied with 
anything which it is reasonable to expect the 
proprietor to furnish, because such action tends 
to improve the catering of the hotels of the 
country, to make it easier for other food-re- 
formers, and to sweep away the difficulty 
which at present exists in some towns, of ob- 
taining anything fit to eat in the orthodox 
hotel coffee-rooms, except the flesh of beasts, 
birds, or fishes. 

THOSE who are making railway journeys 
can easily provide themselves with a 
simple luncheon-basket containing fruits, nuts, 
chocolate, sandwiches, and potted delicacies, 

[31 ] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVELLING 

directions for making which will be found later 
on, in the space devoted to ** Luncheons." 
Travellers may perhaps be reminded that a 
quarter of a pound of cheese or of nuts con- 
tains as much nutriment as one pound of lean 
meat. 

FOOD-REFORMERS who are about to 
pay a prolonged visit in a private house 
should inform the hostess, at the time of ac- 
cepting her invitation, that they are abstainers 
from flesh, but that their tastes are very simple 
and that they eat anything except flesh-food. 
As she might have erroneous ideas about veg- 
etarianism, she might otherwise feel perplexed 
as to what it is necessary to provide. Care 
should be taken not to involve the hostess 
in any minor or needless worries, and she 
should be shown, by the simplicity of one's 
requirements, that she is easily capable of af- 
fording complete satisfaction. When she real- 
izes this, she will probably take pleasure in 
learning something about hygienic living, and 
will be only too ready to read a pamphlet or 
a guide-book upon the subject, and to produce 
some of the dishes contained in it. I have 

[32] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVELLING 

always found that by letting my friends clearly 
understand that I abstain from butchered flesh 
for humane reasons and for the sake of principle^ 
they respect my position, and evince a desire 
to discuss the matter without prejudice. If 
vegetarianism is adopted as a " fad," hostility is 
often aroused because one's acquaintances con- 
sider that one is giving needless trouble by 
becoming unconventional without sufficient 
justification. 

THOSE who are making a sea voyage will 
find that many of the large steamship 
companies are quite prepared to furnish substi- 
tutes for flesh-diet if an arrangement is made 
beforehand. In such cases there should be a 
clear stipulation that brown bread, dried and 
fresh fruit, nuts, farinaceous puddings, omelets, 
vegetables, and the like should always be obtain- 
able at meal times in some form and in suffic- 
ient variety. A list of a few "specialties" 
might be furnished when a long voyage is con- 
templated, so that the steward might stock 
them. 



[33] 



VI 

HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

IN all cases of sickness, the lighter the diet 
is, the better chance will the patient gener- 
ally have of recovery. The more inflamma- 
tion and fever which exist, the more fruit and 
cooling drinks should be given, and the less 
nitrogenous and starch matter. Ample nour- 
ishment can be provided by light farinaceous 
puddings, custards, nut products, dried and 
fresh fruits, and vegetable broths. The most 
important of these latter is " haricot tea," which 
is a perfect substitute for " beef tea," being far 
more nutritious and also entirely free from the 
toxic poisons which are contained in that dan- 
gerous and superstitiously venerated com- 
pound. Dr. Milner Fothergill has stated that 
probably more invalids have sunk into their 
graves through a misplaced confidence in the 
value of beef tea than Napoleon killed in all 
his wars. It is, in reality, a strong solution of 
uric acid, consisting largely of excrementitious 

[34] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

matter which was in process of elimination 
from the system of some animal through the 
minute drain pipes which form an important 
cleansing medium or "sewage system" in all 
animal flesh. To make " beef tea," this poi- 
sonous element is stewed out to form the filthy 
decoction, while the animal fibrin, the portion 
of the meat that might possess some nutritive 
value, is thrown away. Beef tea consequently 
acts as a strong stimulant, tends to increase in- 
flammation and fever, and in all such cases 
lessens the chance of the patient's recovery, as 
the system is already battling against disease 
and impurity in the blood. To add to the 
amount of the latter is palpably unwise and 
dangerous. These remarks apply also to " es- 
sences " and " extracts " of beef, which are fre- 
quently made from diseased flesh which has 
been condemned in the slaughter-houses. 

[I] 

Brown Haricot Tea. 

TAKE 5^ -lb. of brown haricot beans. 
Wash and stew them with i-qt. of hot 
water and some small onions for 3 hours, 
stewing down to i^-pts. Strain, and add 

[35] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

pepper, salt and butter when serving. This 
bean tea or broth, so prepared, will be found 
to be very savory and of the same consist- 
ency and appearance as beef tea while being 
much richer in sustaining properties. 

[2] 

Mock Chicken Broth. 

AVERY valuable substitute for chicken 
broth, which is in every way superior to 
the decoction obtained by stewing the flesh 
and bones of the bird, can be made by stewing 
and serving white haricots in the same manner 
as in the previous recipe. 

[31 
Lentil Gruel. 

A USEFUL and highly nutritious food for 
invalids is lentil gruel or broth. To 
make the gruel, take a dessertspoonful of 
lentil-flour, mixed smooth in some cold milk, 
and add nearly i-pt. of milk which has been 
brought to the boil. Boil for fifteen minutes 
and flavor with a little cinnamon or vanilla. 
Serve with toast, and sugar to taste. 

[36] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

[4] 

Nut Grael. 

A MOST easily digested liquid food can 
be made almost instantaneously by warm- 
ing a dessertspoonful of "Malted Nuts" (In- 
ternational Health Association) in a glass of 
milk, and flavoring to taste. The nuts are 
almost predigested and can be quickly assimi- 
lated by the weakest person or by infants. 

[5] 

Barley Water. 

THE old-fashioned beverage known as bar- 
ley water is not so well appreciated as 
it ought to be ; it is nutritious, easily assimi- 
lated, and when flavored with a few drops 
of lemon, forms a cool and valuable drink in 
the sick-room. It is made by simply stewing 
pearl barley in water until the liquid is fairly 
substantial. The barley is then strained oflF 
and can be added to a vegetable stew. Sugar 
and lemon can be added to taste. 

MEALS provided for invalids should be 
served in a very dainty manner. A 
spotless serviette and tray cloth, bright silver, 

[37] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

a bunch of flowers and a ribbon to match them 
in color for tying the serviette (the color 
of which can be changed from day to day) 
should not be forgotten. The food should be 
supplied in small quantities ; half a cupful of 
gruel will often be taken when a cupful would 
be sent away untouched. 

ONE of the greatest evils to be avoided by 
those who are nursing the sick is that 
of over-feeding. When nature is doing her 
best to meet a crisis, or to rid the body of 
poisonous germs, microbes or impurities, it is 
a mistake to cause waste of vital energy by 
necessitating the expulsion of superfluous ali- 
mentary matter. Unless invalids manifest a 
genuine sense of hunger they should not be per- 
suaded to take food at all. The stomach gen- 
erally requires resty and is often in such a con- 
dition that digestion is impossible. When 
food will prove beneficial nature will demand 
it. 

Drugs and stimulants are seldom required. 
Beef essences and other noxious concoctions 
are superfluous and mischievous. The great 
healing agent is the Life-force within, the ^^Vis 

[38] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

medicatrix Natura^^ and the wise physician will 
see that this power has a fair chance. He will 
help the patient to overcome physical malady 
by encouraging the exercise of hygienic com- 
mon-sense and hopeful mental influence. He 
will advocate pure air, pure food, and pure 
water, combined with a cessation of any phys- 
ical transgression and the removal of the cause 
of the malady in question. 

Much of the suffering and inconvenience en- 
dured by sick persons is simply the result of 
erroneous diet. Judicious feeding will do far 
more than drugs to alleviate and cure most 
maladies. 

Care should be exercised lest invalids par- 
take too freely of starch foods, especially if 
such are badly or insufliciently cooked. Bread 
should be light and well baked, and in most 
cases it will be found to be more easily assimi- 
lated if toasted. " Meal " biscuits (which con- 
sist of entire wheatmeal in a supercooked form, 
so that the starch is already transformed into 
" dextrin ") will be found nutritious, easily di- 
gestible, very enjoyable, and slightly laxative 
in their effect. Bananas — ^well baked or raw — 
make an almost perfect food for the sick-room 

[ 39] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

(see recipe 89). Plasmon snow-cream is also 
most strengthening and valuable for invalids 
(recipe 132). For further recipes of dishes 
that are suitable, see page 66. 



[40I 



vn 

SUBSTITUTES FOR ANlMAL 

FOOD 

SATISFACTORY substitutes for the ar- 
ticles used under the old food regime are 
now upon the market, and new specialties are 
frequently being invented.* 

Beef can be replaced by ** Nuttose," which 
can be carved just like a small joint of meat. 

Chicken and Veal find an efGcient sub- 
stitute in ^* Protose " — the flavor of which is 
so delicate as to commend itself to almost 
everyone who tries it. 

Suet is replaced by " Vejsu " — a vegetable 
suet which is indistinguishable from beef suet 
that is sold in packets. Another substitute 
is pine kernels, which contain lo ozs. of oil 
to the pound, and which, when rolled and 
chopped, resemble suet exactly. A third sub- 
stitute is ^* Nucoline," or " Albene " (flaked in 
the nut mill) ; a fourth is tapioca. 

* This was prepared with reference to the British market^ 
bat in America similar products are obtainable. 

[41 ] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR ANIMAL FOOD 

Lard is inferior in every respect to Nuco- 
line, Albene, and Olive Oil. 

Gelatine is substituted by "agar-agar/* a 
sea-weed which is quite tasteless. 

Extract of Beef is replaced by " Carnos " 
or by " Odin " — the latest triumph of the phys- 
ical laboratory, which consists of a malt extract 
of barley that is undistinguishable from con- 
centrated extract of beef. Its taste and smell 
are identical and yet it is free from the nox- 
ious elements contained in beef. " Nut But- 
ter," " Nuttolene," " Plasmon," and other valu- 
able specialties enable stock to be thickened, 
strengthened and flavored. Similar produc- 
tions are being constantly invented and placed 
on the market. 

Meat Stock is substituted by vegetable 
stock, produced by stewing haricots, peas, len- 
tils, and the like. The latter is far more nutri- 
tious, and is free from uric acid and excremen- 
titious matter. 

In the following pages recipes will be found 
for preparing dishes which closely resemble, 
in taste and appearance, those to which a car7 
nivorous community has been accustomed, 
many of them being of such a nature that 

[42] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR ANIMAL FOOD 

persons who have always been fond of flesh- 
food find it difficult to detect whether they arc 
eating such or not. Even fish cutlets can be 
simulated by preparing vegetable substances 
closely resembling the real thing. 



[43] 



VIII 

SOUPS 

[6] 

Artichoke Soup. 

TAKE 2-lbs. of white artichokes, 3-pts. 
of water, 3 large onions, a piece of cel- 
ery (or some celery salt), J^-pt. of raw cream 
or i-pt, of milk. Boil together for 45 min- 
utes, strain through a fine sieve and serve. If 
cream is used it should not be added until after 
the soup is cooked. 

[7] 

Chestnut Soup. 

BOIL 2-lbs. chestnuts for one hour, strain 
and rub through a sieve. Put in a sauce- 
pan, and boil again with i onion, a little mace, 
pepper and salt to taste. Just before serving 
add ^-pt. milk and i tablespoonful of cream. 
The addition of a tablespoonful of " Plasmon " 
enriches this soup. 

[44] 



SOUPS 

[8] 

Rich Gravy Soup. 

MAKE 3-pts. of vegetable stock by boil- 
ing ^-Ib. of brown haricots for an 
hour. Strain and add i onion and one carrot 
(fried with butter until brown), i stick of cel- 
ery, 2 turnips and 6 peppercorns, and thicken 
with cornflour. Boil all together for i hour, 
strain, return to saucepan, and add three small 
teaspoonsful of " Odin." Warm it up, but 
nof to boiling point. Serve with fried bread dice. 
This soup, if well made, is equal to anything 
that a French chef can produce. 

[9] 

Brown Haricot Soup. 

FOR the foundation of any brown soup 
nothing equals the stock from these beans. 
Prepare as for haricot tea (i). If a thick soup 
is wanted rub the beans through the sieve 
along with the stock. The soup can be varied 
in many ways. One good soup is as follows : 
Take ^-Ib. beans, cooked in 2-qts. of water. 
When the beans crack, add a few tomatoes, i 
leek sliced, or a Spanish onion, and a bunch of 
herbs. Boil until the vegetables are tender, 

[45] 



SOUPS 

adding a little more water if necessary. Rub 
all through a sieve, and return to pan, adding 
seasoning, a good lump of butter, and the juice 
of half a small lemon after the soup has boiled. 
If a richer soup is required add 2 teaspoonsful 
of Odin just before serving. 

[10] 

Tomato Soup. 

TAKE a pound of tomatoes, pour boiling 
water on them and allow them to stand 
for a few minutes. They will then peel easily. 
Slice an onion and boil with the tomatoes 
(sliced) for an hour, then add salt, pepper, and 
a little butter. Mix J^-pt. of milk with a tea- 
spoonful of flour ; add this to the soup, stir and 
boil for 5 minutes. 

[II] 
Lentil Soup. 

A WELL-KNOWN and well-tried soup, 
even in flesh-eating households, and one 
that is within the reach of the poorest. To 
prepare it, take J^-lb. lentils, i onion, i carrot, 
I turnip, a small bunch of herbs, celery salt, 
and i-oz. butter. 

Wash and pick the lentils and put on to 

[46] 



SOUPS 

boil in about i-qt. of water. Add the vege- 
tables sliced, and boil gently about i hour. 
Rub through a sieve, return to pan, add but- 
ter and a cupful of milk. Bring to boil and 
serve. 

[12] 

Brazil Nut Soup. 

PASS I -lb. of Brazil nuts through a nut 
mill, stew them for o. hours in 2-qts. 
of water, with some celery and a few onions 
that have been fried, then add i-qt. of boiling 
milk, pass through a strainer, season and serve 
with fried bread dice. 

[13] 
German Lentil Soup. 

PLACE ^-Ib. of lentils in i-qt. of water, 
add 2 sticks of celery and 5 large onions 
which have been fried in some butter until 
brown. Stew for two hours, and pass through 
a strainer. Add J^-lb. of cream, and j4-pt. 
of milk, bring to the boil, flavor with salt, and 
serve. German lentils need more cooking than 
the Egyptian variety. 

[47] 



SOUPS 

[i4l 

White Haricot Soup. 

STEW ^-Ib. of beans in 2-qts. of water, 
adding 5 chopped onions, some chopped 
celery and a carrot which have been fried in 
some butter until well cooked ; stew until the 
beans are tender, and strain if clear soup is re- 
quired, or pass through a sieve for thick soup ; 
add some cream and milk, bring to the boil, 
flavor with salt and serve. 

[15] 

White Soubise Soup. 

(From a French Recipe.) 

TAKE 2-ozs. butter, 4 good-sized onions, 
about i-pt. cauliflower-water, and i-pt. 
of milk, sufficient bread (no crust) to absorb 
very nearly the liquor. 

First, put the butter into the saucepan, then 
cut up the onions, put into the saucepan with 
the butter, and let it cook slowly for 15 min- 
utes — it must not boil or it will be brown. 
Now add the bread, the cauliflower-water, and 
half the milk, and let it boil slowly for an hour. 
Then take it oflF the fire, pass it through a 
sieve, add the rest of the milk, and let the 

[48] 



SOUPS 

whole come just to the boil^ taking care it does 
not actually boil, as it may curdle. Serve. 

[i6] 

Julienne Soup. 

CUT some carrots, turnips, onions, celery, 
and leeks into thin strips, using double 
quantity of carrots and turnips. Dry them and 
then fry slowly in 2-ozs. of butter until brown. 
Add 2-qts. of vegetable stock and simmer until 
tender. Season with salt and a teaspoonful of 
castor sugar. Chop some chervil or parsley 
finely, add and serve. The addition of some 
green peas is an improvement. The fact 
should always be remembered that when le- 
gumes and vegetables are boiled in water a 
valuable stock is made which can be utilized 
for subsequent meals. 

[17] 

Green Pea Soup. 

STEW i-qt. of shelled peas in 2-qts. of 
vegetable stock with a small piece of cel- 
ery, a clove of garlic, a sprig of mint, and a 
pinch of sugar. Remove a teacupful of the 
peas and pass the soup through a sieve. Add 

[49] 



SOUPS 

the peas, season and serve. This recipe is use- 
ful when green peas are getting old and are 
not tender enough to be enjoyable in the usual 
way. Young peas are, of course, to be pre- 
ferred. 

[i8] 

Prepared Soups. 

A WIDE variety of prepared soups in cans 
is now obtainable at any good grocery 
store. Many of these on inspection will be 
found to contain none but vegetable properties. 



[50] 



IX 

SUBSTITUTES FOR FISH 

[19] 
Mock Fish Patties. 

SCRAPE some salsify roots well, lay them 
in cold water for half-an-hour. Boil till 
tender, drain. Beat with wooden spoon to a 
smooth paste, free o( fibre. Moisten with milk, 
add a teaspoonflil of butter and an egg to every 
cupful of salsify, but beat the eggs well first. 
Serve in fire-proof china, or in scallop shells. 
Put bread-crumbs on top, which have been 
steeped in butter and browned. These patties 
taste exactly like fish. 

[20] 

Fried Chinese Artichokes. 

BOIL the artichokes until tender. After 
draining, drop them into batter or fine 
bread-crumbs and egg. Fry crisp and serve 
with parsley sauce and slices of lemon. 

[SI 1 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FISH 

[21] 

Filleted Salsify. 

COOK some salsify until tender, slice it 
into quarters lengthwise, and cut it into 
3-in. lengths; dip in egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fry crisp ; serve with parsley sauce (recipe 
I2i), and garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley. 

[22] 

Artichoke Fillets. 

MAKE and serve this in the same way as 
salsify fillets, but substitute Jerusalem 
artichokes previously cut into fingers. The 
artichokes must not be boiled too much or 

they will break. 

[23] 

Scorzonera Fillets. 

THESE are prepared in the same way as 
salsify fillets, but should be served with 
white sauce (recipe 115). 

[24] 
Mock White Fish. 

PUT ^-pt. milk on to boil, and thicken 
with rather more than i-oz. of ground 
rice, to make a little stifFer than for rice mould. 

[ 52] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FISH 

Add a lump of butter, salt, a little grated onion 
and a saltspoonful of mace, and let all cook 
together for lo minutes, stirring frequently. 
Boil 3 potatoes and put through masher, and 
while hot add it to the rice or it will not set 
well. Pour into dish to stiffen, and when quite 
cold, cut into slices, roll in egg and white bread- 
crumbs, fry and serve with parsley sauce as a 
fish course. The mixture must be stiff, for the 
frying softens the rice again a little. The oil 
or nucoline for frying must be beyond boiling 
point, and the cutlets will then be quite crisp 
and free from any oily flavor. This dish is 
appreciated everywhere and is specially recom- 
mended. 

[251 

Globe Artichokes. 

BOIL some green " Globe " artichokes until 
tender (about i hour), mix some French 
wine vinegar and pure olive oil (one teaspoon- 
ful of vinegar to three of oil) with a pinch of 
salt. Serve the artichokes hot. Strip off the 
leaves one by one and dip the fleshy ends in 
the dressing which has been placed on each 
plate. Then scrape off the tender part of the 
leaf with the teeth and it will be found very 

[ 53 1 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FISH 

tasty. When all the leaves are stripped, cut 
out the centre of the " crown " and cut off its 
stalk quite short. The crown itself will then 
be found a " bonne bouche *' which is superior 
to any shell fish. 



[54] 



X 

SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[26] 
Stewed Protose. 

OPEN a can of protose, stew it for half- 
an-hour or upwards in brown haricot tea 
(recipe i), with 4 tomatoes, some carrot chips, 
and 2 sliced onions. Thicken the gravy with 
a dessertspoonful of cornflour. Garnish with 
fingers of bread fried until a golden brown. 
Serve with French beans, cauliflower, asparagus 
or cabbage, and with fried potatoes if desired. 

[271 

Stewed Nuttose. 

COOK in the same way as above for not 
less than 3 hours. The more this food 
is cooked the better it is. Any portion that 
remains can be warmed up again, minced, or 
made into rissoles, rolls, etc., with advan- 
tage. 

[ 55 ] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[28] 

Minced Protose. 

PREPARE in just the same way as ordi- 
nary meat by running it through a minc- 
ing machine, or mashing it with a fork, and 
stewing it in a little gravy. It may be served 
with a border of green peas or other vegetable. 
It is also nice served as follows, viz.: Prepare 
as for minced meat. Boil a cupful of rice as 
for curry. When cooked stir in half teaspoon- 
ful of tomato sauce, 2-ozs. grated cheese, and 
seasoning. Put the mince in the centre of the 
dish with a wall of the rice and tomato round 
it. Or the rice may be simply curried and 
served with the protose. 

The ways are numberless in which these 
products may be used, and the thoughtful 
housewife will delight herself in experimenting 
with such dainty foods. 

[29] 

Mock Chicken Cutlets. 

A TASTY dish to be served with bread 
sauce is prepared as follows : — Run 
through the nut mill 2 cupfuls of bread-crumbs 
and one good cupful of shelled walnuts. Mix 

[ 56] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

these together in a basin with a small piece of 
butter, a tablespoonful of grated onion juice, 
and a tcaspoonful of mace. Melt a large tea- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan, with half a 
teaspoonful of flour, and add gradually a cupful 
of fresh milk ; when this boils add the other 
ingredients, salt and pepper to taste, add a 
beaten egg, and when removed from the fire, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. Stir well and turn 
out into a dish to cool, then roll into balls or 
other shape, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, as 
usual, and fry in boiling fat. This is a splen- 
did substitute for chicken, and when served 
with bread sauce is delicious. 

[30] 

Macaroni k la Turque. 

BOIL ^-Ib. of macaroni until slightly ten- 
der, and add J^-lb. of grated bread-crumbs, 
I large onion (grated), 2 large tablespoonsful 
of parsley, some grated nutmeg, and 2 eggs 
(beaten). Chop the macaroni and mix all well 
together and steam in a basin or in moulds for 
I or I J^ hours. Serve with thin white sauce 
or brown gravy (poured over the mould). 

1 57 J 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[31] 

Lentil Cutlets. 

TAKE a teacupful of Egyptian lentils; 
boil them in water sufficient to cover 
them until tender. Add 3 grated onions, some 
chopped parsley and thyme, and enough bread- 
crumbs to make a stiff mixture. Turn on to 
large plates and flatten with a knife. Then cut 
into eight triangular sections and shape them 
like small cutlets. When cold fry crisp in egg 
and bread-crumbs after inserting small pieces 
of macaroni into each pointed end. Serve with 
mint sauce or tomato sauce (recipe 1 1 6). 

[32] 

Protose Cutlets. 

OPEN a can of protose and turn it out 
into a basin; pound it well with i-oz. 
fresh butter, some grated onion juice, parsley, 
thyme, salt and pepper, a few bread-crumbs, and 
a few drops of lemon juice. Roll the mixture 
well on a floured board about half-inch thick, 
shape into cutlets, roll in egg and bread-crumbs 
and fry. As the protose does not require pre- 
vious cooking this is a very quickly prepared 
dish, and if two or three cans of protose are 

[58] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

always kept in stock this dish is always handy 
for emergencies. The cutlets may be fried 
without egg and bread-crumbs ; simply roll in 
a little flour, if one is very pressed for time. 
Serve with tomato or onion sauce and any of 
the before-mentioned gravies. 

Those who live out of the reach of shops 
should keep a supply of protose, and they will 
find it most useful as winter comes on, and 
foods of a more substantial nature become 
necessary. 

[33] 

Macaroni Cutlets. 

BOIL J^-lb. macaroni (spaghetti preferred) 
in water, not making it too tender ; chop 
slightly, add 6-ozs. bread-crumbs, some chopped 
fried onions, a teaspoonful of lemon thyme and 
parsley, a couple of tomatoes (fried in saucepan 
after onions), and i egg to bind. Mix, roll in 
flour, shape into cutlets, fry in nucoline until 
crisp and brown. Serve with sauce piquante 
(for which see recipe 1 1 1 ). 



[ 59] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[34] 

Jugged Nuttose. 

OPEN a can of nuttose and stew it in hari- 
cot stock for 2 hours, then cut it in slices 
about half-an-inch thick, and fry crisp in egg 
and bread-crumbs. Also make some force- 
meat balls by rubbing J^-oz. of butter into 
5-0ZS. of bread-crumbs, adding chopped lemon 
thyme, lemon peel and parsley, some pepper 
and salt, and i egg to bind ; fry very brown. 
Cut up the nuttose in small pieces, and stew 
slowly in remainder of the bean stock with 
about 10 cloves. Garnish with sprays of 
parsley and the forcemeat balls. Serve with 
red currant jelly. 

[351 

Nuttose with Yorkshire Pudding. 

MAKE a gravy by stewing brown haricots 
in water until they are soft ; put it into 
a stew or frying pan with the nuttose cut into 
thin slices. Stew for half-an-hour. Simmer a 
couple of Spanish onions tender and cut into 
thin slices, and fry it for a few minutes in the 
gravy before taking it off the fire. Pile the 
slices of nuttose on the centre of a meat dish, 

[60] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

and place the onion round. This served with 
Yorkshire pudding and potatoes makes a sub- 
stantial dinner. 

[36] 

Savory Rissoles. 

EQUAL quantities of mashed wholemeal 
bread and boiled rice, add a little boiled 
onion minced fine, some pepper, salt and but- 
ter. Mix, roll into shape, or pass through a 
sausage machine, dredge with flour, dip in bat- 
ter, and fry crisp in boiling oil, nucoline or but- 
ter. A great variety can be made by intro- 
ducing lentils, macaroni or haricots, with herbs, 
fried onions, bread-crumbs, etc., and an egg. 

[37] 

Lentil Croquettes. 

WASH, pick and cook J^-lb. lentils, with 
one or two onions to flavor. When 
cooked, add about 5-ozs. wholemeal bread- 
crumbs, a teaspoonful parsley, nutmeg, mace, 
salt and pepper, and i egg beaten. Mix well, 
and when cold form into rolls. Dip in flour 
and fry a golden brown. Serve with onion 
sauce and gravy. 

[61 ] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[38] 

Lentil Fritters. 

COOK J^-lb. lentils with water to cover 
until quite soft, but not pulped. Next 
prepare a batter with i egg and J^-lb. wheat- 
meal flour, a few drops of oil and sufficient 
warm water to make the right consistency. 
Season with chopped onion and sage, a hand- 
ful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Add 
a few bread-crumbs and the cooked lentils. 
Mash well together and let the mixture stand 
for an hour. Then fry in hot fat, a spoonful 
at a time, and serve with apple sauce. 

[39] 

Savory Cutlets. 

PUT a small cup of milk and J^-oz. of 
butter in a saucepan on the fire. When it 
boils add 3-ozs. of dried and browned bread- 
crumbs and a little dredging of flour. Let it 
cook, until it no longer adheres to the pan, and 
remove from the fire. When it is cool add 2 
eggs, beating until smooth, a large tablespoon- 
ful of shelled walnuts (previously run through 
the nut mill), seasoning, and a little grated 
onion juice. Mix well and shape into cakes 

[62] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

about J^-in. thick, on a floured board. Roll 
in flour or egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in 
boiling nucoline. Serve with walnut gravy, or 
round a dish of grilled tomatoes. 

I40l 

Nuttose Rissoles. 

TAKE about %'\h. of nuttose and put it 
through the nut mill before cooking. 
Place it in a pan, and fry in a little nucoline, 
along with some chopped onion. Cover with 
brown stock and cook slowly until nearly all the 
gravy is absorbed. Then add bread-crumbs, 
herbs, seasoning, a little butter, and stir thor- 
oughly over the fire, and set aside to cool. Form 
the mixture into small balls, dip in egg and 
bread-crumbs, and fry. Garnish with parsley, 
and serve with onion sauce or brown gravy. 

[41] 

Nuttose Cutlets. 

A TASTY dish is made by cutting some 
well-cooked nuttose into thin slices, then 
dip each slice in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs 
seasoned with herbs, etc., and fry a golden 
brown. Serve with gravy and red currant jelly, 
or tomato sauce. 

[63I 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[42] 

Rice Cutlets. 

DELICIOUS rice cutlets can be made as 
follows : Fry 2 grated onions brown, 
then add 4 tomatoes in the same pan and cook 
till tender. Cook a small cupful of rice in a 
double saucepan, turn it into a basin, add the 
onions and tomatoes, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, half a teaspoonful of lemon thyme, 
2-ozs. of bread-crumbs, i egg, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Mix well, turn out on plates 
and smooth with a wet knife, cut into fingers 
and fry crisp in egg and bread-crumbs. Serve 
with tomato or egg sauce. 

[43] 

Nuttose RagoQt. 

A GOOD way to prepare Nuttose is as 
follows : Fry a teaspoonful of butter un- 
til it is nearly black, add flour until it absorbs 
the butter, add gradually any vegetable stock 
until a nice rich gravy results. Bring to the boil 
and add very thin slices of nuttose. Stew very 
slowly for 2 hours ; before boiling add some 
Worcester or other sauce to taste. Garnish 
with hiashed potatoes and serve with a green 

vegetable. 

[64] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[44] 

How to Improve Cutlets. 

VEGETARIAN cutlets, rissoles, and sau- 
sages are very much improved in their 
appearance and taste, if before being fried in 
egg or bread-crumbs, they are first encased 
with flaked potatoes — which should be pressed 
on firmly with a knife. They should be made 
as moist as is consistent with their holding to- 
gether. This point is of importance. 



[65] 



XI 

SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[45] 
Macaroni a Tltalienne. 

BOIL some macaroni ("ribbon" is best) in 
plenty of water, strain and place on a 
dish ; take a dessertspoonful of cornflour, mix 
thoroughly with a little milk, add milk to make 
half a pint, boil until it thickens, add half an 
ounce of grated cheese, a small lump of butter, 
and a few tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce or 
tomato conserve. The tomato sauce can be 
made by slicing 4 tomatoes and cooking them 
in a saucepan with a little butter and chopped 
onion. Pass through a strainer. Pour the 
sauce over the macaroni or serve in a sauce boat. 

[46] 
Risotto (Milanese). 

(Specially recommended.) 

BOIL 6-ozs. of Patna rice in a double sauce- 
pan until tender. Fry a chopped onion 
brown, then add 3 peeled tomatoes and cook 

[66] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

until soft, add this to the rice with the yolks of 
2 eggs, j4-teaspoonftil of salt, and i J^-ozs. of 
Parmesan or grated cheese. Mix well together 
and serve with tomato sauce. This makes a 
most tasty and nutritious dish. 

[47] 

Risotto a ritalienne. 

BOIL 6-ozs. of Patna rice with a clove or 
garlic. Fry 4 peeled tomatoes in i-oz. 
of butter. Add this to the rice with the yolk 
of I cgg> j4-teaspoonftil of salt, and i-oz. of 
Parmesan or grated cheese. Stir and serve 
with tomato sauce, or garnish with baked to- 
matoes. This dish is equally suitable for 
lunch, dinner, or supper ; it is a " complete " 
type of food, and it is much appreciated. The 
flavor can easily be varied. 

[48] 

Cauliflower k ritalienne. 

BOIL a large cauliflower, after removing the 
leaves, until just tender, strain it, place it 
on a dish, pour over it some white sauce and 
some fine bread-crumbs. Brown it in the oven 
and serve with tomato sauce. Another dainty 

[67] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

way of serving cauliflower is by adding walnut 
gravy to the tomato sauce. 

[49] 

Asparagus Souffle. 

(Specially recommended.) 

TAKE some asparagus (previously boiled) 
and chop it finely after removing the 
tough stalks. Add 2 or 3 well beaten eggs 
and a small quantity of milk, with pepper and 
salt. Beat it well and put in well buttered 
souffle dishes and bake for 10 minutes. This 
makes a tasty course for a luncheon or dinner 
and also a simple supper dish. 

[50] 

The Simplest Omelet of all. 

(Specially recommended.) 

TAKE 2 eggs, J^-pt. of milk, a teaspoon- 
ful chopped parsley, and a taste of grated 
onion juice, pepper and salt. Whisk all in a 
basin so as to mix thoroughly. Heat J^-oz. 
of butter in a frying-pan until very hot, then 
pour in the mixture and keep putting the knife 
round the outside to prevent the omelet ad- 
hering and to make the uncooked centre flow 

[68] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

toward the rim. When nicely set, fold and 
serve on a hot dish, either with tomato sauce, 
or garnished with baked tomatoes. This sim- 
ple omelet is equal to any produced by a French 
" chef," if it is carefully prepared. 

151] 

Potato Croquettes. 

BOIL 2-lbs. of potatoes, dry them well, 
mash thoroughly with J^-oz. butter and 
one beaten egg. Lay on a dish until cold. 
Shape into balls, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fry crisp. 

[52] 
Omelette aux Fines Herbes. 

MELT i-oz. of butter in a perfectly dry 
frying pan. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs 
with some finely chopped parsley and a pinch of 
garlic powder, pepper and salt. When the 
butter boils pour in the egg and stir until it 
commences to set. Then pour in the whites 
of the eggs (previously beaten to a stiff froth). 
When cooked fold the omelet and turn on to 
a very hot dish. Cover at once and serve im- 
mediately. 

[69] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[53] 

Curried Lentils. 

STEW some German lentils (in vegetable 
stock is best), and when quite soft stir 
in a teaspoonful of good curry paste, a fried 
onion, a chopped apple, and some chutney. 
Mix it well. Serve with a border of boiled 
rice, fingers of pastry or fried bread and 
chipped potatoes. 

[54] 
Yorkshire Savory Pudding. 

TAKE 3 eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
i-pt. of milk, I large onion, pepper and 
salt to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, mix the yolks with the milk, flour 
and condiments, lightly mix in the whites and 
pour into one or two well-greased pudding pans 
which should have been made hot. Bake 20 
minutes. The pudding should not be more 
than three-eighths of an inch in thickness and 
should be of a nice brown color. 



B 



[55] 
Cauliflower (au gratin). 

OIL I or 2 cauliflowers (after removing 
leaves) until tender. Strain off the water 

[70] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

ana place on a dish. Cover with grated cheese, 
some white sauce (recipe 1 1 5), and some fried 
bread-crumbs. Add some pats of butter and 
bake until a nice brown. This dish is very sa- 
vory and is useful for supper or as a separate 
course for dinner. 

[56] 

Scrambled Tomatoes and Eggs. 

PEEL 4 laige tomatoes after dipping them 
in scalding water, slice and stew them in 
a little butter for a few minutes ; beat 2 eggs, 
add them to the tomatoes, and scramble them 
until the egg is cooked, and serve on toast. 

[571 

Bread Cutlets. 

GUT some neat slices of brown bread half 
an inch thick. Remove crust and cut into 
large fingers. Soak them in milk, dip in sa- 
vory batter and fry crisp. Serve with apple 
sauce and green peas or vegetable marrow. 
This dish is nice for dinner in hot weather. 



H 



[58] 

Grilled Tomatoes. 

ALVE some ripe tomatoes, place them 
in a frying pan with a teacupful of 

[71 ] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

water, put a small piece of butter on each piece. 
Cook them until tender. Serve on toast. 
Poached eggs are a nice addition to this dish. 

[59] 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes. 

GUT the tomatoes in halves and stuff them 
with bread-crumbs and a little parsley and 
butter ; they should then be baked until tender. 

[60] 
Lentil Pudding. 

STEW some Prussian lentils until soft ; stir 
in some curry paste and add chutney to 
taste. Season with salt and butter, cover with 
mashed potatoes and bake. 

[61] 

Savory Rice Pudding. 

PUT I teacupful of rice in a medium sized 
pie dish, and fill it with milk ; chop finely 
or grate 4 onions, beat i egg, mix altogether, 
add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a 
little salt; bake in a slow oven. After 20 
minutes, stir the pudding thoroughly, adding a 
small piece of butter, and a little more milk if 
necessary. 

[72] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[62] 

Macaroni and Tomato Pudding. 

BOIL some macaroni and mix with it 3-ozs. 
of grated cheese, 4 peeled and sliced to^ 
matoes, and half a teacupful of milk. Place in 
a pie-dish and cover with a thick layer of fine 
bread-crumbs and a few lumps of butter; sea- 
son to taste. Bake until nicely browned. A 
grated onion is considered an improvement by 
some persons if it is added. 

[631 

Creamed Macaroni. 

BREAK 54^-lb. macaroni into one inch 
pieces, drop them into 2-qts. of boiling 
water (salted), boil till tender. Drain and 
place in a dish. At serving time put into the 
pan a tablespoonful of butter, when melted, a 
tablespoonful of flour, rub until well mixed, 
then add J^-pt. of milk, stir until it bubbles; a 
little cayenne to be added, then put in the 
macaroni and heat thoroughly, and just at the 
last, stir in J4^-lb. of grated cheese (not quite 
half ought to be Parmesan and the rest a good 
fresh cheese). 

[731 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[64I 

An Indian Dish. 

COOK some rice in a jar until nicely swol- 
len, put it in a saucepan, add one or two 
fried onions (and some young carrots chopped 
fine if desired), some vegetable stock, a dessert- 
spoonful of chutney, and i or 2 teaspoonfuls 
of curry paste, until the rice has a rich curry 
flavor, to taste. Warm a bottle of small French 
green peas (use fresh ones in season) with sugar 
and mint, pour them in the centre of the dish, 
place the curried rice round them and garnish 
with small fingers of pastry. Serve with fried 
potatoes and cauliflower. This dish is easily 
made and very easy of digestion. 

[65] 

Tomato Pie. 

PUT some tomatoes in a pie dish, spread 
over some chopped parsley, and pepper, 
salt and butter; cover with mashed potatoes, 
and bake. 

[66] 

spinach and Eggs. 

TAKE 3 or 4-lbs. of spinach, boil it in 
plenty of water with a pinch of soda and 

[74] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

a pinch of salt for ten minutes, press through a 
strainer, and then rub through a wire sieve; 
place it in a saucepan with a small piece of but- 
ter and a tablespoonful of milk, stir well while 
being warmed up, and serve on buttered toast 
or fried bread, garnish with fingers of pastry. 
Rub 2 hard boiled eggs through a sieve and 
spread on the top. Decorate with the whites 
of the eggs when sliced. 

[671 

Spinach k la Cr8me. 

PREPARE the spinach as described above, 
but instead of adding butter and milk, add 
two or three tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir well 
and serve with fingers of fried bread or pastry. 
Omit the garnishing of eggs. 

[68] 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. 

MIX together J^-oz. of butter with 5-ozs. 
bread-crumbs, rubbing it well in. Add 
a fried onion, some parsley and thyme, some 
sage, and some lemon rind and bind with an 
egg. Scoop out the marrow, and place the 
stuJSing in quite dry; then boil or steam. 

[ 75 1 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

Dress with brown gravy and fried bread-crumbs, 
and place for a few minutes in a hot oven. 

[69] 

Mushroom Pie. 

TAKE 2 small teacupfuls of flour and i 
egg. Mix the flour with water (not 
milk), to the consistency of cream, add the 
egg, well beaten, and sufficient milk to make a 
thin batter. Season to taste with pepper and 
salt, and fry in butter in very thin pancakes 
until a light brown color. These should be 
made the day before they are to be used. Cut 
into squares about the size of a silver quar- 
ter and fill a pie-dish about three parts full, 
adding a few mushrooms minced and fried in 
butter. Fill up the dish with brown gravy 
(112), cover with ordinary paste, and bake. 

[70] 

Beetroot Fritters. 

STEW some beetroot until tender, cut into 
slices, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and 
fry. Serve with white sauce (recipe 1 1 5). 

[76I 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[71] 

Scotch Stew. 

SIMMER 14; -lb. of pearl barley in i-qt. 
of stock (vegetable or bean stock) for ^ 
hour, then bring to boiling point and add 2 large 
carrots (scraped), i Spanish onion thinly sliced, 
and large turnip, and, if liked, a few green peas, 
salt and pepper, and a little mint or parsley. 
Simmer for another ^ hour, or until tender. 
Garnish with wheatmeal dumplings (recipe 72) 
boiled in the stew for 20 minutes before 
serving. 

[72J 

Wheatmeal Dumplings. 

MIX in lightly 2-ozs. of nucoline (ground 
through a nut mill or finely shredded) 
with 2-ozs. of white flour, 2-ozs. of brown flour, 
2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, ^ teaspoon- 
fill of salt, some pepper, and ^ teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley and a little thyme ; add water 
gradually in diflferent places and mix into a dry 
dough ; cut into about 8 slices and roll lightly 
in hand into balls. Boil for 20 or 30 minutes. 



[771 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[73] 

Ragout of Onions. 

STEW some onions till tender, place in pie 
dish, make some melted butter, chop a 
hard boiled egg, add it to the butter, pour over 
onions, and bake. 

[74] 

Savory Potato Rissoles. 

TAKE some stiff mashed potato. Make 
a stuffing with 2 tablespoonfiils of bread- 
crumbs, a chopped tomato, a little parsley or 
herb seasoning, and moisten with beaten egg. 
Shape 2 rounds of potato, make a little hollow 
in one, fill with stuffing and press the other 
over it, roll in egg and bread-crumbs and fry. 

[75] 

Italian Omelet. 

TAKE a teacupful of Prussian lentils ; boil 
them until quite soft. Mix them in 
batter with some finely chopped boiled onion 
and a little sage, and fry them crisp like pan- 
cakes. One tablespoonful to each omelet. 

[ 78 1 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[76] 

Haricot Pie, 

WHITE haricots boiled till tender (after 
being soaked for 12 hours so that the 
skins come off easily) ; tapioca soaked in cold 
water over night ; a few small forcemeat balls ; 
gravy and seasoning. Fry a small onion in 
butter and chop small ; brown a little flour in 
the butter left in the saucepan, and add to it 
some of the water strained off the haricots, 
season to taste. Mix this gravy into the tapi- 
oca and minced onion, fill up the pie dish with 
layers of the haricots, forcemeat balls, and tapi- 
oca well moistened with the gravy, and cover 
with a crust well brushed over with egg. When 
cold this cuts in firm slices. 

[77] 

Onions on Toast. 

PUT I -lb. of onions, previously cut up, 
into an iron saucepan with J^-oz. butter. 
Keep the lid on, but shake the saucepan fre- 
quently to prevent burning. When they are 
quite soft and brown, serve on buttered toast 
with mashed potatoes. 

[ 79 1 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

Com Omelet, 

BEAT the yolks of 2 eggs, and add some 
pepper and salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of 
sweet corn. Beat the whites to a very stiff 
froth, add to the yolks and mix together. Put 
i-oz. of butter in the omelet pan and, when 
very hot, pour in the omelet and stir round a 
few times until it begins to set ; when brown at 
the bottom, place under a grill or in front of a 
clear fire to brown the top ; sprinkle over some 
chopped parsley, fold over in half and serve 

quickly, 

[79] 

Boiled Chestnuts. 

BOIL some chestnuts slowly for about an 
hour until quite soft, without being too 
meally. Serve with celery salt. If the nuts 
are shelled and stewed in brown haricot gravy 
a more savory dish results. The simple meth- 
od, however, makes the nuts very tasty, and 
labor is avoided. 



B 



[80] 

Protose Fritters. 

AKE I -lb. of Protose till it is brown. 
Take it out and press through the potato- 

[80] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

masher. Add to this rather more than the 
same quantity of potato and one large grated 
onion and a little nutmeg. Mix with one egg 
to bind and divide into fritters and fry them, 

[8i] 

Savory Cheese Rissoles. 

PUT 5^-pt. of hot water and 2-ozs. of butter 
in a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Sift 
in slowly 5-ozs. of flour, and cook this mixture 
thoroughly until it will leave the pan clean. 
Take it oflF the fire and add some cayenne, 
finely chopped parsley, 4-ozs. bread-crumbs, 
a-ozs. grated cheese and 2 eggs beaten in sep- 
arately. When the mixture is quite cool, roll 
it into balls with flour and fry them. Deco- 
rate the dish with parsley, and serve hot with 
a garniture of mashed potatoes. 

[82] 
Savory Batter Pudding. 

BOIL a cupful of Patna rice in 3 cupfuls of 
water. Boil 6 onions and mash them 
with chopped parsley ; put, in a well-buttered 
pie dish, alternate layers of the rice and onion 
mixture, and pour over them a batter made 

[81 ] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

exactly as for Yorkshire pudding, and bake in 
a quick oven. Serve with vegetables in the 
ordinary way, with brown gravy or tomato 

sauce. 

[83] 

Potato Fingers, 

SOFTEN some mashed potatoes with a lit- 
tle milk, add salt and pepper, a handful of 
bread-crumbs, and a small onion, grated, with 
one egg to bind ; roll into fingers, dip into egg 
and bread-crumbs, and fry crisp in nucoline. 
These form a nice garnishing for any dish and 
are very good when eaten alone. 

[84] 
Protose Pie. 

BOIL some onions until tender, cut a can 
of protose into squares or diamonds about 
an inch in diameter, and after lining a pie dish 
in the usual way with whole-meal paste, put in 
alternate layers of the sliced onion, carrot and 
protose, shaking a little pepper and salt on 
each layer ; be sure to put a cup in the centre 
to hold the gravy. When the dish is quite 
full, pour over a large cupful of gravy made by 
boiling brown haricot beans for 2 or 3 hours 

[82] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

till rich brown gravy is procured, to which add 
a lump of butter ; cover with paste and bake. 

[85] 

Spinach Souffle. 

(Specially recommended.) 

COOK some spinach (see 66)y pass it 
through a sieve, and add two or three 
well beaten eggs and a small amount of milk, 
with pepper and salt. Mix it thoroughly, put 
it in well buttered souffle dishes and bake for 
10 minutes. This makes a nutritious and 
tasty dish. 

[86] 

Cornish Turnover. 

MAKE a light pastry ; take equal quan- 
tities of boiled rice and fried bread- 
crumbs, a grated onion, and sufficient chopped 
parsley and thyme to make it savory, mix it 
into a paste with beaten eggs, roll out a small 
round of the paste, put a large tablespoonful of 
the mixture on one end, and turn the other 
end over in the usual way; brush over with 
white of egg and bake in a quick oven. 

[831 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[87] 

Forcemeat Croquettes. 

MAKE a forcemeat by chopping up the 
remains of any savory dish from the 
previous day, adding bread-crumbs and beaten 
egg ; roll into balls, and enclose in a coat of 
mashed potato, put a small piece of butter on 
the top of each ball, and bake brown. This is 
a good way of using up mashed potato that 
may be left. 

[88] 

White Haricot Stew. 

STEW J^-lb. of white haricot beans very 
slowly, parboil i or 2 onions for each per- 
son, in water, to which a good pinch of car- 
bonate of soda has been added, and which re- 
moves the objectionable gases from the onion ; 
add the onions to the beans about an hour 
before taking up, let both stew very slowly, 
add a large lump of butter, pepper and salt to 
taste, and if liked, a tablespoonftil of mushroom 
ketchup. Serve with sippets of toast or fried 
bread round the dish. 

In the mushroom season, a few mushrooms 
added to the above make a delicious dish. 

[84] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[89] 

Baked Bananas. 

A DISH of baked bananas makes a nour- 
ishing and tasty meal. For invalids, 
dyspeptics, and brain workers this is a food eas- 
ily assimilable and most sustaining. 

The fruit should be baked slowly for at least 
half an hour, until the skins are black and com- 
mencing to shrivel up. The longer the bak- 
ing, within reason, the more tasty and delicious 
will be the interior. It is better to overcook 
them than to serve them underdone, as they 
taste insipid if half cooked. 

[90] 

Turnips a la Cr8me. 

COOK some young turnips in the usual 
manner and mash them with plenty of 
cream. Serve in small portions on slices of 
fried bread or toast, with a few capers spread 
over them. This makes a nice dish with 
which to commence a dinner if soup is not 
served. 



1 85 1 



XII 

COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

For Hot Luncheon Dishes see previous section of Recipes. 

[91] 

Vegetable Galantine. 

GRATE, or slice finely, 2 carrots, i small 
turnip, I medium sized onion, and stew 
in just sufKcient stock until tender. Then add 
J^-pt. of cooked green peas, and 2-ozs. of fine 
bread-crumbs, some pepper and salt, a pinch of 
cayenne, and a little ketchup or gaffer sauce. 
Mix 3-0ZS. of semolina, and when cooked add 
this and mix well, and press on to a dish in a 
shape, leaving a hole in the centre ; leave to 
cool, then improve the shape, brush over with 
a glaze made from ^ teacupful of liquid aspic 
jelly. Garnish with cold aspic or the yolk of 
a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve, and 
the white being chopped with some parsley. 
This is a good cold luncheon dish, and it is 
much appreciated if served with lettuce and 
salad dressing (recipe 107). 

[86] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

[92] 

Aspic Jelly. 

TAKE 2-pts. of cold water, J^-oz. agar- 
agar (vegetable gelatine), i lemon, some 
pepper and salt, a pinch of cayenne, and 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar. Soak the 
agar 2 hours in i-pt. of the water, then add the 
other ingredients, with some Worcestershire 
sauce to darken it ; add the white of an egg and 
the shell, put over a slow fire till the agar is 
dissolved, then boil two or three minutes, and 
strain through a coarse flannel. 

[93] 

Tomato Galantine. 

TAKE in same manner as vegetable gal- 
antine, but add 4 large tomatoes (sliced 
and cooked). This dish is specially recom- 
mended. 

[94] 

Picnic Brawn. 

STEW 5^ -lb. of Egyptian lentils in sufficient 
water to cover them ; when cooked rub 
through a sieve. Sprinkle 2-ozs. of semolina 
into a J^-pt. of boiling vegetable stock and stir 
for 10 minutes, and then add 4 sliced tomatoes 

[87] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

and a grated onion with salt and pepper. Add 
this to the lentils and boil for i minute, then 
put in I dessertspoonful of ketchup, and, when 
cool, press into glass moulds. Boil an egg for 
15 minutes, then immerse it in cold water. 
Rub the yolk through a sieve on to the top of 
the mould when turned out, chop the white and 
arrange round the dish with minced parsley 
over it. Some herbs and a chopped egg can 
be introduced with good effect. 

[951 

Tomato Mayonnaise. 

PEEL and slice 6 good tomatoes, place them 
in a dish and cover them with Mayonnaise 
sauce ; let them stand for a few hours. Serve, 
after sprinkling some finely chopped parsley 
over the top. This dish tastes nice with pro- 
tose rolls, or Port du Salut cheese. 

[96] 

Potted Tomato Paste. 

THREE tomatoes, i egg, 2-ozs. grated 
cheese, 4-ozs. bread-crumbs, J^-oz. but- 
ter, I small onion, minced fine, pepper and cel- 
ery salt Peel the tomatoes and cut them up 

[88] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

in a small saucepan with the butter and onion ; 
when tender, mash smoothly and add the egg. 
Stir quickly until it becomes thick; add the 
cheese and bread-crumbs last, when off the fire. 
Turn into a pot and cover with butter. 

[97] 

Protose Rolls. 

PREPARE pastry as usual for sausage rolls, 
either short or puflfy. The filling mixture 
is made just as for the protose cutlets (32), with 
the addition of a few bread-crumbs. Roll the 
mixture between the fingers into the shape of a 
sausage, and proceed just as usual. Brush with 
egg and bake in a quick oven. Nuttose can 
be substituted for the sake of variety. 

[98] 

Potted White Haricots. 

(A substitute for Potted Chicken.) 

STEW a cupful of white haricots with 6 
onions and water to cover them, until per- 
fectly soft. Rub through a wire sieve or po- 
tato masher. Add 3-ozs. of mashed potato, 
6-ozs. of brown bread-crumbs, i -oz. of butter, 
I oz. grated cheese and an eggspoonful of mus- 

[89] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

tard. Mix well with pestie and mortar and fill 
small pots ; cover with melted butter. 

[99] 

Potted Lentil Savory. 

TAKE 5^ -lb. of lentils (cooked), 3-ozs. 
mashed potato, 2-ozs. bread-crumbs, i 
egg (beaten), chopped parsley, a little onion 
juice, salt and pepper, and i-oz. butter. Put 
all in a pan and mix well together, stirring all 
the time. When cooked, turn into a mortar, 
pound well and press into potted dishes and 
melt butter over the top. This makes excel- 
lent sandwiches with a little mustard spread on. 

[100] 

Lentil Rolls. 

A SPLENDID substitute for sausage rolls, 
to be eaten cold or with salad, can be 
made with a filling of the lentil savory. If any 
of the potted meat becomes a little dry after 
the pots have been opened, it can be used in 
these rolls. They should be served hot unless 
the pastry is fairly crisp and fresh, and they 
are then very nice served with a little tomato 
sauce. 

[90] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

[lOl] 

Nut Sandwiches. 

FLAKE some Brazil or other nuts and 
spread a thin layer in some bread and but- 
ter sandwiches which have been dressed with 
honey or jam. Almonds can be used if pre- 
ferred, and curry powder instead of preserve. 

[102] 

Egg Sandwiches. 

SCRAMBLE 2 eggs with a pinch of mixed 
herbs, celery, salt and pepper. Place be- 
tween thin slices of bread and butter. 

[103] 

Tomato Sandwiches. 

MAKE sandwiches by spreading tomato 
paste (92) between slices of bread and 
butter. A dish of mustard and cress sand- 
wiches should be served with them., 

[104] 

Potted Haricot Savory. 

STEW some brown haricot beans for sev- 
eral hours (using the liquor for stock, for 
soup, or as a substitute for beef tea after add- 

[91 ] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

ing some butter and seasoning). Pass them 
through a sieve, mix with them some brown 
bread-crumbs, a finely chopped raw onion, 
parsley, a little thyme and J^-oz. of butter; 
pepper and salt to taste. Heat altogether in a 
saucepan for lo minutes; pour into jars, and 
cover with melted butter. This is also a use- 
ful dish for breakfast, supper, or when travel- 
ling. 

[105] 

Savory Protose Pudding. 

MAKE a good stuffing of i-lb. wholemeal 
bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, J^-lb. but- 
ter, chopped parsley, peel of i lemon, chopped 
fine, and pepper and salt to taste. Bind with 
2 or 3 eggs. Thickly line a well-greased 
pie dish with the stuffing, then press into the 
middle the contents of a large can of protose. 
Thickly cov^r over with stuffing. Put little 
pieces of butter or nucoline on top, cover with 
a tin and bake in slow oven an hour or an hour 
and a half. This makes a savory dish, when 
cold, with a good salad. 



[92] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

[io6] 

Potted Haricot Beans. 

(A substitute for Potted Meat.) 

PUT a good breakfastcupful of brown beans, 
with a few onions, into a brown stew-jar, 
and cover with a quart, or rather more, of water. 
Place in a slow oven and cook until the beans 
crack, and the liquid will then have become a 
rich brown color. After the liquid has been 
poured from the beans (to be used as stock or 
for haricot tea) rub them through a sieve or 
masher. To 6-ozs. of the pulp, add 3-ozs. 
mashed potato, 3-ozs. brown bread crumbs, 
and I J^-ozs. butter ; salt, pepper, nutmeg and 
mace to taste, and a little fried onion if liked. 
Put all in a pan and stir till hot, add i beaten 
egg, and cook until the mixture leaves the sides 
of the pan, but do not let it get too stiff. Press 
into potting dishes as usual. 

[107] 

A Good Salad Dressing. 

RUB an eggspoonful of mustard, salt, and 
sugar in a teaspoonfiil of olive oil and 
cream, until the mixture is quite smooth. 
Then rub the yolk of a hard boiled egg in the 

[93] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

paste, and keep it free from lumps. Pour in a 
dessertspoonful of vinegar, stirring slowly all the 
time. Add a teacupful of rich milk or some 
cream. Serve. 



[94] 



XIII 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

lio8] 

Brown Haricot Gravy. 

A GREAT difficulty raised by flesh-eaters 
is, " What can you do for gravy ? " 
Apart from the gravy that can easily be made 
from such preparations as " Odin," etc., most 
appetizing gravies can be made from vegetable 
stock, with the usual addition of thickening, 
salt, pepper, and a lump of butter. Brown 
haricot tea is the best stock, being both rich 
and nutritious. (See page 35.) 

[109] 
Walnut Gravy. 

TAKE about 3 tablespoonfuls of shelled 
walnuts, measured after having put them 
through the nut mill, and place in a small pan 
in which you have previously made hot a table- 
spoonful of butter. Fry until the walnut is 
dark brown, stirring well all the time to pre- 

[95 1 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

vent burning. Pour on a pint of brown stock, 
or water if no stock is at hand, and let it sim- 
mer slowly until just before serving. Then 
add a tablespoonflil of flour to thicken, add 
seasoning, and a few drops of onion or some 
tomato sauce. This makes a most rich and 
savory gravy — especially if a little nut butter 
is added. 

[no] 

Curry Gravy. 

IN the cold weather, dishes which contain 
curry are seasonable and are generally ap- 
preciated. The following recipe for a curry 
gravy will prove useful to many readers, as it 
makes a capital addition to plain boiled rice or 
many other dishes. 

Fry two onions, minced in some butter, until 
they are quite brown. Then sift in some flour 
and let it brown also. Add slowly some vege- 
table stock or water, two minced apples, a tea- 
spoonful of curry paste, a teaspoonful of vine- 
gar, and a dessertspoonful each of tomato 
sauce and chutney. Stir and serve. 



[96] 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

[III] 

Gravy Piquante. 

STEW a dozen shallots in some butter un- 
til soft. Stir in some flour and let it 
brown ; add the juice of a lemon, a teacupfiil 
of water, a clove, a teaspoonful of sugar, and 
a pinch of salt and pepper. Boil gently for a 
few minutes and stir in a little more flour ; add 
J^-pt. of water, boil for 15 minutes and strain. 

[112] 
Plain Brown Gravy. 

MELT some butter until brown, add flour 
(previously mixed well in a little water), 
and some vegetable stock, dilute if necessary 
and strain. A fried onion and tomato, and a 
teaspoonful of " nut butter " adds to the flavor 
and richness. 

[113] 
Sauce Piquante. 

TAKE equal quantities of vegetable stock 
and Tomate a la Vatel (DandicoUe and 
Gaudin), fry a chopped onion brown, add the 
above, thicken with cornflour, boil and strain. 

in) 



GRAVIES AND SADCES 

[114] 

Tarragotf Sauce. 

MELT i-oz. of butter, stir in i dessert- 
spoonful of flour until free from lumps, 
add a teacupful of milk and stir until it boils. 
Finally add 20 or 30 drops of Tarragjct^ vine- 
gar. This sauce is an excellent ad^tion to 
cauliflower, as the flavor is unique. < 

[115] 

White Sauce. 

MAKE in the same manner as tarragon 
sauce, but omit the vinegar and/ add a 
teacupful of water. 

[116] 

Tomato Sauce. 

FRY a sliced onion in butter until brown, 
add 6 sliced tomatoes, a clove of garlic 
and a dessertspoonful more butter. Heat un- 
til quite soft, add a tumbler of clear vegetable 
stock or water, thicken with cornflour, strain 
and serve. 



[98] 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

[117] 

Sauce HoUandaise. 

TAKE 3-0ZS. of butter, the juice of a 
lemon, the yolks of 3 eggs, and a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Heat in a double saucepan 
while being stirred, until it begins to thicken. 
Serve with cauliflower, asparagus, artichokes, 
etc. 

[118] 
Mayonnaise Sauce. 

MIX a teaspoonful of mustard with the 
yolk of an egg, add 4 tablespoonfuls of 
pure olive oil, a few drops at a time, beating it 
with a fork; add 2 tablespoonfuls of castor 
sugar, some pepper and salt, the juice of a large 
lemon and 2 teaspoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar. 
Whisk the white of the egg with a gill of cream, 
and beat all together. 

[119] 

Tomato Chutney. 

ONE and a half pounds of tomatoes, 1 5^- 
lb. apples, I J^-lb. sultanas, i J^-lb. brown 
sugar, 2-ozs. onions, 4-ozs. salt, ^^-oz. cayenne 
pepper, 3-pts. vinegar. The whole to be 

[99] 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

boiled for 3 hours. Pour into stoppered bot- 
tles. This makes a most excellent chutney. 

[lao] 

Cocoanut Sauce. 

MELT i-oz. of butter in a pan, stir in i- 
oz. of flour smoothly, then add J^-pt. 
of cold water and J^-pt. of milk, half at a time ; 
stir in i teaspoonful of desiccated cocoanut and 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, and bring to the boil. 

[131] 

Parsley Sauce. 

MAKE in same way as recipe 114, but 
substitute a large teaspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley for the vinegar. 

[133] 

Pineapple Sauce. 

PLACE some pineapple juice in a pan, and 
add castor sugar to taste. Boil until thick 
and, if liked, add cornflour. Cook well and 
strain. Serve with pineapple fritters or semo- 
Una moulds. 

[ 100 ] 



GRAjVIES AND SAUCES 

[123] 

Fruit Sauce. 

TAKE a good teaspoonful of cornflour, 
mix with a little water, adding 4 table- 
spoonfuls of cherry or any fruit syrup, and boil 
until it thickens. Serve when cold. If this is 
required richer, more syrup should be used, 
but it should be first thickened by boiling it, 
to evaporate some of the water. 



[ loi ] 



XIV 

PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[124] 
Christmas Pudding. 

MIX I -lb. bread-crumbs, i-lb. flour, i-lb. 
sultanas or currants, 2-lbs. raisins, J^- 
Ib. mixed peel, J^-lb. sugar, J^-lb. albene (or 
nucoline) flaked in the nut mill, J^-lb. chopped 
pine kernels. Add nutmeg to taste, and five 
or six eggs. Boil for 1 2 hours, and serve with 
sauce as usual. This pudding wins approba- 
tion from all who try it. 

[125] 
A Simple Plum Pudding. 

MIX J^-lb. flour, I-lb. raisins, 6-ozs. al- 
bene (flaked) and i-oz. mixed peel. 
Add I teaspoonful of mixed spice, 2 eggs, and 
a little milk if required. Boil for at least 6 
hours, serve with sweet sauce. 

[ 102 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[126] 

Raspberry Pudding. 

STEW I -lb. of raspberries (or more) with 
some sugar. Line a basin with some slices 
of bread (without crust). Pour in half the 
fruit, cover with a layer of bread, then add the 
remainder of the raspberries and another layer 
of bread. Press down with a saucer and place 
a weight on it. Turn out and serve when cold 
with cream or Plasmon snow-cream. 

[127] 

Apple Custard. 

PLACE some biscuit crumbs in a buttered 
pie dish. Nearly fill it with stewed ap- 
ples. Beat an egg with %-pt. of milk and 
pour over the apples. Place some small ratafia 
biscuits on the top and some grated nutmeg. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

[128] 
Custard Pudding. 

TAKE i-pt. of milk and 2 eggs. Butter a 
pie dish, beat the eggs with the milk, 
sugar to taste, add a little vanilla and nutmeg 
with a small piece of butter ; bake for half-an- 

[ 103 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

hour in a moderate oven. Sultanas should be 
added, if desired. 

[129] 
Giteau aux Fruits. 

TAKE half a tinned pineapple, 3 bananas, 
5^ -lb. grapes, four Tangerine oranges, 
and the juice of a lemon. Cut up the fruit 
into dice, sprinkle with sugar and pour over 
them half the pineapple syrup, the lemon juice, 
and a tablespoonful of maraschino, and leave 
for an hour to soak. Split five stale sponge 
cakes open, cut each half into three fingers and 
spread each rather thickly with apricot jam. 
Place four of these strips on a glass dish so as 
to form a square, and put four more across the 
corners so as to form a diamond in it, and 
so on, square and diamond alternately. Fill 
the middle of the tower thus formed with the 
macedoine of fruits, piling them high above 
the top, and pour the rest of the pineapple 
syrup over the cake. Whip half a pint of 
cream, or Plasmon snow-cream, stiffly, and put 
it on in rough spoonfuls all over the tower. 



[ 104 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[130] 

Poached Apricots. 

UPON some slices of sponge cake, place 
half an apricot (round side uppermost). 
Whip some white of egg to a snow frost with 
castor sugar. Place this round the apricot 
so as to make it resemble a poached egg. 
Whipped cream is preferable to many persons 
if obtainable. The sponge should be slightly 
moistened with the apricot juice. 

[131] 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

TAKE 2 eggs and their weight of flour, 
butter and sugar and 2-ozs. of desiccated 
cocoanut. Cream the butter and sugar, add 
half of the beaten eggs first, then half of the 
flour, mix well and then add the other half of 
each and beat for 5 minutes, then add the co- 
coanut. Place in a buttered basin with a piece 
of buttered paper over it and steam one hour 
or bake in small tins. Serve with cocoanut 
sauce (recipe lao). 



[ 105 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[132] 

Plasmon Snow-cream. 

PUT 3 heaped teaspoonfuls (i^-ozs.) of 
Plasmon into a bowl. From J^-pt. of 
tepid water take 4 tablespoonfuls and mix it 
with the powder, rubbing it into a paste. Slowly 
add the remainder of the water ; stir thoroughly, 
then place in a saucepan and bring to a boil 
stirring all the time. Stand aside to get quite 
cold. When required for use, whisk it into a 
thick snow-cream. This makes a splendid ad- 
dition to stewed fruit (peaches, etc.), cocoa, 
coffee, or puddings. It is most nutritious also. 
The proportions must be correct to get the 
cream firm as well as light. If it is frothy there 
is too much water ; if sticky and heavy there is 
not sufiicient water. 

Empress Pudding. 

TAKE I -pt. of bread-crumbs, i-qt. of new 
milk, the yolks of 4 eggs (well beaten), 
the grated rind of a lemon, and 3-ozs. of but- 
ter ; mix and bake about half an hour. When 
cold, spread some raspberry or plum jam over 
the pudding ; then whip the whites of the eggs 

[ 106] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

with a teacup of sifted sugar and the juice of 
a lemon, and lay this over the jam. Make 
slightly brown in the oven. 

[134] 

Sultana Pudding. 

TO an ordinary rice pudding add 4-ozs. of 
sultanas. Bake in a slow oven for sev- 
eral hours, with plenty of milk. When cooked 
it should be brown in color and quite moist. 
It is easily digested and makes a good supper 

dish. 

[135] 

Plain Boiled Pudding. 

TAKE 2-ozs. of nucoline or vegetable suet 
passed through a nut mill, 4-ozs. each 
of white and brown flour, and 4 tablespoonfols 
of bread-crumbs. Add water gradually, mix- 
ing into a dry dough, and boil in a cloth for 

1 5^ hours. 

[136] 

Apple Fritters. 

PEEL and quarter, or finely mince, some 
good cooking apples, dip in batter made 
as follows: — i tablespoonful of flour, i egg 
well beaten, enough milk to make it the con- 

[107 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

sistency of cream. Fry crisp in boiling nuco- 

line, and serve. 

[137] 

Baked Cocoanut Custard. 

BEAT 3 eggs and mix with i J^-pt. of milk, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoa- 
nut, and a tablespoonful of sugar. Bake in a 
slow oven, and add some grated nutmeg. 

[138] 

Orange Jelly. 

WIPE and thinly peel 5 oranges and 2 
lemons, take i-pt. of cold water, J^-lb. 
white sugar, and i J^-ozs. cornflour. Place the 
peel and water in a pan and simmer for ao min- 
utes with the sugar ; strain the resulting juice. 
Place the cornflour in a basin and squeeze the 
juice of the fruit through a strainer on to it, 
then pour the boiling syrup over this mixture ; 
stir well, return to saucepan, and boil for 6 
minutes. Pour into cold wet mould. Garnish 

with orange. 

[139] 

Ginger Pudding. 

TAKE 6-ozs. of brown bread crumbs (fine- 
ly grated), 3-ozs. of butter, a saltspoon- 

[ 108] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

fill of ground ginger, the juice of a lemon, and 
4-0ZS. of castor sugar. Stir these in a stewpan 
until the butter is melted. Chop 4-ozs. of pre- 
served ginger and add to the mixture with the 
yolks of 2 eggs. Beat well together and set 
aside to cool. Whisk the whites of the eggs 
and stir into the pudding quickly. Fill a but- 
tered basin with it, cover with a saucer (leaving 
room to swell) and steam for 3 hours. 

[140] 

Semolina Pudding. 

BOIL a teacupful of semolina for 15 min- 
utes in 2^-pts. of milk, stirring all the 
time. Flavor with vanilla. Turn out into a 
buttered pie dish, garnish with ratafia biscuits 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

[HI] 

Strawberry Cream Ice.' 

BAKE 1 5^ -lb. of ripe strawberries, 6-ozs. 
of castor sugar, J^-lb. of cream and a 
teacupful of milk. Put the strawberries through 
a sieve or strainer, mix the whole well together, 
and freeze. 

Raspberry ice can be made in a simpler form 

[ 109 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

by reducing the cream by one half and by add- 
ing another teacupful of milk in which a des- 
sertspoonful of cornflour has been boiled. 

[142] 
Vanilla Ice. 

TAKE I -pt. of milk, i gill of cream, the 
yolks of 3 eggs and 3-ozs. of castor sugar. 
After heating the milk, mix a dessertspoonful of 
ground rice with a little cold milk and put it in 
the saucepan. Pour in the beaten yolks and 
cream, and the sugar ; stir and simmer until the 
custard thickens, strain and set aside to cool ; 
add vanilla to taste, and stir well ; place in a 
freezing machine, and work steadily until it is 
frozen. To make this ice taste richer and 
more delicate, reduce the milk and increase the 

cream. 

[143] 

Lemon Cheese-cakes. 

PUT in a saucepan, J^-lb. butter, i-lb. lump 
sugar, 6 eggs (leaving out 2 whites) 2 
grated lemon rinds, and the juice of 3 lemons. 
Simmer until all is dissolved (gently stirring), 
and add a few dry biscuit crumbs. Serve on 
crisp pastry. 

[ no] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[144] 

Lemon Jelly. 

DISSOLVE i-oz. of isinglass in ij^-pts. of 
water. Add the grated peel of 2 lemons 
and 5^ -lb. of lump sugar. Boil for 10 minutes, 
stirring continually. Take off fire and add the 
juice of 1 5^ lemons. Strain and cool. Whisk 
well before turning into moulds. 

[145] 

Pineapple Fritters. 

MIX 5^-lb. of flour with J^-teaspoonful 
of salt and a well-beaten egg, and then 
mix in ^-pt. of milk, using half at a time, and 
beat the batter until it bubbles. Cut a preserved 
pineapple into thin slices and halve or quarter 
them, lay them in the batter, but on no account 
add any juice. Have a pan of boiling nucoline 
ready and lay the pineapple in and fry a nice 
light brown (the nucoline must cover it), drain 
off on soft paper and sprinkle castor sugar 
over it. Serve with pineapple sauce. 



[ I"] 



XV 

SUMMER AND WINTER DRINKS 

THE following recipes and suggestions, 
concerning a few beverages which can be 
used as substitutes for stimulating drinks, may 
prove useful to many readers : 

[146] 
Fruit Drinks. 

BOTTLED fruit juices and unfermented 
fruit wines can easily be made or pur- 
chased. A tablespoonful or two of the former 
added to a tumbler of water, makes a refreshing 

beverage. 

[147] 

Wheatenade. 

SIMMER 5^ -lb. of crushed wheat in i-qt. 
of water for about an hour, stirring it oc- 
casionally. Strain, add lemon juice and sugar 
to taste, for use in summer, or milk and sugar 
if the drink is taken hot in winter. Good 
clean bran can be substituted for crushed wheat 

[ 112] 



r 



SUMMER AND WINTER DRINKS 

This IS a capital drink for children with a 
tendency to rickets, or for persons suffering 
from nervous prostration caused by malnutri- 
tion. 

[148] 

Oatenade. 

SIMMER 5^ -lb. of coarse oatmeal, flavor 
to taste in the same manner as described in 
the previous recipe. This drink will be slightly 
richer in fat than the previous one, and it makes 
a good winter drink. 

[149] 
Gingerade. 

TAKE I -dr. essence cayenne, 4-drs. essence 
of ginger, 2-drs. essence of lemon, i-dr. 
burnt sugar, ^-oz. of tartaric acid. Add 3 -lbs. 
lump sugar and 5-qts. boiling water. Bottle 
ready for use. This beverage is a favorite one 
at all seasons. Dilute to taste. 

[150] 
Lime Fruit Drink. 

LIME juice, if pure, makes a cooling and 
wholesome drink. Some of the liquid 
sold as lime juice is only a chemical concoction. 

I "3] 



SUMMER AND WINTER DRINKS 

The weaker the solution the better it tastes. 

A dessertspoonful to the tumbler is generally 

enough. 

[151I 

A Substitute for Coffee. 

THOSE who are desirous of finding a sub- 
stitute for tea and coffee should try " Cara- 
mel Cereal ** (The International Health Asso- 
ciation, Ltd.). It tastes very much like coffee, 
but it is free from certain elements which are 
harmful to many constitutions. 

[152] 
Apple Tea. 

CUT up two large apples and boil them in 
a pint of water until cooked. Pass through 
a strainer and sugar to taste. 

[153] 

Rice Water. 

BOIL some rice in water and add lemon 
juice and sugar to taste. The beverage 
should not be made too thick. 



[ 114] 



SUMMER AND WINTER DRINKS 

[154] 

Barley Water. 

STEW sufficient pearl barley in water to 
make a fairly rich beverage. Add lemon 
and sugar to taste and serve when cold, or flavor 
with milk and sugar and serve hot. This drink 
is both cooling and nutritious, and if not made 
too thick is equally suitable for the harvest 
field or the tennis lawn. 



[ "5] 



XVI 

WHAT TO DO AT CHRISTMAS. 

THE Christmas festival — which has de- 
generated into such a deplorable orgy 
of massacre in many countries which are called 
" Christian " — can be observed and enjoyed 
equally well without such frightful preliminary 
ceremonies as the butchery of millions of sen- 
tient creatures. 

Why should we sing and talk of " Peace 
on Earth" when we are participating in re- 
morseless warfare against the animal creation? 
The arms of our licensed slaughterers grow 
weary with wielding the poleaxe and the knife 
upon trembling and terror-stricken victims, 
whose claim for compassion is totally ignored 
by those who are clamorous in demanding mer- 
cy for themselves from the "Higher Powers" 
above them ! 

Is not this a literal case of crying " Peace ! 
Peace ! " when there is no peace ! Is not this 
wholesale slaughter altogether discordant with 

[ ii6] 



WHAT TO DO AT CHRISTMAS 

the spirit and gospel of the gentle and harm- 
less Teacher of Nazareth, whose terrestrial 
birth is thus celebrated by pagan barbarity ? 
Should not those of us who dare to call our- 
selves His followers protest against a custom 
which brings discredit upon His religion and 
causes humanely disposed Oriental nations to 
regard it almost with contempt, by refraining 
from participation in this practice of shedding 
innocent blood in order to provide a needless 
type of food for the Christmas banquet ? 

The following suggestive menu will at once 
show my readers that Christmas can be cele- 
brated with a feast of good things without such 
butchery, and that its joys can even be en- 
hanced by the sense of freedom from blood- 
guiltiness and from personal responsibility con- 
cerning the deeds done in the shambles. The 
menu can be varied as taste and circumstances 
may dictate, and I feel sure that if this sugges- 
tion is once followed in Christian homes the 
old custom will never be revived in them. 



[ 117] 



WHAT TO DO AT CHRISTMAS 

A Bloodless Menu for Christmas. 

From which a selection can be made. 



Tomato Soup. Artichoke Soup. 

Fried Bread Dice. 

Mock White Fish. 

Parsley Sauce. 

Jugged Nuttose. Macaroni Rissoles. 

Red Currant Jelly. Sauce Piquante. 

Potatoes, Saute. Cauliflowers. 
Plum Pudding. Stewed Pears. Mince Pies. 

Whipped Cream. 

Butter. Toast Biscuits. Cheese. 

Rolled and Garnished. Lettuce Salad. Port du Salut. 

Fresh Fruits. Almonds and Muscatels. Figs. 

Chocolates. 



The cost of such a dinner as this will be 
much less than that of a corresponding one 
which includes poultry, game, and joints of 
flesh. The amount saved could be appropri- 
ately expended in providing a few comforts for 
the poor and needy, and thus the Christmas 
festival can be made the means of lessening the 
amount of suflFering in the world and of in- 
creasing the sum-total of happiness, 

I ii8] 



XVII 

USEFUL INFORMATION 

A CLOVE of garlic will give a very deli- 
cate and tasty flavor to many soups and 
dishes if used wisely. For soups, it is only 
necessary to rub the tureen with the cut clove 
before the soup is poured in. For savory 
dishes and stews, one small clove may be 
boiled (after being peeled) in the stewpan for 
five minutes. 

IN order to be able to remove the skins from 
tomatoes easily, they should first be placed 
in boiling water for about two minutes. 

IT is generally safest to buy French plums in 
bottles, as the quality is superior to those 
packed in boxes. They cost a little more, but 
one can depend upon having an enjoyable dish 
when the trouble has been taken to prepare 
them. The common prunes are sometimes 
tough and objectionable, and it is better to 
stint the quantity rather than the quality. 

[ 119] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

THE best type of figs to buy are those 
known as " pulled " figs ; they are well 
worth the extra price which they command. 
It is false economy to buy " cheap " figs. 

THE more crumbly a cheese is, the more 
easily digestible it will be found to be. 
It is a good plan to test the cheese in the fol- 
lowing manner : — First buy a small piece, and 
melt a portion with milk in a double saucepan ; 
if it has a granulated appearance it is wise to 
buy some more of the same cheese ; if, on the 
contrary, it is tough and stringy, it should be 
avoided, as it will be found lacking in nutri- 
ment and will be very liable to cause digestive 
trouble or nightmare. One of the best fancy 
cheeses made is a French one stamped " Port 
du Salutj^ which weighs about five pounds. 
This should be bought only when quite fresh. 
It then has a smooth rind, is free from holes 
inside, and smells perfectly sweet. A Camem- 
bert cheese made by Dutacq is also a lux- 
ury. In addition to the variety of imported 
cheeses to be had at " delicatessen " shops, 
American cheeses are now meeting with much 
favor. 

[ I20 ] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

IN households where an ice machine is not 
kept, ices can be made in the following 
simple manner : — The strawberry or vanilla ice 
can be placed in a receptacle made of thin glass, 
tin, or aluminum. This should be stood in a 
wooden pail, and round it should be packed 
layers of broken ice, between each of which has 
been placed a considerable sprinkling of broken 
rock-salt. If the ice receptacle is turned round, 
freezing will result in about ten minutes. 

PARSLEY which has been used for gar- 
nishing, or which is in danger of going to 
seed, can be preserved a bright green for sea- 
soning purposes by placing it in the oven on a 
sheet of paper and drying it slowly in such a 
manner that it does not burn ; it should then 
be rubbed through a sieve and put into a 
bottle. 

BUTTER can be made to look dainty and 
appetizing by being prepared for* the ta- 
ble as follows : — Pour some boiling water over 
the butter pats, then place them in cold water 
till quite cold. Roll small pieces of butter in 
short lengths and twist round to form the 

I 121 ] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

shape of a leaf, placing about twelve around the 
dish. Now beat a good-sized-piece until quite 
thin and roll round to form the petals of a 
flower. Place this in the centre and garnish 
with parsley. It may also be rolled into 
marbles. 

PARSLEY can be made a brilliant green in 
color by placing it in a cloth (after chop- 
ping) and dipping it in cold water, wringing it 
tightly in the hands and squeezing it with the 
fingers. For garnishing savory puddings or 
fried potatoes, etc., this is worth knowing. 

FRESHLY gathered watercress is a whole- 
some and appetizing addition to one's 
bread and butter in the early summer. Its 
action on the blood is beneficial. 

A GOOD coloring for sauces, soups, etc., 
can be made as follows : — Melt a quar- 
ter of a pound of granulated sugar in a pan ; 
cook until it is a very dark, rich brown, almost 
black ; stir constantly. Great care must be 
taken that it does not burn. When done, add 
carefully a quart of boiling water and let it cook 

I 122 ] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

until the caramel is entirely dissolved ; pour it 
out, and when cold, strain and bottle. It will 
keep indefinitely, and a tablespoonful will give 
color to a pint of liquid. 

INSTEAD of chopping onions, a coarse nut- 
meg grater should be kept for the purpose, 
and the onion should be grated like lemon rind. 
This saves much time and labor and answers 
better for flavoring soups, gravies, or savories 
of any kind. 

FRESHLY cut vegetables are much more 
digestible and wholesome than those which 
have been lying about in crates or shop win- 
dows. They also cook much more quickly. 
The water in which vegetables have been boiled 
should be saved for stock for soups and gravies 
(except in the case of potatoes). 

TO prevent hard-boiled eggs from becom- 
ing discolored they should be plunged 
into cold water as soon as they are removed 
from the saucepan. 



[ 123 ] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

[1551 

Dinner Rolls. 

DELICIOUS dinner rolls can be made as 
follows: — Take i ^-Ibs. of white flour, 
J^-lb. of wholemeal, 3-ozs. of butter and i-oz. 
of yeast. Mix the yeast with a dessertspoonful 
of treacle in 54^ -pt. of milk and water, rub the 
butter into the flour, and put in the yeast to 
rise. Knead, form into small rolls, raise for 
half-an-hour, bake in a quick oven. 

[156] 

How to Make Brown Bread. 

TAKE 2-lbs. of good wheatmeal and 5-lbs. 
of household flour, 2-ozs. of fresh yeast, 
3/^-pts. of hot water, and 2-ozs. of nucoline. 
First mix the yeast with a little golden syrup 
and add it to the water, flake the nucoline and 
mix it with the flour, pour in the water, stir 
with a wooden spoon, and then knead for 5 
minutes. Make it into small cakes, or put 
into tins and let it rise for about 30 minutes in 
a warm temperature, after which put into a hot 
oven (reducing to moderate). Brown bread 
must be light and well baked, or it will cause 
dyspepsia. The addition of buttermilk (in- 
stead of water) makes the bread taste delicious. 

I 124 ] 



XVIII 

HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

THE water in which green vegetables, 
beans, etc., have been cooked should be 
used for making soups and gravies, as it con- 
tains much of the valuable saline matter which 
is needful to the maintenance of health. To 
conserve these salts in the vegetables, as much 
as possible, should be the aim of the scientific 
cook, but where this is impossible, every effort 
should be made to utilize the solution which 
has been formed by the boiling process. 

Artichokes should be boiled until tender 
only. If over-boiled they become dark-col- 
ored and flavorless. They should be eaten 
on the day that they are cooked. 

Asparagus should be cut into equal lengths 
and tied into bundles. These should be stood 
on end in a deep stewpan, leaving the tops 
about an inch above the water. When the 
stalks are tender the tops will be cooked also. 

[ 125 ] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

This plan prevents the tops from falling off 
through being over-cooked. (See recipe 49.) 

Beetroot may be steamed or boiled, but 
care should be taken to avoid breaking the 
skin, as the juice escapes. It takes about 2 
hours unless the roots are very large. When 
cooked it should be sliced and dressed with 
vinegar, oil and pepper to taste — or it may be 
fried (recipe 70). 

Cabbage should be boiled until tender 
only ; if over-cooked it is pulpy and flavorless. 
Boiling too fast causes the unpleasant odor to 
be given off which is sometimes noticeable in a 
house when this vegetable is being cooked. 
The lid of the saucepan should not be used. 

Cauliflower must not be boiled until its 
crispness is lost. It must be just tender 
enough to eat. If not served "au gratin," it 
should be dressed with " white sauce " or " to- 
mato sauce.*' (See recipes 48 and 55.) 

Carrots should be steamed, not boiled. 
The skins should then be wiped off and they 
should be served with a brown gravy. They 

[ 126] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

are also nice if scraped, sliced and stewed in 
haricot tea (recipe i). The smaller the carrots 
the more delicate will the flavor be. 

Celery is best cooked by stewing it in suffi- 
cient water or milk to cover it, after cutting it 
into pieces about an inch in length. It should 
be served with white sauce. 

Kidney Beans need to be carefully trimmed 
so that all stringy parts are cut away. They 
should be boiled until tender, and no longer, 
and served with thin white sauce. It is a 
mistake to use these beans when they are 
old. The smaller and greener they are, the 
better. 

Vegetable Marrow should be steamed or 
boiled in its jacket. The flavor is lost if this 
is removed before cooking. 

Mushrooms are most savory when fried 
very slowly in a small quantity of butter. 
They should be stirred during the process, and 
the heat employed must be very moderate in- 
deed or they will be made tough. 

[ 1^7 ] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

Potatoes should be cooked in their jackets. 
To boil them properly, the water in the sauce- 
pan should be thrown away when they have 
been boiled for 5 minutes and cold water should 
be substituted. This plan equalizes the cook- 
ing of the interior and exterior of the potatoes. 
When cooked they should be drained dry, a 
clean cloth should be placed over the pan and 
they should stand on the hot plate to dry. 
They should be lifted out separately, and 
should be unbroken and floury. Sodden and 
heavy potatoes are very objectionable and ought 
to be regarded as evidence of incompetency on 
the part of the cook. Potatoes baked in their 
jackets are considered by many to be preferable, 
and, as it is almost impossible to spoil them if 
this plan is adopted, it should be employed 
when the cook is inexperienced. 

If fried potatoes are required for breakfast, it 
is best to remove some from the stewpan when 
half cooked on the previous day. These 
should be cut up in a frying pan in which a fair 
amount of butter has been melted, and the 
knife should be used while they cook. In a 
few minutes the potatoes should be well packed 
together, so that the underside will brown ; an 

[ 128] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

inyerted plate should then be pressed on them 
and the pan should be turned upside down 
while the plate is held in position with one 
hand. A neat and savory-looking dish will 
thus be made, but over-cooking must be 
avoided previous to the browning process. 

To make a change, potatoes should be 
mashed occasionally with a little milk and but- 
ter. They should then be packed into a neat 
shape and garnished with chopped parsley. 

The most savory way of cooking these roots 
is to use the frying basket and dip them in 
boiling fat (at 380 degrees). They should 
either be cut into thin fingers previously, or 
else be half boiled and broken into pieces. 
This latter plan is perhaps best of all, and they 
are then termed " potatoes saute." They are 
sprinkled with chopped parsley before being 
served. 

Peas should be placed in a covered jar with 
a little butter, and should be steamed until ten- 
der. No water is required in the jar. The 
pods, if clean and fresh, should be slowly 
steamed, rubbed through a colander, and added 
to any soup or other suitable dish in prepara- 

[ 129 ] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

tion. Another method is to boil the peas with 
mint, salt, sugar and a pinch of soda added to 
the water. Small young peas should always be 
chosen in preference to those which are old and 
large. 

Spinach should be cooked according to the 
directions given in recipes 66, 67, or 85. 



[ 130 ] 



XIX 

LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES 

DOMESTIC work in the kitchen may be 
much simplified and lightened if proper 
utensils are employed, and those who are able 
to do so should obtain the following appliances, 
in addition to those which are generally used : — 

The " Ida" Nut-Mill, which is used for 
making bread-crumbs from crusts or stale bread, 
for flaking nuts and almonds, etc., so as to 
make them more easy of digestion, and for 
flaking nucoline, to make it mix more conven- 
iently with dough when employed for making 
pastry. This nut-mill may be obtained from 
most high-class hardware merchants in Great 
Britain and America. 

The Frying-Basket is necessary for let- 
ting down rissoles, croquettes, cutlets, fritters, 
potato chips, etc., into the stewpan which is 
kept for fiying purposes. The stewpan should 

[ 131 ] 



LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES 

be four or five inches deep, so as to avoid the 
possibility of the nucoline or vegetable fat bub- 
bling over and catching fire upon the stove. 
Aluminum is the best metal, but if this cannot 
be obtained, the pan should be made of enam- 
elled iron, as it is fairly thin and lets the heat 
act on the fat quickly. 

The Raisin Stoner enables one to stone a 
large quantity of fruit in a very short time. 
Most hardware stores keep them. 

The Sausage Machine is useful for mix- 
ing and making up rissoles, vegetable sausages, 
etc. One of the latest types should be procured, 
as they have been much improved lately. 

The Potato Masher is necessary for flak- 
ing potatoes, and preparing haricot beans, peas, 
etc., for admixture in rissoles or croquettes. By 
this means the skins can be easily removed af- 
ter they have been cooked. 

The Wire Sieve (about ^nds inch mesh) 
is useful for preparing spinach, and in many 
others ways which will suggest themselves to 
every cook. 

[ 132 ] 



LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES 

The Duplex Boilerette is for scalding 
milk by means of a steam jacket. It prevents 
burning and boiling oven 

The Chopping- Basin is a wooden bowl 
with a circular chopper which fits it. This pre- 
vents the pieces from jumping off and lessens 
the time occupied. It is also less noisy and 
can be used while sitting down. 



[ 133 ] 



XX 

MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC 

QUALITIES 

IT is important that all who adopt a reformed 
diet should know something about the di- 
etetic and medicinal value of the articles they 
consume, and the following information may 
prove helpful : — 

Bananas contain a considerable amount of 
phosphorus, and are consequently specially 
suitable for mental workers. They are easily 
digestible and very nutritious, being almost a 
perfect food in themselves. 

Apples purify the blood, feed the brain, and 
also eliminate urates and earthy salts from the 
system. As they contain a small amount of 
starch, and a good proportion of grape sugar 
combined with certain valuable acids, they con- 
stitute a most desirable and hygienic food for 
all seasons. They should be eaten in a ripe 
state. People who cannot digest apples in the 

[ 134] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

ordinary way should scrape them and thus eat 
them in pulp rather than in pieces. 

French Plums are judicious food for per- 
sons of nervous temperament and for those 
whose habits are sedentary ; they prevent con- 
stipation, and are nutritious. They should be 
eaten with cream or Plasmon snow-cream. 

Strawberries contain phosphorus and iron, 
and are especially desirable for mental workers 
and anaemic invalids. 

Tomatoes are good for everyone, but es- 
pecially for those who suffer from sluggish liver. 
The popular fallacy that they are liable to cause 
cancer, which was circulated by thoughtless 
persons some few years since, has been pro-* 
nounced, by the highest medical authorities, to 
be unsupported by any evidence whatever, and 
to be both improbable and absurd. In the 
Island of Mauritius this fruit is eaten at almost 
every meal, and Bishop Royston has stated 
that during his episcopate of eighteen years he 
only heard of one case of the disease. 

Lettuce is soothing to the system and puri- 
fying to the blood. It should be well dressed 

[ 135 ] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

with pure olive oil and wine vinegar (3 spoon- 
fuls of oil to I of vinegar, well mixed together), 
A lettuce salad eaten with bread and cheese 
makes a nutritious meal. The thin and tender- 
leaved variety should always be chosen. 

Figs contain a deal of grape sugar which can 
be rapidly assimilated, and are very nourishing 
and easily digestible; when they can be ob- 
tained in their green state they are specially de- 
sirable. They may be considered one of the 
most valuable of all fruits. 

Dates are very similar to figs, and are both 
sustaining and warming; they are easily di- 
gested if the skins are thin. 

Gooseberries, Raspberries, Currants, 
and Grapes are cooling arid purifying food 
for hot weather. Unripe gooseberries will 
however, often upset the liver, and this type of 
fruit should not be eaten unless ripe and sweet. 

Walnuts, Hazel and Brazil Nuts contain 
a considerable amount of oil, and are conse- 
quently useful for warming the body and feed- 
ing and strengthening the nerves. Vegetable 

[ 136 ] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

fat in this form is more easily emulsified and 
assimilated than free animal fats, as in butter, 
etc. Nuts are also rich in proteid matter. 
Where people find that they cannot masti- 
cate nuts, owing to impairment of teeth, the 
difficulty may be removed by passing the nuts 
through an " Ida " nut-mill. When thus flaked 
and spread between thin slices of bread and 
butter, with honey, they make delicious sand- 
wiches for lunch. A pinch of curry powder 
(instead of the honey) makes them taste savory. 

Chestnuts contain a larger proportion of 
starch, but are digested without difficulty when 
boiled. 

Cheese is very rich in protein — far more so 
than lean beef. If well chosen, it is a most 
valuable article of diet, and feeds brain, nerves, 
and muscles ; but as it is a concentrated food 
it should not be taken in excessive quantity. 

Protose and Nuttose are reckoned to be 
equivalent to lean beef — minus water, uric acid, 
and disease germs. As they contain nutritive 
substance in a condensed state, they should be 
eaten sparingly, but they constitute the most 

[ 137 ] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

valuable substitutes for animal food yet placed 
upon the market. The International Health 
Association, which first invented such products, 
has an able advisory medical staff, and therefore 
these may be regarded as two of the latest 
modern results of chemical research. 

White Haricots are highly nitrogenous 
and should be eaten in strict moderation. They 
make splendid stock for soups and broths. The 
beans themselves are more suitable for physical 
workers. Brown haricots contain a considerable 
amount of iron. 

Lentils are almost identical in composition, 
but are more easily digested by those who do 
not have much physical toil. 

Peas are slightly less nitrogenous than lentils 
and haricots, but otherwise very similar ; they 
are best when eaten in a green form, and when 
young and tender. When the skins are hard 
the peas should always be passed through a 
potato masher, as the skins are very indigestible, 
and may produce an acute attack of colic. 

Macaroni has a high dietetic value as a 
flesh-forming food; it contains starch and a 

[ 138] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

large amount of the gluten of wheat. Being a 
rich food, it should be taken sparingly. Toma- 
to sauce is the best accompaniment to it (with 
Parmesan or grated and melted cheese). 

Rice consists almost entirely of starch in an 
easily digestible form, and is a valuable and 
simple food. It is best when cooked with cheese 
or eggs, as this addition makes it a more com- 
plete food (see recipes 46 and 47). It is also 
a valuable medium by which large quantities of 
fat may be taken — plainly boiled rice and but- 
ter or oil. 

Potatoes consist principally of starch and 
water, with a certain amount of potash. They 
should be eaten generally, as a separate dish, 
with butter and salt. Some tomato or other 
chutney makes a tasty dressing. 

Brown Bread contains, in addition to its 
starch, much more albumen than white bread, 
and a larger supply of mineral salts, such as 
phosphates, etc. It is, therefore, when light 
and well cooked, of much higher dietetic value 
for young persons, both for flesh-forming and 
bone-building purposes. Physical workers 

[ 139 ] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

should use it as a staple article of food, and 
mental workers will also find it useful, but el- 
derly persons do not require it to the same ex- 
tent except for laxative effects. The coarser 
the brown flour, the more laxative is the in- 
fluence of the bread. This is a point worth 
noting. 

Eggs are nutritive chiefly on account of the 
albumen which they contain, but, on the whole, 
their value is not great, and they are often liable 
to cause digestive troubles. As they contain 
uric acid they must not be taken too freely. 
Probably the best way to take them is in the 
form of custard pudding. Bilious persons 
should avoid boiled or poached eggs. 

Milk is a valuable food, containing nearly 
all the elements necessary for repairing bodily 
waste. It should always be scalded for half-an- 
hour in a double saucepan — to destroy tuber- 
cular and other germs. Portable and concen- 
trated forms of milk are now procurable in the 
forms of " Plasmon " and " Protene," chiefly 
in England, while high-grade condensed milks 
are largely used in America. 

[ 140 1 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

Celery is a useful blood purifier, and is 
valuable in all cases of tendency to rheuma- 
tism. 

Spinach contains a considerable quantity of 
iron in a readily assimilable form, and is, there- 
fore, good for anaemic persons. 

Tapioca, Sago and Semolina consist of 
starch and albumen, and are useful farinaceous 
substances which enable us to obtain variety in 
our diet. 



[ 141 ] 



XXI 

THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION 

OF FOOD 

OUR food must contain certain elements, 
and in the proper quantities, if the body 
is to be well sustained and nourished ; these are 
mainly as follows : i . Nitrogenous or proteid 
matter — such as albumen, fibrin or gluten (ani- 
mal or vegetable). This type of food forms 
flesh, builds muscle, and produces strength. 

2. Carbo-hydrate or starch matter (or its equiv- 
alent, sugar). This supplies heat and energy. 

3. Fatty matter (hydro-carbon). This sus- 
tains and nourishes the nervous system and also 
provides heat. 4. Salts and minerals (such as 
phosphates, iron, etc.). 5. Water. 

No hard-and-fast table or rule can be laid 
down concerning the proper proportions in 
which these elements should be combined, be- 
cause the amount needful for individuals varies 
according to their size, the sort of work they do, 

[ 142 ] 



THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOOD 

the amount of physical or mental energy they 
put forth, and the temperature of the atmosphere 
surrounding them. A calculation based upon 
Professor Huxley's tables shows that a person 
of average size who does a moderate amount of 
physical labor requires about 4-ozs. of protein, 
8-ozs. starch or sugar, 2-ozs. fat, yi-oz. of salts, 
and 4-lbs. of water per diem. 

The following indications of dietetic error 
may prove useful. Excess of proteid matter 
causes a general sense of plethora and unbear- 
ableness, nervous prostration or drowsiness 
after meals, a tendency to constipation (often 
resulting in piles, etc.), headache, periodic ex- 
citability, sensuality, irritability and bad tem- 
per ; a continuous deficiency of it would tend 
to produce general weakness and leanness. 
Excess of starch matter produces dyspepsia, 
flatulence, pain in the chest and abdomen, acid- 
ity (resulting in pimples and boils), enlarged 
glands, and an inflammatory state of the sys- 
tem ; deficiency of it (or its equivalent, grape 
sugar) would produce lack of force, and ner- 
vous and physical exhaustion. Excess of fatty 
matter causes biliousness; deficiency of it 

[ 143 ] 



THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOOD 

causes nervous weakness, neuralgia, and men- 
tal exhaustion. 

Brazil nuts, walnuts and sepucia nuts are 
rich in proteid and fatty matter, and contain 
such in absolute purity, with a small amount of 
starch. The chestnut contains more of this 
latter, and is chemically a most valuable food. 
Dried fruits contain a large amount of glucose 
or grape sugar, for the immediate supply of 
force and energy, and also certain fruit-acids 
which, in combination with the perfectly pure 
water which constitutes the juice, tend to dis- 
solve out impurities and earthy deposits from 
the system. Legumes, such as peas, beans, 
lentils, etc., and cheese or plasmon, are richer 
in albuminous or proteid matter than lean 
meat. 

The following table will enable most persons 
to understand, in the main, the composition of 
some of the principal foods, and each must as- 
certain individually, by experience, the requisite 
amount for him— or herself. 



[ 144 ] 



TABLE OF FOOD VALUES. 

Compiled from such authorities as Church, Payer, Lethe- 
by, Blyth, Pavy, Holbrook, Oldfield, Kress, etc. 

PBR CENTAGE OP 



Lean Beef 

Fat Pork 

Peanuts 

Haricots (White) 

Lentils 

Peas (Dried) 

Do. (Green) 

Macaroni 

Cheese (Cheddar) . . . 

Oatmeal 

Wheatmeal (Entire). . 
Do. (Flour only) 

Chestnuts 

Walnuts 

Filberts 

Brazil Nuts 

Cocoanut 

Pine Kernels 

Almonds 

Raisins 

Figs (Dried) 

French Plums (Dried) 

Dates 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Eggs 

Milk (Cow's) 

Cream (Devonshire) . 

White of Egg 

Yolk of Egg 

White Fish (Sole) . . . 

Mushrooms 

Bananas 

Apples 

Grapes 

Strawberries 



Water. 



72.0 

390 

6.5 

9-9 

12.3 

8.3 

8i.8 
10.8 
36.0 
10.4 
11.7 
12.11 

7.3 

44.5 
48.0 

6.0 

46.6 

5.0 
6.2 

14.0 

17.5 
26.4 

20.8 

12.4 

75.0 
74.0 

89.1 

28.6 

78.0 

52.0 

86.1 

90.3 
74.1 
82.0 
78.8 
90.9 



Protein. 



193 

9.8 

28.3 

25.5 

259 
23.8 

3-4 

11.7 
28.4 

156 

11.4 
II. 2 

146 
15.8 
18.4 
16.4 

5-5 
9.2 

23-5 
2.5 

6.1 

2.4 

6.6 

7.8 

2.2 

14.0 

4.1 

4.0 

20.4 

16.0 

1 1.9 

4-3 
1.2 

.5 

1.3 
i.o 



Fat. 



3.6 
48.9 
46.2 

2.8 

1-9 
2.1 

.4 
1.6 

31.1 
6. 1 1 

2.2 

1.2 

2.4 

57.4 
28.5 

67.7 

36.0 

71.5 

530 

4.7 

.9 
.8 

.2 

.4 
.2 

10.5 

3-9 
65.0 

30-7 
.2 

.3 

.8 

.5 
1.7 

.7 



Starch 

Matter, or 

Su^ar 



1.8 

55-7 
53.0 

58.7 

13.7 
72.9 

63.6 

71.7 
73.6 
69.0 

130 

II. I 

6.6 

8.1 

14.0 

7.8 

74.7 

65.9 
68.9 

65.3 
79.0 
21.0 

5.2 



3.7 

22.9 

16.6 

17.7 
6.8 



Mineral 
Matter. 



5-1 
2.3 
3-3 
3-2 
30 
2.1 

.7 
30 
4.5 
30 
30 

.8 

33 

2.0 

1.5 

3-3 
1.0 

.3 

30 
4.1 

2.3 

1.5 
1.6 

.4 
1.0 

1-5 
.8 

.4 
1.6 

1.3 
1.2 

1.4 
1.0 

.4 

.5 
.6 



Total 
Nutri. 
ment 

28.0 

61.0 

79.6 

87.2 

83.0 

86.7 

18.2 

89.2 

64.0 

89.1 

88.3 

86.8 

89.3 
88.2 

59-5 
94.0 

50.5 
95.0 

87-3 
86.0 

75.2 

73-6 

73-7 
87.6 

24.4 
26.0 
14.0 

69.4 
22.0 
48.0 

13-3 

9.7 
25.9 

18.0 

21.2 

91 



In the above Table, the amount of Starch accredited to the various sweet 
fruits mtist be understood to be contained in a pre-digested form as grape sugar. 



[ 145] 



XXII 

HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

IT is important to remember that the more 
physical energy we put forth, the larger is 
the amount of nitrogenous and starch matter 
we require in our diet — and vice versa. Brain 
workers of sedentary habits require but a mod- 
erate amount of either, and quickly suffer from 
indigestion if food is taken in excessive quan- 
tity. For such, a diet of dried and fresh fruits, 
nuts (malted or in natural condition), milk, 
cheese, brown bread and butter, rice, macaroni 
and vegetables is found to be the most hygienic. 
Nitrogenous food is principally supplied by 
pulses — such as peas, haricots and lentils, or 
by animal products such as cheese and eggs. 
Starch food is obtained chiefly in the form of 
cereals, potatoes and rice, and to a moderate 
extent in various nuts. 

VEGETABLE oils and fats produce heat 
and build up the nerves. We require a 
much larger amount of food containing fat in 

[ 146] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

cold weather and in cold climates than in warm 
weather and in warm climates. By producing 
fruits in profusion in the summer-time Nature 
provides for our obedience to our instinctive 
taste — which is to prefer such simple and cool- 
ing diet when the temperature is high. But in 
winter-time nuts should be eaten every day in 
some form — either raw or cooked. 

OLD age is accompanied by the accumula- 
tion in the body of certain earthy salts 
which tend to produce ossification. The de- 
posit of these in the walls of the arteries im- 
pedes the circulation, and produces senility and 
decrepitude. Flesh-food accelerates this proc- 
ess, but the juices of fruits, and distilled or 
soft water, dissolve out these deposits, and the 
older one becomes the more freely should one 
partake of fruit and water. 

A distilling apparatus might be kept in every 
house. Several kinds are now upon the market. 
If a still cannot be obtained, filtered rain water 
is the best water to drink. The more juicy 
fruit we consume, however, the less drink of 
any kind we require, and the water contained 
in fruit is Nature's purest and best production. 

I 147 1 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

Frequent bathing and the occasional use of 
the vapor bath also help to eliminate these 
earthy deposits, and those whose skins are 
never made to perspire by wholesome exercise 
in the open air must cause this healthful opera- 
tion to take place by other means— or pay the 
penalty which Nature exacts. 

CHILDREN who are building up bone 
and tissue require to be supplied with 
brown wheatmeal bread, or with wheatmeal 
biscuits, in order to obtain the phosphates, etc., 
which are found under the husk of the wheat. 
If they are fed upon white bread only, in com- 
bination with the usual artificial diet of modern 
civilization, they will be in danger of suffering 
from rickets or malnutrition. But when the 
adult stage is reached, cereals may be more 
sparingly used by those who have little physical 
exercise. When brown meal is mixed with the 
white it will help the digestive organs to assim- 
ilate the bread with less discomfort, and at the 
same time it supplies the phosphates which are 
essential for nourishing the brain. 

OATMEAL is a starch food which sup- 
plies heat and energy to the system ; 

[ 148 I 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

when eaten in the form of porridge it is often 
likely to cause digestive trouble unless the 
starch is partly transformed by being cooked 
for several hours. All starch foods when eaten 
in a " sloppy " state, and in excessive quantity, 
are apt to cause dyspepsia, for the tendency of 
the consumer is to avoid mastication; conse- 
sequently the ptyalin in the saliva, which should 
transform some of the starch partially into 
sugar, fails to become properly mixed with it, 
with the result that the starch enters the stomach 
quite unchanged. Very little provision, if any, 
is made for its digestion there, and while wait- 
ing to be passed on to the intestine where the 
process of transformation into glucose can be 
completed, previous to assimilation, it is apt to 
become fermented and to cause indigestion and 
acidity. When the process is complete and 
much vital energy has been expended in this 
transformation, the result is that we have only 
manufactured a substance which we could have 
obtained ready made by Nature — for figs, rais- 
ins, dates, bananas and other sweet fruits con- 
sist chiefly of grape sugar. Dry biscuits or 
toast should be eaten with porridge to promote 
better mastication ; it should be taken in very 

[ 149 ] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

moderate quantity, and it is more valuable in 
the winter than in the summer, on account of 
the fat which it contains. 

A WORD of warning should perhaps be 
given concerning the excessive use of 
starch, and I feel justified in emphasizing the 
point because I am convinced that multitudes 
suffer from dyspepsia and ill-health simply 
through eating cereal food immoderately. This 
will often be found to be the rock upon which 
those who have made a thoughtless and unsuc- 
cessful trial of " vegetarianism " have made 
shipwreck. If dyspeptics test the truth of this 
statement for themselves they will be grateful 
for the information thus given. Let such re- 
duce their consumption of the various starch 
foods, potatoes, etc., by about one half of the 
usual amount, and let them take the remainder 
in a well-cooked form. When the starch has 
been turned into " dextrin " by the baking proc- 
ess, as in the case of toast, or well-baked 
crisp biscuits, the first stage of digestion is ac- 
complished and the remaining one is thus facili- 
tated. The reduction of cereal consumption 
can be made up, if necessary, by eating more 

[ ISO ] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

sweet fruits, and the result of this experiment 
will convince those who try it that I am mak- 
ing known to them practical truth of a valuable 
sort. To all dyspeptics I recommend the 
habit of often making their breakfast of fruit 
and nuts, with brown toast or meal biscuits 
and butter. They will be surprised at the im- 
provement in their state. A cup of milk in 
which a teaspoonful of " Plasmon " has been 
dissolved and boiled will make such a meal 
complete. 

There was a time when man did not know 
how to make fire or to cook. He could not 
have used cereals to any great extent in those 
days, for the starch cells require to be broken 
up by heat, and as the anthropoid apes do not 
live upon grain, we are fairly safe in inferring 
that it is not a strictly natural food for us. 
Sweet fruits (such as bananas and figs) are 
generally preferable, for they are assimilated 
almost without eflFort and do not need prelim- 
inary transformation. 

NUTS have the advantage of containing a 
large amount of oil, with a very moder- 
ate amount of starch ; it is wise, therefore, to 

[ 151 ] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

accustom one's self to eating them regularly, 
and if they are taken with fruit alone instead 
of after a heavy meal, those who have hitherto 
considered them to be indigestible will prob- 
ably be led to change their opinion. If 
" flaked " by being passed through a nut-mill 
they are more easily masticated. Nut prod- 
ucts, such as nuttose and protose, will be 
found to be easily digestible by most persons. 
Such foods, however, must be eaten in moder- 
ation, as they contain much proteid matter. 
They are very useful and are destined to be- 
come very popular in course of time. 

MENTAL workers and those living at 
high pressure cannot digest the same 
food as persons who enjoy the opportunity for 
much outdoor exercise or labor. To attempt 
it means dyspepsia, and, therefore, the amount 
of food consumed must be lessened, and par- 
tially digested foods, such as those above 
mentioned, prove both useful and advantap^e- 
ous. 



I 



T is a mistake to mix various fresh fruits 
and vegetables by eating them together. 

[ 152 I 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

Fermentation is sometimes thus caused, as 
vegetables take a considerable time to digest. 
Vegetables should be eaten with savory dishes 
and simple puddings. Acid fruit should be 
reserved for other meals, as a general rule. 

ONE of the best cures for indigestion and 
biliousness, which is superior to all the 
pills and potions that were ever advertised, is 
" fasting "—simply that and nothing more. In 
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, headache, 
dyspepsia, and torpid liver are caused by er- 
roneous or excessive diet. To abstain from 
eating and drinking entirely, until one is hun- 
gry enough keenly to enjoy a crust of dry 
bread, is a medical prescription which is price- 
less. Let every dyspeptic try this remedy, 
and, having proved its worth, let him tell some 
other sufferer of it. Constipation can nearly 
always be cured by adding stewed figs, French 
plums, salads, and the like, to one's menu, by 
eating brown instead of white bread, and by 
taking less nitrogenous food. 

The mind can exercise powerful hygienic in- 
fluence over the body, and mental force should 
be exerted to banish all fear, worry and care. 

[ 153] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

THE majority of persons live on about 
half of what they eat, and unduly tax 
their vital energy by compelling the system to 
get rid of the other half. The energy thus 
wasted might be used for mental or physical 
work. The most potent cause of dyspepsia 
is the foolish habit of sitting down to eat be- 
cause it happens to be meal-time, and then 
succumbing to the temptation to partake of 
dainty dishes when absence of hunger should 
be regarded as Nature's monitor, telling one 
that food is not required. Thousands of inva- 
lids are hurried into their graves by the per- 
suasions of well-meaning but misguided friends, 
who continually urge them to be eating or 
drinking " in order to keep up their strength," 
whereas on account of the fact that they are 
expending little or no energy they require only 
the smallest quantity of nourishment. The 
craving for stimulants is not only caused by 
insufficient nutrition, but also by eating to ex- 
cess. Exhausted nature, wearied by incessant 
efforts to overcome the continual process of 
"stoking" to which so many misguided mor- 
tals subject themselves, exhibits signs of pros- 
tration ; the whip and spur of stimulating 

[ 154] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

drinks is then felt to be needful, and is often 
applied, lest the digestive machinery should 
become entirely choked. 

THE latest declarations of some of the 
principal English medical authorities on 
** cancer " are to the effect that there is good 
reason for believing that people become predis- 
posed to this disease by excessive eating, and 
especially by the excessive consumption of ani- 
mal food which is now so generally prevalent. 

THE milk as well as the flesh of cattle is 
very frequently infected with the germs 
of tuberculosis and other maladies. Ninety 
per cent, of Queen Victoria's dairy herd at 
Windsor were found to be tuberculous. Many 
cattle in this country are doubtless in a similar 
state, and, as the disease is highly contagious, 
the risk of eating consumptive corpses must be 
apparent to all intelligent persons. Cooking 
does not destroy the bacilli in the centre of a 
joint, as the flesh does not reach boiling point 
there at all. All milk should be scalded for at 
least half an hour before it is consumed, either 
by children or adults ; to neglect this precau- 

[ 155 1 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

tion IS most unwise, and may prove suicidal. 
A double saucepan is necessary for the process, 
and, when the milk has become cold, the cream 
can be skimmed off. 

IF the digestive process is unduly delayed by 
overloading the stomach or by drinking 
largely at meal-times so as to dilute the gastric 
juice, fermentation, flatulence and impaired 
health are likely to result. Raw sugar if taken 
very freely with starch foods is also apt to in- 
duce fermentation. 

AVERY safe rule to observe, and one 
which would save thousands from physi- 
cal discomfort and suffering, is this — only eat 
fruits which are palatable in their natural un- 
cooked state. No one would pick a sour ap- 
ple or gooseberry from the tree and eat it. It 
is unwise to stew it and then eat it. Wait un- 
til it has been ripened and cooked by the rays 
of the sun. This rule may safely be followed 
with all products of Nature. Before man in- 
vented the art of cooking, he could, in his nat- 
ural state, only have eaten such fruits of the 
earth as were palatable and appetizing when in 

I 156 1 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

their raw state. Ultimately, when the race 
has acquired wisdom through experience, a 
general return will probably be made to this 
simple plan. 

THOSE who work their brains or their 
bodies to any considerable extent im- 
mediately after partaking of a solid meal, sim- 
ply invite an attack of indigestion to develop it- 
self. The vital force required for the digestive 
process is diverted from the stomach, with the 
result that the food is left to ferment or decom- 
pose. Malnutrition follows if the above-men- 
tioned habit is persisted in for any length of 
time, and the deluded " business-man " who 
" cannot spare the time " for a short rest or 
stroll after the mid-day meal, at last awakens to 
the fact that he has damaged his constitution 
and has been " penny wise and pound foolish." 
The brain or body which has been severely 
taxed should also be given an interval of rest 
before any but the very lightest meal is taken. 
We should always remember that it is not what 
we eat that nourishes us, but what we are able 
to assimilate. 

[ 157] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

RECREATION is as necessary to health 
as food and water. An interest in life and 
occasional amusement are equally necessary. 
Thousands of women have died from monoto- 
nous and continuous domestic care ; multitudes 
of men succumb to excessive mental strain and 
incessant business anxiety, and vast numbers of 
those who " neither toil nor spin " sink into the 
grave for the simple reason that they have 
no object in life. Chronic dyspeptics should 
reflect on these facts. 

THE sun-bath, taken by exposing the naked 
body to sunshine, is a most hygienic and 
vitalizing exercise. The human skin needs ex- 
posure both to the air, to the action of light, 
and to the sun's rays. Those who are wise and 
who wish to live a century will see that their 
bodies are not robbed of this blessing. Aborig- 
inal races which have successfully survived the 
introduction of all the other evils of civilization, 
have succumbed and been entirely wiped out 
when they added the practice of encasing their 
bodies continuously in stuffy clothing. 



[ 158] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

THOSE who drink tea should only infuse 
it by pouring boiling water on it in a pre- 
viously warmed enamelled iron jug, and the 
water should not be allowed to remain on the 
leaves more than one minute, but should at 
once be poured off into the teapot through a 
strainer. Coffee should be made in the same 
way, but the pot or jug should be made to boil 
up for just a moment before pouring the liquor 
off into another receptacle. The water should 
be freshly boiled, and should be used as soon as 
it comes to a boiling point. Tea, however, 
should be used in the strictest moderation (if 
at all), as it is detrimental to the health of many 
persons. The tannin contained in it toughens 
all proteid food, and possibly injures the coats of 
the stomach and intestines as well. Leather is 
made by dressing skin with tannin. The theine, 
which is the stimulative substance in tea, is de- 
clared by Dr. Alex. Haig, F.R.C.P., to be 
identical with uric acid in its effect upon the 
human body. Thousands of dyspeptics and 
invalids are suffering from drinking tea several 
times a day. 

If one feels that a cup of tea or coffee is really 
necessary, it is best to take it between meals 

[ 159 1 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

rather than with them. Plenty of water should 
be added, so as to make the beverage weak. 
Coffee should be pure, unadulterated and freshly 
ground. Most persons are, however, better 
without it altogether, as it unduly stimulates the 
heart, excites the brain and arouses the passions. 

FRESH air is absolutely essential if health 
and longevity are to be attained. Sitting 
in close rooms, the air of which has been de- 
nuded of oxygen and laden with carbonic acid 
by human beings or gas lamps, simply causes 
poisoned blood, headache, and ill-health. When- 
ever possible one should sleep with the window 
open. 

WITHOUT deep breathing the lungs 
cannot be inflated sufficiently, the blood 
cannot be oxidized properly, and the constitu- 
tion is neither warmed nor vitalized adequately. 
Deep breathing should be practised daily, and 
a physical exerciser should be used to increase 
lung capacity. 

THE last meal of the day should not be 
taken after seven o'clock at night. Dis- 

[ i6o] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

turbed rest and the habit of dreaming are an 
almost certain indication of errors in diet hav- 
ing been committed, or of this rule having been 
infringed. 

PHYSICAL maladies should not be attrib- 
uted to the " mysterious dispensations of 
Providence," but in nearly all cases to our 
physical transgressions and mistakes or those of 
our parents. Probably the most valuable pre- 
scription ever given to a patient was that given 
by Dr. Abernethy to a wealthy dyspeptic, " Live 
on sixpence a day and earn it." 



[i6i] 



XXIII 

PHYSICAL VITALITY: 

ITS ACQUISITION AND ACCUMULATION 

FEW persons take any thought or trouble 
concerning the accumulation of vitality, 
although it is one of the most priceless of all 
earthly possessions, and without it all other 
good things are apt to fade, like a mirage, into 
thin air. 

The human body is a storage battery con- 
sisting of millions of cells in which the vital 
electricity that produces health, wards off and 
prevents disease, makes life enjoyable, and pro- 
duces the personal magnetism which causes the 
human character to be powerfiil for good or for 
evil, is accumulated. 

Every form of manifestation of physical vi- 
tality depends upon the life-force stored up in 
this human battery — ^and upon its voltage. 
The more fully charged the cells of the body 

[ 162] 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

may be, the higher the voltage, and, conse- 
quently, the greater the vitality and power. 

This voltage is always fluctuating. Physical 
or mental expenditure of force lessens it ; recu- 
peration, through rest, sleep, the in-breathing of 
oxygen and the assimilation of food-pabulum, 
increases it. And if the influx is greater than 
the output, accumulation results. 

Comparatively few persons have ever real- 
ized that a pre-determined accumulation of vital 
force is an actual possibility and that it can be 
brought about by intelligent and methodical 
action. 

All the " preventive medicines " in the world 
are as the small dust of the balance — poten- 
tially — when weighed against this Life-force 
which " healeth all our diseases and redeemeth 
our life from destruction." Its therapeutic 
phenomena are truly wonderful ; the fractured 
human limb, the damaged bark of the tree, 
the broken shell of the humble mollusc, will 
each alike be mended and restored by the in- 
visible Life-spirit which operates silently in each. 

When the human system is invaded by ma- 
levolent bacteria and microbes, the white cor- 
puscles within us overcome and expel them and 

[ 163 ] 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

save us from disease. They act thus whenever 
the sum total of our vitality — or voltage — is 
such as to maintain them in fit and forceful 
condition. If they are not properly fed with 
those elements which are needful for their sus- 
tenance and welfare, they soon run down, and 
we become aware of the fact by realizing that 
we ourselves have run down. Our voltage is 
below the normal ; we are below par. We 
then are liable to become the prey of those 
ceaseless microscopic enemies which are ever 
ready to pounce upon the unfit. 

If our corpuscles are weaker than the invad- 
ing foes no drugs can save us, — we are doomed. 
Hence the importance of keeping our nerve- 
centres well charged and our minute life-cells 
in vigorous condition. 

To accumulate vitality our food must con- 
tain all the chemical elements which we need. 
Nitrates for muscle building, carbons for heat 
and energy production, fats and phosphates and 
other mineral salts for the sustenance of brain 
and nerve-force. None must be permanently 
omitted. If, for instance, we exclude organic 
phosphorus from the food of a man of mighty 
intellect, he will, in due time, be reduced to a 

[ 164] 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

Stage bordering on idiocy. We can obtain this 
phosphorus in such foods as cheese, milk, 
whole-meal (graham) bread, oat-meal, peas, 
beans, apples and bananas. But inorganic 
phosphorus in the form of drugs or pills is 
dangerous. 

The other elements are also necessary, and 
our diet must contain the whole of the four- 
teen from which the body is constructed. This 
fact suggests the wisdom of making our diet 
as varied as possible. Nature will assimilate 
the necessary elements if opportunity is thus 
provided. 

The human body, and its brain and nerves, 
are in the first instance constructed, and are 
then continuously reconstructed from the food 
which reaches us through the digestive appa- 
ratus and the lungs. Our thoughts are largely 
the outcome of our food-pabulum — as a man 
eatethy so he thinketh. The numerous cases of 
mental idiosyncrasy, incompetency, and aberra- 
tion which we see around us, may, in very 
many instances, be traced to erroneous feeding. 

To store vitality we must live by method, 
and take some trouble. Nature's greatest gift 
is not to be obtained haphazard and without 

[ 165 ] 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

thought and effort. We must eat wisely, and 
breathe wisely, and live wisely ; and the closer 
to Nature we get, the better it will be for us. 
The early morning sunshine produces healthful 
vibration; the atmosphere which has been vital- 
ized by its rays contains the life-giving oxygen 
upon which our vitality so largely depends. 
To rise with the lark, and retire while the night 
is still young, is to walk in Wisdom's way. 

The habit of deep-breathing, like the habit 
of living much in the open air, yields impor- 
tant results. We should remember that the 
atmosphere consists of oxygen and nitrogen — 
the very elements of which our bodies are 
chiefly constructed. Life and vigor can be 
inhaledy but few persons have learned the art. 

The habit of cheerfulness tends to promote 
the assimilation of food which vitalizes — and 
thus it favors longevity. 

Exercise — of an intelligent and healthful sort 
— is needful to make the life-current pulsate 
through our bones and tissues. Without it 
our organs do not get properly nourished and 
rebuilt — stiffness and atrophy set in. Every 
organ must be used if we are to secure complete 
development and health. 

[ 166] 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

Food which is likely to contain disease germs 
and decomposing bioplasts (such as dead bod- 
ies) must be eschewed, and worry and care 
must be banished, as far as possible, from our 
lives. 

Vitiated atmosphere must be avoided, as well 
as all unwise and excessive expenditure of nerve- 
force, for these things deplete the storage bat- 
tery of human electricity and lessen its voltage. 

The Coming Race will master the secret of 
accumulating life-force — for mankind is slowly 
rising upon the stepping-stones of painful ex- 
perience to knowledge of Truth and " Life 
more abundant." 



[ 167] 



SYNOPSIS OF RECIPES 



Breakfast Dishes, 19, 50, 52, 

56, 58, 74. 79. 87, 89, 96, 
97,98, 99, 100, loi, 106, 132, 

155. 156. 

Luncheon Dishes, 45 to 107, 
124 to 140, 144, 155. 

Recipes for Cottage Din- 
ners, 6 to 14, 16 to 18, 26 to 
28, 30 to 33, 35 to 43, 45 to 
48, 50. 51. 53 to 62, 65, 66, 
70 to 79, 82 to 84, 86 to 90, 
96 to 107, 125 to 128, 130 to 

135. HO- 

Recipes for Household Din- 
ners, 6 to 90, 108 to 145, 

i55» 156. 
Picnic Recipes, 91 to 107. 

Simple Recipes for Bache- 
lors, 6 to 23, 25 to 28, 30, 



32» 33»4i to 43, 45 to 67, 70, 
73 to 75, 77, 79, 80, 82, 86 to 
90, 95 to 104, 106, 107, 
116, 121, 125 to 128, 130 to 

I35» 140- 

Recipes for Invalids, i to 5, 

6, 7, 10 to 17, 24, 28, 30, 
33* 36, 42, 45 to 51, 57, 61, 
62, 67, 74, 85, 89, loi, 103, 
125, 126 to 128, 130 to 132, 
134, 140, 144. 

Recipes for Travellers, 96 
to 104. 

Supper Dishes, 45 to 53, 56 

to 67, 73 to 79, 81, 83, 85 to 
87, 89» 90. 

Summer and Winter 
Drinks, 146 to 154* 

Recipes for Bread-making, 

i55» 156. 



[ 169] 



n 



Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



^s.-^'^9 




-u'k 



J 



THE 
SELF- 
EDUCATOR 
SERIES 

EdHeJ by JOHN ADAMS, M.A., B.Sc. 



FRENCH 
LATIN 
GERMAN 
CHEMISTRY 
ENGLISH COMPOSITION 



t2mo, Cloih. 75 Cents Per Volame 



THOMAS Y. CROWELL &, CO. 

HEW YORK 



Sb%>'^¥ 




> 



•ft" ' 



^^>J^"2^^ 




.7./- 



GUIDE-BOOK 

To Natural, Hygienic ^ 
Humane Diet 



A Comprehensive 

GUIDE-BOOK 

To Natural, Hygienic £^ 
Humane Diet 



By 

SIDNEY H. BEARD 

Editor of 
"The Herald of the Golden Age 



99 






New York 
Thomas Y. Crowell ^ Co. 

Publishers 




;2- 



C "»(:> 



\ 



Copyright, 1900 
by Sidney H. Beard 

Copyright, 1902 
by Thomas Y. Crowell £sf Co. 



PUBUSHSD, May, 1902 



PREFACE 

THE subject of Food- Reform is beginning 
to be seriously considered by thoughtful 
and enlightened persons in all parts of the 
world; and the extent of this newly awakened 
interest is increasing every day. The fact that 
the nature, quality, and quantity of our daily 
food largely determines our physical, mental, 
and spiritual condition, and that consequently 
our own welfare and that of our children de- 
pends upon our holding correct ideas concern- 
ing diet and upon our living in accordance with 
the same, is becoming generally recognized. 

In addition to this, the realization that the 
abandonment of the carnivorous habit by the 
Western Nations would bring about the eman- 
cipation of the animal world from the system 
of ruthless tyranny and wholesale massacre 
which prevails in what are called Christian 
countries, is now exercising a powerful influence 
upon the minds of a large number of men and 

[V] 



PREFACE 

women who, in consequence of having reached 
a comparatively advanced stage of evolution, 
feel humanely disposed toward all creatures 
who share with them the gift of life upon this 
planet. Such souls cannot avoid the convic- 
tion that man was never intended by the Infi- 
nite Spirit to play the part of a remorseless and 
bloodthirsty oppressor toward the sub-human 
races. 

On every hand those who are laboring to 
bring about the adoption of dietetic customs 
which neither violate those laws of Nature that 
regulate our physical well-being nor outrage 
the humane sentiments of the " higher self" 
within us, are now met by earnest requests for 
information concerning the way of escape from 
the bondage of ancestral barbaric custom and 
the path to a healthy and harmonious existence. 
" How may we live out our full length of days, 
joyfully and vigorously, instead of dying of dis- 
ease or premature senile decay ? " " How may 
we avoid the painful maladies which afflict our 
friends and neighbors, and escape the sur- 
geon's knife ? " "How may we be delivered 
from participation in the guilt of needlessly 
shedding innocent blood, and wash from our 

[vi] 



PREFACE 

soul-garments the stain of the shambles ? ** 
" How may our dinner-tables be sufficiently 
spread with the kindly fruits of the earth, in- 
stead of with the remains of fellow-creatures 
who love life and happiness just as we do ? " 
Such questions as these are being asked by 
thousands of earnest souls, and it is to help 
such inquirers that this guide-book is published. 
My aim has been to give useful, practical, 
reliable and up-to-date information in a concise 
form, avoiding superfluous matter and " fadd- 
ism," and only supplying such recipes as are 
not so elaborate as to require the skill of a 
French "chef" for their interpretation. By 
spending a few hours in the thoughtful study 
of the following pages, and by practising this 
reformed system of diet and cookery in daily 
domestic life for a few weeks, any intelligent 
person can master the chief principles of Food- 
Reform and become qualified to prepare and 
provide natural, hygienic, and humane diet 
which should satisfy the taste of an ascetic or a 
bon vivanty provided that its possessor be not 
hopelessly enamoured of the "flesh-pots of 
Egypt " and the taste of cooked blood. A 
system of living which is enthusiastically recom- 

[vii] 



PRBFACB 

mended by thousands of disinterested advocates 
who speak from experience, which comes to us 
so full of promise both for ourselves and others, 
which bids fair to humanize and transform So- 
ciety and to solve many of the world's social 
problems, and which is now endorsed by so 
many of the highest authorities in the medical 
world, merits such attention and study, and is 
worthy of a serious trial. 

As I am writing a Guide to reformed diet for 
domestic use — not an elaborate treatise to jus- 
tify it — I have refrained from introducing medi- 
cal and experimental testimony concerning the 
dangerous and injurious nature of fiesh-food 
and the advantages of living upon the kindly 
fruits of the earth. Numerous works are ob- 
tainable which demonstrate that the principles 
and arguments upon which the Food- Reform 
Movement is based are supported by an array 
of scientific evidence which is more than suffi- 
cient to convince any unprejudiced, logical, and 
well-balanced mind. For such information I 
must refer my readers to other publications 
dealing with this phase of the subject — books 
and papers which are multiplying day by day, 
as the interest in the movement increases. 

[ viii ] 



PREFACE 

For many of the recipes contained in the fol- 
lowing pages I am indebted to certain of the 
members of the Order of the Golden Age, 
and to other workers in the Food-Reform 
Cause. Most of them are original, being the 
result of thoughtful experiment. All have 
been proved to be valuable, and they should, 
if carefully followed^ result in the production of 
dishes which will give satisfaction ; but if certain 
recipes do not commend themselves to some of 
my readers they must remember that human 
palates differ considerably, and must try other 
dishes which they may like better. 

In the hope that every reader of this book 
will make some sincere endeavor to seek eman- 
cipation from the barbaric habits which are 
still prevalent, and from that physical trans- 
gression into which our forefathers, at some 
period of the world's history, appear to have 
fallen with such disastrous consequences to 
themselves and their posterity, it is sent forth 
upon its humble but beneficent mission. Hav- 
ing proved that such a way of living is both possi- 
ble and desirable, some will, I feel sure, strive to 
induce their fellows to live as becomes the Chil- 
dren of God rather than as the beasts of prey. 

[ix] 



PREFACE 

Those who have reached that spiritual plane 
where the vital relationship of all sentient creat- 
ures is recognized, and who find it painful to 
contemplate the wanton and cruel slaughter 
which at present prevails throughout Christen- 
dom — involving the death of a million large 
animals every day — will instinctively experi- 
ence a longing to apprehend some way by 
which this inhumanity and injustice can be 
brought to an end. Such will be able to per- 
ceive the real significance of the twentieth-cen- 
tury crusade against Carnivorism. They will 
also feel individually constrained to co-operate 
in the great work of bringing about this benef- 
icent Reformation of thought and custom, and 
in giving to mankind the blessings that will 
result from it. 

Sidney H. Beard. 



[«] 



CONTENTS 






Page 


Animal Food, Substitutes for 


41 


Appliances, Labor-Saving 


131 


Artistic Cookery 


22 


Christmas, What to do at . 


. 116 


Drinks, Summer and Winter 


112 


Fish, Substitutes for ... , 


51 


Flesh, Substitutes for . 


55 


Food, Chemical Composition of . 


. 14a 


Food Values . . . . , 


. 145 


Gravies and Sauces . . • . 


95 


Hygienic Information . . • . 


146 


Ideal Diet 


I 


Invalids, How to Feed 


• 34 


Luncheon Dishes . . • . 


86 


Moderation, A Plea for . . , 


19 


Physical Vitality . . . . , 


162 


Puddings and Desserts 


» 102 


Qualities, Medicinal and Dietetic • 


• 134 


Simple Savory Dishes . . . , 


66 


Simplicity, A Plea for . 


• 13 


[xi] 





CONTENTS 

Page 

Soups . . . . . .44 

Travelling, What to do when . . 29 

Useful Information . . . .119 

Vegetables, How to Cook . . • ^^S 



[xii] 




IDEAL DIET 

A NATURAL, hygienic, and humane diet 
is one which is in harmony with the 
Laws of Nature, the Laws of Health, and the 
Law of Love. The physical structure of man 
is declared by our most eminent biologists to 
reveal the indisputable fact that he is at this 
present day, as he was thousands of years ago, 
naturally a frugivorous (fruit-eating) animal. 
It is obvious, therefore, that our Creator's in- 
tention is that we should subsist upon the va- 
rious fruits of the earth — not upon the prod- 
ucts of the shambles. 

The accepted scientific classification places 
man with the anthropoid apes, at the head of 
the highest order of mammals. These ani- 
mals bear the closest resemblance to human 
beings — their internal organs being practically 
identical with those of man — and in a natural 
state they subsist almost entirely upon nuts, 
seeds, and fruit. And those who have studied 

in 



IDEAL DIET 

this subject thoroughly can hardly entertain 
any doubt that the more largely our diet con- 
sists of these simple products of nature, the 
more likely we shall be to enjoy health and to 
secure longevity. 

The number and variety of such fruits and 
seeds is very great, and recent discoveries have 
proved that nuts can, for the benefit of those 
who possess weakened digestive organs as a 
result of artificial living, be prepared in various 
ways which make them easily digestible and 
very savory when cooked. To such food may 
be added, for the sake of convenience and va- 
riety, pulses, cereals, macaroni, farinaceous sub- 
stances, vegetables of various kinds, and ani- 
mal products, such as milk, butter, cheese and 

eggs. 

I would record my personal conviction— a 

conviction formed by seven years of abstinence 
from flesh-food, by continuous study, obser- 
vation and experiment during that period, and 
by the knowledge obtained through helping 
hundreds of men and women to regain health 
by reforming their habits of living — that a well- 
selected fruitarian diet will prove beneficial to 
all who seek health of body and soul. The 

[2] 



IDEAL DIET 

numerous supplementary foods mentioned in 
this book, which cannot strictly be considered 
as being fruitarian in their nature, are recom- 
mended because of the difficulty which is ex- 
perienced by many persons in adapting them- 
selves suddenly to such a simple style of living 
as Nature would dictate, or in obtaining ad- 
equate provisions in their present domestic 
environment. Through lack of knowledge, 
mistakes are often made by those who com- 
mence to abstain from flesh-food; certain 
necessary elements are often omitted from 
their new diet and failure sometimes results ; 
therefore variety is essential for beginners to 
insure complete nourishment. The majority 
of carnivorous human beings must be helped 
forward to a purer and better way of living by 
successive steps, and it has been found that the 
policy of proceeding slowly but surely " a step 
at a time " is the wisest in the end. 

The first step must be abstinence from the 
flesh and blood of animals and birds, and the 
adoption instead of what is popularly known 
as " mixed vegetarian diet." This will gradu- 
ally lead in course of time to a distaste for fish 
— which should at first, however, be retained 

[3] 



IDEAL DIET 

as an article of food by those who are com- 
mencing to reform their ways, until experience 
has been gained, and any serious domestic dif- 
ficulties which may exist have been removed. 
Then this mixed vegetarian diet should be 
purified, as the perverted taste becomes re- 
stored to its natural condition, until it is largely 
" fruitarian " in its nature. Circumstances and 
individual taste must regulate the rate of this 
progress toward what may be termed Edenic 
living ; I can but show the way and give help- 
ful information. 

A FEW of the reasons which lead me to 
advocate " Fruitarianism " as being de- 
sirable are as follows : 

Persons who live principally upon fruits of 
all kinds are not often tempted, like those who 
partake of savory and toothsome dishes, to eat 
after the needs of the body are satisfied. They 
thus escape one of the chief causes of disease 
and premature death — excessive eating. Even 
if fruit should be taken in excessive quantity, 
very little harm results from such indiscretion. 
They also avoid, to a great extent, the temp- 
tation to eat when they are not hungry, and 

[41 



IDEAL DIET 

thus they are more likely to obey the dictates 
of natural instinct concerning when to eat. 

Fruitarians lessen the amount of work put 
upon the digestive organs, and consequently 
have more energy to expend upon mental or 
physical labor. The grape sugar contained in 
sweet fruits — such as bananas, figs, and raisins 
— is assimilated almost without effort and very 
quickly, while starch food makes a demand 
upon our vitality before it is transformed into 
grape sugar, and is, in some forms, almost as 
difficult to digest as flesh. If taken in exces- 
sive quantity it often causes trouble. 

The juices of sweet fruits have the power of 
eliminating urates and other earthy deposits 
from the blood and tissues, as they act as sol- 
vents. Fruit therefore tends to prevent and 
to remove the cause of old age, gouty and 
rheumatic disorders. Fruit in general, how- 
ever, does not contain the earthy and cal- 
careous matter which is found in flesh and 
which produces ossification of the arteries and 
premature senility. 

Fruitarian diet — if well chosen and contain- 
ing all the elements required by the body — 
prevents the development of the "drink 

[51 



IDEAL DIET 

crave," and it will cure nearly all cases if prop- 
erly and wisely adopted. Dipsomania is in- 
duced by eating stimulating food such as flesh, 
by malnutrition, or by eating to excess. 

Pure blood is secured by living principally 
upon fruits and nuts, and consequently there 
is little or no tendency to develop inflam- 
matory maladies. The wounds of Turkish 
and Egyptian soldiers have been found to heal 
three times as quickly as those of shamble-fed 
Englishmen ; the reason being that the former 
live chiefly upon dates, figs and other fruits, 
milk and lentils. A wonderful immunity from 
sickness is enjoyed by those who live in accord 
with Nature's plan; microbes and disease 
germs do not find a congenial environment in 
their bodies. 

Fruitarian diet — if complete — tends to lessen 
irritability, to promote benevolence and peace 
of mind, to increase the supremacy of the 
" higher self," to clear and strengthen spiritual 
perception, and to lessen domestic care. 

Those who aspire to the attainment of the 
higher spiritual powers which are latent and 
undeveloped in Man, to cultivate the psychic 
or intuitive senses, and to win their way to 

[6] 



IDEAL DIET 

supremacy over their material environment, 
will find fruitarianism helpful in every respect. 
Such have only to try it intelligently in order 
to prove this truth. It may thus become an 
important factor in the great work of uplifting 
our race from the animal to the spiritual plane. 
Herein lies the great hope for mankind — in 
fact the only one — and already the harbingers 
of the " Coming Race " are treading this earth, 
known and recognized by those whose eyes 
have been opened to the vision of the higher 
and transcendent life. That which tends to 
accelerate the development of spirituality is 
worthy of our consideration and of our ad- 
vocacy. 

SUCH diet as is recommended in this book 
does not necessitate the horrible cruelties 
of the cattle-boat and the slaughter-house. It 
is much less likely to contain germs of disease 
than the dead bodies of animals which are fre- 
quently afflicted with tuberculosis, cancer, foot 
and mouth disease, incipient anthrax, swine 
fever and worms of various kinds. It is free 
from that potent cause of physical malady, uric 
acid — ^which is contained in all flesh — and from 

[7] 



IDEAL DIET 

" ptomaines," which develop in corpses quickly 
after death and often prove fatal to consumers 
of meat ; and it will be found, if wisely chosen 
and eaten in strict moderation, to produce a 
stronger body, a clearer brain, and a purer 
mind. The testimony of thousands of living 
witnesses, both in cold and warm climates — 
many of whom are medical men, or athletes 
who have accomplished record performances 
which demanded prolonged endurance and the 
exhibition of unusual stamina — bears evidence 
to this fact, and those who are desirous of 
commencing this more excellent way of living 
need not, therefore, fear that they are making 
a reckless or dangerous experiment. 

THE food which our Creator intended us 
to eat must be the safest and best for 
us. Man does not resemble either internally 
or externally any carnivorous animal, and no 
unprejudiced student of the subject can well 
escape the conclusion that, when we descend to 
the level of the beasts of prey by eating flesh, 
we violate a physical law of our being, and run 
the risk of incurring the inevitable penalty 
which Nature exacts for such transgressions. 

[8] 



IDEAL DIET 

This penalty is being dealt out with inexorable 
impartiality and with a lavish hand in the civil- 
ized lands of the Western world, where, in 
spite of the rapidly growing host of medical 
men and the wonderful discoveries and boast- 
ings of the materialistic devotees of unscru- 
pulous scientific research, such maladies as 
scrofula, cancer, lunacy, uric acid diseases, 
premature old age and other human ills are 
steadily increasing. And although the fact is 
not so apparent to the superficial observer, a 
still heavier punishment and loss is being suf- 
fered by those who err in this respect ; carnal 
food promotes carnal-mindedness, dims the 
spiritual vision, chains the soul to the material 
plane of thought and consciousness, and makes 
the complete supremacy of the " Spirit ** over 
the " flesh " well-nigh impossible. 

It is natural for every man and woman to 
live at least a century. The fact that thou- 
sands have done so proves that the majority 
might attain this age if they would cease from 
transgressing Nature's laws. Seneca truly said, 
Man does not die, he kills himself." By 
eating to live,** instead of " living to eat " — 
by introducing into our bodies a pure and vi- 

[9] 



(C 

it 



IDBAL DIET 

talizing stream of energy in the form of wisely 
chosen natural food, and by amending our 
ways generally in accordance with the dictates 
of wisdom, most of us may live to benefit the 
world by useful service when our faculties have 
become ripened and our minds have been 
stored by the teaching of experience. Instead 
of being in our dotage when we reach three- 
score years and ten, we should then be in our 
prime, and fitted to serve our generation and 
our brethren in the world. 

THOSE who decide to adopt this reformed 
system of diet will be fortified in their 
resolve if they are actuated by the powerful 
motive — " Loyalty to Principle " instead of by 
reasons which, although in themselves sound 
and wise, are to some extent based merely 
upon self-interest. The desire to be just and 
humane, to lessen suffering and to live in ac- 
cordance with God's laws furnishes a much 
stronger incentive than the wish to escape dis- 
ease and to secure health and long life. 

The altruist or humanitarian who embraces 
the lofty ideal of helping forward the great 
work of lifting mankind to a higher plane of 

[ 10] 



IDEAL DIET 

experience, of delivering our Race from some 
of the worst evils with which it is afflicted, and 
at the same time of preventing the infliction 
of most cruel treatment and the death penalty 
in a most revolting form upon countless mill- 
ions of innocent animals, will either find a 
way resolutely to conquer the initial difficulties 
which confront those who make practical pro- 
test against the sin of carnivorism, or will, if 
necessary, cheerfully endure temporary incon- 
venience or discomfort "for Righteousness* 
sake." 

The would-be fruitarian should therefore 
commence by giving such preliminary study to 
the subject as will produce the conviction that 
flesh-eating is an unnatural habit for man, that 
it is totally unnecessary, that reliable medical 
and statistical evidence proves it to be gen- 
erally injurious, and often dangerous, and that 
it involves cruelty and bloodshed which are 
both barbarous and indefensible because quite 
needless. A deaf ear will then be turned to 
the warnings of those well-disposed friends 
who, because they are under the spell of an- 
cient fallacies or are ignorant concerning the 
nutritive advantages which the products of the 

[ " 1 



IDEAL DIET 

earth possess over the products of the shambles, 
would seek to deter him from the path of self- 
reform by prophesying physical shipwreck and 
disaster. Popular superstition concerning ani- 
mal food is rapidly being swept away, and pub- 
lic opinion has already changed to such an ex- 
tent that several insurance companies will grant 
policies to abstainers from flesh on more favor- 
able terms than to any other section of the com- 
munity — teetotalers not excepted. Leaders of 
thought in every land are becoming impressed 
with the fall import of this far-reaching refor- 
mation, and so many forces are now converging 
to influence and impel mankind in this direction 
that the " signs of the times *' point most dis- 
tinctly to a rapidly approaching era in which 
Man will return to his original food, and by 
so doing enter into a much happier and more 
peacefal state of existence upon this planet. 



[ 12] 



II 

A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

SIMPLE meals and simple dishes involve 
less trouble in preparation and thus lessen 
that almost omnipresent source of unhappi- 
ness, domestic care; they are less likely to 
cause indigestion, and in a very short time 
they become most appreciated. Few persons 
perhaps realize how little they know concern- 
ing the true taste of many vegetable produc- 
tions; the majority have never eaten them 
separately or cooked in a proper manner. A 
cauliflower skilfully served as a separate course, 
either " au gratin *' or with thin melted butter 
which is slightly flavored with a few drops 
of good vinegar, or with tomato sauce, has 
quite a different taste from that which is ex- 
perienced when it is mixed up with gravy, 
meat, potatoes, and other articles of food. 
Young green peas or new potatoes (steamed 
in their skins with some mint, and dried off in 
the oven so as to be " floury *') will, if eaten 

[ 13 1 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

with a little salt and butter, have a delicacy 
of flavor which is scarcely noticeable if they 
are served with a plate of meat, gravy, and one 
or two other vegetables. The same remarks 
apply to most vegetables and to many pre- 
pared dishes. 

IT is a mistake to think that a reformed diet 
necessarily involves a larger amount of 
cooking, for the reverse is the fact if simplicity 
is aimed at and its advantages are appreciated. 
An excellent lunch can be made of some well 
chosen cheese and a delicate lettuce (dressed 
with pure French olive oil, and a small quan- 
tity of French wine vinegar), followed by fresh 
and dried fruits such as bananas, almonds, 
raisins, and tigs. Such a repast is inexpen- 
sive, highly nutritious, and easily digestible. A 
large variety of foreign cheeses are now obtain- 
able, so that even such a simple meal as this 
can be varied constantly. At almost all sea- 
sons of the year, delicate crisp lettuce can be 
had from our market gardeners. 

In most vegetarian households the custom 
of cooking for breakfast soon becomes dis- 
carded. Fresh and dried fruits, nuts, brown 

[ 14] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

bread, butter^ and preserves are found to be 
quite sufficient as accompaniments to the 
morning cocoa or chocolate. French plums, 
figs, and other dried fruits, when carefully 
stewed in the oven for some hours, and served 
with whipped cream or sauce are very appetiz- 
ing and most nutritious. A small plate of 
porridge (stewed for two hours on the pre- 
vious day and eaten with cream), or some 
"grape nuts" eaten with boiled milk and 
sugar, or an egg occasionally, can be added 
so as to make a more solid meal. Such per- 
sons, however, as have been long accustomed 
to an elaborate breakfast consisting of bacon, 
eggs, and fish, because of the difficulty of ob- 
taining a mid-day substantial meal, will, perhaps, 
do wisely to substitute for these one of the 
cooked dishes which are numbered in the list 
of recipes under the heading of " Breakfast 
Dishes." 

ONE strong reason for urging simplicity is 
that, owing to the prevalent general 
ignorance concerning food values and the 
requisite amount of albumin, starch, sugar, fat, 
and other substances, required to keep the 

[ 15] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

human body in health, it is somewhat difficult for 
the semi-fruitarian, or vegetarian, to choose a 
properly balanced diet at first. Animal flesh 
contains very nearly the same chemical con- 
stituents as human flesh, and therefore, so far 
as correct chemical proportions are concerned, 
it must be admitted that until experience has 
been gained it is more easy for the food- 
reformer to make dietetic mistakes in this par- 
ticular respect than the flesh-eater. Many per- 
sons have hastily and thoughtlessly commenced 
to abstain from animal food, and have then 
brought upon themselves severe attacks of fer- 
mentation and dyspepsia by eating excessive 
quantities of starch in the form of porridge, 
bread and potatoes. Others have eaten such 
concentrated foods as haricots and lentils to 
repletion, being ignorant of the fact that they 
are so much more nutritious than lean beef 
that only a small quantity is needed for a suf- 
ficient meal. By partaking freely of fruit and 
vegetables at the same meal, instead of com- 
bining fruit with cereals, they have committed 
hygienic blunders, and, for want of proper in- 
struction, have hastily come to the conclusion 
that " vegetarian diet does not suit them,'* and, 

[i6] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

returning to the flesh-pots, have henceforth 
blasphemed the evangel of dietetic reform, in- 
stead of profiting by the useful lesson Nature 
tried to teach them. 

The wisest plan is to make one's diet gen- 
erally as varied as possible, but not to mix 
many articles together at the same meal. And 
one of the most important facts to be borne in 
mind is that our food must contain a sufficient 
quantity of fat, of phosphates, and of proteid 
matter. These are found in nuts, olive oil, 
brown bread, pulse foods, macaroni, cheese, 
milk, and other products. 

Abstainers from flesh should begin to live 
to some extent (say two days a week) in picnic 
style, and the practice will soon become habit- 
ual. A picnic which is considered enjoyable 
in the woods or open fields will be found 
just as pleasant at home if the articles pro- 
vided are well chosen and tastefully prepared. 
Variety can be obtained by introducing such 
things as sandwiches made with mustard and 
cress, tomato paste, potted haricots, lentils, 
and scrambled eggs. Fresh and dried fruits, 
nuts, almonds, raisins, fruit-cakes, and cus- 
tard or other puddings provide useful addi- 

[ 17] 



A PLEA FOR SIMPLICITY 

tions ; and it will soon be found that the old- 
fashioned three- or four-course dinner which 
involves such laborious preparation is a need- 
less addition to life's many cares. 



[ i8] 



Ill 

A PLEA FOR MODERATION 

ONE of the most frequent mistakes made 
by those who commence to live upon a 
fleshless diet is that of eating too much — an 
error which is, perhaps, also committed by 
three-fourths of the general public. Often 
through ignorance of the fact that lean beef 
consists of water to the extent of nearly 
seventy-five per cent., and through having 
been brought up in the popular superstition 
that meat is the chief source of strength and 
stamina, they jump to the conclusion that they 
must consume large quantities of cereals and 
vegetables in order to make up for their ab- 
stinence from animal food. Certain establish- 
ments in England, labelled " Vegetarian Res- 
taurants,** have, in the past, sometimes done 
considerable harm to the cause of food re- 
form by the unattractive, erroneous, and in- 
adequate manner in which they have repre- 
sented the fleshless diet, and they have also 

[ 19] 



A PLEA FOR MODERATION 

done much to encourage this particular form 
of blundering. To young clerks and others 
who require a large meal at a small cost, some 
have been in the habit of furnishing plates of 
food which cause the experienced food-re- 
former to gaze both in wonder and amazement 
— the quantity often being such as would al- 
most tax the digestive apparatus of an ostrich 
— to say nothing of the unappetizing way in 
which it was served. These restaurants are 
now being much improved, however, and 
many are already doing splendid work as cen- 
tres of instruction. 

Nothing does more injury to this move- 
ment than the discredit which is brought upon 
it by those who have upset themselves by 
over-eating, and who feel led to justify their 
defection by attacking the system they have 
forsaken. Among the numerous cases which 
have been brought to my notice I remember 
one of a minister's wife, who by partaking of 
seven substantial meals a day and finishing up 
at ten o'clock in the evening with cocoa, cheese 
and porridge, brought herself to such a state 
of nervous prostration that her doctor ordered 
her return to a flesh diet, "as she required 

[20] 



A PLEA FOR MODERATION 

nourishment." He described her case as one 
of " lack of nutrition,** instead of preposterous 
over-feeding. 

A GOLDEN Rule for every food-reformer 
is this — Eat only when you are hungry^ 
and never to repletion. Drowsiness and stu- 
por after a meal are sure signs of excess, and 
I cannot too strongly urge temperance and 
abstemiousness. During seven years' expe- 
rience of active work as an advocate of nat- 
ural and hygienic living, I have seldom heard 
of any person suffering any ill effects from eat- 
ing too little, whereas cases of the opposite 
sort have been rather numerous. There is 
one habit which characterizes ninety-nine per 
cent, of the centenarians of the world — abste- 
miousness ; however much their ways and cus- 
toms may have differed otherwise, in this one 
respect they are practically unanimous — de- 
claring that they have always been small eaters, 
and have practised moderation in all things. 



[21] 



IV 

ARTISTIC COOKERY 

IN every household where a reformed diet is 
adopted, the effort should be made to pre- 
pare the meals in an artistic manner. If a dish 
is both skilfully cooked and tastefully served 
it is not only more enjoyable but more easily 
digested. The general custom in English 
homes is to serve vegetables in a clumsy and 
slovenly style, as they have hitherto been re- 
garded as being only of minor importance. In 
America more attention is paid to such things 
as legumes, vegetables, salads and fruits both 
in the homes and in the hotels, and it has been 
found quite easy to make such dishes look 
tempting and appetizing. 

ONE of the first lessons to be learned is 
how to fry rissoles, cutlets, potatoes, and 
the like quite crisp and free from any flavor of 
oil or fat. To do this a wire basket which will 
fit loosely into a frying-pan is necessary, and 

[22] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

it can be purchased at any good hardware store. 
" Nucoline *' (cocoanut butter) is a well pre- 
pared form of vegetable fat, which keeps for 
an indefinite period, and is equally useful for 
making pastry — three quarters of a pound be- 
ing equal to one pound of butter. " Albene '* 
and " Cocolardo '* are similar productions, but 
where these cannot be obtained good olive oil 
should be used, although it is slightly more 
expensive. The temperature of the fat or oil 
must be past boiling-point, and should reach 
380 degrees. When it is hot enough it will 
quickly turn a small piece of white bread quite 
brown, if a finger of it is dipped in the fat. 
Unless this temperature is reached the articles 
to be fried may turn out greasy and unbear- 
able. If the fat is heated very much beyond 
400 degrees it may take fire. The use of a 
maximum thermometer is recommended until 
experience is gained, and a hot fire or powerful 
gas-jet is necessary. Haricots and lentils are 
much more tasty if made into cutlets or ris- 
soles, and (after being mixed with bread-crumbs 
and seasoning) fried in this manner, than they 
are if served after being merely boiled or 
stewed in the usual crude style. 

[23] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

THE art of flavoring is one which should 
be studied by every housewife. By 
making tasty gravies and sauces many a dish 
which would otherwise be insipid can be ren- 
dered attractive; a list of recipes for "gravies " 
will give the requisite information on this 
point. 

COOKING by gas appliances is much more 
easily controlled and regulated than if 
the old-fashioned fire were employed — consid- 
erable labor is also saved in the matter of 
stoking and cleaning. Those who can do so, 
should obtain a small gas-stove, consisting of 
two or three spiral burners, and a moderate- 
sized gas-oven. This is very economical for 
cooking single dishes, and for warming plates. 
A gas cooking-jet without the oven can be 
obtained at small cost. In the summer-time 
the kitchen-range is a superfluity unless it is 
required for heating bath water. 

EVEN in so simple a matter as boiling an 
egg, artistic care is required. If the al- 
bumen is boiled it becomes hard and indigest- 
ible, whereas if it is only coagulated this is not 

[24] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

the case, and yet the cooking is complete. To 
do this the heat should only reach a temper- 
ature of about 200 degrees. A simple method 
of accomplishing this, if a thermometer is not 
used, is as follows: — Put an egg into a fair 
amount of cold or lukewarm water, let the water 
reach boiling-point, and then stand the sauce- 
pan on one side for five minutes or so; if the 
water is kept just warm the egg will be found 
to be perfectly cooked, and it will not make 
any difference if it remains in the water for five 
minutes or fifteen. 

SOME of the most valuable of the modern 
food preparations are quite unappreciated 
because of lack of knowledge how to cook 
them artistically. Take "Nuttose," for in- 
stance (a very useful substitute for flesh which 
is made from malted nuts). If slightly stewed, 
and eaten without flavoring, the taste of the 
nuts is detected, and some persons at once 
take a considerable prejudice to it. If, how- 
ever, it is well and properly cooked, accord- 
ing to the recipes given later on in this book, 
and served with such garnishings as are recom- 
mended, it is generally highly appreciated, even 

[25 ] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

by those who are much prgudlced against all 
vegetarian fare. 

FRENCH plums, if stewed with some lem- 
on-rind and sugar in a jar in the oven for 
three or four hours, are mucn more enjoyable 
than if only stewed in a saucepan for a short 
time. The juice should be thick, and the 
plums quite soft. Bordeaux plums are supe- 
rior to those which are being at present raised in 
other countries, the skins being much thinner. 

CARE should be taken to see that fruit and 
vegetables are perfectly free from insect 
life. Purity and cleanliness should ever be 
aimed at as being the first principles of hygienic 
living. Dried figs and mushrooms require care- 
ful inspection, and all green vegetables should 
be well washed in running water. 

THE ordinary public have no idea of the 
constant variety and delicacy of a well 
chosen bloodless diet if it is artistically pre- 
pared. Ignorance and prejudice cause thousands 
to turn a deaf ear to the evangel of Food-Re- 
form, simply because they know nothing at 

['26] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

all about that which they reject with disdain. 
It is, therefore, the duty and privilege of 
all (and especially all women) who aspire to 
help on the work of abolishing butchery by 
promoting the adoption of natural and hu- 
mane dietary, to educate themselves in artistic 
cookery and then to help to instruct others. 
To illustrate the truth of these remarks I may 
mention that at a banquet given by the Ar- 
cadian Lodge of Freemasons, at the Hotel 
Cecil, in London — the first Masonic Lodge 
which has passed a resolution to banish animal- 
flesh from all its banquets in perpetuity — one 
of the Chief Officers of the Grand Lodge of 
England attended. He came filled with prej- 
udice against the innovation and prepared to 
criticise the repast most unfavorably. In his 
after-dinner speech, however, he admitted that 
it was one of the best Masonic banquets he 
had ever attended, and said that if what he had 
enjoyed was "vegetarian diet," he was pre- 
pared to adopt it if he found it possible to get 
it provided. 



[27] 



ARTISTIC COOKERY 

BY practising the recipes which are given in 
the following pages, and by utilizing the 
hints which accompany them, readers of this 
book will find no difficulty in acquiring the 
skill which is requisite to win many from the 
flesh-pots even when they cannot be induced 
to abandon them from any higher motives than 
self-interest or gustatory enjoyment. Vir- 
chow's declaration — " The future is with the 
Vegetarians " — was a prophetic utterance which 
is destined to be fulfilled. Every woman should 
resolve to learn how to feed her children with 
pure and harmless food. Every mother 
should make her daughters study this art and 
thus educate them to fulfil worthily their do- 
mestic responsibilities. Here is a new pro- 
fession for women — for teachers of high class 
vegetarian cookery are in great demand and 
can command high salaries. This demand will 
soon be increased a hundred-fold. 



[28] 



V 

WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVEL- 
LING 

THE difficulty of being properly catered 
for when staying at hotels is a very real 
one, but owing to the enlightenment which is 
now taking place, and the rapid increase of 
foreign restaurants and cafes in English-speak- 
ing countries, it is becoming lessened every 
day. In large towns the wisest plan, generally, 
is to order breakfast at the hotel, and to take 
other meals at a high class restaurant, where 
several well cooked vegetarian dishes will be 
found upon the daily menu card. For break- 
fast it is generally a wise plan to order what 
one wants the previous night, if one requires 
any cooked dishes, and it is not necessary to 
inform the waiter that one is a vegetarian. It 
is generally possible to obtain such dishes as 
porridge, grilled tomatoes on toast, poached 
eggs, stewed mushrooms, and fried potatoes, 
without giving extra trouble or exciting com- 

[29] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVELLING 

ment. Where these cannot be obtained, a 
plain breakfast should be taken, and it can 
easily be supplemented by fruit purchased 
afterwards outside the hotel. 

AT large hotels a restaurant is provided in 
addition to the dining-room and cafe. 
The food-reformer should always go to the 
restaurant for his dinner, as he will there be 
able to obtain various well-prepared dishes at 
any hour of the day, and at a moderate cost. 
The dishes should be ordered "a la carte," 
and one " portion " of any particular dish will 
often suffice for two persons, thus enabling 
those whose means are limited to obtain 
greater variety without increasing expenditure. 
Care has to be exercised, however, concerning 
certain dishes; for instance, if "macaroni a 
ritalienne" is required, it is well to ask the 
waiter to caution the cook not to make a mis- 
take by introducing chopped ham. He should 
be told to say that you wish macaroni served 
with tomato and cheese sauce only, in the Ital- 
ian style ; this will make the cook realize that 
he is serving " one who knows," and that he 
must do his work in a proper manner. Those 

[30] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVELLING 

who have never learned how to dress French 
lettuce in the Parisian way, can here gain this 
useful information by ordering a "lettuce 
salad," and asking the waiter to fix it (with oil 
and vinegar only) on the table. 

THE general rule to be adopted in small 
hotels is to think beforehand what dishes 
the cook is in the habit of making which are 
free from flesh; these should be ordered in 
preference to those which are strange and not 
likely to be understood. At the same time 
it is well to insist upon being supplied with 
anything which it is reasonable to expect the 
proprietor to furnish, because such action tends 
to improve the catering of the hotels of the 
country, to make it easier for other food-re- 
formers, and to sweep away the difficulty 
which at present exists in some towns, of ob- 
taining anything fit to eat in the orthodox 
hotel coffee-rooms, except the flesh of beasts, 
birds, or fishes. 

THOSE who are making railway journeys 
can easily provide themselves with a 
simple luncheon-basket containing fruits, nuts, 
chocolate, sandwiches, and potted delicacies, 

[31 ] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVELLING 

directions for making which will be found later 
on, in the space devoted to " Luncheons." 
Travellers may perhaps be reminded that a 
quarter of a pound of cheese or of nuts con- 
tains as much nutriment as one pound of lean 
meat. 

FOOD-REFORMERS who are about to 
pay a prolonged visit in a private house 
should inform the hostess, at the time of ac- 
cepting her invitation, that they are abstainers 
from flesh, but that their tastes are very simple 
and that they eat anything except flesh-food. 
As she might have erroneous ideas about veg- 
etarianism, she might otherwise feel perplexed 
as to what it is necessary to provide. Care 
should be taken not to involve the hostess 
in any minor or needless worries, and she 
should be shown, by the simplicity of one's 
requirements, that she is easily capable of af- 
fording complete satisfaction. When she real- 
izes this, she will probably take pleasure in 
learning something about hygienic living, and 
will be only too ready to read a pamphlet or 
a guide-book upon the subject, and to produce 
some of the dishes contained in it. I have 

[32] 



WHAT TO DO WHEN TRAVELLING 

always found that by letting my friends clearly 
understand that I abstain from butchered flesh 
for humane reasons and for the sake oi principle ^ 
they respect my position, and evince a desire 
to discuss the matter without prejudice. If 
vegetarianism is adopted as a " fad," hostility is 
often aroused because one's acquaintances con- 
sider that one is giving needless trouble by 
becoming unconventional without sufficient 
justification. 

THOSE who are making a sea voyage will 
find that many of the large steamship 
companies are quite prepared to furnish substi- 
tutes for flesh-diet if an arrangement is made 
beforehand. In such cases there should be a 
clear stipulation that brown bread, dried and 
fresh fruit, nuts, farinaceous puddings, omelets, 
vegetables, and the like should always be obtain- 
able at meal times in some form and in suffic- 
ient variety. A list of a few "specialties" 
might be furnished when a long voyage is con- 
templated, so that the steward might stock 
them. 



M3l 



VI 

HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

IN all cases of sickness, the lighter the diet 
is, the better chance will the patient gener- 
ally have of recovery. The more inflamma- 
tion and fever which exist, the more fruit and 
cooling drinks should be given, and the less 
nitrogenous and starch matter. Ample nour- 
ishment can be provided by light farinaceous 
puddings, custards, nut products, dried and 
fresh fruits, and vegetable broths. The most 
important of these latter is " haricot tea," which 
is a perfect substitute for " beef tea," being far 
more nutritious and also entirely free from the 
toxic poisons which are contained in that dan- 
gerous and superstitiously venerated com- 
pound. Dr. Milner Fothergill has stated that 
probably more invalids have sunk into their 
graves through a misplaced confidence in the 
value of beef tea than Napoleon killed in all 
his wars. It is, in reality, a strong solution of 
uric acid, consisting largely of excrementitious 

[341 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

matter which was in process of elimination 
from the system of some animal through the 
minute drain pipes which form an important 
cleansing medium or " sewage system " in all 
animal flesh. To make " beef tea/' this poi- 
sonous element is stewed out to form the filthy 
decoction, while the animal fibrin, the portion 
of the meat that might possess some nutritive 
value, is thrown away. Beef tea consequently 
acts as a strong stimulant, tends to increase in- 
flammation and fever, and in all such cases 
lessens the chance of the patient's recovery, as 
the system is already battling against disease 
and impurity in the blood. To add to the 
amount of the latter is palpably unwise and 
dangerous. These remarks apply also to " es- 
sences " and " extracts " of beef, which arc fre- 
quently made from diseased flesh which has 
been condemned in the slaughter-houses. 

[I] 

Brown Haricot Tea. 

TAKE j4-lb. of brown haricot beans. 
Wash and stew them with i-qt. of hot 
water and some small onions for 3 hours, 
stewing down to i^-pts. Strain, and add 

[ 35 1 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

pepper, salt and butter when serving. This 
bean tea or broth, so prepared, will be found 
to be very savory and of the same consist- 
ency and appearance as beef tea while being 
much richer in sustaining properties. 

Mock Chicken Broth. 

AVERY valuable substitute for chicken 
broth, which is in every way superior to 
the decoction obtained by stewing the flesh 
and bones of the bird, can be made by stewing 
and serving white haricots in the same manner 
as in the previous recipe. 

[3] 
Lentil Gruel. 

A USEFUL and highly nutritious food for 
invalids is lentil gruel or broth. To 
make the gruel, take a dessertspoonful of 
lentil-flour, mixed smooth in some cold milk, 
and add nearly i-pt. of milk which has been 
brought to the boil. Boil for fifteen minutes 
and flavor with a little cinnamon or vanilla. 
Serve with toast, and sugar to taste. 

[36] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

[4] 

Nut Gruel. 

A MOST easily digested liquid food can 
be made almost instantaneously by warm- 
ing a dessertspoonful of "Malted Nuts" (In- 
ternational Health Association) in a glass of 
milk, and flavoring to taste. The nuts are 
almost predigested and can be quickly assimi- 
lated by the weakest person or by infants. 

[5] 

Barley Water. 

THE old-fashioned beverage known as bar- 
ley water is not so well appreciated as 
it ought to be ; it is nutritious, easily assimi- 
lated, and when flavored with a few drops 
of lemon, forms a cool and valuable drink in 
the sick-room. It is made by simply stewing 
pearl barley in water until the liquid is fairly 
substantial. The barley is then strained oflF 
and can be added to a vegetable stew. Sugar 
and lemon can be added to taste. 

MEALS provided for invalids should be 
served in a very dainty manner. A 
spotless serviette and tray cloth, bright silver, 

[37] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

a bunch of flowers and a ribbon to match them 
in color for tying the serviette (the color 
of which can be changed from day to day) 
should not be forgotten. The food should be 
supplied in small quantities ; half a cupful of 
gruel will often be taken when a cupful would 
be sent away untouched. 

ON E of the greatest evils to be avoided by 
those who are nursing the sick is that 
of over-feeding. When nature is doing her 
best to meet a crisis, or to rid the body of 
poisonous germs, microbes or impurities, it is 
a mistake to cause waste of vital energy by 
necessitating the expulsion of superfluous ali- 
mentary matter. Unless invalids manifest a 
genuine sense of hunger they should not be per- 
suaded to take food at all. The stomach gen- 
erally requires resty and is often in such a con- 
dition that digestion is impossible. When 
food will prove beneficial nature will demand 
it. 

Drugs and stimulants are seldom required. 
Beef essences and other noxious concoctions 
are superfluous and mischievous. The great 
healing agent is the Life-force within, the " Vis 

[38] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

medicatrix Natura^^ and the wise physician will 
see that this power has a fair chance. He will 
help the patient to overcome physical malady 
by encouraging the exercise of hygienic com- 
mon-sense and hopeful mental influence. He 
will advocate pure air, pure food, and pure 
water, combined with a cessation of any phys- 
ical transgression and the removal of the cause 
of the malady in question. 

Much of the suffering and inconvenience en- 
dured by sick persons is simply the result of 
erroneous diet. Judicious feeding will do far 
more than drugs to alleviate and cure most 
maladies. 

Care should be exercised lest invalids par- 
take too freely of starch foods, especially if 
such are badly or insuflliciently cooked. Bread 
should be light and well baked, and in most 
cases it will be found to be more easily assimi- 
lated if toasted. " Meal " biscuits (which con- 
sist of entire wheatmeal in a supercooked form, 
so that the starch is already transformed into 
" dextrin *') will be found nutritious, easily di- 
gestible, very enjoyable, and slightly laxative 
in their effect. Bananas — well baked or raw — 
make an almost perfect food for the sick-room 

[39] 



HOW TO FEED INVALIDS 

(see recipe 89). Plasmon snow-cream is also 
most strengthening and valuable for invalids 
(recipe 132). For further recipes of dishes 
that are suitable, see page 66. 



[4ol 



VII 

SUBSTITUTES FOR ANIMAL 

FOOD 

SATISFACTORY substitutes for the ar- 
ticles used under the old food regime are 
now upon the market, and new specialties are 
frequently being invented.* 

Beef can be replaced by " Nuttose," which 
can be carved just like a small joint of meat. 

Chicken and Veal find an efficient sub- 
stitute in " Protose " — the flavor of which is 
so delicate as to commend itself to almost 
everyone who tries it. 

Suet is replaced by " Vejsu " — a vegetable 
suet which is indistinguishable from beef suet 
that is sold in packets. Another substitute 
is pine kernels, which contain lo ozs. of oil 
to the pound, and which, when rolled and 
chopped, resemble suet exactly. A third sub- 
stitute is " Nucoline," or " Albene " (flaked in 
the nut mill) ; a fourth is tapioca. 

* This was prepared with reference to the British market, 
but in America similar products are obtainable. 

[41 1 



SUBSTITUTES FOR ANIMAL FOOD 

Lard is inferior in every respect to Nuco- 
line, Albene, and Olive Oil. 

Gelatine is substituted by "agar-agar," a 
sea-weed which is quite tasteless. 

Extract of Beef is replaced by " Carnos " 
or by " Odin " — the latest triumph of the phys- 
ical laboratory, which consists of a malt extract 
of barley that is undistinguishable from con- 
centrated extract of beef. Its taste and smell 
are identical and yet it is free from the nox- 
ious elements contained in beef. " Nut But- 
ter," " Nuttolene," " Plasmon," and other valu- 
able specialties enable stock to be thickened, 
strengthened and flavored. Similar produc- 
tions are being constantly invented and placed 
on the market. 

Meat Stock is substituted by vegetable 
stock, produced by stewing haricots, peas, len- 
tils, and the like. The latter is far more nutri- 
tious, and is free from uric acid and excremen- 
titious matter. 

In the following pages recipes will be found 
for preparing dishes which closely resemble, 
in taste and appearance, those to which a car- 
nivorous community has been accustomed, 
many of them being of such a nature that 

[42] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR ANIMAL FOOD 

persons who have always been fond of flesh- 
food find it difllicult to detect whether they are 
eating such or not. Even fish cutlets can be 
simulated by preparing vegetable substances 
closely resembling the real thing. 



[43] 



VIII 

SOUPS 

[6] 

Artichoke Soup. 

TAKE a-lbs. of white artichokes, 3-pts. 
of water, 3 large onions, a piece of cel- 
ery (or some celery salt), J^-pt. of raw cream 
or i-pt. of milk. Boil together for 45 min- 
utes, strain through a fine sieve and serve. If 
cream is used it should not be added until after 
the soup is cooked. 

[7] 
Chestnut Soup. 

BOIL 2-lbs. chestnuts for one hour, strain 
and rub through a sieve. Put in a sauce- 
pan, and boil again with i onion, a little mace, 
pepper and salt to taste. Just before serving 
add 5^-pt. milk and i tablespoonful of cream. 
The addition of a tablespoonful of " Plasmon " 
enriches this soup. 

[44] 



SOUPS 

[8] 

Rich Gravy Soup. 

MAKE 3-pts. of vegetable stock by boil- 
ing ^-Ib. of brown haricots for an 
hour. Strain and add i onion and one carrot 
(fried with butter until brown), i stick of cel- 
ery, Q, turnips and 6 peppercorns, and thicken 
with cornflour. Boil all together for i hour, 
strain, return to saucepan, and add three small 
teaspoonsjful of " Odin." Warm it up, but 
not to boiling point. Serve with fried bread dice. 
This soup, if well made, is equal to anything 
that a French chef can produce. 

[9] 

Brown Haricot Soup. 

FOR the foundation of any brown soup 
nothing equals the stock from these beans. 
Prepare as for haricot tea (i). If a thick soup 
is wanted rub the beans through the sieve 
along with the stock. The soup can be varied 
in many ways. One good soup is as follows : 
Take J^-lb. beans, cooked in 2-qts. of water. 
When the beans crack, add a few tomatoes, i 
leek sliced, or a Spanish onion, and a bunch of 
herbs. Boil until the vegetables are tender, 

[45 1 



SOUPS 

adding a little more water if necessary. Rub 
all through a sieve, and return to pan, adding 
seasoning, a good lump of butter, and the juice 
of half a small lemon after the soup has boiled. 
If a richer soup is required add 2 teaspoonsful 
of Odin just before serving. 

[10] 

Tomato Soup. 

TAKE a pound of tomatoes, pour boiling 
water on them and allow them to stand 
for a few minutes. They will then peel easily. 
Slice an onion and boil with the tomatoes 
(sliced) for an hour, then add salt, pepper, and 
a little butter. Mix J^-pt. of milk with a tea- 
spoonful of flour ; add this to the soup, stir and 
boil for 5 minutes. 

[II] 
Lentil Soup. 

A WELL-KNOWN and well-tried soup, 
even in flesh-eating households, and one 
that is within the reach of the poorest. To 
prepare it, take J4^-lb. lentils, i onion, i carrot, 
I turnip, a small bunch of herbs, celery salt, 
and i-oz. butter. 

Wash and pick the lentils and put on to 

[46] 



SOUPS 

boil in about i-qt. of water. Add the vege- 
tables sliced, and boil gently about i hour. 
Rub through a sieve, return to pan, add but- 
ter and a cupful of milk. Bring to boil and 
serve. 

[12] 

Brazil Nut Soup. 

PASS I -lb. of Brazil nuts through a nut 
mill, stew them for 2 hours in 2-qts. 
of water, with some celery and a few onions 
that have been fried, then add i-qt. of boiling 
milk, pass through a strainer, season and serve 
with fried bread dice. 

[13] 
German Lentil Soup. 

PLACE 5^ -lb. of lentils in i-qt. of water, 
add 2 sticks of celery and 5 large onions 
which have been fried in some butter until 
brown. Stew for two hours, and pass through 
a strainer. Add %'\h. of cream, and J^-pt. 
of milk, bring to the boil, flavor with salt, and 
serve. German lentils need more cooking than 
the Egyptian variety. 

[47] 



SOUPS 

[Hi 

White Haricot Soup. 

STEW 5^-lb. of beans in a-qts. of water, 
adding 5 chopped onions, some chopped 
celery and a carrot which have been fried in 
some butter until well cooked ; stew until the 
beans are tender, and strain if clear soup is re- 
quired, or pass through a sieve for thick soup ; 
add some cream and milk, bring to the boil, 
flavor with salt and serve. 

[15] 
White Soubise Soup. 

(From a French Recipe.) 

TAKE 12-ozs. butter, 4 good-sized onions, 
about i-pt. cauliflower-water, and i-pt. 
of milk, sufficient bread (no crust) to absorb 
very nearly the liquor. 

First, put the butter into the saucepan, then 
cut up the onions, put into the saucepan with 
the butter, and let it cook slowly for 1 5 min- 
utes — it must not boil or it will be brown. 
Now add the bread, the cauliflower-water, and 
half the milk, and let it boil slowly for an hour. 
Then take it off the fire, pass it through a 
sieve, add the rest of the milk, and let the 

[48 J 



SOUPS 

whole come just to the boil, taking care it docs 
not actually boil, as it may curdle. Serve. 

[i6] 

Julienne Soup. 

CUT some carrots^ turnips, onions, celery, 
and leeks into thin strips, using double 
quantity of carrots and turnips. Dry them and 
then fry slowly in n-ozs. of butter until brown. 
Add 2-qts. of vegetable stock and simmer until 
tender. Season with salt and a teaspoonful of 
castor sugar. Chop some chervil or parsley 
finely, add and serve. The addition of some 
green peas is an improvement. The fact 
should always be remembered that when le- 
gumes and vegetables are boiled in water a 
valuable stock is made which can be utilized 
for subsequent meals. 

[17] 

Green Pea Soup. 

STEW i-qt. of shelled peas in n-qts. of 
vegetable stock with a small piece of cel- 
ery, a clove of garlic, a sprig of mint, and a 
pinch of sugar. Remove a teacupflil of the 
peas and pass the soup through a sieve. Add 

[49 1 



SOUPS 

the peas, season and serve. This recipe is use- 
ful when green peas are getting old and are 
not tender enough to be enjoyable in the usual 
way. Young peas are, of course, to be pre* 
ferrcd. 

[i8] 

Prepared Soups. 

A WIDE variety of prepared soups in cans 
is now obtainable at any good grocery 
store. Many of these on inspection will be 
found to contain none but vegetable properties. 




'< 



[50] 



IX 

SUBSTITUTES FOR FISH 

[19] 
Mock Fish Patties. 

SCRAPE some salsify roots well, lay them 
in cold water for half-an-hour. Boil till 
tender, drain. Beat with wooden spoon to a 
smooth paste, free of fibre. Moisten with milk, 
add a teaspoonlflil of butter and an egg to every 
cupful of salsify, but beat the eggs well first. 
Serve in fire-proof china, or in scallop shells. 
Put bread-crumbs on top, which have been 
steeped in butter and browned. These patties 
taste exactly like fish. 

[20] 

Pried Chinese Artichokes. 

BOIL the artichokes until tender. After 
draining, drop them into batter or fine 
bread-crumbs and egg. Fry crisp and serve 
with parsley sauce and slices of lemon. 

[ 51 1 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FISH 

[21] 

Filleted Salsify. 

COOK some salsify until tender, slice it 
into quarters lengthwise, and cut it into 
3-in. lengths; dip in egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fry crisp ; serve with parsley sauce (recipe 
lai), and garnish with slices of lemon and 
parsley. 

[22] 

Artichoke Fillets. 

MAKE and serve this in the same way as 
salsify fillets, but substitute Jerusalem 
artichokes previously cut into fingers. The 
artichokes must not be boiled too much or 

they will break. 

[23] 

Scorzonera Fillets. 

THESE are prepared in the same way as 
salsify fillets, but should be served with 
white sauce (recipe 115). 

[24] 
Mock White Fish. 

PUT J^-pt. milk on to boil, and thicken 
with rather more than i-oz. of ground 
rice, to make a little stifFer than for rice mould. 

[ 52] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FISH 

Add a lump of butter, salt, a little grated onion 
and a saltspoonful of mace, and let all cook 
together for lo minutes, stirring frequently. 
Boil 3 potatoes and put through masher, and 
while hot add it to the rice or it will not set 
well. Pour into dish to stiffen, and when quite 
cold, cut into slices, roll in egg and white bread- 
crumbs, fry and serve with parsley sauce as a 
fish course. The mixture must be stiff, for the 
frying softens the rice again a little. The oil 
or nucoline for frying must be beyond boiling 
point, and the cutlets will then be quite crisp 
and free from any oily flavor. This dish is 
appreciated everywhere and is specially recom- 
mended. 

[25] 

Globe Artichokes. 

BOIL some green " Globe '* artichokes until 
tender (about i hour), mix some French 
wine vinegar and pure olive oil (one teaspoon- 
fill of vinegar to three of oil) with a pinch of 
salt. Serve the artichokes hot. Strip off the 
leaves one by one and dip the fleshy ends in 
the dressing which has been placed on each 
plate. Then scrape off the tender part of the 
leaf with the teeth and it will be found very 

[53] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FISH 

tasty. When all the leaves are stripped, cut 
out the centre of the " crown " and cut off its 
stalk quite short. The crown itself will then 
be found a " bonne bouche " which is superior 
to any shell fish. 



[54] 



X 

SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[26] 

Stewed Protose. 

OPEN a can of protose, stew it for half- 
an-hour or upwards in brown haricot tea 
(recipe i), with 4 tomatoes, some carrot chips, 
and 2 sliced onions. Thicken the gravy with 
a dessertspoonful of cornflour. Garnish with 
fingers of bread fried until a golden brown. 
Serve with French beans, cauliflower, asparagus 
or cabbage, and with fried potatoes if desired. 

[27] 

Stewed Nuttose. 

COOK in the same way as above for not 
less than 3 hours. The more this food 
is cooked the better it is. Any portion that 
remains can be warmed up again, minced, or 
made into rissoles, rolls, etc., with advan- 
tage. 

[ 55 1 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[28] 

Minced Protose. 

PREPARE in just the same way as ordi- 
nary meat by running it through a minc- 
ing machine, or mashing it with a fork, and 
stewing it in a little gravy. It may be served 
with a border of green peas or other vegetable. 
It is also nice served as follows, viz.: Prepare 
as for minced meat. Boil a cupful of rice as 
for curry. When cooked stir in half teaspoon- 
ful of tomato sauce, 2-ozs. grated cheese, and 
seasoning. Put the mince in the centre of the 
dish with a wall of the rice and tomato round 
it. Or the rice may be simply curried and 
served with the protose. 

The ways are numberless in which these 
products may be used, and the thoughtful 
housewife will delight herself in experimenting 
with such dainty foods. 

[29] 
Mock Chicken Cutlets. 

A TASTY dish to be served with bread 
sauce is prepared as follows : — Run 
through the nut mill 2 cupfuls of bread-crumbs 
and one good cupful of shelled walnuts. Mix 

[ 56] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

these together in a basin with a small piece of 
butter, a tablespoonful of grated onion juice, 
and a teaspoonful of mace. Melt a large tea- 
spoonful of butter in a saucepan, with half a 
teaspoonful of flour, and add gradually a cupful 
of fresh milk ; when this boils add the other 
ingredients, salt and pepper to taste, add a 
beaten egg, and when removed from the fire, a 
teaspoonful of lemon juice. Stir well and turn 
out into a dish to cool, then roll into balls or 
other shape, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, as 
usual, and fry in boiling fat. This is a splen- 
did substitute for chicken, and when served 
with bread sauce is delicious. 

[30] 

Macaroni k la Turque. 

BOIL J^-lb. of macaroni until slightly ten- 
der, and add J^-lb. of grated bread-crumbs, 
I large onion (grated), 2 large tablespoonsful 
of parsley, some grated nutmeg, and 2 eggs 
(beaten). Chop the macaroni and mix all well 
together and steam in a basin or in moulds for 
I or I J4 hours. Serve with thin white sauce 
or brown gravy (poured over the mould). 

157] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[31] 

Lrentil Cutlets. 

TAKE a teacupful of Egyptian lentils ; 
boil them in water sufficient to cover 
them until tender. Add 3 grated onions, some 
chopped parsley and thyme, and enough bread- 
crumbs to make a stiff mixture. Turn on to 
large plates and flatten with a knife. Then cut 
into eight triangular sections and shape them 
like small cutlets. When cold fry crisp in egg 
and bread-crumbs after inserting small pieces 
of macaroni into each pointed end. Serve with 
mint sauce or tomato sauce (recipe 116). 

[32] 

Protose Cutlets. 

OPEN a can of protose and turn it out 
into a basin; pound it well with i-oz. 
fresh butter, some grated onion juice, parsley, 
thyme, salt and pepper, a few bread-crumbs, and 
a few drops of lemon juice. Roll the mixture 
well on a floured board about half-inch thick, 
shape into cutlets, roll in egg and bread-crumbs 
and fry. As the protose does not require pre- 
vious cooking this is a very quickly prepared 
dish, and if two or three cans of protose are 

[ 58 1 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

always kept in stock this dish is always handy 
for emergencies. The cutlets may be fried 
without egg and bread-crumbs ; simply roll in 
a little flour, if one is very pressed for time. 
Serve with tomato or onion sauce and any of 
the before-mentioned gravies. 

Those who live out of the reach of shops 
should keep a supply of protose, and they will 
find it most useful as winter comes on, and 
foods of a more substantial nature become 
necessary. 

[33] 

Macaroni Cutlets. 

BOIL J^-lb. macaroni (spaghetti preferred) 
in water, not making it too tender ; chop 
slightly, add 6-ozs. bread-crumbs, some chopped 
fried onions, a teaspoonful of lemon thyme and 
parsley, a couple of tomatoes (fried in saucepan 
after onions), and i egg to bind. Mix, roll in 
flour, shape into cutlets, fry in nucoline until 
crisp and brown. Serve with sauce piquante 
(for which see recipe 1 1 1 ). 



[ 59] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[34] 

Jugged Nuttose. 

OPEN a can of nuttose and stew it in hari- 
cot stock for 2 hours, then cut it in slices 
about half-an-inch thick, and fry crisp in egg 
and bread-crumbs. Also make some force- 
meat balls by rubbing J^-oz. of butter into 
5-0ZS. of bread-crumbs, adding chopped lemon 
thyme, lemon peel and parsley, some pepper 
and salt, and i egg to bind ; fry very brown. 
Cut up the nuttose in small pieces, and stew 
slowly in remainder of the bean stock with 
about 10 cloves. Garnish with sprays of 
parsley and the forcemeat balls. Serve with 
red currant jelly. 

[3Sl 

Nuttose with Yorkshire Pudding. 

MAKE a gravy by stewing brown haricots 
in water until they are soft ; put it into 
a stew or frying pan with the nuttose cut into 
thin slices. Stew for half-an-hour. Simmer a 
couple of Spanish onions tender and cut into 
thin slices, and fry it for a few minutes in the 
gravy before taking it off the fire. Pile the 
slices of nuttose on the centre of a meat dish, 

[60] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

and place the onion round. This served with 
Yorkshire pudding and potatoes makes a sub- 
stantial dinner. 

[36] 

Savory Rissoles. 

EQUAL quantities of mashed wholemeal 
bread and boiled rice, add a little boiled 
onion minced fine, some pepper, salt and but- 
ter. Mix, roll into shape, or pass through a 
sausage machine, dredge with flour, dip in bat- 
ter, and fry crisp in boiling oil, nucoline or but- 
ter. A great variety can be made by intro- 
ducing lentils, macaroni or haricots, with herbs, 
fried onions, bread-crumbs, etc., and an egg. 

[371 

Lentil Croquettes. 

WASH, pick and cook J^-lb. lentils, with 
one or two onions to flavor. When 
cooked, add about 5-ozs. wholemeal bread- 
crumbs, a teaspoonful parsley, nutmeg, mace, 
salt and pepper, and i egg beaten. Mix well, 
and when cold form into rolls. Dip in flour 
and fry a golden brown. Serve with onion 
sauce and gravy. 

[61] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[38] 

Lentil Fritters. 

COOK 5^ -lb. lentils with water to cover 
until quite soft, but not pulped. Next 
prepare a batter with i egg and ^-Ib. wheat- 
meal flour, a few drops of oil and sufficient 
warm water to make the right consistency. 
Season with chopped onion and sage, a hand- 
ful of chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Add 
a few bread-crumbs and the cooked lentils. 
Mash well together and let the mixture stand 
for an hour. Then fry in hot fat, a spoonful 
at a time, and serve with apple sauce. 

[391 

Savory Cutlets. 

PUT a small cup of milk and J^-oz. of 
butter in a saucepan on the fire. When it 
boils add 3-ozs. of dried and browned bread- 
crumbs and a little dredging of flour. Let it 
cook, until it no longer adheres to the pan, and 
remove from the fire. When it is cool add 2 
eggs, beating until smooth, a large tablespoon- 
ful of shelled walnuts (previously run through 
the nut mill), seasoning, and a little grated 
onion juice. Mix well and shape into cakes 

[62 1 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

about J^-in. thick, on a floured board. Roil 
in flour or egg and bread-crumbs, and fry in 
boiling nucoline. Serve with walnut gravy, or 
round a dish of grilled tomatoes. 

[40] 

Nuttose Rissoles. 

TAKE about J^-ib. of nuttose and put it 
through the nut mill before cooking. 
Place it in a pan, and fry in a little nucoline, 
along with some chopped onion. Cover with 
brown stock and cook slowly until nearly all the 
gravy is absorbed. Then add bread-crumbs, 
herbs, seasoning, a little butter, and stir thor- 
oughly over the fire, and set aside to cool. Form 
the mixture into small balls, dip in egg and 
bread-crumbs, and fry. Garnish with parsley, 
and serve with onion sauce or brown gravy. 

[41] 

Nuttose Cutlets. 

A TASTY dish is made by cutting some 
well-cooked nuttose into thin slices, then 
dip each slice in beaten egg, roll in bread-crumbs 
seasoned with herbs, etc., and fry a golden 
brown. Serve with gravy and red currant jelly, 
or tomato sauce. 

[63] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[42] 

Rice Cutlets. 

DELICIOUS rice cutlets can be made as 
follows: Fry 2 grated onions brown, 
then add 4 tomatoes in the same pan and cook 
till tender. Cook a small cupful of rice in a 
double saucepan, turn it into a basin, add the 
onions and tomatoes, a teaspoonful of chopped 
parsley, half a teaspoonful of lemon thyme, 
2-ozs. of bread-crumbs, i egg, and pepper and 
salt to taste. Mix well, turn out on plates 
and smooth with a wet knife, cut into fingers 
and fry crisp in egg and bread-crumbs. Serve 
with tomato or egg sauce. 

[43] 

Nuttose RagoAt. 

A GOOD way to prepare Nuttose is as 
follows : Fry a teaspoonful of butter un- 
til it is nearly black, add flour until it absorbs 
the butter, add gradually any vegetable stock 
until a nice rich gravy results. Bring to the boil 
and add very thin slices of nuttose. Stew very 
slowly for 2 hours ; before boiling add some 
Worcester or other sauce to taste. Garnish 
with mashed potatoes and serve with a green 
vegetable. 

[64] 



SUBSTITUTES FOR FLESH 

[44] 

How to Improve Cutlets. 

VEGETARIAN cutlets, rissoles, and sau- 
sages are very much improved in their 
appearance and taste, if before being fried in 
egg or bread-crumbs, they are first encased 
with flaked potatoes — ^which should be pressed 
on firmly with a knife. They should be made 
as moist as is consistent with their holding to- 
gether. This point is of importance. 



[65] 



XI 

SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[45] 
Macaroni a I'ltalienne. 

BOIL some macaroni ("ribbon" is best) in 
plenty of water, strain and place on a 
dish ; take a dessertspoonful of cornflour, mix 
thoroughly with a little milk, add milk to make 
half a pint, boil until it thickens, add half an 
ounce of grated cheese, a small lump of butter, 
and a few tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce or 
tomato conserve. The tomato sauce can be 
made by slicing 4 tomatoes and cooking them 
in a saucepan with a little butter and chopped 
onion. Pass through a strainer. Pour the 
sauce over the macaroni or serve in a sauce boat. 

[46] 

Risotto (Milanese). 

(Specially recommended.) 

BOIL 6-ozs. of Patna rice in a double sauce- 
pan until tender. Fry a chopped onion 
brown, then add 3 peeled tomatoes and cook 

[66] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

until soft, add this to the rice with the yolks of 
2 eggs J J^-teaspoonful of salt, and i J^-ozs. of 
Parmesan or grated cheese. Mix well together 
and serve with tomato sauce. This makes a 
most tasty and nutritious dish. 

[47] 

Risotto a ritalienne. 

BOIL 6-ozs. of Patna rice with a clove or 
garlic. Fry 4 peeled tomatoes in i-oz. 
of butter. Add this to the rice with the yolk 
of I egg, ^-teaspoonful of salt, and i-oz. of 
Parmesan or grated cheese. Stir and serve 
with tomato sauce, or garnish with baked to- 
matoes. This dish is equally suitable for 
lunch, dinner, or supper; it is a "complete" 
type of food, and it is much appreciated. The 
flavor can easily be varied. 

[48] 

Cauliflower a I'ltalienne. 

BOIL a large cauliflower, after removing the 
leaves, until just tender, strain it, place it 
on a dish, pour over it some white sauce and 
some fine bread-crumbs. Brown it in the oven 
and serve with tomato sauce. Another dainty 

[67] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

way of serving cauliflower is by adding walnut 
gravy to the tomato sauce. 

[49] 

Asparagus Souffle. 

(Specially recommended.) 

TAKE some asparagus (previously boiled) 
and chop it finely after removing the 
tough stalks. Add 2 or 3 well beaten eggs 
and a small quantity of milk, with pepper and 
salt. Beat it well and put in well buttered 
souffle dishes and bake for 10 minutes. This 
makes a tasty course for a luncheon or dinner 
and also a simple supper dish. 

[50] 

The Simplest Omelet of all. 

(Specially recommended.) 

TAKE 2 eggs, J^-pt. of milk, a teaspoon- 
fill chopped parsley, and a taste of grated 
onion juice, pepper and salt. Whisk all in a 
basin so as to mix thoroughly. Heat J^-oz. 
of butter in a frying-pan until very hot, then 
pour in the mixture and keep putting the knife 
round the outside to prevent the omelet ad- 
hering and to make the uncooked centre flow 

t68] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

toward the rim. When nicely set, fold and 
serve on a hot dish, either with tomato sauce, 
or garnished with baked tomatoes. This sim- 
ple omelet is equal to any produced by a French 
** chef," if it is carefully prepared. 

151] 

Potato Croquettes. 

BOIL 2-1 bs. of potatoes, dry them well, 
mash thoroughly with J^-oz. butter and 
one beaten egg. Lay on a dish until cold. 
Shape into balls, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, 
and fry crisp. 

[52] 
Omelette aux Pines Herbes. 

MELT i-oz. of butter in a perfectly dry 
frying pan. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs 
with some finely chopped parsley and a pinch of 
garlic powder, pepper and salt. When the 
butter boils pour in the egg and stir until it 
commences to set. Then pour in the whites 
of the eggs (previously beaten to a stiff froth). 
When cooked fold the omelet and turn on to 
a very hot dish. Cover at once and serve im- 
mediately. 

[69I 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[531 

Curried Lentils. 

STEW some German lentils (in vegetable 
stock is best), and when quite soft stir 
in a teaspoonful of good curry paste, a fried 
onion, a chopped apple, and some chutney. 
Mix it well. Serve with a border of boiled 
rice, fingers of pastry or fried bread and 
chipped potatoes. 

[54] 
Yorkshire Savory Pudding. 

TAKE 3 eggs, 5 tablespoonfuls of flour, 
i-pt. of milk, I large onion, pepper and 
salt to taste. Beat the whites of the eggs to a 
stiff froth, mix the yolks with the milk, flour 
and condiments, lightly mix in the whites and 
pour into one or two well-greased pudding pans 
which should have been made hot. Bake 20 
minutes. The pudding should not be more 
than three-eighths of an inch in thickness and 
should be of a nice brown color. 



B 



[551 

Cauliflower (au gratin). 

OIL I or 2 cauliflowers (after removing 
leaves) until tender. Strain oflF the water 

[70] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

ana place on a dish. Cover with grated cheese, 
some white sauce (recipe 1 1 5), and some fried 
bread-crumbs. Add some pats of butter and 
bake until a nice brown. This dish is very sa- 
vory and is useful for supper or as a separate 
course for dinner. 

156] 
Scrambled Tomatoes and Egg^. 

PEEL 4 large tomatoes after dipping them 
in scalding water, slice and stew them in 
a little butter for a few minutes ; beat 2 eggs, 
add them to the tomatoes, and scramble them 
until the egg is cooked, and serve on toast. 

[57] 

Bread Cutlets. 

CUT some neat slices of brown bread half 
an inch thick. Remove crust and cut into 
large fingers. Soak them in milk, dip in sa- 
vory batter and fry crisp. Serve with apple 
sauce and green peas or vegetable marrow. 
This dish is nice for dinner in hot weather. 



H 



[58] 

Grilled Tomatoes. 

ALVE some ripe tomatoes, place them 
in a frying pan with a teacupful of 

[71 1 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

water, put a small piece of butter on each piece. 
Cook them until tender. Serve on toast. 
Poached eggs are a nice addition to this dish. 

[59] 

Baked Stuffed Tomatoes. 

CUT the tomatoes in halves and stuff them 
with bread-crumbs and a little parsley and 
butter ; they should then be baked until tender. 

[60] 

Lentil Pudding. 

STEW some Prussian lentils until soft ; stir 
in some curry paste and add chutney to 
taste. Season with salt and butter, cover with 
mashed potatoes and bake. 

[61] 

Savory Rice Pudding. 

PUT I teacupful of rice in a medium sized 
pie dish, and fill it with milk ; chop finely 
or grate 4 onions, beat i egg, mix altogether, 
add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and a 
little salt; bake in a slow oven. After 20 
minutes, stir the pudding thoroughly, adding a 
small piece of butter, and a little more milk if 
necessary. 

[72] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[62] 

Macaroni and Tomato Pudding. 

BOIL some macaroni and mix with it 3-ozs. 
of grated cheese, 4 peeled and sliced to- 
matoes, and half a teacupful of milk. Place in 
a pie-dish and cover with a thick layer of fine 
bread-crumbs and a few lumps of butter; sea- 
son to taste. Bake until nicely browned. A 
grated onion is considered an improvement by 
some persons if it is added. 

[631 

Creamed Macaroni. 

BREAK 5^ -lb. macaroni into one inch 
pieces, drop them into 2-qts. of boiling 
water (salted), boil till tender. Drain and 
place in a dish. At serving time put into the 
pan a tablespoonful of butter, when melted, a 
tablespoonful of flour, rub until well mixed, 
then add J^-pt. of milk, stir until it bubbles; a 
little cayenne to be added, then put in the 
macaroni and heat thoroughly, and just at the 
last, stir in J^-lb. of grated cheese (not quite 
half ought to be Parmesan and the rest a good 
fresh cheese). 

[73 1 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[64I 

An Indian Dish. 

COOK some rice in a jar until nicely swol- 
len, put it in a saucepan, add one or two 
fried onions (and some young carrots chopped 
fine if desired), some vegetable stock, a dessert- 
spoonful of chutney, and i or 2 teaspoonfuls 
of curry paste, until the rice has a rich curry 
flavor, to taste. Warm a bottle of small French 
green peas (use fresh ones in season) with sugar 
and mint, pour them in the centre of the dish, 
place the curried rice round them and garnish 
with small fingers of pastry. Serve with fried 
potatoes and cauliflower. This dish is easily 
made and very easy of digestion. 

[65] 

Tomato Pie. 

PUT some tomatoes in a pie dish, spread 
over some chopped parsley, and pepper, 
salt and butter; cover with mashed potatoes, 
and bake. 

[66] 

Spinach and Eggs. 

TAKE 3 or 4-lbs. of spinach, boil it in 
plenty of water with a pinch of soda and 

[741 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

a pinch of salt for ten minutes, press through a 
strainer, and then rub through a wire sieve ; 
place it in a saucepan with a small piece of but- 
ter and a tablespoonful of milk, stir well while 
being warmed up, and serve on buttered toast 
or fried bread, garnish with fingers of pastry. 
Rub 2 hard boiled eggs through a sieve and 
spread on the top. Decorate with the whites 
of the eggs when sliced. 

[67] 

Spinach h la Creme. 

PREPARE the spinach as described above, 
but instead of adding butter and milk, add 
two or three tablespoonfuls of cream. Stir well 
and serve with fingers of fried bread or pastry. 
Omit the garnishing of eggs. 

[68] 

Stuffed Vegetable Marrow. 

MIX together J^-oz. of butter with 5-ozs. 
bread-crumbs, rubbing it well in. Add 
a fried onion, some parsley and thyme, some 
sage, and some lemon rind and bind with an 
egg. Scoop out the marrow, and place the 
stuffing in quite dry; then boil or steam. 

[75] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

Dress with brown gravy and fried bread-crumbs, 
and place for a few minutes in a hot oven. 

[69I 
Mushroom Pie. 

TAKE 2 small teacupfuls of flour and i 
egg. Mix the flour with water (not 
milk), to the consistency of cream, add the 
egg, well beaten, and sufficient milk to make a 
thin batter. Season to taste with pepper and 
salt, and fry in butter in very thin pancakes 
until a light brown color. These should be 
made the day before they are to be used. Cut 
into squares about the size of a silver quar- 
ter and fill a pie-dish about three parts full, 
adding a few mushrooms minced and fried in 
butter. Fill up the dish with brown gravy 
(112), cover with ordinary paste, and bake. 

[70] 

Beetroot Fritters. 

STEW some beetroot until tender, cut into 
slices, dip in egg and bread-crumbs, and 
fry. Serve with white sauce (recipe 1 1 5). 

1761 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[71] 

Scotch Stew. 

SIMMER %'\h. of pearl barley in i-qt. 
of stock (vegetable or bean stock) for ^ 
hour, then bring to boiling point and add 2 large 
carrots (scraped), i Spanish onion thinly sliced, 
and large turnip, and, if liked, a few green peas, 
salt and pepper, and a little mint or parsley. 
Simmer for another ^ hour, or until tender. 
Garnish with wheatmeal dumplings (recipe 72) 
boiled in the stew for 20 minutes before 
serving. 

[72J 

Wheatmeal Dumpling^. 

MIX in lightly 2-ozs. of nucoline (ground 
through a nut mill or finely shredded) 
with 2-ozs. of white flour, 2-ozs. of brown flour, 
2 tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, j4 teaspoon- 
ful of salt, some pepper, and j4 teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley and a little thyme ; add water 
gradually in different places and mix into a dry 
dough ; cut into about 8 slices and roll lightly 
in hand into balls. Boil for 20 or 30 minutes. 



[771 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

173] 

Ragout of Onions. 

STEW some onions till tender, place in pie 
dish, make some melted butter, chop a 
hard boiled egg, add it to the butter, pour over 
onions, and bake. 

[741 

Savory Potato Rissoles. 

TAKE some stiff mashed potato. Make 
a stuffing with 2 tablespoonfuls of bread- 
crumbs, a chopped tomato, a little parsley or 
herb seasoning, and moisten with beaten egg. 
Shape 2 rounds of potato, make a little hollow 
in one, fill with stuffing and press the other 
over it, roll in egg and bread-crumbs and fry. 

[75] 

Italian Omelet. 

TAKE a teacupful of Prussian lentils ; boil 
them until quite soft. Mix them in 
batter with some finely chopped boiled onion 
and a little sage, and fry them crisp like pan- 
cakes. One tablespoonful to each omelet. 

[ 78] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[76] 

Haricot Pie. 

WHITE haricots boiled till tender (after 
being soaked for 12 hours so that the 
skins come off easily) ; tapioca soaked in cold 
water over night ; a few small forcemeat balls ; 
gravy and seasoning. Fry a small onion in 
butter and chop small ; brown a little flour in 
the butter left in the saucepan, and add to it 
some of the water strained off the haricots, 
season to taste. Mix this gravy into the tapi- 
oca and minced onion, fill up the pie dish with 
layers of the haricots, forcemeat balls, and tapi- 
oca well moistened with the gravy, and cover 
with a crust well brushed over with egg. When 
cold this cuts in firm slices. 

[77] 

Onions on Toast. 

PUT I -lb. of onions, previously cut up, 
into an iron saucepan with J^-oz. butter. 
Keep the lid on, but shake the saucepan fre- 
quently to prevent burning. When they are 
quite soft and brown, serve on buttered toast 
with mashed potatoes. 

[79] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[78] 

Com Omelet. 

BEAT the yolks of 2 eggs, and add some 
pepper and salt, and 2 teaspoonfuls of 
sweet corn. Beat the whites to a very stiff 
froth, add to the yolks and mix together. Put 
i-oz. of butter in the omelet pan and, when 
very hot, pour in the omelet and stir round a 
few times until it begins to set ; when brown at 
the bottom, place under a grill or in front of a 
clear fire to brown the top ; sprinkle over some 
chopped parsley, fold over in half and serve 

quickly. 

[79] 

Boiled Chestnuts. 

BOIL some chestnuts slowly for about an 
hour until quite soft, without being too 
meally. Serve with celery salt. If the nuts 
are shelled and stewed in brown haricot gravy 
a more savory dish results. The simple meth- 
od, however, makes the nuts very tasty, and 
labor is avoided. 



B 



[80] 

Protose Fritters. 
AKE I -lb. of Protose till it is brown. 
Take it out and press through the potato- 

[80] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

masher. Add to this rather more than the 
same quantity of potato and one large grated 
onion and a little nutmeg. Mix with one egg 
to bind and divide into fritters and fry them. 

[8i] 

Savory Cheese Rissoles. 

PUT J^-pt. of hot water and 2-ozs. of butter 
in a saucepan, and bring to the boil. Sift 
in slowly 5-ozs. of flour, and cook this mixture 
thoroughly until it will leave the pan clean. 
Take it off the fire and add some cayenne, 
finely chopped parsley, 4-ozs. bread-crumbs, 
2-ozs. grated cheese and 2 eggs beaten in sep- 
arately. When the mixture is quite cool, roll 
it into balls with flour and fry them. Deco- 
rate the dish with parsley, and serve hot with 
a garniture of mashed potatoes. 

[82] 

Savory Batter Pudding. 

BOIL a cupful of Patna rice in 3 cupfuls of 
water. Boil 6 onions and mash them 
with chopped parsley ; put, in a well-buttered 
pie dish, alternate layers of the rice and onion 
mixture, and pour over them a batter made 

[81 ] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

exactly as for Yorkshire pudding, and bake in 
a quick oven. Serve with vegetables in the 
ordinary way, with brown gravy or tomato 

sauce. 

[83] 

Potato Fingers. 

SOFTEN some mashed potatoes with a lit- 
tle milk, add salt and pepper, a handful of 
bread-crumbs, and a small onion, grated, with 
one egg to bind ; roll into fingers, dip into egg 
and bread-crumbs, and fry crisp in nucoline. 
These form a nice garnishing for any dish and 
are very good when eaten alone. 

[84] 

Protose Pie. 

BOIL some onions until tender, cut a can 
of protose into squares or diamonds about 
an inch in diameter, and after lining a pie dish 
in the usual way with whole-meal paste, put in 
alternate layers of the sliced onion, carrot and 
protose, shaking a little pepper and salt on 
each layer ; be sure to put a cup in the centre 
to hold the gravy. When the dish is quite 
full, pour over a large cupful of gravy made by 
boiling brown haricot beans for 2 or 3 hours 

[ 82] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

till rich brown gravy is procured, to which add 
a lump of butter ; cover with paste and bake. 

[85] 

Spinach Souffle. 

(Specially recommended.) 

COOK some spinach (see 66), pass it 
through a sieve, and add two or three 
well beaten eggs and a small amount of milk, 
with pepper and salt. Mix it thoroughly, put 
it in well buttered souffle dishes and bake for 
10 minutes. This makes a nutritious and 
tasty dish. 

[86] 

Cornish Turnover. 

MAKE a light pastry ; take equal quan- 
tities of boiled rice and fried bread- 
crumbs, a grated onion, and sufficient chopped 
parsley and thyme to make it savory, mix it 
into a paste with beaten eggs, roll out a small 
round of the paste, put a large tablespoonful of 
the mixture on one end, and turn the other 
end over in the usual way; brush over with 
white of egg and bake in a quick oven. 

[83 J 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[871 

Forcemeat Croquettes. 

MAKE a forcemeat by chopping up the 
remains of any savory dish from the 
previous day, adding bread-crumbs and beaten 
egg ; roll into balls, and enclose in a coat of 
mashed potato, put a small piece of butter on 
the top of each ball, and bake brown. This is 
a good way of using up mashed potato that 
may be left. 

[88] 

White Haricot Stew. 

STEW 5^ -lb. of white haricot beans very 
slowly, parboil i or 2 onions for each per- 
son, in water, to which a good pinch of car- 
bonate of soda has been added, and which re- 
moves the objectionable gases from the onion ; 
add the onions to the beans about an hour 
before taking up, let both stew very slowly, 
add a large lump of butter, pepper and salt to 
taste, and if liked, a tablespoonful of mushroom 
ketchup. Serve with sippets of toast or fried 
bread round the dish. 

In the mushroom season, a few mushrooms 
added to the above make a delicious dish. 

[84] 



SIMPLE SAVORY DISHES 

[89] 

Baked Bananas. 

A DISH of baked bananas makes a nour- 
ishing and tasty meal. For invalids, 
dyspeptics, and brainworkers this is a food eas- 
ily assimilable and most sustaining. 

The fruit should be baked slowly for at least 
half an hour, until the skins are black and com- 
mencing to shrivel up. The longer the bak- 
ing, within reason, the more tasty and delicious 
will be the interior. It is better to overcook 
them than to serve them underdone, as they 
taste insipid if half cooked. 

[90] 

Turnips a la Cr8me. 

COOK some young turnips in the usual 
manner and mash them with plenty of 
cream. Serve in small portions on slices of 
fried bread or toast, with a few capers spread 
over them. This makes a nice dish with 
which to commence a dinner if soup is not 
served. 



[85] 



XII 

COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

For Hot Luncheon Dishes see previous section of Recipes. 

[91] 

Vegetable Galantine. 

GRATE, or slice finely, 2 carrots, i small 
turnip, I medium sized onion, and stew 
in just sufficient stock until tender. Then add 
5^-pt. of cooked green peas, and 2-ozs. of fine 
bread-crumbs, some pepper and salt, a pinch of 
cayenne, and a little ketchup or gaffer sauce. 
Mix 3-0ZS. of semolina, and when cooked add 
this and mix well, and press on to a dish in a 
shape, leaving a hole in the centre ; leave to 
cool, then improve the shape, brush over with 
a glaze made from j4 teacupfiil of liquid aspic 
jelly. Garnish with cold aspic or the yolk of 
a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve, and 
the white being chopped with some parsley. 
This is a good cold luncheon dish, and it is 
much appreciated if served with lettuce and 
salad dressing (recipe 107). 

[86] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

[92] 

Aspic Jelly. 

TAKE 2-pts. of cold water, J^-oz. agar- 
agar (vegetable gelatine), i lemon, some 
pepper and salt, a pinch of cayenne, and 2 ta- 
blespoonfuls of Tarragon vinegar. Soak the 
agar 2 hours in i-pt. of the water, then add the 
other ingredients, with some Worcestershire 
sauce to darken it ; add the white of an egg and 
the shell, put over a slow fire till the agar is 
dissolved, then boil two or three minutes, and 
strain through a coarse flannel. 

[93] 

Tomato Galantine. 

TAKE in same manner as vegetable gal- 
antine, but add 4 large tomatoes (sliced 
and cooked). This dish is specially recom- 
mended. 

[94] 

Picnic Brawn. 

STEW J^-lb. of Egyptian lentils in sufficient 
water to cover them; when cooked rub 
through a sieve. Sprinkle 2-ozs. of semolina 
into a J^-pt. of boiling vegetable stock and stir 
for 10 minutes, and then add 4 sliced tomatoes 

[87] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

and a grated onion with salt and pepper. Add 
this to the lentils and boil for i minute, then 
put in I dessertspoonful of ketchup, and, when 
cool, press into glass moulds. Boil an egg for 
15 minutes, then immerse it in cold water. 
Rub the yolk through a sieve on to the top of 
the mould when turned out, chop the white and 
arrange round the dish with minced parsley 
over it. Some herbs and a chopped egg can 
be introduced with good effect. 

[951 

Tomato Mayonnaise. 

PEEL and slice 6 good tomatoes, place them 
in a dish and cover them with Mayonnaise 
sauce ; let them stand for a few hours. Serve, 
after sprinkling some finely chopped parsley 
over the top. This dish tastes nice with pro- 
tose rolls, or Port du Salut cheese. 

[96I 

Potted Tomato Paste. 

THREE tomatoes, i egg, 2-ozs. grated 
cheese, 4-ozs. bread-crumbs, J^-oz. but- 
ter, I small onion, minced fine, pepper and cel- 
ery salt Peel the tomatoes and cut them up 

[88] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

in a small saucepan with the butter and onion ; 
when tender, mash smoothly and add the egg. 
Stir quickly until it becomes thick; add the 
cheese and bread-crumbs last, when off the fire. 
Turn into a pot and cover with butter. 

[97] 

Protose Rolls. 

PREPARE pastry as usual for sausage rolls, 
either short or pufFy. The filling mixture 
is made just as for the protose cutlets (3 2), with 
the addition of a few bread-crumbs. Roll the 
mixture between the fingers into the shape of a 
sausage, and proceed just as usual. Brush with 
egg and bake in a quick oven. Nuttose can 
be substituted for the sake of variety. 

[98] 

Potted White Haricots. 

(A tubititute for Potted Chicken.) 

STEW a cupful of white haricots with 6 
onions and water to cover them, until per- 
fectly soft. Rub through a wire sieve or po- 
tato masher. Add 3-ozs. of mashed potato, 
6-ozs. of brown bread-crumbs, i -oz. of butter, 
I oz. grated cheese and an eggspoonful of mus- 

[89] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

tard. Mix well with pestle and mortar and fill 
small pots ; cover with melted butter. 

[99] 

Potted Lentil Savory. 

TAKE 5^ -lb. of lentils (cooked), 3-ozs. 
mashed potato, 2-ozs. bread-crumbs, i 
egg (beaten), chopped parsley, a little onion 
juice, salt and pepper, and i-oz. butter. Put 
all in a pan and mix well together, stirring all 
the time. When cooked, turn into a mortar, 
pound well and press into potted dishes and 
melt butter over the top. This makes excel- 
lent sandwiches with a little mustard spread on. 

[100] 

Lentil Rolls. 

A SPLENDID substitute for sausage rolls, 
to be eaten cold or with salad, can be 
made with a filling of the lentil savory. If any 
of the potted meat becomes a little dry after 
the pots have been opened, it can be used in 
these rolls. They should be served hot unless 
the pastry is fairly crisp and fi-esh, and they 
are then very nice served with a little tomato 
sauce. 

[901 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

[lOl] 

Nut Sandwiches. 

FLAKE some Brazil or other nuts and 
spread a thin layer in some bread and but- 
ter sandwiches which have been dressed with 
honey or jam. Almonds can be used if pre- 
ferred, and curry powder instead of preserve. 

[102] 

Egg Sandwiches. 

SCRAMBLE 2 eggs with a pinch of mixed 
herbs, celery, salt and pepper. Place be- 
tween thin slices of bread and butter. 

[103] 

Tomato Sandwiches. 

MAKE sandwiches by spreading tomato 
paste (92) between slices of bread and 
butter. A dish of mustard and cress sand- 
wiches should be served with them* 

[104] 
Potted Haricot Savory. 

STEW some brown haricot beans for sev- 
eral hours (using the liquor for stock, for 
soup, or as a substitute for beef tea after add- 

[91 1 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

ing some butter and seasoning). Pass them 
through a sieve, mix with them some brown 
bread-crumbs, a finely chopped raw onion, 
parsley, a little thyme and J^-oz. of butter ; 
pepper and salt to taste. Heat altogether in a 
saucepan for lo minutes ; pour into jars, and 
cover with melted butter. This is also a use- 
ful dish for breakfast, supper, or when travel- 
ling. 

[105] 

Savory Protose Pudding. 

MAKE a good stuffing of i-lb. wholemeal 
bread-crumbs, sweet herbs, J4^-lb. but- 
ter, chopped parsley, peel of i lemon, chopped 
fine, and pepper and salt to taste. Bind with 
2 or 3 eggs. Thickly line a well-greased 
pie dish with the stuffing, then press into the 
middle the contents of a large can of protose. 
Thickly cover over with stuffing. Put little 
pieces of butter or nucoline on top, cover with 
a tin and bake in slow oven an hour or an hour 
and a half. This makes a savory dish, when 
cold, with a good salad. 



[92] 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

[io6] 

Potted Haricot Beans. 

(A substitute for Potted Meat.) 

PUT a good breakfastcupful of brown beans, 
with a few onions, into a brown stew-jar, 
and cover with a quart, or rather more, of water. 
Place in a slow oven and cook until the beans 
crack, and the liquid will then have become a 
rich brown color. . After the liquid has been 
poured from the beans (to be used as stock or 
for haricot tea) rub them through a sieve or 
masher. To 6-ozs. of the pulp, add 3-ozs. 
mashed potato, 3-ozs. brown bread crumbs, 
and I J^-ozs. butter ; salt, pepper, nutmeg and 
mace to taste, and a little fried onion if liked. 
Put all in a pan and stir till hot, add i beaten 
egg, and cook until the mixture leaves the sides 
of the pan, but do not let it get too stiff. Press 
into potting dishes as usual. 

[107] 

A Good Salad Dressing. 

RUB an eggspoonful of mustard, salt, and 
sugar in a teaspoonful of olive oil and 
cream, until the mixture is quite smooth. 
Then rub the yolk of a hard boiled egg in the 

[93I 



COLD LUNCHEON DISHES 

paste^ and keep it free from lumps. Pour in a 
dessertspoonful of vinegar, stirring slowly all the 
time. Add a teacupful of rich milk or some 
cream. Serve. 



[94] 



XIII 

GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

Iio8] 

Brown Haricot Gravy. 

A GREAT difficulty raised by flesh-caters 
is, " What can you do for gravy ? " 
Apart from the gravy that can easily be made 
from such preparations as " Odin," etc., most 
appetizing gravies can be made from vegetable 
stock, with the usual addition of thickening, 
salt, pepper, and a lump of butter. Brown 
haricot tea is the best stock, being both rich 
and nutritious. (See page 35.) 

[109] 

Walnut Gravy. 

TAKE about 3 tablespoonfuls of shelled 
walnuts, measured after having put them 
through the nut mill, and place in a small pan 
in which you have previously made hot a table- 
spoonful of butter. Fry until the walnut is 
dark brown, stirring well all the time to pre- 

[95 ] 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

vent burning. Pour on a pint of brown stock, 
or water if no stock is at hand, and let it sim- 
mer slowly until just before serving. Then 
add a tablespoonful of flour to thicken, add 
seasoning, and a few drops of onion or some 
tomato sauce. This makes a most rich and 
savory gravy — especially if a little nut butter 
is added. 

[no] 

Curry Gravy. 

IN the cold weather, dishes which contain 
curry are seasonable and are generally ap- 
preciated. The following recipe for a curry 
gravy will prove useful to many readers, as it 
makes a capital addition to plain boiled rice or 
many other dishes. 

Fry two onions, minced in some butter, until 
they are quite brown. Then sift in some flour 
and let it brown also. Add slowly some vege- 
table stock or water, two minced apples, a tea- 
spoonful of curry paste, a teaspoonful of vine- 
gar, and a dessertspoonful each of tomato 
sauce and chutney. Stir and serve. 



[96] 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

[in] 

Gravy Piquante. 

STEW a dozen shallots in some butter un- 
til soft. Stir in some flour and let it 
brown ; add the juice of a lemon, a teacupful 
of water, a clove, a teaspoonful of sugar, and 
a pinch of salt and pepper. Boil gently for a 
few minutes and stir in a little more flour ; add 
J^-pt. of water, boil for 15 minutes and strain. 

[112] 
Plain Brown Gravy. 

MELT some butter until brown, add flour 
(previously mixed well in a little water), 
and some vegetable stock, dilute if necessary 
and strain. A fried onion and tomato, and a 
teaspoonful of " nut butter '* adds to the flavor 
and richness. 

[113] 

Sauce Piquante. 

TAKE equal quantities of vegetable stock 
and Tomate a la Vatel (Dandicolle and 
Gaudin), fry a chopped onion brown, add the 
above, thicken with cornflour, boil and strain. 

in] 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

[114] 

Tarragon Sauce. 

MELT i-oz. of butter, stir in i dessert- 
spoonful of flour until free from lumps, 
add a teacupful of milk and stir until it boils. 
Finally add 20 or 30 drops of Tarragon vine- 
gar. This sauce is an excellent addition to 
cauliflower, as the flavor is unique. 

fii5] 

White Sauce. 

MAKE in the same manner as tarragon 
sauce, but omit the vinegar and add a 
teacupfiil of water. 

[116] 

Tomato Sauce. 

FRY a sliced onion in butter until brown, 
add 6 sliced tomatoes, a clove of garlic 
and a dessertspoonful more butter. Heat un- 
til quite soft, add a tumbler of clear vegetable 
stock or water, thicken with cornflour, strain 
and serve. 



[98] 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

[117] 

Sauce Hollandaise. 

TAKE 3-0ZS. of butter, the juice of a 
lemon, the yolks of 3 eggs, and a tea- 
spoonful of flour. Heat in a double saucepan 
while being stirred, until it begins to thicken. 
Serve with cauliflower, asparagus, artichokes, 
etc. 

[118] 

Mayonnaise Sauce. 

MIX a teaspoonful of mustard with the 
yolk of an egg, add 4 tablespoonfuls of 
pure olive oil, a few drops at a time, beating it 
with a fork; add 2 tablespoonfuls of castor 
sugar, some pepper and salt, the juice of a large 
lemon and 2 teaspoonfols of Tarragon vinegar. 
Whisk the white of the egg with a gill of cream, 
and beat all together. 

[119] 

Tomato Chutney. 

ONE and a half pounds of tomatoes, i^. 
Ib. apples, I J^-lb. sultanas, i J^-lb. brown 
sugar, 2-ozs. onions, 4-ozs. salt, ^-oz. cayenne 
pepper, 3-pts. vinegar. The whole to be 

[99] 



GRAVIES AND SAUCES 

boiled for 3 hours. Pour into stoppered bot- 
tles. This makes a most excellent chutney. 

[130] 

Cocoanut Sauce. 

MELT i-oz. of butter in a pan, stir in i- 
oz. of flour smoothly, then add J^-pt. 
of cold water and ^-pt. of milk, half at a time ; 
stir in i teaspoonful of desiccated cocoanut and 
2 teaspoonfuls of sugar, and bring to the boil. 

[lai] 

Parsley Sauce. 

MAKE in same way as recipe 114, but 
substitute a large teaspoonful of finely 
chopped parsley for the vinegar. 

[132] 

Pineapple Sauce. 

PLACE some pineapple juice in a pan, and 
add castor sugar to taste. Boil until thick 
and, if liked, add cornflour. Cook well and 
strain. Serve with pineapple fritters or semo- 
lina moulds. 

[ 100 J 



g.ra;vies and sauces 

["3] 

Fruit Sauce. 

TAKE a good teaspoonful of cornflour, 
mix with a little water, adding 4 tablc- 
spoonfiils of cherry or any fruit syrup, and boil 
until it thickens. Serve when cold. If this is 
required richer, more syrup should be used, 
but it should be first thickened by boiling it, 
to evaporate some of the water. 



[ loi ] 



XIV 

PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[124] 

Christmas Pudding. 

MIX I -lb. bread-crumbs, i-lb. flour, i-lb. 
sultanas or currants, 2-lbs. raisins, J^i- 
Ib. mixed peel, J^-lb. sugar, J^-lb. albene (or 
nucoline) flaked in the nut mill, J^-lb. chopped 
pine kernels. Add nutmeg to taste, and five 
or six eggs. Boil for 1 2 hours, and serve with 
sauce as usual. This pudding wins approba- 
tion from all who try it. 

[125] 

A Simple Plum Pudding. 

MIX J^-lb. flour, I-lb. raisins, 6-ozs. al- 
bene (flaked) and i-oz. mixed peel. 
Add I teaspoonful of mixed spice, 2 eggs, and 
a little milk if required. Boil for at least 6 
hours, serve with sweet sauce. . 

I ^02 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[126] 

Raspberry Pudding. 

STEW I -lb. of raspberries (or more) with 
some sugar. Line a basin with some slices 
of bread (without crust). Pour in half the 
fruit, cover with a layer of bread, then add the 
remainder of the raspberries and another layer 
of bread. Press down with a saucer and place 
a weight on it. Turn out and serve when cold 
with cream or Plasmon snow-cream. 

[127] 

Apple Custard. 

PLACE some biscuit crumbs in a buttered 
pie dish. Nearly fill it with stewed ap- 
ples. Beat an egg with J^-pt. of milk and 
pour over the apples. Place some small ratafia 
biscuits on the top and some grated nutmeg. 
Bake in a moderate oven. 

[128] 

Custard Pudding. 

TAKE i-pt. of milk and 2 eggs. Butter a 
pie dish, beat the eggs with the milk, 
sugar to taste, add a little vanilla and nutmeg 
with a small piece of butter ; bake for half-an- 

[ 103 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

hour in a moderate oven. Sultanas should be 
added, if desired. 

[129] 

G&teau aux Fruits. 

TAKE half a tinned pineapple, 3 bananas, 
54! -lb. grapes, four Tangerine oranges, 
and the juice of a lemon. Cut up the fruit 
into dice, sprinkle with sugar and pour over 
them half the pineapple syrup, the lemon juice, 
and a tablespoonful of maraschino, and leave 
for an hour to soak. Split five stale sponge 
cakes open, cut each half into three fingers and 
spread each rather thickly with apricot jam. 
Place four of these strips on a glass dish so as 
to form a square, and put four more across the 
corners so as to form a diamond in it, and 
so on, square and diamond alternately. Fill 
the middle of the tower thus formed with the 
macedoine of fruits, piling them high above 
the top, and pour the rest of the pineapple 
syrup over the cake. Whip half a pint of 
cream, or Plasmon snow-cream, stifHy, and put 
it on in rough spoonfuls all over the tower. 



[ 104 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[130] 

Poached Apricots. ^^ 

UPON some slices of sponge cake, place 
half an apricot (round side uppermost). 
Whip some white of egg to a snow frost with 
castor sugar. Place this round the apricot 
so as to make it resemble a poached egg. 
Whipped cream is preferable to many persons 
if obtainable. The sponge should be slightly 
moistened with the apricot juice. 

[131] 

Cocoanut Pudding. 

TAKE 2 eggs and their weight of flour, 
butter and sugar and a-ozs. of desiccated 
cocoanut. Cream the butter and sugar, add 
half of the beaten eggs first, then half of the 
flour, mix well and then add the other half of 
each and beat for 5 minutes, then add the co- 
coanut. Place in a buttered basin with a piece 
of buttered paper over it and steam one hour 
or bake in small tins. Serve with cocoanut 
sauce (recipe lao). 



[ 105 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DBSSERTS 

Plasmon Snow-cream. 

PUT 3 heaped teaspoonfuls (i^-ozs.) of 
Plasmon into a bowl. From J^-pt. of 
tepid water take 4 tablespoonfuls and mix it 
with the powder, rubbing it into a paste. Slowly 
add the remainder of the water ; stir thoroughly, 
then place in a saucepan and bring to a boil 
stirring all the time. Stand aside to get quite 
cold. When required for use, whisk it into a 
thick snow-cream. This makes a splendid ad- 
dition to stewed fruit (peaches, etc.), cocoa, 
coffee, or puddings. It is most nutritious also. 
The proportions must be correct to get the 
cream firm as well as light. If it is frothy there 
is too much water ; if sticky and heavy there is 
not sufiicient water. 

[133] 

Empress Pudding. 

TAKE I -pt. of bread-crumbs, i-qt. ofnew 
milk, the yolks of 4 eggs (well beaten), 
the grated rind of a lemon, and 3-ozs. of but- 
ter ; mix and bake about half an hour. When 
cold, spread some raspberry or plum jam over 
the pudding ; then whip the whites of the eggs 

[ 106] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

With a teacup of sifted sugar and the juice of 
a lemon, and lay this over the jam. Make 
slightly brown in the oven. 

[134] 

Sultana Pudding. 

TO an ordinary rice pudding add 4-ozs. of 
sultanas. Bake in a slow oven for sev- 
eral hours, with plenty of milk. When cooked 
it should be brown in color and quite moist. 
It is easily digested and makes a good supper 

dish. 

[135] 

Plain Boiled Pudding. 

TAKE a-ozs. of nucoline or vegetable suet 
passed through a nut mill, 4-ozs. each 
of white and brown flour, and 4 tablespoonfuls 
of bread-crumbs. Add water gradually, mix- 
ing into a dry dough, and boil in a cloth for 

ij4 hours. 

[136] 

Apple Fritters. 

PEEL and quarter, or finely mince, some 
good cooking apples, dip in batter made 
as follows: — i tablespoonful of flour, i egg 
well beaten, enough milk to make it the con- 

[107 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

sistency of cream. Fry crisp in boiling nuco- 
line, and serve. 

[137] 

Baked Cocoanut Custard. 

BEAT 3 eggs and mix with i J^-pt. of milk, 
add 2 tablespoonfuls of desiccated cocoa-* 
nut, and a tablespoonful of sugar. Bake in a 
slow oven, and add some grated nutmeg. 

[138] 

Orange Jelly. 

WIPE and thinly peel 5 oranges and 2 
lemons, take i-pt. of cold water, J^-lb. 
white sugar, and i ^-ozs. cornflour. Place the 
peel and water in a pan and simmer for 20 min- 
utes with the sugar ; strain the resulting juice. 
Place the cornflour in a basin and squeeze the 
juice of the fruit through a strainer on to it, 
then pour the boiling syrup over this mixture ; 
stir well, return to saucepan, and boil for 6 
minutes. Pour into cold wet mould. Garnish 

with orange. 

[139] 
Ginger Pudding. 

TAKE 6-ozs. of brown bread crumbs (fine- 
ly grated), 3-ozs. of butter, a saltspoon- 

[ 108] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

fill of ground ginger, the juice of a lemon, and 
4-0ZS. of castor sugar. Stir these in a stewpan 
until the butter is melted. Chop 4-ozs. of pre- 
served ginger and add to the mixture with the 
yolks of 2 eggs. Beat well together and set 
aside to cool. Whisk the whites of the eggs 
and stir into the pudding quickly. Fill a but- 
tered basin with it, cover with a saucer (leaving 
room to swell) and steam for 3 hours. 

[140] 

Semolina Pudding. 

BOIL a teacupfiil of semolina for 15 min- 
utes in 2j^-pts. of milk, stirring all the 
time. Flavor with vanilla. Turn out into a 
buttered pie dish, garnish with ratafia biscuits 
and bake in a moderate oven. 

[141] 

Strawberry Cream Ice.'' 

BAKE I J^-lb. of ripe strawberries, 6-ozs. 
of castor sugar, J^-lb. of cream and a 
teacupful of milk. Put the strawberries through 
a sieve or strainer, mix the whole well together, 
and freeze. 

Raspberry ice can be made in a simpler form 

[ 109 ] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

by reducing the cream by one half and by add- 
ing another teacupful of milk in which a des- 
sertspoonful of cornflour has been boiled. 

Vanilla Ice. 

TAKE i-pt. of milk, i gill of cream, the 
yolks of 3 eggs and 3-ozs. of castor sugar. 
After heating the milk, mix a dessertspoonful of 
ground rice with a little cold milk and put it in 
the saucepan. Pour in the beaten yolks and 
cream, and the sugar ; stir and simmer until the 
custard thickens, strain and set aside to cool ; 
add vanilla to taste, and stir well ; place in a 
freezing machine, and work steadily until it is 
frozen. To make this ice taste richer and 
more delicate, reduce the milk and increase the 

cream. 

[143] 

Lemon Cheese-cakes. 

PUT in a saucepan, J^-lb. butter, i-lb. lump 
sugar, 6 eggs (leaving out 2 whites) 2 
grated lemon rinds, and the juice of 3 lemons. 
Simmer until all is dissolved (gently stirring), 
and add a few dry biscuit crumbs. Serve on 
crisp pastry. 

[ no] 



PUDDINGS AND DESSERTS 

[144] 

Lemon Jelly. 

DISSOLVE i-oz. of isinglass in ij^^-pts. of 
water. Add the grated peel of 2 lemons 
and J^-lb. of lump sugar. Boil for 10 minutes, 
stirring continually. Take off fire and add the 
juice of I J^ lemons. Strain and cool. Whisk 
well before turning into moulds. 

[145] 

e Fritters. 



MIX J^-lb. of flour with ^-teaspoonful 
of salt and a well-beaten egg, and then 
mix in ^-pt. of milk, using half at a time, and 
beat the batter until it bubbles. Cut a preserved 
pineapple into thin slices and halve or quarter 
them, lay them in the batter, but on no account 
add any juice. Have a pan of boiling nucoline 
ready and lay the pineapple in and fry a nice 
light brown (the nucoline must cover it), drain 
off on soft paper and sprinkle castor sugar 
over it. Serve with pineapple sauce. 



( I" 1 



XV 

SUMMER AND WINTER DRINKS 

THE following recipes and suggestions, 
concerning a few beverages which can be 
used as substitutes for stimulating drinks, may 
prove useful to many readers : 

[146] 
Fruit Drinks. 

BOTTLED fruit juices and unfermented 
fruit wines can easily be made or pur- 
chased. A tablespoonful or two of the former 
added to a tumbler of water, makes a refreshing 
beverage. 

[147] 

Wheatenade. 

SIMMER i^-lb. of crushed wheat in i-qt. 
of water for about an hour, stirring it oc- 
casionally. Strain, add lemon juice and sugar 
to taste, for use in summer, or milk and sugar 
if the drink is taken hot in winter. Good 
clean bran can be substituted for crushed wheat 

i 112 ] 



SUMMER AND WINTER DRINKS 

This is a capital drink for children with a 
tendency to rickets, or for persons suffering 
from nervous prostration caused by malnutri- 
tion. 

[148] 

Oatenade. 

SIMMER Ji^-lb. of coarse oatmeal, flavor 
to taste in the same manner as described in 
the previous recipe. This drink will be slightly 
richer in fat than the previous one, and it makes 
a good winter drink. 

[149] 
Gingerade. 

TAKE I -dr. essence cayenne, 4-drs. essence 
of ginger, a-drs. essence of lemon, i-dr. 
burnt sugar, ^-oz. of tartaric acid. Add 3 -lbs. 
lump sugar and 5-qts. boiling water. Bottle 
ready for use. This beverage is a favorite one 
at all seasons. Dilute to taste. 

[150] 
Lime Fruit Drink. 

LIME juice, if pure, makes a cooling and 
wholesome drink. Some of the liquid 
sold as lime juice is only a chemical concoction. 

[ 113] 



SUMMER AND WINTER DRINKS 

The weaker the solution the better it tastes. 
A dessertspoonful to the tumbler is generally- 
enough. 

[151] 

A Substitute for Coffee. 

THOSE who are desirous of finding a sub- 
stitute for tea and coffee should try " Cara- 
mel Cereal " (The International Health Asso- 
ciation, Ltd.). It tastes very much like coffee, 
but it is free from certain elements which are 
harmful to many constitutions. 

[152I 

Apple Tea. 

CUT up two large apples and boil them in 
a pint of water until cooked. Pass through 
a strainer and sugar to taste. 

[153I 

Rice Water. 

BOIL some rice in water and add lemon 
juice and sugar to taste. The beverage 
should not be made too thick. 



[ 114] 



SUMMER AND WINTER DRINKS 

[154] 

Barley Water. 

STEW sufficient pearl barley in water to 
make a fairly rich beverage. Add lemon 
and sugar to taste and serve when cold, or flavor 
with milk and sugar and serve hot. This drink 
is both cooling and nutritious, and if not made 
too thick is equally suitable for the harvest 
field or the tennis lawn. 



[ IIS] 



XVI 

WHAT TO DO AT CHRISTMAS. 

THE Christmas festival — which has de- 
generated into such a deplorable orgy 
of massacre in many countries which are called 
" Christian " — can be observed and enjoyed 
equally well without such frightful preliminary 
ceremonies as the butchery of millions of sen- 
tient creatures. 

Why should we sing and talk of " Peace 
on Earth " when we are participating in re- 
morseless warfare against the animal creation? 
The arms of our licensed slaughterers grow 
weary with wielding the poleaxe and the knife 
upon trembling and terror-stricken victims, 
whose claim for compassion is totally ignored 
by those who are clamorous in demanding mer- 
cy for themselves from the "Higher Powers" 
above them ! 

Is not this a literal case of crying " Peace ! 
Peace ! " when there is no peace ! Is not this 
wholesale slaughter altogether discordant with 

[ ii6] 



WHAT TO DO AT CHRISTMAS 

the spirit and gospel of the gentle and harm- 
less Teacher of Nazareth, whose terrestrial 
birth is thus celebrated by pagan barbarity? 
Should not those of us who dare to call our- 
selves His followers protest against a custom 
which brings discredit upon His religion and 
causes humanely disposed Oriental nations to 
regard it almost with contempt, by refraining 
from participation in this practice of shedding 
innocent blood in order to provide a needless 
type of food for the Christmas banquet ? 

The following suggestive menu will at once 
show my readers that Christmas can be cele- 
brated with a feast of good things without such 
butchery, and that its joys can even be en- 
hanced by the sense of freedom from blood- 
guiltiness and from personal responsibility con- 
cerning the deeds done in the shambles. The 
menu can be varied as taste and circumstances 
may dictate, and I feel sure that if this sugges- 
tion is once followed in Christian homes the 
old custom will never be revived in them. 



[ "7] 



WHAT TO DO AT CHRISTMAS 

A Bloodless Menu for Christmas. 

From which a selection can be made. 



Tomato Soup. Artichoke Soup. 

Fried Bread Dice. 

Mock White Fish. 

Parsley Sauce, 

Jugged Nuttose. Macaroni Rissoles. 

Red Currant Jelly* Sauce Piquante. 

Potatoes, Saute. Cauliflowers. 
Plum Pudding. Stewed Pears. Mince Pies. 

Whipped Cream, 

Butter. Toast Biscuits. Cheese. 

Rolled and Garnished, Lettuce Salad, Port du Salut. 

Fresh Fruits. Almonds and Muscatels. Figs. 

Chocolates. 



The cost of such a dinner as this will be 
much less than that of a corresponding one 
which includes poultry, game, and joints of 
flesh. The amount saved could be appropri- 
ately expended in providing a few comforts for 
the poor and needy, and thus the Christmas 
festival can be made the means of lessening the 
amount of suffering in the world and of in- 
creasing the sum-total of happiness, 

[ ii8 ] 



XVII 

USEFUL INFORMATION 

A CLOVE of garlic will give a very deli- 
cate and tasty flavor to many soups and 
dishes if used wisely. For soups, it is only 
necessary to rub the tureen with the cut clove 
before the soup is poured in. For savory 
dishes and stews, one small clove may be 
boiled (after being peeled) in the stewpan for 
five minutes. 

IN order to be able to remove the skins from 
tomatoes easily, they should first be placed 
in boiling water for about two minutes. 

IT is generally safest to buy French plums in 
bottles, as the quality is superior to those 
packed in boxes. They cost a little more, but 
one can depend upon having an enjoyable dish 
when the trouble has been taken to prepare 
them. The common prunes are sometimes 
tough and objectionable, and it is better to 
stint the quantity rather than the quality. 

[ 119] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

THE best type of figs to buy are those 
known as " pulled " figs ; they are well 
worth the extra price which they command. 
It is false economy to buy " cheap " figs. 

THE more crumbly a cheese is, the more 
easily digestible it will be found to be. 
It is a good plan to test the cheese in the fol- 
lowing manner : — First buy a small piece, and 
melt a portion with milk in a double saucepan; 
if it has a granulated appearance it is wise to 
buy some more of the same cheese ; if, on the 
contrary, it is tough and stringy, it should be 
avoided, as it will be found lacking in nutri- 
ment and will be very liable to cause digestive 
trouble or nightmare. One of the best fancy 
cheeses made is a French one stamped " Port 
du Saluty* which weighs about five pounds. 
This should be bought only when quite fresh. 
It then has a smooth rind, is free from holes 
inside, and smells perfectly sweet. A Cameftt" 
bert cheese made by Dutacq is also a lux- 
ury. In addition to the variety of imported 
cheeses to be had at " delicatessen " shops, 
American cheeses are now meeting with much 
favor. 

[ I20 ] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

IN households where an ice machine is not 
kept, ices can be made in the following 
simple manner : — The strawberry or vanilla ice 
can be placed in a receptacle made of thin glass, 
tin, or aluminum. This should be stood in a 
wooden pail, and round it should be packed 
layers of broken ice, between each of which has 
been placed a considerable sprinkling of broken 
rock-salt. If the ice receptacle is turned round, 
freezing will result in about ten minutes. 

PARSLEY which has been used for gar- 
nishing, or which is in danger of going to 
seed, can be preserved a bright green for sea- 
soning purposes by placing it in the oven on a 
sheet of paper and drying it slowly in such a 
manner that it does not burn ; it should then 
be rubbed through a sieve and put into a 
bottle. 

BUTTER can be made to look dainty and 
appetizing by being prepared for the ta- 
ble as follows : — Pour some boiling water over 
the butter pats, then place them in cold water 
till quite cold. Roll small pieces of butter in 
short lengths and twist round to form the 

[ 121 ] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

shape of a leaf, placing about twelve around the 
dish. Now beat a good-sized-piece until quite 
thin and roll round to form the petals of a 
flower. Place this in the centre and garnish 
with parsley. It may also be rolled into 
marbles. 

PARSLEY can be made a brilliant green in 
color by placing it in a cloth (after chop- 
ping) and dipping it in cold water, wringing it 
tightly in the hands and squeezing it with the 
fingers. For garnishing savory puddings or 
fried potatoes, etc., this is worth knowing. 

FRESHLY gathered watercress is a whole- 
some and appetizing addition to one's 
bread and butter in the early summer. Its 
action on the blood is beneficial. 

A GOOD coloring for sauces, soups, etc., 
can be made as follows : — Melt a quar- 
ter of a pound of granulated sugar in a pan ; 
cook until it is a very dark, rich brown, almost 
black ; stir constantly. Great care must be 
taken that it does not burn. When done, add 
carefully a quart of boiling water and let it cook 

[ 122 ] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

until the caramel is entirely dissolved ; pour it 
out, and when cold, strain and bottle. It will 
keep indefinitely, and a tablespoonfiil will give 
color to a pint of liquid. 

INSTEAD of chopping onions, a coarse nut- 
meg grater should be kept for the purpose, 
and the onion should be grated like lemon rind. 
This saves much time and labor and answers 
better for flavoring soups, gravies, or savories 
of any kind. 

FRESHLY cut vegetables are much more 
digestible and wholesome than those which 
have been lying about in crates or shop win- 
dows. They also cook much more quickly. 
The water in which vegetables have been boiled 
should be saved for stock for soups and gravies 
(except in the case of potatoes). 

TO prevent hard-boiled eggs from becom- 
ing discolored they should be plunged 
into cold water as soon as they are removed 
from the saucepan. 



[ 123 ] 



USEFUL INFORMATION 

[1551 

Dinner Rolls. 

DELICIOUS dinner rolls can be made as 
follows: — Take i J^-lbs. of white flour, 
J^-lb. of wholemeal, 3-ozs. of butter and i-oz. 
of yeast. Mix the yeast with a dessertspoonful 
of treacle in ^-pt. of milk and water, rub the 
butter into the flour, and put in the yeast to 
rise. Knead, form into small rolls, raise for 
half-an-hour, bake in a quick oven. 

[156] 

How to Make Brown Bread. 

TAKE 2-lbs. of good wheatmeal and 5-lbs. 
of household flour, 2-ozs. of fresh yeast, 
35^-pts. of hot water, and 2-ozs. of nucoline. 
First mix the yeast with a little golden syrup 
and add it to the water, flake the nucoline and 
mix it with the flour, pour in the water, stir 
with a wooden spoon, and then knead for 5 
minutes. Make it into small cakes, or put 
into tins and let it rise for about 30 minutes in 
a warm temperature, after which put into a hot 
oven (reducing to moderate). Brown bread 
must be light and well baked, or it will cause 
dyspepsia. The addition of buttermilk (in- 
stead of water) makes the bread taste delicious. 

[ 124 ] 



XVIII 

HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

■ 

THE water in which green vegetables, 
beans, etc., have been cooked should be 
used for making soups and gravies, as it con- 
tains much of the valuable saline matter which 
is needful to the maintenance of health. To 
conserve these salts in the vegetables, as much 
as possible, should be the aim of the scientific 
cook, but where this is impossible, every effort 
should be made to utilize the solution which 
has been formed by the boiling process. 

Artichokes should be boiled until tender 
only. If over-boiled they become dark-col- 
ored and flavorless. They should be eaten 
on the day that they are cooked. 

Asparagus should be cut into equal lengths 
and tied into bundles. These should be stood 
on end in a deep stewpan, leaving the tops 
about an inch above the water. When the 
stalks are tender the tops will be cooked also. 

[ 125 ] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

This plan prevents the tops from falling off 
through being over-cooked. (See recipe 49.) 

Beetroot may be steamed or boiled, but 
care should be taken to avoid breaking the 
skin, as the juice escapes. It takes about a 
hours unless the roots are very large. When 
cooked it should be sliced and dressed with 
vinegar, oil and pepper to taste— or it may be 
fried (recipe 70). 

Cabbage should be boiled until tender 
only ; if over-cooked it is pulpy and flavorless. 
Boiling too fast causes the unpleasant odor to 
be given ofi^ which is sometimes noticeable in a 
house when this vegetable is being cooked. 
The lid of the saucepan should not be used. 

Cauliflower must not be boiled until its 
crispness is lost. It must be just tender 
enough to eat. If not served " au gratin," it 
should be dressed with " white sauce " or "to- 
mato sauce." (See recipes 48 and 55.) 

Carrots should be steamed, not boiled. 
The skins should then be wiped off and they 
should be served with a brown gravy. They 

[ 126] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

are also nice if scraped, sliced and stewed in 
haricot tea (recipe i). The smaller the carrots 
the more delicate will the flavor be. 

Celery is best cooked by stewing it in sufli- 
cient water or milk to cover it, after cutting it 
into pieces about an inch in length. It should 
be served with white sauce. 

Kidney Beans need to be carefully trimmed 
so that all stringy parts are cut away. They 
should be boiled until tender, and no longer, 
and served with thin white sauce. It is a 
mistake to use these beans when they are 
old. The smaller and greener they are, the 
better. 

Vegetable Marrow should be steamed or 
boiled in its jacket. The flavor is lost if this 
is removed before cooking. 

Mushrooms are most savory when fried 
very slowly in a small quantity of butter. 
They should be stirred during the process, and 
the heat employed must be very moderate in- 
deed or they will be made tough. 

[ 127 ] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

Potatoes should be cooked in their jackets. 
To boil them properly, the water in the sauce- 
pan should be thrown away when they have 
been boiled for 5 minutes and cold water should 
be substituted. This plan equalizes the cook- 
ing of the interior and exterior of the potatoes. 
When cooked they should be drained dry, a 
clean cloth should be placed over the pan and 
they should stand on the hot plate to dry. 
They should be lifted out separately, and 
should be unbroken and floury. Sodden and 
heavy potatoes are very objectionable and ought 
to be regarded as evidence of incompetency on 
the part of the cook. Potatoes baked in their 
jackets are considered by many to be preferable, 
and, as it is almost impossible to spoil them if 
this plan is adopted, it should be employed 
when the cook is inexperienced. 

If fried potatoes are required for breakfast, it 
is best to remove some from the stewpan when 
half cooked on the previous day. These 
should be cut up in a frying pan in which a fair 
amount of butter has been melted, and the 
knife should be used while they cook. In a 
few minutes the potatoes should be well packed 
together, so that the underside will brown ; an 

[ 128] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

inverted plate should then be pressed on them 
and the pan should be turned upside down 
while the plate is held in position with one 
hand. A neat and savory-looking dish will 
thus be made, but over-cooking must be 
avoided previous to the browning process. 

To make a change, potatoes should be 
mashed occasionally with a little milk and but- 
ter. They should then be packed into a neat 
shape and garnished with chopped parsley. 

The most savory way of cooking these roots 
is to use the frying basket and dip them in 
boiling fat (at 380 degrees). They should 
either be cut into thin fingers previously, or 
else be half boiled and broken into pieces. 
This latter plan is perhaps best of all, and they 
are then termed " potatoes saute." They are 
sprinkled with chopped parsley before being 
served. 

Peas should be placed in a covered jar with 
a little butter, and should be steamed until ten- 
der. No water is required in the jar. The 
pods, if clean and fresh, should be slowly 
steamed, rubbed through a colander, and added 
to any soup or other suitable dish in prepara- 

[ 129 ] 



HOW TO COOK VEGETABLES 

tion. Another method is to boil the peas with 
mint, salt, sugar and a pinch of soda added to 
the water. Small young peas should always be 
chosen in preference to those which are old and 
large. 

Spinach should be cooked according to the 
directions given in recipes 66, 67, or 85. 



[ 130 ] 



XIX 

LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES 

DOMESTIC work in the kitchen may be 
much simplified and lightened if proper 
utensils are employed, and those who are able 
to do so should obtain the following appliances, 
in addition to those which are generally used : — 

The " Ida" Nut-Mill, which is used for 
making bread-crumbs from crusts or stale bread, 
for flaking nuts and almonds, etc., so as to 
make them more easy of digestion, and for 
flaking nucoline, to make it mix more conven- 
iently with dough when employed for making 
pastry. This nut-mill may be obtained from 
most high-class hardware merchants in Great 
Britain and America. 

The Frying-Basket is necessary for let- 
ting down rissoles, croquettes, cutlets, fritters, 
potato chips, etc., into the stewpan which is 
kept for firying purposes. The stewpan should 

[ 131 ] 



LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES 

be four or five inches deep, so as to avoid the 
possibility of the nucoline or vegetable fat bub- 
bling over and catching fire upon the stove. 
Aluminum is the best metal, but if this cannot 
be obtained, the pan should be made of enam- 
elled iron, as it is fairly thin and lets the heat 
act on the fat quickly. 

The Raisin Stoner enables one to stone a 
large quantity of fruit in a very short time. 
Most hardware stores keep them. 

The Sausage Machine is useful for mix- 
ing and making up rissoles, vegetable sausages, 
etc. One of the latest types should be procured, 
as they have been much improved lately. 

The Potato Masher is necessary for flak- 
ing potatoes, and preparing haricot beans, peas, 
etc., for admixture in rissoles or croquettes. By 
this means the skins can be easily removed af- 
ter they have been cooked. 

The Wire Sieve (about -^nds inch mesh) 
is useful for preparing spinach, and in many 
others ways which will suggest themselves to 
every cook. 

[ 132 ] 



LABOR-SAVING APPLIANCES 

The Duplex Boilerette is for scalding 
milk by means of a steam jacket. It prevents 
burning and boiling over. 

The Chopping-Basin is a wooden bowl 
with a circular chopper which fits it. This pre- 
vents the pieces from jumping off and lessens 
the time occupied. It is also less noisy and 
can be used while sitting down. 



[ 133 1 



XX 

MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC 

QUALITIES 

IT is important that all who adopt a reformed 
diet should know something about the di- 
etetic and medicinal value of the articles they 
consume, and the following information may 
prove helpful : — 

Bananas contain a considerable amount of 
phosphorus, and are consequently specially 
suitable for mental workers. They are easily 
digestible and very nutritious, being almost a 
perfect food in themselves. 

Apples purify the blood, feed the brain, and 
also eliminate urates and earthy salts from the 
system. As they contain a small amount of 
starch, and a good proportion of grape sugar 
combined with certain valuable acids, they con- 
stitute a most desirable and hygienic food for 
all seasons. They should be eaten in a ripe 
state. People who cannot digest apples in the 

[ 134] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

ordinary way should scrape them and thus eat 
them in pulp rather than in pieces. 

French Plums are judicious food for per- 
sons of nervous temperament and for those 
whose habits are sedentary ; they prevent con- 
stipation, and are nutritious. They should be 
eaten with cream or Plasmon snow-cream. 

Strawberries contain phosphorus and iron, 
and are especially desirable for mental workers 
and ansemic invalids. 

Tomatoes are good for everyone, but es- 
pecially for those who suffer from sluggish liver. 
The popular fallacy that they are liable to cause 
cancer, which was circulated by thoughtless 
persons some few years since, has been pro- 
nounced, by the highest medical authorities, to 
be unsupported by any evidence whatever, and 
to be both improbable and absurd. In the 
Island of Mauritius this fruit is eaten at almost 
every meal, and Bishop Royston has stated 
that during his episcopate of eighteen years he 
only heard of one case of the disease. 

Lrettuce is soothing to the system and puri- 
fying to the blood. It should be well dressed 

[ 135 ] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

With pure olive oil and wine vinegar (3 spoon- 
fuls of oil to I of vinegar, well mixed together). 
A lettuce salad eaten with bread and cheese 
makes a nutritious meal. The thin and tender- 
leaved variety should always be chosen. 

Figs contain a deal of grape sugar which can 
be rapidly assimilated, and are very nourishing 
and easily digestible; when they can be ob- 
tained in their green state they are specially de- 
sirable. They may be considered one of the 
most valuable of all fruits. 

Dates are very similar to figs, and are both 
sustaining and warming; they are easily di- 
gested if the skins are thin. 

Gooseberries, Raspberries, Currants, 
and Grapes are cooling and purifying food 
for hot weather. Unripe gooseberries will 
however, often upset the liver, and this type of 
fruit should not be eaten unless ripe and sweet. 

Walnuts, Hazel and Brazil Nuts contain 
a considerable amount of oil, and are conse- 
quently useful for warming the body and feed- 
ing and strengthening the nerves. Vegetable 

[ 136 ] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

fat in this form is more easily emulsified and 
assimilated than free animal fats, as in butter, 
etc. Nuts are also rich in proteid matter. 
Where people find that they cannot masti- 
cate nuts, owing to impairment of teeth, the 
difHculty may be removed by passing the nuts 
through an " Ida " nut-mill. When thus flaked 
and spread between thin slices of bread and 
butter, with honey, they make delicious sand- 
wiches for lunch. A pinch of curry powder 
(instead of the honey) makes them taste savory. 

Chestnuts contain a larger proportion of 
starch, but are digested without difHculty when 
boiled. 

Cheese is very rich in protein — far more so 
than lean beef. If well chosen, it is a most 
valuable article of diet, and feeds brain, nerves, 
and muscles ; but as it is a concentrated food 
it should not be taken in excessive quantity. 

Protose and Nuttose are reckoned to be 
equivalent to lean beef — minus water, uric acid, 
and disease germs. As they contain nutritive 
substance in a condensed state, they should be 
eaten sparingly, but they constitute the most 

[ 137 ] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

valuable substitutes for animal food yet placed 
upon the market. The International Health 
Association, which first invented such products^ 
has an able advisory medical staff, and therefore 
these may be regarded as two of the latest 
modern results of chemical research. 

White Haricots are highly nitrogenous 
and should be eaten in strict moderation. They 
make splendid stock for soups and broths. The 
beans themselves are more suitable for physical 
workers. Brown haricots contain a considerable 
amount of iron. 

Lrentils are almost identical in composition, 
but are more easily digested by those who do 
not have much physical toil. 

Peas are slightly less nitrogenous than lentils 
and haricots, but otherwise very similar ; they 
are best when eaten in a green form, and when 
young and tender. When the skins are hard 
the peas should always be passed through a 
potato masher, as the skins are very indigestible, 
and may produce an acute attack of colic. 

Macaroni has a high dietetic value as a 
flesh-forming food; it contains starch and a 

[ 138] 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

large amount of the gluten of wheat. Being a 
rich food, it should be taken sparingly. Toma- 
to sauce is the best accompaniment to it (with 
Parmesan or grated and melted cheese). 



consists almost entirely of starch in an 
easily digestible form, and is a valuable and 
simple food. It is best when cooked with cheese 
or eggs, as this addition makes it a more com- 
plete food (see recipes 46 and 47). It is also 
a valuable medium by which large quantities of 
fat may be taken — plainly boiled rice and but- 
ter or oil. 

Potatoes consist principally of starch and 
water, with a certain amount of potash. They 
should be eaten generally, as a separate dish, 
with butter and salt. Some tomato or other 
chutney makes a tasty dressing. 

Brown Bread contains, in addition to its 
starch, much more albumen than white bread, 
and a larger supply of mineral salts, such as 
phosphates, etc. It is, therefore, when light 
and well cooked, of much higher dietetic value 
for young persons, both for flesh-forming and 
bone-building purposes. Physical workers 

[ 139 1 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

should use it as a staple article of food, and 
mental workers will also find it useful, but el- 
derly persons do not require it to the same ex- 
tent except for laxative effects. The coarser 
the brown flour, the more laxative is the in- 
fluence of the bread. This is a point worth 
noting. 

Eggs are nutritive chiefly on account of the 
albumen which they contain, but, on the whole, 
their value is not great, and they are often liable 
to cause digestive troubles. As they contain 
uric acid they must not be taken too freely. 
Probably the best way to take them is in the 
form of custard pudding. Bilious persons 
should avoid boiled or poached eggs. 

Milk is a valuable food, containing nearly 
all the elements necessary for repairing bodily 
waste. It should always be scalded for half-an- 
hour in a double saucepan — to destroy tuber- 
cular and other germs. Portable and concen- 
trated forms of milk are now procurable in the 
forms of " Plasmon " and " Protene," chiefly 
in England, while high-grade condensed milks 
are largely used in America. 

[ 140 1 



MEDICINAL AND DIETETIC QUALITIES 

Celery is a useful blood purifier, and is 
valuable in all cases of tendency to rheuma- 
tism. 

Spinach contains a considerable quantity of 
iron in a readily assimilable form, and is, there- 
fore, good for anaemic persons. 

Tapioca, Sago and Semolina consist of 
starch and albumen, and are useful farinaceous 
substances which enable us to obtain variety in 
our diet. 



[ 141 ] 



XXI 

THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION 

OF FOOD 

OUR food must contain certain elements, 
and in the proper quantities, if the body 
is to be well sustained and nourished ; these are 
mainly as follows : i . Nitrogenous or proteid 
matter — such as albumen, fibrin or gluten (ani- 
mal or vegetable). This type of food forms 
flesh, builds muscle, and produces strength. 

2. Carbo-hydrate or starch matter (or its equiv- 
alent, sugar). This supplies heat and energy. 

3. Fatty matter (hydro-carbon). This sus- 
tains and nourishes the nervous system and also 
provides heat. 4. Salts and minerals (such as 
phosphates, iron, etc.). 5. Water. 

No hard-and-fast table or rule can be laid 
down concerning the proper proportions in 
which these elements should be combined, be- 
cause the amount needful for individuals varies 
according to their size, the sort of work they do, 

[ 142 1 



THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOOD 

the amount of physical or mental energy they 
put forth, and the temperature of the atmosphere 
surrounding them. A calculation based upon 
Professor Huxley's tables shows that a person 
of average size who does a moderate amount of 
physical labor requires about 4-ozs. of protein, 
8-ozs. starch or sugar, 2-ozs. fat, yi^oz. of salts, 
and 4-lbs. of water per diem. 

The following indications of dietetic error 
may prove useful. Excess of proteid matter 
causes a general sense of plethora and unbear- 
ableness, nervous prostration or drowsiness 
after meals, a tendency to constipation (often 
resulting in piles, etc.), headache, periodic ex- 
citability, sensuality, irritability and bad tem- 
per ; a continuous deficiency of it would tend 
to produce general weakness and leanness. 
Excess of starch matter produces dyspepsia, 
flatulence, pain in the chest and abdomen, acid- 
ity (resulting in pimples and boils), enlarged 
glands, and an inflammatory state of the sys- 
tem ; deficiency of it (or its equivalent, grape 
sugar) would produce lack of force, and ner- 
vous and physical exhaustion. Excess of fatty 
matter causes biliousness; deficiency of it 

[ 143 1 



THE CHEMICAL COMPOSITION OF FOOD 

causes nervous weakness, neuralgia, and men- 
tal exhaustion. 

Brazil nuts, walnuts and sepucia nuts are 
rich in proteid and fatty matter, and contain 
such in absolute purity, with a small amount of 
starch. The chestnut contains more of this 
latter, and is chemically a most valuable food. 
Dried fruits contain a large amount of glucose 
or grape sugar, for the immediate supply of 
force and energy, and also certain fruit-acids 
which, in combination with the perfectly pure 
water which constitutes the juice, tend to dis- 
solve out impurities and earthy deposits from 
the system. Legumes, such as peas, beans, 
lentils, etc., and cheese or plasmon, are richer 
in albuminous or proteid matter than lean 
meat. 

The following table will enable most persons 
to understand, in the main, the composition of 
some of the principal foods, and each must as- 
certain individually, by experience, the requisite 
amount for him — or herself. 



[ 144 ] 



TABLE OF FOOD VALUES. 

Compiled from such authorities as Church, Payer, Lethe- 
by, Bljrth, Pavy, Holbrook, Oldfield, Kress, etc. 

PHR CBNTACB OF 



Lean Beef 

Fat Pork 

Peanuts 

Haricots (White) 

Lentils^ 

Peas (Dried) 

Do. (Green) 

Macaroni 

Cheese (Cheddar) . . . 

Oatmeal 

Wheatmeal (Entire). . 
Do. (Flour only) 

Chestnuts 

Walnuts 

Filberts 

Brazil Nuts 

Cocoanut 

Pine Kernels 

Almonds 

Raisins 

Figs (Dried) 

French Plums (Dried) 

Dates 

Rice 

Potatoes 

Eggs 

Milk (Cow's) 

Cream (Devonshire) . 

White of Egg 

Yolk of Egg 

White Fish (Sole) . . . 

Mushrooms 

Bananas 

Apples 

Grapes. 

Strawberries 







Water. 


Protein. 


72.0 


193 


390 


98 


6.5 


28.3 


9.9 


25-5 


12.3 


259 


8.3 


23.8 


81.8 


3-4 


10.8 


11.7 


36.0 


28.4 


10.4 


15.6 


II.7 


11.4 


12. 1 1 


II. 2 


7.3 


14.6 


44-5 


15-8 


48.0 


18.4 


6.0 


16.4 


46.6 


5.5 


5.0 


9.2 


6.2 


23-5 


14.0 


2.5 


17.5 


6.1 


26.4 


2.4 


20.8 


6.6 


12.4 


7.8 


75.0 


2.2 


74.0 


14.0 


89.1 


41 


28.6 


4.0 


78.0 


20.4 


52.0 


16.0 


86.1 


11.9 


90-3 


4-3 


74.1 


1.2 


82.0 


.5 


78.8 


1-3 


90.9 


I.O 



Fat. 



3.6 

48.9 
46.2 

2.8 

1-9 
2.1 

.4 
1.6 

31.1 
6. 1 1 

2.2 

1.2 

2.4 

57.4 
28.5 

67.7 
36.0 

71.5 

53.0 

4-7 

.9 
.8 

.2 

.4 
.2 

10.5 

3.9 
65.0 

307 
.2 

.3 
.8 

.5 

1.7 

.7 



Starch 

Matter, or 

Si^ar. 


Mineral 
Matter. 


— 


5.1 


— 


2.3 


1.8 


3-3 


55.7 


3.2 


53.0 


30 


58.7 


2.1 


13.7 


.7 


72.9 


30 


— 


4.5 


63.6 


3.0 


71.7 


3.0 


73.6 


.8 


69.0 


3-3 


130 


2.0 


II. I 


1.5 


6.6 


3-3 


8.1 


1.0 


14.0 


.3 


7.8 


30 


74.7 


4.1 


65.9 


2.3 


68.9 


1.5 


65.3 


1.6 


79.0 


.4 


21.0 


1.0 




1.5 


5.2 


.8 




.4 


— 


1.6 


— 


1-3 


— 


1.2 


3.7 


1.4 


22.9 


1.0 


16.6 


.4 


17.7 


.5 


6.8 


.6 



Total 
Nutri- 
ment 

28.0 
61.0 

79.6 
87.2 
83.0 
86.7 
18.2 
89.2 
64.0 
89.1 
88.3 

86.8 

89.3 
88.2 

59.5 
94.0 

50.5 

950 

87-3 
86.0 

75-2 
73.6 

73-7 
87.6 

24.4 

26.0 

14.0 

69.4 
22.0 
48.0 

13-3 

9.7 
25.9 
18.0 
21.2 

91 



In the above Table, the amount of Starch accredited to the various sweet 
fruits must be understood to be contained in a pre^digested form as grape sugar. 



[ 145] 



XXII 

HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

IT is important to remember that the more 
physical energy we put forth, the larger is 
the amount of nitrogenous and starch matter 
we require in our diet — and vice versa. Brain 
workers of sedentary habits require but a mod- 
erate amount of either, and quickly suffer from 
indigestion if food is taken in excessive quan- 
tity. For such, a diet of dried and fresh fruits, 
nuts (malted or in natural condition), milk, 
cheese, brown bread and butter, rice, macaroni 
and vegetables is found to be the most hygienic. 
Nitrogenous food is principally supplied by 
pulses — such as peas, haricots and lentils, or 
by animal products such as cheese and eggs. 
Starch food is obtained chiefly in the form of 
cereals, potatoes and rice, and to a moderate 
extent in various nuts. 

VEGETABLE oils and fats produce heat 
and build up the nerves. We require a 
much larger amount of food containing fat in 

[ 146] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

cold weather and in cold climates than in warm 
weather and in warm climates. By producing 
fruits in profusion in the summer-time Nature 
provides for our obedience to our instinctive 
taste — which is to prefer such simple and cool- 
ing diet when the temperature is high. But in 
winter-time nuts should be eaten every day in 
some form — either raw or cooked. 

OLD age is accompanied by the accumula- 
tion in the body of certain earthy salts 
which tend to produce ossification. The de- 
posit of these in the walls of the arteries im- 
pedes the circulation, and produces senility and 
decrepitude. Flesh-food accelerates this proc- 
ess, but the juices of fruits, and distilled or 
soft water, dissolve out these deposits, and the 
older one becomes the more freely should one 
partake of fruit and water. 

A distilling apparatus might be kept in every 
house. Several kinds are now upon the market. 
If a still cannot be obtained, filtered rain water 
is the best water to drink. The more juicy 
fruit we consume, however, the less drink of 
any kind we require, and the water contained 
in fruit is Nature's purest and best production. 

[ 147] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

Frequent bathing and the occasional use of 
the vapor bath also help to eliminate these 
earthy deposits, and those whose skins are 
never made to perspire by wholesome exercise 
in the open air must cause this healthful opera- 
tion to take place by other means— or pay the 
penalty which Nature exacts. 

CHILDREN who are building up bone 
and tissue require to be supplied with 
brown wheatmeal bread, or with wheatmeal 
biscuits, in order to obtain the phosphates, etc., 
which are found under the husk of the wheat. 
If they are fed upon white bread only, in com- 
bination with the usual artificial diet of modern 
civilization, they will be in danger of suffering 
from rickets or malnutrition. But when the 
adult stage is reached, cereals may be more 
sparingly used by those who have little physical 
exercise. When brown meal is mixed with the 
white it will help the digestive organs to assim- 
ilate the bread with less discomfort, and at the 
same time it supplies the phosphates which are 
essential for nourishing the brain. 

OATMEAL is a starch food which sup- 
plies heat and energy to the system ; 

[ 148 1 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

when eaten in the form of porridge it is often 
likely to cause digestive trouble unless the 
starch is partly transformed by being cooked 
for several hours. All starch foods when eaten 
in a " sloppy " state, and in excessive quantity, 
are apt to cause dyspepsia, for the tendency of 
the consumer is to avoid mastication ; conse- 
sequently the ptyalin in the saliva, which should 
transform some of the starch partially into 
sugar, fails to become properly mixed with it, 
with the result that the starch enters the stomach 
quite unchanged. Very little provision, if any, 
is made for its digestion there, and while wait- 
ing to be passed on to the intestine where the 
process of transformation into glucose can be 
completed, previous to assimilation, it is apt to 
become fermented and to cause indigestion and 
acidity. When the process is complete and 
much vital energy has been expended in this 
transformation, the result is that we have only 
manufactured a substance which we could have 
obtained ready made by Nature — for figs, rais- 
ins, dates, bananas and other sweet fruits con- 
sist chiefly of grape sugar. Dry biscuits or 
toast should be eaten with porridge to promote 
better mastication ; it should be taken in very 

[ 149 ] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

moderate quantity, and it is more valuable in 
the winter than in the summer, on account of 
the fat which it contains. 

A WORD of warning should perhaps be 
given concerning the excessive use of 
starch, and I feel justified in emphasizing the 
point because I am convinced that multitudes 
suffer from dyspepsia and ill-health simply 
through eating cereal food immoderately. This 
will often be found to be the rock upon which 
those who have made a thoughtless and unsuc- 
cessful trial of " vegetarianism " have made 
shipwreck. If dyspeptics test the truth of this 
statement for themselves they will be grateful 
for the information thus given. Let such re- 
duce their consumption of the various starch 
foods, potatoes, etc., by about one half of the 
usual amount, and let them take the remainder 
in a well-cooked form. When the starch has 
been turned into " dextrin " by the baking proc- 
ess, as in the case of toast, or well-baked 
crisp biscuits, the first stage of digestion is ac- 
complished and the remaining one is thus facili- 
tated. The reduction of cereal consumption 
can be made up, if necessary, by eating more 

[ 150] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

sweet fruits, and the result of this experiment 
will convince those who try it that I am mak- 
ing known to them practical truth of a valuable 
sort. To all dyspeptics I recommend the 
habit of often making their breakfast of fruit 
and nuts, with brown toast or meal biscuits 
and butter. They will be surprised at the im- 
provement in their state. A cup of milk in 
which a teaspoonful of " Plasmon " has been 
dissolved and boiled will make such a meal 
complete. 

There was a time when man did not know 
how to make fire or to cook. He could not 
have used cereals to any great extent * in those 
days, for the starch cells require to be broken 
up by heat, and as the anthropoid apes do not 
live upon grain, we are fairly safe in inferring 
that it is not a strictly natural food for us. 
Sweet fruits (such as bananas and figs) are 
generally preferable, for they are assimilated 
almost without eflFort and do not need prelim- 
inary transformation. 

NUTS have the advantage of containing a 
large amount of oil, with a very moder- 
ate amount of starch ; it is wise, therefore, to 

[ 151 1 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

accustom one's self to eating them regularly, 
and if they are taken with fruit alone instead 
of after a heavy meal, those who have hitherto 
considered them to be indigestible will prob- 
ably be led to change their opinion. If 
** flaked " by being passed through a nut-mill 
they are more easily masticated. Nut prod- 
ucts, such as nuttose and protose, will be 
found to be easily digestible by most persons. 
Such foods, however, must be eaten in moder- 
ation, as they contain much proteid matter. 
They are very useful and are destined to be- 
come very popular in course of time. 

MENTAL workers and those living at 
high pressure cannot digest the same 
food as persons who enjoy the opportunity for 
much outdoor exercise or labor. To attempt 
it means dyspepsia, and, therefore, the amount 
of food consumed must be lessened, and par- 
tially digested foods, such as those above 
mentioned, prove both useful and advantafye- 
ous. 



I 



T is a mistake to mix various fresh fruits 
and vegetables by eating them together. 

[ 152 ] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

Fermentation is sometimes thus caused, as 
vegetables take a considerable time to digest 
Vegetables should be eaten with savory dishes 
and simple puddings. Add fruit should be 
reserved for other meals, as a general rule. 

ONE of the best cures for indigestion and 
biliousness, which is superior to all the 
pills and potions that were ever advertised, is 
" fasting "—simply that and nothing more. In 
ninety-nine cases out of a hundred, headache, 
dyspepsia, and torpid liver are caused by er- 
roneous or excessive diet. To abstain from 
eating and drinking entirely, until one is hun- 
gry enough keenly to enjoy a crust of dry 
bread, is a medical prescription which is price- 
less. Let every dyspeptic try this remedy, 
and, having proved its worth, let him tell some 
other sufferer of it. Constipation can nearly 
always be cured by adding stewed figs, French 
plums, salads, and the like, to one's menu, by 
eating brown instead of white bread, and by 
taking less nitrogenous food. 

The mind can exercise powerful hygienic in- 
fluence over the body, and mental force should 
be exerted to banish all fear, worry and care. 

[ 153 1 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

THE majority of persons live on about 
half of what they eat, and unduly tax 
their vital energy by compelling the system to 
get rid of the other half. The energy thus 
wasted might be used for mental or physical 
work. The most potent cause of dyspepsia 
is the foolish habit of sitting down to eat be- 
cause it happens to be meal-time, and then 
succumbing to the temptation to partake of 
dainty dishes when absence of hunger should 
be regarded as Nature's monitor, telling one 
that food is not required. Thousands of inva- 
lids are hurried into their graves by the per- 
suasions of well-meaning but misguided friends, 
who continually urge them to be eating or 
drinking " in order to keep up their strength," 
whereas on account of the fact that they are 
expending little or no energy they require only 
the smallest quantity of nourishment. The 
craving for stimulants is not only caused by 
insufficient nutrition, but also by eating to ex- 
cess. Exhausted nature, wearied by incessant 
efforts to overcome the continual process of 
" stoking '* to which so many misguided mor- 
tals subject themselves, exhibits signs of pros- 
tration ; the whip and spur of stimulating 

[ 154] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

drinks is then felt to be needful, and is often 
applied, lest the digestive machinery should 
become entirely choked. 

THE latest declarations of some of the 
principal English medical authorities on 
** cancer " are to the effect that there is good 
reason for believing that people become predis- 
posed to this disease by excessive eating, and 
especially by the excessive consumption of ani- 
mal food which is now so generally prevalent. 

THE milk as well as the flesh of cattle is 
very frequently infected with the germs 
of tuberculosis and other maladies. Ninety 
per cent, of Queen Victoria's dairy herd at 
Windsor were found to be tuberculous. Many 
cattle in this country are doubtless in a similar 
state, and, as the disease is highly contagious, 
the risk of eating consumptive corpses must be 
apparent to all intelligent persons. Cooking 
does not destroy the bacilli in the centre of a 
joint, as the flesh does not reach boiling point 
there at all. All milk should be scalded for at 
least half an hour before it is consumed, either 
by children or adults ; to neglect this precau- 

[ 155 1 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

tion is most uni^se, and may prove suicidal. 
A double saucepan is necessary for the process, 
and, when the milk has become cold, the cream 
can be skimmed off. 

IF the digestive process is unduly delayed by 
overloading the stomach or by drinking 
largely at meal-dmes so as to dilute the gastric 
juice, fermentation, flatulence and impaired 
health are likely to result. Raw sugar if taken 
very freely with starch foods is also apt to in- 
duce fermentation. 

AVERY safe rule to observe, and one 
which would save thousands from physi- 
cal discomfort and suffering, is this — only eat 
fruits which are palatable in their natural un- 
cooked state. No one would pick a sour ap- 
ple or gooseberry from the tree and eat it. It 
is unwise to stew it and then eat it. Wait un- 
til it has been ripened and cooked by the rays 
of the sun. This rule may safely be followed 
with all products of Nature. Before man in- 
vented the art of cooking, he could, in his nat- 
ural state, only have eaten such fruits of the 
earth as were palatable and appetizing when in 

I iS6] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

their raw state. Ultimately, when the race 
has acquired wisdom through experience, a 
general return will probably be made to this 
simple plan. 

THOSE who work their brains or their 
bodies to any considerable extent im- 
mediately after partaking of a solid meal, sim- 
ply invite an attack of indigestion to develop it- 
self. The vital force required for the digestive 
process is diverted from the stomach, with the 
result that the food is left to ferment or decom- 
pose. Malnutrition follows if the above-men- 
tioned habit is persisted in for any length of 
time, and the deluded " business-man " who 
" cannot spare the time " for a short rest or 
stroll after the mid-day meal, at last awakens to 
the fact that he has damaged his constitution 
and has been " penny wise and pound foolish." 
The brain or body which has been severely 
taxed should also be given an interval of rest 
before any but the very lightest meal is taken. 
We should always remember that it is not what 
we eat that nourishes us, but what we are able 
to assimilate. 

[ 157] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

RECREATION is as necessary to health 
as food and water. An interest in life and 
occasional amusement are equally necessary. 
Thousands of women have died from monoto- 
nous and continuous domestic care ; multitudes 
of men succumb to excessive mental strain and 
incessant business anxiety, and vast numbers of 
those who " neither toil nor spin " sink into the 
grave for the simple reason that they have 
no object in life. Chronic dyspeptics should 
reflect on these facts. 

THE sun-bath, taken by exposing the naked 
body to sunshine, is a most hygienic and 
vitalizing exercise. The human skin needs ex- 
posure both to the air, to the action of light, 
and to the sun's rays. Those who are wise and 
who wish to live a century will see that their 
bodies are not robbed of this blessing. Aborig- 
inal races which have successfully survived the 
introduction of all the other evils of civilization, 
have succumbed and been entirely wiped out 
when they added the practice of encasing their 
bodies continuously in stuffy clothing. 



[ 158] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

THOSE who drink tea should only infuse 
it by pouring boiling water on it in a pre- 
viously warmed enamelled iron jug, and the 
water should not be allowed to remain on the 
leaves more than one minute, but should at 
once be poured ofF into the teapot through a 
strainer. Coffee should be made in the same 
way, but the pot or jug should be made to boil 
up for just a moment before pouring the liquor 
off into another receptacle. The water should 
be freshly boiled, and should be used as soon as 
it comes to a boiling point. Tea, however, 
should be used in the strictest moderation (if 
at all), as it is detrimental to the health of many 
persons. The tannin contained in it toughens 
all proteid food, and possibly injures the coats of 
the stomach and intestines as well. Leather is 
made by dressing skin with tannin. The theine, 
which is the stimulative substance in tea, is de- 
clared by Dr. Alex. Haig, F.R.C.P., to be 
identical with uric acid in its effect upon the 
human body. Thousands of dyspeptics and 
invalids are suffering from drinking tea several 
times a day. 

If one feels that a cup of tea or coffee is really 
necessary, it is best to take it between meals 

t 159] 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

rather than with them. Plenty of water should 
be added, so as to make the beverage weak. 
Coffee should be pure, unadulterated and freshly 
ground. Most persons are, however, better 
without it altogether, as it unduly stimulates the 
heart, excites the brain and arouses the passions. 

FRESH air is absolutely essential if health 
and longevity are to be attained. Sitting 
in close rooms, the air of which has been de- 
nuded of oxygen and laden with carbonic acid 
by human beings or gas lamps, simply causes 
poisoned blood, headache, and ill-health. When- 
ever possible one should sleep with the window 
open. 

WITHOUT deep breathing the lungs 
cannot be inflated sufficiently, the blood 
cannot be oxidized properly, and the constitu- 
tion is neither warmed nor vitalized adequately. 
Deep breathing should be practised daily, and 
a physical exerciser should be used to increase 
lung capacity. 



T 



HE last meal of the day should not be 
taken after seven o'clock at night. Dis- 

[ 160I 



HYGIENIC INFORMATION 

turbed rest and the habit of dreaming are an 
almost certain indication of errors in diet hav- 
ing been committed, or of this rule having been 
infringed. 

PHYSICAL maladies should not be attrib- 
uted to the " mysterious dispensations of 
Providence," but in nearly all cases to our 
physical transgressions and mistakes or those of 
our parents. Probably the most valuable pre- 
scription ever given to a patient was that given 
by Dr. Abernethy to a wealthy dyspeptic, " Live 
on sixpence a day and earn it." 



[ i6i 1 



XXIII 

PHYSICAL VITALITY : 

ITS ACQUISITION AND ACCUMULATION 

FEW persons take any thought or trouble 
concerning the accumulation of vitality, 
although it is one of the most priceless of all 
earthly possessions, and without it all other 
good things are apt to fade, like a mirage, into 
thin ain 

The human body is a storage battery con- 
sisting of millions of cells in which the vital 
electricity that produces health, wards off and 
prevents disease, makes life enjoyable, and pro- 
duces the personal magnetism which causes the 
human character to be powerful for good or for 
evil, is accumulated. 

Every form of manifestation of physical vi- 
tality depends upon the life-force stored up in 
this human battery — and upon its voltage. 
The more fully charged the cells of the body 

[ 162 1 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

may be, the higher the voltage, and, conse- 
quently, the greater the vitality and power. 

This voltage is always fluctuating. Physical 
or mental expenditure of force lessens it ; recu- 
peration, through rest, sleep, the in-breathing of 
oxygen and the assimilation of food-pabulum, 
increases it. And if the influx is greater than 
the output, accumulation results. 

Comparatively few persons have ever real- 
ized that a pre-determined accumulation of vital 
force is an actual possibility and that it can be 
brought about by intelligent and methodical 
action. 

All the " preventive medicines " in the world 
are as the small dust of the balance — poten- 
tially — when weighed against this Life-force 
which " healeth all our diseases and redeemeth 
our life from destruction." Its therapeutic 
phenomena are truly wonderful ; the fractured 
human limb, the damaged bark of the tree, 
the broken shell of the humble mollusc, will 
each alike be mended and restored by the in- 
visible Life-spirit which operates silently in each. 

When the human system is invaded by ma- 
levolent bacteria and microbes, the white cor- 
puscles within us overcome and expel them and 

[ 163 ] 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

save us from disease. They act thus whenever 
the sum total of our vitality— or voltage — is 
such as to maintain them in fit and forceful 
condition. If they are not properly fed with 
those elements which are needful for their sus- 
tenance and welfare, they soon run down, and 
we become aware of the fact by realizing that 
we ourselves have run down. Our voltage is 
below the normal ; we are below par. We 
then are liable to become the prey of those 
ceaseless microscopic enemies which are ever 
ready to pounce upon the unfit. 

If our corpuscles are weaker than the invad- 
ing foes no drugs can save us, — we are doomed. 
Hence the importance of keeping our nerve- 
centres well charged and our minute life-cells 
in vigorous condition. 

To accumulate vitality our food must con- 
tain all the chemical elements which we need. 
Nitrates for muscle building, carbons for heat 
and energy production, fats and phosphates and 
other mineral salts for the sustenance of brain 
and nerve-force. None must be permanently 
omitted. If, for instance, we exclude organic 
phosphorus from the food of a man of mighty 
intellect, he will, in due time, be reduced to a 

[ 164] 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

Stage bordering on idiocy. We can obtain this 
phosphorus in such foods as cheese, milk, 
whole-meal (graham) bread, oat-meal, peas, 
beans, apples and bananas. But inorganic 
phosphorus in the form of drugs or pills is 
dangerous. 

The other elements are also necessary, and 
our diet must contain the whole of the four- 
teen from which the body is constructed. This 
fact suggests the wisdom of making our diet 
as varied as possible. Nature will assimilate 
the necessary elements if opportunity is thus 
provided. 

The human body, and its brain and nerves, 
are in the first instance constructed, and are 
then continuously reconstructed from the food 
which reaches us through the digestive appa- 
ratus and the lungs. Our thoughts are largely 
the outcome of our food-pabulum — as a man 
eatethy so he thinketh. The numerous cases of 
mental idiosyncrasy, incompetency, and aberra- 
tion which we see around us, may, in very 
many instances, be traced to erroneous feeding. 

To store vitality we must live by method, 
and take some trouble. Nature's greatest gift 
is not to be obtained haphazard and without 

[ i6s 1 



PHYSICAL VITALITY 

thought and effort. We must eat wisely, and 
breathe wisely, and live wisely ; and the closer 
to Nature we get, the better it will be for us. 
The early morning sunshine produces healthful 
vibration; the atmosphere which has been vital- 
ized by its rays contains the life-giving oxygen 
upon which our vitality so largely depends. 
To rise with the lark, and retire while the night 
is still young, is to walk in Wisdom's way. 

The habit of deep-breathing, like the habit 
of living much in the open air, yields impor- 
tant results. We should remember that the 
atmosphere consists of oxygen and nitrogen — 
the very elements of which our bodies are 
chiefly constructed. Life and vigor can be 
inhaled^ but few persons have learned the art. 

The habit of cheerfulness tends to promote 
the assimilation of food which vitalizes — and 
thus it favors longevity. 

Exercise — of an intelligent and healthful sort 
— ^is needful to make the life-current pulsate 
through our bones and tissues. Without it 
our organs do not get properly nourished and 
rebuilt — stiffness and atrophy set in. Every 
organ must be used if we are to secure complete 
development and health. 

[ i66] 









PHYSICAL VITALITY 

Food which is likely to contain disease germs 
and decomposing bioplasts (such as dead bod- 
ies) must be eschewed, and worry and care 
must be banished, as far as possible, from our 
lives. 

Vitiated atmosphere must be avoided, as well 
as all unwise and excessive expenditure of nerve- 
force, for these things deplete the storage bat- 
tery of human electricity and lessen its voltage. 

The Coming Race will master the secret of 
accumulating life-force — for mankind is slowly 
rising upon the stepping-stones of painful ex- 
perience to knowledge of Truth and " Life 
more abundant." 



[ 167 1 



SYNOPSIS OF RECIPES 



Breakfast Dishes, 19, 50, 52, 

56, 58. 74, 79» 87» 89. 96, 
97,98, 99, 100, loi, 106, 132, 

i55» 156. 

Luncheon Dishes, 45 to 107, 
124 to 140, 144. 155. 

Recipes for Cottag^e Din- 
ners, 6 to 14, 16 to 18, 26 to 
28, 30 to 33, 35 to 43, 45 to 
48, 5o» 5i» 53 to 62, 65, 66, 
70 to 79, 82 to 84, 86 to 90» 
96 to 107, 125 to 128, 130 to 
i35» 140. 

Recipes for Household Din- 
ners, 6 to 90, 108 to 145, 

i55» 156. 
Picnic Recipes, 91 to 107. 

Simple Recipes for Bache- 
lors, 6 to 23, 25 to 28, 30, 



32, 33f 41 to 43, 45 to 67, 70, 
73 to 75, 77, 79, 80, 82, 86 to 
90, 95 to 104, 106, 107, 
116, 121, 125 to 128, 130 to 

135. HO- 

Recipes for Invalids, i to §, 

6, 7, 10 to 17, 24, 28, 30, 
33» 36, 42, 45 to 51, 57, 61, 
62, 67, 74, 85, 89, loi, 103, 
125, 126 to 128, 130 to 132, 
I34i MO, 144- 

Recipes for Travellers, 96 
to 104. 

Supper Dishes, 45 to 53, 56 
to 67, 73 to 79, 81, 83, 85 to 
87, 89, 90. 

Summer and Winter 
Drinks, 146 to 154. 

Recipes for Bread-makings, 

i55» 156. 



[ 169] 



C~] 



