






i|,^:f#r.|_^- 







^■^ 










mmmt-. .,ii 




BOSTON 
PUBLIC 
LIBRARY 





':} rr — — ==— ' i ^ 



flDemorial Edition. 



DR. CHASE'S 

THIRD LAST AND COMPLETE 

Receipt Book 

AND HOUSEHOLD PHYSICIAN, 

Or Practical Knowledge for the People, 

ftcmthe Life-Long Observations of the Author, embracing the Choicest, Most Valuable ai 
Entirely New Receipts in Every Department of Medicine, Mechanics, and 
Household Economy; including a Treatise oo 

The Diseases of Women and Children^ 

IN FACT, 

The Book for the Million. 

With Remarks and Explanations which adapt it to the Every-day Wants of the People, 
Arranged in Departments and most Copiously Indexed. 



By A. W. CHASE, M. D., 

Author of "Dr. Chase's Receipts, or Iniormation for Everybody," Also "Dr. Chase"« 
Family Physician, Farrier, Bee-Keeper and Second Receipt Book." 



'WHY CONCEAL THAT WHICH RELIEVES DISTRESS?** 



PUBL,ISHED BY 

F. B. DICKERSON COMPANY 

Detroit, Mich., and Windsor, Ont. 

To Whom all Correspondence should be Addressed. 

1903. 



.CHS 



Publishers- Notice 



WE desire to place a copy of this work in the hands 
of every family, and, if the neighborhood has 
been canvassed and there is no agent through whom it 
can be purchased, we will send by mail, free of postage, 
single copies to any address on receipt of the regular 
subscription price. 

We at all times desire agents. The terms are liberal, 
and the agency to sell this work in any field will afford a 
good living to any man or woman of intelligence. Agents 
will be assigned territory in the order of their application, 
For name and address of the publishers, see title page 



CoPVRisHT, 18&>, BY A. W. Chase. 



CoPvmoHT, 1887, Br F. B. Dickumon. 



All Rights Reserved. 



DEDICATION 



THIS, MT THIED AND LAST EECEIPT BOOK, 

IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED 

To the Twelve Hundred Thousand Eamilies, throughout the 
United States and Dominion of Canada, 

WHO HAVE PURCHASED 

ONE OR BOTH OF MY FORMER BOOKS, AND TO THEIR CHILDRBK 

WHO HAVE THUS BECOME FAMILIAR WITH THEM, AND 

WOULD, THEREFORE, DESIRE TO BENEFIT 

THEMSELVES, AND PERPETUATE THE NAME OF THE "OLD DOCTOR,* 

BY HANDING THIS, THE CROWNING WORK OF MY LIFE, 

TO THEIR CHILDREN. 

A. W. CHASE, M. D. 



PUBLISHERS' PREFACE. 



In presenting this book to the public, we make no apologies. 
There never was but one Doctor A. W. Chase. The immense sale 
of his former works is evidence that the public demand all that 
ever came from his prolific and philanthropic pen. There is no 
man now living, and none dead, whose writings have been so 
eagerly sought for, and no man, whose whole life was so 
devoted to the good of others. Through reverses in business, he 
left no pecuniary benefits to his family except the manuscript of 
this book, but died with the consciousness that his work had been 
appreciated and that he had been a benefactor to mankind. Dr. 
Chase's name is a household word in millions of homes; we trust 
this book will make it a familiar name in a million more, and, 
although this, his final work, is by him dedicated to the people 
whom he served so long and well, we, as publishers, think it 
befitting to such as he to inscribe it " The Memorial Edition " 
and dedicate it to his children. 

THE PUBLISHERS. 




THE NURSE AND PATIENT. 



AUTHOR'S PREFACE. 



The reason for the publication of this book is, that having 
given over fifty years of my life to the careful observation and 
test of Practical Receipes, as given in my first and second books, 
t. d, "Dr. Chase's Receipts, or Information for Everybody;" and 
"Dr. Chase's Famil}^ Physician, Bee Keeper, and Second Receipt 
Book," by which it has become very natural for me to make notes 
of and preserve for future reference, items and receipts discovered 
by myself and those seen in the discourses of the Scientific, Med- 
ical, Agricultural, Mechanical and Household Publications of the 
day; and observing that as time advanced, every branch of Science 
and Art, by continued experience, became more and more perfect, 
practical and positive in its development, I continually selected 
and preserved the very choicest items until enough was accumulated 
for a THIRD BOOK. And fully believing that it would be appre- 
ciated by the people who had purchased over twelve hundred 
thousand copies of my former publications, within the thirty 
years they have been before them, I determined to prepare it 
before I fcould willingly and conscientiously lay down my life 
work. I have, therefore, labored over four years faithfully and 
diligently in experimenting, compiling and arranging this, my 
third and last book, as I knew it would do good in every home it 
entered I am now willing and shall forever rest from this char- 
acter of labor, that I may partake, a little at least, of the benefits 
and pleasures that I have done my best to prepare for others, 
feeling more than satisfied that if the people will give the time 
and earnestness in using this book that the author has in prepar- 
ing it, the benefits and pleasures will not only be mutual, but 
more lasting than our lives, benefitting even our children's chil- 
dren. 

As to the reliability of the information given In this volume? 
the unprecedentedly large sales of my two former works will 



vili AUTHORS PREFACE. 

testify. It is only necessary to say that the longer one labors in 
a practice or profession, or in the mechanical arts, the more 
mature is his mind and judgment and the better qualified he is to 
carry on his work. This being universally conceded, it need only 
be said, then, that one who has lived nearly seventy years, doing 
all the good possible to his fellow creatures, as I have done, if 
judged by the above evidence, would certainly make his last the 
crowning effort of his life, and that it shall be so found I feel 
assured. This work is the result of nearly thirty years practice 
and experience since the publication of my first book, and is not 
a " revised edition " of the former ones, but is made up wholly of 
new matter and new discoveries. I, therefore, believe that it will 
prove of infinite value to its purchasers, and although they may 
have both the former ones in their possession, they cannot, if 
they value my first and second book, afford to be without this, 
my third and last one. My mature years, numbering nearly 
three score and ten, will not allow me to ever undertake that 
great labor which, in this case, covers a period of nearly five 
years. 

A Eeceipt Book, not being calculated for general reading, can 
very properly be set in closer type than an ordinary book, and 
as it is my aim to give the greatest possible amount of informa- 
tion for the money invested, I have instructed the tjrpe-setters 
to use the smallest type that can, with ease, be read; yet the 
following will serve to illustrate the fact that even a receipt 
book is, by some, read to a considerable extent As I was once 
traveling through Illinois, a gentleman, just before we reached 
the crossing of the Mississippi at Burlington, approached me, and 
said, " Isn't this Dr. Chase, the author of Chase's Eeceipt Book?" 
(referring to my first) to which I replied, " Yes, sir," when he 
remarked : " I thought I recognized you from the frontispiece in 
your book ;" and added, " We read it more than the Bible," etc. 
To which I remonstrated and begged to suggest that he instruct 
his family from that time forward to read the Bible most, inas- 
much as eternity was of infinitely more importance than this life. 
His name I have forgotten, but I take the liberty of giving the 



AUTHORS PREFACE. Is 

name and address of a lady in Wisconsin, whose letter I received 
while preparing this last work, presuming she will take no offense, 
as I give her name and letter only to prove to the public in what 
esteem my former books are held by those who have them. The 
following is from Mrs. 0. N. Alden, and dated at Neenah, 
Wisconsin : 

Dr. a. W. chase, 

Dear Sir: 

It is not the author or compiler of every book who 
himself so permeates the contents that the reader feels in the author a per- 
sonal acquaintance, but when I am consulting Dr. Chase's Books, it seems 
as though I was personally consulting him, and that he is a friend, he makes 
what is therein so individual. But, by so doing, he exposes himself to, per 
haps, annoyance, as in this instance, by being personally addressed. * * ♦ 

The writer closes by relating her own condition of health, 
and making inquiry as to the character of goods made by another 
gentleman. I mention these circumstances among hundreds of 
others only to illustrate to those having neither of my former 
books what those who do have them think of them, hoping thus 
to convince the million that my third and last book shall, at least, 
be equally valuable. I have, however, done my best to produce a 
work in every respect superior to my former ones, and with the 
aid of thirty years' experience since my first book was published, 
during which time many new theories have come into vogue and 
many valuable discoveries have been made, I am confident that 
I have succeeded, and can only hope that mj'- former works have 
opened the door to this, my Crowning Life Work, and that it 
will be a welcome visitor at every home, where either or both the 
first and second books have found their way and prove to be 
worth many times more than the sum paid for it 

THE AUTHOR 

Just two months after completing this work, and writing the foregoing 
preface, the "Old Doctor" passed away and his spirit took its flight to Go4 
who gave it. 

PUBLISHERS- 



%n "^cmtfxmm. 



Dr. Alyin" Wood Chase, physician, and author of the 
celebrated Dr. Chase's Eeceipt Book, was born in Cajuga 
County, New York, in 1817. He was a son of Benjamin 
Chase, a native of the State of Massachusetts. When 
Alvin was eleven years of age his parents located near 
Buffalo, N. Y., where he grew to manhood, receiving a 
very limited education, in a log school-house. His desire 
for knowledge was so strong, coupled with an ambition 
peculiar to his naturally energetic disposition, that he 
far outstripped his more dilatory companions of that 
humble institute of learning. When seventeen years old 
he left New York and found employment on the Maumee 
Eiver, in the meantime devoting his spare moments to 
study. In 1840 he located at Dresden, Ohio, where in 
the spring of 1841 he married Martha Shutts, daughter 
of Henry and Martha Shutts, natives of New York. To 
this noble and gifted wife, and mother of his children, may 
be justly attributed much of the success that followed 
the doctor during his long and eventful career. From 
the days of his boyhood he entertained a wish to study 
medicine, and awaited with impatience the time when he 
might become a member of the fraternity. After many 



wanderings he settled in Ann Arbor, Mich.,' in 1856, 
where, to his intense delight, he was enabled vigorously 
to prosecute his studies in what was to be his future 
life-work. 

He attended lectures in the medical department of 
the State University during 1857 and 1858, and graduated 
from the Eclectic Institute of Cincinnati, Ohio, in the 
meantime. Prior to 1869 he traveled over a large part 
of the United States, acquiring valuable knowledge, only 
gained by practical experience, which proved a good 
foundation for the wonderful book which afterward 
gained such great celebrity. The first edition of the work, 
like all subsequent ones, proved a great success, and 
soon placed the author on the high road to fortune. 
In 1864 he built the first part of that magnificent struct- 
ure that still bears his name. It stands on the corner of 
Main Street and Miller Avenue, and is an ornament 
to our city. The building was completed in 1868. 
The business had so increased that at this time fifty 
persons found constant and remunerative employment 
within the walls of the building; and the hospitality 
and liberality of the Doctor to the employes of the 
institution, as well as to the needy ones of the city, 
were always subjects of admiring comment. 

In 1873 he published his second book, of which many 
thousand copies were sold, and it is safe to say that fully 
one million and a half have found their way into the 
homes of this and foreign countries. 

A few years only have elapsed since Dr. Chase was 

considered one of the most prosperous and well-to-do 
xil 



citizens of Ann Arbor; losses by thousands and tens of 
thousands dollars greatly reduced his accumulations so 
honestly acquired. It is seldom the case that so much 
wealth is secured in so short a time by honest endeavor. 
He entered into no speculating schemes, but industriously 
pursued a very useful calling, bringing large profits 
without detriment to any, but, on the contrary, of great 
value to all. But, notwithstanding his losses, he did not 
lose his native energy and manliness of purpose, and 
stood before the community a conspicuous example of 
what energy, perseverance, and an indomitable will may 
accomplish. His liberality was remarkable, considering his 
income, though large. Many men, whose means were 
quadruple those of the Doctor, did not give one quarter as 
much for the advancement of education and benevolent 
enterprises. 

He was once nominated for mayor of the city, but 
his business compelled him to decline the proffered 
honor. But the storms of life finally overtook him and 
swept with almost resistless fury around the now aged 
physician, and a few of the prejudices that charac- 
terize the human family found a resting place in 
the heart of this noble man; yet, when the last chapter 
shall have been entered in the book of life, the account 
will probably be balanced. The last earthly rites have 
been performed, and the aged veteran laid peacefully 
away beneath the shadow of the silent tomb. It may 
truthfully be said that he lived with malice toward none 
and charity to all. A beautiful monument marks the 
place where his earthly remains are laid away, but his real 
xiii 



and ever-enduring monument is seen in his life, devotion 
and usefulness to his fellow man. 

L. Davis, 

Secretary of the Washtenaw County 
Pioneer Society. 

Ann Arbor, Mich. 



CONTENTS. 



Dedication, 

PuBLisHEKs' Preface, 

Author's Preface, 

"In Memoriam," 

Symptoms op Diseases, • , • 

Medical Receipts, 

Nursing and Midwifery, 

Food for the Sick, - 

Culinary or Cooking Department, 

Miscellaneous Department, 

Household Memoranda, 

Toilet Department, 

Dairy Department. 

Domestic Animals, - 

Agricultural Department, - 

Mechanical Department, - 

Bee-Keeping, 

Dictionary of Medical Terms, 

Publishers' Notice, 

Index to Medical Department, - 

General Index, - 



I 

V 

VII 

XI 

1 

83 

278 
803 
319 
615 



641 



772 
790 



817 



844 



PHRENOLOGY DEFINED. 




NAMES AND NUMBERS OF THE ORGANS 



MEDICAL DEPARTMEITT. 



s"3r:M::PT03vns oif iDisE.£i.sES. 



Remarks.— In preparing "Symptoms" I have carefully given all diseases 
that any person is liable not to be familiar with. There are some few common 
complaints, that " tackle " us without giving symptoms or warning, that I have 
omitted A man would not need to be told that he had the toothache or earache, 
or what the symptoms are. He would be liable to find it out very suddenly 
without consulting any book or doctor. Some such simple diseases I have 
omitted in "Symptoms." 

ABORTION OR MISCARRIAGE.— When a woman in the family 
way throws off the contents of her womb, or loses her child, during the first 
six months, the accident is a m,iscarrmge, or abortion; when the same thing 
happens during the last three months of her term, it is a premature labor. 

Symptoms. — If abortion occur during the first month after conception, the 
symptoms may not attract much attention, or may be regarded only as an 
irregularity of menstruation. Occurring at later periods, it is frequently indi- 
cated by some feverishness, coldness of the feet and legs, a puffed-up condition 
of the eye-lids with purplish discolorations, shooting pains in the breasts, 
which become soft, pains in the back, boaring-down pains in the lower part of 
the bowels, which oome and go, and at length take the character of real labor 
pains. As these pains increase, blood begins to appear, and, sooner or later, 
the bag of water breaks, and the fetus is thrcnvn off. 

Causes.— These are very numerous. Some of the principal are, displace- 
ment of the womb; ulceration of its neck; syphilitic disease of the fetus 
received from the parent; too much exercise; heavy Kfting; falls, particularly 
when the woman comes down upon the feet, and is heavily jarred; emetics; 
powerful purges; and too much nuptial indulgence. Remedy, pages 
258, 259, 260, 261. 

AGUE. — The popular English name for Intermittent Fever. Ague i» 
principally applied to the cold stage. The whole disease Is commonly called 
Fever and Ague. 

Symptoms. — This fever consists of various fits or paroxysms, each of which 
is made up of three stages or successions of symptoms. These stages are the 
eold, the hot, and the sweating stages. "When the sweating stage is finished, 
the patient is free of complaint, or the disease intermits till a future period, 
when the same stages as before succeed each other. The time during which 
the patient is free of the disease varies in different kinds of intermittent fever, 
and gives its name and character to the disease. If the stages run through 
iheir course every day, it is called a quotidian ague; if they begin again every 
I t 



3 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

third day, including that on -which the former paroxysm occurred, it is called 
a tertian; if every fourth day, a quartan. Several minuter varieties occur, 
■with which it is unnecessary to trouble the general reader. Remedy, pages 
86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 123. 

APOPLEXY. — A disease in which the patient suddenly falls down, 
deprived of sense and motion; and which, in all languages, derives its name 
from the sudden manner of its attack, as if the patient were struck down by 
•ome invisible hand, by lightning, or some other agent equally sudden and 
violent. 

Symptoms.— K person seized with apoplexy in its most perfect form, sud- 
denly falls down, deprived of sense and motion, breathes heavily, and with a 
snoring sound; sometimes convulsions occur, and foam issues from the mouth. 
The pulse is full and strong, a cold clammy sweat breaks out over all the 
body; and the accumulating saliva, the bloated countenance, and the noisy 
laborious breathing, combine to form a distressing spectacle. The disease is 
not always so complete and violent, but varies in its symptoms, as is well 
described by Dr. Abercrombie :— ' ' Sometimes the disease begins with a sudden 
attack of violent pain in the head, the patient becomes pale, sick and faint, 
generally vomits; and frequently, though not always, falls down in a state 
resembling fainting, the face very pale, the pulse very small. This is some- 
times accompanied by slight convulsion. In other cases he does not fall down, 
the sudden attack of pain being only accompanied by slight and transient loss of 
recollection. In both cases he recovers in a few minutes , is quite sensible, and 
able to walk ; continues to complain of intense headache; after a considerable 
time, perhaps some hours, becomes oppressed, forgetful, and incoherent, and 
thus gradually sinks into deep sleep, from which he never recovers. In some 
cases, palsy of one side occurs, but in others, there is no palsy. There is 
another form of the disease, in which the patient is suddenly deprived of the 
power of one side of the body, and of speech without stupor; or if the first 
attack is accompanied with stupor, this soon goes off; he appears sensible of 
his situation, and endeavors to express his feelings by signs. In some cases the 
attack passes gradually into apoplexy, perhaps after a few hours; in others, 
under the proper treatment, the patient recovers perfectly in a few days. In 
many cases the recovery is gradual, and it is only at the end of several weeka 
or months that the complaint is removed." 

It is a matter of very great difficulty to determine what is the particular 
state of the brain which gives rise to the symptoms of apoplexy. Sometimes, 
after a fatal case, when the head is opened, we find a large quantity of coagu- 
lated blood, and we consider the pressure of this effused blood as completely 
explaining what has happened. But in other cases which have ended fatally, 
there is only a small quantity of fluid in some part of the brain; and in others, 
even after very marked symptoms, no injury whatever, or deviation from the 
healthy appearance, can be perceived in the brain. 

There are certain habits of body that seem more peculiarly disposed to 
this disease. Men with short thick necks, large heads, and corpulent bellies, 
especially after their thirty-fifth or fortieth year, are very frequently the sub- 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. 3 

jects of this disease; but very many examples occur of a make directly the 
reverse of this, viz., tall and slender, being also attacked with apoplexy. 
Remedy, page 131. 

ASTHMA.— Symptoms.— A painful difficulty of breathing, recurring at 
intervals, with a sense of tightness across the breast; a wheezing cough, hard 
at first, but towards the end of each paroxysm more free, and followed by the 
discharge of a little mucus. The attacks of asthma are generally in the night- 
time, though they sometimes come on in the course of the day ; and at what- 
ever time they come on, it is for the most part suddenly, with a sense of 
tightness across the breast, impeding respiration. The person, if in bed, is 
obliged immediately to get up, and he requires the free admission of air. The 
difficulty of breathing increases, and is performed slowly, and with a wheezing 
noise. These symptoms sometimes continue for hours together; and a remis- 
sion takes place by degrees; the breathing becomes less laborious, and the 
patient speaks and coughs more easily ; and if there is something expectorated, 
the remission is greater, and sleep comes on. In tlie morning, and through the 
day, though the breathing is better than during the fit, it is not yet free from 
difficulty; a degree of tightness is still felt, and a very slight motion of the 
body is apt to bring back the paroxysm. In the evening the breathing is 
worse, and about the same hour as on the former night, generally between 
midnight and two o'clock, the same train of symptoms is renewed. After the 
fits have recurred for several nights in this manner, they suffer more consider- 
able remissions; and, for some time, asthmatics may be free from complaint; 
but through the whole of life the paroxysms are ready to return, though in 
different circumstances in different patients. 

Asthma seldom appears before the age of puberty, and seems to attack 
men more frequently than women; and in persons of a full habit whom it 
continues to attack, it commonly causes a great degree of emaciation. Though 
it does not often destroy life in the paroxysms, it may become fatal by passing 
into other diseases, as into consumption of the lungs, or by occasioning 
dropsy; and many cases, which have appeared a common spasmodic asthma, 
have been found at last to depend on organic diseases of the heart and great 



Causes. — Some have the fits of spasmodic asthma brought on by heat, 
whether of the weather or of warm apartments; and frequently by warm 
bathing. Some are hurt by cold and moist air, or by anything worn tight 
about the breast, or by distension of the stomach from a full meal, or windy 
diet; or from exercise hurrying the circulation of the blood. Sometimes the 
disease is brought on by causes affecting the nervous system, as passions of the 
mind; or by particular smells, or irritations of the lungs from smoke or dust. 
Remedy, pages 200, 201. 

ATROVBY.— Symptoms. — A disease, of which a very prominent symp- 
tom is wasting of the body, from deficiency of nourishment. It is well known 
to the nurses in Scotland by the term Dinning. It is very common in children, 
and proceeds in them from various causes; from teething, from acidity of the 



4 DR. CEASEPS RECIPES. 

stomach, and disorder of the bowels; from rickets, from diseases of the glands 
of the mesentery; and this last cause is by far the most common. The patient 
is at first languid and inactive; has a bad appetite, a disagreeable breath, a pale 
complexion, a large belly; the bowels are not regular, sometimes costive, at 
other times loose; the stools smell badly, and are of a whiter color than natural. 
When the disease has continued for some time, the body becomes greatly 
emaciated, the belly still more swelled, and the digestive functions more dis- 
ordered. Remedy, page 190. 

BARBERS' TUCH..— Symptoms.— "This, is contagious and due to a fungus 
growth that invades the hair and hair follicles. It appears chiefly on the hairy 
parts of the face — the chin, the upper lip, the region of the whiskers, the eye- 
brows, and the nape of the neck. It consists in little conical elevations, which 
maturate at the top, and have the shaft of a hair passing through them. These 
pimples are of a pale yellowish color. Remedy, page 102. 

BLADDER — INFLAMMATION.— %TOp<oms.— The bladder is also 
liable to inflammation without rupture. The symptoms of this formidable 
complaint are a burning pain at the lower part of the belly, increased by 
pressure; constant desire to pass water, which is done in very small quantities, 
and with intense pain; and more or less general fever. Remedy, page 253. 

BLOODY FLUX.— DYSENTERY.— /%m;5<(wis.— The disease comes 
on with loss of appetite, costiveness, lassitude, shivering, heat of skin, and 
quick pulse. These are followed by griping pain in the bowels, and a constant 
desire to pass their contents. In general the passages are small, composed of 
mucus mixed with blood. These passages are attended and followed by severe 
gripings and inclination to strain, learnedly called tormina, and tenesmus. They 
are sometimes, in the early stages, attended by nausea and vomiting. The 
natural feces, which do not pass oflf much, are small in quantity, and formed 
into round, compact balls, or irregular, hardened lumps. This tenesmus, or 
great desire to strain, will continue, perhaps increase, for several days, — the 
discharges being mostly blood in some cases, and chiefly mucus in others. 
Having, generally, but little odor, at first, these discharges become, as the dis- 
ease advances, exceedingly offensive. 

Causes. — Dysentery is very frequently caused by sudden changes from hot 
to cold, by which sweating is suddenly checked, and the blood repelled from 
the surface. Hot climates, and dry, hot weather, are predisposing causes. 
All green, unripe, and unwholesome food ; and all indigestible food of every 
sort, may induce it. Remedy, pages 60, 139, 195, 234. 

BOIL. — Symptoms. — A circumscribed inflammation in the external parts, 
which terminates in a pointed swelling, sometimes as large as a pigeon's egg, 
attended with redness and pain, and sometimes with a violent burning heat, 
These inflammations generally suppurate, but they do so very slowly. They 
break at first on the upper part, and some drops of matter ooze out. 
What is commonly called the core is next seen; it is a purulent substance, but 
thick and tenacious, almost like a solid body, and may be drawn out of the 



SYMPTOMti OF DISEASES. 6 

abscess Its discharge is followed by a flow of thinner matter, after which the 
pain ceases, and the part heals. Remedy, pages 58, 59, 60, 97, 137. 

BOWELS, INFLAMMATION OY.— Symptoms.— l^hXs, disease is 
characterized by the symptoms of general fever, heat of skin, thirst, restless- 
ness, quick and hard small pulse; and by sharp pain in the belly, increased on 
pressure, and accompanied by vomiting and costiveness. 

Causes. — Inflammation of the bowels is occasioned by acrid and irritating 
substances swallowed by the mouth, by hardened foeces, by vitiated bile, by 
long continued costiveness, and by constriction of some part of the canal in 
cases of rupture; a very frequent cause of it is cold, especially when applied 
with damp to the feet. 

Diagnosis. — Inflammation of the bowels is distinguished from colic by the 
absence of fever in this last, and by the pain in colic not being increased on 
pressure, and in every case of severe pain of the bowels, with vomiting and 
costiveness, the practitioner should make very strict inquiries, lest a rupture 
should be the cause of them. Remedy, pages 137, 252. 

BRAIN — INFLAMMATION — CONCUSSION.— Acute and gen- 
eral inflammation of the brain and its membranes has two stages. 

Symptoms. — The Stage of Excitement, in which there is intense and deep 
seated pain in the head, extending over a large part of it, a feeling of tightness 
across the forehead, throbbing of the temporal arteries, a flushed face, injected 
eyes, looking wild and brilliant, contraction of the pupils, great shrinking 
from light and sound, violent delirium, want of sleep, general convulsions, a 
parched and dry skin, a quick and hard pulse, a white tongue, thirst, nausea 
and vomiting, and constipation of the bowels. 

TJie Stage of Collapse, in which there are indistinct mutterings, dull and 
perverted hearing and vision, double vision, the pupil from being contracted 
expands largely and becomes motionless, twitchings of the muscles, tremors 
and palsy of some of the limbs, a ghastly and cadaverous countenance, cold 
sweats, profound coma, and death 

The disease will not show all these symptoms in any one case. It runs a 
rapid course, causing death, sometimes, in twelve or twenty-four hours; or it 
may run two or three weeks. Remedy, pages 246, 247. 

BRONCHITIS.— iSi/Jwptoms.— This disease is an inflammation of the 
membrane lining the air passages, or bronchi, is a very common, and a very 
serious disease. It is of two kinds, the acute and the chronic or " winter 
cough." The acute form, or severe cough, begins with the symptoms of com- 
mon cold, or catarrh (see Catarrh); but difliculty of breathing, attended with a 
wheezing sound, and pain and cough, soon come on with great severity. There 
is also a degree of fever, generally much increased in the evening. With the 
cough, there is a tenacious and glary expectoration, sometimes purulent, and 
even mixed with blood. Remedy, pages 123, 254, 255, 256. 

BRONCHOCELE.— A%wii)^o?ra«.--The goitre, or swelled neck, which so 
frequently occurs among the inhabitants of mountainous regions. It is a com- 



• DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

mon disorder in Derbyshire, and among the inhabitants of the Alps, and other 
hilly countries in their neighborhood; also in the valleys of Savoy, and at 
Milan, and among the Pyrennes, and Cevennes, in France. The swelling in 
bronchocele is at first without pain or any evident fluctuation, and the skin 
retains its natural appearance; but as the swelling advances, it grows hard and 
irregular; the skin becomes yellowish, and the veins of the neck put on a dis- 
tended and winding appearance; then the patient complains of frequent flush- 
ing of the face with headache, and pains darting through the tumor. Remedy, 
pages 44, 45. 

CANCER. — Symptoms. — By occult cancer or sciiThus, is meant a hard 
tumor, for the most part accompanied by sharp darting pains, which reciir 
more or less frequently. This tumor, in course of time, breaks and ulcerates; 
and then is more strictly denominated cancer. The parts of the body subject 
to cancer are the following: The female breast and uterus (see Womb and its 
Diseases), the lips, especially the lower one, the tongue, the skin, the tonsils, 
the lower opening of the stomach, and some other parts chiefly glandular 
Chimney-sweepers are subject to a cancerous affection of the scrotum. Rem- 
edy, pages 33, 34, 35, 99, 271. 

CARBUNCLE. — Symptoms. — An abscess or collection of matter, of a 
peculiarly gangrenous looking nature. The first symptoms are great heat and 
violent pain in some part of the body, on which there arises a pimple with 
great itching; under this, there is a circumscribed tumor, seeming to penetrate 
deep into the parts below. This tumor soon puts on a dark red or purple color. 
A little blister frequently appears on the top of the tumor, which being broken, 
a dark-looking matter is discharged, and a slough makes its appearance. Some- 
times a. little slough of a black color is seen in the middle of the tumor. The 
progress of a carbuncle of the gangrenous state is generally rapid. The size 
of carbuncles is various; sometimes they are eight or ten inches in diameter. 
Considerable hardness and pain generally attend the disease. As it advances, 
several detached openings form in the tumor; and through these, a greenish, 
fetid, and irritating matter is discharged. Carbuncle most commonly occurs 
in constitutions that have been injured by luxurious living; and from this cir- 
cumstance, and from its occurring not unfrequently in people advanced in life, 
carbuncle is commonly to be considered as accompanied with great danger; 
and this danger is to be estimated by the size and situations of the swellings, 
whether there be few or many of them, and by considering the age of the 
the patient, and the state of his constitution. Remedy, pages 58, 59. 

CATARRH. — Symptoms. — The disease commonly called a Cold, of 
which the following are the ordinary symptoms: — The patient is seized with a 
coldness and shivering; and shortly after, there is a degree of difficulty in 
breathing through the nose, and a sensation as if something were stopping that 
passage; a symptom well known under the term of a stuffing of the nose or 
head. There is a dull pain and heaviness in the forehead, and the motion of 
the eyes is stiff and obstructed. There soon takes place from the nose, a plen- 
tiful discharge of thin watery matter, so sharp as to inflame and excoriate the 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. 7 

skin of the nose and lips. There is a sense of weariness over the whole body ; 
and the patient is usually sensible to the coldness of the air ; and the pulse, 
especially toward evening, is more frequent than ordinary. These symptoms 
are very soon accompanied with hoarseness, and a sense of roughness and 
soreness in the course of the wind-pipe, with a difficulty of breathing, and 
tightness across the chest, and a cough, seemingly occasioned by something 
tickling or irritating the upper part of the wind-pipe. The cough is at first 
dry, and causes a good deal of pain in the chest, and about the head ; and at 
times there are other pains resembling rheumatism, in various parts of the 
body. Gradually the cough becomes looser ; that is to say, is accompanied by 
the discharge of mucus, which is brought up with more ease. The discharge 
from the nose becomes more mild, and also thicker ; the pain of the head 
diminishes, but there is still a disagreeable sense of fullness about the nose, 
with a degree of deafness, ringing in the ears, and a wheezing sound when a 
full breath is drawn. There is also a bad taste in the mouth, with a foul 
tongue, although the appetite is good. Remedy, pages 57, 155, 164, 183. 

CEICKEIS-VOK.— Symptoms.— K. disease of the eruptive kind, in 
various particulars resembling small-pox, and apt to be confounded with it. 
Chicken-pox arises from a peculiar contagion, and attacks persons only once 
in their lives. It is preceded by chilliness by sickness or vomiting, headache, 
thirst, restlessness and a quickened pulse. After these feverish symptoms, 
•which are generally slight, have lasted one or two days, pimples appear on 
different parts of the skin, in the form of small red eminences, not exactly 
circular ; having a furface shining, and nearly flat, in the middle of which a 
small clear vesicle soon forms. On the second day, this is filled with a whitish 
lymph ; on the third day, the fluid is straw-colored ; and on the fourth day, 
the vesicles which have not broken begin to subside. Few of them remain 
entire on the fifth day; and on the sixth, small brown scabs appear in the place 
of the vesicles. On the ninth and tenth days, they fall off, without leaving 
any pits. Remedy, page 224. 

CBlliBJAAlNS.— Symptoms.— K painful inflammatory swelling on the 
extreme parts of the body, as the fingers, toes, and heels, occasioned by cold. 
A very common way of getting chilblains, is by bringing the hands and feet 
near the fire in cold, frosty weather. The color of chilblains is a deep purple 
or leaden hue, the pain is pungent and shooting, and a very disagreeable 
itching attends. In some instances, the skin remains entire; in others, it 
breaks, and a thin fluid is discharged. When the cold has been great or long 
continued, the parts affected are apt to mortify and slough off, leaving a foul 
ulcer behind. Remedy, pages 142, 143. 

CHILLS AND FEVER.— See Ague. 

CHLOROFORM. — The formidable symptoms which sometimes arise 
from an overdose of chloroform are best met by opening the patient's mouth, 
and forcibly making the tongue protrude, allowing the free access of air, and 
applying ammonia to the nostrils. Chloroform should be administered only 
by a medical man. Remedy, page 95. 



8 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

CHOLERA.— This disease is often attended by vomiting and purging, 
with cramps in various parts of the body, It first attracted notice as a 
wide-spreading and fatal epidemic, in the year 1817, when it appeared at 
at Jessore, in Bengal; and after ravaging the Continent and Isles of Asia, 
and spreading to China, it continued its destructive course westward through 
Germany and the Russian Empire, till il at length reached the British 
Islands in 1831. After committing frightful ravages, the disease disappeared 
from England in the end of 1833; but it reappeared in 1849, and carried 
off 15,000 people in London alone, and about 80,000 in the whole kingdom. 
In 1853 and 1854 the disease again caused a terrible mortality, upwards of 6,000 
deaths having occurred in London alone during the first ten weeks of the epi- 
demic which occurred in the latter year. 

Symptoms. — The attack of the disease is sometimes quite sudden; at other 
times, there are precursory symptoms, of which the duration varies from a few 
hours to three or four days. There is a sense of general uneasiness and oppres- 
sion, increased sensibility, not unlike a delusive feeling of high health and 
animation; pains about the navel; sometimes tremors and debility. The person 
is affected with derangement of the alimentary canal, more or less severe, indi 
cated by sickness and vomiting, flatulent noises in the bowels, and frequent 
loose, but natural stools; these symptoms being accompanied or succeeded by 
thirst, headache, languors, and cramps or twitches in the limbs, breast, and 
other parts of the body. Such derangements often occur after some irregu- 
larity to which the patient has not been accustomed, as a luxurious meal, an 
indulgence in wine, spirits, beer, or porter, the eating of pastry, or other indi' 
gestible food; or after being exposed to the night-air, or to cold and damp. In 
ordinary seasons, these ailments might be left to nature, or carried off by a 
gentle laxative. But in seasons and districts where cholera prevails or is ex- 
pected, no person, through fear of being thought whimsical, should neglect 
even very slight uneasiness, if the alarm be a false one, little harm is done; 
but if there be real danger to follow, it is of unspeakable consequence to have 
a medical man on the watch, to apply the remedies before the strength fails, 
and before the second stage, or that of collapse, comes on. Remedy, pages 
60, 127, 128, 139, 141, 236. 

CHOLERA INFANTUM.— See Symptoms, page 226. Remedy, 
page 226. 

CHOLERA MORBUS.— See Symptoms, page 225. Remedy, page 
226. 

CXHjIC.— Symptoms:— A. painful sensation spreading over the belly, and 
accompanied by a feeling of twisting or wringing at the navel. It is owing to 
spasms acting on the intestines themselves; and very frequently the skin and 
muscles of the belly are also drawn inwards and spasmodically contracted. 
These pains are very violent, unlike the transient gripings that occur in other 
affections of the bowels; and costiveness is a general attendant Vomiting is 
also present; any thing taken in the mouth is apt to be rejected, and bile is 
thrown up 



.N i M I "1 VMS OF DISEASES, 9 

Causes. — The causes of colic are various. It may arise from cold, from 
flatulence, from mechanical obstruction, from acrid matters taken into the 
stomach, from accumulation of faeces after long costiveness; it may also arise 
from passions of the mind. It is distinguished from inflammation of the 
bowels by the pain at times disappearing, by the absence of fever, and by pres- 
sure relieving the pain. Sometimes, however, long continued spasms induce 
Inflammation. Remedy, pages 41, 46, 127, 129, 197, 230, 277. 

CONSTIPATION OR COSTIVENESS.— The usual frequency of 
evacuating the bowels for persons in good health is once in twenty-four hours. 
The constitutions of different people vary in this respect; some having two or 
three motions in a day without any inconvenience or ill health; others not hav- 
ing above one or two in a week. When a person has habitually fewer motions 
than the generality of healthy people, he is said to be of a costive habit or con- 
stipated; and when he has at any time fewer than his ordinary rate, and when 
the faeces are hard, dry, and voided with diflSculty, he said to be costive or 
constipated. 

Causes. — Independently of medicine, it is not very easy to specify any diet 
or mode of living that universally predisposes to costiveness. Many articles 
have been blamed, and yet have been used by thousands without producing 
that effect. Rice in various modes of cookery; the finer kinds of bread; roast 
meat, eaten without a due proportion of vegetables; cheese; port and other dry 
wines; and indolent and sedentary life; and a sea voyage, are all known to 
occasion costiveness in certain individuals. In some infants this state is consti- 
tutional; and for some time, at least, appears to do them little harm. It is very 
apt to occur in children, as their volatility and playfulness cause them often to 
disregard the calls of nature, till a great and dangerous mass of feculent matter 
is accumulated in their bowels. The indolent and sedentary lives of females 
predisposes them much to costiveness. The structure of their pelvis also 
allows a larger mass to accumulate without inconvenience, from which circum- 
stance the faeces are deprived of almost all their fluid parts, and the remainder 
becomes dry, hard, and difficult to be voided. Persons ot the melancholic 
temperament; also those who are advanced in life, and those who take little 
exercise, are liable to become costive. Remedy, pages 46, 47, 135, 136, 
280. 

CONSUMPTION.— This disease is probably the greatest existing 
scourge of the human race, at least in the northern and middle latitudes. It 
is not deviating far from the truth to say that it causes about one-sixth or one- 
seventh of all the deaths north of the tropics. The duration of the disease is 
exceedingly variable. While some cases run their course to a fatal termination 
in less than a month, others have been known to continue thirty or forty years. 
The greater number of cases, as a rule, terminate in from one to two vears. It 
is pre-eminently a hereditary disease. 

Symptoms. — The earliest symptom of consumption that usually manifests 
Itself is a short, dry cough, exciting no particular attention, being attributed 
to a slight cold. It, however, continues, and after a time increases in frequency. 
The breathing is more easily hurried by bodily motion, and the pulse becomes 



M DR. CHASW 8 RECIPES. 

more frequent, particularly after meals and towards evening. Towards even- 
ing there is also frequently experienced a slight degree of chilliness, followed 
by heat and nocturnal perspirations. The patient becomes languid and indolent, 
and gradually loses strength. After a time the cough becomes more frequent, 
and is particularly troublesome during the night, accompanied by an expector- 
ation of a clear, frothy substance, which afterwards becomes ^more copious, 
'riscid, and opaque, and is most considerable in the morning; the sputa are 
often tinged with blood ; or haemoptysis occurs in a more marked form, and to 
I greater extent As the disease advances, the breathing and pulse become 
Inore hurried; the fever is greater, and the perspirations more regular and pro- 
fuse. The emaciation and weakness go on increasing; a pain is felt in some 
part of the thorax, which is increased by coughing, and sometimes becomes so 
acute as to prevent the patient from lying on the affected side. All the symp- 
toms increase towards evening; the face is flushed; the palms of the hands and 
the soles of the feet are affected with a burning heat; the feet and ankles begin 
to swell, and in the last stage of consumption there is nearly always profuse 
diarrhoea. The emaciation is extreme; the countenance assumes a cadaverous 
appearance, the cheeks are prominent, the eyes hollow and languid. Usually 
Ifhe appetite remains entire to the end, and the patient flatters himself with the 
hope of a speedy recovery, often vainly forming distant projects of interest or 
amusement, when death puts a period to his existence. Tubercular deposits 
are also usually found in other organs of the body; the liver is enlarged and 
?)hanges in appearance, and ulcerations occur in the intestines, the larynx, and 
irachea. These are so frequent and uniform as to lead to the belief that they 
'orm part of the disease. 

Games.— The causes of this disease are divided into remote and exciting. 
Of the former, the most important is hereditary predisposition. It is not, how- 
ever, an actual cause of the disease; and hence there are many cases in which 
the children of consumptive parents do not fall a prey to this disease; but it 
renders those who are in that condition much more liable to be affected by the 
exciting causes. Whatever weakens the strength of the system, or interferes 
with the oxygenation of the blood, tends to the production of this disease. 
Hence living in bad air, insufficient and unwholesome food, and sedentary pur- 
suits, tend to it. Among the more exciting causes are exposure to cold or 
damp, especially after the body has been heated, intemperance of any kind, 
profuse evacuations, and exposure to the reception of dust into the lungs, as in 
the case of certain artificers, needle-pointers, stonecutters, and the like. Rem- 
edy, pages 101, 109, 110, 112, 113, 117, 118, 125, 184. 

CONVULSION PITS OF CHILDREN.— When we speak of con- 
vulsions, or convulsion fits, we most commonly mean epilepsy; and principally 
that species of it which occurs in very young children. 

Symptoms. ■>— In some cases convulsions come on suddenly, at other times 
the attack is gradual, and the first symptoms elude the observation of the 
attendants. In the sudden attack, the child, previously quite well, becomes 
tivld in a moment; his eyes and features are contorted, and the limbs and 



SYMPTOMS OF ]Jl::EAt:t:c. !I 

whole body are violently agitated. These symptoms end by the patient falling 
Into a state of insensibility, which in some cases proves fatal, and in others 
goes gradually off. In those cases where the attack is milder and more gradual, 
the child shows some degree of uneasiness; he suddenly changes color, his lips 
quiver, his eyes are turned upwards, and he stretches himself out, or his hands 
become clenched. Sometimes there is a rapid succession of fits; sometimes 
the intervals between them are long. Convulsions vary also in their degree of 
violence. Before the fatal termination of many of the diseases of infancy, 
convulsions occur, and appear to be the cause of death. Hence, their taking 
place after long or serious illness, may be considered as an indication of 
approaching death. Buc a single fit may destroy an infant. When the return 
of the convulsions is not suspended within forty-eight hours after active treat- 
ment has been adopted, there is reason to dread either a sudden fatal termina- 
tion, or a long protraction of the disease. In this latter case, if the infant does 
not become emaciated, there is a probability of his eventual recovery, even 
although he had been blind and insensible for days or weeks. In some rare 
cases, though the health be restored, imbecility of mind remains. If emacia- 
tion attend the protraction of fits, the living powers at last give way. 

Causes. — Convulsions arise from any thing capable of strongly irritating 
the nervous system; hence infants and young children, whose nervous system is 
so very delicate, and who are exposed to so many causes of irritation, are by far 
the most frequently affected with convulsions. These may arise from worms 
in the intestines, from certain kinds of food disagreeing with the child, from 
acidity, from wind; and, with remarkable frequency, from teething. Another 
cause of convulsions in children is the too sudden disappearance or going in of 
a rash or eruptive disorder. Children very frequently are seized with convul- 
sions just before the appearance of small-pox ; and in some cases, though very 
rarely, they occur before the appearance of measles. The general irritation 
arising from want of cleanliness, living in foul air, etc., may give rise to con- 
vulsions. Sometimes they are only the symptoms of a more deep and violent 
disease, as of water in the head, or growth of bone within the skull. In this 
case oui attention is to be directed to the original disease; the symptoms and 
treatment of water in the head will be detailed in their proper place. Rem- 
edy, page 232. 

CROUP. — Symptoms: — In what is known as fahe croup the child coughs 
for two or three days, running at the nose, slight cold at first; or -these symp- 
toms may be absent. Between 10 and 12 o'clock at night may occur a sudden, 
loud, barking cough, whistling breathing, breathing hard, face flushed, great 
restlessness, skin hot and dry, pulse fast, lasts from 1 to 3 hours; patient 
generally gets well,— subject to return ot disease. 

In true croup the symptoms are: cold in head; hoarse, diy cough; voice 
hoarse, spittle frothy, membrane comes off when child vomits, breathing rapid, 
and the chest is quiet, the breathing being done by the bowel muscles; nostrils 
dilated, spasms of throat, and child throws itself from side to side; eyes wild; 
face anxious, fingers and [lips blue, between spasms of throat, child is quite 



« DB. CHASE'S RECIPEa. 

pulse, 110 to 190. If symptoms lull, do not think child Is better, for usually, 
they will recommence. Disease lasts from 2 to 14 days, and 19 out of 20 die. 
REifEDY, pages 105, 106, 107, 210. 

DELIRIUM TREMENS.— -%TOj9<oms.— This is a disease consisting 
essentially of excessive irritability and exhaustion of the nervine functions. 
Physicians term it Delirium Tremens, from the abberation of mind and the 
universal shaking of the body which characterise it. It is generally caused by 
excessive and long continued abuse of ardent spirits; or by their sudden with- 
drawal; but it may arise from any cause which exhausts the brain, or excites 
the nervous system for a length of time. 

Symptoms. —The attack of this complaint is more or less sudden in differ- 
ent instances. For a few days at its commencement, the patient is merely 
incapable of his ordinary duties and exertion ; a constant restlessness, debility, 
and inappetency, and occasional vomiting take place, with dullness and dejec- 
tion of spirits, and headache. Vague suspicions are entertained of approaching 
danger, and he is haunted by visions and figures. Delirium generally accom- 
panies these hallucinations, and the patient is always looking about, apprehen 
sive of being seized, and distrusting every one who approaches. He is sensible 
for a moment when reasoned with, but soon reverts to his delusions. The 
pulse is quick, but soft, the skin cool or perspiring, and the pupil dilated. 
Remedy, page 190. 

DIABETES. — Symptoms. — The name of a disease in which the urine 13 
exceedingly increased in quantity. The normal amount of urine passed every 
twenty-four hours is about fifty fluid ounces, while in diabetes the patient will 
often pass from three to five gallons of pale colored urine within that time, and 
contains a great portion of sugar. There is great thirst and a voracious 
appetite, with wasting of the body; and the quantity of the urine far exceeds the 
food and drink taken in. Young persons are rarely attacked with this disorder, 
The most frequent subjects of it are those in middle age or in the decline of life, 
or who have made a free use of wine in their earlier years. It happens to persons 
of both sexes, and it is not easy to point out any particular constitution that is 
subject to it, or to say that any other disease is a forerunner of it. Dissection 
throws little light on the nature of this complaint; but it is now believed to be 
owing to a distinct lesion of the nervous system. Diabetes comes on insidiously 
without any previous disorder; it may continue for a long time without much 
emaciation, and it is commonly the great thirst and voracious appetite that first 
call attention to the disorder that is going on in the system. Severe headache 
is also a symptom of some importance. The emaciation is probably connected 
with increased metamorphosis, as indicated by the increased secretion of urea 
and phosphates. Sometimes, in the progress of the disease, the stomach is 
considerably deranged, the skin becomes dry, parched and scaly, and there is 
a sense of weight and pain in the urinary passages. When the disease has 
continued long, there is extreme emaciation, debility, and the usual symptoms 
of hectic fever. Remedy, pages 176, 177, 184, 178-180. 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. 



^8 



DIAERHCEA, OR LOOSENESS OP THE BOWELS.— A dis. 
ease consisting of more frequent and liquid evacuations by stool than usual, 
with griping and occasional vomiting. It is distinguished from dysentery by 
the absence of painful and ineffectual straining, and by the stools not consis^ 
ing of blood and mucus. 

Causes.— Tha causes of diarrhoea are many and various. 1. Cold applied 
to the whole body is not an unf requent cause, and cold applied to the feet 
alone, in very many cases, produces diarrhoea. 2. Diseases of other parts of 
the body give rise to diarrhoea, as happens to infants while teething, and to 
persons who have a paroxysm of gout. 3. Certain emotions of tlie mind, par- 
ticularly fear, are known to cause diarrhoea. 4. Certain articles of food taken 
into the stomach produce looseness. 5. Certain secretions of the body itself 
poured into the intestines, cause a laxity of them. In this way, heat is prob- 
ably a cause of diarrhoea by first stimulating the liver; the increased secretion 
from which excites that from the small intestines, and looseness is the result. 

Looseness should not be rashly checked. From the great variety of causes 
inducing diarrhoea, Jt must be obvious that it would be impossible to lay down 
any plan of cure that would apply to all cases, and it is often a matter of doubt 
whether it should be meddled with at all; thus, when from a surfeit, either in 
quantity, or from taking improper articles of food, a diarrhoea is produced, a 
wise physician will consider it as a salutary effort of nature to get rid of what 
would be noxious if retained; and he will allow it to go on for a time, taking 
care to watch that it does not come to excess. Remedy, pages 60. 127, 
128, 138, 139, 277. 

DIPHTHERIA.— The disease begins in the form of a whitish spot on 
one or both tonsils, unaccompanied at first by fever, and attended with only a 
trifling degree of uneasiness in swallowing. By and by this spot enlarges; its 
edges become of a florid color, fever steals on, and the act of swallowing 
becomes painful. A slough gradually forms, with evident ulceration at its 
edges; the fever increases, and headache and restlessness supervene. The partial 
separation of the slough, together with the rosy color of the edges of the ulcer 
with the moderate degree of fever for some days, promise a favorable issue 
But very unexpectedly, slowness of breathing, without either difficulty of 
wheezing takes place, with excessive and sudden sinking of the living powers; 
and it generally happens that within a day from this change the fatal event 
occurs; the breathing at first falls to eighteen respirations in the minute, then 
to sixteen, to twelve, and finally to ten or eight. Two other symptoms occa^ 
sionally attend the disease; the one is a most offensive smell of the breath, and 
the other is the sudden appearance of croup. The disease attacks people of 
various ages. Remedy, pages 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 107. 

DROPSY.— *%mp!!(?ms.— A disease, of which a very conspicuous symp- 
tom is the effusion of a watery fluid in certain cavities and cells, where it is 
not perceptible in the healthy state. Thus water may be accumulated in the 
ventricles of the brain, in the chest, in the belly, and the cellular texture gen- 
erally, giving rise to a train of symptoms, different in each particular case, and 
requiring particular modes of cure. Water effused in the ventricles of tho 



14 DB. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

brain is commonly the consequence of previous inflammation; and gives rise 
to a variety of distressiig symptoms, which generally prove fatal. Remedy, 
pages 45, 46, 161. 

DYSENTERY, OR BLOODY FLUX.— This is an inflammation of 
the mucous or lining membrane of the large intestine, of which the symptoms 
are frequent calls to &tool, with a scanty discharge of mucus, alone or mixed 
with blood. The stools are accompanied with copious discharges of wind, they 
generally exhibit a frothy appearance, and are often attended with a sense of 
scalding about the anus; the patient, after each evacuation, feels considerably 
relieved, and hopes, but in vain, to enjoy an interval of ease. Along with this 
affection of the bowels, there is great dejection of spirits, prostration of strength, 
thirst, gripiug pains, and loss of appetite, with fever in very acute cases. The 
disease varies in its duration; sometimes the patient sinks very rapidly, at other 
times lingers on for a long period, the slimy stools continuing, and being mixed 
with purulent and bloody matter from the ulceration of the bowels. 

Causes. — It is a disease very common in warm cHmates, and is to be 
ascribed to exposure to heat, alternated with cold and moisture, especially in 
swampy localities, or the banks of rivers. Whatever tends to congestion of 
the liver, such as intemperance, exposure, etc., in hot climates, will predispose 
to dysentery, by obstructing the return of the blood from the large intestines to 
the liver. Sometimes dysentery attacks soldiers epidemically, when they are 
encamped on marshy ground, with a burning sun over-head, and having hard 
night duty to perform; and the disease may prevail with such virulence that 
there is good reason for supposing it infectious under these circumstances. In 
ordinary cases it is not so. At the same time, every precaution should be taken 
to promote cleanliness, to remove from the sick every thing putrid and offens- 
ive, and to give f,s little unnecessary disturbance as possible. Remedy, pages 
60, 139, 196, 234. 

DYSPEPSIA OR INDIGESTION.— *Symi9to7ns.— These vary very 
much in different stages of the disease, and in different persons. In general 
the complaint begins with a sense of fullness, tightness, and weight in the 
stomach, sooner or later, after meals, and a changeable, diminished, or lost 
appetite. Occasionally, the appetite is craving, and when, in obedience to its 
promptings, a large meal is taken, there is pain in the stomach, with general 
distress and nervousness, and sometimes vomiting. Flatulency and acidity are 
common, with sour and offensive belching of wind; and very often there is a 
water-brash, or vomiting of a clear, glairy fluid when the stomach is empty. 
Dizziness is a prominent sjTnptom. There is a great deal of what patients call 
an "all-gone" feeling at the pit of the stomach, — a weakness so great at that 
particular spot that it is very hard to sit up straight. There is a bad taste in 
the mouth; the tongue is covered with a whitish fur; there is headache, heart- 
burn, palpitation at times, high-colored urine, and tenderness, now and then, 
at the pit of the stomach. The bowels are generally irregular, sometimes very 
netive, at other times loose, when portions of food are passed off undigested. 

Such are the symptoms in a case of simple disorder of the stomach, when 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. ic 

no other part of the system is materially involved. This is indigestion, *irell 
marked, and distressing enough ; but it is only a part of what is understood by 
a case of modern dyspepsia. In tJi.is, either the indigestion, in its course, dis. 
turbs and involves the nervous system, or the nerves become themselves dis- 
ordered, and produce the indigestion. Sometimes one happens, sometimes thfc 
other, it matters not which; both are present, — the affection of the stomach and 
of the nerves, in a case of thorough dyspepsia. To make out a full^ase, in its 
tormenting completeness, we must add to the above symptoms, great depression 
of spirits, amounting at times to complete hopelessness and despondency; a 
dread and fear of some impending evil; a lack of interest in passing events; 
unwillingness to see company or to move about; an irritable and fretful temper; 
i desire to talk of one's troubles, and nothing else; a sallow, haggard, sunken, 
and sometimes wild expression of countenance; a dry, wrinkled, and harsh 
skin, with unrefreshing sleep, disturbed by all sorts of annoyances and diffi- 
culties, such as shipwrecks, falls down precipices, and nightmare. 

The man who has all these symptoms, or any considerable portion of them, 
has dyspepsia, and is about as miserable as if all the sorrows of life were 
electrical currents, and were running through him continually. 

Causes. — Accidental fits of indigestion are of frequent occurrence, and 
arise for the most part from overloading the stomach with food, and indulging 
freely in wines, spirits, or other intoxicating lir^uors. Confirmed or chronic 
indigestion may depend on debility or want of tone of the stomach, or it may 
be caused by the lining or mucous membrane of this organ being in a state of 
irritation or chronic inflammation. Drinking large quantities of cold water 
while eating is a prevalent cause. Over indulgence of the sexual act is a 
predisposing cause. One of the most frequent causes of indigestion 
is not masticating the food we eat properly, by which such food is 
bolted, instead of being reduced to a natural pulp, thereby presenting to the 
digestive organs a hardened mass, which it has the greatest difficulty to oper- 
ate upon. Another cause is habitual inattention to diet, both as regards 
the quality and quantity of food, irregularity in the times of eating, drinking 
large quantities of warm, relaxing fluids, and using malt liquors too freely. 
A third cause is insufficient exercise; a fourth cause, impure air; and, beside 
these, there are numberless other causes, which in a greater or less degree 
exercise their baneful influence upon this vital and all-important function of 
our natures. Remedy, pages 59, 61, 135, 147, 148, 149. 

ECZEMA, OR HUMID TETTER. — This is a cutaneous disease, 
which is characterized by an eruption of small vesicles on various parts of the 
skin. These arise principally from some irritation, as from the heat of the sun 
or air in the summer season and in warm climates, as we see on the back of the 
hands and on the face; also on the neck and forearms in women. The eruption 
continues for two or three weeks, and there is not much internal disorder. 
Little can be done by medicine; much washing and rubbing is hurtful, and 
ointments and stimulants are to be avoided. Simple washing with tepid water 
relieves the smarting and tingling. Some persons have an eruption of this kind 
and even more severe, by the application of acrid substances; thus it occurs 
semetimes in grocers from handling sugar, and is then called the grocers' itch 



le DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

and masons and bricklayers may have it from the touching of lime. Similar 
eruptions are also produced by the irritation of blistering ointment, not only 
where the blister has been applied, but at some distance from it, and the erup- 
tion has a number of hard swellings and boils intermixed with it. The 
irritating cause must be removed, and emollient poultices applied to diminish 
the heat and uneasiness, and to bring the boils to a suppuration. Even a com- 
mon bread and milk poultice often or long applied to a place, has sometimes a 
similar effect. In this case, the poultice must be left off, and simple dressing 
applied. A course of alteratives and gentle laxatives will do much good, and 
the diet should generally be good and nourishing. Remedy, pages 97, 227. 

EPILEPSY, CONVULSIONS, OR PALLING SICKNESS.— 
A. disease of frequent occurrence, and arising from many various causes, con- 
sisting of convulsions of more or fewer of the muscles of voluntary motion, 
accompanied with a loss of sense, and ending in a state resembling deep sleep. 
Epilepsy suddenly attacks persons seemingly in perfect health; and going off 
after a certain time, the patients are left in their usual state. In some patients 
there is a very curious warning of the approach of an epileptic fit. Yrova. some 
point on the surface of the body, perhaps one of the fingers or toes, a sensation 
begins, as of a cold wind, or the creeping of an insect; which appears to pro- 
ceed to the head, and when it reaches that part, the patient is convulsed. This 
is called the aura epUeptica. In other cases, the patient fancies he sees a spectre 
approaching him, and the contact of this figure is the commencement of the 
convulsions. Whether there be any warning or not, a person thus attacked 
loses all power of sense and motion, and either falls or is thrown with convul- 
sions to the ground. In that situation, violent convulsions variously move the 
limbs and the trunk of the body, and frequently with more violence on one 
side than the other. In almost all cases, the muscles of the face and eyes are 
much affected, giving a very distressing and alarming distortion to the counte- 
nance. The tongue is often affected, and thrust out of the mouth; and by the 
convulsive action of the muscles which shut the jaw, the tongue is not unfre- 
quently severely wounded, and has been known to be almost bitten through. 
During the continuance of the convulsions, as the patient has not the power of 
swallowing, the spittle issues from the mouth, worked into a frothy state by the 
action of respiration. This is always an unseemly appearance, though by itself 
it is not to be greatly regarded. The convulsions remit for a few minutes, and 
are then renewed, perhaps with increased violence. In a little time, the con- 
vulsions cease altogether, and the person is in a state of complete insensibility, 
which remains for a considerable time. Gradually he recovers his senses, but 
has no distinct remembrance of what has passed from the first attack of th6 
paroxysm. The pulse and breathing are somewhat irregular and hurried dur* 
ing the fit, but soon return to their natural state. 

Causes. — In this, as in all nervous diseases, the explanation of causes is 
very difficult. The opposite causes of over-excitement and of debility are both 
known to produce epilepsy. Every thing that irritates the brain, or the mental 
faculties, which we, in our imperfect knowledge, believe to be dependent oa 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. 17 

the actions of tlie brain, has been known to produce epilepsy; thus an injury 
done to the skull, the growth of tumors in the internal parts of that cavity, 
splinters of bone scaling off in consequence of disease, and various alterations 
of structure which have been discovered after death in patients afflicted with 
epilepsy, give us just grounds for reckoning mechanical irritation among the 
causes of epilepsy. 

Beniarks — Persons subject to epileptic fits should be very careful to avoid 
excitement. Remedy, pages 165, 212. 

ERYSIPELAS, ROSE, OR ST. ANTHONY'S FIRE.— An 
inflammation of the skin, often spreading rapidly, and extending to the c«llnlar 
tisstte below the skin. The disease comes on with shivering, thirst, and other 
feverish symptoms, and soon affects some part of the skin with swelling, and 
redness of an uncertain extent, on which blisters very commonly rise. It 
attacks various parts of the body, and very frequently the face. At the begin- 
ning of the disease, there is confusion of head, and some degree of delirium; 
and there is not unfrequcntly considerable drowsiness. About the second or 
third day, a slight redness appears, which gradually spreads till it has occupied 
the whole of the face, and from the face it extends to the scalp, and down the 
neck. The redness does not continue equally bright on all the parts affected, 
but fades a little on those where it began. Tlie swelling is considerable, end 
sometimes so great as to disfigure the countenance, and to shut up the eyes. 
Blisters of various sizes, containing a thin yellowish liquor, rise on several 
parts of the face. Where blistei-s do not rise, the skin scales off at the con- 
clusion of the disease. The fever and inflammation usually continue from 
eight to ten days. The severity and danger of the disease is to be judged from 
its effects on the brain. If there is much delirium and drowsiness, it portends 
great danger, especially when they appear early in the disease; but the absence 
of these symptoms is to be accounted favorable. Remedy, pages 58, 175, 
176, 183. 

FELON.— This is an abscess of the fingers, of which there are three 
kinds, — the first situated upon the surface of the skin, the second under the 
skin, the third within the sheath which contains the tendons of the fingers, and 
sometimes involving the covering of the bone. 

The latter form of the disease is the most terrible, and begins with redness, 
swelling, and a deep-seated and throbbing pain, which gradually becomes so. 
excruciating as to banish all sleep, and nearly drive the patient to distraction. 
Finally, matter forms and burrows in the deeper parts of the finger, and at, 
length finds an opening which brings relief. Remedy, pages 130, 164. 

GALL-STONESc— Concretions which form in the gall-bladder, and by 
their obstructing the passage leading from it to the intestines, prevent the bile 
from getting into them; hence jaundice is frequently produced. These gall- 
stones, when the obstruction is overcome, get down into the bowels, and are 
discharged by stool; then the disease abates, provided there is no other cause 
for it. The pain which gall-stones cause during their passage tlirough the gall- 
duct into the bowels is very intense, and is felt in the region of the liver, some- 
2 



18 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

times also extending to the right shoulder. The pain Is generally sharp, but It 
may be dull and aching; it comes on in paroxysms, is relieved by pressure, and 
is unaccompanied by fever. There is often vomiting of sour mattei , and if 
the flow of bile is completely obstructed by the stone, jaundice comes on, and 
the urine becomes very highly-colored. The best way to relieve these symptoms, 
which often appear very suddenlj', is to apply hot bran poultices assiduously, 
and to give a pill containing a grain of opium and J^ of a grain of tartar emetic, 
every 3 hours until relief is obtained. If there is much i etching or vomiting; 
the tartar emetic may be omitted. Remedy, page 191. 

GANGRENE (Mortification.)— Gangrene is the first stage of morti- 
fication, so-called from its eating away the flesh. Gangrene may be considered 
as a partial death — the death of one part of the body while the other parts are 
alive. 

Causes. — The causes are excessive inflammation, sometimes from hurts or 
injuries. 

Symptoms. — All pain and sensation ceases in the part; and, if extensive, it 
turns from red to purple, livid, or black, with a quick low pulse and clammy 
sweats. If internal, there is a cessation of pain, but the body sinks and 
changes to a livid color, and often hiccoughs and other distressing symptoms 
attend The face is pinched with cold, and the tongue brown. Remedy, 
page 234. 

GOITBE, OR BIG NECK.-5?/7n7>?oms. -A prominent, soft, elastic tum- 
or, occupying the front of the throat, in tlie situation of the thyroid gland, and 
like it in shape. It is not tender, and the skin is not discolored. In old cases, 
the tumor becomes hard. In some instances the tumor is so large as to push the 
gullet to one side. Remedy, pages 44, 45. 

GONORRHCEA.— See Gleet. 

CcOW.— Symptoms.— The symptoms considered as characterizing gout 
are the following: The patient has a peculiar uneasiness about the stomach; 
there is a degree of fever; pain and inflammation attack the joints of the hands 
arjd feet, and principally the ball of the great toe; the feverish symptoms abate 
after some days; and at distant and uncertain intervals, the same series of symp)- 
toms again occur. The paroxysms of gout generally come on in spring, when the 
vernal heat succeeds to the winter's cold; and according as this takes place 
sooner or later, and according as the patient is exposed to the changes of 
temp(!rature, so the period of attack will vary. The patient is affected with a 
<!('Lrree of languor or heaviness, the functions of the stomach arc disturbed; 
there is loss of appetite, flatulence or indigestion; the bowels are costive, the 
tongue loaded, and the urine high-colored and turbid. Remedy, page 136. 

GLEET, GONORRHCEA.— -%r»jo«oms.— A continued running or dis- 
( linrge, after the inflammatory symptoms of a clap have ceased. The discharge 
H commonly thin and clear, and is not accompanied with pain or scalding in 
making water. It proceeds from relaxation or debility of the parts, and is best 
cured by some astringent or stimulant application to them; and at the same 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. H 

time, the general health is to be promoted by the use of bark, Iron, and cold 
bathing The best local applications are those made of the sulphate of zinc in 
the proportion of 2 grs to the oz , or 1 gr. of corrosive sublimate to 6 ozs. of 
water, and they require to be pretty frequently thrown up. Tliey ought to excite 
a little pain on first being used. If wt; do not succeed by astringent injections, 
we may be obliged to use bougies, cither clean, or lightly touched with a little 
basilicon ointment. Balsam of Copaiba in the dose of 1 dr. 3 or 4 times a-day, 
or the tincture of cantharides, 10 drops as often, may be given internally, or 
the following combination may be used: Take of citrate of iron and quinine, 1 
scruple; tincture of cantharides, 1 dr.; water, 3 ozs. Mix. A dessert-spoonful 
3 times a day in a wine-glass of water If we find no benefit from the above 
recommendation, we judge that the gleet does not arise from mere relaxation of 
the parts or from liabit, but from unhealthy action of the glands in the urinary 
passage, and we attempt the cure of this by bougies, and by blisters to the per 
ineum. If the constitution is scrofulous, the remedies for that disease must be 
conjoined with our local applications. Another cause of gleet is strictures in the 
urethra. In such cases our attention is to be directed to the cure of the strict- 
ures, for which we refer to that article. Sometimes a gleet is complicated with 
discharges of the seminal fluid; where this occurs in an originally bad consti- 
tution, which has been weakened by excesses, the sexual powers of the patient 
are much impaired, and may even be altogether destroyed. Remedy, pages 
205, 206, 207, 208, 209. 

GRAVEL, OR STOWE are the names applied to the diseases which are 
occasioned by concretions in the urinary passages. Gravel signifies small stones 
that pass from the kidneys through the urethra into the bladder cau.sing severe 
pain, hence the disorder induced in such cases is called a/? of gravel. Stone isa 
calculous concretion in the kidneys or in the urinary bladder, which is too large to 
pass, or at least without great difiiculty. The symptoms to which such concre- 
tions give rise are of the most painful kind, and occur so frequently, as to 
become objects of very considerable interest. There are so many different 
salts contained in the urme, that it does not appear wonderful that occasionally 
they should fail to be kept in complete solution When this is the case, and 
when a nucleus is formed, they concrete around it, and by their getting into 
narrow passages, or pressing upon delicate organs, they occasion the severe 
symptoms of stone or gravel A Fit of the Gravel is accompanied by a fixed 
pain in the loins, a numbness of the thigh on the side alfectcd. sickness and 
vomiting, and sometimes slight diminution of the quantity of urine. Some, 
times the acutencss of the pain occasions faintings and convulsion fits. These 
violent and i)ainful affections are generally terminated by the passage of small 
stones through the urethra; and the patient is for the time easy. In those who 
are much di-sposed to gravel, these attacks may be expected again, at uncertain 
intervals. 

When there is Sto7ie in the Bladder, the symptoms are, a frequent inchna- 
tion to make water, which flows in small quantity, and is often interrupted: 
and there is generally pain at the extremity of the passage, e.'^pecially as tlie 
last drop are expelled, and for some time afterwards. Remedy, page 48. 



20 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

HA Y-F EVER. — Hay-asthma, and summer bronchitis, is a disease which 
occurs about the time of the hay harvest, and appears to be caused by the pol 
len of some wild plants getting into and inflaming the bronchial passages 
This theory is supported by the fact that those who live in situations where 
there is little or no vegetation do not suffer from it. 

Symptoms.— KAi^cvXij of breathing, and a burning sensation in the throat, 
are the chief characteristics of this affection. Remedy, page 235. 

HEADACHE,— Pain, heaviness, or oppression about the head is a very 
frequent occurrence, and arises from a great variety of causes. It is symp- 
tomatic of disorders of the stomach and bowels; and in such cases it often 
proceeds to a very distressing height. We judge headache to arise from dis- 
orders of the stomach when the tongue is whitish, and slightly coated, with the 
edges of a pale red color. The patient has a dimness and indistinctness oi 
sight, he has a dull pain or weight in the head, with some confusion, and he is 
somewhat giddy. The pulse is languid and feeble, but not very frequent. 
There is a degree of sickness and irritation about the stomach. There is a 
coldness and numbness about the fingers; and the patient becomes, what, in 
common language, is called nervous. This kind of headach>,- commonly occurs 
in the early stages of digestion. It is best relieved by an emetic, but this is a 
remefly which should not be employed very often. Remedy, pages 44, 74, 
107, 108, 139, 183. 

HEARTBUTIN. — Symptoms. — A disagreeable sensation proceeding from 
acidity in the stomach, from which there are frequent belchinffs of sour flatu- 
lence, or discharges of water with a burning heat at the pit of the stomach. 
It is a very pertinacious symptom, and is not easily removed; it has its chance 
of abatement or cure like the other symptoms of indigestion, by air, exercise, 
and proper diet; but it is also to be palliated by giving such substances as will 
combine with an acid in the stomach, and form a tasteless and innoxious salt. 
Remedy, pages 108, 244. 

HEART HIS'EA.^'E.— Symptoms.— Oi all the diseases of the heart the 
general symptoms are nearly the same. Respiration habitually short and con- 
strained; palpitations and stiflings invariably produced by the motion of ascent, 
by rapid walking, by mental emotions, and returning even without known 
cause; frightful dreams, and interruption of the sleep by sudden startings; 
occasionally the symptoms described under the name of angina pectoris; and, 
lastly, a cachectic paleness, with tendency to leucophlegmatic effusion, which 
eventually appears, are all symptoms which, to a greater or less extent, occur 
in persons affected with disease of the heart. Remedy, pages 85, 108, 244. 

HEMORRHAGE. — Hemorrhage from the lungs may easily be dis- 
tinguished from that of the stomach, as in the latter case the blood is vomited 
up, usually in large quantities, of a much darker color and more or less mixed 
with the contents of the stomach, whereas the blood from the lungs is of a florid 
color, is thrown up in small quantities, by coughing or hawking, and is more 
or less mixed with a frothy mucus. If bleeding from the stomach be but slight, 
P- few drops of common table salt and vinegar may be sufficient to suppress it; 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. '*/! 

alum water may also be given. If these fail give a strong ten of the beth root 
The bugle weed is also good — a strong tea, made from its leaves, to be taken 
cold during the day. Remedies — Hemorrhage of lungs, pages 48, 50, 
188, 189; nose, pages 84, 85, 188, 189; uterus, pages 48, 179, 281. 

HERNIA, OR RUPTURE.— Tiiis signifles the displacement of any 
of the internal organs from their natural situation, but it is more commonly 
applied to tliat disease which arises from tlie bowels getting through some of 
the apertures designed for the transmi><sioii of other organs. When the parts 
of the bowels or omentum which have prolruded can be replaced by change of 
posture or by the nand, the hernia is said to be reducible, when it is not, it is 
called irredticible hernia; and when dangerous or painful symptoms are brought 
on by its being constricted, it is said to be slrang-ulated. 

Ruptures are inconvenient and dangerous in proportion to their bulk, to 
the place where they occur, and to the stricture or pressure they undergo. 
Remedy, pages 197, 234. 

HYDROPHOBIA. — Symptoms — The symptoms of hydrophobia are 
the following: Tlie bitten part begins to be painful, tlien there ensue uneasi- 
ness, restlessness, heaviness, a desire to be alone, sudden starting, pain, spasms, 
disturljcd sleep, and frightful dreams. These sym])toms increase, pains dart 
from the wounded place to the throat, with a sensation of choking, and dread 
at the sight of liquids. . The person can swallow solids, but anything in a fluid 
form causes him to start back with horror; and the most painful convulsions 
are excited by any application of it to his throat or lips. In the course of thu 
disease, vomiting comes on, with great thirst, dryness and roughness of t)ir 
tongue, hoarseness, and a continual discharge of saliva. This saliva is very 
thick and viscid, and the constant efforts to get rid of it are very distressing. 
There is great watchfulness, a dislike of light and air, difBcult breathing; in 
some ca-ses, delirium occurs, but in others the judgment is unimpaired. The 
pulse l)ecomes tremulous and irregular, convulsions arise, and the patient sinks 
exhausted, about the third or fourth day from the first appearance of tlie 
symptoms. Remedy, page 243. 

HYSTERIA, HYSTERICS, OR FITS. — A disease presenting 
many alarming appearances, though the danger to life is by no means in pro- 
portion to the violence of the symptoms. It is chiefly confined to the female 
sex; and of them it principally attacks the high fed, the luxurious and the 
idle; also those who are addicted to the use of malt liquor or distilled spirits. It 
chiefly occurs between the age of 15 and 40; though in those who are peculiarly 
disposed to it, it may continue beyond the latter period. Hysteria is far morfc 
frequent at the monthly period than at other seasons. In those who are 8ul> 
jected to hysteria, it is very readily brought on by emotions of the mind, and 
especially by any surprise; and by long continuance of the disease, persons are 
brought to so morbid a state of sensibility, that the slightest noise or external 
impression a.gitates and alarms them. Remedy, page 233. 

IMPOTENCY. — Impotency means incapacity in the male to perform 
sexual intercourse. This may arise from physical or moral causes, some of 



23 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

•which are remediable, while others are not so. The loss of both testicles, or 
organic disease in them to a great extent, will render a man impotent for life; 
fear, weakening diseases, excessive drinking and smoking, may again make 
him temporarily incompetent. A skillful and kind pliysician sliould always be 
consulted where real or fancied incapacity exists, and under no circumstances 
whatever sliould advice be sought from advertisers of cordials, balms, restora- 
tives, etc. Remedy, pages 180-183. 

INPAlSTTtLE ERYSIPELAS.— See Erysipklas. 

JAUNDICE. — This is a symptom of a disease, and not a disease, and 
depends upon the absorption of bile into the system from various causes. It is 
characterised by auniversid yellowness of the skin, and of the white of the eye8; 
itching of the surface of the body, a white or claylike appearance of the stools; 
while the urine tinges linen of a yellow color. The disease is attended by a sense of 
weariness and languor, a feeling of pain or uneasiness about the pit of the stomach, 
and there is sonvetimes a slight difficulty of breathing. There is also sickness, 
vomiting, sourness of stomach, and various other symptoms of indigestion. 
There is sometimes an acute pain on the right side, below the margins of the libs. 
Tliere is not, in general, much fever. It is a vulgar error to believe tliat patients in 
jaundice see objects of a yellow color. Remedy, pages 161, 201, 202, 203. 

KIDNEYS, rPTPLAMMATION OT .— Symptoms.— K weakness in 
the small of the back, and a dull, heavy pain in the kidneys. The urine is 
passed often, and in small quantities. It is alkaline, — sometimes white and 
milky, — and has in it deposits of phosphate of hme, and triple phosphates. 
Remedy, page 252. 

LIVER, INFLAMMATION OF.— ^^irmp^oww.-These are sympathetic 
fever, with pain, and a sense of tension in the right side, inability to lie on the 
left side, difficulty of breathing, a dry cough, vomiting, and hiccough. 

The pain is acute and lancinating generally, though sometimes dull and 
tensive. When sharp, it is like the stitch of pleurisy, and it indicates that the 
peritoneum which covers the liver is inflamed. When dull, it is the body of 
the organ which is suffering. When the convex surface of the liver is the seat 
of the disease, the pam is apt to run up to the right collar-bone, and to the top 
of the right shoulder. Breathing, coughing, and lying on the left side, increase 
the pain. A soreness is felt by pressing over the liver. The pulse is full, hard, 
and strong, the bowels are costive, and the stools are clay colored, owing to not 
being tinged with bile, — this having stopped flowing. The tongue is covered 
with a yellow, dark brown, or even black coat, and there is a bitter taste in the 
mouth Remedy, page 245. 

LUNGS, INFLAMMATION OP.— When the substance of the lung 
Itself is inflamed, the disease is termed pneumonia; and the word pleurisy or 
pleuritis is restricted to inflammation of the pleura, i. e., the membrane which 
envelopes the lungs, and lines the inner surface of the ribs. Sometimes both 
parts are affected, and then the term pleuro-pneumonia, is used. For all prac- 
tical purposes, the inflammation of these various parts may be included under 
one common name. 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. 23 

Symptoms. — The disease comes on with coldness and shivering, and other 
symptoms of beginning fever, then the heat of the body is incirased, the pulse 
becomes more frequent, full, and strong, and there is v'ery marked difficulty of 
breathing, especially when tlie patient attempts to draw in a full breath. The 
pain is generally greater when the patient lies on the side affected, but some- 
times the contrary is the case. The pain is felt most commonly on one side, 
and some have supposed that the left side is more frequently attacked than the 
right, but this does not appear to be correct. Sometimes the pain is felt at the 
lower part of the breast, sometimes in the back, between the shouHcrs; the 
pain is commonly fixed in one spot, but sometimes shoots from the side to the 
shoulder, back, or breast, and snch sliooting pains are called in common lan- 
guage stitches. The disease is always accompanied by cough; and this cough, 
in every case, is attended with rery considerable pain at the beginning of the 
disease, it is dry, but soon becomes somewhat moist, and the matter spit up is 
streaked with a little blood. Rt^mttot, pages 249, 250. 

MEASLES,— See Symptoms, pages 210, 220; Rehtedy, pages 220, 
221, 222. Malignant Measles, page 221. 

MUMPS.— See Sympkrmft, page 228; Remedy, page 228. 

NEURALGIA. — (Neuralgia, nervous headache sometimes called), means 
pain in a nerve, and is generally of an excruciating, darting kind, but without 
any heat or srvelling in the part. Neuralgic pairw affect Tarious parts of the 
body, but are most common in the hc»d. Rkjtetdy, pages 78, 74, 76, 76. 

PAINTERS' COLIC. -See page 2SO. 

PALSY.— PARALYSIS.— ..'*r;n»jTrw»».— Sometimes there are no pre. 
monitory symptoms; but often before the attack there are flushed face, swelling 
of the veins about the head and neck, vertigo, a senw of fullness, weight, and 
sometimes pain in the head, ringing in the ears, dro^-^ness, indistinct articula- 
tion of words, or even loss of speech, confusion of mind, loss of memory, and 
change of disposition, — amiable persons being made sullen and peevish, and 
irritable ones miW and simpering. After the attack the countenance acquhes a 
vague expression; the mouth is drawn to one side; the lower lip on the palsied 
side hangs down, and the spittle dribbles away. The speech i« altered, and the 
mind is generally impaired. 

In some instances the patient recovers in a longer or shorter time; in others 
little or no improvement takes place, and the patient, after remaining helpless, 
often for a tong time, dies either from gradual exhaustion, or suddenly from 
apoplexy. Remedy, pages 130, 239. 

PILES.— Painful tumors in the neighborhood of the anus. Sometimes 
they are situated externally, and are found in clusters, hard, painful, and giving 
great inconvenience by tlicir preventing the person from sitting; at other times 
they are within the gut, and are forced outwards with great pain when the 
patient goos to stool. Sometimes they are situated so far up, that they du not 
appear externally at all, but indicate their presence by very great pain, or by 
the diechai^ of bkx)d. Sometimes the pain attending piles is less, aiid the 



24 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

principal inconvenience attending them is the discharge of blood, either ^tty 
constant, or when a person goes to stool. In some cases very large quantities 
of blood are lost in this way. Sometimes, instead of blood, a whitish fluid is 
discharged. 

Causes. — Few persons who have attained middle age are totally free from 
piles, but in some they are more troublesome, and require more attention than 
in others. Those who are frequently in a standing posture, who are subject to 
costiveness, and those who are much in the habit of taking purgative medi- 
cines, especially of aloes, are very liable to have piles. Pregnant women are 
very often troubled with piles. Whatever tends to prevent the blood from cir- 
culating freely through the veins of the intestines will produce piles; hence 
affections of the liver are a common cause of the complaint, especially in hot 
countries where that organ is apt to be congested. Remedy, pages 141, 161, 
185, 186, 187, 188. 

PLEUBISY.— /S^mpforas. —This disease is most frequently introduced by 
sMverings, which are soon succeeded by high fever, with a peculiarly hard, 
resisting pulse; sharp, stabbing -^aiu in the side, — generally just below the nipple, 
but sometimes extending to the shoulder, arm-pit, and back; hurried and inter- 
rupted breathing; and a short, dry cough 

The paiu is greatly aggravated by motion, coughing, or an attempt to 
take a long breath. It holds the patient under constant and powerful 
restraint. We find him lying upon his back, or his well side; his countenance 
full of anxiety, — fearing to move, cough, or even breathe needles.sly; and often 
crying out from the keen torture these necessary acts inflict in spite of all his 
cautioa 

At a more advanced stage, when the tenderness has somewhat abated, he 
will prefer to lie on the diseased side, as this leaves the healthy lung more at 
Hberty. Remedy, page 191- 

POISONING ACCIDENTS.— Accidents from poisons are of such 
common occurrence, that every person should know the proper remedies, and 
not be obliged to wait the arrival of a physician before the proper corrective is 
applied. The symptoms are different in different poisons, but as prompt action 
and not symptoms, are necessary, we give the most common remedies, with the 
methods of applying them, under the proper heads. Remedy, pages 47, 62, 
83, 94, 216. 

QUINSY.— IISTLAMMATION OF THE THROAT.— This kind 
of inflammatory sore throat generally commences with cold chills, and other 
febrile symptoms. There is fullness, heat, and dryness of the throat, with a 
hoarse voice, difficulty of swallowing, and shooting pains towards the ear. 
When examined, tlie throat is found to be of a florid red color, deeper over the 
tonsils, which are swollen and covered with mucus. As the disease progresses 
the tonsils become more and more swollen, the swallowing becomes more pain- 
ful and difficult, until liquids return through the nose, and the viscid saliva is 
dischai-ged from the mouth. Very commonly the fever increases also, and 
there is acute pain of the back and limbs. 

Causes. — Exposure to cold, wearing damp clothes, sitting in wet rooms, 
getting wet feet, coming suddeul} out of a crowded and heated room into tha 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES 25 

open and cold air. It may also be brought on by violent exertion of the voica 
and by suppressed evacuations. Remedy, pages 99, 154. 

RHEUMATISM. — Symptoms. — A painful affection of fibrous and mus- 
cular tissues, affecting principally the larger joiuts, and places covered by 
muscles; thus it affects the wrists, the elbows, the knees and hip- joint, and the 
back and loins. The internal parts also, as the heart and diaphragm, are con- 
sidered to be capable of being affected by rheumatism. "When the joints about 
the back and loins are affected, the complaint is called lumbago; when the pain 
is in tlie hip joint, it is called sciatica; and pleurodyne, or pain in the side, 
when the muscles of the cliest are affected. Rheumatism may occur either 
with fever or without it; in the first case it is termed acute, and in the second 
chronic rheumatism. 

Not long after the application of the exciting cause, the patient feels pain 
and stiffness in one or more joints when he attempts to move them; this quickly 
increases, till motion becomes almost impossible, from the excessive pain 
attending it. Along with this local, and often very general .pain, there occurs 
very strong fever, much thirst,heat, and dryness of skin, strength, fullness, and 
hardness of pulse. The tongue has a white coating, but is red at the tip and 
the sides, and there is often profuse perspiration with a very sour smell. Tho 
appetite is deficient, but the bowels are often in their natural condition. Tho 
feverish symptoms are somewhat increased towards evening; and when the 
patient gets warm in bed, the pains are more severe. In a short time some of 
the joints swell, and the pain is a little relieved, but by no means removed. The 
pain is apt to shift from one joint to another, or at least several joints in suc- 
cession are attacked; and wlien the pain seemed to be going off, it sometimes 
unexpectedly recurs. 

Causes. — Rlieumatisra is a disease cf the constitution, and depends on a 
morbid state of the blood, or, to speak mora accurately, it is caused by a poison 
which circuhites In tlie blood, and is probably caiTied from one joint to another 
Tlje tendency to rheumatism is hereditary, and in some families this predis 
position is very marked, and the disease is excited by the most trilling causes. 
Cold and damp are the most common causes of this disease, and hence the pool 
suffer much from it. Thus, too, it is not an unfrequent disease with sportsmen, 
wiio,wii£ii liot uuii perspiring, are too apt to throw themselves down on the we* 
grass; and with travellers who sleep in damp and ill-dried sheets. Persons who get 
their clothes wet, and neglect to<;hange them, are often seized with rheumatism. 
Acute rheumatism is most common between the ages of fifteen and forty. It 
is not a dangerous disease as long as it is confined to the joints, but there is 
always the risk of the heart being attacked; a most dangerous complication, 
and most to be dreaded when the disease has long existed, and when there is a 
strong hereditary predisposition to it Remedy, pages 33, 30, 37, 88, 38, 
41, 42, 141. 

RICKETS.— %OTp<<wis.— This disease is an affection peculiar to child- 
tiood, and supposed to depend upon the action of the causes which favor the 
development of scrofula. The signs of rickets are, a softened gristly state of 
the bones, large joints, large head, prominent forehead, straightness of the riba 



^6 DR CHASE'S RECIPES, 

and flatness of the sides of the chest, prominent breast bone, looseness of text/ 
uro in the bones, crooked legs and distorted spine; many otlier symptoms ol 
scrofula are sometimes also present. This, like scrofula, disposes the system to- 
other diseases; th« treatment of rickets is nearl}' the same A3 that of scrofula, 
(which you will find in its proper place in another part of this work,) — rickets^ 
however, is a more curable disease, and less apt to continue after adult age. 
Remedy, page 192. 

.RINGWORM OR TBTT:EiR.— Symptoms.— This disease consists of 
minute water blisters, arranged somewhat in rings; it begins with slight redneset 
—small blisters form and are attended with a colorless fluid — these break in 
four or five days, and are covered with a thin brownish scab, which falls off 
about the eighth or ninth day, leaving a red surface, which gradually disappears. 
The eruption seldom lasts more than ten days, but it sometimes appears a second 
time, and continues for several weeks; it is always attended with itching 
smarting, and burning. It often appears on the face, neck and arm.s of children 
—and may be communicated by contact. Remedy, pages 103, 229. 

RUPTURE. — Sgmpioms (when it is reducible and not strangulated. 
A swelling in some part of the belly; this diminishes a little on pressure, buc 
returns when the pressure is withdrawn; it goes off when the patient lies down, 
and is increased by coughing. Patients with rupture are semietlmes tronWed: 
with indigestion; but frequently, all the functions of the albneatary cainal are- 
quite reg\ilar. When we succeed in getting up the bowels, thera ia comnaooly 
what is called a guggling noise. 

Causes. — There are some persons in whom ruptm-e takes place more easily 
than in others, and in whom it is constant. The reason seems t© be, that tlie 
parictes of the abdomen, or the neighborhood of the openings in it, are more 
lax and yielding in them than In others. It is commoa in warm climates, in. 
old people after long illnesses or debilitating fevers, and in the poor who have 
labored hard and been ill fed. The circumstance which immediately occasions 
ruptures, is generally some violent exertion, requiring a strong action of many 
muscles, especially those of respiration; hence ruptures are brought on by 
lifting or carrying heavy weights, jumping, running, vomiting, straining at 
Btool, the effort* of women in childbed; or by coughing, sneezing, crying,, 
laughing. Reaiedt, pages 197, 234, 

SALT RHEUM.— bee Eczema. 

SCARLET PEVER.—SCARLATINA.— -%7n^oms.— Either mfld, 
or malignant with putrid sore throat, exhibits different forms of a disease which 
is propagated by a specific contagion, like small-pox or measles, and like them is- 
believed by the best observers to attack a person only once during life; though 
the apparent exceptions to this remark are more numerous in scarlet fever, than, 
in the other diseases above mentioned. On the third or fourth day after expos- 
ure to the contagion of scarlet fever, a feverish attack occurs, and about the 
second day of this fever, a bright scarlet rash appears on the surface of the- 
body, and within the mouth and about the fauces. The scarlet fever varies- 
lAMch. in its degree of m^gnity and danger, even during the same epidemic; itt; 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. S7 

Bome cases being so slight as to go off without the aid of medicine; in others; 
being accompanied with symptoms of great and fatal putrescency. It will be 
proper to notice separately, the mild and fatal scarlet fever, and to describe 
some cases, in which the symptoms are irregularly combined, it being always 
remembered that "the malignant sore-throat maybe caught from a patient 
who has mild scarlet fever; and mild scarlet fever may, in like manner be 
contracted from one who is laboring under malignant sore-throat. These forms 
graduate insensibly towards each other " Remedt pages 52, 64, 256, 257, 
258. 

Mild Scarlet Fever.— The milder form of scarlet fever is distinguished 
by the rash, with a modentte degree of ferer, and with very little aftection of 
the throat The rash first appears in innumerable red points about the neck 
and face, an<l by the next day tliey are seen orer the whole surface of the body. 
The skin is rough to Um; touch, and sometimes there arc small vesicles. About 
the fourth day the erui>tioji is at its height, and on the fifth it begins to decline. 
Tlie surface of the mouth and fauces appears red, and little red points appear 
on the tongue rising up through the white crust which covers it, and when this 
crust con>es off, the whole is red and sore, and the points are still prominent, 
giving an appearance like a strawberry. There is sometimes considerable 
sweUing of the face and of the throat. Remedy, same as above. 

SCROFULA.— .9ywp/ows.— Scrofula and King's Evil, are names for a 
tedious and multiform di.sease, of which one of the most characteristic marks 
is a tendency to a swelling of glanduhir jmrts, which, when they come on to 
inflammation and suppuration, discharge an unhealthy, curdy, mixed matter, 
and form ulcers very difficult to heal. Remedy, pages 141, 142. 

SHINGLES.— 5yr»p/<nns.— A disease characterized by a number of vesi- 
cles, most commonly round the waist, like half a sash; but sometimes like a 
sword-belt across the shoulder. It very rarely surrounds the body completely: 
hence, a popular, but groundless apprehension, that if the disea.«ie goes round, 
it will be fatal. The disease is usually preceded, for two or three days, by 
languor and loss of appetite, rigors, headache, sickness, and a frequent pulse, 
with a heat and tingling in the skin, and shooting pains through the chest, and 
at the pit of the stomach. After these symptoms, more or less severe, there 
appear, on some part of the trunk, red patches of an irregular form, at a little 
distance from each other; upon each of which numerous small elevations 
api^>ear, clustered togetiier. In the course of twenty-four hours, they enlarge 
to the size of small pearls, and are filled with a limpid fluid. The clusters are 
surrounded by a narrow red margin. During three or four days, other clusters 
continue to rise in succession, and with considerable regularity. About the 
fourth day, the vesicles acquire a milky or yellowish hue, which is soon fol- 
lowed by a bluish or livid color of the bases of the vesicles, and of the con- 
tamed fluid. Several of them run together; and those which are broken dis- 
charge a small quantity of a serous fluid for three or four days; this concretes 
into thin dark scabs, which soon become hard, and fall off about the twelfth 
or fourteenth day. Where there has been considerable discharge, numerous 
pits are left. The feverish symptoms commonly subside when the eruption is 



28 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

compkted: but sometimes continue much longer, probably from the itching 
and smarting of the vesicles. Though resembling some other eruptive diseases 
in its rise and decline, it is not contagious, and persons may have it more than 
once The disease, in general, is slight and free from danger. Remedy, page 
192. 

SMALL-POX, — Symptoms. — The patient is seized with coldness and 
Bhiverings, which soon abate, and are then followed by a hot stage, lasting for two 
or three days; during which, children are liable to sickness and vomiting, to 
starting in their sleep, or to epileptic tits; and adults are disposed to sweating. 
Towards the end of the third day, the eruption appears, and increases during 
the fourth day. It commonly appears first on the face, then on the lower parts, 
and is completed over the whole body on the fifth day. The fever generally 
abates about the coming out of the eruption; the sickness, vomiting, fits, and 
other oppressive symptoms go off; and the patient is, for the time, free from 
uneasiness. The eruption appears in small red sjwts, hardly rising above the 
skin, but which by degrees form pimples. On the fifth or sixth day a small 
vesicle, containing a colorless fluid, appears on top of each pimple These get 
broader on the seventh day; and about the eighth are raised into round pustules. 
These pustules are surrounded witli a circular inflamed border; and as they 
increase in size, about tlie eighth day the face is considerably swelled, and the 
eye-lids are sometimes completely closed. The matter in the pustules now 
becomes thick and while, or yellowish, exactly resembling the matter of an 
abscess On the 11th day the swelling of the face subsides, and the pustules 
appear quite full. Remedy, pages 64, 68, 70, 71, 72. 

STOMACH, INFLAMMATION OP —Symptoms.— The symptoms 
of inflammation of the stomach are, acute pain, heat, and tension in the region 
of that organ, great increase of oain when anything is swallowed, vomiting, great 
and sudden depression of strength, a small pulse, thirst, restlessness and anxiely- 
Remedy. page. 251. 

ST. VITUS' DANCE.— /S^mpfoww.— This disease is chiefly confined 
to children and youth between the ages of eight and fourteen. But few cases 
occur after puberty. The complaint affects both the muscles and the limbs. 
It excites curious antics. A few of the muscles of the face or limb* 
begin their mischievous pranks by slight twitches, which, by degrees, 
become more energetic, and spread to other parts. The face is twisted into all 
kinds of ridiculous contortions, as if the patient were making mouths at some- 
body. The hands and arms do not remain in one position for a moment. In 
attempting to carry food to the mouth, the hand gets part way, and is jerked 
back, starts again, and darts to one side, then to th« other, then mouthwarc* 
again; and each movement is so quick, and nervous and darting, and diddling, 
that ten to one the food drops into tlie lap. If the attempt be made to run out 
the tongue, it is snatched back with the quickness of a serpent's, and the jaws 
snap together like a fly trap. The lower limbs are in a state of perpetual did- 
dle; the feet shuffle with wonderful diligence upon the floor, as if inspired with 
a ceaseless desire to dance. Remedy, page 130. 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. 2& 

STTN" STROKE.— %to;?<<?tos— This begins by thirst, dizziness, headache 
and sometimes there is vomiting or difHcult breathing. The symptoms, in fact 
are pretty much the same as apoplexy; the patient should at once be talcen into 
a cool shady place, and the first thing have a bucket of cold water poured slowly 
over his head, and, in all respects treat the case the same as a case of apoplexy 
Remedy, page 131. 

SYPHILIS. — Symptoms. — This disease is owing to a poisonous mattei 
introduced into the system by absorption, thus producing more poisonous mattei 
which in time corrupts all the fluids, and occasions many disorders in various 
parts of tlie body, and is generally the consequence of impure sexual inter- 
course. Remedy, page 204. 

THRUSH. — Symptoms: — Comes on in the mouth, may extend down the 
throat, never attacks the nose or lungs, child becomes fretful, mouth and throat 
red, inflamed and tender, vomiting and diarrhoea. The thrush consists of 
white points at first, which soon run together and become patches, they are 
slightly elevated, and look like white mould, or curdled milk, after the disease 
has run on for a shor^ time the patches have a yellowish color, it comes on in 
young children and is very dangerous unless properly treated. If the previous 
health of the child is good the case should be cured in three to six days. 
Remedy, pages 228, 296. 

TONSILITES-LPTFLAMICATION OP THE TONSILS. - 
Symptoms. — Tliere is more or less thickness of speech, caused by enlarged tonsils 
and liability to sore tltroat, or quinsy. The only symptoms are inflamed and 
enlarged tonsils. Remedy, pages 53, 140. 

TUMORS — SWELLINGS. — Are of various kinds, either of the 
whole body, or of particular members, or local and circumscribed. "Watery 
swellings of the whole body are seen in general dropsy, and the same aisease 
in its commencement occasions partial swellings, as of the lower extremities, 
or of the arms or face, according to the position of the body. Circumscribed 
swellings occur in various glands, as tho«e of the oeck, arm pit, or groins, 
chiefly in scrofulous constitutions; or they may arise from inflammation, the 
consequence of cold. The tonsils swell in sore throat, and occasion a fullness 
of the external parts of the throat; gum-boils iorm during toothache, and 
swell the cheeks; and the brnnchocele, or goitre, is an instance of a still more 
permanent swelling. The face, head, and limbs often swell exceedingly from 
various causes. 

Wen is the common popular name for an excrescence or tumor growing 
on any part of the body, and trequently applied to tumors about the throat and 
neck. Tumors are distinguished by surgeons according to tbe nature of their 
contents; and they require treatment varied according to circumstances. 
Remedy, pages 33, 96, 140, 210, 270, 296. 

TYPHOID, OR TYPHUS.— %OTptor72s.— The disease often has cau- 
tionary symptoms. For several days before its actual beginning, the patient 
droops. He may attend to his various duties, but does not seem well; he ia 
low-spirited and languid; is indisposed to any exertion of body or mind, has 



30 DR. CUASES UECIPSa. 

pains in the head, back and extremities; loses his appetite; and although dull 
and perhaps drowsy in the day time, his sleep is interrupted and unrefreshing 
at night. The immediate harbinger of the fever is a chUl often so marked as to 
cause violent shivering. 

The history of the fii-st week shows increased heat of the surface; frequent 
pulse, ranging from eighty to one hundred and twenty; furred tongue; rest- 
lessness and sleeplessness; headache and pain in the back; sometimes diarrhoea 
and swelling of the belly; and sometimes nausea and vomiting. 

The second week is frequently distinguished by an eruption of small, rose- 
colored spots upon the belly, and by a crop of little watery pimples upon the 
neck and chest, having an appearance of minute drops of sweat standing on the 
skin, and hence called sudamitia, or iioeat drops; the tongue is dry and black, 
or red and sore; the teeth are foul; there may be delirium and dullness of hear- 
ing; and the symptoms generally are more serious than during the first week. 
Occasionally, at this period, the bowels are perforated or ate through by ulcer- 
ation, and the patient suddenly sinks. 

If the disease proceeds unfavorably into the third week, there is low mut- 
tering and delirium; great exhaustion; sliding down of Uie patient towards the 
foot of the bed; twilching of the muscles; bleeding from the bowels; and red 
or purple spots upon the skin. 

If, on the other hand, recovery takes place, the countenance brightens; the 
pulse moderates; the tongue cleans, and the discharges assume the appearance 
they have in health. Remedy, pages 61, 62, 63,64, 65, 66, 67, 193. 

TYPHOIX) PNEUMONIA, OR TYPHOID LUNG FEVER. 
— This is an inflammation of the lungs, differing from the preceding only in the 
character of the fever attending it, which is of a low typhoid character. The 
disease, like typhoid fever, is characterized by great debility and prostration. 
There are a combination of the symptoms of pneumonia and of tj'phoid fever. 
The disease begins with great weariness, lassitude, dizziness, pain in the head 
back, and limbs. Soon there is much difficulty of breathing, tightness 
across the chest, with a dry, short, hacking cough. 

As the disease advances, the active symptoms pass away; there is a dull 
pain across the chest; drowsiness is very apt to come on, with the various 
symptoms of sinking peculiar to typlioid fever. The skin is harsh and dry, 
the temperature uneven, the tip and edge of the tongue red, and the middle 
covered with a yellow or brown fur. The bowels are tender, swollen, and 
drum-head-like; while there is often a diarrhoea, — the discharges having a dirty* 
yellow color. Remedy, page 193. 

ULCER — FEVER SORE.— When the nutrition entirely ceases in any 
portion of the body, the absorbents devour all the skin, flesh and vessels of the 
part— leaving an open cavity, the process of taking away the flesh, &c., is 
ulceration; the cavity left is an ulcer. Remedy, pages 99, 101, 236, 237, 
238. 

VARICOSE, ENLARGED OR KNOTTED VEINS.-In differ- 
ent parts, especially of the lower extremities, there are sometimes seen a num- 
l,^er of unequal knotty swellings, of a deep blue color, occasioced by portioD* 



SYMPTOMS OF DISEASES. 31 

of the veins being dilated. The cause of these swellings is the obstruction to 
4he free passage of the blood through the veins; hence tumors in the groin may 
«ause varicose veins of the legs; and the appearance of such veins is frequent 
in pregnant women, from the enlarged uterus and its contents pressing on the 
large trunks of the veins. Sometimes the complaint arises from general 
•debility, and from a sedentary life. When the distention is great, there is con- 
siderable pain; and the veins may be eroded, and cause a great discharge of 
blood; or troublesome and obstinate ulcers maybe produced. The pain and 
inconvenience of varicose veins are not great at first, and hence they are too 
«ften neglected till they become very difficult to cure. 

The varicose veins of pregnant women go off when they are delivered, 
jand require very little treatment, except attention to posture. In other cases a 
moderate pressure by bandages is requisite. An clastic stocking makes a good 
and equal pressure. Remedy, pages 235, 279. 

WATEE-BB.ASH.— 5j/mjr>toms.— This disease signifies the discharge of 
atbiu watery fluid from the stomach, with belchings, and a sense of heat at the 
rregion of the stomacli. It is not unfrequently one of the symptoms attending 
indigestion or stomach complaints, but it sometimes occurs as an original disease. 
It comes on in paroxysms, usually when the stomach is empty. The patient per- 
ceives a pain at the pit of the stomach, with a sense of tightness, and is increased 
i)y the erect posture. "When the pain has continued fdr some time, it is succeeded 
by belchings, and the discharge of a thin watery fluid, sometimes acid, but gener- 
ally tasteless. The belchings are repeated for a time, and then the fit goes off. 
"When the disease has once happened, it is apt to recur frequently for a long 
tune afterwards. It is most incident to persons of middle age; and to females, 
sometimes during pregnancy, sometimes when they are afliicted with the 
■whites. It is not always connected with any particular diet; but is excited 
often by cold applied to the feet, and by emotions of the mind. Remedy, 
page 229. 

WHOOPING, OR HOOPING COVGU.— Symptoms.— K catching 
or contagious disease, generally caught in childhood, between the ages of one 
and two years; has three stages: first stage, sneezing, cough and mild bron- 
•chitis, eyes slightly red, no spittle; this stage may last from three days to six 
•weeks. The second stage then sets in, child feels a tickling in throat, \rhich 
brings on a spasm of coughing, with tight feeling across the chest; child will 
put its head on its mother's knees or take hold of some fixed thing to help it 
during the coughing; pulse and breathing during the spasm are slightly faster; 
Die sound during the spasm of coughing is called the "hoop" or "whoop." 
The face becomes flushed during this period; as soon as the coughing is over 
the child's face, pulse and breathing become natural again; the child will spit 
<>«t a little frothy mucus; anger, fright, or exertion will bring on the cough. 
This stage lasts until the thirty-fifth day of the disease, when the third stage 
sets in. Spittle turns yellow and is thicker, cough becomes less and is neither 
3o frequent nor severe. Remedy, pages 125, 126. 

^0'EL'M.'&.— Symptoms.— When a child is afflicted with round worms, the 
face will become flushed and then pale, at irregular intervals; color leaden or 



32 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

bluish, lower eyelids swollen, and blue circle around them; thirst, sick stomacli, 
vomiting; appetite variable, breath foul, tongue red and covered with points, 
pulse fast and irregular, may have spasms, twitching of muscles, disturbed 
sleep, nightmare, headache, eyes dilated, cross eye, colic, grinding teeth in 
sleep, generally diarrhoea. The symptoms of thread worm aro not so pro- 
nounced; there is less fever, colic and nervous symptoms; the itching of the 
rectum is the most marked and prominent symptoms; the thread worm does 
not kill the patient, the round worm may. Never give worm medicine till 
the child has passed worms, and you have seen them. REArEDV, pages 134» 
143, 144, 145, 146, 147. 

Remarks. — There are 21 kinds of worms. We shall take up two only, as 
they are the ones usually found, The first, or round worm, is reddish o\ 
reddish-yellow in color, tapers at both ends, and looks like the common earth 
or "angle" worm; they are prone to move from one place to another in tht 
intestines, and may be found in the stomach. Each female worm lays about 
60 million eggs. The thread, maw, or pin worm is white, and looks like a 
piece of white sewing thread; they are found in the large intestine and the 
rectum, where they create intolerable itching. Tape worms inhabit the small 
intestines, and will not be treated of more fully, as no one should try to doctor 
themselves for their removal, but should go at once to their physician. 

YELLOW FEVER.— A dangerous fever, of the remittent and typhoid 
kind, common in the West Indies and America; and, with some little variety, 
occurring, too, often in Spain and Gibraltar. The yellow fever, like many 
others, attacks with lassitude and chilly fits, faintness, giddiness, and flushing 
of the face, thirst, pain in the eyeballs or forehead, pain in the back, scanty 
and high-colored turbid urine; irregular and diminished perspiration; the 
tongue is covered with a dark fur; the bile is secreted in unusual quantity, and 
being forced up into the stomach, is vomited; the skin is hot and dry. As the 
disease advances, the eyes become of a deep yellow, and the face and breast 
are of the same color; there is an incessant vomiting of frothy bile; great 
costiveness prevails, and delirium comes on. The fever sometimes remits so 
much about the end of thirty-six hours, that the patient thinks himself com 
paratively well; but the symptoms soon return with great aggravation, and 
extreme debility. In the last stage of the disease the debility is very great, and 
symptoms of universal putrescency occur; large livid patches are observed, the 
tongue becomes dry and black, the teeth are incrusted with dark fur, the body 
exhibits a livid yellow, blood flows from the mouth, cars, and nostrils, dark 
and fetid stools are discharged, hiccoughs come on, the pulse sinks, and death 
soon follows. The order and severity of tlie symptoms vary in different cases; 
some are seized very suddenly, and fall down insensible; others, for a few 
I'.ays, have the warning signs of costiveness, defect of appetite, pain in t]u» 
lioad, yellowness of the eyes, hoarseness and sore throat, lowness of spirits. 
Tn the great majority of cases there are evident remissions or intermissions 
All kinds of persons are affected by it, but those principally who are in tht. 
prime of life; men more frequently than women. People of color have tbt 
disease milder than others. Remedy, page 224. 



INTERNAL LOCATION OF THE ORGANS. 




«. Eaternal Tug- 
•Uu- Vein. 

*. DeHoid Mus- 
cle. 

#. Pmtoral Mus- 
cle — Suratus 
Magnus 

4. L4tt68unus 

Mus 

Diaphragm 

4. TV»a6versahs 
Mascle. 

/! jOrest of Ihum 

f. ^rtorius Mus- 

*. lliyroidGland 
•*. Trachea, o r 

Wiod-pipe. 

*. Rte^t Ventn- 
flft of Heart. 

/. Rinjt Auricle 
of Heart 

m. Vftx. Auricle. 

n.Ott^ne of Per- 
icardium, or 
Sac of Heart, 

#. Left Lung. 

/. Right Lung. 

9- 

r. Cardiac Orifice 
of Stomach. 

*. Kidneys. 

t. Uretus. 

w. Bladder. 



f. Flnt Ribs. 
«> Soodavian At. 
t^. .(right 



I. Apex of Heart 
3 . Lu mbar Glanda 

3. Left Ventrlel* 
of Heart. 

4. Coronary Ar- 
teries, 

5. Superior V««» 
Cava. (Vein.) 

6. Arch of Aorta. 

7. Left Pulmeoa- 
ry Artenr. 

8. Right — Veat 
Cava, or la- 
nomenata. 

5, Left — Vena 
Cava, or In- 
nomenata. 

10. Subclavian 
Vein, 

II. Interna! Jug- 
ular Vein. 

12. LeftCoipmoB 
CartoidArtery 

13. Brachial Ar 
tery. 

14. Pulmonary 
Veins. 

15. Descending 
Aorta. 

i6. Inferior Veaa 

Cava. 

17. Renal Vein. 

Right— Com. 

mon Iliat^Vcin. 

. Left,ComiBon 

Iliac Artery. 

i. Femoral Aa 

tervand Vein. 

. HepaticVeini 



IMIEXDIO-A^L I?,ECI:F>ES. 



SWELLINGS TO REDUCE — Liniment for. — Rum, spirits ot 
camphor and laudanum, each 1 oz. ; mix, shake "vvell and keep corked. Direc 
TiONS — Heat the mixture hot (when using) and bathe the swelling thoroughly, 
at least 3 times daily, by pouring into the hand and thorough rubbing in. For 
a pin-scratch, or .small pimple, a finger application will be sufficient. 

Remark. — This is claimed to reduce the worst swelling in a short time. 

RHEUMATISM, SPINAL AFFECTIONS, CANCERS, ETC. 

1 . Dr. "White's Remedy, or Liniment for. — Strongest alcoboi 
and spirits of turpentine, each 1 pt. ; camphor gum and saltpeter, each 1 oz. ; 
beef's brine, 2 qts. Dissolvethe camphor gum and saltpeter in the alcohol; then 
add the turpentine. Scald and skim the beef's brine, and when cold, add it. 
To be shaken when used. 

Remarks. — Dr. White, from whom this receipt was obtained, used it ex 
t«nsively, and with success, in weak backs and all other spinal affections, 
rheumatism, etc., and also claimed to hare cured several cancers with it. I 
have no doubt of its value for general purposes, nor have I a doubt that, if taken 
or cammenced early in the appearance of a cancerous growth, it may scatter it, 
and with an occasional active cathartic and the continued use of a go6d altera- 
tive, they may be cured. 

2. Kerosene, 3^ pt., and camphor-gum, 1 oz., cured a friend of mine, with 
whom I was acquainted for forty years; his fingers and hands were set nearly 
shut. Bathing his hands 3 or 4 times daily for 3 or 4 days made decided im 
provements, and finally cured them. 

CANCER— SUCCESSFUL REMEDIES.— Persons suffering with 
cancers may expect to find the following beneficial: 

1. Take a qt. bowl ajid fill half to two- thirds full of green sheep son-el, 
then fill with water; let it stand one hour, then mash to get the strength; to be 
drank daily. Use dry sorrel same as green, only steep in hot water. 

For the Sore. — Use a poultice, made by soaking the sorrel in warm water 
tiU soft; change often. 

To Make the Salve. — Take a porcelain kettle holding a gallon; fill two- 
thirds full of the sorrel; then fill with water, and boil dowD to a strong ooze; 
take out the sorrel (pressing or straining, if necessary), and put in freshly made 
unsalted butter or lard; then let it simmer over a slow fire — do not burn it — and 
put in a lump of rosin the size of a hen's egg; when the water is simmered out, 
drain out the salve. Salve prepared in this way, will cure scrofula as well as 
cancers. I know whereof I affirm, as I have seen it tried successfiUly. It takes 



84 DR. CHASES' RECIPES. 

perseverance, however, as it is in the blood; better that, than to be eaten up wiA 
either cancer or scrofula. 

2. Take equal parts of sweet fern and the bark off the north side of a 
black ash tree; burn both to ashes; leach and boil down thick; put a piece of 
sheet-lead upon the cancer, with a hole in it as large as the cancer, wet lint in 
the mixture; put on and place another piece of sheet-lead over that. Let it 
remain till it ceases to pain, when the cancer will be dead; then make a plas- 
ter of the white of an egg and white pine pitch; put on and cover with a 
warm Indian meal poultice; keep on till it comes out. In the case of the 
man from whom this receipt was obtained, the cancer came out in nine days. 
The poultice must be renewed when cold. 

Remarks. — The idea of the piece of sheet-lead, with a hole in it the size of 
cancer, is to protect the sound flesh or skin from contact with the cancer salve. 
The sorrel water, as in No. 1, or some other good alterative, should be taken 
a reasonable length of time, in the treatment of any cancer, for the purpose of 
purifying the blood. 

3. Cancer — A New Remedy whicli Carbonizes the Cancer- 
ous Tumor -with but Little or No Pain, and Not Poisonous.— 
Directions — Apply to the surface of the sore the chloride of chromium (a new 
salt of this rare metal), incorporated into stramonium ointment. This prepara- 
tion, in a few hours, converts the tumor into perfect carbon, and it crumples 
away. Specimens of cancers thus carbonized were inspected by a number of 
physicians at a recent meeting held at the N. Y. ]\Iedical University, where a 
paper was read on this new method of treating cancer, which had the appear- 
ance of charcoal, and were easily pulverized between the fingers. The remedy 
causes little or no pain, and is not poisonous. 

Remarks. — In small places where this chloride-chromium is not obtainable, 
call in the assistance of a physician, and he will know where to get it; and as 
nothing is said as to how much of the chloride of chromium should be used, I 
would use 1 dr. to 1 oz. of the stramonium ointment, unless it was found by 
inquiry, when obtaining it, to need more or less — watch results. Poultic- 
ing, to remove the tumor, after it is carbonized, would be the proper way to do, 
then use any of the best healing salve. 

4. Cancer — Esmarch's or German Treatment.— I. Fowler's 
solution, 1 drop, 3 times daily, for three days, then increase the dose 1 drop 
every three days, till intolerance of the remedy follows. Apply the following 
locally, i. e., upon the open sore: 

//. Powder to Sprinkle Upon the Open Sore. — Arsenious acid and muriate of 
morphia, of each 1 gr. ; calomel, 1 dr. ; powdered gum arable. K oz. ; mix. Kt, 
first sprinkle only a little powder upon the open sore, gradually increasing the 
quantity to 1 teaspoonful. Tliis overcomes the odor, and causes a hard eschar, 
or scab, to form, and healthy granulation takes place. 

Remmrks. — It will be understood that Fowler's solution contains arsenic, as 
well as the powder, and as injury might arise by their use, unless the symptoms 
from poisoning by arsenic are well understood, it would be well, when it is 




SHOWING SYSTEM OF INTERNAL ORGANS. 
I knd t, Lungs. 3, Heart. 4, Liver. 5, Stomach. 6 and 7. Kidneys. 8 and 9, Large intestines. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 85 

used, to have it done by or under the care of a physician, so as to prevent any 
possible injury; although, if properly used, there is everything to encourage 
the hope of great benefit, rather than injury; but it is best, always, to be on the 
safe side, hence this caution. 

5. Cancer, Relief of Pain in. — Dr. Brandini, of Florence, Italy, has 
recently discovered that citric acid will assuage (relieve) the violent pain of 
cancer. He applies to the part pledgets of lint soaked in a solution of citric 
acid, 4 grs.; dissolved in soft water, 350 grs. (about % oz.), with the result of 
affording instantaneous relief in the most aggravated ca.ses. 

6. Cancer, Chromic Acid Found Valuable in.— Prof. John 
King, in his American Dispensatory, more than a dozen years ago, spoke of 

chromic acid being found advantageous in cancers, malignant tumors, ulcers, 
etc 

Remarks. — The word "malignant," as applied to tumors, is generally 
understood to refer to those of a cancerous character, "tending," as Webster 
puts it, "to produce death, threatening a fatal issue," etc., and this fact gives 
me hopes, especially, that the chloride of chromium. No. 3, above, which is 
only another form of the chromium, wil? do what is there claimed for it, com- 
bined with the stramonium ointment. The acid, however, is being used more, 
of late, than formerly, as the following will show. 

7. Cancer, or Fungous Growth in the Ear— Removed Safely 
with Chromic Acid. — Dr. Tangeman, Professor in the Medical College of 
Ohio, at Cincinnati, in Parke, Davis & Co.'s Tlierapeutic Gazette, reports the 
case of a young man of 18, with a running ear. The meatus, or opening into 
the ear, at the bottom was full of pus, or matter; the tympanum, or drum, of 
the ear wholly destroyed, and the inner ear filled with a fungus, or cancerlike 
growth; the boy wholly deaf on that side, the result of scarlet fever. The ear 
was packed with powdered boracic acid, which dissolved in 24 hours, and 
was repacked with the same, and repeated 4 weeks, but the fungus, or lacerous 
growth, had to be removed by a few applications of chromic acid, and the 
opening enlarged by it so they could get to the bones of the ear, which were 
necrosed (destroyed), it being the cause of the discharge. The case was cured. 

Nitrate of silver was formerly used in such cases, but Dr. Tangeman 
thinks its use in ear cases is among the past, and that chromic acid will take its 
place; but, from its activity, must be used with care. It should not be put on 
too freely in any case, as to endanger, or extend to other parts. 

Yet chromic acid will not continue, like other acids, to eat on indefinitely, 
but as a particle of it destroys a particle of flesh, or fungus, it is itself de- 
stroyed. This peculiarity shows its great value over all other caustics or destroy 
ers known. See its value for warts, under that head. Best to be used under 
the care of a competent physician, or one accustomed to its use, especially in 
cancers where considerable tissue, or fleshy tumors, are to be destroyed. 

8. M. Czartoryski, M. D., of Stockton, Cal., says in the Medical Brief, of 
June, 1884, under the head of " Cancer— California Cure ": 

" I accidentally discovered the secret process, by which an old man, living 
in this vicinity, has had remarkable success in removing cancers. He takes 



86 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES, 

mid parsnip roots (the wild parsnip resembles our table vegetable, but the roots, 
are poisonous), allowing them to simmer on the stove until they assume the 
the consistency of paste; then spread on chamois skin, and apply to the cancer 
At the beginning it will cause severe pam, and the cancer will contract and 
loosen, until it may easily be extracted with its roots. The resulting opening 
can be healed under any liniment or unguent (ointment) " 

The best unguent, he thinks, is balsam of Peru. 

Eemarks. — The author rejoices in the hope that, with one or the other of 
Ihese receipts, all cancer sufferers shall be materially benefited, if not abso 
lutely cured, adding many years to their lives. 

1. SCIATIC RHEUMATISM.— Successful Remedies.— I. In 
iernal and Alterative. Fl. ex. of poke root, 1 oz. ; fl. ex. of gelsemium, 1 dr„; 
mix. Dose. — Take 20 drops, morning and evening, in a little water. 

II. Fl. ex. of blue flag, 1 oz. Dose.— Take 15 drops, at noon and bed 
time, in a little water. 

III. Apply externally, along the back part of the thigh, as a liniment, 
tinct. of iodine and aqua ammonia, each 1 oz. ; mix, and rub on thoroughly 
3 times daily. 

I cured a very bad caie, with this treatment, for a fat, fleshy woman, in 
sbout a week's time, who could scarcely move when I took the case in hand. 

2. Sciatica Cured with Electricity.— A very Cheap, Simple 
Battery.— How to Make and Use. — The following case of this disease 
—a bad case — was published in the Physician and Surgeon, of Ann Arbor, 
Mich., by Charles Ferhune, JI. D., of that city, for Oct., 1880. 

"An electric battery was constructed, consisting of a zinc and silver plate 
about two inches in diameter, connected by a coil of insulated copper wire 
long enough to allow the silver plate to rest on the front portion of the thigh, 
the zinc resting over the sciatic nerve, on the back part of the thigh. 

"A thin slice of sponge was placed between the plates and the skin, and 
these were kept wet with a strong solution of salt in water. This apparatus 
was retained in its position by means of adhesive straps and rul)ber bandage. 
]t was necessary to change its location every other day on account of the 
irritation caused" by the formation of chloride of zinc and electric current 

"In a week's time the patient was so much better that a battery was 
placed on the left leg also, and these were kept on constantly, except when it 
was necessary to replace the zinc as it would become corroded^ September 1st 
the battery was taken off from the right leg, as there was no more pain and 
felt perfectly natural. The battery is still kept on the left leg, which was 
always the worst, simply on account of a little numbness of the toes; other- 
wise this leg also is free from any unnatural sensation 

" Whenever convenient, 1 applied the following preparation the whole 
length of nerve; 

"Menthol, 12 gre. ; alcohol, to dissolve the menthcl, 7 minims (drops); 
oil of cloves, 1 oz. ; mix. [Menthol is one of the newer remedies, sometimes 
also called Japanese camphor. It is made from a species of mint growing in 
Asia, Japan, and I think in China also. It is in the form of crystals, and 
smells much like peppermint.] 

"This mixture I have known to be of almost immediate benefit in neu- 
ralgic affections. 

"Considering the lon^ standing of the disease, that it was located in both 
legs, and the patient's habits (addicted to drink), and the great obstinacy and 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 87 

severity of Sciatica even under tlie most favorable circumstances, I feel it my 
duty to report a treatment so simple and easy and which has been of such 
signal service." 

Remarks. — Having inquired into this case, and being well satisfied of the 
value of this treatment; also well acquainted with Dr. Ferhune, and as he 
Bpeaks so favorably of the mixture, or liniment, for neuralgia, it would be 
well to try it for that purpose as well as in sciatica. 

When Menthol is not kept by druggists, use one of the liniments given 
below. 

Dr. Chase's Golden Oil (see recipe below), or strong Camphor Liniment, 
or some other — as preferred. The Golden Oil, however, made with capsicum, 
is very strong, and causes a glow of heat wherever it is freely applied. 

3. The Author has several times cured Sciatica by the use of the simple 
Faradic current of the common Faradic "Family Battery," applying the 
positive pole along the sciatic nerve in the back part of the thigh, the negative 
pole at the feet, by means of a foot-plate, with very great satisfaction. Never 
use the current so strong as to cause additional pain, but simply to relieve it. 
Five to ten minutes to each limb, once or twice daily. 

4. External Remedy, or Liniment for Sciatica, Lumbago, 
Stiff Joints, Contracted Cords, Rheumatism, Etc.— Very Suc- 
cessful.— For External Use Only.— Fl. ex. of aconite root (never of 
the leaf, for these purposes), 12 oz; oil of hemlock, 3 oz. ; sulphate of zinc, 
1 oz. ; strongest alcohol, 1 qt. ; soft or distilled water, 1 qt. Directions. — 
Take at least a 3 qt. bottle and put in the alcohol, oil of hemlock, and extract 
of aconite root together; dissolve the sulphate of zinc in a little water and add 
lastly the water also, shake, always, before pouring out into a smaller bottle for 
use, and always shake before pouring out upon the parts, or into the hand for 
application. I have given it in these large quantities, because it is to be applied 
freely, at least twice daily, in any case, in very painful cases tliree times a day, 
pouring upon the parts and rubbing in several times at each application. Do 
not get into the eyes, Twr is it ever to be taken internally in any case. 

Remarks. — This is claimed by the person from whom I obtained the recipe 
to have cured stiff joints, as well as the other diseases named. For stiff joints 
I have had no opportunity of testing it, but in sciatica and rheumatism I have 
found it as valuable as he claimed. 

3. Rheumatism— Remedy for External Application.— Cay- 
enne pepper, 2 teaspoonfuls, steeped in 1 teacup of good vinegar, and the parts 
affected to be bathed with it, is claimed to be excellent. After steeping (not to 
boil), strain and bottle for use. It will cause considerable heat of the surface, 
and would, even, if a pint of vinegar were used. Apply 2 or 3 times daily, 
and if limb is very painful, wet cloths in the mixture and wrap around it, as 
long as it can be borne. 

4. Rheumatism— Golden Oil For.— Linseed oil and spirits of tur- 
pentine, of each 8 ozs. ; tinct. of iodine and aqua ammonia, of each 4 oza.; 
mix. shake, and apply as often and as freely as needed. 



S8 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

5. Inflammatory Rheumatism Remedy. — A mixture of pulver* 
(zed saltpeter, 3^ oz.; and sweet oil, 3^ pt., is a certain cure for inflammatory 
rheumatism. This mixture must be applied externally, to the part affected, 
and as it can do no harm and costs so little, we advise those afflicted with in- 
flammatorj^ rheumatism to try it, 

6. Rheumatic Alterative.— Colchicum seed, anise seed, black cohosh 
root, poke root, blue flag root, bitter root, gum guaiac, prickly ash bark and 
jimiper berries, of each ]4. oz. ; mandrake root, 1 dr. ; wintergreen leaves, spear- 
mint leaves, of each 1 oz. ; iodide of potash, 3 drs. ; good gin, 1 pt. Direc- 
tions. — Bruise or grind coarsely all except the iodide, and put into the gin; 
keep corked, and shake daily for 10 or 12 days, strain and press out, put in the 
iodide, or if in a hurry, let it stand 3 or 4 days, then have a druggist to perco- 
late it (straining it drop by drop through a sponge pressed into the small end of 
a funnel-shaped percolator), adding sufficient gin to obtain 1 pt of the fluid. 
Good whiskey will dc, but it is not so good, as gin is more diuretic; add the 
iodide of potash last, dissolved in a little of the liquor. Dose — For a medium 
sized adult, 1 tea-spoonful 3 or 4 times daily in a little syrup, or molasses, Tvath 
a small amount of water. While taking the above use a good liniment exter- 
nally, and the improvement will be more quickly realized. 

7. Rheumatism, Successful Alterative For— The Crutches 
Thrown Away by the Use of Half a Bottle.— Tincts. of sarsapa- 
rilla and quassia, of each 3 ozs.; iodide of potash, 1 oz.; quinine, 20 grs.; 
water, 1 pt. Directions — Put all into a quart bottle, and shake when taken, 
Dose— 1 table-spoonful just before each meal. 

Remarks. — The person communicating this recipe, " W. W.," of Inde- 
pendence, Ohio, says: " I was 3 months on crutches, before I took half of it I 
threw the crutches away." It is probable that this amount of the iodide of 
potash may be more than some persons can take, as there are those who can 
not take it in large doses— this will be known by a stiffness of the nose, throat, 
etc. , as though they had taken a bad cold. In such cases lessen the dose to a 
teaspoonful, and next time double the amount of tinctures, else use half the 
amount of the iodide. 

8. Rheumatism, an Alterative Tincture For.— Tinct. of black 
cohosh, 2 parts; and tinct. of colchicum, 1 part (say the cohosh ^ oz. ; colchi- 
cum. }4 oz.) Dose— Take 20 to 40 drops three times a day in a little syrup. — 
Mrs. E. L. Mills, of Romeo, Mich., in Detroit Tribune. 

Remarks. — Twenty drops for a weak and feeble woman is plenty; 40 for a 
robust man, or even a tea-spoonful would be safe for him to take for a dose. 
While using this alterative internally, apply also any good liniment externally. 

9. Acute or Inflammatory Rheumatism — A New and Suc- 
cessful Remedy. — After a fair trial of the salicylate of soda, in acute 
rheumatism, i. e., in a rheumatism with pain and often swelling of joints, etc., 
from having taken a cold, the profession and doctors have come to a very 
favorable opinion of its use for rheumatism, as well as in tonsilitis and sick 
Jieadaches, which see. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 39 

Dr. Clouston, in the June number of the Practitioner, thinks the action of 
the salicylate of soda on acute rheumatism is most marked, as in 63 per cent. — 
63 in 100 — the acute stage lasted only three days; the pain being relieved in a 
few hours, and the remainder of the disease having no serious symptoms; he 
thinks, however, its use should be commenced early in the disease, if benefit to 
any extent is to be experienced, and in doses not less than 10 grs. every hour, 
until the pain and severe symptoms are relieved, then less often, 2, 3, or 4 
hours, and finally less amount. Dr. Clouston's recipe is as follows: Salicylic 
acid, 3 drs.; carbonate of soda, 1% drs. ; syrup of lemon, 1 oz.; cinnamon 
water to make 8 ozs. ; mix. Dose — A table-spoonful every two hours. — Medical 



Remarks. — The Medical Summary, of New York, says: " The salicylate of 
potash has also been used with success: Salicylic acid, 2 drs. ; bi-carbonate of 
potash, 3 drs. ; water, 2 ozs. ; mix. Dose — A tea-spoonful every 2 or 3 hours." 

10. Confixmatory of the use of .salicylic acid; and also of the use ot 
flannels, in inflammatory rheumatism, I will add Dr. Bell, of Canandaigua, 
N. Y., whom I met while at Eaton Rapids, Mich., in 1883, said, in speaking of 
Inflammatory rheumatism, that his treatment, which had proved successful, 
was to put on flannel shirts and sheets and give salicylic acid, 120 grs. ; acetate 
of potash, 320 grs.; simple elixir, or simple syrup, and glycerine, each 2 ozs.; 
well mixed and dissolved. Dose — Take 1 tea spoonful every 2 hours till relief 
is manifested, then 3 or 4 hours apart. John K. Owen, M. D., of Harrisville, 
Ind., confirms the above in the February number of the Medical Brief oi 1883. 
but adds IJ^ ozs. of sweet spirits of nitre to the mixture, using the same dose. 

11. Rheumatism Internal.— Try the following: 

I. Salicylic acid, 3 drs. ; acetate of potassa, 3 drs. ; fl. ex. cimicifuga (black 
cohosh),4 drs.; wine of colchicum seed, 4 drs.; elixir of ginger, or simple 
syrup, to make 4 ozs.; mix. Dose — Take 1 tea-spoonful in a swallow of water, 
every 3 hours, until better, then 3 times a day till well. 

II. External. — Alcohol, 95 per cent, (the best). 2 ozs.; gum camphor, 
2 drs. ; mix, and when the gum is dissolved add: oils of origanum and cajeput, 
tinct. of capsicum and tinct. of aconite root, each 2 drs. ; mix and apply freely 
to the affected parts. — B. Frank Humphreys. 

Remarks. — Here we have an excellent combination of the latest and best 
articles for internal use, and one for external, without going to different parts 
of the book for them. Remember, however, that in inflammatory rheumatism 
the flannel shirts and sheets are exceedingly valuable, and for wetting the 
blankets Miss McArthnr's liniment next following is cheap and good, 

12. Liniment for Inflammatory Rheumatism.— Miss Bell Mc- 
Arthnr's recipe is as follows: Spirits of camphor and strong cider vinegar, 
each % pt. ; muriate of ammonia, J^ oz. ; soft water. 1 pt. ; mix. 

The gentleman, of whom Miss McArthur got the above receipt, said he had 
known it to cure one of the worst cases of inflammatory rheumatism he had 
ever seen, in a few days, the patient being wrapped in sheets kept wet with lini- 
ment. (The expense of this liniment is so trifling, it can be used freely.) Miss 



40 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

McArthur's experience with it came in this way: she burnt her hand by acci- 
dentally putting it in a pail of boiling sugar, and it became very painful. She 
thought of this liniment, and as soon as it was applied the pain ceased. She 
tried it in many ways, and found it equally successful. It it is said to be a per- 
fect preventive of sore breasts. Apply warm. Avoid using too near a flame. 
Remarks. — This is undoubtedly an excellent liniment, especially where 
persons have to be wrapped in sheets wet with it, as it is inexpensive and will 
not cause smarting like the stronger alcohol liniments. 

1. LINIMENT— Mrs. Chase's— For Ladies.— Best alcohol, 1 qt.; 
camphor gum, chloroform, laudanum, sulphuric ether, tinctures of myrrh and 
capsicum, and oil of red cedar, each 1 oz. ; oil of peppermint, cloves, cajeput, 
and wormwood, each ^ oz. ; mix, and keep corked for use. 

Remarks. — Mrs. Chase, during the latter years of her life, had occasion to 
use a liniment for rheumatism of the shoulder, and not liking the burning heat 
upon the surface, as experienced when using the stronger liniments containing 
capsicum, nor liking the oiliness of those known as " volatile," made with 
sweet oil, hartshorn, etc., asked me to get up something for her especially, 
avoiding both of these objections. This liniment is the result, and a very satis- 
factory one it proved, not only to her, but her sister who was visiting us, and 
who was afflicted in a similar manner. It has also given very great satisfaction 
in hundreds of cases since its origination. It has been used for all purposes for 
which liniments are applicable, and found very useful. It is applied night and 
morning for cold feet and limbs. For the severer cases of rheumatism in men, 
Kniment for stock, etc. , see next receipt. 

2. Dr. Chase's Grolden Oil, or Strong Camphor Liniment.— 
I. Gum camphor, 2 ozs. ; oil of origanum, hemlock, sassafras, and tincture of 
cayenne, each 1 oz. ; oil of cajeput, spirits of turpentine, chloroform, and sul- 
phuric ether, each % oz. ; best alcohol, 1 pt. ; mix, and keep corked — as all 
Hniments should be when not being used. 

Remarks. — This I consider the best liniment for general purposes ever 
made, and it is a very strong one. This, with No. 1 (Mrs. Chase's) for the 
use of ladies to avoid the warmth or burning sensation of the skin as men- 
tioned, I honestly think would fill the bill in all cases where liniments are 
needed. Still, I shall give a few others for special purposes, and some because 
cheaper than these; and I will further say, this liniment (the main features of 
it) I took from Dr. King's Am. Dispensatory, which I will give, as it is made 
with the capsicum itself in place of the tincture. I have found that for general 
purposes, on the flesh of persons, this is the best plan. I have also added the 
chloroform and ether, which materially help toallaypain externally as well as 
internally. These changes make it the best thing I know of as a "pain-killer" 
for internal as well as external use. 

Dose— The dose may be from 15 drops to a tea-spoonful, according to the 
severity of the case, in sugar or in a little sweetened water or milk : to be 
repeated in 15 to 30 minutes, also according to the severity of pain, griping of 
bowels, etc. 

HxTERNALLT — Fof ibeuouttism, seyere (Miofl, etc., it should be poured 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 41 

upon the spot, or into the hand and applied, rubbing in well 3 or 4 times at each 
application : and, if the place allows it, hold the hand upon it till the heat and 
smarting subsides. Do this night and morning, and, if a severe case, at nooo 
also. For exceedingly severe cases of painful rheumatism in men and for stock, 
make it as Dr. King did. by using the capsicum powder as follows: 

II. Best alcohol, 1 qt. ; camphor gum, 4 ozs. ; oil of origanum and hem- 
lock, each 2 ozs. ; oils of sassafras and cajeput, each % oz. ; capsicum in 
powder, 1 oz. ; spirits of turpentine, Jl' oz. ; mix, and let stand, shaking daily 
for two weeks, when it is ready for use. Keep it in the stable always, and 
apply for all bruises, swellings, lameness, etc. I have called this Dr. Chase's 
Golden Oil, to distinguish it from one or two other golden oils, which are not 
so strong, and consequently much cheaper. 

3. Liniment— Dr. A. B. Mason's— For Man or Beast.— Best 
alcohol and sweet oil, of each 2 ozs.; aqua ammonia, spirits of turpentine, oils 
c\ origanum, spike and gum camphor, each 1 oz. ; mix and keep corked for use. 

Remarks. — Dr. Mason is a cousin of mine, and has used this liniment for 
'■: years, and knows its value for veterinary and general purposes. 

4. Liniment— Robinson's— For Sick Headache, Rheumatism, 
Colic, etc. — Take a 2 quart bottle and put into it oil of origanum, 2oz3.; 
ehloroform and sulphuric ether, each 1 oz. ; oils of sassafras, hemlock, winter- 
green, anise, spirits of turpentine, and aqua ammonia, each J^ oz. ; then add 
best alcohol, 1 qt. Keep well corked. 

Remarks. — Mr. L. S. Robin.son, of Jackson, Mich., formerly of Western 
New York, where, for many years, he made and sold this liniment, and vari- 
ous other medicines, cured several cases of sick headache with it, in Ann Arbor, 
Mich. He assured me that the person from whom he obtained the recipe 
offered to pay $50 for any case of rheumatism which he could not cure with it 
in 48 hours. It is also valuable for sore throat, to take a little on sugar, and 
apply freely upon the throat and holding the hand upon it while still wet with 
the liniment, till the heat and smarting subsides, or else wetting flannel in it, 
and laying upon the throat till quite red, and this mode of application should 
be adapted wherever necessary to use it. It is good for pains and aches of 
every description. Dose — From 15 drops to a teasixwnful, with sugar, accord- 
ing to age and the severity of the colic, or other pain. It has a pleasant flavor, 
is clear and does not soil the clothing. But bear this in mind, that to be suc- 
cessful with any liniment, it must be used or taken freely to get quick returns. 
In nervous headaches it must l>e applied to the back of the head and neck, as 
well as to the fore part, where the pain is located; snuff the fumes from the 
bottle also freely. A few drops put upon a pin scratch, small pimple, or slight 
burn frequently, will do very well. He recommended its use 3 to 5 times daily. 

5. Liniment, Nerve and Bone, Very Strong.— Oil of spike, 6 
ozs.; spirits of camphor, hartshorn, tincts. of anise and capsicum, oil of cedar 
and origanum, of each 2 ozs. ; best alcohol, 8 ozs. ; mix. Directions — Shake 
well while using. Bathe the parts affected 2 or 3 times daily, and rub briskly 
witli the hand 3 to 5 minutes at each applicatioa. 



43 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — This recipe was obtained from Mr. Colman. It is recommended 
for deep difficulties, strains, sprains, sweeney, etc., as it is strong and pene- 
trating 

6. Liniment, Mustang.— Crude petroleum, or Seneca oil (so called 
because first gathered and sold by the Seneca Indians), 1 pt, ; olive oil, or lard 
oil and spirits of hartshorn, each 4 ozs. ; oil of origanum, 2 ozs. Directions 
— Mix the olive oil with the hartshorn, then add the others. 

7. Oriental Balm, or Golden Oil Liniment.— Linseed oil (raw, 
not boiled), 1 gal. ; gum camphor, 4 ozs. ; oils of thyme and cajeput, each 1 oz. ; 
oils of wintergreen and anise, each 3^ 02. Dose and Directions — For an 
adult 1 tea-spoonful in 2 or 3 times as much water, and repeat as often as 
required. Use externally 3 or 4 tunes daily; put on frequently and as soon as 
possible after bee-stings. 

Remarks. — This has been sold largely in South Western Michigan and 
Northern Indiana, and is liked very much. 

8. Another Golden Oil Liniment.— Linseed oil (raw), 1 gal.; cam 
phor gum, 4 ozs. : oils of sassafras, hemlock, origanum, and cedar, each 2 ozs. 
Directions, Dose, etc — Mix all except the linseed oil, and when the gum 
camphor is dissolved, put in the linseed oil, shake well and bottle; if to be put 
up in small bottles, keep it well shaken while filling. It will be seen that this 
is the strongest liniment, as it contains more of the essential oils, still it may be 
taken in ^ to 1 tea-spoonful doses, with p)erfect safety. It has been extensively 
sold in the neighborhood of Marshall and Battle Creek, Mich., sometimes there 
called " Oil of Gladness." It will be found good, for a cheap liniment. 

0. Rheumatic Liniment, and for Pain in the Stomach, etc. 
— Donohue's. — Oils of origanum, sassafras, cloves, and gum camphor, each 
}^ oz. ; chloroform, }i oz. Directions — Put all into a 3 oz. vial, and fill with 
alcohol; rub on the painful parts freely; take, for pain in the stomach, 5 to 20 
drops on sugar, repeating in 15 to 30 minutes, if needed. This gentleman is an 
old friend of mine, living in Coshocton, O., where, he tells me, he has cured, 
OT materially benefited 50 or 60 cases of common rheumatism. He thinks there 
JB nothing equal to it. 

10. Liniments, Patent or Proprietary— Perry Davis' Pain- 
Killer. — Some analysis recently made in the East, and published in the 
Druggists' Circular, gives the following as the articles composing the medicines 
named: Spirits of camphor, 2 ozs.; tinct. of capsicum, 1 oz.; gum myrrh, \ 
oz.; gum guaiac, 3^ oz. ; alcohol, 3 ozs. 

11. E,o R. R. (Radway's Ready Relief).— Soap liniment, 13^ ozs.; tinct. 
of capsicum '^ oz. ; water of ammonia, 3^ oz.; alcohol, 3^ oz. This for a 50c. 
bottle. 

12. Ham'lin*s Wizard OiL — Spirits of camphor, ^oz.; aqua am- 
monia, \i oz. ; oil of sassafras, ^ 0/.. ; oil of cloves, 1 dr.; chloroform, 2drs.; 
spirits of turpentine, 3 drs.; dilute alcohol, 3 drs. 

13. Giles' Liniment of Iodide of Ammonia. — Iodine, 15 gw.; 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 4& 

camphor gum, ]^ oz. ; oils of lavender and rosemary, each 1 dr.; alcohol, 3^ pt; 
strong aqria ammonia. 1 oz. 

Remarks. — Any of tlacse liniments, which have no directions accompanying 
them, -would be used the same as the general run of liniments. 

14. Cure-AU Liniment.— Gum camphor, gum myrrh, opium, pulver* 
Ized cayenne, and oil of sassafras, each 1 oz. ; oils of hemlock, red cedar, worm- 
wood, spirits of turpentine, and hartshorn, each J^ oz. ; best alcohol, 1 qt. 
Directions — Cut the opium finely; mix, and shake daily for a week or 10 
days; then strain or filter. 

Remarks. — It will be found a valuable liniment for all purposes for which 
liniments are useil. 

13. Lightning Liniment.—Chloroform and ether, each 1 oz.; lauda. 
num, 2 oz. ; spirits of turpentine, 4 ozs. ; mix. 

Remarks.— }Ar. Johnson, of Grand Rapids, Mich., says: " Bathe legs, back, 
or any part of the body with it, and it will give immediate relief. Good for 
nervous affections, rheumatism, etc. 

16. Opodeldoc Liniment. — Alcohol, J^pt. ; camphor gum, 3^oz.; 
almond or other good soap, and oil of cajeput, each 1 oz. Directions — Shave 
the soap finely, and put it with the camphor gum into the alcohol and dissolve 
by gentle heat; when cool, add the cajeput oil, shake thoroughly before it sets, 
and pour into large-mouthed bottles, to allow the finger to reach it for applica- 
tion, else it has to be warmed, to pour into the hand for application. 

Remarks — Some people prefer the Opodeldoc Liniment to others, especi 
ally for paralysis, enlarged joints, indolent tumors, rheumatism, lumbago, chil- 
blains, etc., for which this is recommended, both to arouse the absorbents and 
to stimulate the nerves to action, by which a cure is eflfected when accomplished 
at all. 

17. Liniment— White's Nerve and Bone. — Gum camphor, oils 
of sassafras, cedar, and origanum, each 2 ozs.; oil of cajeput, 1 oz.; aqua 
ammonia; 1 oz. ; oil of tar, 2 dra.: sulphuric ether, 4 ozs. ; best alcohol, 3 qts. ; 
solution of analine (red), 10 or 15 drops— to improve the color; mix, and keep 
closely corked. 

Remarks.— Hlx. White is a druggist in Eaton Rapids, Mich., from whom I 
obtained this receipt. He kept this liniment on sale for a number of years. 
This is the liniment I refer to under the head of " Carbuncles." He speaks of 
It as a mild liniment, and the boys using it on their hands while playing ball, to 
prevent blistering, called it " Base Ball Liniment." 

18. Chloroform Liniment, Especially for Strains, Sprains, 
etc. — Chloroform, 1 fluid oz. ; camphor gum, % oz. ; shake together till dis- 
solved, then add olive oil, 1 oz. ; tinct. cantharides, 1 dr.; keep well corked, as 
chloroform is very evaporative. 

Remarks. — A nephew of mine, from whom I received this recipe, found 
more benefit from it on a strained knee, with which he suffered for two years, 
than any other liniment. Let it be used freely, when used at all, and it must 
do good from the known nature of the ingredients. 



44 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

19. " The Best Liniment," for Strains, Bruises, Pains, Colic, 
Headache, Backache, and All Other Aches— Externally.— A. 

Parsons, M. D., of Scott\'ille, Ark., sends the following under the above title, 
to Medical Brief, page 508, of 1882. Chloroform, alcohol, J^qua ammonia, 
spirits of camphor and tinct. of aconite root, each 2 ozs. ; spirits of nitric 
ether, 6 ozs. ; mix, keep corked. This is Thompson's chloroform liniment, im- 
proved, and is the best stimulating liniment that I ever met with. Any kind of 
ordinary colic may be relieved by saturating the bowels with it. Its applica- 
tion is very beneficial in all the above aches, and in nearly all cases removes 
them permanently. 

Remarks. — I need only say from the nature of the articles composing it 
that it will prove an excellent liniment for external use ; but do not take it in 
temally, on account of the aconite it contains. 

Winter Itch— Certain B^medy.- B. I. A. Ciril, M. D., of Gamilla, 
Ga., page 330 of Medical Brief ior 1880, under'.the head of "Eureka" (a Greek 
word, signifying I have found it), says: " After a fair trial, in several cases, to 
act as a specific (certain cure), in that disease. Blood root, pulverized and 
steeped in strong apple vinegar, to make as strong as can be made, applied 3 or 
4 times a day, cures the disease." 

1 . BRONCHOCELE— Goitre, or Swelled Neck, to Cure With- 
out Coloring the Skin or Clothing. — Compound tinct. of iodine, 4 ozs.; 
pure liquid carbolic acid, % dr. ; glycerine, % oz. ; mix. Directions — Have 
these articles put into a quinine bottle, having a good cork; put a small stick 
into the cork, suitable to tie a cloth swab upon it, with which to apply once or 
twice daily, as can be borne. 

Remarks. — The carbolic acid prevents the iodine from coloring (aqua am- 
monia does the same thing), glycerine prevents speedy evaporation, and also 
keeps the skin soft and smooth. Constitutional, or alterative treatment, should 
also be made use of in connection with this local application. Electro-magnet 
ism has also been found of great value, by hastening the reduction of the 
tumor. Dr. King, of Cincinnati, O., makes use of the foUo'ning alterative pill 

2. Bronchocele, or Swelled Neck, Alterative Pill for— also 
Valuable in All Cases Needing an Alterative. — Oleoresin of blue 
flag (irisin) 1 scru. ; baptisin, 5 grs. ; citrate of iron and strychnia, 80 grs. ; alco 
holic ex. of aletris farinosa, 80 grs. Directions — Mix all thoroughly together 
and divide into 80 pills. Dose— 1 pill 1 hour after breakfast, dinner and at 
bed time. 

Remarks. — If the treatment is begun soon after the commencement of the 
swelling, a cure may be expected quickly, but if of long standing and some 
hardening of the tumors already commenced, it will require a perseverance, 
perhaps, of several months, to effect a cure. The above tincture will be found 
y^aluable to apply to any node, or knotty tumors, from bruises or otherwise, 
upon man or beast. 

3. Goitre,Bronchoeele, or Swelled Neck— Dr. Mason's Inter- 
nal and External Remedy.- 1. iNTERNAii— Iodide of potash, 1 oz , fl. 




n 




:::,sa^ 



SCAB;LS. oil iTCH 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 45 

ex, of sarsaparilla, 6 ozs. ; fl. ex. of dandelion, 4 ozs. ; dissolve the iodide in a 
tea-cup of soft water, then add to the extracts, in a bottle sufficiently large, 1 
pint of simple syrup. Dose— 1 tea-spoonful 3^ hour before each meal. 

Jiemarks. — If in any case this causes a stuffing up of the nose, as is often 
said on taking cold, the dose must be lessened about one-half, or else as much 
more of the extracts and syrup must be added — with some people the iodide of 
potash causes this condition. Occasionally one cannot take it at all ; the extracts, 
then, must be taken without it, but the cure will not be as rapid. 

II. External — Take tinct. of iodine, 2 ozs. ; soft water, i^ oz. ; sulphite 
of soda, sufficient to remove the color of the iodine from the tincture before 
adding the water, which prevents the coloring of the skin or clothing. "With a 
small brush, or swab, paint this tincture, once daily, upon the swelling, and so 
continue until cured. 

Remarks. — The doctor says: " This remedy needs no recommendation, as 
it has been used by quite a number, and with good results. It was sent to my 
wife by a Mrs. P. M. Avery, of Pennsylvania, but the idea of discoloration," 
he says, " I got from the Boston Medical and Surgical Journal." 

4. Goitre Alterative Syrup, and for All Piirposes Requir- 
ing an Alterative. — Fl. exs. of sarsaparilla and gentian, each 1 lb.; iodide 
of potash, 3^ oz. ; corrosive sublimate, 5 grs. Directions — Rub the corrosive 
sublimate in a mortar, with a little of one of the fluid extracts to dissolve it, 
then mix all together. Shake occasionally, a day or so, to dissolve, and pro 
perly mix the iodide and sublimate. Dose — 1 to 2 tea-spoonfuls, according to 
the age and robustness of the adult, in a little water, sweetened. To be taken 
4 times daily, a little before each meal and at bed-time. 

Remarks. — This alterative has no superior for any general purpose. Some 
people, however, object to the corrosive sublimate, because it is a poison; but 
in the minute division of it into so many doses, it is a very valuable article, as 
an alterative, notwithstanding the objections. It can be left out if you wish, 
and still have a splendid alterative; but it will be better if put in. Having 
used it, and directed it for others, I know whereof I speak. 

1. DROPSY— Syrup For.— Butternut bark, dwarf elder (bark of the 
root), and endives (chicory, also called succorj^;, each 1 lb. ; Indian hemp, ^ 
lb ; black root and dandelion root, juniper berries, yellow dock aad burdock 
roots, each J4 lb. ; prickly ash berries, 2 ozs. ; loaf sugar, 2 lbs. ; pure whiskey, 
3 pts. Directions — The recently dried roots and barks are intended, and 
should be coarsely gi-ound by the druggist; place all (except sugar and whiskey) 
in a four gallon jar and pour on sufficient boiling water to well cover the 
whole. Set the jar on the back part of the stove, cover with a cloth and plate, 
to keep in the heat, and let it stand 3 or 4 days, to sour; it is not to boil. 
When a little sour strain and simmer to one gallon, when the sugar is to be 
added, and when cooi, the spirits- then bottle for use. Dose- -A wineglass a 
Mttle before meals. 

Memarks. ■^TMs recipe was obtained from a Mr. Coleman, who spoke verj' 
highly of its success It is tliuretic. lomc tuiU alterative, besides its action upon 



46 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

the liver by the black root (this is the leptandra mrginica, from which the lep- 
tandrin is made), altliough it is not specially cathartic in its action, and must be 
found valuable. Au ounce of essence of wintergreen would make it very 
pleasant to the taste. 

2. Dropsy and Anti-fat Medicine.— M. Milton, M. D., of DuBois, 
Penn., in a report through the Brief, page 439, 1883, says: 

" He cured a lady patient, having a dropsical tendency, of that difficulty, 
also reducing her weight from 247 to 198 lbs. in 15 days, by the following treat- 
ment: He obtained the juice of poke-berries, and evaporated it by means of 
sand-bath to the consistency of pill-mass, forming into 4-gr. pills, with a little 
powdered licorice-root." 

Dose — Two pills half hour after each meal. In connection with these 
pills he gave i^ gr. of elaterium in solution at night. (If its action on the 
bowels should be so severe as to cause distress, skip a night or two.) By the 
continued use of these pills alone, for a few weeks, her flesh was reduced to 175 
pounds, and she remained well up to the time of this report, 3 years after. See 
also " Fat People— Food to Reduce their Fleshiness." 

1. COLIC, OR OTHER INTERNAL PAIN — German Rem- 
edy or Liniment for. — Alcohol, 1 qt. ; oil of sassafras and hartshorn, each 
2 ozs. ; spirits of camphor and laudanum, each 1 oz. ; spirits of turpentine, % 
oz. ; tinct. of kino, \i oz. ; mix. Dose — For colic, or any severe internal pain, 
from 3^ to 1 tea-spoonful may be taken for a dose; to be repeated in 3^ to 1 hr., 
according to the severity of the case. 

Remarks.— "Yhi?, recipe was sent me by Mr. Frank Spurlock (a German), of 
Sedan, Kan. It certainly makes a good liniment for general use, and I give 
it a place, to meet the desire of my German readers; for they, like Americans, 
think their own prescriptions are the best. 

2. Colic — Cure by Quinine. — Dr. N. R. Derby, of Bergen Point, 
N. J., says, in the Medical Recorder, that by accident he discovered that a dose 
of 8 or 10 grs. of sulphate of quinine will speedily put an end to an attack of 
colic. He had had such attacks from childhood, but cured himself and several 
others in this way. This dose is for an adult. I should try it if I had occa- 
sion to do so. 

I. CONSTIPATION OR COSTIVENESS — Valuable Pills 
for. — I. Solid extracts of nux vomica and hyoscyamus, and pulverized capsi- 
cum, each 25 grs. ; podophyllin, and ext. of belladonna, each 10 grs. ; mix 
thoroughly and make into 100 pills. Dose— If very constipated when you com- 
mence taking them, take 2 each night for 1 or 2 nights, or until the bowels 
become easy; then 1 only at night till cured. 

II. Constipation — Hot Water as a Cure. — A cup of hot water, a writer 
says, is a grand tonic and stomach cleanser, and a sure cure for constipation. 
It should be taken night and morning, just before retiring and after rising. 

Remarks. — I hare seen hot water recommended for this difficulty before, 
and think it worthy of trial. It is also recommended for dyspepsia, wliich 



2BEATMENT OF DISEASES. 47 

often causes constipation. For the degree of heat and manner of taking, see 
" Hot Water for Dyspepsia." 

2. Constipation or Costiveness— Newer Remedies.— For a few 
years past the fl. ex. of cascara sagrada has been much extolled, and also found 
quite satisfactory in relieving the difficulty, and if properly combined with other 
remedies, has cured very many cases, I have been very successful with the fol 
lowing combination: 

I. Fl. ex. cascara sagrada, 1 oz.; tincts. nux vomica and belladonna, each 
2 drs. ; with syrup of Tolu, or syrup of wild cheny, 2% ozs. ; mix. Dose — A 
tea-spoonful 3 times a day till the bowels become easy; then only at bed-time, 
till cured. 

Remarks. —I have succeeded with this when other things, by other physi- 
cians, have failed. 

II. I see that some physicians prefer the following prescription for const! 
pation: Fl. ex. cascara sagrada, fl. ex. berberis aquifolium and simple syrup, 
each 1 oz. ; tinct. nux vomica, 25 drops, and tinct. digitalis, 1 dr. Dose — A 
tea-spoonful 3 times daily, till the bowels become easy, then drop off morning, 
then noon dose, and finally all, using only occasionally, for a while, till a healthy 
daily action is established. This would be the most valuable in female cases, 
as the berberis is claimed to be a "female regulator," uterine tonic, etc. But 
supposing there is no constipation, although the liver may be inactive in the 
secretion of bile, the stools, or passages, being light, or clay-colored, Ihen I 
would use: 

III. Fl. ex. of fringe tree, 1 oz. ; fl. ex. of berberis, 1 oz. ; adding also, 
as a stomach tonic, fl. ex. wahoo, J^ oz. ; syrup of wild cherry, or Tolu, 1 oz. ; 
and the tincts. of nux vomica and belladonna, each 2 drs., as in No. 1, above. 
Dose and management the same as in No. 1, till the stools assume their healthy 
color again. 

3. Constipation, More Becent Remedy .—My attention was re 
cently called to the following, and having a case of constipation on hand, and 
in which the liver did not give the usual amount of bile, giving a tendency tc 
jaundice, I at once tried it with the happiest results — entire relief in both difll- 
culties. The remedy was: Tinct. nux vomica, 1 oz. ; podophyllin, 1 gr. ; the 
podophyllin to be rubbed in a little of the tincture to insure it thorough mix 
ing. Dose— Take 5 drops only, before each meal, till the bowels become easy, 
then only 3 drops, or even 2, as required to keep them easy, for a few daysj 
after which take occasionally, if needed, bj the reappearance of the clay-col- 
ored stools. 

Remarks. — ^The tincture of nux vomica In the small doses above given, is 
not only safe, but a very valuable medicine, still if left where children can get 
hold of it and drink the whole bottle, or considerable of it, it is poisonous; 
and hence I give in the next item the treatment for such a mishap, as follows^ 

Poisoning by Nux Vomica or Strychnine— Remedy.— Should 
erer poisoning occur by the careless taking of over-doses of tincture of nux, or 



48 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

strychnine (which is made from it), twitching of the muscles wHl be the firs* 
sign, then convulsions, no time should be lost in getting down oils of any char- 
acter, sweet oil is considered best, but lard oil, or melted lard, in doses of from 
] cup to 1^ pint for an adult answers very well, and strong coffee, and then 
producing vomiting in the quickest way, by mustard, or thrusting the finger 
down the throat after the oils or coffee has been given. A pint of strong coffee 
saved a dog, after it appeared he was nearly dead; four grains of camphor 
gum has done the same thing — then they are good for persons. It is better, 
however, to put such things out of the reach of children. See, also, ' ' Poi- 
sons, Quick Emetics, Antidotes, etc." 

1. GKAVEL — Kemedy.— A strong decoction, made with a handful 
of smart-weed in 3^ pt. of water, taken with a gill of gin, is said to have dis- 
charged a table-spoonful of gravel at a time in 12 hours from the time it was 
taken. Keep on taking it daily as long as any gravel is discharged. 

1. HEMORRHAGE OR BLEEDING FROM THE LUNGS, 
WOMB, RECTUM, ETC. — Witchhazel and Other Specifics, or 
Positive Remedies for. — Hemorrhage, or bleeding from the uterus (womb) 
after child-birth, from the lungs and from the rectum, in some cases of piles, 
are of such frequent occurrence that I deem it of great importance to give the 
latest and most successful prescriptions for hemorrage in these cases. 

Of late the homeopathists claim that the valuable properties of the witch- 
hazel is a discovery of theirs, and they make ado over it in the form of " Pond's 
Extract of Hamamelis." If this is used, give it in doses of 10 to 15 drops, 
repeated every 3 or 4 hours. 

Among eclectics, for many years past, the common witchhazel (hamamelis) 
has been considered a very valuable remedy for hemorrhages or bleeding from 
the internal organs. Prominent among these are Professors John M. Scudder 
and A. S. Howe, of the Eclectic Medical Institute of Cincinnati, who consider 
it a specific (positive cure) in all cases of debility of the nervous system — a weak 
and flabby condition that allows the blood to ooze through the membrane. 

Prof. Howe has used this about 30 years, or long before homeopathy had 
become at all prominent in the United States. 

Prof. John King, of the same institute named above, and also an extensive 
medical writer, thinks that in hemorrhages immediately following " delivery at 
full term " hamamelis is not equal to ergot, but in cases arising from debility, 
he agrees with the remarks above — that witchhazel is vastly superior. 

A decoction or tea, made from the bark or from the dried leaves, will be as 
effectual as " Pond's Extract." which is kept by druggists. 

The strenj.th of a decoction will be 1 oz. of dried bark or leaves to 1 pt. of 
water. Dose— A wine-glassful 3 or 4 times daily. 

3, Uterine Hemorrhage — Specifics in. — C. J. Pitzer, M. D., of 
Be .r'':\ HI., a practitioner of over 16 years experience, in a communication to 
tlie ^ >('(",; Medical Journal, asks for practical items from the experience of 
other piiv,; , ;,^, and in giving his own, says: "Cinnamon and erigeron 
are specifics (positive cure) in uterine hemorrhage; I know it by actual 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 49 

experience. I don't tell you anything new, but recall your attention to the 
fact and confirm, as far as my evidence goes, what has been said of these 
articles by others. Let me say, while speaking of these invaluable remedies, 
that in uterine hemorrhage you can't have too much confidence in them. 
They are just what you want. Don't resort to ergot. Give oil of erigeron, 
10 drops, every hour, and oftener, if needs be; and between each doze give 
15 drops tinct. oil of cinnamon, made by adding oil of cinnamon, 1 fl. dr., to 
best alcohol, 95 ^ 1 fl. oz. I use both remedies in every case, alternating. 
Don't know which does the most good; neither do I care much, so I save my 
patient. Just had a bad case last week, caused by retained membranes. The case 
had been managed by other physicians, and 4 or 5 days after the deUvery, the 
hemorrhage was very excessive and threatened the life of the patient in a short 
time. The doctor who sent for me had used ergot, opium, lead and tannin, and 
had resorted to the tampon. I suggested the above named remedies, and com- 
menced the use of them at once. The hemorrhage ceased almost entirely In 4 
hours, and we had no trouble in controlling it afterwards." 

Remarks. — It is facts like these which have now well established the belief 
In the specific, or positive action, of medicines, and I trust that others may 
have sufficient confidence in them to use them when needed. This is one of 
the objects in writing this book, that these well established facts may reach the 
thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of the people, rather than stop with only 
a few physicians, 

3. Hemorrhage from the "Womb, vVith High Pulse ajid 
JPever. — Being called to a case wheie an abortiv^in had been performed, in an 
early stage of pregnancy (not knowing for some time after, of the cause), find- 
ing the wasting, or hemorrhage, considerable, I gave: 

I. Fl. ex. of ergot, % oz. ; gallic acid, 40 grs. ; mixed. Dose — ^ tea- 
■poonful every 2 hours, until pain and contraction of the womb was produced, 
then once in 4 or 5 hours only, until the wasting ceased- 

II. For the High Pulse— I gave tinct. veratrum viride, 6 drops, with tinct. 
aconite, 3 drops, every 2 hours, alternating with the first, giving the second 1 
hour af tCT the ergot mixture had been given, dropping each into a tumbler, so 
as to get this number of drops, of each, in a tea-spoonful of water, when given. 
For instance, 36 drops of the veratrum and 18 drops of aconite, with 6 tea- 
spoonfuls of water, gave the right dose each time. 

Remarks.— RernQmher, however, that the veratnmi and aconite mixture la 
only to reduce the pulse, which was about 120; when this comes down to 80, 
then give this only once in 4 or 6 hours, to keep the pulse at about this grade; 
if continued too long, it will reduce too much, and also distress and nauseate 
the stomach, which is not necessary, and should always be avoided if possible. 
The strength must be helped up with 2 or 3 grain doses of quinine, or " Dex- 
tro " quinine, in same doses three times daily'. 

The urine in such cases may need some attention, and call for acetate, 
©r nitrate, of potash (I like the acetate best, some others prefer the nltrate-nitw, 
4 



GO DR. CHASSrS RECIPES, 

or the sweet spirits of nitre), to correct any disturbance of these organs, fet 
which purpose. See ' ' Diuretics " for directions. 

4. Hemorrhage, Slight, of the Lungs, -with Cough—Regn- 
lator or Allopathic Treatment For. — I. Give fl. ex. of ergot, 15 drops 
in a little water, putting in a little essence of wintergreen to lessen its bitter 
taste. (The author would say, in such a case, a few drops of essence of cinna- 
mon, which will cover the bitter taste as well as the wintergreen, is of itself 
good for the hemorrhage.) Give the above every six hours. 

II. Between these doses also give gallic acid, 4 grs., in a little syrup of 
lemon. This alternation brings the doses only three hours apart. A few doses 
of each will generally allay any slight hemorrhage. If the cough is pretty per- 
sistant, i. e., continuous and irritating, give laudanum, 15 drops, once in 4 or 5 
hours, and 25 drops at bed-time, to allay the cough and help in procuring sleep. 
Give also laxatives, if needed, to prevent costiveness. 

Remarks. — I know this treatment to have proved eminently satisfactory 
when the hemorrhage was not very extensive. 

5. Hemorrhage, or Bleeding From Slight Cuts, etc.— Simple 
Hemedy. — To stop the flow of blood bind the cut with cobwebs and brown 
sugar, pressed on like lint. Wheat flour and salt, in equal parts, bound on with 
a cloth, for man or beast; mix well, without wetting, the blood will wet them 
enough. 

Treatment for Hemorrhage.- Boon after the above was written we 
had the value of the cobweb treatment CDuflrmed, by the Toledo Post, in a case 
of a lady of that city, who had a tooth dtawn; hemorrhage from the cavity set 
in and continued, in spite of all commot remedies, from Saturday noon tintil 3 
o'clock Sunday morning, when the cobweb was procured and applied and the 
bleeding stopped by this move, leaving tier very weak. 

7. Hemorrhage from Wounds— Styptic Colloid, to Prevent 
and Cure. — The following will instantly coagulate blood, forming a con- 
sistent clot, under which wounds will readily heal: Collodion, 100 parts (grs.); 
carbolic acid, 10 parts; tannic and benzoic acids, of each 5 parts; mix the 
ingredients in the above order. 

Remarks.— U the wound is so large that a slight application does not stop 
the hemorrhage or bleeding, wet lint with it and bind on if necessary, and leaTa 
on until the healing process is accomplished. 

1. DIPHTHERIA — Successful Remedies. — My first remedy, 
although simple and easily obtained, is from a paper presented to the French 
Academy of Medicine by Dr. Revillout, who asserts from an experience of 18 
years, that: 

I. Lemon juice is one of the most efficacious medicines that can be applied 
In Diphtheria, and relates that when he was a dresser in the hospital, his own 
life was saved by this timely application. He got a quantity of lemons and 
gargled his throat with the juice, swallowing a little at a time in order to act qm 
the more deep-seated parts. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 81 

It Is also recommended for any inflammatory or Irritable coiWition of the 
ttiroat In their commencement. 

II Lemon juice in Diplitheria Is endorsed by American physidans, as the 
loliowing will show. Let it be tried by all means. 

Dr. J R. Page, of Baltimore, in the New York Medical Record, invites the 
attention of the profession to a topical use of fresh lemon Juice as a most efl3ci- 
snt means for the removal of the membrane from the throat, tonsils, etc., in 
diphtheria In his hands (he has heard several of his professional brethren say 
the same) it has proved by far the best agent he has yet tried for the purpose. 
Be applied the juice of the lemon, by means of a camel's hair pro>iang (* piece 
it cloth on a stick will do as well), to the affected parts every 2 or 3 hours, and 
In eighteen cases on which he has used it the effect has been all he could wish. 
A little remarkable — one has 18 years successful experience, the other 18 cases; 
cither is enough. 

2. Diphtheria — Ice a Successful Remedy for. — The French 
nave also been very successful in the use of ice as a remedy in Diphtheria, 
which was introduced into this country by a Dr. Chapman, reported through 
the New York Tribune, by which means it was brought to the notice of the 
Oneida community in that state, where the disease was prevailing, and was suc- 
cessful in 60 cases. They aroused the mind of the patients, old enough t<? 
understand the necessity, to the greatest possible resistance to the advance of 
the disease. This determination of resistance is valuable against the advance of 
any disease. Directions — The ice is broken into small pieces and given to thy 
patient every ten minutes, night and day. 

3. Diphtheria, Cure For.— A Mrs. R. S. K., of Toledo, Ohio., giveJ 
tne following cure for diphtheria to the Blade Household: I. Syrup of squills, 
1 oz.; gum camphor, ]4 oz.; laudanum, 3^ dr. ; cayenne pepper, % tea-spoonful; 
good whiskey, % pt. Directions — Camphor to be dissolved in as small a 
quantity of alcohol as possible. Four large onions are to be cut in slices, put 
into a deep earthen plate (that will stand heat), sprinkle thickly with loaf .sugar, 
cover with another plate, place a heated flat Iron on the upper plate, leaving it 
set on the back of the stove. Heat and pressure will extract all the juices 
without losing any of its medical properties. All the juices thus extracted are 
to be mixed with the other Ingredients; when all are mixed together and the 
camphor added, It will curdle; but when It stands awhile. It will become clear. 
Dose — For an adult, 1 tea-spoonful every 3^ hour; for a child, % tea-spoonful 
ivery % hour; to be diluted for a child, as it is pretty strong. 

11. Apply also the following: Salt pork, »^ lb , and 2 large onions; chop 
a,ii together finely and put some upon the throat. For an infant place a tlii» 
piece of muslin on the poultice next the skin; change every 15 or 20 minutes- 

Remarks —A poultice of mashed onions to the arm-pits, stomach, soles ot 
ine feet and palms of the hands, in bad cases of fevers, has worked wonders. 
Why not good then for diphtheria? 

4» Diphtheria, Sulphur Treatment. — Our attention was flrst called 
* the use of sulphur, in this disease, by a report from Dr. Fields, ia England. 



52 DR, CEASE'S RECIPES. 

He found an advantage in Its use, in some bad cases within ten minutes of Its 
commencement. His manner of using it with those old enough, was in the 
form of a gargle, a tea-spoonful of the powder, or flour of sulphur, in a wine 
glass of water, gargling frequently. If the patient was unable to gargle, or 
too young, blow some of the dry sulphur through a quill upon the diseased 
parts of the throat, or burn some of the sulphur upon live coals near the pa- 
tient, so that he will inhale the fumes. The patient should always be kept 
warm and the bowels open. In extreme cases, when Dr. Field was called, just 
in the nick of time, when the fungus was so near filling the throat, as not to 
allow the gargling, he first blew the sulphur through the quill into the throat, 
and after the fungus had shrunk to allow of it, then the frequent gargling. He 
never lost a patient from diphtheria under this treatment. He recommends 
after gargling a couple of times, to cleanse the throat, to swallow some of the 
sulphur water occasionally, so as to reach the fungus deeper in the throat, which 
also has a tendency to keep the bowels open, which is recommended a very im- 
portant point to accomplish. This fungus is believed to be a living parasite, of 
plant-like growth, and that sulphur is absolutely destructive to them, as has 
been proved by its use, by applying upon the parasites of the grape vine. It 
has been proved that sulphur kills every fungus or parasite on man, beast, or 
plant. One Dr. Langautiers also found that one tea-spoonful doses every hour, 
of a mixture of sulphur, in 4 ozs. of water, taken every hour, is very beneficial 
in the treatment of croup. 

5. Diphtheria, Speeiflo for— Also Scarlet Fever, and Preven- 
tive in Both. — The best physicians of New York city, Brooklyn and Phila^ 
delphia are equally in favor of the sulpho-carbolate of soda. 

[The sulpho-carbolate of soda is composed of soda combined with sulphur 
and carbolic acid, either of which alone is good in diphtheria, scarlet fever and 
any other inflammatory condition of the throat; and the combination is more 
decidedly beneficial than either would be alone; at least it seems so to me from 
my knowledge of their properties.] 

Dr. May, of New York city, says the sulpho-carbolate of soda is a specific 
(positive cure) in diphtheria, also in scarlet fever, and claims that this article is 
a preventive to the development, even after exposure, as well as a cure for both 
these diseases. The writer of this report is very much impressed in favor of 
this article. He says: 

"The use of sulpho-carbolate of soda in diphtheria has become a settled 
fact by the best physicians, as above named, to be the only certain specific (pos- 
itive cure), for that dreaded disease which has taken off so many children in the 
United States during the past 8 years. He also says it is certain to destroy the 
parasitic fungus in the throat and glands in two hours. 

" Ten grs. dissolved in a tumbler half full of cold water, and take from ^ 
to 1 tea-spoonful every hour, until the parasite is destroyed; then take 1 tea- 
spooirful every 2 or 3 hours, according to the circumstances of the case. There 
is no use in physicians fighting against this remedy, for they will have to ise it 
if they have success in the treatment of scarlet fever and diphtheria. It is a 
specific in both diseases, as they are both z}Tnotic (acting like a ferment, 
spreading quickly through the system) in their nature, and are produced by the 
parasite in the system. It vdll prevent both diseases, if given before an attack, 
as well as a remedy. This remedy has been used for scarlet fever and diphtheria 




WHERE'S THE DOCTOR? I AM THE DOCTOR, SIR. 

WH^wf , HAON'T CALCULATED ON A WOMAN DOCTOR; 

BUT COME ON QUICK. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. « 53 

for over 3 years, and if given before gangrene (mortification) sets in, ■will work 
wonders in every case. It was discovered by an English physician, and has 
grown into favor as a specific ever since, particularly with children. 

" The trichina parasite of pork, as soon as it enters the stomach, is absorbed 
by the blood, then into the muscles of the body. It is not so with the diphtheria 
parasite; it is generated in the stomach, and when it spreads up the oesophagus 
(comes from Greek words, signifying to bear, to carry and to eat; being tha 
passage way of the food and drink to the stomach, commonly called the gullet), 
it produces such a high state of inflammation that gangrene sets in, which dis- 
solves the parasite, and carries it all through the blood, which is always fatal. 
Gangrene always dissolves the parasite, but before that takes place the use of 
the sulpho-carbolate of soda will save every case. I have written these lines by 
special request of very many citizens and friends who desire it made pubUc for 
the benefit of all." 

Remarks. — I am only sorry that I have not had an opportunity to test this 
myself; but, as I have not, I can only say to physicians, and heads of families, 
try it, by all means. Whenever either of these diseases gives you an opportunity, 
have it on hand and lose no time in beginning its use. 

6. Diphtheria — Chlorine Water a Specific for. — At a recent 
breaking out of Diphtheria in a considerable number of places, which was also 
alarming in its fatality, the Springfield Republican, in commenting upon the 
fact, called attention to some remedies which have entirely divested this fearful 
disease of its terrors, if applied in the early stages. Among these it claimed 
the most simple and effective to be chlorine water, diluted by adding 
2 to 4 times the amount of water. A well known physician of that city, the 
Republican asserts, has used this specific conclusively for fifteen years with 
complete success, previous to its use having lost about half his cases. He 
repeatedly, by its use, eradicated the disease in different places, when all other 
remedies failed. Another medical writer claims that the chlorine water and 
aulphur treatments, as given aJbove, are the only positive cures. Dose — 1 to 3 
tea-spoonfuls, largely diluted with water, 2 or 3 times daily; also as a gargle 
in sore throat, even of a putrid character. 

Remarks. — To give confidence to those who are not acquainted with the 
uses of chlorine water, I will say it is powerfully antiseptic (overcoming putr&. 
faction), quickly destroying all bad odors arising from decay. It has been sue* 
cessfuUy used internally in chronic inflammation of the liver, typhus fever, 
malignant sore throat, scarlet fever, etc. 

7. Diphtheria — Successful Remedy in Forty Cases — Also 
Preventive. — Dr. MacLean, of Norwalk, Ct., recommends the following a» 
a preventive of diphtheria, remarking: 

" During the past 4 years I have used it, and in 40 well marked cases ol 
diphtheria, where 140 persons were exposed to a contagion, not a single case 
kas been reported to me. I use 1 dr. of Monsel's salt in 8 ozs. cold water, add- 
ing plenty of sugar to overcome the taste of the iron. Dose — 2 to 8 tea-spoon- 
fms each day, according to the violence of the disease." 

Remarks.— The dose would be 1 tea-spoonful, 2, 3 or 4 hours apart, as the 
case may require. 

8. Diphtheria, Sore Throat, Swollen Tonsils, Etc.— Home- 
opathio Remedy. — Bin- iodide of mercury, 10 grs.; sugar of milk, 100 gra.; 



64 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

triturate (rub) together 30 minutes in a wedge wood mortar. Then take 10 grs. 
of this triturated article and 100 grs. more of sugar of milk, and triturate again 
as before. Dose — Give 1 gr. of this second trituration every hour in ordinary- 
cases; if a bad case, give the same amount every 15 to 30 minutes, until relieved; 
then every hour or two, as needed. A few doses makes the cure. 

Remarks. — Dr. Mason used this a number of years, and very successfully, 
on some veiy bad cases. The above is the Homeopathic, treatment, except 
Bome of them use in addition to this a gargle, every hour, of ^ alcohol,and 
^ water. 

9. Diphtheria, Dr. Scott's Treatment for. — After the foregoing 
recipes had been prepared I noticed Dr. W. A. Scott, of Sandyville, Iowa, 
reported through the Chicago Inter- Ocean his success with the following treat- 
ment: 

I. Dissolve 20 grs. of pure permanganate of potassa (permanganate of 
potassa is a powerful disinfectant, also a great purifier of sick rooms, clothing, 
etc.) in 1 oz. of water, and apply it to the affected parts with a swab, gently, 
but thoroughly, every 3 hours, until better; then not so often. (Better get 80 
grs. in a 4 oz. vial of water.) After the patient gets better weaken the solution 
by adding an equal quantity of water. This solution does not give any pain, 
tior is there any danger in its use, but it has a nasty taste, which is its only ob- 
jection. (Its staining clothing is another objection.) 

Prof. King, in his American Dispensatory, says: 

" One dr. of permanganate dissolved in % 07>. of water. In a saucer, and 
placed under the table, bed or other convenvient place destroys all odors. An- 
other writer in speaking ot permanganate of potash to purify the air of sick 
rooms says: 3^ oz. of it, in water, 1 qt. , and cloths wet in it and hung up, is a 
quick and certain disinfectant. For disinfecting or cleansing clothing of diph- 
theritic, scarlet fever or small pox patients, bedding, etc., 1 oz. of the perman- 
ganate to 2 gals, of water is sufficient to soak them in, an hour or two, before 
the boiling and washing in the regular way. 

II. ' ' Apply a good liniment to the throat outside, 3 or 4 times a day. (Dr. 
Chase's golden oil or liniment, or Mrs. Chase's, will be found good for this pur- 
pose.) Keep a cotton cloth, not woolen, around the throat till well. The above 
is all I use in simple cases, and all that is needed. 

Ill, "If there is much fever I mix 5 drops of fl. ex. of aconite root 
with 4 ozs. of water, and give to a small child 3^ tea-spoonful ; a child 5 to 10 

?ears, }4. tea-spoonful; 10 to 15 years, 1 tea-spoonful; over that age, 2 tea-spoon- 
uls. Give every 1 or 2 hours, as may seem needed, to lessen the fever. 

rV". " If there is blood poisoning, which maybe known by the bad smell- 
ing breath and quick beating of the heart, give: Chloroform, 1 fl. dr.; comp. 
epts. lav. , 1 dr. ; alcohol, 1 oz. ; mix. Dose — Five to 20 drops, according to the 
age, mixed in cold water, every J>^ to 2 hours, as may seem necessary. This 
will quickly quiet the heart's tumultuous action and aid it to throw off the 
poison. 

V " Do not give harsh physics. If needed, give castor oil or purgative 
magnesia. Keep the patient from exposure to chilly air or cold baths. This 
treatment, which I have published in several medical journals, will rob tiiis 
^seaee of its terror and save from the grave many a loved one." 

Remarks. — Let the medicine be obtained where there are families of chil- 
dren, so as to have it in the house as soon as needed, on the approach of the dis- 
ease Into a neighborhood. Then when it begins, lose no time in applying th« 
FsoMdj, aod the diflerent aids he reconunends, if needed. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. C' 

10. Diphtheria— Latest Allopathic Treatment For.— In a re- 
cent conversation with Dr. Haney, of Toledo, Ohio, he claimed to cure every 
case of diphtheria, even in small children, by swabbing the throat with cal- 
omel; for quite a young child he gets 10 grs. into the throat, by a swab, and 
a child 5 to 8 years, 20 to 30 grs., so it will be swallowed. He says it stops 
the change in the blood, by which the fibrinous portions form the membrane 
in the throat. He follows 3 or 4 hours after with the liquid physic (see " Liquid 
Physic"), to help carry off the accumulation of the intestines; and then supports 
the strength with liquid food of a nourishing character. He is a successful 
physician, and claims not to have lost an average of one child a year for 
the eleven years, practice there; and I know he has a good share of practice 
among the children. I have also seen accounts in a recent medical journal, 
by some allopathic phy.sicians, that they have been using calomel very simi- 
lar to Dr. Haney, in this disease. Therefore I have not dared to pass it by 
without mention, as it may save many lives for future usefulness. 

11. Diphtheria— Remedy by the French Academy of Medi- 
cine. — ' ' The vapor from the burning of a mixture of tar and spirits of turpen- 
tine, near the bed, it is said, will dissolve the false membrane which is so often 
fatal in this dreadful disease. If this simple remedy is complete, as the French 
Academy of Medicine is said to have declared, it should be widely published." 
American Messenger, October, 1884- 

ifemarA;^.— Notwithstanding there are two "is saids" in this, yet, as it is 
simple, and would not interfere with any other treatment, and obtaining it from 
a purely religious paper, which seldom touches anything of tliis kind, I have 
felt, from the knowledge of love of the effects of these articles, it should 
have my help on its way to a wider publication. Equal parts should be used, 
although they do not so state, thoroughly mixed, and poiu- a few drops from a 
tta-spoon upon hot coals, to keep up the fumes, is all that is needed. 

Blistering in Diphtheria— History of a Case at Black Rock, 
N. Y., Saved by It. — In the December number, 1884, of the I'lierapeutic 
Oazelie, of Detroit, Mich., F. W. Bartlett, M. D., of Buffalo, reports the case of 
a man about 45 years old, to whom he was called, and who was very sick at the 
time, and continued to get worse for four days, when he considered it hope- 
less from the condition of the throat, and so informed his patient, who took 
it calmly, but asked to have something done to relieve the suffering of the 
stomach, for which he directed his wife to dip cloths in hot water, and 
wring out, then put on a few drops of turpentine, to be applied over the 
bowels; but in the confusion of such a case, expecting to lose her husband, 
she heated the turpentine, and saturated flannel with it, and laid it on, which he 
bore as long as he could, then violently flung it across the room, saying he 
"would rather die than suffer such agony." And when the wife saw what 
an inflammation she had caused, covered it with fresh lard, and waited the 
doctor's morning call; who found a blister (vesication, as M. D's most call it) a 
foot square, covered with a diphtheritic exudation, the throat better, and the 
patient saved. All I have to say further is, let others make similar mistakes 



56 DR. CHASE3 RECIPES. 

In bad cases, and save their patients too. In other words, draw a blister In the 
regular way, in time, not to let the throat get beyond control. I would put a 
blister on both arms, breast and bowels too, if I thought it necessary to save 
my patient's life. 

12. Diphtheria, to Avoid by Diet — Pork Believed to be 
the Exciting Cause. — With an explanation as to this exciting cause of 
diphtheria, I will close the subject, having given a large number of the most 
popularly known remedies, although there are many writers who think that the 
abundant use of pork in our diet is a very fruitful source of this disease, I shall 
only quote from one. A recent medical correspondent of the Lancaster 2few 
Eh-a argues at considerable length: " That eating of pork is an inciting (arousing, 
stirring up,) cause of this terrible disease." His idea is that an unhealthy 
appetite is created by the use of so much pork, in the every-day diet of the 
country, until the specific pork poison is manifested in the exudations depos- 
its from the blood into the throat, which is the characteristic symptom in this 
disease. He especially advises parents not to allow their children to diet on 
pork, nor sausage, but fruit and vegetables in greater abundance. 

Remarks.— AUhongh beef, veal, lamb, chicken, etc., may be allowed to 
children generally, yet it would be well for parents during the prevalence of 
diphtheria in a neighborhood, to put their children upon a bread and milk and 
vegetable diet exclusively, lest their loss might be charged home to their n^- 
lect, which would not be a pleasant thought for after-consideration. 

13. Diphtheria— Closing Remarks Upon.— The author leaves the 
subject with his readers, believing that he has presented a larger number and 
more reliable remedies or recipes for the cure and prevention of diphtheria 
than are to be found in any other publication whatever; he also believes that if 
these recipes are well studied, and one or more of them adopted by the heads 
of households containing young children, and the articles obtained and kept ou 
hand ready for use, night or day, nothing like the fatality will hereafter 
take place from diphtheria, as has heretofore been the case. I feel certain 
that there can be no drug store where some of the articles mentioned may 
not be obtained. Then the responsibility rests with each one who shall 
have this knowledge, and yet neglect to use it. The author has done his duty, 
which is a great consolation to him. The same will also hold good upon many 
other subjects in this work. See " Disinfectants," to prevent this disease from 
spreading. 

1. SORE THROAT— The Good Old Grandmother's Gargle 
for. — Steep 1 medium-sized red pepper in }^ pt. of water, strain, and add }4 Pt« 
of good vinegar, and a heaping tea-spoonful, each, of salt and pulverized alum, 
and gargle with it as often as needed. 

2. Sore Throat, New Gargle for.— In all recent inflammations, or 
colds, affecting the throat, a gargle made by putting a heaping tea-spoonful of 
the bi-carbonate of soda (common baking soda) into a glass of water, and gar- 
gling with it frequently, will be found exceedingly valuable. A tea-spoonful, or 
a little more, of it swallowed, will quickly relieve a tickling cough; also neu- 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. m 

tralize the acidity ot the stomach often arising after meals, water-brashp etc. 
But if it should irritate, weaken one-half or more. 

3. Sore Tliroat— Heat Strong Tea as a Gargle for Speedy 
Belief in. — It is well to know that sore throat can be speedily relieved by 
using strong, hot tea as a gargle. It is a convenient remedy and rather a 
pleasant one. 

Remarks. — Hot water has proved valuable in many diseases of late, as dys- 
pepsia, consumption, etc., taken internally before meals, which see, for these 



4. Sore Throat and Catarrh— Gargle for.— Comp, spirits of 
lavender. % o^., into a 4 oz. vial; put in also the carbonate of ammonia, 20 
grs. ; fill with distilled, or rain water. 

Directions. — P*ut 1 teaspoonful of this to % cup of warm, soft water and 
gargle with it two or three times daily ; and if any catarrh, or nasal inflamma- 
tion, put into the hand, what it will hold, and snuff into the nostrils at each 
time. After the gargling and snuffing, a little vaseline, or cosmoline, mutton 
tallow, or some sweet oil, or sweet almond oil, should be introduced into each 
nostril with the finger. 

Remarks. — Follow this course faithfully, and for a considerable time, in 
catarrh, if any good is expected to result; also use occasionally some good 
cathartic to act freely, together with an alterative and tonic course of medicine. 

5. Sore Throat, Common Gargle for.— For common case of sora 
throat, a valuable gargle can generally be made at almost any dinner table. 

Directions. — Take % pt. tumbler, or common goblet, and put into it » 
small salt cellar of salt (about 2 tea-spoonfuls), i^' tea-spoonful of black pepper, 
and a little cayenne (3 or 4 little taps on the bottom of the cruet, or pepper-box 
containing it, will be sufficient; a tea-spoonful or two of pepper-sauce, if on the 
table, is better than the cayenne powder), then fill the tumbler with cider vine- 
gar and water, equal parts, stir well, a few times, and gargle with it often. 

Remarks. — If you have alum and borax in the house, about J^ tea-spoon- 
ful of each, pulverized, may be put in, or if only one of them, i^ tea-spoonful 
will improve the gargle. (Other gargles will be found in connection with the 
subject of diphtheria.) 

6. Sore Throat, Several Simple Remedies for. — The follow- 
ing are some of the most common, or simple, remedies for sore throat, easily 
obtained and often effectual: 

I Salt and water is used by many as a gargle; but a little alum and honey 
dissolved in sage tea is better. 

II. Others, a few drops of camphor on loaf sugar, which very often 
affords immediate relief. 

III. An application of cloths wrung out of hot water and applied to the 
neck, changed as often as it begins to cool, has great potency In removing in- 
flammation in recent cases. 

IV. Borax the size of a pea in the mouth relieves hoarseness quickly 
(See also hoarseness, bronchitis, etc., for other remedies.) 



68 LB. CHASE'S EECIPE8. 

SORE NOSE — Akin to Erysipelas — Certain Ciire.— I had a 

case of sore nose, a very bad case, which nothing in the ordinary line of treat- 
ment would benefit at all, except for a very short time. The sufferer would 
cry out: " Cannot something be done to relieve this Intolerable suffering," 
etc. Derections — I prepared a little stick, 3 or 4 inches in length, and wound 
it with 3 or 4 thicknesses of cotton cloth, wrapped with thread, and dipped this 
into the full strength muriated tincture of iron, and held it firmly, for }^ min- 
ute, or so, to each spot, and over the inflamed nose, and to the inner edges, 
where it was sorest. The first moment or two it smarted like fire, but I held 
it the more firmly and said never mind that, it won't be so bad next time. 
So night and morning, for 3 or 4 days, then once daily as much longer, made 
a perfect cure — now over 6 months, without the least return and no sign of 
soreness remaining. I should continue to apply for a month or more, if ne- 
cssary, or until cured. I gave him also internally 5 drops of the same tinc- 
ture 3 times daily in a little water. Of course he had an iron-colored nose, but 
a piece of lemon rubbed on a few times soon removed that ornamental shade 
and left him all right again, the same as it will remove recent iron rust spots 
from clothing. 

Sore Fingers of Printers, etc., to Cure and Blood Blisters 
to Prevent. — I. Generally a compositor's (type-setter's) sore fingers result 
from lye, low cases, splinters, scratches in handling brass rule, paper cuts, type 
poison, etc., and often occasion loss of time, expensive doctoring and great 
pain. For these sores a correspondent writes: " I have never lost an hour from 
business, nor been put to more than a trifling expense. Plentiful and frequent 
application of laudanum has been my panacea (cure all). It also cleanses, re- 
moves the soreness and rapidly heals old sores." 

II. Blood blisters may be prevented from forming by immediately rub- 
bing the bruise briskly with any non-poisonous hard substance. — London Pho- 
netic Journal. 

Rtmarks. — The fact here given as to the curative action of laudanum upon 
Bore fingers, and old sores, is that laudanum alone would be valuable upon all 
ordinary chaps, or cracks upon the hands, lips, etc. , no matter from what cause 
they may have arisen, as the opium relieves the pain, and the alcohol In It stim- 
ulates the parts to heal. 

CABBUNCLE— Treatment Which Saves Pain and Soreness 
—Also Applicable to Boils.— Having just passed through a three weeks, 
siege with a six hole carbuncle, I feel competent to tell others how I saved 
myself much pain, soreness and suffering, although It Is bad enough when all 
has been done that can be done for relief. 

What it might have proved without my mitigating treatment, I do not 
know; it was the agony that compelled me to adopt some plan of relief; hence 
I took: 

I. A mild liniment, Mrs. Chase's, given In this book (any mild liniment 
■will do), 3 ozs. ; chloroform, 1 oz. ; laudanum, 1 oz. ; mixed. Shaken, when 
used, and applied every hoiir or two, night and day. There were only short 



TIUSA TMENT OF DISEASES, 59 

catches of sleep for about two weeks; after which, an hour or two was occa- 
sionally obtained. 

After applying the above mixture freely at each time, I then applied the 
following anodyne, emollient, or softening mixture: 

II. Sweet oil, 7 drs. ; laudanum, 1 dr. ; mix. The application of the fore- 
going mixtures would relieve very much of the agonizing pain, even before I 
would be done applying the first; and the second kept the surface soft, as well 
as to help keep down the pain. (The same thing will be just as effectual for 
boils, I have not a doubt.) The situation was such that no poulticing could 
have been done, if desired, to hasten it; and even if it could, I have never 
known one under the poulticing process to subside in less than 5 or 6 weeks, 
while by the above process nearly all the pain and soreness subsided in 3 weeks. 

At one time I thought it was going to repeat itself: but by the application 
ef the permanganate of potash, 1 dr. to 1 oz. of water, applied by rolling up a 
strip of cotton cloth, and tieing a bit of cord around it in the centre, the size of 
the roll being just to fill the mouth of the vial, by which msans I could wet 
one end of the roll of cloth without spilling it upon the clothing (permanganate 
colors the clothes), and apply to the swelling, it was driven back, or scattered, 
and by taking an active cathartic dose of crab-orchard salts (any active cathartic 
will do the same) it was carried out of the system. 

2. Carbuncle, Specific for. — R. H. Johnson, in the Medical Remeui, 
eays, he has found tannin a specific for carbuncle. He sprinkles the tannin 
upon the openings as long as it will dissolve ; and 24 hours after washes off with 
castile soap, and sprinkles it again. He claims it to soon heal up with but little 
pain. It is worthy of trial, as it can do no harm. 

BOILS.— Bemedy Against their Continuance.— Prof. Scud- 
der, in his work on Specific Medication, speaking of lime, says: Its specific 
use is in cases of funmculus (boil), and other inflammations of the cellular 
tissue (the cell-like tissue immediately under the skin) terminating in suppura- 
tion. Why it has this specific influence I do not propose to say, but I have 
proven it in scores of cases. Taken in a case in which boils are continually 
developed, the use of lime water will effect a radical cure. [The proper 
strength for lime water to be used in these cases, in fact, in all cases, is: stone 
lime, 4 ozs.; distilled water, 1 gal., or in these proportions. Slack the lime 
with a little of the water, then pour the rest of the water over it and stir; cover 
the bowl and set aside for three hours; then bottle and keep the liquor upon the 
lime, well corked, and use only the clear liquid as wanted.] See "Milk Diet for 
Infants and Adults.". Dose— It is given in doses of a wine-glassful, 3 or 4 times 
a day. If too alkaline use additional water. 

This lime water is often very properly used with the milk fed to infanta 
which have to be raised upon the bottle; a tea-spoonful to a bottle of milk, or suf- 
ficient to prevent acidity of the stomach, and it is also valuable in Dyspepsia in 
adults when there are acid eructations of gas, or, as commonly called, belching or 
rifting of wind from the stomach, after eating. Dose- For adults in these 
8 or 4 table-spoonfuls to a bowl of milk; sufladent only to 



60 DR. CHASE'S RWIPBB. 

needed to keep down the acidity. See " Dyspepsia, Milk and Lime Water, 
Cure for." Lime water can often be borne by patients who cannot take th» 
salts of soda, or potash. This also proves its value and adaptation to the human 
system. 

2. Boils— To Relieve the Pain of and to Scatter.— The pain of 
boils, it is said, can be relieved very much by frequently applying castor-oil on 
the parts. 

Painting a boil with tincture of iodine, it is also claimed, scatters them; 
but I prefer to scatter them by frequently applying a strong liniment. I havo 
recently scattered two from my own neck in this way. I used Dr. Chase's 
golden oil, or strong camphor liniment; I think I applied it at least fifteen differ- 
ent times in the day, rubbing over the boil hard and long at each application, 
which scattered it, and is doing so again, at this writing, so that I see they are 
in the system, and I have therefore made 1 qt. of the lime water (1 oz. stone 
lime to 1 qt.), and am going to use it, expecting I shall thus cleanse the blood 
and eradicate them — the boils from the system or blood. It did do it, as I hav« 
not had any more, or any indications of them, now over four months, after 
writing the above. 

3. Boils, Alterative Syrup for.— Blue flag and black cohosh root, 
each 1 oz. ; yellow dock root and the bark of the root of bitter-sweet, Peruvian 
bark, the bark of the root of sassafras and prickly ash berries, each ^ oz. ; 
pyrophosphate of iron, 2% drs. ; whiskey, 3^ pt. ; glycerine, 6 ozs. ; water, 13 
ozs. Directions. — The barks, roots and berries are to be coarsely ground, or 
bruised, then steeped in water in a covered dish, to leave, when strained, 1 pt,; 
then add the glycerine, whiskey and pyrophosphate of iron. Dose — A tea- 
spoonful 4 times daily, at meals and at bed-time. 

Remarks.— TYAs is not only a valuable alterative in boils, but to follow the 
treatment of inflammations, after the acute stages have been overcome by cool- 
ing purgatives, such as salts, seidlitz powder or cream of tartar, attention to the 
skin, etc., especially so if there is a scrofulous tendency, or considerable debil- 
ity, shown by the loss of strength, flesh, etc. 

1. MILK IN DIARRHEA, DYSENTERY, INCIPIENT 
CHOLERA, TYPHOID FEVER, ETC.— Considerable has lately been 
said in medical journals concerning the value of milk as a remedial agent in 
certain diseases. An interesting article upon this subject lately appeared in the 
London Milk Journal, in which it is stated, on the authority of Dr. Benjamin 
Clark, that in the East Indies warm milk is used to a great extent as a specific 
for Diarrhea. 

I. For DiarrTiea. — A pint every 4 hours will check the most violent di- 
arrhea, stomach-ache, incipient cholera and dysentery. The milk should never 
be boiled, but only heated sufficient to be agreeably warm, not too hot to drink. 
[The author would say 140" Fah. is as hot as one can take it comfortably with 
a tea-spoon.] Milk which has been boiled is unfit for use. He continues: It 
has never failed in curing in from 6 to 12 hours, and I have tried it, I should 
think, fifty times. I have also given it to a dying man who had been subject 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 61 

to dysentery 8 months, latterly accompanied by one continual diarrhea, and ft 
acted on him like a charm. In 2 days his diarrhea was gone, in 3 weeks he be- 
came a hale, fat man, and now nothing that may hereafter occur will ever shake 
his faith in hot milk. 

II. For Typhoid Fever.— Another writer also communicates to the Med- 
ical Times and Gazette a statement of the value of milk in 26 cases of typhoid 
fever, in every one of which its great value was apparent, checking diarrhea, 
nourishing and cooling the body. 

III. For Debilitating Diseases. — People suffering from disease require 
food quite as much as those in health, and much more so in certain diseases, 
where there is rapid waste of the system. Frequently all ordinary food, in 
some diseases, is rejected by the stomach, and even loathed by the patient; but 
nature, even in all disease, is bencficient, and has furnished a food that is bene- 
ficial — in some, directly curative. Such a food is milk. The writer, Dr. Alex- 
ander Yale, after giving particular observations upon the points above men- 
tioned, viz.: Its action in checking diarrhea, its nourishing properties and its 
action in cooling the body says: " We believe that milk nourishes in fever, pro- 
motes sleep, wards off delirium, soothes the intestines, and in fine is the sine 
qua non (an indispensable — just the thing) in typhoid fever." 

IV. For Scarlet Fever. — The writer goes on to say he has lately tested the 
value of milk in scarlet fever, and learns that it is now recommended by the 
medical faculty in all cases of this often very distressing disease of children. 
He says: 

Give all the milk the patient will take, even during the period of greatest 
fever; it keeps up the strength of the patient, acts well upon the stomach, and 
is in every way a blessed thing in this sickness. Parents, remember it, and do 
not fear to give it if your dear ones are afflicted with this disease. 

2. Milk as a Medicine.— Under the head of "Milk as a Medicine," 
the American Journal of Medicine, of St. Louis, says that this article, once 
looked upon with distrust, has now become a valuable agent in treatment of 
disease, and is, on all hands, recommended by practitioners of medicine as 
being a safe and reliable article in the list of curables. Given warm it ia 
declared to be almost a specific (positive cure) in diarrhea, stomach-ache, incipi- 
ent cholera and dysentery. It is also pronounced invaluable in typhoid 
fever. 

II. The Journal then quotes the sentence of Dr. Yale, given in III above, 
and closes by saying that he also agrees with the opinion of Dr. Benjamin 
Clark, in the London Milk Journal, given in I. 

Remarks.— I understand that the milk is not to be boiled, that it is to be 
heated only to allow its being drank without scalding the mouth or throat. 
There can be no doubt of its eflScacy with such an amount of testimony from 
the medical profession in India, England and America. See also "Treatment 
of Scarlet Fever with Sulphur," wherein I have recommended the milk to be 
also used. 

3. Milk Diet, with Lime Water— For Infants and Adults 
who have Weak Digestive Powers.— Dr. H. N. Chapman says that 



62 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

milk and lime water is not only food and medicine at an early period of life^ 
but also later, when, as in the case of infants, the functions of digestion 
and assimilation have been seriously impaired. A stomach taxed by gluttony, 
irritated by improper food, inflamed by alcohol, enfeebled by disease, or other- 
wise unfitted for its duties, as is shown by the various symptoms attendant upon 
indigestion, dyspepsia, diarrhea, dysentery and fever, will resume its work, and 
do it energetically, on an exclusive diet of lime water and milk. A goblet of 
cow's milk to which 4 table-spoonfuls of lime water has been added, will agree 
with any person, however objectionable the plain article maybe, will be friendly 
to the stomach when other food is apprehensive, and will be digested when all 
else fails to afford nourishment. Of this statement I have had positive proof ia 
very many cases. The blood being thin, the nerves weak, the nutrition poor, 
the secretions defective, the excretions insufficient, the physician has at hand % 
remedy as common as the air, and as common, almost as water. In it all the 
elements of nutrition are so prepared by nature as to be; readily adapted to th« 
infant or the adult stomach, and so freighted with healing virtues as to work a 
cure where drugs are worse than useless. 

Remarks. — It certainly needs no further remarks to show the estimation 
that milk is now held in. liCt it be used accordingly, with the lime water, and 
you will also be satisfied. 

4. Milk an Antidote and Preventive to Lead Poison.— The 
Journal de Medicine states, upon authority, that milk has been found to be an 
antidote and preventive to lead poisoning by those working in Its manufacture. 
(Why not, then, for painters?) 

A quart a day was furnished to each man, after which no colic nor other 
harm to health occurred. 

The remedy is simple, easily obtained, and no doubt effectual. Used as a 
drink during the day would be the manner of taking it. See also its use in 
"Accidental Poisoning." 

5. Milk as an Aliment or Food. — So much has been said on the 
use of milk as a medicine in diseased conditions of the system, it is but proper 
to say it ought to enter into our daily food to a very much greater extent than 
it does. It is believed to be good for children; but I beg leave to say it is as 
good for adults as it is for children ; and if every family would adopt the old 
plan of corn-meal mush and milk for supper for everyone in the family, as we 
used to do in an earlier day, the general health of the people would be better 
than it is. If it produces costiveness, in any case, put in a little lime water, or 
a little baking soda; but with the mush there is no danger of this. 

6. Milk, Hot, as a Restorative after Fatigue. — A glass of hot 
milk, when one is fatigued, is so refreshing and strengthening it will astonish 
the one who takes it. A supper, made with a couple slices of toasted bread in 
a bowl of hot milk, is very satisfactory in the absence of the mush mentioned 
above. 

1. SCARLET FEVER— Successful Treatment of.— Dr. Baaj 
Pigeon writes ta the Loaden Lane^ as foUows: 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES, 63 

" The marvellous success which has attended my treatment of scarlet fever 
by sulphur induces me to let my medical brethren know of my plan, so that 
the^ may be able to supply the same remedy without delay. All the cases in 
which I used it, were very marked, and the epidermis (outer or scarfskin) on the 
arms, in each case, came away like the skin of a snake. The following was 
the exact treatment followed in each case; 

" The patients were thoroughly anointed twice daily with sulphur ointment 
[the sulphur ointment used was made by the London Pharmacopoeia as follows: 
sulphur, 4 ozs. ; lard, % lb. ; oil of bergamot, 20 minims (drops); mixed]; giving 
5 to 10 grains of sulphur in a little jam, or jelly. 3 times a day, according to 
the age of the child and severity of the case. Sufficient sulphur was also 
burned, twice daily (on coals on a shovel), to fill the room with the fumes, and, 
of course, was thoroughly inhaled by the patient. 

" Under this mode of treatment each case improved immediately, and none 
■was over 8 days in making a complete recovery; and I tirmly believe in each; 
It was prevented from spreading by the treatment adopted. Having had a large 
experience in scarlet fever last yeaV and this, I feel some confidence in my own 
judgment, and I am of the opinion that the very mildest cases I ever saw do 
not do half as well as bad cases do by the sulphur treatment, and as far as I 
can judge sulphur is as near a specific (positive cure) for scarlet fever as pos- 
■ible." 

Remarks. — I can see no reason why the milk, as Indicated under the head 
of milk in diarrhea, dysentery, etc., may not be given with the sulphur treat* 
ment; I believe both to be good; and as I see the medical journals speak with 
such eonfidence of Dr. Pigeon's sulphur treatment, I place also great confi- 
dence in it, and recommend it most heartily, 

2. Scarlet Fever, Sulphurous Acid Treatment of.— Dr. L. 
Waterman, of Indianapolis, Ind., in an epidemic there, in 1876, gives his erpe- 
rience in the use of sulphurous acid. He says: 

" I early adopted an anti-zymotic (anti-poisoning) principle, the administra- 
tion of 10 to 30 drops, every 2, 3, or 4 hours, of sulphurous acid, diluted, 
in a little water. I treated eleven severe cases. The ten treated after its adop- 
tion recovered, " 

3. Scarlet Fever, Simple Remedy, or Warm Lemonade for. 

—An eminent physician says he cures 99 out of every 100 cases of scarlet fever 
by giving the patient warm lemonade with gum arabic dissolved in it. A cloth 
wrung out in hot water and laid upon the stomach should be removed as rapidly 
as it becomes cool. 

Remarks. A writer in Good Health gives the philosophy of the above 
treatment, with the warm lemonade, with an addition (which I know to be val- 
uable), the wet hot sheet, or pack, over or around the whole body, guaranteeing 
that not one in one hundred will die of scarlet fever, if this treatment is pro- 
perly carried out. He says 

4. Scarlet Fever, Unnecessary for a Child to die with it.— 
" It is as unnecessary for a child to die of scarlet fever, as it is that it should be 
blind with cataract. Let us see: At any time before the body has finished its 
Ineffectual struggle we are able to help it, not by wonderful medicines, but by 
the knowledge of anatomy, and the application of common sense. * * * » 
Undress the child and place it in bed at the very first sign of sickness. Give it, 
if it has already fever, sourish warm lemonade, with soma gum arabic in it. 



64 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Then cover its abdomen with some dry flannel. Take a well folded bed sheet 
and put it in boiling water; wring it out and put this over the whole body and 
wait. The hot cloth will perhaps require repeated heating; according to the 
severity of the case and its stage of progress. Perspiration will commence in the 
child in from 10 minutes to 2 hours. The child then is saved; it soon falls 
asleep. The hot, wet sheet must be continued, however, till perspiration takes 
place. Soon after the child awakes it shows slight symptoms of returning in- 
clinations for food; help its bowels, if necessary, with injections of oil, soap 
and water, and its recovery will be as steady as the growth of a green-house 
plant, if well treated. Of course if the child is already dying nothing can 
save it. With this treatment I will guarantee that not one in a hundred chil 
dren with scarlet fever will die." 

Remarks. — I once succeeded in curing scarlet fever in one of my own chil- 
dren, before I had read medicine, by the cold pack, or sheet, but I should not 
try it again — I know the hot is better — the strain or struggle of the system 
being much less, and consequently the most safe and satisfactory. There is no 
doubt of the value of the foregoing treatment, but any of the others may be 
tried, according to the conveniences to be obtained in different places. 

5. Scarlet Fever and Small Pox— Successful Treatment. — 
Dr. W. Fields, of Wilmington, Delaware, says to one of the medical journals: 

" Having had much experience in the cure of scarlet fever and small pox 
of the most malignant type, I would thank you, for the sake of humanity, to 
publish a recipe, which, if faithfully carried out, will cure 45 cases out of every 
50, without calling on a phj^sician. 

I. Scarlet Fever. — " For adults give 1 table-spoonful of brewers' yeast in 
3 table-spoonfuls of water, 3 times a day ; and if the throat \% much swollen gar- 

fle with the yeast, and apply the yeast to the throat as a poultice ; mix with 
ndian meal. Use plenty of catnip tea to keep the eruption out on the skin for 
several days. 

II. SmaU Pox. — " Use the above doses of yeast 3 times a day, and milk 
diet throughout the disease. Nearly every case can be cured without leaving a 
pock mark." 

Remarks. — I have had this used, in scarlet fever, with very great satisfaction. 

6. Scarlet Fever— Length of Time Dangerous to Others. — 
In this disease the parent and the school teacher are often concerned to know 
how long a time must elapse before it is safe to admit those who have had the 
disease to mingle with other children, or with the family, and go to school. 

For a month, at least, the body of a scarlet fever patient is casting ofif 
scales, or particles, from the skin. The nose, throat, bowels and kidneys are 
also throwing off poisonous matter for this length of time, which will commu- 
nicate the disease to others. The chief danger, however, is from the skin, as 
this is the main outlet for the blood poison to escape, and every scale or par,tjl- 
cle of dry dust from the skin carries the infection. 

■ Therefore greasing the patient, by rubbing a bacon rind over them, which, 
by some, has been recommended as beneficial to the patient, will certainty do 
this good, i. e. it will keep these minute scales from rising into the air, and thug 
prevent the communication of the disease to others from this source. But t. 
Dr. Chapin, in a communication to the Brief, of St. Louis, informs itg readers 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 49 

experience. I don't tell you anything new, but recall your attention to the 
fact and confirm, as far as my evidence goes, what has been said of these 
articles by others. Let me say, while speaking of these invaluable remedies, 
that in uterine hemorrhage you can't have too much confidence in them. 
They are just what you want. Don't resort to ergot. Give oil of erigeron, 
10 drops, every hour, and oftener, if needs be; and between each doze give 
15 drops tinct. oil of cinnamon, made by adding oil of cinnamon, 1 fl. dr., to 
best alcohol, 95 $^ 1 fl. oz. I use both remedies in every case, alternating. 
Don't know which does the most good; neither do I care much, so I save my 
patient. Just had a bad case last week, caused by retained membranes. The case 
had been managed by other physicians, and 4 or 5 days after the delivery, the 
hemorrhage was very excessive and threatened the life of the patient in a short 
time. The doctor who sent for me had used ergot, opium, lead and tannin, and 
had resorted to the tampon. I suggested the above named remedies, and com- 
menced the use of them at once. The hemorrhage ceased almost entirely in 4 
hours, and we had no trouble in controlling it afterwards." 

Remarks. — It is facts like these which have now well established the belief 
in the specific, or positive action, of medicines, and I trust that others may 
have sufficient confidence in them to use them when needed. This is one of 
the objects in writing this book, that these well established facts may reach the 
thousands, or hundreds of thousands, of the people, rather than stop with only 
a few physicians. 

3. Hemorrhage from the Womb, With High Pulse and 
i'ever. — Being called to a case wheie an abortion had been performed, in an 
early stage of pregnancy (not knowing for some ♦^^ime after, of the cause), find- 
ing the wasting, or hemorrhage, considerable, 1 gave: 

I. Fl. ex. of ergot, % oz. ; gallic acid, 40 grs. ; mixed. Dose — % tea- 
•poonful every 2 hours, until pain and contraction of the womb was produced, 
then once in 4 or 5 hours only, until the wasting ceased. 

II. For the High Pulse — I gave tinct. veratrum viride, 6 drops, with tInct 
aconite, 3 drops, every 2 hours, alternating with the first, giving the second 1 
hour after the ergot mixture had been given, dropping each into a tumbler, s* 
as to get this number of drops, of each, in a tea-spoonful of water, when given. 
For instance, 36 drops of the veratrum and 18 drops of aconite, with 6 tea- 
spoonfuls of water, gave the right dose each time. 

Remarks. — Remember, however, that the veratrum and aconite mixture i« 
only to reduce the pulse, which was about 120; when this comes down to 80, 
then give this only once in 4 or 6 hours, to keep the pulse at about this grade ; 
if continued too long, it will reduce too much, and also distress and nauseate 
the stomach, which is not necessary, and should always be avoided if powible. 
The strength must be helped up with 2 or 3 grain doses of quinine, or " Dex- 
tro " quinine, in same doses three times daily. 

The urine in such cases may need some attention, and call for ac«teto, 
or nitrate, of potash (I like the acetate best, some oihsn prefer the iiltrat«-B*l»». 
4 



GO DR, CHASE'S RECIPES. 

or the sweet spirits of nitre), to correct any disturbance of these organs, tm 
which purpose. See ' ' Diuretics " for directions. 

4. Hemorrhage, Slight, of the Lungs, with Cough— Regu- 
lator or Allopathic Treatment For.— I. Give fl. ex. of ergot, 15 drops 
in a little water, putting in a little essence of wintergreen to lessen its bitter 
taste. (The author would say, in such a case, a few drops of essence of cinna- 
mon, which will cover the bitter taste as well as the wintergreen, is of itself 
good for the hemorrhage.) Give the above every six hours. 

II. Between these doses also give gallic acid, 4 grs., in a little syrup of 
lemon. This alternation brings the doses only three hours apart. A few doses 
of each will generally aliay any slight hemorrhage. If the cough is pretty per^ 
sistant, i. e., continuous and irritating, give laudanum, 15 drops, once in 4 or 5 
hours, and 25 drops at bed-time, to allay the cough and help in procuring sleep. 
Give also laxatives, if needed, to prevent costiveness. 

Remarks. — I know this treatment to have proved eminently satisfactory 
when the hemorrhage was not very extensive. 

5. Hemorrhage, or Bleeding From Slight Cuts, etc.— Simple 
ilemedy.— To stop the flow of blood bind the cut with cobwebs and brown 
sugar, pressed on like lint. Wheat flour and salt, in equal parts, bound on with 
a cloth, for man or beast; mix well, without wetting, the blood will wet them 
enough. 

Treatment for Hemorrhage.- Boon after the above was written we 
had the value of the cobweb treatment confirmed, by the Toledo Post, in a case 
of a lady of that city, who had a tooth 6/ awn; hemorrhage from the cavity set 
in and continued, in spite of all commoi remedies, from Saturday noon until 3 
o'clock Sunday morning, when the cobweb was procured and applied and the 
bleeding stopped by this move, leaving tier very weak. 

7. Hemorrhage from Wounds— Styptic Colloid, to Prevent 
and Cure. — The following will instantly coagulate blood, forming a con- 
sistent clot, under which wounds will readily heal: Collodion, 100 parts (grs.); 
carbolic acid, 10 parts; tannic and benzoic acids, of each 5 parts; mix the 
ingredients in the above order. 

Remarks. — If the wound is so large that a slight application does not stop 
the hemorrhage or bleeding, wet lint with it and bind on if necessary, and leave 
on until the healing process is accomplished. 

1. DIPHTHERIA — Successful Remedies. — My first remedy, 
although simple and easily obtained, is from a paper presented to the French 
Academy of Medicine by Dr. Revillout, who asserts from an experience of 18 
years, that: 

I. Lemon juice is one of the most efficacious medicines that can be applied 
In Diphtheria, and relates that when he was a dresser in the hospital, his own 
life was saved by this timely application. He got a quantity of lemons and 
gargled his throat with the juice, swallowing a little at a time in order to act on 
the more deep-seated parts. 



TREA TMENT OF DISEASED H 

It 1« also recommended for any inflammatory or Irritable conation of th« 
throat In their commencement. 

II Lemon juice In Diphtheria Is endorsed by American physicians, as the 
loliowing will show. Let it be tried by all means. 

Dr. J R. Page, of Baltimore, in the New York Medical Record, invites the 
attention of the profession to a topical ase of fresh lemon juice as a most effici- 
ent means for the removal of the membrane from the throat, tonsils, etc., in 
diphtheria In his hands (he has heard several of his professional brethren say 
the same) it has proved by far the best agent he has yet tried for the purpose. 
He applied the juice of the lemon, by means of a camel's hair prohang (a piece 
of cloth on a stick will do as well), to the affected parts every 2 or 3 hours, and 
In eignteen cases on which he has used it the effect has been all he could wish. 
A little remarkable— one has 18 years successful experience, the olher 18 cases; 
either is enough. 

2. Diphtheria — Ice a Successful Bemedy for. — The French 
Have also been very successful in the use of ice as a remedy In Diphtheria, 
which was introduced into this country by a Dr. Chapman, repoited through 
the New York Tribune, by which means it was brought to the notice of the 
Oneida community In that state, where the disease was prevailing, and was suc- 
cessful in 60 cases. They aroused the mind of the patients, old enough \» 
understand the necessity, to the greatest possible resistance to the advance of 
the disease. This determination of resistance is valuable against the advance of 
any disease. Directions — The ice is broken into small pieces and given to thff 
patient every ten minutes, night and day. 

3. Diphtheria, Cure For.— A Mrs. R. S. K., of Toledo, Oluo., give* 
tne following cure for diphtheria to the Blade Household: I. Syrup of squills, 
1 oz.; gum camphor, ]4, oz.; laudanum, J^ dr. ; cayenne pepper, % tea-spoonful; 
good whiskey, % pt. Directions — Camphor to be dissolved in as small a 
quantity of alcohol as possible. Four large onions are to be cut in slices, put 
Into a deep earthen plate (that will stand heat), sprinkle thickly with loaf sugar, 
cover with another plate, place a heated flat iron on the upper plate, leaving it 
set on the back of the stove. Heat and pressure will extract all the juices 
without losing any of its medical properties. All the juices thus extracted are 
to be mixed with the other ingredients; when all are mixed together and the 
camphor added, it will curdle; but when it stands awhile, it will become clear. 
Dose— For an adult, 1 tea-spoonful every % hour; for a child, % tea-spoonful 
every % hour; to be diluted for a child, as it is pretty strong. 

II. Apply also the following: Salt pork, % lb , and 2 large onions; chop 
ail together finely and put some upon the throat. For an infant place a thia 
piece of muslin on the poultice next the skin; change every 15 or 20 minutes- 

Remarks —A poultice of mashed onions to the arm-pits, stomach, soles of 
ine feet and palms of the hands, in bad cases of fevers, has worked wonder*. 
WTiy not good then for diphtheria? 

4* Diphtheria, Sulphur Treatment. — Our attention was flrst called 
* die iDse of sulphur, in this disease, by a report from Dr. Fields, in England. 



52 DR. CHASE'S RE0IPB8. 

He found an advantage In its use, in some bad cases within ten minutes of Its 
commencement. His manner of using it with those old enough, was in the 
form of a gargle, a tea-spoonful of the powder, or flour of sulphur, in a wine 
glass of water, gargling frequently. If the patient was unable to gargle, or 
too young, blow some of the dry sulphur through a quill upon the diseased 
parts of the throat, or burn some of the sulphur upon live coals near the pa- 
tient, so that he will inhale the fumes. The patient should always be kept 
warm and the bowels open. In extreme cases, when Dr. Field was called, just 
in the nick of time, when the fungus was so near filling the throat, as not to 
allow the gargling, he first blew the sulphur through the quill into the throat, 
and after the fungus had shrunk to allow of it, then the frequent gargling. He 
never lost a patient from diphtheria under this treatment. He recommends 
after gargling a couple of times, to cleanse the throat, to swallow some of the 
sulphur water occasionally, so as to reach the fungus deeper in the throat, which 
also has a tendency to keep the bowels open, which is recommended a very im- 
portant point to accomplish. This fungus is believed to be a living parasite, of 
plant-like growth, and that sulphur is absolutely destructive to them, as has 
been proved by its use, by applying upon the parasites of the grape vine. It 
has been proved that sulphur kills every fungus or parasite on man, beast, or 
plant. One Dr. Langau tiers also found that one tea-spoonful doses every hour, 
of a mixture of sulphur, in 4 ozs. of water, taken every hour, is very beneficial 
in the treatment of croup. 

5. Diphtheria, Specific for— Also Scarlet Fever, and Preven- 
tive in Both. — The best physicians of New York city, Brooklyn and Phila- 
delphia are equally in favor of the sulpho-carbolate of soda, 

[The sulpho-carbolate of soda is composed of soda combined with sulphur 
and carboUc acid, either of whicli alone is good in diphtheria, scarlet fever and 
any other inflammatory condition of the throat; and the combination is more 
decidedly beneficial than either would be alone; at least it seems so to me from 
my knowledge of their properties.] 

Dr, May, of New York city, says the sulpho-carbolate of soda is a specific 
(positive cure) in diphtheria, also in scarlet fever, and claims that this article is 
a preventive to the development, even after exposure, as well as a cure for both 
these diseases. The writer of this report is very much impressed in favor of 
this article. He says: 

"The use of sulpho-carbolate of soda in diphtheria has become a settled 
fact by the best physicians, as above named, to be the only certain specific (pos- 
itive cure), for that dreaded disease which has taken off so many children in the 
United States during the past 8 years. He also says it is certain to destroy the 
parasitic fungus in the throat and glands in two hours. 

" Ten grs. dissolved in a tumbler half full of cold water, and take from "^ 
to i tea-spoonful every hour, until the parasite is destroyed ; then take 1 tea- 
spoonful every 2 or 3 hours, according to the circumstances of the case. There 
is no use in physicians fighting against this remedy, for they will have to ise it 
if they have success in the treatment of scarlet fever and diphtheria. It is a 
specific in both diseases, as they are both zymotic (acting like a ferment, 
spreading quickly through the system) in their nature, and are produced by the 
parasite in the system. It will prevent both diseases, if given before an attack^ 
as weU as a remedy. This remedy has been used for scarlet fever and diphthraia 




WHERE'S THE DOCTOR? I AM THE DOCTOR, SIR 

whew! I HADN'T CALCULATED ON A WOMAN DOCTOR 

BUT COME ON QUICK. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES, {0 

for over 3 years, and if given before gangrene (mortification) sets in, -vdll work 
wonders in every case. It was discovered by an English physician, and haa 
grown into favor as a specific ever since, particularly with children. 

"The trichina parasite of pork, as soon as it enters the stomach, is absorbed 
by the blood, then into the muscles of the body. It is not so with the diphtheria 
parasite; it is generated in the stomach, and when it spreads up the oesophagus 
(comes from Greek words, signifying to bear, to carry and to eat; being tha 
passage way of the food and drink to the stomach, commonly called the gullet), 
it produces such a high state of inflammation that gangrene sets in, which dis- 
solves the parasite, and carries it all through the blood, which is always fatal. 
Gangrene always dissolves the parasite, but before that takes place the use of 
tiie sulpho-carbolate of soda vdW save every case. I have written these linos by 
special request of very many citizens and friends who desire it made public for 
the benefit of all." 

Remarks. — I am only sorry that I have not had an opportunity to test this 
myself; but, as I have not, I can only say to physicians, and heads of families, 
try it, by all means. Whenever either of these diseases gives you an opportunity, 
have it on hand and lose no time in beginning its use. 

e. Diphtheria — Chlorine Water a Specific for.— At a recent 
breaking out of Diphtheria in a considerable number of places, which was also 
alarming in its fatality, the Springfield Republican, in commenting upon the 
fact, called attention to some remedies which have entirely divested this fearful 
disease of its terrors, if applied in the early stages. Among these it claimed 
the most simple and effective to be chlorine water, diluted by adding 
2 to 4 times the amount of water. A well known physician of that city, the 
Republican asserts, has used this specific conclusively for fifteen years with 
complete success, previous to its use ha\-ing lost about half his cases. Ha 
repeatedly, by its use, eradicated the disease in different places, when all other 
remedies failed. Another medical writer claims that the chlorine water and 
ailphur treatments, as given aibove, are the only positive cures. Dose — 1 to 3 
tea-spoonfuls, largely diluted with water, 2 or 3 times daily; also as a gargia 
in sore throat, even of a putrid character. 

Remarks. — To give confidence to those who are not acquainted with tha 
uses of chlorine water, I will say it is powerfully antiseptic (overcoming putre- 
faction), quickly destroying all bad odors arising from decay. It has been suo 
cessfuUy used internally in chronic inflammation of the liver, typhus fever, 
malignant sore throat, scarlet fever, etc. 

7. Diphtheria — Successful Remedy in Forty Cases — Also 
Preventive. — Dr. MacLean, of Norwalk, Ct., recommends the following a« 
a preventive of diphtheria, remarking: 

" During the past 4 years I have used it, and in 40 well marked cases ol 
diphtheria, wlicre 140 persons were exposed to a contagion, not a single case 
bas been reportetl to me. I use 1 dr. of Monsel's salt in 8 ozs. cold water, add- 
ing plenty of sugar to overcome the taste of the iron. DosK — 2 to 8 tea-spoon- 
fuls each day, according to the violence of the disease. " 

Remarks.— 1\i& dose would be 1 tea-spoonful, 2, 3 or 4 hours apart, as the 
case may require. 

8. Diphtheria, Sore Throat, Swollen Tonsils, Etc.— Home- 
opathic Remedy.— Bin- iodide of merciury, 10 grs. ; sugar of milk, 100 grs.; 



fH DM. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

triturate (rut) together 30 minutes in a wedgewood mortar. Then take 10 grs. 
of this triturated article and 100 grs. more of sugar of milk, and triturate again 
as before. Dose — Give 1 gr. of this sccohd trituration every hour in ordinary 
cases; if a bad case, give the same amount every 15 to 30 minutes, until relieved; 
then every hour or two, as needed. A few doses makes the cure. 

Remarks. — Dr, Mason used this a number of years, and very successfully, 
on some very bad cases. The above is the Homeopathic, treatment, except 
Bome of them use in addition to this a gargle, every hour, of ^ alcohol^and 
J^ water. 

9. Diphtheria, Dr. Scott's Treatment for.— After the foregoing 
recipes had been prepared I noticed Dr. W. A. Scott, of Sandyville, Iowa, 
reported through the Chicago Inter- Ocean his success with the following treat- 
ment: 

I. Dissolve 20 grs. of pure permanganate of potassa (permanganate of 
potassa is a powerful disinfectant, also a great purifier of sick rooms, clothing, 
etc.) in 1 oz. of water, and apply it to the affected parts with a swab, gently, 
but thoroughly, every 3 hours, until better; then not so often. (Better get 80 
grs. in a 4 oz. vial of water.) After the patient gets better weaken the solution 
by adding an equal quantity of water. This solution does not give any pain, 
nor is there any danger in its use, but it has a nasty taste, which is its only ob- 
jection. (Its staining clothing is another objection.) 

Prof. King, in his American Dispensatory, says: 

" One dr. of permanganate dissolved in i^ oz. of water, in a saucer, and 
placed under the table, bed or other convenvient place destroys all odors. An- 
other writer in speaking ot permanganate of potash to purify the air of sick 
rooms says: J^ oz. of it, in water, 1 qt. , and cloths wet in it and hung up, is a 
quick and certain disinfectant. For disinfecting or cleansing clothing of diph- 
theritic, scarlet fever or small pox patients, bedding, etc., 1 oz. of the perman- 
ganate to 2 gals, of water is sufficient to soak them in, an hour or two, before 
Sie boiUng and washing in the regular way. 

II. " Apply a good liniment to the throat outside, 3 or 4 times a day. (Dr. 
Chase's golden oil or liniment, or Mrs. Chase's, will be found good for this pur- 
pose.) Keep a cotton cloth, not woolen, around the throat till well. The above 
is all I use in simple cases, and all that is needed. 

III. "If there is much fever I mix 5 drops of fl. ex. of aconite root 
with 4 ozs. of water, and give to a small child 3^ tea-spoonful ; a child 5 to 10 
years, }4 tea-spoonful; 10 to 15 years, 1 tea-spoonful; over that age, 2 tea-spoon- 
fuls. Give every 1 or 2 hours, as may seem needed, to lessen the fever. 

rV. " If there is blood poisoning, which maybe known by the bad smell- 
ing breath and quick beating of the heart, give: Chloroform, 1 fl. dr.; comp. 
spts. lav., 1 dr. ; alcohol, 1 oz. ; mix. Dose— Five to 20 drops, according to the 
age, mixed in cold water, every J^ to 2 hours, as may seem necessary. This 
will quickly quiet the heart's tumultuous action and aid it to throw off the 
poison. 

V " Do not give harsh physics. If needed, give castor oil or purgative 
magnesia. Keep the patient from exposure to chilly air or cold baths. This 
treatment, which I have published in several medical journals, will rob this 
disease of its terror and save from the grave many a loved one. " 

Remarks. — Let the medicine be obtained where there are families of chil- 
dren, so as to have it in the house as soon as needed, on the approach of the dis- 
ease into a neighborhood. Then when it begins, lose no time in applying ths 
remedy, «jid the different aids he recommends, if needed. 



TREATMENT OF PT'^EASES. T' 

10. Diphtheria— Latest Allopathic Treatment For.— In a re- 
cent conversation with Dr. Haney, of Toledo, Ohio, he claimed to cure every 
case of diphtheria, even in small children, by swabbing the throat with cal- 
omel; for quite a young child he gets 10 grs. into the throat, by a swab, and 
a child 5 to 8 years, 20 to 30 grs., so it will be swallowed. He says it stops 
the change in the blood, by which the fibrinous portions form the membrane 
in the throat. He follows 3 or 4 hours after with the liquid physic (see " Liquid 
Physic"), to help carry off the accumulation of the intestines; and then supports 
the strength with liquid food of a nourishing character. He is a successful 
physician, and claims not to have lost an average of one child a year for 
the eleven years, practice there; and I know he has a good share of practice 
among the children. I have also seen accounts in a recent medical journal, 
by some allopathic physicians, that they have been using calomel very simi- 
lar to Dr. Haney, in this disease. Therefore 1 have not dared to pass it by 
without mention, as it may save many lives for future usefulness. 

11. Diphtheria— Remedy by the French Academy of Medi- 
cine. — "The vapor from the burning of a mixture of tar and spirits of turpen- 
tine, near the bed, it is said, will dissolve the false membrane which is so often 
fatal in this dreadful disease. If this simple remedy is complete, as the French 
Academy of Medicine is said to have declared, it should be widely published," 
American Messenger, October, ISS^. 

i2tfmarA;8.— Notwithstanding there are two "is saids" in this, yet, as it is 
simple, and would not interfere with any other treatment, and obtaining it from 
a purely rehgious paper, which seldom touches anything of this kind, I have 
felt, from the knowledge of love of the effects of these articles, it should 
have my help on its way to a wider publication. Equal parts should be used, 
although they do not so state, thoroughly mixed, and pour a few drops from a 
tta-spoon upon hot coals, to keep up the fumes, is all that is needed. 

Blistering in Diphtheria— History of a Case at Black Rock, 
N. Y., Saved by It.— In the December number, lb84, of the Therapeutic 
Gazette, of Detroit, Mich., F. W. Bartlett, M. D., of Buffalo, reports the case of 
a man about 45 years old, to whom he was called, and who was very sick at the 
time, and continued to get worse for four days, when he considered it hope- 
less from the condition of the throat, and so informed his patient, who took 
it calmly, but asked to have something done to relieve the suffering of the 
stomach, for which he directed his wife to dip cloths in hot water, and 
wring out, then put on a few drops of turpentine, to be applied over the 
bowels; but in the confusion of such a case, expecting to lose her husband, 
she heated the turpentine, and saturated flannel with it, and laid it on, which he 
bore as long as he could, then violently flung it across the room, saying he 
"would rather die than suffer such agony." And when the wife saw what 
an inflammation she had caused, covered it with fresh lard, and waited the 
doctor's morning call; who found a blister (*esication, as M. D's most call it) a 
foot square, covered with a diphtheritic exudation, the throat better, and the 
patient saved. All I have to say further is, let others make similar mistakes 



66 DR. CHASES RECIPES. 

in bad cases, and save their patients too. In other words, draw a blister In the 
regular way, in time, not to let the throat get beyond control. I would put a 
blister on both arms, breast and bowels too, if I thought it necessary to save 
my patient's life. 

12. Diphtheria, to Avoid by Diet — Pork Believed to be 
the Exciting Cause. — With an explanation as to this exciting cause of 
diphtheria, I will close the subject, having given a large number of the most 
popularly liuown remedies, although there are many writers who thinli. that the 
abundant use of porli in our diet is a very fruitful source of this disease, I shall 
only quote from one. A recent medical correspondent of the Lancaster New 
Era argues at considerable length: " That eating of porlc is an inciting (arousing, 
stirring up,) cause of this terrible disease." His idea is that an unhealthy 
appetite is created by the use of so much porli, in the every-day diet of the 
country, until the specific pork poison is manifested in the exudations depos- 
its from the blood into the throat, which is the characteristic symptom in this 
disease. He especially advises parents not to allow their children to diet on 
pork, nor sausage, but fruit and vegetables in greater abundance. 

Remarks. — Although beef, veal, lamb, chicken, etc., may be allowed to 
children generally, yet it would be well for parents during the prevalence of 
diphtheria in a neighborhood, to put their children upon a bread and milk and 
vegetable diet exclusively, lest their loss might be charged home to their neg- 
lect, which would not be a pleasant thought for after-consideration. 

13. Diphtheria— Closing Bemarks Upon.— The author leaves the 
subject with his readers, believing that he has presented a larger number and 
more reliable remedies or recipes for the cure and prevention of diphtheria 
than are to be found in any other publication whatever; he also believes that if 
these recipes are well studied, and one or more of them adopted by the heads 
of households containing young children, and the articles obtained and kept ou 
hand ready for use, night or day, nothing like the fatality will hereafter 
take place from diphtheria, as has heretofore been the case. I feel certain 
that there can be no drug store where some of the articles mentioned may 
not be obtained. Then the responsibility rests with each one who shall 
have this knowledge, and yet neglect to use it. The author has done his duty, 
which is a great consolation to him. The same will also hold good upon many 
other subjects in this work. See " Disinfectants," to prevent this disease from 
fipreading. 

1. SORE THROAT— The Good Old Grandmother's Gargle 
for.— Steep 1 medium-sized red pepper in i^ pt. of water, strain, and add ^ pt. 
of good vinegar, and a heaping tea-spoonful, each, of salt and pulverized alum, 
and gargle with it as often as needed. 

2. Sore Throat, New Gargle for.— In all recent inflammations, or 
colds, affecting the throat, a gargle made by putting a heaping tea-spoonful of 
the bi-carbonate of soda (common baking soda) into a glass of water, and gar- 
gling with it frequently, will be found exceedingly valuable. A tea-spoonful, or 
a little more, of it swallowed, will quickly relieve a tickling cough; also neu- 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. OT 

tralize the acidity ot the stomach ofterx arising after meals, water-brash, etc. 
But if it should irritate, wealien one-half or more. 

3. Sore Throat— Heat Strong Tea as a Gargle for Speedy 
Belief in. — It is well to know that sore throat can be speedily relieved by 
using strong, hot tea as a gargle. It is a convenient remedy and rather a 
pleasant one. 

Remarks. — Hot water has proved valuable in many diseases of late, as dys- 
pepsia, consumption, etc., taken internally before meals, which see, for these 



4. Sore Throat and Catarrh— Gargle for.— Comp. spirits of 
lavender. % oz., into a 4 oz. vial; put in also the carbonate of ammonia, 20 
grs. ; fill with distilled, or rain water. 

Directions. — Put 1 teaspoonful of this to % cup of warm, soft water and 
gargle with it two or three times daily ; and if any catarrh, or nasal inflamma- 
tion, put into the hand, what it will hold, and snuff into the nostrils at each 
time. After the gargling and snuffing, a little vaseline, or cosmoline, mutton 
tallow, or some sweet oil, or sweet almond oil, should be introduced into each 
noBtril with the finger. 

Remarks. — Follow this course faithfully, and for a considerable time, in 
catarrh, if any good is expected to result; also use occasionally some good 
cathartic to act freely, together with an alterative and tonic course of medicine. 

5. Sore Throat, Common Gargle for. — For common case of sora 
throat, a valuable gargle can generally be made at almost any dinner table. 

Directions. — Take % pt. tumbler, or common goblet, and put into it » 
small salt cellar of salt (about 2 tea-spoonfuls), I4 tea-spoonful of blact pepper, 
and a little cayenne (3 or 4 little taps on the bottom of the cruet, or pepper-box 
containing it, will be sufficient; a tea-spoonful or two of pepper-sauce, if on the 
table, is better than the cayenne powder), then fill the tumbler with cider vine- 
gar and water, equal parts, stir well, a few times, and gargle with it often. 

Remarks. — If you have alum and borax in the house, about J^ tea-spoon- 
ful of each, pulverized, may be put in, or if only one of them, 3^ tea-spoonful 
will improve the gargle. (Other gargles will be found in connection with the 
subject of diphtheria.) 

e. Sore Throat, Several Simple Remedies for. —The follow- 
ing are some of the most common, or simple, remedies for sore throat, easily 
obtained and often effectual: 

I Salt and water is used by many as a gargle; but a little alum and honey 
dissolved in sage tea is better. 

II. Others, a few drops of camphor on loaf sugar, which very often 
affords immediate relief. 

III. An application of cloths wrung out of hot water and applied to the 
neck, changed as often as it begins to cool, has great potency in removing in- 
flammation in recent cases. 

rV. Borax the size of a pea in the mouth relieves hoarseness quickly 
(See also hoarseness, bronchitis, etc., for other remedies.) 



68 BB. CEASE'S RBGIPE8. 

SORB WOSE — Akin to Erysipelas — Certain Cure.— I had a 

case of sore nose, a very bad case, which nothing in the ordinary line of treat- 
ment would benefit at all, except for a very short time. The sufferer would 
cry out: " Cannot something be done to relieve this intolerable suffering," 
etc. Directions — I prepared a little stick, 3 or 4 inches in length, and wound 
It with 3 or 4 thicknesses of cotton cloth, wrapped with thread, and dipped this 
Into the full strength muriated tincture of iron, and held it firmly, for }^ min- 
ute, or so, to each spot, and over the inflamed nose, and to the inner edges, 
where it was sorest. The first moment or two it smarted like fire, but I held 
It the more firmly and said never mind that, it won't be so bad next time. 
So night and morning, for 3 or 4 days, then once daily as much longer, made 
a perfect cure — now over 6 months, without the least return and no sign of 
soreness remaining. I should continue to apply for a month or more, if ne- 
cssary, or until cured. I gave him also internally 5 drops of the same tinc- 
ture 3 times daily in a little water. Of course he had an iron-colored nose, but 
a piece of lemon rubbed on a few times soon removed that ornamental shade 
and left him all right again, the same as it will remove recent iron rust spots 
from clothing. 

Sore Fingers of Printers, etc., to Cure and Blood Blisters 
to Prevent.— I. Generally a compositor's (type-setter's) sore fingers result 
from lye, low cases, splinters, scratches in handling brass rule, paper cuts, type 
poison, etc., and often occasion loss of time, expensive doctoring and great 
pain. For these sores a correspondent writes: " I have never lost an hour from 
business, nor been put to more than a trifling expense. Plentiful and frequent 
application of laudanum has been my panacea (cure all). It also cleanses, re- 
moves the soreness and rapidly heals old sores." 

II. Blood blisters may be prevented from forming by immediately rub- 
bing the bruise briskly with any non-poisonous hard substance. — London Pho- 
netic Journal. 

Rimarks. — The fact here given as to the curative action of laudanum upon 
sore fingers, and old sores, is that laudanum alone would be valuable upon all 
ordinary chaps, or cracks upon the hands, lips, etc. , no matter from what cause 
they may have arisen, as the opium relieves the pain, and the alcohol in it stim- 
ulates the parts to heal. 

CARBTTNCLE— Treatment Which Saves Pain and Soreness 
—Also Applicable to Boils.— Having just passed through a three weeks, 
siege with a six hole carbuncle, I feel competent to tell others how I saved 
myself much pain, soreness and suffering, although it is bad enough when all 
has been done that can be done for relief. 

What it might have proved without my mitigating treatment, I do not 
know; it was the agony that compelled me to adopt some plan of relief; hence 
I took: 

I. A mild liniment, Mrs. Chase's, given In this book (any mild liniment 
yiVHL do), 2 ozs. ; chloroform, 1 oz. ; laudanum, 1 oz. ; mixed. Shaken, when 
ilged, and applied every hour or two, night and day. There were only short 



TSSA TMENT OF DISEASE^ 69 

catches of sleep for about two weeks; after which, an hour or two was occa- 
sionally obtained. 

After applying the above mixture freely at each time, I then applied thff 
following anodyne, emollient, or softening mixture: 

II. Sweet oil, 7 drs. ; laudanum, 1 dr. ; mix. The application of the fore- 
going mixtures would relieve very much of the agonizing pain, even before I 
would be done applying the first; and the second kept the surface soft, as well 
as to help keep down the pain. (The same thing will be just as effectual for 
boils, I have not a doubt.) The situation was such that no poulticing could 
have been done, if desired, to hasten it; and even if it could, I have never 
known one under the poulticing process to subside in less than 5 or 6 weeks, 
•while by the above process nearly all the pain and soreness subsided in 3 weeks. 

At one time I thought it was going to repeat itself: but by the application 
of the permanganate of potash, 1 dr. to 1 oz. of water, applied by rolling up a 
•trip of cotton cloth, and tieing a bit of cord around it in the centre, the size of 
the roll being just to fill the mouth of the vial, by which means I could wet 
one end of the roll of cloth without spilling it upon the clothing (permanganate 
colors the clothes), and apply to the swelling, it was driven back, or scattered, 
and by taking an active cathartic dose of crab-orchard salts (any active cathartic 
will do the same) it was carried out of the system. 

2. Carbuncle, Specific for. — R. H. Johnson, in the Medical Revieto, 
gays, he has found tannin a specific for carbuncle. He sprinkles the tannin 
upon the openings as long as it will dissolve ; and 24 hours after washes ofE with 
Castile soap, and sprinkles it again. He claims it to soon heal up with but little 
pain. It is worthy of trial, as it can do no harm. 

BOILS.— Remedy Against their Continuance.— Prof. Scud- 
der, in his work on Specific Medication, speaking of lime, says: Its specific 
use is in cases of furunculus (boil), and other inflammations of the cellular 
tissue (the cell-like tissue immediately under the skin) terminating in suppura- 
tion. Why it has this specific influence I do not propose to say, but I have 
proven it in scores of cases. Taken in a case In which boils are continually 
developed, the use of lime water will effect a radical cure. [The proper 
strength for lime water to be used in these cases, in fact, in all cases, is: stone 
lime, 4 ozs.; distilled water, 1 gal., or in these proportions. Slack the lime 
with a little of the water, then pour the rest of the water over it and stir; cover 
the bowl and set aside for three hours; then bottle and keep the liquor upon the 
lime, well corked, and use only the clear liquid as wanted.] See "Milk Diet for 
Infants and Adults.". Dose— It is given in doses of a wine-glassful, 3 or 4 times 
a day. If too alkaline use additional water. 

This lime water is often very properly used with the milk fed to infants 
which have to be raised upon the bottle; a tea-spoonful to a bottle of milk, or suf- 
ficient to prevent acidity of the stomach; and it is also valuable in Dyspepsia in 
adults when there are acid eructations of gas, or, as commonly called, belching or 
rifting of wind from the stomach, after eating. DosE—For adults in these 
(fyiil^psia cases, 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls to a bowl of milk ; suflficient only is 



60 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

needed to keep down the acidity. See " Dyspepsia, Milk and Lime Water, 
Cure for." Lime water can often be borne by patients who cannot take th» 
salts of soda, or potash. This also proves its value and adaptation to the human 
system. 

2. Boils— To Relieve the Pain of and to Scatter.— The pain of 
boils, it is said, can be relieved very much by frequently applying castor-oil on 
the parts. 

Painting a boil with tincture of iodine, it is also claimed, scatters them; 
but I prefer to scatter them by frequently applying a strong liniment. I have 
recently scattered two from my own neck in this way. I used Dr. Chase's 
golden oil, or strong camphor liniment; I think I applied it at least fifteen differ- 
ent times in the day, rubbing over the boil hard and long at each application, 
which scattered it, and is doing so again, at this writing, so that I see they are 
in the system, and I have therefore made 1 qt. of the lime water (1 oz. stone 
lime to 1 qt.), and am going to use it, expecting I shall thus cleanse the blood 
and eradicate them — the boils from the system or blood. It did do it, as I have 
not had any more, or any indications of them, now over four months, after 
writing the above. 

3. Boils, Alterative Syrup for.— Blue flag and black cohosh root, 
each 1 oz. ; yellow dock root and the bark of the root of bitter-sweet, Peruvian 
bark, the bark of the root of sassafras and prickly ash berries, each J^oz.; 
pyrophosphate of iron, 2% drs. ; whiskey, J^ pt. ; glycerine, 6 ozs. ; water, 13 
ozs. Directions. — The barks, roots and berries are to be coarsely ground, or 
bruised, then steeped in water in a covered dish, to leave, when strained, 1 pt.; 
then add the glycerine, whiskey and pyrophosphate of iron. DosB — A tea- 
spoonful 4 times daily, at meals and at bed-time. 

Remarks. — This is not only a valuable alterative in boils, but to follow the 
treatment of inflammations, after the acute stages have been overcome by cool- 
ing purgatives, such as salts, seidlitz powder or cream of tartar, attention to the 
skin, etc., especially so if there is a scrofulous tendency, or considerable debil- 
ity, shown by the loss of strength, flesh, etc. 

1. MILK IN DIARRHEA, DYSENTERY, INCIPIENT 
CHOLERA, TYPHOID FEVER, ETC.— Considerable has lately been 
said in medical journals concerning the value of milk as a remedial agent in 
certain diseases. An interesting article upon this subject lately appeared in the 
London Milk Journal, in which it is stated, on the authority of Dr. Benjamin 
Clark, that in the East Indies warm milk is used to a great extent as a specific 
for Diarrhea. 

I. For Diarrhea. — A pint every 4 hours will check the most violent di- 
arrhea, stomach-ache, incipient cholera and dysentery. The milk should never 
be boiled, but only heated sufficient to be agreeably warm, not too hot to drink. 
[The author would say 140° Fah. is as hot as one can take it comfortably with 
a tea-spoon.] Milk which has been boiled is unfit for use. He continues: It 
has never failed in curing in from 6 to 12 hours, and I have tried it, I should 
think, fifty times. I have also given It to a dying man who had been subject 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 61 

to dysentery 8 months, latterly accompanied by one continual diarrhea, an J ft 
acted on him like a charm. In 2 days his diarrhea was gone, in 3 weeks he be- 
came a hale, fat man, and now nothing that may hereafter occur will ever shake 
his faith in hot milk. 

II. For Typhoid Fever. — Another writer also communicates to the Med- 
ical Times and Gazette a statement of the value of milk in 26 cases of typhoid 
fever, in every one of which its great value was apparent, checking diarrhea, 
nourishing and cooling the body. 

III. For Debilitating Diseases. — People suffering from disease require 
food quite as much as those in health, and much more so in certain diseases, 
where there is rapid waste of the system. Frequently all ordinary food, in 
some diseases, is rejected by the stomach, and even loathed by the patient; but 
nature, even in all disease, is beneficient, and has furnished a food that is bene- 
ficial — in some, directly curative. Such a food is milk. The writer. Dr. Alex- 
ander Yale, after giving particular observations upon the points above men- 
tioned, viz.: Its action in checking diarrhea, its nourishing properties and its 
action in cooling the body says: " We believe that milk nourishes in fever, pro- 
motes sleep, wards off delirium, soothes the intestines, and in fine is the sins 
qua non (an indispensable — just the thing) in typhoid fever." 

IV. For Scarlet Fever. — The writer goes on to say he has lately tested the 
value of milk in scarlet fever, and learns that it is now recommended by the 
medical faculty in all cases of this often very distressing disease of children. 
He says: 

Give all the milk the patient will take, even during the period of greatest 
fever; it keeps up the strength of the patient, acts well upon the stomach, and 
is in every way a blessed thing in this sickness. Parents, remember it, and do 
not fear to give it if your dear ones are afiiicted with this disease. 

2. Milk as a Medicine.— Under the head of " Milk as a Medicine," 
the American Journal of Medicine, of St. Louis, says that this article, once 
looked upon with distrust, has now become a valuable agent in treatment of 
disease, and is, on all hands, recommended by practitioners of medicine as 
being a safe and reliable article in the list of curables. Given warm it is 
declared to be almost a specific (positive cure) in diarrhea, stomach-ache, incipi- 
ent cholera and dysentery. It is also pronounced invaluable in typhoid 
fever. 

II. The Journal then quotes the sentence of Dr. Yale, given in III above, 
and closes by saying that he also agrees with the opinion of Dr. Benjamin 
Clark, in the London Milk Journal, given in I. 

Remarks.— I understand that the milk is not to be boiled, that it is to be 
heated only to allow its being drank without scalding the mouth or throat. 
There can be no doubt of its efficacy with such an amount of testimony from 
the medical profession in India, England and America. See also "Treatment 
of Scarlet Fever with Sulphur," wherein I have recommended the milk to be 
also used. 

3. Milk Diet, with Lime Water-^Por Infants and Adults 
who have Weak Digestive Powers.— Dr. H. N. Chapman says that 



63 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

milk and lime water is not only food and medicine at an early period of life^, 
but also later, when, as in the case of infants, the functions of digestioH 
and assimilation have been seriously impaired. A stomach taxed by gluttony, 
irritated by improper food, inflamed by alcohol, enfeebled by disease, or other 
wise unfitted for its duties, as is shown by the various symptoms attendant upoa 
indigestion, dyspepsia, diarrhea, dysentery and fever, will resume its work, and 
do it energetically, on an exclusive diet of lime water and milk. A goblet of 
cow's milk to which 4 table-spoonfuls of lime water has been added, will agree 
with any person, however objectionable the plain article maybe, will be friendly 
to the stomach when other food is apprehensive and will be digested when all 
else fails to afford nourishment. Of this statement I have had positive proof ia 
very many cases. The blood being thin, the nerves weak, the nutrition poor, 
the secretions defective, the excretions insufficient, the physician has at hand a 
remedy as common as the air, and as common, almost as water. In it all the 
elements of nutrition are so prepared by nature as to boj readily adapted to the 
infant or the adult stomach, and so freighted with healing virtues as to work a 
cure where drugs are worse than useless. 

Remarks. — It certainly needs no further remarks to show the estimation 
that milk is now held in. Let it be used accordingly, with the lime water, and 
you will also be satisfied. 

4. Milk an Antidote and Preventive to Lead Poison. — The 
Journal de Medicine states, upon authority, that milk has been found to be an 
antidote and preventive to lead poisoning by those working in its manufacture. 
(Why not, then, for painters?) 

A quart a day was furnished to each man, after which no colic nor other 
harm to health occurred. 

The remedy is simple, easily obtained, and no doubt effectual. Used as a 
drink during the day would be the manner of taking it. See also its use in 
"Accidental Poisoning." 

5. Milk as an Aliment or Pood. — So much has been said on the 
use of milk as a medicine in diseased conditions of the system, it is but proper 
to say it ought to enter into our daily food to a very much greater extent than 
it does. It is believed to be good for children; but I beg leave to say it is as 
good for adults as it is for children ; and if every family would adopt the old 
plan of corn-meal mush and milk for supper for everyone in the family, as we 
used to do in an earlier day, the general health of the people would be better 
than it is. If it produces costiveness, in any case, put in a little lime water, or 
a little baking soda; but with the mush there is no danger of this. 

6. Milk, Hot, as a Restorative after Fatigue. — A glass of hot 
milk, when one is fatigued, is so refreshing and strengthening it will astonish 
the one who takes it. A supper, made with a couple slices of toasted bread In 
a bowl of hot milk, is very satisfactory in the absence of the mush mentioned 
above. 

1. SCARLET FEVER— Successful Treatment of.— Dr. BeBi7 
Pigeon writes to the Loaden Lam,^ as follows: 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES, 63 

" The marvellous success which has attended my treatment of scarlet fever 
by sulphur induces me to let my medical brethren know of my plan, so that 
thej^ may be able to supply the same remedy without delay. All the cases in 
which I used it, were very marked, and the epidermis (outer or scarfskin) on the 
arms, in each case, came away like the skin of a snake. The following was 
the exact treatment followed in each case; 

" The patients were thoroughly anointed twice daily with sulphur ointment 
[the sulphur ointment used was made by the London Pharmacopoeia as follows: 
sulphur, 4 ozs. ; lard, J^ lb. ; oil of bergamot, 20 minims (drops); mixed]; ^ving 
5 to 10 grains of sulphur in a little jam, or jelly. 3 times a day, accordmg to 
the age of the child and severity of the case. Sufficient sulphur was also 
burned, twice daily (on coals on a shovel), to fill the room with the fumes, and, 
of course, was thoroughly inhaled by the patient. 

" Under this mode of treatment each case improved immediately, and none 
was over 8 days in making a complete recovery; and I tlrmly believe in each; 
it was prevented from spreading by the treatment adopted. Having had a large 
experience in scarlet fever last year and this, I feel some confidence in my own 
judgment, and I am of the opinion that the very mildest cases I ever saw do 
not do half as well as bad cases do by the sulphur treatment, and as far as I 
can judge sulphur is as near a specific (positive cure) for scarlet fever as pos- 
sible." 

Remarks. — I can see no reason why the milk, as indicated under the head 
of milk in diarrhea, dysentery, etc. , may not be given with the sulphur treat* 
ment; I believe both to be good; and as I see the medical journals speak with 
such confidence of Dr. Pigeon's sulphur treatment, I place also great confi- 
dence in it, and recommend it mast heartily. 

2. Scarlet Fever, Sulphurous Acid Treatment of.— Dr. L. 
Waterman, of Indianapolis, Ind., in an epidemic there, in 1876, gives his expe- 
rience in the use of sulphurous acid. He says: 

" I early adopted an anti-zymotic (anti-poisoning) principle, the administra- 
tion of 10 to 30 drops, every 3, 3, or 4 hours, of sulphurous acid, diluted, 
in a little water. I treated eleven severe cases. The ten treated after its adojv 
tion recovered, " 

3. Scarlet Fever, Simple Remedy, or Warm Lemonade for. 

—An eminent physician says he cures 99 out of every 100 cases of scarlet fever 
by giving the patient warm lemonade with gum arabic dissolved in it, A cloth 
wrung out in hot water and laid upon the stomach should be removed as rapidly 
as it becomes cool. 

Remarks. A writer in Good Health gives the philosophy of the above 
treatment, with the warm lemonade, with an addition (which I know to be val- 
uable), the wet hot sheet, or pack, over or around the whole body, guaranteeing 
that not one in one hundred will die of scarlet fever, if this treatment is pro 
perly carried out. He says 

4. Scarlet Fever, Unnecessary for a Child to die with it.— 
" It is as unnecessary for a child to die of scarlet fever, as it is that it should bo 
blind with cataract. Let us see: At any time before the body has finished itt 
ineffectual struggle we are able to help it, not by wonderful medicines, but by 
the knowledge of anatomy, and the application of common sense. * * * ♦ 
Undress the child and place it in bed at the very first sign of sickness. Give it, 
if it has already fever, sourish warm lemonade, with some gum arabic in it. 



64 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Then cover its abdomen with some dry flcannel. Take a well folded bed sheet 
and put it in boiling water; wring it out and put this over the whole body and 
wait. The hot cloth will perhaps require repeated heating; according to the 
severity of the case and its stage of progress. Perspiration will commence in the 
child in from 10 minutes to 2 hours. The child then is saved; it soon falls 
asleep. The hot, wet sheet must be continued, however, till perspiration takes 
place. Soon after the child awakes it shows slight symptoms of returning in- 
clinations for food; help its bowels, if necessary, with injections of oil, soap 
and water, and its recovery will be as steady as the growth of a green-house 
plant, if well treated. Of course if the child is already dying nothing can 
save it. With this treatment I will guarantee that not one in a hundred chil 
dren with scarlet fever will die." 

Remarks. — I once succeeded in curing scarlet fever in one of my own chil- 
dren, before I had read medicine, by the cold pack, or sheet, but I should not 
try it again — I know the hot is better — the strain or struggle of the system 
being much less, and consequently the most safe and satisfactory. Tliere is no 
doubt of the value of the foregoing treatment, but any of the others may be 
tried, according to the conveniences to be obtained in different places. 

5. Scarlet Fever and Small Pox— Successful Treatment.— 
Dr. W. Fields, of Wilmington, Delaware, says to one of the medical journals: 

" Having had much experience in the cure of scarlet fever and small pox 
of the most malignant type, I would thank you, for the sake of humanity, to 
publish a recipe, which, if faithfully carried out, will cure 45 cases out of every 
50, without calling on a physician. 

I. Scarlet Fever. — " For adults give 1 table-spoonful of brewers' yeast in 
3 table-spoonfuls of water, 3 times a day ; and if the throat i^ much swollen gar- 
gle with the yeast, and apply the yeast to the throat as a poultice; mix with 
Indian meal. Use plenty of catnip tea to keep the eruption out on the skin for 
several days. 

II. Small Pox. — " Use the above doses of yeast 3 times a day, and milk 
diet throughout the disease. Nearly every case can be cured vdthout leaving a 
pock mark." 

Remarks. — I have had this used, in scarlet fever, with very great satisfaction. 

6. Scarlet Fever— Length of Time Dangerous to Others.— 
In this disease the parent and the school teacher are often concerned to know 
how long a time must elapse before it is safe to admit those who have had the 
disease to mingle with other children, or with the family, and go to school. 

For a month, at least, the body of a scarlet fever patient is casting off 
scales, or particles, from the skin. The nose, throat, bowels and kidneys are 
also throwing off poisonous matter for this length of time, which will commu- 
nicate the disease to others. The chief danger, however, is from the skin, as 
this is the main outlet for the blood poison to escape, and every scale or parti- 
cle of dry dust from the skin carries the infection. 

Therefore greasing the patient, by rubbing a bacon rind over them, which, 
by some, has been recommended as beneficial to the patient, will certainty do 
this good, i. e. it will keep these minute scales from rising into the air, and thuB 
prevent the communication of the disease to others from this source. But e. 
Dr. Ckapin, la a comiaunication to the Brief, of St, Louis, informs it» reft<?.era 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES, 81 

the animal heat. Wrap in warm blankets, apply bottles of hot water, hot 
bricks, etc., to aid the restoration of heat. Warm the head nearly as fast as 
the body, lest convulsions come on. Rubbing the body with warm cloths or 
the hand, and gently slapping the fleshy parts, may assist to restore warmth, 
and the breathing also. 

IX. When the patient can swallow, give hot coffee, tea, milk, or a little 
hot sling. Give spirits sparingly, lest they produce depression. Place the pa- 
tient in a warm bed, give him plenty of fresh air, and keep him quiet. 

X. Let all the work be done deliberately and patiently, and do not give 
Up too quickly ,"f or success,"says the Massachusetts society, "has rewarded the 
efforts of hours." 

Remarks.— These rules cannot be too well understood (where it is possible 
for such accidents to occur), and no delicacy of mind or circumstances should 
prevent anyone from taking right hold of any case that may occur, because 
they have not done it before. No time to await the arrival of a physician- 
immediate action will insure success. 

Let good judgment and great carefulness be exercised by everyone who 
finds himself called upon to act in any accident of this kind, and let no one 
hesitate a moment to do the best he can till some one more acquainted with the 
work, or a physician, may arrive, as life is too precious to allow of anyone 
neglecting to do what he can to save it. 

2. Drowned Persons— A Case in Hand.— I will make a condensed 
statement here of a ease reported in the New York Mail and Express, in 1882, 
to show what perseverance did in resuscitating a boy, by one of the officers 
of one of the life saving stations, who, with the reporter, happened to be pass- 
ing along one of the wharves of that city, where a number of fishing vessels 
were tied, upon one of which was a boy who had been under water for 10 min- 
utes, or more, and had lain as much longer upon the deck witliout an effort to 
.restore him to life, and the bystanders, and even the police present, thought he 
was really dead; but the life-saving man took a different view of it, and went 
to work with a will; first opening the boy's mouth and removing the mud from 
it, he turned him over, on his face, and placed his coat, done up as a pillow, 
under the boys stomach, tlien took hold of the boy's ankles and raised them 
several feet above the boy's head, and put them into the hands of some of the 
bystanders, to keep them thus, he pressed gently, but firmly, upon the small of 
the boy's back, when immediately a stream of water gushed out of his mouth, 
which had all this time been in the lungs, waiting only for this treatment to 
help it out. This was continued a minute or two, to get out all the water be 
oould, when he was turned upon his back, and the officer, kneeling over him, 
put one hand upon the boy's right side, the other on the left, just against the 
ijhort ribs, he gave them a powerful compression, and then suddenly let gc, the 
vibs springing back to their natural position, and the air rushed into the lung*; 
this was done a dozen or more times, but still no appearance of life, and tin 
bystanders said to him: " Can't you let a drowned boy alone;" "why," says Oie 
6 



83 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

officer, " I haven't begun yet, stand back and give more air here; " then he b©* 
gan slapping one of the boys hands, and put a man to the other, and one to 
each foot, they continued the slapping vigorously thus, upon each limb, and 
the reporter taking the officers place at that hand, the officer returned to the rib 
squeezing process, when after about five minutes of this vigorous work the boy 
gave a slight gasp for breath, to the great surprise of the bystanders and the 
delight of the life-saving officer. He then redoubled his efforts at the artificial 
breathing process, of pressing the ribs, etc., and called for brandy and warm 
blankets, the boy meanwhile gasping again and began to twitch in the legs, 
nnd as the boy began to breathe the brandy was given and the warm blankets 
Were applied, and the boy was saved. (See hot sling in the rules above which. 
If it can be provided, is better than the raw brandy.) Thus you see what per- 
Beverance will sometimes do. Go then, in all such cases, and do likewise, and 
valuable lives may be saved. 

1. THE TRUE WAY TO HEALTH— Simmered Down to a 
Pew Short Rules. — A recent v^Titer, whose name I do not know, has given 
us the most facts, in the fewest words, of anything I have seen. He says: 
The only true way to health is that which common sense dictates to man. Live 
within the boimds of reason; eat moderately; drink temperately; sleep regu- 
larly ; avoid excess in everything, and preserve a conscience void of offence. 
Some men eat themselves to death; some drink themselves to death; some wear 
out their lives by indolence; and some by over-exertion; others are killed by the 
doctors, while not a few sink into the grave under the effects of vicious and 
beastly practices. All the medicines in creation are not worth a farthing to a 
man who is constantly and habitually violating the laws of his own nature. 

BAND AGING- — In Broken Limbs and Ulcers.— In broken 
limbs, it is necessary to use the bandage, and it has become quite common 
also, in the treatment of ulcers. They are more generally made of cotton 
sheeting, being torn off in strips of 3 to 4 inches in width, and sewed together 
until the required length is obtained, after which they are to be rolled into 
solid rollers for tne convenience of passing them around the limb, and to 
enable the one who applies them to draw them evenly at all stages of their 
application. In applying the bandage one can get a better idea from the 
^lustrations than any other way. All parts should be covered evenly, lapping 
about one-half of the bandage upon the previous round, and in order to keep 
it smooth and not run up or down on the limb, it will be necessary to turn the 
bandage upon itself, as the cross lines in the cut will show, wherever the form 
of the limb causes the bandage to pass either way upon' the limb from the 
center of the previous round. In this way the pressure is even, leaving no 
loose^ or unbound place for an accumulation of blood, which would cause 
pain, and finally mortification. And it must not be applied so tight as to stop 
the circulation, for this would cause the same difficulty ; the object is to leaaen 
tbe circulation, but not to stop it entirely. 




HOW TO BANDAGE. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 83 

tricGrs.— Most ulcers, in their early stage, upon the legs or arms, may be 
cured by judicious bandaging, and keeping the ulcer and the bandage wet 
with cold water, or perhaps cold water % and whisky J^ as much, merely to 
stimulate a little. This mixture I have found better than water alone in 
dressings. Our homeopathic friends are very much in favor of the arnica lotion 
in place of the cold water. It is certainly a valuable remedy if used in sufficient 
quantities to have its legitimate, or specific effects, say IJ^ drs. of the tinciurt 
to a teacupf ul of cold water. A common teaspoon holds about 1 dr. Mix bj 
pouring back and forth from one cup to another, then keep the bandage wet with 
it. Of this strength it does seem to have a specific effect upon fresh bruises, f resb 
cuts, etc. Two drs. of the tincture to alcohol, ^ pt., is highly recommended ir. 
rheumatism of the joints, pains of the feet or limbs from walking, etc., to be 
used freely as a liniment. 

1. PUNCTURED WOUNDS — New Cures to Avoid Lock- 
jaw. — Mr. S. W. Hemenway writes to the Scientific American that he wishes 
to publish the following cure for punctured wounds for the benefit of all who 
may need it: As soon as such a wound is inflicted, get a light stick (a knife or 
file handle will do) and commence to tap gently on the wound. Do not stop 
for the hurt, but continue until it bleeds freely and becomes perfectly numb. 
When this point is reached, you are safe; all that is then necessary is, to pro- 
tect it from dirt. Do not stop short of the bleeding and the numbness, and do 
not on any account close the opening with plaster. Nothing more than a little 
simple cerate on a clean cloth is necessary. I have used, and seen this used, on 
all kinds of simple punctures for thirty years, and never knew a single instance 
where a wound becoming inflamed or sore after the treatment as above. Among 
other cases, a coal rake tooth going entirely through the foot, a rusty darning 
needle through the foot, a bad bite by a sucking pig, several instances of file 
shanks through the hand, and numberless cases of rusty nails, etc., but never 
knew a failure of this treatment. 

Bem.arks.—lL\\\?, being the class of wounds from which lock-jaw arises, let 
no one fail to adopt it or one of the following plans as soon as a small, deep 
wound is received. 

2. Punctured and Other Wounds and Bruises— To Relieve 
and Prevent Lock-jaw.— The following remedy, simple as it is, is said to 
have saved thousands from death by lock-jaw: Smoke the wound or bruise with 
the smoke of wool. Twenty minutes in the smoke of wool will take the pain 
out of the worst wound, and repeated once or twice, will allay the worst case 
of inflammation arising from a wound, 

3. Look-jaw or Tetanus Remedy and Preventive.— A medical 
authority says: " Let anyone who has an attack of lock-jaw take a small quan- 
tity of spirits of turpentine; warm it and pour it into the wound — no matter 
what the wound is, or what its nature is — and relief will follow in less than one 
minute. Nothing better can be applied to a severe cut or bruise than cold tur- 
pentine; it will give certain relief almost instantly." 

4. Lock-jaw, or Tetanus, Quickly Relieved. — A Dr. Bigelow 
reports, in the Practitioner, a case of lock-jaw, or tetanus, caused by a rusty 



84 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

nail pentetrwtlng the foot, which was relieved in less than 20 minutes by intro- 
ducing 1 dr. of the hydrate of chloral into the wound after it had been enlarged 
by incision. 

5. Flesh Wounds and Fresh Cuts — To Prevent Bleeding, 
Believe Pain, Etc.— Everybody is liable to be cut or to receive other flesh 
wounds, away from surgical or veterinary aid; hence, they ought to know how 
to proceed to save theii- own, or the life of a friend, or beast, by exercise of 
common judgment. 

I. If there is a flow of blood, close the wound with the hand and hold it 
firmly together, so as to check the flow, and keep it thus until a bandage can be 
obtained or stitches can be taken. If necessary, and the final bandaging is 
applied. Bathing well with cold water, and keeping bandages wet with it, is 
the latest method of treatment. I have known, however, one-half whiskey to 
be used for this purpose, and believe it to be the best. 

II. If the wound is painful, take a pan of burning coals and sprinkle upon 
them common brown sugar, and hold the wounded part in the smoke. In a 
minute or two the pain will be allayed, and the recovery proceed rapidly. 

Remarks. — If the burning of wool will relieve pain and prevent lock-jaw 
from punctured wounds, why should not sugar do the same? Although I can- 
not understand the why nor the wherefore, yet I still believe that both the 
smoke of wool and sugar have cured many cases, otherwise these items would 
never have been reported. 

6. Wounds, Hemorrhage or Bleeding from.— It is also claimed 
that bleeding may be stopped, on man or beast, by binding on a mixture of 
equal parts of wheat flour and salt; of course they are not to be wet, but evenly 
mixed, before binding on — the blood does the wetting, 

1. NOSE BLEED AND HICCOUGHS — Novel, but Certain 
Remedy. — Tlie Scientific American reports the following novel plan for check- 
ing bleeding at the nose: The best remedy for bleeding at the nose, as given by 
Dr. Gleason in one of his lectures, is in the vigorous motion of the jaws as if 
In the act of mastication (chewing). In the case of a child a wad of paper 
should be placed in its mouth, and the child should be instructed to chew it 
hard- It is the motion of the jaws that stops the flow of blood. This remedy 
Is so very simple that many will feel inclined to laugh at it, but it has never 
been known to fail in a single instance, even in very severe cases. 

Remarks. — About the time of writing upon the subject I received a letter 
from a Mrs. Harlan, of Hutton, Coles Co., HI., wherein she confirmed the 
above as to bleeding from the nose; and by the additional point of pressing the 
fingers into the ears, with the motion as if chewing, it also cures hiccough. 
And now I have an endorsement of my own as to its value in hiccough, for I, 
at that time, had a little granddaughter living in the family who had been often 
troubled with hiccoughs, and only a day or two after the receipt of Mrs. Har- 
lan's letter the child again had an attack of them, and in two minute«, at most, 
from the time I directed her and showed her how to do it, according to Kn. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 85 

Harlan's plan of putting the fingers into the ears, and then "chew," the child 
was cured. She has had no further attack as yet, a little over three years, while 
before they had held her an hour or two, and sometimes longer, and it occurred 
quite frequently. It seems to have been an absolute' cure. Mrs. Harlan in- 
cluded in her letter what she calls a simple cure for nose-bleed, hiccough and 
palpitation of the heart. I will give them in her own words, as follows: 

2. Nose-Bleed, Hiccough, and Palpitation of the Heart— 
Itlrs. Harlan's Cure for. — I. A simple cure for nose-bleed is to crowd the 
fingers tight into the ears and chew, pressing the teeth well together, as if chew- 
ing food. 

II. It is said to be a cure also for a persistent hiccough. [This is what I 
tried with the grandchild.] 

III. Palpitation of the Heart. — Hold the breath as long as possible and 
repeatedly, I have found it an almost certain remedy. And when it failed to 
stop the paroxysm at first it was relieved by it, and, after a time, stopped. 

Remarks. — Mrs. Harlan is undoubtedly correct in the matter of relief, or 
cure, of " Palpitation; " for, in holding the breath, the blood is not invigorated 
by the absorption of oxygen in the air by Its passage through the lungs, and 
hence the blood does not pass so freely nor quickly to the heart, and, therefore, 
its excessive action soon diminishes, and is finally quieted altogether. There is 
certainly philosophy in this. Mrs. H. had used these plans in her own family 
and among her friends, and sent them to me, as she expressed it, ' ' for the goo(5^ 
of the world." 

3. Hiccough, French Remedy for Children— Instantaneous 
Relief. — According to the Lyons (France) Medicale, Dr. Grellety says: 

" I have observed that hiccoughs in children are immediately stopped by giv- 
ing them a lump of sugar saturated with table vinegar. The same remedy was 
tried on adults with similar instantaneous success." 

The sugar plan is confirmed by the following from Henry Tucker, M. D.- 
in the Smith Medical Record, under the heading of " A Specific for Singulturs" 
(the physicians', or the Latin, name for hiccough): 

"This very common affection, of infants and children especially, has a sp& 
eiflc remedy, at least one which I have never known to fail. Moisten granu- 
lated sugar witli cider vinegar; give to an infant from a few grains to a tea- 
spoonful. The effect is almost instantaneous, and the dose seldom needs to b» 
repeated. I have used it for all ages, from infants of a few months old to peo- 
ple on the down-hill side of life." 

4. Another writer puts it in the following manner: " Take 3 or 4 swal 
lows of sweetened vinegar." 

Remarks.— ]^oi much different, except in quantity. I should try this il 
Dr. Grellety's or Dr. Tucker's lump of sugar did not succeed. 

5. Hiccough, a Cure for by Pressure — French. — The latest 
French discovery as to the cure of hiccoughs is given in La Scalpel, as follows: 
A very easy cure for a continued hiccough, sometimes complicated with spj^sms 
of the air-passage to the lungs, is introduced by Rostau, and highly recom- 
mended by Deghillaye, of Mons, France. It consists in placing the hand <iat 



88 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

upon the pit of the stomach, immediately below the cartilage forming the end 
of the breast-bone, and making firm pressure. Should this prove unsuccessful, 
place a firm roll of muslin on the same place, securing it by a bandage bound 
tightly around the body. In an hour this may be removed, and it will be 
found that the hiccough has entirely disappeared. 

Remarks. — The cure in this case is by the pressure, preventing the spas- 
modic action of the diaphragm, which is the cause of hiccoughs. 

BILIOUSNESS, BILIOUS FEVER, FEVER AND AGUE, 

CHILLS AND FEVER, INTERMITTENT FEVER, 

PERIODIC FEVER, ETC. 

BILIOUSNESS. — The symptoms are too well known to need describ. 
ing. If your bones ache, and you feel languid, your mouth tastes unpleasant, 
etc., you are bilious, and if you don't remedy It soon your complexion will be 



Cholagogue or Bilious Tonic— Quinine, 1 dr.; oil of wintergreen, 1 
teaspoonful; oil of peppermint, 5 drops; oil of lemon, 15 drops; alcohol, 
3^ pt.; water, % pt. ; sulphuric acid, 30 drops. Mix well, then add red Peru- 
vian bark, finely pulverized, 2 ozs. ; rheubarb root, also finely pulverized, 

2 ozs. ; simple syrup, or molasses, to make all 1 qt. Those who are acted upon 
easily by cathartics can not bear more than half of this quantity of rheubarb. 
Let such have it made accordingly — the object of its use is to just keep the 
bowels solvent, not loose like diarrhoea. 

The quinine, oils and acid should be put into the alcohol first, then the 
water, and afterwards the bark and rheubarb, and then the syrup; or what 
would be a little more palatable, would be to steep the Peruvian bark and 
rheubarb root in as little water as will answer, then strain off into the mixture 
and steep again, to get all the strength, by pressing out the second time; then 
make up the quart with syrup, as this avoids the sedjment of the bark and root 
in taking off the medicine, as some people object to taking the medicine with 
the powderi In it. It may be taken at once, if well shaken; or. If shaken 

3 or 3 times daily for a week, after that It may be taken without shaking, as 
the strength of the Peruvian bark and rheubarb will by that time be extracted. 
Dose — For an adult, 1 or 2 tea-spoonfuls 4 times daily, at meals and bed-time; 
for a child of 12 years, half dose. If very bilious take a full cathartic dose of 
rheubarb or such other cathartic medicine as you are in the habit of using, or 
prefer, to move the bowels freely. 

Remarks.— Thi^ will be found a very valuable tonic in all cases requiring 
one, and is absolutely the best known remedy for biliousness. If a person 
inclined to be bilious will take this every spring and fall, they will not be 
troubled. It will break up 99-100 of all the agues and remittent fevers in a few 
days; if not, repeat the cathartic, and continue the Cholagogue until the work 
is accomplished— ^never try to "wear out the ague"; it will either wear you 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 81 

out, or leave you the worse for wear." Repeat at intervals of a week, 2 or 3 
times; and in nearly every case a permanent cure will be effected, if the medi- 
cine is taken for 3 or 4 days at each repetition. 

[Note. — This is not an easy remedy to prepare. For a good many it will 
be cheaper to send fl.OO to the Chase Medicine Co., Detroit, Mich., and get a 
bottle already prepared.] 

Bilious Remittent Fever— Symptoms.— The attack is generally 
sudden and well marked. Some writers say it has no prexnonitory symptoms; 
others, that it has. The more general understanding is, that for a day or two, 
or even longer, before the onset, there is a sense of languor and debility, slight 
headache, lack of appetite, furred tongue, bitter taste in the mouth in the 
morning, pains in the joints and general uneasiness. 

The formal onset is nearly always marked by a distinct chill or rigor, — 
sometimes slight and brief; at other times severe and prolonged. The chill 
may begin at the feet, or about the shoulder blades, or in the back, and thence 
run like small streams of cold water poured in every direction through the 
whole body. There is generally but one well-marked chill, the returns of the 
paryoxysms of fever being seldom, after the first, preceded by the cold stage. 

During the hot stage the pulse is up to one hundred and twenty, or one 
hundred and thirty. There are pains in the head, back and limbs, of a most 
distressing kind. 

The tongue is generally covered with a yellowish, or dirty white fur; and 
in bad cases, in the advanced stage, is frequently parched brown or nearly 
black in the center, and red at the edges. There is no appetite for food, and 
generally nausea and vomiting; and usually there is pain and tenderness in the 
epigastrium. The bowels are at first costive, but afterwards become loose, and 
there are frequent evacuations of dark, offensive matter. 

Causes. — This disease is produced by malarial exhalations from the decom- 
position of vegetable matter. It is most prevalent in hot climates, and in 
the summer and autumn. 

Treatment. — If the fever be in the formative stage, and has not fully 
developed itself, give an emetic (see page 180), and follow it with a mild 
cathartic— rochelle salts, 2 drs.; bi-carbonate of soda, 2 scruples; water, ^ pt. 
Mix. To this mixture add 35 grains of tartaric acid, and take the whole 
foaming. This is the recipe for Seidlitz powders. 

If the disease be already developed, sponge the body all over several times 
a day with cold or tepid water, according to the feelings of the patient, and 
give cooling drinks. To moderate the fever give 3 to 10-drop dose:; of tincture 
or fluid extract of veratrum viride. The compound powder of Ipecac and 
opium is a valuable preparation for the same purpose. Give cold water as 
drink, if desired by the patient, or let him eat ice. 

When the headache is very severe, let wet cups be applied upon the 
temples, or behind the ears; and the same remedy to the pit of the stomach, 
when there is great tenderness, is often desirable; though a mustard plaster 
■will sometimes do better. 



88 DR. 0HA8E' 8 RECIPES. 

During the remissions of the fever, quinine and other tonics are to be 
given, as in fever and ague. 

AGUE.— What is.generally called ague is also known by all these names, 
which mean one and the same thing. Doctors generally say "intermittent 
fever," and what will cure it are also known as "anti-periodics." The two fol- 
lowing recipes for ague originated with Dr. B. F. Humphreys, of Tyler, Texas, 
as substitutes, or to be used instead of quinine. He published them in the 
Eclectic Medical Journal, more especially for the benefit of other physicians; 
but if they are good for physicians, and I know they are, to use upon their 
patients and save the expense of quinine, they are as certainly good for the 
people to have them prepared by druggists for their own use. I have confi- 
dence in them, hence I give them. Dr. Humphreys gave the recipe for the 
" solution" to make 16 pts. (2 gals.), so that physicians could make up enough 
for a whole neighborhood; but I have reduced it by 16, so that families will 
make only 1 pt. If desired to make in larger quantities, simply keep the same 
proportions. The pills I will give for 240, as he gave them; if less are needed, 
to keep the proportions is all that is necessary. They are as follows: 

1. Ague Solution, Pills and Liniment for— Without Qui- 
nine. — I. Solution, or Dr. Humphreys' " Tip-Top Tonic." — Sulphate of cin« 
chonia, 1 dr. ; sulphate of strychnia, 2 grs. ; tinct. of stillingia, }4 P*- : tinct. of 
enonymus (wahoo), 4 osjs. ; tincts. of leptandra (Culver's physic) and of podo- 
phyllum (mandrake), each 2 ozs. ; oil of wintergreen, to flavor, (15 or 20 drops, 
only, in a little alcohol), and elixir of vitriol (aromatic sulphuric acid), to dis- 
solve the sulphates. Directions. — Rub the sulphate of strychnia, first, in a 
mortar; then put in the sulphate of cinchonia, and rub together, and add to 
them as much aromatic sulphuric acid as necessary to dissolve them; then put 
into the bottle with the other articles, shake well, and it is ready for use. 
Dose. — For adults, 1 tea-spoonful 4 or 5 times daily. For a child, 3 times as 
many drops as it is years old, same number of times daily as for adults. 

Remarks — Dr. Humphreys called this his "Calisaya Anti-Periodic: or, 
Tip-Top Tonic," and considered it as cheap and efficient as anything that can be 
got up. "Calisaya " is the name which the Indians of South America applied to 
What we know as Peruvian bark; hence the Doctor applies it here, as he knew 
ail physicans, for whom he was writing, would know what he meant, i e., that 
the sulphate of cinchonia and calisaya was made from the Peruvian bark. 

2. Ague, or Chills and Pever — Simple Cure Without 
Quinine. — H. G. D. Brown, of Copiah Co., Miss., gives the following as a 
certain and thoroughly tried cure for fever and ague: "Take 1 pt. of cotton- 
seed; 2 pts. of water boiled to 1; strain and take warm 1 hour before the 
attack. Many persons will doubtless laugh at this simple remedy; but I have 
tried it effectually, and unhesitatingly say it is better than quinine, and could I 
obtain the latter article at a dime a bottle, I would infinitely prefer the cotton- 
seed tea. It will not only cure invariably, but permanently, and is not at al) 

to the taste." 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 89 

3. Ague or "Chills" — Positive Cure, with Quinirie. — This 

receipt is from Dr. Joseph Spaulding, of Lafayette, Ind., in answer to an inquiry 
from a lady through the Blade Household, which explains itself. He says: 

"Dear Madam: — You say 'don't prescribe whiskey nor quinine,' but I will, 
and I know whereof I speak, as I was a sufferer with the ague for three years, 
in the malarial district of Indiana, and this cured me, and I have not had a 
chill for live years ; and I am sure it will do as much for others. The toper 
who takes his morning bitters out of this, will not want them a second time 
from the same bottle. 

I. "A thorough cathartic. Now, I mean thoi'ougk when I say it. 

II. " Two days after take quinine in 6 gr. doses every 4 to 6 hours, just as 
^u can stand it, till you have missed a chill ; then take the following: 

III. Tonic Bitters, to Strengthen and Tone up the System after Ague, oi 
Chills and Fever have been broken, or for Oenei'al Use. — "Tinct. capsicum, 1 dr.; 
citrate of iron and quinine, 1 oz. ; comp. tinct. of gentian, 1 oz. ; elixir cin- 
chonia, 2 ozs. ; whiskey, 5 ozs. Dose — Take 1 tablespoonful 3 times daUy, 
just after meals." 

The elixir of cinchonia is also known as " elixir of calisaya," or "elixir of 
bark," meaning, of Peruvian bark. It is made as follows: Peru\ian bark, 1 oz.; 
fresh orange peel, ^ oz. , cinnamon bark, coriander seeds and angelica seeds, 
each 3 drs. ; caraway and anise seeds, each 1 dr. ; brandy and water, as given 
below; simple syrup, 10 ozs. Bruise or coarsely grind the bark and aroma tics^ 
and treat them with brandy until 10 ozs. are obtained; then continue the perco- 
iation vrith equal parts of brandy and water, imtil 22 ozs. have been obtained; 
then add the syrup to make 8 pts. tonic and cordial. 

Remarks. — I know that some people object to using quinine, believing thai 
it causes rheumatic or other pains, etc. , but I am well satisfied that the pains, or 
other difficulties supposed to come from the quinine, came from the disease, or 
the climate, and not from the use of the quinine. It is not only a perfectly safe 
remedy, but is indeed a valuable antiperiodic and strengthening medicine. It 
can be obtained anywhere, and will cure ague everywhere, with only an occa- 
sional exception. The position I have taken above, that it is the disease, or 
malaria in the system, that causes the pain in the bones, etc., and not the qui- 
nine that does it, I have since seen, is also claimed to be the fact by some of oui 
most eminent pysicians. 

4. Ague, or Chills and Fever — Certain Cure for. — Quinine, 
31 grs. ; aromatic sulphuric acid and laudanum, each, 31 drops; water, 3 ozs. 
Dose — A teaspoonful 3 times a day, before meals. 

Remarks. — This was given me by Mrs. Catharine Baldwin, of Toledo, O., 
formerly of Putin-Bay, where she obtained it, and knew of its curing several 
of the most obstinate or long standing chronic cases, which "nothing," as the 
saying goes, " would cure." I have used it with success, making only this dif- 
ference with the receipt: Using 40 grs. of the quinine and 40 drops of the oil of 
vitriol and laudanum, in 4 ozs. of water (to make the quantity a little more); 
then, for an adult, directing a tablespoonful three hours, two hours and one hour, 
before the chill should commence — which will break it. After that, 1 tea-spooi^ 
fal 8 times daily, just after meals, till all is taken, will cure most cases. 



90 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

5. Ague Pills, Very Cheap and Very Effective, Without 
Quinine. — Chinoidine, 1 oz. ; do vers powders, 3 drs. ; piperine, 40 grs. ; sub 
carbonate of iron, 2% drs.; stiff mucilage of gum arabic sufficient to work 
*nto pills, and mix very intimately and make into usual sized pills. [The author 
■would say to make into 440 pills, to be sure to have 1 gr. of chinoidine in each 
pill.] Dose. — Take 2 pills every 2 hours until 6 or 8 are taken, in the absence 
of fever. After the first day 2 pills 3 times a day, just before meals, in the 
absence of chills or fever. 

Remarks. — This recipe is decidedly a good one, either as an ague cure or a5 
a general tonic. Chinoidine pills, however, in warm weather get soft and 
should, therefore, have plenty of powdered liquorice root among them to pre- 
vent their sticking together; but from this tendency the following, in liquid 
form, may be preferable: 

6. Chinoidine for Ague— How to Give It.— C. E. Ellis, M. D., of 
Gooch's Mill, Mo., in answer to an inquiry of Dr. A. Barry, of Dresden, Tex., 
in The Brief, page 505, 1883, for "a convenient mode of administering chinoid- 
ine," made the following answer: " The following is a prescription used by 
my father and myself with no dissatisfaction from any patient, except one col- 
ored woman, who complained of nausea after taking: Chinoidine, 2 ozs.; 
alcohol, 1 pt. ; nitric acid, dilute (a formula druggists understand), 1 oz. ; aro- 
matic syrup of rhei. (rhubarb), 8 ozs. ; water, 8 ozs. Mix. Dose. — When dis- 
solved, take 1 tea-spoonful before meals and bedtime. If Dr. Barry will try 
this mode of gi\ing the chinoidine he will find it all I recommend it to be. I 
have used it a great deal, and I hope he may have as good success with it as I 
have had." 

Remarks. — Being so much cheaper than quinine is the main reason for its 
use. For those who oppose the use of quinine, and all similar ingredients, as 
cinchonidia or chinoidine, and would like to try a novel, yet a simple, cure, I 
give the following: 

7. Ague and Fever, Novel Ijut Simple Cure.— Take a medium- 
sized nutmeg and char it by holding it to a flame by sticking a piece of wire 
inside, permitting it to burn by itself without disturbance; when charred, pul- 
verize it and combine with it an equal quantity of burned alum and divide into 
three powders. On the commencement of the chill give a powder. If this 
does not break it, give the second powder on the appearance of the next chill, 
and if not cured the third powder must be given as the succeeding chill comes 
on. Usually the first powder effects a cure, and it is seldom that the third pow- 
der wall be required. The bowels should always be acted upon by a purgative 
previous to their administration. It is certainly deserving attention, though I 
do not pretend to account for its action. — Prof. King. 

Remarks. — Prof. King says he has "known it to have cured several cases 
of intermittent fever" (fever and ague), and also says he has "been assured of 
its almost universal success in this disease ; " and also adds that "it is recom* 
mended for the cure of other forms of fever." I am, like himself, unable to 
give a reason why or how it should so act; but that it has so acted I have not a 
4oubt 



TBEATMENT OF DISEASES. 91 

8. Ague Pills for Obstinate Cases.— Alcoholic ex. of nux vomica, 
lOgrs.; quinine, 30grs.; pulverized capsicum, 20 grs. Directions — Mix very 
thoroughly and divide into 30 pills. First give an active cathartic to get a good 
action upon the bowels; then give 2 of the pills an hour before eating, 3 times 
daily, until cured, then 1 pill for a dose the same way until all are taken. 

Remarks. — This was from an old physician in Tennessee to a Baptist min- 
ister who had had ague a long time, not being able to get it cured. This did 
the work. He gave it to my cousin. Dr. A. B. Moon, of Toledo, O., who says 
he failed only in a single case for the many years he had used it. 

9. Ague, Tonic Elixir for. — Tinct. of capsicum, 1 dr.; citrate of iron 
and quinine and compound tincture of gentian (the first is in crystals, the lat- 
ter a fluid), each, 1 oz. ; elixir of cinchonia, 7 ozs. Mix. Dose — From 1 to 3 
tea-spoonsful 8 times daily, just after meals; for a general tonic, once in 1 to 2 
hours; if to break up an ague, 4 doses at least, the last to be taken one hour 
before the chill returns. 

Remarks. — I know this to be a valuable tonic whenever one is needed, 

10. Ague, Tonic Pills for.— Sulphate of cinchonia (made from the 
Peruvian bark), 40 grs. ; arsenious acid, 1 gr. ; iron reduced (fcrri pulvis, or 
iron in a pulverized state) and solid ex. of gentian, each, 1 dr. Mix thoroughly 
and make into 40 pills. Dose — As a general tonic, 1 pill 1 hour after each 
meal and at bedtime ; or, if handier, half an hour before meals and at bedtime; 
to break up an ague, 2 pills, 4, 3, 2, and 1 hour before the chill should begin; 
then 4 daily for a few days as above. 

11. Ague, Elixir, or German Cure for.— Quinine, 16 grs.; quin- 
idia and cinchonidia, each, 20 grs. ; comp. tinct. of Peruvian bark and tinct. of 
columbo, each, 2 ozs. ; tinct. of rhubarb, 1 oz. ; aromatic sulphuric acid, to cut 
the sulphates, and "Simple Elixir," to fill an 8 oz. bottle, [Lest some per- 
sons may want to have druggists fill this recipe, in small places where they may 
not have the simple elixir, I give the formula, it is as follows: Spirits, or essence 
of orange, }4 oz.; essence of cinnamon, 10 drops; alcohol, 4 ozs.; simple syrup 
and water, each 6 ozs. ; mix.] Dose — 1 teaspoonful every 3 hours, till the 
ague is broken; then 3 times daily, etc., as with other tonics. 

Remarks. — I obtained this recipe of G. M. Nill, a druggist and pharmacist, 
of Broadway, Toledo, O. ; and I had it filled by him several times, finding it 
very valuable. In one family the lady used it first, for herself, then for a child 
and finally for her father, successfully in each case, and I have used it in sev- 
eral other cases with equal success. Notice this, in this prescription, it con- 
tains three of the best anti-periodic and tonic preparations made from the Peru- 
vian bark, and besides the compound tincture of bark itself, which will account 
for the great success I have had, and which I believe others will have, with its 
use, either as a cure for the ague or to prevent its return, and also as a general 
tonic. 

12. Ague, Tonic Febrifuge for — Not Needing a Cathartic 
Before Commencing its Use. — Quinine, 40 grs. ; elixir of taraxacum 
(dandelion), 2 ozs. ; simple syrup to fill an 8 oz. bottle. Shake when taking. 



93 DR. CEASES' RECIPES. 

Dose — For an adult, 1 table-spoonful, or a> small swallow, 3 or 4 times daily; 
for a child of 6 to 12 years, a dessert-spoonful; 3 to 6 years, 1 tea-spoonful; if 
very young, % tea-spoonful. 

Remarks.— 'The beauty of this is, the elixir of dandelion acts on the liver 
and bowels, so you do not have to wait to take cathartics before you begin with 
the febrifuge. It is best, however, with this, as before remarked in several 
places, to begin with the doses 4, 3, 2 and 1 hour before the chill would come 
on. I obtained this from a friend of mine in Toledo — M. O. Waggoner — who 
has been familiar with its use for several years, and says " there is no equal to 
it." I have taken it, and given it to others, with entire satisfaction. It is 
indeed a febrifuge (opposed to fever) worthy of the name. 

13. Fevers in Low, Wet Coimtry— Dr. Buchan's Preventive 
and Cure. — Best red, unground Peruvian bark, 2 ozs.; Virginia snake root, 
root, 2 ozs. ; gentian root and orange peel, each 1 oz. ; brandy or good whiskey, 
1 qt. ; or whiskey and good worked cider, each 1 pt., will do nicely. Direc- 
tions — Grind coarsely, or bruise, and put into the spirit, and shake daily for 10 
or 12 days, before using. Dose — Two table-spoonfuls immediately after each 
meal, either as a preventive or a cure. 

Remarks. — Dr. Buchan, of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburg, 
Scotland, in his Domestic Medicine, claims this to be the remedy for fluxes, 
putrid intermittents, and all other fevers in low, wet countries of an unhealthy 
climate. It is certainly valuable, as the gentian improves the appetite and the 
snake root benefits the kidneys and skin. 

14. Ague and Fever, How to Avoid. — The foregoing remedies 
will cure ague, or chills and fever; but an important question is, how to avoid 
or prevent having them. To do this successfully, avoid exposure to the damp 
air of the early morning, except when exercising; and then do not remain in 
the open air to cool off. Avoid great fatigue; sleep eight hours of the twenty- 
four. Be sure that the water used for drinking and cooking is perfectly pure. 
Wear flannel underclothing at all seasons. Keep the feet dry and warm. And, 
after being careful in all these particulars, if you get the ague, take your choice 
in the foregoing list of remedies to cure it, untU you can leave the ague district 
for a more healthy location. 

1. CINDERS OR DUST IN THE EYES -To Remove. — A 
correspondent writes to the Scientific American this remedy for cinders in the 
eye: "A small camel's-hair brush dipped in water and passed over the ball of 
the eye on raising the lid. The operation requires no skill, takes but a moment, 
and instantly removes any cinder or particle of dust or dirt without inflaming 
the eye." 

2. Another writer says: " Persons traveling much by railway are subject 
to continual annoyance from the flying cinders. On getting into the eyes they 
are not only painful for the moment, but are often the cause of long suffering 
that ends in a total loss of sight. A very simple and effective cure is within 
the reach of every one, and would prevent much suffering and expense were it 
more generally known. It is simply one or two grains of flax seed. It is said 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 9S 

they may be placed in the eye without injury or pain to that delicate organ, 
and shortly they begin to swell and dissolve a glutinous substance that covers 
the ball of the eye, enveloping any foreign substance that may be in it. The 
irritation or cutting of the membrane is thus prevented, and the annoyance may 
soon be washed out. A dozen of these grains stowed away in the vest pocket 
may prove, in an emergency, worth their number in gold dollars." 

1. ACCIDENTS, POISONING, ETC.— Short Rules for Man- 
agement. — Prof. Wilder, of New York, gives the following short rules to 
govern the action in such cases: 

! I. For dust in the eyes, avoid rubbing, and dash water into them*, 
remove cinders, etc., with the rounded end of a lead-pencil. 

II. Remove insects from the ear by tepid water; never put a hard instru- 
ment into the ear. 

III. If an artery is cut, compress above the wound; if a vein is cut, com- 
press below. 

IV. If choked, get upon all fours and cough. 

V. For light burns, dip the part in cold water; if the skin is destroyed, 
cover with varnish. 

YI. Smother a fire with carpets, etc. ; water will often spread burning oil, 
and increase the danger. 

VII. Before passing through smoke take a full breath, and then stoop low; 
but if carbonic acid is suspected, then walk erect. 

VIII. Suck poisoned wounds, unless your mouth is sore. Enlarge the 
wound, or better, cut out the part without delay. Hold the wounded part a3 
long as can be borne to a hot coal or end of a cigar. 

IX. In case of poisoning, excite vomiting by tickling the throat, or by 
warm water, or mustard and water, or salt and water, always warm, if possible. 

X. For acid poisons give alkalies. 

XI. For opium poisoning give strong coffee and keep moving. 

XII. If you fall in water float on the back, with the nose and mouth pro- 
jecting. (See falling into the river, etc.) 

XIII. For apoplexy raise the head and body; for fainting lay the person 
flat. 

2. Quick Emetics for Accidental Poisoning.— Another writer 
gives the following instructions for the management in accidents, poisoning, 
etc. He says: " Quickly mix a couple of ounces of powdered chalk or magne- 
sia with a pint of milk and swallow the whole at one draught. Then run tba 
finger down the throat and move it gently from side to side. This will induce 
vomiting; after which drink freely of warm milk and water and repeat the 
vomiting. Milk is an antidote for almost all poisons, narcotics excepted, espe- 
cially if used promptly, and followed by vomiting. In narcotic poisoning, as 
by laudanum, opium or morphine, promptly give an emetic of mustard and 
water, followed by copious draughts of warm water and salt, until vomiting is 
induced. Keep the patient moving, and do not allow him to sleep. Send in 
haste for your family physicia.n." 



94 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

3. Poisoning by Accident or Intention, What to do.— Another 
medical writer on the subject of accidental or intentional poisoning, says: '' To 
[tieutraUze any poisonous mineral or vegetable, taken intentionally or by acci- 
dent swallow 2 gills (3^ pt.)of sweet oil; for a strong constitution, more oil." 

Remarks — The sweet oil is good and a bottle of it ought to be kept in 
every house, to meet, immediately, any emergency of this kind; but lard oil or 
even melted lard will do Vomiting is also very important. 

4. Poisoning by Poison Ivy— Remedy.— Bromine, 15 grs., rubbed 
in 1 oz. of olive oil, or glycerine, and apply 3 or 4 times daily; one appli- 
cation at bed-time has been found effectual; a poultice of clay-mud has also 
cured many cases. 

5 Poison Ivy— Poisoning Cured by an Old Pox Hunter.— 
The following was sent to Forest and Stream, which explains itself The writer 
says: " I have probably suffered more from poison ivy than any other man. 
Three times in one summer I have been blind from its effects. I have tried 
every remedy without success, until last summer. I was out shooting, and, 
with my usual luck, I got another dose that confined me to the house. I could 
not walk An old fox hunter living in the neighborhood, hearing of my con- 
dition, came to see me, and brought me a remedy that acted like magic. In 3 
days time I was up and enjoying what I love better than anything else in this 
world, the best of all field sports— fall woodcock shooting. I give you the 
recipe: Take 1 pt. of the bark of black spotted alder and 1 qt. of water, and 
boU down to 1 pt Wash the poisoned parts a dozen times a day, if conven- 
ient; it will not injure you." 

Remarks. — Perhaps the better plan is to learn that the poison ivy has its 
leaves in clusters of three, while the non-poisonous has its leaves in clusters of 
five; knowing this, keep clear of the poisonous. 

6. Poisoning by the Poison Oak, Remedy.— J. B. Murfree, M. 
D., of Murfreesboro, Tenn., says he has found the blacK wash made of calo- 
mel and lime-water (calomel, 1 dr. to lime-water, 1 pt.), an invariable success 
for several years. — Medical Brief . This is supported by the following, also from 
the Brief, by Dr. James A Douglass, of Poland, 0., under the head of: 

7. Poisoning by Rhus, wherein he says: "Since the discovery by 
Professor Maisch, that the toxic (poisoning) quality was due to an acid, which 

he denominated ioxicodendric acid, the treatment has been based upon a true 
scientific basis {i e. , that alkalies neutralize acids, and vice versa, that acids 
neutralize alkalies), I therefore," he continues "apply alkalies to neutralize the 
acid. I prefer," he also says, "the liquor calcis (lime-water) applied locally; 
in severe cases use internally also. I sometimes combine it (the lime-water) 
with soda bi-carbonate, or hydrate of chloral. 1 oz. to 1 pt." This he closer 
by saying is as near a specific (positive cure) as any one could wish. (See timioT, 
poison wound, and wild vine poisoning, earth cure for.) 

8. Poisoning by Henbane, Tobacco, or Stramonium, and 
Bites of Snakes — Remedy. — The oil of sassafras has been found a remedy 
agaixist the poison of these articleas. Given in 15 drop doses, 30 minutes apart; 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 95 

for six doses, restored consciousness when the flowers of stramonium had heeu 
eaten by a boy 4 years old; after which a dose of castor-oil was given to work 
it off by the bowels. 

Remarks.— This is from a Dr. A. "W. Lyle, of Castleton, Ind., in Medical 
Brief, in which he also gives Dr. Thompson's account of the value of oU of 
sassafras for henbane and tobacco poisoning, and also says: " It will destroy all 
Insect life, and is an effectual antidote for the bite of venomous copperhead 
snakes." He recommends all physicians to try it, and, the author thinks, it is 
equally good for the people. He does not give the dose in these last cases; but 
if a boy of four years can take 15 drops, an adult may take at least 40. And in 
the snake-bites, I would rub it on the wounds also, and repeat as he directs. 

1. ACCIDENT FROM CHLOROFORM — To Prevent, by 
Mixing Spirits of Turpentine with it.— "A preventive for those acci- 
dents which so frequently occur in the administration of chloroform to produce 
anaesthesia (insensibility to pain) has been suggested by Dr. Wachsmuth, of 
Berlin, Germany: the method consisting simply in the addition of one part of 
the rectified oil of turpentine (spirits of turpentine) to five parts of chloroform. 
The oil of turpentine in vapor appears to exert a stimulating or life-giving effect 
on the lungs, and protects those organs from passing into that paralyzed state 
which seems to be produced by chloroform narcosis (to benumb, or to become 
imconscious). It appears that Dr. Wachsmuth, while lying on a sick-bed, acci- 
dentally breathed the vapor of turpentine, and he experienced from this a 
strongly refreshing feeling— a fact which induced him to try the plan of adding 
oil of turpentine to chloroform when using the latter for anaesthetic purposes." 

Remarks.— FeoiTile, even physicians, speak unadvisedly when they say oil 
of turpentine, meaning the spirits, as it should be called; there is no oil of tur- 
pentine proper. The sticky mass, as it runs from the trees, is distilled, when it 
becomes very limpid, i. e., pure and clear, having scarcely an appearance of 
oil — clear as water, as the common saying is. The only object of this explana* 
tion is, that no one shall suppose that there is an oil, and a spirit, too ; they ar» 
both one and the same thing. 

2. Accident from Chloroform— To Prevent by Management. 
— It is believed that many of the deaths from the administration of chlorofornj. 
have arisen by the patient lying upon the back, and the tongue, from loss of 
muscular power or contractility, has fallen back into the throat and thus suffo- 
cated the patient. This should certainly be looked to by everyone who admin- 
isters it. The tongue can be held with a cloth, if need be. 

I see also by a recent statement in the Ann Arbor Register that Dr. McLean, 
of the University of Michigan, in his surgical practice of 25 years, prefers 
chloroform to any other anaesthetic, and has never had a death occur from it, 
nor seen a death by its use. He has always used it when necessary, and is a 
strong advocate for its use, and, all things considered, prefers it to ether. With 
the foregoing cautions as to the breathing, to prevent suffocation from the 
tongue falling over the glottis while the muscles are all relaxed by the chloro- 
form, there need be no apprehension of danger from it; still, I can see no 
abjection to mixing the turpentine with it. 



96 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES, 

The London Lancet confirms the idea advanced above, about the attention 
to the tongue, in the following words: "Death from chloroform need never 
occur, according to the doctrine of Syme, Lister and Hughes (all celebrated 
surgeons) if this simple rule is observed: Never mind the pulse, never mind the 
heart, leave the pupil (of the eye) to itself. But keep your eye on the breath- 
ing, and if it becomes embarrassed to a grave extent, take an arteiy forceps 
and pull the tongue well out. (A piece of cloth in the fingers will hold the 
tongue with but little difficulty.) Syme never lost a case from chloroform, 
although he gave it five thousand times " 

FALLING INTO DEEP WATER — What to do for Those 
Who Cannot Swim.— For those who may fall into deep water, and can- 
not swim, it is thought best that a little fuller instructions ought to be given- 

I. When one falls into deep water let it always be remembered that he 
will rise to the surface at once; and now is the time to remember, also, that 
he must not raise the arms nor hands above the water, except there be some- 
thing to take hold of; if he does it will sink the head so low he cannot breathe. 
But: 

II. Any motion of the hands may be made under the water, as you 
please, without endangering the life, for if the water is quiet, the head being 
thrown a little back, the face will float above the surface, unless heavy boots or 
clothing bear one down. 

III. And a motion of the legs as if walking up stairs, while it can be 
borne, keeping the perpendicular as nearly as possible, will greatly aid in keep- 
ing one afloat until help arrives; and even good swimmers had better not ex 
>iaust themselves, if a boat is coming, only to keep afloat. (See also drowned 
persons, rules for resuscitation, etc.) 

SALVES, PLASTERS, OINTMENTS, POULTICES, ETC. 

1. Salve or Plaster for Chaps, Cracks, etc. — Rosin, 10 ozs.; 
mutton tallow, 2 ozs.; beeswax, 1 oz. Dikections — Simmer together and 
work as shoemakers do their wax, and make it into convenient rolls. Spread 
^n slips of cloth to suit the place, and apply as hot as the flesh will bear it — 
it will need no tying. If too stiff in very cold weather use a little more tallow 
And beeswax, or a little less rosin. 

2. Ointment of St. John's Wort and Stramonium, for 
Tumors, Bruised and Blackened Spots, etc.— Tops and flowers, 
recently picked, of St. John's wort {hypericum perforatum), fresh stramonium 
leaves, each ^ lb. ; lard, 1 lb. Dikections — Bruise the herbs and put into 
the lard and gently heat for an hour, then strain. Rub and heat into the swell- 
ings, caked breasts, hard tumors and ecchymosed spots (spots which have 
been bruised and the blood settled under the skin) thoroughly. 

Remarks. — Prof. King also says the saturated (as strong as can be made) 
tincturq of the St. John's wort is nearly as valuable as that of arnica, for 
bruises, and may be substituted for it in many cases. (See also the recipe for 
coughs, colds, hoarseness, etc., for the further value of St. John's wort.) 




ECZEMA, OR SALT RHEUM 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. Vt 

3. Salve or Ointment for Cuts, Sores and Cracks made in 
Husking, Salt-Rheum, Scurvey, Head Boils, etc.— Mutton tallo-n', 3 
Ibfi, ; rosin, \% lbs. ; sal-ammoniac (crystals) ,2 ozs. ; sweet oil, 1 pt. Directtons 
-- Melt the rosin and tallow together; dissolve sal-ammoniac in a little water, ufter 
having powdered it fine, then stir it into the mixture; put in the oil, or enough 
«jf it to reduce to a paste, or ointment, then place in boxes, or a jar that can be 
covered. To apply, it is best to keep a little of the sal-ammoniac dissolved in a 
little water, sufficient to give the water rather a sharp taste, and first wet the 
part to which the ointment is to be applied, with the sal-ammoniac water. The 
healing will be quick and satisfactory. 

Remarks. — I obtained this from a "Welsh blacksmith at Moawequa, 111., 
who thought it had no equal in the world as a healing ointment, or salve, as he 
called it. It will be found valuable for cracked fingers in husking, as well as 
for general purposes. 

4. Itch Ointment, or Wash, Preferable to the Old Method.— 
Quicklime (good stone lime, just slacked), 1 part; sulphur, 2 parts; water, 10 
parts; by weight say J^ oz. of the lime, 1 oz. of the sulphur, and 5 ozs. of 
water, make the right proportions. Directions — Boil together in a porcelain 
dish, stirring constantly with a stick, till it is the shade of cinnamon essence. 
When cool, bottle and keep corked. Apply a small quantity to the parts affected. 

Remarks. — This is from Dr. A. B. Mason, who says of it: " It is much 
nicer to use than the old sulphur ointment: and will effect a cure with fewer 
applications." It can be relied upon. 

5. Ointment and Salve for General Purposes, Norton's.— 
I. For the ointment, lard, 1 lb.; rosin, 5 ozs.; beeswax and gum camphor, 
each 2 ozs. ; oil of origanum and spirits of turpentine, each 1 oz. Directions 
— Melt the lard, rosin and beeswax together; break up the camphor gum as fine 
as you can, and when you remove the first from the fire, after all are melted, 
stir in the gum and continue to stir till the camphor gum is melted and all is 
quite cool; then put in the origanum and turpentine, and keep stirring until it 
sets, or stiffens; box, or put in a fruit can, and cover to exclude air. 

Remarks. — " It is good, very good, for all general purposes," says my sister, 
Mrs. Norton, from whom I obtained it. 

II. For the Salve. — Use 5 lbs. of rosin; and in place of the lard use 6 ozs. 
of mutton tallow; all the other ingredients as for the ointment, and melt; 
but as soon as the gum camphor is melted, and after having removed it from 
the fire, put in the oil and turpentine, and stir well for a minute or two; then 
pour into cold water, and pull and work the same as shoemaker's wax; then 
roll into sticks, and wrap each stick by itself. 

Remarks. — Valuable as a strengthening salve or plaster to apply over all 
weaknesses, rheumatic and other pains, anywhere on body or limbs. 

6. Glycerine Ointment for Chapped Hands, Lips or Pace, 
Chafes, Hemorrhoids, etc. — Oil of sweet almond, 2 ozs. ; spermaceti and 
wMte wax, each }{ oz. ; best glycerine, 1 oz. ; oil of rose, a little. Directions 
—Melt the spermaceti and wax in the oil of almond by gentle heat; then stir in 



98 DR., CHASE'S RECIPES. 

the glycerine and oil of rose, and put up in small jars or wide-mouthed bottlesi 
In cold weather it must be warmed to apply. Keep covered or corked. 

QI4, Balm of Gilead Ointment or Oil.— Take any quantity of Balm 
of Gilead Buds, place them in a suitable dish for stewing, pour over them suffi- 
cient melted lard to cover them— or to make the Balm of Qilead Oil, pour the 
same quantity of sweet oil — stew thoroughly, then press out all of the oil from 
the buds, and bottle ready for use. 

This will be found to be a very excellent ointment for cuts, bruises, etc., 
and the oil will also be found to be very healing. 

7. Salve, or Balsam, for Wounds, Cracks, or Internal Pains. 
—Rosin, 23^ lbs.; spirits of turpentine, 1 qt.; balsam of fir, 4 ozs.; oil of hem- 
tock, 3 ozs. DiRECTiOKS — Melt the rosin, and remove from the fire; then, when 
a little cool, stir in the fir, turpentine, and last, the oil of hemlock, continuing 
to stir until cool enough to remain permanently mixed. 

Remarks. — I saw this salve on the hands of a Mr. E. B. Mason, a farmer 
of Ann Arbor, Mich., upon cracks and a wound of considerable extent. 
Noticing its white appearance and adhesiveness, I inquired about it; he told me 
he had used it for several years, and thought it had no equal for wounds, sores, 
cracks from husking, etc., and also as a "plaster" over any internal pains 
whatever. He spoke of it so highly that I was induced to obtain it for my 
Third Book. I know it must be valuable; but I think it will prove too soft 
<or hot weather. Then to use only half of the spirits of turpentine and possibly 
Yi lb. more rosin is all the modification needed to adapt it as a plaster to be 
applied to other parts of the body. It would be very valuable to wear over a 
sore breast, whether from strain or soreness of the lungs. See also the Centen- 
nial Recipes from " Poor Will's" Almanac, at the close of this department, for 
an ointment for these purposes. 

8. Salve for Inflamed Wounds, From Taking Cold in Them. 
'—Lard, 8 ozs. , melted 3 or 4 times, and cooled each time in cold water (vaseline 
or cosmoline is now used without the purification, and will do as well, and pos- 
sibly better,); then stew in it 2 fair sized onions sliced, and strain. This 
is an excellent salve for inflamed wounds. Apply twice or thrice daily, as 
needed. Twice is enough unless excessive ulceration, or running of consider- 
able matter 

9. Salve, Carbolic, for Burns, Sores, etc. — Lard, 10 ozs.; white 
wax, 5 ozs. ; balsam of fir and carbolic acid, each 1 oz. Directions — Melt 
the lard and wax together, then add the fir, and when it begins to thicken, by 
cooling, stir in the carbolic acid, and put up in tin boxes, or a suitable jar, 
covered tightly for use. 

Remarks.— TYiQ, balsam of fir is very soothing and healing, and makes the 
salve stick better to burns or other open sores, at the same time it hides the dis- 
agreeable odor of the carbolic acid Many persons think there is no salve equal 
to those made with the carbolic acid. I think vaseline, 10 ozs., would be better 
than the lard as above giveu. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. % 

10. Salve, or Ointment, Green, for Old Sores, Ulcers, Can- 
cers, etc. — Rosin and beeswax, each 1 oz. ; mutton tallow or lard, 4 ozs.; 
pulverized verdigris, 1 dr. Directions— Melt the two first together and stlF 
in the verdigris, stirring till cold. Dress the sores, ulcers or wounds, above 
named, morning and evening, after cleaning them properly with castile soap, 
if necessary, and apply a mixture of equal parts of tinctures of myrrh, aloes 
and blood-root. And 'if any fungus (proud flesh), sprinkle on powdered blood- 
root or finely pulverized burned alum, then the salve, or more properly, the 
ointment. 

Remarks.— Dr. Gunn thinks this a very valuable treatment, especially for 
old or long standing ulcers. 

11. Salve or Poultice, Robinson's, for Sores, Inflammation, 
etc. — Scrape plenty of raw potatoes and thicken it with finely pulverized char- 
coal. Apply freely to the sore, or inflamed part, and renew as often as it 
becomes dry, or once in 3 or 4 hours. 

Remarks. — It cured a boy's leg which had been injured in such a way 
as to cause a large sore and extensive swelling, becoming so bad the doc- 
tors expected amputation would be necessary; but a neighbor recommended this 
salve, or poultice, which cured and saved the leg. Then it will do it for others 
too. 

11. A flaxseed poultice thickened with pulverized charcoal will prevent 
the spreading, or extension, of mortification, separating the mortified parts 
from the healthy, at least it did this once on my own person, when only a boy, 
where one of my feet, and some of the toes, had been badly crushed by a 
threshing machine and mortification set in. Fail not to try one or the other, 
as occasion may demand. 

12. Pumpkin Poultice for Painful Inflammations, Swell- 
ings, etc. — A concsi)()iKlcut of the New York Farmers' Club, published in 
X\\(i American Agriculturist, gives an instance in which a woman's aim was 
swollen to an enormous size and painfully inflamed. A poultice was made of 
stewed pumpkins, which was renewed every 15 minutes, and in a short time 
produced a perfect cure. The fever drawn out by the poultices made them 
extremely offensive as they were taken off. 

Remarks. — In such cases after the inflammation is reduced by the poultices 
some good, mild liniment, like Mrs. Chase's, should be applied from time to 
time, for the purpose of strengthening, healing, etc. 

13. Salve and Other Treatment— For Quinsy and Gathered 
Breast. — I. Obtain oil of spike, sweet-oil, British oil and spirits of turpen- 
tine, each 1 oz. Put lard, 1 pt., over the fire in a suitable dish, and burn or heat 
it till it is a brown color, then remove from the fire, and, when cool enough 
to allow the finger in it, add the oils and mix well. 

II Take oats, 1 gal., and put in a kettle, with vinegar to cover, and boil; 
then fill two woolen stockings with the boiled oats, and sew up, and keep steam- 
ing hot, or as hot as can be borne, upon the neck; now grease the throat thor- 
©ughly with the salve, and apply one of the stockings to drive in the salve. 



100 DR, CEASES^ RECIPES. 

changing every 10 minutes, greasing well each change until the sweating la 
kept up 2 or 23^ hours; then wash off with soda in warm water, change all 
damp clothing, and allow a good rest. It may be repeated next day, if needed, 
but seldom will be. It is equally good for gathered breasts; but in either case 
be careful not to take cold. 

14. Weak Back, Valuable Plaster for.— Burgundy pitch and 
camphor gum, each 1 oz.; opium, 1 dr. Directions — Melt the pitch, and 
having broken up the camphor, and made the opium gum into as fine bits as 
you can, stir them in and see that they are dissolved and evenly mixed. Spread 
the plaster very thinly on soft leather; wash the back with vinegar as hot as it 
can be borne; then rub the parts with dry flannel to make it red, and apply the 
plaster hot, and wear it as long as needed, renewing, if necessary. Remember 
this, in applying a plaster to any place, if there is any hair where it is to be 
applied, always clip it off as close as possible, or shave it off, as thought best* 
A bandage will have to be worn with this, as it will work out and soil the 
clothing without it. 

Remarks.— 1 obtained this recipe from Mr. Moross, of this city (Toledo), a 
grocer, who said he was cured by it, after he had tried all the doctors, been to 
Saratoga for a season, etc., without benefit. And he also assured me that he 
had given it to others who were very bad (the doctor claiming disease of the 
the kidneys); one who had tried everything and was going home to die, by 
using this plaster became a well man. I have tried it personally and find it 
valuable, and deem it worthy of great confidence. I would suggest, however, 
that the addition of 1 oz. of rosin to this salve would prevent its running, with- 
out injuring its value. 

15. Counter-Irritation, Croton Oil for. — In cases of chronic sore 
throat, lung coughs, asthma, bronchitis, consumption, inflammation of the 
liver, spleen, etc., as a counter-irritant, the following will be found very satis- 
factory: Croton oil, 1 dr.; spirits of turpentine, 2 drs. ; mix. Directions — 
Which be careful to follow: With the finger rub on the mixture thoroughly, 
covering a space about the size of a silver dollar, or larger, as deemed best, from 
the amount of cough, or soreness over the part affected, 4 to 6 times; the 
finger should carry enough for the size of the dollar. In about 12 to 24 
hours, the skin becomes red, and slight pimples arise, but if they do not rise in 
36 hours rub on again in the same manner, but not quite so freely. These 
pimples will ripen into pustules, and fill with water, or a thick yelbw matter, 
according to the condition of the system, and must be opened with a needle, 
and the matter pressed out and carefully wiped off with a soft cloth, then 
washed with soap suds (castile is best), and this filling and refilling ought to go 
on for 3 to 6 days. Wash every night and morning, or at least once daily, 
according to the amount of matter, or itching which may occur. As this crop 
discontinues to run make another application as near to the first as you can, 
and continue this as long as needed. 

Remarks. — The above mixture makes a mild and bearable sore ; while the 
croton-oil alone, a-^ formerly used, makes ugly sores and causes terrible itching 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES- 101 

or sharp burning pain, and so does the old Irritating Plaster, which Is not 
necessary to produce the desired effect. This raises only in pimples, while the 
old Irritating plaster ulcerates the whole surface, and is very tedious and 
troublesome to be borne. Dr. Sykes, of Chicago, makes great use of this mix- 
ture, wherever and whenever needed, and I have used it- with much satis- 
faction. 

16. Spiced Plaster or Poultice, to Remove And Prevent 
Nausea and Vomiting. — Ginger, cloves, cinnamon, and blaok pepper, 
each % oz. ; cayenne pepper, 3^ dr. ; all these in fine powder; tinct. of ginger, 
^ oz. ; sufficient strained honey or molasses to make it to the consistency of a 
poultice— rather stiff ; apply over the stomach. 

17. Itch, Valuable Ointment for. — Lard, J^lb.; sulpbjir- h^oz.; 
white precipitate and benzoic acid, each J^ dr. ; sulphuric acid and oil of berga- 
toot, each % A- dr.; saltpeter, 1 dr. Directions — Have the saltpeter in 
powder; melt the lard, remove from the fire, and pour into an earthen dish; 
then put in the other ingredients, stirring till cold. Anoint well, night and 
morning, until cured, which it is sure to do, as it kills the itch-mite, which bur. 
rows in the skin and causes the itch. 

18. Healing Ointment or Black Salve for Inflammations, 
"Wounds, Ulcers, Burns, Etc. — Olive-oil, 1)4 lbs.; bees-wax and un. 
salted butter, each 2 ozs. ; white pine pitch, called also white turpentine, 4 ozs. , 
red lead, J^ lb. ; honey, 6 ozs. ; powdered camphor gum, 4 ozs. Directions — 
Put the olive-oil into a suitable kettle, place on a stove, and bring it to a boiling 
heat (remembering that it takes nearly 3 times the heat to boil oil that it does to 
boil water); then, the lead being in fine powder, stir it in, as you would make 
" mush," and continue the heat, and stirring till it becomes a shining black or 
deep brown. Remove from the fire, the bees-wax being shaved finely, stir it in; 
then the other ingredients, the powdered camphor last. Spread on a cloth and 
apply. 

19. Stimulating Ointment for Cold Feet, caused by Sweat- 
ing in Consumption and other Exhausting Diseases.— Oil of but- 
ter, 1 pt. ; oil of bergamot and strong tinct. of capsicum, each 1 oz. Direc- 
tions — To make the oil of butter, take sufiicient butter and put into a kettle of 
water, boil well and stir; then set off till nest day, and take the oily butter oflE 
the water, put in the tincture of capsicum and simmer, to evaporate what water 
is in it; when cool stir in the oil of bergamot. Box tightly, or put into a large 
mouthed bottle, for use. Rub on a tea-spoonful of this, night and morning, and 
heat into the bottoms of the feet and palms of the hands, which will soften 
them, remove all hardened skin, etc. By its stimulation it helps to relieve 
their tendencies to sweating and also of a sense of heat, or burning, which is 
sometimes very annoying. 

20. Magnetic Ointment, for Burns, Cuts, Sores, etc.— Make 
the same as the above, except by using the oil of origanum in place of the 
tincture of capsicum. 

iJcmarAs.— This and the stimulating ointment will be found very reV'«bl» 



102 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

for what they are recommended; this last for all purposes of healing and 'soft- 
ening old sores as well as fresh cuts, bruises, burns, etc. 

21. Salve or Ointment, for Barber's Itch and Other Sores 
of a Chronic and Malignant Character.— A Mrs. H. J. Merrill, of 
Toledo, O., gives me the following, which she had used many years, with great 
success, on all bad sores of long standing, and of an irritable character: Cleanse 
the sore well with warm castile soap suds, dry carefully with soft cloths and 
apply sparingly at first, as it will " bite," to show its power over the disease. 
Gunpowder, sulphur and alum, each, powdered, 2 table-spoonfuls; unsalted 
lard, or fresh made unsalted butter, i^ pt. Directions — Put into an earthen 
dish and stew on the back of the stove for 24 hours, strain and box for use. 

1 . ITCHING (Prurigo), TO CURE — Magical.— Dilute (the medici- 
nal) hydrocyanic acid and sugar of lead, each 2 drs. ; alcohol, 3 ozs. ; distilled or 
soft water, 1 pt. Directions — Dissolve the lead in the water, then add the 
acid and shake well, then the alcohol. Wet cloths and lay upon the itching 
parts, or apply with the finger, as the case will allow, frequently. 

Remarks. — The acid is poisonous, hence keep it out of the way of children. 
It is claimed to be magical in its quick relief of itching of any part, but not 
upon open sores nor where the skin is broken. It is perfectly safe to use, when 
BO extensively diluted as this is. 

2. Itching in LeucorrhCBal Cases, etc.-More recently in these cases 
of prurigo, or itching of the external parts, the following has been used con- 
siderably, and, it it claimed, successfully: Bi-sulphide, or bi-sulphite, of soda 
and soft water, each 2 ozs. ; glycerine, 3 ozs. ; mix and apply frequently, with 
cloths, if the patient is confined to bed, to be laid upon the parts. 

3. Itching, or Prurigo, Ointment for.— My old friend, Dr. T. B. 
King, of Toledo, O., takes: Oxide of zinc ointment, 1 oz.'. camphor gum, 20 
grs., grind to a fine powder, with a few drops of alcohol, and mixed in, then 
12 to 15 grs. of red precipitate, also rubbed into the zinc ointment. Rub a little 
upon the parts, and if a fold of the skin or flesh comes together and chafes, a 
little of the ointment upon a soft cloth and put between, soon relieves. 

4. Ointment for Chafing, Itching or Prurigo. — Camphor gum 
and white wax, each 1 oz. ; mutton tallow, 2 ozs. ; red precipitate and oxide of 
zinc, each 3 drs. ; tannic acid, 1 dr. Directions — Triturate the camphor gum 
with a little alcohol, melt the tallow and wax by gentle heat, and stir, and rub 
all together thoroughly till cool. Used as above, or as for regular itch. 

Remarks. — When it can be obtained, the oil from 4 ounces of freshly made 
unsalted butter in place of the mutton tallow is preferable. (To make oil of 
butter see stimulating ointment, etc.) 

1. CHAPPED HANDS, LIPS, CHAFES, ETC.— Cold Cream 
of Glycerine and Rose for. — A cream, or liquid, for the above purposes 
is made by using 1 oz. of white melted wax; 4 ozs. of glycerine, with oil of 
rose or other flavor to suit, 4 or 5 drops, to flavor. ^ 

2. Hands, to Soften, Remove Tan, Freckles, etc.— Lemon juice 
and glycerine, equal parts, isay 1 oz. of each, will not only soften the hands. 



TREA TMBNT OF DISEASES. 103 

but will remove tan, or sun-burn, and also freckles, by frequent applications. 
For freckles, however, I should add 3^ to 1 dr. of powdered borax, which will 
not injure it for the other purposes. (See moles, freckles, pimples, etc.) 

1. AUSTRALIAN TREATMENT OP RUNNING OR OLD 
SORES. — Wash them in brandy and apply elder leaves, changing twice a 
day. This will dry up all the sores, though the legs were like a honey-comb. 
Or, poultice them with rotten apples, but take also a purge once or twice every 
week. 

1. WHITLOW.— New Zealand Remedy for.— The severity of the 
inflammation in whitlow varies considerably; there is the mild form, which 
generally yields to fomentation with hot water cloths or poultices; and if mat- 
ter forms, if relieved by the lancet, it speedily heals; but there is a much more 
formidable affection, in which the deep textures of the finger are involved 
accompanied by severe pain, throbbing, and much redness, heat and swelling. 
This form is only to be relieved by free and early incisions with the lancet; for 
if this be neglected, the bones will become affected and will be destroyed. It 
would therefore be advisable to submit the finger to the inspection of a surgeon 
when it does not easily yield to fomentations or a poultice. (Note— The above 
most excellent remedies were sent the publishers in March, 1901.) 

1. NERVOUSNESS AND SLEEPLESSNESS. - New and 
Successful Remedy.— Wm. A, Hammond, M. D., states that he has 
recently used the bromide of calcium (lime, from the Latin calx, lime), in a 
number of cases in which the bromides were indicated, and is satisfied of its 
great efficacy. He says: 

" The dose is from 15 to 30 grs. or more for an adult. It is especially use- 
ful in those cases in which speedy action is desirable, as, owing to its instability, 
the bromine is readily set free, and its peculiar action on the organism obtained 
more promptly than when either of the other bromides is administered. Cliief 
among these effects is its hypnotic (sleep producing) influence, and hence the 
bromide of calcium is particularly beneficial in cases of delirium tremens, or 
in the insomnia (inability to sleep) resulting from intense mental labor or excite- 
ment. 

"I gave a single dose of 30 grains of this to a gentleman, who, owing to 
business anxieties, had not slept for several nights, and who was in a state of great 
excitement. He soon fell into a sound sleep, which lasted for 7 hours. The 
next night, a,s he was wakeful, I gave him a like dose of bromide of potassium, 
but it was without effect, and he remained awake the whole night. The sul> 
sequent night he was as indisposed to sleep as he had ever been, but a dose of 
30 grains of_ bromide of calcium gave him 8 hours sound sleep, and he awoke 
refreshed with all unpleasant cerebral (head) symptoms — pain, vertigo, and con- 
fusion of ideas — entirely gone. 

" In a number of other instances a single dose has sufficed to induce sleep 
— a result which very rarely follows the administration of one dose of any of 
the other bromides. [Then, of course, it is better than the others, as formerly 
used.] 

"In those exhausted conditions of the nervous system attended with great 
irritability, such as are frequently met with in hysterical women, and which 
are indicated by headache, vertigo, insomnia and a mental condition of extreme 
excitement, bromide of calcium has proved in my hands of decided service. 
Combined with the syrup of the lacto-phosphate (milky phosphate) of lime, it 
scarcely leaves anything to be desired. An eligible formula is: Bromide of cal- 
cium (lime), 1 oz.; syrup of lacto-phosphate of lime, 4 ozs.; mix. Dose — A 
tea-spoonful 3 times a day in a little water. 



104 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

"In epilepsy I have thus far seen no reason for preferring it to the bromide 
of potassium or sodium, except in those cases in which the paroxysms are very 
frequent, or in cases occurring in very young infants; of these latter, several 
which had previously resisted the bromide of potassium, have yielded to the 
bromide of calcium. It does not appear to cause acne (a pustular affection of 
the skin) to anything like the extent of the bromide of potassium or sodium." 
New York Medical Journal. 

2. Sleeplessness, Simple Remedy, but Successful With 
Many.— For those troubled with sleeplessness from literary labor, or other dis 
turbances of the nervous system, a writer of experience says, "Just before 
retiring eat 2 or 3 small raw onions, with a little bread, lightly spread with fresh 
butter, which will produce the desired effect, saving the stupefying action of 
drugs." 

Remarks.— HhSs plan of eating raw onions has not only been satisfactorily 
tried to obtain sleep, but eating them once or twice daily with the meals has also 
proved valuable to those troubled with dyspepsia. 

3. Wooing Morpheus— The God of Sleep or Dreams.— Wet half 
ft towel, apply it to the back of the neck, pressing it upward to the base of the 
brain, and fasten the dry half of the towel over so as to prevent the too rapid 
evaporation. The effect is prompt and charming, cooling the brain and indu- 
cing calmer, sweeter sleep than any narcotic. Warm water may be used, though 
most persons prefer cold. To those suffering from over excitement of the brain, 
whether the result of brain work or pressing anxiety, this simple remedy is an 
especial boon. 

4. Sleep, Amount Needed by Different Persons.— It has been 
found that tall and corpulent persons require more sleep than those of thin and 
spare habit of body. In health, generally, from 6 to 8 hours of sleep are 
required to restore the nervous energy exhausted by the labors of the day. At 
first, upon retiring, always lie upon the right side, to allow the easier and more 
ready passage of the food, as digested, from the stomach; and especially eat 
nothing heavy and hard to digest at supper— a light supper is far preferable 
and absolutely necessary to enjoy good health. If half sick, or debilitated 
persons can take 9 hours sleep it will be all the better for them. 

5. Sleep as a Medicine. — A physician says: The cry for rest (sleep) 
has always been louder than the cry for food. Not that it is more important, 
but that it is often harder to obtain. The best rest comes from sound sleep. 
Of two men and women, otherwise equal, the one who sleeps the best will be the 
most moral, healthy, and efHcient. Sleep will do much to cure irritability of 
temper, peevishness and uneasiness. It will restore to vigor an over-worked 
brain. It will build up and make strong a weary body. It will cure a head 
ache. It will cure a broken spirit. It will cure sorrow. Indeed, we might 
make a long list of nervous and other maladies that sleep will cure. The cure 
of sleeplessness requires a clean, good bed, sufficient exercise to produce wear! 
ness, pleasant occupation, good air, and avoidance of stimulants and narcotics. 
For those who are over worked, haggard, nervous, who pass sleepless nights, 
we recommend the adoption of such habits as shall secure sleep, otherwise life 
will be short, and what there is of it sadly imperfect. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 105 

Remarks.— It is claimed by many scientific men that it is best to always lie 
with the head to the north, on account of the fact — a supposed fact, at least, — 
that there is an electric current passing through the system when one is lying 
down, whether awake or asleep, and that its influence is best with the head to 
the north. Invalids, at least, had better do it, if the situation of their room ^ill 
allow it. Lying with the head a little the highest prevents considerably the 
flow of blood to the head, and, therefore, induces sleep. A hot foot-bath, with 
mustard in it, on retiring, draws the blood from the head and aids in getting 
sleep, and sponging the whole length of the spine with hot water for 15 min- 
utes just before going to bed often ensures a good night's sleep; active exercise 
in the open air, or a brisk walk, are great helps to this end— procuring a good 
night's sleep; but opium, chloral, or spirits of any kind, only tend to 
sleeplessness, rather than sleep, hence should never be resorted to, from the dan 
ger of establishing a habit which can not be overcome. It has been generally 
believed that fish furnished a large amount of brain food, or phospliorus; but 
this, of late, is considered to be an error, as it is now believed they do not have 
any excess of phosphorus over other animals. From the length this subject 
has reached. I trust I may be excused for closing it with an item to amuse 
rather than for any particular benefit which may be derived from it; yet, in one 
sense, it may do good to that class of persons who consider fun better than 
physic, and hence I trust that the subject of "brain tissue," as put forth by the 
Springfield Republicaii below, under the head of "Fun better than Physic," will 
be read with satisfaction. It says: 

•' There is a party, fat and stout 

As any Turk on Bosphorus, 
Who at our dinner table sits. 
And ne'er his babble intermits, 
But prates of mush and wheaten grits. 

And ' mean amount of phosphorus.' 

" He always airs his favorite theme. 

Nor cares a penny's toss for us. 
But rails at beef with ' Pooh! ' and ' Pishl' 
And calls for cod and other fish, 
Hoping to gain — his dearest wish — 

' The mean amount of phosphorus.' 

" OhI that he'd change his boarding place — 

'Twould surely be no loss for us — 
But there's one consolation yet, 
His star, ascendant, soon will set. 
Some time he'll die, and then he'll get 

'His full amount of phosphorus.' " 

1. CROUP.— Instantaneous Relief— Internal Remedy.— It is 

claimed that alum and sugar will cure croup in one minute, by shaving or 
grating off 1 tea-spoonful of the alum and mixing it with twice as much sugar, 
and giving it at once, the relief being almost instantaneous. Half these 
amounts may be repeated once or twice, J^ hour apart, if the relief is not per- 
manent 



108 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

2. Croup, External Remedy.— Saturating (thoroughly wetting) 
flannel with spirits of turpentine, and placing upon the throat and chest, has 
the credit of being a sovereign remedy, i. e., effectual in controlling the disease. 
If considerable distress is manifested when the child wakes up, and after the 
flannel has been applied a few minutes, 3 to 5 drops of turpentine may be 
given on a lump of sugar. Every family should keep turpentine in the house. 

3. Croup, Emetic for. — If the foregoing fail in any case, an emetic 
may be given, of fl. ex. of ipecac, 5 or 6 drops, every 5 or 6 minutes, for a 
child of 4 years, giving warm water after 2 or 3 doses have been given, con- 
tinuing the fluid extract as at first, until vomiting takes place, which will 
occur generally by the time 5 or 6 doses have been taken; a little more, or a 
little less, for older or younger children. 

4. Croup, Instantaneous Emetic for.— Two tea-spoonfuls of mus- 
tard mixed in 3 or 4 tabie-spoonfuls of warm water, for a child with croup, 
relieves at once by causing vomiting. A tea spoonful of lard warmed and given 
is also said to be an instantaneous emetic. Either may be repeated if necessary. 

5. Croup, Onions a Sure Cure for.— A lady who speaks from 
experience, says; That probably 9 children out of 10 who die of croup might 
be saved by the timely application of roasted onions, mashed and laid upon a 
napkin, and a small quantity of goose oil, sweet oil, or even lard, put on and 
applied as hot as can be borne comfortably to the throat and upper part of the 
chest, and to the feet and hands. 

Renuirks. — The application of the roasted onions, with only a little oil 
upon them, to the throat and upper part of the breast will be very good; but, 
upon the feet and hands I should not apply any oil, as the object there is to 
draw the blood to these extremities, and hence it will be more drawing without 
the oil Use such internal remedies also as the case seems to demand, and as 
are at hand. See the use of the juice of onions with sugar (making an onion 
syrup), for internal use in children's colds. I nave no doubt of its value for 
croup, as well as colds and coughs. 

6. Croup, Instant Relief for.— Dr. Bachelder, in the Journal <?/ 
Chemistry, says: " Croup is relieved instantly with a solution of hydrochloric 
(muriatic) acid, about the strength of cider vinegar." This would be about 
% oz. of the muriatic acid, as now more generally called, to 4 ozs. of water. 
It is often used as a gargle of this strength for elongated palate, sore mouth and 
sore throat in scarlet fever, etc. The doctor adds: "As far as my experience 
goes, this acid solution stops all morbid development in the throat as surely as 
the hoe will stop pig-weeds on a hot, sunny day. Apply it to the throat with 
a brush or sponge, or use as a gargle, if the child is old enough." 

7. Croup, Preventive of.— For children who have a tendency to 
croup, or throat difficulties, get a piece of chamois skin, make it like a little 
bib, cut out the neck and sew on tapes to tie it on; then melt together some 
tallow and pine pitch, rub some of this in the chamois, and let the child wear 
it all the time. Renew with the mixture occasionally. 

Remarks. — This will be found very valuable, as it will prevent the penetra* 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 107 

don of wind to the breast, keep the parts warm, and also impari the medical 
properties of the pitch, by absorption, to the system. About equal parts of 
tallow and pitch will be proper, or tallow enough to prevent it from sticking to 
\he skin, as common plasters do. 

8. Croup, Diphtheria and Sore Throat, to Avert.— The New 
Vork Evening Post recently made the following sensible remarks upon the 
necessity of watching the childrens feet. It says: 

"A life-long discomfort or a sudden death, often come to children through 
the inattention or carelessness of the parents. A child should never be allowed 
to go to sleep with cold feet; the thing to be last attended to is to see that the 
feet are dry and warm. Neglect of this has often resulted in dangerous attacks 
of croup, diphtheria or a fatal sore throat. Always on coming from school, 
on entering the house from a visit or errand in rainy, muddy or thawy weather, 
the child should remove its shoes, and the mother should hcT^elf ascertain 
whether the stockings are the least damp. If tnej' are, they should be taken 
off, the feet held before the fire and rubbed with the hands till perfectly dry, 
and another pair of stockings and another pair of shoes put on. The reserve 
shoes and stockings should be kept where they are dry, so as to be ready for 
use on a minute's notice." 

1. HEADACHE, TO CURE.— Take a quart bottle and nearly fill it 
with water, then put in spirits of hartshorn and spirits of camphor, each 1 oz., 
and 1 table-spoonful of salt; shake well to dissolve the salt; then wet cloths 
with this and apply to the head, and renew as often as they become hot until 
relieved. If the stomach is sour, causing the headache, taking a little bi-carbon 

' te of soda (baking soda) in water, may help in its cure. 

2. Sick Headache, Tea and Coffee Often the Cause. ~A dis 
Anguished doctor of New York, a man of wide experience, says of sick head 
Tiche: 

" Not a case of this disease has ever occurred within my knowledge, except 
with the drinkers of narcotic drinks (referring to tea and coffee), and not a case 
has failed of being cured on the entire renunciation of those drinks. Whatever 
may be said of the violations of physical law in other respects, tea and coffee 
may claim sick headache as their highly-favored representative." 

Dr. Alcott, in writing on this subject, says: " We are driven to the conclu 
sion that no person can use the smallest quantity of tea or coffee, or, in fact, of 
any drink but pure -water, without more or less deranging the action of the 
stomach and Uver, and ultimately, through these, the nerves and brain, of 
the whole system. Nay, we are driven t^ a position stronger still, which is, 
that no peison can take these poisons at all, without, in a greater or less degree, 
abridging human happiness and human life." — Christian Advocate. 

Remarks. — That the above is the general opinion of our best physicians, 
and other scientific men, there is not a doubt. For my own part I know that 
«he giving up of tea and coffee, and substituting half milk, and half water, foi 
a few weeks at one time, did me much good. For great lovers of tea and 
coffee, among my patients, I have insisted that they take them of only half the 
usual strength, especially with those who have frequent headaches, and I claim 
\X would be better for all; but I do believe that some warm drink, foi genera! 
use, and taking tea or coffee of half the usual strength, as I now do, may be 
allowed, if not more than one cup is taken at a meaL 



108 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

3. Headache and Toothache, Ely's Magic Hemedy for.— 

Alcohol, the best, 8 ozs. : aqua ammonia, 2 ozs. ; English oil of lavender, 1 dr.; 
camphor gum, J^ oz. ; chloroform, 1 oz. ; sulphuric ether, % oz. ; spirits of tur- 
pentine, 1 dr. ; mix. Diuections — Smell it, changing from nostril to nostril, 
for a few minutes, and also bathe the head with it. Keep this up a short time, 
or until relieved, which must be quickly. 

For Toothaclie.—Fui cotton wet with it into the tooth, and also apply around 
the gums and front of ears, where the nerves pass near the surface. It is really 
magical in its action. Keep the finger over the bottle when not inhaling, as it 
is quite evaporative. 

4. Headache, Heartburn, etc., Eemedy.— A tea-spoonful of bi- 
carbonate of soda (baking soda) in 3 or 4 table-spoonfuls of peppermint, or 
'cinnamon water, with % tea-spoonful of powdered ginger, or a little essence of 
lamaica ginger added, and taken immediately after each meal, will generally 
remedy this in a few days. A dose of this, and repeated in an hour, will be 
pood in headache arising from acidity of the stomach. If the regularly pre- 
pared water ^cinnamon or peppermint) are not on hand, put ^ tea-spoonful of 
either of the essences in water, with the powdered ginger, or essence of ginger 
and the soda; or plain water will do, only not quite so pleasant. 

5. Heart Burn, Remedy for. — Magnesia, % oz. ; pulverized Turkish 
rhubarb, 1 dr.; cinnamon water, 1 oz.; distilled, or soft water, 4 ozs. ; spirits of 
lavender, 1 dr. Dose — A tablespoonful half an hour after each meal. 

Heart, Palpitation of. Fluttering, etc.. Remedies.— When per- 
sons become weak and feeble, from whatever cause, there is often a palpitation 
or fluttering of the heart, as many call it, from this weakness. In such cases 
take any of our good alteratives and tonics to improve the condition of the sys- 
tem, as per directions; and besides this obtain fl. ex. of cereus bonplandi {a, specie 
of the cactus), % oz. Dose — Take 10 drops, at bed-time only, in a little water, 
and generally relief will be realized soon and the cure permanent. At least, I 
have so proved it. Continue to use the tonic remedies as long as needed. 

7. Heart Disease, the Value of Buttermilk.— In diseases of the 
heart the French claim that buttermilk is invaluable; as the lactic acid in it dis- 
solves and prevents ossification (bone-like condition) of the valves, arteries, car- 
tilages, etc. 

Remarks. — It is worthy of a trial, and no doubt will prove valuable if coo- 
tinued faithfully for several months. 

I. CASTOR OIL— Its Nauseous and Disgusting Taste Over- 
come. — I. A little glycerine (half the amount of the castor oil) mixed with 
castor oil, and 5 to 10 drops of any of the aromatic oils, as sassafrass, winter- 
green, etc., put into the dose, the natural taste of the oil will scarcely be per- 
ceived; or, 

II. Take the juice of a lemon or two, put a few drops of essence of cinna- 
mon into it. Heat the oil and stir into the lemon juice, which forms an emiU- 
sion, and almost wholly covers the taste of the oil. 





Ci 




r 



I 





t, Heart. 2, Showing Trachea. Lungs and Heart. 3, Liver and Gall Bladder. 4, Stomach 

S. Pancreas and Gall Bladder. 6, Large and Small Intestines. 7. Spleen 

«. Kidnay. 9, Bladder. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 109 

2. Castor Oil Custard.— Prof. King says: "I find it a very pleasant 
raode of administration, to boil the dose of oil with about a gill of sweet milk for 
a few minutes, sweeten with loaf sugar, and flavor with essence of cinnamon or 
other favorite aromatic; it somewhat resembles custard in its taste and appear- 
ance, and is readily taken by even the most delicate stomach." 

Bemarks. — This is certainly very desirable with children and delicate 
females, for whom it is often the best cathartic which can be given. 

1. CONSUMPTION, TROUBLESOME COUGH IN-Syrup 
and Tincture as Used in Charity Hospital, New York.— I. Cough 
syrup: Bromide of potassium, chlorate of potassium, muriate of ammonia, each, 
l\i drs.; syrup of tolu, 4 oz.; mix. Dose— One table-spoonful every 2 or 3 
hours. 

II. Cough Tincture: Paregoric, 1 oz.; tincture belladonna, 1 dr.; tincture 
of hyoscyamus, 2 drs.; compound spirits lavender, 1 dr.; mix. Dose — Ten 
drops on a lump of loaf sugar every hour until cough is relieved. 

Remarks. — For the hacking, or continuous coughing of patients far gone 
with consumption, either of these will be found satisfactory. But as prevention 
is better than cure for those who are liable to have consumption, but have not 
got it fastened upon them yet, I will give the rules of the celebrated Dr. S. S. 
Fitch, of New York, for its prevention, as they are certainly valuable and ought 
to be heeded by every one. He claims an absolute preventive in all cases and 
all persons, but as his rules are so very strict, if they are lived up to, they will 
certainly do much to prevent the establishment of this disease. They are as 
follows: 

2. Pulmonary Consumption— Absolute Prevention of— Dr. 
S. S. Fitch's Rules for.— He says: " There is no disease to which we aro 
liable that is so preventable a? consumption. It is absolutely preventable in all 
cases and all persons. 

I. " From earliest childhood stand erect, walk erect, sit erect, never stoop, 
always let the weight of the slioulders fall behind you. 

II. " Keep your chest fully expanded by taking constantly, all your life long, 
full breaths so as to fully expand your chest Do this at all times. Remembel 
you can not have consumption until your chest shrinks in size, either wholly o1 
partially; so if you keep your chest flexible and constantly expanded you will 
be safe from consumption. 

III. " Never let a cold run on you. Break it at once by taking active physio 
and cough medicines, and putting your feet at bedtime in hot water; keep them 
in until you get in a perspiration, and then go to bed and keep up the perspira. 
tion with hot drinks (Thompson's old " Composition Tea " is one of the best to 
use to start perspiration; hot lemonade is good, too); then take a portion ol 
physic, and the next day your cold will be well. By pursuing this course for a 
length of time you get out of the habit of taking cold, and w'U irxelv take one. 
Always continue your treatment until your cold is weU. 

IV. "Avoid all debauching courses that weaken and reduce your coiistit.J 
tior, such as soaking with liquor and actual drunkenness and dissipation of 8*1 



110 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

kinds and gluttony and late night exposures. In fact, lead an honest, orderly 
life, free from vice and every dissipation, your health will then be equal, regu- 
lar and constant, and your life a long and happy one. 

V. " Keep your bowels always free by habit, diet or purgatives." 

Remarks. — If these rules are strictly enforced, by parents, with their chil- 
dren, when small, and by themselves, as soon as they can be made to understand 
their importance, very much will be done to improve the general health, as well 
as to prevent consumption. None are too old to take counsel from Rules IV. 
and v., and I might say also from Rule III. 

3. Consumption Cured After Twelve Years' Suffering, 
Living About Sixty Years After the Cure.— The transactions of the 
Connecticut State Medical Society contains the following paper from Professor 
S. G. Hubbard, of New Haven, in relation to the cure of the late Rev. Jeremiah 
Day, former President of Yale College, of tubercular consumption. He says: 
"President Day, during early life, gave little promise of long life, and when, in 
1789, in liis 17th year, he entered Yale College, he was soon compelled to leave 
/)y pulmonary difficulty. He rallied, however, and was able to finish the 
course and graduate in 1795. He was very feeble, however, for many years. 
He became a clergj'man, and in 1801 was elected Professor of Mathematics and 
Natural History in the college. But he could not undertake the duties. An 
ilarming hemorrhage of the lungs prostrated him, which was treated learnedly 
by bleedings copious enough to have charmed even Dr. Sangrado. He went to 
Bermuda, where he was plied with digitalis to such an extent as almost to take 
what little life he had left. He came back to his native town, Washington, 
Conn., to die. 

"He suffered from continued hemorrhage and repeated venesections 
bleedings), which was ' all the go ' at that time with the allopaths, for almost 
every disease. He met Dr. Sheldon, of Litchfield, who had made the treat- 
ment with iron a hobby, and who expressed a belief that Mr. Day could be helped. 
Though the case was regarded as hopeless, the patient was placed under the 
care of Dr. Sheldon, who treated him with iron and calisaya (Peruvian) bark, 
feeding him carefully with wholesome food. Under this regimen he soon 
exhibited symptoms of improvement and finally, in 1803, returned home as one 
restored from the dead, in sufficient vigor to be inaugurated in the Professor 
chip. He never afterwards exhibited symptoms of pulmonary disease, although 
he had been affected by it for more than twelve years. He lived till August, 
1867, and was 95 years old at the time of his death. The cavity of the thorax 
was examined to ascertain the traces of his former malady The lungs were 
everywhere free from tubercles and were apparently healthy. In the apex (top) 
of each lung was found a dense corrugated (wrinkled) circular cicatrix (hard- 
ened scar) an inch and a half or more in diameter; also a third circular cicatrix 
(a scar as if remaining from a wound) on the left side of the left lung, a few 
inches below the apex (top), each involving such a depth of tissue as to indicate 
that the vomicm (abscess, or hole from ulceration), of which they were the 
remains, had been large and of long duration. Both lungs were slightly 
edheient at the apex. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. Ill 

"Here, then," remarks Prof. Hubbard, "was all that remained to mark 
the beginning, progress and cure of a case of tubercular consumption, occupy- 
ing twelve years in its period of activity. A legible record surpassing in inter- 
est and importance, to the human race, those of the slabs of Nineveh or the 
Punic inscriptions. " — Peninsular Owner (Ann Arbor, Mich., Oct. 1st, 1885.) 

Remarks. — This publication in the Courier was within about a year of the 
death of President Day. The paper having been prepared by Prof. Hubbard 
soon after the president's death, and published in one of the New Haven papers, 
from which I obtained it, as I, at that time, published the Courier. And in 
looking over the bound volume of that year, after commencing to write this 
book, I was so forcibly struck with the " Medical Incident," as the paper was 
originally headed, I wrote to Prof. Hubbard to see if I could ascertain anything 
more definite as to Dr. Sheldon's treatment of the case The professor answered 
my letter by saying, so far as he knew, "there was no record of the prescription 
or any part of the treatment." But, thinking it possible that there might be 
some one in Litchfield — Dr. Sheldon's home — who might have, some knowledge 
of it, I wrote to the postmaster there, and found a Mrs. Lucy Beach, a daugh- 
of Dr. Sheldon — the doctor having also passed away, — but there was no further 
knowledge to be obtained, no record having been made of the treatment. And 
all I can say further is, if iron and Peruvian bark would and did (of which I 
have not a doubt) cure President Day, it— the combination, properly made — 
wil' cure others. The compound tinct. of Peruvian bark, 1 pt, into which 
put pyrophosphate of iron, 2 drs., taken in 1 to 2 table-spoonful doses, just 
before or just after meals and at bed-time, will fill the bill, and I have not a 
doubt will cure very many cases, especially if the careful feeding with whole- 
some food is properly attended to, as Dr. Sheldon above indicates he did with 
President Day, to which I should add plenty of out-door exercise, with every 
other needed care of the general system. But remember that in President- 
Day's case it took two years to accomplish the cure. So don't get discouraged 
and give it up for one year, at least. There is now a proprietary, or patent 
medicine kept by druggists, known as Eli.xir of Calisaya (which is Peruvian 
bark) and Iron, that may answer all purposes. It was not made in Dr. Shel- 
don's time. I have often recommended its use for frail and weakly females, 
and always with success. Still, I should prefer the compound tinct. of the bark 
and iron above directed, if the tincture has 2 ozs. of the unground red Peru- 
vian bark used in making each pint. The bark should be coarsely ground or 
bruised when made. What I mean is that the powdered or ground bark kept 
by druggists must not be used, as it is generally made of inferior kinds of 
bark, and is also often adulterated by mixing other cheap things with it, so 
much so, at least, that it can not be depended upon. 

4. Consumption, New French Remedy for.— M. J. Guyot in- 
forms the profession that the phosphate of lime, in the colliquative (rapidly 
exhausting) night sweats of consumptives, is not only almost a specific (positive 
cure), but tends also to improve the general health. Dose — From 30 to 40 grs. 
in a little sweetened water, at night. 



112 DR. CHASES RECIPES 

5. Consumption, a New Discovery and Cure, by Crude 
Petroleum.— Dr. M. M. Griffith, of Bradford, Pa., claims that out of 25 
cases of well-marked consumption, treated by small doses of the crude petro- 
leum, 20 are, to all means of diagnosis, cured; the rest have been materially 
benefited, and none have been under treatment more than 4 months. The 
nausea attending the use of ordinary crude petroleum led him to adopt the 
semi-solid oil that forms on the tubing of wells. Method of Using — This 
made into from 3 to 5 gr. pills by incorporating an inert vegetable powder, was 
administered from 3 to 5 times a day in 1 pill doses. The first effect, he says, 
is the disappearance of the cough ; night sweats are relieved, appetite improves, 
and weight is rapidly gained. These favorable symptoms continue until thtf 
patient is entirely recovered. 

Remarks. — If half of what Dr. Griffith claims shall prove true, generally, 
he has indeed made a valuable discovery. I hope, as the Scientific American 
remarks, that Dr. Griffith has not mistaken some self-limiting phase of throat 
or bronchial disease for true consumption of the lungs; also, that continued 
trial of the alleged remedy will justify the high opinion he has formed in regard 
to its efficacy 

e. Consumption, a Substitute for Cod Liver Oil.— Accord- 
ing to the New York Medical Journal Dr. Thomas A. Emmet, in his recent 
work on the "Principles and Practice of Gynecology," (of the nature and dis- 
eases of women) recommends the fat of pork, properly prepared, as a srbsti- 
tute for cod liver oil, in consumption. To prepare it, he says: A portion from 
the rib, free of lean, is to be boiled slowly (the water being often changed) until 
the meat is thoroughly cooked. To be eaten cold, in the form of sandwiches. 

Remarks. — He does not inform us whether mustard may be used to give 
them a relish or not, but certainly a very small amount can do no harm; and 
for my life, I cannot see why fat pork, so cooked, and thinly sliced, may not 
be as good, I really believe better, than the nasty, disagreeable, sickening cod 
liver oil. My substitute is % pt. of fresh cream, with 1 table-spoonful of 
brandy, or good whiskey in it, in place of cod liver oil. I direct this amount 
just before each meal. Make a part of the meal of the fat pork sandwiches 
too, if you like, or take the following, as you judge best; as some would not, 
and others could not eat fat pork. 

7. Consumption, a More Recent Substitute for Cod Liver 
Oil. — It has been long known that whiskey has not only appeared, at least, to 
have lengthened the life of many consumptive patients, but also to have cured 
many. Then why is not the following combination an excellent substitute 
for codliver oil? I think it is a hundred per cent, better. Pure olive oil, 6 
ozs. ; strained honey, 4 ozs. ; good (that is, not poor rot-gut) whiskey, 1 pt. ; 
Shake when taken. Dose — Take 1 to 2 table-spoonfuls just as you sit down to 
each meal. 

Remarks. — I have used this personally in a continuous cough arising from 
having taken a very bad cold, and have also given it to others, consumptives, 
with very satisfactory results. It may not be an absolute cure, but with other 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 113 

proper tonics and supportive treatment, it will surprise those who try it, if 
not already past the reach of benefit from any medical treatment. (See Chronic 
Diarrhea, "Muscovite," or Raw -Beef Cure for, to obtain nourishment in very 
feeble and debilitated cases.) 

8. Consumption Cure, by Simple Home Means, if Taken in 
the Beginning. — Mary Maybee, of Farmington, Conn., says: " Take 1 pt. 
of vinegar, 1 table-spoonful of tar, boil 15 minutes, Dose — Take 2 table-spoon, 
fuls every time you cough." 

.Be7»arA». — " Maybe " it will cure the difficulty. Certainly it will bo 
foimd good for common coughs; and some of these " simple means " are aston- 
ishing in their effects, if persevered with. Our American people change too 
quickly, hoping for something better. Stick to a good thing as long as there is 
a perceptible benefit. 

9. Consumption— Climatic Changes are Believed to Have 
Much to do in its Ciire. — Dr. Talbot Jones, in a communication to the 
New York Medical Journal, says there are 3,000,000 of persons who die annu- 
ally of consumption ; and also says that the medical resources are baffled by this 
disease and confesses "that climate is the physician's only dependence for the 
cure of his consumptive patient." He makes the following statements in rela- 
tion to the disease: 

I. "No zone enjoys entire immimity from pulmonary consumption. 
II. " The popular belief that phthisis (consumption) is common in cold 
climates is fallacious, and the idea, now so prevalent, that phthisis is rare iu 
warm climates is as untrue as dangerous. 

III. " The disease caxises a large proportion of deaths on the sea-shore, the 
mortality diminishing with elevation up to a certain point. 

IV. ' ' Altitude is inimical (opposed) to the development of consimiption, 
owing chiefly to the greater purity of the atmosphere in elevated situations, it3 
freedom from organic matter, and its richness in ozone. [This agrees with my 
own opinion, that high and dry situations, especially rolling and, consequently, 
dry pine lands, are the best places to take up a residence in if one has to change 
at all.] 

V. " Moisture arising from a clay soil, due to evaporation, is one of the 
most influential factors in its production. 

VI. " Dampness of the atmosphere, from whatever cause, or in any alti- 
tude, predisposes to the development of the disease, and is hurtful to those 
already attacked. 

VII. " Dryness is a quality of the atmosphere of decided value. 
VIII. " The most unfavorable climate possible for a consumptive is one of 
uniform high temperature and a high dew point (warm and moist). 

IX. "The effects, due to change in the atmosphere, are by no means so per 
nicious as are generally supposed, and on this subject present views require 
modification." 

Bemarks. — Dr. Jones commends the climate of Minnesota for those predis- 
posed to consumption, or laboring under its first stages, and thinks " that a 
residence there would be very likely to cure or materially benefit them," and 
adds: " Between the pleasant rolling prairie, the wooded lake region, and the 
dense pine forests of the northern section of the state, they can choose what 
«eems most agreeable and best adapted to them, while the dry, bracing atmoi- 
8 



114 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

phere wfll enable them to live mucli of their time out of doors without fear of 
taking cold." He insists, however, as I have always done, that " 'tis no use to 
send patients thither who are in the advanced stages of the disease." And this 
I know to be a fact. Some physicians think Colorado or Florida, New Mexico 
or Texas or Aiken, S. C. , or Ashville, N. C. , to be preferable places, whether it 
be consumption or bronchitis, with loss of voice, etc. 

The following items by E. R. Ellis, M. D., in the Detroit News, in Novem- 
ber, 1880, are so sensible and so pertinent to the subject, as to the climate of 
Michigan or Texas for consumptives, I give it in full. He says: 

10. Texas for Invalids or Consumptives.—" The cold and bleak 
winds of winter, now so fast approaching, impel me to say a few words to a 
class of invalids now quite numerous in our state, which your paper may reach. 
The list of deaths from consumption and other debilitating diseases, while not 
large in Michigan, does every year include a few in every community. 

" While there is no way known to remedy all this mortality, yet a large 
share of it is avoidable. This last consists in a change of climate. For some 
years I have given this matter considerable attention, and am satisfied that there 
is no locality in the United States, and perhaps not on the western hemisphere, 
equal to the highlands of central and southwestern Texas. 

" The climate there is dry, mild and salubrious. The elevation takes one 
above the damps and fog which are so fatal in Florida and on the sea coasts gen- 
erally. Incidentally I might say that there is nothing more fatal to human life 
in any country than the near presence of marshes or lowlands, where fog set- 
tles, or where dampness collects, as it does in many habitations wliich are too 
much shaded with trees and shrubbery. In such houses the physician encoun- 
ters an odor of mildew, and its intensity determines the activity of his business 
at that place. I should estimate that there are two or three thousand invalids 
now in this state who would be cured or greatly benefited by a temporary or 
permanent residence in Texas. If we have a severe winter and they attempt to 
remain here, by the end of March next, three-fourths of them will be ' chirping 
with the angels;' and while they make rich harvest for doctors with their ton- 
ics, syrups, elixirs, inhalations, etc. , one-fourth of them only will survive, and 
not many of these fully cured. A removal to Texas will cure or greatly benefit 
three-fourths, which makes an amazing difference in mortuary results. 

" It is lamentable that the pecuniary condition of many will not permit 
their removal, but many others are blessed with wealth and will gladly do what- 
ever will prolong their life or that of their dear ones. Consider well the mat- 
ter before it is too late, and act promptly. 

" Physicians are usually, and sometimes excusably, reluctant to advise 
invalids to go away from home and friends, and thus the matter is delayed until 
a fatal result is inevitable. 

" But every consumptive patient of mature years may knoAV this for him- 
self. If, in spite of the favorable weather of summer and autumn, he is 
declining with increased cough and shortness of breath, and occasional spitting 
of blood, his condition is alarming. He should change his physician or climat^^ 
•r l90th, immediately. 



TREATMENT OF' DISEASES. 115 

" If, with the above, his pulse is habitually up to or over 100 in a minute, 
a destructive process is going on, vrhich, in this climate, the most skillful phy- 
sician can arrest in not more than one case in four. 

"In all such cases go south at once, if not too far gone already. The 
quack here will encourage you to stay and make you brilliant promises up to the 
time of your death, but it is your own loss and folly if you believe him." 

11. Where to go to in Texas.— As to the best place to go to ia 
Texas, A. G. Hayson, M. D., of Minden, La., in Medical Bnef, '83, page 508, 
says to the editor: 

"If ' F. H. G.' (a man who previously inquired through the Journal will 
go 80 miles west of San Antonio, Tex., he will find a beautiful valley lying in 
the gap of the mountains, with an average width of 4 miles by 18 long. This 
valley, or ' Sabinul Canyon,' as it is called there, has gushing mountain springs 
and bright, clear running streams that never go dry. I met there, in 1875, two 
gentlemen who had, previous to going there, pulmonary hemorrhage. Both 
seemed to be in perfect health, and so expressed themselves. 

"This canyon, with its pure-aired atmosphere, its mountain scenery, witii 
beautiful stretches of prairie and timber, and here and there, standing alone in 
the distance, knots of live oak and pecan, make it one of the most beautiful as 
well as romantic places I have ever seen. I do not think a better place for 
consumptives can be found." Another physician, B. F. Rowls, M. D., writes 
to the same journal, from Union, S. C, and directs attention of physicians to 
western North Carolina, "known," he says, "as the land of the sky, Ashville 
being the principal town in the vicinity, which is 2,250 feet above the level of 
the sea. This climate is one of inestimable value in the disease, consumption- 
Very dry, and neither the heat of summer nor the cold of winter is at all un- 
beneficial to the patient." Just such a place is wanted by invalids with any dis- 
ease; then, persons in the eastern or northeastern States can take this place, Aiken, 
S. C, or Florida; while those of Michigan and the northwest or western States 
can take the San Antonio section of Texas, or go on to Los Angeles, or San 
Antonio, in the southwestern part of California, if they choose, and enter into 
the cidture of oranges, lemons, etc., as a friend of mine did, and regained his 
health. Let there be no confusion about the two San Antonios spoken of; that 
in Calfornia is in Monterey county, and the other is the county seat of Bexar 
county, Texas. 

12. An Alabama Physician's Idea of the Best Place for Con- 
sumptives to go to. — I learn from O. F Harrell, M. D., also given in the 
Brief, that he considers Healing Springs, Ala., where he now lives, or in that 
neighborhood, which is a ridge of considerable extent, and heavily timbered 
with pine, to be the best place for those to go who have a tendency to, or 
actual consumption. The land, being unsuited to farming is now an almost 
unbroken turpentine orchard, giving employment to many hundred people 
engaged in this industry. "Along this elevation," he says, "commencing 
at Citronville, Ala., and going northward 40 or 50 miles, I believe to be the 
best location tor consumptives, or for persons predisposed thereto, in the United 



11« DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

States." Dr. Harrell then went on and gave a history of his own case and the 
reason for the faith that was in him, t. «. , as to the region of Healing Springs 
being the best place for consumptives to go, as he was predisposed to it from 
his mother, who died with this disease. While the doctor was engaged in 
active practice in 1863 he had to give up, was confined to his room, and all his 
professional brethern pronounced his case to be a clearly -defined, well-developed 
case of tuberculosis — consumption. From this on it was a struggle with him 
for life. In his efforts to find a location — after rallying in 1864 — suited to hia 
condition, he says: 

" I have been made familiar, I believe, with all the states embraced in the 
area of New York on the north and east, Missouri on the west and Florida on 
the south. In the winter of '79 I went to Florida, where, after a stay of two 
years, I was much worse than when I went there." [The author will state here, 
what he afterward learned by letter, that he spent these two years on Pensacola 
bay, which is a low section of the state like St. Johns river, Fla., neither of which 
sections, nor any other low places along any of the rivers, should any one allow 
himself to remain in, but get to the highest and dryest pine sections he can 
find, as mentioned further on.] " In the winter of '81-'82, with a distressing 
and uncontrollable cough, profuse, purulent expectoration and frequent (some- 
times daily) hemorrhages from the lungs, I was finally brought to my bed again, 
upon which I was brought to this country in February, '82. Since I arrived 
here I have steadily improved in health, and gained in flesh from 125 to 160 
pounds. 

" I have never had a hemorrhage since I came here, and with almost a 
complete absence of the cough and expectoration, I think I can claim that the 
country has restored me; relieved me not only of my lung trouble, but also 
cured me of an obstinate vesical catarrh (catarrh or chronic inflammation of 
the bladder), from which I have greatly suffered for more than 20 years. For 
the relief of the latter disease, however, it is perhaps proper that I should give 
credit, in part, at least, to the waters, of which I have drank here." 

Remarks. — He says there is no malaria there, referring to an inquiry as to 
a " place that was free from it." In conclusion he says: " I do think that a 
large majority of persons suffering with this disease (consumption)," or in whom 
there may be a predisposition to it, would find relief here. " So it seems to the 
author; and possibly some persons who are not very bad, and yet have net 
large means, might find employment in the turpentine orchards of that section, 
or start it up for themselves, so as to stay among the pine hills, at all events. 
Dr. Harrell's town. Healing Springs, has a charm in its name that leads me to 
hope that every one who may go into this region of country will derive a great 
advantage from it. I will only add here, let whoever goes into this, or any 
other section, ramble as much as possible among the pine forests, for they cer- 
tainly have an advantage over those places where there is no pine, as I fully 
believe. 

13. Places in riorida Where Consumptives May Visit.— 
Any place in Pensacola bay, or upon the streams emptying into that bay, or 
anj of the towns along the St. Johns river, are but very little above the sea. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 117 

level, and, consequently, mxist be damp and foggy, and not the sections that 
consumptives should locate in; but there are sections which, although hilly, like 
some other states, are sufficiently rolling and timbered with pine, which makes 
them far better to locate in for those seeking health. 

I. Such a place is Brockville, the coimty seat of Hernando county, which I 
see spoken of by a lady who has been there, and reported through the Free Press, 
of Detroit. She says of this section: " It is said to be a splendid country to 
cure even bad tempers. Chronic grumblers (referring to those who had com- 
plained of Jacksonville and the low country along the St. Johns river) have 
been here, to succumb under the combined influences of balmy air, moonlight 
and orange flowers." 

How to Beach Brockville. — Take a boat at Jacksonville, up the St. Johns, 
to Astor, 134 miles. Then the cars through the pine forests, via. Fort Mason, 
on Lake Eustice. 

II. ° Twin Lakes, Orange county, is also reported to the Rural Next Yorker 
by another lady, who was there for her health, to be a very desirable place for 
consumptives. She first spoke of the fact that the country along the St. Johns 
and all the other rivers of the State is damp and unhealthy. She says to those 
who might be coming, " Come up to the hills, where there is no damp." And 
I would add that those who do may really expect to be greatly benefited if 
they stay long enough to* allow the climatic changes to take place in their sys- 
tems. For this lady closed by saying: "When we left home every breath 
seemed to rasp and last, but now 'tis all gone, and with it the weariness and 
languor." Then, surely, if one stays long enough, the same " balmy air, full of 
the resinous aroma of the pine forests," as she expresses it, will accomplish a 
cure. There may be many other places in Florida equally dry and salubrious, 
vrith pine forests, making them equally valuable as health resorts, but I leave 
every one to judge of this fact for himself, relying upon the statements of 
friends who know, or upon enquiry when they reach there: but do not stay in 
the low, marshy grounds of any section whatever, if health is to be regained, 
or even retained, in any country. I will only add one thought further on the 
subject of going south, or to any point, for a change of climate; do not wait until 
nothing but a miracle can cure, for I fully believe that God works by the use of 
means — medicines judiciously administered, change of climate, care of one's 
health, etc. Where one lives may make a difference as to where they might or 
should go. Living at Toledo, O., as I do, if I had to go south on account of 
consumption, I should go to the Healing Springs section of Alabama, as it is 
about south from here. If I lived in the east, or New England States, I sboula 
goto the neighborhoods of Ashville, N. C, Aiken, S. C, or Florida; if in Illinois 
or the west, I should strike for San Antonio, Texas, or southwestern Califorma, 
as before mentioned, as circumstances made it appear best. 

I will give an item or two more for consumptives, hoping thereby to benefit, 
if not actually cure, many persons suffering from it. The following I take 
from a report by Wm. H. Hull, M. D., in the June number of the Medical Bi-ief 
of 1877, upon the use of gallic acid, with which he had been very successful, as 
you will see in the heading of the recipe, and I shall also mention a case wher« 



118 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

another physician has been equally successful with the same remedy in a veiy 
bad case. It is as follows: 

14. G-allic Acid in Consumption.— Gallic acid, 1 dr. ; pulverized 
Dover's powder, }4. dr- ; pulverized cubebs and pulverized gum arable, each, 
1 dr., and pulverized licorice root, 3^ oz. Mix thoroughly. Dose — Half a 
tea-spoonful, dry, every 3 or 4 hours. 

Remarks. — Dr. Hull said of this: " Out of 200 cases treated during the past 
seven months, I found only 2 that this remedy would not relieve." Certainly 
a very marked proportion of cures. The corroboration I referred to above in 
the very bad case was reported also in the Brief by R. H. Holliday, M. D. , of 
Guntley postofflce, N. C. His patient was a man who had been confined to his 
bed for 170 days, and upon whom he had exhausted his book knowledge with- 
out benefit, the man raising 2 quarts of thick, purulent matter daily that smelled 
terribly, so that he says " the ferryman was waiting to carrj' him over, etc., 
when, upon the appeal of the wife, if I could not do something more for him, I 
took up the Brief, and fell upon Dr. Hull's gallic acid treatment (above given) 
and saved my patient." 

15 Gallic Acid in Liquid Form.— The editor of the Bi-ief, in com- 
menting upon the gallic acid in powders, gave the following formula as pre- 
ferable. He said: Gallic acid, 1 dr.; glycerine, 3 ozs.; listerine, 5ozs. ; mix. 
Dose — Take 1 or 2 tea-spoonfuls 4 or 5 times a day. 

Remarks. — This the editor found a better formula, from its fluid form no 
doubt, and from its containing the listerine, which is considered a valuable anti- 
septic, i. e. , as against the destructive tendency in cases where the matter raised, 
smells terribly, as in Dr. Halliday's case above. The listerine is manufactured 
at St. Louis, Mo., I think, and therefore can be obtained, if not found in the 
drug stores, by inquiring through the Medical Brief, of that city. See the 
next item, on the use of hot water, to know that the editor of the Brief is well 
qualified to judge of the nature of any article of medicine which he may 
recommend. 

1 6 . Consumption, Hot Water Cure for.— The latest thing claimed 
to cure consumption was given in the St. Louis, Mo. , Medical Brief, by the 
editor, J. J. Lawrence, A. M., M. D., page 561, 1883, and as it is more than 
probable that it will help very many sufferers, I shall give it, not to be tried as 
a last resort, but to be tried as early in the disease as any wasting of flesh and 
debility is manifested; and to be tried faithfully for two or three months, 
at least, remembering that the diet of tender beef and stale bread, (bread 
never less than one day old) must be attended to, as well as the hot water. Dr. 
Lawrence says: A young man who was compelled to resign his position in one 
of the public schools of New York because he was breaking down with con- 
sumption, and who had ever since been battling for life, although with little 
apparent prospect of recovery, was encountered several days ago in a Broad- 
way restaurant. " I see," he said, " that you seem surprised at my improved 
appearance. No doubt you wonder what could have caused such a change. 
Well, it was a Tery simple remedy, nothing but hot water." Hot water! 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. Il9 

*' That's all." You remember my telling you that I had used theusual remedies. 
I consulted some of the leading specialists in affections of the lungs, in the city, 
and paid them large fees. They went through the usual course of erperimen- 
tation with me, under all resorts to medicine. I went to the Adirondacks (a 
range of mountains in northern New York) for the summer, and to Florida in 
winter, but none of these things did me any substantial good. I lost ground 
steadily, grew to be almost a skeleton, and had all the worst symptoms of a 
consumptive whose end is near at hand. At that juncture a friend told me that 
he had heard of a cure effected by drinking hot water. I consulted a physi- 
cian who had paid special attention to this hot water cure, and was using it 
with many patients. He said: ' There is nothing, you know, that is more diffi^ 
cult than to introduce a new remedy into medical practice, particularly if it is 
a very simple one, and strikes at the root of erroneous views and prejudices 
that have long been enter*amed. The old practitioners have tried for years to 
cure consumption, but they are as far from doing it as ever. Now, the only 
rational explanation of consumption is that it results from defective nutrition. 
' It is always accompanied by maJ-assimilation of food.' [Mai, means bad and 
assimilation means, to make food.^ 'In nearly every case the stomach is the 
seat of a fermentation that necessarily prevents proper digestion. The first 
thing to do is to remove that fermentation and put the stomach'into a condition 
to receive food and dispose of it properly. This is effected by taking water 
into the stomach, as hot as it can be borne, an hour before each meal. This 
leaves the stomach clean and pure, like a boilei that baa been washed out. 
Then put into the stomach, food that is in the highest degree nutritious and the 
least disposed to fermentation. No food answers this description better than 
tender beef. A little stale bread may be eaten with it. Drink nothing but 
pure water, and as little of that at meals as possible. "Vegetables, pastry, 
sweets, coffee and alcoliolic liquors should be avoided. Put tender beef alone 
into a clean and pure stomach, three times aday,and the system wiK be fortified 
and built up until the wasting away, which is the chief feature of consiunp- 
tion, ceases and recuperation sets in. 

" ' This reasoning impressed me. I began by taking one cup of hot water 
an hour before each meal, and gradually increased the dose to three cups, or 
nearly a pint. At first it was unpleasant to take, but now I drink it with a 
relish that I never experienced in drinking the choicest wine. I began to pick 
up immediately after I began the new treatment and gained fourteen pounds 
within two months. ' " 

The editor then closes in a way which you will see encourages the use of 
hot water in dyspepsia. He says: 

" Combined with carefully selected foods, and some mild medicine to assist 
nature in eliminating (carrying out) poisons from the system, it is said by those 
who have tried it to be very efficient in dyspepsia and all forms of indigestion. 
If this be true (and of this the autl)or has not a doubt), it will certainly be a 
blessing, as medicines almost universally fail to effect cures in these diseases. 
Many prominent New York physicians are abandoning medicines for simple, 
nutritious foods, and report more than ordinary success in the treatment of 



120 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

many forms of disease from want of nutrition. A prominent English physician 
"wlio has had much experience in India, says, cholera will not attack a person in 
whose stomach and bowels there is no ferment (gaseous condition from food 
that does not readily digest); or, if it does, the attack will be light and easily 
controlled." He regards good nutrition (healthy digestion) as the only real pro- 
phylactic (prevention) for disease. 

HIVES.— This disease manifests itself in the form of an eruption, or red 
blotches upon the surface, or skin of children, mostly. 

Cause. — Obstruction of the circulation, and the absorption into the 
blood of some poisonous vapors in the atmosphere, similar to that of the more 
simple fevers are the undoubted cause of the disease. 

Symptoms. — Large red patches with a somewhat swollen center more 
white than the rest, with an almost intolerable itching, something like the 
Irritation from nettles, make their appearance, and have also given another 
name to the disease — " nettle rash." This rash, or blotches may subside after 
a few hours, then re-appear for a day or two, causing considerable sickness 
of the little patient unless properly attended to. 

Treatment. — Bathe the whole surface, but more thoroughly the affected 
parts, with spirits of camphor and soft water, equal parts of each, and give a 
dose of the cathartic tincture, to operate tolerably free ; and also a tea of 
saffron and spearmint, every hour or two to keep the disease to the surface, 
and but little danger need be feared. I am partial to the spearmint plant, in 
preference to the peppermint, because of its greater diuretic properties. 

CANKER AND NUBSING SORE MOUTH-Remedy.— Take 
epsom salts, gun-powder, borax, alum, copperas, and sulphur, of each 1 tea- 
spoonful; soft water, 1 quart. 

The alum and copperas will be burned, or heated on a shovel, and pul- 
verized ; then all mixed and bottled for use. Shake when used. Hold fK little 
of the wash in the mouth, for half a minute, and gargle the throat with It 
twice daily. And at the same time take a little sulphur and cream of tartar 
for 8 or 4 mornings, to correct the blood. It has cured bad cases after a 
&ilure of the "regular" remedies. 

SINGERS AND PUBLIC SPEAKERS - Loss of Voice, 
Hoarseness, etc. — It has been found that borax has proved a most effective 
remedy in certain fonns of colds. In sudden hoarseness or loss of voice 
from colds by public speakers or singers, relief for an hour or so, as by magic, 
may be often obtained by slowly dissolving and partially swallowing a lump of 
borax the size of a garden pea, or about 3 or 4 grains, held in the mouth for 10 
minutes before speaking or singing. This produces a profuse secretion of saliva, 
or watering of the mouth or throat, probably restoring the voice or tone to the 
dried vocal cords, just as the wetting brings back the missing notes to a flute 
when it is too dry. 

Momarka. — There need be no fear la uaiog 2, 3 or 4 pieces of the sizs 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES, 121 

abore named, within the hour before speaking or singing is to commenGe. 
Keep it handy, to use, as needed, during the evening. 

1. COUGH SYEUP— EfTectual Remedy for Coughs, Colds, 
■ Hoarseness, etc.—" E. J. R.," from an inquiry through the Detroit Tribune, 

sends for publication the following sure cure for cough, cold, hoarseness, etc., 
saying it has been tried repeatedly, and is a most invaluable remedy. It is 
always kept in our family. It cured a cough of three years standing to my 
knowledge. Syrup of squills, 3 ozs.; paregoric 1 oz. ; fl. ex. of licorice, 1 oz.; 
fl. ex. of ipecac, % oz. ; antimonial wine, % oz. ; ess. of wintergreen, or pcpper- 
Hiint, 1 dr. Dose — One tea-spoonful every 2 or 3 houts, but not on an empty 
stomach. 

2. Cough, Hoarseness, Incipient Consumption, etc.— Take of 
horehound, boneset and lobelia (herbs), each 1 oz. ; comf rey root, spikenard, St. 
John's wort (hypencum perforatum), and poppy capsules, each % oz; pour on 
3 pts. of boiling water and let it stand covered over for 3 hours. Then strain 
through a fine cloth, add % ^^- ^^ ^'^^ sugar, and let it just boil (no more), 
then add a full wine-glass of Jamaica rum, and cork tightly. Dose — 1 to 3 
table-spoonfuls 3 or 4 times daily. This will be found invaluable in coughs, 
hoarseness, incipient consumption, etc. — Hearth and Home. 

Remarks. — This is an excellent syrup. Dr. Beach, in his Family Practice, 
says of the St. John's Wort: "A. syrup of this with sage is a specific (sure cure) 
for coughs." [The St. John's wort grows abundantly in this country and 
Europe, to the great annoyance of many persons, flowering from June to 
August. The stem is two-edged, and grows about 2 feet high, the flowers 
of a bright yellow color, the leaves being marked with clear transparent 
spots of a greenish shade, the whole herb being a dark green ; the petals, or 
leaves of the flowers, are streaked and dotted with black or dark purple, and 
if bruised with the finger give a purple stain. This, I think, will enable any 
one to distinguish it from any other plant.] But this article, so far as I know, 
is but little known and little used. Its flowers are a bright yellow, although 
King says if they are infused in sweet-oil or bears-oil by means of exposure to 
the sun, they make a fine red balsamic ointment for wounds, ulcers, swellings, 
tumors, etc. See tfiso " Ointment of St. John's "Wort and Stramonium." 

3. Best Cough Syrup- To Break Up Bad Colds.— I. The 
Syrup. — Horehound leaves and blossoms, spikenard root, comf rey root, elecam- 
pane root, and sun-flower seeds, each 1 oz. ; water sufficient. Dibections. — Boil 
1 hour, having 1 qt. when done ; strain, add sugar, 1 lb. ; dissolve by heat, and 
add a little brandy (}^ pt. of spirits will be enough to prevent souring). Dose. — 
One table-spoonful 3 times daily. Tested.— Hoine Cook Book. 

Remarks. — This will be found good, as it contains most of the roots used in 
" lang syne " for coughs, when there were far less deaths from consumption 
than now, in proportion to the attacks. 

II. To Break Up Bad Colds. — The same book recommends glycerine, 1 
tea-spoonful with spirits, 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls to a pint bowl of hot lemonade, 
to l^eak up bad colds at bed-time. This is also good if taken as hot as it can 



122 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

be drank after getting into bed; but don't take additional cold next day after 
the free perspiration which it produces. 

in. How to Cure Recent Colds. — A writer gives the following sen- 
sible plan for quickly curing a recent cold. He says: " "When you get chilly 
all over and begin to sniffle and almost struggle for breath, just begin at once 
and your tribulation need not last very long. Gret some powdered borax (it 
should be kept in every house), and snuff it freely up the nostrils frequently. 
Smell freely and frequently also from the camphor bottle (which also ought to 
be kept in every house), and pour a little of the camphor upon the handkerchief 
to wipe the nose with » often as is needful, which will be quite often as the 
cold begins to break. The nose will not become sore with this treatment, and 
if begun quickly and followed faithfully at intervals, by bed-time you will won- 
der what has become of your cold, and your sleep will seldom be disturbed." — 
Eosperience. 

Remarks. — If a cold is not broken up within two or three days at most, it 
will run about two weeks in spite of all known remedies. Take note, then, of 
the very first symptoms, and besides the snuffing of the powdered borax, and 
the hot lemonade on getting into bed, heat the feet by the fire, or put them for 
15 or 20 minutes into hot water, before getting into bed, and then take the hot 
lemonade and put a bottle of hot water or a hot flat-iron to the feet, cover up 
with an extra amount of clothing, and your chances are as good to break up the 
cold as It is possible to make them. Avoid exposure again for a day or two, if 
possible, and you will be safe ; at any rate, nothing better can be advised. 

4. Coughs, Indian Vegetable Syrup for.— Soft water, 2 qts.; 
boneset, 2 ozs. ; cinnamon bark, ginseng root, spikenard and comfrey roots, 
each, 1 oz. ; blood root, % oz. ; loaf sugar, 1 lb. ; gin, 6 ozs. ; water sufficient. 
Directions. — Bruise the roots and bark, and steep (not boil) to 1 ql. : strain and 
add the sugar, and when cool add the gin and bottle. Dose. — One table-spoonful 
half an hour before meals and at bed-time. 

Remarks. — This has proved valuable in coughs and in incipient consump- 
tion, i. e. , in the commencement of the disease. It was obtained of an Indian, 
at an early day, by an uncle of mine, in whose family it was held in high esti- 
mation for the good it had done them. 

5. Colds with Cough, Simple and Easily Taken Remedy.— 
Roast a lemon, avoiding to burn it; when thoroughly roasted, cut into halves 
and squeeze the juice upon 3 table-spoonfuls of powdered sugar. Mix, and 
take a tea-spoonful whenever the cough or tickling of the throat troubles you. 
It is good as well as pleasant, even for children. 

6. Irritable, Dry or Hacking Coughs, Flaxseed Lemonade 
for, — Put 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of flaxseed and the juice of 2 good sized 
lemons and 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of sugar into a dish which can be covered, 
and pour on boiling water, 1 qt. ; cover and let steep until the mucilage has 
been drawn out of the seed. Dose — A table-spoonful of it may be taken every 
hour or two to relieve the hacking, but sipping a little often is better than larger 
doses at longer intervals. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. ISS 

7. " Winter Cough," or Chronic Bronchitis, Remedy for.— 
J>f. Fletcher, of Washington, strongly recommends the employment of the spray 
of diloral in the treatment of the form of chronic bronchitis knoAivn as "winter 
cough," which often offers a very obstinate resistance to remedies. He says: 

•A solution of 10 grs. of chloral to an ounce of water may be inhaled through 
a steam atomizer morning and evening." 

8. Bronchitis, Valuable Remedy for.— A simple, but oftentimes 
'eflScacious, remedy for bronchitis in its early stages, is: Syrup of tolu, 1 oz. ; 
syrup of squills, ^ oz. ; wine of ipecac, 2 drs. ; paregoric, 3 drs. ; mucilage of 
^um arable, IJ^ozs. Dose. — A tea-spoonful 3 to 5 timdWaily, as needed. 

9. Indian Cough Syrup.— Elecampane root and Indian turnip 
(known also as wake-robin, Jack-in-the-pulpit, etc.), bruised, each, 1 oz. ; honey, 
1 pt. Steep thoroughly and strain. Dose.- A tea-spoonful to a table-spoonful 
«s often as the cough or tickling requires it, at least 3or4 times daily.— iJeZ^'oA^e. 

10. Recent Colds, Simple, but Sensible, Remedy.— A medical 
writer says: "Hot lemonade is one of the best remedies in the world for a 
cold." Directions. — Roll a good sized lemon, squeeze out the juice, cut the 
rind in slices, put in 2 or 3 table-spoonsf uls of sugar, and pour on % of a pt. of 
boiling water, stir well and cover up while the patient is getting into bed; then 
^ink it all, cover up warm, and the result will be almost magical. 

11. Chills or Ague, to Ward off.— It is said, also, that the same 
thin;:, only doubled in quantity, and taking half of it as hot as can be drank, 
an hour before the chill would set in, (being covered warm in bed) and the bal- 
ance in 15 or 20 minutes after, also hot, will ward off " the chilts," as ague ia 
«ften called. Certainly it is a pleasant remedy to take. 

12. Colds— General Washington's Cure.— The Baltimore Ameri- 
can informs us that Gen. George Washington gave the following recipe for a 
cold, to an old lady now living in Newport, when she was a very young girl, 
1781 — 103 years before this writing. He was lodged in her father's house, the 
old Vernon mansion. As she was being sent to bed early with a veiy bad cold 
he remarked to Mrs. Vernon, the mother of this lady: " My own remedy, my 
dear madam, is always to eat, just before I step into bed, a hot roasted onion if 
I have a cold." 

Remarks.— li may be taken for granted that this simple remedy will be 
found very efficacious, and, if the cold is of recent taking, with the help of 
either toasting the feet before the fire or stove through the evening, otherwise 
soaking them in hot water for 15 to 20 minutes before going to bed, it will be 
the more likely to succeed. If necessary, however, to effect a complete cure, 
repeat it for one or two evenings. And if a hot roasted onion was eaten two or 
three times during the day it would also help the cure. 

13. Colds and Inflammation— Health Rules for Winter.— I. 
*' Never lean with the back upon anything that is cold. 

II. " Never begin a journey until the breakfast has been eaten. 
IIL ' * Never take warm drinks and then immediately go oui in the cold aix. 



124 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

rV. " Keep the back, especially between the shoulders, well covered; 
also the chest well protected. 

V. "In sleeping in a cold room, establish the habit of breathing through 
the nose, and never with the mouth open. 

VL " Never go to bed with cold or damp feet; always toast them by a 
fire 10 or 15 minutes before going to bed. 

VII. "Never omit weekly bathing, for, unless the skin is in active condi- 
tion, the cold will close the pores and favor congestion or other diseases. 

VIII. "After exercise of any kind, never ride in an open carriage or neai 
the window of a car for a moment; it is dangerous to health and even to life. 

IX. " When hoarse, speak as little as possible until it is recovered from, 

else the voice may be permanently lost or difficulties of the throat be produced. 

X. " Warm the back by a fire, and never continue keeping the back 

exposed to heat after it has become comfortably warm ; to do otherwise is debil- 

ftAting. 

XI. "When going from a warm atmosphere into a colder one, keep the 
mouth closed so that the air may be warmed by its passage through the nose 
ere it reaches the lungs. 

XII. "Never stand still in cold weather, especially after having taken a 
slight degree of exercise; and always avoid standing on ice or snow, or where 
the person is exposed to cold wind; in short, keep your feet warm, your head 
cool, and your mouth shut and you will seldom ' catch cold.' " — Common Sense. 
Xni. To the foregoing rules from " Common Sense" allow the Old Doc 
tor to make a " baker's dozen " of them, by saying that the most fruitful seed 
from which colds, and often consumption arise, is the pernicious habit of young 
people loitering at the gate. Never do it. 

14. Deep-Seated, or Heavy Cold that Has Settled in the 
Breast.— "J. P. S.," of Holmdel, N. J., writes to the Toledo Blade on this 
subject and says: 

"For a heavy cold that has settled in the breast, take 4 table-spoonfuls of 
molasses, 3 of paragoric, 2 of castor -oil, and 1 of turpentine. Mix it well 
together. Take a tea-spoonful before each meal. It is considered one of the 
best remedies known in the New England states, and I know no equal." 

1 5 . Colds of YoTing Children— Onion Syrup for— Very Valtu 

aijle.— Slice up thinly a few mild onions and sprinkle sugar over them, set 
in the oven in a suitable dish to simmer until the juice may be all squeezed out, 
then thoroughly mix with the sugar, forming a very nice thick syrup, or sugar, 
according to the amount of each used. Dose — A tea-spoonful, or less, 
according to the age of the child, 4 or 5 times daily, as needed. It is perfectly 
safe and reliable for the smallest child ; also valuable for adults. 

Remarks.— Ttiis might claim to be a half-brother to General Washington's 
cure for colds. 

16. Coughs, Colds, etc., Recent Remedy for- Very Satisfac- 
tory. — I have recently tried the following with a good deal of satisfaction. I 
obtained it of a Dr. A. Galloway, formerly of Rochester, N. Y.: Solid extract ot 
licorice, y^ dr., rubbed with muriate of ammonia, 3 drs, and added to syrup 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 125 

of senega and ipecac, each, J^ oz. ; syrup of tolu, 2 ozs; syrup of wild cherry, 
6 ozs; tincture of lobelia, J^ oz. Mix. Dose — Shaken when used; 1 tea- 
cpoonful 3 or 4 times daily for «dults. I have sipped it oftener than this with- 
out sickening at the stomach. Tiiat is all that needs guarding against. Chil- 
dren 5 to 20 drops, according to age. I believe I would sooner risk it than 
Ayer's, which follows: 

17. Ayer's Cherry Pectoral, for Coughs, Colds, Consump- 
tion, etc. — Tinct. of blood root, 2 ozs. ; antimonial wine and wine of ipecac, 
of each 3 drs. ; syrup of wild cherry, 2 ozs. ; acetate of morphia, 4 grs. ; mix. 
Dose — Take 1 tea-spoonful 3 or 4 times daily; or sip a little, as the cough is 
troublesome; and if nausea is felt take less, or stop until the nausea passes off. 
— Druggist Circular. 

Bemark».—A.nd now allow me to say, with all the recipes here given, there 
need be but little suffering with coughs, colds and consumption in its com- 
mencement, as compared with what it must have continued to be without this 
knowledge. I will close this subject with a cough syrup given by Dr. Hildreths, 
of Zanesville, Ohio, as follows: 

18. Cough Syrup, Very Valuable in Recent Colds. — Pare- 
goric, 13^ ozs.; tinct. of capsicum, 1 dr.; tinct. of tolu, 3 ozs. Dose — A tea- 
spoonful every 3 hours, in a little water. 

Remarks.— Dr. Hildreth has had a long experience in the practice of med- 
icine, and this was his dependence in recent colds, I once heard a man say: 
"Paregoric is the. best cough medicine I ever used," which showe(? his opinion, 
at least, of the value of one of the articles in this syrup. The combination 
will be found indeed valuable. 

1, WHOOPING COUGH— Remedy for.— A paper recently read 
before tlic New York Academy of Science, by Dr. H. A. Mott, holds that much 
of the mortality among children from whooping cough is attributable to the 
prevalent faulty belief that it will be much worse for the child if the disease is 
•oroken up. He says: The disease is now known to be caused by a fungoid 
growth (in plants, growing quickly like mushrooms, coming up in a night; but 
in animal bodies being slower in growth and being much of the character of 
proud flesh, but below he calls them spores, which indicates them to be more 
of the nature of an animal parasite), which begins under the tongue, and 
spreads backward to the throat and lungs, the spores requiring from 9 to 15 
days to develop. When the fungus enters the bronchial tubes, most alarming 
complications arise. It is, then, best to kill the fungus in its earliest stage; 
there would then seldom be any trouble from bronchitis, cholera infantum, or 
cerebral (head) difficulties. Quinine, just after a coughing spell, and before 
retiring for the night, is the best remedy. 

Remarks. — I have had no opportunity to try this remedy, yet I do not 
doubt its value, for some physicians claim that even chills and fever are devel- 
oped hj spores. Then as quinine does cure ague may it not be by killing the 
spores? most likely. Then, by all means try the quinine immediately after it 
is known that a child, or anyone, has been exposed; and if it does not entirely 



126 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

abate it, I believe it will give it a mildness not otherwise attained. Probably as 
good a way, or the best way, to take the quinine for this purpose, is to dissolve 
it in one of the following ways: 

1. Quinine, to Dissolve, or Solution of Quinine. — Put 20 grs. of sulphate 
of quinine into a 2 oz. vial, and add 1 dr. of aromatic sulphuric acid, then fill 
the vial with water. Dose— For an adult, 20 drops once an hour, in a table- 
spoonful of water. The proper dose for a child will be 1 drop to each year of 
its age, in 1 tea-spoonful, only, of the water, or if it is a nursing child, in the 
mother's milk. And, in all cases, (if the spore theory is correct, which I have 
no reason to doubt) the longer the quinine solution is held in the mouth, the 
more certain it will be to kill them. 

II. Rub 20 grs. each of quinine and tartaric acid together, put into the 
same sized vial and fill with water, as in the first case. Dose and manner of 
using, the same. 

The following are a few of the more common remedies for this disease; 
the chestnut leaves, however, I believe are not, as yet, very common ; but I can 
not see why they may not be as efficient as claimed to be. 

2. Whooping Cough, EflQ.cient Remedy for.— Somebody's friend 
gave a correspondent of one of the Detroit papers the following as a cer< 
tain cure for whooping cough, by simply " boiling chestnut leaves and sweet- 
ening with brown sugar, " adding: ' ' Whooping cough generally remains eighteen 
weeks, while by the use of this tea it can be cured in a few days." 

Remarks. — I should gather the leaves before the nuts fall off. 

3. Whooping Cough Tincture.— Tinct. of blood root, 1 oz. ; syrup of 
garlic, 1 oz. ; solid ex. of belladonna, 3 grs. Mix, and be sure the extract is dis- 
solved. Dose. — Ten to 20 drops, according to age of the child, 3 times daily. 

Remarks. —This, is the favorite prescription of Dr. T. B. King, of this city — 
Toledo, O., — an old English physician who practiced in the army of India a 
number of years, and then in the United States, with very great success. This 
is his dependence in bad cases. 

4. Whooping Cough Syrup.— Make a syrup of prickly-pear {Opuntia 
vulgaris, a species of cactus,) and drink freely. Take about three moderate 
sized leaves of the prickly pear to a quart of cold water, cut up in pieces and 
boU slowly about half an hour, strain out all the prickles through close muslin 
or linen, sweeten with white sugar and boil, a little longer. A safe and sure cure, 
and so pleasant to the taste that infants will take it with a relish. It is also 
good for a cold that settles in the throat or lungs. This species of cactus grows 
in rocky and sandy places, and is grown in gardens. 

Remarks. — There is nothing said by this writer as to a dose, but I should say 
from a tea-spoonful to a table-spoonful for a child, as needed, according to age. 
An adult 1 to 2 table-spoonfuls. 

5. Whooping Cough, Help for.— I. Cut in small pieces a large red 
onion, put it in a bottle with a piece of asafcetida half the size of a nutmeg, 
cover with good wniskey, shake well, and it is ready for use; weaken, sweeten 
and give according to age, three or four times a day 




1— Bayberry, or Wax Myrtle. 2— Cranesbill, or Doves Foot. 8— Pipsissewa, or 
Princes Pine. 4— Mandrake, or May- Apple. 6 -Ginseng. 6— Boneset, or 
Thoroughwort. 7— Henbane. 8— Bitter-Root, or Dog's Bane. 9— Poke, or 
Pigeon-Berry. 



2REATMENT OF DISEASES. 127 

n. Also mix Radway's Relief with a little sweet-oil, bathe the chest, 
stomach, sides, and along the back-bone before going to bed, and take a drop or 
two inwardly, in a little syrup or honey. 

Remarks. — This will be found valuable, but it would be better to allow it 
to stand 3 or 4 days before using. 

1. CHOLERA— Drops and Po^rder for, also Valuable for 
Colic, Diarrhea, etc. — Alcohol, 3^ pt. ; gtmi myrrh, 1 oz. ; gum guaiac, J^ 
oz. ; gum camphor, capsicum, and opium, each, 1 dr Directions. — Mix, 
and keep in a well-stoppered bottle, shaking often for 10 or 12 days, when it 
will be ready for use. Dose. — A tea-spoonful in well sweetened water; or, 
what is better, use sugar alone, just enough to absorb all the drops, and not use 
any water. 

II. For the Powder. — By omitting the alcohol in the above, and pulveriz- 
ing each article, the medicine can be used as a powder, 10 grs. being a dose; or 
the same may be made into pills of 4 grs., 3 pills 'or a dose. 

Remarks. — Dr A. B. Mason, of Toledo, O., of whom I obtained this 
recipe, says: The above has twice saved my life when attacked by cholera. I 
have never known it to fail in giving aln".ost immediate relief in all cases of 
colic, diarrhea, dysentery, cholera-morbiis and cholera. In the summer of '77 
I cured a lady of the regular dysen^^ery, who had been doctored for four weeks 
bj" one of the best doctors in a ciiy of 20,000 inhabitants, and then lived along 
for four weeks more without a doctor, every one saying she could not live long. 
The night I gave her this medicine was the first good night's rest she had had 
for weeks. In two days all discharges were stopped, and I gave asmall dose of 
podophyllin, and in eight days she was well, and was soon in better health than 
for years before. In this case I used the medicine in the form of a powder. 
In severe cases, he says, repeat the dose often, and even give two times the 
above dose. If vomited up as soon as taken, repeat the dose. The utmost 
confidence may be put in this treatment. 

2. Cholera, Infallible Cure for.— Gen. Jordan, of the Mining 
Record, makes the following statement in relation to the infallible cure of chol- 
Ci'a by the use of chloroform only. It is somewhat strange that such facts as 
here stated should not become generally known quicker than they do; still I 
can not doubt their being facts, and as I know that a doz^i drops 
of chloroform, in a little water, will at once correct a gaseous condition of a 
dyspeptic stomach (which see), why should it not correct a much more disturbed 
condition, by using larger quantities? I would certainly "go for it," on the 

'double quick" if occasion called for it. He says: 

" A 1^ tea-spoonful of chloroform in about eight times as much water is an 
infallible cure for cholera. A doctor who had lived in Mobile, Ala., and had 
great success in curing people during a cholera epidemic there, told me about 
it. When, in the Cuban revolution, I went to Cuba to help organize the insur- 
gent army, 1 had a chance to try the remedy, for a cholera epidemic broke out 
among the troops. My first experiment was on a negro who was in the last 
stages. It cured him and hundreds after him. When we marched, the officers 
carried bottles of chloroform, and if a man fell out, sick wita cholera, the 
remedy was given and he was able to resume his place. 1 have seen men lying 



(28 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

by the roadside in a state of collapse, almost dead. An ofllcer would ride up, 
dismount and give the remedy, and before the column had passed the vaam 
would be in the ranks again." 

3. Chronic Diarrhea, Muscovite, or Raw Beef Cure for.— 

About the year 1852 Dr. Weisse, director of the Hospital for Foundlings at St. 
Petersburg, Russia, called the attention of the medical world to the use of raw 
beef in the treatment of chronic diarrhea. His method, to which was applied 
the title of the "Muscovite method," was adopted in England, Germany, Italy 
and France. In the last named country Drs. Trousseau and Bouchut were the 
first to test it, and reported it to have good results in cases of children severely 
eflaicted. A little later. Dr. Labadie, of Bordeaux, communicated to the pro- 
fession some facts in regard to three children afflicted with tubercles, whom he 
had treated and cured by the Russian "Muscovite" method. We give 
below Dr. Trousseau's formula for preparing the meat: Take 100 grammes (1 
gramme is about 15^ grs., and 100 are equal to about Z% "^O of fillet of 
beef, from which the gristle and fat should be carefully removed ; mince it fine 
and bray (pound) it in a wooden mortar; 20 grammes (^ oz.) of powdered 
sugar, \% grammes of chloride of sodium (common salt, 23 grs.,); J^ 
gramme chloride of potassium (1% grs.); 13^ granmies(23 grs.) powdered black 
pepper. Take by the table-spoonful during the day. 

Remarks. — As but few would understand these French technicalities, I have 
put their " grammes " into grains, to be easily understood. I have used the 
above with satisfaction in consumption, although there is no doubt that Dr. 
Labadiw, by "tubercles," refers to a tuberculous deposit in the mesen- 
teric glands of the bowels, as children are frequently troubled with them, and 
they are very wasting in their effect upon their tender constitution. It is 
undoubtedly a valuable diet in either of these exhaustive diseases, whether of 
children or adults, and may be used in any disease of a debilitating character, 
where some physicians have recently adopted the plan of giving what they call 
"powdered beef," that is grated, or pounded fine, then dried. I should prefer 
this " Muscovite " plan of using it. It will prove exceedingly valuable hi con- 
sumption. 

4. Chronic Diarrhea, a Well Tried Remedy.— Powdered opium 
and tannin, each 10 grs. ; mix thoroughly and divide into 20 powders. Dose — 
Take 1 powder in a little syrup every 4 hours, till improved, then 1 or 2 pow- 
ders daily, as occasion requires, until the cure is complete. 

Remarks.— li is not best to check too suddenly, lest fever or other disturb- 
ance of the system arise. Watch carefully, with this, and it will generally be 
found effectual. 

1. PAIN" KILLER, INTERNAL— For Cholera, Diarrhea, 
etc. — Oil of cloves, cinnamon, anise and pepf)ermint, each 45 drops; laudanum 
and ether, each 1 oz. ; alcohol, 3 ozs. Dose — A tea-spoonful in 2 table-spoon- 
fuls of sweetened water, and for an adult it may be repeated in from 5 min- 
utes to 1^ an hour, or 1 hour, according to the severity of the pain, or the fre- 
quency of the discharge. Children proportionately less, according to age. A 
teaspoon is considered to hold 60 drops; then at 14 years, >^; at 7 years, >^; at 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 129 

4 years, 1-5; at 3 years, 1-6; at 2 years, %; decreasing in like proportion for 
infants; at 21 years the full dose is to be given, up to "60 years, then diminish, 
in like proportion on each 5 to 10 years. 

Remarks. — This prescription is from " Old " Dr. T. B. King, who used it in 
India with great success, curing internal aches and pains, diarrhea and bloody 
dysentery as well as cholera. I would now suggest the addition of half as 
much chloroform as ether, and also one-fourth as much tincture of cayenne. 
In the "Old" Doctor's day in India chloroform was not as much in use as 
since then, and the cayenne has, of late years, also been found a very valuable 
aid in curing internal pains, as well as the free discharges from the bowels. It 
is one of our best and purest stimulants. And with these additions it would 
be a valuable embrocation, or liniment, to use externally on the stomach and 
bowels in these painful diseases. 

2. Pain Killer, Truly Magical, for All Ptirpose and Places oi 
Pain. — Morphine, lOgrs.; chloral hydrate and camphor gum, each, % oz.; 
chloroform, 1 oz. ; nitrite of amyl, 2 drs. ; oils of cloves and cinnamon, each, 
J^ oz. ; alcohol (best), to fill a 4 oz. bottle. Directions — Dissolve the 
morphine in a little of the alcohol; rub the chloral hydrate and the cam- 
phor gum together, which forms a liquid, and add the dissolved morphine and 
the others, the nitrite of amyl to be the last, as it is verj' evaporative; then 
add 3 or 4 drops of strong sulphuric acid, which keeps the morphine in solu- 
tion. Dose— It may be taken on sugar in doses of 5 to 20 drops, and repeated 
in 30 minutes to an hour, according to the severity of any internal pain. For 
headache inhale from the bottle, from nostril to nostril, and apply also over the 
pain. 

Remarks.— Ilih will stop any kind of pain almost immediately, and does 
seem, at least, to be magical by its quick action upon the nerves, relieving 
pain at once. I have applied it upon the eyeball (not in the eye, but with the 
eye closed) holding the finger wet with it for a minute or two, which causes a 
counter, or external, irritation, and would soon cause a blister, which proves 
its value as well as its strength and adaptation to the relief of pain in all situa- 
tions. I cannot speak of it too highly, for slight pains or neuralgia of the 
eye. I shall use it upon painful teeth, neuralgic, and, in fact, in all pains any- 
where, internally and externally It will be hard, very hard, to excel. The 
only objection against it, is its cost (about 25 cents an ounce), when made in 
small quantities. It would still be valuable as a liniment if an equal amount 
of alcohol was added, which would make it cheaper, but to retain its magical 
power it must be kept full strength. 

3. Pain Killer, or Rubefacient, in Place of Mustard Plaster^ 
Immediate in its Action, — When there is internal pain, as in pleunsy,. 
inflammation of the lungs, etc., wherein it would be thought advisable to put. 
on a mustard plaster, for quick relief take the following: Chloroform, spirits, 
of camphor and sweet oil, equ.al parts, say 1 oz. each. Mix. Directions — 
Fold a piece of muslin 3 or 4 thicknesses, shake the bottle and wet the cloth, 
thoroughly with the mixture and apply, covering with a folded towel to pre- 

9 



ISO DR. CEASE'S SECIPES. 

vent evaporation. Dr. T. B. King, of this city (Toledo), claims it will remove 
ordinary or rheumatic pain in one minute, and that it will blister in three min- 
utes. So be careful when you do not desire to blister. If the pain moves to 
any other part, follow it up in the same manner. 

BLEEDING— A Styptic Which Will Stop Bleeding of the 
Largest Vessels. — Brandy, or common whisky, 2 ozs. ; castile soap, 2 drs. ; 
carbonate of potash, 1 dr. Directions — Scrape the soap fine and dissolve it 
in the spirits; then add the potiish; mix well and keep corked. Warm it and wet 
pledgets of lint in it and apply to the wound. It immediately congeals the 
blood and coagulates it some distance within the vessel. It may need repeating 
for deep wounds and when limbs are cut off. 

Remarks. — I am sorry I cannot give the name of the writer, or the papel 
in which this was published, having had it in my scrap-book for some time; 
but I am satisfied that it is reliable. 

ST. VITUS' DANCE, or Shaking Palsy, Cure for.— Tincture of 
black cohosh, 6 ozs. ; bromide of potassium, 13^ ozs. ; mix. Dose — For an adult, 
1 tea-spoonful 3 times daily, an hour after meals. 

Remarks. — W. W. Stimson, M. D., of Connereville, Miss., reports in the 
Medical Brief, the cure of a young lady of 15 years, who had had this annoying 
trouble so bad that she would not go into company for over a year, her speech 
even being affected. Two weeks cured this case. But in older persons and of 
longer standing it may require months. There is no danger in its use; but after 
taking the above amount I would wait a week before beginning on a new pre- 
scription of same amount. Look after general health in all cases. Younger 
persons will take less according to age. 

1. FELON— Bemedy for.— A small piece of calf's rennet soaked in 
milk and tied around the finger, renewing occasionally, will cure any case of 
felon. 

Remarks. — I do notTknow who tried this, to make the assertion, nor have I 
had a chance to test it; yet I have no doubt of its value. But as the rennet 
may not always be at hand, I will give the following, the ingredients of which 
may always be obtained: 

2. Felon Salve— Successful Treatment. — A salve made of soap and 
spirits of turpentine, a very small proportion of the latter, just enough to 
moisten the soap, which has been shaved from a bar. "I have known it," says 
"H. S. P.," of Byron, Wis., to one of the papers, "to cure the worst felons, 
and I never knew it to fail when applied." To which the editor added: " Thtf 
above is a well-known remedy in the editor's family, and has always been con 
sidered infallible, if applied in the earlier stages." 

3. Felon— Warranted Cure for.— F. F. Lewis, of Whitewater, Wis , 
says: " Wind a cloth loosely about the finger, leaving the end free. Pour in 
common gunpowder till the afllicted part is entirely covered; then keep the 
whole constantly wet with strong spirits of camphor. Warranted to remove 
all pain in two hours. Have seen it tried many times, and never without abso- 
lute cure and without pain or injury to the hand," 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 181 

1. HYDROPHOBIA; or, Mad Dog Bites— Hot Vapor Bathft 
for. — The following item comes from G. F. J. Colburn, of Wa-ihington, D. C, 
who says: " For God's sake, give the remedy atrial, should acase present itself/ 
TJie report was first published in the Salut Public, of Lyons, France, as follows? 

"Dr. Buifson claims to have discovered a remedy for this terrible disease. 
In attending a female patient in the last stages of canine madness, the doctor 
imprudently wiped his hand with a handkerchief impregnated with her saliva. 
There happened to be a slight abrasion on the index finger of the left hand; but, 
confident of his own curative system, the doctor merely washed the parts with 
water. He was fully aware of the imprudence he had committed, and says: 
' Believing that the malady would not declare itself until the fortieth day, and 
having various patients to visit, I put off from day to day the application'of my 
remedy — that is to say, vapor baths. The ninth day, being in my cabinet, I 
felt all at once a pain m my eyes. My body felt so light that I felt as if I could 
jump a prodigious height, or, if thrown out of a window, I could sustain myself 
in the air. My hair was so sensitive that I ap{)eared to be able to count it sep- 
arately without looking at it. Saliva kept constantly forming in my mouth. 
Any movement in the air caused great pain to me and. I was obliged to avoid 
the sight of brilliant objects. I had a continued desire to nm and bite — not 
human beings, but animals, and all that was near me. I drank with difficulty, 
and I remarked that the sight of water distressed me more than the pain in my 
throat. I believe that by shutting the eyes, any one suffering from hydro- 
phobia can always drink. The fits come on every five minutes, and I then felt 
the pain start from the index finger and run up the nerves to the shoulder. In 
this state, thinking that my course was preservative, not curative, I took a vapor 
bath, not with the intention of cure, but of suffocating myself. When the 
bath was at 52 centigrade (913 3-5 Fahrenheit), all the symptoms disappeared as 
if by magic, and since then I have never felt anj-thing more of them. I have 
attended more than 80 persons bitten by mad animals, and I have not lost a 
single one. When a person is bitten by a mad dog he mast for 7 successive 
days take a vapor bath, d la Russe, of 57 to 63 degrees. This is the preventive 
remedy. A vapor bath may be quickly made by putting 2 or three red-hot 
bricks in a bucket for 15 or 20 minutes. The person to be covered with a 
blanket. When the disease is declared, it only requires one vapor bath, rapidly 
increasing to 37 centigrade, then slowly to 53, and the patient must strictly con- 
fine himself to his chamber until the cure is complete." 

2. Hydrophobia, Portuguese Physician's Cure. — A Portuguese 
physician claims to have cured several cases of hydrophobia by simply rubbing 
garlic into the wound, and giving the patient a decoction of garlic to drink for 
several days. This is the old Greek treatment, which, it is claimed, was prac- 
ticed by them with success. — yTedical Brief. 

1. SUN-STROKE AND APOPLEXY, How to Cure.— Sun- 
stroke and apoplexy, can be cured almost surely if taken in any kind of time. 
Dr. E. B. Babbitt says: 

I. " Rub powerfully on the back of the head and neck, making horizontal 
and downward movements. This draws the blood away from the front of the 
brain and vitalizes the involuntary nerves. 

II. " While rubbing call for cold water immediately, which apply to tlie 
face and to the hair on the top and the side of the head. 

III. " Call for a bucket of water as hot as can be borne, and pour it by dip 
perfuls on the back of the head and neck for several minutes. The effect will 
be wonderful, for vitalizing the medulla oblongata (that part of the spinal column 



132 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

within the hetid); it vitalizes the whole body, and the patient will generally 
start up into full conscious life in a very short time. 

" Last tiummer I was called in to see a man on Fourth avenue. I found 
him in a state of coma, and his wife greatly alarmed, supposing him to be 
dead. He had lain .thus for about 3 hours. I had him brought out where 
.Ije could get the air, jerked off his clothes, rubbed his back, head and neck 
powerfully, slapped his back, legs and feet briskly, and called for iced water, 
which I applied to his front and upper head. I then had a bucket of hot water 
brought, which I poured on his back, head and neck. Before doing this I had 
noticed some signs of life while applying the cold water in front, but after 
applying the hot water on the back of the head and neck a few minutes, he 
started up, vomited , and exclaimed "All right !" I occupied about 20 minutes in 
thus resuscitating him. He rose up, put on his clothes with a little help, and did 
not lose an hour more from' his business. Persons of large and active brains and 
weak bodies are more liable to sun-stroke and should wear light-colored, cool 
hats in summer, wet the hair occasionally, and if they feel a brain pressure 
comirg on, should rub briskly on the back of the neck and put cold water on 
the top and front of the head. These remarks, if heeded, will prevent great 
danger and great suffering. I have never known this method to fail." 

Remarks. — Heretofore it has been customary to use only cold water upon 
the head in sun-stroke or apoplexy, but it seems by the above treatment of Dr. 
Babbitt, with the hot water upon the back of the head and neck, that conscious- 
ness is restored much more quickly, as well as more certainly, for without it, on 
the old plan of the cold water only, many have never been restored at all; hence 
the hot water should be provided as quickly as possible, and applied freely with 
a dipper, Avhile tlie cold water, by wet cloths, may be kept on the front and top 
of the head. Small things, when you get the right thing, are often "wonder- 
ful," as the doctor puts it above. The colder the water on the front and top of 
the head, the better, and the hotter it can be borne on the back of the head and 
neck, the better, also. It would seem to me preferable, to dip cloths into the 
hot water and apply as hot as they can be borne, re-wetting often, than to pour 
it. For those who have a tendency to head troubles let them dampen a 
flat piece of sponge and put it in the hat before going out into a very hot sun. 
It may be well to know that what is good for sun-stroke is also good for apoplexy. 

When one is stricken down in the sun, he should be placed in the shade as 
quick as possible, and cold water applied to his face, and the limbs kept warm 
by rubbing, etc. , until he can be removed to the house, where the above plan 
can be carried out fully. 

1. MOLES, FRECKLES, PIMPLES, ETC. — To Remove.— 
W. H. Riddle, of Crystal Lake, Cal., says to "Mary," of Zenia, Ind., through 
the Blade Household : 

" Do not use nitric acid on your face. I would advise you to use the acid 
nitrate of mercury, in removing moles from the face. The acid should be 
applied with a splinter of wood, and gently rubbed in the part (with the splinter) 
for several seconds, according to the thickness of the growth. Great care 
should be taken to prevent the acid from reaching the surrounding skin. There 
is absolutely no pain attending the application, aind the growth gradually shriv- 




PSORASIS, OR DRY TETTER. 



TRE r^lENT OF DISEASES. 13S 

els away, and the slough falls off in about a week. I know a lady who had a 
very large mole removed in this way from the chin, leaving scarcely any de- 
pression in the skin. It is now some five years since the operation was per 
formed, with no return of the growth." 

Remarks. — It will be safe to use it for this purpose. Have it labeled, and 
keep it out of the way of children. 

After writing the above, having a mole on one of my wrists, I tried it, and 
removed it successfully. At the first application it only took off about half the 
thickness of the mole; I then applied it again, using the end of a match-splint; 
I put on so much and rubbed it in so thoroughh' that it killed the mole entirely, 
making a deep sore, although no larger than the mole; but putting on a lini- 
ment, followed with a little vaseline, 5 or 6 times daily, removed all soreness 
and healed it up in a few days, leaving the skin perfectly smooth and soft. I 
have since cured 3 or 4 others with the same, 2 of which were cancerous (open 
sore), and consequently, know the value of the acid nitrate of mercury for such 



2. Pimples or Skin Diseases, Valuable Remedy for. — Glyc- 
erine (English or Price's), 100 grs. ; corrosive sublimate, 5 grs. Directions^ 
Rub the corrosive sublimate in a little of the glycerine; then mix aU, and apply 
morning and evening. 

Remarks. — M. Pierre Vigier, a French professor, finds, from experiments 
upon himself and upon his pupils, that substances incorporated with glycerine 
are not absorbed by the skin, therefore he advises this as a substitute for blue 
ointment, which stains the linen and is absorbed, while with a glycerine pre 
pared as above, in spite of the causticit}' of the bichloride (corrosive sublimate 
is the bichloride of mercury), the skin is not irritated by this mixture, and after 
extensive applications to the skin, no mercury is found in the urine. 

The fact that by this form of mixing the corrosive sublimate prevents its 
absorption into the system, it should be so prepared; as it thus cures these and 
other skin diseases, it becomes valuable for these purposes. It will also cure 
itch, as well as pimples, blotches, black-heads (worms in the skin of the face). 
See " Pimples, Tetter, etc.," where corrosive sublimate is also used. 

3. Freckles, Remedy for. — The following remedy is said to have 
been found efficacious in Europe: Finely powdered sulpho-phenate of zinc (one 
of the newer remedies), 1 part; oil of lemon, 1 part; pure alcohol, 5 parts; 
collodion, 45 parts; drops, grs. or drs. — as you please — may be used. Direc-^ 
TiONS— Mix v/ell , then apply to the freckles, twice daily, until the change is 
affected. 

4. To Remove Freckles.— Rub them twice, daily, with a piece of 
saltpeter, moistened by touching it in water. 

5. Sunburn, to Remove.— Water, 1 pt.; pulverized borax, 1 oz. 
Directions— Put in a bottle and shake before using. Wet the parts, black- 
ened by exposure to the sun, twice daily. 

6. Pimple, Tetter or Bad Skin Diseases, Remedy,— Put corro- 
sive sublimate, 30 grs., into a 4 oz. vial, with i^ oz. of oil of sassafras (these to 
be rubbed together), and fill the bottle with alcohol. 



134 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — Upon pimples of an ulcerative character, or on eruptions, like 
tetter or salt-rheum, apply this corrosive mixture, once a day only, until some 
inflammation manifests itself, then discontinue, and apply simple glycerine, 
vaseline or some mild ointment, until healed. If in any case the pimples or 
eruptions show agaiti. do the same for 2 or 3 times, which will generally cure 
them, especially if a proper cathartic is first given, then an alterative course of 
medicine is given. But should the above fail in any case, double the amount 
of corrosive sublimate and try it again. It has been used as strong as here 
recommended; but if of less strength will do, so much the better. Of course 
it will be understood that this is a poison, and children should not have access 
to it; although it is safe and valuable to use as above directed. 

7. Tetter, Simple Cure for. — It is claimed also that to wet gun- 
powder and smear on the tetter twice a day, for 2 or 3 days, will effect a per- 
manent cure. It would undoubtedly be rather severe. I should rub it up in 
water, or spirits of camphor, to use it, and make the strength bearable, as it is 
no use to kill it dead the first pop, but use it milder, and longer, will do as well. 
If the gun-powder was rubbed fine, then rubbed into an ointment with lard, or 
vaseline, I think it would do just as well. A tea-spoonful of the powder to 1 
oz. will be strong enough. But do not forget a laxative treatment with sulphur 
and cream of tartar, salts or magnesia, as may be preferred. 

8. Pace Worms, to Remove. — To remove worms in the face, 
place over the black spot the hollow end of a watch-key, and press firmly. 
This forces the foreign substance out, so that it may be brushed off, and is a 
cure. A lady writer gives us the following, also: 

9. Faoo Worms, Pimples, etc.— Wash your face night and morn- 
ing in strong cologne wat«r and rub dry with a coarse towel. Also take a 
thimbleful of sulphur in a glass of milk 2 or 3 times a week, before breakfast. 
Continue the practice a couple of weeks. 

Remarks. — It is a well known fact that sulphiir is a valuable thing to take 
internally, from its alterative effect in all diseases of the skin; and one of the 
handiest ways to take it, is to mix it up quite tliick, with a little syrup, or 
molasses; and when thus mixed, in place of stopping to measure out the lady's 
thimbleful, as above, take what you can in a tea-spoon, three morn- 
ings, and skip three, till nine doses are taken. Some prefer to make it 
half-and-half, with cream of tartar, and to take it in the same way; but the 
cream of tartar is not as necessary in skin difficulties, as it is in more general 
Inflammations, such as boils, swellings, etc. 

10. Pimples, Bad and of Long Standing.— Prof. Scudder, of 
Cincinnati, Ohio, reports through the Eclectic Medical Journal, the 
case of a girl who had been troubled for years with pimples, which 
left large scars, cured in 10 days, by the simple use of bicarbonate of soda 
(common baking soda). He claimed, because of a broad, pallid or pale tongue, 
the soda was needed to neutralize an acid condition of the system. The cure 
proved him correct. Dose — For a girl of 15 years, the age of the one cured, 
^ tea-spoonful in a little water, 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls only, after each meal. 



TREA TMBNT OF DISEASES. 135 

Remarks. — It will prove valuable in many cases, and in all cases with acidity 
of the stomach, "belching" wind, or passing large amounts of gas per rectum. 
In these cases, "belching" of the wind, or gas distending the stomach and 
bowels, mix ivory black (which is an animal charcoal), with equal parts 
of sugar and half a tea-spoonful of the mixture, taken before meals, by plac- 
ing on the tongue dry, then taking a sip of water to swallow it. These two 
will soon correct this condition which arises from dyspepsia. 

1. PILLS, Compound Cathartic and Liver. — Comp. ext. of 
colocynth, ext. of jalap and calomel, each, 100 grs. ; gamboge and ext. of 
hyoscyamus, each, 25 grs. ; castile soap in powder (in fact, all in powder except 
the extract of hyoscyamus, which is gummy). Mix and make into 100 pills. 
Dose— As an active cathartic, 2 or 3 pills, to act on the liver 1 pill at bedtime 
each night until the action is sufficient. 

Remarks. — I have prescribed them and found them to have the desired 
effect with those persons who prefer calomel to podophyllin. But if there are 
those who think they would like this pill best if it was not for the calomel, 
they can leave it out, or put in only 25 grs. of it, so as to have one-fourth of a 
grain only in each pill. Either way it will be found efficient and satisfactory. 
I prefer it with only % gr. of calomel to each pill. The old plan of giving 
large doses of calomel, I feel thankful, is among ihe things of the past. 

2. Butternut Pills. — A very valual)]-' < athartic is made by taking the 
inner bark of the butternut tree and roots (not old trees), strip it into strips and 
put in a clean boiler, with plenty of water, and keep moderately hot for 48 
hours, then boil for a few hours longer, after which pour out and strain; then 
boil down to a consistency of thick molasses, adding at this point as much 
molasses as there is of the extract, and continue to boil down carefully until 
quite thick; then preserve in covered jars. Dose — A piece the size of a small 
hickory nut, or less, as may be found to be necessary to produce proper cathar- 
tic action. During the Revolution there was but little other physic used. This, 
however, was very satisfactory; and still in places where the tree abounds, it may 
be adopted with a like satisfaction. In case that it gripes or gives pain in its 
action, a little powdered ginger, or capsicum may be incorporated with the 
gummy mixture to overcome this tenesmus, as doctors call it. One-fourth aa 
much bulk of the ginger or one-eighth of capsicum will be sufficient. 

3. Liver Regulator, or Liver Complaint, Dyspepsia, etc., 
Liquid Remedy for.— Fluid exts. of dandelion, blue flag -root and rhubarb, 
each, 1 oz. ; fl. ext. Icptandra (Culver's physic) and simple syrup, each, 2 ozs. 
Mix. Dose — One-half tea-spoonful every 6 hours. 

4. Liver Syrup, or Liver Regulator, in Place of Pills for an 
Inactive Liver, Constipation, etc.— The fl. exts. of wahoo, butternut 
and cascara sagrada, each % ^^- '< A- ^^*^- ^^ fringe tree and white ash, each, ^ 
oz. ; fl. exts. of berberis aquafolium, prickly ash and bitter root (Culver's physic), 
each, 1 dr. Mix and add simple syrup to fill a 4 oz. bottle ; shake when used. 
Dose — Take }4 tea-spoonful at bedtime only, and if it does not start the action 
of the liver in 3 or 4 days at most increase the dose to ^, or even 1 tea-spoon- 



136 , . DR. CHASK 8 RECIPES. 

ful; then drop back to the ^, or it may be to 15 or 20 drops, to keep a little 
action on the liver until it will continue its secretion of bile, producing natural 
colored stools. 

Remarks. — As there are persons who cannot take pills, and others also who 
prefer laxative medicines in liquid form, as well as many whose livers need a 
mild medicine so it can be continued for some time to overcome the inactivity 
of the liver, etc., such persons will find this recipe to " fill the bill" in all these 
cases. Hence, this will be found a very valuable substitute for pills. A little 
oil of wintergreen may be put in as a flavor and to hide the bitter taste, if 
desired. 

5. Liquid Physic for Constipated and Weakly Women and 
Children. — Fl. ext. of butternut, 2 ozs. ; tinct. of aloes, 5 drs. ; comp. tinct. 
of cardamon, 1 oz.; simple syrup, 4 oz. Mix. Dose — According to age of 
children, from 1 to 3 tea-spoonfuls in the morning is the best time to give to 
children, and repeat next morning, if no operation before. For weak consti- 
pated women, the physician whom I first knew to use this preparation was ia 
the habit of triturating calomel, 10 grs., with 100 grs. of the sugar of milk, 
and dividing into 10 powders; then giving 1 powder at 10 in the evening, and 
at S in the morning, followed by 1 or 2 tea-spoonfuls of this liquid physic, which 
carries oflf all otherwise ill effects of the calomel, arouses the action of the 
liver and overcomes the tendency to constipation. Those in favor of using 
calomel will undoubtedly be satisfied to use it in this manner; the trituration, 
or thoroughly rubbing the calomel, or any other medicine, with sugar of milk, 
divides it into more minute particles and then it takes less to have the desired 
effect. Of course, this liquid physic can be taken without the calomel by 
doubling the dose. See the remarks closing the subject of "Jaundice," for the 
author's ex]3erience and opinion of calomel in small doses. Since writing this 
I have given the twentietJi of a grain calomel pill with entire satisfaction, 
arousing the action of the liver. 

6 . Pills for Constipation— Very Successful.— Pulverized aloes, 40 
grs.; solid ext. of nux vomica, 20 grs.; solid ext. belladonna, 15 grs. Mix 
thoroughly and divide into 50 pills. Dose — One pill only; never more than 1 
pill for a dose, at bedtime every night until cured or all taken. — Dr. T. B. King. 

Remarks. — The doctor says this is the best thing he knows, and pretty sure to 
cure the difliculty. I have used it with success in one case of long standing con- 
stipation. It was a lady who was pretty well run down in strength, but with this 
pill at night, and a 2 gr. pill of quinine 3 times daily, for a month, she has 
enjoyed an excellent condition of health now for several months. Jf they fail 
to touch the spot, }-{ gr- of podophyllin, or calomel, as one j^refers, may be 
added to each pill; neither will be required unless it may be for an occasional 
case of constipation which has witlistood all other remedies. 

GOUT— Cured by Garlic— The London Truth makes the following 
remarks upon the garlic as a specific (sure cure) for gout. It is amusing, and 
is, no doubt, valuable: "Many people would be overjoyed to pay large sums 
ior a specific for gout. I will give them for nothing a sure but simple cure. A 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 1B7 

friend of mine had chalkstones on his fingers so bad that he might have marke{l 
half the trees in Windsor Park with them. After consulting almost all the 
epecialists in Europe he was advised by an old woman (some old women know 
more than half of us doctors) to try a clove of garlic (a clove of garlic means 
one small bulb from a cluster) night and morning. He did so, and the chalk- 
stones totally disappeared. No doubt such a cure involves the social duty of 
retiring to the summit of an exceedingly high mountain, or going to sea, alone, 
in a yacht; but it is worth even the penalty of absolute seclusion to get rid of 
chalkstones." (See next recipe.) 

1. PUBIFYING THE BLOOD-Safesl Way by the Use of 
Onions. — Sherley Dare, in answering correspondents through the Blade House' 
Tiold, says to "A. E. W.," of Waterloo: "The safest and quickest prescription 
for clearing the blood is to eat a raw onion, finely minced, at breakfast; the whole 
of a common sized onion is enough, and a dose of charcoal or ground coffee, 
and brushing the teeth, will deodorize the breath. The onion can be taken 
■with salt and vinegar as a salad. Consumptives find this of benefit." 

Remarks. — I have much more faith in the onion as an alterative, than I 
have in the idea that the charcoal or powdered coffee, even with the brushing of 
the teeth, will remove the odor of onions from the breath; but what of that? 
let the "bref" smell of garlic; if onions will do what tliey are here credited 
with, they are certainly more valuable than is generally set down to their credit; 
but I remember of once being told by a gentleman that a moderate sized onion 
minced and eaten at each meat, with the salt and vinegar, as above mentioned, 
would cure dyspepsia. I have no doubt of their utility, both as an alterative 
upon the blood and as a tonic to the stomach; not one is eaten when ten ought 
to be. 

2. Roasted Onions— As a Poultice to Boils, Inflammation o^ 
the Bowels, etc. — A poultice of roasted onions applied to boils, tumors, 
etc., hastens suppuration, and are often applied as "drafts" to the feet, and I 
have heard, from the old women, of their being applied in excessive fevers, b> 
mashing or pounding onions and placing them under the arms and upon the 
bowels or other parts swollen from extensive inflammation (to be changed 
often), and they are very valuable indeed. 

3. Onions, Their Value as Pood.— Onions contain 25 to 30%' {i, e., 
25 to 30 parts in 100) of solid substance, when dried; while potatoes, even, do 
not average 25^; but from some peculiarity of the onion its nourishing proper- 
ties more than double those of the potato, and in some cases nearly treble it; 
hence its value as food may now be the better understood, and without regard 
to its peculiar flavor, the onion should be much more eaten than it is. If health 
is desirable, eat onions. 

1. STOMACH BITTEBS, OR ALTEE ATI VE. - Culver's 
physic, root, and wahoo, bark of the root, each, 1)4, ozs.; prickly ash bark and 
poke root, each, i^ oz. ; Peruvian bark, the best red unground, wild cherry 
bark and anise seed, each, 1 oz. ; blue-flag, yellow-dock, dandelion and pleurisy 
roots, known also as white root (asclepias tuberosa), with our home yellow parilla 



138 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

and Honduras sarsaparilla and golden seal roots, each, 1 oz. ; water, 1 gal » 
alcohol, 1 pt., or good whiskey (if there is good (?) whiskey), 1 qt. DraEO 
TiONS — Have all the roots and barks ground coarsely if you buy the dry articles 
of the druggist, and if j'ou use the green ones, gathered yourseli, use half as much 
more, and even twice as much will do no harm; bruise them with a mallet or 
hammer, and steep all in the water 3 or 4 hours, covered; then strain and press 
out all the virtue, and when cool, strain again to get rid of the tine sediment; 
add the alcohol, or whiskey, and if it lacks any of 1 gal. make it up with wine- 
worked cider, or wiiiskey. Bottle and keep in a cool place. Dose — According 
to the size and robustness of the person, take from 1 to 3 table-spoonfuls a 
short time before each meal. If costive, or considerable dyspeptic disturbances 
of the stomach, see remarks and further directions below. 

II. Remarks and Further Directions if at all Costive. — In such cases take 
n quart of this bitters and add ^ dr. of the alcoholic ex. of mandrake, dissolved 
nicely in the bittei-s by rubbing in a cup with a tea-spoon; pour off into the 
Itottle and put on more, as it is slow to dissolve. Dose — This can only be taken 
In doses of from \ to 3 tea-spoon fuls 3 times daily, more or less, to keep the 
bowels easy. The mandrake is very gentle in its cathartic and laxative proper- 
ries, but it is very certain. 

III. If dyspeptic, take a pint bottle and pour into it fl. exs. of leptandra 
and blue-flag, each, 1 dr.; and fl. ex. of balmony, i^ oz., and also iodide of 
potash, 25 grs., and fill the bottle with the No. 1 Bitters, which has no man- 
drake in it. Dose — Then take 1 table- spoonful for a dose, just before meals 
and at bed-time; and if the urine is scanty or high-colored, 3 drs. each of fl. 
exs, of buchu and uva ursi may also be put in. Dose — The same, as with the 
! bove bitters a«« a base, almost any condition can be met. 

1. DIARRHEA COMPOUND.— Compound spirits of lavender and 
tinct. of rhubarb, each, 1 oz. ; laudanum, 3 drs. ; oil of cinnamon, 10 drops; mix. 
Dose— One tea-spoonful every hour or two, for an adult, as needed, tintil 
relieved; then 3 or 3 times a day only, for a day or two. 

2. Loose Bowels, Simple Remedy for. — For loose bowels, not 
of long standing nor very severe, the following powder will prove effectual and 
satisfactory, I have used it many times. Powdered opium and tannin, each, 
5 grs. Mix thoroughly and divide into 10 powders. Dose— For an adult, 1 
powder every 4 hours, or 3, or even every 2 hours, if needed to control the con- 
dition; children of 8 to 13 years, half a powder only, and cf a less age — above 
2 years — one-fourth only of a powder, 

3. For Infantile Diarrhea.— That is, for children at the breast or 
less than 3 years old: Powdered rhubarb, 10 grs, ; calomel, 1 gr,; morphine, 
% gr., and divide into 10 powders, 1 powder for a dose. No danger of saliva- 
ting a child at the breast, 

4. Diarrhea of an Exhaustive Character, Dr. T. B. King's 
Remedy for. — Blue mass and pulverized ipecac, of each 3 grs. ; prepared 
chalk and pulverized rhubarb, each 10 grs.; pulverized opium, 3 to Idgra. 
,v':i; und make into 10 pilLs. Disections, Dose, etc. — For adults, bad case^ 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 130 

use the 10 grs. of the opium and give 1 pill every 3 hours; for children and 
slight cases, only 3 to 5 grs. of opium should be used; small children, only half 
a pill cut up and dissolved in molasses will be sufficient for a dose, to be 
repeated in 3 or 4 hours, as needed. 

5. Diarrhea, Simple Home Rem.ed.y for. — The journals of late 
have said considerable about the use of pure cider vinegar in diarrhea. It was 
started, so far as I know, by T. E. Stellwagen, in an edition of Coleman's 
"Dental Surgery." Dose — For an adult about 2 ozs., or 4 tablespoonfuls, 
without water; for a child of 1 year, a tablespoonful with a little water. 

Remarks. — Its effect is said to be to check the colicky pains at once, to 
relieve the chills and cramps, if any present, and to give a feeling of warmth 
and comfort over the surface. I trust it will prove as reliable as reported. It 
is claimed to have been satisfactory even in long standing cases. 

1. DYSENTERY — Successful Remedy for.— Laudanum and 
ipecac. Directions, Dose, etc. — For an adult lirst give laudanum, 20 drops, 
to prepare the stomach so it shall retain the ipecac, which is to be given half an 
hour after, in 20 gr. doses, repeated everj^ 6 hours until cured. The first dose 
may be vomited, or partially so, as this article is well understood to possess this 
property — of vomiting — but it is also known that the stomach can be trained to 
tolerate (bear) it. It also acts as a mild laxative, tonic, and stimulant, to the 
coats of the stomach and intestines, producing slight sweating, moist and pliable 
skin, and thereby reducing the fever, controlling also the tenesmus (pain and 
griping) of the rectum at the time of the passage, almost if not wholly reliev- 
ing this difficulty soon after its use is commenced. 

2. Dysentery, Diarrhea and Incipient Cholera— Milk a Speci- 
fic for. — It is reported through the Milk Journal, of London, Eng., that in the 
East Indies, 1 pt. of warm milk every 4 hours, will check the most violent of 
the above complaints. The milk must not be boiled, but just hot enough to drink 
comfortably. Boiled milk, contrary to our American custom, is not to be 
used. 

NERVOUS HEADACHE— Such as People Used to be Bled 
for. — Iodide of potash, 2 drs. ; tinct of gelsemium, 2 drs. ; pure water, 2 ozs. ; 
mix. Dose — 1 tea-spoonful once in 2 to 4 hours until relieved. 

Remarks. — This is a prescription of a physician of Grand Rapids Mich. , for 
a lady who called upon him to be bled for the difficulty, according to what she 
had been accustomed to. But he made this prescription for her and it relieved 
her. The next season she called upon myself for the same purpose, at the same 
time showing me the prescription, which I changed to bromide of potassium, in 
the same quantity for the iodide, which she took with the same success. I pre- 
fer the bromide, as I think its action upon the nerves more satisfactory. 

2. Nervous Headache, New Remedy for.— Salicylate of soda, 
10 grs., every 3 hours for an adult, followed next day in 5 to 8 gr. doses. If of 
long standing, continue 1 or 2 doses daily for a few days longer. Taken by 
dissolving in water. 

Remarks. — This was given in the Seientific American by a celebrated physi 



140 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

cian who gave a case of a boy of 16 years, who had had nervous headache sev- 
eral days each week from the time he was 6 years old, entirely cured by this 
remedy, and at the time of the report he had been free from the disease sev* 
eral months. See next item also for other uses of this new remedy. 

TONSILITIS — Salicylate of Soda for — Also as a Gargle in 
Ulcerated Cases. — Given in 10 gr, doses, every 2 to 4 hours, internally, and 
is also used as a gargle in ulcerated cases. Strength of gargle is not given; but 
I should say, 5 to 10 grs. to the oz. of water, according to the degree of ulcera- 
tion. 

Remarks. — I certainly expect much from its use upon a fair trial, and say 
to all who need it, try it. 

ULCERATING TEETH OR SORE GUMS — Dr. Mason's 
Remedy.— Take what the homeopaths call the "third decimal trituration of 
mercurius" (quick-silver). [Quicksilver was named mercurius after the god 
Mercury; it is also known as hydrargyrum, from another god or deity, wor- 
shiped by the ancients. These deities were held in higher estimation by them, 
as compared with other deities, from the fact that mercury or quicksilver wa3 
held, long ago, to be a very important article or medicine in the treatment of 
diseases, as compared with other remedies. But my school of medicine (eclec- 
tic) generally claims and believes that it has been proven not only of little value 
but to have been one of the greatest curses to humanity that ever found a place 
in the annals or history of medicine. Of late, however, I am led to believe the 
harm to have arisen from its over-doses and abuse in giving it for everything 
rather than in the article itself. See my remarks following "Jaundice, Liver 
Complaint, etc."] Dose— The size of a wheat kernel, every half hour or hour, 
until cured, which will be in 2 or 3 days. 

Remarks. — Dr. Mason, in writing to me, said: "Doctor you know that I 
am not a homeopath, but I know, after having used the above in my practice as 
a dentist for over fifteen years for ulcerating teeth, that it is a good remedy. 
In the winter of 1878-79 I extracted some teeth for my wife; and, in common 
parlance, she took cold in the jaw. Although it was nearly 2 days after it com- 
menced aching before I prepared the remedy, the pain entirely ceased in lesh 
than 2 days from the time she began its use. But let no one put it off, as I did, 
through pressure of business — ' a stitch in time,' etc." 

In case no homeopath or druggist is near, who keeps this triturated prepa 
ration, see " Diphtheria, Sore Throat, etc.," (Dr. Mason's, or homeopathic rem 
edy), for the manner of trituration, use the quicksilver instead of the biniodide 
of mercury, as given in that ease. 

1. VOMITING — Ejects a Dime from the Trachea.— Lorenzo 
Hubbard, M. D., reports a case to the Pacific Med. and Surg. Journal as follows: 
■ "Carpenter Simes, a private in Company A, First U. S. Cavalry, while 
playing with a dime, by tossing it into his mouth, accidentally threw it far back 
into the pharynx, where, coming in contact with the posterior nasal orifices, it 
excited a strong disposition to sneeze. The spasmodic inspiration which fol- 
lowed drew the piece through the glottis (the opening into the windpipe) into 
£he trachea (windpipe), and subsequent inspirations lodged it at the point of tha 



TRhATMENT OF DISEASES. 141 

bifurcation of the right bronchus. By inflating the lungs, and then making a 
strong effort at expiration, the ' piece ' would rise into the trachea, but when it 
reached the glottis suffocation was so imminent he was forced to allow it to 
descend. When he first made his situation known to me, three hours after the 
occurrence of the accident, he said he could feel the 'bit' resting directly 
under the right nipple, and that the parts at this point had become quite sore. 

" While the piece was yet movable, and had not yet found a lodgement, I 
determined to try the experiment of vomiting, with the hope that in the spas- 
modic effort of retching and coughing it might be ejected. In this I was not 
disappointed, for in the very first effort it was thrown out to the distance of 
several feet, with considerable force. I also send you the ' bit ' with which 
this strange experiment was made, supposing that possibly the case might 
interest our society." 

Remarks. — I have given this to show not only the danger of thus throwing 
pieces of money into the mouth, which I have often seen done, but also to say 
it is dangerous to allow small children to have small pieces of money to play 
with, for the mouth is about the first place they put it; but if a piece lodges in 
the throat, no time should be lost in trying one of the quick emetics found in 
"Accidental Poisoning." 

2. Vomiting and Watery Discharges, to Check in Cholera. 

— Black pepper, in powder, fine table salt, each 1 tea-spoonful; vinegar, 5 tea- 
spoonfuls; hot water, % tumbler. Dose — A table-spoonful every 5, 10 or 15 
minutes, as circumstances required, speedily checked vomiting, abated the 
watery discharges and removed the cramps. It succeeded in many cases where 
every other means had failed. 

Remarks. — This was during the Cincinnati cholera in 1849 50-51, when the 
eclectics saved hundreds of their patients in this disease, while other branches 
of the profession lost most of theirs. This is no fancy statement, simply for 
effect, but is susceptible of proof, and it was by simple common sense reme- 
dies, like this, that it was done. 

1. SCROFULA, PILES AND RHEUMATISM. — Cure for. 
Sulphur, cream of tartar, and licorice root, equal parts of each, all finely 
pulverized, J^ part nitre, and put into just honey enough to mix like mush. 
Dose— One tea-spoonful )| hour before eating, 3 times a day, for 3 days; then 
cease 3 days, continuing until a cure is effected. But after the first 3 days, J^ 
tea-spoonful doses will be as much as can be taken without making the bowels 
too loose. It may be made into pill form by using only honey enough to 
dampen. Dose — In this way 3 good sized pills, before each meal, as the other. 

Remarks. — This was communicated to me by a sister, at that time living in 
Mt. Pleasant, Iowa, from the fact that a young girl, a Miss Conner, had been 
cured by it, who had been under the doctor's care for over a year, without ben- 
efit. Her breast and throat were covered with ulcers, deep and penetrating, so 
when pressed up on one side of the neck, matter would ooze out of the other 
side. Under these circumstances, the girl's mother (the wife of a barber) paid 
$10 for this recipe, which cured the girl in a few weeks. At the time my sister 
sent me this recipe, six years after the cure, the girl had had no returning symp- 
toms of the disease. But the scars, my sister said, she would always carry. A 
child had also been cured by the use of the same, whose head was a solid scab 



143 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

at the time the treatment was commenced. My sister had obtained the recipe 
for the purpose of curing bleeding piles upon herself, which had reduced her 
strength very greatly by the loss of blood. And it was as successful with the 
piles as in the other cures. I have had no opportunity of using it except for 
rheumatism, which I have cured with it. I believe much good will be derived 
by its use whenever needed, as an alterative, for the value of sulphur and 
cream of tartar have been long known as alteratives in rheumatism. Why 
should not the combination prove valuable in scrofula? I have no doubt it has, 
and that it will continue to do so, most effectually. The licorice I look upon 
as merely to improve the taste. 

2. Scrofula, White Swelling, etc., Salve for.— Scrape sweet elder 
(inner bark), bitter-sweet (roots and twigs are used), and mullein leaves, each, a 
good handful; boil these, (the roots and twigs, being bniised,) in a little water; 
then put in half as much golden seal root, and stew all in two table-spoonfuls 
of freshly churned and unsalted butter, not level spoonfuls, but as you would 
take them up heaping, from rather soft butter, and an equal quantity of mut- 
ton tallow. Stew till the water is all out, and the mass crisi>ed, or dry, but not 
burned; then strain, and put back into the skillet, and add half as much bees- 
wax, as of tallow and half as much pine pitch as of the beeswax. Direc- 
tions — For white swelling spread on a cloth, and apply; for scrofulous sores 
put on cotton, and put into the sores, or openings, if any, otherwise the same 
as for white swellings. 

Remarks. — I should apply this salve while taking No. 1, internally, as I 
think it will hasten recovery. It will be found valuable for all purposes, as 
an ointment, rather than a salve, if not made too stiff with the beeswax. As 
an ointment, use but very little beeswax. 

PLIABLE COLLODION— Or Artificial Skin— For Abrasions, 
Burns, Sores, etc. — A French journal gives us the following plan of mak- 
ing collodion pliable, for all purposes where water may come in contact with the 
spot, as upon the face, hands, lips, etc.: Collodion, 30 grammes; castor oil and 
soft turpentine (Venice turpentine or pine pitch), each 50 centigrammes, mix. 

Remarks. — As a gramme is so nearly ISJ^ grains (being actually 15 and 
y34 of 1,000 parts of a grain, we call it \^% grains.) and as a centigramme 
is the 1- 100th of a gramme, in the 50 centigrammes we get nearly 8 grains, 
hence we say: Collodion, 1 oz.; and caator-oil and soft turpentine, each 8 grs. 
And thus we have the recipe Americanized, so that it can be filled understand- 
ingly by anyone, or druggist. Apply with a brush. It will be found 
quite satisfactory to apply upon any injured parts, scratch, bruise, etc., as by 
putting on two or three times, as the first coat dries, it forms an artificial skin 
over the sore. 

1. CHILBLAINS, FROST BITES, ETC.— Valuable Rem- 
edy for. — Spirits of turpentine and sulphuric acid, each }4, oz. ; olive oil, 1%. 
oz. ; mix ; shake and apply frequently. 

2. Spirits of Turpentine, 1 oz. ; ammonia, }4 o^., with as much 
camphor gum as this will dissolve, used as a liniment, will cure these hateful 
tilings. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 143 

3. To Relieve the intense itching; 2 or 3 bathings of the parts, warm- 
fng in before the fire, or strong alum water, gives relief. 

4. An Ointment made by rubbing as much tincture of cantharides 
Into any simple "cerate," as it will take up (any druggist will prepare a small 
box of it, for about 15 cts.). Bathe the feet in warm water, wipe and rub 
this on at bed-time. I cured a bad case of 6 years standing, in 2 or 3 applications, 
and afterwards cured several other cases. 

5. Frost Bites, Remedies for.— The Lansing (Mich.,) Republican 
recently gave the following, as to the management and cure of frost bites. It 
says: " Extract the frost by the application of ice-water till the part is pliable, 
but let no artificial heat touch it; then apply a salve made of equal parts of 
hog's lard and gunpowder, rubbed together until it forms a paste, and in less 
than 24 hours the frozen parts will be well." 

6. Chilblains, Warranted Cure for.— Olive oil, spirits of turpen- 
tine, aqua ammonia, and oil of peppermint, each, J^ oz. Mix, and anoint night 
and morning. Is warranted to cure every case. This was given me ou 
"experience," also. 

WORMS-REMEDIES, VERMTPUGES. 

There are seldom found but three varieties of worms in the human 
intestines. 

I. The principal, or most common one, is the long, round worm, found in 
the small intestines. 

II. The second variety is the small, round, or pin-worm, so called because 
scarcely ever longer or larger than a pin. These are chiefly found in the 
rectum, and known to be there from an intolerable itching. 

III. The last, or third variety, is the tape-worm, called by physicians 
^nia solium (from Uenia, tape, and solus, alone); for, as a general thing, there is 
only one of them found to annoy the patient. The remedies for them, I shall 
give in the order in which I have mentioned them. First: 

1. The Long, Round Worm. — Pink and senna were the old "stand- 
by," for the common long worm, followed by a cathartic ; but the following 
combination is better, as it has the cathartic in combination, and as the good 
old saying is, " kills two birds with one stone." 

Pink root and senna, each i^ oz. ; cream of tartar, 1 dr. (1 tea-spoonful); 
pulverized jalap, i^ dr. ; cardamon seeds, 1 dr. ; and ext. of licorice, or pow- 
dered licorice-root, J^ oz. Mix, and pour on J^ pt. of boiling water and steep 
J^ to 1 hour; and, according to the age of the child, give 1 to 2 table- spoonfuls 
every hour until the worms are expelled, or a brisk action of the bowels is 
obtained. Repeat every day or two, until you are satisfied there are no more 
worms present, or see that they have been expelled, as it does not always, but 
generally, expels them on the first trial. 

2. The Eclectic Vermifuge — The Latest and Least Dis- 
tasteful.— Santonin, 30 grs. ; white sugar, 50 grs. Derections— Rub together 



i44 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

evenly, and divide into 10 powders. Dose — Give 1 powder an hour 'before 
supper and 1 at bedtime; next day 1 powder before each meal and at bed-time, 
and the following day the same, which uses up all the powders. Next morning 
take an active cathartic, to carry off the worms. 

Remarks. — I recently took this remedy in just this way, realizing that I, at 
nearly 68 years of age, had them. For the cathartic I took 2 blue papers of 
seidlitz powders and 1 white paper, to be sure and get quick and thorough 
action. It did act quickly, and brought tLem away. I have enjoyed better 
health since. 

3. Worms, Allopathic Vermifuge lor. — Santonin and white sugar 
(or sugar of milk), each 10 grs.; calomel and ipecac, eacli 1 gr. Directions — 
Rub the two first well together; then rub in the two last, and divide into 10 
powders. Dqse — For child, 1 powder, night and morning, till all are taten; 
then an active cathartic, unless the worms pass off freely by this time. I should 
give a cathartic of cream of tartar, or some mild one, at any rate. This is 
the favorite, of an old friend of mine, of the allopathic school. 

4. Vermifuge or Vermicide— Extraordinary,— Dr. A. S. Sweet, 
of Southhold, L. I., informs the readers of the Biief that he gave Mrs. C. the 
following mixture as a vermifuge: Santonin, 16 grs.; fl. ex. of pink, 160 drops; 
simple syrup, 2 ozs. ; mix. Dose — A tea-spoonful morning and night. She 
gave it about equally between 4 children of her own and 1 of a neighbor's. 
The result was the expulsion of 67 worms. As having a i)ossible bearing upon 
the question whether worms cause any special symptoms by their presence in 
the intestines, Dr. Sweet says that the child for which the vermifuge was par- 
ticularly desired had, previous to taking it, several attacks of convulsions. 
They ceased with the expulsion of the worms. 

Remarks. — Any person of common sense would say the worms caused the 
convulsions, else their removal would not have stopped them. Dr. Sweet says 
nothing about giving any cathartic; but as the Brief is taken only by physicians, 
he leaves it to their judgment to direct it. I would say, give an active cathartic 
on the third or fourth day, whether any worms have passed or not. In all 
cases, after expulsion of worms, give a tonic to build up and strengthen the 
general system, which will also strengthen the bowels, and thereby make it less 
liable for another "crop" of worms. For, as a general thing, it is only the 
weakly children who are troubled with worms, although sometimes adults ha^•e 
them, as in my own case. 

5. Pin Worms, Remedy.— A ' ' Mrs .C." made inquiry in the Toledo, 
O., Blade, for a remedy for pin-worms, receiving the following answers: A 
Mrs. "A. P. A." (a pity that so many writers are ashamed of their names), 
says: If "Mrs. C." vpill give the child a tea made of common spearmint, both 
using it as a drink and as an injection, I am confident it will suffer no more 
from pin- worms, as I have known a verj' bad case, of longstanding to be cured by 
this remedy, when many others had been tried without success. If one triai 
does not cure, repeat, as the remedy is harmless. 

Remarks. — The spearmint is safe, and quite a diiu-etic, with its other valu 
able properties. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 145 

6. A "Subscriber, of Rochester, O., gave the following answer: Tell 
"Mrs. C." to use the following, which I have used, in a great many cases, 
without failure; Carolina pink root, senna, American worm seed and manna, 
each 3^ oz.; steep for 1 hour in water, \}^ pts. Dose — 1 gill (about 8 table- 
spoonfuls), once a day, in one-half as much new milk, well sweetened There 
is no " ifs " or " buts " about this, it will cure. I cured myself after having con- 
vulsions for over three years, and being given up by doctors; and since then it 
has cured many of my neighbors. 

Remarks. — This writer says nothing about injecting it; but there would be 
no impropriety or danger in doing so, as it is for pin-worms, which mostly 
infest the rectum, and for which injections are the most effectual. The injec- 
tion should be kept in place as long as it can be borne, by holding a wad of 
cloth to prevent its voluntary escape, or discharge. This preparation, however, 
is very appropriate for the long round worm, and the author is of the opinion 
that it was for that, and not pin-worm, that this writer gave it. 

7. Pin- Worms. — A solution made by soaking rasped quassia, J^ oz.,'in 
cold water, 1 pt., for 12 hours, then straining, for the purpose of injection, is 
very effectual to remove pin-worms. A solution of aloes, % oz., with carbon- 
ate of potash, 15 grs., in i^ pt. of decoction, or tea, of barley, dissolved by 
rubbing together, for an injection ; or an injection of simple sweet oil, says Dr. 
Warren, of Boston, are very effectual in removing pin-worms. Lime water 
(which see how to make) is also frequently used as an injection for the removal 
of pin-worms. 

8. Tape Worm, Dr. Turnbull's Successful Remedy.— Dr. R. 
J. Turnbull, of Duncansley, Miss., in a recent issue of the Medical and Sur- 
gical Reporter, says: I notice a request for a recipe for tape worm. The fol- 
lowing prescription proved most efficacious with me in the treatment of a 
patient who suffered for more than 3 years with tape worm. Bark of the pom- 
egranate root, 3^ oz. ; peeled pumpkin seed, J^ dr. ; ethereal ex. of male-fern 
(an extract made with ether), 1 dr.; powdered ergot, % dr.; powdered gum 
arable, 3 drs. ; croton oil, 2 drops. Directions — The pomegranate root and 
pumpkin seed must be thoroughly bruised, and, with the ergot, boiled in 8 ozs. 
of water, for 15 minutes (the author would saynot less than 30 minutes), then 
strain through coarse cloth. The croton oil must be rubbed up with the gum 
c.rabic and extract of male-fern, and tlien formed into an emulsion (by rubbing 
or thoroughly stirring), with the decoction. This is the prescription of Dr. A. 
J. Schafish, of "Washington, D. C, who employs no preliminary provision, 
except forbidding the patient to take only breakfast the day on which it is 
intended to remove the worm, and give a large dose of Rochelle salts the night 
before. No unpleasant effects follow this remedy. — Brief 

Remarks.— The author would say, if th6 croton oil does not cause a passage 
in 2 hours at most after taking the mixture, give 2 blue and 1 white 
paper of seidlitz powder to get thorough action from the bowels. 

9. Dr. Currie, of Lebanon, N. H., gives an account in the Brief of 
removing a tape-worm from a girl 16 years old, by the simple articles of pun^ 

10 



146 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

kin seed, 1 oz. ; wliite sugar, J^ oz. ; the seed pounded fine, and mixed with the 
sugar. Dose — A tea-spoonful of the mixture every 2 hours, till all was taken: 
following the last dose with castor oil and spirits of turpentine. The next 
morning I was presented with the worm entire, 7 meters long. 

Remarks. — A meter is a little less than 393^ inches, or a total length of worm 
equal to 23 feet, at least. They have been expelled from 60 to 100 feet in 
length. The proper dose of castor oil for a girl of 16 would be 1 table-spoonful, 
with the spirits of turpentine, 1 tea-spoonful, mixed; and to avoid nausea or its 
disagreeable taste, add a few drops of oil of cinnamon. Repeat the dose in 2 or 3 
hours, unless a free passage is obtained before this time. Unless the worm put 
in an appearance, I would repeat the whole on the third day, at farthest; the 
second, unless the stomach was considerably disturbed, would be better. More 
or less, according to the age and robustness of the person, may be given. 

10. Other Remedies. — Dr. Bennett says: "Of all the vermifuge 
remedies proposed for the expulsion of tape-worms, I have found ethereal ex. of 
male-fern the most effectual." (See Dr. Turnbull's remedy above.) 

Dr. Caldwell, Baltimore, Md., claims that the Dundas, Dick & Co.'s cap- 
sules of male-fern and kamala, produced with a patient of his, the happy result 
of expelling a monster of some 31 feet in length, after taking 6 capsules accord- 
ing to printed directions accompanying them; also relieving a cough, vomiting, 
and all other unpleasant symptoms attending its presence. 

11. Tape- Worm— The Latest, Most Easily Taken, and Most 
Successful Remedy for.— There has been quite a stir made recently by 
two or three traveling physicians with the French chemist Tauret's " pellStier- 
ine," in removing tape-worms. I have seen several that have been removed 
here within a few months. I had known that one physician was using it here 
with success before, but not being of the talkative kind, very little was said 
about it. With this introduction, I will say: Tauret's " pell&tierine " is put up 
in bottles containing owe dose only, and retails at about $3 per bottle. Its action 
is to numb the worm, causing more or less giddiness, according to the nervous- 
ness of the patient. This soon passes off by the patient laying down and keep- 
ing quiet. It is perfectly safe, and but slight preparation is necessary to take it. 
PozE — One bottle being a full doze for a man, delicate females and youths 
of about 15 years would take only two-thirds; children of 10 or 13, one-half, 
and of 4 to 8 years, only one-third of a bottle. Directions — The day before 
it is to be taken, take a laxative or gentle cathartic, or a copious injection; and, 
for supper, eat only a milk diet. In the morning take half a glass of water on 
an empty stomach; then, five minutes after, take the pelletierine, and, immedi- 
ately after, half a glass more of water, slightly sweetened. Three-fourths of an 
hour after take a dose of comp. tinct. of jalap ; or infusion of senna (made by 
steeping 3^ oz.), sweetened with syrup of orange-peel. If in a few hours there 
are no stools, take a purgative injection or repeat the purgative medicine. The 
giddiness will come on in about 15 minutes after taking the pelletierine, and the 
worms ought to be expelled in 2 to 4 hours. I have seen one passed in 1% hrs. 
from the taking of the remedy. It is important to remember, say the instruc- 
tions sent out, that the purgative must act rapidly. Don't stay in bed any 



TREATMENT OF B18EASE8. U7 

longer than the giddiness lasts; then move about, to help the action of the med- 
icines. I have taken these instructions from a pamphlet sent out by E. Fougera 
& Co., 30 North William st.. New York, who supply the article if your drug- 
gist has not got it. This is not an advertisement for them, but to help any one 
to obtain it who needs it. They do not know that I have mentioned them even; 
but, knowing its value, I have given it, to save those needing it from paying 
$10 to $50, as these tramping doctors charge for their removal. The pellfitier- 
ine is made from pomegranate bark, which has been the main dependence for 
removing tape worms ; but as it had to be made in the form of an infusion and 
taken in large doses of a i^ pt. or more, often causing sickness of the stomach, 
this new preparation is as great a boone as quinine was over having to take the 
Peruvian bark in powder, as formerly; and as the pellStierine has proved very 
successful, it will, undoubtedly be but a short time till our druggists will keep 
it, and it will enter into general use. Speaking of its success, I will mention a 
few cases, only to show the estimation it is held in. 

Professor Lahoulbdne gives 19 successes in 19 trials. Dujardin-Beametz, 
member of the Academy of Medicine, France, succeeded 37 times in 39 trials. 
Dr. Ed. Mount, of Montreal, had 4 successes out of 4 trials; one of the cases 
had been troubled with tape worm for 26 years. Dr. H. Wilfert, of the Cin- 
cinnati Academy succeeded also in every case. 

I will mention only one case more, the worm I spoke of being removed 
in one hour and a half, in the foregoing. The medicine was administered by a 
boy of less than 20 years, who had been with a doctor for a short time only, and 
learned what was used. The man was a butcher, and was well pleased to be 
rid of his tormentor. 

Remarks. — Certainly, with the foregoing list of remedies to select from, no 
one should long be permitted to suffer the presence of either variety of worms, 
unless it should be thought worth while to keep " His Majesty " (the tape worm) 
in a bottle of alcohol, as a trophy of success in his removal. 

1. DYSPEPTICS— Bad Cases Put Upon the Right Tack.— 
A writer in the Medical Journal, discoursing upon dyspepsia, says: "We have 
seen dyspeptics who suffered untold torments with almost every kind of food. 
Bread became a burning acid. Meat and milk were solid and liquid fires. We 
have seen these same sufferers trjung to avoid food and drink, and even going 
to the enema (syringe) for sustenance. And we have seen the torments pass 
away and their hunger relieved by living upon the white of eggs, which have 
been boiled in bubbling water for thirty minutes. At the end of a week, we 
have given the hard yolk of the egg with the white, and upon this diet alone, 
without fluid of any kind, we have seen them begin to gain flesh and strength, 
and refreshing sleep. After weeks of this treatment they have been able, with 
great care, to begin upon other food; and all this, the writer adds, without 
taking medicine. He says that hard boiled eggs are not half so bad as half 
Itoiled ones, and ten times as easy to digest as raw eggs, even in egg-nog." 

2. Voltaire's Pood for Indigestion, or Dyspepsia. — In the 
memoirs of Count de Segur (Vol. 1, page 168) there is the following anecdote: 
MfmotiuBs: (Uie Counteas de Se^r) beinf asked by Voltaire rei^>ecti]^ hen 



148 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

health, told him that the most painful feeling she had arose from the deca> of 
her stomach, and the difficulty of finding any kind of aliment (food) that it 
could bear. Voltaire, by way of conversation, assured her that he was once 
nearly a year in the same state, and believed to be incurable; but that, never- 
theless, a very simple remedy had restored him. It consisted in taking no other 
nourishment than the yolks of eggs, beaten up with flour of potatoes and water. 
Though this circumstance took place as far back as about 48 years ago, 
and respecting so extraordinary a personage as Voltaire, it is astonish- 
ing how little it is known, and how rarely the remedy is practiced. Its 
efficacy, however, in cases of debility, cannot be questioned; and the 
following is the mode of preparing this valuable article of food, as 
recommended by Sir John Sinclair. Recipe — Beat up an egg in a bowl, and 
then add 6 table-spoonfuls of cold water, mixing the whole well together; then 
add 2 table-spoonfuls of the farina (flour of) potatoes, or mashed potatoes (I 
have used the mashed potatoes), mixing it with the liquor in the bowl; then 
pour in as much boiling water as will convert the whole into a jelly (like starch), 
and mix it well. [The author thinks it best to boil it a little, after pouring on 
the water.] It may be taken either alone, or with the addition of a little milk 
sweetened with sugar, not only for breakfast, but in cases of great debility 
of the stomach, or in consumptive disorders, at other meals. This dish, or 
food, is light, easily digested, and extremely wholesome and nourishing. Bread 
or biscuit should be taken with it, as the stomach gets stronger. —Beach's Fam- 
ily Practice. 

Remarks. — I have recommended this food for several weak patients, with 
entire satisfaction; but I would say no bread, nor biscuit, should ever be eaten 
by a dyspeptic, or any person in a weak or debilitated condition of the system, 
from sickness, or naturally of feeble digestive powers, until at least the next 
day after the baking. I will only add, that in extremely weak patients, this, if 
relished, may constitute the entire nourishment taken for days, or weeks, 
according to the necessity of the case. But when one tires of this, some of the 
beef teas, essences, soups, porridges, as given under these heads in this work, 
or the oatmeal gruel for invalids, or delicate children, may be used to vary 
the food for the sick. 

The two following dishes are given by. Dr. Beach, in connection with the 
above food, as valuable for dyspepsia: 

3. Dyspepsia, Liquid Pood for. — Take fresh, lean beef, cut thin, 
1 lb. Put it into a large-mouthed bottle or jar: add a little salt; place the bottle 
in a kettle of boiling water, and let it boil 1 hour; then strain through a woolen 
cloth. (It seems to the author that a stout piece of muslin is just as good.) 
There will be about 1 gill (4 ozs.) of clear, nutritious liquid. Begin by taking 
1 tea-spoonful, and increase the quantity as the stomach will bear. This has 
been retained on the stomach when nothing else could. It cured an old captain 
•when nearly gone with dyspepsia. 

4. Dyspeptics, Excellent Food for.— Take a piece of stale wheat 
bresKl and a little white sugar, and cover with boiling water; then cover with a 



TREATMENT OF DISEASEH. 149 

plate for a short time ; add cream or good milk. This dish rests easy on the 
stomach, and is very pleasant. 

Remarks. — Tliis, of course, is not understood to be toasted, but in its simple 
state — to toast bread makes it much the nature of freshly baked, which is not 
good for the healthy, and especially bad for dyspeptics or the debilitated from 
any disease or cause whatever. 

5. Dyspepsia and Weak Stomach, The Value of Milk and 
Lime-Water for.— Milk and lime-water are now frequently prescribed by 
physicians in cases of dyspepsia and weakness of the stomach, and in some 
cases are said to prove very beneficial. Many persons who think good bread 
and milk a luxury, frequently hesitate to eat it, for the reason that the milk will 
not digest readily; sourness of the stomach will often follow. But experience 
proves that lime-water and milk are not only food and medicine, at an early 
period of life, but also at a later, when, as in the case of infants, the functions 
of digestion and assimilation have been seriously impaired. A stomach taxed 
by gluttony, irritated by improper food, inflamed by alcohol, enfeebled by dis- 
ease, or otherwise unfitted for its duties — as is shown by various symptoms 
attendant upon indigestion, dyspepsia, diarrhea, dysentery and fever — will 
resume its work, and do it energetically, on an exclusive diet of bread and milk 
and lime-water. A goblet of cow's milk may have 3 to, 4 table-spoonfuls of 
lime-water added to it with good effect. 

These ideas are fully endorsed by Dr. E. N. Chapman, who presented the 
following valuable notes on the use of milk and lime-water for invalids, to the 
Medical Society of the State of New York. He says: " I have used milk and 
lime-water for years as a diet with my patients with great success, particularly in 
cases involving nerve centres, that are acknowledged to be little under the 
command of the accepted modes of treatment, such, for instance, as marasmus 
(a wasting of flesh), anemia (debility from poor blood), paralysis, indigestion, 
neuralgia, cholera, dementia (insanity), and alcoholism. Also in cases where 
the nutritive functions are at fault, milk with a pinch of salt, being rendered 
very acceptable to the stomach by the limc, is the most digestible and nourish, 
ing food that can be given. It allays gastric (stomach) and intestinal irritability., 
offers a duly prepared chyle to the absorbents, supplies the blood with all the 
elements of nutrition, institutes healthy tissue changes, stimulates the secreting 
and excreting glands, and, in a word, provides nature with the material to sus- 
tain herself in her contest with disease. * * * Milk, acted on with lime- 
water, has a range of application almost as extensive as disease itself, whatever 
its character and whoever the patient. " 

Remarks. — I trust that enough has now been said to satisfy everybody of 
the value of milk in disease, and I will add that I know it to be equally valuable 
as a regular family diet. 

6. Dyspeptic Invalids or Weakly Children, Oatmeal Gruel 
for. — A Mrs. " H. K.", of Evanston, Wyoming Territory, m writing to the 
Blade, upon what Mi's. Jane F. Hollingsworth said of strained oatmeal gniel for 
tavalids, gives her own experience with it for children. She saya; 



150 DR. XBASE'S RECIPES. 

" Nothing is better for either invalids or young children. Let me give my 
experience. Our baby was delicate ; cow's milk did not agree with her whUe 
nursing; I began feeding her corn starch and oatmeal gi"uel, and now a heartier, 
happier and fatter baby than ours you will seldom see, and oatmeal gruel is her 
daily food. 

"I take 2 table-spoonsful of oatmeal and pour on a pint, or a little more, 
of boiling water; let boil until thick enough for jelly, then I strain it through 
a little sieve, add 1 tea-spoonful of sugar and 2 of cream to a coffee cup of 
gruel, and it is a dish fit for a king. 

" For very young children or very weak invalids of a dyspeptic character, 
tnake thinner with water while boiling, or with cold milk, after done boiling." 

7. Food for Dyspeptic, or Weakly Babes.— Boil slowly, for 
2J^ hours, 1^ cup of oatmeal, in 1 qt. of water, with a very little salt, the dish 
being covered to prevent evaporation; then strain. A double, or rice kettle 
(which see) is just the thing to avoid burning. "When cold, to J^ pt. of this 
gruel, or food, add an equal quantity of thin cream, and 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
white sugar; then, to this mixture, add 1 pt. of boiling water, and when cool 
enough it is ready for use, and will set easy on the stomach, when milk and 
all other food cannot be digested by a feeble or weak babe, imless aided by the 
use of lime-water, as above. 

8. Drinks for Small CMldren Having Dyspeptic or Diar- 
rheal Tendency.— Rice-water, barley-water, oatmeal-water, made by boil- 
ing a single handful of either of these to 1 qt. of water, with lemon and sugar, 
should be ready in every house where there are children. These drinks are surely 
better than cold tea, which is often given. However, milk is considered better 
than anything, when it is sweet and pure, and given in only small quantities at 
any one time, with lime-water. 

9. Dyspeptics, Healthy Pood for.— It is a well known fact that 
meats are much more needed in winter than in the heat of summer, and the 
following, written by a well known physician (Dr. Hunt, of New Jersey), 
explains the whole matter so fully, I will give it a place. Dr. Hunt, the editor 
of the Newark (N. J.) Advertiser, wholly regardless of the loss of his fellow- 
practitioners, by "a fearful state of healthf ulness " in that vicinity, and hon- 
est as he is skillful in his professional work, gives this advice for the summer 



" Fruits and vegetables, with an abundance of good milk and bread, should 
be the main substantials and not the mere side dishes of the table. There are 
too many who simply add what the summer brings to their usual bill of fare. 
They still indulge in heavy meats and stimulating condiments, adding some 
badly cooked vegetables, and finishing with the usual flatulent pastry, or may- 
hap a few berries; but this is an injustice both to the system and to the Provi- 
dence whose blessings are showered upon us in such prodigal profusion. Meat 
should now become the side dish; gravies, stews and condiments should be 
utterly abandoned; and the system should be toned and purified by the tonic of 
the field and garden. Milk is better than medicine, and the entire pharmaco- 
poeia contains nothing equal to what now comes to us from the true laboratory 
—comes to us not only with healing wing, but with a flavor for the palate 
-wbioh. all the French cooks in Paris could not imitate. And the offerings arme 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 151 

with such glorious progressiveness! First comes the strawberry, like a blush 
on the cheek of Mother Earth; then the berries and vegetables of more vigor- 
ous growth; then the stately , luscious melon, the charm and glory of the break- 
fast-table; then corn, which is meat in nutrition; with the juicy apple, the 
pride of prince and peasant. Then we come to the pear and to the orchard— 

Where peaches grow with sunny dyes. 
Like maiden's cheeks when blushes rise. 
Where huge figs the branches bend, 
Where clusters from the vine distend. 

There Is the feast which nature spreads. Let every man say grace In his heart, 
and partake of it thankfully." 

10. Gaseous Dyspepsia, Simple but Effectual Remedy.— 

Where gas distends the stomach, or bloats the bowels, taking 15 to 20 drops 
of chloroform in a little syrup, after eating, will expel the gas, and stop the fer- 
mentation in a few minutes. 

ifewiar/b.— Chloroform is well known to be a very diffusive stimulant, and 
hence this action of it might be expected. It is easily tried and may prove as 
effectual as it is claimed to be. (See the closing remarks on pimples, bad and 
of long standing, etc., for the use of animal charcoal, with sugar, before 
meals, also of soda after meals, for this gaseous condition of the stomach.) 

11. Dyspepsia, or Indigestion, Very Valuable Treatment 
of. — I am now using a very valuable medicine, or combination, on a case 
where the indigestion was very bad, so much so, it might be considered real 
dyspepsia; but the treatment allayed the distre.ss so promptly, and helped, or 
enabled the food to digest, so effectually that I will give the recipe. First I 
used the following fluid preparatioa. 

I. Solution for Dyspepsia. — ^Peprin in crystals, 30 grs. ; glycerine, 1 oz. ; 
concentrated lactic acid, % ^^"^^ : ^i^t' Jed, or soft water, 4 ozs. ; mix. Dose— 
A tea-spoonful in 3 or 4 tea-apoonfuh of water, immediately after each meal. 

Remarks. — After a week or two, as the case may improve, less, and still 
less, may be used, say % tea-spoonful only, till finally cured. And in case 
there is a diarrheal tendency, or any inflammatory condition of any part of the 
system, in which the lactic acid is not good, take the following powder, in place 
of the solution, as aJbova 

12. Bowder tor Dyspepsia, Diarrhea, etc^-Sub-carbonate of 
bismuth, 200 grs.;8clieffer'3,or other good pepsin, 100 grs. Mix thoroughly, 
and make into 20 powders. Dose— Take 1 powder in a little molasses and 
water, half-and-half, immediately after each meal, the same as the scdution; 
and after some time, or suitable improvement has been made, divide a powder 
for 2 doses, as long as needed. 

Remarks. — This will meet very bad cases of either disease, and prove, 
generally, all that can be desired. See the use of bismuth with Dover's 
powders, inioosenessof the bowels, from teething — where it is effectual, although 
the cause, in the case of teething is continued for several months, or as long as 
the teething continues. It holds the fort, however, notwithstanding this coa- 



153 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

tinuance of the cause, so it will with the pepsin here as well as in the other case. 
But whether the solution or the powder is being used, if there is heat and an 
uneasy or distressed condition of the stomach, it is an evidence that the hoi; 
water, given next below, is called for, and will prove valuable. 

13. Hot Water for Dyspepsia.— The following item is from the 
Hartford Courant, which I have since proven to be very valuable. By using 
the hot water an hour before each meal, instead of only at breakfast. The 
Courant say?,: "A gentleman who is in business in this city has cured him- 
self of a chronic and ugly form of dyspepsia in a very simple way. He 
was given up to die; but he finally abandoned alike the doctors and the drugs, 
and resorted to a method of treatment which most doctors and most persons 
would laugh at as an ' old woman's remedy.' It was simply swallowing a tea- 
cupful of hot water before breakfast every morning. He took the water from 
the cook's tea-kettle, and so hot that he could only take it by the spoonful. For 
about three weeks this morning dose was repeated, the dyspepsia decreasing all 
the while. At the end of that time he could eat, he says, any breakfast or dinner 
that any well person could eat— had gained in weight, and has ever since been 
hearty and well. His weight is now between 30 and 40 pounds greater than it 
was during the dyspepsia sufferings; and for several years he has had no trouble 
with his stomach — unless it was some temporary inconvenience due to a late 
supper or dining out, and in such a case a single trial of his ante-break fast remedy 
was sure to set all things right. He obtained his idea from a German doctor, 
and in turn recommended it to others— and in every case, according to this 
gentleman's account, a cure was effected. " 

Remarks. — After seeing the above item ir) the Courant I have had occasion 
to use the hot water personally, and to direct it for others; and I have found it 
satisfactory, if taken faithfully before eac'i meal, instead of only at breakfast. I 
also find that heating it in summer to about 40 degrees and in winter to 145 degrees 
F., is about the right degree of heat. I hea' it over a small coal-oil stove, in a pint 
tin cup, about % full, which I find about the right amount to be taken at one 
time. It can be heated in a tea-kettle and poured into a cup or bowl; but it is 
well to have a thermometer to know just what the heat is. A tea-spoonful of 
sugar makes it pleasant for me, but a bit of lemon juice might suit some better. 
It must be followed for several months, in long standing cases, to prove of last- 
ing benc'it, eating only easily digested food, and nothing that disagrees with 
the stomach. The sipping of the hot water has this advantage also, it allays 
the great thirst of dyspeptic patients, as well as the heat and distress in the 
stomach, better than anything else I know of, contracting the lax and flabby 
condition of the muscular coating of the stomach, giving tone and strength to 
this organ, which immediately diffuses itself to the whole system. Take the 
hot water before each meal and at bed-time as long as you have any considerable 
thirst. Be careful, also, not to eat too much, and only at meal times, 
and a cure must be the result. (See also Hot Water Cure for Consumption.) 

APPETITE— To Increase or Restore. — Obtain valerian root, 3€ 
or % lb. Have it ground ccwiraely, or well bruised. Make a tea of it by steep- 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 158 

Ing a rounding table-spoonful of the powder in water 1 pt. Dose — One to 2 
table-spoonfuls just before meals, and hull t'> a wine-glassful at bed-time. 

Remarks. — This plant is known as the American Greek-valerian, abscess 
root, blue bells (from its blue flowers), sweat root, Jacob's ladder, etc. The 
Latin, or technical, name is polemonium reptans. It grows in the northern 
states, and was a great favorite with the Indians, the tea being given freely in 
fevers, pleurisy, and to produce copious perspiration. It is claimed also to 
cleanse the blood, and to have cured many cases of consumption. 

, PECKHAM'S GENUINE BALSAM -For Coughs, Sore 
Throat, Sore Chest, Kidney Difficulties, Wounds, etc.— Rosin, 
10 lbs. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 gal.; or, rosin, 23^ ozs. ; turpentine, 2 ozs., is 
the same proportion. Dikections — Melt the rosin in a suitable kettle, or pan, 
over a stove, in the day time, so that it shall not be necessary to have a lamp, 
or candle, near; and when not too hot put in the turpentine, gradually. It 
must not be made over an open fire, as the gas arising from it as the turpen- 
tine is put in takes fire very readily, and would quickly fill a whole room with 
its blaze, and perhaps fire the house; hence I have given tliese necessary pre- 
cautions. Bottle while moderately hot, else it will run too slowly. Dose — For 
a grown person, take from 5 to 10 drops on sugar; children, 1 or 2, to 5 drops, 
night and morning. 

Remarks.— I obtained this recipe of L. S. Robinson, of Jackson, Mich., 
who says he has made and sold thousands of dollars worth of it, claiming that 
it is the original Peckham's balsam, and that all additional articles put in 
and claimed to be an improvement, should not be used. With this balsam Mr. 
Robinson claims he has made some remarkable cures in the diseases mentioned, 
both internal and external, and mentions the following cases. 

I. A mare of his own, being in a strange pasture with some cows, 
was badly hooked one night. The wound was long, deep and jagged, upon 
the side; but he put some of this balsam into every part of the wound, then 
sewed it up, except a little opening at the lowest point of the wound, to allow 
the matter in healing to drain off. Then drove home, 30 miles, the same day, 
and the wound made a very rapid healing. 

II. A remarkable case, that of a lady who had had several miscarriages, 
and feared another, there being an inflammation of the parts, and also of the 
neck of the bladder; but 5 to 8 drop doses, night and morning, of this balsam, 
cured both difficulties; the lady, upon a subsequent trip he was making over 
that route, showing him the babe, healthy and well, and herself the same, tell- 
ing him, "There, doctor, that is your child, you saved it; nothing else was 
used." 

III. A gentleman who had recently buried a wife from consumption, and 
who considered himself past help, with the same disease, when Mr. Robinson 
first made his acquaintance. But with this balsam internally, and Cook's 
electro-magnetic liniment, externally, he was entirely cured, and is still alive, 
at this writing, hale and hearty, living with a second wife, some 80 year* 
after the cure. 



J54 DR. CHA8WS RECIPES. 

BBIGHT»S DISEASE OP THE KIDNEYS.-A Novel Cfuro 
for.. — A correspondent of the New York Evening Post gives the following 
novel item to that journal. He says: 

"About 20 years ago, a daughter of mine — then about 6 years old — was 
given up to die by the family physician, who said that she had Bright's Disease 
of the Kidneys, and that it was incurable, and never known to be cured either 
in Europe or America. The physician, on giving tlie case up, told my wife to 
give the child anything that she wanted, and to make her as comfortable as 
possible while she lived. The child constantly called for beans; so my wife 
cooked some as quickly as possible, not stopping to parboil them, as is usually 
done, but boiled beans, pork and potatoes together, in the first water, and when 
well cooked she gave them to the child to eat. The child then went to sleep 
and from that time began to improve. She Is now the mother of two children. 
She is not troubled with the disea.se unless she takes a severe cold, and when 
that happens she at once uses her old remedy, and it is always effectual. 

Remarks. There is nothing said here about continuing to eat the beans; 
but I take it for granted that this was, and should be done in all cases ; and tell 
me, pray! why beans should not have this power as well as any drug? And 
it is admitted, as this writer says, that it is seldom, or never known to be cured. 
Let this remedy, therefore, have more than a fair trial by a long continued use. 
Beans are certainly a healthy and agreeable food for a general diet. But if 
used especially for kidney difficulties keep all their virtues by not changing the 
water. Beans over a year old are liable to become musty as well as doubly 
hard, and unfit for this, or any other use. 

2. Bright's Disease — Sixteen out of Nineteen Cases in a 
London Hospital Cured.— Notwithstanding the statement in the item 
above, that Brights disease was never to be cured in Europe or America, still 
some years ago a London (Eng.) physician reported in the London Lancet, th« 
cure of 16 out of 19 cases, in the Hospital, by the use of 15 gr. doses of pow- 
dered valerian, 3 or four times a day, with supporting diet. Now the fl. ex. 
would be used, in >^ to 1 teaspoon doses, with the same effect; but I am not 
aware of its having been used by others. But if one has the difficulty it had 
better be tried, and may, with the beans, as above, cure more than without 
them. 

QUINSY.— A New and Successful Remedy for.— A Dr. Gin©, 
Professor of Clinical Surgery, at Madrid, Spain, reports through the La Presse 
Med. Beige, July 17, 1881, the bicarbonate of soda (the common baking soda, 
the best, however is the English bicarbonate, kept by druggists) applied to the 
tonsils in fine powder in Quinsy, repeating frequently, is of inestimable effi- 
cacy, he having cured dozens of cases — in no case vnthout benefit, and, usually 
a cure in 24 hours ; and in no case when he had used it had he found it necei- 
sary to remove the tonsUs. 

Directions foe Application. It may be applied by rolling a bit of 
paper of suitable length into cylindrical form, then putting the end into a fine 
powder of the soda, to get a suitable amount into the hollow, the size of an 
ordinary goose quill and blowing it upon the tonsils; or applying it by wetting 
the finger, then putting the finger into the powder, then upon the tonsils. 

Remarks. I have had a© opportunity f©r trying it for this purpose, but I 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 155 

have proved its value as a gargle in "Sore Throat, — which see. See also its 
value in " Burns, Scalds, etc." See, also, "Inflammation of the Tonsils following 
Sick Headache," where the latter remedy — the salicylate of soda — is used as a 
satisfactory cure in both these diseases, as inflammation of the tonsils is only 
another name for quinsy. 

1. EYE-WATERS.— Sulphate of zinc, and fine table salt, cach4 grs. ; 
sugar of lead, 2 grs. ; morphine, 5 grs. ; loaf sugar, 10 grs. ; distilled or rain 
water, 4ozs. ; mix and keep corked. Directions— Drop 1 or 2 drops in the 
eye morning and evening, else apply with the finger between the lids which 
Is the most common way. Best done when laying down. It can be done very 
well by holding the head back. 

Remarks. — This will be found a very valuable eye-water m all cases of 
weakness, or slight inflammation of the eye. It may be applied tnree or four 
times a day, if needed so often. It is well to shake it two or ihi-ee times a day 
at first, for a week or ten days, then allow to settle, and strain. If this causes 
too much smarting in bad cases, reduce some of it with mor(» uin water, so it 
shall not smart more than five minutes at most. 

2. Eye- Water for very Sore Eyes or Catarrhal Ophthalmisu 
— Tincts. of aconite, and veratrum viride, each 10 drops; acetate of lead, 5 grs.; 
morphine, 3 grs.; water, as in No. 1, 4 ozs. Directions — Open the lids and 
put in freely. 

Remarkt. — I. It is claimed by physicians that this has cured very bad 
cases. These very bad cases are generally the result of an acute inflammation 
of the eyes which, instead of having been cured, have degenerated into a 
chronic or long standing condition, with considerable watering of the eyes, and 
also, especially in the mornings, a thick matter is found in them, all for the 
want of proper treatment, else a scrofulous condition of the system. In all these 
cases, bathing the feet in hot water evenings, and taking cream of tartar, 1 oz., 
dissolved in 1 pt. of boiling water, and drank of freely, when cold, to produce 
gentle cathartic action, will be found a valuable help in curing them; or, the 
old plan, taking cream of tartar and sulphur, equal parts, or of late, 2 ozs. of 
cream of tartar to 1 oz. of sulphur, mixed and stirred into syrup, and take 3 
mornings and skip 3, until 9 doses are taken, was a good way, if enough is 
taken to act pretty freely on the bowels by the 3d day. Being also careful to 
avoid a greasy diet, and using only plain and nutritious food, avoiding also 
stimulating drinks, if a cure is hoped for or desired. 

II. If the Urine is high colored or deficient in quantity, take acetate of 
potash, 3^ oz., in water, 8 ozs. Dose— 1 to 2 tea-spoonfuls 3 or 4 times daily 
until free and clear, will aid much in bringing about a healthy condition of the 
system in most cases. 

III. Case in Hand. Prof. Scudder, in the Eclectic Medical Journal, gives 
the case of a child 11 months old having this catarrhal ophthalmia, with the 
matter sticking the lids together in the mornings, cured by him with the above 
treatment after other physicians had failed to give any relief; with the addition 
only of the tinct. of rhus toxicondendron (poison oak) 4 drops in 4 ozs. of water. 



156 DB. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

DosB — One tea-spoonful 4 times daily. His cure was effected in 5 weeks, and 
very satisfactory. 

3. Weak Eyes, Mild Eemedy for.— Put 1 dr., or a tea-spoonful, 
each of spirits of camphor and laudanum into a 4 oz. vial and fill with rose- 
water. Shake and apply as often as needed. Rain water will do. Shaken 
when used, works very satisfactory. 

4. Another Mild Eye-Water — For Children. — Take 1 oz. of 
elder flowers and steep in % pt. of soft water (steep in an earthen dish); strain, 
and add % tea-spoonful of laudanum. Keep in a cool place, and use as needed. 

Remarks. — If the eyes are painful, wet soft cloths with this, and bind on at 
night. If of long standing or chronic, make a tea of the elder flowers and 
drink, or give to children in these cases, to cleanse the blood. 

5. Weak Eyes, Wash for. — Some writer for weak eyes- says: " Bathe 
your eyes night and morning in a tolerably strong solution of common table salt 
and water. We have known some remarkable cures effected by this simple 
remedy. After bathing the eyes daily for about a week, intermit a day or two; 
then resume the daily bathing, and so on till your ej'es get strong again." 

6. Eyes, Acute Inflammation of— Valuable Remedy.— For an 
acute inflammation of the eyes I know of nothing better than to take the white 
of an egg, in a tin cup, and beat into it thoroughly about )^ a teaspoon of pow- 
dered alum; set on the stove to heat, and stir constantly till it curdles; then 
strain off the whey, breaking up the curd and putting it upon a cloth, and lay 
upon the eye ; and as it becomes dry, take it off and fold the cloth around it to 
keep the curd together; re-wet it, by putting it into the whey, drain off the sur- 
plus whey, and re-apply. This may be done 2 or 3 times; then make more, if 
needed, and use the same way, until the inflammation subsides; after which 
any of the eye waters, reduced with water to be very mild, may be used to 
strengthen the eyes. I have used this in just this way, upon my own eye, with 
entire success. If the inflammation should continue long, take some salts or 
cream of tartar, or the sulphur mixture as in No. 2 for "Catarrhal Ophthalmia." 
t see this alum cure is recommended, in about the same way, for sprains. 
I have not used it upon them; yet, as a sprain produces an inflammation, I think 
It will prove valuable there also. 

7. Eyes, to Remove Iron and Steel from. — Iodine, 2 grs.; 
iodide of potash, 12 grs. ; soft water, 3 ozs. 

Remarks. — Accidents are often occurring to millers, while picking the mill- 
stones, by a small bit of steel from the pick penetrating into the coating of the 
eye. Dr. T. B. King, of Toledo, an old English physician, referred to several 
times in this work, informs me that he has cured several cases with this prepa- 
ration. I have had no opportunity to test it since I obtained it, but had one 
just before, which I was relating to the " Old Doctor," when he gave me this. 
He says, by putting one or two drops of it into the eye a few times, the steel or 
iron will be loosened in 24 hours. Then let no one fail to try it, as soon as 
needed. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES, 157 

8. Eyes, Granulation of.— For granulations (small grain -like eleva- 
tions inside of the lids) of the eye, Dr. King puts corroscive sublimate, }/^ gr., 
into the reddish codliver oil, 1 oz., dissolves and applies 2 or 3 times daily, vrith 
great success. 

9. Films o." the Eye — One Case of Five and One of Nine- 
teen Years Blindness Cured. — I. Dr. M. P. Greensword, of Pough- 
keepsie, N. Y., reporting through the Medical Summary, in Dec. No. for 1882, 
says: "I took a patient that had been blind five years from opacity (thickening 
of the cornea membrane covering the front of the eye, •which prevents seeing 
through it) and gave him tlie nitrate of silver in doses as follows: Nitrate of 
silver, 5 grs. ; tannin, 2 grs. ; rain water, 6 ozs. Dose — A tea-spoonful 15 min- 
utes before each meal. In 10 days he began to receive sight, and in one year 
his sight was nearly perfect. 

"After this I took a man aged 82, and blind nineteen j^ears from opacity of 
the cornea: I gave him the same remedy, in the same way, and in 6 months his 
sight was restored nearly perfect. I have since cured a great many cases from 
opacity by the same remedy, It is far superior to mercury in any shape. 
Another advantage in using this remedy is that the patient continues to grow bet- 
ter for a year after discontinuing its use, if he lets all other medicines alone dur- 
ing that time." 

Remarks. — The Doctor admits having failed to cure some cases of females, 
who were troubled with leucorrhcea, until he cured that difficulty by ap- 
plying a sponge to the parts wet with a strong solution of cadmium, for 24 
hours; then alternate with a sponge pessary, saturated with pure glycerine, for 
the same length of time. The words, "a strong solution," may do very well for 
a physician, but for the people it is not as well as to say how many grs. to 1 oz. 
of water — from % to 4 grs to the oz. are used as an eye-water, and double this 
strength is used in ulcerations of the ear; then 5 or 6 grs. to 1 oz of soft water 
would be as strong as I would recommend. It is much like the sulphate of 
zinc in its action. I trust the nitrate of silver, as above, Mill continue to give 
satisfaction in blindness. 

If nitrate of silver is taken very long in any case, I should fear it might 
give a dark color to the skin and whites of the eyes, that could never be removed. 
Look out for that, by consulting with your physician, and stop its use if these 
conditions show at all, but even this is better than blindness. 

II. The old plan of removing films from the eyes, by rubbing a piece of 
"blue stone" (blue ntrol — sulphate of copper), made very smooth, over them, 
once daily, which lias been done also for gi-anulations, is a quicker way, and no 
danger of discoloring the skin. But this would have to be done by a physician 
or some one a little skilled in turning up the lids out of the way, then simply 
passing it carefully over the film or granulations, as the case may be. It is 
pretty severe but effectual, if properly done. The eye-lid should be held open 
2 or 3 minutes before allowing it to close. 

III. Films are also removed with corrosive sublimate, J^ gr. dissolved in 
}4. o7. of sub acetate of lead water, then J^ oz. of white cod liver oU, added 



158 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

and shaken until thoroughly mixed, and shaken when used. Put on a little 
with a brush once daily. Of course, in all cases, correct the blood and general 
health. 

10. Stye upon the Eye— Lid Bemedy.— Put a toaspoonful of black 
tea in a small bag; pour on it enough boiling water to moisten it; then put it 
on the eye pretty warm. Keep it on all night and in the morning the stye will 
most likely be gone; if not, a second application is certain to remove it." 

Remarks. — The infusion or weak tea, made from black tea, has been for 
some time considered good as an eye-water, then why not the grounds good as 
a poultice? I believe it may be worthy of trial. 

As a beverage the black tea is preferable for invalids and for nervous 
people — a weak infusion. Should the above poultice of tea fail, try the follow- 
ing, which I know must be good in any kind of swelling, as styes, boils, etc., 
if followed up properly. It is from the Cricket on the Hearth, a valuable paper. 
It is headed: 

11. A Stye, to Remove from the Eyelid.— " The stye is strictly 
only a little boil, which projects from the edge of the eye-lid. It usually disap- 
pears of itself after a little time, especially if some purgative medicine be taken. 
If the stye should be very painful and inflamed, a small warm poultice of lin- 
seed meal and bread or milk must be laid over it, (a poultice of powdered 
sUppery elm is also good for any inflammation), and renewed every 5 or 6 hours, 
and the bowls freely acted upon by a purgative draught, such as the following: 

I. Purgative Draught for Stye, or Other Purposes. — " Take Epsom salts, 
3^ oz. ; best manna, J^ oz. ; infusion of senna, % oz. ; tinct. senna, }i oz. ; spear- 
mint water, 1 oz. ; distilled or soft water, 2 ozs. Mix and take 3, 4 or 5 table- 
spoonfuls. When the stye appears ripe, an opening should be made into it with 
the point of a large needle, and afterward a little of the following ointment may 
be smeared over it once or twice a day. 

II. Ointment for Stye, Chaps, etc. — Take spermaceti, % oz. ; white wax, 
13^ ozs. ; olive oil, 3 ozs. Mix them together over a slow fire, and stir them 
constantly until cold. 

Remarks. — Box the ointment for use, as above indicated. A faithful use 
of these will soon tell. 

1. CORNS— Hard and Soft, Warts, Bunions, etc.— I. Corns.— 
Probably but few subjects of more universal interest could be found than the 
very humble one of corns. A writer in the Christian Weekly says: " They are 
of two kinds — soft and hard — the result of pressure which stimulates the skin 
so that an increased flow of blood to the excited part is caused, and the cells of 
the cuticle (from the Latin cutis, skin,) are more rapidly produced than is 
natural. Soft corns occur between the toes, because of the pressure of the joints 
of the smaller toes on the opposite skin, and the corn is constantly moist with 
perspiration. The first thing in the cure of corns is to remove the cause — weai 
soft, broad-toed shoes and boots, and thus remove the irritating pressure. 

I. Hard Corm. — Soak hard corns in warm water, shave down, touch them 
with a little acetic acid occasionally, and put a thin plaster over the 00m to iwe- 
vent chafing after the application of the acid, 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 159 

II. Soft Corns. — In the case of soft corns great cleanliness must be 
observed, the suffering toes must be kept separate by a bit of cotton, and the 
dead skin, after touching lightly with the acid, must be removed as fast as its 
tenderness will allow. But no cure can be accomplished while an ill-fitting 
shoe is still doing its mischievous work. Too tight a shoe, especially one too 
narrow-toed, is an ill-fitting shoe. 

Remarks. — I wish to say as confirming the idea above advanced, that if any 
one will not give up their " tight fits " they may rest assured that they will 
always have a crop of corn(s) on hand, or rather on foot. So suit yourself as to 
keeping a full supply. 

2. Bunions, Corns, Warts, etc.— Brister's Spanish Destroyer. 
— Concentrated ether, 1 lb. ; gun cotton, 1 oz. ; best alcohol, 8 ozs. ; glycerine, 
1 oz. ; a trifle of red aniline to color. 

I. Directions to Make. — Put the gun cotton on a plate and wet it with a 
little alcohol, and then put all into the ether. If a less amount is desired keep 
the same proportions. Keep corked. To color, if to put up for sale, put 5 cts. 
worth of aniline red into 1 oz. of alcohol, and 1 tea-spoonful of it will color all 
a nice red, more or less as you choose. 

II. Directions for Use. — Soak the feet in warm water from 5 to 10 min- 
utes; scrape the outside of the corns, or bunions, with a knife. Apply the 
destroyer to the afllicted parts with a brush, as thin as possible, about three 
times a week, 4 or 5 applications being suflicient to cure the affected parts. 
Should the corns be between the toes (soft corns), place a little piece of cotton 
between them, to keep them apart, and to keep the medicine from being rubbed 
off. 

For warts keep covered with the remedy, or destroyer, till they are removed. 
Keep the vial corked tightly. 

The destroyer, when applied to the afilicted parts, forms a thin plaster 
(artificial skin) over the same. Discontinue the use of the destroyer until the 
plaster disappears. When my wife used it upon her bunions she put some 
washing fluid (made of sal-soda and lime, which she always kept for washing 
purposes), into the water in which she soaked the bunions, then scraped off all 
the dead matter and softened skin, and applied the remedy. It did not take 
but a few days to reduce her bunions more than one-half in size, and to remove 
all soreness. This is really a valuable thing for bunions. 

But sal-soda put in the water to soak the corn, or bunion in, making it 
pretty strong, will do as well as the washing ffluid, referred to above; it soft- 
ens the hard scaly surface, which is to be scraped off; then apply as above 
directed, with a brush. 

Remarks. — I obtained this recipe of "Wm. H. Brister, of Springfield, HI., 
at the depot where he was selling the " Destroyer," as he calls it. He had a cir- 
cular, calling himself " The Great Western Corn Doctor," and told me he had 
traveled 8 years in its sale, and had cleared his living for himself and family 
and built a house in Springfield worth $8,000 made out of the business. This 
remedy must certainly have been very valuable, or he could noc have continued 
its sale for so maay years; for he showed me certificates from prominent moo. 



160 BR. OEASE' 8 RECIPES. 

governors, senators, lawyers, doctors, etc., all over tlie country whom he 
had cured. I have made it and cured many bad bunions, and hence I know its 
value. It forms an artificial skin over the parts and hence it is good in slight 
bruises or abrasions, to put on for this purpose, to protect them from water, etc. 

3. Corns, Simple Remedy for. — Having removed the friction and 
pressure causing corns, by the substitution of well constructed shoes and boots, 
the thickened cuticle may be removed by applying equal parts of carbonate of 
soda and common brown bar soap. Rub these substances together, with a 
spoon handle or knife blade on the surface of a plate, forming a strong alkaline 
ointment. Directions — Spread a little of this on a piece of buck-skin or wash- 
leather and apply it to the surface of the corns at bed-time, after soaking them 
for 5 or 10 minutes in hot water, allowing it to remain until morning. When 
the soap plaster is removed in the morning, the corn to which it has been applied, 
will be found white and soft, and by scraping a little around its base with your 
finger nail, or a dull knife, it may be easily raised up and removed. Then apply 
the colodion or artifical skin, or a bit of court plaster, till it heals. This is all 
that is needed, except to wear easy shoes and boots. 

4. Corns, A Sure Cure for.— Bathe in a strong solution of sal soda; 
pare off close, and touch the corn with carbolized iodine; repeat the application 
of iodine next day, and a cure will speedily follow. 

Remarks. — A druggist will prepare this mixture, if desired, and either of 
the plans here given, with proper care not to wear tight boots or shoes, will 
cure corns. 

5. Corn Salve, Effectual.— Pine pitch, or pine tar, as some call it, 
brovra sugar and saltpeter, each, 1 tea-spoonful. Simmer together. Pare the 
corn as close as you can. Spread some of the salve on an old kid glove or 
other thin, soft leather, the size of the corn; bind it on for 2 or 3 days; when 
taken off the corn comes off with it. A lady who had used it gave me this. 

6. Warts, Simple Cure for.— Cut a piece of wild turnip, 
from the woods, and rub several times upon the wart or warts. A writer 

.«ays: " I removed nearly a hundred from hands, leaving no scar at all." 
Remarks.— l^hi?. is simple, and is, no doubt, as good as represented. 

7. It is also claimed that our simple potato, cut and rubbed on, the same 
<s the wild turnip, in the receipt above, 3 times a day for a few days, removed 
^0 warts from the writer's hands. 

S. Another writer says: " Chromic acid, a drop or two to each wart at 
*)ed-time, I will warrant to cure in 3 days." 

Remarks.— Ee careful not to get it on the hands or clothing, nor leave it 
^here children can get it. Carbolic acid, full strength, will do the same thing. 
The best way to apply any acids is to take the end of a match-stick and mash 
one end between the teeth, to make a broom-like end, to hold only a drop or 
two, and just touch the head of the wart, or corn with the acid 2 or 3 times. 
Remember this — if you get too much acid on, so it runs down into the flesh, 
•oda will neutralize it. The chromic acid is considered the safest of the acida. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 161 

(Sec Cancer, Cliromic Acid in, etc.) Pon't use enough to spread upon otner 
parts. 

9. Warts, Simple and Easy Cure.— Rubbing warts night and 
tnoruing with a moistened piece of muriate of ammonia (sal ammoniac), mil 
cause their disappearance without pain or scar. 

10. Warts on Cows' Teats; or. The Hand's Remedy.— E. Wal- 
cott asks ttie readers of the Detroit Tiibune for a remedy for warts upon cows' 
teats, and " J. L.," of Maple, Mich., makes him the following answer: "Take 
a handful of green bean leaves and rub them in the hands until the hands are 
thoroughly wet with the juice; then proceed to milk. As often as the hands 
get dry while milking, moisten again with tlie bean leaf juice. Do this twice 
or three times a week, and in a f^w weeks there will be no warts on the cow's 
teats or the hands of the milker. " 

1. SEASICKNESS, CURE FOR. — Dr. Landener, ot Athena 
Greece, claims to have discovered that 10 to 12 drops of chloroform cures sea- 
sickness. One dose cured 18 out of 20; the second dose cured the others. 

Remarks. — It is simple, easily obtained and not unpleasant to take in a lit- 
tle water. And a lady who has had considerable experience in crossing parts 
of Lake Erie informs me that the smelling of chloroform a few times has 
relieved much of the nausea attending seasickness. So, also, my judgment is 
that the taking and inhaling a little of it from the bottle will do great 
good. 

2. English Remedy. — The bromide of sodium, for long voyages, has 
been found very effectual in doses of 10 grs., 3 times a day, in treating 200 
cases of ocean seasickness. — Dr. Kendall in British Medical Journal. 

Remarks. — The bromide of sodium was first used by the late Dr. Beard. 
The indiscriminate use of oranges, lemons, brandy and champagne, Dr. Ken- 
dall condemns, as making the case worse than without them. 

CALOMEL, a Substitute for, in Jaundice, Hepatic Dropsy, 
TTypochondriosis, Hemorrhoids, Throat and Bronchial Inflam- 
inationts, etc. — A medical Avriter says: " Sulphate of manganese is now being 
introduced as a substitute for mercury m various bilious troubles. In jaundice, 
hepatic dropsy (dropsy arising from liver dilficulties, and most generally affect- 
ing the abdomen), hypochondriasis (a condition of melancholy, or low spirits) 
it is stated to have produced most remarkable results; and in hemorrhoids, 
(piles) and in congestion (inflammation, or an unnatural accumulation of blood) 
of the throat and bronchial tubes it has proved no less efficacious. Anaemic 
patients (persons of a pale or bloodless appearance), who cannot take any of 
the preparations of iron, are enabled to take iron with benefit it combined with 
2 to 5 grs. of sulphate of manganese. It is generally found preferable to 
administer the manganese in 10 to 20 grs. dose, in a glass of water, adding a lit- 
tle citrate cf magnesia to cause effervescence. By these doses large bilious 
dejections (passages) are produced. Half a drachm (30 grs.) is said to be tht^ 
Utmost dosfc ever necessary, 10 grains being usually quite sufficient." 
11 



62 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks.— Vroi. King, in his "American Dispensary," says: "It acts like 
a powerful cholagogue, (a Greek word signifying "to carry off bile"), causing a 
profuse secretion of bile, and has been used with efScacy in scrofula, chlorosis 
(whites), jaundice, torpid liver, diseases of tlie spleen and cachexia {i. e., any 
depraved or bad condition of the system, as from cancer, syphilis, etc.). 
Dose— The dose is from 5 to 20 grs., 3 times a day. A dr. or two (60 to 120 
grs.) dissolved in a J^ pt. or 1 pt. of water will act as a prompt purgative, with 
scarcely any depression of the system. " But," he continues, " large doses, or 
its long continued use in small doses, injures the tone of the stomach. One dr. 
of the sulphate of manganese mixed in 1 oz, of lard has been used externally 
as an ointment in buboes, chancres, indolent ulcers and some diseases of the 
skin." And the author thinks this ointment might prove valuable to rub in 
thoroughly over the liver. So it will be seen that this preparation of manga- 
nese, is a valuable article, and if it is made to take the place of calomel, it 
will be a grand tiling for the people. Almost any cathartic, if very long con- 
tinued, will depress and injure, more or less, the condition of the stomach; so 
this is not alone in thus injuring " the tone of the stomach," if long continued. 

ALTERATIVES, OR BLOOD PURIFIERS— By Food, Beers, 
etc. — An inquiry through the Blade for a plan to improve the complexion by 
removing pimples, etc., was made in the following words: " My complexion is 
sallow and bad, my skin pimply all over. I am run down, and want to feel 
aUve again. What is the matter, and what is to be done ? " To this inquiry 
the editor of the "Household Department" made such a common-sense reply 
that I give it a place, hoping that every one needing such an alterative effect will 
adopt her suggestions, and save the necessity of taking something which is 
more of a medicinal character. She says : 

I. The matter is that the blood is thoroughly vitiated, and improving it 
must be a matter of time. Spring diet should do the work of medicine, largely. 
And first in importance, are salads of all sorts. Every family should have its 
beds and boxes, its borders and hot-beds full of fresh sprouts, from the pepper- 
grass and the water-cress to the tender turnip, mustard, cabbage and beet shoots, 
the first leaves of dandelion and sorrel, cheril, mint and parsely, all good to 
mix for some of the most inviting salads. 

II, But the vegetable which combines the most beneficial qualities, which 
ranks as a medicine and purifier of the finest sort, is one, which, though its 
stigma is now removed among gourmands and in polite society, is under the 
ban in ordinary circles. The virtues of the onion render it a pharmacopoeia in 
itself. Eaten raw, with or without vinegar, it is the most effective purifier of 
the blood known. It has been known to leave consumptives plump and rosy. 
It cures dyspepsia, and is a thorough worm-medicine for children. As a toilet 
prescription, it will do as much to refine the complexion, renew the hair and 
remove spots as any one article known. More people like its piquant flavor, 
indispensable in all high-class cookery, than care to own a preference they sup- 
pose ungenteel. But there need be no hesiiation in eating onions fieely, since 
theuseof a tootlibrush and a dose of charcoal, always good in itself, or the chew- 
ing of some roasted coffee or corn, -nill remove the odor. The only care to be 




1— Yellow Dock. 2— l,obelia, or Indian Tobacco. 3— Bugleweed, or Water 
Horehound. 4— Dogwood, or Boxwood. 5— Deadly Nightshade, or 
Belladonna. 6— Wild Indigo, or Rattle Bush. 7— Pink Root, or Carolina 
Pink. 8— Black Cohosh, or Rattleroot. 9— Prickly Ash, or Yellow Wood. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 163 

observed is, that as onions absorb impurities very quickly, they should be kept 
in a dry place where there is pure air, not in musty cellars or closets, with 
decaying provisions and sour milk. To get their full benefit, raw onions and 
their young shoots should be eaten at breakfast, as a salad, with bread and but- 
ter. They banish worm complaints of the most aggravated type, and prevent 
throat and blood disease in a large degree, absorbing and removing impurities 
in the blood. * * * * I am going to give one or two old-fashioned recipes 
for spring bitters which, home-made, of fresh roots and simples, are better than 
expensive medicines, and the two following have especial virtues for the com- 
plexion. 

III. Alterative Bitters, Cheap and Good. — Put 1 oz. of yellow dock root 
and a cup of grated horse-radish in 1 quart of hard cider, cold. It will be 
ready the next day and should be taken, a wine-glass full before each meal. 
This made by the gallon and taken through the season will affect the growth of 
the hair and improve the appearance in every way, provided the strength is 
kept up by well selected food. 

IV. Alterative Beer of Our Orandmother' a Make. — The next is a strictly 
temperance beer of the sort of our grandmothers used to administer in power- 
ful doses. Take of best Jamaica ginger root, sassafras bark, from the root, 
and wild cherry bark, each 2 ozs. ; burdock root and dandelion root, each 4 ozs. ; 
bruise all, and add cream of tartar, 1 oz., and water, 2 gals. Boil 10 minutes, 
strain, and add white sugar, \% lbs.; the rind of a lemon in bits; heat, stir 
until the sugar dissolves, and pour into a stone jar with 3 ozs. of tartaric acid. 
When lukewarm, put in a tea-cupful of hop yeast, stirring well. In a few days 
it will be in high perfection and a very pleasant beer, with valuable alterative 
properties. 

Remarks. — The author thinks that 1 oz. of tartaric acid will be plenty, 
because, with the above amount, 3 ozs., it will become hard and sour too quickly. 

Bing-Worm Bemedies.— The form that this eruption takes gives its 
name, as it is generally in a circle, itching considerably when the body is heated 
by exercise, or in hot weather; and also if rubbed or scratched. A saturated 
solution (all that will dissolve) of blue vitriol in water, touching the parts sev- 
eral times daily, will cure them. 

SPBAINS— Capital Bemedy for.— The white of an egg, into which 
a piece of alum about the size of a hickory-nut has been stirred, stirring con- 
stantly until it forms a jelly or curd, is a capital remedy for sprains. It should 
be laid over the sprain upon a piece of lint, and be changed or re- wet in the 
whey as often as it becomes dry. 

Remarks. — I think it best to lay on a cloth, rather than lint, for convenience 
of re-wetting, as in for Inflammation of the Eye; full directions there how to 
make and use it. It allays inflammation and soreness quickly. 

1. CUTS AND BUBNS Shorn of Their Terrors.— A writer in 
the Stratford (Ont.) Weekly Herald gives the following remedy for slight cuts 
and small burns, which she claims to be so effectual as to remove the usual 
terror arising in a family upon such occasions. She says: " Our own remedy 



164 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

for cuts and burns is glue or mucilage. This closes up a cut nicely, and one 
will experience no inconvenience thereafter. Cuts and burns are shorn of their 
terrors when the glue or mucilage is handy and ready for use. Let our lady 
readers bear this in mind. The good right-hand which penned these lines was 
caught under a stick while replenishing the fire in the kitchen stove, and pressed 
closely against the hot iron plate so that one finger was quite roasted. We 
released it and almost fainted before we could reach the cool, thick mucilage on 
our writing-desk, when, lo! all pain, and smart, and annoyance were gone, and 
the hand was ready for duty just as soon as the transparent covering could dry. 
How many useful things there are, the value of which we know almost nothing 
of." 

Remarks.. — I was aware that carriage varnish was good for slight cuts, 
bums and bruises, when the skin is more or less abraded, or scraped (from 
the Latin abro/dere, to scrape off), anfl I have no doubt a good liquid glue or the 
common mucilage, made with giim arabic, 5 ozs., to water, 3^ pt., will do just 
as well. I should prefer the mucilage in place of the glue. 

2. Cute, An Excellent Remedy for. — " It is not generally known," 
says a writer, " that the leaves of the common geranium are an excellent remedy 
for cut«, or where the skia is rubbed off, and other wounds of that kind. One 
or 2 leaves, bruised and applied to the parts, and the wounds will be cicatrized 
(healed) in a short time." (See Burns, Scalds, etc., for the use of the new 
remedy — bi-carbonate of soda.) 

3. Cute, "Wounde, Felons and Other Inflammations, Hot 
Water Poultice for.— A paper called the Rome Health says that a hot water 
poultice is the most healing application for cuts, bruises, wounds, sores, felons 
and other inflammations, that can be used. The poultice is made by dipping 
cotton in hot water and applying, changing often. A convenient way is, in 
case of felons or other painful abscess, to hold the hand for hours in water as 
hot as can be comfortably borne. 

Remarks. — This is undoubtedly valuable. I have for some time past used 
hot applications to an inflamed eye, while most physicians apply cold. It is 
good for internal use, as seen by the use of the hot water cures for dyspepsia, 
consumption, etc., in this book, which see; why not good for external applica- 
lions? I believe it will be found so, if a wound or other sore manifests the least 
tendency to inflame and become tedious in healing. 

1. CATARRH, NASAL — Common-Sense Treatment for.— 
Notwithstanding Dr. Dio Lewis has sometimes appeared, at least, to run the 
"diet " question into the ground, as we often hear said, yet his remarks upon it 
in connection with nasal catarrh are perfectly sound. He says: 

"For nasal catarrh, eat only a piece of beefsteak (broiled is best) half as 
large as your hand, one baked potato and one slice of bread for your breakfast; 
a piece of roast beef as large as your hand, with one boiled potato and one 
slice of bread, for dinner; take nothing for supper, and go to bed at 8:30 
o'clock. Sleep, if possible, half an hour before dinner. Drink nothing with 
your meals, nor within two hours after. Drink as much cold water on rising 



TREA TMENT OF DISEA SES. 165 

and going to bed as you can. Live 4 to 6 hours daily in the open air, riding or 
Tralking. Bathe frequently, and every night on going to bed rub the skin all 
over -with a hair glove. [There are two kinds of hair gloves, the English and 
American, usually kept by di-uggists. The English are the best, being more 
durable.] In less than a week you will get along with one handkerchief daily. 
To cure even bad cases you have only to make your stomach digest well — 
only to make yourself healthier — and your nose will quickly find it out and 
adapt itself to the better manners of its companions." 

Remarks. — Dr. Lewis claims, and the above treatment indicates, this dis- 
ease to be constitutional, and, therefore, he works upon the constitution alter* 
atively through the digestion, which, not directly but impliedly, forbids tea, 
coffee and all pastry; but while he leaves the substantials, we may well allow 
him to cut off, as he does, all hurtful superfluities. It has only to be tried 
faithfully to satisfy the most incredulous of its value. It will prove equally 
valuable in consumption, salt-rheum, discharges from the ears, fever-sores, etc., 
etc., as he claims them all to be constitutional rather than simply local, as has 
been generally believed. Certainly this common-sense plan of eating and care 
of the person will do great good in these and all chronic diseases; and it would 
be wise for everybody to use much less of the superfluities and confine them- 
selves to the simple necessaries in the line of food, if health and consequent 
long life is worthy of consideration. It will not be possible for those living in 
the country to always have fresh steak or roast beef, but they must confine 
themselves to the substantials, and let cake, pie and puddings alone, if they 
hope to get rid of long-standing disease. And I will only add here that in any 
chronic, i. e., long-standing, disease, the salt-water washings (which see) should 
be resorted to, with the dry rubbings, as there directed. 

2. Catarrh Snuff. — Pulverized borax, 1 oz. ; loaf-sugar, pulverized, J^ 
dr. Mix thoroughly, and take 6 to 10 pinches daily. 

Remarks. — It may be used in connection with any other treatment, and will 
be found especially valuable in all recent cases, and has cured many chronic, or 
long-standing cases, without other aids Still it is always best to use general 
treatment in connection with it. If the throat is at all sore at the same time 
you take a pinch of the snuff, it will be found valuable to take another pinch 
and drop it into the fauces, or back part of the throat. It helps the cure mate^ 
rially. 

3. Catarrh, Ointment for. — Pure tar, }4 oz. ; freshly made, unsalted 
butter, 1 oz. , or 1 oz. to 4 if it is thought that much will be needed. Simmer 
together and apply inside the nostrils from 3 to 6 times a day, as the case seems 
to require. This is claimed to be very valuable, keeping the membrane moist 
as well as being curative in itself. 

EPIIjEPSY— Of Long Standing— German Cure for.— Accord- 
ing to Kunze, we possess in Curare a remedy by which cases of epilepsy ol 
very long standing can be cured. He uses a solution of ^ grs. of Curare in 1 
dr. and 15 minims of water, to which 2 drops of hydrochloric acid ha.v<' keen 
added. At intervals of about a week he injects 8 drops of this solutir* «"!> 



166 DR. CHASES' RECIPES. 

cutaneously (under the skin), and he has found that in some cases where con 
vulsions had occurred for some years, a complete cure was effected after about 
8 to 10 m]eciions.—Deutsc7ie Zeitsch. f. prakt. Med. 1877, No. 9. 

Remarks. — The Curare is one of the newer remedies, and may not be gen- 
erally kept by druggists; but as this would have to be done by a physician, 
having a suitable instrument to inject with, he can obtain the remedy with- 
out trouble to the patient. It will be a grand thing if we have a cure, at last, 
for this terrible disease. The following, liowever, which came to me in the 
Medical Summary, of Landsdale, Pa., for December, 1883, long after the above 
was written, seems to hold out great hopes, with much less trouble, than the 
foregoing. It was first communicated to the Medical and Surgical Reporter by 
Edward Vanderpoel, M D., who says : 

" When I commenced practice, in 1833, nitrate of silver was the grand 
remedy for this complaint. After repeated failures, however, with it, I was 
told by Dr. Boyd, an octogenarian (one of 80 years, who might have seen 50 or 
60 years of practice), of our city, that he had no trouble in its cure. He had 
treated a man successf ulh' who had not earned a dollar in 20 years, and who after- 
wards supported his family hy his labor. I gladly adopted his practice, and 
have been successful ever since. The remedy, oxide of zinc. Directions — 
Begin % gr. dose, 3 times a day, for 24 doses (8 days). Then 1 gr. for 24 doses. 
Then IJ^ grs. 3 times a day, rubbing the spine with stramonium ointment, 
morning and evening, and stimulating embrocations (liniments), which I have 
seen used. Since then I have been successful; never going beyond 5 gr. doses, 
except in one case of a hard drinker and opium eater who, at the time I com 
menced with him, had been treated for a year with bromide of potash; impair- 
ing his memory badly, which was restored with the use of the zinc." 

Remarks. — I have great confidence in this treatment, from the age of the 
originator and the length of time Dr. Vanderpool had used it, he being in prac- 
tice for 50 years. (See also " Chorea, or St. Vitus Dance," which is a species of 
nervous disease, much like epilepsy.) 

PAT PEOPLE— rood to Reduce Their Fleshiness.— The Med- 
ical Jo^imal, speaking of the plan to reduce fat people, to a reasonably stout 
and healthy condition, says: " If any reader is growing too fat for comfort, he 
may, possibly, find the following suggestions valuable: There are three classes 
of food, the oils, sweets and starches, the special ofiice of which is to support 
the animal heat and produce fat, having little or no influence in promoting 
strength of muscle or endurance. If fat people, therefore, would use less fat 
and more of lean meats, fish and fowl, less of fine flour and more of the whole 
products of the grains — except the hulls — less of the sweets, particularly in 
warm weather, and more of the fruit acids, in a mild form, as in the apple; 
sleep less, be less indolent, and labor more in the open air, the fat would disap 
pear, to a certain extent at least, with no loss of real health. In food we have 
almost a perfect control of this matter, far better than we can have in the use 
of drags. If we have too much fat and too little muscle, we have simply to 
use less of the fat forming elements and more of the muscle food, such as lean 



IREATMENT OF DISEASES. 167 

meats, fish and fowl, and the darker portions of the grains, etc., with peas and 
beans." 

Remarks. — The above principles are facts; then, if any person desires to be 
less fat, let them be governed by them, and they will obtain their desire; indo- 
lence and self-indulgence are the mothers of fatness. (See also " Dropsy and 
Anti-fat Medicine in One.") 

1. LIQUOR— A Ciire for the Love of it.— At a festival at a 
reformatory institution recently, a gentleman said, of the cure of the use of 
intoxicating liquors: " I overcame the appetite by a recipe given to me by old 
Dr. Hatfield, one of those good old physicians who do not have a percentage 
from a neighboring druggist. The prescription is simply an orange every morn- 
ing a half hour before breakfast. ' Take that,' said the doctor, ' and you will 
neither want liquor nor medicine.' I have done so regularly, and find that 
liquor has become repulsive. The taste of the orange is in the saliva of my 
tongue, and it would be as well to mix water and oil, as rum, with my taste." 

Remarks.— 1 will add to this, keep away from where it is sold, taking the 
orange as directed, and you will be safe. If you go into saloons, no matter how 
much you may try to avoid drinking while there, there will be pretended friends 
— real enemies — who will urge you to drink, and even attempt to pull you up 
to the bar, and try to force it into your mouth. I speak from knowledge. I 
once had two young men — I was then young myself — get a cup of brandy, and 
one of them behind me and the other in front, tried to force me to drink it; but 
I got a chance to get a foot against a bureau and pushed back enough to get 
room for a kick, and that cup and brandy went, as the saying is, "higher'n a 
kite," — it went to the ceiling, — and then I said, " Boys, if you don't let me alone, 
I will kick you, too, but drink I will not." But I should have had to fight, if 
the boss for whom we all worked, had not stepped forward at this juncture, and 
said " Boys, you ought to be ashamed of yourselves. You know Chase told us 
this morning that he did not drink, and, hence, went and borrowed a rifle, and 
has spent all day to get a deer for us to eat; now, let him alone." At this they 
gave it up. The occasion being when a saw mill, in which we worked, had been 
sold — this was in 1834 or '35 — and the giving possession had to be done with 
whiskey and a high day. The difficulty is, people — men or boys — do not say no 
with suflScient vim. When enticed to evil, let the no have a ring as though you 
meant just what you said; then, unless the enticers are drunk, as they were in 
the above case, you will generally have no trouble, especially if you do not put 
in your presence at their haunts of vice. In the above case, it was a boarding- 
house for the mill, and I had nowhere else to go. I will only add, if a man 
does not want to drink, he mod not; if he wants to drink, nothing can save 
him. He is bound to destruction. He is, like Ephraim, "joined to his idols," 
— you may just as well— " let him alone." 

2. Liquor— The Use of It Leaves a Permanent Injury.- An 
American physician, who has given attention to the study of alcoholism, said in 
the course of an address recently delivered before a learned society: "There 
are constantly crowding into our insane asyhmis persons, 50 to 80 years of age, 
who in early life were addicted to the use of alcoholic liquors, but who had 



168 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

reformed, and for 10, 20, or 30 years had never touched a drop. The injury 
•which the liquor did to their bodies seemed to have all disappeared, being 
triumphed over by the full vigor of their manhood; but when their natural 
force began to decrease, then the concealed mischief showed itself in insanity, 
clearly demonstrating that the injury to their brain was of a permanent 
character." 

Remarks.— Then is there not a double reason for not using it? The loss ot 
time and money, and often the abuse of wife and children, or other friends, 
while using it, and the probability of the loss of one's reason in old age. It is 
greatly to be hoped that a word to the wise may be sufficient 

I. LrPE LENGTHENED— Sensible Kules for.— Dr. Hall, in 
his excellent Journal of Ilealth, gives the following sensible and suggestive rules 
under the above heading: 

I. Cultivate an equable temper; many have fallen dead in a fit of passion. 

II. Eat regularly, not over thrice a day, and nothing betAvccn meals. 

III. Go to bed at regular Lours. Get up as soon as you wake of yourself, 
and do not sleep in the day-time — at least, not longer than ten minutes before 
dinner. 

rV^ Work in moderation, and not as though you were doing it by the job. 

V. Stop working before you are very much tired— before you are "fagged 
out." 

VI. Cultivate a generous and accommodating temper. 

VII. Never cross a bridge before you come to it; this will save you half 
the troubles of life. (In other words, " don't borrow trouble.") 

VIII. Never eat when you are not hungry, nor drink when you are not 
thirsty. 

IX. Let your appetite always come uninvited. 

X. Cool off in a place greatly warmer than the one in which you have 
been exercising. This simple rule would prevent incalculable sickness and save 
thousands of lives every year. 

XI. Never resist a call of nature, for a single moment. 
SII. Never allow yourself to be chilled through and through; it is this 
Vrhich destroys so many every year, in a few days' sickness, from pneumonia- 
called by some, lung fever — or inflammation of the lungs. 

XIII. Whoever drinks no liquids at meals will add years of pleasurable 
existence to his life. Of cold or warm drinks, the cold ones are the most per- 
nicious. Drinking at meals induces persons to eat more than they otherwise 
would, as any one can verify by experiment; and it is excess in eating which 
devastates the land with sickness, suffering and death. 

XIV. After fifty years of age, if not a day laborer, and sedentary persons 
at forty, should eat but twice a day — in the morning, and about four in the 
afternoon; for every organ vdthout adequate rest will " give out " prematurely. 

XV. Begin early to live under the benign influence of Christian religion, 
for it " has the promise of the life that now is and of that which is to come." 
Remarks. — These rules need no extended commendation — they are certainly 
BviBsible. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 



2. How Long Have "We to Live, as Shown by the Life Assur- 
ance Tables. — The following is one of the authenticated tables, in use among 
insurance companies, showing the average length of life at the various ages. In 
the first column, we have persons of average health, and in the second column 
we are enabled to peep, as it were, behind the scenes, and gather from their 
fable the number of years they will give us to live. This table is the result of 
careful calculation, and seldom proves misleading. Of course, sudden and 
premature deaths— from accidents, unusual severity of disease, etc. — as well as 
lives unusually extended, occasionally occur; but this is the average expectancy 
vof life, of an ordinary man, who lives prudently and avoids all undue exposures, 
«etc. In the earlier years of life, the female, from less exposure, has from 1 to 
2 years more of life in expectation than the male; but as life advances, this over- 
average comes down gradually to nearly the same; but still there is a trifle, or 
small part of a year, always in favor of the woman. I will s.iy, at the start, 
that the average life of all born into the world is, for males, about 39yYiy years, 
and for females, 41y*^ years. I shall only give the figures for every 10 years, 
up to 20 and after 60, for, so far as business is concerned, before 20 and after 60, 
it will not be of much account, yet interesting as a matter of curiosity. The 
table is given in years and hundredths of a year, by Dr. William Fair. 

More years to 

live. 

22.70 

- 19.W 

16.45 

. 13.53 

8.45 

. 4.93 

2.84 

. 1.68 

EemarJcs. —Wxih this table before us, taking the present age of any person 
in ordinary good health, we see at a glance how much longer they may be 
expected to live. By considering these things, we can tell whether or not it 
would be best to enter into new business enterprises, marriage relations, etc. 
And, with the table, on " The Pulse in Health," we can tell pretty nearly 
whether we are in an average condition of health or not, as these figures do not 
lie; if they do not hold good in any particular case, it is from a want of average 
health. 

Supposing the ladies will desire to know their chances or probabilities of 
marriage, I will append a table showing what their prospects are, between 
thirteen and forty, as follows: 

3. Chances of Women for Marriage. — The following statement 
is drawn from the registered cases of 876 married women in France. It is the 
first ever constructed to show ladies their chances of marriage at various ages. 
Of the above number there were married: 



Age. 




More years to 


Agk. 


Those wlio reach. 


live. 


Those who reach. 







39.90 


45 


1 - 


. 


- 46. Go 


50 - 


10 


. 


47.05 


55 


20 . 


. 


. 39.48 


60 - 


25 


- 


36.12 


70 


30 . 


. 


- 32.76 


80 - 


35 


. 


29.40 


90 


40 . 


. 


. 26.06 


100 . 



3 at 13 


45 at 17 


86 at 21 


36 at 25 


17 at 29 


7 at 33 


2 at 37 


11 at 14 


77 at 18 


85 at 22 


24 at 26 


9 at 30 


5 at 34 


Oat 38 


16 at 15 


115 at 19 


59 at 23 


28 at 27 


7 at 31 


3 at 35 


lat39 


43 at 16 


118 at 20 


53 at 24 


22 at 28 


5 at 32 


Oat 36 


Oat 40 



130 


' 115 


115 


' 100 


105 


95 


90 


80 


85 


75 


75 


70 


75 


80 



no DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

4. The Pulse in Health— Average Beats per Minute— FroiD- 
Physiologist Carpenter : 

New-born infants, - - From 140 down to 130 

During 1st year, . - - 

" 2d year, 

" 8d year, .... 
From 7th to 14th year, 

" 14th to 21st year, 

" 21st to 60th year, 
In old age, .... 

In inflammatory or acute diseases the pulse may rise to 120, or even to 160, 
in the adult, and becoming so frequent in the child that it cannot be counted. 
Muscular exertion, mental excitement, digestion, alcoholic drink, and elevation 
above the sea level, accelerate the pulse, and as a rule it is more frequent in the 
morning than in the evening. It is slower in sleep, and from the effects of rest, 
diet, cold, or blood-letting. The pulse of a grown woman exceeds that of a 
man of the same age, as much as 10 to 14 beats a minute, and, according to some 
authorities, is less frequent in the tall than in the short person, the variations 
being about 4 beats for each 6 inches of height. 

Remarks. — With this tabulation, any person of average ability (we are now 
talking of averages) can form a fair opinion of how much disturbance there 
may be in one's system, to cause any variation from the general average, and 
hence, tell how sick a person may be and the probability of returning health,, 
under favorable circumstances; also the general average of the length of life 
and probability of marriages, etc. But it may not be amiss here, to state that 
while standing, a healthy man's pulse beats about 74 times in a minute; when 
sitting, only about 70 ; and when he lies down, only about 64. Thus the heart 
takes its rest at night ; and as the heart passes in its beats about 6 ozs. of blood, 
it is saved the lifting of about 30,000 ozs. of blood in 8 hours' sleep. But now 
suppose he is a drinking man, and takes his wine or liquor day and night, the 
heart must not only get no rest, but is increased by at least 15,000 beats in thi» 
8 hours and he rises more tired than when he retired, and wholly unfit for the 
day's work, and so strikes out again for the "ruddy bumper," as some call 
it, to " settle his nerves," and thus in a few years he settles, also, into a drunk- 
ard's grave, mourned for only by those who ought to have been helped by hina 
yet, for many years, if he would have cast away his " cups." O, why will men 
so far forget the object of their being? 

1. THE TONGUE— WHAT IT TELLS.— I am very sorry that I 
do not know who wrote the following soliloquy upon the tongue, as it is both 
sensible and sound in its teachings; hence, I say, let it be read with care and 
its teachings heeded. He says: 

" A man can never be happy if his stomach is out of order; and dyspepsia 
and hysteria imitate the symptoms of innumerable disorders. But how, the 
reader may ask, can I tell the illness, from which I think I am suffering, to be 
real or imaginary? At any rate, I should answer, look to your stomach first, 
and, pray, just take a glance at your tongue. If ever I was so far left to myself 
as to meditate some rash act, I should, before going into the matter, have a look 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. ITl 

at my tongue. If it -^vas not perfectly clean and moist I should not consider 
mj'self perfectly healthy, nor perfectly sane, and would postpone my proceed- 
ings in the hope that my worldly prospects would get brighter. What does a 
physician discover by looking at the tongue? Many things. The tongue sym- 
pathizes with every trifling ailment of body or mind, and more especially with 
the state of the stomach. That thin, whitish layer (fur) all over the surface, 
indicates indigestion. A patchy tongue {i. e., the fur in patches) shows that the 
stomach is very much out of order indeed. A yellow tongue points to bilious- 
ness. A creamy, shivering, thick, indented tongue, tells of pre\ious excesses; 
and I do not like my friends to wear such tongues, for I sincerely believe that 
real comfort can not be secured in this world by any one who does not keep hi^ 
feet warm, his head cool, and his tongue clean." 

Remarks. — That we may know what further the tongue may teach us w^ 
will give the "Synopsis of a Paper read before the Eclectic Medical Associa- 
tion of Ohio, by Prof. John M. Scudder, of the Eclectic Medical Institute oi 
Cincinnati," and published by him in the Eclectic Medical Journal, of which he 
is the editor and proprietor. The paper was prepared to explain, and does 
fairly explain, the leading point, or basis upon which " Specific Medication" is 
established or founded, and that is, the indication for treatment as shown by 
the condition of the tongue, or " What the Tongue Tells Us," as shown in our 
first heading above. And although it is quite lengthy, yet as it contains so 
much valuable information for those who may desire to take care of themselves 
and their families, I think it best to give the full synopsis as ho 
gave it in the Journal, Vol. XXXI., pages 425-8, under the head of 
"Specific Medication," but as it relates largely to what the tongue teaches or 
shows us, I will head it accordingly. 

2. The Tongue, the Condition of the System Shown by it, 
and the Remedy their Conditions Call for.— After the preliminary 
business of the association was completed, he addressed them as follows: 

Gentlemen: — At the last meeting of the State Society I was requested to 
prepare a paper on Specific jVIedication, which should serve as a basis for a dis- 
cussion in this new departure (as it has been called) in medicine. 

I do not propose, in doing this, to occupy much of your time in details, but 
rather to present the principles upon which specific or direct medication rests. 

It will be well for us, first, to think for a moment (if it is possible for us to 
realize it) what an un-specific or indirect medication is. It means that we never 
oppose remedies directly to processes of disease, but, on the contrary, influence 
diseased action in a roundabout, indirect, and uncertain manner. 

As examples — We violently excite the intestinal canal with cathartics to 
arrest disease of the brain, the lungs, the kidneys, or other distant parts. Or it 
is possible that we confine our mmistration first to the gastric sac (stomach), 
then follow with potent cathartics. In order, we excite the skin and the kidneys 
in the same manner. This not sutficing, we counter irritate with rubefacients, 
blisters, etc., and so far as possible keep up an influence counter to the disease, 
by unpleasant, nauseating and irritant medicines. 

Whatever may be said in favor of such a practice, and how fine-so-ever the 
theories in reference to it may be spun, it is based upon the idea that two dis- 
eases can not exist in the body at the same time, and if the medicines are sufli- 
ciently potent their action will surely be the strongest — and the disease will stop 
— lea\ang the patient to recover slowly from the influence of the medicines. 



173 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES, 

Did you ever know the patient to stop instead of the disease? I have, many 
a time, and have in this way, myself, been a wonderful dispensation of Provi- 
dence. In tlie olden time men would not believe that the doctors aided large 
numbers of people out of the world. Oh no! The doctors, God bless them, 
pulled the sick through; they would all have died if it had hot been for the 
faculty. 

It is wonderful how statistics take the conceit out of some people and some 
things. When we find hundreds of cases of severe diseases tabulated — such as 
typhoid fever and pneumonia — with a mortality of but one to three per cent., 
with only good nursing and food, no medicine; and active, potent medication 
gives a mortality of live to fifty per cent. 

Do Eclectic physicians kill people too? This brings the matter home, and 
one doesn't like to confess his own sins, as a rule. But in this matter I am like 
Artcmus Ward in the last war— I am willing to shed the blood of all my rela- 
tions—and I answer in the affirmative — they do kill — not so many as the old 
practice, it is true, but yet enough to cause us to look at home and rid ourselves 
of the evil. 

Now, I am glad to know that you, and Eclectics as a rule, have a very 
much better practice than theory. Whilst they occasionally wander off after 
these phantasms, it is the exception and not the rule. 

As a body of physicians, we recognize the fact that disease in all its forms 
is an impairment of life. And we recognize tlie necessity of conserving this 
life, and of employing such means as will increase it, and enable it to resist and 
throw off disease, and restore normal structure and function. 

We recognize the importance of the functions of circulation, innervation 
^healthy action of the nerves giving strength), excretion, etc., and the necessity 
of obtaining as nearly a normal (healthy) performance of them as possible. 
And all experience shows that just in proportion as we get this normal perform- 
ance disease is arrested. 

From its inception (commencement) Eclecticism has been, to a very consider- 
able extent, Specific JMcdication. The earhest writings point us to Dioscorea 
(wild yam or colic-root) as a remedy for bilious colic, Hydrastis (golden seal) 
for enfeebled mucous membranes, Aralia (dwarf elder) and Apocynum (Indian 
hemp) for dropsy, Baptisia (wild indigo) for putrid sore throat, and similar con- 
ditions of mucous membranes, Hamamelis (witch-hazel) for hemorrhoidSj 
Macrotys (black cohosh) for rheumatism, etc. 

In our Materia IMedicas remedies were classed as emetics, cathartics, diapho- 
retics, tonics, alteratives, etc., but in reading the description of medical proper- 
ties, some special use or curative action would be pointed out, and for this it 
would be commonly used. 

In all acute, and most chronic diseases, our examination of the patient and 
our therapeutics will take this order: 1. With reference to the condition of the 
stomach and intestinal canal — bringing them to as nearly a normal condition 
as possible, tliat remedies may be kindly received and approjiriatcu, and that 
sufficient food may be taken and digested. 2. With reference to the circulation 
of the blood and the temperature — obtaining a normal circulation as regards 
frequency and freedom, and a temperature as near 98° as possible. 3. With 
reference to the presence of a zymotic poison, or other cause of disease, which 
may be neutralized, antagonized or removed. 4. With reference to the condi- 
tion of the nervous system — giving good innervation. 5. With reference to the 
processes of waste and excretion — that the worn-out or enfeebled material may 
be broken down and speedily removed from the body. G. Witli reference to 
blood-making and repair — that proper material be furnished for the building of 
tissues, and that the processes of nutrition are normally conducted. 

We may illustrate this further by calling attention to the tongue as a means 
of diagnosing (determining) the conditions of tlie stomach and intestinal canal, 
and of the blood. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES, 173 

You will bear in mind that diagnosis — or determining the real condition of 
disease is the most important part of specific medication. And that it is not 
that rough diagnosis which will enable us to guess oflf a name for the associated 
symptoms, at which name we will fire our Materia Medica promiscuously. 
Hence when we question the tongue, it is not with reference to a remittent or 
typhoid fever, an inflammation of lungs or rheumatism, but it is — I want you 
to tell me the condition of the stomach and intestinal canal, and especially the 
condition of the blood. 

Now let us briefly see what it will tell us, with regard to the condition of 
the pnnuB vue (first passages — stomach, intestines, and kidneys). 

If the tongue is heavily coated with a yellowish- white fur, we know that 
there are morbid accumulations in the stomach; and we have to determine be- 
tween the speedy removal by emesis (vomiting), and the slower removal by the 
alkaline sulphites (sulphite of soda is generally used), or the indirect removal 
by catharsis (cathartics). 

If the tongue is uniformly coated, from base to tip, with a yellowish fur, 
rather full and moist, we have the history of atony (weakness) of the small intes- 
tine, and we give podophylin, leptandrin, and this class of remedies, with con- 
siderable certainty. 

If the tongue is elongated and pointed, reddened at the tip and edges, 
papillpe elongated and red, we have evidence of irritation of the stomach with 
determination of blood. The therapeutics (application of the proper medicine) 
is plain: get rid of the irritation ,^r5/, and be careful not to renew it by the ap- 
plication of harsh medication. 

Again, we have a tongue that might be designated as "slick." It is vari- 
ously colored, but it looks as if a fly should light upon it he would slip up. 
It is an evidence of a want of functional power, (general weakness), not only 
in the stomach and bowels, but of all parts supplied by sympathetic nerves. 
We treat such a ca.se very carefully, avoid all irritants, and use means to restore 
inneiwation (strength) through the vegetative system of nerves. 

The tongue tells us of the acidity and alkalinity of the blood, and in lan- 
guage so plain, that it can not be mistaken. 

The pallid tongue (pale, or without color), with white fur, is the index ol 
acidity, and we employ an alkali — usually a salt of soda — with a certainty that 
the patient will be benefited. Indeed, one who has never had his attention 
directed in this way, would be surprised at the improvement, in grave forms of 
disease, from one day's administration of simple bi-carbonate of soda. 

The deep-red tongue indicates alkalinity, and we prescribe an acid with the 
positive asssurance that it will prove beneficial. Grave ca.ses of typhoid fever 
and other zymotic (epidemic or contagious) diseases, presenting this symptom, 
have been treated with acids alone, and with a success not obtained by other 
means. But it makes no diUcrence what the disease is, whether a recent diar- 
rhea, or a grave t3"phoid dysentery, if there is the deep-red tongue, we give 
muriatic acid with the same assurance of success. 

Impairment of the blood — sepsis (blood-poisoning) — is indicated by dirty 
coating, and by dark-colored fur — brownish to black. "When we have either 
the one or the other we employ those remedies which antagonize the septic 
(poisoning) process. 

The bitter tonics are indicated by fullness of tissue, with evident relaxation, 
impairment of circulation and muscular movement. The same condition will 
be an indication of iron. We give tincture of chloride of iron, if the tongue is 
red, iron by hydrogen if the tongue is pale. 

The pale, trembUng tongue, is a very good indication for the hypophosphites. 

The pale blueish tongue, expressionless, is the indication for the adminis- 
tration of copper. 

The dusky, swollen tongue demands baptisia (wild indigo). 

You will notice that we have made this unruly member tell us a good deal. 



(74 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Vet it might tell us more — it will tell us more when we thoroughly study it. 
My object, is not to point out all that we might learn from it, but to show that it 
is 'possible to arrive at positive conclusions, from symptoms that are always 
deflnite in their meaning. 

In making our diagnosis, we question every function in the same way. We 
make the pulse tell us the condition of the circulation, and to some extent the 
nervous system that it supplies. We question the nervous system, the secretory 
organs — in fact every part. 

One might suppose that diagnosis in this way would be a matter of great 
difficulty, as would the therapeutics based upon it, from the large number of 
remedies needed to meet these varying conditions of the several functions. But 
this is not so. On the contrary, the method is not only direct and certain, but 
it is easy. 

We have but one life, though its manifestations are so varied. The con- 
trol of this life is centered in a common nervous system — the ganglionic, and 
througli this the various parts and functions are united. Disease is an aberra- 
tion of this life— life in a wrong direction. Tliough it manifests itself in vari- 
ous ways, and though we study in detail, as I have named, it is to grasp it at 
last, as a unit, and oppose to it one or more remedies. 

In some cases we have a tirst preparatory treatment, to fit the patient for 
the reception of remedies which directly oppose disease. As when we gave an 
emetic to remove morbid accumulations, or means to relieve irritation of the 
stomach, or give an acid or an alkali, or use veratrum and aconite to reduce 
frequency of pulse and temperature, to obtain the kindly action of quinine in 
intermittent or remittent fever. 

In other cases there are certain prominent symptoms indicating pathologi- 
cal conditions which may be taken as the key notes of the treatment. As, 
when we have the full, open pulse, indicating veratrum; the hypochondriac 
fullness, umbilical pains, and sallowness of skin, indicating nux vomica; the 
bright eye, contracted pupil, and flushed face, calling for gelsemium ; or the 
dull eye, immobile pupil, tendency to drowsiness, which calls for belladonna. 

In some cases the indication for a special remedy, like one of these, is so 
marked, that we give it alone, and it quickly cures most severe and obstinate 
diseases. 

I would like to continue this subject further, for it is one in which I am 
greatly interested, and I know it is one in which you are interested, but the 
shortness of our session will not permit further remarks. But when we come 
together another year, with another year's experience, we may discuss it again. 

Remarks.— If the foregoing is studied well, "it will pay," by helping to 
understand the diseased conditions to which all are liable, as shown by the 
tongue; and, besides this, there are quite a number of things explained, which, 
if studied and heeded, will also prove of great value to those who are sick, or 
who have the care of the sick. 

LEMONS— Their Value in Sickness and in Health.— One of 
the journals, speaking of the use of lemons, says: " For all people, either in 
sickness or in health, lemonade is a safe drink. It corrects bilousness. It is a 
specific (positive cure) against worms and skin complaints. Lemon juice is the 
best antiscorbutic remedy known. It not only cures the disease but prevents it. 
Sailors make a daily use of it for this purpose. A physician suggests rubbing 
of the gums daily with lemon juice, to keep them in health. The hands and 
the nails are also kept clean, white and soft by tlie daily use of lemon instead 
of soap. It also prevents chilblains. Lemon used in intermittent fever is 
mixed with strong, hot, black tea, or coffee, without sugar. Neuralgia may be 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 175 

cured by rubbing the part affected with a lemon. It is valuable, also, to cure 
■warts and destroy dandruff on the head, by rubbing tlie roots of the hair with 
it. In fact, its uses are manifold, and the more we use of them the better we 
shall find ourselves." 

Remarks. — See also their value for freckles, and the use of hot lemonade 
to cure colds, and also lemon juice a cure for small-pox, etc. 

Food as Medicine. — Dr. Hall relates the case of a man who was cured 
of his biliousness by going without his supper, and drinking freely of lemonade. 
Every morning, says the doctor, this patient arose with a wonderful sense of 
rest and refreshment, and a feeling as though the blood had been literally 
washed, cleansed and cooled by the lemonade and the fast. His theory is, that 
food will be used as a remedy, for many diseases, successfully. For example he 
cures cases of spitting blood by the use of salt : epilepsy and yellow fever, by 
water-melons; kidney affections, by celery (water-melons are very valuable also 
for the kidneys); poison, olive or sweet oil; erysipelas, pounded cranberries 
applied to the parts iiffected; hydrophobia, onions, etc. So the way to keep in 
good health is really to ktiow what to eat — not to know what medicines to take. 

Remarks. — These are all good for what he recommends them; then use 
them freely, in their season. 

1. ERYSIPELAS— New and Successful Remedy.— Dr. T. B. 
King of this city (Toledo, O.), an old physician, of the "Old School, "-Allo- 
pathic — tells me he has cured erysipelas upon a woman's leg (by the way do 
women have "legs" — I believe not so understood, but "limbs"), after ulcer- 
ated and swollen so bad that other doctors said it must be amputated. But by 
simply dusting upon it, freely, the per sulphate of iron (Monsel's salt), cleaning 
off twice daily, with warm suds, and re-applying, without other treatment, 
effectually cured her. 

Remarks. — This salt, or preparation of iron, is a great favorite with Dr. 
King. He applies it, through a speculum (from the Latin specere, to look), to 
ulcers at the mouth of the womb, or upper part of the vagina, he says, with 
equal success. I have also used it, with success, in several of these ulcerations, 
so I have confidence in it, in erysipelas also. To avoid staining the clothing, in 
these cases, wear a suitable bandage to absorb any escaping fluid, as the iron in 
this leaves an iron-rust appearance upon the clothing. 

2. Erysipelss of the Face (Facial Erysipelas).— Dr. J. B. John- 
son communicated the following to the Medical and Surgical Reporter, which 
he has always found to arrest the disease at once and allay the heat and burning 
promptly. He says: "As the tongue is always more or less coated, I usually 
introduce my treatment by a dose of pills composed of blue mass, 10 grs. ; calo- 
mel, 5 grs.; mix and make into 3 pills; to be taken at one dose; and to be fol- 
lowed in 3 hours by a dose of sulphate of magnesia (epsom salts, dose, ordi- 
narily, a heaping table-spoonful); and without waiting for the action of the pills 
and salts, I immediately commence with iodide of potassium, 1 dr. ; tinct. of 
hyoscyamus, 2 drs. ; tinct. aconite leaves (tincture of aconite root is seldom 
given internally), 12 drops; distilled water (clear soft water will do) 8 ozs. : mix. 
Dose — A table-spoonfnl every hour, day and night, when awake; and I luive 



176 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

the face bathed everj'- 2 or 3 hours, and constantly covered with a Knen cloii^ 
saturated (all it will hold) with the following solution: 

"Hyposulphite of soda, 1 oz.; carbolic acid No. 1, 1 oz. ; distilled water 
(soft water will do), 8 ozs. Mix. 

" This allays, most promptly, the burning and itching of the skin and face, 
and is in no wise disagreeable. 

" This treatment, I have always found, to arrest the erysipelas almost at 
once, and my patient to be about his room in 4 or 5 days. Jly cases have not 
only escaped complications of congestion and inflammation of the brain, but of 
the throat also, and without the use of either iron, quinine or wine; 5 gr. doses 
of iodide potassium (as above) every hour, has never disappointed me in their 
action; and long experience has enabled me to declare, in my opinion, the 
internal use of iodide of potassium, to be a specific (positive cure) for facial 
erysipelas." 

Remarks. — This will please all who prefer calomel to the other treatment, 
and the author has confidence in this plan of treatment, as he is not afraid of a 
small dose of calomel, nor blue ma.ss, if worked off directly as was done ii» 
this case. 

3. Facial Erysipelas, The Author's Treatment of.— Having 
been recently called to a case of this kind, I will give my treatr 
ment of it, as it may help others. It was a young lady of about 18 years of 
age, in which there was an hereditary tendency to this disease, her grandmother 
having died of it. I found the left side of the face swollen and inflamed, and. 
just below the eye the flesh was quite hard and very tender. I had it painted, 
or wet, at once, with muriated tincture of iron, full strength, and covered witl* 
a soft cloth, to protect it from the air. This was in the forenoon, and in the even- 
ing I instructed the same application, and then a poultice of stewed cranberries to 
be applied, always wetting with the tincture before applying the poultice. 
I gave her a seidlitz powder at once, to open the bowels, the next morning to 
be followed with a rounding table-spoonful of epsom salts, and after that, every 
other day a seidlitz powder and salts, alternately. I gave her 5 drop doses of 
the tincture of the iron 3 times a day from the first, by dropping it into a spoon 
and adding water, and telling her to put the spoon past the teeth, so the iron 
should not stain them, which it does without this precaution. After the first 
24 hours, as the inflammation began to go down and the hardened spot below 
the eye to become more soft and natural, I weakened the tincture to be applied 
with one-third water, keeping up the cranberry poultice nights, until the inflam- 
mation was cured, reducing the strength of the tincture for application as the 
case improved, until it was only one-third tincture and two-thirds water; and 
thus, in one week, she was again able to resume her labors in a candy manu- 
factory where she was engaged, no ulceration or open sore having occured; the 
scarf-skin only peeled off from the effect of the iron, poulticing, etc. Let each 
one. then, affiicted with this disease, suit himself i\& to which plan he wilt 
adopt, as circumstances seem to demand. 

1 . DIABETES— Valuable Diet for, and Diet to be Avoided. 
—Experience has shown that the only way to cure diabetes is to change from 
the ordinary to the following plan of diet: 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 177 

1, Food and Drinks which may be Used. — The quickest way is to confine 
the patient to beef and bread made of gluten flour, which has all the starchy 
parts of the wheat removed from it in its manufacture; but mutton, tripe, 
tongue, ham, bacon, sausage, poultry, game, oysters, clams and eggs may be 
occasionally used for variety's sake (but liver never) ; so also salads, made with 
cabbage or lettuce; cucumbers, water-cress, cauliflower, spinach and string- 
beans in their season; so also peaches and strawberries with cream, but never 
with sugar; in fact, all tart fniit may be used, especially nice sour apples, 
peeled, quartered and cored, dipped in beaten eggs and rolled in fine or pow- 
dered crumbs of the gluten bread, then fried in very hot fat and drained while 
hot, make the best substitute there is for potatoes, which you will see below, 
must not be eaten. Milk in moderate quantities, cream, nice butter, butter- 
milk, and all freshly made cheese and Neuchatel (Swiss) cheese may be eaten. 
Nuts in moderation may be allowed, and eggs freely, cooked to suit tlie patient. 
Coffee or cocoa, in moderation, with cream, but never with sugar. If tea must 
be used, let it be weak, and only taken in small quantities. Sour wines, as 
claret, Burgundy, Rhine, etc., for those who will use them, may be taken in 
moderation at dinner time. For variety's sake, instead of being absolutely 
confined to the bread made of the gluten flour, it may be made into rolls, pan- 
cakes, fritters, mush, and baked puddings, but never with sugar or molasses, 
nor may these ever be used, even in i^udding sauces. Eat slowly, i. e., masti- 
cate (chew) very finely, and what drinks are used let them be taken at the close 
of the meal — as little as possible between meals, of such as have been named 
above. 

II. Ffiod and Drinks tchich Should Never be Uaed. — Potatoes, turnips, 
beets, carrots, parsnips, peas, beans (only string-beans above named), rice, cel- 
ery, asparagus, or tomatoes; nor soups in which common flour has been put, as 
vermicelli, noodles, nor any of the vegetables above prohibited. No cake nor 
pastry of any kind, except it be made from the gluten flour; and nothing that 
contains sugar or starch in any form ; and no spirits, malt beers, nor any of 
the sweet wines can ever be allowed. Take tepid or warm baths, according to 
the season, as often as necessary, followed with friction and exercise, as needed 
to bring a glow of warmth and heat to the surface. [ I can not see why the 
Salt Water Washings, (which see) should not be used with the friction or rub- 
bings, as there given; certainly diabetes is a chronic disease.] Also stick to the 
above directions as to diet, the year round, to avoid a relapse. 

Remarks. — This plan was, I think, adopted by some eminent physician in 
Europe — I do not remember his name. — then by American physicians, by 
which it has been fairly tested, and found to be about the best thing that can 
be done; and it has heretofore been considered to be about all that could be 
done, but later, as shown below, a few remedies have been found also valuable, 
and the closer the confinement to the beef and gluten flour bread, for a few 
months, the better will it be for the patient, using the allowables only, as it may 
be absolutely necessary for variety's sake. 

2. Diabetes, Ammonia-Saline Treatment for. — It has been 
foimd recently, by analysis of diabetic blood, that there is a great deficiency 

12 



178 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

of certain alkaline salts. These salts are absolutely necessary in order that tht 
sugar which is formed in this disease, just as in health, should be burnt off at 
the lungs. M. Mialhe, who discovered the above fact, considers this deficiencj 
the primary (first) cause of diabetes. Whether this is so or not, there is no 
doubt that snch deficiency must re-act upon the disease. Accordingly, treat- 
ment directed to supply this deficiency is likely to prove of service, and in 
actual practice such is found to be the fact. The best saline mixture is com- 
posed of carbonate of ammonia, phosphate of ammonia, and carbonate of soda, 
each, 10 grs. ; tinct. of ginger, a few drops; 3 times a day in an oz. (3 or 3 table- 
spoonfuls) of water. 

This mixture is very gratifying to the patient, relieves thirst, and mitigates 
(lessens or relieves) the morbid (unhealthy or craving) appetite. The tongue 
generally becomes moist, the urine diminishes in quantity, and contains less 
sugar. In one case, which may be taken as an average one, the amount of 
sugar was reduced from 30 grs. to the oz. of urine, to 6 grs. , and the amount 
of urine daily from 14 pts. to 4 pts, — Dr. W. R. Basham. 

Remarks. — I have taken this from the Eclectic Medical Journal of 1872, 
page 327, and therefore, I have confidence in it, although I have had no oppor- 
tunity to try it, as I did not see it until the writing of this department was nearly 
completed, and especially not till the subject of diabetes had been written; still 
I shall try it at once if a case comes under my care. 

3. Ergot in Diabetes Insipidus.— Dr. Saunders — St. Louis C<mriei 
of Medicine — reports a case of diabetes insipidus successfully treated, with dram 
(small tea-spoon) doses three times a day of fl. ex. of ergot. The use of ergot 
was suggested by an article from Dr. Do Costa. 

Remarks. — These French physicians, are generally pretty certain of their 
facts, before they report their cases. 

4. Diabetes— Incontinence and Dribbling of Urine, Success- 
ful Remedy for. — After the foregoing matter upon diabetes had all been pre- 
pared, I saw a report of the very remarkable success of J. T. McClanahan, M.D., 
of Brownville, Mo., in the " Newer Materia Medica" of Pajke, Davis & Co., 
Detroit, Mich., especially upon diabetes, and incidentally upon the others above 
named, having been successful in both kinds of diabetes — mellitus, from mel, 
honey or sweet, — the kind that has sugar in the urine; and also in what is called 
insipidus, i. e., no sugar in the urine, and hence insipid or tasteless. This latter 
kind, however, has been, heretofore, much more readily cured than that with 
the sugar in the urine, but Dr. McClanahan, even in a case of this almost incur- 
able kind — diabetes mellitus — reports the following successfxil cure. He says: 

1. " My case was that of a woman aged 37, mother of children, who was 
completely run down by large discharges of urine, general lassitude or weakness, 
(so that she had to give up housework,) pain in the back, considerable thirst, ap- 
petite variable, sometimes ravenous, and sometimes deficient, skin sallow and 
doughy, temperature 1013^, slight cough, and occasional night sweats, loss ol 
flesh, pulse little affected except when diarrhea was present for a few days, it 
would then present the usual feebleness and rapidity. I found the urine con- 
rained sugar; specific gravity, 1.032. I gave the saturated tinct. of rhua 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. ITO 

aromatica, in ^ tea-spoonful doses every 4 hours, until she was under the 
Influence of the remedy, with a diminution of urine from the first day. The 
dose was lessened and the interval lengthened from week to week, and finally, 
in 3 months, the medicine was discontinued. In the meantime, strict dieting 
laws were observed, carefully avoiding such diet as favored the sugar forming 
process in the body. She being of a scrofulous diathesis (tending to scrofula), 
I gave cod liver oil with hypophosphite for some time after discontinuing the 
thus aromatica. He continues by saying: 

"I have had the same results with two cases of diabetes insipidus under 
the same treatment ; and I am at present treating another case of diabetes mel- 
litus, a very interesting case, which I will report in a future article." 

II. Incontinence. — In incontinence of urine, whether from atony (weak- 
ness) of the muscular fiber, or irritation of the nervous fiber, which prevents 
normal (usual, healthy) distention of the bladder, it is applicable. 

III. Dribbling. — I have relieved several cases in which the person was 
unable to prevent a constant dribbling of urine; also, those cases 
in which the patient has no control over the urine whatever; will be promptly 
met by the action of the rhus aromatica. Dose — For adults in these cases of 
dribbling, or incontinence, he gave 10 drop doses only, 3 times daily. For chil- 
dren, strong tinct. rhus aromatica, }^ oz. ; glycerine, IJ^ ozs. Dose — One-half 
lea-spoonful 3 times a day; and when allowable, drop the |morning dose, then 
the noon, and when cured, stop all. But in all such cases have the child urinate, 
at once, when nature calls for it, even in the night, and especially before retir- 
ing in all cases. 

IV. For Summer Complaint of Children. — Dr. McClanahan, above named, 
reports the case of a little boy, with chronic diarrhea and dysentery, stools pale 
and thin, running from him like water; no particular pain, or fever. Pale and 
emaciated; limbs, trembling, scarcely able to stand alone; skin cool and bowels 
flabby. Gave tinct. rhus aromatica, J^ oz. Dose — Only 3 drops, in a little 
water, after each passage; with proper diet and care he recovered rapidly. 

V. A laborer, with chronic dysentery for two months, he gave: Tinct. rhus 
aromatica in doses of 10 drops, together with a boiled milk diet; made a com- 
plete recovery. He gives an account of cases where almost wholly the pas- 
sages were blood, equally successful in treatment; increa,sing to 15 drop doses, 
after each stool, with the boiled milk diet. And also many other cases of incon- 
tinence of urine, but these will suffice on this class of diseases. Then he 
comes to: 

VI. Uterine HemorrJiages, Menorrhagia {profuse flowing) Leucorrhea, etc. 
—He first cautions against the frauds of some persons putting out bad articles, 
etc. But he thinks, and so docs the author, that Park, Davis & Co., of Detroit, 
will furnish a genuine article of fluid extracts of the rhus aromatica, and if 1 
failed with that, I would get the crude article of them, and make the strong 
tincture, as Dr. McClanahan had always used, up to the time of the foregoing 
reports. He was then called to a bad case of uterine hemorr*hage, after an 
abortion; at least two quarts of blood lost; first gave a stimulant, then gave 
doses of 10 drops of the strong tincture rhus aromatica. every 15 minutes, and 



iSO DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

applied* to mouth of the womb, cloths wet in water with a fifth as much tino 
ture of rhus, gently kneading over the uterus until it contracted, and after two 
hours the hemorrhage ceased, and patient comfortable. Then directed the tine- 
ture every hour, and left to call in 6 hours. Found her comfortable, removed 
the cotton without any more hemorrhage, improvement rapid, and recovery 
complete in 10 days; but there was a slight discharge during this time, for 
which he gave smaller doses, probably 5 or 6 drops, every 2 or 3 hours, as 
required. 

VII. LeucorrTiea. — He uses the same tincture when there is a relaxed coa- 
dition of the uterus, as in leucorrhea, and also hemorrhages from falls, blows, 
etc. 

VIIL Hemorrhage From the Kidneys. — For blood passed in the urine, mak- 
ing it dark, he prescribed: Tinct. rhus aromatica, J^ oz. ; tinct. nux vomica, 15 
drops; glycerine, 3 ozs. ; mix. Dose — A tea-spoonful 3 times a day. Man 
able to be out in a week; good recovery. 

Remarks. — These last clauses are condensed from the doctor's report, giv- 
ing all that I deemed necessary to understand how, and when, and how much, 
to give of the remedy, not doubting that much good will arise from the further 
use and study of this article, of the " New Remedies." For, certainly, if it 
proves as successful in diabetes, which has been one of the incurables, in other 
hands, as it has in Dr. McClanahan's, and several other physicians whose reports 
were given in connection, it will be a great blessing to suffering humanity. The 
report was made in Vol. I, Parke, Davis & Co.'s "Newer Materia Medica," 
Detroit, Mich. 

TOBACCO CHEWERS' WEAK STOMACH-Antidote for- 
"WTiich Also Weans One From its Use. — A writer to the " Household" 
of the Blade, in answer to an inquirer for such an antidote, says: "Therewith 
Bend you my prescription, which has never failed yet. Take the inner bark of 
the root of poplar or whitewood, and when your friend wants a chew of tobacco 
let him take a chew of this bark. If he will follow this for 3 weeks, I will 
guarantee he will not be troubled with a weak stomach or have any more desire 
for the filthy weed." 

Remarks. — This being just the thing desired by many, let it have a fair 
trial, twice as long as the writer claims to be necessary, rather than fail. Not 
being a " chewer," I have not tested it. 

" EMETIC — The Best in Use. — Lobelia and boneset (eupatorium per- 
foliatum, also called thoroughwort). each \^ oz. ; infused or steeped in water, 1 
pt. Dose — Give one table-spoonful every 10 minutes until thorough emesis 
(vomiting) has taken place. 

Remarks. — This is the best emetic in use, from the fact that it injures none, 
and will not continue its action any longer than you give it. It is necessary, 
therefore, to continue to give it until the contents of the stomach are thoroughly 
evacuated. This was the great favorite of Prof. I. G. Jones, one of the early 
Eclectics, who claimed it the best emetic in use. 

1. IMPOTENCY— Especial Tonic for. — Strychnine, 1 gr.; sul 
phate of auinine (phoi^hate of quinine is the best, but it is not kept by drug 



TBEA TMENT OF DISEASES. 181 

f^sts generally), 30 grs. ; tinct. of mtiriate of iron, ^ oz, ; glycerine, 4 ora. 
Directions — Put the strychnine into a mortar and rub first, then the quinine 
also, and rub together a little, then put in the tincture of iron, and rub tUI all 
are dissolved, then rub in the glycerine, and bottle for use. Dose — Take J^ 
(ea-spoonful in a little water, 4 times daily, just before each meal and at bed- 
time. Shake well before taking. 

Bemarks. — When the amount here given has been t<aken twice, take no 
more for two weeks, after which, should there be still further need for the 
tonic, do the same again as long as needed, whether it be a year, or more. It 
is much to be regretted that young persons, of both sexes, very frequently are 
led into evil habits by seeing others do the same, and too often by persuasion 
and instruction, which undermines their strength and vitality; and if long fol- 
lowed, destroys all happiness by what is called "loss of manhood "—the destruc- 
tion of the powers of nature, created for the wise purpose of continuing the 
existence of the human race ; it is also to be regretted that men, not to say 
women, even after marriage, are so excessive in their indulgences, that they also 
become equally prostrated. And, allow me to say, that while these evil prac- 
•ices are continued there need be no expectations of cure. Stop them, and take 
the medicines necessary as long as needed, and a cure may be expected, with 
this drawback, however, — I care not what the evil habit may be, nor what the 
disease may be, if it is very long continued the same degree of health will never 
iifterwards be obtained as that before indulgence or the disease — it is not in the 
nature of the human system, any more than it is for a tree to heal without leaving a 
scar or dead spot, although the bark may heal over after a piece has been 
knocked off, but there will be found always the dead spot underneath it; and 
although the spot may not be easily found by the physician when called to these 
old cases, the persons themselves will generally realize it as long as they live. 
Then, let every family of children be instructed against these evil habits, and 
every married person avoid all excesses. 

The tonic effects may be increased by taking the elixir of calisaya and iron 
after meals. This is kept by most druggists, and the directions as to dose, etc., 
found upon the bottle. Calisaya means Peruvian bark. The above treatment, 
with an occasional change to some of the following tonics, will be found 
valuable in spermatorrhea (loss of semen), as well as for all purposes of debility 
or disease needing a tonic. (See also, Female Debility, Tonics for, etc.) 

2. Tonic or Stimulant for Sexual Debility.— Tincture of iodine, 
20 drops; simple syrup, 4 ozs. Dose— Take 1 tea-spoonful 4 times daily, one 
oeing at bed-time. 

Remarks. — Even In these small doses, Prof. Scudder says, it stimulates and 
/ucreases the power of the sexual organs. 

3. Tonic Tincture, etc., for Sexual Debility.— Geo. W. Hont 
sher, M, D., of Fairfield, Ind., In answering several inquiries made through the 
Brief gives the following plan, as being very satisfactory; and although I have 
aot as yel tried this, I know it will be found valuable- 

' Fera) cyaturet of povasu y^ oz. , a.j bui (boiling water) 8 ozs. ; dissolve^ 



182 DR CHASE'S RECIPEa. 

then add glycerine, 13^ ozs. ; specific tinct. (fl. ex., I tliink, will do as well 
when the specific tinct. is not kept by druggists) of staphisagria, 1 dr. Dose — 
Take 1 tea-spoonful 3 times daily, and at bed-time have the patient take a 
sponge bath over the spine and hips, and give, on retiring, 10 grs. lupulin (1 
think B. Keith «fc Co., of New York city, prepare the best lupulin in use) in a 
little cold water. Not only," he continues, " will this treatment relieve the dis 
charge of semen, but will cure 9 cases out of ten of sexual debility, by prohib- 
iting sexual intercourse for 2 months, and giving these medicines that length of 
time; then suspending all drugs, with the exception of the lupulin at bed-time, 
and continuing the hip baths." 

Remarks. — Should not a cure be perfected in two months, I should say, go 
over the same treatment again, after two weeks' discontinuance, imtil a cure 
is accomplished, avoiding absolutely all the causes which led to it in the first 
place. In these cases there is always an inflammatory condition of the ureter 
and other parts of the organs of generation ; hence I have found that a 10 to 15 
drop dose of the fluid extract of gelsemium, in connection with the other treat- 
ment, at or near bed-time, will greatly aid in overcoming this inflammatory 
condition. 

4. Tonic Tincture for Impotency, Spermatorrhea, etc.— 
Dr. R. M. Griswold, of North INIanchester, Ct. , reports through the Bnef, that 
he has made several quick cures of the above diseases vnth the following; 
Tincts. of nux vomica and cantharides, each 1 dr. ; tinct. ferri-mur (muriated 
tinct. of iron), 3 drs. ; fl. ex. ergot, 1 oz. ; acidi phos. dil. (dilute phoshoric acid), 
B drs. ; mix. [The author would say, double the amount, as it will be needed.] 
Dose — Thirty drops {% tea-spoonful) in a wine-glass of water, 3 times daily. 

"Within the last six months," the doctor says, "I have treated several 
cases of the above diseases with uniform success, a radical cure being efEected 
In each case. Two cases occurred in young men of about 20 years of age, 
resulting from masturbation; one case, following gonorrhea; the fourth case, a 
married man, was the result of excessive indulgence: and three other cases, 
Where the search for the direct cause was unsuccessful, yet the same treatment 
was successful." 

Remarks. — He.required abstinence from all stimulants (liquors) and condi- 
ments (liigh-seasoned food), using light but nourishing food, especially milk, 
eggs, fish; sleeping on a hard bed, and in a cold, well-ventilated roctoi; total 
avoidance of all sexual excitement and all undue exertion of strength. By ob- 
serving the foregoing, the success was satisfactory. 

The only apology I have to offer for the introduction of this class of reme- 
dies, for the above diseases, is a positive knowledge that such conditions 
are found throughout the country — I mean the whole United States and Domin 
ion of Canada, and, I have not a doubt, of all other countries— and also a 
knowledge that those who have need of such remedies have so great a delicacy 
in going to home physicians, they either put off treatment too long, or are so 
egregiously humbugged by advertising quacks that I have felt compelled to come 
to their relief, as well as those troubled only with the common, or ordinary, 
affecting the health of the people. Faithful attention in taking the 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 188 

medicines, and the avoidance of all the causes leading to these difficulties, with 
care also as to diet, etc., will ensure success, with but trifling expense as com- 
pared with the charges of those who can cure, at most, but few of the cases 
they succeed in obtaining through their advertisements. I will close this sub- 
ject with the following: 

5. Tonic Pill for Sexual Debility.— Dr. Benj. A. Penn, of Bry- 
antsburg, Ind. , gives a valuable pill for sexual debility, in the May number of 
the Brief of 1882. "Strychnine, 3 grs. ; sulphate of quinine (phosphate is 
best, if it can be obtained) 120 grs. ; iron by hydrogen, 120 grs. ; mix thoroughly 
and make into 240 pills. Dose — Take 1 pill every 6 hours during the day; 
and after the sj'stem becomes used to them take 1 every 4 hours. " 

Remarks. — The only change I would suggest in this pill is that the quinine 
should be doubled in amount, or one grain to each pill, as I think this would 
greatly increase its tonic power. 

BORAX— Its Value in Catarrh, Throat Diflaculties, Inflamed 
Eyes, Dandruff, etc.— I. A solution of 1 dr. to soft water, % pt., snuffed 
up into the nostrils, is valuable in catarrhal difficulties; if recent, it will effect a 
cure. Use 3 times daily ; though I must say I think it is easier taken in pow 
der, as a snuff, and better too, taken 5 to 10 times daily. I combine sugar, J^ 
dr., with powdered borax, 1 oz. ; and put in a few drops of white rose perfume, 
as a snuff; and if the throat is sore, drop a pinch of it into the throat at each 
time of snuffing. It soon benefits both difficulties. 

II. The same strength makes a good wash for weak inflamed eyes. 
III. Use as a gargle, in recent affections of the throat. 
rV. It makes a valuable wash for the head if troubled with dandruff, leav- 
ing the hair soft and glossy. 

V. In nervous headaches, wash the bead with it two or three times as 
strong, then wash out witli cool, clear water, rubbing well with the towel, and 
take a nap, and generally all headache will subside, and^ the patient be much 
refreshed. After washing the head in this way it will be very proper to use 
the magic headache cure, as there directed, which see. 

VI. In erysipelas, a writer in the Philadelphia Medical Times says, from 8 
years experience, he has found a solution of borax in glycerine, 1 dr. to 1 oz., 
to be a remarkably effective remedy, to be locally applied on linen. In connec- 
tion with this borax solution upon the inflamed part, I would give 5 to 10 
drops of muriated tincture of iron, every 4 or 5 hours, internally, when a cure 
may be expected in 2 or 3 to 6 days. If it irritates the stomach, or causes too 
much flow of urine, lessen the dose, or lengthen the time between them. (See 
also erysipelas, where the treatment may be preferable.) 

VII. As a shampoo, once or twice a week, it will be valuable for every- 
one; but for students, clergymen and others who have considerable 
mental work, it will be found especially valuable, after the labors of 
the day, rubbing and drying the hair and head well, before retiring. 
The powdered borax is readily dissolved, and a small tea-spoonful to a 
tumbler of water makes all ready for general purposes. If there is any 
inflammation of the gums, rinse them with it 3 or 4 times daily. 



184 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

VIII. For clothes washing, in Holland, Belgium and France the washer- 
women and washer-men (for in some of these countries the men do a good 
share of the washing) use a large handful of refined (powdered) borax ; being a 
neutral salt (having no excess of acid or alkali) it does not injure the clothing at 
all, but softens the hardest water, or at least materially improves it for wasliing 
purposes. IMany people use ammonia for most of the purposes here named, 
but the borax is generally preferable. 

1. NIGHT SWEATS— Remedy for.— Dr. Charles D. Carpenter 
reports a case through the Medical Brief, of St. Louis, wherein he was attending 
a " medical " friend, suffering with rheumatism, which continued 7 weeks (I 
have heard of a case wherein the celebrated Abernethy, of England, was asked 
what should be taken for rheumatism, and the answer was, " Take six weeks," 
— in other words, there was no cure, but it would get well in that time). In 
this case, after the acute stage had passed, recovery was retarded by terribly 
prostrating night sweats, and after trj'ing half a dozen or more of the common 
remedies for them, at the suggestion of the " medical" friend, he gave 2 full 
doses of chloral dydrate. "When the patient was fully under the influence of 
the chloral the sweating ceased and returned no more, the patient making a 
rapid recovery. He afterwards tested it in a number of obstinate cases of night 
sweats, and with uniform success. Dose — A full dose may be put down as 15 
grs. for a large man; 8 to 10 grs, for a large woman; repeating or giving the 
second 2 hours after, dissolved in water, say a wine-glassful or i^ of a common 
tumblerful. I should not give beyond the 2 doses. It has been given in much 
larger doses, but it is not best to run any risk, unless absolutely necessary in 
great and long-continued pain or nervousness arising from delirium tremens, etc. 

Remarks. — If it is good for night sweats arising from rheumatism, it is 
good for them arising from consumption, or any other prostrating disease. 
Further, it is veiy probable that one of Dr. Carpenter's obstinate cases above 
mentioned was a consumptive; although he does not say what they were, it is 
enough to know it is good for this symptom. It matters not, then, what the 
disease is in which thej'- are present. 

2. Night Sweats, Consumption, Spitting Blood and Diabetes, 
Valuable Remedy for.— Bugle weed {Lycopus Virginicus), also known as 
Paul's betonia and water hoarhound; the tincture or fluid extract has been found 
valuable remedy in all tlie diseased conditions above named. Prof. Scuddcr 
uses it in all chronic diseases when the pulse is too frequent and the debility 
considerable, for, as it lessens the pulse — which it does — so also it increases it in 
strength, acting, as he believes, through the sympathetic system of nerves, im- 
proving the circulation, the appetite, blood-making, nutrition, and the secretions. 
In consumption, he says: " "We find it relieving the cough, checking the night 
sweats and the diarrhea, lessening the frequency of the pulse, improving the 
apppetite and giving better digestion. It has been used more in hemoptysis 
(spitting of blood) than in any other disease, its action being slow but certain." 
— Scuddefs Specefic Medication. 

Prof. I. J, M. Goss, of Marietta, Ga., author of " Materia-Medica and 
Therapeutics." in his " New Medicines," says, among other things, that he has 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 185 

had it — the lycopus — to arrest hemoptysis (spitting blood) in a few hours, "when it 
was profuse and alarming. It seems to control the vascular excitement (excitet 
ment of circulation) i^ a manner peculiar to itself. 

This, however, I do not look upon as at all singular — all remedies hav« 
their own peculiar action, and none of us can tell why, and in but few circum- 
stances can we tell how ; but it is enough for it to be known, they do it. 

Prof. Goss further says, that it is also a valuable remedy in the treatment of 
diabetes insipidus (when the urine is tasteless) and sacluinna (the urine contain* 
ing sugar), and in chronic coughs, with profuse expectoration. 

The dose of the infusion is 1 to 2 ozs. (2 to 4 table-spoonfuls), and the dos« 
of the fl. ext. is 1 to 2 drs. (tea-spoonful). 

Where It Grows, When to be Gathered, etc. — It grows over large portions 
of the United States. Has a small purplish flower through July and 
August, when it should be gathered, dried in the shade and carefully kept 
in paper sacks, for each year's use, as age injures it. It yields its strength to 
boiling water, 1 oz. to the pint of river or rain water — giving 1 to 2 ozs., which 
would be 2 to 4 table-spoonfuls, as a dose. None of these writers say how often 
it should be given, hence I would say, 4 to 6 times within the day and evening, 
as found to agree with the stomach and the action desired. It is not p>oisonou3 
nor dangerous. See " Diabetes " for diet, etc., in that disease. 

Prof. King, of Cincinnati, in his " American Dispensatory," in his explana- 
tion of the uses of the bugle weed Qycopus), after corroborating its uses in 
the diseases above named, adds: " It acts somewhat like digitalis, in reducing 
the velocity of the pulse, but it is devoid of the dangerous effects resulting from 
the use of that drug, and hence has proved useful in som* Veart affections. It 
is decidedly beneficial in the treatment of diabetes, having cured when all other 
means were useless; and has been of service in chronic diarrhea and dysentery, 
inflammatory diseases of drunkards, diseases of the heart, and intermittents 
(agues)." 

Dose of the powder, from 1 to 2 drs. (1 to 2 small tea-spoonfuls); of the 
infusion, 2 to 4 fl. ozs. (from 4 to 8 table-spoonfuls), and of the concentrated 
tinct. of the recent plant (tinct. made with 8 ozs. of the bruised plant to 1 pt. of 
diluted alcohol), from 5 to 60 minims (drops). 

Thus it is seen, the bugle weed is a very valuable remedy. Especially is it 
worthy of a fair trial in the coughs and prostrating night sweats of consump- 
tion, as well as in all the other diseases mentioned. 

PIIiES (Hemorrhoids) — Bleeding or Only Tumors, Some 
Kemarkable Remedies for.— Stephen Adams, M. D., of "West Newfield, 
Me., in answer to a call in the Medical Brief, of St. Louis, Mo., for hemorrhoids 
(piles), says: "I use a remedy which I have used a long time, and which has 
cured every case where it has been used. Mix citrine ointment and rosinous 
ointment (both kept by druggists), about equal parts; put a few grs. on a piece 
of paper, rub on and about the anus (rectum) 3 or 4 times a week, at night. It 
will stop the hemorrhage (bleeding), and soon discus (drive away or scatter) the 
tumor. You need no knife or caustic. Should the bowels incline to constipa- 
tion, use, 2 or 3 times a week, }^ gr. solid ex. of belladonna, and some gentle lax* 



186 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

ative (as cream of tartar, sulphur, magnesia, etc., or the pile laxative below), or, 
if possible, a better plan is to keep the bowels regular by proper diet and 
exercise." 

Remarks. — This would be considered a pretty good thing, without other 
testimony or corroboration ; but in accordance with my general custom, although 
I have not had a bad case on which to try it, yet as others have, and are reported 
through the Brief above named, I will quote from one more of them. G. A. 
Graham, M. D., of White Hall, N. C, June 18, 1880, page 318 of that year, 
says: "Being a sufferer from hemorrhoids myself, I was especially interested 
in the many articles which appeared in the Biief, for the cure of this trouble 
without the knife. I concluded to try citrine and rosinous ointment, recom- 
mended by Dr. Stephen Adams; I only used it twice last November, and have 
not suffered once since. Four weeks since, an old man came to me 
for treatment, who had piles for forty years, in which time he tried 
any number of doctors and remedies, without any marked benefit. I did not 
care to treat his case with ointment alone, but, as he refused any more radical 
procedure (as the knife or ligature), I gave him, as an experiment, a little of 
Adams' ointment; he reports a wonderful relief. The tumor, which was two 
Inches in length, and nearly as hard as a bone, almost entirely disappeared, caus- 
ing no pain, no hemorrhage (bleeding), and leaving him like a new man. I write 
this hoping that others may be induced to try this remedy and report." 

2. Piles, Laxative for. — The inquiry for the best medical treatment 
for the cure of hemorrhoids, or piles, which brought out the above and many 
others also, was made by Dr. Hendien, of Nicholasville, Ky., among which 
was the following, by Clarence H. Clark, M. D., of Haverhill, N. H. I give 
ft, because I think it valuable as a laxative in these cases, rather than vdth an 
expectation of its making an absolute cure, although Dr. Clark says of it: 
" What I think to be the best remedy is the following recipe, which I have 
thoroughly tested. Jalap, confection of senna, bitartrate of potassa (cream of 
tartar) and sulphur, each 3 drs. ; nitrate of potassa (purified saltpetre) 20 gi-s. 
(all in powder) ; syrup of tolu, sufficient to make a soft mass. Dose — A pill 
the size of an ordinary bean or small chestnut, 3 times a day, before meals; or 
eufflcient amount to produce a gentle movement of the bowels; continue till the 
bowels become regular and natural." 

Bemarks. — This will, however, be found quite efficient as a laxative; and 
also an alterative of considerable value. The fig remedy below is an excellent 
laxative also, for piles, and I think more curative in itself . (See "Bleeding 
Piles, Laxative for, etc.") 

3. Piles, Simple Remedy for Tumors in.— E Parsons, M. D., 
of Savannah, Ga., gave the following. He says: " For many years I was very 
much troubled with piles, the tumors often being as large as a walnut and very 
painful. I tried many remedies with only temporary benefit; three years ago I 
prepared the following: Glycerine, 1 oz. ; carbolic acid dissolved in the least 
water that will dissolve it, 20 drops; mix. At night, on going to bed, I washed 
the parts in cold water, and with my fingers I annointed the parts. In one 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 18T 

week's time, six applications cured me, and I have had no return since of this 
very troublesome disease. I have recommended it to quite a number of my 
friends, who tell me it has cured them." 

4. Piles, Cured by a Simple Internal Remedy. — Another writer 
claims to have cured piles of long standing by taking a tea-spoonful of glycer» 
ine, iwice daily, only. 

5. Bleeding Piles, Valuable Laxative and Cure for. — A 
nephew of mine, who had been troubled considerably with piles, gave me the 
following recipe which liad done him much good. He said it was " going the 
rounds of the newspapers," as we often hear remarked. It was as follows: 
"Take nice soft figs, 1 lb.; best powdered senna, 3 ozs. ; manna and fennel 
seed, each 1 oz. Directions — Trim off the stems, flower end and other hard 
and dry spots, if any, from the figs; then chop them in a chopping-bowl, to a 
salvy consistency, and mix in the other ingredients with the hand, using a little 
molasses, if necessary, to work all in nicely and evenly. Then put into a tin 
box, and put a moistened cloth over the top, and cover tightly, for use. And 
if no fennel seed are to be had, anise seed or caraway seed may be used in 
their place. The seed, whichever may be used, are a carminative, to prevent 
griping from the action of the senna ; whichever is preferred, as to taste, may 
be used. Dose — Take a piece the size of a common hickory nut, at bed-time, 
to move the bowels next day; and continue to take such a sized piece every 
night, or every other night, as will keep the bowels easy, or soluble, until cured. 
If there is griping to any extent, use half as much more of whichever seed 
was used. Additional flavor might be used, if desired, a little oil of pepper- 
mint or wintergreen, as both are highly carminative." 

Remarks. — This was claimed to have been very effectual in bleeding piles^ 
as well as where only tumors were present. 

6. Piles, Simple Laxative for.— Confection of senna, 2 ozs.; cream 
of tartar and sulpliur, each 1 oz. ; syrup of ginger, enough to make a thick 
paste; mix well. Dose — Take a piece the size of a medium sized nutmeg, 
every bed-time, or sufficiently often to keep the bowels lax or loose. That is, 
in piles, the bowels must be kept easy, as the soreness of the parts do not admit 
ot strain without causing great suffering to the patient. With this laxative, or 
the one before it, the tendency to costiveness can easily be avoided. Dr. War- 
ren, in his "Household Physician," says this is one of the very best laxatives 
for piles. 

7. Piles, Lead Ointment for.— Rub well together, lard, 3 drs.; sul- 
phur, 1 dr. Then rub it between two plates of lead, or large flat pieces of lead, 
until the whole is well blackened. Dr. Warren says: " It is not only soothing 
but curative, both in bleeding and blind piles (where no tumors come down). 
The food should be of a laxative nature — corn bread, rye mush, bread of un- 
bolted flour (Graham), mealy potatoes, ripe fruit, pudding and milk, buckwheat 
eakes, broths, and a little tender meat once a day." 

Remarks. — When the digestion and circulation are good, there never are 
any piles. So keep the digestion and circulation good and have no piles, is tho 



188 BR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

author's advice. But as many persons will still have them, I will give a recipe 
for a suppository for intruducing into the rectum, which W. M. Bemus, of 
Jamestown, N. Y., tells us through the Brief, in answer to an inquiry, he haa 
for some time used with marked succes"^ and as it is also good for "enlarged 
prostrate," will be found doublj- vahiable. It is as follows: 

8. Piles and Enlarged Prostate, Suppository for. — I. For 
tJie nUs. — Iodoform, 30 grs. ; solid ext. of hyoscyamus, 18 grs. ; cocoa butter, 
or spermaceti, sufficient to make into suppositories — 6 in number; and intro- 
duce one into the rectum night and morning. 

II. For the Enlarged Prostate. — This suppository, with the addition of 
solid ext. of belladonna, in the proportion of one-half gr. to each suppository, 
is a very satisfactory mode of treatment for enlarged prostrate. 

Remarks. — Although the description is sufficient for physicians, for whom, 
as before remarked, the Brief is published, to understand the treatment of 
enlarged prostate, it is not so for the people for whom, especially, this work 
is published; therefore, the author will explain, by saying, the "prostate" is a 
gland In the male, lying immediately in front of and below the neck of the 
bladder, across, as it were, and upon the ureter just at the entrance into the 
bladder; hence its enlargement causes a pressure upon the urethra or water pas- 
sage from the bladder, making it difficult to pass the urine, and sometimes pre- 
venting it wholly, except by passing a catheter to evacuate the contents of the 
bladder. Then, of course, it lies so near the rectum, into which the suppository 
is to be introduced for enlarged prostrate, the same as it would be for piles; and 
I have not a doubt that it will be found very satisfactory for this difficulty. 
Knowing the importance of imderstanding, as perfectly as possible, anything I 
desire to do myself, I try, at least, to make everything as plain as possible for 
the people, for whom I have given a life time of service, and, I trust, have done and 
may continue, through my books, to do a good many years after my tongue 
and pen have ceased their labors. This, to me, is the grandest thought of my 
life — I have done what I could — to benefit mankind. 

9. Piles, Common or Bleeding— Bleeding of the Nose, Womb, 
Wounds, etc, Remedy for. — Samuel Wimpelberg, M. D., of Pough- 
keepsie, N. Y., writing to the Medical Bulletin on the subject of piles (of course 
called hemorrhoids by the doctors), says: " There are numerous remedies recom- 
mended for the cure of hemorrhoids, and I have tried many; but I can safely 
say that not one in the whole Pharmacopoeia (whole range of medical books) 
has given me results half as favorable as the persulphate of iron, [Monsel's 
salts is the common name, and I will use it in this connection.] 

"In cases known ordinarily as bleeding piles it acts promptly and posi- 
tively, thus giving the best results. In such cases the dose should be Monsel's 
salts, 114 grs., ter in die (3 times daily), internally, and the following ointment, 
applied locally: Simple ointment, 1 oz. ; Monsel's salts, 12 grs. ; mix and apply 
night and morning, I have known hemorrhoidal tumors, the result of preg- 
nancy, to disappear entirely in less than a week on the application of the inter- 
nal use of Monsel's salts, as directed above. 

" Piles, the result of violent efforts at stool (to force a passage), disappear 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 189 

promptly by combining the internal iise of the powder and the local use of the 
ointment. In this connection I would also mention that in proctocele (a species 
of piles in which the mucous membrane of the rectum, or intestine, comes 
down with every passage), a most satisfactory result can be obtained from the 
internal use of the per sulph of iron (Monsel's salt), in doses of 2 grs. 3 times 
daily, besides the local application of the ointment." 

10. Hemorrhage of the Lungs, Nose, Womb, etc.— The Mon- 
sel's salts being so prompt and positive in closing piles, the author cannot see 
why it would not be equally prompt in bleeding from the organs above named; 
still, I know that the fluid extract of ergot and tannic acid combined, say, fl. 
ex. of ergot, 1 oz. ; tannic acid, 180 grs. ; mix. Dose— Take % tea-spoonful 
every 3 hours, if the hemorrhage is moderate, or if more free, repeat once or 
twice only, 1 hour apart, then once in 3 or 4 hours, according to the severity of 
the case. I have used this latter in hemorrhage from the womb, with success, 
and hence know its value for all these purposes, using friction over the womb, 
occasionally, until it contracts, and thus ends the hemorrhage. 

Remarks.— In speaking of the uses of Monsel's salts. King, in his "Dis- 
pensatory," says: "The action of this salt on blood and albumen (albumen 
forms a part of the blood) is powerful; with the former it produces a volumin- 
ous clot, absolutely insoluble, which continues to enlarge for several hours 
after its application, and becomes quite hard and firm. Dr. H. H. Tolland, of 
San Francisco, Cal., who has successfully used this salt says: ' If applied to a 
superficial (surface) wound, as soon as made not a drop of blood escapes, and 
no pain results from the application. It acts by producing instantaneous coag- 
ulation (thickening) of the blood, and will be found invaluable in hemorrhages 
from the mouth, nose and throat, when it is impossible to ligate (tie) the vessel, 
and may be equally efficacious in alarming uterine (womb) hemorrhages, 
eitlier active or passive. [That is profuse or slight hemorrhages from the 
womb.] Ill solution, it could be readily applied; it is very deliquescent (dis- 
solves quickly in the air), and dissolves speedily in water.* " 

Remarks.— V'lW form is the easiest way to take this Monsel's salt, or per- 
sulphate of iron, as it has an unpleasant, astringent taste in solution; still the 
solution is the quickest to act, in case of profuse or active hemorrhages. In 
\voands or ulcerative sores the powder may be sprinkled into them, or in cuts with 
much hemorrhage. It is the same powder that Dr. T. B. King, of Toledo, O., 
used in curing an ulcerated erysipelatious sore leg, on a woman in Detroit, 
Mich. , after the doctors said nothing could help her. As in that item remarked, 
he applies it. and so nave I, to the mouth of the womb, when ulcerated, with 
great success. Mind, however, it is iron, and stains clothing; so protect them. 

ABSCESS. — An abscess is the collection of pus or matter in the sub- 
stance of some part of the body. When the matter is poured out from some 
part, the process is said to be suppuration; when it collects in a tissue, it is an 
abscess. When the matter collecting in some organ, comes toward the surface, 
and a place in the centre rises above the surrounding skin, and turns white, the 
abscess is said to point. Some abscesses point and break in a week; others of a 
more chronic character, will linger on for monthc. 



190 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES 

Treatment. — "WTien the abscess is completely formed, and there is no 
longer any doubt of the presence of matter, it should be opened at once. To 
let out the confined pus alleviates the pain and lessens the inflammation. If 
the matter lie close to the bone, the opening should be made without delay. 
The opening should be large enough to let the matter out freely. It is a rule 
to keep the incision open till the cavity of the abscess is so far filled up that 
another collection of pus is not likely to occur. 

If the matter do not readily get to the surface through the opening, it 
may burrow itself in the flesh, in a long narrow channel called a sinus. To 
relieve this the opening must be extended in such a way as to give vent to the 
new collection. 

An abscess is sometimes indisposed to heal at the bottom, and pus continues 
to be formed a long time, and is discharged through an opening smaller than 
the sack which contains it. This is a fistula; and the opening to it should be 
enlarged bo as to let out the matter more freely. A little soft lint may then be 
gently pressed into the wound to prevent its healing before the cavity below. 

An abscess from acute inflammation requires to be poulticed for a time 
after it has been opened. When the swelling and inflanunation are gone, the 
poultices are to be laid aside, and a bandage put on. When the inflammation 
is gone, let the diet be improved; and if the discharge of matter be large, give 
wine and tonics. 

ATBOPHY, OB SHRINKING OP THE HEART— The heart, 
like any other organ, is liable to defective nutrition, and in consequence of it, 
may become small; it shrinks in some cases to the size of an infant's heart. 

The complaint is generally caused by whatever reduces the general flesh, as 
in consumption, diabetes, chronic dysentery, cancer, and excessive loss of 
blood. 

It can hardly be called a disease. Persons who have it are less subject to 
inflammatory diseases than others, though they faint from slight causes, and 
have nervous affections. 

Treatment. — If its causes can be discovered, treat them; if not, the treat- 
ment should be the same as for dilatation. 

DELIRnJM TREMENS. — This is often mistaken for brain fever; 
but it is quite a different disease. It is not the result of inflammation of the 
brain, but of irritation. It is important to distinguish it from inflammation, 
because the remedies which are employed for that would be injurious if used 
for this. 

Treatment. — Opium and its preparations are the sovereign remedies. 
Give %" of a grain of morphia; if this does not quiet the patient, give 30 drops 
of laudanum every two hours, till sleep is produced. Sleep will cure him, 
and nothing else will. A draught or two of his accustomed drink, brandy, 
gin, or whatever it may be, will also generally dispose him to sleep. 

Recently, a very effectual remedy has been found in the use of tepid baths, 
prolonged from four to ten hours, in connection with cold applications to the 
bead. In connection with this, small doses of opium are required ; but the 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 191 

treatment may yet prove to be very valuable by enabling us to dispense with 
excessive doses of opium. 

PAINTING.— Treatment.— Lay the patient upon the back, with the 
head low; let fresh air into the room instantly, and apply gentle friction. 
Sprinkle a little cold water upon the face, and hold spirits of camphor, ether, 
hartshorn, or vinegar to the nose, — rubbing a little of the spirits of camphor 
upon the forehead, and about the nostrils. As soon as the patient can swallow, 
give a tea-spoonful of compound spirits of lavender, with 10 drops of water 
of ammonia in it. 

Persons subject to fainting should not go into crowded assemblies where 
the air is bad; neither should they wear tight dresses, or allow themselves to 
get excited. Cold bathing, a well regulated diet, and vegetable tonics, will do 
much to break up the habit. 

Remarks. — Whatever causes debility, particularly of the nervous system, 
will predispose to fainting. Persons much weakened by disease, faint easily — 
especially when they attempt to stand still. When on their feet, such persons 
should keep moving. Fainting is sometimes induced by sudden surprises and 
emotions, by violent pains, by the sight of human blood, and by irritation of 
the coats of the stomach by indigestible food. 

GAIjL stones.— Treatment.— To reduce the spasm, give Dover's 
powder in full doses, or chlorodine. Also apply mustard over the right 
hypochondrium and stomach, and follow it with hot fomentations with hops, 
or use wet cups. 

If the stomach is irritable, give the neutralizing mixture until it moves 
the bowels. A warm infusion of thoroughwort, given to the extent of pro- 
ducing vomiting, will sometimes do well, and lobelia enough with it to relax 
the duct may be useful. 

To relieve the acidity on which the formation of these stones so often 
depends, the following neutralizing preparation may be given for a long time, 
the diet, in the meantime, being well regulated: Rhubarb, pulverized, }4. o^.; 
spearmint herb., pulv., 3^oz.; pulv. cascarilla, }4. oz- ; pulv. bicarbonate ol 
potassa, 14 oz. ; pulv. wild cherry bark, J^ oz. Mix. and pour on one quart 
of hot water. Let this stand till cold, and add % P'Q* of brandy. Dose — 
Half a wine-glassful. The sponge bath, with saleratus and water, should be 
taken daily, followed by brisk rubbing; and free exercise in the open air 
should on no account be omitted. 

PLEURISY.— Treatment. — As a general thing I am opposed to bleed- 
ing, and am even reluctant to recommend it in pleurisy. Yet if there is a 
human ailment which will justify it, pleurisy is that one. 

Sweating should be encouraged immediately. The compound tincture of 
Virginia snake root, given every half hour, in tea-spoonful doses, will gener- 
ally produce a free perspiration, and give immediate relief. It may be given 
in infusion of catnip, balm, or pleurisy root. At the same time, the affected 
side should be fomented with hops, tansy, wormwood, etc., applied very hot. 



192 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES, 

If this does not afford relief, or only partial relief, give an emetic of the com- 
pound powder of lobelia, and follow it with the compound powder of jalap, 
or the compouiid powder of leptandrin, or prescription as physic: Pulverized 
gamboge, 12 grs. ; pulverized scammony, 12 grs. ; elaterium, 2 grs. ; croton oil, 
8 drops; ex. of stramonium, 3 grs. Mix. Make 12 pills. One pill is a dose, 
repeated every hour until it operates. At the same time keeping up the per- 
spiration, with full doses of tincture of veratrum. 

To produce sleep and perspiration at the same time, Dover's powder may 
be given in 6 grain doses. 

For the fever, nothing is equal to the tincture of veratrum viride. 

The diet must be of the very lightest kind. 

"When absorption of the fluid does not take place, a puncture is sometimes 
made through the walls of the chest, and the water drawn off. This operation 
is called paracentesis thoracis, and is generally, in uncomplicated cases, entirely 
succefifexul. When this is not done, let the affected side be painted daily with 
tincture of iodine, keepiog up considerable soreness, and giving iodide of 
potassium at the same time. 

Fluid ex. of sarsaparilla, 4 ozs. ; fluid ex. of pipsissewa, 1 oz.; water, 1 
•qt. ; iodide of potassium 2 ozs. Mix. Take a table-spoonful 3 times a day. 

RICKETS. — This is also a disease of scrofulous children. By some bad 
process of nutrition in such children, there does not enough phosphate of lime 
enter into the bones to harden them, and the weight of the body, or the pulling 
of the muscles, or the pressure of the clothing, bends and distorts them in all 
manner of ways. The heads of the thigh bones are pushed nearer together 
making the lower belly narrower, the backbone is so curved as to lessen the 
height; the shoulder blades stand up like wings when flying is contemplated; 
and the shoulders are so lifted up that the head seems only a little higher than 
the elevations on each side. 

Treatment. — A good, generous, wholesome diet, properly regulated; out 
door exercise; the tepid or cold salt water sponge bath, with friction, and but 
little medicine. The hypophosphite of lime, in 2 gr. doses, given in a little 
sweetened water, 3 times a day, or the syrup of the hypophosphites, in )^ 
tea-spoonful doses, 3 times a day, may be given with advantage. 

SHINGLES.— Treatment.— Light diet and gentle laxatives. If the 
patient be advanced in life, and feeble the following tonic will be desirable: 

1. Bicarbonate of soda, 3^oz. ; compound infusion of gentian, 4 ozs.; 
tincture of Colombo, 1 oz. ; syrup of orange peel, ^ oz. Mix. Take a table- 
Bpoonful 3 times a day. 

For external application- 

2. White Vitriol, 1 dr.; rose water, 3 ozs. Mix. Apply outwardly. 
Or the following ointments: 

3. Sulphuret of lime, 1 dr.; camphoti in powder, 15 grs.; lard, 1 oz. 
Make an ointment. 

4. Elder-flower ointment, 1 oz. ; oxide of zinc, 1 dr. Make an ointment 



TREA n/.TX'^ OF DISEASEb. 1S3 

SPASM OR CRAMPS IN THE STOMACH. — Treatment.— 

The followiug stroug purgative injection will often bring immediate relief: 

1. Castor oil, 2 ozs. ; tinct. of prickly ash bark, J^ oz. ; comp. tinct. of 
Virginia snake root, 2 drs. ; infusion of boneset and seuua, equal pails, '^4, P** 
Mix. 

2. Sweet tinct. of rhubarb, 4 ozs.; bicarbonate of soda. S drs. Mix. 
From a tea-spoonful to a table-spoonful, as occasion may require, ^his, with 
a few drops of tincture of cayenne mixed with it, will often bring speedy 
relief. So will a mustard poultice laid upon the stomach. The mustard 
poultice is a remedy of great excellence in many cases. It deserves to b' called 
the poor man's friend. 

Remarks. — Though generally of shorter duration, this is more violent than 
heartburn. It is attended by a sense of fullness, by anxiety, and by great 
restlessness. In females hysterical symptoms are often coupled with it. 
Great quantities of air or a gas are generally expelled, and the pain shoots 
through to the back and shoulders. 

TYPHOID PNEUMONIA. — Tkeatmekt.— This should be like the 
treatment of pneumonia and typhoid fever united. Great care must be taken 
not to use reducing remedies. While active purging must not be used, yet if 
there are symptoms of an inactive state of the bowels, the following may be 
employed: 

1. Leptandrin, 1 dr. ; podophyllin, 1 scruple; scutillarine, 2 drs. ; pulv. 
cayenne, 1 scruple; pulv. loaf sugar, 4 ozs. Rub together for some time in a 
mortar. Dose— For an adult, ^5 of the above. 

2. Leptandrin, 30 grs. ; podophyllin, 10 grs. ; pulv. cayenne, 10 grs. ; 
ext. nux vomica, 6 grs. ; quinine, 12 grs. Mix. Make 24 pills. One, two, or 
three times a day. 

When there are symptoms of great depression, use the following tonics: 

3. Podophyllin, 4 grs.; leptandrin, 8 grs.; quinine, 8 grs.; ext. nux 
vomica, 2 grs. Mix. Make 16 pills. One, two, or three pills, at bed-time. 

4. Pulverized Peruvian bark, 1 oz. ; pulv. rhubarb, J^ dr.; pulv. muriate 
of ammonia, 1 dr. Mix. Divide into eight powders. Take 1 three times a 
day. 

5. Aromatic syrup of rhubarb, 1 oz.; tinct. of Colombo, 1 oz. Mix. 
Dose — Two tea-spoonfuls 3 times a day. Taking care to keep the cough 
loose by flaxseed, slippery elm, and marshmallow tea, and by some external 
irritant. 

CHILDREN, MANAGEMENT OF. — 1. Diet. — Between the 
period of weaning and the seventh year the diet should consist very much ef 
farinaceous food, and milk; witli a moderate allowance of animal food once 
or twice a week. 

2. Bowels.— To keep the bowels of children in a healthy and regular 
state, is a matter of the utmost consequence. They are too apt to neglect tlie 
calls of nature, not being aware of the importance of regularity in this respect. 
13 



194 DR. CHASm 8 RECIPES. 

3. Sleep. — Children generally take a great deal of rough and boisterous 
bodily exercise; and during their education, their minds too are pretty much 
employed; all which occasions considerable exhaustion, so that it seems quite 
proper to allow them a due share of sleep, from eight to nine or ten hours at 
least. But it should be at sleeping time; and they should not be allowed to 
doze and saunter during their waking hours. 

4. Clothing. — Children should have their dress accommodated to the 
season; and a due degree of warmth should be kept up. It is wrong to expose 
them to cold in order to harden them; but a proper degree of exercise in the 
cold air should be taken. The great evils to be avoided are, cold accompanied 
with moisture, and any check to perspiration; which boys too often sustain, by 
throwing themselves down on the moist ground, when heated by their games. 
Flannel next the skin need not be ordered for healthy children; but where there 
is much tendency to catch cold, or to have loose bowels, or continual paleness 
of the skin, and weakness of the system, it will be prudent to make children 
wear flannel. Much care should be taken to have the feet always warm and 
dry; and to make them change their shoes as well as their clothes, whenever 
they get wet. 

5. Cleanliness. — Children should very early be taught the necessity 
and importance of cleanliness. They should be made to keep their hair, their 
teeth, and nails in good order, as it not only promotes their own health and 
comfort, but renders them agreeable to all around them. It is of the utmost 
consequence to keep the skin very clean, as this tends to prevent many of the 
cutaneous diseases which are so common with children, but which are so dis- 
gusting. Washing with cold water about the chest will lessen the susceptibility 
to cold; and about the feet, will strengthen them, and render them less liable to 
chilblains. Sea-bathing and swimming in safe places, are excellent both for 
health and cleanliness. Cleanliness is not without a degree of moral influence, 
and has been very properly styled one of the minor virtues. 

6. Exercise. — Children when In tolerable health, and not of an indolent 
disposition, seldom require to be urged to take exercise; they are rather inclined 
to take it too much, and too violently, and need a little regulation and superin- 
tendance in this respect The practice of gymnastics or dancing is a good 
exercise; and girls should use the skipping ropes. When out of doors, children 
should be allowed to choose their own amusements, and interfered with only 
when they are in danger of doing anythiL.-^ unbecoming, or hurtful to them- 
selves or their companions. Even girls sliou. have ample scope in their play- 
time, and their own sense of propriety, will soon enough correct any tendency 
to improper romping; their health will be promoted, and their figure expand; 
and it is better to posses a sound constitution and an active frame, than to be 
celebrated for proficiency in drawing or music, before the age of twelve or 
thirteen. 

Moral Treatment.— We charge upon nature many of the bad passions 
which we ourselves implant in children. The moral treatment of children is 
generally bad. We are apt to begin by either making them our masters or out 
slaves. Sometimes we do both, — allowing them to govern us for a time, and 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 196 

then, getting into a passion, or a mood for playing the tyrant, we turn upon, 
and govern them as if we were autocrats. We submit to their whims until we 
grow irritable, and then, by way of retaliation, we compel them to submit to 
ours. This is all wrong. Children should be govermd always, but with an even, 
a gentle, and a loving hand. They sliould early be subjected to habits of self- 
control, and of regularity in eating, and sleeping; and should be taught abso- 
lute and continued obedience. All this can be brouglit about only by firmness, 
self-control, and great gentleness on the part of parents. If they would make 
a child cheerful and happy in its disposition, they must themselves be cheerful, 
and never let it see anger, passion, and fretf ulness, marring their conduct. Noth- 
ing is more injurious to the health of a child than a peevish, complaining, and 
soured disposition; and these vices are seldom acquired, unless seen in the lives 
of parents. 

1. DISEASES OP CHILDREN— Prickly Heat, Dysentery, 
Diarrhea, etc. — Eemedies. — Mrs. Jay, of Fern Grove, 111., reports through 
the Blade, that an experienced physician taught her the following, in caring for 
children broken out with prickly heat: 

1. Keep them as cool as possible. 

II. For a child of 2 years, give 3^ tea-spoonful of cream tartar in the morn 
ing, for a few mornings. 

III. Bathe them in tepid (a little warm) water, with a little soda in it, every 
night. It is also good to have a tubful of water (the chill off, of course), and 
let the child splatter in it for about fifteen minutes. 

IV. When the heat breaks out in little pimples, which are all sore, grease 
them over with fresh (unsalted) grease of any kind; then dust over with pul 
verized starch, at least once a day, to keep them from smarting. 

2. Dysentery, Diarrhea, etc., of Children, Cordial for.— Tliii 
lady continues: I. These little ones require much care during warm 
weather, with their dysenteries, diarrheas, etc , from teething. I have found the 
blackberry balsam, as I call it. a most excellent remedy, but when the disease is 
of long standing, and there seems to be pain and soreness of the bowels, it is best 
to keep them very quiet, scarcely rocking them (so the doctor told me) and 
apply spirits of turpentine over the bowels. Take a cloth dampened with the 
turpentine, large enough to extend up over the stomach, as well as to cover the 
bowels, and leave it on long enough to cause redness, but not to blister. Then 
take it off, and when the redness goes away, apply again, until it seems to be 
out of pain, or easier, or: - 

II. Onion Povlticfs — Applied in the same way. are very good; but the tur- 
pentine, if at hand, acts quicker. Onion poultice is made by chopping, or 
slicing, 2 onions into a spider with a little water and cooking well, then spread 
on a cloth. 

Remarlcs. — This cooking of the onion, accounts to the author, for their not 
acting as quickly as the turpentine ; mash them and lay them on raw, and I 
think they will act as quickly and as effectually as the others. Her balsam is 



196 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

entirely different from any I have seen, but it -will be found very valuable. It 
is as follows: 

III. Blackbeiry Balsam and Cordial for Children. — Take of the small 
and groTTin^ roots of the blackberry, 4 ozs.; bark of the bayberry, 2 ozs.; 
cranes-bill root (kiio-\vu also as geranixim mac-ukitum by the profession, and 
alum root by the people), and cinnamon bark, each 1 oz.; gum myrrh and 
cloves, each J^ oz. ; fennel seed, 34" oz. ; loaf augar and brandy aa giren below. 
Directions — The roots should all be cut short, then with the other articles all 
bruised, and steeped in 2 qts. of wat«r until half is evaporated (4 to 6 hours at 
least), making up with hot water if too much evaporation; but if steeped 
slowly, as it should Ije, or covered, it will be about right; then strain, and for 
the balsam add loaf sugar, 1 lb., and dissolve by heat. 

For tlie Cordial. — Make the same way, but add sugar, J^ lb., and best 
French brandy, % pt Each are to be bottled arid kept corked for use. Dose 
— For children, 1 to 2 tea-spoonfuls, according to age and severity of the disease; 
repeat every 1, 2 or 3 hours, as needed. For adults — for it is good for them 
too— 1 table-spoonful for a dose, time as above. 

Remarks. — I can see no reason for making two kinds, balsam and cordial. 
I should put the full 1 lb. of sugar and the brandy, or good whiskey, as one 
can get handiest, ^ pt. to the strained mixture, and call it syrup, and be done 
■with it; for the spirit will insure its better keeping and action. Prof. King in 
spewing of the fruit of this berry family, in which the red raspberry, dew- 
berry, etc., are all included, says: "The fruit, especially that of tlie black- 
berry, is of much service iu dysentery, being pleasant to the taste, mitigating 
(easing) the accompanying ienemms (griping and straining) and suffering of the 
patient, and ultimately effecting a cure. Blackberry syrup has cured cases of 
dysentery, even after physicians had despaired of a cure." 

3. Dr. J. D. Lauers, of Conover, Ohio, adds to the blackberry cordial, 
made by any good cordial recipe, as follows: "Blackberry cordial, 1)^ ozs.; 
tinct. kino and paregoric, each, Vy^ drs., and syrup of ginger sufflcent to fill a 
8 oz. bottle. Dose — For an adult, 1 tea-six)onful every hour. For children, 
J^ tea-spoonful every hour. In severe cases increase the dose." 

Remarks. — It will need some care about increasing the dose, if given so 
often, as the kino is quite astringent and might, if the dose Is large and given 
often, have a tendency to produce the opposite condition — constipation. Watch 
this, and you will be safe, as it is not best to sew one up too tight. As much 
syrup of rhubarb added, as tinct. of kino, would prevent that condition, and im- 
prove the syrup for the purpose intended. 

4. Summer Complaint from Teething of Children. — Sub-car- 
bonate of bismuth, 36 grs.; Dover's powder, 6 grs. Mix thoroughly, and 
divide into 12 powders. Dose — For a child from 1^ to 2 years, 1 powder in a 
little syrup, every 3 or 4 hours. When the looseness, ordiarrhea, has improved 
to justify it, give only 2 or 3 daily, when needed, to keep it under control so 
long as the irritation from the teething causes the continuance of the diarrhea. 
If properly managed it will control it. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 197 

Remarks.— I think, in one case, a girl oi \yi years old, I continued its use 
occasionally for nearly a year. The child being weak and feeble — puny, aa the 
doctors say, — but care and perseverance overcame both difficulties, and at this 
writing, she is nearl}' 8 years old and of very good health. Without these pow- 
ders and the care, I believe she would years ago have been in her grave. 

5. Colic of Infants and Adults, Qmck Belief and Cure. — 
I. For Infants. — Fl. ex. of dioicarea (wild yam, also called colic root), % dr.; 
camphor water, 1 dr. ; simple syrup, 1 oz. Mix. Dose — For an infant of % 
months or under, % tea-spoonful every half hour, or shorter time, if not relieved 
"The mixture," says Dr. Harris, of Suwanee, Ga., "gives immediAte and per- 
manent relief." 

II. For Adults. — Prof King, in his Dispensatory, speaking of the wild 
yam, says: " It is a specific in bilious colic, having proved itself in\'ariably sue 
cessful in doses of }^ pt. of the decoction (tea), repeated every half hour or hour. 
No other medicine is required, as it gives prompt and permanent relief in the 
most severe cases." The fl. ex. of this, which is now kept more generally than 
heretofore, will no doubt prove equally effective, and be easier obtained 
Decoctions arc made by steeping 1 oz. of the root to 1 pt. of water. 

6. Hernia, or Rupture of C?hildren, To Cure.— A Mrs. A. M, 
Benson, of Loveland, Col., communicates the following cure for hernia of chil- 
dren to the Blade, which I trust will give as good satisfaction to others as it did 
to her boy of 11 years. The sooner applied after hernia is known, the more 
likely it will be to effect a cure. She says: 

I. "I wish to give you a cure for ' Hernia,' or rupture, as used on my 
little boy. He was ruptured when about 3 weeks old on one side, and had to 
wear a truss. When 2 years old he had a second rupture on the opposite side, 
and since then has had to wear a double truss. This he could not leave off 
save when lying down. A woman once told me, when he was a baby, that oil of 
eggs would cure rupture, but I did not know how to prepare it, and had no 
faith in it. My boy is now 11 years old, and last summer I was told how to 
prepare oil of egg, and that it would cure rupture. So I tried it, using it about 
3 weeks. For 6 weeks he has not had on a truss. He oas pulled beuns, helped 
to cut corn, and done a variety of chores around the farm, and seems perfectly 
cured So now to the recipe for making oil of egg. I hope every one so 
afflicted will try it. 

IT. OH of Eggs to Make, as Used in Hernia of Children. — " Boil 15 eggs 
hard, take out the yolks and cut them up in a spider (skillet), put over a slow 
fire and stir constantly, gradually increasing the heat. It will soon dissolve 
into a creamy looking substance; then, as the fire grows hotter, it will rapidly 
turn brown and look almost like coffee grounds. Now stir rapidly all the time; 
it will smoke and smell terribly, and you will feel sure that it is all burned up, 
but keep at it patiently, and after awhile it will dissolve into a black oil. Now 
strain it off and bottle it. This quantity will make over an ounce of oil, and I 
did not quite use up this quantity before my boy was cured, although I should 
not have been discouraged if I had been compelled to make the second quantity. 



198 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Rub this oil on every night after lying down, being sure that the rupture is back 
in place. Then every morning use the following: 

III. Healing Salve. — "Melt together a little fresh, unsalted butter with 
one-quarter as much beeswax, and after melting, add a few drops of oil of 
spike. This is very healing and prevents its getting very sore on the outside. 
I continued this treatment a little over three weeks. " 

Remarks. — Let no one, who has a child with hernia or rupture, fail to give 
*t a fair and faithful trial. 

7. Milk-Scab of Children, Cure for.— Fresh mutton tallow melted 
and applied very thick, once or twice a day; wash once a week, or oftener, with 
White castile soap; apply fresh tallow after washing; it will allay the burning 
'ind itching; no medicine is needed. 

Remarks. — These scabs, or crusty eruptions, come out upon the forehead and 
ipper part of the face of nursing children; at first slightly elevated pimples, 
<ometimes becoming pustules, or containing matter, in clusters, the edges more 
or less red and inflamed. It takes its common name from a supposition that 
the mother's milk causes it; but I have seen it on children "raised upon the 
bottle." It is sometimes also called "honey disease," because the scabs look 
much like a drop of honey dried upon the skin. If it works up into, or upon 
the head, it would be called "scald-head." Besides washing with pure castile 
soap, or a weak lye made from wood ashes, and applying the mutton tallow, 
you can also give a little sulphur and cream of tartar, internally, to gently move 
the bowels, and after, give less to act on the blood. These should be mixed— 
half as much sulphur as cream of tartar; then mixed in molasses or syrup. 
This disea«H; is also known as tinea capitis and dow worm; at first it is only an 
inflammation of the skin, but by neglect, want of cleanliness, and simple means 
to reduce the inflammation by slippery elm poultices and the cream of tartar 
and sulphur, it becomes aggravated, mattery, and harder to cure. In such 
cases use the following: 

8. French Ointment for Scald-Head of Children.— Rose oint- 
ment, 1 oz. ; whit« precipitate, 1 dr. ; mix. Directions — Wash carefully with 
mild castile soap and water; dry carefully with a soft dry cloth; then, after a 
few minutes, rub in a little of the ointment — morning and evening. 

Remarks. — This originated with Prof. Spielman, at the University of Stras- 
burg, France, and was used by him very successfully. 

9. Scald-Head, Tar Plaster for. — This plaster has been recom- 
mended ; but if tar is to be used, let it be only in small proportions, as follows: 
Boil a qt. of urine, 4 ozs. of lard, and a table-spoonful of tar together for an hour 
or two; and when only warm, strain and add 1 oz. of sulphur; simmer together 
and strain again, and it is ready to use, taking all the care of washing, drying, 
etc. , before using, and also not forgetting the aperient of sulphur and cream 
of tartar, to keep the bowels easy and to act on the skin, which they do. 

10. Bed- Wetting and Urinary Diseases of Children, Cer- 
taiu Bemedies. — The following is from the Eclectic Medical Journal, of Cii> 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 199 

cinnati, O. The article was furnished by Dr. J. Berger, of El Passo, Kansas. 
He says. 

I. " I have been using santonine in difficulties of the urinary organs for a 
year or more, and it has not failed to have the desired effect in a single case. 1 
have used it in suppression of urine, incontinence of urine, and dysuria{see III., 
below), and also in fevers, "When the urine is scant and deposits a ' brick dust ' 
sediment, it is just the remedy. In my first case the suppression of the urine 
was complete, and resisted all treatment as per books, also the reputed apis 
mel (honey bee tea) was tried, and failed. But santonine thoroughly tritu- 
rated (rubbed) with sugar, in % gr. doses every 3 hours, established the secretion 
in 8 hours, and cured the case in 24 hours. I have used it, in two other cases of 
suppression, with like results. [Then rub 4 grs. of sugar of milk, if done by a 
druggist — or, if done at home, in half a tea-spoonful of white sugar— and divide 
into 8 powders — 1 for the dose, as above.] 

II. Enuresis, or Inability to Retain the Urine — Bed-Wetting Proper. — "The 
second case was a lad of 8 years. His mother called on me for medicine; said 
' Ed.' had worms and would 'wet the bed' 3 or 4 times during the night. I gave 
santonine triturated, in 2 grain doses, every 4 hours till 6 doses were taken. 
Followed with tonics of salicine and carbonate of iron in 4 gr. doses, 3 times a 
day for 4 days. Saw his mother two months after; said ' Ed.' had not ' wet the 
bed ' since taking that medicine. 

III. Dysuna, or Pain and Heat in Passing Urine. — " The third case wa:# 
a lady, aged 22 years, troubled with dysuria (pain and heat in passing urine). 
She was cured with santonine in 2 gr. doses every 3 hours. Continued 12 hours 
only, triturated as above. " 

Confirmatory of Dr. Perger's position above upon the use of santonine. 
Dr. Scudder, in his "Diseases of Children," page 35, makes the following 
remarks: "We think of santonine as a vermifuge only; yet it has some other 
desirable properties. One of them is its influence over the bladder in retention 
of urine. In some diseases there is sometimes a tendency to retention which 
ordinary remedies will not reach, and which at last proves fatal. Santonine 
thoroughly triturated with sugar, in doses of from 3^ to 1 gr. every 2 hours, 
affords very certain relief. It is also very effectual in relieving burning, scald- 
ing, etc., in passing urine and the tenesmus (pain in passing of urine), and 
other unpleasant sensations of the urinary passages," adding: "I think santo- 
nine is deserving a place among the ' Specific Medicines.'" 

rV. Incontinence of Urine {Bed- Wetting) Remedy foi: — Sulphate of qui- 
nine, 7 grs.; tincts. of belladonna and chloride of iron (muriated tinct. of iron), 
each 3^ oz. ; water, ^^ oz. ; mix and shake when used. Dose — Give 30 drops, 
8 times daily, one being at bedtime. 

Remarks. — The above dose is for a child of 6 or 7 years; older or younger 
in proportion. By the time this amount is taken, generally at best, there will 
be no more "wetting the bed." 

FOR JAUNDICE OP YOUNG- CHILDREN. — See under that 
head, or " Jaundice in Children, Treatment, etc." 



SOO DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

1. ASTHMA, Quick Relief and Other Remedies for. — 

/Uthough a lobelia, or some other emetic, has for a long time been considered the 
only hope for relief, yet, more recently, the inhalation of chlorofonn has 
proved generally a much quicker relaxant, and consequently the more satisfac- 
tory remedy. It is not necessary to breathe it to entire unconsciousness, but 
simply to relieve by putting a bottle of it— an ounce is sufficient to buy at a 
time — flrst to one nostril, closing the other with the thumb of the opposite 
hand, and, the mouth being closed, draw in a long and deep breath to the full- 
est extent t/ie lungs will allow; then alternate widi the other nostril in the same 
way until you realize the needed relief, or to the number of 2 or 3 times to each 
nostril, llien if not relieved, wait a few minutes and do the same again. It is 
better thus than to continue until unconscious. The chloroform is very satis- 
factorily inhaled from a glass tube inhaler, which see in note following "Acute 
Phtliisic, or Coasumption. " To be corked up when not in use, 

2. Asthma, Relief in. — A friend of mine who had had asthma, so 
that, at one time, he did not go to bed for 5 years, but took his sleep in a rock- 
ing chair, has found great relief inhaling the smoke of what he calls the 

I. Nitrated Stramonium for Relief in Asthma. — He says: " I gather the 
green leaves of the stramonium, after tlie plant blossoms, and dry them in the 
shade. "When dry, 1 soak tliem a few hours in a strong solution of purified 
nitre (common saltpeter does not answer), 3 ozs., to soft water, 1 pt. Powder 
the niter finely, and pouring on the wat*r hot, quickly dissolves it. Soak the pre- 
viously dried leaves in. this solution, re-dry, in the shade, then pulverize the 
leaves and keep from the air in box or bottle. To Use — Put a rounding tea- 
spoonful of the nitrated powder on a plate, and touch a lighted match to the 
heap, when, if properly done with the purified nitre, it burns without a blaze, 
throwing off considerable smoke. Place a small funnel (more generally called 
a tunnel), over it, and breathe the smoke arising from it by holding the mouth 
as close to the funnel as possible, to inhale as much as you can of the fumes. 
It will cause some coughing, at first, but tliis helps to clear the throat and bron- 
chial tubes of phlegm and soon subsides and gives very great relief. 

Remarks. — I used this at one time after having taken a severe cold, which 
settled upon the lungs, and found great relief, as it especially (as the gentleman 
says above) helped to clear the phlegm from tlie throat and bronchial tubes, 
most effectually. If it seems to be going out at any time, raise the edge of the 
funnel a moment, and it will burn and sputter on again. 

II. Astlima Pmcder, Improved. — Some persons think that sage, belladonna 
and digitalis, the dried leaves of each, with tlie dry stramonium, all in equal 
proportions, nitrated, as above (remembering always to use the purified nitre, 
kept by druggists only), and inhaled in the same manner, is preferable to the 
stramonium alone. If I were to use them, however. I would not use more 
than half as much of the belladonna and digitalis as I did of the sage and 
stramonium. 

3. Whenever the inhalation of chloroform, or nitrated stramonium, etc., 
above given, fails, then 20 to 40 drops of laudanum, according to robustness of 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 201 

the patient, or the severity of the case, "with 15 to 30 drops of sulphuric 
ether, put into a glass with a little water, and immediately drank, will almost 
always give relief at once. This should not be taken often enough to establish 
the habit of opium eating, which would prove a disease in itself, as bad as 
asthma and as difficult to cure. 

4. Alterative Relaxing Anodyne, and Curative for Asthma. 
— Ethereal tiuct. of lobelia and iodide of potash, each, 2 ozs. ; tinct. assafanida 
(fetta), and laudanum, each, 1 oz. ; simple syrup, 4 ozs. Mix. Dose — From a 
tea to a table-spoonful every hour or two, to relieve a paroxysm, for 3 or 4 
doses. As a curative, after the paroxysm has subsided, take ihe same dose only 
3 or 4 times a day. 

Remarks. — In closing the subject of asthma, I would say in addition only, 
that according to the condition of the system, any existing difficulty, as costive- 
ness, liver or kidney complaint, must be met and overcome on general prin- 
ciples, that is, to treat them as you would if they existed alone. Do all. as per 
instructions given under each head referred to, in connection with the above 
items under this head, and very many cases of asthma will be cured, the general 
opinion to the contrary, notwitlistanding. The condition of the surface, to 
keep it clean and the blood fredy circulating therein, by the salt washings, dry 
rubbings, etc., (which see), must not, in any case, be neglected in any long 
standing disease. If neglected, it is at your own peril. 

1. JAUUDICE— Successful Remedies. — No matter how much 
the liver may be affected, unless the stools are clay-colored, or, in other words, 
without color, and the skin and the whites of the eyes yellow, it is not called 
jaundice. "With the yellowness of the skin, there is generally constipation, 
tongue heavily coated, mouth dry, appetite variable, and sometimes headache, 
nausea, or vomiting. 

Treatment. — With eclectics it is claimed that the fl. ex. of chionanthus 
Virginica (fringe tree), in 10 to 20 drop doses, according to age and robustness 
of the patient, will cure it 

Dr. Goss, of Marietta, Ga., prefers the tinct. made with 8 ozs. of the bark 
of the root to alcohol, 1 pt. In answer to some inquirers through the Brief, he 
refers to the fringe tree in the following manner: 

" The doctor again asks me about the chionanthus Virginica — fringe tree. 
I have stated in geveral journals, and in my "Materia Medica," and also in my 
" New Medicine," emphatically, that I had never failed to cure simple jaundice 
with the tinct. of the root (bark of the root is what is used) of the chionanthus, 
when it was made from the freshly dug root. Several others ask me whether 
it acts on the liver, or not? I never claimed it as an active stimulant to the 
biliary secretions in health. It cures jaundice in some specific way, but how, I 
do not know." 

The doctor uses the tincture, made as above, in doses of 3^ to 1 tea-spoon- 
ful, 3 or 4 times a day. He first cured himself with it, while a student in the 
University of Georgia. ''The faculty," he says, "having failed to cure me, or 
to ameliorate my symptoms in the slightest degree. In this state of utter 



SOS DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

despair I finally concluded I must succumb to the malady; but, by accident; 1 
heard of a tailor who had been cured of the jaundice with gin bitters, made of 
the bark of the chionanthus root, so I procured some, and made me a bitters in 
^in, by adding 2 ozs. to 1 qt. Of this I took a table-spoonful 3 times a day, 
and in 10 days I was entirely cured of jaundice; and at the same time I found 
that it improved my digestion very much, and I continued it for a month oi 
two with much benefit to my digestive organs generally. [In making the 
bitters in places where it grows plentifully, I should use at least 4 ozs. to 1 qt. 
oi gin, and take the same dose.] 

"After that I prescribed it for others, and, I believe, always with success, 
where there was no complication of diseases. I cured many soldiers in the 
' late unpleasantness,' only losing a single case, which was complicated with bil- 
iary calculi (gall-stones in the bile-ducts of the liver)." He closed by saying: 
" Since I published my use of the chionanthus I have seen reports in various 
medical journals of its success in jaundice and hypertrophy (enlargement ot 
the liver), as well as some reports of its use as a female tonic. I know a case 
of hypertrophied (enlarged) uterus cured by the use of the chionanthus — used 
for a considerable time." 

2. Jaundice Cured by the Use of the Chionanthus and Ace- 
tate of Potash. — Dr. Henning, of Redkey, Ind., reports through The Brief 
also (February, 1879): "Twenty years ago I used to give calomel and leptandrin 
with poor success. But now I give, in all cases, of the fl. ext. of chionanthus 
(fringe tree) from 10 to 20 drops (of course according to age and robustness of 
the patient) 4 times per day. This will correct the action of the liver in a short 
time. But in addition I prescribe the acetate of potassa (potash), 10 grs., 3 
times per day, to act upon the kidneys (it is a very valuable diuretic) to pump 
out and eliminate (throw off) the bilious excrementitious (of the nature of 
excrement or feces, but here more particularly worn out) matter from the 
blood. This I follow with the elixir of calisaya (Peruvian) bark with iror» 
and strychnine (kept by druggists) as a tonic, increasing the nutrition and 
strength. This treatment," he says, "has been very successful in my hands, 
and I am satisfied it is the true theory of the disease in practice." He thinks it 
best to " follow up the treatment 3 to 5 weeks to make a permanent cure." 

3. Jaundice in Children, Treatment of.— J. E. Ball, M. D., of 
Texas, reports a case wliich was printed in the April number of Tlie Brief, as 
follows: "I noticed in the February number of TM BHef 'Treatment for 
Jaundice,' by John A. Henning, M. D., and as I think my treatment a little 
more prompt in its action I will give you the full treatment of my last case: 
Called Feb. 3d to a cliild 18 months old; skin and eyes as yellow as saffron, 
urine thick and stained its clothes of that saffron color peculiar to jaundiced 
urine. Prescribed: Leptandrin, 1 gr. ; podophyllin, }£ gr.; pulverized Jamaica 
ginger, 2 grs. ; mix, and divide into 8 powders. Gave 1 powder every 4 hours 
until the biliary secretions were aroused. Also Tinct. of buchu and sweet 
apirit? of niter, each, 1 dr. Dose — Ten drops every 2 hours. 

" Feb. 5th. — First prescriptions acted well. Then prescribed: Fl. ext. of 



TREATMmT OF DISEASES. 203 

chionanthus (fringe tree) and tinct, of sanguinaria canadensis (blood root), each 
equal parts. Dose — Ten drops 4 times per day. 

"Feb. 12th. — Little patient entirely relieved; skin and urine as clear as it 
ever was." 

4. Jaundice, Allopathic Treatment of — Successfal.— I give the 
following treatment because it contains calomel and may meet some cases where 
the chionanthus cannot be obtained, and also because it will lead me to follow 
it with remarks, sliowing how a very little calomel will sometimes arouse the 
action of the liver when, as the saying is, " everything else has failed." This 
is from Geo. B. Snyder, M. D., of Hays City, Kans. It will explain itself. It 
was reported in the July number of T?ie Bnef, 1879. He says: 

" In looking over the April number of j'our valuable journal, I notice an 
article on the ' Treatment for Jaundice.' As I understand it, the mere presence 
of jaundice is not a disease, but merely a symptom. The yellow skin indicates 
the presence or hepatic (liver) trouble, the true character of which I am, in 
candor, bound to confess is not always easy to determine. The last patient 
under these circumstances, I was called upon to see, was on August 19, 1878. 
His symptoms were yellow skin, impaired digestion, excessive restlessness, with 
eclampsia, etc." [This ' eclampsia,' here, no doubt, refers to an appearance, to 
the patient, like flashes of light, a symptom of epilepsy.] " ^ly prescription," 
he continues, "was: Hydrarg chlor. mite (calomel), 4grs.; podophyllin, 3 grs. ; 
potass chlor. (chlorate of potash, pulverized), 36 grs.; ex. of hyoscyami(hyoscy- 
amus) 3 grs.; mix. Make into 10 powders. Dose — One powder every 2 hours. 
On the second day I found my patient so much improved that with a single 
prescription of bitter tonics with ex. of nux vomica, I dismissed him. His 
recovery to perfect health was absolute." [A good tonic pill for these cases 
would be: Quinine, 45 grs.; alcoholic ex. of nux vomica, 2 grs.; mix thor- 
oughly and make into 30 pills. Dose— One pill only, 4 times a day, for an 
adult. These pills should not be given to children. But for them 1 gr. pow- 
ders of quinine might be given as the tonic, without the nux, in cold strong 
coffee, which hides the bitter taste very much.] 

Remarks.— Tir. Snyder says, above, " the yellow skin indicates the presence 
of hepatic, or liver, trouble," but the true character, he "confesses is not 
always easy to determine." Well, I would ask, why try to determine at all, so 
long as the chion<int7ms, as given in the foregoing recipe, or even his own com- 
bination, will cure it ? We know this much, that whenever the skin and eyes 
are yellow, there is a certain condition of the liver, and it is generally believed, 
at least, that this condition is always the same, hence, they are always cured, as 
above indicated, by the same medicines. But there is a certain diseased con- 
dition of the liver, attended with considerable uneasiness, sometimes amount- 
ing to actual pain, but not having the jaundiced or yellow skin and eyes, when 
the author has not been able to touch the liver, so as to start the bile, with 
either the common liver pills, which contain podophyllin, leptandrin, etc., 
nor with the chionanthus; but very minute doses of calomel, even the 20th 
of a grain, taken at bed-time, followed with a tea-spoonful of epsom salts. 
In the morning, has aroused its action, and started the bi>e fveely ts'JthiD 



204 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES, 

the following 24 hours, and was entirely satisfactory and lasting, by repeat- 
ing the same doses, at an interval of a week, for 2 or 3 times. These were des- 
perate cases, else I should not have ventured upon what I had always consid- 
ered a desperate remedy — calomel. But, as I have always believed in "giving 
the devil his due," I have thus set this down to the credit of calomel, notwith- 
standing I, and my mother before me, as well as eclectics generally, have fought 
against the use of calomel all our lives. But I would not, even now, use it in 
large doses, especially when such very small ones have such a decided and ben- 
eficial effect. But I always try the ordinary treatment first, and only fall back 
upon these small doses of calomel when the first plan fails. 

But if I fail to "touch" ,the liver, as the allopaths call it, i. e., fail to 
arouse its action, by which its usual biliary secretions are produced, with the 
small doses, I should use them as large as 1 to 3 grs. ; or, if need be, blue mass, 
a 3 gr. pill, followed with the salts, to accomplish the same end. I know sev- 
eral persons who claim, and no doubt believe, tlmt nothing but a 3 grain pill of 
of blue mass at night, qjod sometimes for a second night, will act on their liver 
wlien out of order. Working off next morning, of course, with salts or some 
other active cathartic. And I certainly prefer to try this plan rather than to 
lose the life of my patient, or have him go to a doctor who will use calomel or 
blue mass from choice; although, by their giving large doses of calomel, they 
often fail to cure. But I always give this class of patients a 1 to 2 gr. pill of 
quinine 3 or 4 times daily, after the bilious passages have somewhat subsided; 
and if much sour eructations arise from the stomach while the bile is being 
poured out so freely, I give a little bi-carbonate (common baking) soda, in half 
tea-spoonful doses, in a little water. Certainly, however, there can be no objec- 
tion raised to Dr. Snyder's doses of calomel, as there would be less than J^ a gr. 
to each powder, while allopaths, in the first time of cholera in the United States, 
gave it sometimes in ounce doses, and no doubt killed by such treatment more 
than the cholera itself. But now, as some of them have got down to the 
20th of a grain, or even 3^ grain doses, I will gracefully cease my warfare upon 
it, at least, when given in the above, homoeopathic, doses. And I am now, 
more than ever before confirmed in the idea that it was by large doses, and 
other abuses of its use, that much of the harm it has done was brought about. 
Where it is used, let it be in small doses only, and its action watched with great 
care, and I trust the result will be as satisfactory tc others, as it has been 
with myself. 

1. SYPHILIS — Alterative for, Successful in Bad Cases.— 
Fl. ex. of stillingia, corydalis, poke root, yellow dock root and burdock root, 
each 2 ozs. ; iodide of potash, % to % oz. ; simple syrup to make 1 pt. Direc- 
tions — Dissolve the iodide in a little of the mixture, and mix all. Dose — 1 
tea-spoonful 4 times] daily, one being at bed-time. Large and robust patients 
may put in the ^ oz. iodide, weak and feeble ones only the 3^ oz. 

Remarks. — If there is any gonorrhea discharge, every other time it is made, 
leave out the extract of poke root, and put in the same amount of the fl. ex. of 
buchu, in its place. In very bad cases of syphilis, when the pint has been all 
taken, get a pint bottle of Tilden's Elixir of lodo Bromide of Calcium Com- 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 205 

pound (kept by druggists), and take it according to the directions upon the tot- 
tlc, and so alternate, for a year, or longer, unless well satisfied ihat all the syph- 
ilitic poison is eradicated from the system sooner than this. The doctor of 
whom I obtained this, at Grand Rapids, Mich., told me that in this manner he 
had cured very bad cases — one where the whole body was covered with scab^ 
and sores, except, fortunately for the patient, his face and hands did not sho\V 
the eruptions. Upon the scales, or rather around tliem, he applied an ointmenl 
made as follows: Take a pint bottle and put into it nitric acid, 1 oz. ; quick 
silver, 1 oz., and let stand until the silver is cut; then melt lard, % lb., in ad 
earthen bowl, and mix all together and stir with a wooden spatula until 
cold. This was sn'abbed on around the scabs (if a little gets on thf 
scab it does not matter; but he thinks it not best to tear off the scabs, 
but to put it freely around the edges), at first three times a week, then 
twice, and finally only once a week, till all is smooth as a child's flesh; 
This case paid him $100, and had previously paid out over $250, with 
out benefit I have also since cured a verj* bad case with it, and therefore knovi 
its value as an alterative. In the case first given the doctor told mc that aftei 
the scabs or sores were cured about 6 months, the man wanted to know if lu 
might " marry with safety;" the answer was, " continue the alterative for a yeaf 
longer, then there Mill be safety in marrying." He followed it up as directed 
and then did marry, and never afterwards saw any ill effects from the disease 
Although the plan of alternating the above alterative with the Tilden prcpara 
tion is especially valuable for syphilis, yet the alterative above will be founf^ 
very valuable in all the other diseases requiring one. 

2. Gonorrhea— Remedy .—It consists of an inflammationof the urethn 
of the male and of tlie vagina of the female, which causes, generally, a dig 
charge (which is contagious) of a mucopurulent character, having the appear- 
ance of mucous and pus. It is generally caused from impure cohabitation; bu' 
it does sometimes arise from the parts coming in contact with this gonorrheal 
matter, even when partially dry, upon sheets where those having the discaso 
have slept, or from pri\7 scats, and, in fact, husbands sometimes are affected bji 
an inflammation of a similar character taken from the wife who has an acrid 
leucorrheal discharge, while both are perfectly honest and virtuous towards eacli 
other. These points are now well-known by many physicians, but not well 
understood by the people, which leads me to introduce these recipes as much to 
point out these facts as to enable people to cure themselves or their friends in 
like condition. Then, as the disease is well-known, as above remarked, in ihfs 
manner also described above, let everyone be very careful how they pronounces 
another guilty of criminal or impure connection, at least until they are positive 
as to the facts in any particular case. And let me caution every one having 
this disease, or in treating others who have it, to be very careful not to allow 
any of the matter to come in contact with any open sore, nor with the eye o) 
nostrils, for all mucous membranes will take on the disease by such contact 
Keep the hands clean and burn all cloths used for the purpose of cleaiUiness to 
ensure safety. 



206 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Other Treatment Necessary. — In the commencement of the disease, while 
the inflammation is acute or active, give a full cathartic dose of some 
cooling purgative — for instance, the compound powder of jalap, with cream of 
tartar, or a full cathartic dose of any medicine one is in the habit of using as a 
cathartic. 

Compound Powder of Jalap.— Best Alexandria senna, in powder, 1 oz.; 
powdered jalap, 3^ oz. ; powdered cloves, % dr. ; or powdered ginger, 1 dr. ; mix. 
This forms an excellent cathartic in all cases requiring quick action. It is mild 
but efiicient, stimulating the liver and biliary ducts to a healthy action, and help- 
ing materially to reduce all inflammatory diseases. It should not, however, be 
given in inflammation of the stomach or the bowels, if of a severe character. 
In pregnancy, painful menstruation, and other like conditions of females, it 
should be taken only in about half the usual doses; repeat half the dose, if 
it does not operate in 4 hours in all cases. Dose— Take one tea-spoonful of the 
powder in a tea-cup and half fill with boiling water; stir occasionally till cool; 
stir again and drink all. Sweeten, if desired. In all fevers and in the above 
cases put into the cup 1 tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, which aids in reducing 
fevers or inflammations, especially of the character above indicated. 

The patient should also take freely of mucilaginous drinks, as gum-arabic 
water, }4 oz. to 1 oz. to the pint, poured on boiling hot, and the whole drank in 
the course of the day, or two at most; or, a tea of marsh mallows, 1 oz. to the 
pint of water daily; or, flaxseed tea made in the same way, as most convenient 
to obtain. As soon as the action of the cathartic is well over, and one of the 
mucilaginous drinks have helped to allay the severity of the inflammation, use 
injections also of an astringent, tonic or antiseptic character, according to the 
severity of the case, like the following: 

3. Injection for Gonorrhea. — The following is one of the more 
common, being principally astringent, for cases where the inflammation and 
discharge is slight: Sulphate of zinc, 8 grs., to water, 4 ozs. Directions— To 
be injected 2 or 3 times a day at least; but it is well to inject after each urina- 
tion; but if much purulent or thick matter, use one of the following, first hav- 
ing injected water to cleanse the parts thoroughly, and if this strength causes 
much smarting or pain, reduce half with water. A glass or rubber syringe is 
better than the metallic ones for all these purposes. 

4. Injection for Gonorrhea. — The following combines tonic, astrin- 
^nt, and antiseptic properties, applicable in the severe cases. It was given by 
Prof. King in his "Chronic Diseases," with the remark, "that he makes it 
known for the first time": Sulphate of quinine, 20 grs. ; elixir of vitriol (which 
is aromatic sulphuric acid), 1 dr. ; mix, and shake to dissolve the quinine; then 
;uld camphor water, 1 oz., and distilled water, 3 ozs.; solution of iodide of iron, 
5^ dr. Inject as the first; and if it causes pain or uneasiness to any extent, 
reduce a little with water, until the improvement enables it to be borne. I will 
'^ve one more, which also combines the astringent, tonic, and antiseptic proper- 
ties necessary to ensure success, and equally valuable as an injection in leucor 
mea (which see). It is as follows; 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 207 

5. Injection — Valuable in Gonorrhea and Leucorrhea.— Fl. 
cxt. of golden seal, }4 dr. ; sulphate, or acetate, of zinc, 1 dr. ; chlorate of 
potassa, % ^^-'i tannin and sulphate of quinine, each 15 grs., the quinine to be 
dissolved with 15 or 20 drops of aromatic sulphuric acid before put in; distilled 
or soft water, 1 pt. Used same as the above. 

For leucorrhea it had better be made in double the quantity, and used with 
a female syringe, cleansing the parts, first, by injecting water as hot as it can be 
borne, keeping it in the vagina 2 or 3 minutes, by placing the fingers over the 
external parts to prevent its immediate escape. This is important in all these 
injections. It is also thought best, by J. "VV. Burney, ]\I. D., of Dcs Arc, Ark., 
for leucorrhea, to give, internally, a tea-spoonful 3 times daily of the fl. ext. of 
buchu in some flax-seed tea. It will prove valuable as a diuretic In either of 
these diseased conditions of the system. 

6. Any of the articles named in these injections have been used alone, in 
the strength of 2 grs. to the oz. of water, for gonorrhea; and, besides these, 
strychnia, 1 gr. to the oz. of water, and corrosive sublimate of the same strength, 
have been used, it is claimed, with success. The acetate, and the iodide of zinc, 
1 to 3 grs. of either to the oz. of water, have been used very satisfactorily. 

Of late, suppositories have been brought into use, containing a suitable 
amount of any of the foregoing, or other articles which are desired, to be intro- 
duced into the ureter at bed-time, by which, it is claimed, a better action is had, 
from the fact that the cocoa butter, in which the medicines are held, dissolves 
slowly, and thus the medicine is held the longer in contact with the diseased 
parts of the ureter. They are also made of suitable size for the vagina, in leu- 
corrhea and gonorrhea of females. 

7. Gonorrhea Cured "Without Injections.— If the following inter- 
nal treatment will do what Dr. Given, of Louisville, Ky., claims for it, it is 
preferable, or, at least, is a less difficult plan to pursue. He states, through the 
Brief, in answer to an inquiry, " How to Cure Gonorrhea Successfully With- 
out the Use of Copaiba, Cubebs or Injections?" as follows: 

" The following is my prescription, as published in i\iQ American Practi. 
tioner several years ago. It cures in from 2 to 10 days, if given within the first 
24 or 36 hours after the disease has developed. I have never injected a single 
patient: Spirits of nitric ether, balsam copaiba and camph. tinct. opii (para- 
go ric), of each 1 oz. ; tinct. veratrum viride, 1 dr. Mix. Dose — A tea-spoon- 
ful 3 or 4 times a day." 

Remarks.— The, author would say in flaxseed tea or some of the other mucil- 
aginous drinks. The more freely the mucilages are taken, the better for the 
patient. It is generally claimed, however, that those suffering with gonorrhea 
must be careful about their diet, excluding meats of all kinds, fats, tea, coffee, 
and absolutely avoid all alcoholic and malt liquors, and tobacco in all its forms, 
if they hope to get well at all sjjeedily; and also to take a mild cathartic every 
3 or 4 days, and that it is also valuable to lake a hip-bath 2 or 3 times a day, 
while the inflammation is considerable, as hot as it can be borne; also to keep as 
quiet as possible, else support the scrotum with a suspensary bandage to pr& 



i08 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

vent stagnation or accumulation of blood in the parts, to -which there is often 
considerable tendency. 

8. Gonorrhea, the Great French Eamedy for.— In Gunn's " New 
Family Physician " we find the following, which he says is known as the 
" Great French Remedy for Gonorrhea " in any stage of the disease, and said 
'-o be infallible, without any other medicine: 

" Take J^ oz. each of dragon's blood — to be found at the druggists' — pul- 
verized colocynth and pulverized gamboge; pulverize (better buy the pulverized 
article if you can) and rub these three articles together in a mortar; then add J^ 
pint boiling water (rain or soft water preferable) and stir occasionally for an 
Qour with the pestle; then add 2 ozs. each of sweet spirits of nitre and balsam 
copaiba, and stir again till well mixed; then bottle for use. Dose — Two tea- 
spoonfuls night and morning until it operates thoroughly on the bowels ; then 1 
tea-spoonful 2 or 3 times a day, or sufficient to keep up a gentle action on the 
bowels, and continue until a cure is affected. " 

9. Gonorrhea in Its Commencement— Cure Without Injec- 
tion. — After having written the above, I went to my dinner, and on my return 
found my Medical Brief had been delivered, and, on looking it over, was struck 
at the simplicity of a recipe for gonorrhea, given in answer to an inquiry for 
such a cure, by Dr. Hall, of Fairmount, Ga., as follows: 

"Spirits nit. dulc. (sweet spirits of nitre), 1 oz. ; balsam of copaiba and 
tinct. of mur. ferri (tinct. of muriate of iron), of each, 1 dr. Mix. Dose — 
A tea-spoonful in water, milk or wine (I would say in some of the mucilages 
before mentioned) given every few days, 4 to 6 hours apart. No injections needed 
in incipient (the beginning of) gonorrhea." 

Remarks. — He uses the same in ardor urinae (scalding, or heat in passing 
urine) with like success; but in this last condition he gives the same dose, 
repeating in 3 hours, then at longer intervals. From my knowledge of the 
properties of the article, I recommend a trial, at once, wherever and whenever 
needed, in either disease. But as some persons will not begin any treatment at 
once, as they ought to do, letting the disease become chronic, or by mismanage- 
fnent or carelessness in taking medicine, or by persisting in the use of spirits, 
'"at meats, etc., a gleet, or slight discharge, will continue from the urethra after 
;he inflammatory condition has been subdued. Such a condition will require 
something of the character given for gleet, after the next item. 

10. Gonorrhea, the Latest and Most Simple Treatment for.— 
Some time after all the foregoing had been written, upon this subject, the 
December number of my T/ir.rapeutic Gazette, of Detroit, Mich., came to hand, 
with a treatment for this disease, from Dr. Joseph McChesney, surgeon of the 
Atcliison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railroad Co., at Deming, N. M., which appears 
so simple and easy of trial, and withal so effectual (he reporting a number of 
cures in from 6 to 10 days, and some of them of long standing), that 
I feel constrained to give it, believing it to be as effectual as it is 
simple. It is as follows: Dissolve corrosive sublimate, 1 gr. only, in water, 6 
ozs., injecting a syringe of it every 4 hours. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 209 

Bemarhs. — He gave cases of acute, or just commenced, as well as those of 
long standing, in which it was equally effective. It needs no further comment 
nor recommendation of mine, only to say I trust too, with him, that in the cor- 
rosive sublimate treatment for gonorrhea, I have at last met with the drug that 
gives such entire satisfaction to the unfortunate, and one that will prove a flnaa- 
cial boon to me, and hereby a boon to the unfortunate many, who may never 
see Dr. McChesuey, nor myself. 

11. Gleet, Eflfeetual Treatment for.— Some of the first abwe 
mentioned injections for gonorrhea, may be injected for gleet, or the following, 
as used by Dr. S. L. Blake, of San Francisco, Cal., who has found it so effec- 
tual that he deemed it his duty to place it before the readers of the Brief, in 
1880, as follows: Sulphate of zinc, 12 grs.; tinct. iodine, 10 drops; distilled 
water (soft water will do in all such cases), 8 ozs.; mix; inject 4 times a day. 
Also, fl. ex. uva ursi, 3 ozs. ; fl. ex. pareira brava, 1 oz. ; fl. ex. cascara sagrada 
and syrup of orange, each 2 ozs. ; water sufficient to make 8 ozs. ; mix. [The 
pareira brava is a native of the West India Islands and the Spanish Main, says 
King, in his American Dispensatory, " It is a tonic, diuretic and aperient, used 
in chronic inflammations of the bladder, and various disorders of the urinary 
organ." " The cascara sagi-ada is valuable in constipation, while the properties 
of the other articles in these prescriptions are well known to be valuable for 
what he recommends them.] Dose — Take a tea-spoonful 3 times a day before 



Remarks. — This, he says, I consider an invaluable remedy in obstinate 
cases. Of course the principal readers of the Brief are physicians, which shows 
that Dr. Blake was well satisfied with it or he would not risk the criticism he 
would receive if it was not reliable. 

12. Gleet, for the Pain and Weakness in the Back.— For this 
condition take Venice or white pine turpentine, and work into it as much finely 
pulverized rhubarb as will make it pill. JIake into usual sized pills, and take 
2 pills twice daily. 

13. Red Drops, Specific for Gleet, Gonorrhea, Leucorrhea^ 
and Affections of the Kidneys. — Tinct. of guaiac and compound spirits 
of lavender, each J^ oz. ; oil of cubebs and laudanum, each }4: oz. ; balsam of 
copaiba, 1 oz.; mix. Dose — A tea-spoonful 3 or 4 times a day — one always 
being at bed-time in these cases. 

Remarks. — Dr. Gunn says of these drops: "A specific (positive cure) for 
gleet, gonorrhea and leucorrhea, and good for affections of the kidneys." They 
are all, in a certain degree, of a similar character, i. e., there is an inflammation 
of the mucus membrane of the parts in each disease; then, what will overcome 
it in one case, will also do it in any of the others, and yet not be a "cure all," 
as the mucus membrane is the same everywhere. 

BEE AND WASP STINGS— Sure Cure for.— I. Bees.—Kv. R. 
L. Aylor, of Waterloo, Ky., in reporting his success in keeping his bees over 
the winter of 1881-2, sends a recipe to the Bee Journal, headed "Bees," claim- 
ing it as his own discovery. It is simple, easily obtained, and cheap; and if i\ 
14 



210 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

proves as quick and successful a cure as he claims, he is the one to have the 
benefit of "discovery." lie gave it in the following words: "Buy from any 
drug store a small plii;il of tincture of myrrh ; as soon as you are stung apply a 
little to the puncture, when all pain and swelling ceases instantly. It is also 
excellent for bites of spiders and poisonous reptiles." 

Remarks. — Certainly no one would ask it to cure quicker than "instantly." 
I trust it shall prove as successful as claimed. If it does, nothing else could be 
desired. 

II. Wasp Stings, Quick and Certain Cure. — Cut an onion, scrape and 
apply the juicy part to the sting. It quickly relieves, and allays the irritation 
almost as quickly. 

Remarks. — A correspondent of the London Times reports the case of his 
son, stung in the eyeball by a wasp, and when he reached the house, "looked 
like death," etc., which made a great commotion, and the sal volatile was gotten, 
but one of the maids used the onion juice, and the relief was so quick that he 
got up and went out again to help the men destroy the nest. I have no doubt 
the onion juice, or scraped onion, is as good for bee stings as for the other; but 
lose no time in applying it, if a wasp sting, for they are very poisonous. 

III. Ilandy Remedy for Bites and Stings of Poisonous Animals and Insects. 
— A writer in IIoWs Journal of Health says: "That for persons about to travel 
or to go into the country for the summer, an ounce vial of spirits of hartshorn 
should be considered one of the indispensables, as, in case of being bitten or 
stung by any poisonous animal or insect, the immediate and free application of 
this alkali, as a wash to the part bitten, gives instant, perfect and permanent 
relief, the bite of a mad dog (we believe) not excepted; so will strong ashes- 
water. 

Remarks..—! should as soon risk the immediate application of the spirits 
of hartshorn as any other caustic for a mad dog bite; but it would not dote 
put it into the eye — as the onion juice referred to. 

SPRAINS, SWELLINGS, CROUP, ETC.-Remedy for.— Best 
cider vinegar, 1 pt. ; spirits of turpentine, }4, P^- ; ^^^^ well, 3 eggs, and mix 
all, Directions — Apply to the neck in croup, and to sprains or swellings by 
saturating (thoroughly wetting) cloths and lay on, or bind on when necessary. 
" Cures," says Preacher Jones, " on the ' double quick.' It cured a woman's 
swollen arm in 9 days who had had to give up work and go to begging on 
account of the swelling." 

Remarks.— li would be as valuable for animals as for persons. See 
" Croup, Sovereign Remedy for," for the value of turpentine in this disease. I 
think the vinegar and beaten eggs will improve it. 

HOP BITTERS— Cheap and Reliable, Without Spirits of Any- 
Kind.— Hops, 2 ozs. ; ginger root, bruised, 1 table-spoonful; water, 2 galls.; 
brown sugar, 2 lbs. ; yeast, J^ cup. Directions — Boil the hops and ginger to 
obtain their strength, strain half an hour; add the sugar and continue the heat, 
removing all scum that arises; then cool to blood warmth, put in the 
yeast; let the yeast work over night, or that length of time, then bottle 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 3M 

and keep in a cool place. Dose— Take 2 or 3 good swallows before each meal, 
or in amount as found necessary from the following: 

Remarks. — These bitters are recommended in all cases reqmring a tonic 
action, where there is a tendency to a chronic inflammation, as in catarrhal 
headache, pain in other parts, kidneys out of order, etc. The gentleman froua 
whom I obtained this, at Grass Lake, Mich., was a kind of "domestic doctor," 
had a cure for everything. I have used these hop bitters, however, and am well 
pleased with their action. They improve the appetite and strengthen the diges- 
tion. One of his cures was for ague, by taking sulphur in m.olasses every 
night. He claims to have cured over 100 obstinate cases with that simple rem- 
edy. He said if the hop bitters did not loosen the bowels after a few days to 
add a Uttle salts — Epsom — enough of it, for a day or two only, to loosen them. 

The following is claimed to be the real Hop Bitters which has made such a 
stir in the world: Hop leaves, 3 ozs. ; buchu leaves, 1 oz. ; fl. ext. of dandelion, 
1 oz. ; d. ext. of mandrake, 2 drs. ; whisky, 1 qt. Directions, Dose, etc.— 
Boil Of simmer the hops and the buchu leaves in water, % gal., for 6 hours, 
or dovvn to 1 qt., strain, and when cold add the fl. exts. and whisky. Dose — 
From 1 to 3 table-spoonfuls 3 times a day, before meals. 

Remarks. — It will be found a tonic and laxative, and the amount taken 
must be governed so as not to loosen the bowels but slightly, else its tonic cfldects 
would be carried off too readily. I have not used this, but I have the first 
above, with much satisfaction. 

TOBACCO— Its Use Frequently Injuring Sight and Memory. 
— Dr. ]\Iackenzie, in his "Opthalmology," a work on the anatomy and diseases of 
the eye, expresses his opinion that tobacco is the frequent cause of amaurosis, 
diminution, or complete loss of sight, and says: " One of the best proofs of 
this being the case, is the great improvement in vision (sometimes complete res- 
toration), which ensues on the use of that narcotic being abandoned." Tobacco 
Is a powerful narcotic, and often affects the nerves disastrously. This position 
of Mackenzie, says a French writer, is confirmed by M. Michel, who classey 
the disease among the two forms oi cerebral, or brain, amaurosis (loss or dimin- 
ution of sight by the condition of the brain), which are but little known. One 
of these conditions is seen in heavy drinkers, and is symptomatic of delirium 
tremens; but the other, he thinks, is brought about by the use of tobacco; and 
he also believes there are but few persons who have habitually, for a long period, 
smoked more than 5 drachms, % of an ounce, daily, without their sight, and 
often their memory, being more or less enfeebled. Then let those who already 
realize either of these conditions, or think the prospect good for their occur- 
rence, abandon the use of tobacco in any form, at once, and forever, and keep 
their young folks from its use, if possible. Fortunate for the author he could 
never tolerate its use at all ; but one can scarcely see an old man, or even young 
men, and many boys, even passing along the street, without a cigar in theii 
mouth, or gracefully (?) held in their fingers. If its use continues to increase 
for the next century as it has for the last decade (10 years passed of this cen- 
tury) we shall, I greatly fear, be the next thing to a nation of imbeciles; with 
much larger per cent, of idiots than at this writing. A fearful responai 



212 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

bility rests upon parents, and governments. Certainly no scliool-boy should be 
allowed to use tobacco in any form; but it is law, and vigilant watchfulness of 
olBcers appointed for this purpose, with the same care and watchfulness of par- 
ents also that will ever prevent it, and that not wholly; for it has a fascination 
which cannot be accounted for upon any other principle only that of exhilara- 
tion, which is, in fact, the reason why it should never be used. It over stimu- 
lates the nerves, and thereby destroys, or very much injures them, shortening 
life, if no more serious catastrophe, as blindness, loss of memory, paralysis, 
etc, does not set in before. 

EPILEPSY— Kemedies Which Have Been Successful. — I. 
Chas. VanWye, M. D., of Browning, Mo., reports through the Brief the case 
of a man of 37, who had been troubled from childhood with epilepsy, cured by 
the use of bromide of potassium, 30 grs., 3 times a day, dissolved in water, 
half a tumbler or so, until it produced its physiological effects, which are simi- 
lar to that of iodide of potassium, i. e. , it may affect the head like a cold, and 
if the stomach or alimentary canal are irresistible, it may produce diarrhea, 
and increase the urine too much, but it may produce acne (a pustular affection 
of the skin), and a person taking large doses very long may have a manifesta- 
tion of weakening of the mind ; then, if any of these occur, stop its use a few 
days, or a week; or if taking it 3 tim'es daily about meal-time, stop the nooa 
dose, and if this does not relieve that, or either of these conditions, drop to 15 
or 20 gr. doses, twice daily, then if not relieved in a few days stop as above 
indicated. In the case given it was used at intervals, i. e., stopping every fourth 
week for 15 months, and only one convulsion after beginning its use. But the 
doctor would not begin unless the man would agree to take it several months at 
least. He considered it a perfect cure. 

Remarks. — Dr. King, in his Dispensatory, says: " It has been used sue 
cessfully in enlarged spleen and liver, swelling of lymphatic glands (glands of 
the neck, armpits, front of elbow, back of knee, groins, etc., externally, and 
along the lymphatic vessels internally), scrofula, epilepsy, nervous depression 
from masturbation, also nocturnal (night) emissions, irritability of the nervous 
centers, and in hypertrophy (enlargement) of the ventricles (of the heart). It 
has proved successful in pertussis (whooping-cough), and also in asthma, in 
doses of 20 to 30 grs., repeated 2 or 3 times a day," etc. So you see it has been 
used in as large doses as Dr. Wye prescribes it above; but it has not been used 
as long, generally, and that is the probable reason that it has not proved more 
beneficial heretofore. Even in doses of 10 to 15 grs. it has held fits in check, 
and in such doses may be continued for years safely; watch in all cases, how- 
ever, for any of the above named bad symptoms and stop or lessen the dose as 
directed. 

• II. Pill for Epileptic Fits in the Early Stages. — Sulphate of zinc and cay- 
enne pepper, each 60 grs. ; rhubarb and ipecac, each 30 grs. ; all pulverized and 
made into 60 pills, with solid ext. of hyoscyamus, enough only to form into 
pill mass. Dose — Take 1 pill night and morning one week, then stop a week. 
and so on every other week. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 218 

Remarks. — Dr. Gunn, in his "New Family Physician," says of it: "Ad 
important remedy, and has cured many cases of epileptic fits, when taken in 
early stages." 

SALT WASHINGS, DRY RUBBINGS, ETC. -Important in 
all Chronic Diseases, Especially of an Inflammatory Character.— 
In all chronic diseases, and especially diseases of an inflammatory character, 
as catarrh, throat, bronchial or lung difficulties, inflammation of any or all 
these parts named, or inflammation of the stomach, liver, kidneys, bladder, 
urethra, vagina, white swelling, and any or all other swellings or inflammation, 
and in fact in all conditions and at all times of life, it is of the utmost impor- 
tance, not only to keep the whole surface clean by bathing or washing, at least 
twice a week in summer and once a week in winter; but in all chronic or long- 
standing diseases, it is very important to stimulate the skin by salt-water wash- 
ings, every other morning (Sunday morning being set for a soap and water wash- 
ing), followed by brisk rubbing of the whole surface, which equalizes the cir- 
culation, helps to break up congestions (an undue amount of blood in any 
organ or part), putting the whole machinery' of the circulatory system (heart, 
arteries, veins, and the smaller vessels near the surface known as capillaries), 
into complete working order, without which perfect health cannot be long 
maintained. 

I. Strength of Salt Water. — Dissolve % a tea-cup of common barrel salt in 
3 pints of water (in winter the water should be warm and the bath taken in a warm 
room; in summer, if the water stands in the room over night, it will do very 
well without warming); then with a sponge, or what is better, a piece of coarse 
woolen cloth, wash first the arms, neck and body thoroughly, then the lower 
limbs and feet, by which time the upper parts will be dry without wiping, when, 
with another piece of coarse woolen cloth, flesh-brush or hair mitten, rub as 
hard and long as the friction can be borne, or till the whole surface glows oi 
burns with the heat caused by the free circulation of the blood in the skin. 
The morning is the best time to do it, as the system is then free from excite- 
ment, and, unless you have been too warmly covered, also free from perspira- 
tion; therefore, less likely to "take cold." Do not neglect the feet even, but- 
rub all well and thoroughly each time. It is claimed by some physicians that 
these salt washings and dry rubbings alone will break up and cure many chronic 
diseases. I know, however, without a good circulation in the skin, health will 
sooner or later fail. My desire is to impress its importance upon every invalid, 
for without it not half the speed can be made in curing disease, even with the 
best of treatment. 

II. Dry Rubbings. — All other mornings and evenings than those for the 
salt-water washings, the friction or dry rubbing will materially help to bring 
about the desired circulation of the blood in the skin, as it draws it away from 
any inflamed or otherwise diseased organ or part of the system. To be done 
as you undress for the night, and before dressing in the morning. 

III. Cold Feet.— In all cases of habitual cold feet, the foregoing plan o* 
washings and rubbings is also of the utmost importance, making the frictioo. 
or rubbings, of the lower limbs and feet the most thorough. 



814 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

HTPLTJENZA (A Cold.).— Symptoms: A sense of fulness in the 
mucous membrane of the nose, and a tingling, with dryness, are among the 
first symptoms of this disease. Sneezing is a common symptom. Shortly, 
pains are felt in the forehead, and breathing through the nose becomes 
difficult. The eyes are red and watery, the throat sore, a dry cough, hoarse- 
ness, thirst, general languor, chills, and an anxiety to be near the fire. The 
mucous membrane of the nose, throat, windpipe, and breathing tubes, is 
inflamed, red, swollen, and occasionally painful. 

In a short time water runs from the eyes and nose, and the cough becomes 
more moist. There is also a slight discharge from the throat and tubes, 
gradually increasing, and, at length, as the disease becomes less acute, the 
expectoration is thick and yellow. 

An aching of back and limbs, appetite gone, thirst, flashes of heat and 
chills, whenever the patient is exposed to air cooler than accustomed to, are 
almost continual attendants upon this complaint. 

A slight attack of the above mentioned disease, affecting here and there 
a person, and lasting but a few days, is called a cold. If it affects a large 
portion of the community at the same time, lasting days, and even weeks, it 
Is then an epidemic, termed influenza. The latter sometimes sweeps over a 
whole country, as in 1833, when it extended over a greater part of the 
Universe. In its progress it often shows marked severity, leaving serious 
results behind. 

Treatment. — In mild cases treat the disease as you would a severe cold, 
as only simple treatment is required, — such as remaining in the house for a 
few days, bathing the feet in warm water, taking a mild sweat, drinking warm 
infusions of mullein, flax-seed, slippery elm, or warm lemonade, and taking 
sparingly of vegetable diet. If the bowels are costive, use a gentle physic, 
likewise a laxative drink will be useful. 

When the attack is quite severe, decisive measures must be taken to 
induce sweating. This may be accomplished by the spirit vapor bath, or by 
putting bottles of hot water to the patient's feet and sides while in bed, and 
giving warm drinks, also compound tincture of Virginia snake root. Three 
drops of the tincture of veratrum viride every three or four hours, will often 
cause free perspiration, and reduce the indammation upon the mucous surface. 

Emetics are sometimes very useful. Vomiting may be produced by the 
use of powder of ipecac, ten to twenty grains, or the compound tincture of 
lobelia. 

The inflamed mucous surfaces are soothed very much by inhaling the 
vapor from half a pint of hot water, with five drops of tincture of veratnim 
viride, or a like quantity of tincture of aconite root. 

If the cough is severe, use the preparations recommended under bronchitis 
and consumption. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES, 215 

LA GKIPPE, or Russian Influenza.— For the last four or five 
centuries raedictil observers have noted the occurrence, from time to time, 
of an epidemic affection characterized by bronchitis (inflammation of the 
bronchial lubes), it is commouly known by the name of influenza, after a term 
introduced by the Italian writers in the seventeenth century. The French 
call it "la grippe " There was a great epidemic of tUis disease in 1833, and 
it again made its appearance in the year 1889, being most severe in France, 
England and the United States. The epidemic is accompanied by more 
marked and general symptoms than the ordinary influenza. 

Symptoms: Chills, fever, lassitude, debility, a loss of appetite, and a 
general prostration. Frontal head-ache is also a pron.inent feature, but no 
two persons are aS'ected alike, while some at first are seized with protracted 
sneezing, others will commence with chilis and fever; yet, however, the gen- 
eral run of the disease is the same. It often ends in free perspiration or with 
diarrhoea. The duration of an attack of " la grippe" is from three to six days, 
but frequently serious complications arise, such as broncho-pneumonia or 
capillary bronchitis, and with the old and feeble often proving fatal. 

Dr. S. P. Duffleld's Prescription.— Sulphate quinine, 12 grs.; pow. 
dered capsicum, 3 grs. Mix: divide into VI pills, or put into gelatin capsules. 
Take one every 3 hours. These pills, if taken at the commencement of the 
disease, will completely check it. This remedy is well known among the 
fraternity, and is extensively prescribed. 

1. An Effectual Remedy.— Sulphate quinine, 20 grs.; sulphate 
morphine, 1 gr. ; powdered capsicum, 3 grs. ; tincture auonite root, 6 drops. 
Mix, and divide in 12 pills or capsules. Take one every 3 hours. 

2. A Good Receipt to Control Fever. — Liq. Ammon. Acet., 
1 oz. ; tinct. aconite rad., 12 drops; spirits tether nit., 2 drachms; syr. limonis, 
enough to make 3 ozs. of the whole; mix. Dose — 1 tea-spoonful with watei 
every hour, until the fever is well under control. 

3. Powders that will Relieve the Headache.— Acetanilid, J| 
drachm. Divide into 6 powders. Take one every 3 or 4 hours, till easy from 
pain. This is very simple, but the relief that it affords is in some cases 
astonishing. 

4. A Good Receipt for Children.— To be taken in doses of one 
tea-spoonful every 3 hours. This will be found very effective. Sulphate 
quinine, 24 grs.; wine ipecac, 1 drachm; laudanum, 24 drops; syrup licorice, 
3 ozs. 

1. BALM OP GILEAD BUDS, TINCTURE OF-For Cuts, 
Bruises, etc. — Take any sized bottle and fill it, loosely, with Balm of Gilead 
buds, which have been bruised or cut into two or three pieces, then fill with 
good whiskey or diluted alcohol (half water, half alcohol), cork and shake 
occasionally for a week or ten days, when it will be ready for use, for wetting 
bandages applied to cuts, bruises, wounds, sores, etc. (See also "Balm of 
Gilead Ointment," and remarks following. There is nothing known to be 
more healing than the Balm of Gilead buds. 



216 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

2. For Coughs and Sore Lungs.— Mix equal parts of honey with 
the tincture and take 1 or 2 tea-spoonfuls 3 or 4 times a day. It is considered 
expectorant, diuretic and somewhat stimulant and tonic. 

TUMORS, POISONED WOUNDS, AND WILD VINE POIS- 
ONINGS— Earth Cure for.— Take the stratum of clay used for making the 
best red brick, which lies immediately below the soil, Dry in the sun so it can 
be put through a sieve; keep in air-tight jars; mix with hot water until of the 
consistency of putty, and apply warm, with a knife, over tlie tumor, half an inch 
thick; cover with light brown paper, then bandage with a good strong bandage, 
and keep it on 24 to 48 hours. This has caused some wonderful cures, I am 
told. It is also good for some forms of rheumatism, dropsy and poisoned 
Wounds. — Housekeeper. 

Remarks. — I have no knowledge, only my judgment, as to the value of this 
for tumors, but knowing the clay cure to be positive in drawing out the poison- 
ous effects, swelling, soreness, etc., when poisoned by ivy, I know it will be 
valuable in poisoned wounds and, I believe, even good for mad dog bites, if 
applied quickly after cauterizing; and, therefore, I judge it good for tumors. 
The clay is very absorbing. I should, however, change it as often as the cov- 
ering gets dry. (See also Poisoning by Poison Ivy, etc.) 

PIURETICS, VALUABLE.— I. Buchu and uva ursi, leaves of each, 
loz.; pareira brava root, 1 oz. Mix and divide into 3 powders or parcels, 
evenly. Directions and Dose — Pour upon one of these parts a quart of boil- 
ing water, in a covered tin pail or fruit jar. When cool enough to drink, take 
1 to 3 moderate swallows every 2 or 3 hours, so as to increase the flow of urine, 
which will use up the quart in about 2 days. If to be kept longer, 6 ozs of 
good gin will prevent its sburing, if strained from the dregs. Used in catarrh 
of the bladder, irritation of the kidneys, uretha, etc. 

II. Take buchu leaves, 2 ozs., and treat as in I.; when cool add 1 tea- 
spoonful of bi-carbonate of soda, and 30 drops of fl. ex. of hyoscyamus, and 
drink all in 2 days. Use more than the above in cases where there is mucus of a 
stringy character passed in the urine. After a day or two, repeat the same until 
relieved. If much irritation of the uretha, get 1 oz. of sub-nitrate of bismuth 
and put into 8 ozs. of soft water, and inject i^ oz. into the urethra 3 times daily. 
shaking before pouring out; else, obtain "Humphrey's j\Iarvel of Healing," 
and add 3 times 'as much water as of the "Marvel," and inject in its place. 
Either is excellent. Retain them 2 or 3 minutes, whichever is used. These are 
good for any case requiring diuretics. 

HOT WATER CURE— Directions for Using.— The following 
Instructions as to the manner of using hot watei as a means of restoring health 
to a generally debilitated or exhausted system, I take from the Medical Brief, 
thinking the explanation and directions here given will enable many of our 
readers to obtain additional helps, over and above what are given under the 
head of Hot Water in Consumption, Dyspepsia, etc. I have been unable to 
find where Dr. Salisbury's institute is located, or anything further than given 
in this quotation, and the different items referred to in this book, as above indi- 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 217 

cated ; but as I have been using it with satisfaction In several cases of dyspepsia 
I think it will be found generally useful. I will here say that I 
recommend the water to be heated to 140" F. in summer, and 145*^ to 150*^ in win- 
ter, in quantity about % to ^ of a pint as a general thing, and taken about J^ 
to ^ of an hour before meals. If one should be very thirsty at bed-time, then 
also, but not unless necessary to allay thirst. 

I. " The Water Must be Hot, Not Cold Nor Luketcarm.— This is to excite 
peristalsis (like peristaltic, a successive contraction and relaxing of the muscu- 
lar coats) of the alimentary canal. Cold vratcr depresses, as it uses animal heat 
to bring it up to the temperature of the economy (body), and there is also a loss 
of nerve force in the proceeding. Lukewarm water excites upward peristalsis, 
or vomiting, as is well-known. By hot water is meant a temperature of 110° 
to 150° Fahrenheit, such as is commonly liked in the use of tea and coffee. In 
cases of hemorrhage, the temperature should be at blood heat (98" F.). Ice- 
water is disallowed in all cases, sick or well. 

II. " Quantity of Hot Water at a Draught. — Dr. Salisbury first began 
with one-half pint of hot water, but he found that it was not enough to wash out, 
nor to bear another test founded on the physiological fact that the urine of a 
healthy babe suckling a healthy mother — the best standard of health— stands at 
a specific gravity varying from 1.015 to 1.020. The urine of the patient should 
be made to conform to this standard, and the daily use of the urinometer (an 
instrument for telling the specific gravity of the urine, but not generally neces- 
sary to have nor obtain except in hot-water cures) tells whether the patient 
drinks enough or too much hot water. 

"For example, if the specific gravity of the urine stands at 1.030°, more 
hot water should be drank, unless there is loss by sweating. On the other hand, 
should the specific gravity of the urine fall to 1.010, less hot water should be 
drank. The quantity of hot water varies usually from % pt. to \% pts. at one 
time of drinking. 

"The urine to be tested should be the iirina sangmnis, or that passed just 
after rising from bed in the morning, before any meals or drinks are taken. 

" The quantity of urine voided in 24 hours should measure from 48 to 64 
ozs. (IJ.^ to 2 qts.). The amount will, of course, vary somewhat with the tem- 
perature of the atmosphere, exercise, sweating, etc., but the hot water must be 
given so as to keep the specific gravity of the infant's standard, to wit: 1.015 to 
1.020. The urinometer will detect, at once, whether the proper amount of hot 
water has been drank, no matter whether the patient is present or absent. 
Another test is that of odor. The urine should be devoid of the rank Mnnowa 
smell, so well known, but indescribable. [The absence of this " rank smell " is 
a sutficient guide for home tests; take enough to get rid of this rank odor, is all 
sufficient.] 

" The Salisbury Plans aim for this in all cases, and when the patients are 
true and faithful, the aim is realized. [If a patient will not be true to himself, 
or herself, you may as well give up trying at once.] 

III. " Times of Taking Hot Water. — One to two hours before each meal, 
and half an hour before retirine at night. [I have taken it myself, and so recom 



fil8 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

mended to others, half or three-fourths of an hour, only, before each meal, and 
have never known vomiting, or even sickness of the stomach to arise.] 

"At first, Dr. Salisbury tried the time of one-half hour before meals, but 
this was apt to be followed by vomiting. [I have not so found it.] One hour 
to 2 hours allows the hot water time enough to get out of the stomach before 
the|, food enters, or sleep comes, and thus avoids vomiting. Four times a day 
gives an amount of hot water sufficient to bring the urine to the right specific 
gravity, quantity, color, odor, and freedom from deposit, on cooling. [There 
is probably something of importance in these points, but I have, as yet, at any 
rate, only recommended to take it 3 times daily, unless thirsty at bed-time.] If 
a patient leaves out one dose of hot water during the day, the omission will 
show in the increased specific gravity (weight, by the urinometer), in the color, 
etc. Should the patient be thirsty between meals, 8 ozs. (half pint) of hot 
water can be taken any time between 2 hours after a meal and 1 hour before the 
next meal. This is to avoid diluting the food in the stomach with water. 

IV. " Mode of Taking Hoi Water.— \a. drinking the hot water, it should be 
sipped, and not drank so fast as to distend the stomach and make it feel uncom- 
fortable. From 15 to 20 minutes may be consumed in drinking the hot water. 
[About 5 minutes time is all the author took in drinking the hot water, and 
all he recommends; still, if 1 to \% pts. are to be taken, a longer time will be 
needed. But, for ordinary cases of home treatment, I think % to % pt. is 
enough, and especially so if it is taken 4 times daily.] 

V. " The Length of Time to Continue the Use of Hot Water. — Six months 
is generally required to wash out the liver and intestines thoroughly. As it pro- 
motes health the procedure can be practiced by well people throughout life, and 
the benefits of cleanliness be enjoyed. The drag and friction on human exist- 
ence from the effects of fermentation, foulness and indigestible food; when 
removed by this process, gives life a wonderful elasticity and buoyancy. 

VI. "Additions to Hot Water. — To make it palatable, jn case it is desired, 
and to medicate it, aromatic spirits of ammonia, clover blossom tea, ginger, 
lemon juice, sage, salt and sulphate of magnesia (epsom salts), are sometimes 
added. When there is intense thirst, and drj'^ness, a pinch of chloride of cal- 
cium (chloride of lime) or nitrate of potash (niter) may be added, to allay 
the thirst and leave a moistened film over the parched and dry mucus mem- 
brane surfaces. When there is diarrhea, cinnamon, ginger or pepper may be 
boiled in the water, and the quantity drank, lessened. For constipation, a tea- 
spoonful of sulphate of magnesia, or % tea-spoonful of taraxacum (dandelion 
fl. ex.) may be used in the hot water. 

VII. "Amount of Liquid {Tea, Caffee or Water) to be Drank at a Meal. 
—Not more than 8 ozs." [% pt. or 1 cup of tea or coffee.] "This is in order 
not to dilute the gastric juice, or wash it out prematurely, and thus interfere 
with the digestion process. 

VIII. " TIi£ Effects of Drinking Hot Water, as indicated, are:— The im- 
proved feelings of the patient. The fajces (passages) become black with bile, 
washed down its normal (natural, or healthy) channel. This blackness of faeces 
lasts for more than six months (I have not found this so, but it may be in some 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 219 

cases), or until the intolerable fetid odor of ordinary faeces is abated (this I have 
found true), and the smell aproximates the smell of healthy infants sucking 
healthy breasts, and this shows that the ordinary nuisance of fetid (bad smell- 
ing) fteces is due to a want of working out and cleansing the alimentary canal 
from its fermenting contents. The urine is clear as champaign, free from 
deposit and odor, or coloring, 1.015 to 1.020 speciiic gravity, like infants urine. 
The sweat starts freely after drinking, giving a true bath from center to 
surface. The skin becomes healthy in feeling and looks. The digestion 
is correspondingly improved, and with this improvement comes a better 
working of the machine." [Human system as a whole.] "All thirst and dry 
mucus membranes disappear in a few days, and a moist condition of the mucus 
membrane, and the skin, takes place. Ice water in hot weather is not craved for 
and those who have drank ice water freely are cured of the propensity. 
Inebriety has a strong foe in the use of hot water." 

Remarks.— The. author finds, by personal use of hot water, nearly all the 
foregoing statements of the Brief to be facts, and I especially hope the last 
statement shall so prove that "inebriety has a strong foe in the use of hot 
water," and I feel almost sorry I cannot attest to tliis from a personal know- 
ledge, so anxious am I to do good to my fellow-creatures, knowing, as I do, 
how much confidence the statement of a fact with which the author has positive 
knowledge helps one to have faith enough in any certain thing to give it a trial. 
Let none needing it for that purpose, or any other given here and in other parts 
of this book, for all purposes indicated here or there, fail to try it. The 
author, however, can give no greater assurance of liis own confidence in the 
use of hot water than to say that I now arise to go and heat water to take 
myself, half an hour before my supper, for it does me good, stops all craving 
for cold drinks and allaj-s all feverishness of stomach, bowels, etc., etc., of this 
hot day, the thermometer reaching 90'' Fahrenheit in my office at 3 P. M. 

MEASLES. — This is a contagious or "catching" eruption, and would 
be a disease of less severity were it not sometimes followed by serious results. 
It is a disease peculiar to childhood, although persons well along in years some- 
times have them. As children have them easier than adults, it is advisable to 
take no special precaution to prevent them. They usually appear in from 7 
to 14 days after exposure. 

Symptoms. -r-'Thc first symptoms of measles are shivering, succeeded by 
heat, thirst and languor; then follows running at the nose, sneezing, cough; 
the eyes water and become intolerant of light; the pulse quickens, and the face 
swells; there are successive heats and chills, and all the usual signs of catarrhal 
fever. Sometimes the symptoms are so mild as to be scarcely noticeable, and 
sometimes greatly aggravated; but in any case, at the end of the third day, or a 
little later, an eruption of a dusky red color appears, first on the forehead and 
face, and then gradually all over the whole body. In the early stage of this 
eruption there is little to characterize it, but after a few hours it assumes the 
peculiar appearance, which once seen can never be mistaken. The little red 
spots become grouped, as it were, into crescent-shaped patches, which are slightly 



220 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

elevated above the surface, the surrounding skin retaining its natural color. On 
the third day of the eruption it begins to fade and disappear, being succeeded 
by a scurfy disorganization of the cuticle, which is accompanied by an intoler- 
able itching. The febrile symptoms also abate, and very quickly leave the 
patient altogether, but often in a very weak state and with a troublesome cough. , 
Between exposure to the infection and the breaking out of measles, there is 
usually an interval of 14 (Xaya, which is called the period of incubation; so that 
it is not uncommon, where there are several children in a family, for the cases 
to succeed each other at f&rtnightly intervals. 

This disease is often rendered dangerous by complications with others; so 
that, not in itself of a fatal character, it frequently leads to fatal results. Where 
there are the seeds of consumption or scrofula in the constitution, they are hkely 
to be called into activity during the debility which follows an attack of measles; 
dropsy often follows it, as do affections of the air passages, chest and bowels. 

How to Distinguish Measles from Scarlet Fever.— Measles is 
a less dangerous disease than scarlet fever, although sometimes mistaken for it 
in the early stages. In measles the spots are not as deeply colored as in scarlet 
fever, and are differently shaped and rougher to the touch. In scarlet fever the 
spots usually appear on the second day after the first symptoms are observed, 
and in measles on the third or fourth day. The irritation of the nose, sneezing 
and discharge, that are. prominent symptoms in measles, do not occur in scarlet 

fever. 

Treatment. — Generally speaking, for simple measles, little medicine is 
required. Give the patient plenty of diluent drinks; let him have a spare diet, 
and a moderately warm and well-ventilated room; keep the bowels gently 
open; if a roasted apple, or a little manna in the drink will not do this, give a 
dose of castor-oil. Where there is much heat of the skin, sponging with tepid 
vinegar and water will completely relieve it, and also the itching. When the 
eruption has subsided" and the desquammation of the skin commenced, a tepid 
bath will materially assist this process, and get rid of the dead cuticle. On the 
third or fourth day after the disappearance of the eruption, give a small dose of 
powder of rhubarb, jalap, or scammony. Care should be taken to protect the 
patient against change of weather, and to restore the strength by a nourishing 
diet. Attention should be paid to the cough. Give drinks of flaxseed tea or 
slippery elm, made slightly acid. 

If the attack is severe, attended with high fever, headache, restlessness, 
etc., the feet should be placed in a hot mustard bath for 10 or 15" minutes, after 
whicli place the patient in bed warmly covered, giving every hour until the 
fever .subsides and sweating takes place, Fluid Extract of Aconite, 1 drop to a 
tea-spoonful of water; and every 2 hours, or until the pulse is reduced in fre- 
quency, give 1 drop Fluid Extract of Veratrum Viride similarly diluted. 

Cold water may be taken freely with benefit in this as well as all in other 
eruptive or miasmatic fevers. A very good drink can be prepared by making 
a bowlful of slippery elm infusion, and adding the juice of a lemon and a 
table-spoonful of cream of tartar, and using as a drink as the patient desires. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 221 

The bowels should be regulated by the Compound Podophyllin Pills, or 
the Compound powder of Jalap. 

The diet should be light, and consist largely of ripe cooked fruits, gruels, 
broths, and other easily digestible articles. 

Sore throat should be relieved by inhalation of hot vinegar, or by a gargle 
of Carbolic Acid, 2 drops to 1 ounce of water. If the eyes should become irri- 
tated and inflamed, they may be relieved by a cool wash of slippery elm, alum 
curd, rose leaves, or moist tea grounds taken from the pot. 

To Bring them Out. — In cases where the eruption does not appear, 
warm whiskey sling or the Compound Tinctare of VirgiMia Snake Root may be 
given to bring it out. 

2. Sometimes when warm drinks fail to bring them out, drinking largely 
of cold water, and keeping warmly covered in bed, will produce the desired 
effect. 

3. The following will be found most efficient: Strong balm tea with a 
little saffron infused, or hot ears of corn, wrapped in a cloth saturated with di- 
luted vinegar, placed about the body. 

Striking in.— Sometimes the eruption of measles disappears suddenly — 
then there is cause for alarm, and energetic treatment required; the patient 
should be directly put into a warm bath, and have warm diluent drinks; if tha 
pulse sinks rapidly, and there is great prostration of strength, administer wine 
whey, and the following draughts: 10 drops of aromatic spirits of ammonia, oi 
5 grains of the scsquicarbonate in J^ an ounce of camphor mixture, with a drop 
of laudanum every four hours; should the prostration be very great, weak 
brandy and water may be given. The state of the chest, head, and bowels 
should be closely watched for some time after the patient is convalescent, as 
disorders of these organs are very likely to occur, in which case it is probable 
that there may be pneumonia, hydrocephalus, or diarrhea. 

2. Apply mustard poultices to tlie feet, ankles, wrists, and over the whole 
abdomen, letting the poultices remain a few minutes and until they produce 
considerable redness. 

Severe cases of measles are liable to be accompanied with pneumonia, and 
where there are decided symptoms of this, the Hop Fomentation (see below) 
should be applied over the whole chest, with warm applications to the feet and 
legs. The frequent inhalation of the vapor of hot vinegar should be em- 
ployed. 

Chronic sore eyes, diarrhea, a lingering cough, etc., are liable to follow 
severe cases of measles, and these should be treated according to the indications 
of each individual case. 

Malignant Measles.— This is a variety which commences with the 
above symptoms in an aggravated form; the rash quickly assumes a livid hue, 
alternately reviving and disappearing, and is mixed up witli dark red spots like 
flea-bites; in this form of the disease we have extreme debility and alf the symp- 
toms of putrid fever, like which it should be treated. No time should be lost 
in procuring medical aid 



222 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Herbal or Eclectic Treatment for Measles. — A strong tea composed of saf- 
fron and snake root always proves beneficial. Decoctions of licorice, marsh- 
mallow roots and sarsaparilla are liliewise beneficial. Sudden changes should 
be guarded against, and especially exposure to cold draughts, the room, how- 
ever, should be kept moderately cool. No animal food should at first be taken, 
but the patient confined to low, spare diet, such as sage, gruel, etc. A good 
drink may be made of barley water, acidulated with lemon juice. 

HOT FOMENTATIONS AND POULTICES.— Hot fomentations 
are serviceable in treating many forms of disease, and in some they are indispen- 
sable. Hops, stramonium or jimson weed, tansy, hoarhound, catnip, lobelia, 
etc., either in the herb or in tincture, are among the most common agents em- 
ployed. The herbs should be simmered in water, or Annegar and water, until 
their strength responds to the liquid, when tlicy should be placed between thin 
muslin cloths, applied as hot as the patient can bear, and covered with a num- 
ber of thicknesses of heated cloths. ISIaterial should be prepared for two 
applications, so that as one is removed the other may be applied. The same 
application may be used over and over, using the liquid in which it was steeped, 
or adding hot water to keep it moist. They should be changed every 5 to 8 
minutes, using care not to expose the part to the cold air during the changes, 
When using tinctures instead of herbs, prepare a lotion by adding to a sufficient 
quantity of water, or vinegar and water, or whiskey and water, so much of the 
tincture as will give it the requisite strength, warm the lotion and place it where 
it will keep warm, and saturate and wring from it several thicknesses of flannel 
or muslin, applying hot to the part as in other cases. Vinegar or whiskey 
should form an ingredient, if practicable, in any fomentation, and hops form a 
good combination with other ingredients when not used alone. 

Hop Fomentation. — In bilious colic, inflammation of the lungs, and 
other cases requiring energetic treatment, the best fomentation is made as fol- 
lows: Take a quart of vinegar, put in a kettle, and add as much hops as the 
vinegar will take up; boil them together for 5 or 10 minutes, and stir in as 
much corn meal as will made the whole into a thick mush. The meal is added 
simply to give consistence to the mass so as to retain the heat and not wet the 
bedding. If corn meal is not at hand, sliorts, or bran and flour mixed together, 
will do. Spread this thickly upon an ample piece of muslin cloth ( if 2 or 3 
inches thick all the better), and apj^ly hot. If too hot to be applied next the 
skin, lay folds of cloth between. Tlie esseniial point is to get the heat and the 
fullest effects of the hops and vinegar as soon as possible, and to hold their 
effect as long as possible. 

Hot Mustard Foot Bath.— Prepare a bucket or tub, the same as for 
an ordinary foot bath, filling it a third to half full of water as hot as the patient 
can bear with comfort. Put in it about two table-spoonfuls of ground mustard 
(more or less, according to the degree of strength desired). Provide a reserve 
of hot water (boiling hot, or nearly so), and after keeping the feet in the bath 
for a short time, add hot water to keep up the temperature, keeping it as hot as 




-Slippery Elm. 2— Virginia Snake Root. 3— Pennyroyal. 4— Mountain I,aurel, or 
Calico Bush. 5— Bear-Berry, or the Upland Cranberry. 6 — Jamestown Weed, of 
Stramonium. 7— Blood-Root, or Red Puccoon. 8— Blue Flag. 9— Indies' Slipper, 
or American Valerian. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 223 

the patient can bear for ten or fifteei. minutes. The parts should then be gently 
dried and warmly wrapped. 

Slippery Elm Poultice.— Take of slippery elm bark, in powder, 
half an ounce, and a suftlcient amount of hot water to form a poultice of the 
proper consistence. This poultice is valuable in all cases of burns, scalds, 
swellings, intlammaiions, ulcers, painful tumors, abscesses, and wherever a 
general soothing emollient poultice is required. 

Yeast Poultice.— Applicable to sores and indolent ulcers. Made by 
taking 5 ounces of yeast and a pound of flour (or in that proportion), and 
adding to water at blood heat, so as to form a tolerably stiff dough; set in a 
warm place (but not so as to scald) until it begins to ferment or to "rise," and 
apply like any poultice. 

MUMPS. — This disease, which is a contagious epidemic, consists of in- 
flammation of the salivary or parotid glands, which are situated on each side of 
the lower jaw. 

Symptoms. — It commences with slight febrile symptoms of a general char- 
acter. Very soon there is a redness and swelling at the angle of the jaw, 
which gradually extends to the face and neck near to the glands. These some- 
times become so large as to hang down a considerable distance, like two bags. 

They may come on suddenly, or else be preceded by a few days of general 
indisposition, which now and then amounts to high fever. A feeling of stiff- 
ness about the jaws is soon followed by swelling, often very bulky, and more 
or less tense. The swelling is apt to extend either at the back of the lower jaw 
or underneath it. The swelling contains no fluid; dental pain is absent. Gen- 
erally first one side of the jaw is attacked and then the other; it is rare for both 
sides to suffer simultaneously. Not uncommonly similar swellings burst 
out in other localities of the body, the genital organs being most liable to 
seizure. 

Treatment. — But little medical treatment is required for this disease when 
at its height. The patient, from sheer inability to move the jaw, must live 
chiefly on slops; and it is well for him to be kept low, unless very delicate, in 
which case a little good broth or beef tea should be given. If there is much 
pain, the throat should have hot fomentations applied; and, in very severe 
cases, two or three leeches. Mumps is not a dangerous disorder, unless the in- 
flammation should be turned inwards, in which case it will probably affect the 
brain or testicles; or, in the female, the breasts. Should the swellings suddenly 
disappear, and thereby aggravate the symptoms of fever, the following lini- 
ment must be applied: Camphorated spirits, 1 oz. ; solution of sub-carbonate 
of ammonia, 2 drams; tincture of cantharides, 3^ dram. Mix, and rub in until 
the swellings re-appear. Take also, internally, nitrate of potass, 1 dram; tartar- 
Ised antimony \% grs. Mix, and divide into six powders, one of which is to be 
taken every four hours. 

Camphor for Mumps. — Camphor is said to have been used success- 
fully to reduce the after-swelling in mumps; in the case of males holding the 
pendant parts in a basin of spirits of camphor, and bathing the adjacent parts 



224 DB. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

freely with it, continuing or renewing the application until relief is had. If It 
occasion smarting more than the patient can bear, the liquid may be diluted 
with water. 

CHICKEN POX.— Chicken-pox is an eruptive disease which affects 
children and occasionally adults. It is attended only with slight constitutional 
disturbance, and is therefore neither a distressing nor dangerous affection. The 
eruption first appears on the body, afterwards on the neck, the scalp, and lastly 
on the face. It appears on the second or third day after the attack, and is suc- 
ceeded by vesicles containing a transparent fluid. These begin to dry on the 
fifth, sixth or seventh day. This disease may be distinguished from variola 
and varioloid by the shortness of the period of invasion, the mildness of the 
symptoms and the absence of the deep, funnel-shaped depression of the ves- 
icles, so noticeable in variola. The main distinctions between chicken-pox and 
small-pox are the absence or extreme mildness of the premonitory fever iu the 
former disease, and the form and contents of the vesicles ; those of the latter 
eruption being filled with dark matter, and having, invariably, a depression In 
the center. 

Treatment — Ordinarily very little treatment is required. It is best to use 
daily an alkaline bath, and as a drink, the tea of pleurisy-root, catnip or other 
diaphoretics, to which is added from half to a spoonful of extract of smart- 
weed, or the patient should be put upon sviare diet; this, and a dose or two of 
some cooling aperient, as rhubarb or magnesia, is generally all that is neces- 
sary; but should the febrile symptoms run high, give a saline draught, as the 
following: Carbonate of potash, 1 scruple; citric or tartaric acid, 15 grains; 
essence of cinnamon, % a dram; syi-up of orange peel, 1 dram; water, 10 
ounces. Shake, and drink while sparkling a wineglassful as a refrigerant. To 
make it effervescing, add the acid after the draught is poured out. Give 
plenty of cooling drink, and, if the bowels are at all obstinate, emollient injec- 
tions. Care must be taken that the skin is not irritated by scratching— as it is, 
painful and troublesome sores may be produced — and also that the patient does 
not take a chill. If these precautions are observed, little or no danger is to be 
apprehended from chicken-pox. 

YELLOW FEVER. — This disease is peculiar to hot climates and is a 
species of typhus, which takes its name from one of the symptoms, but which, 
However, is not an essential one. It is probably caused by a vitiated state of 
the atmosphere arising from decayed vegetable or animal substances, in hot, 
sultry weather. It is very contagious and an epidemic. 

Symptoms. — Costiveness, dull pain in the right side, defect of appetite, flat- 
ulence, perverted tastes, heat in the stomach, giddiness or pain in the head; 
dull, watery, yellow eye; dim or imperfect vision, hoarseness, slight sore 
throat, and the worst features of typhus. 

Treatment.— In this disease, good nursing is indispensable. Let the 
patient have perfect rest and quietness, in a well ventilated room. In the early 
stages of the disease, the diet must be confined to preparations of sago, arrow- 
root, barley, etc. ; but as the disease advances, give animal broths made of lean 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 225 

meat, thickened with bread-crumbs, oat-mea\, or barley. The strictest atten- 
tion must be given to cleanliness, and the linen changed frequently. If the 
stomach be very irritable and the vomiting violent, give the following prepara- 
tion : Powdered rhubarb, 20 grains; powdered saleratus, 20 grains; powdered 
peppermint, 1 tea-spoonful; laudanum, 15 drops; brandy, 1 table-spoonful; boil- 
ing water, 1 gill. Mix. Sweeten with loaf-sugar, and give a table-spoonful 
every hour till the symptoms change. The bowels must be kept open as in all 
fevers. For this purpose use the following: Ginger, 2 ounces; bayberry bark, 
4 ounces; cayenne pepper, J^ ounce. 

Dose, a tea-spoonful in a little milk, with half a tea-spoonful of powdered 
rhubarb every hour till it operates freely. 

Captain Jonas P. Levy, who has had an extensive experience with yellow 
fever, states that he never knew a case of yellow fever terminate fatally under 
the following treatment: 

Dissolve a table-spoonful of common salt in a wineglass of water; pour it 
Into a tumbler, and add the juice of a whole lemon and 2 wineglasses of castor- 
oil. An adult to take the whole at one dose. Then give a hot mustard foot- 
bath, with a handful of salt in the water. Wrap the patient in blankets until 
he perspires freely. Remove to the bed, and well wrap the patient's feet in the 
blanket. Afterward apply mustard plasters to the abdomen, legs, and soles of 
the feet. If the headache is very severe, they may be applied to the head and 
temples. After the fever has been broken, taken 40 grains of quinine and 40 
drops of elixir of vitriol to a quart of water. Give a wineglass full three 
times a day. Barley-water, lemonade and ice-water may be used in modera- 
tion. 

CHOLERA MORBUS.— This is a disease prevalent in warm weather. 
From the great amount of bile secreted it is also called bilious cholera. 

Causes. — Excessive heat, sudden atmospheric changes, indigestible food, 
unripe fruits. Dampness, wet feet and violent passions will also cause it. 

Symptoms.— Hhia disease begins with sickness and distress at the stomach, 
succeeded by violent gripings, with vomiting of thin, dirty, yellowish, whitish, 
or greenish fluid, with discharges from the bowels similar to that vomited. The 
nausea and distress continue between the vomiting and purging, and the pain at 
times is intense. The pulse is rapid, soon becoming small and feeble, the tongue 
dry, the urine high-colored, and there is much thirst, though no drink can be 
retained on the stomach. 

Treatment. — Apply a large mustard poultice over the stomach and liver. 
Give large draughts of warm teas, by which means the stomach will be cleansed 
of all its solid contents. Every half-hour give table-spoonful doses of the com- 
pound powder of rhubarb and potassa, until the vomiting is checked. Warm 
injections must be given frequently, and hot bricks applied to the feet, while 
the whole body should be swathed in warm flannels. To get up a warmth of 
the body and the stomach is, in fact, the most important thing in this disease. 
Hot brandy, in which is a dose of cayenne, is excellent to quiet the vomitiag 

15 



326 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

and griping. A few drops of laudanum in the injections may be given. If 
pain is excessive; but generally it is not needed. 

Either of the following have been found useful : Bicarbonate of soda, 13 
grs. ; common salt, 6 grs. ; chlorate of potash, 6 grs. Mix and take in cold 
water. Or the following : Acetate of lead, 20 grs. ; opium, 12 grs. Make into 
12 pills and take one every half hour until looseness ceases. 

Eclectic or Fferbal Treatment for Cholera Morbus. — No time must be lost 
in treating the severe stages of this disease. Give the patient copious drinks of 
whey, warm barley-water, thin water gruel, or weak chicken broth. Bathe the 
feet and legs in warm saleratus water, and apply warm fomentations of hops 
and vinegar to the bowels. In addition to these, apply a poultice of well-stewed 
garden mint, or a poultice of mustard and strong vinegar will be found of much 
service. The vomiting and purging may be stopped by the following : Ground 
black pepper, 1 table-spoonful; table salt, 1 table-spoonful; warm water, J^ 
tumblerful; cider vinegar, J^ tumblerful. Dose, a table-spoonful every few 
minutes. Stir and mix each time until the whole is taken. 

The evacuations, however, should not be stopped till the patient feels very 
weak. Nourishing diet .should be taken by the patient. A wineglass of cold 
camomile tea once or twice a day would be very beneficial, as would ten drops 
of elixir of vitriol three or four times a day, or a tea made of black or Virginia 
snake-root. Flannel should be worn next to the skin, and the warm bath should 
be frequently resorted to. 

CHOLERA INFANTUM, otherwise known as the summer complaint 
of children, has been by some regarded as belonging erclusively to America. 
It has been ascertained, however, that this disease prevails in Europe, where it 
is called by a different name. It usually attacks children under four years of 
age, and generally between the months of June and October. 

Symptoms. — There is at first diarrhea and the stools are sometimes of a 
watery, colorless consistence; at others they have a greenish -yellow appearance; 
the pulse is quick, the head and abdomen are hot, while the limbs are cold. The 
child seems to suffer more or less pain, as indicated by its crying, and fre- 
quently screams as if suffering acutely. The disease often terminates unfavor- 
ably and sometimes within a few hours; again, it continues for several weeks, 
and the little sufferer becomes very much emaciated, his eyes sunken, counte- 
nance pale, and yet a recovery is possible. 

Causes. — From the fact that it oftener occurs during the summer months 
ihan at any other time of the year, it may be inferred that the temperature 
greatly influences the prevalence of this disease. It more frequently attacks 
the poorer classes, or those living in unhealthy sections, although the children 
of the wealthy are likewise subject to it. Teething, change of diet at the time 
of weaning, and unhealthy, diluted milk, may be the exciting causes of this 
disease so common to children. 

Cholera infantum is more prevalent in our large cities, it being compara- 
tively unknown in rural districts. Often these little sufferers are greatly 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 227 

Improved by a trip into the country or to the sea-shore. Pure air and fresh 
sweet milk, as hygienic and dietetic adjuncts, are necessary for recovery. 

Treatment.— The first treatment should be preventive. ' The little patient 
should be placed in a well ventilated room. Next, attend to the diet, and ascer- 
tain if the milk be pure and healthy. If the child nurses, then the mother 
should properly regard her diet. She should not eat unripe or stale fruits or 
vegetables, but her food should be nutritious and easily digested. She should 
not overwork, nor heat her blood, neither should she allow herself to become 
excited and irritable. She should occasionally give the child some milk alkali 
to obviate undue acidity of the stomach. Scalding the milk, or using a little 
lime-water in it, is sometimes beneficial. The following can be obtained at 
almost any drug store: Syrup of rhubarb, 2 ounces; lime-water, 4 drachms 
(about 4 tea-spoonfuls), and water of peppermint 2 drachms. Give of this mix- 
ture, to a child one year old, 1 tea-spoonful every hour until it acts on the 
bowels as a laxative, which may be known by the changed appearance of the 
passages. Follow this with small doses of compound extract of smart-weed 
and cover the bowels with cloths wet with the same. This treatment I have 
employed with perfect success in my own family and also with the same 
uniformly happy results in the general practice of medicine. 

SALT KHEUM, or ECZEMA.— In this disease the minute blood 
vessels are congested, causing the skin to be more vascular and redder than in 
the natural state. There is an itching or smarting sensation in the affected 
parts and the skin is raised in the form of little pimples and a watery substance 
exudes. This disease usually attacks the hands, and depends very much upon 
the occupation and habits of the person. Washerwomen, and those whose 
hands are exposed to the action of flour, soap, wax, resin, etc., are most sub- 
ject to it. 

Treatment. — All soaps and alkalies, and lead preparations, should be 
avoided. Wash the hands only in warm water, to which may be added some 
oatmeal or corumeal, or a little oxalic acid or vinegar. The following pre- 
scription is an excellent external application: Stramonium ointment, 1 ounce; 
carbolic acid, 10 grains. Mix thoroughly together. First wash the part affected 
with warm water and oatmeal and cornmeal, then dry thoroughly, and apply the 
ointment, bandage, and let remain all night. 

2. Make a wash of warm water and oatmeal, cleanse the part with it, and 
dry with a soft cloth; bathe with tincture of iodine, let It dry, and apoiy car- 
bolic acid mixed with sweet cream, about 5 drops of the acid to a tea-spooniui 
of cream. 

3. Take of beef marrow^ sulphur, black pepper, white turpentine, equal 
parts; mix, make an ointment, and apply, cleansing as otherwise directed, 

SCALD HEAD. — This is a disease of the scalp, and at first consists of 
minute pustules around the roots of the hair. These pustules increase in size 
and number until the entire scalp becomes covered by one dense and uniform 
crust. The disease is contagious, and is caused by the presence of parasites. 



«28 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Triatmbwt. — Cut the hair as closely as possible; wash the head with cas- 
tile soap and water, then apply at night on going to bed a large flaxseed meal 
poultice and let remain until morning, when the poultice should be removed, 
and with it all loose incrustations. This poultice should be applied from time to 
time, if there should any new crusts form. On removing the poultice cleanse 
the scalp with carbolic acid soap and warm water, then use the following oint- 
ment : Carbolic acid, 10 grs. ; vaseline, 3 ozs. Mix, and apply every morning 
suflacient to anoint slightly all the diseased parts. Wash the scalp each time 
with carbolic acid soap before applying the ointment. 

To increase the general tone of the system, the muriate tincture of iron In 
5 drop doses may be given in 1 table-spoonful of water, 3 times daily. 

THKXJSH.— This is one of the most common diseases of infancy. It la 
characterized by a peculiar eruption of minute pustules, and a whitish incrusta- 
tion of the tongue. 

Symptoms. — There are generally much thirst, restlessness, languor, acid and 
flatulent eructations, loose and griping i:.tools, drowsiness, pain, difficulty of 
sucking, and a copious flow of saliva from the mouth. The stomach and 
bowels are almost always prominently disordered,|and the infant is apt to vomit 
after taking anything into its stomach. The abdomen is often sore to the touch, 
and great difficulty of swallowing is experienced. Feeble and sickly children 
scarcely ever escape this disease ; children, also, who are kept in crowded or 
ill-ventilated apartments are especially liable to it. 

Treatment.— The first object is to restore the healthy condition of the 
stomach and bowels, if disordered. Where the ejections from the stomach are 
sour, and the alvine evacuations of a grass-green color, from 3 to 4 grains of 
magnesia, with 2 grains of rhubarb, and 1 of powdered valerian should be given 
every two or three hours until the bowels are freely evacuated. If there is 
much general irritability and restlessness after this, the tepid bath, followed by 
a drop or two of laudanum, should be employed. The mucous membrane of 
the intestines is apt to become highly irritated in severe cases; the alvine evacu- 
ations in such instances are frequent, watery, and streaked with blood. When 
these symptoms are present, a large emollient poultice should be applied over 
the abdomen in conjunction with the internal use of minute portions of Dover's 
powder, with a solution of gum arable as drink. Borax is a familiar remedy 
with nurses and mothers as well as the profession. It may be used either in 
form of powder or in solution. If the former is employed, 2 or 3 grains of it, 
mixed with a small portion of pulverized loaf sugar, must be thrown into the 
mouth every 2 or 3 hours; if the solution be used, a drachm of the borax should 
be dissolved in 2 ozs. of water, and applied to the mouth with a soft linen rag 
tied to the extremity of a pliable piece of whalebone, or with a soft feather. 
The practice of forcibly rubbing off the eruption is extremely reprehensible; 
for, when rubbed off in this way, the crust is soon renewed in an aggravated 
form. Where the mouth is very red, livid or ulcerated, we must have recourse 
to a decoction of bark. A J^ oz. of powdered bark, boiled about 30 minutes in 
^ pt. of water, will make a suitable decoction; and of this about tba third of a 
tea-spoonful maj be put imto the ckild's luoutk envj kour or inH». 



:k 




■• ."^■■^*iiiA.%ai^im6At 



T!KEA TRICHOPHYTOSIS CIRCIRNATUS, OR RING-WORM. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 329 

1 . WATERBRASH.— Pyrosis is the medical name for this disease, but 
It is usually called Waterbrash. It Is a peculiar affection of the stomach, in 
which the patient brings up frequently a considerable quantity of thin watery 
liquid, sometimes insipid, at others intensely acid. Before the fluid is brought 
up, often there is more or less pain experienced at the pit of the stomach. This 
complaint attacks, mostly, persons past the middle age, particularly females, 
and the fit comes on generally in the morning and afternoon. It usually begins 
with a severe pain in the pit of the stomach, attended with a feeling of con- 
striction or oppression, and soon after a quantity of thin watery fluid is 
thrown up, which is sometimes insipid, at other times it has a highly acid or 
burning taste. The causes of this complaint are various, but whatever dis- 
orders the stomach may give rise to it. It appears to be owing to a peculiar 
state of irritation of the stomach; and is most certainly relieved by the use of 
the white oxide of bismuth, from 2 to 3 grs. made into pills with extract of 
gentian, 3 times a day. This medicine will often perfectly cure waterbrash; 
but attention to the diet, as laid down under dyspepsia, is of much conse- 
quence, and will be absolutely necessary in order to render the cure permanent. 
A diet of plain animal food may be allowed, with which may be united the 
use of biscuits, home-made bread, and preparations of rice and milk. Daily 
exercise must also be taken, and frictions, with the flesh-brush, over the region 
of the stomach and bowels, are of no small service. The bowels must of 
course be kept open by purgatives, when necessary, even when making use of 
other curative means. 

2. Plump wheat carefully burned to a charcoal, and powdered, a tea- 
spoonful into the nursing bottle before filling it, once a day. The same, taken 
before each meal, is good for dyspepsia. 

1. RINGWORM. — A disease of the skin appearing in small circulal 
patches, or rings of vesicles round the circumference of a circle of appar- 
ently healthy skin: these vesicles are small, and contain a transparent fluid, 
which is discharged in three or four days, when little dark scabs form over 
them. Sometimes there is a succession of the circles on the upper parts of 
the body, as the face and neck, and the arms and shoulders. 

The more formidable and infectious species of ringworm appears in dis- 
tinct patches of an irregularly circular figure, on the scalp, head, and neck. 
It commences with clusters of small light yellow pustules, which soon break 
and form thin scabs over each patch; and these, if neglected, become thick 
and hard by gathering on one another. If the scabs are removed, however, 
the surface of the patches is left red and shining, but studded with white ele- 
vated points, in some of which, minute globules of pus again appear in a few 
days. As the patches extend, the hair covering them becomes lighter in its 
color, and sometimes breaks off short; and as this process is repeated, the 
roots of the hair are destroyed, and at length, there remains uninjured only a 
narrow border of hair round the head. It generally occurs in children of three 
or four years old and upwards, and often continues for se^ral years. It can 
be considered as about to terminate, only when the redness and exfoliations 
disappear together, and the hair begins to grow of its natural color and t««- 



230 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

ture. The disease seems to originate spontaneously in children of feeble and 
flabby habit, or in a state approaching to marasmus; who are ill fed, uncleanly, 
and not sufficiently exercised; but it is principally propagated by the actual 
conveyance of the matter from the diseased to the healthy, by the frequent 
contact of the heads of children, but more generally by the use of the same 
towels, combs, caps, and hats. 

Treatment. — While the patches are in an inflamed and irritable condi- 
tion, we must be content with regular washing or sponging with warm water, 
or some emollient fomentation. Even the operation of shaving, which is 
necessary to be repeated at intervals of 8 or 10 days, produces a temporary 
Increase of irritation. At this time, all stimulant lotions and ointments should 
be avoided. The disease assumes various forms, and these require a corres- 
ponding variety in the treatment; so that no single application can be said to 
possess any unfailing power against the ringworm. When the inflammatory 
state subsides, a dry scabbing and exfoliation ensues, but again the pustular 
eruption breaks out, and the patches again become red and tender. In other 
instances, the surface becomes inert and torpid, while a dry scaly scab con- 
stantly appears, and active stimulants are requisite to effect any change in the 
disorder. In more irritative states, the milder ointments, with calomel, oxide 
of zinc, acetate of lead, should be employed, or sedative lotions, or decoctions 
or infusions of poppy heads or tobacco. When there is an acrimonious dis- 
charge, the ointments of zinc and lead, or the milder mercurial ones, or a 
lotion of lime-water with calomel, are advantageous. In a very dry and inert 
state of the patches, caustic substances are often very successful. The late 
Dr. A. T. Thomson strongly recommends the application of a solution of 1 
dr. of nitrate of silver in ]^ an oz. of diluted nitric acid. But in the varying 
forms and degrees of ringworm; the remedies must be varied, and combined, 
according to the degree of irritation which prevails. The constitutional treat- 
ment is of consequence. A nutritious diet must be prescribed, containing a 
due admixture of animal food; the clothing must be warm; regular exercise 
must be enjoined; and a course of tonic medicines, such as iron or quinine, 
must be ordered. 

2. Touch it with caustic ammonia. 

3. Apply sulphate of copper, 20 grs., to 1 oz. of water. The same is 
good for Itch. 

PAINTERS' COLIC— This form of coHc is caused by the slow intro- 
duction of lead into the system,— generally the carbonate of lead. It passes 
under the different English names of painters' colic, Devonshire colic, and dry 
belly-ache. The first of these is the name by which it is most commonly 
known, from its frequent occurrence among painters, who use white lead (car- 
bonate of lead) a great deal in the preparation of their colors. 

Treatment. — For relieving the pain and opening the bowels, the treat- 
ment should be very much the same as that for bilious colic. There is one 
article, however, which is thought to have some special influence in curing this 
disease, after it has become chronic; it is alum. Fifteen grs. of alum, 2 of 
%loes, 2 of jalap, and 4 of Doyer'a powder, may be mixed, and taken for a 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 231 

dose S or 3 times a day. If the muscles of the arm be palsied, 1-16 of a 
gr. of strychnine may be added to the above. The aromatic sulphuric acid, 
taken as a drink, fifteen drops to the tumblerful of water, is always worthy of 
trial. 

The use of the electro-magnetic machine may be tried for the palsy; or a 
splint applied to the arm and hand, with vigorous friction applied once or twice 
a day, will sometimes do much for recovering the use of the muscles. 

But the best remedy for the palsied muscles that I know of is the follow- 
ing: Fl. ex. of sarsaparilla, 4 ozs. ; fl. ex. of pipsissewa, 1 oz.; water, 1 quart; 
iodide of potassium, 2 ozs. Mix. Dose — A table-spoonful 3 times a day. 
The sulphuret of potassa, 1 oz., dissolved in a quart- of water, and taken in 
tea-spoonful doses, 3 times a day, is also worth a trial. The affected arm 
should be soaked an hour, once or twice a day, in the same amount of this 
latter salt, dissolved in a gallon of water. The following is Dr. Gunn's treat- 
ment: 

Treatment. — The treatment in this form of colic should be very similar 
to the bilious form. The first thing to be done, is to overcome the constipation 
of the bowels. If there is vomiting, give medicines to allay it. Then make 
use of strong purgatives, with hot fomentations to the bowels. Narcotics and 
relaxants are also indicated to relieve the pain, and overcome the spasms. As 
a narcotic and anodyne use the ex. of hyosciamus; take 20 grs., and form into 
6 pills; give 1 every 2 hours. At the same time give the Anti-bilious Physic, 
and aid the operation with purgative, stimulating and relaxing injections. A 
portion of the physic, with a little salt, a tea-spoonful of tincture or powder of 
lobelia and hot water may be used as an injection, to be repeated according to 
the urgency of the case. Sometimes it will be well to add a little cayenne to 
it. Apply hot fomentations to the bowels, and if the physic does not operate 
in 2 or 3 hours, give the croton oil, 2 or 3 drops at a time, in a spoonful of castor 
oil, or a little milk, and repeat every 2 hours. Also rub a little of the croton 
oil on the abdomen, over the bowels. In other respects, treat the same as a 
severe case of bilious colic. It is sometimes well to put the patient into a warm 
bath, for half an hour, or even longer, in order to relax the muscular system, 
and overcome the spasm of the intestines. After you have got an operation on 
the bowels you may give the following pills: Ex. of hyosciamus, 40 grs.; 
ipecac, 20 grs. ; pulverized opium, 10 grs. ; podophyllin, 10 grs. ; make into 20 
pills, and give 1 every 3 or 4 hours. Also Cholagogue as a tonic and alterative. 

Remarks. — The numerous persons who work in lead, should comb their 
hair with a fine comb, wash their hands and face, and rinse their mouth several 
times a day, and also wash the whole person with soap once or twice a week, 
and with clear water, or saleratus and water, once a day. Their working 
clothes should be of a kind to admit of being washed once or twice a week, 
and they should be put off for others when out of the workshop. A paper cap 
should be worn while at work. The food of the workmen should not be 
exposed to the vapors or floating particles of lead, and consequently should not 
be carried into the shop; and when much of the poison is floating in the air of 



232 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

the work room, it is a good plan to wear a mask to prevent its being drawn 
with the breath into the throat and lungs. 

It has been said that those who eat freely of fat meats, butter, and other 
oily substances are not attacked by the disease, though exposed to the poison. 
I know not what protection this can give, unless the skin is in this way kept 
more oily, which prevents the absorption of the poison. This would seem to 
afford a hint in favor of anointing the whole person once or twice a week 
with sweet oil. 

STITCH IN THE SIDE. — This is a spasmodic affection of the 
muscles of the chest, and is rheumatic in its origin. With this there are not 
the symptoms of inflammation nor the difficulty of breathing, except that 
caused by the pain or stich in the side. Exposure to cold or violent exercise 
will also cause this. Apply warm applications, mustard poultices, or stimu- 
lating liniments. The best medicines in this case will be pills of colocynth 
8 grs., with ex. of colchicum }^ oi a. gr. in each, taken every niglit; and 3 
times a day a seidlitz draught, with 15 grs. of wine of colchicum and 6 of 
laudanum in each. 

PROUD FLESH. — The granulations which arise when a sore is in 
progress of healing, sometimes project beyond the level of the surrounding 
parts, and form a red excrescence very irritable, easily made to bleed, and 
sometimes growing fast in spite of all that can be done to prevent it. Caustics 
of various kinds, as lunar caustic, or the blue vitriol, are to be applied, or red 
precipitate of mercury, and occasionally pressure, by straps of adhesive plaster 
or other bandages, is found useful. 

1. BED SORES.— The constant pressure of certain portions of the body 
upon the bed or mattress frequently produces in invalids excoriations, which 
nre known bv the above name. 

Treatment. — When the skin becomes red and inflamed, and painful to 
the touch, immediate steps should be taken to prevent if possible an abrasion 
of the skin. Mix two tea-spoonfuls of brandy with a wine-glassful of hot 
\vater, with 30 drops of tincture of arnica. Dab the part with this, and dry 
with violet powder. Or, either before or after the skin bieaks, dip a camel 
hair brush into collodion, and brush the inflamed surface over, repeating the 
operation from time to time until the part is healed. 

2. Saturate cloths with alcohol and apply; not painful and effects speedy 
cure. 

3. Bismuth powder is also good, and is just the thing for chafing. Cover- 
ing the sore with clay dust or "mineral earth " is recommended also. 

FITS OR CONVULSIONS IN CHILDREN.— Most persons 
have seen a baby in fits; and it is. a sad sight, — its little face all distorted and 
livid; its eyes rolling and squinting frightfully; its hands clenched, and arms 
bent, and legs drawn up, and body arched backward, and limbs twitching 
violently, — itself insensible, and unable to see, or swallow, or move. After a 
time the fit ceases, sometimes by degrees, at other times suddenly,— the child 
fetching a deep sigh, and then lying quiet and pale, as if it had fainted. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 233 



From this state it passes into a sleep, and, on waliing some hours later, 
quite well. 

Fits may attacli a child which is apparently well, and cause death imniedi- 
ately, or it may have fits daily, or even several times a day, and linger on for 
weeks. A child may have fits from a great variety of causes. Fits, therefore, 
have a different meaning in different cases. But they always show that im 
brain has in some way been disturbed. 

Treatment. — As fits are not a disease in themselves, but only a symptom 
of some disease, the treatment must have reference to the cause. Sometimes, 
while the fit lasts, it is wise to do nothing. But, if a fit come on suddenly, in the 
case of a child previously healthy, it is generally safe to place it in a hot bath, 
and at the same time to dash cold water on its face, or to pour cold water on 
Its head, or hold on it a large sponge dipped in cold water. The hot bath will 
draw the blood to the skin, and away from the overloaded brain. It will 
quiet the disturbance of the system, and if scarlet fever or measles are about 
to appear, it will bring them out. 

HYSTERIA— HYSTERICS.— Treatment.— To treat this complaint 
successfully, it is necessary to search out its cause, and remove that Like the 
whites, it is not so much a disease in itself, as a symptom. 

The first inquiry to be made should have reference to the real origin of the 
complaint. Is it dependent upon inflammation of the ovaries or the womb, or 
to displacement of this latter organ; or does it arise from the low state of the 
blood, and tlie weakened condition of the nerves, acted upon by some irrita- 
tion or heightened sensibility of the sexual organs. 

If dependent upon inflammatory disease, that is to be treated according to 
directions elsewhere; if upon falling of the womb, no remedies will avail until 
that is put in its proper place. If diluted blood and weakened nerves be the 
cause, iron and quinine are the emedies. When the complaint arises from 
deficient menstruation, iron and aloes will be serviceable. The nervous spasm 
can sometimes be broken up by pouring cold water upon the head, or face, oi 
limbs of the patient. 

The Hygienic and Moral Treatment are of great consequence. 
The complaint is very much under the control of the will. Whatever tonea 
the moral nature and strengthens the will, tends to subject this disorder to the 
control of the patient. Plain wholesome diet, exercise, bathing, and the 
enforcing, as far as possible, of a rugged, self-reliant habit, generally go far 
towards breaking its force. 

TONGUE-TIED.— The tongue is fixed down to the lower part of the 
mouth by a membranous cord, which prevents too great a degree of motion. 
Sometimes the cord ties down the tongue of infants so much that they cannot 
suck. This is supposed by the common people to be the case much ^ftener 
than it really happens; and they very often request the surgeon to remove the 
inconvenience; but so long as the patient sucks there is no occasion for any 
operation. But it happens sometimes that the tongue is not perceived to be 
ti«d till the child begins to articulate, and is prevented from forming certain 



234 DB CHASE'S RECIPES. 

letters for which a free motion of the tongue is requisite. At whatever time 
the operation may be necessary it is easily done by a pair of scissors; but the 
surgeon must be careful not to wound any of the neighboring large vessels. 

1. GANGRENE.— Tkeatment.— When the result of cold, the part 
becomes first white, and a restoration of the suspended circulation should be 
attempted by rubbing with snow, if it can be procured ; if not, with a coarse 
cloth or flesh-brush. No heat must be applied ; even that of the bed-covering 
will sometimes set up inflammation. Camphorated spirit of wine is, perhaps, 
the best liniment that can be used. After the rubbing, if it appears to be at 
all effectual, apply cold poultices. If, in spite of these efforts, a discoloration 
of the skin shows that gangrene has really commenced, apply to the part a 
poultice of flaxseed with a little powdered riharcoal in it, and also spirit 
lotions, to keep the disease from spreading. 'Jhe co)istitution of the patient 
must be soothed and supported by some anodyne and stimulant. Cooper 
recommends from 7 to 10 grs. of carbonate of ammonia, with 20 or 30 drops 
of tincture of opium, 2 or 3 times a day or more frequently if required. A 
bolus composed of 5 grs. of carbonate of ammonia, with 10 grs. of musk, may 
be given every 4 hours, with excellent effect. When the gangrene has pro- 
ceeded to a sloughing sore, a port wine poultice is a good application, as is 
spirits of turpentine, to stimulate the parts. 

2. Apply yeast poultice mixed with charcoal powder, and renew the 
poultice often; or keep the part well covered with charcoal powder. 

If, however, the gangrene is not stopped in its first stages, it can seldom 
be after; and the only chance of saving the patient's life is to amputate the 
limb; and this must be done before the morbific influence has spread far 
towards a vital part. 

BLOODY FLUX. — Tkeatment.— In mild cases, give a table-spoonful 
of castor oil and 2 tea-spoonfuls or paregoDo, mixed, once a day. Sometimes, 
In place of the above, a dose of Rochelle powder, dissolved in water, with 
30 or 40 drops of laudanum, may be taken. A moderate quantity of flaxseed 
or slippery elm tea, may be taken as a drink, and the bowels be well emptied 
by an injection of starch. 

When there is much pain in the bowels, a mustard poultice laid upon them, 
will have a good effect. The starch injections should, in such case, have a }^ 
tea-spoonful of laudanum mixed with it. The compound syrup of rhubarb 
and potassa will often act favorably, given in table-spoonful doses. 

If there is reason to suppose the liver is affected, give podophyllin, or some 
other liver remedy recommended under the head of "Liver." 

The patient should not be allowed to sit up, and must be kept very still, 
and be allowed only a very scanty diet, as flour porridge, well boiled, rice 
. water etc. 

RUPTURE (Hernia).— Children and old people are most liable to this, 
<;hough sometimes they occur to persons of middle age. If difficult, or impos- 
sible to be returned, it is called strangulated rupture, and requires the best 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 285 

Treatmekt. — The patient must be laid on the back, the head Iotv, and the 
buttocks raised; while in this position the gut must be returned by a gentle 
pressure, if it does not fall back of itself. After it is returned, a piece of 
sticking-plaster may be applied over the part, and a truss, or bandage, worn for 
a length of time. If it has been forced down with great violence, or happens 
from any cau^e to become inflamed, it is often very difficult to return it, and 
sometimes impracticable, without an operation, a description of which is 
foreign to our purpose, but in those cases, until some assistance can be ob- 
tained, act as follows: foment with warm fomentations; give clysters; then, 
when the bowels have emptied, the operator must press and guide the gut back 
through the aperture, if possible to do so. An adult, after being ruptured, 
should never neglect wearing the proper truss. 

HAY FEVER.— This disease is so called on account of its occurring 
during hay time, or summer, and is thought to be caused by the odor of new- 
mown hay; but it may be caused by other strong odors. It does not differ 
very much from the ordinary asthma, except perhaps there is not so much 
difficulty of breathing, and the attacks last longer in the hay-asthma; the 
lining membrane of the nose is also much more inflamed and the throat 
irritated in the latter disease. 

The best thing to do is to remain within doors and keep quiet for a few 
days; take a few doses of Rochelle salts or rhubarb, also a lea-spoonful of 
paregoric at bed-time for two or three nights, and live on light diet. A dose 
or two of quinine (1 gr.) may be beneficial, night and morning. 

Remarks. — Thousands of people go to Northern Michigan annually for 
this disease, and I have never heard of one that did not get relief — Northern 
Michigan is the surest cure in the world for Hay Fever. 

VARICOSE VEINS OR ENLARGED VEINS.— The veins 
which lie near the surface, especially those of the legs, are apt, by exhausting 
labor upon the feet, and by strains, to get weakened, so that their valves lose 
their tone, and their sides stretch and give way in certain places, letting the 
blood bulge out, and form purple bunches. These bags of blood, lying along 
upon the surface of the limb, form knotty tumors, looking like blood boils. 
They occasion a kind of distress, but no sharp pain. 

Persons of weak, soft, and relaxed muscles and blood vessels are par- 
ticularly liable to this complaint. It often attacks women in the family way. 

Treatment. — Where only a few veins are affected, it may be sufficient, 
in some cases, to apply firmly over them a few strips of leather, spread with 
soap plaster. But generally it is better to support the whole limb with a good 
cotton bandage, or with a laced stocking, which should be applied in the 
morning before the patient is up. It is generally also well to use friction with 
some liniment or iodine ointment. Lead water or alum water, or an infusion 
of white oak bark, may be used with advantage. Burdock and plantain 
leaves, bound upon the skin, and removed before they are dry, are useful 
Showering with cold water strengthens the veins. 



286 DR CHASEP a RECIPES. 

INGROWING- TOE NAILS.— Those who have been afflicted with 
this affection have often found it to be very troublesome and painful, at least 
I have found it to be so myself. The edges or sides of the nail are disposed 
to turn down and grow into the flesh, giving rise to inflammation, ulceration, 
and often great pain and suffering. 

For this difficulty the best remedy I have ever known is U9 scrape with 
some sharp-pointed instrument, as the point of a pen-knife, a sort of groove 
or gutter in the center of the nail, lengthwise from the root to the end. It 
should be scraped down to near the quick, or as thin as it can be borne. This 
makes the nail weak, so that it will gradually and ultimately turn up at the 
sides until the edges come above and over the flesh. Keep up this practice as 
fast as the nail grows out and grows thicker, and you will eventually succeed 
in getting the nail in its proper shape and position. It is a good idea to 
poultice if there is much inflammation, and also apply healing salve. If ulcera- 
tion, bathe the parts occasionally with tinctures aloes, myrrh, and opium, 
mixed in equal parts. 

1 . FEVER-SORES.— One lb. fresh lard, % lb. red lead, 1 table-spoonful 
soft water; put in an iron dish and cook until it turns to quite a dark brown; 
stir most of the time while cooking, and watch to keep it from running over; 
apply it, spread on a cloth, change twice a day. 

2. The following has cured some very severe cases of fever sores, and is 
good for cuts and bruises in man or beast Take a quantity of the bark of 
sumac root and boil for two hours; strain and add fresh lard to the liquid, 
then boil down until the water is all out; anoint the sore three times a day. 

Remarks. — This salve cured a sore on a son of G. W. Childs, of Petoskey, 
Mich., from which pieces of bone had been taken. They had tried several 
things but all but this failed. Uncle Chancy Howard, Chardon, Ohio, cured 
a fever-sore of long standing, and up to the time of his death, some ten years ago, 
it had never bothered him. The above is also good for chilblains and ulcers. 

CHOLERA. — Treatment. — There is one important precaution which 
ought to be observed at all times, but more particularly during the epidemic of 
cholera: the perfect purity of the drinking water should be ascertained, and its 
freedom from all decomposing organic matters made certain. 

Care is also to be observed not to take active purgatives, especially salines, 
such as Epsom or Rochelle salts, seidlitz powders, etc., which produce watery 
evacuations; if aperient medicine is required, it ought to be of a warm char- 
acter, such as magnesia and rhubarb, with some aromatic, (cinnamon or 
allspice), for whatever produces free action of the bowels apparently increases 
the susceptibility to attack. For this reason, too, tJie slightest tendency to diar- 
rhcea should at once be arrested by a dose of paregoric or laudanum, or what is 
preferable, a mixture of prepared chalk, 1 table-spoonful; cinnamon or allspice 
powdered, 1 table-spoonful; white sugar and flour, 1 table-spoonful each, water, 
1 wine-glassful ; paregoric, 2 table-spoonfuls; Cayenne pepper, % tea-spoonful. 
Mix, and take a tea-spoonful every half hour, or as may be needed, and the use 
of n-.ill? and farinaceous preparations (corn starch, farina, flour, etc.,) contain- 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 237 

Ing gelatine, for food. The speedy adoption of these measures, in places 
distant from medical assistance, might do much to checlt the disease. Should 
the astringents above recommended fail, use the remedies recommended below. 

As to the actual treatment of the disease itself, when fully established, 
many different methods have been proposed and practiced, and few of them, 
perhaps without apparent advantage in some cases, but as yet no treatment 
which can be called decidedly successful (a cure), has been discovered. 

The treatment which would be safe in the hands of others than medical 
men would be about the following: When "omiting and purging have set in, 
with cramps, give the following mixture: Tincture of Cayenne pepper, lauda- 
num, spirits of camphor, of each 1 oz. ; spirits of hartshorn, l{ oz. ; mix 
together, and take 1 table-spoonful every hour or half hour according to the 
symptoms. Or give 1 gr. of opium, 1 of camphor, 1 of Cayenne pepper, 
(made into a pill with a little flour and water) every hour, or as may be needed. 

The patient should be wrapped at once in a blanket, or flannels next the 
skin. For the cramps use the following as a liniment: Tincture of Cayenne 
pepper, spirits of hartshorn, chloroform, turpentine, or kerosene oil, 2 ozs. of 
each. Mix, and rub over the affected parts with a woolen cloth. Be careful to 
remove the contents of the chamber from the room immediately and bury it in the 
ground. Also mix with the discharges from the stomach and bowels, as soon 
as voided, some sulphate of iron (common green vitriol), also dissolve some of 
the green vitriol in hot water, and set the same in vessels around the room and 
in the different parts of the house; and then throw some down the sinks, privy, 
cellar, and such places, once every day. Keep the sick chamber well aired, 
and by all means try to cheer and comfort the patient, so as to keep up his 
spirits. A mixture of mustard and Cayenne pepper moistened with strong 
vinegar, applied to the stomach and bowels is good to check the vomiting and 
purging, or applied to the limbs for cramps. 

During the prevalence of this disease the greatest care is necessary in 
regard to cleanliness, ventilation, etc. It may be mentioned also that warm 
bricks or warm stones, irons, or hot salt should be applied to the limbs or body 
where there is coldness or cramps. An injection up the bowels of ^ a tea- 
spoonful of laudanum, 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of brandy or whisky, with a little 
thin starch, is often very beneficial in the active stage of this disease, to be 
repeated if necessary. 

1. ULCERS. — A chasm or vacancy formed on the surface of a part, 
whether external or internal, by the absorbent vessels removing parts back into 
the system. Ulceration takes place more readily in the cellular and fatty sub- 
stance, than in muscles, tendons, blood-vessels, and nerves. (Forjreatment by 
bandaging, see page 82.) 

2. Simple Purulent Ulcer.— Some xilcers are covered with matter of 
a white color, of a thick consistence, and which readily separates from the 
surface of the sore. There are a number of little eminences called granulations, 
which are small, florid, and pointed at the top. As soon as they have risen to 
the level of the surrounding skin, those next the old skin become smooth, and 



238 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

are covered with a thin film, which afterwards becomes opaque, and forms 
skin. The principal thing to be done in the treatment of this kind of ulcer, 
is to keep the surface clean by putting on a little dry lint, and a pledget over 
It, covered with very simple ointment. In some patients ointment irritates and 
inflames the neighboring skin. Bandages sometimes irritate the sore, and dis- 
turb the healing process; but when they do not, they are useful in giving a 
moderate support to the parts, and in defending those that are newly formed. 

3. Ulcers in Weakened Parts.— Other ulcers are in parts which 
are too weak to carry on the actions necessary to their recovery. In them the 
granulations are larger, more round, and less compact than those formed on 
ulcers in healthy parts. When they have come up to the level of the healthy 
parts, they do not readily form skin, but rising still higher, lose altogether the 
power of forming it. When the parts are still weaker, the granulations some- 
times fill up the hollow of the ulcer, and then are suddenly absorbed, leaving 
the sore as deep as ever. Ulcers are very much under the influence of what- 
ever affects the constitution; so that change of weather, emotions of the mind, 
diet, and other agents, quickly occasion a change in their condition. Such 
ulcers as we have been describing, require general as well as local treatment; 
bark, wine, porter, and other cordials and tonics are to be given; and the gran- 
ulations are to be kept from rising too much, by the prudent application of 
blue vitriol, lunar caustic, and the like, weakened sufiiciently by proper admix- 
ture of ointment to act as stimulants, and not as caustics. This will give a 
proper and healthy action to the granulating surface; whereas the destroying 
of the rising parts by escharotics seems rather to encourage the growth. 
Bandages and -proper support to the parts are highly useful. These ulcers, in 
weak parts, do not seem to be the better of poultices, or other relaxing applica- 
tions; powders rarely do good, and perhaps the best dressing is the citrine oint- 
ment, more or less diluted. 

4. Irritable Ulcers. — There are certain ulcers, which may be called 
Irritable Ulcers. The margin of the surrounding skin is jagged, and termi- 
nating in an edge which is sharp and undermined. There is no distinct appear- 
ance of granulations, but a whitish spongy substance, covered with a thin 
ichorous discharge. Every thing that touches the surface gives pain, and 
commonly makes the ulcer bleed. The pain sometimes comes on in paroxysms, 
and causes convulsive motions of the limb. Such ulcers seldom do well 
without a frequent change of treatment. Fomentations with poppy heads, 
chamomile flowers, or hemlock leaves, are sometimes of use in irritable ulcers, 
'vv^hen poultices are prescribed, they should never be allowed to rest or bear 
weight on the sore limb. Powdered applications are generally too stimulating 
for irritable ulcers, and bandages also prove hurtful. 

5. Indolent Ulcers. — These ulcers are those which have the edges of 
the surrounding skin thick, prominent, smooth, and rounded. The surface of 
the granulations is smooth and glossy ; the matter is thin and watery, and the 
bottom of the ulcer is nearly level. A great proportion of the ulcers in hos- 
pitals are of the most indolent kind. Indolent ulcers form granulations, but 



TREATMWW2 OF DISEASES. PM 

frequently they are all of a sudden absorbed, and in four and twenty hours the 
sore becomes as much increased in size as it had been diminished for many 
weeks. The principal applications required for indolent ulcers are those of a 
stimulating nature, as the basilicon ointment, and occasional sprinkling with 
red precipitate. Pressure is to be made by a roller, and by slips of adhesive 
plaster. Scrofulous, syphilitic, and cancerous ulcers are to be treated according 
to the methods laid down under these various diseases. 

PALSY. — A disease in which some part of the body is affectzd 
with the loss of the power of motion. It may be of all degrees, from a 
universal attack of the -^hole body, or a complete palsy of one of the sides, to 
the palsy of a single finger, or a few fibres of a muscle. It proceeds from the 
same causes as apoplexy, and is in reality often a modification or partial attack 
of that disease. The disease is also brought on by mere loss of nervous power, 
as when the brain " gives way," in hard- worked literary men. When a patient, 
by proper remedies, or the powers of nature, recovers a little from an attack 
of apoplexy, it is very common for him to be seized with palsy. 

Palsy sometimes comes on suddenly, at other times there is numbness,, 
coldness, and paleness of the part about to be affected. Sometimes the judg- 
ment and memory are impaired; the speech is imperfect from the disease of 
both body and mind; the mouth and cheeks are distorted, and the countenance 
is expressive of much anxiety. When the lower extremities are partially 
affected, the patient drags them after him. 

Causes. — The same causes that excite apoplexy, occasion palsy when 
applied in a less degree; therefore tumors, wrong determination of blood, 
bruises, pressure on nerves, the drying up of usual evacuations, are often found 
to induce palsy. When one side of the body is palsied, the disease is termed 
hemiplegia, and when the lower part of the body is affected the disease is called 
paraplegia. Certain sedative substances, long applied, produce palsy of some 
parts of the body, as we see in those who work among lead, and are affected 
with the Devonshire Colic; one remarkable symptom of which is the palsy of 
the thumbs and calves of the legs. Palsy is not unfrequently produced gradu- 
ally by some tumor or other disease pressing on the vertebrae of the back; and 
this is commonly the cause of the palsy of young people. 

Prognosis.— li is generally unfavorable. Palsy does not suddenly prove 
mortal. Its cure is the more diflicult the more the senses are injured; and 
such cases commonly continue till the end of life, often very remote. When 
palsy follows apoplexy, or happens in old people, it is seldom cured. The 
palsies of young people are sometimes recovered from. If convulsions occut 
in the parts opposite to those that are palsied, the danger is great. When 
palsy occurs from pressure or blows on the spinal marrow, or on any large 
nerves, it is generally hopeless, and the dragging of the limb is seldom got 
completely the better of. 

Treatment.— When palsy comes on suddenly, it is proper to treat it a* 
we do apoplexy sometimes, by bleeding, by purging, by blisters to the head; 
and when the acute symptoms are in some measure relieved, we apply stimu- 
lants to the limbs, or weakened parts, if they are within our reach. When 



«40 DB. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

the ca«e is of longer standing, and the constitution is in a state of debility^ 
those evacuating measures would be improper; and instead of them we must 
be contented with stimulating applications, aided by such exercise as the 
patient is able to take. It is surprising how much may be done in cases appar- 
ently very hopeless. The patient must not be discouraged at the apparent bad 
success of his first efforts at motion, but must persevere, and his perseverance 
will probably at last be rewarded. The applications proper for palsied limbs 
are such as the following: Ammoniated oil, camphorated oil, cajeput oil, when 
it cpx be got; turpentine and oil, warm sea-water, warm salt, stinging with 
nettles, mustard, etc. Great benefit is often derived from strychnia, but this 
drug is so powerful that it ought to be given only by a medical man. Elec- 
tricity and galvanism are also frequently had recourse to; also the use of 
the Bath or other mineral waters pumped upon the palsied limbs. Our choice 
of internal medicines must be determined by the state of the constitution. If 
there be any excitement, or inflammatory tendency, or any probability that 
the palsy may be followed by apoplexy, all internal stimulants must be avoided; 
and it is only in old cases, unattended by fever, that we are to give such medi- 
cines as guaiac, iron, aromatics, or the like. Paralytic limbs should be kept warm, 
and well covered with flannel . The diet should be light and nutritive. The 
patient should take what exercise he can; and if he is unable to do it by his own 
exertions, he must have it by a carriage, or by sailing, or by a swing. In the 
palsy of the lower limbs from diseases of the spine, issues to the back, or to 
the neighborhood of the diseased vertebrae, are of great service. (See Apoplexy. ) 

Remarks. — Many astonishing cures have been effected by taking the min- 
eral baths at Mt. Clemens and Ypsilanti, Mich. There may be other places, 
and I have no doubt there are, where the mineral waters will have the same 
effect. I only speak of these from my own knowledge. 

Palsy in children occurs pretty frequently, and attacks infants and young 
persons in different degrees. It often attacks one side at first, and gradually 
comes on the other side. It is generally attended with costiveness and deranged 
state of the bowels ; and, accordingly, a course of purgative medicines of con- 
siderable activity, as jalap and calomel,' or rhubarb and calomel, in no long 
time effects a cure. Blistering on the head, or on the palsied limb, may be 
tried; and leeches to the temples, when the head is much affected. If the 
palsy is owing to water in the head, it is to be feared the case is hopeless. 
Tonic medicines and external stimulants are proper, when there is no fever 
present. Electricity is often a valuable assistant to other remedies. 

SUFFOCATION.— Is the extinction of life by the function of breath- 
ing being violently stopped. This may happen from hanging and drowning; 
from blood or matter bursting from the lungs into the branches of the wind 
pipe; from inflammation or croup, producing a false membrane or thickened 
mucus in the air passages from foreign bodies sticking in the same; from large 
pieces of meat in the gullet pressing on the back of the wind pipe; and many 
similar incidents. Where the suffocation is complete nothing can be done; 
but where it is only threatened the proper means of relief are to be had 
recourse to, rarying, of course, according to circumstances. Foreign bodies 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 241 

are to be extracted, if possible, from the windpipe, and vomited fr^-ra the 
gullet, or pushed down into the stomach; and the means tor restoring sus- 
pended animation to be employed in the case of hanging and drowning. 

SUFFOCATION FBOM HANGING.— Immediately remove all 
clothing from the upper part of the body, and follow the directions under 
Artificial Respiration to restore breathing. 

SUFFOCATION FROM GAS AND OTHER NOXIOUS 
VAPORS. — Immediately remove the person into the open air, and throw 
cold water upon the face, throat and chest, expel the foul gas from the lungs, 
and restore respiration by means prescribed for Artificial Respiration. As 
soon as you discover the least breathing, hold strong vinegar to *\^^ nostrils. 
Should the suffocation be from breathing carbolic acid gas, chloride of soda 
or a solution of chloride of lime, is preferable, sometimes moistening a cloth, 
with either of the solutions, and holding it to the nose, will produce the 
desired effect. Oxygen should be forced into the lungs if it can be produced. 
Excite warmth in the maimer prescribed for "Drowned Persons" on pages 
80 and 81. Where suffocation is caused by fire-damp in mines, wells, etc., 
remove the person at once and treat as above. 

SUSPENDED ANIMATION FROM COLD.— When a person is 
apparently frozen to death, the body should be handled very carefully, and be 
very careful not to bend the joints; have the body in a cold place, and rub the 
same from head to foot with cold water or snow, for fifteen or twenty minutes, 
until the surface is red, then wipe the body perfectly dry and rub with bare 
•warm hands; it is better if several persons will join in this rubbing, and then 
wrap the body in a woolen sheet, and follow the directions as in "Artificial 
Respiration " to restore breathing. This treatment must be continued with 
energy for several hours if necessary, and until animation and respiration are thor- 
oughly restored. Allow the patient to swallow a little lukewarm water and 
wine or red pepper, or ginger tea. 

STRICTURE OF THE RECTUM.— In many cases this is the result of 
an inflammatory process, simple or syphilitic, from the cicatrization of deep- 
seated and extensive ulceration; in others, it is due to the contraction of inflam- 
matory material poured out external to the bowel in the sub-mucous tissue; in 
exceptional instances it may be caused by contraction of the parts external to 
the bowel, after pelvic cellulitis, and Curling quotes a case where it was the 
direct result of injury. 

The disease, taken as a whole, is twice as common in women as in men, 
my note book revealing the fact that thirty-two out of forty-eight consecutive 
cases were in this sex. But syphilitic stricture is more common in the female, 
and cancerous stricture in the male. 

Constipation is the one early symptom, and it is not till some ulceration 
has commenced, either at the stricture or above it, that others appear, such as 
diarrhoea, with lumpy stools, containing blood, pus or mucus, straining at stool, 
and a sensation of burning afterward, with at last a complete stoppage, 
abdominal distension and dyspeptic symptoms. 
16 



243 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

An examination with the finger carefully introduced into the rectum will, 
as a ruk, at once reveal the true nature of the case, for about two inches up 
the rectum the narrowing will be felt, with or without new tissue infiltrating 
the part or ulceration. In exceptional cases the stricture is beyond the reach 
of the finger; under these circumstances, however, it may, at times, be brought 
within reach by pressing with the free hand upon the abdomen above the pelvis. 

The examination of a rectum, the subject of disease with a tube, flexible 
or otherwise, requires the greatest care and gentleness. Fallacies may mis- 
lead the surgeon in every way, the end of the instrument striking against the 
sacrum, or being caught in a fold of mucous membrane, may lead him to sus- 
pect obstruction where none exists. But if some warm fluid, as linseed tea, 
be injected somewhat forcibly through the tube, a place is formed admitting 
the easy transit of the instrument. In stricture pain is felt when an instru- 
ment reaches the point of contraction, and a flexible one is arrested or passed 
on with more or less difficulty. 

Treatment. — It is so rare for a surgeon to be consulted about a stricture 
of the rectum till the ulcerative stage has set in, or nearly complete obstruc- 
tion has taken place, that he has few opportunities of testing the value of 
dilatation of the stricture, for, although this practice is clearly useless if not 
injurious when ulceration exists, it is probably of great value before any 
breach of the surface has taken place. In cicatricial or inflammatory stric- 
tures, indeed, it is the only form of practice upon which reliance is to be 
placed, but in the cancerous, whether in the ulcerating style or not, it is not 
wise to make the attempt. 

The dilatation is to be effected by mechanical means, and many instru- 
ments have been invented for the purpose. The elastic gum bougie, in the 
hands of the surgeon is, however, the best; forcible dilatation is inadmissible. 
They are made in many sizes, and the one just large enough to pass through 
the stricture should be chosen. It should be warmed and well greased, and 
guided by the finger passed gently through the stricture, and retained for ten or 
fifteen minutes at a time. When it does not produce any irritation, a second 
larger, may be passed in two days. But when irritation has set in, the repe- 
tition of the operation should be suspended until it has subsided. By these 
means a simple stricture may be checked in its progress, and even dilated, but 
rarely cured ; this practice may prolong life for years. Mr. Curling has, how- 
ever, given a case in his book in which he believes he cured an annular stric- 
ture in a lady, age 24, by incisions and dilatation. 

This dilatation is, however, only a means to an end, and that end is to 
secure a passage for the intestinal contents. Enemata are valuable aids 
to effect this purpose, the daily washing out of the bowels with gruel and oil 
giving great relief, or the daily dose of mist, olei with manna, confection of 
senna with sulphur, or any other gentle laxative that the patient has found to 
suit. Cod liver oil in full doses often acts as a laxative as well as a tonic. 
Care must, however, be observed in the introduction of the tube, for in a can- 
cerous bowel perforation is very apt to occur, and even in a healthy one the 
same accident has taken place. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES- 343 

How far it is safe to allow a patient to pass a bougie for himself or herself, 
is another question. I am disposed to think it is an unwise act to allow when 
the bougie is solid, for I am sure I have seen great irritation and harm follow 
upon the practice, and in several cases deep seated suppuration. Curling has 
given a case where the patient caused his own death by perforating the bowel, 
half an inch in extent, above the stricture. I have, consequently, been in the 
habit of instructing my patients to use candles as bougies, and have been well 
pleased with the practice. 

There comes a time, however, when this treatment by dilatation ceases to 
be beneficial; when the stricture has so closed as to render it useless; or ulcer- 
ated so as to render it unwise to adopt the practice; or associated with so much 
distress as to forbid its use; and under these circumstances the practice of 
oolotomy is of great value; it gives comfort to a degree that sometimes aston- 
ishes, and always gratifies. On convalescence or recovery, it is not found to 
be practically associated with such inconveniences as surgeons of old have 
practically surrounded it. It prolongs life and adds materially to its comfort, 
and little more than this can be said of most operations. But it must not be 
postponed till the powers of life have become so exhausted as to render the 
chances of recovery from the operation poor; or till the large intestine has 
become so distended as to have become damaged or inflamed. It should be 
undertaken as soon as it is clear that the local disease has passed beyond the 
power of local treatment with any prospect of good, and the general powers 
of the patient are beginning to fail; as soon as the local distress finds no relief 
from palliative measures, and a downward course, with unmixed anguish, is evi- 
dently approaching. The difficulties of colotomy are not great, nor are its dangers 
numerous. When unsuccessful, it is usually made so from the delay in its 
performance; from want of power in the patient; or death has resulted from 
the secondary effects of the disease on the abdominal viscera. 

When most successful, it gives immediate relief to most of the symptoms, 
and makes life worth living. When least so, by lessening pain, it renders 
what remains of life endurable. The operation is now regarded as established, 
and creditable to surgical art, and according to Curling; but, in the general 
way, it has been postponed until too late a period to demonstrate its value. 

HYDROPHOBIA. — Treatment. — Cut off the bitten part, or apply 
dry cupping, or suction, at once. Also the caustic potash. The internal 
remedies heretofore employed have had little success. Perhaps nothing now 
known promises more than to keep the patient, for a long time, under the 
inuuence of chloroform or ether. The tincture of scullcap, in 2 or 3 dram 
doses, will allay the nervous agitation, and is always worth using. It has been 
proposed to clear the throat of the tough mucus by cauterizing it with a strong 
solution of nitrate of silver applied with a shower syringe. The remedy is 
worthy of a trial. 

Some of the Western physicians declare the red chickweed, or scarlet 
pimpernell, to be an absolute remedy for this disease, and cite some quite 
remarkable cases of its success. Four ozs. of this plant, in the dried state, are 
directed to be boiled in 2 qts. of strong beer or ale, until the liquid is reduced 



244' DR. CEASET 8 RECIPES. 

one half. The liquid is to be pressed out and strained, and 2 drs. of laudanum 
added to it. The dose for a grown person is a wine-glassful every morning, 
for 3 mornings. A larger dose is required if the disease has begun to show 
itself; and if the case be fully developed, the whole may be taken in a day. 
The wound is to be bathed with the same decoction. The medicine, it is said, 
produces profuse sweating. It is worth a trial. 

Considerable has been said of late of a remedy used in some parts of 
Europe, and said to be effectual. It is the " golden cenotides " {cetonia aurata), 
or common rose beetle, found in large quantities on all rose trees. A similar 
insect is said to infest the geranium plant. When collected, they are dried and 
powdered; and given in this form, relieve excitement (so it is said) of the brain 
and nerves, and throw the patient into a sound sleep. 

HEARTBTJHN. — What is commonly called heartburn is not a disease 
of the heart, but an uneasy sensation of heat or acrimony about the pit of the 
stomach, accompanied sometimes by a rising in the throat like water. 

Causes. — Debility of the stomach ; the food, instead of being properly 
digested and turned into chyle, runs into fermentation, producing acetic acid; 
sometimes the gastric juice itself turns acid, and causes it; at other times, it 
arises from bilious humors in the stomach. 

Treatacent. — Take 1 tea-spoonful of the spirit of nitrous ether, in a glass 
of water or a cup of tea; or a large tea-spoonful of magnesia, in a cup of tea, 
or H glass of mint-water. 

DISEASES OP THE HEART. — The heart, from the important 
part which it plays in the animal economy, is subject to various, serious and 
often fatal diseases. Like the other viscera, it is removed from the eye, so that 
bui little knowledge of its condition can be obtained by inspection; and hence 
we must have recourse to other means. The ear is the principal means of 
obtaining a knowledge of the state of the heart, and by auscultation and per- 
cussion we are enabled to detect the existence of various diseases. The heart 
gives out two sounds, known as the first and second, which are distinguished 
from each other. The first sound is longer than the second, and the interval 
between the first and second sounds is shorter than that between the second 
and first. They have been compared to the two syllables lupp, dupp. Any 
manifest alteration in these sounds is indicative of the existence of disease. 
They may be high or low, clear or dull, muffled, rough, intermittent, etc. 
Murmurs or regurgitant sounds may arise from disease of the valves. The 
power of distinguishing between the normal and abnormal sounds of the heart, 
and of the causes producing the latter, can only be obtained by lengthened 
experience. Diseases of the heart are usually divided into two classes: first, 
functional or nervous; and second, structural or organic. Chief among the 
former are palpitations, syncope or fainting, and angina pectoris. They are 
chiefly to be met with in persons of a naturally nervous temperament, more 
especially women suffering from hysteria, or other like complaints, and may 
be induced by great mental excitement. In such cases great attention should 
be paid to the general health, and, by means of tonics, sea-bathing, and gentle 
open-air exercise, the system is to be strengthened. Violent exertion and strong 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 245 

mental excitement are particularly to be avoided. Among the principal organic 
diseases to which the heart is subject are pericarditis, carditis, endocarditis, 
atrophy, hypertrophy, dilation and valvular diseases. 

Treatment. — In all cases of heart disease, the body and mind should be 
cept as easy and cheerful as possible. The diet should be well regulated, — 
I'ourishing but not stimulating. Coffee, tea, liquors, and tobacco must be 
lispensed with. The feet should be constantly dry and warm, and occasion- 
illy rubbed with mustard. 

For inflammatory diseases of the heart, the bowels, if costive, may be 
Qoved with compound tincture of jalap. To each dose add 10 grs. of cream 
of tartar. Keep up a perspiration till the pain is relieved, by giving a tea- 
spoonful of compound tincture of Virginia snake-root; also a warm infusion 
of pleurisy-root. Mustard-plasters over the chest and spinal column are also 
to be employed. If the patient is troubled with sleeplessness, give 8 to 10 grs. 
of compound powder of ipecac and opium. 

For palpitation, the tincture of digitalis, 10 or 15 drops 3 or 4 times a day, 
has been found useful. When the nervous system is affected, give small quan- 
tities of wine or spirits, or a few drops of laudanum or ether. 

For neuralgia, or breast-pang, gi ve a tea-spoonful of a mixture of equal 
p?'-ts of laudanum, ether, and oil of castor. The powder of Indian hemp-root 
may also be taken in doses of a small tea-spoonful 2 or 3 times a day. If the 
stomach is acid, a tea-spoonful of soda in half a tumbler of water will cor- 
rect it. 

1. INFLAMMATION OP THE LIVER.— Treatment.— Wher» 
the bowels are confined, usually termed a costive state of the bowels, 1 pt. 
of warm water, 1 table-spoonful of salt, and 1 tea-spoonful of hog's lard, as a- 
■clyster, will give relief; or take one or two of the following liver pills at bed- 
time: 

Dr. Chase's Cathartic and Liver Pill.— Take podophyllin, 60 grs.; 
leptandriu, sanguinarin, ipecac, and pure cayenne, each 30 grs.; make into 60 
pills, with a little soft extract of mandrake or dandelion. This is the best pill 
I have ever used, as a cathartic and liver pill, and to act on the secretions gen- 
erally. As a purgative the dose is from 2 to 4 pills, for a grown person; 
and as an alterative and substitute for blue mass, and to act on the liver, 1 
pill once a day, or every other day. 

Remarks. — Should you not wish to go to the trouble of making this pill, 
inquire at the drug store for it, or send 25 cents to the Chase Medicine Com 
pany, Detroit, Mich., for it. 

"When, from any cause, the languor, sleepiness, furred tongue, etc., give 
notice of an impending bilious attack, 4 or 5 of the liver pills should be 
taken at night, and followed in the morning by a dose of infusion of senna 
and salts, .or a dose of castor oil. Extract of dandelion made into pills with 1 
gr. of leptandrin to each pill, 1 taken every night, is an excellent remedy. 
From a long practical experience I have found that the dandelion is a most 
valuable medicine for this complaint, and there are herbs to cure all diseases 
provided by our Heavenly Father, if we would but seek them out and tesl" 



246 DR. CEASE'S BECIPE8, 

their virtues. But experiments on this subject have been too much neglected 
to afford us all the information we need. I have found the use of the dande- 
lion in the treatment of this disease to be a most valuable remedy. Indeed I 
may here observe that in the treatment of liver complaint the same precaution- 
ary remarks as those on indigestion, will also apply to this disease — that sick 
headache, foul tongue, or heaviness in the region of the stomach, will indicate 
the necessity of giving a mild emetic of ipecacuanha; and should there be 
great heat, inflammation, or feverish ness, the use of warm lemonade or a dose 
of salts mixed in warm water, and bathing the feet in warm water, so as to 
produce perspiration or determination to the surface will afford relief. Should 
the bowels be costive, regulate them with the following valuable pills: Take 
extract of butternut, 30 grs. ; powdered jalap, 20 grs.; soap, 10 grs. Mix. 
Make 15 pills. Three or 4 is a dose. The extract of butternut has been found 
one of the best cathartics in fevers, and as a general purgative medicine. 

Dr. Wilson, in the Medico-Chirurgical Review, says: "The more the dan- 
delion is employed the more certain proofs it will afford of its great virtues," 
— a fact to which my experience enables me to testify. In my own practice, 
more than a hundred cases have been cured either by the simple extract of the 
herb and root, or by taking a tea-cupful of a strong decoction of dandelion 
twice a day. In almost every instance I have succeeded in relieving and restor- 
ing those who have used this most valuable plant of the fields. 

2. The dandelion is diuretic and aperient, and has a direct action upon 
the liver and kidneys when languid; and is likewise applicable to all derange- 
ments of the digestive organs generally. In chronic inflammation of the liver 
and spleen, in cases of deficient biliary secretions and in dropsical affec- 
tions of the abdominal viscera or belly, it will be found very beneficial. 
The inspissated (thick) extract is the most eflBcacious and active form of using 
this plant, and maybe purchased at any drug store; the doses of these are 
from 10 grs. to J^ dr. I have, however, generally used it in a decoction as 
before mentioned. 

3. The constant application of hot poultices relieves the pain and hastens 
cure. This is good for inflammation of any of the internal organs. 

For disordered liver, good strong thoroughwort (boneset) tea is a mother's 
cure. For thorough case of biliousness there is nothing. better than Dr. Chase's 
Cholagogue; it combines the antibilious ingredients that act directly upon the 
liver in a mild and pleasant form, and is very effective in all malarial diseases. 

1. BRAIN— Inflammation or Concussion of.— The name given 
to the injury supposed to be received by the brain from great violence inflicted 
on the head, when there is.no organic injury discovered, neither fissure, frac- 
ture, nor extravasation, either in the living or dead body. The same symptoms 
occur when the head has not received any external injury, and when the shock 
has appeared to have been sustained by the whole frame. A person may fall 
from a height, light on his feet, and yet be affected with all the symptoms of 
concussion of the brain. These vary in degree from the slight stunning which 
follows almost every violence done to the head, to the loss of all sense and 



'IREATMBNT OF DISEASES- 247 

motion which is soon followed by death. Dr. Abemethy thinks that the 
symptoms of concussion may properly be divided in three stages; the first 
Is that state of insensibility and derangement of the bodily powers which im- 
mediately succeeds the accident. The breathing is difficult, but in general 
without stertor or snoring; the pulse intermits, and the extremities are cold. 
This goes oflf gradually, and is succeeded by the second stage; in this, the 
pulse and breathing are better, and though not regular, are sufficient to main 
tain life, and to diffuse warmth over the extreme parts of the body. The 
patient is inattentive to slight external impressions, though he feels when the 
skin is pinched. As the effects of concussion diminish, he replies to questions 
put to him in a loud tone of voice, particularly if they refer to his own suffer- 
ing; otherwise he answers incoherently, and as if his attention was occupied by 
something else. While the stupor remains there appears little inflammation of 
the Drain, but as the stupor abates, the inflammation increases; and this consti- 
tutes the third stage. Much caution and prudence are required in the treat- 
ment of the first stage. A person is knocked down and becomes insensible; 
many have seen or heard of bleeding being employed when a person has fallen 
down suddenly, and the bystanders impatiently require that this shall be the 
first article of the treatment. But the breathing is slow, the pulse intermitting 
and the extremities cold; and to draw blood in such circumstances as these 
would be taking the effectual method completely to extinguish life. Again, 
suppose people were to reason from the resemblance of the state in which the 
patient is in, to that of a person in a faint, and should as in that case give 
stimulant liquors by the mouth, or apply pungent substances to the nose, there 
is danger here, that by such appliances, the subsequent inflammation may be 
increased. The utmost that should be tried is the endeavoring to restore the 
heat of the extremities by friction with warm cloths or with stimulating embro- 
cations; we must wait a little till we see whether the patient recovers from the 
first stunning effect of the blow, and then be regulated in our future treatment 
by the symptoms that occur. Those that we are principally to look for are 
those of an inflammatory tendency; and to prevent the evils arising in the 
after stages of concussion, we are to employ bleeding and purging, to keep the 
patient in a dark room, to' enjoin perfect quiet, and to put in force the anti- 
phlogistic (inflaming) regimen. 

2. Brain— Inflammation of.— Inflammation of the brain and its mem- 
branes is characterized bj-- very violent feverish symptoms, great flushing of 
!he face, redness of the eyes, intolerance of light and furious delirium; the 
f kin is hot and dry, the pulse hard and frequent, the bowels are costive, and 
there is a great feeling of tightness across the forehead. 

Causes. — These symptoms are occasioned by passions of the mind, by drink- 
ing spirituous liquors; and in warm climates by exposure to the sun forming 
what is called sun-stroke. 

Treatment. — Quiet both of mind and body with cooling aperient medi- 
cines, abstinence from all rich and stimulating food and drink is the proper 
treatment; in those of spare, weakly habit, it is sometimes owing to want of 
vital energy, arid in this case the diet should be rich and stimulating; and the 



248 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

aperients, if required, must be of a cordial nature ; but all this showd be left 
to the medical practitioner; the disease too nearly affects the issues of life and 
death to be tampered with, and a doctor must be called. 

1. THROAT, INFLAMMATION OP,— Quinsy and sore throat 
are names of an acute disease, of which the seat is in the mucous mem- 
brane of the upper part of the throat, and all the surrounding parts of 
the muscles which move the jaws. The tonsils or almonds of the ears, 
are especially affected, and tlie inflammation extends to the pendulous velum 
of the palate and to the uvula. Commonly, shiverings and other symptoms of 
approaching fever precede the affection of the throat, which is attended with 
pain and difficulty of swallowing, the pain sometimes shooting to the ear; 
there is also troublesome clamminess of the mouth and throat; a frequent but 
difficult discharge of mucus; and at an early period of the disease the fever is 
fully formed. The inflammation and swelling .are commonly most consider- 
able at first in one tonsil; and afterwards, abating in that, they increase in the 
other. The disease is not contagious. When the disease is actively treated at 
Ml early period, it abates gradually, or is said to end in resolution; but very 
often it goes on to suppuration, and the pus which is evacuated is of the most 
fetid and nauseous kind. Very soon after the abscess breaks, great relief is 
obtained, and the pain and difficulty of swallowing cease. 

Cause*. — The most frequent cause is cold, externally applied, particularly 
about the neck. It is chiefly the young and sanguine who are affected; and 
when a person has had sore throat once or more, he is very liable to frequent 
repetitions of it, so that the slightest exposure to cold, or getting wet feet, will 
bring on an attack of the disease. It occurs especially in spring and autumn, 
when vicissitudes of heat and cold are frequent. 

Remarks. — The principal point in the diagnosis of this disease is to dis- 
tinguish it from the sore throat which attends scarlet fever; in some varieties 
of which the rash is inconsiderable, although the disease of the throat goes 
rapidly on to gangrene, accompanied with a destructive fever of the typhoid 
kind. The distinction between the two kinds of sore throat is of great import- 
ance, as it most materially influences our practice. It is, in general, easily 
made by proper attention. The smart fever, the difficulty of swallowing, and 
the bright florid redness of the parts, mark out the inflammatory sore throat 
with sufficient distinctness; and we are in many cases assisted by observing the 
person affected to be often subject to the disease, which occurs soon after the 
application of cold. The dangerous and malignant sore throat is known by 
the dark and livid color about the fauces, by the appearance of specks on the 
part, which rapidly spread and form sloughs; and by the circumstance of 
scarlet fever being the prevailing epidemic. The treatment proper in inflam- 
matory sore throat would be destructive here. And it is probably the knowl- 
edge that some sore throats are so dangerous, that makes many people much 
alanned when a quinsy seizes themselves or any of their family. 

Treatment. — When sore throat is threatened, it may in many cases be 
prevented from coming forward, by using a strong afitrlngent gargle. Of these. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 249 

there is a great variety. As useful a one as can be made is that with diluted 
vinegar, a little sweetened with honey or sugar. The infusion of red rose 
leaves, acidulated with a few drops of sulphuric acid, forms a very elegant 
gargle. The same purpose may be served by gargling with strong spirits, or 
with the decoction of oak-bark or diluted spirit of hartshorn not so strong as 
to hurt the mouth. A blister behind the ear, extending from under the lower 
jaw to the wind-pipe, will almost certainly prevent the internal disorder of the 
throat; but it must be put on at the early part of the disease, or it will do no 
good. If this is not done. Dr. Chase's Liniment should be rubbed on the under 
jaw, below the chin. An emetic may be given at the commencement of the 
disease, but a saline purgative is better. Gargles must be used with incessant 
diligence as long as the disease continues. Jellies of preserved fruits, vegetable 
acids, or good sharp small beer, may assist the gargles in keeping the mouth 
clean and allaying the thirst; but the difficulty of swallowing is so great that 
the patient is very apt to save himself the pain, and let the throat get dry. 
However, a resolute draught occasionally to quench the thirst, gives little more 
pain than swallowing the spittle. A little bit of sal ammoniac, or sal prunella, 
allowed slowly to dissolve in the mouth, is useful. If there is much swelling, 
and pain in swallowing, 4 or 5 leeches may be applied outside the throat, and 
afterwards large bran poultices should be assiduously kept on. At the same 
time marked relief will be got by inhaling the steam of hot water, impregnated 
with vinegar or any aromatic; and if there is a tendency to suppuration, this 
is a good way of ripening the abscess, which often forms in the tonsils. As 
the sore throat and fever are sometimes relieved by perspiration, the patient 
should keep his bed for a few days. Sometimes the swelling is so great that 
nothing can be swallowed, and the breathing is impeded. The tonsils have been 
scarified, or the abscess has been opened, and the operation of opening the 
wind-pipe may be sometimes required. Happily those very violent cases are 
of rare occurrence. 

2. The yolk of a raw egg is excellent for sore throat of public speakers. 

3. Gargle frequently with hot water and vinegar in which black pepper 
has been boiled. 

Remarks. — I would add: apply to the throat flannel cloths wrung out of 
hot water and vinegar, covering them with dry ones. (See receipts for sore 
throat elsewhere.) 

1. INFLAMMATION OF THE LUNGS.— This disease requires 
prompt treatment, and of course, if possible, a physician should be called at the 
earliest moment. When one is not to be had conveniently, let no time be lost, 
but pursue the course here marked out, which in a great many cases will be 
the means of curing the disease, or checking it while medical aid is being pro- 
cured. 

Tbtsatment. — Open the bowels by means of an injection, and also giving 
some mikl purgative, such as castor oil, Epsom or Rochelle salts, or rhubarb. 
Apply leeches, 10 to 30 to the side affected, if they can be procured; if not, 
aoarif y (to scratch or cut the skin off) wad apply the cups, (cupping is the operation 



250 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

of drawing blood after the skin has been scratched off)af ter which a warm jwultice 
of bran, Indian meal, or linseed meal or slippery elm, etc., to be sprinkled orer 
with a little laudanum or paregoric ; to be applied frequently. Small doses o? ipe- 
cac, either in powder or the syrup, should be given every 3 hours, just so a«t to pro- 
duce slight nausea but not vo/niting. "When this has been continued f Oi- about 13 
hours, then use the following mixture: Water, 8 ozs. (1 gill); syrup of ipecac, 
1 table-spoonful, or 5 grs. of the powder; chlorate of potash, 1 dr., or about 
1 tea-spoonful; spirits of nitre, 2 table-spoonfuls. Dose — A tea-spoonful every 
3 hours: if much sickness of the stomach is produced, not so often Let the 
patient have plenty of cooling drinks, such as flaxseed tea, gum arable, or 
slippery elm water, toast water, etc. The bowels to be moved occasionally by 
a dose of castor oil. 

Dr. Scudder's treatment of this disease is so sTiort, plain and effective ,1 ■will 
give it in his own words. He says: 

" Have the person bathed with an alkaline wash, to prevent undue heat of 
the skin, and apply a poultice of bran, or corn meal to the chest, changing it 
twice a day, keeping the patient well covered. Give internally, tinct. of ver- 
strum, 1 dr.; tinct. of aconite, 20 drops; water, 4ozs. ; a tea-spoonful every 
hour until the fever is subdued, and then in smaller doses. On the third, or 
fourth day, add a solution of acetate of potash as follows: Acetate of potash, 
1 oz. ; water, 8 ozs. ; simple syrup, 2 ozs. ; mix. This will be found an excel- 
lent diuretic in fevers and inflammations, headaches, etc., as it helps to carry 
off the urea, or solid matter that should be carried off by the urine. Dose — 
tea-spoonful every 1, 2 or 3 hours as required. 

" The patient's bowels should be kept regular, but active physic should be 
avoided. If the cough is very severe, give a sufficient dose of opium to give 
the necessary sleep. Let the patient's food be light and nutritious. Keep the 
room well ventilated, and everything scrupulously clean." 

Thus you have it in a "nut shell." The variations which I make are as 
follows: 

In cases where a good nurse, or plenty of help is not to be had to look 
after the comfort of the patient, instead of the "bran, or commeal poultice to 
the chest," I use a bag of hot di'y bran, changing it sufficiently often to keep it 
Jwt, and occasionally use a mustard poultice, having a thin piece of cloth between 
the poultice and the body, as this means appears, at least, to have as good an 
effect, and avoids the wetting of the bed clothing and the chilly dampness 
which will arise unless, as above stated, you ha.Ye plenty of help and use great 
care to keep tlie patient dry and comfortable. 

Also, if the case is taken in hand at once, in the commencement of the 
disease, 1 take the sweating process at first, as you will see below, but if th« 
disease gets .-:ome days the start, then the " alkaline wash," or spirit sponging, 
not only "twice a day," but as often as it will add to the comfort of the patient. 
The temperature of the "wash" mu.st also be governed by the patient's feel- 
ings — if he wants it cool, have it so, if warm, make it to his liking. The 
tinctures of veratrum, viride, and aconite, in all inflammatory diseases and in 
fevers, Ic^nnder almost an absolute necessity. 

2. Sweating Process. — Pleurisy has been cured with but very little 
other treatment than the bag of hot dry bran, being kept upon the side for the 
greater portion of the day, after the case became severe. As often as one 




V— Witch Hazel, or Winterbloom. 2— Blue Cohosh, or Papoose Root. 3— Golden 
Seal, or Yellow Puccoon. 4— Poison Hemlock, 6— Pleurisy Root, or 
Butterfly Weed. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 25!i 

became at all cool, another was ready to be applied, as hot as it could be borne, 
by which means a little perspiration was kept up, until the severity of th* 
pain gave way, and the cure was complete — in fact, inflammation nor fevew 
can long exist in the system after a gentle perspiration is fully established, and 
permanently maintained. 

Remarks. — There is no alkaline wash equal to that made by leaching ashes 
in the regular way, as for making soap, then put sufficient of this lye to the water 
to give it quite a perceptible slippery feeling to the hand. Dr. Beach recommends 
it very highly in all fevers and inflammations, when there is any considtrable 
fever, to be used as often as the heat or dry harshness of the skin calls for it. 

3. Sal-soda makes a passable substitute, using of it until the same slip 
pery feeling is obtained. The putting of sufficient ashes into a pail oif water and 
stirring until a good strength is obtained, then straining oflf, also aiigwers very 
well. 

4. Congestion of Lungs.— Bandage limbs tightly al arm pit and 
groin. Keep the blood in the extremities. 

5. Apply hot fomentations or poultices to chest; renew flreqaently and 
keep covered with dry compress. 

1. ACID IN STOMACH.— Also Inflammation firom Gas.— 

Chloroform, 10 to 20 drops in a little sweetened water, ten oi 'afteen minute* 
after meals. 

Remarks. — I know from experience that this is an excellenx remedy. 

2. For pains in the stomach, or old stomach troubles: foi an adult, 1 tea- 
spoonful of fl. ex. of Eucalyptus in milk, before meals, will y^roduce instant 
relief in most cases 

3. Lying with the head lower than the rest of the body during sleep at 
night cures headache caused from a deranged stomach. 

INFLAMMATION OP THE STOMACH.— This is a very much 
more common disease than the preceding. Though it does not put life in immedi- 
ate danger, it perverts the feelings of the stomach and causes mtiny of the symp- 
toms of indigestion Dyspepsia, however, is a different complaint, and not 
necessarily connected with inflammation. 

Treatment. — If there be much tenderness, we may apply leeches ovef 
the stomach. With less tenderness, counter-irritation will answer, — as blist- 
ers, croton oil, mustard poultices, the compound tar plaster, or dry cups. 

The skin of the whole surface should receive special attention. The 
warm or the cold bath should be used often, according to the strength of the 
patient. When the reaction is good, a cold compress bound upon the stomach 
every night will do much to bring relief. 

The diet cannot be too carefully managed. While there is considerable 
tenderness, the nourishment must be of the most simple and un-irritating kind, 
— consisting of little more than the most bland nutritive drirks; and even 
these should be taken in small quantities at a time. Gum arable water, rice 
water, barley water, arrowroot gruel, tea, and toast without butter will be 



352 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

amply suflScient to keep soul and body together, and will, in two or three 
weeks, generally starve the enemy out of his quarters. After this a more 
nourishing diet may gradually be resumed. 

INFLAMMATION OP THE BOWELS OR BELLY ACHE.— 

Like other chronic inflammations, this may follow the acute form, but it also 
results from various other causes, as unripe fruit, taking cold, drastic physic, 
and improper treatment of other diseases. 

Symptoms. — Red end and borders of the tongue, dull pain in belly, 
increased by pressure and rough motion, abdomen either swelled or flat, skiu. 
dry and husky, feet and hands cold, small frequent pulse, thirst, loss of flesh, 
low spirits, urine scanty and high-colored, and dirty, slimy discharges from 
the bowels, from one to four times a day. 

Treatment. —To begin with blisters of croton oil or mustard poultices 
if the tenderness is not great, or leeches if it is. 

If the bowels are hot and feverish, bind a cold compress upon the belly 
over night, — covering it well with flannel. The warm bath should be used 
twice a week. 

The diet must be of the most simple, un-irritating kind, — beginning with 
a solution of gum arabic, rice water, barley water, arrowroot or sago gruel, 
and gradually rising as the symptoms improve, to beef tea, mutton and chicken 
broth, tender beef steak, etc. 

When the strength will permit gentle exercise must be taken in the open 
air, but not on horseback or in hard, jolting carriages. 

As soon as the inflammation is subdued some mild laxative may be given 
in connection with an infusion of wild cherry bark, geranium, and Solomon's 
seal, equal parts. 

1. INFLAMMATION OF THE KIDNEYS. — Treatment. — 
Avoid everything of a heatiag or stimulating nature, and let the diet consist 
chiefly of light, thin broth, mild vegetables, etc. ; drink plentifully of balm tea, 
sweetened with honey, decoction of marshmallow roots, with barley licorice, 
etc. Nothing so safely and certainly abates the inflammation as copious dilu- 
tion. Should there be much pain in the back, heat should be applied to the 
part; and this is done by means of cloths dipped in hot water, re-warmed as 
they grow cool. Another good plan is to fill bladders with a decoction of 
madders and camomile flowers, to which is added a little saffron, and mixed 
with about a third part of new milk. Should there be shivering and signs of 
fever with considerable tenderness over the kidneys, and no medical advice at 
hand a few leeches may be applied. After some time the bowels should be freely 
opened, and the best means.of effecting this is with 3 grs. of calomel, and 2 hours 
afterward 1^ an oz. of castor oil; subsequently the following may be given; car- 
bonate of soda, 2 drs. ; spirit of nitric ether, tincture of henbane, of each 2 drs. ; 
syrup of tolu, mixture of acacia, of each 1 oz. ; camphor mixture 4 to 8 ozs. ; 
mix, and take half a wine-glassful every 4 hours. A very good remedy is 
the following- Take of tincture of opium, liquor of ammonia, spirit of tur- 
pentine, and soap liniment, of each equal portion*; mix and rub well into 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 253 

the parts affected. In conjunction with this external application, take of 
infusion of buchu, 11 drs. ; powdered tragacanth, 5 grs. ; tincture of buchu, 
1 dr. ; mix for a draught, and take every morning. If there be much nausea, 
8 clyster should be administered, consisting of a dram of laudanum, with % 
a tea-cupful of thin starch; this to be injected every 2 or 3 hours, or at longer 
intervals, according to the effect produced. Employ the warm bath, and 
afterwards warm fomentations to the stomach and loins; drink freely of lin- 
seed tea. Take also of sulphate of magnesia 1 oz. ; solution of carbonate of 
magnesia, 1 oz. ; tincture of henbane and tincture of ginger, of each 2 drs.; 
sulphuric ether, i^ a dr. ; water, 4 ozs. ; mix and give 3 table-spoonfuls every 
6 hours. Those who have once suffered from inflammation of the kidneys 
are very liable to it again; to prevent a recurrence of the attack, they shoiild 
abstain from wine and stimulants; use moderate exercise; avoid exposure to 
wet and cold; eat of food light and easy of digestion; not lie too much on the 
back, and on a mattress in preference to a bed 

2. Aconite in minute doses is good for kidney complaint, peritonitis, 
puerperal fever, etc. 

3. Constant application of poultices, as recommended in "2" for the 
liver, promotes cure and relieves pain. 

1. INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER — Acute. — This 

disease affects the lining membrane of the bladder, — sometimes its muscular sub- 
stance. It may attack the upper portion, the middle, or the neck of this organ. 
It runs a rapid course. 

Treatment. — If the urine be retained, it is of the utmost importance 
that it be early drawn off with the catheter, lest a distention of the bladder 
bring on mortification. Great care is required not to produce irritation by 
any roughness in introducing the instrument. 

Leeches should be applied upon the lower part of the bowels, the perinoeum 
and around the anus. "When these are removed, warm poultices should be 
applied. Cold compresses will often do as well. The bowels must be opened 
with Epsom salts. Injections of warm water with a few drops of tincture of 
arnica leaves will act finely as a local bath, — the water being retained as long 
as possible. 

The tincture of veratrum viride will be required in 5 to lO-drop doses, or 
the compound tincture of Virginia snake root to induce perspiration. Dover's 
powders may sometimes be used for the same purpose. 

Drinks must be taken very sparingly. A small amount of cold infusion 
of slippery elm bark or marshmallow and peach leaves. This mucilaginous 
drink must be the beginning and the end of the diet during the active stage of 
the disease. 

2. Inflammation of the Bladder — Chronic— This is much 
more common than the active form of the disease. It often arises from the 
same causes which produce acute inflammation of the bladder^ 



254 DB. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

It often passes under the title of "catarrh of the bladder." It is a chronic 
inflammation of the mucous lining of the bladder, and is a very common and 
troublesome affection among old people. 

Treatment. — To reduce the inflammation apply leeches, mustard, croton 
oil, or a cold compress every night. 

As a diuretic give an infusion of buchu, uva ursi, trailing arbutus, queen 
of the meadow, etc. The compound infusion of trailing arbutus is well 
recommended. So is the compound balsam of sulphur. An infusion of the 
pods of beans has been well spoken of, but I have found the following very 
effective: Pulverized gum arable, 1 scruple; soft water, 2 ozs., sweet spirits of 
nitre, }4 oz. ; tincture of veratrum viride, 20 drops. Mix. Give % a tea- 
epoonful every half hour. 

3. An injection into the bladder once a day of a tepid infusion of golden 
seal root with much care may be of great service; or an infusion of equal 
parts of golden seal, witch hazel and stramonium. It may be done with a 
gum elastic catheter and a small syringe. 

The bowels must be kept open with the neutralizing mixture or some other 
mild physic; and the skin bathed with saleratus and water once a day and 
rubbed well with a coarse towel. 

Should there be any scrofulous, gouty, or rheumatic condition of the 
system, the remedies for those complaints may be used in addition to the above. 

4. For an adult, 1 pint a day of compound of sarsaparilla is the " boss " 
cure for gravel, and restores the worn out and wasted system. Try it. 

1. BRONCHITIS.— Treatment.— The patient should, as a matter of 
course, be confined to bed; warm diluent drinks, such as flaxseed tea, or barley 
water, with a slice or two of lemon in it; gentle aperients, if required; foot- 
baths, and hot bran poultices to the chest. The chief dependence, however, is 
to be placed upon nauseating medicines. Four grs. of ipecacuanha powder, 
in a little warm water every quarter of an hour until vomiting is produced, 
and should be kept up at intervals of 2 or 3 hours. Sometimes a state of coma 
or collapse follows this treatment, and then it is necessary to give stimulants; 
carbonate of ammonia in 5 gr. doses, or sal volatile, }4. tea-spoonful about 
every hour. These are preferable to alcoholic stimulants; but should they not 
succeed, brandy may be tried, with strong beef tea. Should the urgency of 
the symptoms yield to the emetics, a milder treatment may be followed out. 
The following is a good mixture: Ipecacuanha wine, 1 dr. ; aromatic spirit of 
ammonia, 2 drs. ; carbonate of potash, 1 dr. ; water, 8 ozs. ; 2 table-spoonfuls 
to be given every 4 hours. If the cough is troublesome, add 1 gr. of acetate 
of morphine. The diet should be light and nourishing, and all exposure to 
cold must be carefully avoided. In children, acute bronchitis does not com- 
monly produce such marked effects as in adults, although sometimes it is 
extremely rapid and fatal, allowing little time for the action of remedies, which 
should be much the same as those above recommended, with proper regard, of 
course, to difference of age. If the child is unweaned, it must be allowed to 
suck very sparingly, if at all. The best plan is to give it milk with a spoon, 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 355 

or feeding bottle, as the quantity can be thus better regulated. Great attentioa 
must be paid to the bowels, and also to the temperature of the air breathed by 
the little sufferer. A blister on the chest, about as big as a large copper cent, 
may be sometimes applied with advantage if the hot bran does not give the 
desired relief. 

Winter coughs, catarrh, and asthma are very commonly but forms of 
chronic bronchitis. For the troublesome coughs which almost invariably 
attend confirmed bronchitis, and especially in the aged, opium is the most 
effectual remedy. The best form of administration is perhaps the compound 
tincture of camphor taken with ipecacuanha or antimonial wine — say 3^ dr. of 
the former, with 10 grs. of either of the latter, in a little sugar and water or 
flaxseed tea, or use Dr. Chase's Cough Syrup. If there are febrile symptoms, 
add 15 minims of sweet spirits of nitre to each dose. 

It is especially during the spring months, and when there is a prevalence 
of east wind, that bronchitis attacks young and old, often hurrying the former 
to a premature grave, and making the downward course of the latter more 
quick and painful. With aged people, in such cases, there is commonly a great 
accumulation of mucus in the bronchial tubes, which causes continued and 
violent coughing in the efforts to expel it, which efforts are often unsuccessful. 
Thus the respiration is impeded; the blood, from want of proper oxygeniza- 
tion, becomes unfit for the purposes of vitality, and death, often unexpectedly 
sudden, is the consequence Such bronchitic patients must be carefully treated 
— no lowering measures will do for them, but warm and generous diet; opium 
can not safely be ventured on. Warm flannel next the skin, a genial atmos- 
phere, inhalation of steam — ii medicated with horehound, or some demulcent 
plants, so much the better — a couple of compound squill pills at night, and 
during the day a mixture, composed of camphor mixture, 6 ozs. ; tincture of 
squills, wine of ipecacuanha, and aromatic spirits of ammonia, each 2 drs. ; 
with perhaps 2 drs. of tincture of hops. Take a table-spoonful every 3 or 4 
hours. 

Another Treatment. — To properly introduce the treatment, we will 
suppose a case, similar to which I have had many a one, — a man (for men have 
these inflammatory diseases 10 times to women once) comes home at night, with 
a cough, sore throat, etc., indicating that he has taken cold, and that it has set- 
tled upon the throat and broncJiial tubes — take no supper, but go right to work, 
as for common colds, and get up a perspiration, by soaking the feet in water 
as hot as it can be borne, and pouring in more hot, from time to time, to keep 
it hot, for 20 to 30 minutes, and if you have one of the alcohol lamps for sweat- 
ing purposes, set it to work at the same time, and take some hot teas to help the 
work, and if there are no sweating herbs in the house, of course there is some 
whiskey or other liquor, make about a pint of hot stew, using 1 gill of whiskey, 
writh sugar and hot water; and drink one or two good draughts of this while 
the feet are in the water, and the rest of it after you get into bed, covering up 
w^arm so as to continue the sweating for an hour or two, with hot irons, bricka 
or stones at the feet, as your conveniences will allow; then, when the family go 



256 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

to bed, take a good dose of physic, so it shall operate well by the next morn- 
ing, and ten chances to one you will not need much further treatment. Per- 
haps some of the sweating tincture-, and a little of the cough syrup and a little 
diuretic may be needed through the following day, or for a few days. But, if 
this does not work such a decided improvement as to indicate that no serious 
trouble remains, after the physic has operated, then take an emetic, or repeat 
the previous process, at farthest, on the following evening, when the symp- 
toms, fever, etc., would likely be worse than through the day. But should 
you deem it best, from the violence of the symptoms, to take an emetic, one 
of the diapJioretic or sweating medicines had better also be taken to keep a ten- 
dency to the surface, according to the directions under that head. 

But if these cases are neglected, they run on into a chronic, or long stand- 
ing disease, and become very troublesome to cure, and often set up a chronic 
inflammation of the lungs, and finally consumption is the result. 

2- Bronch.itis — Chronic. — Chronic bronchitis must needs be of a sim 
ilar character, and treated in a similar manner; but the emetic or sweating 
need not be repeated oftener than once a week, nor the cathartic, and they need 
not both be taken the same day; but a cough syrup, or some cough medicine 
should be taken daily; and a diuretic be taken for a day or two each week, as 
the case seems to demand, and a little essence of spearmint may be taken, a 
few drops whenever the soreness or rawness of the throat is troublesome, 
keeping a vial of it handy to taste, night or day, without water; or a drop or 
two of cedar oil may be taken on a little sugar, and the throat have some of it 
rubbed upon the outside as a liniment. The following combination of articles 
will fulfill all the indications needed, except that of cathartic, which can be 
used by itself, once in a week or 10 days: 

Acetic tincture of bloodroot, tincture of black cohosh, and of the balsam 
of tolu, and wine of ipecacuanha, of each, J-^ oz. ; sweet spirits nitre, 1 oz. 
Mix. Dose— tea-spoonful, in a little water, 3 to 5 times daily according to tht 
amount of irritation present. 

SCARLATINA.— With Severe Fever. — In other cases of scarlet 
fever, the febrile symptoms at the commencement are more severe; there is a 
sensation of stiffness and pain on moving the neck, and it is also painful to 
swallow; the voice is thick, and the throat feels rough and straitened. The 
heat of the surface rises in a most remarkable manner; not only to the sensa- 
tions of the patient or observer does the heat seem greater, but the thermom- 
eter shows it to be 108" or 110", that is more than ten degrees above the 
natural standard. There is sickness, headache, great restlessness and delirium; 
the pulse is frequent but feeble, and there is great languor and faintness. The 
tongue is of a bright red color, especially at the sides and extremity, and the 
risfng points are very conspicuous. The rash does not appear so early as in 
the milder scarlet fever, as is seen in patches, very frequently about the elbows. 
Sometimes it vanishes and appears again at uncertain times without any cor- 
responding cliange in the general disorder. When the rash is slight or goes 
«ff early, there is little scaling^ off of the skin; but in severer cases, large 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 257 

pieces of the skin come off, especially from the hands and feet. The swell- 
ing and inflammation of the throat sometimes go off without any ulceration; 
but at other times slight ulcerations form at the tonsils and at the back of the 
mouth; and whitish specks are seen intermixed with the redness, from which 
a tough phlegm is secreted, clogging the throat and very troublesome. This 
kind of scarlet fever is not unfrequently followed by great debility, or the 
occurrence of other diseases, as inflammation of the eyes, or dropsy, or an 
inflammatory state of the whole system or water on the brain. 

Treatment. — It is in general, proper to begin with giving an emetic, 
especially if we at all suspect the stomach to be loaded with undigested mat' 
ter; and we are very soon after to exhibit laxative medicines which are truly 
one of our most important remedies in this disease. A dangerous and exhaust' 
ing looseness which takes place towards the fatal termination of an ill-man- 
aged scarlet fever, for a long time excited great fears and prejudices against 
the use of laxative medicines in this disease; but better observation has con- 
,inced us that so far from being detrimental, laxative medicines, early and 
prudently begun have the best effect in mitigating the disease and in prevent- 
ing the collection of that putrid and offending matter in the bowels which is 
so sure to produce wasting diarrhoea when it is suffered to accumulate. To 
lessen the burning heat of the skin, nothing is at all comparable in some cases 
to the free affusion of cold water, which, when employed prudently and at the 
proper time, cools the surface, and from a state of the most restless irritation, 
brings the patient to comparative ease and tranquility. The cold affusion, 
however, is not proper where there is much fullness of blood on one hand or 
great debility on the other; and in the majority of cases we must trust to the 
washing or sponging of the whole body with tepid water, or vinegar and 
water; and till the heat of the body is reduced by these means, it is in vain 
that we give internal medicines to procure perspiration or to allay restlessness 
and induce sleep. After washing it is not at all unusual for fhe formerly 
harassed patient to fall into a gentle and refreshing sleep, and a mild and 
breathing sweat comes but over the whole body This supersedes the neces- 
sity of sudorific and anod/he medicines; and provided we attend to the bowels, 
keep away stimulant and nourishing food, give the drink' cold or acidulated, 
and employ proper gargles for the mouth and throat, the drugs we iKiminister 
may be very few indeed. 

The inflammatory state of the system which often follows scarlet fever is 
not unfrequently accompanied with a swelling resembling dropsical swelling; 
but we are not to regard this last as a sign of debility, or to be deterred from 
the use of active remedies. Bleeding from the arm is seldom admissible, but 
leeches behind the ears may be necessary if head symptoms come on; brisk 
purgatives are to be freely administered, and the inflammatory and dropsical 
tendency is to be combated by the use of foxglove and other diuretics When 
the inflammatory action has subsided and the dropsy appears to be the prin- 
cipal malady, we are to give tonic medicines and nourishing diet along with 
such medicines as increase the flow of urine. 
1? 



258 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

MALIGN AITT SCARLET FEVER -With Putrid Sore 
Throat. — There is yet another and more fatal form of scarlet fever where the 
malisuant and putrescent symptoms are more rapid and severe, where the gen- 
eral system is much oppressed, and the throat and neigliboring parts affected 
with rapidly spreading ulcerations. It is this which has obtained the name of 
putrid sore throat. This form of scarlet fever begins like the preceding, but 
in a day or two shows symptoms of peculiar severity. The rash is usually 
faint, and the whole skin soon assumes a dark or livid red color. The heat is 
not so great nor so permanent as in the other kinds; the pulse is small, feeble, 
and irregular, there is delirium and coma, with occasional fretful ness and 
violence. The eyes are suffused with a dull redness, there is a dark red flush 
on the cheek, and the mouth is incrusted with a black or brown fur. The 
ulcers in the throat are covered with dark sloughs and surrounded by a livid 
base; there is a large quantity of tough phlegm which impedes the breathing, 
occasioning a rattling noise; and increasing the pain and difficulty of swallow- 
ing. A sharp discharge comes from the nostrils, producing soreness, chaps, 
and even blisters. There is severe diarrhoea, spots oa the skin, bleedings from 
the mouth, bowels, or other parts, all of which portend a fatal termination to 
the disease. Sometimes the patients die suddenly about the third or fourth 
day; at other times in the second or third week; gangrene having probably 
arisen in the throat or some parts of the bowels. Those who recover have 
often long illnesses from the ulceration spreading from the throat to the neigh- 
boring parts, occasioning suppuration of the glands, cough, and difficulty of 
breathing with hectic fever. 

Treatment. — The active remedies formerly mentioned are quite inad- 
missible here. Unnecessary heat is to be avoided, but we are not to think of 
the cold washing or of purging, lest we oppress the powers of life and bring 
on a fatal diarrhoea. The system requires support and stimulants from the 
commencement of the attack. Strong beef tea should be given in as large 
quantities as possible, and wine and bark should be liberally administered; 
the throat must be injected with strong cleaning gargles. The infusion of 
cayenne pepper or the decoction of bark acidulated with sulphuric or muriatic 
acid, or gargles to which a little tincture of myrrh or of camphor is added, 
may be usefully employed. Too often, however, all treatment is unavailing, 
and there is no more fatal contagious disease than malignant scarlet fever. 

There is an ulcerated sore throat of peculiar malignity, distinct from 
scarlet fever, which commonly terminates with the worst symptoms of croup. 

ABORTION, OR MISCARRIAGE— (Abortus.)— The separation 
of the child from the womb of the mother at any period before the sixth month 
of pregnancy; between which period and the full time the same event is called 
premature labor. 

Symptoms. — Abortion may be described as consisting of three stages, each 
of which should be carefully studied; because in the two first much may be 
done by the patient herself or by the judicious management of friends about h^i:. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 259 

In the first stage the woman merely " threatens to miscarry ; " there is pain in 
the lower part of the belly, or about the back and loins, with unusual lepres- 
siou of spirits and faintness without any apparent cause. If these syn \ptoms 
do not pass off, they are succeeded by a discharge of blood from the external 
parts, sometimes light, at other times profuse and alarming; accompanied or 
succeeded by sharp pains in the back, the loins, and the lower part of the 
belly, not constant, but intermitting, like those of regular labor. Often there 
is vomiting, sickness, or pains of the bowels, and headache; and from the 
quantity of blood lost, fainting fits frequently occur, and there is commonly 
a sense of weakness, much greater than can be accounted for by the copious- 
ness of the discharge. This is the second stage; and in it the child has become 
partially separated from the womb. If by the efforts of nature or the assist- 
ance of art these symptoms abate or cease, the embryo may be retained, and 
many continue to grow . But in other cases the discharge of blood continues 
and the signs of approaching expulsion of the contents of the womb become 
more evident. Regular pains ensue, there is a feeling of bearing down, \vith 
a desire to make water; and at last the foetus comes away, either surrounded with 
its membranes, if the whole ovum be small, or the membranes break, the 
waters are discharged, and the foetus comes away, leaving the after-birth 
behind. This constitutes the third stage, in which the child is altogether separ- 
ated and must be expelled. 

Causes. — 1. Abortion may be caused by external violence, 99, kicks or 
blows, a fall, or violent action, as dancing, riding, jumping, or much walking. 
Women in the state of pregnancy should avoid many of the domestic opera- 
tions so proper at other times for good housewives to engage in. As our aln> 
is to be practically useful, we venture at the risk of exciting a smile, to men- 
tion some exertions that ought to be avoided, viz., hanging up curtains, bea- 
making, washing, pushing in a drawer with the foot, careless walking up or 
down a stair. 2. Straining of the body, as from coughing. 3. Costiveness. 
4. Irritation of the neighboring parts, as from severe purging, falling down of 
the gut, or piles. 5. Any sudden or strong emotion of the mind, as fear, joy, 
surprise. 6. The pulling of a tooth has been known to produce a miscarriage; 
and though toothache is occasionally very troublesome to women in the preg- 
nant state, the operation of drawing teeth should, if possible, be avoided at 
that time. 7. Women marrying when rather advanced in life are apt to mis- 
carry. It would be hazardous to name any particular age at which it is too 
late to marry, but the general observation is worth attending t-o. 8. Constitu- 
tional debility from large evacuations, as bleeding or purging: or from disease, 
as dropsy, fever, emall-pox 9. A state the very opposite of this is sometimes 
the cause of abortion, viz., a robust and vigorous habit, with great fullness of 
blood and activity of the vascular system. 10. The death of tlie child. 

Treatment. — Miscarriage is always an undesirable occurrence, and is to 
be prevented by aU proper means, as a single miscarriage ma5 irretrievably 
injure the constitution, or give rise to continual repetitions of the accident. 



260 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Unless we have reason to believe that the chUd is dead, it is desirable that mis. 
carriage should be prevented, and that the woman should go on to the full time, 
if possible; but if the motion of the child should cease, if the breasts of the 
mother should become soft, after disease or great fatigue, and signs of miscar- 
riage come on, it would be improper to endeavor to prevent the embryo coming 
away; and we must direct our efforts to relieve any urgent symptoms, and do 
what we can to conduct the patient safely through the process. 

In the first stage of abortion, when it is merely impending or threatening, 
and even in the second stage, when the child has become partially separated, it 
is proper to attempt to check the discharge and prevent the consequent expul- 
sion. The patient must cease from all exertion in walking, or even sitting 
upright, and must lie on a bed or sofa; all heating food or liquors must be 
avoided; whatever is taken should be rather cool, and cold applications must 
be made to the back, the loins, and neighboring parts. A lotion useful for this 
purpose is 1 part of vinegar to 3 or 3 parts of cold water; cloths or towels 
dipped in this are to be applied as directed above. The fainting which so often 
occurs requires to be relieved by a very moderate use of cordials, as a little 
wine and water, or even brandy and water; but in this much caution is 
required, lest feverishness or inflammatory symptoms be brought on, which in 
a weakened frame are apt to occur, from causes too slight to have the same 
effect in a healthy one. 

As abortion sometimes takes place from too great fullness of blood, and 
from that state of the constitution well known by the name of high health, it 
is right in such cases to enjoin abstinence, to order a cooling diet, as light 
puddings, preparations of milk, or boiled vegetables; and to give gentle laxa- 
tives, as castor oil, senna, small doses of purging salts, magnesia, and rhubarb. 
If, imder such treatment, the discharge from the womb stops, if the pains 
cease, and the sickness, headache, and constitutional symptoms are relieved, we 
may hope that the woman will not part with her offspring, but bring it to the 
full time. She must make up her mind to be in the reclining posture for some 
time, and must consider herself as liable to be again affected by the same 
symptoms and the same danger, if she uses the smallest liberty with herself. 

If the discharge, however, still continues, and if there is little likelihood 
of the pregnancy going on, everything must be done to assist the woman in 
the safe completion of the process. "We must introduce a soft cloth dipped in 
oil into the birth, so as to fill the lower part of it. By this means the blood 
has time to form into clots, and the contraction of the womb throws down the 
embryo along with them. We should not hastily use any force by the hand 
to bring it away; but the time when this may be done is to be left to the judg- 
ment of the medical person in attendance. As the after-birth in the early 
months bears a larger proportion to the contents of the womb than it does in 
the later months, it is often retained long after the child is expelled; but it 
must be remembered, that the womb will not contract till every thing is out 
of it, and therefore the bleeding will continue till the after-birth is off. It may 
happen to lie partly out of the womb, and if so, the practitioner is to attempt 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 28) 

gently to remove it by the hand; but if it be wholly in the carity of the womb, 
its expulsion is to be promoted by clysters of gruel, with the addition of salts, 
or with senna, or even a little of the tincture of aloes; or by a cautious use of 
the ergot of rye. 

Patients should be careful not to throw away any thing discharged, on the 
supposition that they know what it is, but should uniformly show every clot to 
the practitioner, that he may be enabled to distinguish with certainty whethei- 
\he child and after-birth are thrown off. When the womb is emptied, the 
belly is to be tied up with a binder, as after delivery at the full time; the same 
rest and quiet is to be ordered; the diet must be light and nourishing; heating 
food, all spirituous and malt liquors, are to be avoided, till the practitioner 
judges it proper to allow sulphuric acid, bark, and wine, or porter, to assist in 
recruiting the strength, which in the event of abortion is generally so greatly 
exhausted. 

A very strong reason for enjoining rest and quietneas after a miscarriage 
is this, that when twins or three children have been conceived, the embryo of 
one of them may be thrown off, and the other may be carried to the full time. 
Any premature exertion might, therefore, endanger the life of more than one 
child. When the woman is in some degree recruited, her recovery Ls to be 
completed by moderate exercise, by proper diet, by the use of the cold bath or 
sea-bathing, and by taking stomachic medicines, as the bark and wine, prepar 
ations of iron, or the elixir of vitriol. Few incidents have so pernicious aa 
effect as a miscarriage, on certain constitutions; sometimes the health ia irrep 
arably injured, or a habit is begun which prevents the woman from evel 
carrying a child to the full time. In every future pregnancy particular cautioi 
is requisite; especially at the period when the miscarriage formerly happened, 
which is very generally between the eighth and twelfth week. For a consider 
able time before and after this, the woman should lie in a reclining posture, 
should attend to keeping the bowels easy by such mild laxatives as have been 
already mentioned; and if too full, should lose a little blood. 

Sometimes, for wicked purposes, it is attempted to procure abortion, either 
by strong and acrid medicines, by violent exercises, or by direct application to 
the parts concerned; but it should be generally known that there is no medicine 
which directly and certainly acts on the womb itself; and that to procure 
abortion by any drug or mechanical violence, is to run the risk of speedy death. 
or inducing madness, or causing irreparable injury to the constitution, besides 
being punishable by law as a crime. 

DISEASES OP WOMEN.— Women, in all civilized nations, have 
the management of domestic affairs; and it is very proper they should, as 
Nature has made them less fit for the more active and laborious employments. 
This indulgence, however, is generally carried too far; and women instead of 
being l)enefited by it, are greatly injured, from the want of exercise and free 
air. To be satisfied of this, one need only compare the fresh and ruddy looks 
of a milk-maid with the pale complexion of those females whose whole 
lies within doors. Though Nature has made an evident distinctiao 



«82 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

between the male and female with regard to bodily strength and vigor, yet she 
certainly never meant, either that the one should be always without, or the 
other always within doors. 

The confinement of women, besides hurting their figure and complexion, 
relaxes their solids, weakens their minds, and disorders all the functions of the 
body. Hence proceed obstructions, indigestion, flatulence, abortions, and the 
Vrhole train of nervous disorders. These not only unfit women for being 
oiothers and nurses, but often render them whimsical and ridiculous. A sound 
mind depends so much upon a healthy body, that where the latter is wanting, 
the former is rarely to be found. 

I have always observed that women who were chiefly employed without 
doors, in the different branches of husbandry, gardening, and the like, were 
almostashardyastheirhusbands, and that their children were likewise strong and 
healthy. — But as the bad effects of confinement and inactivity upon both sexes 
have been already shown, we shall proceed to point out these circumstances in 
the structure and design of woman, which subject them to peculiar diseases; 
the chief of which are their Monthly Evacuations, Pregnancy , and Child-hearing. 
These indeed cannot properly be called diseases, but from the delicacy of the 
sex, and their being often improjoerly managed in such situations, they become 
the source of numerous calamities. 

MONTHLY TURNS OR MENSES.-First Signs of the Men- 
strual Discharge. — Women generally begin to menstruate about the age of 
fifteen, and leave it off about fifty, which renders these two periods the most 
critical of their lives. About the first appearance of this discharge, the con- 
stitution undergoes a very considerable change, generally indeed for the better, 
though sometimes for the worse. The greatest care is now necessary, as the 
future health and happiness of tlie woman depends, in a great measure, upon 
her conduct at this period. It is the duty of mothers and those who are 
entrusted with the education of girls, to instruct them early in the conduct and 
management of themselves at this critical period in their lives. False modesty, 
inattention, and ignorance of what is beneficial or hurtful at this time, are the 
source of many diseases and misfortunes in life, which a few sensible lessons 
from an experienced matron might have prevented. Nor is care less necessary 
jn the subsequent returns of this discharge. Taking improper food, severe 
aervous strain or catching cold at this period is often suflQcient to ruin the 
health, or to render the woman ever after incapable of procreation. 

If a girl about this time of life be confined to the house, kept constantly 
fitting, and neither allowed to romp about, nor employed in any active business, 
which gives exercise to the whole body, she becomes weak, relaxed, and puny; 
her blood not being duly prepared, she looks pale and wan; her health, spirits, 
and vigor decline, and she sinks into a valetudinary for life. Such is the fate 
of numbers of those unhappy women, who, either from too much indulgence, 
or their own narrow circumstances, are at this critical period, denied the benefit 
of exercise and free air. 

A lazy, indolent disposition proves likewise very hurtful to girls at this 
period One seldom meets with complaints from obstructions amongst the more 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 263 

active and industrious part of the sex, whereas the indolent and lazy are seldom 
free from them. These are, in a manner, eaten up by the chlorosis, or green-sick- 
ness, and otlier diseases of this nature. We would therefore recommend it to 
all who wish to escape these calamities, to avoid indolence and inactivity, as 
their greatest enemies, and to be as much in the open air as possible. 

Another thing which proves very hurtful to girls about this period of life 
is unwliolesome food. Fond of all manner of trash, they often indulge in it, 
till their whole humors are quite vitiated. Hence ensues indigestions, want of 
appetite, and a numerous train of evils. If the fluids be not duly prepared, it 
is utterly impossible that the secretions should go properly on. Accordingly 
we find that such girls as lead an indolent life and eat indiscriminately 
are not only subject to obstructions of the menses, but likewise to glandular 
obstructions, as the scrofula, or King's evil, &c. 

A dull disposition is also very hurtful to girls at this period. It is a rare 
thing to see a sprightly girl who does not enjoy good health, while the grave, 
moping, melancholy creature proves the very prey of vapors and hysterics. 
Youth is the season for mirth and cheerfulness. Let it therefore be indulged. 
It is an absolute duty. To lay in a stock of health in time of youth, is as nee. 
essary a piece of prudence as to make provision against the decays of old 
age. "While therefore wise Nature prompts the happy youth to join in sprightly 
amusements, let not the severe dictates of hoary age forbid the useful impulse, 
nor damp with serious gloom the season destined to mirth and innocent festivity. 

Another thing very hurtful to women about this period of life, is tight 
clothes. They are fond of a fine shape, and foolishly imagine that this can be 
acquired by lacing themselves tight. Hence by squeezing the stomach and 
bowels, they hurt the digestion, and occasion many incurable maladies. This 
erroi is not indeed so common as it has been; but, as fashions change, it may 
come about again; we therefore think it not improper to mention it. I know 
many women, who to this day, feel the direful effects of that wretched custom 
of squeezing every girl into as small a size in the middle as possible. Human 
invention could not possibly have devised a practice more destructive to health. 

RETENTION OP THE MENSES.— After a woman has arrived at 
that period of life when the menses usually begin to flow, and they do not appear, 
but, on the contraiy, her health and spirits begin to decline, we would advise 
instead of shutting the poor girl up in the house, and dosing her with steel, 
asafoetida, and other nauseous drugs, to place her in a situation where she can 
enjoy the benefits of free air and agreeable company. There let her eat whole- 
some food, take sufficient exercise, and amuse herself in the most agreeable 
manner, and we have little reason to fear but Nature thus assisted, will do her 
proper work. Indeed she seldom fails, unless where the fault is on our side. 

This discharge in the beginning is seldom so instantaneous as to surprise 
women unawares. It is generally preceded by symptoms which foretell its ap- 
proach; as a sense of heat, weight, and dull pain in the loins; distention and 
hardness of the breasts; headache; loss of appetite; lassitude; paleness of the 
countenance; and sometimes a slight degree of fever. When these symptoms 



^ J^R. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

appear about the age at which the menstrual flow usually begins, everything 
should be carefully avoided which may obstruct that necessary and salutary 
evacuation ; and all means used to promote it, as sitting frequently over the 
steams of warm water, drinking warm diluting liquors, taking hip baths, &c. 

SUPPRESSION OF THE MENSES.— Cold is extremely hurtful at 
this particular period. More of the sex date their disorders from colds, caught 
while they were out of order, than from all other causes. This ought surely to 
put them on their guard, and to make them very circumspect in their conduct 
at such times. A degree of cold that would not in the least hurt them at another 
time, will at this period be suflBcient to entirely ruin their health and constitu- 
tion. 

After the menses have once begun to flow, the greatest care should be taken 
to avoid everything that may tend to obstruct them. Women ought to be 
■exceedingly cautious in what they eat or drink at tlie time they are out of 
order. Everything that is cold, or apt to sour on the stomach ought to be 
avoided; as fruit, butter-milk, and such like. Fish, and all kinds of food that 
are hard of digestion, are also to be avoided. As it is impossible to mention 
■every thing that may disagree with individuals at this time, we would recom- 
mend it to each one to be very attentive to what disagrees with herself, and 
carefully to avoid it. 

The greatest attention ought likewise to be paid to the mind, which should 
be kept as easy and cheerful as possible. Every part of the animal economy is 
influenced by the passions, but none more so than this. Anger, fear, grief, and 
other affections of the mind, often occasion obstructions of the menstrual flow, 
which proves absolutely incurable. 

From whatever cause the flow is obstructed, except in the state of preg- 
nancy, proper means should be used to restore it. For this purpose we would 
recommend sufiicient exercise, in a dry, open, and rather clear air; wholesome 
diet, and, if the body be weak and languid, a good toaic- (see Mrs. Chase's Magic 
Tonic;) also cheerful company and all manner of ajnuseroents. If these fail, 
recourse must be had to the physician. 

When obstructions proceed from a weak relaxed state ol the solids, such 
medicines as tend to promote digestion, and assist the body in prepar- 
ing good blood, ought to be used. The principal of these are iron 
and Peruvian bark, with other bitter and astringent medicines. The bark and 
other bitters may either be taken in substance or infusions, as is the most agree- 
able to the patient. 

When obstructions proceed from a viscid state of the blood ; for women af 
a gross or full habit, evacuations, and such medicines as attenuate the humors 
are necessary. The patient in this ca»e ought to bathe her feet frequently in 
warm water, to take now and then a cooling purge, and to live upon a spare 
thin diet. 

When obstructions proceed from affections of the mind, as grief, fear, 
anger, &c., every method should be taken to amuse and divert the patient. 
And that she may the more readily forget the cause of her affliction, she ought, if 
possible, to be removed from the place where it happened. A change of place, 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 2% 

by presenting the mind with a variety of new objects, has often a very happy 
influence in relieving it from the deepest distress. A soothing, kitd, and 
affable behavior to women in this situation, is also of importance. 

An obstruction of the menses is often the effect of other maladies. When 
this is the case, instead of giving medicines to force that discharge, which might 
be dangerous, we ought, by all means, to endeavor to restore the patient's health 
and strength. When that is effected the other will return of course. 

1. For Suppressed menstruation, as soon as possible use the tepid foot-bath. 
At the same time sit over a vessel of warm water, in which has been boiled 
some bitter herbs, till a profuse perspiration is produced. Then retire to a 
warm bed and take every hour or two a tea-cupful of warm tea made from thfl 
root of bervine. If this is not successful, give a little pulverized mandrake 
root, with ft little cream of tartar, on an empty stomach ; after which penny 
royal or motherwort tea may be drank freely. 

2. Aromatic spirits of ammonia taken in doses of 20 to 30 drops in sweet- 
ened water several times a day is almost sure to relieve suppression and is good 
for painful menstruation. 

3. Mrs. H. Y. Johnson, of Iowa, once told my wife that oil of cotton seed, 
one dram daily, was unfailing. I have used it in my practice with success 
and have also used it to spur up labor when it dragged, with good success. 

4. Crushed ice placed to the back in oil cloth or rubber bag— place lo'W 
down — is also good for suppressed menses. It is also valuable sometimes it 
restoring faiU)ig womb and cures leucorrhea. 

ICEWSES, TO RESTORE. — Fl. ex. of ergot, and fl. ex. of gossyp 
ium (cotton root), each i^ oz. ; fl. ex. of black oohoeh, 1 oz. ; simple syrup, 2 
ozs. Mix. DosK— Take 1 tea-spoonful 4 times daily, for a few days; then il 
the menses are not restored, stop its use till 4 or 5 days before the regular period 
for their return, and take it up again, with the help of warm hip baths daily, 
and daily sitting over the steam of bitter herbs, etc., as the grandmothers knew 
so well how to do. In the meantime, doing anything needed to tone up the 
system, by taking tonics; overcoming constipation by laxatives, and in a similar 
manner endeavoring to overcome any other irregularity, if any exist; and it is 
thus— or by such means— you will succeed in restoring the general health. 

PBOPTTSE MENSTRUATION.- The menstrual flow may be too 
great as well as too small. Wlien this happens, the patient becomes weak, the 
color p>ale, the appetite and digestion are bad, and swelling of the feet, dropsies, 
and consumption often ensue. This frequently happens to women about the 
age of forty-five or fifty, and is very difficult to cure. It may proceed from a 
sedentary life; a full diet, consisting chiefly of salted, high-se«soned, or acrid 
food; the use of spirituous liquors; excessive fatigue; relaxation; a dissolved 
state of the blood; violent passions of the mind, &c. 

The treatment of this disease must be varied according to its cause. When 
it is occasioned by any error in the patient's regimen, an opposite course to that 
which induced the disorder must be pursued, and such medicines taken as hav*" 



866 BR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

& tendency to restrain the flow and counteract the morbid affections of the 
(System from whence it proceeds. 

To restrain the flow, the patient should be kept quiet and easy both in body 
and mind. If it be very violent, she ought to He in bed vdth her head low; to 
jive upon a Cool and slender diet, as veal or chicken broths with bread ; and to 
drink decoctions of nettle-roots, or the greater comfrey. If these be not suffi- 
cient to stop the flow, stronger astringents may be used, as Japan earth, alum, 
elixir of vitriol, the Peruvian bark, &c. 

Two drams of alum and 1 of Japan earth may be pounded together, and 
divided into 8 or 9 doses, one of which may be taken 3 times a day. 

Persons whose stomachs cannot bear alum, may take 2 table-spoonfuls of 
the tincture of roses 3 or 4 times a day, to each dose of which 10 drops of laud- 
anum may be added. 

If these should fail, half a dram of the Peruvian bark, in powder, with 10 
drops of the elixir of vitriol, may be taken in a glass of red wine, 4 times a 
day. 

2. Oil of erigeron 1 to 5 drops every 3^ hour or hour, dissolved in a little 
alcohol, arrests flooding, or hemon-hage of the womb, promptly. A very severe 
case of "flooding to death " was saved by putting hot sand bags under the back 
of the head and heart — hotter than the hand could bear, frequently renewed. 

LEUCORRHEA, FLUOR ALBUS, OR WHITES.— The uterine 
flow may offend in quality as well as in quantity. What is usually called the 
fluor alius, or " whites," is a very common disease, and proves extremely hurt- 
ful to delicate women. This discharge, however, is not always white, but 
pale, yellow, green, or of a blackish color; sometimes it is sharp and corrosive, 
sometimes foul and fetid, &c. It is attended with a pale complexion, pain in 
the back, loss of appetite, swelling of the feet, and other signs of debility. It 
generally proceeds from a relaxed state of the body, arising from indolence, 
the excessive use of tea, coffee, or other weak and watery diet. 

To remove this disease, the patient must take as much exercise as she can 
bear, without fatigue. Her food should be solid and nourishing, but of easy 
digestion; and her drink pretty generous, as red port or claret, mixed with 
lime-water. Tea and coffee are to be avoided. I have often known strong 
broths to have an exceeding good effect; and sometimes a milk diet alone will 
perfonn a cure. The patient ought not to lie too long abed. When medicine 
is necessary, we know none preferable to the Peruvian bark, which in this case 
ought always to be taken in substance. In warm weather, the cold bath will 
be of considerable service. 

1. Moisten a sponge with glycerine, roll it in fine powder of boracic 
acid and push up in the mouth of womb daily — a tape or ribbon may be tied to 
the sponge to remove it. 

2. Obstinate cases of "whites," or leucorrhea may be cured by insutfla- 
tioTi of powdered vegetable charcoal. 

3. Pond's ex. of witch hazel, 1 table-spoonful in a tea-cupful of warm 
?vater, injected well up into the vagina, 3 times a day — cures the worst cases In 
a vew weeks. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 267 

4. Leueorrhea, Injection for. — Pulverized golden seal, 1 oz. ; bora- 
cic acid, J^ oz. ; pulverized alum, % oz. ; sulphate of zinc, 20 grs. Directions 
— Mix thoroughly together, and keep in a vrell stopped bottle, or suitable cov- 
ered box. At tea time put 1 tea-spoonful of the powder into a cup of hot 
tea — green tea is preferable. Stir 2 or 3 times during the evening, and at bed- 
time strain it and inject, with a female syringe, every night, if bad, or every 
second night in ordinary cases. First cleansing the parts by injecting 1 pt. to 1 
qt. of veater, as hot as it can be borne. (See also " Injection, Valuable in Gon- 
orrhea, or Leueorrhea." See also "Red Drops fer Gonorrhea, Leueorrhea, 
etc.") 

BsTnarks.—IiT. Mason says this has proved a splendid remedy in every case 
where he has used it. I have also used it with success. But as quinine and 
tannin have latterly been used considerably in these cases of leueorrhea, with 
almost entire success, I will give one containing them, which I have also tried 
with great satisfaction as follows: 

5. Leueorrhea, Valuable Injection for.— Fl. ex. of golden seal 
and chlorate of potash, pulverized, each 1 dr. ; sulphate of zinc, 2 drs. ; tannin 
and sulphate of quinine, each }^ dr. ; distilled or pure soft water, 1 qt. Inject 
morning and night; first cleansing the parts by injecting, once or twice, water 
as hot as can be borne. Dirbctionb — In mixing these ingredients, dissolve the 
sulphate of zinc in % Pi°^ o' water, then put the quinine in a mortar, with a 
little aromatic sulphuric acid to dissolve it, then add to the zinc water. Put the 
tannin into another % pint of the water, and stir until dissolved, then mix the 
two and add the other articles, and the balance of the water, to make 1 qt.; 
shake when used ; and use only enough to fill the vagina once, holding it in 
place 2 or 3 minutes, by placing the fingers of one hand over the vulva, or 
external part, having first used the hot water, as directed in the last recipe 
above; keeping it in place also 2 or 3 minutes, each time, in the same manner as 
here directed, is of the utmost importance, as this plan distends and cleanses 
the whole vagina, while in the old way, the injections flowed out alongside of 
the tube, cleansing but very little indeed. Use enough of the hot water to dis- 
tend it twice at least, before using the tea or other injection, and the cure will 
be quick and satisfactory. 

Remarks.— Wwh this. Dr. J. W. Burney, of Des Arc, Ark., says he has 
had more success than with any other; but with this he also gives 1 tea-spoonful 
S tunes daily of the fl. ex. of buchu internally, in a little flaxseed tea. The 
plan and remedies are excellent, as I have tested them. 

CESSATION OP MENSES, OR TURN OP LIFE.— That per- 
iod of life at which the menses cease to flow is likewise very critical to the sex. 
The stoppage of any customary evacuation, however small, is suflicient to dis- 
order the whole frame, and often to destroy life itself. Hence it comes to pass, 
that so many women either fall into chronic disorders, or die about this time ; such 
of them, however, as survive it, without contracting any chronic disease, often 
become more healthy and hardy than they were before, and enjoy strength and 
vigor to a very great age. 



268 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES, 

If the menses suddenly cease, in women of a full habit, they ought to 
abate somewhat of their usual quantity of food, especially of the more nourishing 
kind, as flesh, eggs, &c. They ought likewise to take sufficient exercise, and 
to keep the bowels open. This may be done by taking, once or twice a week, 
a little rhubarb, or an infusion of hiera picra in wiae or brandy, or purgatives 
recommended elsewhere, and if complicated with other diseases, call a doctor. 

DEFICIENT AND PAHTPTTL MEWSTBUATION.-The amount 
of suffering among women from this disease is alarming, and far greater than 
in our "grandmothers' days." It seldom appears until they have menstruated 
some time with considerable regularity, and little or no pain; afterward, they 
begin to suffer more or less pain, which increases until it becomes grinding and 
more severe than those of labor. 

It soon affects the general health, destroys the complexion, and ruins the 
disposition. The pain generally begins in the back, extends to the loins and 
hips, and is followed by pressing down pain, resembling in severity, those of 
labor. At first a slight discharge takes place, but suddenly ceases, after some 
time is renewed and becomes more plentiful, which, together with the pain 
gradually ceases. The discharge differs from that of a healthy menstruation 
in appearance, being mixed with lumps, and clots of flaky matter, having the 
appearance of membrane or skin. The breasts frequently swell and become 
painful. Women seldom have children who have this disease in a severe form. 

Strictly avoid the use of all spirituous liquors, and keep the bowels well 
open a few days before the expected attack. The patient should be kept in bed, 
drink freely of tea made either of pennyroyal, catmint, sage, or the leaves of 
spruce pine, until the discharge be fully established; after which the pain seldom 
returns for that period. Sometimes 1 or 2 grains of powdered ipecac, or 
}4 tea-spoonful of the syrup taken every 2 hours, will bring on the flow 
freely, when other means fail. Keep up the warm baths for some time. 

1. In painful menstruation, great benefit is received from the use of the 
warm bath; and apply hot water in bottles to the whole surface of the abdomen, 
with hot bricks to the feet; or apply a hot poultice or fomentation of hops, 
tansy, or boneeet and take the following:— Pulverized camphor, 25 grs. ; ma- 
crotin, .25 grs. ; ipecac, 25 grs. ; cayenne, 12 grs. ; opium, 12 grs. Mix, and 
make into 24 pills, with ex. of hyoscyamus, and take 1 pill every 2, 3, or 4 
hours, according to the urgency of the case. 

2. Take warm hip baths }4 hour at a time. Hot fomentation low down 
9n the back will arrest o*erflot» of menses. 

3. Take }i gr. codeia night and morning. You wonl need anything else. 

4. Painful Menstruation and Othor Pains, Bemedy for.— 
Dr. King, of Toledo, thinks very much of the following remedy, not only in 
painful menstruation, but also for pain in the stomat^ or bowels, colic, cholera- 
morbus, diarrhea, etc. The author has used it in the latter case« with so much 
satisfaction that he has faith in its virtues in the first named: Oil of cloves, 
OMinamon, anise and peppermint, each 40 drops {% dr«.); put these into 3 oz* 
©f aloohol, and add sulphuric other and laudanum, each 1 o«. Dose— In bad 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 269 

cases, 1 tea-spoonful in cold, sweetened -water; repeat in 10 to 20 minutes, if 
needed, and at longer intervals ss long as needed. For children, in stomach or 
bowel difficulties, according to age and severity, from 10 drops to 3^ tea-spoon- 
ful, as required to meet all cases. 

5. Painful Menstniation and Nervous Debility, Stim- 
ulating Tonic for. — Quinine, 60 grs. ; morphine and arsenious acid, 
each 1 gr. ; strychnine, 1 gr. ; alcoholic ex. of aconite (or if this is not on 
hand, the same amount of the ex. of hyoscyamus may take its place), 3 grs. of 
the one used. Mix very thoroughly, and make into 30 pills. Dose — Take 1 
pill only, every 6 hours, until relieved. Women troubled with painful menstru- 
ation, should keep them on hand for use, as soon as the least pain is manifested; 
but do not take them any oftener than 1 once in 6 hours. 

Remarks. — This pill I obtained from an old physician, whom I have known 
over 40 years, and I know him to be in every way reliable. Some will say: 
"They contain poisonous articles." So they do, and so do very many of our 
best medicines. It depends wholly upon the amount taken as to their injurious 
effects; here we have 2 grs. of quinine, % gr. of the ex. of aconite, -i^^. of a gr. 
of morphine and arsenious acid, and ^th. of a gr, of strychnine, only, in each 
pill. If they are taken as directed, as to dose and time — 1 pill, 6 hours apart— 
there is not the least danger in their use, as these articles are all sometimes, 
eiven in doses twice as large as here given. It is indeed, a happy combination 
of our most reliable remedies, for cases requiring the properties named — some 
thing to allay pain and strengthen the system. After the 30 pills have been 
taken, if not cured before, wait a week, at least, before having any more made. 
By that time some of the chinoidine, or cinchonidla pills, found among the 
Ague Remedies or the tonic pills for Debility following Leucorrhea, may be 
taken, with good results. 

DISEASES OP THE WOMB, UTERUS— The organ in which 
the embryo lives and grows until the time of birth. It is shaped some- 
thing like a pear, with the broad end uppermost. Its broadest part is called 
its fundus; it has also a body and a neck; its mouth opens into the vagina. In 
the unimpregnated state, it would hardly contain a kidney -bean, but at the full 
time, it expands sufficiently to contain one or more children, with their waters, 
membranes, and after-births. At the upper part of the womb, two broad mem 
branous expansions arise, and are the means of its attachment to the sides of 
the pelvis; in the doublings of these expansions are situated the ovaria, the 
receptacle of certain vesicles, which are afterwards animated; and also the 
tubes, through which one or more vesicles pass down into the uterus, there 
being an opening at each side of the fundus. Sometimes the embryo grows in 
one of these tubes, instead of getting into the uterus. Such extra-uterine con- 
ceptions are generally fatal to the mother and child. From the womb proceeds 
the Monthly Discharge. 

The sympathies of the womb with the other parts are of the most general 
and extensive kind. Not even the stomach itself has more influence on the rest 
ct the system. When the state and contents of the womb are altered by preg- 



210 DM. CHASES RECIPES 

nancy, the stomach, the bowels, and digestive functions are in very frequent 
instances exceedingly deranged. The brain and nervous system, the function 
of respiration, and the state of the breasts, are all very much influenced by the 
condition of the womb. 

The womb is subject to a variety of disorders, the most common and im- 
portant of which are as follows: 

1. Bearing Down or Falling Down signifies that the womb is lower 
than it ought to be. The first symptom is an uneasy feeling in the lower part 
of the back, while the patient is standing or walking; with a sense of pressure 
or bearing down. As the complaint increases, a swelling appears to come in 
the way of the discharge of urine, which the patient cannot pa.ss without lying 
down, and pushing aside the tumor which prevents it. In more advanced and 
severe cases, the womb is forced altogether out of the parts, as a bard and 
bulky substance hanging between the thighs. In many cases the protruded 
parts are ulcerated, and give great uneasiness by their being fretted. Many 
complaints arise in other parts of the system from this local disease. There is 
sickness and other disorders of the stomach and bowels, with hysterics and 
nervous affections; while the inability to take exercise is itself a great evil, 
and tends to impair still more the general health. 

Causes. — Every woman should know these, and avoid them as far as pos- 
sible. "Whatever tends to weaken the general system or the passage to the 
womb, may give occasion to its falling down. In the unmarried state, all 
violent or long continued exercise when the person is unwell, has a tendency 
to bring on the complaint; hence, young women at these times should avoid 
dancing, riding, and long walking or standing. Married women have it 
brought on by frequent miscarriage, improper treatment during labor, and 
taking much exercise too soon after delivery. 

Treatment. When the disease has occurred recently, and is not very 
bad, the system is to be strengthened by nourishing diet, by the cold bath, by 
moderate exercise; and a mild astringent fluid is to be thrown into the passage. 
This may be made of 20 grs of white vitriol to 1 pint of rose-water. But 
when the complaint is of longer standing and more severity, the patient must 
be confined to the horizontal posture; bark and wine, and chalybeate medicines 
must be employed, and a stronger astringent, as a decoction of oak-bark, with 
some acid added to it, must be thrown up. Sometimes these means are all 
ineflfeqtual, and an instrument of wood or ivory, called a pessary, must be 
worn, to fill the outer passage and prevent the womb from falling down. This 
instrument should be removed every two or three days, and cleaned. Some- 
times this soon effects a cure; but, in general, it requires to be worn for years. 
If a person liable to this disease becomes pregnant, it disappears about the third 
or fourth month ; and if proper measures be taken after delivery, the return 
of the complaint may be prevented in many instances. 

2. Tumors or Polypi in the Womb and Vagina.— These are of 
various sizes and consistency; they are sometimes broad and flat at their base, 
Bomertimes they have a narrow neck. They occasion a discharge of blood at 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 271 

times; but when small, they are not productive of much inconvenience. But 
if they become large, they give rise to symptoms both troublesome and dan 
gerous. There is violent bearing down pain, discharges of blood, or of fetid 
dark-colored matter from the vagina, pain or difficulty of making water, 
irritation of the rectum, and a frequent desire to go to stool. When verj 
large, the polypus hangs out from the passage. If the disease be not relieved, 
the pains become more violent, the constitution is affected, and the continual 
discharge greatly weakens the patient. , 

Treatment. — As the patients themselves cannot distinguish tumors frotX^ 
other diseases producing similar symptoms, their existence must be ascer- 
tained by the examination of a physician; and their removal effected by a 
surgical operation, either by the knife or by ligature, performed by a surgeon 
well acquainted with the structure and connections of the parts. No internal 
remedies will do any good till the tumor is removed. When this is accom- 
plished, the general health is to be improved by proper diet and tonic medicines. 

3. Cancer of the Womb. — This, when in a state of ulceration, con- 
stitutes one of the most deplorable diseases which can alflict humanity. Cancel 
of the womb most generally attacks at the decline of life, though not exclu- 
sively so. At first the patient has an uneasy feeling of weight at the lowei 
part of the belly, with heat or itching. Afterwards shooting pains occur; 
then a pain, giving a gnawing burning sensation, seems fixed in the region of 
tlie womb. Tliis pain is attended by the discharge of ill-colored, sharp mat- 
ter, which irritates and corrodes the neighboring parts. As the disease con- 
tinues, almost every function of the body becomes disordered. Sickness and 
vomiting comes on, the bowels are torpid and irregular, hectic fever, and 
great emaciation ensue, and the spirits are dejected and desponding. Swell- 
ings of various glands, and watery swellings of the limbs, not unfrequently 
occur. Symptoms resembling those of the early stages of cancer, may arise 
from other complaints in the womb, as from polypus growths; the nature of 
the disease should therefore be, if possible, ascertained at an early period, that 
the one may be removed, and the other kept from rapid advancement and 
ulceration, so far as we are able. Cancer in the womb appears to begin with 
a thickening and hardness of that organ; which we suspect when there are 
pains in the thighs and back, a bearing down when the patient is using exer- 
cise, and occasional discharge of clotted blood. 

Treatment.— Of the nature of cancer of the womb, we are as ignorant 
as of cancer in any other part of the body, and when the disease is estab-. 
lished. we are as destitute of any remedy. In the periods of deplorable suffer, 
ing which terminate the life of the patient, we can do little more than palliate 
symptoms; and the whole tribe of narcotic medicines have been brought into 
requisition on such occasions. Opium, belladonna, hemlock, and various 
others have been tried, and failed Mercury, in every shape, is absolutely 
pernicious in cancer. 

The melancholy distress to which patients are reduced by cancer of the 
womb, disposes the minds both of themselves and their friends to listen witb 



<e DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

eagerness to the promises of relief, which igrnorant and interested empirics so 
liberally make to them. But all such promises must be met with the most ob- 
stinate incredulity. The learned, the experienced, and the candid members of 
the medical profession declare, that, as yet, no drug has been found capable 
of curing cancer by acting on the constitution and whoever suffers herself to 
be deluded by the boasts of those whose only aim is to vend their nostrums, 
loses the time that might be better employed, and neglects those suggestions 
which might palliate, though they cannot cure, her complaints. 

4. Inflammation of the Womb.— This seldom happens, except in 
the puerperal state. It may occur at any time of life, especially during 
the years of menstruation. Like other inflammations, it is ushered in 
by shivering, followed by great heat, thirst, quick hard pulse. Pain is 
felt in the womb from the beginning, with a sensation of fulness and weight; 
also a burning heat and throbbing. The exact spot where the pain is felt 
varies according to the part of the womb that is inflamed; it may be towards 
the navel, or over the share-bones, or shooting backwards, or down the thighs; 
or it may affect the bladder with pain and suppression of urine, or difficulty 
of passing it: 

It is distinguished from after-pains by the constancy of the pain, by the 
heat and throbbing of the part, and by the pain being much increased on pres- 
sure at the region of the womb. 

Causes. — Inflammation of the womb is induced by cold, direct injury 
external or internal, from medicinal or instrumental means to produce 
abortion, by difficult or tedious labor, by officious interference during labor, 
or by forcing the expulsion of the child and after-birth; by too much strong 
food or heating drinks; by exposure to cold during perspiration, or by using 
cold drinks. 

Treatment. — It requires very prompt and active interference, as its pro- 
gress is very rapid, and its event uncertain and dangerous. If assistance is 
procured in time, it may be stopped by blood-letting, both general and local, 
by leeches, low diet, diluent drinks slightly acidulated; with laxative medi- 
cines or clysters, and fomentations to the belly. A copious sweat, and a flow 
of the lochia, with relief from pain, mark the success of this plan of treat- 
ment. But we are not always so successful; for the pain sometimes becomes 
more acute, with throbbing, and an increase of fever, sickness, delirium, and 
restlessness. In these cases there is risk of mortification ; and this is shown to 
have come on by a languid pulse, low deliriun, and cold clammy sweat. Such 
termination happens chiefly in bad constitutions, or in those who are much 
debilitated. The discharge does not escape and there is absorption. A 
physician should be called at once as there is great danger. "W hen the discharge 
commences, the strength of the patient is to be supported by nourishing diet, 
the bowels are to be kept open, and bark and wine to be given. Much atten- 
tion must be paid to cleanliness. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 273 

ailSCKLLANEOUS KECEIPTS FOR FEMALE COMPLAINTS 
IN GENERAL. 

1. Female Debility, Tonic Pill and Infusion for.— In cases of 
female debility from uterine difficulties, often also connected with ague or 
chills and fever; but whether chills and fever or not, the following pill and 
infusion will be found valuable: 

1. I^ll. — Sulphate of quinine, 1 dr.; citrate of iron, 2 drs.; solid, or alco- 
iholic ex. of nux vomica, 16 grs. Mix thoroughly, and make into 64 pills. 

Dose — Take 1 pill only, half an hour before each meal and at bed-time. 

II, Tonic and Alteratwe, or Infusion. — In connection with the above pill 
much additional benefit will be derived in these cases by the use of the com- 
pound infusion of gentian, made as follows: 

Gentian root, % oz- ; orange peel and coriander seed, each, 1 dr. ; dilute 
alcohol (half alcohol and half water), 4 ozs. ; cold water, 12 ozs., to which in 
these cases add nitro-muriatic acid, 1 dr. Directions. — All the articles to be 
dry and coarsely ground or bruised; then put on the diluted alcohol and let 
stand 3 or 4 hours; then put on the water and let stand 12 hours, and strain; 
then add the acid and shake well. "An excellent way," says Dr. Warren. 
" for using gentian." This plant comes from Germany, growing in the Alps, 
Apennines and Pyrenees mountains. It excites the appetite and invigorates 
the digestive powers, and is used in all cases of debility. It is much used in 
dyspepsia and during recovery from all exhaustive diseases. Dose — Take 1 
table-spoonful half an hour after each meal. 

Remarks. — If in any case there are ulcerations at the neck of the womb or 
vagina, let there be taken 3^ tea-spoonful doses, 3 times daily, of the syrup of 
iodide of iron, an hour or two after the infusion is taken; and in these cases of 
ulceration it is best to submit the case to a physician and have him make such 
caustic applications as will kill the ulcers. The Monsel salts is a good 
thing to be applied to them. The fact of ulceration may be known 
by a sensation of heat, and perhaps pain, at the point of ulcera- 
tion, the discharge of matter, etc. This combination of treatment 
is well known to be exceedingly valuable. The nitrate of silver 
(lunar caustic in stick) is often used, and I have applied it— just touching the 
surface of the ulcer once in 4 or 5 days, has soon cured them, but more recently 
I have introduced the Monsel salts upon them, and also along the vagina as the 
speculum was withdrawn, with very satisfactory results, except that this salt 
contains iron, and consequently stains the clothing; hence, again, I have applied 
the sub-nitrate of bismuth, which does not stain, and I cannot see but it does 
equally well if put on pretty freely twice a week, night and morning, using 
the injections as given in leucorrhea (which see). 

2. Mrs. Chase's Magic Tonic Bitters for Weak and Debili- 
tated Females. — Best red Peruvian bark, prickly ash bark, and poplar 
root bark, each, 4 ozs.; cinnamon bark, 1 oz.; cloves, J^ oz. ; whiskey and 
clear worked cider, each, 3 qts. Directions, Dose, etc. — Grind all coarsely, 



274 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

or bruise with a hammer, and put into the jug or bottle with the spirits and 
cider, (or water, if no good cider can be had, but the cider is much the best), 
and shake daily for 10 days; take out the dregs, either filter, or strain and presa 
out, as you choose, and take a wine-glass of it immediately after each meal. 
The dregs steeped in 1 qt. of water will yield considerable more strength, 
which may be added to the tonic bitters when strained off. 

Remarks. — I have made this for my wife several times, and I did not fail 
to help her dispose of it occasionally myself. Her remark has often been: 
"Oh! what an appetite it gives me," etc. It is a very valuable tonic, and, 
from the spices, very pleasant to take. 

8. Sore Nipples, Bemedy.— A mixture of honey, borax, alum and 
strong sage tea. — Mrs. Mary Blake, of Parsons, Kan., in Blade. Knowing a 
similar mixture to be valuable as a gargle for sore throat, I believe it will be 
equally valuable for sore nipples. About J^ tea-spoonful each of powdered 
borax and alum, and 1 tea-spoonful of strained honey to 1 cup of strong sage 
tea. 

For a Gargle. — A heaping tea-spoonful, each, of the powder, and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of honey Lo 3^ pt. of the strong sage tea, will be sufficient, and be 
found excellent; and for the gargle it would be all the better, if 1 to 2 cayenne 
peppers (such as pepper sauce is made of), or small red pepper, was steeped with 
the sage in.i^iaking the tea. Children, however, cannot tolerate the pepper; 
then, for ctildren, leave them out. Gargle at least 6 times a day, and for the 
nipples, wash off the saliva, and apply afte. each time of nursing. (See also 
the following, and " Sore Nipples, Breasts, etc., to Avoid and to Cure," below.) 

4. Sore Nipples, Efficient Remedy.— A medical writer informs 
Hs that nitrate of lead, 10 grs., in 1 oz. of glycerine, or brandy, applied after 
each nursing, and washed off before each nursing, is an efficient (certain) 
remedy. 

Remarks. — As he leaves it optional to use one or the other, the author 
would say use J^ oz. each of brandy and glycerine, to the 10 grs. of nitrate of 
lead. 

5. Milk, Suppression of, While Nursing— Treatment to 
S-estore. — I, As this difficulty quite frequently occurs with nursing mothers, 
and is also sometimes slow in its first secretions after child-birth, I will give an 
item from the L' Union MSdicale, a French publication, which will prove valu- 
able when needed. It says: 

''When the milk secretion is slow in appearing, in a lying-in-woman 
(woman in confinement, or child-bearing), or when it ceases from mental or 
moral causes (not from inflammation of the breasts or other actual disease), It 
inay be made to return by cataplasms (poultices), or fomentation of castor 
leaves applied to the breast, or by suction of the nipple, or by means of elec- 
tricity. The mammary gland (the breast), is to be slightly compressed between 
two sponge electrodes (also known as the poles of a battery), and a feeble cur- 
rent passed through the gland for 10 or 15 minutes twice a day, after the first 
few electrizations, the breasts become full, the large veins appear on the gland, 
jmd the milk secretion is set up. 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 275 

BemarJcs. — I have only had an opportunity to test this in one case, wMch 
began to improve by the third day. The poultice should be warm, and if the 
castor-bean leaf can be got (many people raise them as an ornamental plant in 
the garden), they, too, should be put on as hot as can well be borne. The 
poultice or the leaves used in connection with the electricity make it more 
likely to succeed. 

II. It is well, also, in suppression of the milk which occurs most gener- 
ally, if at all, when the child is only a few weeks old, to give acetate of potash, 
1 oz., in water, 8ozs. ; adding a little tinct. ess. or fl. ex. of sassafras to flavor. 
Give in doses of 1 to 2 tea-spoonfuls, in a little more water, 3 times daily, to 
act on the kidneys, which are generally at fault, governing the dose by this 
action, not to make too free a flow of urine. As this also helps to relax the 
secretory functions of the breasts as well as the kidneys, weak coffee with 
plenty of milk and loaf sugar, and the old-fashioned chocolate, with milk and 
sugar plenty, drank alternately with the coffee, through the day, is also excel- 
lent, says an old doctor who has had large experience; and also rub upon the 
breasts freely, Trask's ointment, or what he thinks better, the bitter-sweet 
ointment, given below, all that will be absorbed. 

6. Sore Nipples, Breasts, etc.— To Avoid and Cure.— Sore 
nipples are sometimes caused by wearing the dress or corsets too tight, but 
m«st generally by neglecting to wash them with cool water, and properly dry- 
ing with a soft towel, after every nursing. When there is the least tendency 
to soreness of the nipples, dust on a little powdered magnesia or starch, kept 
generally as a baby powder, to prevent soreness in the groins or other folds of 
the skin. A very little mutton tallow, or, better still, lamb tallow, which is 
much softer, will prevent chafing when applied to any part liable to chafe. 
But if they become sore and irritable, make the following: 

I. Bittersweet Ointment. — Bark of the root, with the outside scraped off a 
little, }i lb.; mutton tallow or lamb tallow, i^ lb.; stewed carefully together; 
then strain while hot, and box or bottle for use. Apply a little after washing 
and drying the nipples as above at each nursing. 

II. Smartweed Ointment.— In places where the bittersweet can not be 
obtained, take smartweed and tallow, the same amount, and make the same 
way, and use in the same manner as the Bittersweet Ointment. 

[The bittersweet makes a most valuable ointment for all healing purposes, 
and I know of only one thing at all comparable with it for similar purposes, 
and that is an ointment made with Balm of Gilead buds, same amount, and 
made the same as the bittersweet. (See also Tinct. of Balm of Gilead Buds 
for Cuts, Bruises, Wounds, etc.) But the smartweed ointment is considered 
much the best to prevent breasts from inflaming and going on to suppuration.] 
So if there is danger of this, use the smartweed, if obtainable, or the following: 

7o Sore Breasts, to Prevent Breaking, etc. — As soon as there is 
inflammation and swelling of the breast, indicating any danger that suppura- 
tion will take place, send to the druggist and obtain fl. ex. (remember, fl. stands 
for fluid and ex. for extract,) of poke root, 4 ozs., and apply to the breast by 



276 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

wetting cloths with the extract and keeping upon the breast. Also take inter- 
nally of the same, in doses of 5 to 10 drops, in a little water, every 3 hours, until 
you see improvement has commenced; then every 4 or 5 hours, lessen the dose 
to 3 to 8 drops. (A large, fleshy and robust woman will take the 10 drops; 
small and feeble ones, the 5 only.) Re- wet the cloths, at least, as often as 
taken internally. 

Remarks. — This is from Dr. Duncan (referred to in II., for Milk, To Dry 
Up), who says of it: "If administered early, it will in 12 hours begin to give 
relief, and in 36 hours all traces of inflammation will have subsided and disap- 
peared." He has used it in numbers of cases, and always with success, when 
begun as soon as inflammation set in, and before suppuration began. He 
thinks it, in such cases, specific (positive cure). 

But if it is seen that the inflammation of the breast will go on, in any case,- 
to suppuration, poultice with slippery elm, or bread and milk, as warm as can 
be borne, till they break without lancing, if possible; but when it comes to 
lancing, this calls for a physician. So I will leave the further treatment of 
that condition to him, simply remarking that a weak tinct. of myrrh and aloes, 
or a weakened tinct. of the muriate of iron, make good injections into the 
orifices; if they do not heal kindly, with some of the healing ointments, as 
Bittersweet, Balm of Gilead, etc. , which are good to heal any sore on persons 
or domestic animals. 

8. Itching of tlie External Genital Organs.— The delicate 
internal lining of the external organs of generation sometimes becomes the seat 
of a most distressing itching, to relieve which the parts may be so irritated by 
friction as to become violently inflamed. Leeches have been used sometimes 
with benefit: so has the application of cold, such as ice-water, or even lumps 
of ice introduced into the vagina. When there is an eruption like that in the 
sore mouth of children, injections of a strong solution of borax have been very 
useful; thick starch water, with a solution of sugar of lead, injected into the 
vagina and retained for an hour or two, have been also of great utility in a few 
cases under our care. This irritation sometimes arises from disease of the 
womb, pregnancy, the presence of a stone in the bladder, or worms in the 
bowels. The original aifection must first be attended to in these cases. 

9. Milk, To Dry Up— Camphor and Soap Liniment for.— . 
Take a pint bottle and put into it alcohol, 12 ozs.; gum camphor, 1 oz.; and 
when dissolved, fill the bottle with good soft soap; but if no soft soap can be 
obtained, put in castile soap(shaved finely), 2 ozs. , and fill the pint bottle with 
alcohol. Either has to be shaken when used; apply by wetting cloths and 
laying on 3 or 4 times a day, after having rubbed the breast thoroughly each 
time. Before rubbing, however, apply a little of the Bittersweet Ointment, 
or a little mutton or lamb tallow, to enable the hand to glide over the breast 
easily. Careful rubbing is good alone — with the hand, or a soft, dry towel, 
properly gathered in the hand, so it shall not slip. The friction must always 
be gentle, but continued some time. If you want to avoid a broken breast, 
see "Sore Nipples, Breasts, etc., to Avoid." 



TREATMENT OF DISEASES. 2?7 

D. P, Duncan, M. D., of Waynesboro, Ga., says that mint leaves, steeped 
and applied to the breast, -will at once stop the secretion of milk, even of one 
breast alone, leaving the other with its usual flow of milk, if desired. The 
poultice should be applied hot, and c)>anged when getting cold. 

10. Sore Nipples. — Nothing better than pulverized gum acacia applied 
every night, or as often as convenient. 

11. Prevent Flooding. — Put your bandage on early and secure it 
firmly with good, strong safety-pins; as time and labor advances tighten the 



12. Hemorrhage Pill. — Sulphate of berberine made into 5 gr, pills; 
take every 2 hours if necessary. Women suffering from excessive flow may 
rely on these pills, and should always keep them on hand. The same cures 
itching of the vulva. 

13. Offensive Urine— 10 to 20 grs. of boric acid will remedy it every 
time. 

14. Vomiting during Pregnancy— 1 drop of chloroform in hot 
sweetened water stops it. 

15. Leuchorrhea or Whites.— Back ready to break. Take pulver- 
ized Qgg shell (burn the shell so as to pulverize it) 10 grs. with sweetened milk- 

1. BABY'S RECEIPTS.— Sore Mouth.— Wash with cold water, 
with a drop of alcohol in it. 

2. Colic— Aromatic spirits of ammonia, 2 to 4 drops in milk is aa good 
a thing as I ever discovered. 

3 . Nursing Baby's Colic. - Let the mother take 1 gr. pill of asaf oetida 
every morning for a week; baby will take more comfort. Anise tea taken by 
the mother increases the flow of milk and prevents colic. Fennel seed tea has 
the same effect. 

4. Baby's Sore Mouth. — ^Borax mixed in honey and applied to the 
sore. 

5. Baby's Food. — Boil sugar of milk, 1 oz. in % V^^^ water 15 minutes, 
then add ^ pint fresh cows' milk and boil again. Always give from bottle 
lukewarm. If bowels are loose add a tea-spoonful of ground barley, and if 
bowels do not move freely, use oatmeal instead, boil 15 minutes. Do you 
want to "make the baby fat," bring fresh milk just to a boil, add 1 table- 
3poonful each of corn starch and white sugar, and continue to boil imtil it 
thickens. 

6. Baby's Diarrhea. — In the course of 24 hours give the white of aa 
egg well beaten and stirred into 5 or 6 ozs. of water that has been boiled, add, 
3 to 5 drs. condensed milk. Increase the quantity if necessary. 

7. Spasms of Children. — Apply a rag wet with ice water, or ice 
\ltself to the back of the neck, just below the base of the brain. Never apply 
U to the head. 

8. Fretful Baby, — Give it onion tea. The same is also good for colio, 
Scolds. 



3ycII^■v7^::FEI^■l^ — hsttjirsiisig-. 



'a?HE EARLY SIGNS OF PREGNANCY: Cessation of Menses 
—Morning Sickness — Changes in the Breasts— Enlargement 
of the Abdomen — Calculation of the Probable Date of Con- 
finement. 

First Signs of Pregnancy. — The first circumstance to make a woman 
suspect that she is pregnant is generally the non-appearance of her usual 
monthly discharge. This is called the cessation of the menses, or monthlies, 
and is one of the most constant signs of pregnancy. Cases, do, indeed, now 
and then occur, in which, notwithstanding pregnancy, the customary flow 
takes place for the first few months just as usual, and in certain still rarer 
instances it has been known to appear regularly throughout the pregnancy. 

On the other hand its absence is by no means a sure indication of preg- 
nancy, as it may be due to many other causes; such, for example, as an attack 
of severe illness, a condition of general weakness, or even strong emotional 
excitement. 

Another Symptom. — The next symptom to attract attention is usually 
a feeling of siokness, often most distressing in the early morning, and some- 
times accompftnied with vomiting. This commences about the fourth or fifth 
T\eck, and continues to the middle of pregnancy, when it generally ceases. 
Occasionally it lasts to the end of the pregnancy, while, on the other hand, in 
some women it is entirely absent throughout. 

Shortly after pregnancy has commenced, a sensation of weight and fullness 
is felt in the breasts. A little later these organs enlarge, and the nipples 
become more prominent; the skin, too, just around the nipples becomes darker 
in color, an alteration most marked in women of fair skin and light complexion. 
Of course these changes are most noticeable in women who are pregnant for 
the first time; for when they have once occurred, the breasts never quite resume 
their original appearance, so that subsequent changes are less observable. The 
"breasts may increase in size, and may even contain milk, without pregnancy; 
as, lor example, in the case of certain diseases of the womb. 

Enlargement of the Abdomen.— About the end of the third month 
the abdomen begins to enlarge, and continues to do so from that time forwards; 
by the end of the seventh month the hollow of the navel has generally disap- 
peared It need scarcely be said, however, that the abdomen may enlarge 
from many other causes, so that not one of the four signs above described 
affords, when taken alone, positive proof of pregnancy; although, when two 
or more of them are found to be present, there is good ground for a strong 
suspicion. "Whenever it is important that the question of pregnancy should b» 
etilablished heyond a doubt, a doctor should be consulted. 

278 



JTUESmG. 279 

Probable Date of Confinement.— The usual method of reckoning 
the probable date of confinement is to learn on what day the last monthly flow 
ceased, then to count three months backwards (or nine months forwards) and 
add seven days. This is, in practice, the best plan that has been suggested, 
and will general!}' give a date within a very few days of actual confinement, 
frequently the very day. The following example will show how the calcula- 
tion is made: — A woman, we will say. wa ; last unwell on March 10; counting 
three months back from March 10 gives December 10; add seven days and it 
will give December 17, which is the probable date of her confinement. If it 
is not the actual day, labor wiU in all probability take place within three or four 
days before or after it. 

Movements of the Foetus, — The movements of the foetus are not 
perceived by the mother until between the fourth and fifth months — that is, 
until pregnancy has advanced about half-way. Not very uncommonly the 
occurrence of the first definite movement of which the mother is conscious is 
accompanied by a sensation of nausea and faintness. It is this fact which gave 
rise to the opinion long held, and still prevalent amongst the ignorant, that the 
foetus then for the first time becomes living, an opinion that finds expression in 
the word "quickening," the use of which, like that of many other words, has 
outlived the theory in which it had its origin. As a matter of fact, the foetus 
is living from the very commencement of pregnancy, and the reason why 
movements are not felt during the earlier half of pregnancy is to be found in 
the fact that the womb itself is not sensitive, and that it is not until the middle 
of pregnancy that that organ has enlarged sufficiently to bring it in direct 
contact with a part fully endowed with sensibility — namely, the inner surface 
of the abdominal wall. From the moment when they are first perceived, the 
movements of the child become more and more distinct as pregnancy advances, 
and constitute one of the most important of the later signs of that condition. 
When from any cause it is impossible for the probable date of confinement to 
be calculated according to the rule laid down in the preceding paragraph (.as, 
for example, when the date of the last menstruation is uncertain, or when one 
pregnancy succeeds another so quickly that menstruation has not been re-estab- 
lished in the interval), it may be approximately arrived at by reckoning it as 
four and one-half months after the date of " quickening." 

MANAGEMENT OP PREGNANCY: General Rules— Consti- 
pation — Piles — Hardening the Nipples — Swollen Breasts— 
Varicose Veins— Falling Forward of the Womb — Obstinate 
Vomiting — Difficulty in Passing Urine, &c. 

Proper Treatment of Pregnancy.— The proper treatment of preg- 
nancy consists for the most part in paying increased attention to the laws of 
health. A pregnant woman requires a full allowance of rest, and should 
therefore be careful to avoid late hours. She should take plenty of outdoor 
exercise whenever the state of the weather permits; and, while avoiding all 
strain, such as the lifting of heavy weights, or reaching things 



280 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES 

from a height, she may engage in the lighter duties of her house, not omy 
without risk, but with actual gain of health and strength. Her food should be 
taken with the utmost regularity, and should be plain and simple in its nature. 
Good new milk should form a considerable part of her every day diet. Stimu- 
lants are entirely unnecessary, except when taken undei special medical 
direction. 

As the abdomen enlarges it is of the utmost importance that the clothing 
should not be tight. A foolish regard for appearances has led many a woman 
into most lamentable mistakes on this point. 

During pregnancy the mind should be attended to as well as the body. 
All unnatural excitement is to be carefully guarded against, and distressing 
sights are to be especially shunned. 

Action of the Bowels. — Great care must be exercised to ensure a daily 
action of the bowels. An excellent plan is to set apart a certain hour of the 
day for attending to this function, whether the desire for relief be urgent or 
not. Perhaps the most convenient time for most people is immediately after 
breakfast. By following this simple rule, a habit is established which will go 
far to obviate the necessity for aperient medicine. When such medicine ia 
required, it should be of the simplest possible ki«d; for example, a compound 
rhubarb pill, or a little castor-oil. When constipation is associated with piles, 
the aperient chosen should be a tea-spoonful of sulphur in a little milk every 
morning, or a similar quantity of the compound liquorice powder made into a 
paste by mixing a little water with it; and the patient should be instructed to 
make her daily visit to the water-closet immediately before retiring to bed for 
the night. By these means the aching pain which, under such circumstances, 
is apt to follow every action of the bowels, may be considerably diminished. 
Injecting half a pint of cold water into the bowel, immediatly before the 
bowels are moved, often proves highly serviceable. Should the piles become 
inflamed or unusually painful, the patient must keep her bed for a day or two, 
and bathe the parts with warm water from time to time. Where these meas- 
ures are required, however, the medical attendant should be consulted. 

The nipples, especially in first pregnancies, should be hardened by bathing 
them daily during the last month or two with a mixture of equal parts of eau- 
de-Cologne and water, in order to render them less liable to crack and become 
sore and painful on the application of the child. Inflammation and abscess 
of the breast often originate in cracked nipples. 

Sore Breasts. — When the breasts become swollen and painful, they 
should be frequently fomented with flannels wrung out of hot water, and, in 
the meantime, should be supported, as in a sling, by a broad handkerchief pass- 
ing under the arm of the affected side and over the opposite shoulder. 

. Sometimes the veins of the legs, thighs, and lower part of the body 
become swollen and uncomfortable. Under these circumstances, the patient 
should lie down as much as possible every day, and at once discontinue the 
use of tight garters. 

In women who have borne many children, the abdominal walls are apt to 
become relaxed, and the pregnant womb, being insufficiently supported, Is 



NUHSING. 281 

then in danger of falling forward, so as not only to produce deformity, but to 
prove a hindrance during labor. A flannel binder, or one of the abdominal 
belts sold for the purpose, should in these cases be constantly worn during the 
daytime. 

Now and then the sickness, already alluded to as a common accompani- 
ment of the early months of pregnancy, becomes so troublesome and incessant 
as to cause serious loss of strength. Under such circumstances consult a 
physician. 

The Urine. — Towards the end of pregnancy it is not at all unusual for 
there to be some difficulty in passing urine, and for the desire to pass it to 
become very frequent. Should these symptoms, however, occur during the 
earlier months, and especially during the third and fourth, a medical man 
ehoiild be consulted; as they may be due to a displacement of the womb, 
which requires immediate attention. 

Troublesome heartburn, diarrhoea, palpitation, persistent neuralgia, sali- 
vation, itching or swelling of the external parts, swelling of the face or ankles, 
all require prompt attention, and if severe, the personal care of the medical 
attendant, 

UTERINE HEMORRHAGE DURING PREGNANCY: Its 
Usual Signiflcaaiee and Temporary Treatment — Placenta 
Prae via — Precautions after Previous Abortions— Treatment 
after MisearriagOe 

Uterine Hemorrhage, or a discharge of blood from the womb, dur- 
ing pregnancy, is usually a sign that miscarriage is threatening, and hence 
requires prompt medical attention. In summoning a doctor under these cir- 
cumstances it is always desirable to send a note, rather than a verbal message, 
and to state clearly the nature and urgency of the case. Meantime an en- 
deavor should be made to restrain the hemorrhage by causing the patient to 
lie down, with the head low and a pillow under the hips, by admitting plenty 
of cool, fresh air into the room, and by ensuring perfect quietness. 

If possible, the services of a trained nurse should be obtained at once, and 
she, with perhaps one other person, should alone remain in the room. Cloths, 
dipped in cold water or in vinegar and water, must be applied to the external 
genitals for a few minutes at a time, the application being frequently repeated. 
If wet cloths are kept on for a longer period, they are sure to become warm, 
and so, by acting as a poultice, defeat the object in view, and indeed tend 
rather to increase than to check the flow of blood. When the hemorrhage con- 
tinues, or becomes very profuse, the nurse must not hesitate to send for the 
nearest doctor as well as for the ordinary medical attendant. In such cases it 
will be desirable for her to take a dry napkin or two, and, having folded them 
in the form of a pad, to press them forcibly against the external genitals and 
hold them there. All the discharges, whether solid or fluid, should be care- 
fully retained for the inspection of the medical attendant 



282 DR. CHASET 8 RECIPES. 

These alarming hemorrhages are often brought about by accidenta, such 
as blows or falls, or by the lifting of heavy weights. But when flooding first 
makes its appearance, at the seventh month or later, and there has been no 
such accident to account for it, the probability is that the case is one of placenta 
frosvia, in which the after-birth is in an unusual position — namely, over thf 
mouth of the womb, constituting a very dangerous complication. The tem- 
porary treatment of flooding due to this condition in no way differs, however, 
from that already described. 

When previous pregnancies have been cut short by miscarriage, it is very 
necessary that the greatest precautions should be observed to avoid the repeti- 
tion of such an accident. Now, we know from experience, that miscarriages 
are most apt to take place at those times which, in the absence of pregnancy, 
would have been the ordinary menstrual pf riods. It it on these occasions, 
therefore, that preventive measures are most needed and most likely to be 
useful. Every month, then, during the time that the patient would, under 
other circumstances, have been unwell, she should maintain the recumbent 
posture, if not in bed, at any rate on a couch. If this simple rule were attended 
to, many a miscarriage would be averted. A woman known to be liable to 
abortion should, moreover, be specially careful to avoid all its most common 
causes; she should abstain from exciting entertainments, violent exercise, 
fatiguing or rough journeys, strong purgative medicines, and exposure to cold. 
And, lastly, as it is very doubtful whether any of the causes I have named are 
sufficient in themselves to bring on abortion, without a predisposition thereto 
from some local or general weakness or disease, it is very desirable that patients 
who have formed the so-called "habit" of aborting, should consult their med- 
ical attendant at the commencement of pregnancy with a view to being placed 
under a regular course of treatment. 

The after-treatment of patients who have miscarried is a most important 
matter, and one which receives far too little attention. It is no uncommon 
thing among patients of the laboring and middle classes for women to go about 
their ordinary duties as early as the second or third day, and some do not even 
Test for more than a few hours. Now, although this neglect of proper pre- 
caution may not result in any immediate ill-effects, it frequently lays the 
foundation of chronic disease with much attendant misery and suffering. 
Whenever nurses have an opportunity they should tell their patients what 
there is in store for them If they resume their ordinary duties too soon after 
such an occurrence. No absolute rule can be laid down as to the length of 
time during which rest is necessary ; it depends so entirely on circumstances 
that vary in different cases. Thus, in a caje of abortion during the early 
months, for instance, where the loss has been small and the health has not 
suffered, four to six days' absolute rest in bed, followed, during the next ten to 
fourteen days, by the greatest care and prudence, will, in the absence of special 
directions from the medical attendant, be generally found sufficient. When 
the health is unaffected it becomes very irksome to lie in bed for the time here 
mdic^ted : nevertheless, this rule cannot be neglected without running grava 
'Tsk. 



NUBSma. 283 

Should the pregnancy be further advanced, or the circumstances less 
favorable, a longer period of rest will be required. Where there has been 
severe or long-continued flooding, a patient is frequently reduced to a conditiox. 
of weakness quite equal to that following an ordinary confinement. In such 
cases it is only reasonable to expect the same care to be exercised as after a 
labor at full term. 

On no account should a patient leave her bed, after a miscarriage, :o long 
as any discharge of blood continues, as, while that persists, it is imcertain 
whether there is not some portion of the after-birth or membranes still remain- 
ing in the womb, and rendering the patient liable to further attacks of flooding. 

PROCESS OP NATURAL LABOR: Signs of Approaching 
Labor — Its Division into Stages— Labor-Pains.— The **Bag 
of Waters " — Description of First Stage— Of Second Stage 
— Of Third Stage. 

Approach of Labor Pains.— Towards the latter part of the ninth 
month, certain changes take place which give warning that labor is not far off. 
One of the earliest of these is sinking of the abdominal swelling; the upper 
end of the womb, which at the beginning of the ninth month, reaches as high 
as the pit of the stomach, now falls a little below that point. Great relief to 
the breathing follows this alteration, as the pressure upon the organs within 
the chest is thereby greatly lessened. On the other hand, owing to this change 
in the position of the womb, certain new inconveniences arise from the pressure 
of its lower portion on the various important parts contained in the pelvis. 
Thus, walking becomes more diflicult, the bladder requires relieving more fre- 
quently, and piles are apt to form. 

A sign that makes it probable that labor is actually about to commence is 
the appearance of a slight discharge of mucus, streaked with a little blood. 
This is spoken of, in the lying-in room, as the "show." 

Labor is Divided, for the Sake of Description, into Three 
Stages.— 27;e first of these is called the stage of dilatation of the mouth of 
the womb; tJie second lasts from the moment when that dilatation is completed 
up to the birth of the child; while the third, or last stage, includes the time 
from the birth of the child to the coming away of the after-birth, or placenta. 

The so-called pains of labor are, in reality, contractions of the muscular 
wall of the womb. At the early part of labor they are slight, occur at long 
intervals, and are felt mostly in the lower part of the front of the abdomen; 
as labor advances, they become longer and more energetic, follow one anothei 
more quickly, though always with a certain regularity, and are generally felt 
chiefly in the back and loins. Each pain is comparatively feeble at its com- 
mencement, increases in intensity until it reaches its height, and then gradually 
passes off. This character, together with the regularity of their recurrence, 
serves to distinguish pains really due to uterine contraction from colicky and 
Other pains, for which they are sometimes mistaken. 



284 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

The bag of waters consists of the membranous coverings of the foetus, 
enclosing within them what the doctors call, the liquor amnii, in which the child 
floats. During pregnancy this fluid serves to preserve the child from injury; 
during labor it forms a pouch at the mouth of the womb, which it acts upon 
like a wedge, and so assists in dilating. Experience tells us that, when the 
waters escape early, labor is rendered more tedious. The explanation of this 
is to be found in the fact that the bag of waters, being round and even, and 
pressing on the mouth of the womb {ps uteri) equally all around, the mouth of 
the womb is opened out more rapidly and easily by this even pressure than by 
the uneven surface of the presenting part of the child. 

As the OS utet-i opens, and the end of the first stage draws near, the pouch 
formed by the protruding membranes is pushed further into the front passage, 
or vagina, and, the pains becoming more violent, the membranes at last give 
way during a pain more severe than the rest, and so the waters escape. In 
natural labors this usually happens as soon as the mouth of the womb is fully 
opened and thus th.& first stage of labor is ended. 

The head of the child now begins to pass through the oa uteri. After a 
certain time, usually much shorter than that occupied by the first stage, it 
reaches the vaginal opening, through which it gradually escapes, and thus the 
child is born, and the second stage is completed. 

The pains of the first stage are called " grinding pains," and are different in 
character from those of the second stage, which are known as "forcing" or "bear- 
ing pains." The cry which is called forth by the pains during the first stage is 
also different from the groan which escapes from the patient when the pains of 
the second stage commence. An experienced nurse knows from this circum- 
stance alone that the first stage is over, and as the sending for the doctor ought 
on no consideration whatever to be delayed beyond this period, it is a point of 
great practical importance. 

The pains now become stronger and more frequent; the patient, holding 
her breath and bearing down at each return of the pain, becomes hot and 
flushed, and breaks out into a profuse perspiration. At the end of each pain 
the head of the child goes back a little, which prevents the strain from being 
so continuous as to be hurtful and exhausting. Nevertheless, almost every 
pain marks an advance upon the one preceding. This slight withdrawal of 
the head is frequently perceived by the patient herself, and unless explained 
to be natural and necessary, is apt to make her think she is not making any 
progress. There eventually comes a point, however, when the head is so far 
expelled that it no longer recedes between the pains. The intervals become 
shorter, and the pains more severe, until at last the head slips out altogether, 
and then the most painful part of the labor is over. The uterus usually now 
rests for a moment. Then the face of the child mak^ a little turn towards one, 
of the patient's thighs, generally the right, in order that the shoulders may be 
brought into such a position that they may pass with the least diflBculty. With 
another strong pain the shoulders are expelled. The rest of the body gives 
little trouble, for no part of it is as broad sis those which have already passed. 



NUES2N0. 285 

The contractions of the ■womb now cease for a short time, varying from 
five to ten or twenty minutes, when a little pain is again felt, and the after- 
birth and membranes are discharged, along with a small quantity of blood, 
with which a few clots are generally mixed. 

Such is a brief account of the order of events in a perfectly natural labor. 

DUTIES OP A NTJIISE DURING LABOR— Articles Needed 
in the Lying-in Room — Preparation of the Bed— Personal 
Clothing of Patient— Number of Persons in the Room— 
Caution in Conversation— Attention to the State of the 
Bladder — Food — Vomiting— Cramp— Fomenting the Per- 
ineiim in First Labors. 

If the nurse is not already in the house, the appearance of the first dis- 
charge or "show " is a sufficient warning that she should be summoned. No 
time should be lost in obeying the call, for many women, especially if they 
have borne children previously, pass through all the stages of labor very quickly. 
On arriving at the house the nurse should make the necessary changes in her 
dress, and appear before the patient ready for duty. An opportunity will soon 
occur of forming a judgment as to whether the patient is really in labor, and, 
if so, how far it has advanced. If labor has actually commenced, the patient 
will, before long, cease speaking, suddenly grasp the nurse's arm, or the back 
of a chair, or whatever happens to be at hand, and exhibit other signs of suf- 
fering. The nurse will know, by the characters enumerated on a previous 
page, whether this is a genuine labor-pain or not, and will observe how long it 
lasts and the degree of its severity. "When it is over, she should inquire when the 
pains began, how often they return, whether the waters have been discharged, 
and other similar questions, in order that she may know what kind of message 
she is to send to the medical attendant, who ought at once to be informed that 
his patient is in labor. 

Let me now suppose that the nurse has made sure that her patient is in 
labor, and that she has acquainted the medical attendant. 

If the bowels have not been freely opened within the last six hours, it will 
be desirable to give a simple enema of soap and water. The emptying of the 
lower bowel -vvill facilitate the labor, and will save both the patient and attendant 
the annoyance caused by the passing of faeces during a later stage. This hav- 
ing been attended to, the patient may be allowed to sit up in a chair or walk 
about the room, according to her inclination, provided it is clear that the labor 
has not yet reached its second stage. If it is night-time, however, it is better for 
her to remain in bed, in order that she may, if possible, get a few moments' 
sleep between the pains. During the early stage of labor it is of no use for 
patients to "hold their breath and bear down" during each pain, as they are 
often urged to do by untrained and inexperienced nurses. It must always 
be left to the medical attendant to decide when bearing-down efforts hav® 
become desirable and ought to be encouraged. 



286; DB CHASE'S RECIPES. 

It is often a great relief to a patient for the nurse to support her back with 
her flat hand during a pain. In the meantime she should see that all things are 
in readiness for the actual confinement. The following are always wanted:— 



Basins. 

Binder. 

Napkins. 

Needles and Thread. 

Nursery, or safety, pins 

Olive-oil. 

Pieces of old linen. 

Receiver. 

Roller-towel. 

Scissors. 



Sponges. 

Thread, or strong worsted, for 

tying cord. 
Towels. 

Vaseline, cold cream, or lard. 
Water, hot and cold. 
Waterproof sheeting. 
Puff-box, and complete set of 

clothes for the baby. 



In addition to the above it is advisable to have in the room some good 
brandy, a fan, a syringe, a foot-bath, and a nursing-apron. 

The Binder usually consists of two pieces of stout twilled cotton, each 
two yards long and of good width, the edges of which are stitched together so 
as to make the binder of double thickness. On an emergency, a small table- 
cloth or cotton sheet, suitably folded, answers the purpose very well. 

The Receiver should be of flannel made of double thickness, and large 
enough to wrap the child thoroughly. The flimsy receivers sometimes used 
are only fit to protect a doll. A good thick flannel petticoat, or a cot-blanket, 
is as good as anything. 

The Thread or Worsted for Tying the Cord must be made ready 
in the following way: Twelve equal lengths, measuring about a foot, are to be 
laid side by side and arranged evenly. Six of these lengths, are then to be 
knotted together at a distance of about two inches from each end, and the 
remaining six in the same way, Having been thus prepared, the threads must 
be laid on the dressing-table, and a pair of good scissors by the side of them, 
ready for handing to the medical attendant at the proper moment. 

The Preparation of the Bed is a matter of considerable importance, 
and ought to be attended to during the early part of labor. Women are usu- 
ally delivered lying on the left side, with the knees drawn up towards the 
abdomep. The right side of the bed, therefore, is the one which requires 
preparing, and that part of it near the foot is preferable because the upper part 
of the bed is thus kept clean and comfortable for the patient when the labor is 
over, and because of the help derived from being able to plant the feet firmly 
against the bed-post during the pains. 

The mattress being uncovered, a large piece of rubber cloth is to be 
spread over it, and upon this a sheet folded several times. Next to this should 
come the clean under-sheet, on which the patient is to lie, and upon that 
another piece of waterproof sheeting, large enough to reach above the hips. 
Over this upper rubber, and ready to be removed with it after the labor is 
over, are to be then placed a folded blanket, and, lastly, a folded cotton sheet, 
both of which should reach well above the hips, so as to absorb the discharges. 



yuEsmG. Z81 

Two pillows are then to be put in the centre of the bed, so that the patient may 
lie with the upper part of the body directly across the bed, the hips being as 
near the edge as possible. The upper bed-clothing during labor should consist 
of a sheet, one blanket, and a thin counterpane, which should completely hide 
from exposure every part of the patient's person, except the head and neck. 
A long roller-towel should be fastened to the bed-post at the patient's feet. 
Nurses often make the mistake of fixing this to the post at the opposite corner, 
or even to one of the posts at the bed's head. A very little consideration, how- 
ever, will make the inconvenience of this arrangement apparent. By grasping 
the end of a towel, attached in the way I have recommended, the patient pulls 
herself still closer to the edge and foot of the bed; whereas, by pulling at a 
towel fastened to one of the posts on the further side of the bed, she drags 
herself away from the very position which it is desirable she should preserve. 
The same objection, of course, applies to supplying the place of the towel by 
means of the hands of an attendant standing on the left side of the bed. This 
should never be encouraged, as it always has a tendency to displace the patient, 
and to render it difficult for the medical attendant to give needful assistance. 

As labor advances, and it becomes necessary for the patient to be placed in 
bed, she should put on a clean chemise and night-dress, which should be rolled up 
under the armpits out of reach of the discharges, while the soiled chemise and 
night-dress should be slipped down from the arms and shoulders, and loosely 
fastened round the waist. (Amongst the working classes it is still too much the 
custom for women to be confined in their every -day dress. It is a practice that 
ought always to be discountenanced.) The hair should be dressed in such a way 
that the continuous lying in bed after the confinement will not drag upon or 
entangle it more than is inevitable. 

It is very undesirable for a woman in labor to be surrounded by a number 
of friends and neighbors. In most cases the nurse herself is the only attendant 
that is really needed, although the presence of one other person (the husband) 
should not be objected to, if the patient wishes it. 

No nurse should ever allow herself to be teased into prophesying that the 
labor will be over by a certain hour. If such prophesies turn out incorrect, as they 
are most likely to do, the patient loses courage and confidence. All gossip ia 
to be avoided, and nurses should be particularly careful to make no reference 
to their past experiences, especially such as have been unfavorable. A good, 
kind nurse will not be at a loss for a few helpful and encouraging words as 
labor goes on, and will not need to have recourse either to foohsh promises or 
dismal anecdotes. 

Every now and then the patient should be reminded to pass water, lest the 
bladder should become so full as to hinder labor. This point is often neglected, 
partly because the attention is so preoccupied that the desire to empty the blad- 
der is scarcely perceived, and partly because when the waters have broken, the 
escape of a little gush of amniotic fluid during each pain often misleads the 
patient, making her think she has passed urine when really she has not. 

Pood for the Patient.— In the early part of labor when pains are slight 
and the intervals long, there is no reason for interfering either with the charac- 



288 DR. CHASEPS RECIPES. 

ler or regularity of the patient's ordinary meals, provided there exist the desire 
for solid food. During the later stages, however, it is wise to confine her to 
fluids, such as beef-tea, gruel, milk, and tea, and to administer them in small 
quantities at a time, so as not to overload the stomach and excite sickness. 
Patients often ask for a little cold water, and many nurses, influenced by old 
traditions, fear to gratify the wish. A sip of pure water can never do harm, 
only it must be a "sip" and not a tumblerful, the patient being assured that 
small draughts, frequently repeated, assuage thirst far better than larger quan- 
tities. On no account must stimulants be given, except when expressly ordered 
by the medical attendant. 

Vomiting is a troublesome symptom and distresses the patient, but its 
influence on the progress of the labor is in no way unfavorable. Should it, 
however, be excessive, it is well to give a little iced effervescing water from time 
to time. 

Cramps During Labor.— Many patients suffer very severely from 
cramp during labor. Relief can frequently be obtained by stretching the limb 
straight out, and at the same time bending the ankle so as to put the muscles of 
the calf well on the stretch. Gentle rubbing of the affected part with the hand 
also affords great comfort. 

In the case of patients who have not borne children previously, it is an 
excellent plan to diligently foment the perineum from the very outset of labor, 
so as to render the skin softer and more yielding, and lessen the risk of tearing. 

DUTIES OP A NURSE DURING SECOND STAGE OP LABOR: 
—What to do in the absence of the Medical Attendant — 
Supporting the Perineum— Assisting at the Birth — Tying 
th9 Cord — Breech Cases — The Third Stage — Application of 
The Binder, &c. — Convulsions— Painting— Palling Porward 
of the Womb. 

When the pains alter in character, compelling the patient to make efforts 
to bear down, and the face begins to get flushed and the skin to become moist 
with perspiration, the nurse may feel pretty well assured that the first stage is 
over; and if the medical attendant has not arrived, she should request him to 
be summoned without delay. In the meantime, the patient must be put to 
bed, and encouraged to bear down and assist the pains. The binder, napkins, 
and receiver must be spread near the fire in readiness. 

Should the child's head press upon the perineum before the arrival of the 
medical attendant, a warm folded napkin may be placed in the palm of the 
nurse's left hand and held against the bulging perineum, the fingers being 
directed backwards, so that the front edge of the perineum may receive the 
chief support. The object of this is to prevent the child's head passing too 
quickly and suddenly forwards to the vaginal outlet and to preserve the perin- 
eum from being torn. The great point at this stage is to avoid doing too much. 
Nothing but harm is likely to result from attempts to enlarge the opening by 
stretching the lips apart with the fingers, or to push back the edge of the perin 



NURSING 289 

eum in the hope of facilitating the escape of the head. Contrary to the popular 
belief, the attendant's duty is rather to keep back the head by gentle pressure, 
than to hasten its expulsion. Above all things there should be no pulling; 
Nature is to be allowed to do her own work. 

If the medical attendant be still absent when the head is born, the nurse 
must spread the flannel receiver close up to the vaginal orifice, and receive the 
head of the child upon her right hand, still keeping up the gentle pressure 
upon the stretched perineum until the shoulders have passed out. Even then 
the body and legs must be left to follow of themselves, the nurse meanwhile hold- 
ing up the parts which are already born. The upper bed-clothes should be 
now turned back sufficiently to allow the child to breathe, without causing any 
exposure of the patient herself. If the navel-string is found coiled around the 
child's neck, it must be slipped over its head as quickly as possible, lest the 
life of the child should be sacrificed owing to a stoppage in the circulation of 
the blood through the cord. Very occasionally it happens that the child is 
born with the membranes unbroken ; they will in such cases be found drawn 
tightly over the little face, and will cause death from suffocation, unless quickly 
torn open and the mouth freed. Amongst some people this occurrence is 
known as being born with a veil or caul. 

The cry which a child usually utters as soon as it is bom, helps to fill the 
lungs with air, and is on that account rather to be encouraged than checked. 
If the child does not cry, the nurse must examine the mouth to ascertain 
whether there is anything either over it or within it, preventing the breathing. 
Sometimes there is some frothy mucus in the mouth which can be clewed away 
with the finger. It is often useful, also, when breathing is delayed to turn 
the child on its face, and give it a few gentle slaps on the back with the flat 
hand. 

The navel-string must not be tied imtil the breathing is established, tinlefle 
it is quite evident that the child is still-born. The first ligature must be 
tied an inch and a half from the navel, and the knot must be pulled tightly two 
or three times so as to squeeze out of the way the jelly-like material which 
surrounds the blood-vessels of the cord; otherwise the vessels may not be closed 
by the ligature, and bleeding from the stump may occur to a fatal extent while 
the nurse is attending to the mother. The second ligature is placed an inch 
further from the child than the first one, and the cord is then divided with scis- 
sors mid-way between the two. All this must be done outside of the bed-clothea, 
lest some other part than the cord be cut in mistake. 

Now and then it happens that a nurse has to take the temporary charge of 
cases where not the head, but the breech, passes out first. Delivery with th« 
child in this position is full of danger to the life of the child. The nurse must 
not hasten matters by pulling, even when the legs are already born ; but, when 
the whole of the child's body has passed except the head and arms, and when 
these parts appear to be arrested, she may endeavor to assist Nature by bringing 
down the arms from the sides of the child's head in the following manner: — 
Pasaing her forefinger up the child's back, and over its shoulder, she draws tke 
19 



990 / DR. CHASE'S BECIPE8. 

arm gently down across the front of the chest by hooking her finger into the bend 
of the elbow. The same manceuvre is repeated with the other arm. The head will 
then be the only part remaining unborn. It is possible that, now that the arms 
have been brought down, the efforts of Nature may be equal to the task of 
expelling the head. Should the pains, however, prove ineffectual, the nurse 
may render further assistance by pressing with the fingers of one hand against 
the back of the child's head and so tilting the head forwards, while with the 
two first fingers of the other band, placed 'one on each side of the nose, she 
endeavors to draw down the face. This plan is generally preferable to the one, 
not unfrequently adopted, in which traction is made by placing the fingers in 
the child's mouth. In all breech-cases a warm bath should be in readiness, in 
the event of the child requiring to be resuscitated. 

The child, having been now separated, is to be wrapped in the receiver, 
with the face alone exposed, aod placed out of harm's way on the other side of 
the brxi. The patient must b^ warned to lie perfectly still, and to wait patiently 
for tte one or two insignificant pains which accompany the expulsion of the 
after birth. These genernlly occur from five to twenty minutes after the birth 
of the child. Meanwhile the nurse must provide the medical attendant with a 
basin or other vessel, previously warmed before the fire, to receive the after- 
birth, and one or two wavm napkins. 

Should the medical attendant, however, be still absent, the nurse must 
place her hand upon the abdomen of the mother and ascertain whether there is 
another child. If she should find such to be the case, she must convey the 
news to the mother very cautiously, assuring her that the second child will be 
bora with much less pain than the first. If there is no second child to be felt, 
the nurse will do well to keep her haad laid upon the mother's abdomen until 
a slight pain occurs, when she must spread out her hand like a fan and gently 
prers the uterus so long as the pain continues. Meantime, she is to hold a suit- 
abh vessel in her left hand ready to receive the placenta when it is expelled, 
taking care on no account to pull the cord. Sometimes the placenta and mem- 
branes are expelled during the first pain; more frequently two or three pains 
occur before this takes place. 

If the uterus can be felt, under the hand, hard, firm, and as small as a good- 
ti^zed cricket-ball, the placenta, if it has not already made its appearance, will 
in all probability be found lying in the vagina. In order to make sure about 
this, the hand may be withdrawn from the front of the abdomen, and the fore- 
finger passed gently up by the side of the cord. If the insertion of the cord 
into the after-birth can be easily and distinctly made out, it is pretty certain 
that the placenta has escaped from the uterus into the vagina, and it may, there- 
fore be carefully hooked down with the finger. As the placenta passes out, it 
is a good precaution to twist it round once or twice, so as to make a wisp of 
the membrane and bring them all away at the same time. A slight discharge 
of clotted and fluid blood usually accompanies the termination of the third 



When the placenta and membranes have come away, the hand should again 
be placed over the uterus, in order to make sure that it is firm and well cob- 



IfUBSmG. 991 

ta-acted. If, instead of this being the case, it is felt to be large, soft, and 
uncontracted, firm pressure should be continued, so as to excite contraction and 
prevent flooding, which, in such circumstances, is greatly to be feared. 

Should a gush of blood make its appearance in spite of the pressure, the 
hand must still be kept over the uterus and the pressure increased, cold wet 
cloths being in the meantime repeatedly applied with suddenness to the external 
genitals. Of course, if the medical attendant has left the house, he must be 
again summoned at once. 

The uterus being firmly contracted, and the flow of blood having ceased, 
the thighs and surrounding parts are to be gently sponged with warm water 
and dried by means of a soft warm napkin. 

If there has been no flooding, the soiled chemise and night-dress may now 
be drawn down, and, along with the folded sheet, blanket, and upper rubber, 
removed from beneath the patient, who must not be permitted to make the 
slightest effort while this is being done. Then she may be slowly rolled over 
on to her back, to allow of the application of the binder. The binder, well 
aired, must be rolled up to half its length, and the roll passed underneath the 
lower part of the patient's back. Being caught on the other side, it is then 
unrolled, and having been smoothed out free from wrinkles, it is so applied as 
to encircle the hips tightly, and the overlapping end is then secured by means of 
three or four good safety-pins. All this is to be done with as little exposure of 
the patient as possible. The pillows having been duly replaced, the patient 
may now be carefully lifted into her usual position in bed; a fresh warm napkin 
being applied against the vulva, and the clean chemise drawn down Into its 
place. 

If, however, there has been any flooding, the patient, must still remain 
undisturbed for some time after the discharge has ceased, the nurse from time 
to time examining the napkins to make sure that tliere is no return of the 
bleeding. 

When the medical attendant is present, he will probably prefer to under- 
take many of these duties himself; at any rate he, being the responsible person, 
will give instructions according to the requirements of each individual case, 
which instructions it will be the nurse's simple duty to obey. 

During the passage of the child's head, it facilitates matters if the patient's 
knees are separated. This is sometimes effected by placing a pillow between 
them, but the pillow is apt to be in the way, and a better plan is for the 
nurse to pass her hand beneath the right knee, and keep it well raised during 
each pain. 

Sometimes the medical attendant desires the nurse to make pressure upon 
the womb during the third stage of labor, to assist it in expelling the after- 
birth. To do this she should stand behind the patient at the doctor's left hand, 
and passing the hand under the bedclothes, she should place it on the abdomen, 
where she will feel the round, firm body of the uterus above the pubes. 
Spreading out her hand over this organ, she should keep up a steady pressure 
downwards and backwards as long as the attendant desires it. 



m DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Convulsions, coming on during labor, are always alarming, and place 
the patient's life in great danger. Should they occur before the arrival of the 
medical attendant, no time should be lost in sending for him. In the meantime 
all that the nurse can do is to keep her patient lying flat down; to see that there 
is no ti(;ht clothing about her head and chest; to prevent biting the tongue by 
pushing it, if possible, behind the teeth, and placing a cork or piece of India- 
rubber between them; to admit plenty of fresh air into the room; and, lastly, 
to restrain the meddlesome interference of bystanders. It is altogether worse 
than useless to attempt to force water or stimulants down the throat while the 
patient is struggling and unconscious; and although sprinkling the face with 
water, rubbing the hands, and applying smelling salts to the nose, can do no 
harm, it is more than doubtful whether they ever produce any benefit. When 
the fit is over, should the medical attendant not have arrived, the nurse may 
administer a soap-and-water enema with advantage. 

Fainting during labor should always lead to a suspicion that there is 
iome loss of blood going on, and the medical attendant ought to be immedi- 
ately summoned, even if there is no blood to be seen externally, for internal 
bleeding may be going on, notwithstanding. The important point to remember 
about fainting is, that the patient is on no account to be raised up, however 
much she may desire it. The level posture, plenty of cool, fresh air, sprinkling 
a little water on the face, and firm, steady pressure with the hand over the 
uterus, comprise all that it is desirable for a nurse to do in the way of treat- 
ment. If there is external hemorrhage, an endeavor must be made to con- 
trol it in tlie manner described later on. 

Some women, who have previously borne children, suffer from a falling 
forward of the womb, causing an unusual prominence of the lower part of the 
abdomen. Such persons require to be put to bed at a very early stage of labor, 
And should either be allowed to lie flat on the back, or be supported in the half- 
iitting posture. The late Dr. Radford, of England, to whom I am indebted 
for the recommendations contained in this paragraph, has recorded two fatal 
cases in which this condition was present, and in each of which rupture of the 
uterus took place at the very moment of the patient rising to her feet during 
labor. 

He suggests that, in order that the uterus may be safely guided into, and 
maintained in such a position as will facilitate labor, the nurse should, in all 
such cases, put on a broad bandage at a very early period of the labor, and 
dghten it as labor advances. After the membranes have ruptured and the 
waters have been discharged, this bandage should be applied as follows: — The 
end lying upon the bed is to be fastened to the side of the bed, so as to consti- 
.tute a lixed point, while the other end is held obliquely by the nurse, and grad- 
ually tightened as the child descends into the pelvis. The direction of the 
pressure ^ill thus be slightly upwards as well as backwards. 

This mode of support, by what he terms a " regulating bandage," effectu- 
ally assists the entrance of the child's head into the pelvis. 



NURSING. 293 

MAITAQEMENT OP THE NEWLY-BORN CHILD : Washing 
and Dressing— Feeding and Feeding-bottles — Aperients— 
Sleep — Warmth and Fresh Air — Separation of Navel- 
string— Swelling of the Breasts in the Newly-born— The 
«' Thrush." 

After making the mother comfortable, the next duty of the 7mrse is to 
attend to the washing of the child. This should be done, if possible, before the 
medical attendant leaves the house, in order that he may have an opportunity 
of examining the child thoroughly. For the washing, a foot-bath is required, 
or a basin at least one foot broad, one foot deep, and two feet long, so that the 
whole body, with the exception of the head, may be placed in the water for a 
minute or two. The nurse must also be provided with a piece of soft flannel, 
some olive-oil, a piece of good, unirritating soap, and, for the dressing, in 
addition to the clothes, a needle and thread, some safety-pins, and a piece of 
linen rag six inches square, with a hole cut in its centre large enough to admit 
the navel-string. Sitting at a convenient distance from the fire, she then pro- 
ceeds to unfold the flannel wrapper and anoint the child's skin with warm 
olive-oil wherever it is covered with the white greasy material usually present. 
This having been done, the child is to be put into the water, the temperature 
of which should be about 90®, and the head supported on the left hand out of 
the water. After having rested there for about two minutes, it is to be taken 
on the lap and washed with soap and flannel, the eyes being carefully cleaned 
first, then the head, and afterwards the remainder of the body, great pains 
being take to cleanse the little wrinkles at the various joints. After gently 
drying the skin with a soft warm towel, it must be well powdered, and espe- 
cially those parts near the joints where chafing is most likely to occur; viz., 
under the knees and armpits, in the groins, and between the thighs. The 
piece of flannel used for the first washing should be burnt. 

The skin having now been well washed, dried, and powdered, the square 
of old linen is to be held near the fire for a minute and slipped over the remains 
of the navel-string, which Is to be folded in it and turned upwards upon the 
child's abdomen, where it is to be retained by means of the flannel binder until 
its separation, which usually takes place about the fourth or fifth day. 

Up to the time of this separation, the child must be washed from head to 
foot on the nurse's lap, night and morning. Afterwards, when there is no 
longer any fear of injuring the navel, the child should be placed in the water 
for two minutes during the morning washing, the evening washing being done 
on the nurse's lap as before. Whenever a napkin is removed, the parts pro- 
tected by it must be well cleansed by sponging with a little soap and water, and 
then thoroughly powdered, so as to prevent the skin becoming sore. This rule 
holds good even if the napkin has only been soiled with urine, though it is of 
course still more necessary when there has been also an action of the bowels. 

It is part of a nurse's duty to wash and dress the child during the time she 
stays in the house, and she should, for this purpose, be provided with a large 
soft flannel apron, which must be carefully dried each time it is used- 



•594 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Tlie child's clothing should be warm without being heavy, and should lit 
loosely so as to allow the organs free play, and the blood to flow unhindered. 
The body-binder should be of flannel, as it is impossible to prevent its being 
soiled with the urine, and flannel, when wetted, does not chill the skin so much 
as other materials. None but patent safety-pins should be used about a baby, 
and even for them it is better to substitute two or three stitches wherever it is 
possible. 

The medical attendant must always be informed, when he makes his first 
after-visit, whether the infant has passed urine and whether the bowels have 
acted; also as to any marks or other peculiarities that may have been noticed. 
The state of the eyes, too, should be narrowly watched, and any unhealthy 
appearance or the least sign of discharge at once reported. 

It is most undesirable to give a newly -born child butter and sugar, or other 
similar compound. For the first twelve hours at least, and indeed for a much 
longer time, the child will take no harm if left unfed. The proper course, 
however, is to apply it to the breast a few hours after birth — that is, as soon as 
the mother has recovered a little from the fatigue of labor. The breasts will 
probably not fill with milk for twenty-four or thirty-six hours, or even a little 
longer; but there is generally a little thick secretion of creamy fluid, called 
colostrum, much earlier than this, of which it is good for the mother to be 
relieved, and which acts as a gentle laxative upon the child. The early appli- 
cation of tlie child to the breast also helps to form the nipples, and renders the 
flow of milk easy from the first; it teaches the child how to suck, a lesson learnt 
less readily if it has previously been fed with a spoon; and, lastly, it provides 
it, in the majority of cases, with all the food it requires during the first day or 
two, and obviates the necessity of artificial feeding. 

The child should be put to the breast with clock -like regularity. Until the 
flow is fairly established, the interval should be four hours; afterwards, for the 
first month, an hour and a half or two hours in the daytime and four hours in 
the night. In the daytime the child may be awakened at the feeding-hour; in 
the night he should on no account be disturbed out of his sleep. Many infants 
will sleep continuously for six hours in the night, and suffer no harm from the 
long fast. 

If it is important that a child should be fed as often as is here stated, it 
is no less important that he should not be fed of tener. Young infants very 
soon learn habits of regularity, and, besides, their stomachs need rest between 
their meals, just as in our own case, except that, of course, the intervals 
required are shorter. Many women put the child to the breast whenever it 
cries, forgetting that this is the only way in which it can express its sense of 
discomfort, from whatever cause arising, and that it is quite as likely to be 
crying because it is in pain, or because its napkin wants changing, as from 
hunger. 

It is important from the first to apply the child to each breast in turn. 

■When the secretion of milk is long delayed, and it becomes consequently 
necessary to feed the infant, the proper food is good cow's milk, boiled, so as 
to prevent its being a carrier of infection, then mixed with about an equal 



uruRsma. 295 

quantity of water, and sweetened. Bread and oatmeal gruel are not fit food 
for newly-born infants. They irritate the stomach and bowels and caiiee griping 
and flatulence. In short, during the first month of life no other food than the 
mother's milk or diluted cow's milk should be given, except imder medical 
advice. 

When the mother has not enough milk to satisfy the child, nursing may be 
combined with hand-feeding, which is generally preferable to hand-feeding 
alone. The additional food should consist of good milk, boiled, diluted with 
an equal quantity of water and sweetened. After the first month the quantity 
of added water requires to be gradually lessened. 

In case the mother cannot nurse her child, the next best way of feeding it 
is to obtain a good, healthy wet-nurse, whose child is not much older than the 
one she is to nurse. The medical attendant should always be consulted in 
regard to the health and suitability of a wet-nurse, before she is engaged. 

It may be that a wet-nurse cannot be obtained, and then hand-feeding 
becomes necessary. For this purpose good milk (from one cow if possible), 
boiled, diluted, and sweetened, as already directed, is for the first few months 
all the food" that is required. Arrowroot, cornstarch, and bread are all unsuit- 
able at this tender age, and afford far less nourishment than milk. 

Now and then a child is found with whom fresh milk does not agree, the 
curdy character of the stools showing that it is only partially digested. Should 
a change of dairy not suffice to set matters right, it will be desirable to try the 
concentrated Swiss milk, which, though greatly inferior to fresh milk, is the 
best of all artificial substances. Failing success with this, a malted prepara- 
tion, known as Mellin's Food for Infants, may be tried, at any rate until the 
digestive powers become sufficiently improved to return to milk. 

The custom of using feeding-bottles with India-rubber tubes has become 
exceedingly prevalent. These tubes are difficult to keep clean, and a mere drop 
or two of milk left adhering to the bottle or tube will often be sufficient to turn 
the next supply sour. Hence have arisen flatulence and indigestion, and much 
sickness and suffering. Another objection to the use of tubes is, that nursea 
are tempted to place children in the cot with the bottle of milk by their side 
and the tube in their mouth, a practice which is highly objectionable on several 
grounds. It does away with all regularity in feeding, and is very liable to 
cause the milk to be turned sour owing to the heat given off from the child's 
body. Feeding-bottles without tubes, and fitted with teats only, have the 
advantage of requiring to be held in the nurse's hand, and are on every account 
to be preferred. There should always be two, for alternate use, one being kept 
under water while the other is in actual use. Immediatetly after the child has 
had a meal, the bottle must be thoroughly washed in warm water. 

It is an unnecessary and injurious practice to administer castor-oil to the 
newly- born. The first milk (or colostrum) from the mother's breast generally 
relaxes the bowels sufficiently, and if not, no aperient should be administered 
except under the advice of the medical attendant. 

Children should not sleep in the same bed with an aduli, but should, fron? 
ttie first, be placed in their own separate cot. Attention to this rule would 



S96 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

annually save many lives which are now sacrificed. The number returned 
every year as having been found dead in bed is astounding. Sometimes both 
mother and child fall asleep, while the child is at the breast, whereupon the 
child's face gets pressed so closely against the mother's body that both nose and 
mouth are covered, breathing becomes impossible, and the child is smothered; 
sometimes fatal asphyxia is produced by the child nestling down in the bed and 
going to sleep with its head completely covered by the bedclothes; and some- 
times, though of course very rarely, the cause of death in these cases is over- 
lying. These dangers are best avoided by letting the child sleep by itself. 

During the first month or two a healthy child sleeps the greater part of 
both day and night. 

Children should not be allowed to form the habit of being put to sleep on 
the nurse's lap, but should be placed in their cot awake, and soothed to sleep 
there. This is a lesson learnt without difficulty, if taught from the earliest 
days. 

On no account should any kind of soothing medicine be given, except 
under medical advice. 

Young babies require to be kept very warm, and yet need abundance ol 
fresh air. Nursery windows should be opened very frequently, and the room 
kept pure and wholesome. After the first two or three weeks children should 
be carried in the arms out of doors every day in fine weather. In winter they 
should be well wrapped up, and in summer the head should be carefully pro- 
tected from the rays of the sun. 

When the navel-string is an unusually long time in separating, no force is 
to be used; all will go on properly if left to Nature. Separation having taken 
place, a small rotmd piece of linen should be covered with a little vaseline or 
simple ointment, and applied to the navel. If the process be accompanied or 
followed by bleeding, the medical attendant should be informed without delay, 
as children occasionally die from this cause. He should also be told if, after 
the separation, the navel is found to project more than usual. 

It is by no means an unfrequent occurrence for the breasts of newly-born 
(diildren to become swollen and inflamed, and sometimes they are even found 
to contain a few drops of milk-like fluid. In either case the nurse must care- 
fully avoid rubbing or squeezing them. The swelling will gradually disappear, 
and the fluid become absorbed under soothing treatment — as, for example, the 
ordinary water di-essing; whereas rough manipulations, such as have just been 
mentioned, increase the inflammation, and are apt to result in the formation of 



The appearance of a number of little white spots on the tongue, inside the 
lips and cheeks, and on the roof of the mouth, known in the nursery as " the 
thrush," is an almost certain sign that the child's food is in some way unsuit. 
able, and ought, therefore, invariably to be reported to the medical attendant. 
In the meantime the affected places should be painted several times a day with 
glycerine of borax, by means of a camel-hair brush. 



NUBSmQ. Wi 



MANAGEMENT OP THE MOTHBB AFTER LABOR: Treat- 
ment During the First Few Hours — The Lochia — Necjessity 
of the Level Posture — Care when First Sitting-up — Change 
of Room — Going out of Doors — Changing the Linen— The 
Binder— Washing, &c.— Avoidance of Excitement — Occu- 
pation —Diet — The Bowels —Flooding —Rigors — Suckling — 
Sore Nipples— Abscess of Breast— Dispersion of Milk in the 
Event of Not Suckling. 

After the patient has been made comfortable in the manner already 
described, it is above all things desirable that she should have sereral hours of 
undisturbed rest, and, if possible, sleep. There used to be a curious notion 
prevalent amongst nurses that a \roman ought not to be allowed to fall asleep 
directly after delivery. This is altogether a mistake; sleep is to be encouraged 
by every possible means. To this end the room should be kept exceedingly 
quiet, and the blinds drawn down so as to subdue the light. In this way the 
patient will be best enabled to recover from the exhausting effects of labor. 
In the meantime the nurse should keep an eye on the patient's face, and if she 
observe that it is becoming unusually pale, she must at once ascertain whether 
there is any flooding. 

For the first few days the patient will suffer more or less from after-pains, 
which only require to be brought under the notice of the medical attendant in 
case they are very severe or interfere with sleep. As a rule, no after-paina 
occur after a first confinement. 

The Proper Food to be given directly after labor is a cup of tea, gruel, 
or warm milk; but if the patient prefers to wait a little before taking anything 
at all, there is no harm in allowing her to follow her inclination. When the 
patient has had a few hours' rest, and has recovered from her exhaustion, the 
child should be applied to the breast. The nipples can be drawn out much 
better before the breasts become filled with mUk than afterwards. 

Not more than six hours should elapse after labor before the patient ia 
reminded to pass water. She should not be allowed to wait until she feels a 
desire to do this for, under these circumstances, the bladder may be quite full 
without the patient having any inclination to empty it. At the end of six 
hours, then, if it has not been already asked for, the slipper-pan should be 
passed, a little hot water having previously been poured into it and the vessel 
itself warmed before the fire. If she finds herself unable to use the slipper-pan, 
she may be allowed to turn herself gently on to her hands and knees, in which 
position she will almost always succeed, an ordinary chamber utensil being in 
in that case substituted for the slipper-pan. Should she, even after changing 
her position, still be unable to pass urine, she 'must not make forcing efforts, 
but lie down again, rest a little, and then make a further attempt. The patient 
herself frequently imagines that she has passed urine, when she has not; hence 
the nurse, knowing this, must not be satisfied without seeing for herself th* 
contents of the vessel after its rwnoval. 



298 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Should no urine be passed during the first twelve hours, something to aM 
the patient to do so must be given, as recommended elsewhere; and probably It 
will be necessary to call a doctor to draw it off by means of the catheter. 

For the first few hours after delivery the vagina and external genital organs 
are very sore and painful, and the discharge consists of pure blood. Ten or 
twelve napkins are required during the twenty-four hours succeeding labor. 
On the second day the discharge becomes less, and each day the quantity dimin- 
ishes, the discharge itself gradually changing from pure blood to a thick dark 
fluid, and lastly to a thin serum, like soiled water. The discharge always 
possesses a peculiar and distinctive odor, but if the odor become offensive the 
medical attendant should be informed. Similarly he should be told if, after 
having once ceased to consist of pure blood, the discharge should again assume 
that character. 

The discharges after labor are termed the lochia; they sometimes last only 
a few days, and at other times continue for three or four weeks. They vary, 
too, in quantity in different women, even when they are quite natural and 
healthy. When they have passed through the changes I have named, they 
ottght presently to cease, and if, instead of doing so, they continue, and if, 
especially, they become purulent in character — that is, if they contain matter 
like that of an abscess — an examination is necessary and the medical attendant 
must be informed. 

On the other hand, it is not very unusual for the lochia to cease rather 
early and suddenly, and although this often causes alarm both to patient and 
nurse, it need not do so provided there is no other sign of ill-health, such as 
shivering, thirst, and feverishness. 

For the first three days after confinement a patient should on no account 
be raised to a sitting posture lest an attack of flooding should come on, or faint- 
ing and even sudden death occur. There is not the same danger in allowing 
her to turn on to the hands and knees; indeed, I have already said that this 
posture may be resorted to in the event of any difficulty in using the slipper- 
pan in the ordinary way. 

After the first three days, provided all is going on favorably, this rule as to 
the level position may be relaxed a little, by allowing the patient to be propped 
up by means of pillows or a bed-rest while she is taking food. At all other 
times, however, she must continue to lie down until the ninth day, when she 
may be assisted or carried to a couch and allowed to remain upon it for an hour 
or an hour and a half. At first very little dressing ought to be attempted on 
these occasions, the patient being protected from cold by wearing a warm 
dressing-grown, or by having a good blanket thrown over her. The length of 
time she is allowed to be out of bed may be increased day by day; and on the 
twelfth or thirteenth day she may be fully dressed. The temperature of the 
room must be regulated most carefully when the patient first leaves her bed, it 
l)eing much more important for the room to be well warmed then, than during 
the time she remained in bed. 

Should there be a suitable sitting-room on the same floor, the patient may 
take advantage of it as early as the fourteenth day; the lying-in chamber being 



NUBSma. 299 

meanwhile thoroughly freshened by opening the windows, spreading out the 
bedclothing, and leaying the mattress or bedding uncovered for some hours. 
If, on the other hand, the only available room is downstairs, it will be prudent 
to postpone the change for a few days longer. 

If it happens to be mild, bright summer weather, and the patient's recovery 
has been rapid and satisfactory, the medical attendant may, in an exceptional 
case, consent to her taking a short walk or drive, at the end of three weeks. 

After confinement a patient's linen requires to be frequently changed, both 
for health's sake and her own comfort. The patient must on no account be 
allowed to sit up or make any exertion while the clothes are being changed; 
the nurse must take off the soiled clothing by drawing down the sleeves from 
one arm, gathering up the clothes on that side into a handful, passing them 
gently over the head, and then drawing off the sleeves from the opposite arm. 
The clean linen, well aired, must then be put on as the patient lies. 

The first binder should always be placed next to the patient's skin; after 
the first twenty-four hours this is a matter of less consequence. Each morning 
during the first week a clean binder should be applied with moderate tightness, 
the nurse re-adjusting it from time to time during the day in case it should 
become wrinkled or loose. 

The patient's hands and face should be washed, and her hair straightened, 
as far as is possible without raising her, every morning. The hands and face 
having been attended to, the external genitals should be thoroughly cleansed 
over a bed-bath by means of a sponge and some water. In the absence of a 
bed-bath, a large slipper bed-pan may be made to answer the purpose, and if 
neither is obtainable, the patient must be made to turn on to the left side, with 
the thighs close to the edge of the bed, and the knees drawn up, when, the bed 
being duly protected by means of a rubber and warm folded sheet, the nurse 
can proceed with the sponging in the manner ordinarily adopted immediately 
after labor. For the first few days, while the lochia are somewhat abundant, 
it is well to repeat this process again in the evening. 

Should the nui-se while bathing the patient, discover a wound or raw sur 
face, or any unusual swelling, she must quietly mention it to the doctor at hi? 
next visit; and so, too, if she finds any piles protruding. In the event of the 
patient complaining of severe pain from piles, the nurse must frequently foment 
the part, or apply a bread-poultice, until she receives instructions from the 
medical attendant. 

Vaginal injections and douches are only to be used under medical direction. 

The mind requires rest equally with the body. No painful news, or other 
exciting or disturbing influences, should be allowed to reach her. The visits of 
friends to the lying-in room must be entirely forbidden, except in the case of 
those who have obtained special permission. 

It should never be forgotten that a peculiar and distressing form of mental 
derangement is liable to attack lying-in patients. Hence, if a nurse finds her 
paiient irritable in temper and difficult to manage, she must avoid anything like 
contention or direct contradiction. By a firm, quiet, decided manner, a good 
nurse will be able to carry her point without exciting her patient. 



300 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES 

As the patient grows a little stronger, there can be no objection to her 
occupying herself while in bed, if she is wishful to do so, with a little plain 
sewing or fancy work, and now and then with a little reading, so as to make 
the time pass more agreeably. 

With regard to diet, many medical practitioners have rules of their own, 
which the nurse must always be prepared loyally to carry out. It is not now 
generally thought necessary for patients to be re«tricted to tea and gruel for a 
whole week. When a nurse is left to her own discretion she will find her 
patients recover their strength most rapidly by being allowed some variety in 
their food from the beginning. Boiled milk should always enter largely into 
the dietary of a woman who intends to suckle her child. An occasional cup 
of good black tea is generally very grateful, with or without a little biscuit, 
toast, or bread-and-butter. From the first, beef-tea, chicken, mutton, or veal 
broth, rice-caudle, milk or oatmeal gruel, and other simple fluids, are perfectly 
allowable. If all is going on well, and the bowels have acted, there is no harm 
— in case the patient expresses a desire for more solid food — in giving, even on 
the second or third day, a slice of chicken, or tender roast beef, or a mutton 
chop. The diet, indeed, at this time needs to be nutritious and plentiful, while 
Its kind may safely be regulated very much according to the patient's inclina- 
tion. No stimulants of any sort, however, must be given, except under medi- 
cal direction. 

A nurse should not give opening medicine on her own responsibility. The 
medical attendant will order what is necessary and state when it is to be 
given. Very often, instead of medicines, he will prescribe a simple enema of 
soap and water. 

Flooding after Delivery. — Whenever an attack of flooding comes on 
during the period of lying-in, the nurse must at once send for the medical 
attendant, stating clearly her reasons for sending, in order that he may know 
what will be required. In the meantime she must unfasten the binder, and 
make firm pressure with her outspread hand on the womb, which she will have 
no difficulty in finding, as it will not yet have returned to its natural size and 
position. She must also apply cloths dipped in cold water, or in vinegar 
and water, to the external genitals, keeping them applied not longer than a 
minute or two at a time. Where the flow is great it vdll be right for the nurse 
to try to check it by taking a dry napkin and pressing it firmly with her hand 
against the external parts, while the other hand is still engaged in compressing 
the womb from above. The patient must, of couse be kept all this time strictly 
lying down, with the head and shoulders low, and cool, fresh air must be 
admitted through the open window. 

The occurrence of a shivering fit, especially if it is a severe one, or is fol- 
lowed by others, ought always to be regarded seriously. No time should 
be lost in acquainting the doctor, and the nurse must meanwhile do all in her 
power to produce a feeling of returning warmth in her patient. With this 
object, a warm bottle should be put to her feet, an additional blanket thrown 
over her,_and a cup of warm tea administered. This event is often the sign of 



NURSING. 301 

approaching illness that, when it has shown itself, the patient should be watched 
with the utmost anxiety. 

The secretion of milk is not usually established until the second or third 
day; now and then, however, it makes its appearance earlier. This event is 
sometimes accompanied with a little constitutional disturbance, which soon 
subsides. When the breasts are becoming so full and hard as to be painful, 
great relief will be afforded by fomenting them every few hours, and support- 
ing them, in the meantime, as in a sling, by a handkerchief tied over the oppo- 
site shoulder. (See page 193.) This condition will generally soon subside if the 
child be applied at regular intervals. Nurses must beware of meddling too 
much with the breasts, and especially avoid rubbing them, except under special 
direction from the doctor. The nipples and surrounding parts should be 
carefully washed each time the child leaves the breast, and should be excluded 
from the air by covering them with a small piece of linen rag on which a little 
vaseline or simple ointment has been spread. 

As soon as it becomes clear that the supply of breast-milk is insufficient, 
it is unwise to keep putting the child to the breast, as this only produces irrita- 
tion and is very liable to set up inflammation and abscess. Similarly, if the 
nipples are extremely sore, so that, even when they are protected by a nipple- 
shield, the application of the child is attended each time with intense pain, or 
if they are so depressed that neither the efforts of the child nor the cautious 
use of the breast-pump will draw them out, it is running a great risk of excit- 
ing breast-abscess to persevere beyond twenty-four hours in an attempt to 
suckle. 

If the nurse notices a patch of redness on a patient's breast, and finds that 
the skin at that spot is painful and tender to the touch, she should take means 
to acquaint the medical attendant as soon as possible, for an abscess has actu- 
ally formed; it should be opened with as little delay as possible, lest it spread 
and become much more formidable. 

Still-Born.— When the child is still-bom, or when, from any other cause, 
it is not going to be suckled, there is often great anxiety expressed about the 
dispersion of the milk. It is astonishing, however, how quickly it becomes 
absorbed if left to Nature. If the patient will only submit to the discomfort 
arising from the fullness of the breasts for a few hours, without insisting on 
their being partially emptied from time to tune by the use of the breast-pump, 
or other similar means, whereby the breasts are stimulated to fresh secretion and 
the evil is aggravated, she will soon have the satisfaction of finding them softer 
and less painful, and will be amply rewarded for her patience. Should the 
feeling of tension be excessive, it will be best relieved by hot fomentations 
applied every few hours; if not excessive, the application for a few days of 
bella'donna plasters with a hole in the centre for the nipple, is often all that is 
necessary. In ordering these plasters the nurse should furnish the druggist 
with paper patterns showing the size required. 



B^oor) :h'oti thie sick:. 



THE SICK-ROOM.— Its Location— A Good Nurse— Fresh 
Air— Light— Warmth — Cleanliness — Quiet — Food, Drink and 
Delieacies, and the Faithful Administration of Medicines, are 

of the utmost importance, and will each receive consideration. But, in accord- 
ance with the design of this work, the essentials only will be pointed out, the 
minor details, or little things, must be left to the judgment and "common sense ' 
of the nurse or head of the household, to be met as best they can by the conven- 
iences at hand or the means of obtaining them. 

I. Location of the Sick-room.— In summer, if it be possible, ^et the 
sick-room be on the north side of the house; in winter, upon the south — to 
avoid the mid-day heat of summer and the cold blasts of winter. And also, if 
there is a room in the house having a fire-place, give it the preference, as it is 
considered the best means of aiding ventilation and providing artificial warmth 
when needed. And, if the windows do not admit of lowering the upper sash as 
well as to raise the lower ones, prepare them at once to allow this movement. 
Further on, you will see, under the heads of " How to Produce the Temper- 
ature of Sick-rooms," and "Ventilation of Sick-rooms," where the necessity of 
this is fully explained. 

n. A Good Nurse. — We have so often heard the expression: "If 
Mr. Blank had not had the best of nursing, he would never have got well." 
Knowing that very much depends upon it, I say, get the best nurse that 
your means can obtain; then see and know for yourselves that they carry out 
yom-, or the physician's directions faithfully; for a physician's prescriptions, nor 
your own desires or directions, are of any account unless they are faithfully fol- 
lowed: But, of course, much of the details must be left to the nurse, hence the 
necessity of getting one of sound judgment and considerable experience, if 
possible. 

m. Fresh Air.— Although fresh air is essential in a sick-room, yet a 
draft must not be allowed to strike upon the patient; hence the necessity, in 
small rooms especially, of having the means of raising and lowering the sash, 
either for ventilation or to reduce the temperature. The temperature of the 
sick-room, in all ordinary cases of diseases, had better be kept as near 60" to 65" 
Fah. as possible, by opening or closing windows, or by raising the fire or 
lessening it — either, or both, — as the necessity of the case requires. And, 
let me say, the day has gone past when the great "bug-a-boo" against 
" night-air " has any weight — pure night-air, properly managed in the season 
of the year requiring it, is far better than the stifled or suffocating air of 



SOOD FOR TEE SICK 805 

a close sick-room; ventilate and reduce the temperature always as needed, 
and, of course, with proper care. Keep the air pure by carrying out of the 
room any and all vessels de chanibre as soon as used, no matter how small the 
discharge may be. Never bring a slop-bucket into the sick-room, as the pour- 
ing out, rinsing, etc., is not only very contaminating to the air, but annoying to 
the patient, 

rV. Light.— If a room for the sick has been chosen which will allow 
proper ventilation and fresh air, as needed, through the windows, the light can 
easily be governed by the curtains; and it is only necessary to say: allow all the 
light that is agreeable to the patient; and, except in nervous or eye diseases, but 
little exclusion of light will be necessary, unless the room is on the south or 
western side of the house, which is not desirable, generally. 

V. Warmth. — Under this head it will be necessary to include the tem- 
perature of the patient's surface as well as that of the room. The warmth or 
temperature of the room being about 60^ to 65° Fah. if the limbs are cold, rub 
them with the dry naked hand, or wrap in hot, dry woolen cloths, or place hot 
bricks, or bottles or jugs, filled with hot water, or, what is still better, small 
bags of dry, hot sand, made for this purpose, whichever is most convenient or 
necessary to keep them comfortable. Comfort is to be sought, no matter how 
much labor and trouble it causes; for, unless a genial warmth can be main- 
tained, health will seldom be regained. On the other hand, in fevers and 
inflammatory diseases, the surface must be cooled by means of sponging with 
cool or cold water with a little whiskey, or what is better, whiskey with bay -rum in 
it — sponging sufficiently often to keep down extreme heat. Especially over- 
come all extremes of heat or cold. 

VI. Cleanliness.— It is claimed that " cleanliness is next to Godliness." 
Whether this be a fact or not, it is absolutely necessary, if it is desired to restore 
the patient to health in the least possible time, that not only the sick-room be 
kept clean, but the bed, bed-clothing and wearing apparel be kept neat and 
clean; and the patient, also, must have such frequent washings or spongings as 
will keep the pores of the skin open, that the general exhalations, perspiration 
sensible or insensible, as when sick an odor, also, may not only pass readily 
through the pores, but to provide, in disease, for the escape not only of a larger 
amount than usual but that of a more offensive and injurious character, if left 
to be re-absorbed from the surface or clothing. 

VII. Quiet. If the patient is very sick, absolute quiet is very essential. 
If a person is once admitted to the sick-room who is found to annoy the patient 
by long talking, or, in fact in any manner, they must not only be asked to retire 
but never be admitted again. What is necessary to say, speak in a mild but 
perfectly distinct voice, and never allow whispering in a sick room for any pur- 
pose whatever. If there are any secrets to be kept from the patient, no hint of 
them, or whispering about them, should ever occur in his hearing; yet if it is 
believed the patient can not live very long, I would most certainly inform them 
•f this belief — 'tis cruel and imjust to withhold it. Any continuous noise. 



804 DB. CHASE'S RECIPBa, 

although slight in itself, soon becomes annoying to any nervous person, and 
there are but few sick persons, indeed, who do not soon become more or less 
nervous. Be firm, but kind, in all your relations with the sick. Give them to 
understand you know best, and what you know to be best to do you are going 
to do ; and what you know they ought not to do, you are not going to allow 
them to do, but in all the kindness possible, and their acquiescence may soon 
be expected. Rustling silks, squeaking shoes and the rattling of dishes must 
not be allowed in a sick-room. 

Vm. Food, Drink and Delicacies. While the patient's condition 
will allow them to use plain and substantial food, and the usual drink, as tea 
and coffee, not too strong, it is best they should have them; but with the weak 
and debilitated the delicacies must take their place; and I desire to call especial 
attention to, and to give my sanction and advice, that if any special thing 'Is 
craved, be it food or drink, I would most positively allow it, in moderation. 
We have all heard of the cravings, in olden times, of fever patients for cold 
water, and the cures brought about from its having been obtained stealthily 
against the commands of the physician ; but there has recently come to my 
knowledge a case wherein the life of a typhoid fever patient was saved by 
drinking two quarts of hard cider, which he had craved and repeatedly called 
for, and when he got hold of the pitcher he would not let it go until it was 
empty. I do not call this, however, "in moderation," but the patient was 
stouter in his desperation than the nurse and the physician who had allowed it 
to be brought, so no one could have been blamed even if it had killed rather 
than cured the patient. Do not understand this, however, even in desperate 
cases, to be a pattern drink — A small glass, and often, as long as the craving 
continues, would be the safer plan with any drink. But both food and 
drink should be given regularly in reasonable quantities. And to aid the 
nurse or family in this, the following recipes, or receipts, may be resorted t« 
with confidence and general satisfaction. To purify sick-rooms, see 
"Disinfectants." 

BEEP TEA, ESSENCES OP BEEP, AKTICLES OP DIET, 
DRINKS, ETC., POR THE SICK. 

1. Beef Tea.— Take lean beef, y^ lb. ; cold water, y^ cup; a little salt, 
pepper, mace, or nutmeg. Derections — Cut the beef into small bits — ^ or }i 
Inch squares-.-and see that no particle of fat adheres to it; put into a bottle with 
the water and cork, placing the bottle in a pan of cold water upon a stove, and 

*^as soon as it reaches the boiling-point, move it back, but keep it near the boiling- 
point for 2 hours; then strain, prising out the juices, and season with a little 
•alt and a sprinkle of pepper, mace or nutmeg, as preferred by the patient. 

2. Beef Tea— Improved Plavor, by Broiling.— Take a nioe rteak 
and remove all the fat. Have a gridiron, perfectly clean — all particles of burned 
steak may easily be removed from the baxB by placing it in hot water a few 
minutes when &:it taken from the fire; then scrape, or what ia better, u«« a stiff 
bnush, kept f sr tbis purpese. Have a very nioe fire of coals, and plaoe tbo 



FOOD FOR THE SICK 305 

Steak upon the gridiron and broil, as usual, till it is ready to turn; then take 
off, having at lea.st a qt. bowl with 1 pt. of boiling-hot water in it, and keep it 
standing by the fire, or on the back part of the stove, to keep it hot. Place the 
steak, when the first side is nicely broiled, in this bowl of hot water, and press 
it with the knife and fork — a stiff spoon is the best — to extract the juices of the 
meat. Repeat this broiling and pressing several times, turning the steak each 
time, till all the jjiiices and strength of the steak are extracted ; and if, at the 
last, the steak is cut into squares of an inch or a little more, and each piece 
pressed in a lemon-squeezer, its virtue, or strength, will all be obtained. It 
looks much like wine of itself; but still, if a teaspoon or so of wine is added to 
"What may be taken at any one time, it will not injure the most delicate stomach, 
but will be borne, even by a delicate stomach, better than bread-water, while it, 
of course, is much more nourishing; and, if properly seasoned, as suggested in 
No. 1, it will be rehshed by the patient — much more so from the broiling. 

3, Essence of Beef. — The real essence, or nourishing properties of 
beef, is obtained the same as directed in No. 1, except that no water is to be put 
into the bottle, and the boiling may need to be continued an hour or two longer; 
then the juice or essence pressed out, and a little wine added when desired or 
needed; also a touch of salt and pepper; or, if mace or nutmeg is preferred, 
there is no reasonable objection that can be offered against their use. 

Bemarks. The foregoing are the plans which have been heretofore fol- 
lowed in extracting the strength or essence from beef for the sick. But as the 
science of medicine, especially the chemical department thereof, advances, it 
has been prolific in improvements, among which that of not boiling, but steep- 
ing, either in cold water, or using heat only of a moderate degree, or not above 
100° to 135°, so as not to cook the albuminous (like white of egg) portions of 
the meat in making beef tea, or extracting its juice. 

4. Beef Tea for the Sick— New Process.— Beef tea, if rightly 
made, may be received with benefit by a stomach which would reject any 
nourishment; but skill in preparing it. is not universal among nurses. The two 
folio-Ring receipts may be relied on as among the best that can be devised: 

Beef Tea (with moderate warming up after cold steeping).— Take 1 lb. 
of the best beef; cut in thin slices and scrape the meat fine; put with a salt- 
spoon of salt into 1 pt. of cold water contained in an earthen bowl, and let the 
mixture stand 2 or 3 hours, stirring it frequently; then place it in the same Ves- 
sel covered, on the back part of the range or stove, and let it come very gradu- 
ally to a blood-heat and no more. It has been found that 135° of heat does not 
set or cook the albumen — blood-heat is only 98°. Any higher temperature 
would injure the nutriment, or nourishing properties ; then strain it through a 
fine sieve or muslin bag, and it is ready for use. The making of beef tea is not 
a cooking process, but a steeping process. Some chemists think it better to be 
made without heat, with the addition of the muriatic acid, which is a compofnent 
part of healthy gastric juice, as follows: 

5 Beef and Other Meat Teas Without Heat.— Take j^ lb. of 
fresh beef, mutton, poultry or game (the lean part only), minced very flae: 
20 



306 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

place it in 14 ozs. of soft cold water (2 or 3 tablespoons less than 1 pt.) to which 
has been added a pinch or about 18 grs. of table salt, and three or four drops of 
muriatic acid ; stir all with a wooden spoon, (on account of the acid, which rusts 
iron) and set it aside for 1 hour, stirring it occasionally; then strain it through 
gauze, or a sieve, and wash the residue left on the sieve by means of 5 addi- 
tional ozs. of cold soft water, pressing it so that all the soluble matter will be 
removed from the residue; mix the two strainings and the Extract is ready for 
use. It should be drunk freely every two or three hours. 

Remarks. — The properties taken from these last two receipts are largely borne 
out by a well known article made at Richmond, Va., by Marm. S. Valentine, 
called " Valentine's Preparation of Meat Juice," which, in using, is not to b© 
heated above 130° F., and that only upon a water-bath to avoid the possibihty ol 
over-heating — the preferable way being to use it cold, even with ice when this 
is desirable. Stale bread is recommended by him to be crumbled into the Meat 
Juice as a savory diet for the sick, as one becomes able to digest more solid 
food. This, of course will hold good vdth any of the above or other juicy 
foods, or soups, or essences, etc., prepared from any meats whatever. The 
greatest objection that can be raised against Valentine's Meat Juice is its cost. 
He claims to have concentrated the strength, or virtues, of 4 lbs. of beef 
into a 2 oz. bottle which, usually, retails at $1.25, which would certainly 
prevent its use by the sick poor — the sick rich, of course, can indulge it. 
But from its array of testimonials from the most popular physicians in America 
and Europe, and by those connected with insane asylums, hospitals, etc., it 
must have proven an exceedingly valuable preparation; and I will close my 
remarks upon this subject by saying I have not referred to it for the benefit of 
the manufacturer (for he knows not of this reference at all), nor am I paid for 
it, only as it may do good to the people in observing the value of the cold pro- 
cess, as it may be called, of the last two receipts, and being "posted," as the 
saying is, upon the best ways or plans of preparing food for the sick. This 
Meat Juice was on exliibition and received awards at the International Exhibi- 
tion in '76 at Philadelphia, and in '78 at Paris, and although he does not give its 
mode of preparation in Ms circulars, yet this must have been given to the com- 
missioner? at these exhibitions, for the awards were: 

"F'^r excellence of the method of its preparation, whereby it more nearly 
represents fresh meat than any other extract of meat, its freedom from disagree- 
able ta3t€, its fitness for immediate absorption and the perfection in which it 
retains its good qualities in warm cUmates." 

The method is undoubtedly by maceration (softening by steeping), and then 
by pres.<iiire, having used but Uttle water, and leaving a heavy pressure to 
accomplish the separation of the juices of the meat, to avoid the necessity of 
heat to condense by evaporation. There is no doubt of the value of this article 
as a food for the sick, and as only from ^ to 2 teaspoonfuls of it are required 
as a dose, or meal, those who can afford to use it will prefer to do it rather than 
prepare anv of the others above given, unless they have a skillful nurse; and, 
in that ca.«e. I shall have done the good I intended by calling attention to it. 
See also Beef Water, Broths, etc., below. 



FOOD FOR TEE SICK. 307 

6. Oyster Essence. — Take }4 doz. (or any number, according to the 
necessity, or ability of the patient to take the essence) of large, nice oysters, with 
their share of juice; put in a stew-pan, and place on the stove, or over the fire, 
and let them simmer slowly, until they smell, or become plump or full — 3 to 5 
minutes according to the heat; then take off, strain and press out the juices 
without breaking the oysters, and serve hot. Light, stale, bread crumbs, very 
light, dry biscuit, or crackers, as preferred or convenient, will give additional 
relish and strength when the patient is able to have them. 

Remarks. — Most people say, "put in salt," when they give directions to 
prepare oysters; but I know it is best not to put in the salt, or other seasoning, 
until just as you are about to remove them from the fire. 

7. Chicken Broth. — Cut up half of a young chicken, removing the fat 
and skin; sprinkle a little salt upon it and put it into 2 qts. of cold water and 
set it over a quick fire; when it comes to a boil, set it back on the stove or 
range, where it will only simmer. "When entirely tender, take out the white 
parts, letting the rest remain until it is boiled from the bones. Mince the white 
part and pound it fine in a mortar or suitable dish; add this to the broth, adding 
boiling water, if necessary, to make it thin enough to drink readily. Put agaiD 
in the sauce-pan and boil a few minutes. Some persons will desire a slight- 
addition of salt and a little pepper; but use just as Uttle pepper as will satisfy 
them, a light sprinkle, however, Mill hurt no one. It is very nutritious, and 
hence should be taken only in small quantities. A little rice may be boiled iu 
some of this broth, either for its taste or greater nourishment ; and a little stale 
bread, or a cracker or two, may be broken into some of it at another time, for 
the same reason, and for changing the flavor also. A little parsley may be 
added to flavor any of these broths, waters, or drinks, if desired, or any other 
pot-herbs. 

8. Mutton Broth. — Take Ij^ lbs. of chops, from the neck of a lamb 
or young sheep (old and strong mutton is never to be used for the sick); cut 
into small bits, removing all the fat possible ; put bones, as well as the lean 
meat, into a stew-pan, vrith 3 pts. of cold water and a little salt ; put where it 
will stew gently till all scum is removed as it rises. In 30 to 40 minutes some 
may be poured off for the patient, if he is impatient for it. Continue to stew it 
slowly an hour or two, seasoning to taste while hot ; when cool strain, and when 
cold, remove all the tallow or fat from the surface. After this it may be given 
cold or hot, as suits the patient. A slice of bread, as in the chicken panada, 
may be toasted nicely and broken into a plate ; then pouring on some of this 
broth, as in that case it is more strengthening, and gives another variety of 
broth to meet the varying tastes of the sick; or stale bread, without toasting, is 
generally preferable. 

10. Veal Broth.— "Veal broth is generally made by some chops of veal, 
as in the mutton broth above, or a joint of veal, with suitable amount of meat 
upon the joint, in about 3 qts. of water, 2 oz. of rice, a Uttle salt, and a piece or 
two of mace; stew till the water is about half evaporated. 



8C= 



DR. CHASE- S liEClPEb 



10. Beef Broth or Water.— Take a piece of perfectly lean steak 
(from the ramp or shoulder is preferable) the size of your hand ; cut it into 
small bits, and put into a stew-pan with 1 pt. of cold water ; bring it to a boil 
and skim; then set it back and simmer 20 to 30 minutes, occasionally pressing 
each piece with a spoon to obtain the full juice, or strength of the beef. In hot 
weather any of these broths or drinks will be relished well if ice-cold, by set- 
ting uix)n ice what was not taken hot when first made ; otherwise it is better to re- 
heat them when called for. 

11. "Vegetable Broth.— Let all the articles named be of medium size 
only; potatoes, 2; carrot, turnip and onion, 1 each; slice (of coxirse after wash- 
ing and paring); boil 1 hour in 1 qt. of water, adding more boihng water from 
time to time to keep the original quantity good. Add a little salt and pepper, 
and any pot-herbs, as parsley or other herb, as preferred, to flavor; strain, or 
allow to settle. This is a good substitute for the animal broths, when they can 
not be borne, or at distances from where fresh meats can be obtained; or 
as an additional variety when sickness is long continued. 

12. Milk Porridge, with Baisins. — Stir 2 tablespoons of flour vdth 
sufficient cold milk to make smooth; then stir this into 1 qt. of boiling milk; 
break or cut iuio halves 20 or 30 nice large raisins, and boil 20 minutes. Strain 
and fixid a little salt. 

13. Oatmeal Porridge, or G-ruel.- Mix 2 tablespoons of the finely 
ground oatmeal with a little cold water, then stir it into 1 pt. of boiling water 
and let it boil 15 to 20 minutes. Add a little salt and sugar, to taste; if desired 
a small quantity of wine and nutmeg may also be added. 

14. Cornmeal Gruel, or Porridge. — One of the most common 
gruels is made with cornmeal and a little flour. Half a cup of cornmeal and }i 
a tablespoon of flour wet to a smooth paste, then stirred into 1 qt. of boihng 
water, and the boiling continued slowly for 30 minutes. Seasoned with salt 
and a little sugar, makes it the most palatable to most people; and some add a 
little butter; but if any is used it should be a very Uttle, and that of the choicest 
kind. This is not only nourishing for the sick, but is mildly laxative, and aids 
the action of carthartic medicine ; but if it is intended to aid a cathartic do not 
use any flour in its make. A bit of cinnamon or nutmeg, as preferred, may be 
added to any of these gruels or waters. But if any astringent is desired, or a 
gruel to aid astringent remedies, use one of the two following: 

15. Browned Cornmeal Gruel, or Cakes, for Weak Stom- 
achs, and for Summer Complaints of Children. — Brown corn the 
same as you roast coffee; grind it fine in a coffee-mill, and make a gruel as with 
common cornmeal. Make some into a mush, or batter, and bake, in thin cakes, 
to a light brown. Very feeble stomachs will retain the grael ; or the cakes, as 
preferred. See also " Corn Coffee for the Sick." 

16. For Diarrhea of Children, or Others. — Parch the coni 
nicely ; grind it Into meal, and boil it in skim milk. This is claimed to be a 
sure cure for summer complaints. 



FOOD FOB TEE SICK. " ) > 

17. Milk and Bice Gruel. — Rice flour, or very finely pulverized nee, 
3 table-spoonfuls, wet smoothly with cold milk, and stir into 1 qt. of boiling 
milk, and stir all the time it is boiling — 10 to 15 minutes, or till it tastes done. 
Nutmeg is a very nice flavor for this gruel, and a little sugar, if desired. It is 
very acceptable for children. 

18. Tamarind Whey — Cooling and Laxative.— Dr. John King, 
of Cincinnati, says: 

"A convenient and cooling laxative is Tamarind Whej', made by boiling 
1 oz. of the pulp of the Tamarind in 1 pt. of milk, and straming the product." 

Remarks — Tamarinds grow on quite large trees, principally in the East and 
West Indies. They are put up in kegs with ayrup for importation; and on 
being received in the United States are often put up, by wholesale druggists, in 
bottles for their better preservation as, like other fruits, they keep better in air- 
tight bottles. I trust their value as a cooling and thirst-allaying fruit may, 
hereafter, be more fully appreciated, especially in fevers, inflammation and 
dyspepsia. 

19. Tamarind "Water, for Fever Patients — Tc Allay Great 
Thirst in Hot Weather, and for Dyspeptics.— Take nice Tamarinds 
(kept by druggists in large cities, and sometimes, also, by grocers), 1 qt. — 3 lbs 
will about equal 1 qt.— place them in an earthen jar and pour upon them 3 qts. 
of boiling, soft water; cover, and let stand three or four hours; then, with the 
hand squeeze the pulp out of the bird-nest clusters, in which the seeds and pulp 
are held; then strain through stout muslin; bottle and cork tightly; and put into 
a cool cellar. In three or four weeks it will be rif>e and fit for use. 

Remarks. — In hot weatlier, especially vdth dyspeptics, there is often 
experienced -ery great thirst. With such, I am not aware of any other article 
or drink equal to this to relieve them of the excessive craving for drink. Then 
take a wine-glass of this in as much ice-cold water, sweetened to taste, and you 
will have a healthy and most agreeable nectar, and one of the most powerful 
extinguishers of thirst ever discovered. The author has tested it and knows 
whereof he speaks. It settles by standing and becomes as clear and pure as 
champagne. I have taken a glass of it when very thirsty, ice-cold, as above 
mentioned, and the relief would be so perfect I would not think about drinking 
again for 2 or 3 hours. The properties of the tamarind are very peculiar, as it 
contains not only small quantities of sugar, but pectic, citric, tartaric and malic 
acids, and also the bi-tartrate of potassa; is nourishing, refrigerant (cooling), 
calmative and laxative; hence its great value in fevers. But, of course, to pre- 
pare it for a drink in fevers, you cannot wait for it to purify itself by standing, 
yet it should be bottled all the same, and a bottle of it placed at once upon ice; 
or if no ice is at hand, stand a bottle of it in a bucket of cold water, so as to 
have it as cool as possible; then add as much cold water to what you use of the 
tamarind water at each time, and sweeten to taste. Let the patient partake of 
it as freely as desired, so long as it agrees with the stomach, and does not prove 
too laxative. 

20. Wine Whey. — Put 1 pt. of sweet milk in a suitable basin upon the 
stove, and when it comes to a boil, pour into it a gill (about 5 or 6 table-spooB 



S7.0 I>R- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

tuls) of wine, and when it has again boiled about 15 minutes, remove from the 
fire; let it stand a few minutes, but do not stir it; then strain or remove the 
curd, and sweeten to taste; flavor with cinnamon, or nutmeg, or any other 
spice or fruit, as orange or lemon peel, etc. It is used for very weak and 
feeble patients. 

21. Sour Milk Whey. — Where wine is not to be had, and a whey is 
needed, bring a cup of sweet milk to a boil, and add the same amount of sour 
oailk, and the result is a very nice whey. Season or flavor, as desired. 

22. If no sour milk, a table-spoonful of good vinegar will do the same 
thing if not curdled, by standing a few minutes, stir in a little more vinegar, 
strain and season to taste. 

23. Chicken Water,— Take half of a young chicken, divest it of the 
skin, remove the feet, and break all the bones. Put into 2 qts. of water and 
boU for half an hour; strain through muslin, and season with a little salt and 
pepper, if desired. It quenches the thirst and is quite nourishing for use when 
the strong teas or essences cannot be borne by the stomach. Straining through 
muslin removes or absorbs any oil or fat upon the surface, which cannot be 
dipped off. 

24. Barley Water. — Pearl barley, 1 oz. ; wash in cold water, and pour 
ofl; then boil it a few minutes, and pour off again, which removes a certain 
rank taste; now pour on boiling water, 1 qt. ; and boil, in an open dish, until 
half evaporated; strain and season to the taste of the patient. It is nourishing 
and pleasant, hot or cold, as desired. 

25. Chicken Panada.— Toast a slice of stale bread (bread not less 
than two days old) to a very nice brown (be careful never to burn bread in 
toasting for the sick, for scraping off does not remove the burned taste,) and 
break into a soup plate, pouring over it some chicken broth, boiling hot; cover 
the plate and let it stand till cold enough to eat, or drink, according to the 
condition of the patient 

26. Plain Panada.— Split 5 or 6 Boston, or other very light crackers, 
put into a bowl with a very little salt, nutmeg and sugar to taste ; pour boiling 
water over them and cover till cool; it makes a nourishing drink — and still more 
nourishing if the patients digestion will allow them to eat the crackers, or a 
portion of them. 

27. Plain Panada, With Bread.— Put into a bowl, in small pieces, 
1 slice of stale bread (not less than 3 days old), leaving out the crust; put in a 
small piece of nice butter, and pour upon it J^ pt. of boiling water. Sweeten, 
if desired, and flavor also if preferred, with nutmeg and a little wine also, if 
desired, 

28. Corn Coffee, for the Sick, or for a Nauseous Stomach.— 

Take nice, sweet, dry corn (I do not mean sweet corn, but nicely dried field 
corn); be careful in browning it, not to burn it, as it injures its flavor, as much 
as it does to over-brown coffee for general use — makes it bitter rather than 
"pleasant. To 1 coffee cup of this ground, as coffee, stir in 1 beaten egg; pui 



FOOD FOR THE SICK 311 

into the coffee pot, and pour on boiling water, 1 pt. oi a little more; steep and 
season also as coffee, with cream and sugar. It is nourishing and sufficiently 
stimulating to allay a nauseous stomach before vomiting has taken place. See 
also browned corn meai gruel for weak stomachs. 

29. Corn Tea. — Make the same as the corn coffee above, except not to 
use the egg. It is pleasant, hot or cold, but not quite as nourishing, lacking 
the egg: hence adapted to very weak patients (see also the herb teas), but as 
there will be found patients in every condition of strength, or want of strength, 
it becomes important that a variety of receipts should be given, and hence the 
following: 

30. Rice Coffee, Especially Nice for Children or Weakly 
Patients. — Brown the rice carefully, as you would the coffee bean, or corn, 
above; then grind, or mash in a mortar, and to 1 cup of this pour on 1 qt. of 
boiling water, let it stand 15 minutes; strain if it does not pour off clear. 
Sweeten all these coffees with loaf or granulated sugar, and use boiled milk 
■with them, as freely as relished. It may be drank as freely as the stomach will 
bear. Children are very fond of it; and it is better for them, or for weakly 
persons, than common coffee. The same holds good, also, of the corn prepar- 
ations above. 

31. Common Teas. — A rather weak tea (never a strong one) maybe 
made of any of the ordinary green or black teas, when craved by the sick, 
sweetening and using milk as desired; for we believe it better to allow a mild 
beverage of this kind to any sick person rather than to allow their minds to 
worry over a refusal, for all excitement is to be avoided if reasonably possi- 
ble, for amendment seldom begins, nor does it continue long, after any dissatis- 
faction arises, no matter what the subject, nor how slight the dissatisfaction 
may be; hence indulge all opinions, or even whims, that have not in themselves 
an absolute wrong. 

32. Eggnog for the Sick.— Beat the yolk of 1 egg with 1 table spoon- 
ful of pulverized sugar to the consistency of cream; grate in a little nutmeg; 
add 1 large table-spoonful of brandy and 2 of Madeira wine. Beat the white of 
the egg to a stiff froth, and mix in with 1 cup of nice sweet milk. 

Remarks. — This is palatable, and for weak and feeble patients will be found 
very invigorating and strengthening, the true "Madeira" being rich in its: 
tonic and invigorating qualities. The original formula ran thus: ' The yolks, 
of 16 eggs, and 16 table spoonfuls of pulverized loaf-sugar (the day of this ' ' loaf- 
sugar" is over, except in small cubes or squares) beaten to a cream; 1 grated 
nutmeg; 3^ pt. of good brandy or rum, and 2 glasses of Madeira wine. The 
whites beaten to a stiff froth and put in, finishing with 6 pts. of milk made 
cold. " This would indicate that it was being made for general or hospital use, 
or the patient must have been expected to live on it for a week at least, or other- 
wise to have many visitors. But this was a universal practice in an early day» 
and finally whiskey took the place of the brandy and the wine. No party or 
evening gathering was considered to be well provided for unless a large supply 
of milk punch or eggnog was prepared and set before the guests, when every 



812 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

one was expected to help themselves, from time to time, to aJ they desired; 
but it is one of the most dangerous forms in which liquor can be placed before 
young men, and especially so if there are to be frequent evening parties. I 
speak from the experience of my early life, where this beverage was freely 
supplied by a man of social disposition, having plenty of means, to induce 
about a dozen of us young men to spend our evenings in his society at least two 
or three evenings in the week. But, for one, I soon discovered that the days 
were too long, and that I desired the parties would suit me better every night 
.ather than only two or three in the week, and on the days up>on which a party 
was to gather in the evening, I wanted night to come even before supper-time, 
which opened my eyes to the danger of these nightly meetings while I yet had 
moral courage and strength of mind to say: " Excuse me, I shall meet with 
you no more," — and I did not, notwithstanding the jibes and jeers of my asso- 
ciates in labor through the day. To this decision, made very soon after my 
marriage, I owe a life of great industry and labor, in which, I humbly believe, 
I have done at least some good to my fellow creatures; for which I feel very 
grateful to Him to whom we all have to render an account. Then allow me to 
say to everyone, but especially so to every young man: " Touch not any liquor 
as a beverage, as you hope to spend a life of usefulness here, and of happmess 
In the better land beyond the river." 

33. Negus for the Sick.— Barley-water. 1 pt.; wine, 3^pt. ; lemon- 
juice, 1 table-spoonful; nutmeg and sugar to suit. Directions — Make the 
barley-water, as before given; then mix. 

Remarks. — Nourishing and stimulating. Used by weak patients like Col. 
Negus, from whom it takes its name. 

34. Baw Egg and Milk for Convalescents.— A fresh egg; milk, 

1 cup; a little port or other vdne, and a little sugar. Directions — Use only 
the yolk, beating thoroughly; then add the milk, and beat till foamy; then 
sugar and wine. 

Remarks. — Have this ready to be taken by convalescents when they feel the 
least fatigue on returning from exercise. 

35. Milk Punch for the Sick.— Nice sweet milk, % pt.; white sugar, 

2 table-spoonfuls, best brandy, 2 table-spoonfuls; ice. Directions — Dissolve 
the sugar in the milk, and add the brandy, stirring well. 

Remarks.— This, punch has maintained the life of very sick oersons when 
nothing else could be taken for several days, or until the natural forces returned 
to the rescue. Make cold with ice, or keep it on ice 

36. Milk Punch, with Eggs, for Weak Patients. — If the 
patient is very weak, it is more strengthening to beat a fresh egg (in fact, none 
but freshly laid eggs should be used with the sick) thoroughly, and stir into 
the above punch before the spirit is added. 

Remarks. — The white of a fresh egg beaten with 1 table-spoonful of white 
sugar, then a table-spoonful of best brandy added and again beaten, was fed to 
me by a Methodist clergyman — a special friend — in tea-spoonful doses, which sus- 
tained me 2 or 3 days, and, no doubt, saved my life, when even the consulting 



FOOu FOR THE SICR. 313 

physician declared it would send the disease to the brain and soon destroy, me. 
The occasion for its use arose from typhoid pneumonia of the right lung — the 
exhausting discharges from the bowels and the change of position necessary 
producing such sinking spells that life must have soon given out. The attend- 
ing physician had determined to administer the brandy ; but the consulting one 
(a much older man, and hence more set in the "old fogy" idea that brandy 
ivould escite inflammation of the brain) was contending with him in the parlor, 
is I was afterwards informed, that it would not do; when the clergyman came 
In, as he was in the habit of doing in my sickness, and heard their argument, 
he came in to see my condition; as soon as he saw my exhaustion — he having 
been raised from the same condition by a physician in another city, went 
back to the doctors and said: " I will take the responsibility of this case to-day," 
thus agreeing with the advance in science, as shown by the younger physician; 
he did as above indicated, personally attending to me all that day and niglil 
till 5 o'clock in the morning; pronouncing the danger past, he called my deal 
wife (since passed to the "better land"), whom he had compelled, as it were, to 
lie down for a few hours, which she had not before done for several days and 
nights (getting all her rest and sleep in a chair, notwithstanding there was plenty 
of help, through her anxiety for me— such is a true woman's love). The brandy 
was truly the hinge on which the case turned back to life, when scarcely a hope 
was entertained that such could be the result. Why should not this, then, or 
some other of these punches, eggnogs, etc., save others when in such extremely 
weak conditions? If I did not so believe, I would certainly not take such pains 
and so much space to explain and recommend them. But do not understand 
me as recommending these stimulating drinks, only in these exhausting diseases, 
where the diffusive as well as the stimulating power of the spirit is demanded 
to aid the strength and stimulate the recuperative powers of nature to rally to 
the rescue. My reasons for opposing stimulation generally, is more fully shown 
in the remarks following ''Eggnog." 

37. Claret Punch.— Claret, 1 bottle: ice-water, J^ as much as wine, 
sliced lemons, 2; powdered sugar, i^ cup. Put the sugar upon the sliced 
lemons for a few minutes; add the ice-water and stir well for a minute or two, 
then pour in the wine. Put plenty of ice into each glass as served For the 
sick come as near to the proportions as practicable, for why should not the sick 
have their share of the good things, as well as those who only use them for the 
enjoyment ? These fixtures are only additions to improve flavor, and make 
more palatable; hence let the sick have the advantage of them by all means. 

38. Currant Shrub for the Sick.— A lady writer says: 'Make the 
same as jelly, but boil only ten minutes ; then bottle, and cork tightly. Put 3 
table-spoonfuls of the shrub (jelly) to J^ glass of ice-cold water, and have some 
bits of ice in it." 

Remarks.— TioB would be pleasant and grateful to the taste, but it is not 
shrub — that always contains spirits of some kind, to prevent souring; or, for 
its stimulating effects; see the following: 

38. English Shrub, for the tSick.— "One sour" (lemon juice) 



314 



DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 



"two sweet" (sugar), "three strong" (rum, or other spirit), "four weak" 
(water). 

Remarks. — The measure might be a tea cup, or a pint measure, as desired, 
but each article was to be measured in the same dish. For those patients need- 
ing any stimulants, I would add J^ as much good whiskey, or Bordeaux, pre- 
ferably, as is used for the jelly. Any common acid jelly, properly diluted 
with ice-cold water, makes a pleasant drink for fever patients, or those sick 
from other diseases. Or, any of the following may be used, as needed. 

40. Acid Drinks From Raspberry Vinegar Jelly, is Nour- 
ishing and Pleasant for Invalids.— Take 4 qts. of red raspberries and 
cover them with good cider vinegar, and let them stand 24 hours; then scald, 
strain and add sugar, 1 lb,, to each pint of the juice; boil 20 minutes, or until 
it jells; bottle and cork, or can, air tight, and it will keep well, or is ready for 
present use. A table-spoonful of this to a glass of ice-cold water, taken a little 
at a time, makes the patient, if a reasonable one, feel very grateful, when sick, 
or convalescing. So also does: 

41. Toast Water. — Make by nicely browning (not burning in the least) 
Btale bread; then pouring boiling water upon it, and letting it stand upon ice, if 
Tou have it, then squeezing in a little lemon juice. 

42. Raw Egg Drink for Invalids— Strengthening, Restora- 
tive and Pleasant. — A fresh, raw egg, being both strengthening and restor= 
ative, may be made into a pleasant drink, for the feeble, by breaking a freshly 
laid egg into a bowl, and beating it well, with 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 
then adding a little ice-cold water, and a tea to a table-spoonful of spirits, or 
wine, as prepared, or at hand. 

43. Drink for Great Thirst of Fever Patients.— Cream of tar- 
tar, % oz. ; white sugar, 4 ozs. ; confection of orange peel, 3 ozs. ; boiling hot 
water 3 pts. 

[Confection of Orange Peel.-^lake. the external rind of nice fresh oranges, 
separated by rasping (grating), 1 lb. ; white pulverized sugar, 3 lbs. (or in these 
proportions). DniECTioNS. — Beat the rind in a stone, or wedge-wood mortar, 
then add the pulverized sugar, and continue the beating till perfectly incorpo- 
rated together. Keep in cans.] 

DiRECTioKS. — Pour the hot water upon the other ingredients; when all 
are dissolved, .set aside to cool. When cold drink as freely as the thirst of the 
patient demands. (See fevers, preventative and cure. — Dr. Buchanan.) 

Remarks. — This confection is tonic, and stomachic, and is principally used 
as a vehicle for the exhibition of tonic powders, dnnks, etc. — Cooky's Cyclo- 
pedia, 

44. Pectoral Drink.— -Common barley and stoned raisins of each 2 
o28, ; licorice root, bruised, i^ oz. ; water, 2 qts. Dikections. — First boil tiie 
barley, then add the raisins and continue the boiling until the water is one half 
fivaporated, and add the licorice. When, cool strain. 

Remarks. — Dr. Buchanan, an old English physician, made it the usual 
drink in all pectoral (chest) difficulties, to be drank freely. 



FOOD FOR TEE SICK. 315 

45. Herb Teas, for the Sick Room.— Dried sage leaves, or any of 
lie mints, or balm leaves, ]4 oz. ; boiling v\ ater, % pt. ; steep and strain, or pour 
iS., when cool enough to drink. A little sugar may be used with any of them 
;hen desired. 

46. Sage Tea, Made as above, with % tea spoonful of pulverized alum 
dissolved in it and sweetened with honey, is especially valuable as a gargle for 
sore throat. 

47. Mint Teas, From the dried or green leaves crushed, with a little 
sugar, are agreeable to the taste, and soothing to a nauseous stomach, and to an 
irritated condition of the bowels of children. 

48. Catnip Tea, However, is considered, by old nurses, as the greatest 
panacea for infant ills, known among them. 

49. Pennyroyal Tea, Is equally well known as the best 'thing to 
break up colds, and to restore a checked perspiration from exposures, damp 
feet, etc. 

50. Gentian Boot and chamomile flower teas are both valuable tonics, 
and may be taken hot or cold, as preferred, and with or without sugar, but as 
both are quite bitter, sugar will make them more palatable. 

51. Strawberry Leaf Tea, From the green leaves, is considered val- 
uable in canker of the mouth of infants, and with the alum, as in the sage, for 
adults, as a wash or gargle. 

52. Blackberry Tea, Made from the roots are considered valuable 
in bowel difiiculties; and that from the raspberry are believed to be equally val- 
uable; and a syrup from these fruits are valuable in bowel complaints, and also 
make agreeable drinks in fevers and inflammatory diseases. 

53. Mint Tea, Juleped.— It would be hardly right to dose the sub- 
ject of herb teas without giving an idea that something besides teas can be made 
from the mints. Take, then, a few sprigs of green mint (if any urinary diffi- 
culty, or in case of fever let it be spearmint, as that is more diuretic and febri- 
fuge than peppermint, while tbe peppermint is the most carminative and anti- 
spasmodic), and bruise them in a glass with a spoon — mashing considerably — 
adding sugar freely, and cold water to half fill the glass, with a table-spoonful 
or two of wine, or brandy, and pounded ice to fill, shaking, or stirring well, 
and if quaffed quickly you will think there has been a hail storm in the 
neighborhood, of an agreeable character — a little of which is not bad to take 
by sick or well people. 

PUDDINGS, TOAST, PAP, JELLIES, STEAKS, CHOPS, ETC., 
FOB THE SICK 

54. Bice Pudding — Baked.— Rice % lb.; water, 1 pt. ; milk, 1 qt.-. 
sugar 1 cup; 3 eggs; salt, 1 tea-spoonful; lemons, nutmegs or vanilla to flavor. 
Directions — Wash the rice and boil in the water 30 minutes; then add the 
milk and boil 30 minutes longer; beat the eggs, sugar and salt together, and 



816 I>R- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

stir into the rice. Bake in a nicely buttered dish for half an hour. To be 
eaten with a very little nice butter, or sauce, if preferred. 

Remarks.— MlliovLgh. a little of this is very appropriate for the sick, yet, I 
think, most families will be willing to help them dispose of the surplus, if it. 
comes from the oven just at dinner-time 

5 5 . Tapioca, Cream Pudding. — Tapioca, 3 table spoonfuls ; water and 
milk, 1 qt. ; 3 eggs; a little salt; lemon or vanilla to flavor. Dikections — 
Cover the tapioca with water and let soak 4 hours; pour off what water is left, 
put the milk over the fire, and as soon as it boils stir in the beaten yolks of the 
eggs and the salt, then the tapioca, and stir till it begins to thicken. Make a 
frosting of the whites and brown a moment only, having added the flavoring. 
This is very palatable and very nourishing. 

56. Graham Pudding — Steamed.— Boiling water, 1 pt. ; graham 
flour, salt; hot milk, 1 pt.; 1 egg. Directioks — Stir into the boiling water 
suflleient graham flour to make a stiff paste; adding the egg, beaten, and a little 
salt; then stir into the hot milk and steam 3^ of an hour— the steam being up 
when the dish is set in the steamer. Serve with maple syrup, or nice cream 
and sugar, or any other sauce preferred. 

57. £gg Toast. — A fresh egg, nice bread, not less than one day old, 
salt and hot water. Directions- Toast the bread only to a light brown; 
break the egg into hot water on the stove, and cook only to "set" the white; 
put a little salt into sufficient hot water, dip the toasted bread, quickly, into it, 
and place it on a hot plate, and put on the egg, adding a sprinkle of salt 
only. 

Remarks. — It is presumed that if this is done nicely, according to directions, 
and the patient is able to digest this kind of food, it will be found enjoyable. 
At another time a soft toast, with water or sometimes with milk, of course, hot, 
\n either case will give the needed varieties, to meet different tastes and cir- 
cumstances. 

58. Pap, of Boiled Flour— For Diarrhea of Children.— 
Tie 1 cup of flour closely in a cloth, and boil 5 hours; when cool grate off a 
•able-spoonful of it, and mix smoothly in a little cold milk; then stir this mixture 
<nto 1 pt. of boiling milk, and boil a few minutes, and sweeten with loaf sugar, 
and add a little nutmeg, if desired. Very valuable in diarrhea of children or 
adults. 

59. Wine Jelly —In placet- where none of the common fruit jellies are 
obtainable, the following will make an excellent substitute: Boil white sugar, 
}i lb., in 1 gill of water. Have dissolved isinglass, 1 oz., in a little water, and 
strain into the syrup; and when nearly cold add 3^ pt. of wine; mix well in a 
bowl or suitable dish; cover. For convalescents or those getting up from 
exhausting diseases, this will be found as nutritious as it is palatable. If too 
thick at any time, add a little milk or water, as preferred, or convenient. 

60. Arrowroot. — Mix 2 table-spoonfuls of arrowroot to a smooth paste 
■With a little cold water; then add to it 1 pt, of boiling water, a little lemon peel. 



FOOD FOR THE SICK. 317 

and stir while boiling. Let it cook till quite clear. Sweeten with sugar, and 
flavor with wine or nutmeg, if desired. Milk may be used instead of the water, 
if preferred. 

61. Beefsteak— Broiled. — Have a small piece of rather thick surloin 
steak; a perfectly clear, coal fire should be ready, te avoid the possibility of the 
taste of smoke, and the gridiron must be perfectly clean ; 3 or 4 minutes to each 
side, if the patient likes it at all rare, will be sufficient, being very careful to 
avoid burning. Season with a little salt and very little pepper. Place on a hot 
plate and serve immediately. 

62. Mutton or Lamb Chops.— These must be trimmed free of fat, 
and broiled the same as beefsteak, except that they must be a little better done, 
and hence should be cut a little thinner to allow cooking through. Season and 
serve the same. But if any patient, at any time, desires any modification in 
cooking or seasoning, let it be done to suit him, unless known to be injurious. 

63. How to Beduce the Temperature of Sick-rooms and to 
Keep them Cool. — In very warm weather it is often desirable, for the com- 
fort of the patient to have the room considerable cooler than the natural atmos- 
phere. In such cases raise the lower sashes entirely upon the side of the room 
from which the breeze comes; then have a piece of muslin soaking wet, squeeze 
slightly, and tack it on so as to make all the air come in through the wet mus- 
lin, which will reduce the temperature of the room 5 or 6 degrees in a few 
minutes. This is done by the absorption of a part of the heat in the atmos- 
phere by the passing of the water in the muslin from its liquid to a gaseous 
state (a principle well known in philosophy), and the air of the room becomes 
more moist also, which makes it more endurable. 

Bemarh^. — It only needs trying to satisfy the most incredulous, and it will 
benefit the very feeble patient more than enough to pay everyone for the trouble 
taken. As the cloths become dry, replace them with others; or keep them well 
wet with a sponge. 

64. Ventilation of Sick-rooms and Sleeping-rooms— Avoid- 
ing the Draft over the Patient.— Have a piece of board made just as 
long as the vddth of the window; then raise the lower sash, and place the board 
under it. The width of the board may be 3 or 4 inches only, as this will allow 
a current of air to pass up between the glass and sash, breaking the draft that 
otherwise enters directly into the room when the sash is raised. In this way 
air may be admitted even at the head or back side of a sick-bed, for the curtain 
may be lowered to break the current from passing directly upon the patient. 
This plan is equally important in small and ill-ventilated sleeping-rooms. This 
much fresh air, at least, should be admitted into every sleeping-room, exceptiagt 
the extremely cold and windy days of winter. 



PART II. 



GENERAL DEPARTMENT. 



CuiiiNABT OR Cooking Depabtment, - • • 319 

Miscellaneous Rfceipts, - - 515 

Household Memoranda, ... , 625 

Toilet Departiient, - - , ' 633 
Dairy Department, .... '641 

Domestic Animals, ....... 653 

Agricultural Receipts, . ^ . . . 772 

Mechanical Receipts, _ . . - . - 790 

Bee-keeping, ........ 803 

Dictionary op Medical Terms, ..... 817 



For anything in this department, or outside of the Medical Department, 
see General Index, page 844. For anything in the Medical Department, 
see MsDiCAii Index, page 833. 



318 




THE KEY TO A HAPPY HOME. 



CULINARY RECIPES 



BREAD, PUDDINGS, PIES, CAKES, SOUPS, MEATS, AND 
VARIOUS DISHES. 



jb:ei:hi.a^jd. 



BemarJts. — If the simple word "bread" only, is spoken, it is always 
understood to mean white, or bread made from wheat flour. Other kinds 
always have a descriptive attachment, as Graham, Indian, brown, Boston 
brown, corn, etc. Two things are especially essential in good bread — lightness 
and sweetness. If bread is heavy — not light and porous — or if it is sour, it is 
only fit for the pigs. And it is important to know that good bread caimot be 
made out of poor flour. In the following these points are nicely explained, 
together with full and complete instructions in the three necessary processes of 
making good bread — making sponge, kneading, and baking. 

How to Make Good Bread. — A loaf of perfect bread, white, light, 
sweet, tender, and elastic, with a golden brown crust, is a proof of high civiliza- 
tion, and is so indispensable a basis of all good eating that the name "lady," or 
" loaf -giver, "applied to the Saxon (English, as now understood, for England was 
overrun and conquered by the people of Saxony, in northern Germany, in an 
early day, so that now, to say a " Saxon," or of the Saxon race, refers to the 
English, descended from them, more often than to the people of Saxony itself 
— and especially Anglo-Saxon always means English) matron, may well be held 
in honor by wife or maiden. But do all the gracious ladies who preside in our 
country homes see such loaves set forth as daily bread? 

Inexperienced housekeepers and amateur cooks will find it a good general 
rule to attempt at the beginning only a few things, and learn to do those per- 
fectly. And these should be, not the elaborate dishes of special occasions, but 
the plain every -day things. Where can one better begin than with bread? 
The eager patronage of the over-crowded, carlessly served, high-priced Vienna 
bakery at the Centennial gave evidence that Americans appreciate good bread 
and good cofiee, and had, perhaps, some effect in stimulating an effort for a 
belter home supply. To make and to be able to teach others to make bread of 
this high character is an accomplishment worth at least as much practice as a 
sonata {sl piece of music); and the work is excellent as a gymnastic exercise. 
With good digestion, honest personal pride, and the grateful admiration of the 
family circle as rewards, surely no girl or woman who aspires to responsibilities 
and joys of home, will shrink from the labor of learning to make bread. 

The whole art and science of bread-making is no mean study. The why, 
319 



820 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

as well as the how, should be aimed at, although exact knowledge or science, 
even in bread-making, is not so simple a matter as some might fancy. Varying 
conditions, even the temperature of the kitchen, work confusion in the phe- 
nomena of a batch of bread as surely as in the delicate experiments of a Tyndall 
or a Huxley. Fortunately, an exhaustive knowledge is not essential to practical 
success. Skillful manipulation will come with experience, and I have taughr 
the actual art to a succession of uneducated cooks so that, with a little super- 
vision, they satisfactorily supplied an exacting family. But the mistress, the 
house-mother, who must give intelligent direction, will not be satisfied without 
going to the root of the matter. Let her not rest upon her laurels vdthout 
making sure that her table is constantly supplied with such delicious loaves ol 
"the staff of life" as, with the fragrant, highly-flavored butter of May or June, 
shall make a fit repast even for the good women whose hand have prepared 
them. 

Grood Flour Essential. — The first requisite to good bread is good floui 
(and sifted, to enliven it and make it mix more readily). If the very best seem? 
too exi)ensive, make up the difference in cost by eating less cake. With really 
delicious bread you will do this naturally, and almost unconsciously. 

The Yeast, to Make. — In the country, where fresh yeast from brew 
eries is out of the question, the first process must be making yeast; and it is 
well to begin there, and know every step of your way. The commercial yeast 
cakes must form a basis; from them it is easy to make the potato yeast, which 
is perhaps the simplest and best of several good forms of soft yeast. Dry yeast 
cake used directly wiU not make bread of the first quality. For the yeast, soak 
three yeast cakes in a cup of tepid water, while six or eight fair-sized potatoes are 
boiling. When they are perfectly soft, put the potatoes, with a quart of water 
in which they were boiled, through a colander, and add a teaspoonful of salt 
and two of sugar. When tepid, add the yeast cakes, rubbed with a spoon to a 
smooth paste, and place the whole in a stone jar, and keep the contents at blood 
heat for twelve hours, when a lively effervescence should have taken place. 
The yeast wiU be in perfect condition the next day, and will remain good for 
ten days or more if kept in a cool celler in a closely covered jar. 

Setting the Sponge. — Many New England housekeepers make a great 
mistake in setting their sponge over night. One secret of good bread is that 
every stage of the process must be complete and rapid Every moment of 
waiting means deterioration. At the precise moment wlien t^-e sponge is fully 
light the bread should be kneaded, and the process of rising a>\g]xi not to require 
more than thrte hours at most. Set your sponge, then, as «^Tly in the morning 
as you like, by taking in the bowl or basin kept for the purpose (and you will 
soon learn just how high in it the sponge should rise) two ouarts of sifted flour. 
Make a hole in the middle with the stirring spoon; pour in half a pint of the 
soft yeast, first thoroughly stirring it from the bottom, then mixing with the 
flour; add tepid water, stirring constantly, until a smooth, stiff batter is formed, 
which stir and beat vigorously with the spoon for at least five minutes after it 
is perfectly mixed. Cover lightly, and set in a warm place until thoroughly 



BREAD. 321 

light, almost foaming ; but be sure not to delay kneading until it begins to sub- 
side. 

Kneading. — Sift the flour, say 6 qts., in a pan, make a hole in the mid- 
dle, pour in the sponge; add a pinch of salt, and, dexterously mingling the 
flour with the soft sponge by the hand, gradually add a quart of warm milk or 
warm water, quickly incorporating the whole into a smooth, even mass. Cover 
the kneading-board with flour, place upon it the dough, which must not be soft 
enough to stick or stiff enough to make much resistance to pressure, and knead 
vigorously and long. Half an hour's energetic kneading is not too much for a 
family baking. By that time the bread should be elastic, free from stickiness, 
and disposed to rise in blisters. Cover with a soft bread-cloth folded to four 
thicknesses, and set it where a temperature of about blood-heat will be main- 
tained. 

In two hours it should have risen to fully twice its volume. Place it again 
upon the board; divide with the hands (which may be floured, or, better, but- 
tered) a portion of the size which you wish for your loaves, remembering that 
it will rise again half as much more; lightly mold it into a smooth, shapely 
loaf, with as little handling as possible, and place in a well-greased pan. Set 
the loaves back in their warm comer for half an hour, when they should be 
very light and show signs of cracking. Bake at once in a hot oven, with a 
steady heat, from 45 minutes to 1 hour, according to the size of the loaves. 
Take immediately from the pans and wrap in soft, fresh linen until cold. 

Bisctiit Prom Some of the Dough.— A portion of the dough will 
make a pan of delicious biscuits by adding a piece of butter as large as an egg 
to sufficient dough for a small loaf, mixing it lightly but thoroughly, and 
molding into small round balls, set a little distance apart in the pan. They will 
soon close up the space, and should rise to twice their first height. The swift, 
sure touch which makes the work easy, rapid, and confident, will come with 
practice; but the necessary practice may come only with patience and determi' 
nation. 

To Make Bread Crust Soft and Delicate.— Take a cup of cream 
off the pan, and put it into your bread when you are about molding it, and it 
will cause the crust to be very soft and delicate. 

Remarks. — Knowing this to contain good sound sense, from the fact that I 
know the Vienna bread has a softer and more delicate crust than common 
bread, I mention it, believing that one reason, at least, for this is that the Vienna 
bread is made richer with milk than the common, as you will notice, by com- 
parison. Bread should not be made too thin and soft, in kneading, nor too stifif 
and hard; but of such a consistence that when you press the doubled hand 
upon the mass of dough the depression will quickly rise up again to nearly its 
former shape. Let beginners be a little careful in all the foregoing points of 
instruction, and the author has no fears in guaranteeing a bread that they, even, 
shall not be ashamed of. If bread, or rather the sponge, becomes sour from 
being set over night (although it is conceded not to be best to set it over night), 
or from neglect to knead it at the right time (when just fully light), dissolve a 
21 



322 I>Ii- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

teaspoonf ul of soda (baking soda is always meant) in a" little warm milk or 
water and work it in, which will correct it. K there is danger at any time, in 
baking, of burning, or over baking, cover the bread with thick brown paper, or 
a folded newapaper, until the loaf is done through ; and if too hot at the bot- 
tom to endanger burning, put the oven grate, or a few nails or bits of iron, 
under the pan, which will prevent it from burning by the admission of air 
under it. By observing these points you are always safe. 

Bread, Cakes and Pies, to Stand in the Cook Boom, After 
Baking, Till Cool. — Bread and cakes, as soon as baked, should be taken 
out of the pans, wrapped in suitable cloth and stand till cool in the cook room ; 
pies the same, or simply covered, if too juicy to take out of the pans; for, if 
put too soon into a cold closet, they are liable to fall, by chilling. After they 
are cool, put in jars or boxes and keep from the air as much as possible. 

Vienna Bread, or Yeast. — Since the Centennial there has been much 
said about the Vienna, or yeast bread — called yeast bread from the fact that it 
is made with the compressed brewers yeast, known by various names, such as 
'•German Pressed Yeast," "Patent Yeast," etc, in place of ordinary yeast, 
differing from common bread principally in use of a larger proportion of yeast, 
to the flour used, and also in its being made in smaller loaves. Below you will 
find, under the head of "The Best Yeast Known," the way the Vienna, or 
pressed, yeast is made. The following is the process, or way the bread is made 
at Vienna, and by the bakers who make it in this country, since the Centennial 
at Philadelphia, where, so far as I know, it was first introduced in the United 
States. And as I find a very plain description of how to make it given, at the 
time, in Peterson's Ladies National Magazine, I will give it in their words. It 
says: 

"Sift in a tin pan 4 lbs. of flour; bank it up against the sides, pour in 1 
qt. of milk and water (half-and-half), and mix into it enough of the flour to 
form a thin batter; then quickly and lightly add 1 pt. of milk, in which ia 
dissolved 1 oz. of salt, and \% ozs. of compressed yeast. Leave the remain- 
der of the flour against the sides of the pan; cover the pan with a cloth, and 
set it in a place free from draught, for three-quarters of an hour; then mix 
in the rest of the flour, until the dough will leave the bottom and sides of 
the pan, and let it stand two hours and a-half . Finally, divide the mass into 
1 lb. pieces, to be cut in turn into 13 parts each. (This, you will see, is for 
biscuit; for bread this last division is not to be made, and more recently, it 
is made into rather long, narrow loaves.) This gives square pieces about Z}4 
inches, each corner of which is taken up and folded over to the centre, and 
then the cakes are turned over on a dough-board to rise for half an hour, 
when they are put into a hot oven, that bakes them in 10 minutes, or till 
done." 

For a Breakfast Loaf.—" Take 1 lb. of the above dough, 2 ozs. of 
butter, 2 ozs. powdered sugar, 2 eggs; beat all well together, in a basin, in 
the same manner as eggs are beaten, only using the hand instead of the 
whisk; set in a plain mould to rise for three-quarters of an hour, then bake 
in a quick oven. When cut, it should have the appearance of honeycomb. 
This is a very nice breakfast-cake, and will make delicious toast when stale." 
Remarks. — I see that some of the ladies who have been trying the Vienna 
bread recommend putting a tablespoonf ul, or two, of sugar into the sponge, 



BREAD. SSS 

when they begin to knead it The author does not think it amiss in any kind 
of bread. 

Vienna Yeast, or the Best Yeast Known. — A writer, in describ- 
ing how the compressed, or Vienna, yeast is made, first says: " Vienna bread is 
the best in the world. It owes its superiority to the yeast used, which is pre- 
pared in the following manner: Indian corn, barley and rye (all sprouting) are 
powdered and mixed, and then macerated in water at a temperature of from 
149 to 167° Fah. Saccharification (production of sugar) takes place in a few 
hours, when the liquor is racked off and allowed to clear, the fermentation is 
set up by the help of a minute quantity of any ordinary yeast. Carbonic acid 
is disengaged during the process with so much rapidity that the globules of 
yeast are thrown up by the gas and remain floating on the surface, where they 
form a thick scum. The latter is carefully removed and constitutes the beat 
and purest yeast, which, when drained and compressed, can be kept from 8 to 
15 days, according to the season." 

Remarks. — Although but very few people may engage in the manufacture 
of compressed yeast, yet it is a satisfaction to almost every one to know how it 
is done. 

Potato Bread.— Boil 6 or 8 good sized potatoes, mash fine while hot, 
then add 1 qt. sweet milk, J^ cup of white sugar, a good pinch of salt, 3^ of a 
cup of good yeast; have ready a pan of sifted flour, make a hole in the middle, 
stir in the ingredients; do this about 6 o'clock, and if it gets light before you 
retire at night, stir it down, sprinkle flour over the top and let it stand imtil 
morning, then mix it down again, and when light the third time, knead into 
loaves. Try this, and if your yeast is good you will never have poor bread.— 
Mrs. S. T. Dolph, McBnde, Mich. 

Remarks. — It will not be amiss to say here, that new potatoes are of no 
value in bread making. Only those that are fully ripe can be used. 

About Setting Sponge Over Night.— It will be observed that Uhe 
above recipe for potato bread, as well as most of the following ones, contrary 
to the instructions of the first recipe, directs to set the sponge over night ; but 
those who may use them, must act upon their own judgment as to doing so, or 
in beginning in the morning, depending upon its being cold winter weather, 
warmth of the room, etc. ; and also depending upon whether they can give it 
their watchful care during the day, or until the sponge is risen and the whole 
process completed and the bread baked, thus avoiding all possibility of souring, 
as it often does if set over night; for, although to a certain extent, by the use of 
soda, this condition is corrected, yet, after once souring, the bread will never be 
as good as if kneaded and baked at just the right time, i. e., as soon as light in 
each process, not having stood to overwork in either case. 

Hop Yeast Potato Bread.— Another lady writer says: " I would like 
some of the ladies to try my way of making hop yeast bread. Set a sponge at 
night and be sure to put in a dozen good-sized potatoes. In the morning put 
half a tea-spoonful of grated alum in half a tea-cupful of water and add to the 
sponge. Mix quite hard in the pan and let stand till light; then mix down in 



824 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

the pan once more before putting in the tins. It makes the puffiest bread you 
ever saw." 

Bemarks. — Much has been said against the use of alum in making bread 
but in the quantity here given for a batch of 3 or 4 loaves, the author would 
have no fears of using. It gives an additional lightness to bread, and that is the 
only object of its use. Potatoes also help in this respect, while they also, as 
well as milk, make bread more rich and nourishing, and which also keeps moist 
longer than without them. It is well to use both if you have them. 

Rice Bread. — Rice prepared as follows, makes another variety of bread, 
which will please many tastes at the seaport table: Take 1 pt. of well-cooked 
rice, 1^ pt. of flour, the yolks of 4 eggs, 2 spoonfuls of butter, melted; 1 pt. of 
milk, }4 teaspoonful of salt. Dibections— Beat these altogether; then having 
l^aten the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, beat them in also. Bake in shal- 
low pans, or gem tins. 

Naples Bread or Biscuit.— Flour, 1 lb. (3^ cups); nice fresh butter, 
1 oz. (1 roimding table-spoonful), worked into the flour, with 1 egg, a little salt, 
good yeast, 2 table-spoonfuls, and 1 pt. of milk. Mix all well and let it rise one 
hour; then do not work it down, but cut it in suitable sized pieces and form 
into biscuit and bake in a quick oven. If baked in a loaf, you have Naples 
bread. 

Currant Sweet Loaf. — Mix 2 heaping tea-spoonfuls of cream of tartar 
with 1 pound of flour; then rub into it 4 ozs. of butter, as for pastry; add 8 
OZ8. of currants, 6 ozs. of sugar, and 1 pt. of milk, in which 1 heaping tea- 
spoonful of soda has been dissolved; add a little salt; spice to taste, and bake. 
The addition of 2 beaten eggs and 4 ozs. of citron makes a rich loaf. 

Remarks. — This baked in biscuits, or rolled out and cut in strips 1 or 13^x4 
inches, makes a nice tea or breakfast cake. 

Graham Bread, Western Rural's.— When the author can find argu- 
ments in favor of any point, whether it be the making or use of Graham bread, 
or upon any other subject of value to the public, and perhaps written better 
than he could do it, he considers that by quoting them, giving the proper credit, 
which he always does, if the originator is known, the public, as well as himself, 
are materially benefitted; and in this case, especially, the well-known popular- 
ity of the Western Rural will undoubtedly influence many persons to use more 
Graham bread than they otherwise might do, whereby their health will be 
greatly improved, and certainly no one harmed; and it is by this course that the 
author in his two former books, as well as in this the third and last which he 
will ever write, has done and still is enabled to do a greater good than he other- 
wise could. I fully agree with the principles and suggestions, and the way of 
making, and hope that every family into whose hands this book shall come, 
will adopt them and keep their tables supplied with this delicious and health- 
giving bread. The editor says: 

"We are seldom without Graham bread on the table, and have noticed that 
our friends and visitors almost invariably prefer the brown bread to the white. 
We have often wondered why more people do not use it, especially.when we 



BREAD. 325 

take Into consideration the fact that it is less trouble to make, being muc^ *nore 
wholesome, and yielding a greater amount of nourishment. Some people who 
are habitually constipated, only need unbolted wheat in some form once a day, 
with plenty of fruit, to entirely obviate this difficulty. You want good, finely 
ground Graham flour, and good yeast to begin with. Take your mixing bowl, 
put into it two table-spoonfuls of any kind of molasses or brown sugar, a table- 
spoonful of salt, a little over a pint of warm water, and yeast in the same pro- 
portion that you would for white bread. We use the compressed yeast, and . 
use a little less than 2 cents' worth to make 2 pie-pan loaves. Stir in Graham 
flour to make a sponge and beat it a few minutes hard, then add a pint of white 
flour, adding Graham to make it stiff enough to mould, taking care not to get 
it too stiff. Better have to add a little flour in molding. Let it stand only long 
enough to get quite light. Mold and put into pans, and when it is light, bake 
in a moderate oven. Graham requires a few moments longer to bake thaa 
white. All bread should be kept at a rather low but even temperature while 
rising, away from drafts, as a higher temperature produces what is known 
among chemists as false yeast, which is an advanced stage of fermentation or 
decomposition, and is unwholesome." 

Remarks. — This last point, as to the temperature being too high, causes the 
bread, or sponge, to become sour by over working, and would call for soda to 
correct it whenever this occurs. I will give another wherein the sponge is set 
with white flour, and also a small amount more added in the morning, which 
some prefer to an all Graham. There is a caution, too, near its close, against a 
too hot oven at the beginning, by which the crust is set so soon, the center of 
of the loaf must necessarily be soggy, as it had not time to rise— because tight — 
before it was bound down by the setting of the crust from the over-heat. But 
if you ever find that your oven is too hot, see plan of covering the bread with 
paper, as directed with the white bread at first given. I am unable to give the 
proper credit for the origination of the following, but I know it will make a 
nice bread if carefully done. 

Graham. Bread. — For 4 loaves of bread take \% cups of good fresh 
yeast. Sift white flour and mix to rather a stiff sponge with moderately warm 
water, beat well; add the yeast and beat again; set in a warm place over night. 
In the morning, when light, add salt, a heaping pint of sifted white flour, and 
then stiffen with graham, this being the first graham which is put into the bread. 
Allow it to rise again, and when light, mold into loaves, working as little as pos- 
sible. When these have raised sufficiently, bake well in a moderately heated 
oven. If the stove be too hot when the bread is first put in, the crust forms too* 
quickly and the inside of the loaf is apt to be moist and soggy, 

Graham Bread, One Loaf.— Wheat flour, 1 cup; Graham flour, 2 cups; 
warm water, 1 cup; soda, IJ^ tea-spoonfuls, dissolved in water; yeast, % cup; 
molasses, % cup; salt, 1 tea-spoonful. Stir with a spoon, let it rise once, and 
bake very slowly about 1 hour, or a little longer, as needed. 

Graham Bread with Soda, Started after Breakfast for Dinner, 
Baked or Steamed.— Graham bread that can be started after breakfast tmd 



32« DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

baked before dinner, is made of IJ^ pts. of sour milk; 2 scant tea-spoonfuls of 
Boda, dissolved in a little hot water; J^ cup of New Orleans molasses; 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt; and as much Graham flour as can be stirred in with a spoon. 
Grease a large bread tin very evenly, as the molasses in the bread renders it 
liable to stick, put into the oven and bake 2 hours. Have the oven hot when 
the bread is put in, and toward the last half of the last hour let it cool gradually. 
Or, this bread may be steamed \% hours, and be dried off in the oven 20 min- 
utes. When it is taken from the oven, wrap a towel around the loaf, the tin 
and all, and in 10 minutes remove from the tin, and keep the loaf wrapped in 
the cloth until it is sent to the table. 

Remarks. — I am sorry I can not give credit for the originator of this plan, 
but it is too good to lose on that account, especially as it will help some person 
Who may find in the morning that they have not bread enough for dinner. 

Rye Bread. — Set in the evening, with good hops or other good yeast, 
and mold it in the morning, just the same as wheat bread, only a little stiffer. 
Let it rise and mold it down again. This makes it spongy. After this it will 
come up very quick. Shape it into loaves, and, when light enough, bake it in 
a moderate oven a little longer than ordinary wheat bread. 

Rye and Indian Bread. — Take Indian meal, 2 cups, make in a thick 
batter with scalding water; when cool add a small cup of white bread sponge, 
a little sugar and salt, and a tea-spoonful of soda, dissolved. In this stir as 
much rye flour as is possible with a spoon; let it rise until it is very light; then 
•work in with your hand as much more rye as you can, but do not knead it, as 
that will make it hard; put it in buttered bread tins, and let it rise for about 15 
minutes; then bake it for IJ^ hours, cooling the oven gradually for the last 20 
minutes. 

Wheat and Indian Bread, Steamed.— Molasses, 1 cup; sour milk, 2 
cups; soda, 2 tea-spnaonfuls; flour and Indian meal, of each 1 pt. Directions 
—Beat well together, put into a buttered pan and steam 2 hours. — Mrs. Carrie 
Case. 

Remarks. — Perfectly reliable, for I have eaten it of her own make, and I 
shall never forget the " jolly time " we had while eating it the first time. 

Brown, or Rye and Indian Bread, Steamed.— Indian meal, 1 qt. ; 
rye flour, 1 pt. ; stir these together and add sweet milk, 1 qt. ; molasses, 1 cup; 
soda, 2 tea-spoonfuls; a little salt, and steam 4 hours. 

Brown, or Wheat and Indian, Baked.— Indian meal, 2 cups; stir 
into it 3^ cup of cold water; stir well, and add 1 qt. of boiling water, allowing 
it to cool; then add 1 cup of molasses and a small soaked yeast cake; then stir 
in sifted flour to make it as thick as possible with the spoon and let rise over 
night ; knead lightly in the morning, and bake slowly. 

Brown Bread, Rye and Indian, New England Style; or 
Steamed and Baked.— Rye flour, 4 cups; Indian meal (the yellow is gener. 
aUy used in making any of the brown breads), 3 cups; molasses, 1 small cup; 
cream tartar, 3^ tea-spoonful; a little salt; mix very soft with sour milk or but- 
termilk; steam four hours, and then bake two. 



BREAD. 327 

Boston Brown, Baked.— Take 4 cupfuls of Indian meal and 4 cupfvds 
•f rye meal (not flour); sift through a coarse wire sieve; add 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
soda, a little salt, 1 cupful of molasses; 1 cupful of sour milk, and water suflS- 
dent to make a soft dough. Bake 4 hoiirs in a moderately heated oven, or what 
would be better, 2 hours in a brick oven. 

Brown, or Minnesota Com Bread, Steamed and Baked.— Corn 
meal and flour, each 2 cupfuls; sweet and sour milk, each 1 cupful; moksses, 
J^ cupful; salt and saleratus, or soda, each 1 tea-spoonful. Put into round tin 
cans, and steam 1 hour and bake 3^ an hour. 

Brown, or Indian Bread, Baked for Tea.— Sour milk, 1 pt. ; sweet 
milk, ^ pt.; molasses, 1 cupful; butter, ^ cupful; eggs, 3; saleratus, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls, or its equivalent in soda; salt,|l large tea-spoonful; Indian-meal, 1 
qt. ; flour, 1 pt. Mix all according to general rules, and bake in a deep basin, 
•with oven same heat as for cake, for 1^ hours, or thereabouts. 

Indian Bread, Baked. — Take 2 qts. Indian meal, add 1 large spoonful 
of butter, 1 of sugar, a little salt; mix together; pour upon the whole 1 qt of 
boiling water; then cool with cold water sufficiently to add 3^ cupful of good 
yeast. Let it rise for 2 hours, then add wheat flour (if the dough is not thick 
enough) so as to give it the consistency of "pound cake." Put it into deep 
dishes, let it rise for 1 hour. Bake in a stove oven. You will flnd it delicious. 
—Mrs. L. B. Arnold, Ithaca, N. Y. 

Indian Bread, Extra, Steamed.— Buttermilk, sweet milk and Indian 
meal, each 3 cups; flour, 2 cups; soda, 2 tea-spoonfuls; salt, 1 tea-spoonfuL 
Mix, put into a greased or buttered pan (as all should be), and steam 3 hours. 

Old-Pashioned Indian, or Corn Bread.— This is from Mrs. S. K 
Ross, Sparta, O., in Toledo Blade: "The recipe which I have is the nearest to 
the old Dutch-oven corn bread of anything that can now be baked: Two pt. 
cups of Indian meal, 1 pt. cup of flour, 2 pt. cups of sweet milk, 1 pt. cup of 
sour milk, % pt. cup of sugar, 1 tea-spoonful of salt, 1 tea-spoonful of soda. 
Mix, and bake slowly 1}^ hours." 

Corn Bread, Southern, Par-Pamed. — The following recipes, ob- 
tained through the Blade, give you the different plans of making the celebrated 
"Southern Corn Breads "and "Southern Corn Dodgers," and will be found 
very satisfactory, as well as a very healthful form of bread. The first is from the 
"Old Lady" who always knows how to do things in the "Household" 
line, while the second claims to be an improvement upon that, and the third, 
the latest style of corn dodger, i. e., baked on tins or in a pan, while the old 
style or plan was to wrap them in corn husks, or paper, wet, and then bake 
them in the embers or upon the hot hearth. The " Old Lady " says: 

"Take 2 eggs, beat them well; add 1 pt. of water, and stir well; put in 
1 tea-spoonful of salt, same of yeast powders, and add meal enough to make a 
batter that will pour out of the pan. Put a table-spoonful of lard into the bak- 
ing pan, set it in the oven and let it get hot; pour the batter in it and bake a 
nice brown. I assure you you will never make any other kind after eating 
this."— OZd Lady, Mobile, Ala. 



396 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Com Sread, Southern, Improved.— This writer says: 'In the 
Blade I saw a recipe for the ' far-famed Southern C!orn Bread.' I was raised 
in the South, and have a few times eaten bread made in that way; but it is not 
the way we make our bread — and as I think there is an 'excellence' about ourt, 
I send you the recipe. Take 1 egg, a tea-spoonful of salt and 1 of soda (if the 
milk is very sour it will take more soda), and 1)^ pts. butter-milk; then put in 
white corn meal enough to make a nice tolerably thick batter. It is very nice 
baked in a bread pan, but we like it best baked in gem irons, or muffin irons, 
as some people call them. "Whatever it is baked in must be well greased and 
smoking hot when the batter is put in. Serve while hot. Corn bread never 
was intended to be eaten cold," — HawtTwme, La Place, HI. 

Beinarks. — It will be noticed that " Hawthorne " calls for white corn meaL 
The Southern people raise the white corn only, or, at least, almost wholly so; 
and some people, even in the North, think it makes the best bread. It would 
be well, then, to give it a thorough trial in the North, and if it proves more 
valuable than the yellow, let it be raised especially for cooking purposes. I 
would say in regard to the idea that " corn bread was never intended to be eaten 
cold," I think it to be an error. I like it best warm, still I have eaten it many 
hundred times cold, and enjoyed it very much, although I believe it to be 
healthful while warm, and I know it is rather more palatable and pleasant warm; 
still, if there is any left over, I should by no means throw it away, but warm 
it up by steaming, else eat it cold, as preferred, or most convenient. 

White Corn Dodgers. — Take 1 pt. of Southern corn meal (white com 
meal), and turn over it 1 pt. of boiling water, add a little salt and 1 egg well 
beaten up and stirred into the batter when nearly cold. Butter some sheets of 
tin and drop your cakes by the table-spoonful all over the pan. Bake for 25 
minutes in a hot oven. 

Bemarks. —Do not think for a momMit, that because you may not have 
white corn meal, therefore, you can not make com bread or com dodgers, for 
you can; although the yellow meal may not be quite as nice, yet it does make 
excellent bread, as well as griddle cakes, too, by using a very little white or 
graham flour with it. 

Salt-Rising Bread, How to Make.— Knowing my propensities for 
gathering valuable recipes, a gentleman friend said to me one day: " Doctor, 
the finest bread I ever ate in my hfe was at Mrs. J. A. Marks' in Detroit I 
wish I had asked her for the recipe, especially for you." As my friend seemed 
so enthusiastic over the elegant bread eaten at the table of Mrs. Marks I took her 
name and address and wrote her, asking for the recipe. Here it is in her own 
, words: "Early in the evening I scald 2 table-spoonfuls of corn-meal, 
a pinch of salt and 1 of sugar, with milk enough to make a mush; then set in 
a warm place till morning; then scald a tea-spoonful of sugar, 1 of salt and ^ 
as much soda with a pint of boiling water; then add cold water till lukewarm, 
and thicken to a thick batter with flour, then add the mush made the night 
before and stir briskly for a minute or two. Put in a close vessel in a kettle of 
warm water, not too hot When light, mix stifE, add a httle shortening, and 



BREAD. 329 

mold into loares It will soon rise and will not require as long to bake as yeast 
bread— 25 to 30 minutes in a good oven. Great care is required to keep the 
sponge of a uniform heat (the water should be about as warm as the hand will 
bear) The finest patent process flour is not as good as a little coarser grade— 
I prefer Knickerbocker — for this kind of bread. All dishes used in making 
should be perfectly clean and sweet, scalding them out with saleratus or lime- 
water." 

Remarks. — My wife has made many loaves after this recipe, and, like my 
friend, I must say " it is the finest bread I ever ate." 

Salt-Rising Bread No. 2.— A Mrs. Bruce, although she does not give 
her whereabouts, tells " Aunt Nancy," who inquired through the Blade, how to 
make salt-rising bread as follows, which will speak for itself, and as many 
people prefer this kind, I give it a place: " Set your rising in a pitcher, a sugar 
bowl, or a new tin dipper. Either must be sweet. Have ready a crock or pot 
with warm water enough to come even with the rising and just hot enough not 
to bum the finger. Put a plate in the bottom of the crock, so the rising does 
not scald. Set on the back of the stove or anywhere to keep an even heat. 
I set my rising about 5 o'clock in the morning, and about 10 o'clock I add 1 
table-spoonful of flour and stir. If successful, your rising will be ready to make 
into loaves about 2 o'clock in the afternoon. To set rising, take 1 table-spoon- 
ful of sifted corn meal, scald it by pouring over it 1 pt. of boiling water and 
stir quickly. To this add cold water until just hot enough not to scald. Then add 
a large tea-spoonful of coarse salt, a pinch of soda, a pinch of sugar, and flour 
enough to make a stiff batter. When risen, sift 4 or 5 qts. flour into the bread 
bowl. Make a hole in the center and put in a table-spoonful of sweet lard or 
butter. Pour over this 3 pts. of warm water. Then add your rising. Mix 
and work in loaves; grease on top. This makes 3 large loaves. When risen to 
top of pan, bake. Bake in long, deep tin pans, and from a 3^ to % of an hour. 
When done, let remain in the oven about 10 minutes to soak. Do not wrap it 
up, but lay on the table until cool. Then put away in a large stone jar. Cover 
closely, and you will have nice moist, sweet bread. I use coarse flour to set 
rising and fine to make it up when I can get both. I have had 18 years' experi- 
ence, and my bread is No. 1," 

Apple Bread, Pumpkin Bread, etc.— A very light, pleasant bread ia 
made in France by a mixture of apples and flour (meaning wheat flour, of 
course), in the proportion of one of apples to two of flour (say cups or pints, as 
you please). The usual quantity of yeast employed as in making common 
bread, and the yeast is beaten with the flour and warm pulp of the apples 
(dried) after they are boiled and mashed, and the dough is then considered 
"set;" it is then allowed to rise from 8 to 12 hours, then baked in long loaves. 
Very little water is needed. 

Remarks. — This vnW make nice and very pleasant flavored as well aa 
healthful bread, but I must caution against giving it too long a time to rise. 
** Keep an eye on it," and when properly risen make into loaves and bake, lest 
some one should go by the " 8 to 12 hours." Use judgment in all cases, and 



830 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

there "will be but few failures. I have known my mother and my wife to use 
pumpkins in a similar manner, even with com meal as well as flour, which gave 
a pleasant relishf to the bread. And if I was a woman I should try peaches 
which had been peeled before drying, believing that I should get a still finer 
flavored bread. Not the sourest, but a medium tart apple or peach only should 
be used. I think the proportion of apple above given is greater than is gener- 
ally used of pumpkin. About 1 cup to each loaf of bread would, in my opin- 
ion, be enough, instead of 1 of apple to 2 of flour or meal or rye and Indian, 
etc It is iised with either or eil kinds of bread, when desired, except tho 
Vienna. 



PUDDINGS. — General Remarks and BirectioriR. — Puddings are much 
like cake, and require about the same manipulation (skillful hand-working), and 
much the same ingredients. Eggs should be well beaten, and usually the whites 
and yolks are beaten separately although not quite so essential; but if so beaten 
the yolks should be beaten into the sugar before creaming in the butter, then 
the whites, having been well beaten ; saving the whites of a sufficient number, 
when desired, to frost the top of a pudding — latterly called a meringue, made 
by whipping the whites of three or four eggs to a froth, with a tablespoon of 
powdered sugar to each ^^g used, with a little lemon juice, or such other fruit 
juice, as orange, etc., or some of the flavoring extracts, as rose, cinnamon- 
waters, etc., as you have or prefer; the pudding, when just done, to be carefully 
drawn to the mouth of the oven and covered with the frosting, or meringue, 
and a few minutes more given to nicely brown it ; then taken hot to the table — 
nothing, it seems to the author, is so out of place as to pretend to have a pud- 
ding, just baked, come to the table only luke-warm (half cold); for me, I tell 
them: " Save this for me till tea-time, as I love cold pudding very much." 
But, of course, I would not add: " I dislike a half -cold one," but I do dislike 
them "all samee." Bread puddings, or those made with corn-starch, rice, or 
fruits, require only a moderate oven to bake them; while butter or custard pud- 
dings require not only a quick oven, but should go into it as soon as all the 
ingredients are mixed in with a final thorough beating, or stirring, and placed 
in the oven at once. The pudding-dish should always be well buttered, and, if 
to be a boiled pudding, the cloth must be first dipped into boiling hot water, 
then well floured on the outside. If boiled in a basin or mold, it must be but- 
tered, and if a cloth is to be tied over it, it is to be treated the same as for boiling 
in a cloth; then when done, either way, dip into cold water, which will allow it 
to be emptied at once, without sticking, into a suitable dish to place upon the 
table ; but always keep covered with the cloth or a napkin until placed upon the 
table, but there ought to be no delay in serving after it is emptied out of the 
cloth. It is usual to direct that " puddings be tied loosely," but you will see in 
the first receipt, that this plan is wrong, as it gives too much chance for water to 
get in and make them " soggy." Steam puddings often swell up and crack 
open — a sure sign of tightness. In boiling a pudding, remember this, the water 
must be boiling before the pudding is put in, and not allowed to slacken lest it 
becomes clammy or "soggy," as the saiioi calls it in the first receipt. Keep the 
pudding also well covered all the time by pouring in boiling hot water, if 
needed, from time to time. To prevent the pudding from adhering or sticking 
to the kettle, cloth or dish, while boiling move it occasionally or else put a tin 
cover of some other dish into the bottom of the kettle, to make at least half an 

331 



332 VR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Inch space from the kettle — the rim around the cover does this. To show the 
real value of the old English plum pudding, I take my first one from the New 
York Times, as related by a sailor — the second mate on a ship from New York 
to Liverpool — in which case, of course, even the half of the Christmas plum 
pudding saved (?) the ship and quickly brought all safely to their desired 
haven. Note well the instructions given in the receipt part of the item, aa they 
will all be found correct and worthy to be followed, on land as well as on the 
sea. I take the item from the Detroit Free Press, but it originated with the 
Times, as credited above. It is as follows: 

English Plum Pudding.— It was about the stormiest voyage I ever 
see. We left the Hook on November 5, 1839, in a regular blow, and struck 
worse weather off the Banks (New Foundland), and it grew dirtier every mile 
we made. The old man was kind of gruff and anxious like, and wasn't 
easy to manage. This ain't no Christmas story, and ain't got no moral to it. I 
was second mate and knowed the captain pretty well, but he wasn't sociable, 
and the nearer we got to land according to our dead reckoning (for we hadn't 
been able to take an observation) the more cross-grained he got. I was eating 
my supper on the 24th, when the steward he comes in, and says he, " Captain, 
plum pudding to-morrow, as usual, sir? " It wouldn't be polite in me to give 
what that captain replied, but the steward he didn't mind. All that night and 
next day, the 25th of December, it was a howling storm, and the captain he 
kept the deck. About 3 o'clock Christmas day dinner was ready, and a 
precious hard time it was to get that dinner from the galley to the cabin on 
account of the green seas that swept over the ship. The old man, after a bit, 
came down, and says he, "Where's the puddin'?" The steward he come in 
just then as pale as a ghost, and says he showing an empty dish: "Washed 
overboard, sir." It ain't necessary to repeat what that there captain said. 
Kind of how it looked as if the old man had wanted to give himself some 
heart with that pudding, and now there wasn't none. I disremember whether 
it wasn't a passenger as said "that, providing we only reached port safe, in 
such a gale puddings was of no consequence." I guess the old man most bit 
his head off for interfering with the ship's regulations. Just then the cook 
he came into the cabin with a dish in his hand, saying: "There is another 
pudding. I halved 'em," and he sot a good-sized pudding down on the table. 
Then the old man kind of unbent and went for that pudding and cut it in big 
hunks, helping the passenger last, with a kind of triumphant look. He hadn't 
swallowed more than a single bit than the first mate he comes running down, 
and says he: "Lizard Light on the starboard bow, and weather brightening 
up." "How does she head?" "East by north." "Then give her full three 
points more northerly, sir, and the Lord be praised." And the captain, he 
swallowed his pudding in three gulps, and was on deck, just saying, "I 
knowed the pudding would fetch it," and he left us. We was in Liverpool 
three days after that, though a ship that started the day before us from New 
York was never heard of. This here is the receipt for that there pudding: 

Take six ounces of suet, mind you skin it and cut it up fine. Just you use 
the same quantity of raisins, taking out the stones, and the same of currants ; 
always wash your currants and dry them in a cloth. Have a stale loaf of 
bread, and crumble, say three ounces of it. You will want about the same of 
sifted flour. Break three eggs, yolks and all, but don't beat them much. Have 
a teaspoonful of ground cinnamon and grate half a nutmeg. Don't forget a 
teaspoonful of salt. You will require with all this a half pint of milk — we 
kept a cow on board of ship in those days — say to that four ounces of white 
sugar. In old days angelica root candied was used; it's gone out of fashion 
now. [Angelica grows all over the United States, as well as Europe, has 



PTWDINQS. 333 

a peculiar flavor, and was, at least, once believed to be a very valuable medi- 
cine, but used more, of late, merely for the agreeable flavor it imparts to other 
medicines. The root is of purplish color, and is to be sliced up and cooked in 
sugar, if "candied," as referred to above, the same as citron or lemon, etc., are 
done. King sets it down as "aromatic, stimulant, carminative, diaphoretic, 
expectorant (this often used in cough or lung medicines), diuretic and emen- 
agogue." Used in flatulent colic and in heartburn. It is said to promote the 
menstrual discharges. In diseases of the Urinary organs, as calculi and passive 
dropsy, it is used as a diuretic, in decoction with uviursa and eupatoriaum 
purpttseum (queen of the meadow). Dose— of the powder 30 to 60 grs. ; of the 
decoction (tea), 2 to 4 ozs, 3 or 4 times a day. There are several species, or kinds, 
of it, any of which may be used medicinally as a substitute for other kinds.] Put 
that in — if you have it — not a big piece, and slice it thin. You can't do well 
without half an ounce of candied citron. Now mix all this up together, adding 
the milk last in which you put half a glass of brandy. Take a piece of linen, 
big enough to double over, put it in boiling water, squeeze out all the water, 
and flour it; turn out your mixture in that cloth, and tie it up tight; good cooks 
sew up their pudding bags. It can't be squeezed too much, for a loosely tied 
pudding is a soggy titling, because it won't cook dry. Put in 5 qts. of boiling 
water, and let it boil 6 hours steady, covering it up. Watch it, and if the 
water g^ves out, add more boiling water. This is a real English plum pud- 
ding, with no nonsense about it. 

Bemarks. — It has always appeared to the author that an occasional incident 
like the above sea voyage, in connection with a recipe, or receipt, (recipe is the 
proper spelling, but receipt is much the more common manner of speaking), 
not only gives relief to the mind from the sameness of the receipts, or descrip- 
tions, but also helps one to remember the modtis operandi (manner of operation) 
of the whole instructions and directions of the receipt. 

An incident like this one here given vdll also give a subject for conversa- 
tion, and also call for the relation of other incidents known, or passed through, 
by some of those who may be gathered around the Christmas board, when the 
old Enghsh plum pudding, ' 'with no nonsense about it," will be reproduced, if at 
no other time in the whole year. So I trust to be excused for the space the 
story part of the receipt occupies. I think, generally, there is no instruction to 
remove the dry membrane, or skin, as the sailor calls it, from suet; but it 
ought to be done, as it is not only indigestible, but hard to chop, becoming 
more or less stringy and troublesome while chopping. I will give a few more 
plum puddings, for variety's sake. It is to be understood that when plum 
pudding is mentioned, it always means a pudding to be boiled. 

Plum Pudding No. 2, and Sweet Sauce for Same.— Bread 
crumbs, 1 lb (33^ cups); sweet milk, 1 qt. ; eggs, 6; sugar, 1 cup; suet, chopped; 
English currants, and raisins, each, 1 lb. ; sliced and chopped citron, ^ lb. ; 
cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and allspice, each, ^ teaspoonful; sifted flour to 
make a thick batter; pour into the flannel cloth (see general directions), tie, 
leaving very little room for swelling, and plunge into a large kettle of boiling 
water, and boil for 7 hours, in a well covered kettle, pouring in boiling water, 
if needed, to keep the pudding covered all the time. This pudding, says a 
lady writer, in the Pree Pre»s, will keep for several weeks, and is nearly as 
good steamed, as when first boiled. 

Sauce for Same.— Sugar, 4 tablespoonsful, rubbed to a cream with 



334 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

butter, 2 spoonfuls, and 2 of flour; then add boiling water, 1 pt., or still better, 
some of the boiling water in which the pudding was boiled, same amount 
flavored with lemon or vanilla. "A tin flre-pan, or small tin cover, bottom 
upwards in the bottom of the kettle," she says, '• will prevent the pudding 
from burning." 

Remarks. — This, to the author, only seems to lack a teaspoonful of soda, 
and 2 of cream tartar, but if light enough without them, all right. Of course 
any other extracts as orange, rose-water, or cinnamon-water, can be iised, if 
preferred, with any sauce. But the author would like to see the family in which 
the above or the following pudding, (made to Englishmen's taste, in rhyme,) 
•'will keep for several weeks," unless put " under lock and key." 

Plum Pudding to Englishmen's Taste, No. 3, In Rhyme.— 

To make plum-pudding to Englishmen's taste, 

So all may be eaten and nothing to waste, 

'Take of raisins, and currants, and bread-crumbs, all round; 

Also suet from oxen, and flour a pound, 

Of citron well candied, or lemon as good, 

With molasses and sugar, eight ounces, I would, 

Into this first compound, next must be hasted 

A nutmeg well grated, ground ginger well tasted. 

With salt to preserve it, of such a teasxx)onful; 

Then of milk half a pint, and of fresh eggs take mx; 

Be sure after this that you properly mix. 

Next tie up in a bag, Just as round as you can. 

Put into a capacious and suitable pan. 

Then boil for eight hours just as hard as you can. 

Plum Pudding, No. 4. — Sift«d flour, 3 cups; eggs, 3; a wine-glass of 
molasses to color it; milk, 3^ pt. ; finely chopped suet, 1 large cup; English 
currants and raisins, each 1 cup; mace, cloves, and cinnamon, % teaspoonful 
each, or to taste; soda, 1 teaspoonful; cream of tartar, 2 teaspoonfuls; boil for 
at least ^% hours 3 is still better. The 23^ are sufficient to cook, but the other 
half-hour's boiling gives a certain lightness to the pudding, which is greatly 
to be desired. Eat with any good sauce. The following either with the vine- 
gar or brandy is good: 

Pudding-Sauce— Past or Spirituous. — Sugar, 2 cups, dissolved in 
boiling water, 3^ pt.; flour, or corn starch, 2 tablespoonfuls, worked smooth, in 
cold water, 1 cup, and stirred into the boiling sugar, with nice butter, the size of 
an egg, (hen's egg); then add two or three tablespoonfuls of good vinegar (more 
or less as a sharp or mild taste is preferred) ; or brandy, or good wine, in like 
quantities to suit the taste of self or guests, with cinnamon, nutmeg, or other 
flavor, as you like. 

Plum-Pudding, No. 5. — Suet, chopped fine, English currants and 
raisins, each 1 lb.; flour, 1% lbs. (about 5 cups); cloves, cinnamon, and nut- 
megs, each }4, teaspoonful; salt, 1 tablespoonful. Mix all well together and 
add molasses, 1 cup; sugar, 2 cups; eggs, 7; sweet milk, ^ pt. Make over 
night, in the morning tie in a cloth and boil 4 hours. To be eaten with sweet 
Bauce. Any of the above aaucefi are known as " sweet 



PUDDINGS. 335 

Remarks.-^alt, the author considers, as important in puddings as in bread or 
cakes, although it is not always mentioned. [See, also, "Suet Puddings, 
Steamed."] 

ChristmEia Plum-Pudding, No. 6, Old Style.— Stone l^ lbs, of 
raisins, wash, pick and dry ^ lb. of currants, mince fine X ^b. of suet, cut into 
thin slices }4 ^^- ^^ mixed peel (orange and lemon), and grate fine ^ lb. of 
bread-crumbs. When aU these dry ingredients are prepared; mix them well 
together, then moisten the mixture with 8 eggs, well beaten, and one wine-glass 
of brandy; stir well, that everything may be thoroughly blended, and press the 
pudding into a buttered mould; tie it down tightly with a floured cloth, and boil 
6 hours. On Christmas day a sprig of holly is usually placed in the middle of 
the pudding, and about a wine-glass of brandy poured round it, which, at the 
moment of serving, is lighted, and the pudding thus brought to the table encir- 
cled in flames. 

Remarks. — With half-a-dozen plum-puddings none need go without a 
Christmas day, certainly. The only point that seems to me unreasonable is the 
long boiling, 8, or even 6 hours, which appears to be more than is needed. A 
circle of three ladies, to whom I referred the matter, gave it as their judgment 
that 3 hours would be sufiicient. Let English people stick to the old custom, 
but Americans will find that from 3 to 4 hours wUl cook them perfectly. [See 
the Paradise Pudding below, which is only to be boiled 2 hours.] A wine-glass, 
at least, of brandy is almost universally put into the sauce upon Christmas 
occasions. 

Paradise Pudding.— Pare, core and mince 3 good-sized tart apples into 
small pieces, and mix them with J^ lb. of bread-crumbs, 3 eggs, 3 ozs. of cur- 
rants, the rind cf one-half lemon, % wine-glass of brandy, salt, and grated nut- 
meg to taste. Put the pudding into a buttered mould, tie it down with a cloth, 
boil for 2 hours, and serve with sweet sauce. 

Remarks. — These fancy names, no doubt, are calculated to convey the 
idea that the article is to be very nice. The author would prefer to see more 
common names used, be', he takes them as he finds them, so long as the 
article itself, like this pudding, is really nice. "Angels' Food" has been recently 
advertised; so these dear creatures will not have to "live on air" much longer. 

Cottage Pudding, or Pudding Baked as Cake, No. 1, and 
Sauoe. — Eggs, 3, well beaten; sugar, 2 cups; butter, 3^ cup; sweet milk, \}4, 
cups; baking powder, 1 tea-spoonful; flour to make as cake batter, to dip with 
spoon into a cake pan to bake. To serve, cut into suitable pieces, for a saucer 
or side-dishes, with the following sauce: 

Lemon Sauce for the Pudding.— Boiling water, 3 cups; sugar, J^ cup; but- 
ter, half the size of an egg. Mix. Boil a lemon and cut it into small pieces 
and add to the sauce, putting at least one piece to each dish of pudding iu 
serving. 

Remarka.'^l first ate of this pudding at the City Hotel, Winfield, Kans., 
kept at that time by S. S. Major, and was so well pleased with it that I got him 
to take me to the cook, who kindly gave me the recipe, as above, which has 
preyed itself many times since, and it will please all who try it carefully, 



g3« DR. CHASE'S RMJIPER 

Cottage Pudding, No. 2, With Sauce for Same.— Sifted flour 
(flour should always be sifted), 1 pt. ; white of 3 eggs, beaten to a stiff froth; 
butter, 3 table-spoonfuls; sugar, 1 cup; sweet milk, 1 cup; baking powder, 3 
teaspoonfuls. Mix, and sprinkle granulated sugar over the top. 

Sauce for the Same. — Sweet milk, 1 pt. ; sugar, )^ cup; yolks of 2 eggs, 
beating and stirring well while being boiled together; flavor with lemon. Of 
course, any other flavor can be used. 

Cottage Pudding, Quickly Made, No. 3, With Sauce for 
Same.— Sugar, raisins and sour cream, eachl cup; flour, 2 cups; soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful; 2 eggs; ^ grated nutmeg; bake in long cake tin. 

Sauce for Same. — Sugar, 1 cup; butter, J^ cup; flour, 4 heaping table- 
spoonfuls; rub all well together, and grate in the other half of the nutmeg and 
pour on boiling water, 3 pints; let it boil up once, and it is ready for use. Use 
freely, as there is plenty of it; and light cottage puddings take up sauce as 
freely as a toper does whiskey — all he can get. I can take the sauce freely, but 
beg to be excused on the whiskey, although I do not object to a little spirits in 
pudding sauce. Sugar makes it palatable, if but little is used. 

Cottage Pudding, No. 4, Steamed.— Sugar and sweet milk, each 1 
cup; melted butter, 3 table-spoonfuls; 1 egg; flour, 1 pt.; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; 
cream tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls. Steam in suitable dish \% hours. Serve with 
any sauce desired. 

Custard Pudding. — Sweet milk, 1 pt; peel of 1 fresh lemon; lump 
Bugar, J^ lb. ; eggs, 4. Directions — Shred (cut in long thin strips) the lemon 
peel very fine, and put it into the milk, bringing to a boil ; then take out the 
peel and add the sugar and pour the scalding milk upon the eggs, which have ■ 
been well beaten. Put into a basin or tart dish, and set in a sauce pan with 
boiling water to reach only half way up. Do not boil the water, but keep it at 
bubbling heat for 20 minutes, or until the custard sets. 

Bemarks. — Very nice, hot or cold. Orange or other flavoring may take 
the place of lemon, if preferred. 

Pudding -with Chopped Eggs, a la Creme.— Boil 6 eggs hard, 
chop fine; Jiave grated bread sufficient. Put into a buttered dish, alternate 
layers of the chopped egg and grated bread to fill the dish, or nearly so; put 
butter in small bits, 1 table-spoonful over the top; a little salt and pepper; then 
pour on boiling sweet milk, 1 pt. Bake to a light brown. To be served warm 
with very nice butter. 

Cream, or Custard Pudding, No. 1.— Sweet cream, 1 pt., into 
which stir smoothly fine sifted flour, 1 cup; put over the fire and stir until 
quite thick, take off, and when cool, stir in 4 well beaten eggs; white sugar, 2 
cups, and chopped citron, 1 cup. Bake till set only. If a custard is baked 
too long it becomes watery, which is considered to spoil them. To be eaten 
cold, with or without sauce as preferred. 

Custard Pudding, "Dandy," No. 2.— Sweet milk, 1 qt.; flour, 2 
table-spoonfuls; white sugar, 5 table-spoonfuls; a pinch of salt and a little mace. 
DxRECTiONS— Mix the flour, salt, mace and 4 spoonfuls of the sugar with the 



PUDDINGS. 337 

mOk; beat the yolks of the eggs and stir in also, and place in ihe oven to bake, 
stirring with a spoon 2 or 3 times after putting it into the oven, which prevents 
the flour from settling; beat the white of the eggs with the other spoonful of 
sugar and spread on the top, just before done; replace in the oven to cook the 
eggs and to give the top a nice brown. Serve with a little granulated or pow- 
dered sugar. 

Remarks. — The word "dandy" here simply means " tip top," or very nice. 

Snow Pudding, With Gelatine, Very Nice— No. 1.— Pour boil- 
ing water, 1 pt., over 3^ box of Cox's gelatine; add sugar, 2 cups, to tlie juice 
of 2 lemons: put peei and all in, and mash all together. Let simmer till the 
gelatine is dissolved; when only lukewarm, strain through a thin cloth into the 
dish in which you are to send it to the table. When cold and formed, or hard- 
ened, beat the whites of 3 eggs to a stiff froth, with 1 table-spoonful of pow 
dered sugar, and place on top. And if, on especial occasions, you would give 
variety, make a soft-boiled custard with the yolks of the eggs and spread a 
layer over the white; then put bits of any jell, or bits of differentrcolored jells, 
thickly — i. e., J^ to 1 inch apart — over the top of all, so that each guest will 
have several bits in the dish. — Miss Tillie Bratshaw, Detroit. 

The following sauce is from the same person: 

Snow, or White Pudding Sauce.— Beat powdered sugar, 1 cup, 
with butter, % cup, till white and foamy. Just before sending to the table, add 
2 tea-spoonfuls of boiling water, no more, no less. If rightly made, it will drop 
from the spoon, white and light as snow. 

Remarks. — The lady who gave me these recipes was the daughter of a 
special friend of mine, with whom I have frequently dined, and therefore know 
her ability and taste in getting up very nice dishes. 

Pudding Sauce, Strawberry Color and Flavor.— Rub butter, ]4 
cup; sugar, 1 cup, to a cream, adding the beaten white of 1 egg and 1 cup of 
nice ripe strawberries, thoroughly mashed. This, in the season of strawberries 
or other berries, gives a nice color, as well as flavor, to the sauce. 

Snow Pudding, with Corn Starch, No. 2. — Dissolve, or rub up 
smoothly, 3 table-spoonfuls of corn starch with cold water; then pour on 1 pt. 
of boiling water; beat well the whites of 3 eggs and stir in, it all being done in 
a suitable earthen dish, to steam it in 10 or 15 minutes. 

Sauce for Same. — Beat the yolks of the eggs into 1 cup of sugar, then the 
same amount of sweet milk, and 1 table-spoonful of butter; boil till quite 
thick. If enough is made to leave over, it is nice cold at tea-time; many prefer 
it cold. 

Sauce for Puddings— The Author's Favorite.— The best sauce to 
suit me is made by using rich cream with plenty of pulverized sugrar. so the 
spoon will fetch it up from the bottom of the "boat," or bowls, at every dip— 
and I like to dip deep every time; milk does very well, bi't it is well-known that 
it is not so rich as cream; but half-and-half does excellently. Use any flavor- 
ing you please; grated nutmeg is the most common with cream sauca 

22 



838 ^R- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Tapioca Pudding, No. 1.— Sweet milk, 1 qt. ; tapioca, 1 cup; eggs, 3; 
saigar, 4 tablespoonfuls; butler, half the size of an egg; a little salt, nutmeg to 
taste. Directions — Put a part of the milk upon the tapioca for 1 hour ; beat 
the eggs and sugar together; mix all and bake. 

Tapioca Pudding No. 2. — Tapioca, 2 cups; sweet milk, 4 cups; eggs, 
4; butter, 1 heaping table-spoonful; sugar, 1 cup, or to taste; a grated lemon 
peel improves it. Directions — Soak the tapioca in the milk 1 hour; then put 
into a rice kettle, or tin pail, set in an iron pot, or kettle, of hot water, and cook 
till soft. "When soft, or done, put into the baking dish, with the butter, eggs 
well beaten, sugar, lemon peel, etc., and bake about % hour. Orange peel 
may be used in the same manner, or it may be flavored with any fruit extract 
desired. [A rice kettle is a double dish, or double kettle, on the same principle 
as a glue-pot (generally made of tin), smaller at the top than bottom, to allow 
another one made smaller at the bottom than at the top, to set inside of it. 
The inner dish has a cover, and the outer one a lip, or nose, to allow pouring in 
water, as may be necessary, while cooking the rice or other articles which burn 
easily, if not surrounded with water. Tinners know them as rice kettles. 
They are exceedingly handy for cooking, not only rice, but tapioca, sago, oat 
meal, etc.] 

Tapioca Pudding, with Apples, No. 3, Without Milk or 
£ggs. — Tapioca, 1 cup; water, IJ^ pts. ; apples, 6 good sized tart ones; sugar, 
lemon or nutmeg. Directions — Soak the tapioca in water over night. 
Pare and punch the cores from the apples, with a tin apple corer — a piece of 
tin rolled into cylinder shape, alxjut % of an inch in diameter, and soldered 
together — (at the proper time to have the pudding ready for dinner), and place 
them in a pudding dish, fill the holes with sugar and sprinkle some over them, 
grate on nutmeg, or put on powdered cinnamon, or other flavor, as preferred, 
pour over a cup of water and bake till quite soft; then pour over the tapioca in 
the milk, and bake %Xo\ hour. (See also " Danish or Tapioca Pudding.") 

Sauce fer Same, Hard. — Butter, 1 cup; powdered sugar, 2 cups; wine, J^ 
cup, or brandy, 2 table-spoonfuls; the juice of 1 lemon or orange, and nutmeg, 
1, grated. First beat the sugar and butter to a cream, then add the wine or 
brandy, and the lemon or orange juice, and the nutmeg, stir all well together 
and set on ice to cool, if you have it. The wine, or brandy, and the fruit juice 
may be left out, and still you have a nice sauce, good enough for anybody; but 
as some persons will use them we have to give them. 

Sago Pudding. — Sago, 3 table-spoonfuls; milk, 1 qt.; peel of 1 lemon? 
nutmeg, J^ of 1; eggs, 4; a little salt. Directions — Boil the sago in the milk, 
in the rice kettle (double kettle) till done; remove from fire, and when cool stir 
in the beaten eggs, salt and seasoning, and bake about 1 hour. 

Sauce for Same.—EdX with sugar and cream, if you have i^ if not rub 1 
butter to 2 sugars, with a little nutmeg, if the pudding is not Highly flavored. 
Almost any pudding is nice to be eaten vdth plenty of sugar and rich eream. 
Even milk does pretty well, if rich with sugar and nutmeg (most people like the 
flayor of nutaneg), at least I have yet to find the first one who does not 



PUDDmOS. 33» 

Orange Pudding. — Peel and slice 4 large oranges, lay them in your 
Xwdding dish and sprinkle over them 1 enp of sugar. Beat the yolks of 3 eggs, 
1^ cup of sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls of com starch, and pour into a quart of boil- 
ing milk; let this boil and thicken; then let it cool a little, before pouring it 
over the oranges. Beat the whites of the eggs and pour over the top. Set it 
in the oven to brown slightly. — Mrs. R. McK. of Jackson, Mich., in Farm and 
Fireside. 

Pop-Corn Pudding. — Sweet milk and pop-corn, each 3 pts. (each ker- 
nel must be popped white, and not a bit scorched); eggs, 3; salt, J^teaspoonfuL 
Bake 3^ hour. 

Sav^ for Same. — Sweetened cream or milk. 

Chestnut Pudding. — Peel off the shells, cover the kernels with water, 
and boil tiU their skins readily peel off. Then pound them in a mortar, and to 
every cup of chestnuts add 3 cups of chopped apple, 1 of chopped raisins, J^ 
cnp of sugar, and 1 qt. of water. Mix thoroughly, and bake until the apple is 
tender — about J^ hour. Serve cold with sweet sauce. 

Remarks. — Whoever loves chestnuts (and who does not) will like the flavor 
ef this pudding. Take out a chestnut from the boiling water, and drop it into 
cold water a moment, and if the dark skin will rub oflf with the thumb and 
finger (which is called blanching), they have boiled enough. 

Salt Pork Pudding.— Chop very fine 1 large cup of salt pork, which 
has been sliced and soaked in milk over night. Add to it 1 cup of molasses, 
with 1 tea-spoonful of saleratus or soda stirred into it. Three-fourths cup of 
sweet milk; 1 cup of stoned raisins or currants; 1 tea-spoonful each of groimd 
cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg. Add flour enough to make as stiff as a berry 
pudding. Steam in a cloth or boil for 4 hours. 

Sauce for Same. — For a sauce take 1 cup of white sugar and pour over it 
the same quantity of boiling water; when melted stir in two well beaten eggs. 
Flavor with vanilla or lemon. 

Bemurks. — If made nicely it will equal rock cake, and keep well, if made 
bx large quantities. 

Fig Pudding, Boiled.— " Cooking for Invalids" directs fig pudding? 
to be made as follows: Chop J^ lb. of figs very finely; mix with them coarse 
sugar, J^ lb. ; molasses, 1 table-spoonful; milk, 4 table-spoonfuls; flour, ^ lb. 
{1% cups); suet, chopped, 3^ lb.; 1 egg and a pinch of grated nutmeg; put the 
pudding into a buttered mould, and boil 5 hours. 

BeTnarks. — Nothing said about a sauce; but any of the "sweet sauces" 
would be nice for it; or the " sweetened cream," as the prune pudding below. 

Prune Pudding.— Prunes, J^ lb., boiled soft and thick; remove the pits, 
chop fine, and stir in coarse sugar, a scant cup; the whites of 6 eggs, beaten 
stifE. Bake a light brown. Serve with sweetened cream or milk, with nutmeg 
to suit 

Apple Pudding, "No. 1, Dutch.— Flour, 1 pt. (1?^ cups); salt, i^ tea- 
spoonful; baking powder, 3 tea-spoonfuls, or 1 of cream of tartar; soda, J^ tea 



340 



DR CHASE'S RECIPES 



epoonful. Rub 1 tablespoonful of butter into the flour. Beat 1 egg and add 
to it, and %oi & cup of milk. Mix the flour into a dough thick enough to 
spread % an inch thick in a baking tin. Peel and cut in eighths 4 apples and 
place them in rows in the dough, narrowest edge down. Sprinkle over it 2 
table spoonfuls of sugar and bake in a quick oven 20 minutes. Serve with the 
following: 

Lemon Sauce for Same.—^ne cupful of sugar and 3 cupfuls of water put 
on to boil; 3 tea -spoonfuls of com starch into a little cold water and stir into the 
boiling syrup; cook about 8 minutes, adding a little more water when thick; 
juice and grated rind of i^ a lemon, 1 tablespoonful of butter; stir until the 
butter is melted and serve at once. Items — It is well to have the pan buttered 
and everj'thing ready before wetting up the dough. If the dough is too soft it 
will rise and fall; just thick enough to drop and to spread. — Blade Uousehold. 

Apple, Peach, or Other Fruit Pudding-Pie, or Pie-Pudding, 
No. 2, Yankee Style.— Sweet milk, 1 cup; 1 egg; butter, 1 table-spoonful, 
heaping; baking powder, 1 tea-spoonful; flour, 1 cup, or sufficient to make rather 
■a. thick batter ("batter" means like cake — better to handle with a spoon, or to 
pour out); a little salt; tart, juicy apples to half fill an earthen pudding-dish, 
Directions — Stir the baking powder into the sifted flour; melt tlie butter, beat 
the egg and stir all well together; having pared and sliced the apples or peaches, 
buttered the dish and laid in the fruit to only half fill it, dip the batter over the 
fruit to wiioUy cover it, as with a crust; the dish should not be quite full, lest 
as it rises it runs over in baking. Bake in a moderate oven to a nice brown, to 
be done just "at the nick of time" for dinner. Turn it bottom up upon a 
pie-plate, and grate over nutmeg or sprinkle on some powdered cinnamon or 
other spices, as preferred ; then sprinkle freely of nice white sugar over all and 
serve ^th sweetened cream or rich milk, well sweetened. Peaches, pears, 
strawberries, raspberries, blackberries, etc., in their season, work equally as 
well as apples. — My's. Sarah A. Earley, Mt. Pleasant, Iowa. 

Remarks. — This plan avoids the soggy and indigestible bottom crust of pie; 
and it matters not whether you call it pie or pudding, it eats equally well, even 
cold, with plenty of sugar and milk, having the cream stirred in 

Apple Short-Cake Pudding, No. 3, With Sour Cream and 
Buttermilk. — Fill a square, deep bread-tin 3^ or ^ full of pared and sliced 
tart apples; make a thick batter of % cup each of sour cream and buttermilk, 
1 tea-spoonful of saleratus, a little salt, and flour, sifted, to make quite stiff, a 
little stiffer than for cake; turn this over the apples; bake 40 minutes, and serve 
with sauce, or cream and sugar with nutmeg. 

Remarks. — Other fruit, as peaches, etc., will do nicely with this as well as 
the No. 2, above; nor would an egg in the batter hurt it a bit. 

Sweet Apple Pudding, No. 4.— Sweet milk, 1 qt. ; eggs. 4; sweet 
apples, pared and chopped, 3 rounding cups; a lemon, nutmeg and cinnamon; 
soda, 3^ tea-spoonful ; vinegar enough to dissolve the soda; flour tc make as 
cake batter. Directions— Grate off J^ the rind of the lemon, using all the 
juiee; beat the yolks very light; add the milk, seasoning and stir in flour to 



PUDDINGS. S45 

make rather a thick batter, and stir hard 5 minutes; then stir in the chopped 
apples, then the beaten whites, and finally the soda, dissolved in a little vinegar, 
mixing all well. Bake in 2 shallow dishes, to ensure cooking the sweet apples, 
which require more cooking than tart ones — about 1 hour— covering the top 
with paper the last half hour. To be eaten hot with cream, or milk and sugar. 

Apple Cfharlotte, or Bread Pudding With Tart Apples, No. 5. 
— Butter your pudding-dish, line it with bread buttered on both sides; put a 
thick layer of apples, cut in thin slices, or chopped, sugar, a little cinnamon 
and butter on top, then another layer of bread, apples, sugar, cinnamon and 
butter last. Bake slowly 1)4. ^ovlts, keeping the basin, or dish, covered till a 
little before serving, to let the apples brown on top. — Blade Household. 

Remarks. — No matter whether there is any Blade about it or not, it will be 
foimd nice and healthful. 

Apple Custard Pudding, No. 6.— Good-sized tart apples, pared, and 
the cores punched out with a tin cutter [see "Tapioca Pudding, No. 3," for 
description], sufBcient only to cover the bottom of a large earthen pudding, 
dish, buttered; set the apples on end, so as to fill the holes with sugar; grate 
over them a little nutmeg, and cinnamon powder, if liked ; then make a rich 
custard, say with 4 or 5 well-beaten eggs to 1 qt. sweet milk and 1 to 2 cups of 
sugar, according to the sourness of the apples, and pour over the apples Bake 
till the apples are tender; serve with sweetened cream or milk. One apple to 
be placed in each dish in serving. Very delicious and healthful. 

Bird's-Nest Pudding— Several Styles.— Tart apples, pared and the 
cores punched out, sufficient to cover the bottom of an earthen pudding-dish; 
fill the holes with sugar and grate on some nutmeg; having mashed, say4heai> 
ing table-spoonfuls of sago, mix with cold water to properly fill the dish; pour 
it upon the apples and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. 

Remarks. — Ripe peaches, pears, cherries, prunes, etc., with the propel^ 
amount of sugar, may take the place of apples, and tapioca may take the place 
of sago; time for baking the same. Serve either with cream and sugar, or milk 
with the cream stirred in. Palatable, healthy and not expensive, as good brown 
sugar may be used Avith any colored fruits. 

Dried Peach Pudding.— Dried peaches, 1 pt.; wash, sweeten with 
sugar, 1 cup, and stew till nicely done, using water sufficient to have plenty of 
the juices; then, having made a batter with buttermilk, 1 small cup, and % tea- 
spoonful of soda and a little salt, thicken with flour very stifif ; drop in spoon- 
fuls among the peaches while boiling. Continue the boiling about 20 minutes. 
An egg and J^ a cup of sugar would improve this pxiffy paste. Serve with 
cream and sugar, or sweet sauce, as you choose. Be careful not to burn the 
peaches in stewing. 

Yorkshire Pudding, English.— Sweet milk, 13^ pts. ; flour, 7 table- 
spoonfuls (as you lift them up out of sifted flour); a little salt. Derections — 
Put the flour into a basin with the salt and sufficient of the milk to make a stiff, 
smooth batter (that is, to be no lumps); then stir in two well-beaten eggs and 
the remainder of the milk; beat all well together, and pour into a shallow tia 



342 2>i^. CRASETS RECIPEB. 

whxe.h has been previously rubbed with butter. Bake for 1 hour; tlien place it 
under the meat for % an hour to catch a little of the gravy as it flows from the 
roasting beef. (This is the English way, where they " spit" the beef in roast- 
ing. See remarks below for the American way, and also about serving on a 
napkin.) Cut the pudding into square pieces and serve on a hot folded napkin 
with hot roast beef. — Warners Model Cookery, London, Eng. 

Remarks. — Tht, plan of putting the pudding under the roasting beef, where 
they roast it upon spits (a pointed bar of iron, or several of them, to roast before 
a fire;, as our grandmothers used to roast a goose, turkey or spare-rib, 
was a very convenient way of moistening the top of the pudding with the rich 
juices of the beef; but in place of that we, here in America, have the 
pudding 10 or 15 minutes longer in the oven, but baste it frequently 
during this time, with the meat drippings; make this pudding only 
when you are roasting beef; and we serve it upoa the plates with the 
beef, and not upon napkins, which makes too much washing for our 
wives and daughters. In England, with plenty of " servants," they care not 
for this extra work. "A hot oven, a well beaten batter, and serving quickly, 
are the secrets of a Yorkshire pudding," to which tlie author will add, also a 
rich meat gravy. 

Hunters' Pudding, Boiled— Will Keep for Months.— Flour, 
suet finely chopped, raisins chopped, and English currants, each, 1 lb. ; sugar, 
J^ lb. ; the outer rind of a lemon, grated; 6 berries of pimento (all-spice) finely 
powdered; salt, J^ tea-spoonful; when well mixed add 4 well beaten eggs, a i^ 
pt. of brandy, and 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of milk to reduce it to a thick batter; 
boil in a cloth 9 hours, and serve with brandy sauce. This pudding may be 
kept for 6 months after boiling, if closely tied up; it will be required to be 
boiled 1 hour when it is to be used. — Farm and Fireside. 

Remarks. — This, for htmtcrs going out upon a long expedition, would be a 
very desirable relish to take along. There is not a doubt as to its keeping qual 
ities, as it contains no fermentive principles; and the fruit and brandy are both 
anti-ferments, while the long boiling is also done to kill any possible tendency 
to fermentation. I should, however, boil it in a tin can, having a suitable tight 
fitting cover, if intended for long keeping, on the principle of air-tight canning, 
as well as to be safe from insects, and convenience in carrying. Do not think, 
however, but what it would be very nice for present use with only 4 or 5 hours' 
boiling, using the sauce freely, as it is made so dry for the purpose of long 
keeping. 

Danish, or Tapioca Pudding. — Tapioca, 1 cup; water 3 pts. ; salt, ^ 
tea-spoonful; sugar J^ cup; any high-colored jelly, 1 tumblerful. Directions 
--s-Wash the tapioca in the evening, and soak over night in the waterfvn the 
the morning put into a double boiler (see Tapioca Puddings No. 2 — Note — for 
the Rice, or double kettle, a rice-boiler is what is wanted), and cook 1 hour, 
stirring occasionally; then add salt, sugar, and jelly, and mix thoroughly; then 
tnm into a mold or serving-cups which have been dipped into cold water, and 
put in a cool place to " set " for dinner or tea, vnih cream and sugar. (See also 
Ta|)toca Puddings.) 



PUDDINGS 343 

JSapies, or Duke of Cambridge Pudding, with Candied PeeL 

Uandied lemon, orange and citron, each, 1 oz,; butter and pulverized sugar, 
eacn, 6 ozs. ; yolks of 4 eggs; rich pufl'-paste, or well-buttered bread, to line the 
dish. Directions — Chop the candied peel finely, put the rich crust or paste 
Into the dish, else line it with bread well buttered on both sides; then put in the 
chopped mixture; warm the butter and sugar together, adding the well-beaten 
yolks, stiiTing over the tire until it boils; then pour this over the other and bake 
in a slow oven 1 hour; or, in place of the butter, beat the whites of the eggs also 
with the yolk, and make a custard with milk, 1 qt. ; sugar the same, and pour 
over, and bake % hour. This makes you two puddings for variety's sake- 
make one way at one time, and the other way next time. 

Chester, or Almond Flavored Pudding, English. — Lemon, 1 ; 
sweet almonds, 20; bitter abnonds, 6 only; butter, 1 heaping table-spoonful; 
sugar, 1 cup; eggs, 4; puff paste. Directions — Blanch the almonds and chop 
^hem, or what is better, cut into long strips, or shreds, with a sharp knife. Put 
the butter into a sauce pan over a slow fire, and as soon as the butter melts put 
all in, except the whites of the eggs, and beat together thoroughly, having the 
pudding dish already lined with the light paste, pour in the mixture, and bake 
in a quick oven. To be sent to the table on a folded napkin, with the whites 
of the eggs beaten to a froth with a spoon of powdered sugar, and laid upon 
the top. [To blanch almonds, pour boiling water on the meats, and let stand 
till the skin will rub off easily, between the thumb and finger, throwing them 
into cold water as the skin is removed, to whiten; then drain off the water and 
chop, or slice up into shreds, with a sharp pen-knife, or pound in a mortar, as 
directed in the recipe. Never let them dry, as that brings out their oiliness.] 

Bemarks—Bevag an American, I would say put the whites beaten on top, 
and brown a few moments before serving, and serve in saucere, or suitable side 
dishes, (See remarks following the "Yorkshire Pudding," about serving on 
napkins, etc.) 

Sponge Cake Pudding.— Butter a mould, and having cut in halves, 
large raisins, ^ lb. ; fill the mould % full, loosely, with sponge cake which has 
been cut in long strips— square form— crossing each tier, stiips a little distance 
apart, cob hotise fashion, to allow space for the custard; then pour in a custard 
made with 3 eggs to rich milk, 1 pt. (rich milk means milk with the cream 
stirred in), or 5 eggs to 1 qt., with % to 1^^ cups, as to whether liked very 
sweet or not; fiavored with nutmeg or any extract desired. Set the mould in a 
kettle of water to come up % )r ^ only; up the sides, and boil 1 hour; or set 
In a steamer, if you have one (and they are very convenient in every family), 
and steam 1 hour, properly covered, to prevent the condensing steam from 
dripping from the oover into the pudding. 

Sauce for Savie.—^ngax, 1 cup; butter, % cup, whipped to a cream; then 
pour in boiling water, 1 cup, setting the same dish on the stove, to continue to 
scald, but not to boil, while 2 or 3 tea-spoonfuls of corn starch are rubbed up 
with a little cold water and stirred in; then a well beaten egg, and lastly a wine- 
glass of wice ; or still better, a wine-glass of brandy. Serve while both are 
hot. I wonder if the English would not say, "On a folded napkin." 



344 I>R. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — A napkin will be needed to wipe the lips, after smacking them; 
for there are but few persons who will not smack their lips for more of it. 

St. James' Stale Bread Pudding.— Grate a stale loaf of bread (i. e., 
2 or 3 days old) into crumbs; pour over them 1 pt. of boiling milk; let stand 1 
hour; then beat to a pulp; then beat, sugar, \% cups, to a cream with 4 eggs, 
and butter, 2 table-spoonfuls; grate in the yellow of a lemon, and a bit of nut- 
meg, and a pinch of cinnamon, if liked; beat all well together, and pour into 
a pudding dish lined with nice puff paste, and bake about 1 hour. The juice 
of the lemon to be used in making whatever sauce you prefer, as there are 
many already given. 

Remarks. — The author feels very sure you vdll ask St. James to call again. 
Bread, buttered well on each side, may be substituted for the puff paste to line 
the dish. 

Baron Brisse's Bice Pudding.— Wash 1 cup of rice and boil it in as 
little milk and water, half-and-half, in a rice kettle (which see) as will swell it 
soft. When thus cooked, add 6 well-beaten eggs, leaving out the whites of 4; 
butter, 3 heaping table-spoonfuls, and a little salt. Butter a tin baking-mould 
well and sprinkle over it finely-powdered bread-crumbs, or cracker-crumbs, 
thickly at bottom and all that will adhere on the sides. Whip the whites to a 
sfiff froth and stir in last; then pour into the mould and bake J^ an hour. 
Turn out upon a dish and serve as if it was a loaf of cake. 

Remarks. — I do not know who Baron Brisse is, or was, but I do know this 
pudding is nice. It matters not what a pudding is called, but it does matter 
■whether it is good or not when you are " called " to eat it. I will vouch for 
the Baron's; still I think he might have allowed 1 cup of sugar to the mixture, 
as the author has a " sweet tooth." Yet it does very well without, if served 
with a sauce of 1 butter to 2 sugars, whipped nicely together, and flavored with 
grated nutmeg or other flavor, as preferred. 

Queen Mab's Pudding, With Gelatine.— Soak a sixpence packet 
(about 1 oz.) of gelatine, in warm water enough to cover it, for 2 hours; theri 
boil a fresh sliced lemon-peel (better a candied one, nicely chopped) in 1 pt. of 
milk and add to the gelatine, continuing the heat till the gelatine is dissolved; 
then sweeten to taste, pouring in gently the beaten yolks of 4 eggs; place the 
saucepan again upon the stove and simmer as a custard (which it is) over a slow 
fire, not allowing it to boil; when thick enough, remove from the fire and stir 
in preserved cherries (preserved blackberries, or black-caps), and stir occasion- 
ally till nearly cold, and pour into a mould or cups for serving. Set on ice, 
if you have it, till served. 

The Queen of Puddings, With Bread-Crumbs.— Bread-crumbs, 
1 pt. ; sweet milk, 1 qt. ; the yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten; butter, the size of an 
^gg; sugar, 1 cup; the grated rind of 1 lemon. ]\Iix and bake till done, but not 
watery: then, having beaten the whites with a cup of white sugar (powdered 
*' ways for this) to a froth, replace for a few moments to brown. If needed for 
a dinner-party, it improves the appearance by spreading on the top of the pud- 
ding, when taken from the oven, a layer of preserves or jelly and then the 



PUDDINGS. 345 

sugar and whites of the eggs over the jelly; set it back in the oven and bake 
shghtly, to be served when cold; cut in slices it is very beautiful. 

Remarks. — Butter and sugar creamed, and the juice of the lomon creamed 
in, is not amiss when served, especially for the dinner-party. But sifted sugar 
over it does nicely. 

Cracked-Wheat Pudding. — Unskimmed sweet milk, 1 qt. ; sugar and 
cracked- wheat, each 1 cup; a bit of cinnamon; stir together and place in an 
oven of medium heat. When about half done stir in the crust already formed, 
and leave it to form another, which will be sufficiently brown. Try when itiis 
done by tasting a grain of wheat, which must be very soft. This, served hot 
or cold with sweetened cream or rich milk, is not only delicious but a very 
healthful pudding. So is the following, with the same sauce: 

Poor Man'B Pudding, Boiled.— Molasses, water, chopped suet and 
raisins, each 1 cup; saleratus or soda, 1 tea-spoonful; salt, 1 teaspoonful, and 
sifted flour to make a stiff batter. Tie in a prepared cloth [see general direc- 
tions] and boil 2 hours. Of course, it must be put into boiling water and kept 
boiling all the time. [See last remarks for a sauce.] 

Floating Island Pudding, No. 1— Very Nice.— Eggs, 8; sweet 
jnilk, l}i qts.; sugar, 5 heaping table-spoonsful; vanilla and lemon extracts, or 
any other two kinds of extracts. Directions — Separate the whites, and make 
a custard of the yolks with 4 spoonfuls of the sugar and the milk, flavored 
pretty freely with one of the extracts; and when properly made, put into a suit- 
able glass dish and set in a cool place, to be ready for the "floats," to be made 
with the whites of the eggs and the other spoonful of sugar, and slightly flav- 
ored with the other extract, as follows: Beat the whites, with the spoonful of 
i, agar and slight flavor, to a stiff froth ; have a shallow pan of water — or milk ia 
^st, if you have it — boiling hot when the frotli is hot; then, with a wet spoon, 
wdke up this white froth and poach (boil the same as poaching eggs, which see) 
them in the water or milk, turning once to ensure cooking both sides, and whea 
all is poached, carefully place these, the large end outwards (if properly done, 
they will keep their oblong shape), on top of the yellow custard. Each piece 
of the "floats" may have a bit of colored jell upon them, if you choose, for 
ornamentation. 

Remarks. — You may say, this is too much trouble Of course, it is con. 
siderable labor; but you can't have nice things without a certain amount of 
labor, and as this would only be expected upon occasions of the presence of 
especial friends, it might be a pleasure to make it; otherwise, take the following, 
No. 3— -the more common plan. If not so large a supply is needed, take half 
the quantities. 

Floating Island Pudding, No. 2. — Ingredients and quantities the 
same as No. 1, lining the dish, however, with strips of cake, pour in the yellow 
custard, when properly cooked, and place the beaten white froth upon the top 
as a whole, aud pat on a few bits of colored jell, if you like; but if it is in a 
dish which you can set in the oven 3 or 4 minutes, to slightly brown the frost- 
feig, do so beforw putting on the bits of jelL 



346 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Blanc-Mange, or Substitute for Pudding. — Sweet milk, 1 qt; 
com-starch, 1 cup; sugar, % cup; salt, 1 tea-spoonful. Directions — Heat the 
milk to a boil, and stir in the salt and corn-starch, and boil 10 minutes (in a 
farina, or rice-kettle), and stir it all the time, so it shall not burn Remove from 
the fire, and stir in the sugar and flavoring extract to taste. Pour into cups, 
and set in a cool place. Eaten cold, with sugar and milk, or powdered sugar, 
as you prefer, or have. 

Remarks. — If you want it richer, beat 3 eggs, yolks and whites separately, 
and stir in the yolks 3 minutes before removing from the fire; and the whites, 
after removing and stirring in the sugar. It does nicely without the eggs. I 
have so eaten it many times, with a tea-spoonful or two of sugar dipped on, 
then pouring over a little milk. Irish moss, gelatine, tapioca, etc. , can be used 
in place of the corn-starch, to make blanc-mange ; but this is nice, and the easi- 
est made. 

Qiiick Pudding, Baked. — Eggs, 1; sugar, 1 cup; melted butter, 1 
table-spoonful; sweet milk, 1 cup; soda, % tea-sp«onf ul ; flour, 3 cups; bake in 
a quick oven, about % liour, or a little more. Eat with any sauce preferred; 
or the quickest is, butter, 1, and sugar, 2 spoonfuls, creamed together. 

Strawberry Float Wo. 3— A Substitute for Pudding.— Cap 
and sugar to taste 1 pt. of nice fully ripe strawberries, and set aside one hour; 
then mash them through a colander; beat the whites of 6 eggs to a stiff froth, 
and stir into the ma.shed berries; whip all till the spoon will stand erect in them. 
Serve with rich cream. — Good Cheer. 

Float No. 4, With Corn Starch or Flour.— "M," of Mason, 
Mich. , in answer to ' ' Kitties' " inquiry in the Blade for a float, sends the follow- 
ing, which she says is simple and easy to make and good— very desirable points: 
" Take 2 pts. sweet milk and put in a large spider or saucepan on the stove. 
When it boils have the whites of 2 eggs beaten to drop in the milk. While 
they are scalding, beat up the 2 yolks with )/^ cupful sugar and 1 table-spoonful 
com starch or flour wet with a little cold milk. Take out the whites with a 
skimmer to drain, and stir in the above mixture. Set away in the cellar until 
tea-time. " 

Remarks. — Of course, when cold or cool, the whites of the eggs are placed 
on top of the float. If put into cups or glasses to be ready to serve when cold, 
the white is cut up and a part placed on each cup. Or, the white may be cut 
into dice and scattered on top when partially cool; or ripe berries of any kind, 
or pieces of cake, or lady -finger cakes (which see) may be laid upon the edge of 
the dish, when it is cooled in a large one, for variety's sake. 

Batter Pudding No. 1, Boiled or Steamed, with Sweet Milk. 
— Flour, 1 cup; sweet milk, 1 qt. : eggs, 6; salt, 1 tea-spoouful. Directions — 
Rub the flour smooth with a little of the milk, adding the balance, salt and 
well-beaten eggs. Turn this into the pudding -cloth and tie tight, leaving room 
for it to swell one-third. Boil 2 hours; serve with liquid sauce. Great care 
must be taken in boihng puddings to have the water boiling when you put the 
pudding in ana to keep it boiling all the time. Steaming is the safer way. 



PUDDINGS. , 347 

Always keep a kettle of boiling water to fill up as it boils away from the pud- 
ding. For a pudding-cloth get % of a yard of white drilling. Keep an old 
saucer in the bottom of the kettle to save the pudding from burning. — Christian 
Union. 

Remarks. — Steaming is not only the safer way, but it is, of late, much the 
more common way, and no doubt, much the most healthful way, Any of the 
sweet sauces, heretofore given, wiU be nice for this or any of the following bat- 
ter puddings, unless otherwise directed 

Batter Pudding No. 2, with Sotir Cream, Baked.— Sour cream, 
flour, and sweet milk, each, 1 cup; eggs,3; a little salt, and soda, % tea- 
Bpoonful. Directions — First rub the flour smooth with the cream, then add 
the milk and the well-beaten eggs, salt and soda, and bake in a quick oven. 
To be eaten with highly sweetened cream or milk to make up for the absence 
of sugar in the pudding. 

Batter Pudding, No. 3, with Sweet Cream, Baked. — Sweet 
cream, }4 cup; sweet milk, 1 cup; eggs, 2; flour, 4 table-spoonfuls; butter, 1 
table-spoonful; sugar, 1 cup; 1 lemon. Directions — Work the same as the 
last above, grating in the yellow rind of half the lemon, and putting in halt 
the juice, saving the other half for flavoring the butter and sugar, to be creamed 
to serve it with ; bake in a moderate oven. 

Fruit Batter Pudding, No. 4, with Sour Milk, Baked or 
Boiled. — Sour milk and sugar, each 1 cup; flour, 1 pt. {1% cups); cream tar- 
tar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, J^ tea-spoonful; home-made dried fruit, English cur- 
rants or raisins, as most convenient, or preferred, 1}^ cups; eggs, 2, well beaten; 
a little salt and the flavoring extract preferred, 1 table-spoonful. Bake in a 
moderate oven %to \ hour, or boil in a mould, cloth, or tin pail, covered, 3 
hours. To be eaten with cream and sugar, maple syrup, or any other sauce 
preferred. 

Batter Pudding, No. 5, Without Milk or Sugar, Except in 
the Sauce, Baked.— Flour, 1 cup; eggs, 3; a little salt, and soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful; mix on general principles. Bake in a reasonably hot oven, and serve 
with the following; 

Sauce for Same, or Any Other Pudding. — A table-spoonful of flour rubbed 
smooth in a little cold milk; pour it into 1 cup of boiling milk, having sugar, 1 
cup, rubbed well with butter, % cup, and as soon as the milk comes to a boil 
again put in the creamed sugar and butter, and continue to boil 2 or 3 minutes 
only, and serve, both pudding and sauce, hot. 

Batter Pudding, No. 6, Rich with Sweet Milk and Eggs.— 
Sweet rich milk, 1 qt. ; eggs, 8, beaten separately, very light; flour, sifted, 12 
table spoonfuls; a little salt. Beat the batter perfectly smooth, and bake in a 
quick oven, and serve immediately, with butter and sugar creamed, and flavored 
to suit each maker's taste, or preference. 

Batter Pudding, Extra, No. 7, with Pork and Raisins, 
Steamed.— Sifted flour, 3 cups; sweet.milk, 3 cups; chopped raisins, 1 cap: 



348 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

molasses, 3^ cup; chopped, fat, salt pork, ^ of a cup; soda, 2 tea-spoonfuls. 
Steam 3 hours. Serve with any sweet sauce, dipped on freely. — Fostoria Review. 
Remarks. — I have found their "domestic recipes" reliable every time, which 
is more than can be said for many newspapers; but I know the value, or worth- 
lessness of a recipe, for the last 15 years, as quickly as I read it; hence blame 
the author if the recipes he gi"^es fail in any case. 

Suet Pudding, No. 1, with Souj Milk, Splendid, Steamed. 
— Julia M. M. writes to the Western Rural, as follows, upon the suet pudding 
question; and as ladies make all their explanations before they give the recipe, 
I will let her speak for herself, simply saying she headed it, " Splendid Suet 
Pudding," and then proceeded by saying: "Our suet pudding for dinner was 
so very nice, and gave such general satisfaction, that I send the recipe for the 
benefit of my Rural sisters, as it may be new to some of them. It is particu- 
larly nice and convenient for house-keepers, as it will keep nicely a month or 
two in a cool, dry cellar in earthen jars or a tin box, and a part of it may be 
sliced off and steamed from time to time, as needed — when, with suitable sauce, 
it will be found as good as when newly made. Take suet, chopped fine; rais- 
ins, chopped ; syrup and sour milk, each 1 cup; English currants (of course 
washed and picked over, to free them from dirt and little gravel stones), % 
cup; soda, 2 even tea-spoonfuls. Mix the suet, raisins and currants well into 
the syrup; then add the sour milk, next the soda, pulverized and well mixed in 
a handful of dry flour. Stir imtil it begins to foam; then add flour enough to 
form a stiff batter. Steam IJ^ hours. For a large family double the quan- 
tity, and steam 2 hours. Serve hot, with the following: 

Sauce, Lemon, for Same. — Butter and sugar, J^ cup, each; beat these 
together with flour, 1 heaping table-spoonful. Pour into it, a little at a time, 
stirring all the while, boiling water, 1 pt. , and let it simmer on the stove a few 
minutes. Add lemon extract, 1 tea-spoonful, and the juice of 1 lemon. Or 
the following: 

Lemon Sauce for Any Pudding. — One large cup of sugar; nearly 3^ cup 
of butter; 1 egg; 1 lemon, all the juice and half the grated peel; 1 tea-spoonful 
nutmeg; 3 table-spoonfuls boiling water. Directions — Cream the butter and 
sugar, and beat in the egg whipped light; the lemon and nutmeg. Beat hard 
10 minutes, and add a spoonful at a time the boiling water. Put in a tin pail, 
and set within, or upon, the uncovered top of the kettle, which you must keep 
boiling, until the steam heats the sauce very hot, but not to boiling. Stir con- 
stantly. 

Remarks. — I see this is modified, slightly, from one of Mrs. Harland's, in 
" Common Sense in the Household," still it will be found a very nice sauce, for 
any pudding. 

The principles given by "Julia" are all correct, but most people use 
twice as much sugar as butter in making sauces. Cooks can suit themselves. 
See "Hunter's Pudding" for corroboration as to the keeping properties of this 
or any pudding which has plenty of these dry fruits in them and are made with 
a " stiff " batter, when well covered and kept in a dry, cool cellar, or other cool 



PUDDINGS. 349 

Suet Pudding, No. 2, With Sweet Milk and Crackers, Baked. 

— Suet, chopped fine and freed from strings (to skin the membrane of the suet 
is to " free it from strings;" see the first, or " English Plimi Pudding," and the 
remarks following it, as to " skinning" suet to save time), }4 cup; fine cracker- 
crumbs, 1 cup; sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls; eggs, 3; sweet milk, 3 cups; salt, 1 
tea-spoonful. Directions — Beat the yolks with the sugar: add to them the 
cracker and milk; then the suet; whip the whites and add lastly, leaving out 
the white of one to whip for the frosting; bake about 1 hour; make the frosting 
by beating, and adding 1 table-spoonful of powdered sugar; spread your frost- 
ing on when the pudding is baked; set it back in the oven to give it a brown, 
■watching closely; and, before sending it to the table, ornament with dots of cur- 
rant jelly. — Letters of Experience. 

Remark*. — " Experience " is necessary to do things well. The author, 
when he began his work of making " receipt books," had great difficulties to 
overcome; but twenty years of experience enables him to tell at a glance now 
what formerly would take a long time, and often several tests to accomplish. 
Stick to your life-work as I have to mine, and 99 in every 100 will succeed as I 
have done. See, also, " Plum Puddings," which are generally made with suet, 
in place of other shortenings. 

Stale Bread Pudding, With or Without Fruit.— Stale bread (dry 
bread or hard crusts), grated, 2 qts. ; eggs, 5; sugar, raisins and English cur- 
rants, each 1 cup; butter, 3^ cup; spices to suit. Derections — Soak the bread 
in water sufficient to cover it (milk is much better); whip the eggs, then the 
sugai into them ; pick over the raisins, mash and look over the currants, melt 
the butter, and mix all nicely together, having mashed the bread-crumbs into a 
pulp; and if not sufficiently moist, add a little more water or milk, whichever 
you are using, to make a suitable batter. Having lined the pudding-dish with 
a nice crust, pour in the mixture and put a thin crust over of the same; bake in 
a moderate oven about 1 hour; serve with any of the ' sweet sauces " preferred. 

Remarks. — Home-made dried fruit may take the place of the foreign kinds, 
remembering that home-tiried currants require double the amoimt of sugar. If 
no fruit is used, you will still have a nice pudding. And if you cut prunes in 
bits from the ' ' pit, " you also have a nice pudding. 

Bread Pudding, Aunt Eachel's. — "Aimt Rachel," in the Rural New 
Yorker, says: "A pudding may be made of small pieces of bread, if the fam- 
ily taste does not rebel. [I never see the family taste rebel against so good a 
pudding.] The bread should be broken fine, covered with milk, and set on the 
stDve where it is not too hot, until it becomes soft. Remove and stir in a table- 
spoonful of sugar, 1 of butter, a small tea-spoonful of salt, also a pinch of cin- 
namon, or allspice, and, if liked, 3^ cup of chopped or cut raisins, or dried 
raspberries. "When cool enough, stir in an ^gg, well beaten, and bake 1 hour in 
a moderate oven. To be eaten with cream and sugar, or pudding-sauce, as pre- 
ferred " 

Remarks. — This is like what my wife used to make, except she used to put 
the raisins in whole, to which I should never object; nor did I, as above 
remarked, "ever see the family taste rebel against it." 



350 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

"Aunt Rachel " adds: " I knew a lady who kept all the broken pieces of 
bread in a bag, that was hung where they would dry and not mold, and she had 
the material for a pudding always at hand. The price of flour and cost of liv- 
ing would determine whether such economies would pay." It would pay, 
rmless it may be for farmers, who raise their own wheat and have fowls to feed 
the broken pieces of bread to. 

Quick Pudding. — When hurried, butter a pudding-dish well, and put 
in a layer of stoned raisins, cut into halves; then fill up with small bread- 
crumbs, or rolled crackers; beat an egg, and add a little milk, a pinch of salt 
and a spoonful of sugar; stir well and pour over the crumbs and bake in a 
moderate oven. Turn out upon a plate just at time of serving. 

Honey Pudding. — Best honey, ]4. ^^■< '^'^^^ 6 ozs. butter, to a cream, 
and stir in a cup of bread-crumbs; beat the yolks of 8 eggs, then beat all 
together for 10 minutes; pour in suitable dish to set in water and boil, or steam, 
1% hours. Make a sauce with arrowroot or corn starch, and flavor with extract 
of orange. 

Blackberry Pudding, Baked or Boiled, and a Jelly, or Jam, 
as Sauce for Same, and a Cordial for the Children. — A writer in the 
Western Rural gives the following very nice ways of using this delicious fruit 
in its season. For the pudding: Take nicely ripe blackberries and sweet milk, 
each 3 pts.; eggs, well beaten, 5; sugar, 1 cup; a little salt: yeast powder (the 
author would say baking powder, as it acts quicker), 2 tea-spoonfuls, and flour 
to make a suitable batter to handle with a spoon, if to be baked; and as stiff as 
can be worked if to be boiled. To be eaten with any sauce, or the following jelly 
or jam: 

For the Jetty. — Place perfectly ripe blackberries in a porcelain kettle with 
just water enough to keep from burning, stirring often, over a slow fire, until 
thoroughly scalded; then strain or drain through a jelly-bag, the berries having 
been well mashed by the stirring in scalding— twice through, if necessary to 
make it clear; — measure, and put the juice on the stove and boU briskly 10 
minutes; then add equal measures of nice white sugar, and continue to boil 
until a bit of it dropped into a glass of very cold water sinks at once to the bot- 
tom, instead of dissolving much in the water, when it is done, and makes a 
splendid sauce for the pudding. 

For the Jam. — To each pound of the berries put, for present use, half as 
much light brown sugar, and boil to thoroughly cook the fruit, and use as sauce 
for the pudding; but for longer keeping, for winter use, use berries and sugar 
equal weights, and cook carefully 1 hour, stirring constantly to avoid burning. 
It is a cheap and excellent preserve, of which the children are very fond; and 
it is valuable for the younger ones having the least tendency to bowel complaints, 
and may be given half-and-half with the cordial, flavored highly with cinnamon, 
of which most children are very fond. 

For the Cordial. — Take the very ripest blackberries, mash them in a suitable 
tub or pail, pressing out liie juice through a stout piece of muslin : and to each 
quart put 1 lb. of best loaf or lump sugar, also in a porcelain kettle, pouring on 



PUDDINQS. 351 

Ihe juice, and as soon as softened place on the stove and boil to a thin jelly 
only, and when oold add brandy, % Pt- to each pound of sugar used. If thL<» 
is to be given to very young children, the jelly may be used in place of the jam, 
in equal parts, tlius avoiding the seeds. For a child of 2 to 5 years, put 2 or 3 
table-spoonfuls of each into a glass with a tea-spoonful of essence or extract of 
cinnamon, mixing thoroughly, and giving a tea to a table-spoonful of it as of teq 
as they like, or every half hour until relieved. 

Remarks.. — This shows the great value and variety of ways in which thq 
blackberry may be used. (See also the Blackberry Cordial in the Medical 
Department.) 

Whortle (Huckle);Berry Pudding, Boiled.— Eggs, 4, well beaten; 
sweet milk, 1 pt. ; salt,- 1 tea-spoonful ; nicely assorted and fully ripe whortle- 
berries, 3 pts; stir all well together, then stir in sifted flour to make a stiff bat- 
ter, tie tightly in a properly prepared pudding-cloth, mold or dish, and boil or 
steam 2 hours. To be served with any sweet sauce, or sugar and butter creamed. 

Beefsteak Pudding, Boiled. — Cut into small pieces tender, round 
beefsteak, 2 lbs. ; season with a little salt and- pepper; celery, or celery salt (an 
arti( -e now in the market), and summer savory, each, 1 tea-spoonful ; a few 
sprigs of parsley, if you have it, chopped, and if you use fresh celery, chop it, 
too; and 1 small onion, chopped very fine (if you tolerate them at all); mix the 
seasoning well together; having lined the pudding dish with a crust or paste, as 
directed below, put on a layer of the steak, and sprinkle on some of the season- 
ing, and so fill in all with alternate layers of steak and seasoning; then dip over 
with a spoon sufllicient hot water, and cover in with a top crust, and lay upon 
this a buttered paper, covered with a suitable plate; stand it in a basin of boiling 
water and let it continue to boil 2 hours; then remove the plate and paper, and 
set in a hot oven a few minutes to brown. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. 

For the Paste. — Flour, \% cups; salt, ]4, tea-spoonful; eggs, 1; butter, of 
what is better for this paste for meat, beef, or other drippings, 2 cable-spoon- 
fuls; water, about J^ cup, to properly wet up the flour. 

Meat and Rusk, or Bread Crumb Pudding, Baked.— Chop any 
kind of cold meat, with an equal amount of cold salt pork, or better still, sea' 
son it well with butter, pepper and salt, and add 2 or 3 beaten eggs. Then put 
into the buttered dish a layer of rusk, or bread crumbs; wet with milk; or in 
place of these, cold boiled rice, or hominy, and so fill in, in alternate layers; 
crumbs, or rice, or hominy being first and last; cover with a plate, and bake % 
of an hour; remove the plate to brown the top, and serve hot, in place of other 
meat. (See also Potato Pudding, No. 2, below.) 

Potato Pudding, No. 1, Baked.— Large mealy potatoes, 6; eggs, 6; 
sugar, 2 cups: butter, 1 cup; flour, i^ cup; milk, or if you have it, cream, 1 
pt ; 1 lemon, and a little salt. Directions— Boil, or steam, the potatoes and 
mash nicely, stin-iiig in the yolks of the eggs; beat the whites to a froth and 
stir in the sugar, flour, milk, or cream, the grated rind of the lemon, and salt; 
squeeze out the juice, and stir all together, and bake about 1% hoius. Sugai' 
aod cream, or sugar and butter sauee. Very nice. 



853 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Potato Pudding, No. 2, with Meat or Pish, Baked. —Steam 

and mash mealy potatoes, and season with butter, cream, salt and pepper, or 
for eating, butter; butter the dish and place a layer of the potatoes on the bot- 
tom; then, having finely chopped meat, or finely picked fish, put a layer of the 
one used, and so on alternating, finishing with a layer of bread or cracker 
crumbs, with a few bits of butter and a little water, or milk to moisten, at last; 
cover, till nearly done, with a paper, and bake about 1 hour. If fish is used 
etir into it a beaten egg. " Very nice " does not express the full parts. 

Sweet Potato Pudding. — A writer in the Blade Household gives us 
the following ingredients: Buy sweet potatoes, 2 lbs. (they are sold by the 
pound now almost wholly); brown sugar, % 'b.; butter, }4 ^^-'^ cream, 1 gili 
ili Pt-); 1 grated nutmeg; a small piece of lemon peel; eggs, 4; flour, 1 table- 
spoonful. Directions — Boil the potatoes well and mash thoroughly, passing 
it through a colander; and while it is yet warm mix in sugar and butter; beat 
the eggs and mix in when cool, with the flour, grated lemon peel, nutmeg, etc., 
very thoroughly; butter the pan and bake 25 minutes in a moderately hot oven. 
May be eaten with wine sauce. I would say yes, or any other sauce, and still 
be good, very good. 

Indian Pudding, No. 1, Baked. — This pudding was made at the 
Cataract House, Niagara Falls, by Mrs. Polk, for thirty-six successive seasons: 
One quart of milk put on to boil; 1 cup of meal, stirred up with about a cup 
of cold milk; a piece of butter, about the size of an egg, stirred into the hot 
milk, and let boil ; beat 6 eggs, or less, with 1 cup of powdered sugar, and add 
a tea-spoonful of ginger and nutmeg; then stir the whole together, and have it 
thick enough to pour into the dish, buttered. Bake in a quick oven. 

Sauce for Same. — One cup powdered sugar; 3^ cup butter, beaten to a 
cream. Flavor with nutmeg and a little wine or brandy, to taste. 

Remarks. — Myself and family spent several days at the above hotel, in 
1874, where we were so well pleased with this pudding— as has always been my 
custom, in my travels, if I found some particularly nice dish upon the table — I 
made an effort (through the waiter) to obtain the recipe, and, by "oiling the 
machinery," at both ends of the route — paying waiter and cook — I succeeded. 
I have given it word for word as dictated by Mrs. Polk (colored), who was 
highly gratified because we were so much pleased with her pudding, assuring 
us she "had made it in the same house for thirty-six seasons, without missing 
one." The family having made it many times since, I can, therefore, assure 
everyone " it is genuine," and very nice indeed. Coarse meal is' considered 
better than fine for baked puddings; and if the milk is rich by stirring in the 
cream so much the better. They are made without eggs, molasses taking the 
place of sugar, as No. 2. 

Indian Pudding, No. 2, Without Eggs, Baked.— Indian meal, 1 
cuo; butter, or lard, 2 table-spoonfuls; molasses, 1 cup; salt, }4 tea spoonful: 
cinnamon, or ginger, as preferred, 1 tea-spoonful; mix all these nicely, and 
pour in boiling milk, 1 qt, mixing thoroughly, and put into a buttered 
dish ; and when ready to set in the oven stir in cold water, 1 cup; bake ^ to 3 
2KHir. 



PUDDINGS. 85^ 

Remarks. — The water, it is claimed, gives the same lightness as the eggs — 
certainly it can not give the same richness. 

Indian Pudding No. 3, Old-Fashioned, Baked. — Scald milk, 
1 pt., and pour it upon Indian meal, 1 cup; add a beaten egg; molasses, % 
cup; sait and cinnamon, to taste; add cold milk, 1 pt., and bake about 2 hours, 
stirring 2 or 3 times while baking to make it wheyey. 

Remctrks. — This, it will be seen, has more meal in proportion to the milk, 
and consequently is not quite so much of a custard, but more of a pudding — 
the more eggs and milk, the more they are like custards. 

Indian Pudding No. 4, Steamed.— Sour milk, 2 cups; Indian meal, 
IJ^ cup>s; wheat flour, 2 cups; soda, 1 tea-spoonful, dissolved in a little of the 
milk; a little salt, and chopped raisins, 3^ cup. Mix all, and steam 2 hours^ 
To be eaten with any sauce preferred. 

Indian Pudding No. 5, With Sweet Apples, Baked.— Sweet 
milk, 2 qts. ; scald 1 qt., and stir in Indian meal, 10 rounding table-spoo»fuls; 
molasses, i^ cup ; salt, 1 tea-sjxjonf ul ; then stir in chopped sweet apples, 1 cup, 
and bake 3 hours in a moderate oven. 

Com Starch Pudding.— Sweet milk, 1 qt. ; com starch 4 table-spoon- 
fuls, nicely rounding; eggs, 5; sugar, 13^ cupa; % grated nutmeg, or other 
flavor to suit. Directions — Put the milk in a suitable dish to set in water to 
boil (it is always safer to boil milk in this way); when it boils stir in the beaten 
yolks, corn starch, 1 cup of the sugar, and flavor, and continue the heat to 
cook the starch; then put into the baking dish and set in the oven 15 or 20 min- 
utes, having the whites beaten with the J^ cup of sugar, and a little flavor if 
desired; put on top and brown nicely. 

Cream Pudding.— Stir together 1 pt of cream, 3 ozs. of sugar, the'yolks 
<jf 3 eggs, a little grated nutmeg, add the well-beaten whites, stir lightly, and 
pour into a buttered pie-plate, on which has been sprinkled the crumbe of stale 
bread to the thickness of an ordinary crust; and over ihe top also sprinkle a 
layer of the grated crumbs, and bake. Very nice. (See also cream pies.) 

Remarks. — And now, it appears to the author, that with about sixty recipes 
for puddings — a different one for each Sunday in the year, Fourth of July, and 
Christmas, too, — some very rich, and others plain, there need be no family 
which can not select one to suit special occasions, as the visits of friends, holi- 
days, etc., and also such as shall meet the demands, with plain puddings in 
places where the richer materials are not to be had, or when, although every- 
thing might be obtained, yet, the pocket-book does not allow it, or the health, 
or rather, the want of health, will not allow rich food. Every condition as well 
as desire can be met satisfactorily. So we will next see what we can do in 
the line of pies. 



PIES. —The Pie of Our Fathers— Minced Vie.— General Eemarks. 
—Any pie, to be good, ought to have a Ught and flaky crust, or " pastry," as 
more recently called, and the filling should be put in sufficiently thick to remove 
all suspicion of stinginess on the part of the maker, both of -which points are 
most eloquently brought out in the following communication of Jennie June's, 
to the Baltimore American, written more particularly as a defence of the minced 
pie, or "the pie of our fathers," as she calls it, against which so much has not 
only been said, but written. It is so rich in thought, eloquent in argument, and 
correct in its principles of instruction, it is worthy of a perusal, at least on 
Christmas occasions, by all lovers of minced pie, who have not "abused their 
stomachs," as she puts it, " until they have become dyspeptics." Such persons 
may feel grieved that they cannot allow themselves to indulge in this luxury 
any more, but they should have been reasonable in an earlier day, then they 
•^'Wld not feel a necessity for complaint. Some writers claim that minced pies 
are bad, only, when eaten just before retiring. Such a plan with any food, to 
be made a habit of, is bad. The stomach needs, and must have rest, as well as 
the body, or it will sooner or later make a complaint, never to be forgotten. 
She says: 

" I feel moved to say a word in defense of not only the pie in general, but 
the pie in particular — the symbolic mince pie, which the people who have 
abused their stomachs until they have become dyspeptics unite in abusing. The 
mince pie is a very ancient institution, and the only pie that has religious sig- 
nificance. The hoUow crust represents the manger in which the Savior was 
laid; its rich interior, the good things brought by the wise men as offerings and 
laid at His feet. A good mince pie is not only better for digestion than a poor 
one but it has a representative character of its own — it symbolizes our love and 
devotion to the divine principle to which the Christmas festival is consecrated. 
Mince pies should be prepared with a due sense of their character and import- 
ance. They should not be eaten often; but they should be well-made of fine 
and abxmdant materials, and, when served, received with due regard and given 
the place of honor. Thin layers of impoverished mince, inclosed in flat, 
ceramic (hard, like earthenware) crust, are not mince pies; they are the small- 
souled housekeepers substitute for the genuine article. The true mince pie is 
made in a brown or yellow earthen platter, is filled an inch thick witli a juicy, 
aromatic compound, whose fragrance rises like incense the moment heat is 
applied to it, and it comes out the golden brown of a russet which has been 
kissed by the sun. Xo common or nerveless hand should be allowed to prepare 
or mix the ingredients for this sum of all pastry. Every separate article should 
■ be cut, cleansed, chopped, sifted, with strong but reverent touch, and the 
blending should be effected with the sweetest piece of the apples, reduced by 
boiling with the sirup of the maple and sacramental wine. Thus the spices of 
the East, the woods of the North, the sweetness of the South, and the fruit of 
the West is laid under tribute, and the result, if properly compounded, is a pie 

354 



PIES. 



3S*) 



that deserves the esteem in which it was held in ancient times, and does credh 
to the skill of our foremothers, who brought it to its present state of perfection 
and to the good judgment of our forefathers, who appreciated and ate it. Let 
us defend and sustain one of our time-honored institutions against the attack of 
a weak and effete generation, which, having demoralized itself by indulgence ic 
many more obnoxious pleasures of the table, makes the "pie" the scapegoat 
and especially the "mince pie," which, when deserving of its name, is a revela 
tion of culinary art — a kitchen symphony — deserving the respect and consider 
ation of all who understand and appreciate a combination and growth whic^ 
has achieved the highest possible result." 

Pastry, or Crust, No. 1, for Minced and all other Pies.— Ai 

it is of the utmost importance to have a light and flaky crust for minced pies, as 
weU as all others, I will give two or three plans of making. The first is the 
celebrated Soyer's Receipt given by "Shirly Dare," in the Blade Household; 
and, although it is some labor to make it, it will pay to follow it whenever & 
very nice, flaky crust is desirable. It is as follows: 

" To every quart of sifted flour allow the yolk of 1 egg, the juice of 1 
lemon, 1 saltspoonful of salt, and 1 lb. of fresh butter. Make a hole in the 
flour, in which put the beaten egg, the lemon and salt, and mix the whole with 
ice water {vei-y cold water will do) into a soft paste. Roll it out, put the butter, 
which should have all the buttermilk thoroughly worked out of it, on the paste, 
and fold the edges over so as to cover it. Roll it out to the thickness of a 
quarter of an inch; fold over one-third and roll, fold over the other third and 
roll, always rolling one way. Place it with the ends toward you, repeat the 
turns and rolls as before twice. Flour a baking sheet, put the paste in it on ice 
or in some very cool place half an hour, roll twice more as before; chill again 
for a quarter of an hour; give it two more rolls and it is ready>for use. 

" This is very rich paste, and may be made "with halfiha quantity of butter 
only, chopped fine in the flour, rolled and chilled, forming a very hght puff 
paste that will rise an inch, and be flaky throughout." 

Remarks. — The object of chilling the pastry, by putting it upon ice or into 
a cold place, is to keep the butter cold, so it shall not be absorbed into the crust, 
but keep its buttery form, which makes it flaky, by keeping the dough in layers^ 
while the many foldings and rolling out makes them thin, like flakes of snow. 
But it is only in liot weather that this chilling becomes necessary, and not^then, 
unless you desire it to be flaky. In making pie by the last paragraph above, 
using only yi lb. of butter to 1 qt. of flour, for common use, the lemon juice, 
and egg too, may be left out, using the salt however. Still the yolk of an egg 
gives some richness, but more especially a richness of color. And even JiMf 
lard, or "drippings" may be used, as indicated at the close of the 1st receipt 
below, and be good enough for all common purposes, using the egg, or not, as 
you choose. 

It has always seemed to me, however, that pie-crust ought to have soda 
or baking-bowder in it to make it light; and to be certain about it, I have 
just called on one of our best bakers in the city and asked him about it. 
He tells me that some bakers keep flour, sifted with baking-powder or soda, 
ready for use; and, in making crust, they take one-fourth of the amount of flour 
to be used from that having the baking-powder or soda in it, to make the crust 
rise a little, and help to prevent any soggyness from using a juicy pie-mixture; 



856 DB. CHASE'S REGIPE8. 

but he says it depends more upon the heat on the bottom, or rather from th« 
want of a proper heat at the bottom of many stoYes. With the uniform heat 
of the bottom of a baker's brick-oven they have no trouble, generally, in baking 
the bottom crust so it is done, and hence not soggy. To do this in a stove-oven, 
move the pie occasionally to another part of the oven, where the heat has not 
been absorbed or used up in heating the plate or tin — in other words, see that 
the bottom of the oven is kept as hot as it ought to be, and you have no soggy 
or under-done crusts. Pies, not to be eaten the day they are baked, should be 
baked harder than those for immediate use, to prevent the absorption of the 
juice of the pie or dampness from the air. 

This baker also gave me the following as the best glaze to prevent the 
escape of the juices of very moist pies, as apple, peach, pie-plant, etc., of any 
thing that can be used. 

Pie-Crust Glaze— To Prevent XBcai>e of Juices.— Dust flour all 
around the outer edge of the crust, after the mixture is put in; then wet this 
completely, with a brush or otlierwise, before laying on the top crust, and pinch 
together, and no juice can possibly escape; but if any place is not wet, there 
the juice will escape. He thinks it far preferable to the white of an eg£ or 
amytfeing he knows. Bakers keep a small soft-haired brush for this purpose. 
But I guess the women will find a way to do it, even if they tie a bit of cloth on 
a stick, and keep it for that purpose. However, I will guarantee that to wet 
up a little flour into a rather thick, sniooth paste, and apply a little of it with 
the swab, finger, or brush, will do the same thing, in less time and with greater 
certainty of touching every part, than by using the dry flour and depending on 
wetting every part of it — this much for the Doctor's inventive genius. I believe, 
also, this glaze will be just as nice, or nicer even, than the egg, to have a light 
coat of it put over the crust of minced or other juicy pies, as named above, and 
allow it to dry a minute or two in the oven or to stand a few minutes upon the 
table, before putting in the pie-mixture, to prevent the under-crust from becom- 
ing aoggy by absorbing the juices before the baking is completed. We use the 
word pastry as synonymous, or meaning the same as pie-crust, probably from 
the fact that these mixtures, in an early day, were baked in a crust, or paste, 
without a dish or tin, and were called "pasties," or "pasty" — like paste — 
dn the same principle that we now make turn-over pies, frying in hot fat; as 
Shakespeare says: " If you pinch me like a pasty," etc. So " pinching " is the 
thing to do, to prevent the escape of any of the mixture or juice from the 
swelling or puflBness, caused by the necessary heat to bake the pie properly. 

Cream Pastry or Pie-Crust, No. 2.— This is the most healthy pie- 
crust that is made. Take cream, sour or sweet; add salt, and stir in flour to 
make it stiff; if the cream is sour add saleratus in proportion of one teaspoonful 
to a pint; if sweet, use very little saleratus. 

Remarks. — Soda will do very well in place of the saleratus, when that is 
not to be obtained. 

Pea Pie-Crust, No. 3.— Stew the split peas as for dinner. Strain 
through a colander or coarse sieve. Then add equal parts good wheat meal 



PIES. .357 

(sifted Graham will do nicely) and fine corn meal sufficient to make a soft 
dougli. Knead well for fifteen minutes, adding mixed meal enough to make a 
moderately stiff dough, then roll out and use as any other pie-crust. As it 
cooks very quickly, it is not best to put in for a filling, any fruit that requires 
long cooking. 

Remarks. — This is undoubtedly of German origin, as they make great use 
of the split pea soup, etc. But you may be assured of its healthfulness, for 
the Germans, with their plain cookery and hard labor manage to be healthy and 
long-lived people. 

Baking the Pastry Before Putting in the Pie Material. 
— It has always seemed to the author that to bake the under crust 
before putting in any juicy pie, as mince, custard, lemon, etc., as it will be 
seen in the cream pie. No. 1., below, would ensure a light and more healthy 
crust, by preventing the absorption of the juices, and consequently, a soggy 
and indigestible crust, which I never eat. I think there Ls nothing that will 
pay better in pie making than this, and especially so with any not to be eaten 
the day they are made. It will take but a few minutes to do it, pricking the 
crust the same as you would crackers, to prevent their blistering, or puffing up, 
in some part of them. 

Minced. Pies, No. 1. — Boil a fresh beefs tongue (or very nice tender 
beef in equal amount, about 3 lbs), remove the skin and roots (any remains of 
the wind-pipe, blood vessels, etc.) and chop it very fine, when cold; add 1 lb of 
chopped suet; 2 lbs of stoned raisins; 2 lbs of English currants; 2 lbs of citron, 
cut in fine pieces; 6 cloves, powdered {% teaspoonful powdered cloves); 2 tea- 
spoonsful of cinnamon; % teaspoonful of p)owdered mace; 1 pt. of brandy; 1 
pt. of wine, or cider; 2 lbs of sugar; mix well and put into a stone jar and 
cover well. This will keep some time. When making the pies, chop some 
tart apples very fine, and to 1 lb of the prepared meat put 2 bowls of the apple; 
add more sugar if taste requires it, and sweet cider to make the pies juicy, but 
not thin ; mix and warm the ingredients before putting into pie plates. Always' 
bake with an upper and under crust, made as follows: 

Crust. — Lard, butter and water, each 1 cup; flour, 4 cups. 

Remarks. — To which I would add, the yolk of an egg and a little 
salt. As a general thing, I do not think so much brandy and wine are 
used, and although I do not object to eating, occasionally, of such a pie, 
yet, as many persons do, they can leave them out, substituting boiled cider — 3 
to 1 — in the place of the brandy or wine; or pure alcohol, }^ pt., would be 
as strong in spirit, and cost less than half as much, while the difference in taste 
would not be observed. Each person can now suit themselves and be alone 
responsible. I will guarantee this much, however, no one will be led into 
habits of drink from the amount of spirit they will get in a piece of pie thus 
made — possibly one-fourth of a teaspoonful. Nearly all receipts for minced 
pies contain wine or brandy; they can be used or left out, as anyone shall 
choose, by using the cider more freely. 

Minced Pie, No. 2, for Ready Use.— One beef's tongue, suet, and 
currants, each 1 lb. ; raisins (stoned), and citron, each 3^ lb. ; large tart apple*, $.^ 



B58 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

juice of 1 1'^mon; wine, 1 qt.; and spices to taste — cinnamon and cloves are 
generally used ; but it always seemed to the author that black pepper should 
have a place in them. Sweet cider may take the place of the wine ; but boiled 
cider is better, because there is more spirit in it. Of course, all to be properly 
chopped, mixed, etc, and put in, at least, half to three-fourths of an inch thick. 

Mock Minced Pies, No. 1, with Bread Crumbs.— Bread crumbs, 
sugar, molasses, vinegar, boiling water, raisins, and currants, each 1 cup; but- 
ter, 3^ cup; spices to taste. 

Mock Minced Pies, No. 2, with Cracker Crumbs. — Crackei 
crumbs, sugar, molasses, boiling water, and raisins, each 1 cup; vinegar and 
butter, each 3^ cup; 2 beaten eggs; nutmeg and cinnamon, each 1 tea-spoonful; 
cloves, % tea-spoonful. Either of them will make 3 pies. 

Remarks. — English currants can be added to this, if desired, or dropped 
from No. 1, as one may choose. To imitate minced pies, of course, they must 
have upper as well as under crust. (See Pastry, for making the crust.) 

Mock Minced Pies, No. 3, with Apples. — Crackers, double hand- 
ful; tart apples, medium size, 8; raisins, 1 cup; butter and molasses, each }^ 
cup; ground cinnamon, cloves, and allspice, each 1 tea-spoonful; salt, 1 salt- 
spoonful; sugar and cider. Directions — Roll the crackers; pare, core and 
chop the apples, melt the butter, and mix all, using cider to make sufficiently 
moist, and if the cider is not quite tart, add 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, 
with sugar enough to give the requisite sweetness, which each must judge for 
himself, as tastes vary so much. 

Remarks. — The apples give these pies a much greater resemblance to the 
real, than as formerly made without apples. If they are made with a light bis- 
cuit crust, which is made with at least 1 iea-spoonful of baking powder; then 
■wetting the bottom crust with the beaten white of an egg before the mixture is 
put in, even the dyspeptic may eat them, if he can eat ordinary food. They are 
healthful, as well as very palatable. Give the author the one with the apples 
when he calls upon you. 

Lemon Pie, Quickly Made.— One lemon; melted butter, 1 table- 
spoonful; water, 6 table-spoonfuls; corn starch, 1 table-spoonful (flour will do, 
but not quite so good); eggs, 2; sugar, 6 table-spoonfuls. Directions — Grate 
off the yellow, or zest of the lemon, as it is called — peel off the white part and 
throw it away — then grate up the pulp, if you have a coarse grater, or chop it 
fine having picked out the seeds. I*ut starch or flour in the water, and stir as 
for gravies; then stir in the melted butter and 3 spoonfuls of the sugar, and the 
beaten yolks of the eggs with the grated yellow and pulp of the lemon. Make 
with one crust only, and when baked properly, having beaten the whites of the 
e^gs with the balance of the sugar for frosting, put it on and give it a nice 
brown. Powdered sugar is the best for frosting. 

Remarks. — The advantage of this pie is it can be made in a hurry, as it is 
all made cold, except the butter. Lemon pies are quite often made with flom' 
in place of the corn starch. 

Lemon Custard Pie, Extra.— Sweet milk, 1 pt j 3 eggs; 1 lemon; % 



PIES. 859 

cup of sugar. Directions- -Mix the beaten eggs, sugar and milk together, aa 
for a custard; remove spots, stem, and flower end from the lemon, and chop per- 
fectly fine, and stir into the custard, and bake at once. — Mrs. Eastman , Toledo, O. 

Bemarks. — Having eaten of this pie several times while boarding there, and 
considering it a very nice custard pie, except in its lemon flavor, I enquired as 
to using lemons to flavor them without spoiling the custard, and received the 
above instructions from the lady herself, and can recommend it as an " extra " 
Indeed worthy of all confidence. One lemon gives a nice flavor to 3 pies. 

Lemon and Raisin Pies No. 1. — Two small lemons, prepared aa 
above; sugar, 1 coffee-cupful; 1 egg; butter, 1 rounding table-spoonful; 
flour. Stable-spoonfuls; boiling water, 23^ coffee-cupfuls; raisins, 1 coffee-cup- 
ful ; a little salt. Directions — Stir the flour smooth in a little cold water, and 
mix all, putting in the beaten egg last, not to scald it This mades 2 or 3 pies, 
according to your liberality in filling or size of your plate. Bake with 2 crusts. 

Lemon and Raisin Pies, No. 2. — Raisins, 1 lb. ; 1 lemon, prepared 
as in the "Extra" above; sugar, 1 cup; flour, 2 table-spoonfuls. Directions 
— Stew the raisins 1 hour, leaving just water enough to cover them; then, hav- 
tng rubbed the flour smooth in a little cold water, mix all and make 3 pies. 

Bemarks. — Either of these may be baked with or without upper crust, a& 
you choose, generally without. We have so many lemon pies we must next 
have an 

Orange Pie. — One good-sized orange, grate the rind, and chop or slice 
the inside, removing the seed; 3 eggs, J^ cup of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 1 heap- 
ing table-spoonful of corn starch; no upper crust. — "Keystone," Bradford, Pa. 

Bemarks. — The author cannot see why any person who can make as nice a 
pie as this recipe does should blush by dropping her name and taking an arti- 
ficial one. So it is with some people. I can tell if the recipes are good as 
soon as I read them, even if they have no name at all attached to them. Hence 
I take the best I can find anywhere and everywhere, giving the proper credit, 
for the good of the many people who have so far patronized "Dr. Chase's 
Book," not because they were Dr. Chase's, but because they were good. And 
I will here remark that I have often wondered that I did not see more orange 
pies, even to the lessening of the lemon. For, if you get nice juicy oranges, 
the flavor is delicious, and less sugar is required than for lemons. They may 
be frosted the same as lemon, if desired. What is more delicious than a nice 
juicy blood orange — certainly there is but one thing which can equal it — a 
luscious peach. 

Cream Pie, No. 1, Crust Baked First.— For each pie to be baked 
take 2 small eggs; sugar, 3^ cup; corn starch, 2 table-spoonfuls, or half flour; 
milk, 1 pt. Directions— Make your crust and have it ready baked (pricking 
with a fork to prevent blistering); put the milk on to boil; beat the yolks of 
the eggs, stir the corn starch in a little cold water, smoothly; then add sugar, 
and stir all into the boiling milk, and continue the heat until the custard is set, 
or thick; then put into the baked crust and bake 15 or 20 minutes, having beaten 
the whites with 1 tea-spoonful of cream or butter and 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; 
spread on top and brown nicely in the oven. — Henry Crane. 



36C J^R- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — Having eaten of this pie many times, I know it is very nice 
The pumpkin pie below is from the same gentleman, and is equally nice of ita 
kind. See, also, " Cream Pudding," which is mixed like a pie: 

Cream. Pie, No. 2. — Sweet cream, 1 cup; sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls; flour, 
1 table-spoonful; butter, the size of an egg; a little grated nutmeg, all creamed 
together; bake like a custard, or put strips of crust across the top. — Eliza Watts, 
Crotoji, Iowa, in Toledo Blade. 

Boiled Custard Pie. — "Mrs. B. H. H.," in Farm and Fireside, gives 
the following directions for making: Morning's milk, a qt. Let it simmer- 
not boil; stir into it sugar, 1 cup; the yolks of 3 eggs; flour, 3 table-spoonfuls, 
and a little nutmeg. When it becomes thick, pour it into the crusts — which 
should be previously baked — and when just done spread with frosting made of 
the whites of the eggs with sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls, with a little nutmeg, and 
brown slightly. This makes 3 pies. 

Pumpkin Pie. — Stewed pmnpkin, 1 heaping pint; 6 eggs; flour, 6 
table-spoonfuls; butter, size of an egg; sugar, \% cups; cinnamon, 2 level tea- 
spoonfuls; ginger, % tea-spoonful; % ^ grated nutmeg. Directions — Rub 
the pumpkin through a colander, adding the butter, sugar and spices, and make 
hot, then the beaten eggs and flour; mix smoothly together, and while hot put 
into the dish, having a thick crust to receive it, and bake in a moderate oven. 
— Henry Crane, Fi-ost House, Eaton Rapids, Mich. 

Remarks. — This makes a thick, salvy pie, very nice. If fearful of a soggy 
crust, bake it before putting in the pie mixture. If a pint of milk was added, 
it would be more like the old-fashioned pumpkin-custard pie, softer and not 
quite so rich, unless an additional egg or two, with an extra cup of sugar is 
put in. If milk is plenty, and pumpkin scarce, take this latter plan. 

Pumpkin and Squash, Best for Pies, Prepared by Baking. 
— Ruth H. Armstrong, in the Housekeeper, says: If all housekeepers who make 
pumpkin pies knew how much better and easier it is to bake the pumpkin first, 
they would no longer worry over cutting up and peeling it. but just cut it in 
halves, take out the seeds, lay it in the oven and bake until soft, when it can be 
scraped out and used as usual, and is so much better for not having water in it. 
Winter squash makes a much richer pie when treated in the same way. 

Squash Pie, Very Rich. — Stew a medium sized crook-necked (oi 
other equally rich) squash, and rub the soft part through a colander, as for the 
pumpkin pie, above; butter, }4 ^^-J cream and milk, each 1 pt., or milk with 
the cream stirred in, 1 qt.; sugar, 3 cups; 1 dozen eggs well beaten; salt, mace, 
nutmeg and cinnamon, 1 tea-spoonful each, or to taste. 

Remarks. — Of course the mixing and baking, the same as for the pumpkin 
pie above; and if less is needed for the family keep the same proportions as in 
that also. I think good squash makes a richer pie than pumpkin, while some 
persons claim the reverse, and call for an egg or two extra. If a poor quality 
is used, this would be so ; but crook-necked, or Hubbard, are much nicer thau 
pumpkin, both in quality and flavor, and I like this pie much the best, but caB 
gd; alMig very nicely even with a good rich pumpkin pie. 



PIES. 361 

Potato Custard Pie.— Nicely mashed potatoes, 1% cups; sugar, 2 
cups; milk, 1 qt.; eggs, 5; a little salt, and any flavoring desired. Directigns 
— Beat the eggs well, mix all, and dip into the pans made ready with the usual 
paste, or crust, and bake the same as custard pie. 

Sweet Potato Pie. — Sweet potatoes make an equally nice pie, for ail 
who, like myself, are fond of them, treated the same as their Irish brethren 
above. 

Bemarks. — Sweet potatoes make a richer pie than the common potato, as 
much so as good squash makes a pie richer, in quality and flavor, than com- 
mon pumpkin ; but as the Irish potato keeps the best, a pie can be made of 
them, after the sweet ones are out of season. 

Apple-Custard Pie. — Moderately tart apples, stewed, and treated the 
same as the potatoes, above, make a custard pie, of very excellent flavor; using 
sugar according to the sourness of the apples, with cinnamon, nutmeg, or other 
spices as you hke, baked with one crust only, in all kinds of custard mixtures. 
Bars, or strips, as mentioned in cream pie No. 2, above, may be put upon any of 
them, if one choses to do so. But I think they muss, or mar the pie, in cutting 
them for the table, hence I think them nicer without bars. 

Apple, Peach, and Other Truit Pies.— Paie and slice, ripe, tart 
apples from the core, or peaches from the pit, for as many pies as you wish to 
make at one time; line your plates, or tins, with a crust, having a little baking 
powder or soda in the flour (one-fourth as much only as for biscuit ; see remarks 
following Pastry, No. 1), wetting, or not, as you choose, with the flour paste, to 
prevent the juices from soaking into the crust; put on a layer of the sliced fruit, 
and sprinkle over light brown sugar according to the sourness of fruit ; then 
another layer of fruit and sugar, for at least 3 layers, using cinnamon, nutmeg, 
or any other spices preferred, freely on the last layer, and 2 or 3 spoonfuls of 
water, unless the fruit is very juicy ; cover with a crust secured from the escape 
of the juices, Tvath the flour wet, and a few ornamented cuts through the top 
crust; bake in a moderate oven, and you will have a pie "fit for a king," espe- 
cially so, if you sprinkle freely of powdered sugar over the top before serving. 
Blackberries, raspberries, strawberries, cranberries, whortleberries, and stoned 
cherries, in their season, make an equally nice pie, with the same treatment, 
remembering this, the sourer the fruit the more sugar. But it is important to 
remember this also, that pies, not to be eaten the day they are baked, ought to 
be baked a little longer, or harder, than those to be eaten at once, which pre- 
vents their absorption of dampness from the air, as well as from the moisture 
of the pie-mixture. By canning or drying, and stewing when needed, pies from 
any of the above named fruits may be had at any time of the year. 

Grandmother's Apple Pie.— Line a deep pie-plate with plain paste. 
Pare sour apples — greenings are best — and cut in very thin slices Allow 1 cup 
of sugar and a quarter of a grated nutmeg mixed with it. Fill the pie-dish 
heaping full of the sliced apple, sprinkling the sugar between the layers. It 
will require not less than six good-sized apples. Wet the edges of the pie with 
cold water, lay on the covct and press down securely that no juice may escape. 



;;02 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Bake three-quarters of an hour, or even less if the apples become tender. It is 
important that the apples should be well done, but not over-done. No pie in 
which the apples are stewed beforehand can be compared with this in flavor. 

Chicken and Other BCeat Pies. — According to the number in the 
family, 1, 2, or more, young and tender chickens, cut up, washed and put into 
a stew-kettle, with water enough to nicely cover, and a very little salt, and stew 
till perfectly done, and if pork or small pieces of any cold meats are to be used, 
stew also with the chicken; when entirely tender, rub a spoon or two of flour 
smooth, in cold milk or water, and stir in as for gravy; add salt and pepper to 
taste. Set back on the stove to keep hot while you make the pastry or crust. 

Pastry or Crust.— If for 1 chicken in a 2 quart basin, or pie dish, use 
1 pt. of flour with 1 tea-spoonful of baking powder, and 1 table-spoonful of 
lard, and a little salt. For a 4 quart or 6 quart dish double the amount of all 
the articles, and if half butter is used, it will be nicer and require a little less 
salt. It is designed to have a light, but thick crust when baked. Put the 
chicken, with its gravy, enough to nicely cover it, into the dish, without a bot- 
tom crust; but roll out the pastry of such a thickness as to just cover the dish 
nicely, cut a few fancy slits through the top, to allow the steam to escape, and 
place in the oven at once, and bake about 30 minutes, or long enough to cook 
the crust nicely. Serve hot, with mashed potatoes, made rich with milk and 
butter, or cream, if you have it. Some put potatoes in the pie, but it is out of 
fashion, and, thank the Lord, there is one fashion, at least, which is conducive 
to health, as water-soaked potatoes are not. 

Beefsteak, cold roast beef, veal, lamb, prairie hens, and other wild game, 
may be treated in the same way, with like success; but prairie hens should have 
the skin removed before cooking. Any meats not tender must be stewed ten- 
der, or done, before putting into the pie dish, as you cannot depend on the 
baking to cook the meats, it would spoil the crust. — Mrs. Catherine Baldwin, 
Toledo, Ohio. 

Remarks. — Having had my office in this lady's house for about two years, 
and boarded in the family most of the time, I am able to say, if you follow 
these instructions, you will have no reason to complain. A closing, word, only, 
milk, for wetting up pastry, as bread, makes them richer than water, hence use 
is when you have it plenty, but do not make pastry too soft, but rather stiff. 

Chicken and Ham Pie. — Season sufficient slices of boiled ham, with 
pepper and salt, if needed, and put a layer upon the paste, which should be % 
inch thick; then a layer of chicken, which has been jointed and cooked till 
tender, upon the ham, and also the yolks of some hard-boiled eggs, sliced; a 
couple layers of each should properly fill the dish; putting in some gravy made 
with water in which the chicken was boiled, adding, if liked, 3^ cup of toma- 
toes to the gravy; cover with another crust, and bake only to bake the crust; 
or it may be baked without the gravy, and I think this the better way, the 
gravy being made to dip upon the pie, and mashed potatoes, with which it is to 
be served. If no eggs and tomatoes, make it without, and still it will be ?eiy 
nice, if the meats have been cooked teadw before putting into the pie. 



PIES. 363 

Babbit Pie, Fricasseed and Boast.— Cut up the rabbit, remove the 
breast bone and bone the legs. Put the rabbit, a few slices of ham, a few force- 
meat balls, and 3 hard-boiled eggs, by turns, in layers, and season each with 
pepper, salt, 2 blades of pounded mace, and }4, tea-spoonful of grated nutmeg. 
Pour in % P*- "water, cover with crust, and bake in a well-heated oven for IJ^ 
hours. When done, pour in at the top, through the middle of the crust, a little 
good gravy, which may be made of the breast and leg bones, flavored with 
onion, herbs and spices. 

Fricasseed. — Rabbits, which are in the best condition in midwinter, may be 
fricasseed like chicken in white or brown sauce. 

To Roast. — Stuff with a dressing made of bread-crumbs, chopped salt pork, 
thyme, onion, and pepper and salt, sew up, rub over with a little butter, or pia 
on it a few slices of salt pork, and a little water in the pan, and baste often. 
Serve with mashed potatoes and currant jelly. 

Oyster Pie. — Small oysters, IJ^ qts. ; cracker crumbs, 1 cup; salt and 
pepper to suit. Directions— Drain the oysters in a colander, and throw away 
the juice, unless you wish to cook it, seasoning properly and eating it as 
"soup," with some crackers; there will be juice enough from the oysters. 
Line the sides of a deep buttered pie-dish with a crust made as for the chickea 
and other meat pies above; put a layer of the oysters, salt and pepper to suit; 
then a light sprinkling of the cracker- crumbs, and so fill the dish; put over the 
top some bits of butter to season nicely, and cover with a crust; bake in a quick 
oven. As soon as the pastry is done the oysters will be cooked also. 

Remarks. — By using the juice the pie is made too mushy, or soggy. 
Escaloped Oysters, or Oyster Pie With Crackers.— Oysters, IJ^ 
qts.; crackers, sufficient; pepper, salt and a little mace. Direotions — Drain 
the oysters as above; butter the dish and put a layer of the oysters over the 
bottom; then, the crackers being thin, butter one side lightly, and place a row 
of them around the dish in place of a crust; season the oysters, each layer as 
you go along, then sprinkle on some cracker-crumbs, else split crackers, but- 
tered, does nicely in place of crumbs, and so fill the dish, or until the oysters 
are all in, putting another tier of crackers up the side, if needed, as you fill up 
to the top of the first tier, and cover the top with a layer of buttered crackers, 
putting on the butter pretty freely on the top crackers, which melts down into 
the dish and makes a crispy cover or crust, without the trouble of making 
j^jastry. 

Remark*. — If this new plan is done carefully you will be pleased with the 
result. If not, you can take the old crusty, mushy way again; but I know you 
will not. 

Minced Turn-Over Pies, Pried or Baked.— For the pastry, or 
crust, sugar, 1 cup; 2 eggs, butter, J^ the size of an egg; sour milk, 1^ cups; 
soda and salt, each, 1 teaspoonful; flour. Directions — Beat the eggs, butter 
and sugar together; put the soda into a bowl with a tea-spoonful of water, 
mash it and dissolve, then pour the milk upon it, and mix all together, .stirring 
In what flour you can with a spoon, then mix with the hands; work in only 



364 J>ii' CHASE'S RECIPES. 

enough to make a soft dough, as for fried cakes. Cut off a piece as large as a 
good sized egg, rolling out in round form; then put 3 table-spoonfuls, or a little 
more, of minced pie meat (which see), which is not very moist. Spread it over 
one-half only, of the crust, leaving an edge margin of % iiich; then turn over 
the other half, and with plenty of flour on the fingers pinch or crimp the edge 
firmly together, to keep in the juices. Fry in hot lard, turning carefully when 
one side is done. Take up carefully also, using a knife to assist, lest they fall 
from the fork, placing them on plates, separately, until cold ; but if done just 
before dinner, at our house, several of them never get cold. If the juice works 
out while frying the hot lard will sputter and fly arovmd lively; hence, be sure 
to pinch the edges well together. Bake when you prefer to do so. 

Remarks. — If the pastry is made as soft as it can be rolled by dusting freely 
it will be very light, and the turnovers ver}^ nice. They are very nice, too, to 
bake them. 

Apple Turn-Overs, Fried or Baked.— Dried apples, 1 pt ; raisins, 
1 cup ; cinnamon and allspice, or nutmeg, each, 1 tea-spoonful. Dieections — 
Stew the apples and raisins together, leaving as little water as possible. Mash 
the apples to a pulp (but I prefer to find the raisins whole), and put in the 
seasoning. Make the jjaste and otherwise treat the same as the mince turn-overs. 
Of course, the apples may be used without the raisins, but they suit me better 
with them. These, also, may be baked as well as fried, when you choose. 
Other fruit, as peaches, berries, etc. , may be used in the same way. 

Apple Turn-Over Pudding, Baked — Apples, sugar, butter, nutmeg, 
a little salt, and pie-paste. Directions — Sufficient nice tart apples to fill such a 
pudding-dish as the family demands ; peel, slice and put into the dish, which 
has been buttered; cover with good pie-paste, and bake in a quick oven. When 
done, "turn-over" upon a suitable plate, and spread upon the apples 3 or 4 
table-spoonfuls of sugar, and butter half the size of an egg, and a pinch of salt, 
mixing with a spoon a little on the top ; then grate on some nutmeg. Serve 
hot. The sugar, butter, and nutmeg on it form the sauce, but milk or cream 
passed with it will suit some better. Of course, this maybe "turned over" 
Srith peaches as well as with apples. 

Remarks. — Although this is a dish to be "tumed-over-upon-a-plate," yet I 
bave placed it here among the "turn-overs" proper, as it makes but little dif- 
ference where we find or place a good disk It is nice. I speak from knowledge. 



C.A. IKIES. 



CAKE-MAKING, BAKING-, ETC.— &en*r<rt ttemoMrJa and Explan- 
ationg. — To make good cake every article used nrnst be good, of its kind- 
flour, sugar, or molasses, butter or lard, eggs, spices, or flavoring extracts, 
fruit, cream of tartar and soda, or saleratus, or baking-powder, milk, etc. 

But to save repeating the explanation with every cake receipt given (many 
of which must be very similar, if not absolutely the same), I will make such an 
explanation in connection with each of the articles mentioned as entering into 
cake-mixtures that persons can soon familiarize themselves with, all that is 
necessary, to a full and complete understanding ot the whole subject, -without 
the repetition referred to. 

Flour. — It being understood, then, that all the articles, or material used 
In making cake shall be good, I need only say: The flour will be the better if 
put into the oven and thoroughly dried — stirring a few times while drying— 
Jhen sifted; and if cream of tartar with soda, or baking-powder are to be used, 
they — or the one to be used — should be stirred into the flour before sifting. 

Sugar and Butter. — Use your own judgment at to whether white or 
light brown sugar may be used. For common purposes the light brown will 
do very well; but if a delicate cake, for any particular occasion, is to be made, 
use pure white sugar and very nice butter. If sugar is at all lumpy, crush 
by rolling, then the sugar and butter should always be creamed together, 
i. e. , beaten together until they are completely blended into a mass, much the 
appearance of cream, hence the word "creamed" has been appropriately 
applied. And this creaming of the butter and sugar is a very important part of 
cake-making; for, by this process, the oiliness and consequent indigestibility of 
the butter is overcome, the cake rises brighter, and is much more healthy and 
digestible than by rubbing the butter into the flour, which has heretofore been 
the more usual custom. 

In cold weather it may be necessary to place the butter in a warm place a 
short time to soften — not to melt — to enable the creaming to be properly 
done. 

Lard and Drippings. — Neither lard nor drippings are as good as but- 
ter, but, for family use, half the amount may be very satisfactorily put in the 
place of half of the butter named. 

Molasses. — When molasses is used the cake will scorch quickly if the 
oven is too hot; hence for these, and for cakes having fruit in them, bake in a 
moderate oven, especially such as fruit loaf -cakes, they being generally thick, 
require a longer time for baking. Then, if there is danger of burning the top, 
in any case, cover with brown paper, until nearly done. 

365 



366 I>Ii. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Sggs. — Eggs must be fresh and well-beaten; and it is claimed that aH 
cakes are better if the yolks and whites are beaten separately. This may be 
true, to a certain extent, but my wife who has made cake for me (or seen that 
it was done as she desired) for over forty years, claims, and I have no doubt 
of the fact, that the difference, for general use, is not suflBcient to pay for the 
extra trouble; while, for nice cake, for special occasions, it may be best to beat 
separately. 

Spices are always to be ground, or very finely pulverized, where the old 
fashioned mortar is still in use. 

Flavoring Extracts, kept by dealers may be used, or those made by 
receipts given in this work, which will be found under proper headings, using 
only sufficient to obtain a fair flavor of the fruit represented. 

Fruit requires care in selection, or piu-chase, and also in its preparation 
for use. 

Raisins need to be looked over to free them from any remaining stems, 
and from small gravel-stones, which are often found among them, then washed 
drained, dried and floured, and used whole, or they may be seeded and chopped 
after washing and draining, then rubbed — "dredged" — with flour, which 
largely prevents them from settling to the bottom of a cake or pudding. 

English Currants require picking carefully to free them from gravel, 
dirt, etc. , and several careful washings, for the want of proper care in curing. 
They also require drying and flouring, the same as raisins, for the same reason. 

Home-dried. Fruit. — Currants, raspberries, blackberries, whortle 
(" huckle ") berries, etc., may be substituted for foreign fruit very|satisfactorily 
when desired, or when they are plenty. 

Citron, when used, is to be " shred," i. e., cut into long narrow strips, or 
chopped, as preferred. If chopped, however, leave it the size of peas, so that 
one eating the cake can tell what it is without too close scrutiny. 

Almonds are to be blanched, i. e. , boiling water is to be poured upon 
them and allowed to stand until the thin skin will rub off easily, then chopped 
as citron, or pounded finely in rose water— preferably chopped. 

Cream of Tartar and Soda are always to be stirred into the flour 
before it is sifted, the same as baking powder. The proportions in using 
Bhoxild always be two of the first to one of the latter. They are usually kept 
in separate boxes and mixed when used, by taking out 2 teaspoons of the 
cream of tartar to 1 of the bi-carbonate of soda (baking soda), but they may be 
purchased in quantities of yi lb. of the cream of tartar to X 1^). of the soda (or 
in these proportions) and all mixed at once, if dry, and kept in an air-tight box 
•in a dry place, and thus you have always ready for use a better baking pow- 
der than you can buy. 

Saleratus, when used, is to be dissolved in a little hot water, or in a little 
of the milk, by rolling finely on the table or moulding-board before putting 



(JAKES. 367 

*nto me cup to dissolve. After the same is dissolved, axid it to the cake 
mixture. 

Soda, when used alone, is to be treated the same as saleratus. 

Baking Powder should always be mixed into the flour, the same as 
cream of tartar and soda, before the flour is sifted. 

Milk is always to be sweet when baking powder, or cream of tatar with 
soda are to be used. Sour milk or buttermilk when soda, or saleratus only are 
to be used. 

Making Up or Putting Cake Together.— The eggs being properly 
beaten, the flour sifted, the sugar and butter creamed, everything to be used being 
placed within reach, little by little add the milk to the creamed sugar and but- 
ter, stirring constantly, then the yolks of the eggs (when beaten separately), 
after which the sifted flour, having the proper amount of baking powder, or 
cream of tartar and soda in it, and then the fruit (if fruit is to be used), spices 
or flavoring extracts; but, now, if saleratus is being used, it is to be dissolved 
and stirred in, and lastly the beaten whites of the eggs, stirring but little after 
these are added: but the more thorough the stirring together, previous to putting 
in the whites, the better. 

Baking— Heat of the Oven, etc. — To bake cake nicely, the heat 
of the oven should be uniform throughout the whole time of baking; and for 
light, thin cakes (and that covers nearly all, except those having fruit in them) 
a qmck oven is required, so that by the time the cake is properly raised the 
baking shall commence ; for if the heat is not uniform throughout the baking 
there will be a soggy streak shown in the cake, because if the cooking slackens 
much the cake begins to ' ' fall, " and although the heat may be again raised, yet 
what has settled together will not rise again ; wliile if you get too great a heat 
simply cover the cake with brown paper to prevent burning the top, and partly 
close the damper to prevent too much heat from passing under the bottom ; but 
the oven door must not be left open in cake baking, or else the cake will "fall," 
the same as if the heat had fallen off for want of fuel. Avoid, as much as 
possible, also, the moving of cake after it is placed in the oven and has l)egan to 
rise, as the motion may cause the escape of gas, leaving the cake heavy, and 
especially is this important with cake containing grated or dessicated cocoanut. 
Pans. — Pans should always be well buttered, except for thick, or loaf 
cake, which requires the bottom of the pan to be covered with a buttered piece 
of white paper, buttering the sides, unless deemed safest to paper the sides also, 
especially if the cake is a thick fruit cake, and in this case the top must be cov- 
ered with brown paper until nearly done. 

To Know When a Cake is Done, pierce it with a clean broom 
splint. If it comes out free of the cake mixture it is done; but a few minutes 
more had better be given it than to have it at all under done. 

Hints and Suggestions.— If attention is given to the above explana- 
tions and a moderate degree of experience is brought to bear upon the follow 
ing recipes, 1 have no fears of a failure; and those who have not been instructed 



368 DR- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

as they should have been by their mothers,, or those having the care of them in 
their minority, and now find it necessary to make cake for themselves and their 
husbands, must begin witli the cookies, and other smaller and plainer cakes, 
lest a faiUire should too greatly discourage them; and should they fail a few 
times, take the mottoes, "don't give up the ship," but "try, try again," and 
ultimate success must follow. 

Si)©cial Explanations. — If any special explanations are needed, they 
will be given in connection with the recipe. 

Ijtkstly — Keoping Cake*. — Keep cakes in the cook-room until cool; 
then wrap and place them in boie« with covers to exclude the air. Jelly cakes, 
however, had best not be removed from the plates upon which they have been 
built up, but need to be wrapped and placed in boxes, tlie same as others, which 
insures their moisture much longer than if not put away in boxes Fried cakes, 
cookies, etc., after becoming cool, may be put into stone jars, and a cloth of 
several thicknesses be put upon them, pressing it down around the edge, then 
another cloth over the top of the jar, with a plate upon it will keep them suffi- 
ciently moist. It is not best to make large amounts of them at a time. Bread 
needs the same care to keep it nicely moist. 

Table of Explanations and CompAratire Weights and Meas- 
ures. — When white sugar is called for, "A," or first-class coflfee sugar is 
intended. 

The cup intended to be used is the common sized tea-cup, but if larger 
amounts are needed for large families, double the number, or use the larger 
coflfee-cup. 

1 lb. white sugar equals about 2^^ cups; 1 lb. butter, 2 cups; 1 lb. lard, 2 
r!ups; 1 lb. wheat flour, 33^ cups; 1 lb. graham, 3)^ cups; 1 lb. Indian meal, 
3J^ cups. 

Icing, Boiled, for Cakes. — Powdered sugar, (and this is the right 
kind to use for all Icings), 2 cups: boiling water, 1 gill; whites of 2 eggs; flav- 
oring to suit. Directions — Pour the boiling water upon the sugar in a suita- 
Sle dish, upon the stove, and boil until it readily creams, then pour this hot 
ipon the beaten whites, and beat till cool, when it is ready to use, the cake 
being cold, or, at least, cool; add vanilla, lemon, or orange extract, rose or cin- 
namon water, or essence, a teasp(»nful to a tablespoonful, to suit, and dip upon 
the cake ; smoothing, if "necessary, with a knife wet in cold water, 

Icing, Boiled, that ■will not Break.— White sugar, 1 cup; white of 
1 egg; put water enough into the sugar to dissolve it; put it on the fire and let 
it boil till it will "hair." Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth; pour the 
heated sugar on to the froth and stir briskly until cool enough to stay on the 
cake. The icing should not be applied until the cake is nearly or quite cold. 
This quantity will frost the tops of two common sized cakess. — Oodey's Lady's 
Byok. 

Boiled Icing— Qiiick to Harden.— To 1 cupful sugar, take 1 egg. 
Put sugar in pan and a little water over it, and let boil 20 minutes. Beat white 



CAKES. 869 

of egg stiff and gradually beat boiling sugar into egg. Flavor. Apply to cake 
qmckly, as it soon becomes hard. 

Icing, Old and Confectioner's Plan, or Without Boiling.— 
Icing or frosting for cakes was formerly done by beating the whites of eggs to a 
stiff froth, then beating in white sugar till stiff, or as hard as desired; but if it 
is not desired to boil it, as above, a better plan is to take the white of 1 egg for 
each medium-sized cake, and at the rate of }^ lb. of powdered sugar for each 
egg to be used; and tirst, throw in some of the sugar, then begin to beat, and, 
from time to time, throw in more of the sugar, continuing the beating until the 
sugar is all in, and the icing of a smooth and firm consistence — nearly or about 
half an hour will be required: The piece of a lemon or an orange, or any of 
the extracts, may be used to flavor, allowing sugar extra to absorb it. 

Remarks. — If beaten together as above, it hardens on a cake quicker than 
if the eggs were beaten, as of old, before the sugar was added; and if made as 
thick and as hard as it ought to be with the sugar, one coat will sufiice; while 
in the old way it almost always required two. If in a hurry to have the cake 
ready, this may be set two or three minutes in a moderate oven to harden. 

Icing to Color Different Shades.— Any icing may be colored, if 
desired, a yellow with lemon or orange, and pink with strawberries or cranber- 
ries. Grate the yellow of a lemon or orange, squeeze some of the juice upon 
the gratings, put into a stout muslin and press out the coloring into the icing. 
Strawberries and cranberries are to be pressed in the same way, or their syrups 
used. If considerable is used, add powdered sugar to make them thick before 
stirring in. 

Icing Chocolate for Cakes. Flavored chocolate, 4 ozs. ; whites of 3 
eggs; powdered sugar, 20 tea-spoonfuls; corn starch, 4 tea-spoonfuls; extract of 
vanilla, 2 tea-spoonfuls. Directions— Beat the eggs and add the sugar and 
corn starch, stirring together; then, having grated the chocolate before you 
began the other work, add it and beat to a smooth paste; then spread it upon 
the cake, the top layer as smootlily as possible, and place the cake in the oven 
a moment, turning it around, and the icing will become nice and glossy. 

Icing, Almond. — Blanched almonds, J^ lb. (for two ordinary cakes), 
rosewater, suificient. Directions — Rub the almonds to a smooth paste (in a 
mortar) by adding a little rosewater from time to time to moisten sufficient only 
to form the paste; and then mix with any of the icings having no other flavor. 

Icing With Gelatine. — More recently some cooks have been using 
gelatine in making icings. "Where no eggs are to be had it will make a good 
substitute. For each cake, soak gelatine, 1 tea-spoonful, in cold water, 1 table- 
spoonful, till soft, or about J^ hour; then pour upon it hot water, 2 table- 
spoonsful, stir to perfectly dissolve it; then stir in, while warm, pulverized 
sugar, 1 cup, continuing to stir until perfectly smooth, and spread upon the 
cake. 

CAKES— Martha's Cq^S-Q.— Remarks.— hs my wife's name is Martha, 
I trust I shall be excused for beginning the cake list of my " Third and Last 
Receipt Book " with her favorite, especially as it is plain and not expensive, 
24 



370 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

and by little changes, and flavoring, such a variety may be made out of it, as 
loaf cake, jelly cake, etc. Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; 6 eggs; flour, 2 cupsj 
sweet milk, ^ cup; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonfuL 
Directions — Familiarize yourself with the general remarks and explanations, 
at the head of this subject, then you will be able to make any ordinary cake — 
the articles, and proportions, only being mentioned. I only mention here the 
different ways this may be flavored, baked, etc. 

This may be baked in a loaf, or in jelly cake tins (shallow pans) and, when 
cold, laid up with fruit jelly spread between the layers, and you may ice the 
top, or not, as you choose — sometimes with — sometimes without. Sometimes 
flavor with the juice and grated yellow of a lemon, again with an orange, or 
the extracts of one or the other, and again without either, being plain. And 
thus you can have a cake differing from the leopard's skin in this — its spots 
may be changed, and that as often as you like, giving a great variety of 
cake without change of composition, except in flavoring, icing, etc., or in 
not flavoring, or not icing, baking in loaf, or for jell cake, or by baking 
in patty pans, as you choose, or as occasion may call for. Mrs. Chase occa- 
sionally ices them when baked in the little pans, especially so if the icing is 
being made for large cakes, at the same baking. 

Bibbon Cake.— I. Sweet milk, i^ cup; butter, i^ cup; 3 eggs, flour, 3 
cups; cream of tartar, 1 tea- spoonful; soda, i^ tea-spoonful. DrRECTiONS — 
Dissolve the soda in the milk: mix the cream of tartar in the flour; beat the 
eggs, sugar and butter well together; then the milk and flour. 

II. Take of the above mixture, 1 cup; molasses, 1 tea-spoonful; cinna- 
mon, cloves, allspice and nutmeg, each % tea-spoonful : citron, almonds or wal- 
nut meats, each 3^ lb. ; raisins and English currants, each % cup. Directions 
— Chop the citron, and almond or walnut meats (whichever you prefer to use), 
dredge the raisins and currants with flour, and mix with the molasses and spicea 
into the cup of batter taken from the first. Use shallow tins for baking, put- 
ting in a strip of the white batter lengthwise of the tin; then a strip of the dark 
beside it, and so cover the tins; thus you have a "marbled cake," which has 
ribbon-like strips. 

Remarks. — By leaving out the citron and fruit, and putting into pans, as the 
marble cake next following, you have another variety of composition for 
marble cake. 

Marble Cake. — Light Part: White sugar, 3 cups; whites of 6 eggs; 
butter, 3^ cup; flour, 2 cups; sweet milk, J^ cup; baking powder, 2 tea-spoon- 
fuls. Dark Part: Yolks of 6 eggs; butter, 1 cup; brown sugar, 3 cups; sweet 
milk, 1 cup; cinnamon, cloves, allspice and nutmeg, each 1 table-spoonful; 
flour, 3 cups; baking powder, 3 tea-spoonfuls. Directions — Beat the butter, 
sugar, milk, eggs, and spices together in each part (they will work best if put 
in in the order named); then mix the baking powder in the flour for each part, 
stirring in the flour with the baking powder in it last, and one quickly after the 
other, for when baking powder is used, the cake must be placed into a hot oven 
as soon as can be done, to insiu^e lii^htness. Cover the bottom of the pan with 



CARES, 871 

the light part, and dip the dark over it, in spots; then level up with the lights 
and so on till the pan is properly filled, allowing room to raise. 

Marble Cake— Chocolate. — Make any plain cake and pour out half ol 
it; then, having shaved up 2 table-spoonfuls, or a sufficient amount of chocolate, 
and dissolved it in as little water as practicable, boil it a minute or two; then 
mix it with one of the parts, and put into the pan the same as the receipt above. 

Watermelon Cake.— I, White sugar, 2 cups; butter and sweet milk, 
each % cup; whites of 5 eggs; flour, 3 cups; baking powder, 1 tea-spoonful. 
Directions— Beat the eggs, sugar, butter and milk together; put the baking 
powder into the flour before sifting it in, and mix. 

II. Red sugar (kept by confectioners), 1 cup; butter and sweet milk, each 
i^cup; flour, 2 cups; baking powder, 1 tea-spoonful; whites of five eggs: 
raisins (nice large ones), % lb. Directions— Beat together in the same order 
as the first, cut the raisins into halves, the longest way, and mix in last; then 
put some of the first into the pan, hollo^\ing it in the center to receive all of the 
second or red part, if it is sufficiently stiff to allow it, piling it up in the round 
form as neatly as possible, to represent the red core of the melon; tlien covei 
witli the balance of the white, so you have a white outside and a red core, like a 
watermelon, if neatly done. 

Watermelon Cake, Wo. 2.— White Part : White sugar, 2 cups; but 
ter, 1 cup; sweet milk, 1 cup; flour, S}4 cups; whites of 8 eggs; cream of tartar 
2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; dissolve the soda in a little warm water, 
sift cream of tartar in flour; mix. 

lied P<irt:—Hed sugar, 1 cup; butter, i| cup; sweet milk, }^ cup; flour, 
2 cups; whites of 4 eggs; cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, }{ tea-spoonful, 
raisins, 1 cup; mix. Be careful to keep the red part around the tube of the 
cake-dish; the white part outside; best to have two persons fill in, one the red 
and the other the white, going around the tube till full— 3frs. S. 0. Johnson, in 
Inter Ocean. 

Lemon Cake With Mi Ik. —Butter, 1 cup; sugar, 3 cups; 5 eggs- 
flour, 4 cups; sour milk, 1 cup; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; the juice and grated yel 
low (the white has a bitter taste,) of one lemon. Directions— Study well the 
General Remarks and Explanations, and also the Making-Up, or Putting 
Together, and you will then be prepared to proceed with the work of cake 
making. 

liemarks—ln making cake, double the amount, or only half may be used, 
to suit the size of the family. But in taking half, if 5 eggs are called for] 
always use 3 in the reduction, as eggs are absolutely necessary to maintain the 
lightness of the cake. 

Lemon Jelly Cake, Without Milk.— Sugar, 3 cups; flour, 2 cups; 
cold water, % cup; 5 eggs; cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, % tea-spoon- 
ful; 1 lemon or orange. Directions— Beat all the yolks and the whites of S 
of the eggs for the cake, and cream with 2 cups of the sugar, butter, etc. Bake 
in 4 jelly cake tins. Grate off the yellow of the lemon or orange, peel off the 



372 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

W'hite and throw away (this part of these fruits is bitter); then squeeze out tht. 
juice and chop up the pulp; having beaten the whites of the other 2 eggs, mix 
and stir in the other cup of sugar, or sufficient to make of proper thickness to 
put between the layers in place of jelly. 

Remarks. — When lemons or oranges are used in making the cakes or the 
jelly, avoid the seeds. 

Lemon Jelly Cake. — Butter, i^ cup; sugar, 1^ cups; milk, i^ cup, 
3 eggs; flour, 2 cups; baking powder, 1% tea-spoonfuls; 1 lemon; water, ^ 
cup. Directions — Cream the butter with 1 cup of the sugar, stirring in the 
beaten whites of the eggs, and the milk ; then sifting in the flour in which the 
baking powder was mixed, and bake in jelly cake tins. To the beaten yolks of 
the eggs add the other 3^ cup of sugar, and the water, and juice of the lemon, 
and boil till thick enough to spread between the layers. 

Remarks. — You will observe this receipt calls for baking powder, the one 
above for soda and lemon juice in place of cream of tartar. This enables you 
to choose between them, either from taste, or from having the soda and not the 
baking powder, or vice versd. 

Orange Jelly Cake.— Sugar, 4^ cups; butter, 1 cup; milk, 1 cup; 5 
eggs; baking powder, IJ^ tea-spoonfuls; flour, 2 cups; 2 oranges. Dikections 
— Cream 2% cups of the sugar with the butter, beat the yolks of the eggs and 
stir in, then the milk, and sift in the flour, having the baking powder in it. 
Bake in jelly cake tins. 

For tlie Jelly. — Beat the whites of the eggs and whip in the other 2 cups of 
of sugar, adding the juice of the 2 oranges. Put between the layers. 

Orange Jelly Cake. — Sugar, 1 cup; 3 eggs; milk, J^ cup; flour, 1"% 
cups; baking powder, Vy^ tea-spoonfuls; salt, 1 salt-spoonful; 1 orange. 
Directions — Make up the cake as above, and bake in 3 layers. Grate the yel- 
low of the orange, peel off the white and throw it away, beat the white of an 
extra Qg'g and beat in 3 table-spoonfuls of the extra sugar, then the grated yellow 
and chopped pulp of the orange. Lay up with this and strew sugar upon the 
top thickly. 

• Orange and Lemon Jelly Cake. — Mix 2 cups of sugar with the 
yolks of 2 eggs; then the whites beaten to a froth, then a large table-spoonful 
of butter, then 1 cup of milk, and flour enough to make a batter that may be 
lifted upon a spoon (like cup cake). Bake in jelly cake tins. 

Jelly for Same. — Grate the yellow from 1 lemon and 2 oranges, add the 
juice of the same, and add 1 cup of water, 1 of sugar, 1 table-spoonful of corn 
starch, and boil till smooth. When cool put between the cakes. 

Remarks. — The boiling makes a harder jelly, not so likely to soak into the 
cake, the same as in boiling the icings. 

Delicious Pilling or Jelly for Any Layer or Jelly Cake.— 
Take 1 cup of white sugar, put it into a tin basin with enough water to dissolve 
it; let it boil until it will harden in cold water; have 1 cup of stoned and cliop- 
ped raisins ready; then beat the white of an egg 'to a stiff froth, and mix with 
the raisins into the boiling sugar; stir briskly, and while warm put between the 



CAKES. 373 

layers of cake, having taken them from the tins and laid on a cloth, selecting 
the brownest done for the bottom and the smoothest one for the top. — Michigan 
Farmer. 

Orange— Sponge— Jelly Cake.— Sugar, 2 cups; 5 eggs, cold water, 
1^ cup (sweet milk is better); flour, 2% cups; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfiils; 
salt, 1 pinch; 1 orange. Directions — Beat the yolks and whites of 2 of the 
eggs for the cake, and make up as others and bake in jelly cake tins. 

Je%.— Beat the whites of the other 3 eggs with 7 large table-spoonfuls of 
additional sugar, and all the grated yellow and the juice of the orange; spread 
this between the layers. — Mertie OdeU, Spartansburgh, Va. 

Orange Jelly Cake— Rich.— Sugar, 1 cup; butter, IJ^ cups; cold 
water or milk, i^ cup; flour, 2 cups; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls; 3 eggs, 1 
orange. Directions — Make the cake as usual and bake in jelly cake tins; 
reserving the whites of 2 of the eggs for frosting, using % cup of powdered 
sugar; grate oflf the yellow of the orange, to be sprinkk-d between the layers; 
but use the juice and chopped pulp of the orange in the cake mixture. 

Chocolate Jelly Cake — French.- Butter, 1 table-spoonful; sugar, 1^ 
cups; 2. eggs; milk, 1 cup; flour, 2^^ cups; .soda, 1 small tea-spoonful; cream 
of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; vanilla, 1 tea-spoonful. 

Jelly. — Milk, 1 cup; corn starch, 2 table-spoonfuls; cold water, J^ cup; Bak- 
er's flavored chocolate, 2 ozs. ; yolk of 1 egg; powdered sugar, 1 cup; extract 
of vanilla, 3 tea-spoonfuls. Directions — Warm the butter a little, if neces- 
sary, to cream with the sugar and the beaten eggs; then sift in the flour with 
the cream of tartar therein, and the milk with the soda therein; then the vanilla; 
bake on 4 jelly cake tins in a quick oven. For a jelly or ]>aste to go between 
the layers: Bring the milk to a boil, and while boiling add tlie corn starch 
which has been stirred smoothly in the water; then add the chocolate, grated, 
and the beaten yolk of the egg, stir all these over the fire and remove, and 
when a little cool stir in the powdered sug-ar and vanilla and put between the 
layers. 

Chocolate Jelly Cake.— Butter, J^ cup; sugar, 2 cups; flour, 3 cups; 
milk, 1 cup; 4 eggs; baking powder, 1 tea-spoonful. 

Jelly. — ]\Iilk, 1 pt. ; grated chocolate and sugar, each 1 cup; corn starch, i 
table-spoonful. Directions — Cream the butter and sugar, eggs and milk, as 
usual (in the order here named); then sift in the flour and baking powder and 
bake in jelly cake tins. For the jelly: Bring the milk to a boil and stir in the 
grated chocolate and sugar, and, having rubbed the corn starch smooth in a 
little cold water, stir it in and boil until it forms a smooth jelly, or paste, as 
some call it; when a little cool put between the layers. 

Remarks. — In boiling milk it is safest to set the tin containing it into a 
larger pan containing a little water, which removes the danger of burning — 
otherwise, it requires constant watching and stirring. Allow me to say that this 
is my favorite chocolate cake, as it has no other flavoring, while it seems that 
many of the recipes call for vanilla or lemon or orange, etc. ; but for me, give 
me a single flavor only in any cake. But it may be vanilla to-day and the next 



374 DR CHASETS RECIPES. 

day kmon, then orange, and then chocolate; but a mixture of flavors only 
leaves one to wonder what the cook had been trying to imitate; but persons can 
suit themselves. A recipe is no sign that that flavor must be used. If you 
have not.got what is called for, but have some other; or if you prefer some 
other flavor, the cake will be just as nice if you accommodate yourself to the 
circumstances or to your preferences. There is another point, also, which calls 
for an explanation: If you have fruit jellies on hand, they may sometimes be 
used in laying up any of these "jelly cakes," instead of those which are called 
for in the recipe. This also extends the varieties which may be made. 

Chocolate Jelly Cake.— Butter, 2 table-spoonfuls; sugar, 1 cup; 1 egg; 
milk, 3^ cup; flour, 2 cups; cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, 3^ tea-spoon- 
ful. Jelly: grated chocolate, 1 cup; milk enough to mix in. Lemon or vanilla 
to flavor. Directions — Cream the butter, sugar and egg; then sift in the flour 
with the cream of tartar therein; dissolve the soda in the milk and stir in also, 
and bake in 3 jelly cake tins. For the jelly, moisten the chocolate and sugar 
with the milk, and bring to a boil, stirring until smooth; remove from the 
stove and when cool put in the flavor, and lay up the cake with it, before it 
gets cold. 

Remarks. — To boil milk, see remarks in next recipe, above. 

Chocolate Jelly Cake. — The following recipe is from Bertha Stanley, 
Decatur City, Iowa. I give it in her own words: Two cups sugar, 1 cup but- 
ter, the yolks of five eggs and the whites of two; 1 cup of milk, 33^ cups of 
flour, 1 tea-spoonful of cream of tartar, % tea-spoonful of soda. Spread on 8 
tins and bake in a quick oven. Use the following mixture for filling: Whites 
of 3 eggs, 13^ cups of sugar, 3 table-spoonfuls of grated chocolate, 1 tea-spoon- 
ful extract of vanilla. Beat well together and spread between the layers and 
on top of the cake. 

Remarks. — If it is preferred, at any time, any cake, although directed to 
be baked in layers, may be baked in a loaf, or loaves, by putting the chocolate, 
grated or dessicated (dried), cocoanut, orange, lemon, etc., into the cake mix- 
ture, instead of putting them into the jelly, as directed when the cake is to be 
baked in layers. With a little practice, in both ways, you can make a great 
variety of cakes with but few recipes. 

Chocolate Cake.— Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; 3 eggs; sweet milk, % 
of a cup; flour, 3 cups; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful. 
Bake in jeUy pans. For the icing or jelly: Chocolate, 3^ cake; sugar, IJ^ 
cups; sweet milk, ^ of a cup; lemon extract, 2 tea-sp)oonfuls. Let boil until 
it thickens, so as to spread between the layers. — Farm and Fireside. 

Cocoanut Cake — Jelly and Loaf. — Sugar, 1 cup; butter, 3^ cup; 3 
eggs; milk, % of a, cup (if a fresh cocoanut is used let it be a good sized one, 
then the milk of the cocoanut may take the place of the milk) ; flour, 23^ cups; 
baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls. Jelly: Whites of 2 eggs; pulverized sugar, 3^ 
lb. ; cocoanut, 1 good sized one, grated, or dessicated (dried) cocoanut X^ lb. 
Directions. — Cream sugar and butter; then having beaten all the yolks of the 
eggs and the white of 1, stir them in and the milk (or the milk of the cocoanut 



CAKES. 375 

In its place), and sift in the flour with the baking powder therein, bake in jelly 
cake tins. For the jelly: Beat the whites of 2 eggs, saved for this purpose, to 
a froth, and stir in the pulverized sugar, and beat properly. Put this between 
the layers; having grated the cocoanut, strew this over the jelly in laying up 
the cake ; or, if dessicated is used, strew it in place of the fresh. In this way 
the full flavor of the cocoanut is obtained. If baked in loaf all the eggs are to 
be used in the body of the cake, and the cocoanut also stirred into the cake 
just before putting it into the oven, being careful not to jar it after putting it 
into the oven, as it is more likely than other cakes to fall, if jarred. 

Cocoanut Jelly Cake. — Sweet milk, butter, com starch, each 1 cup; 
white sugar and flour, each 2 cups ; whites of 5 eggs ; cream of tartar, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful. Bake in 3 layers. For the jelly: White 
sugar, 1 lb., and boil until candied; when cold stir in the beaten whites of 2 
eggs, and \% cups, rounded, of grated, or 1 cup dessicated, cocoanut, saving 
some for the top. 

Cocoa Cones. — "Whites of 5 eggs; powdered sugar, 1 lb.; % or % z, 
grated cocoanut, having pared off the dark coating which adheres from the 
shell, before grating. Directions — Whip well the whites, then, from time to 
time, sprinkle in a little of the sugar, till all is whipped in; then beat the grated 
cocoanut, and mold with the hands into cones, and set them on buttered paper, 
not to touch each other. Place in a pan and bake in a very moderate oven — if 
too hot they will melt down. — Farm and Fireside. 

Cocoanut Drops.— One cocoanut; the white of 1 egg; powdered sugar. 
Directions — Grate the cocoanut, weigh it, and take % its weight of the sugar; 
beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth; stir all together; then with a dessert, 
or small spoon, drop upon buttered white paper, or tin sheets, and sift sugar 
over them. Bake in a slow oven 12 to 15 minutes. 

Roll Jelly Cake — Fancy "Way of Making.— Take the whites of 6 
eggs, 1 cup of white sugar, same of flour, 1 tea-spoonful of butter, 2 table- 
spoonfuls of sweet milk, 2 tea-spoonfuls cream tartar and 1 of soda. Bake in 
a large oblong dripping pan, so the cake wiU be very thin; meanwhile stir 
another batch, making just the same, with the exception of using the yolks 
instead of the whites; when both are done, spread when warm with jelly, or 
preserves of any kind; put together, bring the largest side of the cake towards 
you, and roll immediately; or cut in four or eight parts, put together alternately, 
putting jelly between each layer, and frost lightly over the top. Another 
method is to make three pans, making the third layer of J-^ red sand sugar, 
proceeding the same as for the other layers; in putting together let the first 
layer be the yellow, made of the yolks, then the red, and lastly the whites. 
Nicely frost the top, and you have a beautiful as well as delicious party cake. 
They are very pretty made into rolls. 

Jelly Rolls.— Sugar, J^ cup; 3 eggs; flour, 1 cup; cream of tartar, 1 
tea-spoonful; soda, J^ tea-spoonful (or in place of the tartar and soda, use 
baking powder, 1^^ tea-spoonfuls). Directions — Bake in thin cakes, spread 
With jelly and roll up (jelly side in); cut across the roll. 



376 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Roll Jelly Cake.— Sugar, 1 cup; 4 eggs; flour, 1 cup; cream of tartar, 
1 tea-spoonful; soda, % tea-spoonful; salt, 1 pinch. Directions— Mix the 
powders and salt with the flour, beat the eggs, light; add the sugar and flour, 
and beat up light again. Bake in a square pan, turn upon a towel, spread on 
the jelly, and roll immediately. 

Jelly Cake.— Sugar, 1 cup; butter, J^ cup; sour milk, % cup; 2 eggs; 
flour, 2 cups; soda, % tea-spoonful; jelly. Dibections— Bake in 4 cakes. 
"When cold spread the jelly and lay up. 

Remarks. — Grated cocoanut and sugar are very nice in this, or any other 
jelly cake, in place of the jelly, which is generally used. Remember this, also, 
■when shortening (butter) is used in a jelly cake, it cannot be rolled. 

Corn Starch Cake.— Sugar, \% cups; flour, 1% cups; butter, % cup; 
corn starch, J^ cup; milk, J^ cup; whites of 6 eggs; baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoonful; extract of lemon, orange or vanilla, 2 tea-spoonfuls, or to taste; or if 
your taste says none, use none. Directions— Cream the sugar and butter, 
then the beaten whites of the eggs; wet up the corn starch with the milk and 
stir in; then sift in the flour wherein the baking powder has been mixed. Bake 
in a moderate oven. 

Remarks. — See general remarks upon cake making, baking, etc., to test 
when done; but another test is a cake generally loosens from the edge and sides 
of the pan when it is done. 

Lady Cake. — Whites of 8 eggs, beaten to a froth; white sugar 2 cups; 
butter, 1 cup, creamed with the sugar; flour, 3 cups; cream of tartar, 1 tea- 
spoonful in the flour; sweet milk, % cup, with soda, 1 tea-spoonful in it; then 
heat all together and bake in a mold or small pans, as you please. Season, if 
desired, any flavor preferred. 

Lady Cake, No. 2.— Sweet milk, % cup; powdered sugar and flour^ 
each 2 cups; 4 eggs, whites only; baking powder, % tea-spoonful. 

Lady-Fingers. — One-half lb. pulverized sugar and 6 yolks of eggs, well 
stirred; add }i lb. flour, whites of 6 eggs, well beaten. Bake in lady-finger 
tins, or squeeze through a bag of paper in strips two or three inches long. 

Lady Fingers, as Made in India.— Sugar, 1 lb. ; 8 eggs; flour, 1 lb. 
DraECTiONS— Sift sugar and flour; beat the yolks separately, then beat with the 
sugar for 20 minutes; then beat in also the beaten whites, then, slowly, the 
flour, and drop upon white paper, long, to resemble the finger; dust sugar over 
them and bake in a hot oven. — Indian Bmnestic Economy and Cooking. 

Remarks. — These will be found equal in delicacy to a true " lady's finger," 
even with an engagement-ring upon it. I should say moderate oven, lest they 
melt, if too hot, in baking. 

Love Knots for Tea.— Little cakes folded over in the form of love 
knots are nice for tea. Flour, 5 cups; sugar. 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; a piece of 
lard the size of an egg; 2 eggs; sweet milk, 3 table-spoonfuls; soda, % ^^a- 
si)oonful; a grated nutmeg, if liked, or as much cinnamon. Directions — 
Sift the soda in the flour, then rub in the butter, lard and sugar, and then the 
beaten eggs, milk and spices, if any are used; roll thin and cut in strips an inch 



CAKES. 377 

wide and 5 or 6 long, and lap across in a true love knot. Bake in a quick oven. 
Ann Arbor Register. 

Charlotte Polonaise— Iced Cake.— Powdered sugar, 2 cups; butter, 
J^ cup; 4 eggs, beaten separately; cream, 1 cup, or rich milk with a little 
cream ; prepared flour (an article now in the market), 3 cups. 

Tlie Custcurd. — Powdered sugar, 1 small cup; 6 eggs; flour, 3 table-spoon- 
fuls; cream, 3 cups; chocolate, 1 small cup; almonds, % lb.; citron, J^ lb..; 
macaroons, J^ lb. ; apricots, J^ lb. ; candied peaches, or other candied fruit in 
their place, }4 lb. ; cold milk. Dikections — Beat the yolks very light; mix 
the flour with the cold milk, thes stir in the cream, then the yolks, slowly; 
boil for 5 minutes, stirring constantly. Now pour out the custard into 3 equal 
parts. 

First part — The chocolate being grated and the macaroons crumbled, stir 
them, with 1 table-spoonful of sugar with the first and boil for 5 minutes, stir- 
ring all the while; then pour out and whip 5 minutes with the egg-beater (if you 
have none, beat with a spoon), flavor with vanilla and set away to cool. 

Second part — The almonds having been blanched (the skin removed by 
soaking in water vmtil it will slip off with tlie thumb and fingers), chop them, 
then pound them in a "Wedgewood mortar (same as druggists use, the name 
coming from the man who first made them from a mixture made for this pur- 
pose), putting in a few only at a time, adding a little rosewater from time to 
time. Chop the citron and mix with the pounded almonds, adding sugar, 3 
table-spoonfuls, and stir into the second part, heating to a boil; flavor with 
extract of bitter almonds, then set aside as the first. 

Third part — Chop the peaches, or other candied fruit, fine, and stir into 
the last custard, which will not need flavoring. The cake being baked in 4 lay- 
ers, you have a custard, or jelly, of different color or flavor to go between each, 
the top to be iced with lemon ice or frosting. 

Remarks.-^Tlxh makes 2 loaves, and although it is not presumed that this 
cake will be made for every -day use, yet, for an evening party or other especial 
occasions, the nicety of the cake will pay for the extra trouble. The name. 
Polonaise, means simply, in three parts, like music having three crotchets in a 
bar. 

National Cake. — "White part — Cream together 1 cup white sugar and ^ 
cup of butter, then add i^ cup of sweet milk, the beaten whites of 4 eggs , J^ cup 
of corn starch, 1 cup of flour into which has been mixed 1 tea-spoonful of cream 
tartar and % tea-spoonful of soda. Flavor with lemon extract. 

Blue part — Cream together 1 cup of blue sugar sand an i^ cup of butter, 
then add 3^ cup of sweet milk, the beaten whites of 4 eggs and 2 cups of flour, 
in which mix 1 tea-spoonful of cream of tartar and % tea-spoonful of soda. 
No flavor. 

Red part — Cream together 1 cup of red sugar and % cup of butter, then add 
14. cup of sweet milk, the beaten whites of 4 eggs and 2 cups of flour, in which 
mix 1^ tea-spoonful of cream of tartar and J^ tea-spoonful of soda. No flavor. 
Place in a bake pan. first the red. then the white, and last the blue. Bake in a 
moderate oven. 



378 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Kansas Puflfe. — One cup of sugar, 3^ cup of butter, J^ cup of molasses;^ 

1 cup of sour milk, 1 tea-spoonful of soda, 1 cup of chopped raisins, and 1 cup* 
of currants. Flavor with cloves and cinnamon. Make a little stiffer than you 
w^ould cake and bake in little gem pans. — Ella J. Shirley, Earned, Ks. 

Remarks. — Following our National colors, or red, white and blue, it is 
proper to give one of black and white, or the Union Jack (perhaps red and 
white would have been better, but we take them as we find them), for the 
Prince of Wales, by Miss E. R. Bruckman, of Tioga, 111., in Blade: 

Prince of Wales Cake.— Black part— One cup of brown sugar, % cup 
each of butter and sour milk, 2 cups of flour, 1 cup of chopped raisins, 1 tea- 
spoonful of soda dissolved in warm water, 1 table-spoonful of molasses, the 
yolks of 3 eggs, 1 tea-spoonful each of cloves and nutmeg. 

White part — One cup of flour, }^ cup each of corn starch, sweet milk and 
butter, 1 cup of granulated sugar, 2. tea-spoonfuls of baking powder, the whites 
of 3 eggs. Bake all in 4 layers. Put together with icing, a black, then a 
white, alternating. 

Corn Starch Cake.— Sugar, 1 cup; flour, 1 cup; corn starch, % cup, 
milk, 3^ cup; butter, 1^ cup; whites of 3 eggs; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoon- 
fuls; soda, % tea-spoonful. DraECTioNs — Make same as the first, above, except 
the cream of tartar goes into the flour, and the soda to be dissolved in the milk. 

Corn Starch Cake. — May Millbank, of Bamhart's Mills, Pa., vouches, 
for the following: One-half cup of butter, 1 cup pulverized sugar, J^ cup of 
milk, % cup of corn starch, 1 cup of flour, 1^ tea-spoonful of soda, whites of 

2 eggs. Directions — Make the same as the first. 

Ginger Snaps. — Brown sugar, 1 lb. (see table of number of cups to the 
pound); butter, 1 lb. ; New Orleans molasses, 1 qt. ; Babbitt's saleratus, 1 oz. ; 
cloves, 2 ozs.; ginger, 1 oz.; cinnamon, 2 ozs. Directions— Cream sugar, 
butter and molasses; dissolve the saleratus in a very little hot water, and stir 
in, then the spices, of course, all ground; then sift in winter wheat flour, to 
make a stiff, very stiff, batter; no water, excepting the least possible to dissolva 
the saleratus. 

Remarks. — Having to stay over night at Howard Station, III; I found so 
nice a ginger snap on the breakfast table, I inquired how they were made, and. 
found that they were made by a baker within a short distance of the hotel,, 
who, upon my introducing myself, very kindly gave me the recipe, as above. 
But in my hurry, lest being left by the cars, I missed taking his name, so I! 
cannot give him the proper credit, which I ought to do, as bakers will very 
seldom part with their plans, or recipes, for doing their work. He charged par- 
ticularly that spring wheat flour, such as was generally used in liis neighborhood,, 
would not do. Whether it is chargeable to their mills, or whether it is appli- 
cable to all spring wheat flour, I am not aware; a test in the north-western^ 
states will have to settle this point, as I have never had any of the flour to test 
it with. 

Ginger Snaps, Evangeline's.— This lady says: Somebody wanted a^ 
finger snap recipe that would stay hard, and not get soft. One cup of butter,. 



CAKES. 279 

1 cup of lard, 1 cup of brown sugar, 1 pt. of molasses, 1 table-spoonful of 
ginger, 1 cup of sour milk, 2 tea-spoonfuls of soda, 1 pt. of flour — use more, if 
needed. Melt lard and butter together, stir in the ginger, sugar and molasses; 
dissolve the soda in the milk; stir all together, put in the flour, roll out thin, 
cut and bake in a quick oven. 

Bemarks. — If made sufficiently stiff, properly baked, allowed to get cold, 
then kept from the air, they will keep hard a very long time. 

Ginger Snaps. — Here is the way they make them in the Old Bay State 
CMassachusetts), and they consider them very excellent: Molasses, 1 cup; but- 
ter, 2 table-spoonfuls; ginger, 1 table-spoonful; saleratus, 1 tea-spoonful; flour. 
Directions — Boil the molasses and stir in the butter, ginger and saleratus, 
rolled fine; and stir the flour in while hot; roll out thin, cut and bake. 

Ginger Snaps. — Sugar, 2 cups; 2 eggs; fried meat gravy, 1 cup; cidet 
vinegar, 1 table-spoonful; ginger, 1 table-spoonful; soda, 1 large tea-spoonful; 
flour enough to roll ; bake in a quick oven. Jlrs. R. S. Armstrong is responsi- 
ble for this. 

Ginger Snaps.— I will give you another from the "Indiana Dutch 
Girl," of Tillmore, Ind..; Lard or butter, 1 cup; New Orleans molasses, 1 cup; 
ginger, 1 table-spoonful; soda, 1 heaping tea-spoonful; flour enough to make a 
stiff dough; roll quite thin, cut with cake cutter and bake quick. 

Ginger Drop Cake. — Shortening, % cup; sour milk, 1 cup; brown 
sugar, 1 cup; molasses, 3^ cup; 2 eggs; ginger, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, 1 round- 
ing tea-spoonful; flour enough to make a thick batter, to drop from a spoon, in 
drops as large as an egg, in a bread pan, far enough apart not to touch. To 
be eaten warm. 

Remarks. — In this, and the foregoing "snap" recipes, you have a sufficient 
variety for the hard or drier kind of ginger cakes; hence I now take up the 
softer gingerbread, for which I have several excellent recipes. 

Gingerbread for Training.— This recipe was sent to the Detroit 
Tribune by a "Mrs. D.," of Atchison, Kan., in answer to "Uncle Ben's" 
inquiry for a recipe for making " training" gingerbread; and although she was 
not positive that it was ever used to " train " by, yet she thinlis it good enough: 
"Molasses, 1 cup; butter, % cup; boiling water, % cup; ginger, 1 tea-spoonful; 
soda, 1 tea-spoonful; flour. Dfrections — Pour the water on to the butter and 
when cool add the rest and flour enough to roll. When baked wet the top with 
molasses, diluted considerably with water, and sprinkle with sugar. It will be 
found toothsome." 

Gingerbread, Alice's.— This was furnished to the "Household Depart- 
ment" of the Blade by Elizabeth Kent, of Burlington, Vt., but for a plain, 
small cake or loaf, with quite a ginger flavor, it can be depended upon: 
"Molasses, 1 cup; boiling water, 1 cup; butter, 1 table-spoonful; ginger, 1 
table-spoonful; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; thicken to pour." 

Rc7n/trkx. — Pouring the hot water upon the butter, and then putting in the 
molasses to help cool it, as in the next recipe above, and when cool, the other 
articles, and baking in a moderately hot oven, is the order of proceeding. 



3S0 riH- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Gingerbread, Mrs. Bice's.— This recipe is from Mrs. Rosella Rice, 
quite an extensive writer for the Blade " Household.'' It was given in answer 
to an inquiry for her gingerbread recipe, which, she says, " I give witli pleas- 
ure." I take pleasure, also, in giving it a place, for I know it is good. She says: 
"Take 1 cup of sugar, 1 of butter, 1 of "West India molasses, 1 of sour milk or 
butter milk, 2 eggs, 1 table-spoonful of ginger, 1 tea-spoonful of cinnamon, and 
one of soda, dissolved in hot water. Take flour enough to make a good batter, 
say 4 or 5 cupfuls, but don't make it too thick; stir the spices, sugar butter and 
molasses together, keeping the mixture slightly warmed; then add the milk, 
tlien the eggs, beaten their lightest, then the soda, and then the flour, last. 
Beat it long and well, and bake in a large buttered pan; or, if for cakes, in 
patty pans. If you want to add raisins, dredge them with flour, and put them 
in the last thing." 

E€marks.—E.eTe you may have a loaf cake with or without raisins, or may 
bake in small cakes if you choose. 

Gingerbread, Soft. — Molasses, 3 cups; butter or lard, 1 cup; sour milk, 
1 cup; 4 eggs; ginger, 2 table-spoonfuls; soda, 1 table-spoonful; flour, 7 cups. 
Directions — Stir butter, sugar, molasses, and ginger together; then the milk 
and eggs well beaten; then the soda dissolved in a little hot water; then the 
flour. 

Remarks. — This writer to the Blade "Household" only gives the name 
" Jessie," but assures her friends that " I know this to be good, for I have used 
it over twelve years," but the reading of it satisfied me it was good, hence I give 
it a place. Ha\ang given my whole life to the observation and test of practical 
items of a general character, I know as quick as I read a recipe whether it 
is reliable or not. At least, for several years past, I have tested but very few 
recipes which proved a failure; while, in my earlier experience, the failures 
were frequent. Such I now throw aside on their first reading. 

Gingerbread, Poor Man's.— Molasses, 1 cup; sugar, }^ cup; 1 Qgg; 
buttermilk, % cup; lard or butter, 1 table-spoonful; ginger, 1 table-spoonful; 
cinnamon, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; flour, 2 cups. "A. Y. E.," of 
O'Brien, Iowa, says of it: "Good and very cheap. [See, also, "Poor Man's 
Cake."] 

Ginger Cakes, or Bread.— "Mrs. S. E. H.,"of Circleville, 0., gives 
the Blade " Household " the following, which I give in her own words: "I 
give a good ginger cake recipe — one that has taken the premium at our county 
fair for the last five years: One pt. best Orleans molasses, 1 pt. of scur butter- 
milk, 1 large table-spoonful of ginger, 1 of lard, 1 of soda; dissolve the soda in 
the buttermilk ; flour enough to make soft as you can handle, the softer the 
better. Turn on the bread -board, roll, cut into cakes, and bake in a quick oven. 
Try this. If you prefer it baked in pans, add 2 eggs, well beaten, and mix as 
other cake. A small lump of alum, dissolved, improves the cake. " 

Remarks. — Most people object to the use of alum in baking powders; then 
why not objectionable to use it here? I think it is not at all necessary; but if it 
is used, " a small lump " is too indefinite. I would saj act more than half to a 



CAKES. 381 

tea-spoonful, at most. If pulverized, it dissolves qiiicker, using a little hot 
water. 

Ginger Cookies.— Sugar, }4. cup; molasses, ^ cup; shortening, \4 cup; 
boiling water, 3^ cup; soda, % tea-spoonful; ginger, 1 large tea-spoonful; salt; 
flour. Directions — Have the shortening very hot and the water boiling; dis- 
solve the soda in the water and put into the creamed sugar, shortening and 
molasses; use only flour enough to make as soft a dough as you can roll, dust- 
ing freely. 

Remarks. — This recipe is from Sarah Green, of Portageville, N. Y., whc 
Indicates it to be nice, if properly made. The two following are also hers: 

Sugar Cookies. — Sugar, % cup; butter, % cup; 1 egg', cream of tartar, 
2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; hot water, J^ cup, to dissolve the soda; 
flour, sufficient 

Remarks.— 'Koke from general directions, at the heaxi of this subject, also 
the following: 

Sugar Cookies.— Sugar, 1 cup; butter, 1 cup; sour milk, 1 cup; soda, 1 
tea-spoonful. Mix soft as possible. Caraway seed, she says, is the best season" 
ing for sugar cookies. 

Sugar Cookies, No. 2.— Sugar, 1 cup; butter, 1 cup; 1 egg; essence of 
lemon; flour to roll and cue out. — Mrs. C. W. Phillips. 

Excellent Cookies. — Meat fryings, 1 cup, or butter, ^^ cup, and lard, 
J^cup; sugar, 1 cup; cold water, 1 cup; soda, scant tea-spoonful; nutmeg to 
taste. Mix quickly, roll very thin, and cut with teacup or goblet. The cookies 
will not curl ; bake in a quick oven. 

Cookies, With Carbonate of Ammonia.— Carbonate of ammonia, 
1 oz. ; sugar, 1 pt , sweet milk, i^ pt.; sweet cream, % pt.; flour, enough to 
roll them out nicely. Bake (luick. They are better to let them stand 3 or 3 
days. So says " Fannie C," of Medina, Wis. 

Cookies, With Ammonia.— Lard, 1 lb. ; sugar, 5 cups; milk, 1 qt. ; car- 
bonate of ammonia, 1% ozs.; caraway seed, a little salt, and flour to make stiff 
enough to roll. Directions — Dissolve the ammonia in the milk and add to 
the lard and sugar, previously rubbed together. For small families, one-half 
or one-fourth the amount may be used. Hope Humason, of Brookside, Conn., 
says: " It has been tried and approved." 

Remarks. — It will be observed that where more than one recipe is given for 
making any cake, or other article, they are always different; so that persons 
who have not the articles called for in one may have those called for in another, 
thus enabling eveiybody to be accommodated. And I may properly say here 
that I give none which my own judgment, from my long experience in study- 
ing and testing practical recipes, does not at once consent to the appropriateness 
of the ingredients to produce, if properly combined, the cake, or whatever 
other article the recipe calls for. 

Custard Jelly Cake.— Sugar, 1 cup; 3 eggs; flour, lineups; cream of 
tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; cold water, 2 table-spoonfuls; make 
4 layers. 



383 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Custard for the Cake. — Sweet milk, 1 pt.; 2 eggs; sugar, 1 cup (liff^* 
brown is best); com starch, 2 table-spoonfuls, beaten with a little mUk; butter, 
J^ cup. Directions — Put the milk in a tin pan on the stove and let it com& 
to a boil; then stir in the sugar, then the butter, then the eggs, then the corn 
starch; it must be stirred rapidly all the time, so as not to burn. Let it boil 
until it is about as thick as jelly. When cold flavor with lemon extract. Do 
not make the cake until you make the custard, as the custard must be put on 
the cakes as soon as they are taken from the oven. — WMte Idly, Wilseymlle, 0. 

Cream Cake. — Sugar, 1 cup; butter, J^ cup; whites of 4 eggs; sweet 
milk, ^ cup; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; flour 9 
cups. Bake in roimd tins. 

For the Cream. — The yolks of 8 eggs; sweet milk, % P^^-J butter the size 
of an egg; corn starch, 4 teaspoonfuls; sugar to suit the taste, as for custard. 
Directions — ^Boil the same as custard, and when a little cool, flavor with 
lemon, orange, or vanilla, and spread between the layers. 

French Cream Cake.— I will give it in their words: Beat 3 eggs and 1 
cup of sugar together thoroughly; stir 1 tea-spoonful of baking powder into 
1% cups of flour (sift the flour in), stirring all the while in one direction. Bake 
in 2 thin cakes. Split the cakes while hot, and fill in the cream prepared in thg 
following manner: To 1 pt. of new milk add 2 table-spoonfuls of corn starch, 
1 beaten egg, and 3^ cup of sugar; stir while cooking, and when hot, put in 
butter, size of an egg; flavor the cream with lemon, vanilla, or pineapple. The 
milk for cream must be put in a pail and then heated in a pot of hot water- 
same as one does blanc mange. 

Boston Cream Cakes. — Water, 23^ cups; flour, 2 cups; butter, 1 cupi 
and 5 eggs. Boil the butter and water together; stir in the flour while boiling; 
after it is cool add the eggs well beaten. Put a large spoonful in mufBn ringSj 
and bake 20 minutes in a hot oven. 

The cream foi* them is made this way: Put over the fire 1 cup of milk, 
add not quite a cup of sugar; 1 egg, mixed with 3 tea-spoonfuls of corn starch 
and 1 table-spoonful of butter. When cool add vanilla to the taste; boil a few 
moments only. Open the cakes and fill them with the cream. They are easily 
made, and are delicious. 

Snow or Tea Cake.— Mrs. R. H. De La, Brough, Iowa, makes these 
remarks in introducing this cake recipe. She says: 

" I often make a cake which I think is the nicest tea cake, or for dyspeptic 
persons (as it is not a rich cake), that I ever saw. One and a half cups of nice 
white sugar and 1 cup of flour, rubbed well together ; add 1 tea-spoonful of 
cream tartar, and stir until thoroughly incorporated; whites of 10 eggs (or 1 
make it very nice when eggs are scarce), beaten to a stiff froth, stirred with the 
other mixture, just enough to mix evenly; bake in a moderate oven." 

Saratoga Tea Cakes. — To each pound of flour allow a dessert-spoonful 
of yeast powder, 1 egg, ^ pt. of milk, 2 spoonfuls of melted butter, 2 spoonful/ 
of sugar. Rub the dry ingredients together, then quickly mix in the milk with 
the butter, then the beaten egg; cut out into biscuit form, and bake quicklj 
la buttered pans. 



CAKES. 383 

White Cake.— Contributed by Laughing Ora, Moms, IIL Two cups of 
3^ cup of butter; beat the butter and sugar till like cream; stir in 1 cup 
of sweet milk; add 3 cups of flour and 2 tea-spoonfuls of baking powder; beat 
the whites of 5 eggs and stir in with the flour. Do not bake too fast. 

White MoTxntain Cake. — Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; floux, 3 cupsj 
sweet milk, % cup; whites of 10 eggs, beaten very stiff (or the whole of 5 eggs. 
if the shade from the yolks is no objection); cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; 
soda, 1 tea-spoonful. Directions — Bake in 3 deep jelly tins, or 6 thin layers. 
If iced, take the whites of 4 eggs; white powdered sugar, 16 table-spoonfuls; 
flavor to taste, if desired. 

White Mountain Cake, Iced.— Granulated sugar, 3 cups; butter, 1 
cup; 5 eggs; sweet milk, 1 cup; flour, 3 cups; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; 
soda, 1 tea-spoonful; salt, 1 pinch. Dieections— Beat the butter, sugar, and 
yolks of the eggs to a cream; mix soda in the milk and the cream of tartar in 
the flour; add the whites just before the flour. Bake in jelly cake tins, brown- 
ing a little. 

In Place of Jelly.— Take the whites of 2 eggs, a little water, and the proper 
^moimt of powdered sugar, beat together and with a knife spread over the top 
of each cake. Grate a fresh cocoanut and mix it with more sugar, and sprinkle 
ft over the cakes; then lay-up, finisliing the top the same. 

Remarks. — Especially applicable for use upon occasions when ice cream is 
to be served. 

Loaf Cake.— Butter, 1 cup; sugar, 2 cups; 4 eggs; sweet milk, 1 cup; 
cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful. 

White Cake, With Sweet Milk.— Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; 
sweet milk, 1 cup; whites of 5 eggs; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls. 

White Cake, With Butter Milk.— Fine white sugar, 3 cups; butter, 
1 cup; butter milk, 1 cup; whites of 10 eggs: baking powder, 3 tea-spoonfuls; 
lemon, to taste; flour, 4 cups. Directions — Let some one beat the whites of 
the eggs to a stiff froth while you cream the sugar and butter, etc., mixing in 
the whites last. 

Tea Cake Instead of Biscuit- Without Sugar.— Butter (or half 
!ard), 1 cup; sweet milk, 1 cup; 4 eggs; salt, 1 pinch; flour, 1^ pts.; baking 
powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls. 

Remarks.— It will be found excellent 

Tea Cake.— Sugar, 1 cup; butter, 1 table-spoonful; 1 Qg^\ buttermilk, 1 
cup; soda, % tea-spoonful; flour to make a tolerably stiff batter. 

Remarks. — "Aunt Margaret " always makes this when she finds a visitor to 
tea, and only half an hour to make and bake the cake in; also, because it is 
good cold. 

Tea Cakes.— Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; sour milk, or buttermilk, 1 
cup; soda, J^ tea-spoonful; flour, nutmeg or caraway. Directions — Beat the 
sugar and butter together and add the milk. Dissolve the soda in a little water 
and add, with as much flour as will make a stiff dough, grating in a little iiuL 



384 DR. CHASE'S BECIPEL 

meg, or sprinkle in some caraway seed, as you choose. Roll and cut in 
cakes, baking a light brown. 

French Loaf Cake.— Sugar, 2J^cups; butter, lineups; flour, 13^ cups; 
8 eggs; sour milk, 2 table-spoonfuls; soda, J^ tea-spoonful ; 1 lemon. Direc- 
tions — Cream the butter and sugar together, then stir in the yolks (the French 
always beat the yolks and whites separately), then the whites; and, having 
grated off the yellow of the lemon (peeled off the white and thrown away), and 
also grated up the inside upon a coarse grater and picked out the seeds, stir this 
in, then the flour, and having dissolved the soda in the sour milk stir it in and 
bake in a moderate oven. An orange or two may be used instead of a lemon, 
for variety's sake, if desired or preferred. 

Remarks. — It may not be amiss to say that the French not only beat the 
yolks and whites of eggs separately, and for a long time, but they also make 
their cakes very rich. If it is desired to have cake like theirs we must folloy? 
their directions. 

French Loaf Cake — Plain. — Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 3^ cup; sweet 
milk, 1 cup; flour, 3 cups; 3 eggs; baking powder, 3 tea-spoonfuls. Direc- 
tions — Cream the sugar and butter together with the hand ; beat the eggs well 
and stir in; then add the milk; stir the baking powder into the sifted flour and 
mix in thoroughly, and bake in a moderate oven two fair-sized cakes. 

Remarks. — Flavoring of any kind may be used; but the first time I ate of 
it was at my own table, made by one of my married daughters, without flavor- 
ing. If flavoring is used, of course it is not plain, and it certainly is very nice 
with any flavoring. 

Delicious Cake.— White sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; sweet milk, 1 cup; 
3 eggs; soda, J^ tea-spoonful; scant tea-spoonful of cream of tartar; flour, 3 
cups. Directions— Beat eggs separately and bake in rather a hot oven. 

Delicate Cake.— Flour, 3 cups; sugar, 2 cups; butter, % cup; sweet 
milk, % cups, and 1 tea-spoonful of cream of tartar (or % cup of sour cream), 
% tea-spoonful of soda. Beat well, then add the whites of 6 eggs beaten to a 
stiff froth, flour to taste. 

Remarks.— i:h.\s is in the words of the "Belle" of Libertyville, Iowa, and 
will be found delicate as belles in general. 

Delicate Cake, Cheap and Easy to Make.— Butter, % cup; sugar, 
scant 2 cups, stirred to a cream; flour, 3 cups; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls, 
run through a sieve twice; sweet milk, % cup; whites of 6 eggs; flavor with 
lemon. 

Remarks. — This makes a delicate jelly cake baked in layers. 

Jumbles.— ]\Irs. Phcebe Jane Rankin, of Illinois, gives the following 
recipe for a very nice jumble: Sugar, 2 cups; lard, 1 cup; beat to a cream, 
then add 2 eggs ; sweet milk, 1 cup ; soda, 1 tea-spoonful ; cream of tartar, % 
tea-spoonful; then stir in flour till about as stiff as pound cake; put plenty of 
flour on the board; dip out the dough with a spoon; flour your rolling pin well;, 
roll to about }^ inch thick; sprinkle sugar over the top; cut out and bake in a 



CAKES, 385 

^uick oven ; when done set on edge to cool ; the softer they are rolled out the 
better they will be. Add a little lemon extract if you like. 

Jumbles, or Sand Tarts.— Sugar, 2 cups; eggs, 4; sweet milk, i^ 
cup; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonsful; flour, Dikection&— Use flour enough, 
only, to make as cookies; then sprinkle on sugar, cinnamon and nutmeg, and 
bake in a quick oven. 

Remarks.— ^TpnukWug the sugar and spices upon the surface gives them a 
sandy appearance, and hence some cooks call them sand tarts. 

Soft Jumbles.— Butter, 1 cup; sugar, 2 cups; 2 eggs; sour or sweet 
milk, 1 cup; flour, 4 to 4)^ cups; soda, 1 tea-spoonful, scant; cream of tartar, 
2 tea-spoonfuls; vanilla ex.. 1 tea-spoonful. DraECTioNS— Cream the sugar 
and butter, and add one-half the milk, in which the vanilla has been put; then 
one-half the flour, then the beaten eggs; then the otlier half of the flour into 
which the cream of tartar has been mixed by sifting together; lastly the other 
half of the milk in which the soda has been dissolved. Make in small cakes 
and bake quickly 

iZewiarfe.- Jumbles are always to be sprinkled with sugar, or rolled ia 
sugar. For me the more sugar the better is the jumble. 

Bich Jumble. — Sugar and butter, 1 lb. each; cream together, with 4 
eggs; then mix in 1^^ lbs. of flour. Directions— Roll in powdered sugar, 
iay on buttered tins and bake in a quick oven. 

Remarks. — Coffee sugar, 2% cups, equal 1 pound. Butter, 2 cups, equal 
1 pound; and flour, 3 cups, make 1 pound. Common sized tea-cups are in- 
tended But, for large families, the largest coffee cup may be taken, as the 
proportions would be the same, except that the soda and cream of tartar (when 
used) should be increased accordingly. 

Muffins for Tea.— Flour, 3 cups; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls; 3 
eggs; melted butter, 2 table-spoonfuls; sweet milk, 1 pt. ; a little salt. Direc- 
tions — Sift flour and baking powder together, stir in the egg and butter, then 
the milk. Bake in rings, in a quick oven. 

Muffins.— Milk, 1 pt. ; yeast, J^ cup; salt, a very little; flour, sufficient 
to make a batter. Directions — When light, cook in rings upon the stove. 

Mush Muffins.— Take cold mush, made in the ordinary way, thin with 
milk, 1 qt.; 7 eggs, and butter the size of an egg; a little salt; then bring to 
the proper consistency with wheat flour. Bake in rings. 

Remarks. — Very nice and healthful to thicken with graham flour. If these 
are not as light as some may choose, put a little baking powder in the flour. 

Hermits.— Brown sugar, IJ^cups; 3 eggs; butter, 1 cup; raisins, chop- 
ped, 1 cup; sour milk, 2 table-spoonfuls ; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; cinnamon, nut- 
meg, cloves, and allspice, of each 3^ tea-spoonful; flour enough to roll out; cut 
as in cookies. 

Apple Fruit Cake.— Dried apples, 1 cup; molasses, 1 cup; 1 egg; 
sugar, 1^ cup; milk, % cup; flour, 2% cups; baking powder, 1 tea-spoonful. 
DiRECTiGNS— Soak the apples over night, then steam imtil soft; then simmei 

2."i 



388 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

them slowly in the molasses, until well cooked; when cool, add the other ingre 
dients and bake. 

Apple Fritters. — Prepare the batter as for fritters, having washed, and 
Bliced the apples, crosswise, and if you have a corer the core should have beec 
taken out. Have the lard boiling hot. Drop the slices into the batter and see 
that every part is well covered; fry until brown, then turn and fry until dona 

Remarks. — These instructions are from Miss Arabell, of Knox City, Mo. 
I say Miss because, as she gives no ' 'sir" name, I take it for granted she had not 
found the " sir." I will guarantee the fritters, however, to be found nice. 

Coffee Cake. — Brcwu sugar, 2 cups; 4 eggs; butter, 1 cup; molasses, 1 
cup; cold coffee, 1 cup; raisins, 2 cups; cloves, 2 tea-spoonfuls ; }^ a nutmegj 
soda, 1 tea-spoonful; flour, 4 cups. 

Coffee Cake. — Brown sugar, butter, cold, strong coffee and molasses, 
each 1 cup; 3 eggs; raisins, 2 cups; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls; flour, 3 
cups. 

Raisin Cake.— Sugar, 13^ cups; butter, %oi & cup; milk, % of a cup; 
flour, 3 cups; chopped raisins, 1 cup; 3 eggs; baking powdei, \% tea-spoon 
fuls. Bake as a whole or in sheets. 

Raisin Cake, Without Sugar. — Flour, 1 cup; cream, 2 cups; butter. 
1 cup; 4 eggs; raisins, 1 lb., not chopped; candied lemon, 1, chopped; soda, 1 
tea-spoonful ; a Uttle cloves and cinnamon may be added. Stir well. 

Fig Pound Cake. — Brown sugar, chopped figs, raisins and flour, each 
1 lb.; butter, % lb.; cream or milk (sour), ^ pt. ; 7 eggs; soda, J^ tea-spoon- 
ful; 1 nutmeg. 

Remarks.— One tea-spoonful of alum, pulverized, is added, by some, but 1 
would prefer cream of tartar. 

Currant Cake. — Butter, 1 cup; sugar, 2 cups; 4 eggs; flour, 33^ cups; 
sour milk, Icup; English currants, 2 cups; saleratus or soda, 1 tea-spoonful; 
flavor with lemon or other extracts, as you choose. 

Fruit Cake, Plain. — Sweet milk, 1 cup; molasses, 3^ cup; brown 
sugar, 1 cup; butter, }4 cup; 2 eggs; raisins and currants, each, ^ lb.; salt, 1 
tea-spoonful; cloves and cinnamon, each, 1 table-spoonful; nutmeg; baking 
powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls; flour, 3 cups. See directions in next cake. 

Premium Fruit Cake. — Sugar, 3 cups; butter, 1 3^ cups. 6 eggs; sour 
cream, IJ^ cups; saleratus or soda, 2 tea-spoonfuls; currants 3^1b. ; raisins, f4 
lb.; citron, 3^ lb.; 1 nutmeg; flour. Dikections — Beat the eggs thoroughly; 
then add sugar and butter, and beat tOl smooth. Dissolve the saleratus in. a 
little warm water and put it in the cream, and make the cake quite thick with 
flour to prevent the fruit from settling to the bottom. Do not chop the raisin^., 
but cut them in halves and remove the seeds, else use "seedless" raisins; then 
scald a few moments to soften, drain and flour (dredge) them before putting into 
the cake. Cut the citron in thin slices, and as you fill in a layer of cake put 
the citron over evenly, then more of the cake mixture and another layer ot tne 
citron; and so on, until the citron is evenly divided through the whole. 



CAKES. 387 

Hemarks. — Mrs. John Rice, of Seneca county, Ohio, who originated thia 
recipe, says: '* If any one will follow this recipe she may do as I did — get the 
first premium at the coming fair 

Fruit Cake that will Keep for Months.— Butter, sugar, molasses, 
and sweet milk, of each, 1 cup; currants, 4 cups; 8 eggs; baking powder, 3 
tea-spoonfuls; citron, chopped, 3^ lb.; 2 grated nutmegs, and cinnamon to taste. 
Bake 2 hours. 

Fruit Cake, Very Nice.— Butter, brown sugar, sifted flour, and cit- 
ron, of each, 1 lb.; 12 eggs; raisins, stoned, and English currants, of each, 3 lbs.; 
molasses, }^ cup; cinnamon, mace, cloves, and allspice, of each. 1 table-spoon- 
ful; 1 nutmeg- grated rind of 1 lemon; baking powder, 4 tea-spoonfuls. 
Directions — Beat the yolks, butter and sugar together till very light; then stir 
in the molasses, spices and the grated rind of the lemon, also the stiff -beaten 
whites of the eggs; then the flour, into which the baking powder has been 
mixed by sifting, when, after thoroughly mixing, the raisins and currants are 
to be added and evenly mixed in. The citron having been shaved and chopped 
finely, and a suitable pan well buttered, and a buttered paper also having been 
put into the pan. dip in a layer of tht batter; then sprinkle on a thin layer of 
the citron, until all is put in the top layer, of course, having no citron upon it. 
Bake in a moderate oven, covering witli paper if necessary to avoid burning the 
top. It will require about 4 hours to bake it 

Remarks. — This will be found a very nice cake to have been given to the 
Blade by the " Sunflower." of Farragut, la It will keep well, and will be all 
the better if not cut tor some weeks. And now. although either of the above 
truit cakes will make nice wedding cakes, yet I must give one which is so called, 
and a very good one, too, the baking, manner of preparation, etc.. being about 
the same as in the foregoing: 

Wedding Cake, Very Rich.- The finest and nicest flour, 5 lbs; very 
nice butter, 3 lbs.; English currants, nicely washed, dried and dredged, 5 lbs.; 
sifted loaf sugar, 2 lbs. ; nice sweet almonds, blanched, 1 lb. ; nutmegs, 2; 
mace, ]4 oz. ; cloves, % oz. • lemon and orange peel, each % lb. ; wine and 
brandy, each J^ pt. ; very nice fresh eggs. 16. Directions— See the directions 
in the recipes above and the general directions. I will say, however, if made 
in one, or even into two cakes, it vsill take 4 hours to bake them, as the oven 
must not be over hot, and care, by covering with paper, etc,, not to burn them. 

Coffee Cake. — Strong cold coffee butter and raisins, of each 1 cup; 
sugar, \)^ cups; fiour. SJ^ cups; cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg and soda, of each 
1 tea-spoonfui eggs, 2 Directions— Make it upon general principles. Other 
fruit may be used in place of the raisins, and it will be nice even without any 
fruit at all. 

Molasses Cake. — Molasses, 1 pt ; brown sugar, 2 cups; sour milk, 1 pt,; 
4 eggs; soda, 2 tea-spoonfuls, flour, 7 cups; cinnamon, or any other spice, or 
ginger, to taste. 

Soft Molasses Cake.— Molasses, % cup; brown sugar, 1 tablp-spf^onful; 



388 VR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

butter or lard, the size of an egg; sour milk, 3^ cup; soda. 1 tea-spoonful; flour, 
2 cups. 

Mrs. Chase's Sponge Cake. — Sugar, 1 cup; 4 eggs: sweet milk, 3 
table-spoonfuls; flour, 2 cups; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls; salt, 1 pinch; 
orange or lemon extract (home-made;, 2 tea-spoonfuls. Directions — Beat the 
eggs, then beat in the sugar, add the milk, salt and flavor; and, having mixed 
the baking powder into the flour, sift it in, beat all together and bake in a quick 
oven. 

Remarks. — This will make 2 cakes if baked in the round tin. or 1 in the 
square. I have eaten of this many times witli great satisfaction, and expect 
the same in eating of the one which, I am just informed, is ready for tea Yet 
I give several others to meet all circumstances and desires. Sponge cake is 
credited with being the most healthful of any form of cake, for the reason that, 
as a general thing, no butter or other shortening is used, although of late, as 
will be seen below, some people are beginning to introduce them; but, for 
myself, I am very fond of one of the above, coming warm from the oven at 
tea-time, having some very nice butter to eat with it. Those who are dyspeptic 
had better forego this luxury. My next is from 'Fern Leaves," of Oswego 
county, N. Y., who told the Blade " Household ' that it would make "roll 
jelly cake," " cup cake," or " plain cake." It is as follows: 

Sponge Cake.— Sugar, 1 cup; flour, 1 cup; 3 eggs; water, 3 table-spoon 
fuls; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls; salt and spice to taste. 

The following is from somebody's lady friend, as the result of long experi- 
ence: "Flour, 1 cup; sugar, 1 cup; baking powder, 1 heaping tea-spoonful-, 
cold water, 3 table-spoonfuls; flavor with lemon or vanilla. Directions — 
Beat the whites and yolks separately, and add the water the last thing before 
baking. 

Improved Berwick Sponge, or Custard Cake.— Sugar. 2 cups: 
4 eggs; flour, 3 cups; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; 
salt, a pinch; cold water, 1 cup; the juice of 1 lemon. Directions — Beat the 
eggs well, then beat in the sugar and half of the flour, in which the cream of 
tartar has been mixed; the soda and salt being dissolved in the water, add in 
with the lemon juice, and lastly the balance of the flour, stirring well together, 
and bake in cakes to be fully 2 inches thick. 

For the Custard.— 'hl\\^, a scant ^ pt. (take out a little to wet up S tea 
spoonfuls of flour); sugar, 1 scant cup; butter half the size of an egg; 1 egg, 
well beaten; flavor vsith tlie grated peel of the lemon. Mix all, and cook for 15 
minutes in the rice-boiler (a tin dish made to fit inside of another, in which the 
water is placed, on the same principle as a glue kettle, which saves the labor of 
constant watching and stirring to prevent burning) then set aside to cool. This 
should be done so as to be cold by the time the cake is done. Split the cake 
with a sharp knife, and spread the cold custard between. 

Molasses Sponge Cake.— Molasses, 1 cup; melted butter, 1 tabis- 
spoonful; 2 eggs, well beaten; sweet milk. ^ cup; cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoon- 
ful, soda, 1^ tea-spoonful; flour, \% cups: ginger, to taste. Makes a gootit 
ioaf, or it may be baked in layers and laid up with jolly for variety 



CAKES 3S9 

Butter Sponge Cake.— Butter, 1 cup; sugar, 2 ";ups; flour, IJ^ cups; 
6 eggs- cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, J^ tea-spoi>nful. Directions — 
N"o special directions given, except to dissolve the soda i'n a table-spoonful of 
the milk, and mix the cream of tartar evenly with the flour, which is in accord- 
ance with my general directions. 

Remarks. — But as this recipe shows how a farmer's wife of White Church, 
Kansas, makes sponge cake, I thought I would give her directions in full. It 
will be noticed that this cake is rich in eggs and butter; but if the Kansas ' 
farmers can not afford it I do not know who can. 

Lemon Sponge Cake, with Butter.— Sugar and flour, each, 1 cup; ' 
3 eggs; sweet milk, 3 table-spoonfuls; melted butter, 2 table-spoonfuls; baking 
powder, 2 heaping tea-spoonfuls; extract lemon, J^ tea-spoonful. 

Cream Sponge Cake. — Glertie, of Kewanee, Wis., prefers cream in 
hers, as follows: Beat 2 eggs in a tea-cup, fill up the cup with thick sweet 
cream, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of floiu*, 1 tea-spoonful each of cream of tartar 
and soda. 

Sponge Cake. — Sugar, 1 cup; 1 egg; sweet milk, 1 cup; butter the size 
of an Qgg; baking powder, 3 tea-spoonfuls; flour, 2 cups; seasop to taste. 

Remarks. — The more frequent use of sponge cake, as compwed with other 
kinds of cake, is the reason of my giving so large a number of them, that 
everybody may be suited. 

Pound Cake.— Sugar, 1 lb. {2% cups); butter, 1 lb. (2 cup?); flour, 1 lb, 
(3 cups); 10 eggs; soda, 1 tea-spoonful. Directions — Beat the 3'olk3 and 
whites separately; and if you wish a fruit cake, use raisins, or currants, 1 lb. 

Remarks — It keeps moist a long time, if properly covered. For varieties 
sake, flavoring extracts may be sometimes used, or take the Imperial next below, 
for the variety. 

Imperial Cake. — Sugar, flour, butter, eggs (10), raisins, currants, figs, 
almond meats, peel {% citron, J^ lemon, J^ orange), of each 1 lb., except as 
explained about the peel, baking powder, 3 tea-spoonfuls. Directions— No 
flavoring, nor spices, are to be used. The butter and sugar rubbed together, 
then the beaten eggs (10 eggs average a pound); add baking powder to the flour 
and put it in after the eggs; add only one kind of the fruit at a time — no flour 
on the fruit — but the peel and figs are to be chopped fine, the almonds blanched 
and split. Stir well when all is in, and bake in square tins. 

Remarks. — I should think it would be rich enough for any imperial family 
of Europe, or for the wedding of an American, but, in this case, the company 
to be large, the amounts may be doubled, or trebled. 

Dark Cake.— Brown sugar, 2 cups; molasses, 1 cup; butter, 1 cup; rais- 
ins, chopped, 2 cups; sour milk, 1 cup; saleratus, 2 tea-spoonfuls; 3 eggs; flour, 
5 cups; cloves and cinnamon, of each, 1 table-spoonful; allspice, ■*. tea-spooa- 
lul: 1 small nutmeg, all well beaten. 

Remarks.— Mrs. C. B. Greely. of Alpena, Mich, says: This makes two 
good sized loaves. Is splendid! Don't get too much butter in, take large cups 



390 I>R CEASET 8 RECIPES. 

*ii flour, etc. The compaer needs not to add a word, he knows it will be found 
plendid. 

Charity Cake. — Sugar, 1 cup; butter the size of an egg; 1 egg; stir to 
a cream; add sweet milk, 1 cup; flour, 2 cups; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoon- 
fuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful. — Emily A. Hammond. 

Remarks, —No other place so appropriate for a poor man's cake, as to let 
it follow charity cake, for who needs charity any more tlian a poor man is 
likely to. 

Poor Man's Cake. — One cup of sugar, 1 cup of milk, 1 table-spoonful 
of butter, 1 tea-spoonful cream of tartar, 3^ tea-spoonful of soda dissolved in 
the milk, 1 egg, a little cinnamon, and flour to make it as stiff as pound cake. 

Potato Cake.— "S. A. M." (Sam), of Mogadore, O., claims this to be a 
new kind of cake. She says: Mashed potatoes, 1 cup; sugar, 1 cup; risings, 
1 cup; ^ cup of shortening, and 3 eggs. Directions — Stir well together 
about 5 o'clock p, m. , and at bedtime stir all the flour in the mixture you can 
with a big spoon ; keep in a warm place, and in the morning put it in gem 
dishes and let rise again Bake in a slow oven, and you will have a cake that 
children and invalids can eat without harm. 

Potato Cake, Without Eggs and Quick Process.— Mashed pota- 
toes, 3 cups; flour, 1 cup; melted butter and sugar, of each 3^ cup; a little salt; 
milk to make a paste of proper consistence to roll; roll rather thin, and bake in 
a quick oven. If not light enough first time, add a Uttle soda to the flour next 
time. 

Potato Puflfs. — Take mashed potatoes and make them into a paste, with 
1 or 2 eggs, roll it out with a dust of flour and cut round with a saucer; have 
ready some cold roast meat (any kind) free from gristle and chopped fine, sea- 
soned with salt, pepper, thyme, or pickles cut up fine; place them on the potato 
and fold in over like a puff, pinch or pick it neatly around and bake for a few 
minutes. — Detroit F}'ee Press. 

Remarks. — The author would say, " no pickles in his," but cold ham would 
be very nice. 

Spanish Fritter Puflfe.— Powdered sugar, 1 table-spoonful; butter, 3 
ozs. (2 table-spoonfuls); salt, 1 tea-spoonful; water, 1 cup; yolks of 4 eggs; 
flour. Directions — Put the water into a saucepan, add the sugar, salt and 
butter, and, while it is boiling, stir in flour enough to have it leave the pan. 
then stir in the one-by-one, the yolks of the eggs; now drop a tea-spoonful at a 
time into boiling lard and fry to a light brown. If nicely done they will be 
very puffy. 

Philadelphia Cream Puffs.— Butter, 2 cups; 10 eggs; flour, 3 cups; 
water, 1 pt. ; soda, 1 tea-spoonful. Directions — Boil the water, meU the but- 
ter in it, stir in the flour dry while the water is boihng; when cool, add the soda 
and the well-beaten eggs; drop tlie mixture with a spoon on buttered tins f>n.d 
bake 20 minutes. Caution — Do not open the oven door more than «.wice while 
they are baking 



CAKE8. 391 

Cake Witliout Eggs.— Sugar 1 cup; butter, ^ cup; sweet milk, 1 
cup; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls, soda, 1 tea-spoonful. Flavor to taste. 

Cider Cake, Requires Neither Eggs Nor Milk.— Sugar, 1)4 cups; 
butter, % cup; sweet cider, \% cups; flour, 43^ cups; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; 
cinnamon and cloves, of each 1 tea-spoonful. 

Remarks.— KMhongh. this from the "Young Lady,'" of Tontogany, O.. it 
will make a nice cake, better than some old ladies make. 

Scotch Cake.— Brown sugar, 1 lb.; flour. 1 lb ; butter, J^ lb.; 2 eggs; 
cinnamon 1 tea-spoonful; roll very thin and bake. [See, also, "Scotch Oat- 
cake."] 

Buflfelo Cake. — Sugar, 1 cup; butter, melted, 1 table-spoonful; 1 egg, 
beaten to a froth; soda, 1 tea-spoonful, dissolved in sweet milk, % cup; cream 
of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; flour to make so it will pour on tins. Bake like 
jelly cake, and put custard or jelly between. 

Remarks. — Mrs. J, A. Heister, of Denver. Col , says. 'It is cheap and 
good enough for any one." And I cannot account for the name, unless it is 
because the Denver people take it with them when they go out to hunt buffalo. 

Buckeye Cake. — Sugar, % lb ; butter, 3^ lb.; 6 eggs, well beaten; 
sweet milk, %\>t.\ 1 lb. of "prepared" flour; flavor with vanilla. Good for 
Ohio people, where they use this kind of flour. 

Boston Cake. — Sugar, 1 cup; milk, 1 cup; butter. 1 table-spoonful; 1 
egg, flour, 2% cups; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; 
flavor with lemon or nutmeg. Nutmeg is their favorite; so much so, some of 
them have been accused of making wooden ones. 

Vanilla Cake. — Sugar, )4. cup; 4 eggs; sour cream, 4 table-spoonfuls; 
salt, 1 tea-spoonful; cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, }4, tea-spoonful, 
flour, 13>^ cups; flavor with vaniUa — is the way "Jenny" makes hers at Irving, 
Mich. 

Nutmeg Cake. — Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; 3 eggs; 1 nutmeg; flour, 
4 cups; milk, 1 cup; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls, soda, 1 tea-spoonful; 
rind of 1 lemon. Directions — Beat sugar and butter together, then add half 
of the flour and half of the milk, then the beaten eggs, grated nutmeg and 
grated rink of the lemon, then the balance of the flour, having the cream of 
tartar mixed into it, and lastly, the balance of the milk with the soda dissolved 
in it. Beat all thoroughly and bake in bread pans, buttered and prepared. 

Choice Cake.— Sugar, 1 lb.; flour, 1 lb ; butter, 3>^lb.; 7 '?gg3; cream, 
1 cup; saieratus, 1 tea-spoonful; nutmeg, to taste. Directions — Beat sugar 
and butter to a cream, add the eggs, then the cream, with the saieratus dissolved 
in it; then flour and nutmeg. It requires much beating. Bake in a quick oven. 
— Godey's Lady's Book. 

Rock Cakes, To Make.— Break 6 eggs into a dish, and bes^t till very 
liglit; then add powdered sugar, 1 lb. (2^ cups), and mix well; then dredge in 
gradually flour, i^ lb. {1% cups), and English currants, J^tc J^ lb., whioh have 
\)cen nicely washed and dried. Mix all weU together; then put on to >• cwkfug 



392 -D-B CHASE'S RECIPES. 

tin (size to suit) witli a fork, to make them look as rougli ds you can. Bake in 
a moderate oven, about half an hour. "When cool store them in a box and 
keep them in a dry place, and they will last as long as you keep them in the 
box, but if placed on the table at meal times they will not keep a great while 

Cold Water Cake. — Flour and white sugar, each, 1 cup; 2 eggs; but- 
ter, 1 heaping table-spoonful; cold water, 3 table-spoonfuls; baking powder, 1 
heaping t«a-spoonful. Not expensive but nice. Make on general principles. 

German Crisps. — Sugar, 2 cups- butter, 1 cup; 3 eggs, and the rind 
and juice of 1 lemon; flour Dikections — Mix thoroughly with hand or spooon, 
adding sufficient flour to roll out Roll out very thin Cut in small cakes. 
Place in the pan and rub the tops with e.gg and sprinkle on white sugar. Two 
eggs are enough for the tops. They will bake in a few minutes. — Harper's 
Bazar 

Common Cake. — Sugar, 1 cup; butter, J^ cup; sour cream, 1 cup; 2 
eggs; soda, 1 tea-spoonful: 3^ a nutmeg, and as much flour as needed Direc- 
tions — Beat the sugar and eggs together, then add the cream and butter, then 
the nutmeg and soda, and lastly the flour, are the instructions given by Mrs. 
A. M. McCrary, of Kimin, Kan. 

Raised. Cake — Light dough, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; sugar, 2 cups; 3 eggs, 
beaten light. Mix all well together, add fruit and spices, as you wish It is 
good without either, but better with plenty of both. Dieections — Put in a 
pan and let sta;id till light before baking. 

Spiced Cake.— Butter and cold water, of each, 1 cup; flour, 3 cups; 
sugar, 2 cups, 3 eggs; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; cinnamon or other spices, as pre- 
ferred, 2 tea-spoonfuls ; chopped raisins. 1 cup; currants, 1 cup. Directions 
Sarah F. Purdy, of Belmont, Iowa, says: "Beat butter and sugar, adding the 
beaten eggs, then the cold water sift the soda into the flour, and add the spice 
»nd fruit.'' 

Aunt Lucy's Spice Cake. — Sugar, 2 cups; butter, % cup; 2 eggs, 
butter milk. 1 cup; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; cloves, 1 tea-spoonful, cinnamon, 1 
table-spoonful; ^ of a nutmeg, "rising flour,'' 1 cup, or to make thick. 

Remarks — Who ever knew a cake-making aunt that did not make a good 
cake/ This vdll make a nice cake, however, even if common flour is used, as 
the soda will make it light. 

Spiced Cake, Very Fine. — Sour milk, molasses, and brown sugar, of 
each, 1 cup; butter. % cup; 3 eggs, soda, nutmeg, and cloves, of each. 1 tea 
spoonful; cinnamon. IJ^ tea-spoonfuls (or if any other flavor is preferred to be 
the most prominent, use the IJ^ tea-spoonfuls of that, and of the cinnamon 
only 1), flour, about 3 cups, or to make the batter pretty thick, as spice cake is 
disposed, if too thin, to run or spread before the baking begins to set it. Make 
as the others. 

Sally Lunn Cake.— Sugar, 1 egg cup; sweet milk, 1 pt.; butter, 1 
table-spoonful; 4 eggs; flour, 4 coffee cups, yeast powder, 3 tea-spoonfuls 
DiBECTiONS — Warm the milk and melt the butter in it: beat the whites of the 



CAKES. 393 

eggs to a stiff froth; the yolks and sugar together, and stir into the warm milk', 
the yeast powder having been mixed in the flour, sift it in; then the whites of 
the eggs; pour into a buttered cake mold, and bake in a quick oven 30 minutes. 

" Sallie-Long," or Tea Cake,— Flour, 1 qt.; baking powder 3 tea 
spoonfuls; sweet milk, 1 pt. ; eggs, 3; butter and lard, of each 1 table-spoon fu) 
pulverized sugar, % cup. Mix the baking powder into the dry flour; beat tho 
eggs, and stir them and the milk, butter, lard and sugar together, then the 
flour, mixing all thoroughly; baking in a moderate oven. 

Eemarks. — This cake I suppose to be an own cousin of Sally Lunn, but 
why it should have been called Long, when, in fact, it is so nice and short, I 
cannot tell. I give it as I received it, and will make no complaint about its 
" Long " name, so long as it fills the bill as well as it has done, with my family, 
for a long time. It is, no doubt, a first cousin of Sally Lunn, above. 

Apees, or Cake Without Eggs or Yeast.— Fresh butter, 1 lb. (3 
cups); sifted flour, 2 lbs. (7 cups;) powdered sugar, 1 lb. (2)| cups); mixed 
spices (nutmeg, mace and cinnamon), 1 tea-spoonful; caraway seeds, 4 tea- 
spoonfuls; wine (white is best), 1 large glass; cold water to make a stiff dough. 
Directions— Cut the butter into the flour and rub fine, or smooth, mixing in 
the sugar and spices, then put in the wine, and water to work stiff, with a 
broad knife, or knead with a wooden potato masher. Roll thin (less than J^ 
inch), and cut into small cakes. Place in long tins, shghtly buttered, not to 
touch each other. Bake in a quick oven till they are a pale brown. 

Remarks. — They are quickly made, requiring no eggs nor yeast, and are 
very nice, resembling, somewhat, the Grerman crisps. 

Cream Cake.— Sweet milk, 1 pt. ; butter, 1 table-spoonful; salt, a pinch; 
flour, 3 cups. Directions — Melt the butter in milk, put in the salt and then 
mix in the flour, only enough to make a stiff dough. Roll out rapidly, several 
times, on the board, cut into squares and bake on a griddle, or in a hot oven. 

Cookies, Plain.— Sugar, 1 cup: butter, % cup; soda, }^ tea-spoonful; 
warm water, % cup; flour enough to roll. Directions — Dissolve th'> soda in 
the warm water; mix, roll very thin, cut and bake in a quick oven. 

Plain Cookies, with Ammonia.— Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; milk, 
1 cup; 2 eggs; carbonate of ammonia, % oz. ; flour, 1 qt. {Z% cups.) Direc- 
tions — Pulverize the ammonia and mix it with the flour, and mix the butter in 
well, then the other ingredients; use only flour enough to allow you to handle 
(not stiff); roll thin, cut and bake in a suitable oven — in fact all cookies require 
quick handling and a quick oven. 

Cookies— Eose Flavor.- Sugar, 3 cups; butter, 1 cup; 3 eggs; milk, 
J^ cup; rosewater, 2 table-spoonfuls [see "Tincture of Rose"]; flour, enough to 
roll out well. Directions — Beat the eggs very light, rub the butter, sugar and 
rosewater together, then the eggs, soda in the milk, flour, etc. ; roll thin, bake 
quickly. 

Carraway Cookies.— Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup; 2 eggs; milk, J^ 
cup; soda, }4 tea-spoonful, caraway seed, 1 table-spoonful, or to taste. I liko 
them to be put in freely. 



394 DR- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Nice Plain Cookies, Without Eggs.— Sugar, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup, 
or salt pork drippings; sweet milk (all milk is to be sweet unless sour is called 
for), l.cup; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 teanspoonful; flour to make 
a dough. Directions — Roll thin, bake in a quick oven, but not to scorch. If 
you have no milk, cold water will do quite welL 

Ginger Cookies, With Molasses.— Molasses, 2 cups; butter, 1 cup 
(lard or salt pork drippings do well); hot water, 4 table-spoonfuls; ginger, 1 
table-spoonf 111 ; salt (unless salt pork drippings are used), 1 tea-spoonful; flour 
enough to roll out; soda, 1 tea-spoonful. 

Remarks. — As the ladies say: " It is just splendid." 

Spiced Cookies. — Orleans molasses, 1 cup; sugar, 1 cup; warm water, 
'.^cup; soda, 1 large or rounding tea-spoonful; butter, % cup; cloves, cinna- 
mon and ginger, of each 1 tea-spoonful. Dieections — Mrs. S. M. Ferguson, 
of West Holbach, 111., is the originator of this, and says: "Dissolve the soda 
in the water, mix soft, roll thin, bake quick, etc. If made nicely and not over 
baked they will please old people and yovmg children," 

Spiced Cakes.— Yolks of 4 eggs, well beaten; baking powder, 2^ tea- 
spoonfuls, in flour, 2}^, cups; brown sugar, 1 cup; syrup, milk and butter, of 
each 3^ cup; powdered cloves, 2)^ tea-spoonfuls; allspice and cinnamon, pow- 
dered, of each 1 tea spoonful. Directions — Rub the baking powder and 
spices well into the flour, add the syrup after the sugar and butter are creamed 
together, then the beaten eggs, then the milk, and lastly the flour, and prepare 
at once for a moderate oven. Given me by a sister-in-law after making them 
many times. ♦ 

Macaroons, or Drop Cake.— Sugar, 1 lb.; blanched and poimded 
almonds, H lb. ; whites of 3 eggs. Directions— Mix, sprinkle sugar on paper, 
then drop the mixture thereon and bake quickly. Very nice. 

Farmers' Gems.— White sugar, 1 cup; sour cream, 1 cup; soda, 1 tea- 
spoonful ; flour, as for cookies. Directions — Roll thin, cut and bake quickly. 
Sue Perrin makes them in this way. If you expect them to last long, however, 
you will have to double the quantity of material. 

Drop Cake. — Powdered sugar, 1 cup; butter, 1 cup; flour, 2 cups; 3 
eggs; juice and rind of 1 lemon. Directions — Mix butter and sugar to a 
cream, add the well-beaten eggs, then the flour, and lastly the lemon. Drop on 
buttered paper and bake in a quick oven. 

Remarks. — Nice making and nice baking make nice cake, whether plain or 
delicate cake are being made. 

Drop Cakes. — Put 6 well-beaten eggs into a pint of thick cream; add a 
little salt, and make it into a thick batter with flour. Bake it in rings or in small 
cups 15 or 20 minutes. The same may be made with graham flour 

Rye Drop Cup Cake.— Wheat flour, 1 cup; 3 eggs, well beaten; new 
milk, 1 pt. , salt, 1 tea-spoonful; sugar, 1 teaspoonful; rye flour, enough to 
make a stiff batter; half -fill earthen cups, put them in a pan and bake 1 hoiiP 
in a moderate oven. 



CAKES. 395 

Remarks. — Equal to rye and Indian bread. If you wish them lighter, use 
JSaking powder or sour milk and soda. Have them come out just at tea-time, 
and have some freshly-made butter if you wish to appreciate a good thing. 

Pork Cake. — Fat salt pork, 1 lb. ; strong coffee, 1 pt. ; brown sugar, 4 
cups; stoned raisins, 1 lb. ; citron or English currants, % lb. ; flotu-, 9 cups; 
soda, 1 table-spoonful; 1 nutmeg and 1 table-spoonful of cinnamon. Direc- 
tions — Tne pork is to be weighed free of rind and chopped very fine ; then 
pour the coffee, boiling hot, upon it and set on the stove a few minutes before 
adding any of the other ingredients. The spices are all to be ground, and if 
citron is used, it is to be finely chopped. The raisins and other fruit are to be 
dredged with flour to prevent settling. Fit a piece of white paper to the bot« 
torn of the pan or pans and cover the top with paper also, to prevent burning. 
Bake in a moderate oven until a splinter can be thrust into it and pulled out 
without the cake sticking to it. — Mrs. Carrie Case, Toledo, 0. 

Remarks. — This will be very palatable, and will keep as long as you will 
allow. It is excellent. 

Buns. — Flour, 63^ cups; sugar, 1 cup; butter, % cup; milk, 1 cup; cur- 
fants, 2 cups; yeast, 1 table-spoonful. Directions— Diy and sift the flour, 
melt the butter in the milk; the currants to be washed and dried beforehand. 
Mix all, and stand in a warm place till it rises, before baking. — Peterson's 
Magazim. 

Buns, Better Than Bakers'.— "Warm milk, 3 cups; sugar, 1 cup; 
feast, J^ cup. Stand over night. In the morning add another cup of sugar, 

1 cup of butter, knead stiff and let rise again; then cut into 60 pieces, roll in the 
hand and put into pans just to touch each other, let rise again, then rub with 
whites of eggs, and bake to a light brown. Currants or raisins improve them. 
These are much better than bakers' buns. 

Remarks. — They will be excellent if not allowed to stand so long as to sour 
before baking — if so, soda will correct it. 

Easter Buns, or " Hot Cross Buns " of the London Criers.— 
Bweet milk, 3 cups; yeast, 1 cup; flour, to make a thick batter. Set over night, 
and in the morning add sugar, 3^ cup; J^ a nutmeg; 1 salt-spoonful of salt, and 
flour enough to roll out like biscuit dough. Knead well and set to rise 5 hours. 
Roll }4 i°ch thick, cut and set in a well-buttered pan ; when they have stood a 
)^ hour make a cross with a knife upon each, and instantly put in the oven; 
bake to a light brown, and brush over with the whites of eggs beaten with 
white sugar. 

Remarks. — "Mrs. A. M. S.," of Junction City,, Kansas, says: "These 
ore the ' Hot Cross Buns ' of the London criers." I know they are nice enough 
to be that same. 

Breakfast Buns.— Sugar, sour milk or butter milk, of each, 2 cups; 

2 eggs; melted butter, % cup; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; flour and salt. Direc- 
tions — Break the eggs into a suitable dish to make the cake in, and beat them 
well; then put in the sugar, butter and a little salt, and beat aU well together: 
having dissolved the soda in the milk, add it; then sift in sufficient flour to allow 



396 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

handliug it upon the molding-board or table, leaving it as soft, however, as yoo 
can roll it Roll out to half an inch in thickness, and cut with a goblet or a 
large cutter, as it is intended to have a large and thick bun when done. If 
made sufficiently soft they will rise up in tlie center to fully an inch in thick- 
ness, and be very nice with coffee as a breakfast dessert. Put in a stone jar and 
cover over to prevent their becoming dry. 

Remarks. — Bakers make a bun, also, having English currants in them. 
One cup, washed and drained, will be enough for this amount, if evenly mixed 
in. Mrs. Chase makes them, sometimes with and then without the fruit, per- 
haps because the baking has to be done more often when the fruit is in. 

Husk. — On putting yonr light bread in pans save 2 or 3 ibs of dough 
and take 5 or 6 eggs, lard or butter, ]^ lb. ; brown sugar, % ^^- ! ™ix, and add 
flour to make dough as stiff as for bread; keep warm, and rise again Wheiv 
light, make into rusk the size of a hen's egg, sticfe a hole in the center of each, 
place in a pan and when they have risen J^ an inch prime the top with the yolk 
of an egg beaten with sugar, and bake. 

Remarks.— This, is the plan adopted by "Mrs. J. A. "W.. ' of Polona. Dl.. 
and this is the only woman, of which I have heard, who could 'jaw without 
scolding — j-a-w spells j'aw; but, to set joking aside, the rusk are nice The 
childreu like them better, however, if a large raisin is stuck into the center of 
the top, in place of the hole. 

Rusk With Few Eggs.— Mrs. Lettie Larsen, of Fair Haven, Minn. 
makes excellent rusk in the following manner: "New milk, 1 pt. ; hop yeast, 
X cup, and flour to make a batter, setting over night ; in the morning adding 3^2 
pt. more of new milk, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of butter and 1 egg, seasoning with 
nutmeg, and flour to make quite stiff. Let it rise, then rolling it out, cutting it 
it into small cakes, rising again, and baking. Have ready 1 tea-spoonful of 
sugar, with an egg well beaten, and just before done, brush over the top with 
this, replacing till lightly browned, to keep the crust moist." If she wants extra 
nice, she adds 1 cup of raisins. 

Rusk Without Eggs.— When making light bread take 1 pt. of the 
sponge, 1 cup of sugar, 1 cup of butter, and mix with flour enough to make a» 
for biscuit; gpice to taste. Let set till it rises like bread, then mold into smaE 
biscuit and stand till light before baking. 

Remarks.— Mrs. Etta Wilson says this meets the wants of hei people, at 
Lawn Ridge, Marshall county, Cal. With nice butter, I haven't a doubt of it 

Rolls.— Sweet milk, 1 cup; whites ol 2 eggs, butter, % ot a, cup; ^ cup 
jf yeast; sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls; flour to make a thick batter. Directions 
—Raise over night, not putting in the butter nor eggs until mommg, working 
m sufficient more flour to make a soft, or limber dough; form into rolls, plac^ 
in the pans, and bake as soon as they rise again. 

Remarks.— For variety's sake, sometimes use water in place of milk, again, 
and especially if to be eaten with meat, leave out the sugar; and if eggs art 
scarce make without; but if for "tea," it is better with them all in. I make- 
such remarks, occasionally, to set cooks to thinking for themselves, for it is bj< 



CAKES. 3r.7 

Uiought and experiment that hundreds of varieties may be made from the few 
pages of recipes here given— tlie same will hold good throughout the book, pro- 
vided the principles of chemistry are not interfered with, i. e. , if sour milk or 
buttermilk is used, the soda must never be left out, it neutralizes the acid and 
thereby produces a gas (carbonic acid gas), which gives lightness to the rolls, or 
cakes. 

Parker House Breakfast Rolls.— Sifted flour, 2 qts.: sugar, butter 
and yeast, of each J^ cup. Directions — Mix with new milk until the con- 
sistence of a nice light bread dough. If for tea, stand in a warm place 4 hours; 
if for breakfast, let stand in a cooler place over night. When light, in either 
case, take enough off for a roll, and roll it out to any desired size. Spread on 
one-half of the piece J^ tea-spoonful of melted butter, and lap over the other 
half, place in a pan to rise again, and as soon as light bake in a quick oven. 

Remarks. — If as nicely done as at the Parker House, Boston, they will be 
very nice indeed. I have tried them there and at home. 

Heating the Oven for Cake Baking. — So much depends, in baking 
cake, upon the heat of the oven, it is probably best to repeat here some of the 
instructions given in the general directions, and, perhaps, an additional thought 
or two upon the subject. In baking cake the oven should always be hot, 
xmless the directions give something especially to the contrary; yet, if the oven 
is too hot, a few nails may be placed under the pans, and the paper doubled 
over the top, and a cover may be removed from the top of the stove; but the 
oven door must not be left open any longer than is absolutely necessary, to fol- 
low the above hints. The drafts may be entirely closed (should always be par- 
tially closed when baking cake) for a short time, or until the temperature Is 
right. To tell when the cake is done, pierce it with a broom splint, and if the 
splint comes out free of the cake mixture, it may be considered done, but it is 
better to leave it in a few minutes over, ratlier than to remove it a minute too 
quick, the same holds good also with short cake, bread, pies, etc. 

Short Cake, Sweet, with Soda.— Flour, 3 cups; butter, 3 table- 
spoonfuls; sour cream, or rich clabber (milk becoming thick), i% cups; 1 egg', 
sugar, 1 table-spoonful; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; salt, i tea-spoonful. Directions 
— Dissolve the soda in a little warm w^ater and add it and the beaten egg to the 
milk; having put the salt in the flour, cut the butter in small pieces, and work 
it in smoothly also; mix all, handling as little as possible. Roll quickly and 
bake in a hot oven. The soda and sour cream will take care of the rising. 

Shortcake, Plain, from Light Dough.— Prepare the dough as foi 
f)iscuit, doubling the amoimt of butter; roll out to make a cake of good thick- 
ness; let rise and bake in a quick oven. 

Strawberry Shortcake, in Layers.— Make the cake as for the sweet 
above, but roll in 2 sheets, % an inch thick for the upper, the lower less; spread 
a very little butter upon the thin one, placing it m the pan, put the other upon 
it, and bake. When a little cool, lift off the top one and place a good layer of 
strawberries upon the crther, and replace the top. spreading as many berries 



398 -DiJ. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

upon the top as will lie; serve with sweetened cream or milk — of course the 
first is the best. 

Remarks. — My family find that raspberries, blackberries, etc., are also very 
nice used in the place of strawberries. 

Strawberry Shortcake, Old Way.— Mix as for biscuit, roll about 1 
inch thick, and bake, AVhen done, Lave the strawberries mixed with sugared 
cream: split the cake with a sharp knife spread lightly with butter the lower 
half, then put in a thick layer of the fruit, replacing the top, and covering the 
top also. Some persons then replace in the oven for a few minutes; but this, I 
think, make it more like pie than fresh berry shortcake. Other berries or pie- 
plant may be used, but pieplant must be stewed and no cream used. 

Mother's Strawberry Shortcake.— 1 believe the Household and the 
editor will agree with me in thinking Puck never ate any strawberry shortcake. 
We are 50 years old, but don't we remember, as well as if it was but yesterday, 
the dear, delightful ones made by mother in our childhood, and don't we know 
just how they were made, too; we heard her tell so many times, as every one 
wanted her recipe. She made them as follows: Sour cream, 1 cup; cream of 
tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, % tea-spoonful, with flour to make a suitable 
dough to roll J^ an inch thick, baked nicely; split open and spread each piece 
with the sweetest, freshest butter; then jiour on to one of the halves, not 6 or 7 
gritty, mussy berries, but 2 whole cujjs of those large, luscious ones from the 
south side of the garden; put on the other half for a cover, and pour over 
sweetened cream when eaten. — Aunt Lulu, Red Willow, Neb. 

Remarks. — The author loves all these aunts, because they know how it is 
done; but he would love them better if they were not ashamed of their real 
names. This is about as my own mother used to make them, so I know it wiU 
prove good and worthy to be followed by all who have the nice " sour cream." 
But good rich milk with soda — no cream of tartar — ^will do very nicely. Of 
course, any berries, fresh or canned, at all suitable for a short cake, ripe, nice 
peaches, or even a nice, thick custard, may take the place of strawberries when 
they are not plenty, or for the sake of variety. See the remarks also following 
" Pumpkin Shortcake, " below. 

Pumpkin Shortcake, With Graham Flour. — " Stewed and strained 
pumpkin or squash, ' C ' oatmeal porridge and water, each 1 cup. Beat these 
up together, and then stir in 3 cups of Graham flour. Mix thoroughly, spread 
3^ an inch thick on a baking-tin, and bake half an hour in a good oven. Cover 
for 10 minutes, and serve warm or cold." 

Remarks — Oui readers will see by the quotation marks (' ' ") that this is 
not my own, nor do 1 known who to credit it to But I have given it for the 
sake of a few explanations, or remarks, which, I think, will be for the general 
good; and first, you will see that a porridge is called for made from " C " oat- 
meal; what does the " C " mean here.' It means the grade of fineness of the 
meal, as known to dealers, the same as "A" coffee sugar means the best — " C " 
coffee sugar is not quite so good While with the oatmeal it means not quite 
so coarse a meal as "A" would be For Scotch cake the finest kind is used. 



CAKES. 89G 

and, I should think, would be the best to make into a porridge. Second, Pome 
persons never use oatmeal'porridge; then, unless people will use a little of good 
common sense, they, or persons living where they cannot get oatmeal, could 
never have those nice short cakes; but by using, or calling up this common 
sense, and reasoning a little, they may say, " now I have not got the oatmeal, 
nor can I get it; but I will take milk in its place; and even, if no milk, I will 
take water, and by adding a little butter, lard or drippings, I will have just as 
good a cake " — and so they would. Now, please judge, in the same manner, 
in all cases, where such difficulties may of necessity arise, then these remarks 
will have their intended effect. I will add this word, only, additional, those . 
who don't know anything more than simply to always confine themselves to, or 
follow a recipe, or receipt, as generally called, (never changing it at all) will 
never amount to much, to themselves, or to the world. The above recipe says 
"pumpkin, or squash " — everybody - ught to know that squ;i :u make the 
richer cake. 

Apple Shortcake. — Season well stewed apple sauce with sugar and nut- 
meg, or mace, make any of the nice shortcakes, above given, open, or split, as 
the case may be, butter nicely and spread on a thick layer of the prepared 
sauce, and replace the top; serve with well sweetened cream. 

Remarks. — You will need to have quite a quantity, if you satisfy the taste 
and desires of the family, and the guests. The following from dried apples, 
will enable families to have apple shortcake all the year round, says a writer in 
the New York Post. 

Apple Shortcake From Dried Apples.— I will tell you of some- 
thing that makes an agreeable filling for a shortcake. You will not believe it 
until you try it, but for those unfortunate ones to whom the acid of the straw- 
berry is as poison, it can not be too highly recommended. Take some nice 
dried apples, wash and soak, and cook them until they are tender; then rub 
them through a sieve or a fine colander, add sugar and the grated rind and 
juice of a lemon ; then make a shortcake in the ordinary manner and use this 
in place of the berries. 

Scotch Oat-Cakes. — Put 3 ounces of drippings with a small tea-cup of 
water into a pan, and let it boil. Pour it over 1 lb. of oatmeal. Stir it; roll 
It out at once, very thin; cut with a small round cutter; bake in the oven till 
done. 

Remarks. — As suggested in the remarks following pumpkin shortcake, the 
Scotch cake is nicest made with oatmeal that is ground the finest, which is, as 
I think, that which is bolted, or sifted out from the coarse, in fact, a flour, 
rather than meal. I like them done quite crisp. 

Biscuit, Plain and Light.— Take enough light bread dough to make 
what you desire; for each square bread pan full, work, or knead in, 1 *^able- 
spoonful of butter, lard, or pork drippings, mold into biscuit, place in th« nan, 
or pans, and, when risen again, place in a moderately hot oven — the heat 
increasing — as for bread. If biscuit or bread are put into a hot oven, the crust 
is soon set and the rising is, thereby, greatly prevented. 



400 I^Ii. CHASE'S EECIPES. 

Light Biscuit, Sweet. — If a sweet biscuit is desired, prepare the dough 
as for rusk, and follow the same directions. 

Eemarks. — 3Irs. Chase furnishes us with nice, light biscuit by following 
the directions she has here given me. I have given them a place here because 
they seem to belong to the rusk and shortcake family, rather than among the 
breads. 

Biscuit with. Baking Powder, Qiiickly Made.— Flour, 31^ cups; 
baking powder, 3 tea-spoonfuls; butter, or nice lard, 1 table-spoonful (rounding); 
sweet milk. Directions— Stir the baking powder into the flour and sift; work 
in the butter smoothly; then use milk enough to have a soft dough; mold into 
biscuit by using flour, dusting freely; bake in a hot oven at once. 

Remarks. — Do not knead biscuit made with baking powder, nor make ther? 
stiff, in this lies the secret of making nice light biscuit with baking powder, so 
says "my good woman," and she knows from an experience of 40 years of 
married life. In cold weather the butter will work in easier, if warmed. Water 
may take the place of milk by doubling the amount of butter or lard, to make 
then equally rich. 

Biscuit With Soda, Cream of Tartar, and Sweet Milk.— 
Flour, 1 qt. (33^ cups);cream of tartar. 2tea-spoonfuls; soda and salt, of each, 
1 tea-spoonful; butter, lard, or "drippings," 1 table-spoonful, and sweet milk to 
wet it up properly. Directions— Roll the cream of tartar and soda finely aad 
sift together with the flour; mix in the shortening, and wet up with the milk to 
a proper consistence, mixing with the hand quickly, till it can be rolled out, 
cut, and place in tins, and into a hot oven at once, if you wish them to be 
"light "and "puffy, "which they will be if this is all properly and quickly 
done. For as soon as the soda and cream of tartar are mixed into the flour and 
wet they begin to produce the gas which gives the biscuit or cake its lighiness. 
The oven may be tempered down a little, if thought best, after the baking is 
fairly begun, to avoid burning. Mrs. Catharine Baldtcin. 

Remarks. — The author has seen nothing in the biscuit line so light, nice, 
sweet, and good, for his eating— when cold. Most people, however, prefer 
them hot. Half milk and half water does very well. When no milk is to be 
had, a very little more shortening will fill the bill. 

Breakfast Biscuit. — To 3 cups of buttermilk add 1 of butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful of cream of tartar, I4 a tea-spoonful of soda, sufficient salt, and flour 
enough to make the dough just stiff enough to roll out into biscuit. These will 
be wonderfully light and delicate. 

Biscuit or Bread, Quick. — Flour, 1 qt, (3 or Z% cups); salt, scant 
tea-spoonful; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls; sift together. Sweet milk makes 
soft dough. Work quickly as soft as can be handled, and bake immediately. 

The next five recipes I take from the New York Tribune, headed " Some 
oouthern Recipes," which will prove valuable to some people, no doubt, in the 
North as well as in the South, and as they are all in the nature of biscuit or 
cckes, except the last one — "Velvet Cream," — I will keep them together a;i 
found in the Tribune. 



CAKES. 401 

!U Southern Biscuit.— Two cups of self-rising flour, 1 spoonful of 
lard; mix with warm milk; knead into soft dough, and roll; cut with a biscuit 
cutter and prick each with a straw. Cook in a hot oven 10 minutes. 

2. Palmetto Flannel Cakes.— One pt. of buttermilk, 2 well-beaten 
eggs, flour enough to make a stiff batter — the flour to be mixed, half wheat and 
half corn flour. Put a tea-spoonful of sea foam into the flour and cook on a 
griddle. 

3. Breakfast Muffins.— For a small family, use 1 pt of milk, 3 gills 
of wheat flour, 3 eggs, and a pinch of salt. Beat the eggs very light, add the 
milk, and lastly stir in the flour. Bake in rings or small pans and in a quick 
oven. They are very light. 

4. Breakfast Waffles.— After breakfast stir into the hominy that ia 
left 1 tea-spoonful of butter and a little salt. Set it aside. The next morning 
thin it with milk and add 2 eggs, beaten well. Stir in flour enough to make 
the right consistency, and bake in waffle-irons. 

5. Velvet Cream. — Two table-spoonfuls of gelatine, dissolved in 3^ a 
tumbler of water; 1 pt. of rich cream, 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar; flavor with 
sherry, vanilla extract, or rose water. This is a delicious dessert, and can be 
made in a few mmutes. It may be served with or without cream. 

Remarks. — See the remarks above " Southern Biscuit." 

Busks. — Rusks require a longer time for rising than ordinary rolls or bis* 
cuits. If you wish them for tea one evening, you must make all your prepara- 
tions and begin them the day before; In cold weather, to make up 2^^ qts. of 
flour, prepare early in the afternoon a sponge in this manner: Mix into a paste 
with 1 pt. of boiling water 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 3 of flour, and 2 large 
potatoes, boiled and mashed smooth. At 7 in the evening make up your dough 
with this sponge, addmg 3 well-beaten eggs, % oi & lb. of sugar, and % a pt. of 
sweet milk. Set it away in a covered vessel, leaving plenty of room for it to 
swell. Next morning after breakfast work into the risen dough, which should 
not be stiff, a }i of a lb. of butter and lard mixed. Make into rolls or biscuits, and 
let the dough rise for the second time. Flavor with 2 grated nutmegs, or i< oz. 
of pounded stick cinnamon When very light, bake in a quick, steady oven till 
of a pretty brown color; glaze over the top with the yolk of an egg, and sprinkle 
lightly with powdered white sugar. 

Busk.— Boil and mash 2 good-sized potatoes, 1 qt. rich milk, 1 compressed 
yeast cake, dissolved, and flour to make a stiff batter; mix at noon; in the even- 
ing, when quite light, rub together i^ lb. of sugar, i^ lb. of butter, and beat 
very light 2 eggs; stir these into the batter with % ^ grated nutmeg; mold up 
soft, put in a warm place, and when quite light break off pieces about the size 
of an Qgg. form them into small cakes laying them closely together in the pan ; 
when very puffy wash over the top with a little sweetened milk and a little 
sugar if desired. Sugar is generally used on the top of rusk, but not on biscuit. 
Bake in a moderately quick oven. 

Indian Busk.— Two light cups Indian meal, 1 cup flour, 1 tea-spoonful 



402 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

saleratus, enough sour or buttermilk to dissolve, 1 cup sweet milk; stir In ^ 
cup molasses. Bake at once. 

Muffins, No. 1, Very Light and Nice.— Flour, sifted, 1 qt.; sugar, 
1 cup: eggs, 1; sweet milk, 2 cups; lard, 1 heaping table-spoonful; salt, 1 tea- 
spoonful; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls. Mix on general principles; put into 
muffin rings, set in a pan, or, what is better, cast-iron muffin rings made in sets, 
and hot when dipped in, and placed at once into a quick oven. — Mrs. Catharine 
Baldwin, Toledo, 0. 

Remarks. — This amoimt will make about 1% dozen, so you 'can judge by 
the size of the family to use more or less material, as needed. Eaten in place 
of bread, with the meat course, then with butter and syrup, they are aplendid. 
I think the nicest I ever ate. Very nice also cold. Although they are so light 
and dry, I do not object to eating them hot: 

Muffins, No. 2. With Eggs.— Sugar, }4 cup; butter or lard, 1 large 
table-spoonful; salt, 1 tea-spoonful; sweet milk, 1 qt. (if water is used, double 
the shortening); yeast, % cup; 3 eggs; flour to make a batter. Directions — 
Make over night; in the morning beat the eggs nicely and stir into the batter, 
and bake in muffin rings in a quick oven. If the oven is sufficiently hot they 
will bake in 20 minutes. 

Muffins, No. 3, Without Eggs.— Sweet milk, 1 cup; flour, 2 cups; 
baking powder, 1 heaping tea-spoonful; bake in cup tins, in a hot oven. 

Muffins, No. 4, With Cream.— Nice sweet cream, 2)4 cups; flour,.2^ 
cups; 3 eggs; butter, 2 table-spoonfuls; salt, 1 tea-spoonful. Directions — 
Beat the eggs very light, adding the cream, salt and butter; then stir in the 
flour, stirring only sufficient to mix evenly. Only half fill the rings and bake 
in a hot oven, serving as soon as done. 

Remarks. — Muffin rings should always be well buttered. 

Graham Muffins, No. 5. — Graham flour, 2 cups, or 1 of graham and 
1 of white, as you prefer, only even full; sweet milk, 2 cups, a little scant; 
eggs, 2, well beaten. Bake in a hot oven; about 15 minutes will be required. 

Corn Meal Muffins, No. 6.— Com meal and flour, each 2 cups; baking 
powder, 1]^ tea-spoonfuls; eggs, 3, beaten with sugar and butter, each % cup; 
sweet milk, 1 pt. ; salt, a little. Directions — Mix the baking powder into the 
mixed meal and flour, beat eggs, sugar and butter together, then the milk; stir 
in the meal, having the muffin rings set in a pan, fill properly and place at 
once in a hot oven. 

Graham Grems. — Sour milk, 2 cups; sugar, J^ cup; soda, ]4, tea-spoon- 
ful; graham flour, to stir thick; bake in cups, or iron gem pans, in a hot oven. 

Remarks. — Both light and healthful. 

Graham Gems, With Sour Milk and Eggs.— Sour milk, 1 pt., 1 
or 2 eggs, well beaten, with one or 2 table-spoonfuls of sugar; soda, 1 tea-spoon- 
ful, and nice fresh graham flour to make a stiff batter; if 1 egg only 1 spoon of 
sugar. Put into heated iron gem pans and bake in a hot oven, and they will be 
light and nice. 



CAKES. 403 

Graham Grems, With Sweet Milk and Cream.— Sweet cream, 1 
cup; sweet milk, 2 cups; salt, 1 salt-spoonful; graham flour, to make a batter, 
only a little stiffer than for griddle cakes. Beat thoroughly and drop into hot 
gem pans, while standing on the stove. Bake quickly, but be careful not to 
burn. If no cream, use milk in its place, with a very little butter to get the 
same richness. — American Farm Journal. ■ 

Remarks. — It any one fails to get light gems, next time add a little soda. 

Graham Gems. — I have been watching your papers to see if they gave 
any recipe for graham gems as good as mine. I have seen none. Takeligood 
pt. of graham flour, 1 pt. of sweet milk, mix them well together, beat the 
whites of 2 large eggs to a stiff foam, add yolks, beat well, heat gem pans hot, 
grease, have oven pretty hot, mix eggs in the last thing, carefully and quickly, 
as soon as they are beaten. Bake from 7 to iC minutes. — Mrs. M. P. Bush, 
Saline, Mich.,, in Detroit Post and Tribune. 

Graham Gems with Sour Milk or Buttermilk.— Graham flour, 
1 qt. ; 1 egg, well beaten; butter, 1 table-spoonful, melted; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; 
a little salt, sour milk or buttermilk, as below. Put the flour, beaten egg, but- 
ter and salt into a pan, dissolve the soda in a cup of the milk, and stir it with 
more sour milk, sufiicient to make a stiff batter. The gem pans being warm, 
or hot, and buttered, dip in the batter to half fill them, for, if properly pre 
pared, they will raise to fill the pans. This will be about suflBcient to fill two 
sets of pans. Bake in a quick oven. These and graham griddle cakes are the 
only warm bread which the doctor allows dyspeptics to eat. Other bread shoulf^t 
always be one day old before eaten by dyspeptics. Except warm corn bread 
or breakfast corn cakes may also be eaten in moderation by dyspeptics, if i» 
does not disagree with the stomach, as shown by rising after eating. 

Graham, and Wheat Pop Overs. — For the graham, use fine graham 
flour and milk, each 4 cups; eggs, 4; well beaten together; and the gem iron? 
being hot, dip in, and bake in a ready hot oven. 

For the wheat use the milk and eggs, and white flour enough to make a 
soft batter. Bake the same. Nice butter, and any nice fruit sauce, as berries, 
peaches, etc., make either kind very enjoyable. 

Corn Cake with Soda. — Indian meal and wheat flour, of each 1 cup; 
butter the size of an egg; 2 eggs; sugar, % of a cup; milk, 1 cup; cream of 
tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda or saleratus, J^ tea-spoonful. Bake in a moder- 
ately hot oven. 

Corn Cake, Set Over Night.— Put 1 pt. of meal in a dish with 1 
tea-spoonful each of butter, sugar and salt; then pour over them 1 cup of boil- 
ing milk; when cool enough to bear the finger well, add yeast, 3^ cup, the same 
of flour and 2 beaten eggs ; now, thin with water until a proper consistence for 
baking nicely. If kept quite warm it will rise in 2 or 3 hours. Bake in a 
moderate oven. Corn cakes require nearly double the time to bake, and less 
heat than flour; still they require good steady heat. 

Vermont Johnny Cake.— Sour milk, 1 cup; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; 



404 IfR- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

butter or lard, 1 table-spoonful; Indian meal to make a tbin batter. Bake in a 
hot oven.— Elizabeth Kent, Burlington, Vt. 

Plain Com Cake, to Bake at Once. — Three cups sour milk, or 
buttermilk; 3 cups of Indian meal; 3 table-spoonfuls of molasses; 1 egg; a 
pinch of salt; 1 tea-spoonful of soda, and a heaping table-spoonful of flour. 
Bake in a quick oven. 

Kentucky Corn Dodgers.— Place your griddle where it will heat, for 
this is much better than a bread pan, there being less danger of scorching at the 
bottom. Take an even pint of sifted meal, a heaping table-spoonful of lard, a 
pinch of salt and a scant half pint of cold water; mix well and let it stand 
while you grease your griddle and sprinkle some meal over it. Make the dough 
into rolls the size and shape of goose eggs, and drop them on the griddle, taking 
care to flatten as little as possible, for the less bottom crust the better. Place 
in the oven and bake until brown on the bottom. Then change the grate and 
brown on top, taking from 20 to 30 minutes for the whole process. To be 
eaten while hot, with plenty of good butter. 

Corn Bread or Breakfast Corn Cake.— Some years ago businesa 
called me to pass through Toledo several times, and I staid over night, each 
time, at the Island House, where I found so much better corn bread at the 
breakfast table than I had ever eaten — according to my custom when traveling 
and finding some dish extra nice — I obtained the recipe, through influence of 
the waiter girl, as "mail carrier," (paying a price equal to the price of this 
book,) who wrote it out for me in my diary while I ate my breakfast; here it 
is: One quart of corn meal, 1 cup of flour, or a little less; 1 table-spoonful of 
baking powder; milk, to wet; beating in 1 or 2 eggs, a little sugar and salt; put 
into a dripping pan, and put, at once, into a hot oven, but do not dry it up by 
over-baking. (See Corn Dodgers among the breads.) 

Remarks. — I think I have eaten of it more than 100 times since, but I have 
never seen corn cake to excel it. It should be 1 to IJ^ inches thick when 
baked. 

Oatmeal, or Scotch, Cake. — Into 1 qt. of cold water stir the finest 
oatmeal enough to make it about as thick as hasty pudding. Be sure that the 
meal is sprinkled in so slowly, and that the stirring is so active, that the mush 
will have no lumps in it. Now, put it on the buttered pan, where it can be 
spread out to half the thickness of a common cracker, and smooth it down 
with a wet case knife. Run a sharp knife across it, so as to mark it into the 
sized pieces you wish, and then place it in a warm oven and bake slowly, being 
careful not to brown it. Salt. 

Waffles, With Yeast.— Sweet milk 2 cups; flour, 2 cups; yeast, 3 
table-spnonfuls; 2 eggs; melted butter, 1 table-spoonful; salt, 1 salt-spoonful. 
Directions — Set the sponge over night; in the morning beat and stir in the 
eggs and butter; bake in waflBe-irons. 

Bice Waffles.— Cold boiled rice, 1 cup; sweet milk, 2^ cups; 2 eggs; 
butter, 2 table-spoonfuls; cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoonful; soda, ^ tea-spoon* 
ful; use flour to make the batter. Bake in wafile-irons. 



- CAKES. 405 

Pried Cakes, Nut Cakes, Doughnuts, Crullers, or Twist 
Cakes, etc. — It does not matter which you call them, but Mrs. J. M. Venoy. 
of Wayne, Mich., informs the Detroit Tribune that for 10 years she has made 
fried cakes in the following manner without a failure: Sugar, 2 cups; crean* 
and buttermilk, of each 1 cup; 2 eggs; soda and salt, of each 1 tea-spoonful. 

Eaised Doughnuts, or Fried Cake.— Bread sponge, equal to 1 qt. j 
warm water, 1 pt. ; 2 eggs; sugar, 1 cup; salt, a pinch; lard or fryings. 3 tea' 
spoonfuls; cinnamon, 1 tea-spoonful. Directions— Mix same as bread; when 
light roll out and cut in any desired shape, and fry in hot lard. Mrs. J. P. 
Bayles, of Salina, Kans., furnishes this recipe to the Blade, and says: "B 
made without sugar, they are nice with coffee. I never object to the sugar, 
even with coffee." 

Doughnuts, as Made by "Peggy Shortcake."— Sugar, 1 cup; 1 
^gg; sour milk, 1 cup; soda, \^ tea-spoonful; flour to mix as for biscuit' 
Directions — "Peggy" says: "Roll pretty thin; have your lard boiling hot, 
and fry a nice brown. No dyspepsia about these; try 'em, if you want such as 
grow 'way down East.'" 

Doughnuts.— Sugar, 1 cup; butter, 3^ cup; 4 eggs; flour, 3)^ cups; 
milk, 1 cup; cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; salt, 1 tea 
spoonful; nutmeg, to taste. Directions — Beat sugar and eggs together, with 
the cream of tartar and butter in the flour; dissolve the soda in the milk, then 
add it to the eggs and sugar, then the flour; roll out thin, cut and fry in hot 
lard. 

Crullers, With or Without Eggs.— Buttermilk or sour milk, cream 
and sugar, of each 3^ cup; saleratus or soda. 1 tea-spoonful; spice and salt, to 
taste; a little yeast, and flour enough to mold, and let rise before frying; or, it 
an egg is at hand, beat and put in; the yeast may be left out, and the cakes 
molded, cut and twisted to suit and fried at once. But care must always be 
given in the frying, heat of the lard, etc. ; for if not done they are spoiled, aa 
much so as if scorched or over-done. Done nicely, any of these will be nice of 
their kind. 

Pried Cakes.— Sugar and sweet milk, of each 1 cup; 2 eggs; baking 
powder, IJ.^ tea-spoonfuls; melted lard, 6 table-spoonfuls; salt, 1 salt-spoonful, 
or to taste; flour to make as soft as can be rolled. Cut it into any shape 
desired and fry carefully. The author prefers his the next day after made, and 
so on as long as they keep without becoming too dry and hard; but if any of 
these cakes become dry and hard— the same with biscuit or slices of bread- 
steaming softens them very nicely. 

Norwegian Breakfast Cake, Pried— Very Nice.— Put into a pan 
4 eggs and 4 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and beat very light. Then add \% cups 
of sweet cream, and 1 tea-spoouful of salt, flour enough to roll very thin. Cut 
in diamonds, and have ready a frying-pan of hot lard. The lard should be 
about half an inch deep in the pan. Lay the cakes in and turn quickly. They 
should fry fast. If you want them very nice, roll them in pulverized sugar as 
you take from tb.e lard. In making them be careful not to roll the cakes up as 



406 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

f ou put them into the frying-pan, but keep them nice and flat. — Fannie T. 
Bradley, Fossitm, Minn., in Blade. 

Rye and Indian Fried Cakes, or Drop Cakes.— Indian meal, 1 pt. ; 
rye meal, 3^ pt. ; molasses, 2 table-spoonfuls, and a little salt; cold milk to make 
a smooth batter, and drop from a spoon into hot lard. If not as light as desired, 
use a little soda next time. To be eaten with syrup. 

Fritters, Plain— Quick.— Sweet milk, 1 pt. ; 4 eggs; salt, 1 tea spoon- 
ful; baking powder, 1 table-spoonful; flour. Directions— Beat the eggs well, 
stir in salt and milk; then put the baking powder into 2 or 3 cups of flour and 
stir in, using as much more flour as will stir in well ; drop into hot lard. To 
be eaten with maple syrup, or syrup made by dissolving granulated sugar. 

Remarks. — " Ivy," of West Jefferson, Ohio, calls these Johnny Jumpup 
Cakes, because they jump up from the bottom of the hot lard so quickly and 
lightly. 

Fritters, Sweet, Quick. — Make as above, with the addition of 1 table- 
spoonful each of sugar and butter. 

Fritters, Light. — Warm water, 1 pt. ; yeast, 2 table-spoonfuls; salt, >^ 
tea-spoonful; stir in flour to make a thick batter. When light, drop into hot 
lard and fry brown. Eat with syrup or honey, while warm. 

Cream Fritters. — Milk and cream, of each, 1 pt.; 6 eggs; J^ of a nut- 
meg; salt, 1 tea-spoonful; flour, \% pts. ; baking powder, 2 tea-spoonfuls. 
Directions — Mix in the usual manner, stirring in the sweet cream last; let the 
lard be pretty hot when dropped in. 

Orange Fritters. — Take 3, or as many large smooth oranges, as needed, 
take off the peel and the white skin also, then slice them, crosswise, }i inch 
thick, pick the seeds out, and dip the slices in a thick batter made according to 
any of the foregoing recipes; fry nicely, placing them in layers, on a plate, as 
fried, sifting sugar over each layer. Serve hot. 

Cheese and Apples, or Sandwich Fritters. — Wash and slice as 
many tart apples as needed, and cut half as many slices of cheese; beat 2 or 3 
eggs, or according to the amount needed, and season rather highly with salt, 
mustard and pepper. Soak the cheese, a few minutes, in the egg mixture, then 
place a slice of the cheese between two slices of the apple, and dip them into 
the mixture also; then fry in hot butter, turning carefully, the same as oysters 
are fried. Serve hot, for breakfast, or Sunday tea, as there is too much labor 
for more than once a week. 

Corn Fritters. — One qt. corn meal; 1 table-spoonful of lard; 2 eggs; 1 
table-spoonful of salt; scald the meal with the lard in it with boiling water, 
cool with a little milk, add the eggs (beaten light); beat very hard for 10 min- 
utes; make them thin enough with cold milk to drop off the spoon and retain 
their shape in boiling lard; have the lard boiling hot when you drop them in. 
Serve hot. 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes, Aunt Essy's.— Warm water, 8 pts.; 
aalt, 1 dessert-spoonful; ^ cup of good jug yeast; buckwheat flour to make a 



CAKES. 407 

DmECTiONS— Set in a warm place over night, and bake on a hot grid- 
dle. Serve warm, with good butter and syrup, made of sugar — maple is best — 
and she says you will need but little else for breakfast. The author would have 
at least some potatoes, and nice steak, and plenty of butter gravy with his 
breakfast; does not even rr *use nice ham with plenty of ham gravy with his 
buckwheat cakes. 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes, " Arf and Arf."— Buckwheat and 
wheat flour, of each 1 pt.; molasses, 2 table-spoonfuls; a little salt; mix with 
water, and just before baking stir in a leaping table-spoonful of yeast powder. 

Betnarks. — " Sunshine," of Bridgeton, N. J., says they are nice made with 
wheat flour alone. I have no doubt of it; there might be some shortening 
added, but if to be eaten with meat, having plenty of gravy, it is not needed. 

Buckwheat Griddle Cakes, in Rhyme.— For ordinary buckwheat 
cakes, we will give one in rhyme, from one of the muses of the Detroit Pre0 
Pnw, which may be relied upon as safe to follow: 

If you fine buckwheat cakes would make 

One quart of buckwheat flour take; 

Four table-spoonfuls then of yeast; 

Of salt one tea-spoonful at least; 

One handful Indian meal and two 

Gk)od table-spoonfuls of real New 

Orleans molasses, then enough 

Warm water to make of the stuff 

A batter thin. Beat very well; 

Set it to rise where warmth do dwefl. 

If in .the morning, it should be 

The least bit sour, stir in free 

A very little soda that 

Is first dissolved in water hot. 

Mix in an earthen crock, and leave 

Each morn a cupful in to give 

A sponge for the next night, so you 

Need not get fresh yeast to renew. 

In weather cold this plan may be 
Pursued ten da^'s successfully, 
I*roviding you add every night 
Flour, salt, molasses, meal in right 
Proportions, beating as before. 
And setting it to rise once more. 
When baking make of generous size 
Your cakes; and if they'd take the prize 
They must be light and nicely browned. 
Then by your husband you'll be crowned 
Queen of the kitchen; but you'll bake. 
And he will, man-like, "take the cake." 

i2em<wAs.— When buckwheat cakes are made without molasses, as is often 
done, if a small spoonful of molasses is added, each morning, to the cake bat- 
ter, they will take a much nicer brown, being careful, however, not to bum 

n. 

Mock Buckwheat Cakes.— To make mock buckwheat cakes, warm 1 



408 DR CHASET 8 RECIPES. 

qt. skimmed milk to the temperature of new milk; add 1 tea-spoonful of salt 
and 3 table-spoonfuls of good lively yeast; thicken to the consistency of real 
buckwheat cakes with graham meal, in which 3 small handfuls of fine corn 
meal have been mixed. Very coarse middlings, such as one gets from country 
mills, answers quite as well, and none but an expert would know the difference 
between the imitation and the real. — Indiana State Sentinel. 

Remarks. — Why not have mock buckwheat cakes as well as mock minced 
pies? Certainly these will be found very nice and healthful. And any person 
can eat these, while with some persons real buckwheat cakes eaten as steadily 
as many do in the winter, causes an irritable condition of the skin, these will 
not, with anyone. 

Buckwheat Batter, To Keep Sweet.— Keeping buckwheat batter 
sweet is sometimes very troublesome, especially in mild weather. It is said the 
only way to keep it perfectly sweet is to pour cold water on that left from one 
morning to another. Fill the vessel entirely full of water and put it in a cool 
place. When ready to use pour off the water, which absorbs the acidity. — 
Lansing Republican. 

Buckwheat and Graham Griddle Cakes, Also Oatmeal 
Griddle Cakes. — Buckwheat cakes are improved for some people by mixing 
the buckwheat with graham flour. Put about one-third of graham with it. 
Start the cakes at night with yeast — a small tea-cupful of yeast to 1 qt. of flour; 
mix with cool, not cold, water, and set in a warm comer. Griddle cakes can 
be made of oatmeal by putting one-third of wheat flour with it. They require 
more time for cooking than buckwheat cakes do, and should be browned 
thoroughly. 

Bread Griddle Cakes.— Take your pieces of dry bread, and pour over 
them boiling water; stir and beat to a smooth paste; put in flour enough ta 
make them the consistency of buckwheat cakes; add a little salt, 1 tea-spoonful 
of soda, and 3 eggs, well beaten. They are delicious for breakfast or tea. If 
the weather is cold, it will be better to soak the bread over night MUk is better 
than water to soak the bread in. 

Bread Griddle Cakes, Richer.— Soak a loaf of bread, or its bulk in 
stale bread, in milk over night; in the morning stir in 1 cup of flour, 2 eggs, 
beaten till light, a table-spoonful of butter or lard; soda, 1 tea-spoonful, and a 
little salt Mix smooth and drop 2 spoonfuls upon the hot griddle for each 
cake. 

Pancakes or Griddle Cakes With Dry Bread.— Crumble the 
bread and soak in cold milk until soft, then add soda or saleratus, and salt, accord- 
ing to amount, and flour to make a batter. 

With Rice.— Cold, boiled rice, 1 cup; flour, 3 cups; 2 eggs, beaten; salt, 
1 tea-spoonful; milk to make a thick batter; baking powder, 1 tea-spoonful; 
beat well together — hot griddle. 

Rice Griddle Cakes.— Left over rice may be used; but if it Is to be 
i>oiled purposely, take rice, 2 cups, well washed, and boil in about 1 qt, of 



CAEB8. 409 

water till nicely done and the water about all evaporated; then add milk, 1 qt. 
wheat flour, 1 cup, and 1 beaten egg. 

Indian Griddle Cakes.— White Indian meal, 2 cups; flour, 1 cup; 
yeast, J^ cup; salt, 1 tea-spoonful; milk to make a stiff batter; put in a warm 
place over night, as sponge for bread ; stir in the morning, and make of a suit- 
able consistence by adding milk or meal with a little flour, which ever may be 



Graham Griddle Cakes. — For a family of 4 or 5 persons, take sour 
buttermilk, 2 cups, with a small tea-spoonful of soda; 2 eggs, well beaten, and 
added with a pinch of salt; then stir in graham flour to make a batter a little 
thicker than usual for cake batter. Fry upon a hot griddle, and keep in a 
tureen or other covered dish. 

Bemarks—Bj some people griddle cakes are always called "pancakes." 
It matters not which you call these; but they take the place of bread during the 
meat course for breakfast, after which with a little nice butter and a home- 
made syrup, by dissolving granulated sugar by putting in a little water and 
bringing to a boiling heat — I like the syrup to be pretty thick ; and I greatly 
prefer these for general use to those made^f rom buckwheat, both in flavor and 
for healthfulness, as they never cause an eniption upon the skin as buckwheat 
often does. With those having rich cream and maple sugar, they will prove a 
rare dish, not soon abandoned if tried. If graham bread, graham biscuit, or 
gems, are left over until they become dry, let them be broken into sour milk or 
buttermilk over night, then mashed with a spoon or a clean hand in the morn- 
ing, and thickened with a little graham flour, and the cakes will be very light 
and nice by using a little soda, as first mentioned. These, like warm graham 
biscuit or gems, may be eaten in moderation even by dyspeptics, by which you 
may know, as the author has proved, they are healthful. 

Crackers. — To 1 qt. of light bread dough — about enough for 1 loaf of 
bread— work in shortening, 1 cup, and soda, 3^ tea-spoonful; then knead in 
flour to make a stiff dough; roll and pound with the rolling-pin for 15 or 20 
minutes, then knead and roll thin and cut with a small cutter, put in a dripping 
pan, pick with a fork and bake. Graham crackers may be made in the same 
way. — Farm and Firesido. 



CXmrNG, SMOKING, KEEPING, ETC.— Curing Hams, 
Smoking, Etc., as Done in Pennsylvania. — Good for All 
Places and Kinds of Meat. — The following is the plan pursued in Penn- 
sylvania, where it is well known that they have the very nicest hams: 

After the hams are nicely trimmed, lay them upon slanting boards, to carry 
off the dripping brine, and rub well with pure fine salt, working it into every 
part; then let them lay 48 hours. Then brush off the salt with a dry cloth or 
brush-broom, and have ready a mixture of powdered saltpeter, 1 teaspoon; 
brown sugar, 1 dessertspoon, or a small tablespoon, of red pepper; use 1 tea- 
spoonful of the mixture for each ham or shoulder, and rub well into the 
fleshy parts; then pack in a tub or barrel, skin-side down always; put also a 
good sprinkling of nice, pure salt on the bottom, and between each layer, as 
packed. Let them stand thus 5 days; then cover with pickle made as 
follows: 

To each pail of water required put 4 lbs. of pure, coarse salt; saltpeter, % 
tol}4 ozs., and brown sugar, |^ to 1>^ lbs. The pickle shovdd be made before- 
hand, so as to remove all skum arising, and to be cold when poiu-ed on. Ac- 
cording to the size of the hams, let them lay 5, 6 or 7 weeks. 

For Beef, 10 to 15 days only, according to size of pieces, in the same 
Strength of pickle, and same treatment. Hang up a few days to dry nicely 
before smoking. 

Remarks. — It will be noticed that there is a margin given in the amount of 
saltpeter and the sugar; it is because some persons prefer more than 
others. The least amounts given would be enough for me. I will remark 
here, for all, that the smoking and putting away for summer use should always 
be done while the weather is yet too cold to allow a fly to be seen, so there need 
be no annoyance from them, nor from bugs, if packed according to direction. 

The following for hams or beef is from a lady, a name-sake of mine, Jennie 
Chase, of Elsie, Mich., differing a little from the above in that she uses a little 
ealeratus, which is said to prevent meat from becoming dry and hard. I will 
give it, as some of the ladies know more about such matters than their brothers 
or husbands. I do not know, however, that this one has either, for I have 
never seen her, but would be glad to, and thank her for not being ashamed to 
give her name with her information. She says: 

Hams or Beef— Pickle for. — " For 200 lbs. of meat, use 14 lbs. of salt, 
\}i lbs sugar, 6 oz. saltpeter, 2 oz. saleratus; dissolve by boiling in three pails 
of soft water; skim, and when cold, pour over your meat. Sprinkle a very 
little salt on when you put down your meat. As soon as the weather is warm, 
scald the brine, and add a little fresh salt." 

Remarks. — The plan of scalding on the approach of hot weather, and add 
410 



MEATS. 411 

hig a little more salt. Is certainly desirable for keeping meat over summer in 
the pickle. 

Curing Ham, or other Meat for Smoking, without Pickle- 
Warranted to Keep all Summer. — This plan is from Mrs. S. Weaver 
of Columbiana, O., who says it has been in u^ in their family eight years, 
while, if not good, one year would have been sufficient. I will give it in her 
own language. She says: 

"Take 1 lb of saltpeter, 1 lb. of pepper, 3 lbs. of brown sugar and 10 
qts. of salt to 1000 weight of pork Dissolve the saltpeter in a very little hot 
water; mix all the ingredients well, and then rub it on and into the meat — 
hams, etc. — with the hand, until it is everywhere covered. Insert your finger 
under the center bone in hams and shoulders, and then fill that opening with 
the mixture. Then lay in a cool place for alx)ut two weeks, not allowing it to 
freeze, when it will be ready to smoke. This recipe has been tried and tested 
by a number of people, and is a preventive in keeping off all troublesome 
Insects, and the meat will be sweet and tender, and warranted to keep all 
summer." 

Remarks. — The plan of pushing the finger in alongside the bone, and fil- 
ling with the salt mixture, is valuable. A butcher-knife pushed in along-side 
of the bone, would be the easier way for many to do. If used on beef, one 
week would be long enough to lay instead of two for pork, as it takes salt or 
other seasoning quicker than pork. 

Pork and Beef for Farmers, or Others, to Have Fresh in 
Hot Weather, Without Cooking to Keep it, as Heretofore — 
Tested for Several Years.— It has been known for some time past that 
If fresh meat was pretty well cooked, seasoned as for present eating, and packed 
In jars in its own fat, it would keep a whole season as well as canned fruit, ''^ 
being upon the air-tight principle; but a writer in the New York Times, after a 
fair test, gives us the following plan, without the cooking, which most persons 
will, no doubt, prefer, then do the cooking when it is wanted for the table. 
He says: 

" There is no good reason why farmers and their families should eat so 
much salt pork, leaving all the fresh to the inhabitants of cities and villages, 
when the following method will keep meat fresh for weeks even in the warmest 
weather. I have tried it for several years. As soon as the animal heat is out 
©f the meat, slice it up ready for cooking. Prepare a large jar by scalding it 
well with hot salt and water (strong brine). Mix salt and pulverized saltpeter. 
Cover the bottom of the jar with a sprinkle of salt and pepper. Put down a 
layer of meat, sprinkle with the salt, saltpeter and pepper the same as if it was 
just going to the table, and continue in this manner until the jar is full. Fold 
a cloth or towel and wet it in strong salt and water in which a little of the salt- 
peter is dissolved. Press the cloth closely over the meat and set it in a cool 
place. Be sure and press the cloth in tightly, as each layer is removed, and 
your meat will keep for months. It is a good plan to let the meat remain over 
night, after it is sliced, before packing. Then dram off all the blood that oozes 
from it. It will be necessary to change the cloth occasionally, or take it off and 
wash it first in cold water, then scald in salt and water as at first. In this way 
farmers can have fresh meat all the year round, I have kept beet that was 
killed the 12th of February till the 21st of June Then I packed a large jar of 
veal in the same way during the dog days, and it kept six weeks. This recipe 
alone is worth the price of any newspaper in the land." 

N. B. — If you have not a cool dry place to keep the jar, run about two 
inches of lard over the top of the meat and then put on the c^r\^h 



412 DR- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks.— ^h\s writer is certainly correct in the idea "that there is n» 
good reason why farmers and their families should eat so much salt pork," for 
it is destructive to good health, besides it is not so palatable and pleasant as to 
have it fresh, at least once daily, and as much oftener as they will take this 
little additional labor of putting up. The pieces should be cut of a uniform 
thickness, and also cut to fit the jar as nearly as possible, small pieces being cut 
to fill each layer nicely, to keep it level ; and no more salt and pepper put on 
than would be required for present eating. A heaping teaspoonf ul of powdered 
saltpeter will be enough for 1 pt. of salt. This writer does not give his propor- 
tions. Of course, a brine is formed by the juices of the meat, salt, saltpeter, 
pepper, etc. 

To show you that this writer is not alone in this plan of keeping meat, I 
will give an item from another, who says: 

Beefsteaks — To Keep Fresh a Long Time. — "Have the steaks 
cut about the usual thickness. Mix together some salt, sugar and some finely- 
powdered saltpeter. In an earthen jar lay a steak, and sprinkle it with the 
mixture; put on another, and sprinkle the same as before, and over all turn 
a plate with a heavy weight on it. This will form a brine of its own, 
and the meat will keep sweet in this way a long time. You can take it out 
and broil in the usual way. This is a very good receipt for people who live 
away from cities. Do not let it freeze." 

Remarks.— Re says: " Do not let it freeze." Of course, anybody ought to 
know that this would keep steaks fresh in cold, freezing weather; but it will 
doit, too, in warm weather. He does not give the proportions; put on only 
as much seasoning as if just going to cook it for the table; say, for each 
pound of steak 1 tea.spoonful each of salt and sugar, with 1 teaspoonful of 
saltpeter and black pepper to each 4 or 5 lbs. of steak, on the principle of one 
of the plans of seasoning sausage below; for me, if 1 teaspoonful of summer- 
savory was also put in for each 4 lbs. of steak, so much the better. 

To Keep Hams After Being Smoked.— After Hams are smoked, 
and ready to be put away, a writer in the Toledo Blade says: 

" Fir.st fill a large kettle or boiler full of water and let it come to a boil, 
then dip your hams in and let them remain three minutes, then remove to a 
board or table and cover them with a thick paste made of flour, water and 
cayenne pepper. Have the paste red with the pepper. Let them lay in the sim 
until dry. Then put in paper sacks and tie closely, and hang in a dark place. 
This will keep them nice the year round if they are put up before fly time. 
This is a tried recipe and can be relied on. " 

Remarks.— Hhexe is no doubt of the reliability of this plan; for the sim- 
ple wrapping of hams in brown paper, then tieing up in flour-sacks, will secure 
them against flies, bugs, etc. ; still, the above additional labor will certainly give 
a positiveness that no fly nor bug can pierce this peppery paste. I would put 
that on, even if I did not dip them in the boiling water. But the dipping 
makes, as it were, an oily case, or cover, of the outer surface, which, with tho 
paste. Is really an air-tight protector, as much as if put into an air-tight ca». 



MEATS. 41S 

Even by packing hams in open barrels, secured on every side with wheat or oat 
straw, a writer in the Iowa State Register claims to have kept hams perfectly 
sweet and free from flies and bugs. I should greatly prefer the stout paper 
sacks, either with the paste above or wrapping in several thicknesses of brown 
paper, secured with twine, before putting into the sack. 

Curing Hams, as Done by Packing Houses. — A Mr. Backus, who 
used to carry on the packing business in Adrian, Mich., with whom I after- 
wards became well acquainted in Toledo, both of us doing business in the same 
block, gave me his plan, with which he was very successful, as follows: Use 
pure salt, enough to make the brine to float a medium sized potato half an inch 
out of the water; and for 280 to 300 lbs of ham to be packed with salt in a 40 
gallon cask: good rich molasses, 1 qt , and 33^ ozs. of rock niter (saltpeter), 
which has not been adulterated with salt. He thinks it better to not put in over 
280 pounds to such a cask, head up, then bore a hole and put in the brine and 
let settle and fill up again, leaving some on top of the head to insure the cask 
to be full when driving the plug. Bore with 1-inch augur after the head is put 
in. Six weeks will cure, but no harm if they stand for months before 
smoking. 

Remarks. — I have given this in his own form of expression, and am well 
satisfied of the nature of his instructions. After smoking properly, packing 
house men always wrap well in paper, then cover with canvas, to secure against 
insects. This same strength of brine, with the molasses and pure saltpeter, 
will be equally valuable for side meat to be kept " all the year round." 

Beef Pickle, and an Excellent Plan of Keeping Sweet and 
Juicy. — For 200 lbs., or a barrel of beef, the best, pure salt, 15 lbs. ; saltpeter, 
4 ozs.; molasses, 1 qt, and brown sugar, 3 lbs.; soft water to fill the barrel, 6 
to 8 gals., if well packed. Directions — The beef, having been properly 
cooled and cut into sizable pieces, of 5 to 8 lbs., rub a little salt on the cut 
edges, that has 1 table-spoonful of powdered saltpeter to 1 qt. of salt, and lay 
them, singly, upon a table or bench over night to draw out the blood. In the 
morning put the water and saltpeter, as above, into a large kettle and bring to 
a boil And now, having a suitable wire hook or two, dip each piece of beef 
into the boiling water and hold while you count 20 naturally, i. e. , not hurry- 
ing, nor being slower than usual in counting, which closes the pores against the 
escape of the juices of the meat into the pickle when barreled; on the same 
principle that meat should be put inio boiling water when to be cooked for the 
table, and into cold water for soups, so the juices will flow out into tho soup. 
When this is all done, put in the other ingredients, as above, to the water and 
dissolve, and as it begins to simmer begin to skim before it boils, pouring in a 
little cold water, if needed, to allow all the skum to be taken off before it boils; 
then let stand till cold; the beef having, in the meantime, been packed with a 
httle salt in bottom of the barrel, and between the layers, strain the cold pickle 
upon it through muslin. If the blood was properly drawn off, as first directed, 
it will seldom be necessary to scald the pickle before May 1st to 15th, then add- 
ing 2 or 3 lbs. more of salt, skimming well, re-packing with a little more salt, 
putting on the pickle cold, 



414 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — This needs no further comment nor explanation. If dona as 
directed, I will guarantee its safe keeping and juiciness. It takes a little more 
labor to ensure success with beef than it does with pork, but it pays • for what 
Is nicer than a piece of corned beef with the "biled dinner" occasionally? 
Nothing. Some person's like soda in their beef believing it helps to keep the 
pickle sweet and the beef more tender. The following contains it: 

Dr. Warner's Recipe for Curing 100 Pounds of Beef.— Six 
qts. salt, 6 lbs. sugar, 6 ozs. soda, 4 ozs. saltpeter. Mix all together, and rub 
well into the meat, having previously removed the bones. This makes its own 
brine. 

Remarks. — I should prefer to draw out the blood, over night, as in the 
next recipe above ; then rub this mixture into the 100 lbs. of beef and keep 
weighted down, and be sure of success. 

Pressed Beef. — Take any amount you choose of the cheaper pieces of 
beef, as the neck, say 8 or 10 lbs., and of the flank, or " skirt " pieces, that has 
some fat, to make it show a marbled appearance when pressed. Let it lay in a 
weak brine over night; rinse and boil until it will fall to pieces when you 
attempt to lift it, or from the bones, if any in it, keeping closely covered to 
retain as much of the flavor as possible; using only water enough to avoid burn- 
ing, adding boiling water, at any time, if needed. Take up the beef, and when 
cool chop it finely, skim off all the grease from the liquor; and it is all the bet- 
ter to add to this liquor, a table-spoonful of good gelatine for each 4 or 5 lbs. of 
beef, the liquor being boiled down properly, and when the gelatine is dissolved 
and the liquor quite jelly like, mix it with a little salt and suitable spices (the 
mixed spices as now kept by most grocers are very good), into the chopped beef 
and pack in jars, and put a plate upon the top, and at least 15 pounds weight 
on the plate. When cold it is ready for slicing, for breakfast or tea, and if 
properly seasoned, is easily digested, is very nourishing as well as economical, 
and very convenient when in a hurry. It will keep several days, in spring and 
fall, and a month or so in winter. Garnished with a lemon sliced thin, so a 
slice can be taken by each guest, gives a zest to ones lagging appetite, although, 
with this, but few appetites need coaxing. To avoid any possibility of mould- 
ing, a cloth, two or three thicknesses, wet in salt water, may be pressed upon 
the top of the jar, after the plate is removed, and against the side when sliced 
oflf. 

1 . SAUSAGE— AmoTint of Seasoning to Suit Most Tastes. 
— Pork, 20 lbs., % lean, J^ fat; salt, 6 ozs.; pepper, 1 oz.; sage, 1}4 ozs. 
DraECTiONS — Chop the meat fine, or grind, if you have a grinder, mash the 
salt, if lumpy, pepper and sage ground nicely, and all mixed in evenly, and 
put in cases, or in clean muslin sacks, as you prefer. Muslin works very nicely 
cut in strips about 10 inches wide and sewed up gives a sack about 3 inches in 
diameter— cut off about 15 inches long, one end tied, then, they being per- 
fectly clean, and wet, pack in the sausage meat, and press in with the potato 
masher, or one made for the purpose, as they need pressmg closely to keep 
well. Tie the other end, pack closely in a jar, or firkin, and cover with a weak 



MEAT8. 416 

brine, foi present use — a stronger brine if to keep long, or the sacks may be 
well rubbed v?ith lard, or butter, and hung up. To use, open one end. turn 
the sack back, and slice off about % of an inch thick, for frying, is a very nice 
•way. To keep into the summer as much as % ^^- of salt may be needed: and 
some persons may like more, and some less, sage. Those who like but little 
sage use only 1 oz. to the 10 lbs . and those who like it quite strong of sage use 
2 ozs. But the 1% ozs. will suit most tastes. With these variations all tastes 
can be be met with very little trouble. It saves all this trying, tasting and 
guess work Having tested these in this way, and submitted them to the taste 
of many others, I know whereof I speak. Those who like beef in their sau- 
sage can put in 1 lb. of the lean to each 10, which will be found plenty. It 
makes the sausage dryer and firmer. 

Remarks — For small amounts of sausage Mrs. M. E. Kellogg, of Brighton, 
Mich., says. " For each pound of meat put 1 tea-spoonful of salt, 1 of pepper 
and 1 of sage. These proportions are just right and easily got at." Heaping, 
of course. 

2. Sausage, to Can, or Put in Jars for Long Keeping.— A 
writer, in one of the "Household Departments," gives the following instruc- 
tions for doing this. She says: If partly fried, packed in jars, and covered 
with its own dripping, it remains delicately fresh for a long time. We like the 
method of packing sausage in muslin bags about 3 inches in diameter — just the 
thinnest old, clean muslin will answer — and the slices are so round and dainty. 
Rub the surface with lard before hanging away, as an aid to preservation. 

3. Sausage to Keep Through the Summer and Ham the Year 
Round.— The above is confirmed by O. S. Cohoon, of Belvidere, 111., with 
the additional thought of preserving ham, through the Detroit Tribune, in 
answer to a lady who inquired for a recipe to keep sausage through the sum- 
mer, which, if properly done, can't fail. The writer says: After the sausage 
has been made from 24 to 48 hours, slice and cook about two-thirds done and 
pack in good stone jars, allowing the jars to stand on the stove hearth, or in 
some warm place while cooking and packing Have plenty of hot lard in the 
pan while cooking When done, place a light weight on the meat and cover ' 
with hot lard The meat must be kept covered with the lard. This is also the 
best way to preserve ham — the year round. 

Remarks — To have nice fresh sausage or ham, at all times, handy, is wort;h 
a little extra labor Keep covered with lard, as taken out, to avoid mould. 

1 BOLOGNA SAUSAGE-Fine, as Made in Germany.— The 
London, England, Farmer claims to have obtained this from the classic land 
of sausages. I think it will be nice enough for the people of our country, as 
well as England and Germany. It is as follows: Lean beef, freed from gristle, 
is to be chopped up very fine and mixed with J^ or i^ its weight of lean pork 
similarly treated To this mixture is added an equal bulk of fat bacon, cut iu 
strips as thin as the back of a knife, and then chopped into pieces about the 
'size of a pea. For every 12 lbs. of this mass are required % lb. of salt, 1 dr. 
of aaltpeter, i^ lb of powdered sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of whole white 
pepper. The block on which the meat is to be chopped should be previously 



416 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

rubbed over -mth garlic, but none of this must be mixed with the sausage mass. 
In filling the sausages the meat must be well crammed home with suitable 
appliances, as pressure with the hand alone is quite insufficient to keep out the 
air, which is sure to spoil the result. After hanging for 2 or 3 weeks to dry, 
the red color of the meat and the white bits of fat will be visible through the 
skin of the sausages, and then it is time to smoke them. By careful attention 
to these directions, sausages thus prepared will keep well for at least a year and 
a half, and the delicacy of their flavor increases as they get older. The great 
secret of their keeping qualities is to put in plenty of bacon. 

Remarks. — Where the word " bacon " is used here, and above " fat bacon," 
they mean simply fat pork, fresh, of course, the same as the beef must be, not 
" bacon," as we understand the word in the United States to mean cured and 
smoked sides — not at all — this is not it, but fresh, fat pork. 

2. Bologna Sausage Americanized. — Somebody has Americanized 
the above, as follows, but 1 don't know who; still, it will be nice'for those who 
like cayenne (and, by the way, if we would all use more cayenne or red pep- 
per, and less of the black, it would be the better for us); but I should try only 
1 spoonful at first, and if more would be tolerated by the children (who, as a 
general thing dislike it very much), and only a small onion, increasing or lessen- 
ing either, as found most agreeable: 

"Lean pork, 6 lbs. ; lean beef, 3 lbs; beef suet, 2 lbs. ; salt, 4 ozs. (I should 
say 6 ozs.); 6 table-spoonfuls of black pepper, 2 table-spoonfuls of cayenne pep- 
per, 2 tea-spoonfuls of cloves, 1 of allspice, and 1 minced onion. Chop or 
grind the meat, and mix well the powdered spices through it. Pack in beef 
skins as you do those of pork, tie both ends tightly and lay them in strong 
brine. Let them remain one week, then change them into a new brine. Let 
them remain another week, frequently turning them. Then take them out, 
wipe them, and send them to be smoked ; when smoked rub the surface well 
with sweet oil or butter and hang them in a dark, cool place." 

Remarks. — It strikes me that 1 table-spoonful of cayenne will be found 
enough for most persons, especially children, who are very fond of "Bologna." 
After all this mincing for sausage, " Bologna," etc., it may not be amiss to 
close with a mixture for Christmas pie, aside from those in the department of 
" Dishes for the Table," etc., to have always ready for use through the winter, 
as follows: 

Minced Meat for Pies.— Chopped beef (the neck does very well if 
boiled very tender — any part should be thus boiled), 5 cups; suet (uncooked), 
chopped, after freeing it from the membrane and stringy portions, 2 cups; 
stoned raisins, unchopped, 3 cups; English or dried currants, and cherries, if 
you have them, each, 1 cup; brown sugar, 5 cups; nice cider, 6 cups; or, if no 
cider is to be had, water, S^ cups, and good vinegar, 2^^ cups; but these are 
not equal to the cider; citron, chopped, 2 cups; cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, 
mace, allspice (all in powder), and salt, each, 1 table-spoonful (more of all, or 
any one of these spices, or salt, if desired, on tasting); the grated yellow and 
juice of 2 lemons; nice, tart, chopped apples. Directions — As this amoimt 
will make more than many families will wish to make into pies at one time, for 



MEATS, 417 

each 2 cups of this mixture that you wish to bake take 3 cups of apple, as above, 
and mix nicely, and if not as juicy as desired (and mince pie to be good needs 
to be quite juicy), put in cider to suit, or its substitute as above, and bake with 
light, porous crusts, the "filling" meat being not less than*>a plump half to 
three-fourths of an inch in thickness, so it may be said of the cook, as it often 
is when she cuts her bread pretty thick, " You would make a good step-mother," 
which will be as great praise as can be bestowed upon her, and if she does it all 
nicely, she will deserve it. 

Remarks. — Some people will have brandy or wine in their mince pies, let 
such put in 1 cup of brandy, or 2 cups of wine, into the above amount. It is 
each one's privilege to suit themselves, or the demand of the majority, or the 
head of the house, as the case may be. What is not baked up when made, pack 
nicely in jars and cover well with cloths and a plate with a light weight upon 
it, or other cover, not adding the apples only as used, as the meat keeps better 
without 



soTJiPS, boxxiHstg- hn^e-A-ts, etc 



Hemarhs and General Directions. — The most nourishing soups are made of 
fresh meats; but whatever meat you use should be put in cold water, well 
covered, and kept at a low temperatui-e and never allowed to boil, for at least 
one hour, after which a bubbling boil may be allowed. Remembering that the 
first hard boil hardens the smface and locks up the juices of the meat, which 
is important to draw out in soup-making. For economj^'s sake, a knuckle- 
joint or a shin-bone is preferable; but there should be sufficient meat attached 
to give the required nourishment and flavor of the meat used. However, after 
the first hour slow stewing has passed^ any cold - meats or bits of fowl which 
have been left over, may be added, having been cut in small slices. It is well, 
also, with fresh meats to cut small, and bones to be well cracked, or sawed 
across to allow the marrow and juices to escape. Vegetables should be cut 
fine or sliced thin, or grated upon a coarse greater, as preferred. Salt helps to 
harden and lock up the juices, and hence should not be put into soups until the 
vegetables are added, about an hour before serving. But s(iup meats should be 
put over the fire as soon after breakfast as possible, so as to give 4 or 5 hours to 
its preparation. 

In Cold Weather soup-plates should be well heated before serving 
the soup in them from the covered tureen; and in fact, all plates in cold 
"weather, from which meats or gravies are to be eaten, should be well warmed 
before bringing to the table. Soup properly " warmed up," i. e., put on just 
before dinner-time, so as not to be to long upon the stove, is equal if not better 
than the fresh made; and this is especially so when beans enter into its 
make. 

Straining and Filtering not at all Necessary.— The fancy 
" Cook-Books " talk about straining soups, and some even of filtering through 
a hair sieve after straining. The straining will remove fully one-half of tho 
nourishing properties used, but if "style is preferable " to the strength which 
would otherwise be obtained from the thicker parts of the soup, by all means 
both strain and filter them. One point more, and I am done with the general 
ideas of soup-making— it is this: for healthy people it is not essential to trim 
off the fat from soup meats, nor the oily particles from the top of soups; but 
for invahds both these must be done, either by making the day before and 
removing the fat when cold from the top, or by dipping off as much as possible 
wliile hot. As soups always come on the table before the other dishes, we wiU 
let them also go before "Various Dishes" in making up the book. 

Boiled Dinner— How to Get It Up.— To get up a " boiled dinner " 
it is of the same importance to keep the juices in the meats that it is to draw 
them out in making soups, therefore as putting into cold water and heating 

418 



SOUPS, MEATS, ETG. 419 

slowly draws them out, so putting into boiling water, properly salted (when 
fresh meat is used), and continuing to boil briskly shuts up the pores and keeps, 
the juices and nourishing properties in the meats, which is the whole secret of 
success. And nothing more can be said except what would repeat, in some 
manner, this only important difference. So the author will now trust to the 
common sense of the people for whom he writes, and has for over twenty- 
five years written, only adding: never let the boiling stop when getting 9 
boiled dinner, nor never allow hard boiUng when making a soup. 

Bean Soup. — As I look upon bean soup as the best of old soups, I ■v\-iD 
^ive a receipt taken from "A Book of the Sea," which, having had it made 
Several times, I can say it can be depended upon. And when I say it was given 
by a sailor, the phraseology needs no further explanation. He says: 

"The fact is, that bean soup at sea is such a stand-by that the sailor-man 
on shore sometimes gets quite mad when it's offered him, and still, bean souj^ 
is a mighty good thing, and all according to the way you make it. Now, yon 
get a lot of swells on board", and make 'em soup, and call it haricot (in Eng- 
land, tliis name is still used for beans) and not beans, which is vulgar, and if 
you know how to turn it out, they will take three platefuls. 

"First, you get a pint and a hn'f of good sound beans — I don't think 
there is much difference in beans, whether they are big or little — and pick 'em 
over and stand them for an hour in a bowl of cold water. Take three pounds 
of meat or a shin-bone, and put the beef in 4 quart,s of cold water, and let it 
boil. Fry an onion and put that in, with say 6 whole cloves and a dozen pep- 
pers (the small cayenne peppers, the same that are used in making pepper 
sauce), and some parsley, with a tablespoon of salt. Let it l)oil for two hours, 
and you keep skimming. As fast as the water boils away, you keep adding a 
little hot water. When the concern i§ cooked, take a colander and strain your 
soup through it, mashing up the beans and keeping out the meat and the 
bean skin. If you want to be superfine, you can hard boil an egg, and slice 
white and yellow through, and put them in the tureen; likewise some slices of 
lemon. Bits of toast don't go bad with it. If you liappen to be cruising south, 
just you use, instead of the New England bean, the Georgia or South Califor- 
nia cow-pea." 

Bemarks. — The author never had any soup he liked better than this, although 
the following is very nice. 

Bean Soup with Cream or Milk.— Take 1 pt. of beans, parboil and 
drain off the water, adding fresh. Never put cold water upon beans which 
have been once heated, as it hardens them — boil until perfectly tender, seasou 
with pepper and salt, and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, or more if pre 
f erred; when done skim out half the beans, leaving the broth with the remain' 
ing half in the kettle, now add a teacup of sweet cream or good milk, a dozen 
or more of crackers broken up, let it come to a boil, and you have a dish good 
enough to offer a king. 

Corn and Bean Soup.— Take 2 lbs. of fresh beef, 1 lb. of fresh pork, 
and 1 pint of black or navy beans (I think white ones will do just as well), soak 
over night, one large onion, a small carrot, a head of celery Put the above 
ingredients into the soup pot with a gallon of cold water, and let simmer gently 
for five or six hours. Take off and let get cold; remove the grease, and place 



420 I>R- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

on the stove to boil again. About an hour before dinner add a quart of canned 
com. Strain the soup, season with cayenne pepper and salt, and serve it with 
or without the addition of boiling cream. 

Remarks. — Excuse me from the straining, but give me the cream, if you 
have it, by all means. And I have not a doubt but what salt meats, properly 
freshened, would make a soup hard to tell from tliat made with fresh; and 
sweet corn, in its season, cut from the cob, 1 qt., will do as well as canned. I 
know this from the nature of things upon general principles. So let others 
judge, in all things from their own common sense — Think. I have made these 
remarks to set people to thinking upon common things in the way here indi- 
cated, for themselves, which is the true way to all improvements. Instead 
of straining, sometimes, you may rub the beans and the corn, when perfectly 
tender, thi-ough a colander, as indicated in the sailor's plan above, and thus get 
rid of the skins of the beans, and the hulls of the corn. This last is from more 
of the same kind of thinking. Put the puree, (any soft, mushy mass) back into 
the soup, and make hot when served. 

SOUP, TOMATO— Very Nice.— To canned tomatoes, 1 pt. , or 4 large, 
ripe raw ones, scalded, peeled and sliced, add boiling water 1 qt. , and boil till 
thoroughly soft, then add cooking soda, 1 teaspoonful, and stir well; when done 
foaming, immediately add sweet milk 1 pt, ; with salt and pepper to taste, and 
1 tablespoonful of butter; and when it boils again have 8 or 10 common crack- 
ers rolled fine which add, and serve hot. Some ^hink this equal, or better, 
even, than oyster soup. As the girls often say of a new bonnet: " It is just 
splendid." Try it, by all means. 

2. Tomato Soup with Milk. — Take nice ripe tomatoes, scald, 
remove the skins, and slice up 1 qt., and stew J^ hour in 1 pt. of water; then 
add a level teaspoonful of baking soda, stir till done foaming, and put in 1 qt. 
of hot sweet milk ; and as soon as it boils again add salt and pepper to taste ; 
with a bit of butter and a few broken crackers if you want it richer. A small 
slice or two of salt pork makes a nice substitute for the butter. And if you 
desire a meat flavor, put in some steak from the soup- jar. It should be made 
so that the milk addition is put in just as you are ready to serve it. This is 
often called economical or mock-oyster soup. 

Potato Soup.— Thinly slice enough potatoes to make 1 pt., with 1 to 4 
email onions (to obtain a little or more flavor, as you prefer) and boil in 1 qt. of 
water until perfectly tender; add 1 pt. of rich milk, and season with salt and 
pepper to taste. Serve hot. The potatoes and onions may be skimmed and 
rubbed smooth through a colander, if you like. 

Milk Soup. — Same as the last without the onions, using 1 pt. of watei to 
boil the potatoes in, then add 1 qt. of milk instead of 1 pt. ; simply using half as 
much water and twice as much milk. Use with either crackers or not, as you 
choose. 



SOUPS, MEATS, ETC. 421 

Chickon Soup, Delicious.— Take 1 chicken, 4 qts. of water, 1 table- 
spoonful of rice, an onion, potato and turnip, 1 of each, 3^ cup of tomatoes, 2 
stalks of celery, pepper and salt. Directions — Joint the chicken and boil 
very tender; pour through a colander and return the soup to the kettle, adding 
the rice, which has been soaking; chop the potato, onion and turnip and add 
J^ an hour aft€r. Cut the celery in dice and add 20 minutes before serving; the 
tomato and seasoning last. If well done it will be very delicious; with milk or 
cream more so, if }4 pt. of either are put in just in time to get hot when ready 
to season. 

2. CJhicken, Cream Soup. — The best way to get the virtue out of an 
old, tough chicken is to properly dress and joint it, then boil it with 1 onion in 
4 qts. of water till only 2 remain. Take it out and cut off the breast, chopping 
it fine with the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, returning to the soup and simmer- 
ing a few minutes more, then adding 1 cup of heated cream, or % pt. of rich 
milk, boiling hot, seasoning to taste and serving hot from a covered tureen. 

3. Soup, Chicken Currie, as Made in India.— A pair of nicely 
dressed chickens, butter, currie powder, flour, salt and cayenne pepper and 
some rice, to be nicely boiled by itself. Directions — Boil tlie chickens care- 
fully, keeping always covered with water, till perfectly tender, removing scum 
and oily fat as it rises; then bone them and have a skillet ready for frying the 
meat in enough hot butter, first dredging the meat with flour before laying in 
the hot butter; brown nicely, keeping hot. Take 1 pt. of the chicken broth, 
which is to be kept hot, and stir in 1 table-spoonful of flour, 2 of butter, 1 tea- 
spoonful of salt, and a little cayenne pepper and 2 table-spoonfuls of currie 
powder, and, when all is well mixed in, add this to the balance of the hot soup 
in the kettle and simmer a few minutes, then add the hot browned meat and 
serve hot, and with the hot boiled rice. 

Remarks. — This is a very nice soup for those loving currie. Is very health 
ful from the warming nature of the currie. It would still be more warming to 
the stomach if a spoonful of cun-ie is put into the meat when frying, and some 
prefer to put into the soup only half of the fried meat, serving the rest as a fry 
with the rice, I like it either way, because I like the currie. 

Soup, Celery, Rich and Creamy. — A shank of beef, 1 large bunch 
of celery or two small ones, and rich cream, 1 cup; a little flour. Directions 
— Make a rich broth of the shank, always putting into cold water, skimming 
off all the fat as it rises; when ready take up the meat and thicken the broth 
with a spoon or two of flour, first rubbed in a little cold water ; have the celery 
cut fine and boil it in the soup till tender; then add the cream, salt and pepper 
to taste, and serve at once. 

Green Corn Soup.— Cut the com from a dozen good-sized ears (real 
" sweet " com is the best in all cases), lay the cobs closely in the kettle and cover 
•with water — not less than 3 pts. or 2 qts. if needed — and boil half an hour; 
then take out the cobs and cook the corn in the same water till tender. Now 
add 1 pint of rich sweet milk, if you have it, and boil a few minutes longer; 
season with salt and pepper, and if no milk beat 2 eggs and stir in, and con 



422 I>R- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

tinue to stir 2 or 3 minutes just as ready to serve. It will be found delicious, 
if nicely done. 

Barley Soup. — Take a 2 or 3 lb. sliin of beef, well broken, pearl barley, 
3^ lb. ; 2 small onions, sliced; 2 small carrots, chopped; salt and pepper. 
Directions — Put all into a soup kettle, cover nicely with cold water and heat 
up slowly for an hour, then continue 3 or 4 hours of more brisk boiling; and 
If you have celery, a stalk or two, cut and put in 15 or 20 minutes before serv- 
ing improves the flavor very much. The old plan of simply putting in a little 
barley requires a fife and drum to call the very much scattered nourishing 
properties together. 

Macaroni (Italian) Soup.— To 2 qts. of boiling beef-broth, or soup 
(made as for the carrot beef soup, above, without the vegetables), add 6 or 7 
sticks of macaroni and allow it to cook 3^ or % of an hour; then, just when 
ready to serve, grate in J^ lb. of aice cheese. (The macaroni should be broken 
up and soaked in water a couple of hours before cooking with the broth.) 

Beef Soup. — A knuckle-joint or shin-bone, having sufficient meat 
attached for a family of 5 or 6 persons; six medium-sized potatoes, 3 or 4 small 
onions, J^ of a small head of cabbage, salt and pepper. Directions— If a 
joint it should be cut through by the butcher; and if a shin, it should be sawed 
1 or 2 times across to allow the escape of the marrow and juices. Put this into 
sufficient cold water and place upon the stove as early as practicable to allow it to 
be pretty thoroughly done an hour before dinner, at which time the cabbage, 
having been finely chopped, should be put in. The potatoes and onions, hav- 
ing been properly prepared, should now be chopped finely together and added 
to the soup, with the salt and pepper to taste. Some persons are fond of adding 
a few bits of red pepper to their soups; but if much is put in children usually 
dislike it. If used, it should be put in with the vegetables. 

Remarks. — A well-made soup is very healthful, and they ought to be made 
much oftener than they are in most families. 

Rice Soup. — The fore leg and brisket of a lamb or very young sheep; 
rice, J^ to 1 cup, according to size of family; water, sufficient. Directions — 
Wash the rice early in the morning, and put to soak in warm water to wholly 
cover it. The bones being broken, stew the meat until tender, then put in the 
ricawith the water in which it has softened, and continue the boiling until the 
rice has become perfectly soft, having set back the kettle where there is no dan- 
ger of burning. 

Seasoning for Soups. — A rice soup is usually seasoned with salt and 
pepper only; but a little celery, summer savory, thyme, parsley or marjoram 
may be added, when desired, to any soup. All these herbs ought to be raised by 
all who have gardens, for they add much to the taste of many other dishes as 
well as soups. 

Remarks. — There is probably no soup equal to rice generally for the sick. 
The seasoning may be made to suit their taste, but usually the plainer the 
seasoning the better it suits them. Certainly nothing but a little salt and pepper 
should be put in without consulting the patient There may be some satisfac 



sours, MEATS, ETC. 423 

tion in knowing that what is considered best for invalids is good enough for 
general use. Beef soup is also excellent made with rice occasionally in place 
of other vegetables. 

Scotch Broth (Soup).— Take 2 lbs. of the scraggy part of the neck of 
mutton. Cut the meat from the bone, removing all the fat; cut the meat into 
small pieces, and put into a soup pot with a large slice of a turnip, 2 small car- 
rots, 1 onion, 1 stalk of celery, all sliced, and }4 cup of pearled barley, water, 3 
pts. to 2 qts., and boil gently 2 hours. On the bones put 1 qt. water and boil 
gently the same length of time; then drain this into the soup. Cook 1 spoonful 
each of flour and butter together until perfectly smooth, then stir this into the 
soup with a spoonful of chopped parsley, season with salt and pepper and serve 
at once. — Free Press Household. 

Remarks. — While we are with the Scotch, we will give a " Scotch Girl's" 
Porridge, from Tilden, 111., as it is near enough like soup to go with them. She 
says: 

Scotch Porridge.— " If the family consists of 6 persons, take 3 qts. of 
water, and bring to a boil, take your spurtle (the Scotch for pot-stick or mush- 
stick), keep the pot on the fire, take the oatmeal in your left hand (of course, 
only right-handed girls can make this), and let it drop gently through your 
fingers into the boiling water, stir briskly for 10 minutes, and you will have a 
most delicious dish; salt to taste," 

Remarks. — It strikes the author that this would not only be more "delici- 
ous " if made pretty thick with the oatmeal and then thinned with 1 qt. of rich 
milk, all made hot together, but more nourishing also. I always like to get 
the greatest possible good out of a dish, in fact, out of every thing, while it U 
on hand or being made. 

Soup, Scotch or Mutton, Excellent.— A leg of mutton, 4 lbs.; 
water, 1 gal.; pearl barley, 1 cup; small carrots, 5 or 6; small turnips and 
onions, each, 2; a small head of cabbage, a handful of parsley, if to be had, 
pepper and salt. Directions— Put the mutton and barley into a suitable kettlo 
with the water, cold; slice the onions, turnips, and 2 of the carrots; grate the 
other carrots, chop the cabbage fine, and when the water comes to a good bub- 
bling simmer, add all the vegetables, keep covered and simmering for 3 or 4 
hours, or until all is perfectly tender ; add salt and pepper, and serve hot, when 
all lovers of soup will say "excellent." 

Noodle Soup, and Noodles, To Make.— By putting noodles into 
any soup it thereby becomes noodle soup. See carrot and beef soup for the 
" stock " or manner of making the soup for the noodles. They will cook in 15 
or 20 minutes, hence should not be put in only this length of time before serving. 

To Make the Noodles. — Put 1 cup of flour upon the molding board, making 
a hole in the center into which put a well-beaten egg with a little salt. Knead 
and roll as thin as possible, dredging with a little flour, roll up snugly and slice 
from the end; then shake out the strips and place on platens until perfectly dry. 
This may be done in the oven, when not too hot, with both doors left open. 
They may be added to any rich soup, or one made purposely for them as indi- 
cated above. 



424 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — How this name ever got applied to this article for soups, I can 
not imagine, as noodle signifies a simpleton. I know it is a favorite dish with 
the Germans, although I would by no means consider them simpletons from 
that fact. Still, I do think that flour dough in this form, or in the form of 
dumplings boiled in water or soup, is a very indigestible mass, and in 
no way fit for an invaUd. Still, I kuow, also, that our German population are 
much more healthy than Americans, and, therefore, they are better able to 
digest noodles and dumplings than we are. It is from their more simple and 
plainer style of cookery, no doubt 

Mock-Turtle or Make-Believe Terrapin Soup, Prom Bob, 
the Sea Cook. — He says: *' Of coui-se, its a sham, for there ain't nothing in 
this world that can take the shine out of a real terrapin (turtle); still, if you 
ain't got none of these nice creeturs, you can manage to make shift with a calf's 
head. You don't want the whole head of a calf, but boil it just the same, but 
don't sluice it with all the water in the reservoir, only enough to cover it, and 
in that water put a couple of onions and salt and pepper. When boiled tender, 
take, say, half the meat, half the tongue and a table-spoonful of the brains. 
Cut it up, but not too fine. Put into a frying-pan a }4 lb. of the best butter, and 
bring it up to a light brown, mixing in a very little sifted flour when it is off 
the fire, and a little cayeime pepper, and just a touch of sweet marjoram. If 
you put herbs into hot, boiling butter it makes a bitter taste. Then stir the 
sauce with a little of the water the calf's head was boiled in. Then put in your 
chopped-up calf's head. Place it on the fire again — not to cook, but to get hot 
only — and last of all pour in 3 wine-glassfuls of Madeira, but if you have not 
that let it be sherry- Though it ain't terrapin, it's good all the same." 

Remarks. — Turtle soup being a favorite with saloon men, of course, wine is 
always used but home-made will "fill the bill" in any case where wine is 
always called for. Excuse me from using the brains. If one has not enough of 
his own, it is no use to try and make it up by using those of a calf. For oyster 
eoup, see Oyster Stew, etc., as made at Delmonico's. For marjoram and other 
eeasoning herbs for soups, see Seasoning for Soups, in connection with the Rice 
Soup. 

The following Prussian, Green Pea, and Asparagus Soups and the Broths, 
or "Stocks," Veal and Lamb, are from the "Indian Domestic Economy and 
Cookery," quoted from in some other places, an explanation of which will be 
found in connection with the Chicken Currie. The recipes are plain, and will 
be found a valuable addition to those of our own country. See also Mock 
Oyster, and some other soups in the Miscellaneous Department. 

Prussian Soup, as Made in India.— Celery, 4 heads; carrots, tur- 
nip, onions, and lettuce, 2 of each. Dikections — Cut them all into small 
pieces, and fry in a little ghee (butter or drippings). Take a geer(2 lbs.) of mut- 
ton, cut it into slices, put it all together in a large saucepan and keep it sweat- 
ing for an hour without any water; then pour on water, 2 qts., and shut the lid 
close and simmer gently for 2 hours longer, and serve. (See explanation of this 
and the following in the last remarks above.) 



SOUPS, MEATS, ETC. 485 

1. Green Pea Soup of India.— Nice, freshly picked and shelled 
peas, of a green color, 3 pts. ; uice butter, }^ lb. ; parsley and green onions, a 
handful of each. Dieections — Boil, as they call it, all these in the butter over 
a slow fire till thoroughly stewed (fried, as we say); then pound in a mortar 
(rub through a colander), and put in consomme {" stock ") to suit the number for 
dinner, and leave it on tlie corner of the fire, for if it boils the peas will lose 
their green color. (In India the cooking is generally done over a fire-place.) 
We would say set it back on the stove, merely to simmer. At the moment of 
sending to the table put in sippets of bread ilbread cut into dice shaped pieces 
and nicely fried in ghee (butter), and serve. 

Remarki. — It strikes mo if }^ or J^ of the peas were saved, and boiled in 
tvater with a little salt to fairly cook them, then put into the pea soup when 
about to serve, it would be a little nicer flavor and show more plainly what 
ft was made of , especially so if the bread " sippets " were thought too much 
trouble to prepare. 

2. Green Pea Soup, American.— Take lean, fresh beef, 2 lbs.; 
green, shelled peas, 2 qts. ; ^vater, 2 qts. Directions — Boil the pods in the 
water 3^ an hour, then skim them out and put in the meat and simmer slowly 
till half an hour before serving, adding boiling water to make up for evapora- 
tion; then add the shelled peas, and when tender, thicken with a little flour or 
corn starch, and season with chopped poi-sley, if you can get it: salt and pepper 
just before serving 

Asparagus Soup of India.— This is maie only with the green part of 
the tops. Prepare a veal or lamb broth, whi:h see below, for each 2 qts. needed 
take \% pts. of the green tops and cut ahout 2 inches long and boil in water 
with a little salt ; then rub two-thirds of them through a sieve or colander and 
put into the broth; tlie other one-third, chop as nearly the size of peas as may 
be (about i.|' inch long), and put into the soup just before serving, which leaves 
them quite firm. 

Turkey Soup, From the Bones and Left Over Meat.— I do 

not know who to credit for thinking out the plan of obtaining the flavor of 
turkey in a soup, by breaking the bones (instead of throwing them away, as 
usually done), and putting, with the left over pieces, into a kettle with 2 qts. of 
cold water, and a table-spoonful of rice, covering closely, and setting on the 
back of the stove to simmer for an hour; then let boil slowly till the rice is 
done; and pour into an earthen jar, and set in a cold place till next day. 
When wanted for dinner remove the layer of fat (and this is a good plan with 
any soup); then heat, and serve hot, with crackers and pickles. 

Remarks — So you may do with ihe remains of 2 or 3 chickens, leg of lamb, 
veal, rabbits, ets., not forgetting to break all bones containing marrow, or, for 
using rabbits, see next recipe. 

Game Soup. — Two rabbits, i^ lb. of lean lamb, 2 medium sized onions, 
1 lb. of lean beef; fried bread; butter for frying; pepper, salt, and 2 stalks of 
white celery cut into inch lengtlis; 3 qts. of water. Directions — Joint the 
game neatly; cut the lamb and onion into small pieces, and fry all in butter *o 



426 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

a light brown. Put into a soup pot with the beef; cut into strips and add a 
little pepper. Pour oh the water; heat slowly and stew gently 2 hours. Take 
out the pieces and cover in a bowl; cook the soup 1 hour longer; strain, cool, 
drop in the celery and simmer 10 minutes. Pour upon fried bread in the 
tureen. 

Carrot Soup, from Stock. — The day before this soup is required boil 
3 lbs. of good soup beef in 1 gallon of water until reduced one-half; when 
cold skim off all fat. The next day add salt and replace on the fire. Scrape 
your carrots and cut them into small dice (except one, to be grated, as below): 
put these in the soup with cayenne pepper, 1 table-spoonful each of burned 
sugar, sharp vinegar and grated carrot. Boil till the carrots are tender and 
serve. 

Remarks. — Much is said about "stock" by nearly all who give directions 
for making soup. The plan here given is the true way to have a soup rich and 
nourishing. A jar can be kept for this purpose, if soup is to be made every 
day, otherwise, the above plan is the better way. When a jar is kept for this 
purpose all marrow bones, bits of meat, fowl, etc., shall be put in and heat up 
every day, by placing the jar upon the stove for that purpose, and to draw out 
the juices of the tit-bits, broken bones, etc., which are added from time to 
time; observing, however, if a jar is kept for this purpose, it must be scalded 
out once or twice a week— according to whether the weather is hot or cold — to 
keep it perfectly sweet 

Split Pea Soup.— Make a broth of some water that corned beef or salt 
pork has been boiled in, and some beef bones. Do not let it be too salt; in that 
case use half water. Put 1 qt. of the split peas in enough of the water to cover 
them; when they have stewed soft, mash them through a colander, and then 
mix with them 2 qts. of the broth, in which the bones have been boiling; add 1 
onion, and 1 turnip, chopped up, and 1 carrot, grated. Just before serving put 
small pieces of toast in the soup. — Peterson's Ladies' Magazine. 

Green Pea Soup.— Boil 1 pt. of green peas in salted water with a slice 
of onion, a sprig of parsley and a few leaves of mint. When done draw off 
the water and pass the peas through a sieve. Dilute this puree to a proper con- 
sistency with some good stock. Just before serving make it very hot, put in a 
piece of fresh butter, and if you have it half a cup of cream. If the color is 
not a sufficiently bright green add a few drops of spinach greening. Serve 
with small pieces of fried bread. 

Remarks. — If a broth, or soup, is used, as made for the carrot soup, above. 
In place of the salted water, as here directed, the soup will be that much richer 
dnd better. It is "stock" itself. 

Broths, as Made in India— Veal or Lamb.— Take a joint of veal, 
or the fore leg of a lamb, crack the bones nicely, make clean and put into a 
stewpan and cover with cold water; watch and stir well, and the moment it 
' begins to simmer skim carefully; then add a little more cold water to make all 
the skum rise; skim again, and when the scum is done rising, and the surface 
of the broth is quite clean, have properly prepared the following: A medium- 



SOUPS, MEATS. ETC. 427 

sized carrot, 1 head of celery, 2 turnips and 2 onions. Put these into the brotli, 
cover closely and simmer very gently, not to evaporate the broth, for 4 or 5 
hours, according to the amount of the meat, strain, and, if not to be used the 
same day, set in a cool place. 

Remarks — This may be used for all soups, brown or white, made of beef, 
lamb or veal, as a knuckle of beef can be used in preparing the broth or stock, 
if you choose, in place of the veal or lamb. 

"Stock," Explanation of and How to Make.— The meaning of 
this, now common, word is the unthickened broth from any meats to form the 
basis, or strength, of all soups; also often added to gravies to enrich them or to 
increase the quantity. Made as follows: 

Brown Stock. — To make the common stock for brown soups, gravies, etc., 
get a "hock" or "shin-bone" and about 4 lbs of extra soup meat; cut the 
meat into small pieces, saw the bone off inside the joints and split, to obtain the 
marrow ; slice an onion and fry it, with the cut beef, in the marrow to a nice 
brown; now put the fried meat and onion with the hock into cold water, 2 gal- 
lons, and let it simmer 6 to 8 hours, and pour through a sieve and strain through 
a cloth into a perfectly clean and sweet earthen crock, and in the morning skim 
off all the grease. This is used for any brown soups or brown gravies. For 
white, or uncolored soups or gravies, omit the frying. If kept in a cool place 
in ordinary weather this stock will keep a week; when the crock or jar in 
which it is kept must be thoroughly scalded out and aired in the sun or before 
a hot fire or stove. See. also, remarks at the beginning of soups upon " Stock." 

Onion Soup — The Best Saved to the Last.— An onion soup nicely 
made is one of the most healthful, consequently the best soups made. Take 6 
medium-sized onions, sliced, and brown slightly in a suitable dish, with a table- 
spoonful of butter, adding 3 medium-sized potatoes, also sliced, and a little 
pepper and salt, and let all then cook an hour or two, putting into cold water, 
and simmer slowly. Add stock, 1 pt., season to taste, and serve hot, as all 
soups should be. 

Eemarks. —Omons, if peeled under water,- saves the tears for other occa- 
sions, and does not leave an odor upon the hands. 

Oatmeal Gruel, for Invalids and Children.— Take oatmeal, 2 
table-spoonfuls, and pour upon it boiling water, 1 pt., or a little more; let it boil 
until quite like jelly; then strain, or pour through a small fine sieve, kept for 
such purposes. To a coffee cup of this add sugar, 1 tea-spoonful, and 2 tea- 
spoonfuls of cream, when it will be fit for a king. For very young children or 
very weak invalids of a dyspeptic tendency make thinner with water while 
boiling, or with cold fresh milk after done boiling. 

Eemarks. — Although a little out of place, 'tis valuable anywhere and good 
for anybody, even in health. For those who are sensible enough to take a light 
tea or supper, this, with some bread or crackers, will "fill the bill" nicely, 
even with straining. 



■V.A.IIIOTTS HDISBCES. 



MEATS, POULTRY ANT> PISH — With Suitable Gravies, 
Sauces, Etc. — Remarks. — Most beginners in house-keeping will not only find 
it well to have a few receipts for cooking meats, potdtry, fish, etc., in their 
more common ways, but particularly valuable to know how to be economical 
in saving what may be left over from a meal, or several meals; with which a 
dish may be prepared not only as savory and palatable as the original, but often 
more so. We trust both these points will be found true in the following 
receipts. And, as we so often hear the question asked by tJie housewife: "What 
shall I get for dinner? " or whatever the next meal may be, I will start out in 
the "dish " line, with a " bill of fare " for a week, so everyone may know what 
will be proper, remembering, however, they can make any change they choose 
for the day or for a single meal, as suits their pleasure or desire, according to 
what they may have on hand. 

A Week's Bill of Fare.— This list was taken from a note-book, kept 
by a city lady for her own convenience. It wiU be found to be as well adapted 
to a village or country housewife as for a lady of the city. The amounts to be 
cooked or purchased for cooking to depend upon the number of persons to be 
at the table; always remembering that it is better to have something over ratlier 
than to be short, especially if you have company. Besides the articles named 
in the daily lists for breakfast there may be oatmeal or cracked wheat, milk or 
water toast, corn, graham, or buckwheat cakes, tea, coffee or cocoa — as you 
choose; for dinner, as many of the vegetables of the season as you like, with tea 
or coffee also; and for supper, such side dishes as you choose, made up from any 
of the meats, together with canned or fresh fruits, according to the season: 

Sunday. — Breakfast, beefsteak; dinner, tvirkey, chicken or other fowl, 
plenty to leave over, with vegetables, pie or pudding, or both. 

Monday.— Breakfast, the left-over turkey, or fowl, broiled; and for din- 
ner, what is still left over, fricaseed, warmed up or fried, vinth the gravy. 

Tuesday. — Breakfast, chops of lamb, mutton, veal or pork, as preferred, 
dinner, beef-soup, vegetables, and pudding. 

Wednesday. — Breakfast, ham and eggs; dinner, boiled corned beef, or 
pork and beans, and pie. 

Thursday.— Breakfast, hash or any of the made-up dishes from left-over 
corned beef, etc. ; dinner, soup, with its surplus meat, vegetable etc. 

Friday.— To suit catholic "help," be sure to have fish for breakfast and 
dinner, and any other meats desired by any others of the family. 

Saturday. — Breakfast, veal cutlets or chops of other meat, as preferred, 
and buckwheat or other griddle cakes; dinner, beefsteak, mashed or fried 
potatoes, and pie or pudding. 

428 



VARIOUS DISHES. 429 

HINTS IN COOKING MEATS AND FISH.-Boiled Meats.— 

For cooking they should always be put into boiling water, which sets or closes 
the pores and keeps in the juices: after which slow boihng until tender. And 
if corned boiled beef, to be eaten cold, is left to stand in its water over night, 
it -nill be sweeter and more juicy. 

For Soups always put into cold water, which leaves the pores open and 
allows the juices to escape into the soup which is desired. After it begins to 
boil keep it boiling slowly— not merely to simmer, but to boil. 

The Same for Fish, using only water sufficient to cover it. 

For Roasting Meats and Poultry, a hot oven, the door to stand a 
little open, covering the meat well with drippings or butter before putting into 
the oven, which keeps the surface moist and also helps to retain the juice of tho 
meat. 

For Frying Fish always have fat or butter hot, and plenty of it; and 
the fish should always be well drained after soaking, or the moisture absorbed 
with a napkin before putting into the pan to fry. 

Remarks. As sometimes in warm weather meat and fish are liable to get 
"tainted," I will next give a receipt for correcting this difficulty. This receipt 
also relieves the pain of bums, etc., and is a great disinfectant 

Putid, or ni-Smelling Meats, Poultry Fish, Butter, etc. 
to Correct: Permanganate of potash, 1 oz.; water tliat has been boiled 
and become cold. 1 qt Directions: Put into a bottle, cork, and 
shake well, to dissolve the permanganate, and it is ready for use. Put 
from a teaspoon to a tablespoonf ul of this (according to the size of the piece 
of meat), into sufficient cold water to cover the meat in a suitable sized 
jar or crock; stir with a stick (as it stains the hand or clothing): then 
put in the meat, chicken, duck, or fish, as the case may be, washing every part 
thoroughly and letting it remain ten minutes in the water; then rinse thoroughly 
which will remove all " taint " or ill-smelL 

For Butter.— Slice it off thin, wash carefully in the same strength, rins» 
nicely in pure water, then mold again, wrap in muslin, and cover with nic» 
brine. 

For Bums.— Take 1 teaspoonful of the mixture to }i pt. of water; wet- 
ting cloths in it, laying on and keeping them wet is said to relieve the pain 
immediately; it is also good for bruises, to relieve pain. See the remarks" 
below as to how to treat extensive scalds and burns and for a general dis- 
infectant. 

Rema/rks. Observe the heading is putid, not putrid. The first ojmes from 
the Latin word, putere, to have an ill-smell ; the second from putrere, to be rot- 
ten. It will not restore rotten meat, but it will correct ill-smelling meat. 
Actual decomposition (rottenness) cannot be restored. This mixture is claimed 
to be the same as 

Condy's Fluid, which is claimed to be the best dlsenfectant known,* 
and Dunglison, the great Medical Dictionary man says: "Condy's Disinfecjt 



430 



DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 



ing fluid, is supposed to be a concentrated solution of permanganate of potassa," 
etc., vrhich is the same as " potash," above. Mr. Condy, in a pamphlet pub- 
lished by himself in 1862 says "half a tumbler of his fluid in a good sized bath 
(this is supposing a person to be scalded all over, or at least mucli of his surface), 
will give instant relief in tliese frightful scalds and burns. 

Driving away Flies with It. — The wi-iter of "Hints and Helps." 
published in the Blade in 1879, from which the author gathered and condensed 
these items, claims that a little of this mixture, in a soup-plate of water, will 
drive away flies, even tliose big buzzing ones which are so troublesome when 
fresh meat is around. This is easily tried, but knowing the permanganate to be 
a powerful disinfectant, I have no hesitation in recommending the mixture for 
all the purposes for whicb it is claimed to be valuable. 

BEEFSTEAK.— How to Cook It.— As beefsteak is, probably, more 
often cooked than any other dish, I will begin with it; and as I have, in rhyme, 
by a Layman contributor to the "Home Department" oif the Toledo Commer- 
cial, the way it was cooked by an English "beefsteak fluke" in 1734, and 
which has continued to be the plan, until very recently, and still is the plan 
pursued by most people. I will give it, and afterwards make such explana- 
tions, in the remarks, as shall give the true, and better way, of cooking beef- 
steaks. The rhyme referred to is as follows. 

" Pound well your meat till tJie fibres break. 
Be sure that next you have, to broil the steak, 
Good coal in plenty; nor a moment leave. 
But turn it over this way, and then that; 
The lean should be quite rare — not so the fat. 
The platter now and then the juice receive. 
Put on your butter, place it on your meat. 
Salt, pepper, turn it over, serve, and eat." 

RemarJcs.— This "contributor" asked: "Can any correspondent of the 
V Home Department " furnish a better rule? " to which I answer, y&&. Simply 
leave off the first, or italicised hne, and you have the better rule, except the 
steak be very tough, that is the only reason why pounding should be resorted 
to, as it lets out the sw^eet juices of tlie meat, and removes, if broiled, (broiling 
is the true way to cook a steak) much of the nourishing properties, and spoils 
its delicacy of flavor. Some people broil, or rather cook, their steak on top of 
the stove. This is not delicate, nor so advisable as to cook in the hot skillet, or 
spider, without butter, as mentioned below; but I will give you the plan which 
my family pursued for a number of years before my companion was taken 
away by death. 

BEEFSTEAK.— Broiler, to Make.— I went to a tinner and told him 
I wanted a kind of " Griddle Ring Broiler," made of suitable sized wire — cross- 
barred, of a size to drop into the stove, by taking oflf a cover. The holes being 
9 inches, he made a ring of No. 9 wire, 8^^ inches in diameter; and cross-barred 
it with No. 15 wire, to lay the steak upon. Then, for a handle, he took a piece 
QT the No. 9, or possibly No. 8, which is still larger, about 4 or 4K feet long. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 431 

and berA it, in the centre, parallel, about 2 inches apart, looping, or bending the 
two free ends of this wire for the handle, around one side of the ring, or 
frame, part of the circular griddle, on the under side, fastening these two wires, 
forming the handle, to the opposite side of the ring, with smaller wire, to keep 
the handle in place, then bending these two wires up, at right angles, with the 
griddle ring, and bending 6 inches, or thereabouts, of the top of this handle 
off again at right angles, to take hold of with the hand when broiling; the 
handle to be long enough to carry the upper bend at least 1 foot above the top 
of the stove, supposing it, the griddle, to be down in the stove hole 6 inches or 
more, with the steak upon it, which will prevent burning the hand while broil- 
ing -with it. In this way, properly seasoning, and turning two or tliree times, 
a steak is very quickly cooked, retaining all the juices, if you did not pound 
it, to let them out. With this kind of a griddle broiler you can get down close 
to the coals and save much trouble. We have used this over a coal fire with 
about the same satisfaction as over a wood fire, if the fire is pretty well burned 
down. I think almost any tinner can get up such a broiler from the above 
description, if so, they will be found very convenient for all who love a nicely 
broiled steak. It is equally as nice for broiling veal, lamb, chicken, etc. Of 
course seasoning properly, having a hot plate to put it upon, with a moderate 
amount of butter upon the steak to form the gravy. Cover with another hot 
plate, if not to be served immediately. 

Remarks.— EWhax of the above plans make a nice dish, or, if after the 
water is poured off the beef, a little milk, or if no milk, a little more hot water 
is put on, and after cooking a few minutes, thickening a little with flour, rubbed 
smooth in a little cold water, makes an agreeable change, a very nice dish in- 
deed. Or the sliced dried beef may be minced fine or sprinkled into a salad, 
or mixed with potatoes and eggs for a breakfast dish: or heated with steam, or 
eaten with fresh or canned peas, or with stewed onions and potatoes. Thus it 
may be used in many ways, to suit the taste; or be utilized with such things 
as may be on hand or obtainable. 

BEEP BALLS.— With Uncooked Meat, Fried.— Chop verj- fine 
raw beef, 2 lbs, or as much as needed, with Xi lb of suet, skinned or chopped; 
season to taste with salt, pepper and a httle cloves; mix in a handful of flour, 
and mould into balls and fry in hot drippings, or lard, (drippings is best for 
this) to a nice brown, turning to brown both sides. Serve hot; but they are 
good cold. For the author a tablespoonf ul of powdered sage helps the flavor 
much. 

BEEP OR OTHER MEAT BALLS.— Prom Left Over Meats.— 
Chop cold, or left over meats of any kind, with the same bulk of potatoes, add 
a little onion to flavor slightly. Then take dry bread, pour hot water on it, to 
moisten sufficiently, having bread enough to make the mass adhere, so it can be 
fried in cakes or balls (a nice brown), in a skillet, with a little butter or drip- 
pings, as you would fry meat. Nettie Hines-Wood, bf Janesburg, Mo. in 
Blade. 

Remarks. — She called them '-noodles," but, although I can see a nioo dish 



/32 . DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

in them, I do not see "the chuckling grin of noodles." 'Tis too nice to have 
been made by a " simpleton." 

CoXd Meats Economically Used.— Chop any cold meats, as for hash, 
and warm up in milk, the more cream in it the better. When about ready for 
the table, season and break in an egg, if you like; some like it better -without. 
To be eaten with nicely baked potatoes, or potatoes warmed up in a little milk 
and a bit of butter. 

Cold Beef— Another Way.— Mince it fine with pepper, salt and onions 
and some rich gravy, and put it into tins three parts full ; fill them up with 
Inashed potatoes and brown in the oven. 

Cream Croquettes— Delmonico's Substitute for "Hash." — 
Mr. Delmonico describes croquettes as the attractive French substitute for 
American hash, and tells how to make them. "Veal, mutton, lamb, sweet- 
breadjs, almost any of the lighter meats, besides cold chicken and turkey can be 
most deliciously turned into croquettes. Chop the meat very fine. Chop up 
an onion, fry it in an ounce of butter, add a table-spoonful of flour; stir it up 
well; then add the chopped meat and a little broth, salt, pepper little nutmeg; 
stir for two or three minutes, then add the yolks of 2 eggs, and turn the whole 
into a dish to cool. When cold mix well together again, divide into parts for 
the croquettes; roll into the desired shape in bread-crumbs, dip in beaten egg, 
then in bread, crumbs again, and fry crisp to a bright golden color. The cro- 
quettes may be served plain, or with tomato sauce or garniture of vegetables." 
— New York paper. 

Remarks. — Thus it will be seen that any kind of cold meats may be eco- 
nomically " turned," as the women say of re-making a dress, into a new dish, 
which may even have a nicer relish than in its first form or "dress " The fol- 
lowing is the manner in which "Winifred," of Toledo, saves her 

Cold Beef and Dry Bread, or Biscuit Balls.— Chop your beef very 
fine (pork will not do), then soak your bread in cold water till it is soft, then 
take it in the hands and squeeze as much of the water out as you can, having 
two-thirds as much bread as meat; then mix the bread and meat thoroughly 
together, beat 3 eggs well and mix in; add salt to taste, and grate in enough 
nutmeg to season nicely; make out in balls about the size of % small biscuit, 
and fry slowly in butter or cooking fat, till brown on both sides. 

Beefsteak, Broiling in a Spider or Skillet.— A writer who knows 
about how to cook a steak says: When steak is bought see that it is not cut 
more than % of an inch thick, and that it is of the same thickness all through. 
Have the skillet on the stove imtil it gets hot. lay the steak on it, without 
pounding (she certainly learned the secret of not pounding); turn it immediately, 
and keep turning for two minutes, or longer, if you do not wish it very rare. 
Be sure and have the skillet hot enough before you begin ; perhaps you may be 
afraid it will stick or burn, but it will not, if you manage right. Meantime 
liave a plate in the oven heating, and when the meat is done lay it on the plate, 
with a little butter over it, season with pepper and salt to taste, place intheoveo. 
•or one minute and it is done. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 433 

Remarks — I can see no use of putting in the oven for one minute, unless 
it is to meit the butter, but if the plate and steak ai\" both hot that will scou 
melt without putting in the oven, unless you have to wait for something else, 
which ought not to be, as a hot steak is the way to have it ; let it be the lasi 
touch to finish getting the meal. It is very proper, however, to cover with 
another hot plate to send to the table. If the steak sticks to the skillet, at first, 
loosen it with a knife. Trim off any membrane around the steak that would 
cause it to curl, or turn up at the edge. This gives you a crisp and brown sur- 
face, with all the juices retained. Pepper and salt to taste, in all cases. 

Beefsteak Smothered With Onions.— Broil the steak, as above, 
having 2, 3 or 4 onions, according to size of family, nicely chopped, and put 
into a skillet, or frjing pan, with drippings, or butter, stirring to avoid burning 
until done. Put them upon the steak, in a hot plate, and turn another hot 
plate over them, for a few minutes, to allow the steak to absorb their flavor; 
serve hot. Those who do not like the onions can have their steak served with 
out them. 

Remarks. — Some people boil their onions, first, until tender, then mash, oi 
chop, frying the steak in butter, or drippings, taking up the steak and then 
frying the onions in the gravy and pouring over tlie steak. This makes them 
softer and a little more mushy, and the steak not quite so digestible. 

Beefsteak and Salt Pork Smothered With Onions.— Fry a few 
dices of salt pork brown ; take out the pork then put in the steak and fry also 
— any tender steak will do; when done take up and put in tlie onions, sliced 
thin, cover and cook slowly, stirring occasionally. Put pork, then steak, then 
onions upon the dish. Make a gravy by adding a little water, flour, butter and 
salt, if needed, and \)out over the whole. 

Beeiisteak Fried in Cracker Crumbs.— A writer in one of the 
papers asks, and directs as follows : Do any of you have to get up early in the 
morning, and get breakfast in such a terrible hurry that you can't wait for nice 
coals to broil the steak? If so, just have a little very hot butter in the pan, 
and after pounding or hacking the steak lightly, salt and pepper it, roll in finely 
crushed cracker crumbs, and brown quickly in the butter. You will find it a 
decided improvement on the leathery substance called fried steak, and a very 
palatable substitute for broiled. 

Remarks. — To have the steak cooked in this way, done, without burning 
the cracker crumbs, it would seem to me necessary to have the steak cut ver}* 
thin, say split ordinary steak, with a sharp knife, which will enable it to cook 
through much quicker than if thick. Steak, as well as pork, is improved by 
the dipping into cracker crumbs, or batter, and frying quickly, when to be 
fried at all. I like even broiled pork better than fried, unless the fat, or butter 
is very hot — sozzling (long soaking) any meat in half hot fat, spoils it for diges- 
tion, whether dipped in crumbs or not. 

Dried Beef With Eggs.— Slice, or buy it of the grocer, cut into thin 
c)iips, dried beef }4 lb. Put into a frying pan. well covered with hot water, 
upon the stove; and when it comes to a boil pour off the water, which freshens 



434 I>i2. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

It, now put in butter, a good table-spoonful Oard or drippings will do), add a 
dash or two of pepper, and let it cook a few minutes, over a quick fire; then 
break and add 3 or 4 nice eggs, and stir until the eggs are done. Serve hot; or, 
dredge the beef with flour just as it is done frying, and fry the eggs by them- 
selves, and serve as with ham. 

Remarks. — Another lady writer uses up her cold meats in the following 
way: 

Nice Meat Balls.— Take a quantity of cold meat sufficient for a meal, 
bone and chop fine, season with salt and pepper, nutmeg and allspice; soah 
about one-third as much of white bread in cold milk, press out, and mix witlr 
the meat; add beaten egg— one egg is enough for three persons— and lump o) 
butter the size of a walnut, mix thoroughly and roll into balls; fry in hot lard 
Pile in a pyramid on a flat dish and serve. 

A Dish of Scraps.— Take some cold potatoes, a few pieces of dry bread, 
some scraps of cold boiled or fried meat; chop it all quite fine in the chopping 
bowl; season with salt, pepper and sage; put in a piece of butt«r and cook i> 
the same as hash. It is much better than potatoes alone warmed over.— Ifrj. 
A. M. Fellcncs, Prairieville, Mich. 

Beef or Veal Head Cheese from Bony Pieces, or With 
Chicken.— Take the bony or cheap pieces of beef or veal and boil them until 
perfectly tender; remove the bones and chop it fine, as for hash; season with 
butter, pepper and salt, a few crackers rolled fine, a little sage or sweet herbs of 
any kind to suit the taste, add a little of the broth in which it is cooked, stir it 
well together and press it into a tin basin or deep dish, cover with a plate (with 
weights upon it), let it stand until cold, then slice it as you would head-cheese. 
It is very nice for supper and lunch, or for your hungry boys and girls who 
carry their dinners to school. Chicken or turkey prepared in the same way, 
omitting the herbs, is verj^ nice. — Melissa W. 

Remarks. -This, v;\\\ he just as good a dish as though " Melissa W." had 
given her full name. Still the author would prefer to give full credit, but it is 
impossible in all cases. I know it will make a nice dish prepared from any of 
the articles named. 

Venison Steaks, Broiled.— Cut them thin and broil nicely by turning 
frequently, having seasoned to suit the taste; put into a hot dish or plate, with 
a bit of nice butter upon each steak; keep hot. 'Tis customary to serve venison 
with cranberry sauce or jelly. No meat equals \:enison for the author's taste. 
But rabbits treated as next given are also very nice: 

Rabbit Cutlets. — Cut the different limbs into the size of cutlets; such as 
the slioulders cut in half; also the legs, with the ends of the bones chopped off, 
and pieces of the back, even to the half of the head. Have ready some bread- 
crumbs and the yolk of an ogg beat up. Drop each cutlet into the egg, and 
then into the bread-crumbs, as for veal cutlets. Fry them a nice brown, and 
when you dish them pour round them some rich brown gravy, which may be 
flavored with tomato sauce, if approved, and put round them pieces of fried 
bacon, if liked. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 485 

Liver Hash. — "Hash "made of beef is such a common dish -we have 
thought to get up something new, and very nice for those who are fond of liver. 
Boil the liver until thoroughly tender — there must not be even a suspicion of 
hardness about it. Then mince it finely with a chopping-knife. Heat the mince 
very hot in a sauce of butter and browned flour. The seasoning is pepper, salt, 
a dash of lemon, or a little piquant sauce, such as mushroom or other catsup. 

Chicken Hash. — This is the proper way to serve for breakfast whatever 
roast or boiled chicken may be left over from dinner. Mince the cold chicken, 
but not very fine, and to a cup of meat add two table-spoonfuls of good butter, 
a half cup of milk, enough minced onion to give a slight flavor, and salt, mace 
and pepper to taste. Stew it, taking care to stir it, and serve with a garnish of 
parsley, it you like it. Every particle of bone must be extracted. 

Remarks. — If prepared cold, press it instead of stewing and serving hot. 

Beef Liver, to Fry. — Cut the liver in thin slices, dip each slice in wheat 
flour or rolled crackers, and fry in hot lard, beef dripping or butter; season 
with pepper and salt. It must be thoroughly cooked and a fine brown; 
served hot. 

Calf's Liver Head-Cheese, or for Eating Cold.— Take a calf's 
liver and put into a saucepan with just water enough to cover it and cook till 
tender; then bruise it with a spoon, or mash it with a potato masher; add a cup 
of cream and season with salt, pepper, a Httle cloves and sweet majoram, if you 
have it; if not, a little sage, if you like it. 3Iix nicely and put in a wet dish, 
or mold, and weight it tightly till cold, when it is ready for tea or lunch at any 
time, and a very nice disli it makes. 

Rejnarks. — It is more delicate and palatable than beef's liver fried in butter 
as steak, i. e., without the trouble of making into head-cheese; but the head- 
cheese, too, is nice fried. 

Beef to Roaster Bake. — A " Farmer's Wife " informs us — and they 
know how to do it — "to lay the meat on some sticks in a dripping-pan, the 
sticks to be thick enough to allow }{ an inch of water in the pan without touch- 
ing the meat. Season with salt and pepper, and put in the oven 3 or 4 hours 
before it is wanted for the table. Baste it often with the water in the bottom of 
the pan, renewing it as often as it gets low. This makes sweet, juicy baked 
beef. The great secret of it is, not to have the meat touch the water in the bot- 
tom of the pan, and to baste it often. Tough, unpromising pieces of beef are 
best cooked by steaming them an hour and a half, or so, and then putting them 
in the oven and baking as much longer." 

Remarks. — If the sticks nor the water are used, to prevent burning beet 
place a dish of water in the oven, the steam from which removes the danger of 
burning the meat. But the basting witli the water and juices as they drip from 
the meats is a vcrj^ nice way indeed. The following will also be found a very 
nice way of roasting a kind of half roast and half stew: 

Beef, a Pot Roast or Stew.— Slice thin salt pork, % lb., and lay it on 
the bottom of a dinner-pot; peel and slice a medium-sized onion and lay it over 
the pork; then put into the pot a rather square, solid piece of the round of beef. 



436 



DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 



Weighing about 6 lbs. ; season it with a table-spoonful of salt and a table-spoon- 
ful of pepper; add sufficient hot water to reach one-fourth up the side of the 
meat ; cover the pot and set it where the meat will cook slowly ; about ]4. ^our 
to each poUnd of meat is generally the time required for cooking. Turn the 
meat occasionally and cook it very slowly until it is brown and tender; take 
care to keep only suflBcient water in the pot to prevent burning. When the 
meat is done keep it hot in the oven, while a table-spoonful of flour is boiled for 
two minutes in the gravy; then serve the gravy and pork on the dish with the 
pot roast. 

Salad Dressing for Any Kind of Meat, Chicken, etc.— A scant 
pint of cold boiled or roast meat cut in small dice. Veal, lamb or chicken can 
be used, or even two kinds of meat if you have not enough of one. Twice as 
much cabbage as meat. Only that part of the cabbage which is white and brit- 
tle should be used, and it should be chopped fine. 

The Dressing, <rr Salad.— Take good vinegar, K P*- : 1 heaping table-spoon- 
ful of sugar; 1 tea-spoonful of dry mustard; 2 eggs, a little salt and pepper and 
butter the size of an egg. Directions— Heat the ingredients, the butter 
excepted, over boiling water, or by setting the basin into a pan of boiling water; 
stirring all the time to prevent curdling the eggs; as soon as it thickens remove 
from the hot water, then add the butter, stir it in, and pour, while hot, over the 
meat, stir and let stand till cold; then stir in the chopped cabbage. 

Remarks.— This makes a dish for tea rarely excelled. 

Corned Beef, To Boil with Cabbage.— A 6 to 8 lb. piece will 
require 3 to 4 hours slow boiling. Put it into cold water, and remove all scum 
that rises. If allowed to boil quick, at first especially, it will never become as 
tender as to cook slowly. The slower it boils, the better or more tender it will 
be, and the better, also, the flavor. If cabbage is to be cooked with it, split a 
young head into halves and pour boiling water upon it; then, after a few min- 
utes, pour off the water, which carries with it much of its rank odor and taste. 
An hour will cook the cabbage nicely. It is said that a bit of red pepper, the 
size of your finger ends, dropped into boiling meat or vegetables, will kill all 
unpleasant odors. It is worth a trial, and for me, I like the red pepper flavor, 
if a small-sized one is put in, whether it carries off the odor, or not. 

If is to be used cold, let it stand in the water in which it is boiled over 
night, or until cold, which makes it more juicy and sweeter to the taste. 

Mock Beef Tongue, or Savory Beef, Baked.— Lean, raw beef, 
33^ lbs. ; square soda crackers, or their equivalent, 6; butter, size of an egg: 
sweet cream, J^ cup; eggs, 3; salt, 4 tea-spoonfuls; pepper, 2^ tea-spoonfuls; 
powdered sweet marjoram (if you have it and like it, if not, summer savory will 
fill its place, wherever this is called for, or sage, if liked), 1 table-spoonful. 
Directions — Chop the beef fine and also poimd it, removing strings or gristle; 
roll the crackers fine, warm the butter a little so it will mix nicely, break the 
eggs over the pounded meat and mix all together with the hands; now make 
into 2 loaves or rolls like beef tongues, press closely together, put into a pan, 
and bake IJ^ hours, basting with water and butter, nicely browning both sides. 
"Wliat is left, sliced thin for tea, gives a delicious relish. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 437 

Cold Roast Beef Broiled.— Cut thin slices from the under-done parts 
of the roast, season with salt and pepper, place upon the gridiron over nice coals, 
turn them 2 or 8 times quicklj', as it broils quicker than if entirely raw, and 
serve as soon as done, while very hot, with a bit of butter on each slice. 

Itemarks. — Our wire beef-steak broiler, which see, will be very nice for this, 
as you can drop it into the stove hole, close down to the coals, as it requires 
quick heat. 

Plank of Beef Rolled and Corned for Eating Cold.— A lady 
writing in the Blade to a Dr. Utter, who had given a plan of how the Cincinnati 
butchers prepared their beef for corning, gives what she calls "a better way," 
ds follows: 

" For rolled corned beef we take the flank, lx)ne it, sprinkle salt, pepper, 
and a little saltpeter on one side; salt it, beginning with the thickest end; when 
rolled, tie firmly and securely with a strong" cord around and lengthwise; lay in 
strong brine 10 to 14 days, remove and boil in fresh water several hours, or till 
done. On taking from the fire it must be pressed immediately, by laying a 
board on top, put a heavy stone on the board for a weight, keep the weight on 
till the next day; when pressed well it cuts up in slices like ham. Hope the 
doctor will try it and tell me how he likes it." 

Remarks. — I did not see the " Utter" Doctor's report of how he liked it; 
but, as the author hkes it, and knows that others will, who like a nice slice of 
cold boiled beef for supper or a lunch, that is enough. It will be found very 
nice. Summer savoiy, marjoram, etc., can be added in the seasoning, which 
will improve its flavor to those who like them, or sage. 

Fresh Beef, To Cook for Use When Cold.— Take flank, or parts 
where there is no bone, but streaks of lean and fat; salt and pepper to taste, and 
roll like jelly cake; then wrap twine around it, tie tightly, and boil till done; 
when cold, slice as you would cake. — Mrs. Emma Weatherwax, Cedar Rapids, 
Iowa. 

Remarks.— li will be seen by this that it is not necessary to wait to corn it, 
but that fresh does equally well, only for those who prefer the corned. Each 
can suit himself. 

Beef's Heart, to Bake With Dressing.— Remove *he "deaf ears," 
and all the superfluous strings, fat, etc., washing inside and out, to remove all 
blood in the heart. Put into the pot and cover with boiling water— boiling until 
tender. Take up and cut out the inside partitions, to make room for the dress- 
ing, or stuffing, made the same as for chicken or turkey, adding a little extra 
butter, to make up for the leannesc of the heart. Bake about 13^^ hours. — Mrs. 
A. W. Smith, Sheridan, Montana, ?" Blade. 

Re7narks.—U this is nicely done a baked heart makes a dish of which the 
author is very fond. "Would be glad to help eat one once each week. If any 
is left, slice it, and warm up, next morning, in the gravy with what stuffing 
there may be left; if none, some bits of bread do nicely, warmed in the gravy. 

Beef's Tongue, Potted.— Boil a tongue which has been salted, but not 
smoked, with nice veal, 1 lb. Remove the skin from the tongue and chop it 
finely with the veal; then pound it nicely with the steak pounder, adding 3 or 4 
table-spoonfuls of nice butter, a little cayLonc. mace, nlitmeg and cloves finely 



438 I>R. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

ground. Mix all thoroughly, and press into small jars, or bowls, and pour a 
little melted butter over the top, which helps its keeping. It does nicely with- 
out the veal, but is preferable with. May be eaten cold, or fried brown, in hot 
butter. — Our Fireside Friend. 

Scotch Potted Meat.— Boil an ox cheek and 2 calves-feet, slowly, till 
the meat comes off the bones freely ; chop fine, season with pepper and salt; 
mix moist with some of the gravy, or broth, in which it was cooked ; put into 
molds. If well cooked and carefully seasoned it will keep a week. Or if cov- 
ered as the tongue, above, with butter, much longer. The Scotch eat this vdth 
a fresh lemon and mustard. If the family is large, both cheeks and 4 feet may 
be used. The cheek is tender; meat from other parts may be used, by longer 
boiling to make equally tender. 

Scotch. Collops, With Veal.^^Cut the remains of some cold roast veal 
into about the tliickness of cutlets, rather larger than a silver dollar, flour the 
meat well, and fry a light brown color in butter; dredge again with flour, and 
add 3^ pt. of water, pouring it in by degrees; set it on the fire, and, when it 
boils, add an onion and a blade of powdered mace, and let it simmer very gently 
for % of an hour; flavor the gra\'y with a table-spoonful of mushroom, or 
other catsup or Worcestershire sauce. Give one boil and serve hot. 

Shoulder of Veal or Lamb, Stuffed— "Dutch Turkey."— Take 
a shoulder of nice veal (and it you are buying it of the butcher have him) care- 
fully remove the bones, cutting only at the ends, to leave the opening for 
the stufiing to be introduced, wash and wipe dry with a cloth by pressing it 
upon the meat. Grate 1 to 13'^ pts. of bread crumbs, season with salt and 
pepper, a tea-spoonful of sweet marjoram, sage, sweet basil, or parsley, as you 
have or prefer, made fine; after having been dried; and if onion is liked chop a 
medium sized one, and put it in a saucepan with as much butter, and stew 5 to 
8 minutes, then pour over the crumbs, and mix thoroughly. Press this stufllng 
all through the length of the leg, from which the bone was removed, and secure 
the ends with skewers, or by sewing with stout, uncolored, linen thread. Sea- 
son the outside with salt and pepper, dust with floiu- and bake about 2 hours, 
or till done, in a rather hot oven, basting from time to time with the water, and 
a little butter, put in the pan for the purpose; and if 2 or 3 sticks are put in the 
pan to keep the meat out of the water, so much the better. If likely to brown 
too much, put a piece of paper, or a flat pan over it. Keep up the supply of 
water — about 14. P*- — i^ the pan, to make a gravy with by thickening with 
browned or unbrowned flour, as you prefer. A leg of young mutton, or even 
the hind leg, may be done in the same way; or they may be thus roasted, with- 
out the boneing and stuffing, when you have not time for that. Cranberry 
sauce, or any tart jelly, may be served with either of these; but for lamb the 
following sauce is generally served. 

Mint Sauce for Roast Lamb. — Finely chopped green mint, 3 table- 
spoonfuls; the same amount of granulated sugar, and good vinegar, 6 table 
spoonfuls; make and serve hot. 

Remarks. — I used to have a German, butcher prepare the veal shoulder for 



VARIOUS DISHES. 439 

me in this way in Ann Arbor, Mich., and he always called it " Dutch Turkey," 
so I am not to be charged with a slight or any disrespect to the Germans as a 
class, as it originated with one of their own people. 

Meat Loaf, from Beef, Veal, Mutton, or Ham, Left Over.— 
Chop fine all such meats as you liave left over from pre%'ious meals, fat and 
lean together, with a chopped onion, if allowable; a few slices of dry bread 
which have been soaked in milk, pressing out the superfluous milk; an egg for 
each person, and mix all together with pepper and salt as needed. Make into a 
loaf and bake nicely for breakfast or tea. Mashed potatoes, or fried, sliced 
from raw ones, are very iiice with this relish. 

Minced Meat Fritters.— Regular minced meat, 2 cups (or you may 
mince cold beef and veal, and if a little cold ham in it, so much the better, 
chopping in a good-sized tart apple with these meats, to imitate " minced," and 
and fine bread crumbs, 1 cup; 2 eggs, well beaten, and the juice of half a lemon. 
Mix well, using a little spice if you get it up from left-over meats. Fry in hot 
lard; drain, if need be. in a colander, and serve hot. If made thin they cook 
quicker. 

PORK.— We now come to ^he question of pork; and I will say that, 
although many, perliaps most, physicians object to the use of this article of diet, 
yet the author has always eaten more or less of it. People must judge largely 
for themselves, and from their conditions of health — eat no footl that rises on 
the stomach, but whatever digests well will give strength. Probably the largest 
amount of pork is cooked by frying. I will, therefore, first direct how this 
should be done to be the most palatable as well as the most digestible. Of 
course, these remarks refer to salt, or " pickletl " jwrk: 

Salt Pork, How to Fry. — A lady who is competent to instruct in the 
manner of cooking this article, after saying that " None of my family like salt 
pork, they say, yet we manage to make a barrel of it disappear yearly. Here 
is one of my ways of cooking it in the spring, when I want it extra nice. I 
soak it for a few houre in sweet milk; ordinarily I take skim milk or fresh 
buttermilk; then drain it, and fry brown." 

Beinarks.—li it is dipped in flour first, it will be crispy and nice. Rolled 
cracker crumbs make it nice, too. If cut into dice and fried with eggs, as the 
Omelet with Ham, below, it is also remarkably nice. 

Ham, to Bake, and an Omelet Prom the " Odds and Ends." 
—Take a medium sized ham— 8 to 12 lbs.— and soak it 12 to 24 hours in cold 
water, changing once. Then put it into a suitable kettle that will allow its 
being covered with boiling water, adding good vinegar, 1 pt., with a little sum- 
mer savory, sage, thyme, or parsley — parsley seed does well — using any two of 
lliese if you have them, and boil slowly for 2 or 3 hours, until very tender. 
When cool enough to handle remove it from the water, take off the rind and 
all fat exceeding % inch in thickness, and the dark outside from the part not 
covered by the rind; put into the dripping pan, sprinkle on a little powdered 
sugar, grate over it a little bread crust, and place in a rather hot oven, about J^ 
an hour, or until nicely browned. If you can bring it out just at dinner time, 



440 I>Ii- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

it is splendid hot; and it is also " just splendid " cold. The sugar improves Its 
taste and preserves and increases its juices. 

For the omelet take the "odds and ends," chop them fine, and for each 
pint of the chopped ham, break in 3 eggs and fry a nice brown, makes a deli- 
cious dish for breakfast. 

Remarks. — This is the proper plan to prepare a ham to chop finely, for 
sandwiches; but for this purpose most, or all of the fat part may be left on, 
and all chopped together, putting on, or mixing in, as you choose, a suitable 
amount of mustard, and sufficient of the water in which it was boiled, to make 
sufficient moist for the sandwich mince. I prefer it to those made with beef or 
veal. If these dishes are nicely made, I should like to see tlie doctor, or any 
other person, who would refuse to eat of them, in moderation, although, of 
course, tliey are "only pork." 

Omelet With Ham, Raw or Cooked.— Cut raw ham into small dice 
(chopped coarsely). Put a suitable amount of nice butter into a frying pan, on 
the stove; beat the eggs (1 or 2 for each pei-son to be served, as you wish), put- 
ting in a little salt. Then put the chopped raw ham into the butter, and when 
nearly fried turn the beaten eggs over the ham, the fire being brisk, will soon 
cook the omelet Cut into suitable pieces to take up and serve. To make the 
omelet with boiled ham pot the beaten eggs upon the ham as soon as the ham is 
put into the hot butter, as tlie ham will be nicely hot as soon as the omelet is 
cooked, by dipping some of the hot butter upon it, until done. 

Ham Balls.— Chop fine cold cooked ham; add an egg for each person 
and a little flour; beat together and make into balls; fry brown in hot butter. 
Ham and Eggs, Extra Nice.— A cook sends the following to the 
Country Gentkman: Cut the ham not quite % inch thick, boil in plenty of 
water till barely cooked through; put in a pan and brown the fat part slightly; 
remove from the fire, take out the meat and pour off the fat into a cup; wipe 
the pan till it shines like a mirror. Then put in a spoonful of the clear part of 
the fat, break in the eggs, and set the pan in a place scarcely hotter than boiling 
water, cover and let tlie eggs cook slowly, for four or five minutes, taking them 
out as soon as they can be lifted. Place them around the dish of ham, but do 
not put the fat on the dish. Eat with mashed potatoes. 

Fried Ham With Poached Eggs.— Fry the ham as usual. Poach 
the eggs by putting into a frying pan wiUi boiling water, over a gentle fire; put 
in the eggs, which should be broken into a dish separately to avoid bad ones, 
cover the pan 4 to 5 minutes. Take up with a skimmer, on to the ham, or a 
separate plate, as you choose, sprinkling over a little pepper and salt, and a bit 
of butter. Serve hot. 

. Broiled Ham.— If the ham is very salty freshen it a little in hot water, 
as salt pork is freshened, except to remove from the stove as soon as it boils, 
and let it soak about 20 minutes. Drain nicely, and broil as beefsteak, which 
see. Turning 2 or 3 times; season with pepper and a little butter upon it. 
To be served at once, Avhile hot. 

Ham and Tongue Toast. — Cut the slices of bread rather thick. Toasj 



VARIOUS DISHES. 441 

carefully, and butter well on both sides. Chop the ham or tongue pretty finely; 
put into a pan with a little butter and pepper (the author likes a sprinkle or two 
of cayenne in it), and a beaten egg for each piece of bread; and as soon as the 
egg is done spread upon the loast and serve at once. 

Ham Cakes, Baked, for Breakfast or Tea.— Take the remnants of 
a boiled ham, fat and lean together. Chop fine, and pound with a steak- 
pounder, or, if you have one, run it through a sausage machine. Soak a large 
piece of bread for each person to be served in milk; a beaten egg, also, for each 
person, a little pepper, and all mixed together, put into a suitable pudding-dish 
and bake a nice brown. Call this ham pudding if you prefer. It will pass for 
either. Some may prefer tlie next one with its mixture of veal. 

Ham and Veal Odds and Ends Economically Used.— Take 
equal quantities of cold boiled ham and veal; chop fine, separately; have some 
hard-boiled eggs, % dozen, or more, according to the amount of meats, also 
chopped fine; then, in a buttered pudding-dish, put a layer of veal, with pepper 
and salt to suit, and moistened with a little water and a few splashes of "Worces- 
tershire sauce, or any of the catsups; then treat a layer of ham in the same 
way; and then of the eggs, with pepper and salt; and so keep on until all is in; 
when, if the ham had fat upon it, no butter will be needed, otherwise, lay a few 
bits of nice butter on the top, and bake slowly about 2 hours; then it may be 
served hot for any meal, or put away till cold, with a pkte and weights upon it, 
so it will shce nicely. 

"Scrapple" in Place of Head-Cheese.— "Lorinda," of Anoka, 
Minn., gives the Blade Ihc plan of using up hogs' heads with some cornmeal, 
which she leai-ued of a Dutch woman in Illinois, which she testifies to the value 
of from 25 years' experience. It needs only a trial to satisfy any one of its 
palatablenees and economy in using up hogs' heads. She says: 

"Soak the head, or heads, in water over night. In the morning clean 
thorouglily, cutting out the eyes and ears deeply; then boil until tender; take 
«ut and let stand till cold; remove all the bone and chop fine. Drain off all the 
water it was boiled in, to get out all the bits of bone; rinse out the kettle, and 
put back the water drained off, and put on the fire to get hot; in the meantime, 
season the chopped meat and put in with additional water, to about half fill the 
kettle, or to be quite thin, and when it begins to boil thicken with cornmeal to 
the consistence of mush; take out into pans while hot, make it level on the top, 
and when cold, pour melted lard over it to prevent the top getting dry and hard: 
it will also help it to keep longer. "When wanted for use, cut out in slices 
about half an inch thick and fry in a little hot lard or butter until a nice brown; 
then turn, brown again, eat hot. If any one thinks this is too fat, or greasy, 
they can put in the heart and tongue. " 

Pork Chops Pried with Apples, Very Pine.— Put the fresh chops 
in the frying-pan, salt, pepper, and sage, if you like it, or any other sweet herb. 
to be scattered over, and fried ; if not fat enough to make plenty of gravy, add 
butter or drippings. "When the chops are nicely done, having sliced the apples, 
fiy in the same dish, and when nicely browned put them over the chops or in a 



442 DK CHASE'S RECIPES. 

dish by themselves, as some may not like them, although the author, and prob- 
ably most others, will be very fond of them. Use nice tart apples only. Chops 
of fresh pork, fried and seasoned the same way, are splendid, if nicely browned, 
even without the apples. 

Remarks.— We will close the pork question with directions for properly- 
cooking and serving pigs' feet, ears, etc., as suggested by the great showman, 
P. T. Barnum. He is admitted to be "the greatest showman on earth," and 
why shoidd he not have learned something about good victuals? I should 
think he had, judging from his size and well rounded face. Being taken from 
the Bridgeport Standard (Barnum's home) it is no doubt reliable. I know 
" from the nature of things " he is correct 

"Broiled Pigs' Feet, a la Barnum," is one of the dishes printed oq 
the Sturtevant House bill of fare in New York. Barnum says: " Pigs' feet, 
properly cooked, were given to me to eat long before I was permitted to par- 
take of any other animal food. . When old and young feet are boiled together 
for 2}{ hours, as usual, the old ones are tough and worthless. If they were 
boiled d}4 hours, the young feet would burst and the gelatine swim away. 
Now, the secret is to wrap each foot in a cotton bandage wound 2 or 3 times 
around it and well corded with twine. Then boil them 4 hours. Let them 
remain in the bandage until needed to broil, fry or pickle. The skin will hold 
them together while being cooked; and when you eat them you will find them 
all tender and delicate as possible. " 

Remarks.— The Standard said there was a hotel in their State (Connecticut> 
where pigs' feet were a special feature of the bill of fare; cooked as described 
above by ;Mr. Barnum. I know very well that pigs' feet as generally cooked, 
are a nuisance, so far as tenderness and ability to eat them are concerned. This 
wrapping and long cooking will make a new feature in serving them. I say, 
'Hurrah for Barnum!" as he has now done the public some real good, that 
will last, too, as long as pigs' feet grow. The 2J^ hours are long enough to 
cook the ears, which the author has always preferred to the feet, because they 
were more tender and delicate, from the fact that they did not require so long 
boiling as the feet, and hence would be tender while the feet remained tough 
and gristly, for the want of the very knowledge how to cook them. 

Stews of Mutton, Chicken, etc.— Take the neck, or any part of the 
forequarter of mutton, not so old as to be strong, cut into rather small pieces, 
and place in a pot having a well fitting lid, and cover the meat with cold water, 
boil slowly, removing scum as it rises, till perfectly tender; then set away, keep- 
ing covered. Next morning remove the fat, or tallow, from the top; then, at 
the proper time to get it ready for dinner, place again on the fire, adding salt 
and pepper to taste, and any herbs, if desired, and pour in hot water to well 
cover the mutton; and when boiling nicely put in dumplings made of light 
bread dough or biscuit dough, and fail not to keep up the boiling until the 
dumplings are done. Serve in a covered tureen that will hold the gravy, or 
juices, as well as the meat, dumplings, etc. If properly managed, when the 
meat and dumplings are taken up, there will be only juices enough left to 



VARIOUS DISHES. 443 

thicken -with a trifle of flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold water, or milt for 
the gravy. 

Very Tough Mutton, and Chickens which have worn themselves out by lay- 
ing eggs and raising many broods, by longer stewing the first day can be made 
very tender and palatable in the same manner. 

Mutton and Pork Stew.— Neck, or other cheap parts of mutton, 3 
lbs.; salt pork, J^ lb.; 1 onion; salt and pepper; and parsley, thyme or sum- 
mer savory, if on hand and liked. Directions — Cut the mutton into small 
pieces, %ot 1 inch square; the pork into small thin slices; break or slice the 
onion, dividing the rings if sliced. Put the mutton into a covered stew pan 
with cold water to cover it. Heat it gradually and stew 1 hour; then add the 
slices of pork, and bits of onion, the salt and pepper to taste, and continue the 
stewing until the meats are perfectly done, at which time, if desired, have 
ready some pastry, as for meat pie crust; (for 1 qt. of flour 3 table-spoonfuls of 
lard; 2% cups of milk; salt and soda, 1 tea-spoonful each; cream of tartar, 2 tea- 
spoonfuls, work quickly and don't get too stiff, or in these proportions;) roll out 
}^ an inch thick, and cut into squares, or diamonds, and put in just long 
enough before taking up to cook the pastry, 10 to 15 minutes will be enough; 
and just before taking up add the sweet herbs, if they are to be used — if put 
in at first their flavor will be too much evaporated. When done thicken a cup 
of milk with a table-spoonful or two of flour and stir in just before taking into 
the tureen. In place of the pastry, or dumplings, J^ a can of sweet corn; or, 
in sweet corn time, the corn cut from J^ a dozen ears, previously cooked, may 
be stirred in, as an equivalent. Either plan is excellent. 

Remarks. — Lamb, veal, beef, or young pork ribs, or other lean parts, make 
a healthful, cheap, easily digested, and a very satisfactory dinner at any season 
of the year. 

Value of Sweet Herbs for Stews, etc.— If the people generally 
knew how much nicer stews are with these herbs, parsley and thyme especially, 
for flavoring soups and stews, it seems to the author they would raise them for 
this purpose, as much as sage and summer savory are for sausages and roasts; 
and as pennyroyal should be, as an herb drink to promote perspiration, break 
up colds, etc. (See Seasoning Food, etc., after dishes.) 

Irish Stew. — Mutton cutlets, or chops, 2 lbs.; potatoes, 4 lbs., or enough 
for the family; 1 onion; pepper and salt. Directions— Cut the chops into 
small pieces, cracking the bones, if any; peel and slice the potatoes; shred, or 
chop the onion finely; butter the bottom of a stew pan, and place a layer of the 
sliced potatoes over the bottom, with a proper proportion of the onion upon 
them, and season each layer with salt, and a very little pepper; then a layer of 
the chops, etc. , until all are in ; then put on 1 pt. of cold water, cover the pan 
and simmer 2 hours, or until done. Serve hot, and keep hot as long as dinner 
lasts, by keeping the tureen covered. 

Remarks. — Notwithstanding this is called an Irish stew, if it is done nicely 
it is quite good enough for an American. It is a very popular dish at hotels 
and boarding houses, and any kind of cold meats, not too fat. may be utilized 



444 DP^- CUASKS liECirES. 

in this way, remembering that if made of cooked meats, only about half the 
time will be required, enough only to cook the potatoes. 

Irish Stew from Left-Over Steak and Potatoes.— Cut the left- 
over steak and potatoes into squares of half an inch. Stew the steak in a cov- 
ered stew-pan until very tender; cut an onion, and add the potatoes with a little 
of the left-over gra^'y from the steak; season with pepper, and a little salt if 
needed, thyme and summer savory. 

Remarks. — Be certain to have just enough juices of the stew left, as a gravy, 
*. e., do not cook it too dry, and it will be fit for a king. At least, the 
author first found a dish of it good enough for him, seasoned as above, at 
Florence, Kan. Try it if you like a good thing, and can get the thyme and 
savory. The only fault I ever found, or heard about it, was " I want a 
little more of that stew. " 

Potato Stew. — For a potato stew, lay 3 slices of salt pork— fat and 
lean — in the bottom of your stew kettle. Let it fry. If there is too much 
fat pour off a part. Slice an onion and fry with the pork. When it browns 
put in the potatoes sliced, not too thin, and hot water, not quite enough to 
cover. When nearly done, set on top of the stove to simmer. Add pepper, 
butter, and a cupful of sweet cream. Milk thickened with flour can be used 
in place of cream. 

Parsnip Stew.— Salt pork, ^ lb., cut in slices; beef or veal, 1 lb., in 
small pieces; stew in a saucepan with suitable amount of water. Scrape the 
parsnips, wash and cut into slices; also 3^ dozen medium-sized potatoes, in 
halves. Put all into the pan or pot together, cover closely for half an hour, 
or till all are tender; then add a small bit of butter, and pepper pretty freely, 
dredge in a little flour, and a few minutes more is needed to cook the flour 
into a gravy, and serve hot. (See also Parsnips Stewed in Milk, among the 
Vegetable Dishes.) 

Escaloped. Parsnips. — Mash 1 pt. of boiled parsnips. Add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, 1 tea-spoonful of salt, a little pepper, 3 table-spoonfuls of 
cream or milk. Mix the ingredients. Stir on the fire until the mixture 
bubbles. Turn into a buttered dish, cover with crumbs, dot with butter, and 
brown in the oven. 

Remarks. — This gives us a new way of cooking parsnips, as well as a 
very nice dish. 

Venetian Stew.— Take 1 table spoonful each of chopped onion, parsley, 
flour, and Parmesian cheese (cheese made in Parma, Italy, but the author 
thinks any good old American cheese will do just as well, at least good enough 
for Americans); a little salt, pepper, and ground mace; spread between some 
thin slices of veal; leave for some hours; then stew in rich broth with a goodly 
amount of butter. 

Remarks. — If the veal had been boiled the day before in a small amount of 
water, it will be nice for the broth. We should not be complete in the line of 
stews, if we did not introduce an oyster stew, and as we have Delmonico's, to- 



VAEIOUS DISHES. 445 

gether with his manner of frying and baking, we will put them all in this con- 
nection as follows: 

Oyster Stew, Fried and Escaloped, According to Del monico. 
— Oysters sufficient, and their liquor; rolled crackers, salt, pepper, and milk. 
Directions — Put the liquor in a stew-pan (a tea-cupful for 3), and add half as 
much water, salt, a good bit of pepper, and a tea-spoonful of rolledcrackers to 
each person. Put on the stove and bring to a boil. Have your oysters in a 
bowl, and the moment the liquor boils pour in all your oysters, say 10 to each 
person, or six will do. Watch carefully, and as it boils, take out your watch, 
or count 30, and take your oysters from the stove. Have a big dish ready with 
1^ table-spoonfuls of milk for each person. Pour the stew upon this milk and 
serve immediately. Never boil oysters in milk if you wish them good. 

Oysters, To Fry. — Oysters sufficient, nice light crackers, eggs, salt, 
pepper, and cornmeal. Directions — Roll the crackers, and mi.x a little salt 
and pepper into them; beat the eggs; then first dip the drained oysters into the 
cracker crumbs, then into the egg, and then into the cornmeal, ha\ing sufficient 
butter pretty hot in a frying pan, put them in as quickly as you can; then, as 
soon as the first side is nicely browned, torn them carefully, and serve hot. If 
any of the cracker and egg is left, mix them together, fry, and serve with 
the oysters. Parsley is a nice relish with them. 

Oysters, Escaloped. — Oysters, nice crackers, salt and pepper (and, if 
you desire, a little pulverized mace and cloves), butter, milk with the cream 
stirred in, else a beaten egg or two may supply the place of the cream. Direc- 
TIONS — Roll or pound the crackers finely; apply butter freely to the bottom of 
the pan in which they are to be baked; then cover it well with oysters and 
sprinkle them with salt and whatever seasoning you use; tlien a good layer of 
crackers, over which put pretty freely small pieces of butter, and wet sUghtly 
with the juice of the oysters, which has been mixed with the milk and cream, 
or egg. So fill the dish, the last layer being cracker, and double the thickness 
of the others, upon which put more butter and sufficient of the wetting mixture 
to well moisten. If the dish is deep it will require about 40 minutes to bake 
sufficiently ; and if tlie dish Is covered while baking remove it a few minutes 
before done to allow the top to be nicely browned. — " S. E. N." in Counti'y 
Gentleman. 

Remarks. — To good judges, it is not necessary to say that this will be very 
nice, even if a glass of wine is not added to the wetting mixture, as in the orig- 
inal. Some prefer it with, and many, I think, without; each can suit him 
selves. It is well known that Delmonico led the "ton "in the city of New 
York for a great many years; and there are so many points — 20 different — in 
the plans of cooking these dishes, as prepared at his restaurant, it vdW pay for 
all who like nice digest to heed well these instructions, as I have not a doubt of 
their origination with him, or, rather, his French cook. To follow them is to 
ensure success, as the author has tested the stew many times, and the others 
enough to know their superiority over the old way. The four following recipes 
for cooking oysters, and the corn oysters, are from the Toledo Post, and wiU be 
foimd very nice. 



446 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Chicken Oyster Pie.— Cut the chicken in suitable pieces for fricassee, 
and prepare it as for that dish. Line a deep pie dish with a rich crust, and put 
in a layer of chicken with its gravy, and a layer of raw oysters; sprinkle the 
latter with salt, pepper and bits of butter. Proceed thus till the dish is full, 
and cover with a crust of pastry. Bake from J^ to ^ of an hour. Serve with 
gravy, made with equal parts of chicken gravy and the oyster juice, thickened 
with flour and seasoned with salt and pepper. 

Oyster Flitters.— Drain the liquor from the oysters, and to 1 tea-cupful 
add the same quantity of milk, 3 eggs, pinch of salt, and flour enough for a 
thin batter. Chop the oysters and stir them in the butter, and fry in half but- 
ter and lard rather hot, and send quickly to the table. 

Oyster Omelet. — Twelve large oysters, 6 eggs, 1 cup of milk, 1 tea- 
spoonful of butter, salt and pepper, and parsley, if agreeable; chop the oysters. 
Beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, as for cake. Heat 3 table- 
spoonfuls of butter, pour the milk, yolks of eggs, oysters and seasoning in a 
dish and mix, and add the whites of eggs and 1 spoonful of melted butter, with 
as little stirring as possible, then cook to an appetizing brown, turning the 
omelet carefully. 

Broiled Oysters.— Drain and wipe the oysters and dip them in melted 
butter; then broil them on an oiled griddle over a moderate fire. Season to 
taste. 

Corn Oysters.— Take young sweet corn; cut from the cobs into a dish. 
To 1 pt. of corn add 1 well-beaten egg, small tea-cupful of flour, J^ gill sweet 
cream, J^ tea-spoonful of salt; mix it well. Fry like oysters by dropping into 
hot drippings or butter by spoonfuls about the size of an oyster. 

DUCKS— To Bake Wild or Tame, to Avoid their Naturally 
Strong Plavor.—DiRECTiONS— After having prepared them for stuffing, 
first parboil them for 1 hour, having an onion cut into 2 or 3 pieces, according 
to its size; put a piece inside of each duck while parboiling, which removes 
their strong flavor; then stuff with bread-crumb dressing, in which half of a 
common-sized onion, chopped fine, has been added for each duck. Bake in a 
hot oven, leaving the oven door J^ inch ajar to carry off the strong flavor which 
may be left. Baste often with water and butter kept on tlie stove for that pur- 
pose, as the water first put in is to be poured off, to get rid of the duck-oil, 
which at first comes out very freely and contains much of the rancid or strong 
flavor of the duck, which it is our design hereby to avoid. After this the water 
and butter may be put into the pan for basting and for the gravy. The object 
is to get rid of all the oil possible. 

Another Plan — and some people like them better with wholly an onion 
dressing— is as follows: Peel and wash 4 medium-sized onions for each duck, 
slice them, and have some water in a saucepan, boiling as hard as maybe, 
throw in the sliced onions (onions can be peeled and sliced under water without 
affecting the eyes), with a Uttle salt, and boil for 1 minute only after they begin 
to boil, which removes the acrid oil, or strong taste of the onions; remove from 
the fire, pouring off the water and draining nicely (this should always be done 



VARIOUS DISHES. 447 

in cooking onions, even as an onion stew in milk), chop the onions finely, and 
season with salt and pepper to taste and 1 tea-spoonful of powdered sage for 
each duck; stuff, and bake as above. 

Remarks.— IMs instruction was obtained of a boarding-house keeper, who 
had many years experience besides. I have had them tried several times myself 
and will say that for me I prefer at least half the dressing to be bread-crumbs, 
although the onion dressing alone, prepared as above, is very fine. If bread is 
used, of course butter is also to be added in all cases. Remember this, also, 
that in baking ducks, or any other wild game or poultry, they should be basted 
every 5 to 10 minutes while baking, if you desire them to be tender and sweet. 
Have plenty of water in the pan, with quite a bit of butter, for the purpose, 
and for the gravy after the oil has been poured or dipped off. 

Ducks to Boast and Stuff With Potato Stuffing.— The roasting 
to be the same as above; but for the stuffing, boil potatoes and mash them finely. 
Prepare 1 onion at least for each duck, as also above directed (by boiling 1 min- 
ute with a little salt and pouring off the water), then chopping fine and mixing 
with the ix)tato sufficient for the number of ducks to be stuffed, seasoning with 
salt and pepper and a very little {% tea-spoonful to a duck) of thyme, and when 
filled with this potato and onion mixture, roast as before directed; and as soon 
as the oil is got rid of, rub over with butter, dredge on a little flour, put in more 
hot water, and baste often. Put the giblets into the same pan, and when done 
chop fine, and put into the gravy. 

Duck and Oyster Croquettes, or Balls, to Fry.— Stuff a young 
aud tender duck with oyster dressing (4 to 6, chopped, for a duck), roast, basting 
well to keep moist and from burning. When cold remove the bones and chop 
finely, and mix with the dressing, season with cayenne (if tolerated, else black 
pepper) and salt Moisten with catsup and a well beaten egg, and stiffen pro- 
perly with more bread or cracker crumbs, if needed. Make into croquettes, or 
balls, and brown nicely in hot butter or drippings. Put a sprig or two of 
parsley, if you have it, with each one, in serving. 

Mock Duck, With Veal or Beefsteak.— Take veal steak, or cut- 
lets, from the round; or the round from a young tender beef, and remove the 
rings of bone. Make a dressing with bread crumbs or rolled cracker, season- 
ing with a little onion (to imitate duck dressing, proper), which is always iised 
with duck, to help overcome their peculiar tastes, moistening with an egg; 
adding salt and pepper of course, and a little thyme if you have it. Spread 
this stuffing, good thickness, over each steak; then roll them as much into the 
shape of a duck as possible, t}ing with twine, to keep in place. Baste well, 
and frequently, while roasting, to prevent their drying up too much. If done 
nicely you have a nice dish. Of course, making a gravy as for duck. Beef is 
not generally quite as tender as veal, but is more tender than the general run 
of dncks. 

Codfish, to Boil. -Codfish, as generally cooked for dinner, is left so 
salty that too much water is craved after eating it to be healthful. To avoid 
this, put to soak in plenty of water the first thing in the morning. It is said, 



448 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

"skin side up," but I think this makes but little, if any, difference. Wbei: 
breakfast work is done, scale and clean well. Put to soak again la a warm 
place. About 30 minutes before dinner time, put the whole 'fish in a deep spi- 
der or shallow kettle with water enough to cover and boil gently for about 15 
minutes, or until tender. Drain off dry and slip on a deep plate, spread thickly 
with butter, adding plenty of pepper, and pour over all a cupful of sweet 
cream, or not, as you choose. If to be prepared for breakfast, soak an hour, 
after supper, then scrape and clean, and soak over night. Otherwi.se the same. 
Remnants can be picked to pieces, and make a gravy with milk, or cream, for 
dinner, or supper; or be made into balls, as below. If codfish, or other salt 
fish are properly freshened, they are very healthful food. 

Remarks. — The author is very fond of codfish when properly freshened, 
being laid on top of potatoes that are being boiled with their "jackets" on, 
then a gravy made of the water in which it was cooked, by adding butter and 
pepper only. This gives you the pure flavor of the fish. 

Codfish or Other Fish Balls.— Codfish left over from dinner is just 
as nice for this purpcK^e as to freshen it purposely. Remove all the bones and 
skin; picking it into fine pieces, or shreds Qong fiber-like pieces.) Have twice 
as much bulk of nicely mashed potatoes as fish; making the potatoes rich with 
butter and milk, if you have it, as for the table, and a beaten egg or two, 
according to the amount being prepared; season with pepper (the author likes 
a sprinkle or two of cayenne in them) ; flour your hands and make into balls, 
or rather flat, more like biscuit, and fry in hot butter, or drippings, as you 
choose, turning carefully when the first side is nicely browned. Drain off any 
superfluous fat before sending to the table. 

Remarks. — Tlicy may be made perfectly plain, simply fish and potatoes, 
and still be good; but the hotels pursue the above plan, some of them also 
adding some boiled or chopped onion to the mixture. Any large fresh fish, 
even, left over, may be made into balls for the next breakfast, in the same man- 
ner, using a little salt in the seasoning. They may be put into pork, which is 
about half fried, and so give a nicer flavor to the pork, and eaten together; 
especially nice in tins way if you use potatoes a little more freely than used in 
making the fish balls. 

Codfish and Eggs. — We have ham and eggs, why not codfish and eggs, 
as well? Properly soak and pick the fish to pieces, and to each cup of fish put 
in 3 eggs and beat well together, and drop from a spoon into hot butter, or 
half-and-half butter and lard, or drippings, and fry a nice brown on both sides. 

Remarks. — If tried once, they wiU be again, and again, which is the best 
praise that can be given any dish. 

Baked Whitefish and Shad with Dressing, — Clean, rinse and 
wipe dry with a napkin, a whitefish or an}' other good-sized fish, weighing 3 lbs. 
or more. Sprinkle salt and pepper inside and out; then fill with dressing, as 
for chicken or turkey, only having it pretty dry; sew up and lay on some sticks 
in the dripping-pan; put in water and butter, dredging the fish with flour before 
putting in; and, if you have it and like it, put a few thin slices of fat pork OD 



VARIOUS DISHES. 449 

the fish — if no pork, then rub well -with butter. Bake IJ^ hours, basting fre- 
quently to avoid burning. Shad will be done the same, garnishing -with a few 
pieces of lemon, sprigs of celery, or with the lemon sauce below. 

Shad or Other Fish, To Pry .—Dress nicely, cut in pieces, rinse and 
absorb the water with a napkin, or drain a few minutes; rub in salt and a little 
pepper, roll in flour orcornmeal, having fat from salt pork quite hot in the pan, 
lay in the fish, first the inside down; when browned nicely, turn, cooking rather 
slowly to avoid burning. Some persons are very fond of grated horseradish 
with fish. If not serve with potatoes plain, or the sauce given below. 

Broiled Mackerel,— Put mackerel to soak immediately after dinner the 
day before they are wanted for breakfast. Always put the skin side up in 
the tub of water. Change the water at 3 or 4 o'clock, and at tea-time pour 
off and rinse; then just cover with milk, if you have it, till bed-time; then take 
out and hang up to dry till morning, when they will be dry enough to broil 
nicely, the same as beefsteak, which see. They may be fried, but are not 
so nice, if broiled without burning. 

Stuffed and Baked Pish.— Take out the backbone of the fish, leav- 
ing the head and tail on. Chop fine 2 small onions, and fry them in a 
table-spoonful of butter then add sufficient soaked bread to fill the fish, the 
yolk of an egg, and season with salt, nutmeg and parsley chopped fine. Stuff 
the fish with the mixture; pour over the whole some melted butter, and bake. 
If the oven is very hot, lay over it a greased paper, taking it off to allow the 
fish to become a nice brown. 

Sauce for Baked Fish.— If there is not gravy enough from the water 
and butter with which the basting has been done, add a little more hot water 
and butter, and the juice of a lemon, with a spoonful of browned flour rubbed 
smooth in cold water, bring to a boil and serve hot. If you have parsley, a 
little chopped, or a little chopped spearmint, will add reKsh. 

Sauce for Meats, Delmonico's. — The following is Delmonico's 
favorite sauce: " Take an ounce of ham or bacon, cut it up in small pieces and 
fry in hot fat. Add an onion and carrot, cut up; thicken with flour, then add 
a pint or quart of broth, according to quantity desired. Season with pepper and 
salt, and any spice or herb that is relished (better though without the spice), 
and let it simmer for an hour, skim carefully and strain. A wine-glassful o\ 
any wine may be added if liked." 

Bemarks. — Cold roast or broiled beef or mutton may be cut into small 
squares, fried brown in butter, and then gently stewed in the sauce above 
described, and served a-s a stew. 

The Famous Rhode Island or St. James' Chowder for Six.— 
The I*rovidence Journal says that some of its readers will recall the late James 
Brown, whose social sayings have come down to the present, and shall not be 
gainsaid. The following is his recipe for a chowder very famous in his day, 
and not altogether forgotten in ours: 

" Take 6 slices of good pickled pork (pig preferred), and fry them in the 
bottom of a good-sized dinner-pot, turning the slices until they are brown on 

89 



450 I>R- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

both sides. Take out the slices of porli, leaving the drippings in the pot. Take 
7 lbs. of tautaug (a favorite tish along the New England coast) dressed (leaving 
the heads on) or 10 lbs. of scup (tautaug to be preferred), and cut each in 3 
pieces, unless small, when cut them in" two. Place in the pot, on the drip>- 
pings, as many pieces of fish as will fairly cover the bottom of the pot. Throw 
into the pot, on the fish, 3 handfuls of onions, peeled and sliced in thin slices. 
Do not be afraid of the onions! Put in over this salt and pepper to taste, as in 
other soups. Then lay on the six slices of pork, on the top of the pork the 
rest of the fish ; cover this with 3 handfuls more of onions peeled and sliced. 
(9 or 10 onions in both layers will suffice, though more will not injure it.) More 
pepper and salt, to taste. Then pour into the pot water enough just lo come 
fairly even with the whole, or partly cover the same. Put the cover on the pot, 
place it on the fire. Let it boil gently and slowly for 30 minutes. It is to boil 
30 minutes, not merely to be on the fire 30 minutes, and at all events let it boil 
until the onion is done soft. Pour in at this point about a quart (a common 
bottle) of best cider or champagne, and a tumbler full of port wine, and at the 
same time add about 2 lbs. of sea biscuits. 

" Note. — If, when the onion is done, you find there is not liquor enough in 
the pot, soak the sea-biscuit in water for a few moments before putting them in, 
I would recommend the practice generally. 

"After the cider, wine and crackers are put in, there is no harm in stirring 
the whole with a long spoon, though it is not necessary. Tben let the whole 
boil again (not merely be over the fire) for about 5 minutes, and the chowder is 
ready for the table. Before dishing up let the cook taste it and see whether it 
lacks pepper and salt, when, if it does, it is a good time to add either. 

" Note. — Also, never boil a potato in chowder. If you want potatoes boil 
them in a separate pot, and serve in a separate dish." 

Chowder, tlie More Common, With Pish or Clams.— Slice 

some fat salt pork quite thin; put a layer in a suitable pudding dish, and strew 
over it sliced, or chopped, onions, with plenty of pepper; then cut a haddock 
(a species of codfish, but smaller), fresh codfish, or any other firm fish, into 
steaks, or slices, and put on a layer; then a layer of slightly soaked crackers; 
then pork, fish and crackers, until the dish is properly filled; pour over a suit- 
able amount (a pint or more) of water, and bake in an oven, or where you have 
heat at bottom and top (used to bake chowder in a pit of well heated stones, all 
around, under and over). Clam chowder is done the same, substituting clams 
for the fish. 

Egg MuflB.ns. — Heat a dripping pan with as many muffin rings on it as 
you desire. Butter tliem, and break an egg into each, put on a little salt, 
pepper, and a bit of butter to each, and put into the oven and brown nicely. 
Serve hot and you will find them nice, although not original with the author, 
nor does he know with whom they originated, although he knows them good- 
a new dish. 

Frogs, How to Cook. — Somebody writes to the Blade how to cook 
frogs, and does it so nicely I will use his own words for it. He says: As pot- 
pies, stews and chowder they are a failure. The only legitimate way to cook a 
frog is to fry him brown in sweet table butter. As a preliminary he must be 
dipped in a batter of cracker dust, which should adhere closely when cooked., 
forming a dainty cracknel of a golden brown color, with a crisp tang to it 
when submitted to the teeth. The tender juices thus retained lose none of their 



VARIOUS DISHEU 451 

delicate flavor, and the dainty morsel needs no condiments to give it an addi- 
tional zest. Next to the pleasure of sitting on the borders of a frog-pond at 
eventide and listening to their sweet, melancholy ch-r-r-r-k is that of reviewing 
a plate heaped high with the mementoes of a finished feast— the bones of the 
" Frog that would a wooing go," and a goodly portion of his kindred. 

Remarks. — Having eaten them done thusly, I can say try them every chance 
you can get. They are splendid. 

Boast Turkey, a Nice Way to Avoid Burning.— Having dressed 
him carefully, rub the inside well with salt, and hang up to drain an hour; then 
wipe dry wnth a napkin the crop and inside just as your dressing is ready to be 
put in; fill the place of the crop with the dressing and sew up, then the body 
and sew also. The dressing may be simply fine bread crumbs, seasoned with 
salt and pepper and a little butter, moistened with water or milk and a beaten 
egg, and you may add sage, onions, oysters, raisins, etc., any or all of them; 
or sage, thyme or marjoram or summer savory, as you like, have on hand or can 
get; tie the legs to the body, so that they shall not sprawl by the heat. When 
ready for the oven, melt a little lard and spread it over a clean white cloth and 
lay over the turkey; then grease a paper the same way and lay over the cloth, 
and a piece of thick dry brown paper over all; put a cup of water in the pan, 
and roast the turkey without basting, as the greased cloth and papers will keep 
it moist and from burning. If the top paper scorches, replace it with another 
until the turkey is nearly done; then remove all covering for a few minutes to 
allow it to brown. Having stewed the giblets (heart, liver, gizzard, etc.) in a 
little water while the turkey was baking, chop them fine, and with water or 
broth in which they were stewed added to the gravy in the pan, thicken a little 
with browned or unbrowned flour, as you prefer, rubbed smooth in a little cold 
water, seasoning to taste; serve in a "boat" or bowl, as you have. 

Remarks. — If a turkey, or other fowl or meats, are not covered in this way 
they must be basted often to prevent burning, and you must also be more care- 
ful for the first half hour or so not to have the oven as hot as you may if cov- 
ered. One-and-a-half and two hours, according to the size of the turkey and 
the heat of the oven, would be required to bake them nicely. Some people 
stew and chop the giblets before hand and mix them into the dressing. Each 
can suit herself in this free country; and a good many also, as well as the 
author, like quite a sprinkling of cayenne pepper in the dressing, as it seems to 
remove a peculiar fresh smell coming from the inside of the turkey. 

Turkey, to Boil and to Pry, as in England. — 7b BnU.—ln 
England turkeys are as often, if not more often, boiled than roasted, and eaten 
with a sauce called " Golden Rain." Truss (tie the legs and wings firmly) as 
for roasting, to prevent their sprawling out by the heat, Have a kettle or 
boiler large enough to hold water to fully cover the turkey, in which there has 
been put a carrot, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs (if you are to do as the 
English do), the water being boiling. Put in the turkey, breast down. After 
it has boiled a minute or two, briskly, move back the boUer to simmer gently 
from 1 to 2 hours, according to size of the turkey. 



452 



DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 



The Sauce, or Golden Rain. — Boil 3 eggs 10 minutes, and when cold 
throw the whites and two of the yolks into cold water to keep their color. 
Melt butter, 1 table-spoonful, in a saucepan; then remove from the fire and stir 
in a spoonful of flour (about 1 oz.); stir, or beat with a wooden spoon, till 
smooth; put over the fire again and add % Pt- of m\\^ and stir till it thickens, 
adding now a gill of cream, cutting the whites and the yolks of the eggs in the 
water into dice, stir in, but do not break up the dice by too hard stirring, which 
would spoil the golden as well as the white rain; bring to a boil after putting 
in the egg-dice. Take up the turkey in time to drain nicely: then rub the yolk 
of the other egg over the breast and in spots over the rest of the turkey, or rub 
it through a sieve, thus in spots, to make it more golden. Pour the same upon 
it, or serve it in a " boat " or bowl, as preferred. 

Turkey, To Fry. — Not every one, however, knows how to fry turkey 
Cut in neat pieces the remains of the turkey, make a batter of beaten eggs and 
fine bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and pounded mace or nutmeg 
add a few sprigs of parsley; dip the pieces into this and fry them a light 
brown. Take a good gravy, thickened with flour and butter, and flavored with 
mushroom or other catsup, and pour over them. Serve with sippets and sliced 
lemon. Few breakfast dishes are more delicious. — Confectioner. 

Txirkey and Other Poultry Haflh or Breakfast Dish. — Cold 
fowl of any kind may be turned into a hot breakfast dish as follows; Chop the 
the meat very fine; put J^ a pt. gravy into a stew-pan with a little piece of but- 
ter roUed in flour, a tea-spoonful of catsup, some pepper and salt, the juice and 
peel of half a lemon shred very fine, if you like it; put in the turkey or chicken, 
and shake it over a clear fire until it is thoroughly hot The above proportions 
are calculated for one cold turkey. It may be served with two or more poached 
eggs. If there are not enough eggs to allow one for each guest, they should be 
broken with the spoon and mixed with the hash just before serving. It should 
be served piping hot. 

Italian Cheese, or to Prepare Veal, Chicken, Turkey, etc., 
for Picnics.— Take a 4 or 5 lb. piece of veal, boil it perfectly tender, then 
remove all the bones, and chop the meat fine, add a grated nutmeg, as much 
cloves, allspice, pepper and salt to suit; strain the liquor in which it was boiled, 
and mix all together, put over the fire and simmer till the liquor, on cooling a 
little of it, will jelly; then put in molds or bowls till the next day, when it may 
be sliced for sandwiches for the picnic or for company tea. Chicken or turkey 
may be done in the same way. If you like, you can line the molds, or bowls, 
with hard-boiled eggs, sliced, which adds to its appearance as well as its richness. 

Chicken Fricasseed, Upon Toast and Without.— Cut up a chicken 
and put on to boil in a small quantity of water. Add a seasoning of salt and 
pepper, and onion if you like. St€w slowly (covered) until tender; then add 
rich milk, % pt. (cream is all the better), with a little butter; and if you have 
parsley, add a little of it chopped, just as ready to serve. Have the bread, 
which has been cut thin, nicely toasted and lightly buttered, arranged on a 
platter; then pour over tlie fricassee, and serve at once. Without the toast, 
it is the common fricassee. 




i 

\ 






CI 



^mK, 



h 



''"m 



\ I 



^> 






mil. I 



^^^^ mi lllmu„..||||....^.x.««4li|,a^/^ 



V *7^ 



VARIOUS DISHES. 453 

Remarks.— A. young turkey, or a nicely dressed rabbit, treated iu everj^ way 
the same as the chicken, will also make a nice fricassee. But our chicken 
dishes would hardly be complete without a chicken currie, and pevhaiw, also, 
chicken with green peas, both of which I have obtjxiueil from a book entitled 
"Indian Domestic Economy and Cookery," which I boiTO'.ved from a Mrs. 
Bronson, whose husband, Dr. Bronson, had spent over 40 years in India, 
as a missionary, but whose age and debility required him to return home, and 
he was then (1881) living at Eaton Rapids, Mich. Dr. Bron.sou was xqtj anx- 
ious, if his health would allow, to return to his work: but being alx)ut TO years 
old, I told him I thought he had done all that duty required of him in that far 
off country, and I doubted much if his health would ever allow liis return 
This lady was his third wife, a faithful and true helpmate in his work. 1 
received several items of information from her in relation to the Indian cus- 
toms, in cooking, etc., which helped me to understand the work alx:>vc men- 
tioned, much better than I otherwise would, their ways are so different from 
ours. These items I shall mention in the different places where needed, in the 
recipes I shall give from this work. They were married in India, where she 
had lived several years before their marriage. Tlie book was printed in Madras, 
in 1853, at the 'Christian Knowledge Society Press," and the copy she brought 
with her showed signs of having been much used. My acquaintance with her 
was, as some say, purely accidental, others, providential. I was standing in the 
door of the Frost House, Eaton Rapids, where I w;i3 stopping for the Ijcnefit of 
the mineral springs and rest, when Mrs. Bronson, in passing with a baby car- 
riage, having twin babies in it, stopped to talk a few moments with the land- 
lady, who, with some other ladies, were also standing about, when one of them 
knowing that Mrs. B. had recently come from India, asked her where the chil- 
dren were born, to which the answer was: " In Assam," when I at once became 
interested (as I had a cousin in that province of India), to know if they !iad 
met; when, on learning his name (Mason) they had been neighlx)rs and co- 
workers for some years; hence my acquaintance with ]\Irs. B. and her husband, 
and I thus obtained access to the book from which I lake the next recipe, and 
a few others which are credited as above indicated. 

My cousin had then been in Asstxm about seven years, in the misaon work. 
His health, and that of liis wife, having already begun to fail considerably, sG 
that during the following year (1882) he had to come home, more especially, 
however, on his wife's account, whose health continued to fail very fast, and 
although slie seemed to recruit a little on her first arrival, or soon after, yet lier 
liealtli had been so undermined by her stay iu India, she died within a few 
months after reaching her frien<is in America. But, notwit4i3*;aading the lives 
of American women who go out as missionaries, are shoiS ^ Jsdia, yet they 
generally are so devoted to their work, or to their husbands, ibsy seldom make 
any complaint — they give themselves, and their lives, cheerfully, for the Mas- 
ter's cause. Let none fail, therefore, to do their duty, although it should call 
them to India. 

Chicken Currie, With Biee, as Made in India.— Cut the chicken 
into as many joints as possible. Take 1 onion and slice it finely and ivy in d 



454 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

table-spoonful or more of g7iee (the word used in India for butter, but drip- 
pings, or even lard, my informant, Mrs. Bronson, says is often used), sprink- 
ling over the onion, 1 tea-spoonful of currie powder (which see). When the 
onion is nicely browned put in the jointed chicken, and salt sufficient, and put 
on a tea-spoonful more of the currie powder, and fry until nicely browned; 
then pour on sufficient hot water (see in remarks that milk, or the milk of cocoa- 
nuts may be used) to cover the chicken, and stew (covered) until perfectly ten- 
der. [Some of the native cooks boil the chicken tender before frying in the 
currie, but my informant says this is not the best way.] Serve with plain boiled 
rice, either in separate dishes, or, preferably, put the boiled rice on the platter, 
pushing it out around the edge, then ix)ur the currie into the middle, the white- 
ness of the rice making fine contrast with the browned currie, — Indian Domes- 
tic Economy and Cookery. 

Remxirks. — Young mutton, lamb, veal, and fish, when cut into suitable 
pieces, Mrs. Bronson informs me, treated every way the same as chicken, makes 
an equally nice currie, and are more frequently used as such in India than 
chicken; but we Americans think there is nothing equal to chicken. This lady 
gives me the plan of cooking the rice in India, and the use of the water in 
which it is cooked, as follows: 

To Boil the Rice India Fashion.— Wash it through 3 or 4 waters. 
Have plenty of boiling water in a large kettle, put in the rice and boil very 
briskly until tender; then pour in a cup of cold water, and pour into a colander; 
when well drained, return to the kettle to steam a short time to dry out the sur- 
plus water; then serve on the platter, or separate dish, as above. 

The rice water poured off is, says this lady, the best kind of starch, and is 
used for that purpose by the washermen — men in India doing the washing 
wholly. What a blessed thing it would be for some of the over -worked women 
of our country if their husbands had to do the washing, instead of spending 
their time, and often the money their wives have earned by washing, for 
whiskey! How long shall it continue? 

The Milk of Cocoanuts is often used in India, says our informant, 
and I think it would be very nice here, as well as there, instead of the water or 
milk in which, or with which, to cook the currie, whether it be chicken, veal, 
lamb, or fish; and they also scrape out the meat of the nut, having a tool for 
that purpose much like a scraper to remove letters from a box or barrel by ship- 
pers, except that the edge is rounding to fit the inside of the nut, and has sharp 
teeth like a saw, which makes the pulp fine and fit to mix into the gravy of the 
currie. Such a tool could be very easily made by an American blacksmith, 
taking him a cocoanut that he might get the shape for the toothed edge and 
knowing what it was to be used for. 

At a subsequent time, while in Eaton Rapids, I was invited to take tea with 
Dr. Bronson, that I might partake of a currie prepared as above, by his wife 
and an Indian gentleman, who had been several years in the University at Ann 
Arbor, qualifying himself as a physician to go back to his country for the good 
of his countrymen. He understood Indian cookery, and between them they 
made a most excellent currie; and although it was pretty warm — I might say 



VARIOUS DISHES. 455 

hot — with the currie powder, yet I liked it very much, and should be glad to 
have a chance to eat of one every day in the week if not at every meal. It 
warmed up my stomach nicely, and it is said to be a cure of dyspepsia. If 
found too hot on the first trial to suit any one, use less currie powder next time, 
and you can soon work to suit the taste of any family. I believe it to be 
healthful, and they suit my taste exactly. 

Chicken in Peas, as Cooked in India.— Cut the chicken into 
joints, as for a fricassee or currie, and put into a sauce-pan with about a quart 
of young shelled peas, a spoonful or two of g?iee (butter), a small sliced onion, 
and a nice sprig or two of parsley, and moisten more with drippings if thought 
best; put on the fire, dusting with a little flour, and stew (covered) until done; 
and add a little salt, and a little sugar, if relished, just before servihg. — Indian 
Domestic Economy and Cookery. 

Remarks. — Their plan of making a fricassee is so much like ours above, I 
need not give it. 

Young Chickens, Nice Way to Cook.— Dress and joint them as 
usual; place in a dripping-pan and just cover with sweet cream, season with a 
little salt, pepper, and a little butter; and now set in the oven to cook, and by 
the time the cream is almost cooked away the chicken will be done. They are 
splendid done in this way. — Mrs. Weisel, Harverville, Kan. 

Remarks. — That is just what the author says: "They are splendid done in 
this way." I should like to pick such a leg, or two, every day. Have just 
cream enough left to put over the mashed potatoes as a gravy. 

Chicken Relish, for Journeys, Picnics, or for Company.— 
Dress as many as the occasion will require, joint and boil tender in as little 
water as possible, salting nicely just before they are done; take up and remove 
the skin. Remove all the meat from the bones; break the bones and boil them 
and the skin a little while longer in the water; then strain it to have ready to 
moisten with. Place a layer of dark meat, then a layer of white in a bowl, 
seasoning with pepper and a little additional salt to each layer as put in, and 
moisten with the juices or water in which they were cooked, and put on weights 
till cold, when, with a very sharp butcher-knife, it may be cut in slices for the 
picnic, journey, or the tea-table when company is present — too much labor for 
common, as they are good enough for general use without so much labor. 
Chicken meat is so tender and soft it is very diflicult to chop it, hence we do 
not advise it, unless the chopping-knife is sharper than they are usually found. 

Boast Pigeons and Bread Sauce for Same.— Dress, wash and 
wipe dry, i, e , absorb all the water you can with a napkin or towel, unless you 
have plenty of time to drain them dry. Truss them, secure the wings and legs 
to the body by skewers or twine; mix salt and pepper together and rub them 
well on the inside, and also put a piece of butter into eacli, the size of a large 
shell-bark hickory nut. Lay upon sticks in the dripping-pan, put in hot water 
and butter to baste with, and put into a quick oven, covering with brown paper, 
if needed, to prevent burning. If the oven is hot enough, 30 to 45 minutes wiU 
do them nicely, if basted often enough. 



456 -D^- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Brewi Sauce fiyr Same, and for all Poultry, Meats, etc. — Milk, J^pt. to 1 pt., 
according to the amount needed; tine bread crumbs, 1 cup; an onion, small or 
large, whether you use % or 1 pt. of milk; butter, 1 to 2 table-spoonfuls, as you 
take it out of the lump not melted; salt, pepper, mace, and parsley, if you have 
them and like them. DniECTiONS — First boil the sliced onion 1 minute in 
water, then pour that off and put in the milk and cook it well ; then put in your 
bread crumbs; or, if you wish to be very nice, strain out the onion; put in 
seasoning with the butter, and let the bread crumbs have time to soften; stii 
well, and bring to a boil, adding boiling milk or boiling water if too thick. 

Remarks. — The drippings from the pigeons or other poultry may be put in 
in place of ^the milk or water. The onion, of course may be left out, if not 
relished, and any other flavor substituted, as summer savory, thyme, marjoram, 
lemon peel and juice, etc. , or nothing, so as to suit everybody. 

But now I have an animal to introduce, the name of which I am so unfam- 
iliar with I hardly know where to place him, whether among the meat-producing 
beasts, or the family of fowls; still, I know so many will like to try a few of 
his " rare-bit-s," I will give him a place among the choicest recipes I have in the 
nature of dishes. But as he is taken partly from the beast and partly from the 
fowls, we will call him the 

1 . GOLDEN BUCK, OR WELSH RAREBIT-English Style. 
— A golden buck is, in other words, simply a Welsh rarebit, with a poached 
e^ on his back. I will first give the true one, as directed by Warne's (Eng- 
lish) Model Cookery: Time, 10 minutes; ]4, lb. of cheese; 3 table-spoonfuls of 
ale; a thin slice of toast. Grate the cheese fine, put to it the ale, and work in 
a small saucepan over a slow fire, until it is melted. Spread it on the toast, 
and send it up boiling hot. Now for the " buck " part of it: 

2. Take fresh, but rather rich cheese and cut into small even-sized pieces, 
the amount to be regulated by the number of rarebits needed, and melt upon a 
rather slow fire. If the cheese be dry, add a small quantity of butter. A lit- 
tle — say a wine-glass full to each rarebit — sour ale; or, in its absence, fresh ale, 
should be added as the cheese melts. After the cheese is thoroughly melted 
and the above ingredients stirred in, add a small quantity of celery salt, and 
immediately pour upon a piece of toast previously placed upon a hot plate. 
By placing a poached egg upon this it immediately becomes a golden buck. 
The further addition of a slice of broiled bacon renders it a Yorkshire buck.— 
New York Review. 

Remarks.— For those with good digestion either of the "bucks" will be 
foimd nice. For me, I should prefer not to have the ale sour, but fresh, and 
nice, so I think, would most others. I will give a few more recipes for a 
plainer, or more Americanized way of making the "Welsh rarebit (generally 
called rabbit), which will be less troublesome to make, and also more easily 
digested. A young, but experienced housekeeper, of Brinton, Pa., gives the 
following: 

Welsh Rarebit. — Chop fine, with a knife, pieces of dry cheese (sharp 
cheese is best), and to 1 pt. of this allow 1 pt of milk. Have the milk boiling 



J 'AillO US DISHES. 45? 

^ot and stir into it the cheese, stirring all the time until it becomes pretty well 
dissolved, then add a beaten egg, a little salt, and when it has all come to a boil 
your rarebit is done. Some persons prefer browning in the oven before send- 
ing to the table, but it is best eaten as soon as cooked, as the cheese is apt to 
separate from the milk if allowed to stand long after it is ready 

Welsh Barebit, Plain.— Rich, crumbly cheese, J^ lb. ; butter, 1 table- 
spoonful; rich milk, 1 gill; toast. Directions — Put the milk and butter into 
a frying pan, and crumble in the cheese upon the stove, constantly stirring 
rnitil all is dissolved together; then pour upon thick toast that has been dipped, 
quickly, in and out, of boUing milk ; served hot it is a rare dish for a healthy 
stomach. And for a healthy man a poached egg may be put upon each piece 
of toast, as served, which wiU make it a second cousin, at least, to the golden 
buck, given above. 

Welsh Barebit, Exoellent.— Fresh cheese, the size of a tea-cup; a 
large cup of sweet milk; a table-spoonful of butter; a pinch of dry mustard; a 
little red (cayenne) pepper; 2 soda crackers; 1 egg. Dikections — Roll the 
crackers; beat the egg; cut the cheese in thin, small slices; place them in the 
frying pan with the milk; add beaten egg, butter, mustard and pepper; stir in 
the rolled cracker gradually. As soon as all is thoroughly mixed turn the mix- 
ture out, and send to the table in a covered dish. To be eaten with dry toast. 

Welsh Barebit, Delicioiis.— The New York Post says that Welsh 
rarebit is delicious when made after this rule: Half a povmd of cheese, 3 eggs, 
1 small cup of bread crumbs, 2 table-spoonfuls of melted butter, mustard and 
salt to taste. After beating the cheese in an earthen dish add the other iagre- 
dients, then spread on the top of sUces of bread, toasted or not, as you choose, 
and set in the oven to melt. 

Bemarki. — I will close with one which is more particular in its quantities, 
and also has a caution or two in the use of seasoning, avoiding skim milk 
cheese, etc. ; and although it recommends the Parmesan cheese, yet, I will say, 
our good, rich, new milk clieese, having some age, will be found nice enough 
for all common purposes. If a very nice dish is desired, get the Parmesan, as 
anentioned below. It is as follows: 

Welsh Barebit With Parmesan Cheese.— Boil ]4 pt. of milk; 
iiave the cheese rich enough to melt; chop Lj tea-cupful of it to every % pt. of 
3uilk; the jolk of 1 egg is lightly beaten with a fork, and have it ready when 
the cheese is melted; turn the cheese into the boiling milk and stir until the 
former dissoWes. Welsh rarebit cannot be made from skim milk cheese. Par- 
mesan cheese makes delightful dishes, but is expensive. Stir in the yolk of the 
■Ggg, adding salt and pepper, and serve on toast or alone. Cheese dishes requ»re 
little seasoning, and the salt and pepper should be used sparingly. 

Remarks. — Tliis Parmesan cheese is made in Parma, Italy, bi4t I think our 
best American cheese is all that need be required, but each must please her- 
self — you certainly have the opportunity of choosing, from the variety given ; 
but, as it is the man who furnishes the largest number of the best recipes, foi 
•any given department, who makes the best receipt book, the author, in keeping 



458 I>R- CEASE'S RECIPES, 

with his " First and Second Receipt Books,' has endeavored, and he thinks^, 
succeeded, in making his " Third and Last," the best even of his own writings 
and far better than any with which he is acquainted, by any other author. 

Minced Veal, With Poached Eggs.— Mince cold roast, boiled or 
broiled veal quite finely, fry a chopped shallot (a small bulbous plant much like 
a garlic, but if as strong as a garlic the author would prefer a small onion in 
its place) in plenty of butter; when it is a light straw-color, add a large pinch of 
flour and a little stock; then the mince meat, with chopped parsley, pepper, salt 
and nutmeg to taste; mix well; add more stock, if necessary, and let the mince 
gradually get hot by the side of the fire. When quite hot, stir into it, off the 
fire, the yolk of an egg and the juice of a lemon, to be strained and beaten tjp 
together. Serve with sippets of bread, fried in butter, round it, and 3 or 4 
poached eggs on top. 

Remarks. — The sippets of bread are first dipped into milk, or a beaten egg, 
before frying; and bread is a very nice thing thus fried for a breakfast dish^ 
with fried meats of any kind, whether eggs are used or not. 

Escaloped Veal. — Chop cold cooked veal fine, put a layer in a baking- 
dish, alternating with a layer of powdered crackers, salt, pepper and butter, 
until you fill the dish. Beat up 2 eggs, add a pint of milk, pour it over the 
veal and crackers. Cover with a plate and place in the oven until nicely 
heated through, then remove the plate to brown it nicely before serving. 

Oysters may be treated the same way, baking longer to cook them througb; 
the same of chicken or any other cold meats that are very tender; all make a 
nice dish if properly done. So, also, veal in the following manner: 

Jellied Veal. — Wash a knuckle of veal and cut it into pieces. Boil it 
slowly until the meat will slip easily from the bones. Take it out of the liquor, 
remove the bones, and chop the meat fine. Season with salt and pepper, spices, 
and sweet herbs. Put back into the liquor and boil until almost dry. TurEs 
into a mold and let it remain until next day. The juice of a lemon stirred in 
just before taken from the fire improves it. Garnish with parsley and thin 
slices of lemon, if you have them and like them. — Buffalo {N. T.) Express. 

Curried Veal or Chicken. — Nice veal cutlets, 2 lbs., or a good plump 
but tender chicken will require about 2 cups of milk, \% cups of pounded 
crackers, 1 egg, butter the size of an egg, salt, dry toast, and 1 tea-spoonful, 
more or less, as you like it hot or not, of the cayenne and other spices in the 
currie powder. Directions — Chop veal or chicken (cold from previous boil- 
ing) finely, put the milk on the fire, with the cracker-crumbs, salt and curried 
powder, and as soon as it boils up add the meat, and when the meat is hot the 
egg and butter. Serve hot on the dry buttered toast. 

Remarks. — This will be found remarkably fine for lovers of currie; and it 
will be fine also simply to cut the veal or chicken in pieces suitable for frying, 
then season the same, using the milk or not; if used, seasoning it as before and 
stewing in it for a time, then finishing by frying in the butter and using the 
milk as a gravy for potatoes, etc. I am very fond of the curried chicken; tli«> 
veal I have not tried, but know I should like it for the curries' sake. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 459 

Gravy or Sauce for Veal or Chicken. — Put a table-spoonful of butter into a 
hot frying-pan. When it begins to brown dust a table-spoonful of flour into it, 
stirring constantly with a spoon; add salt and pepper; then stir in 1 pint of 
milk — cream, if you have it — let It boil 5 minutes, and it will be ready to pour 
over these fried meats, or to serve with roasts. Some people think that a little 
stewed tomatoes in the gravy for roast or fried meats is an improvement. The 
author prefers them without it. 

EGGS— How to Boil for Health.— The objection to the common way 
of boiling eggs is this: The white under three minutes rapid cooking becomes 
tough and indigestible, while the yolk is left soft. "When properly cooked eggs 
are done evenly through like any food. This result may be attained by putting 
the eggs into a dish with a cover, and then pouring upon them boiling water, 3 
quarts or more to a dozen eggs, in a covered tin pail, and set them away from 
the stove for 15 minutes. The heat of the water cooks the eggs slowly and 
evenly and sufficiently, and to a jelly-like consistency, leaving the center or 
yolk harder than the white, and the egg tastes as much richer and nicer as a 
fresh egg is nicer than a stale egg, and no person will want to eat them boiled 
after trying this method. 

Remarks.— 1 have tried this writer's instructions, although I do not know 
Who he was, and find him correct for my taste, and I think it the true way to 
boil eggs, and mostly of general adoption. I will also add an item from a wri- 
ter in a medical journal upon the healthfulness of hard-boiled eggs in dyspep- 
ria, hoping and believing that it is a true account of what they have done, 
although the writer's name is not given, nor the place the journal was pub- 
lished. The writer says: 

Healthfulness of Hard-Boiled Eggs in Dyspepsia.— "vVe have 
seen dyspeptics who have suffered untold torments with almost every kind of 
food. No liquid could be taken without suffering. Bread became a burning 
acid. Meat and milk were solid and liquid fires. "We have seen those same 
sufferers trying to avoid food and drink, and even going to the enema S5'ringe 
for sustenance. And we have seen their torments pass away, and their hunger 
relieved by living upon the white of eggs which had been boiled in bubbling 
•water for 30 minutes. At the end of a week we have given the hard yolk of 
the egg with the white, and upon this diet alone without fluid of any kind we 
iave seen them begin to gain flesh and strength and refreshing sleep. After 
weeks of this treatment they have been able with care to begin upon other 
food. And all this," the writer adds, "without taking medicine." He says 
that hard-boiled eggs are not so bad as half -boiled ones, and ten times as easy to 
digest as raw eggs, even in egg-nog. 

Remarks. — See the remarks just above, and let none who are suffering in a 
similar manner fail to give this a faithful trial. See, also, "Voltaire's Food for 
Dyspeptics " in this work. 

Remarkable Use of Long Boiled Eggs, for Typhoid Fever 
Patients. — After having written the two above items, I was speaking of them 
VO a homeopathic physician of our city— Toledo, 0.— June 19th, 1883, when 



460 BR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

he said : " I have given three eggs wliich had been boiled an hour, at one time, 
to a patient just recovering from tj'phoid fever, without the least distress or suffer- 
ing, digesting well and improving the patient's strengtli, while those only boiled 
15 minutes did give distress," etc. This to me was remarkable indeed ; but, 
nevertheless, I have not a doubt of its correctness. He claimed that, like 
cooking meats, 15 minutes only, "sets," or toughened the albumen (the white 
of an egg is pure albumen, much like that part of veal which will form jelly, 
by long boiling), and, hence, that no stomach could digest it ; while an hour's 
boiling cooked it done, as we say of boiling veal, or other, naturally young 
and tender meat, chickens, etc. The reasoning is good, and may be tried wilh 
safety, 1 egg, only at a time, at first, with weak typhoid, or other patients. 

Egg Gruel, Mulled Jelly, etc., for the Sick.— Beat the yolk of 1 
egg with a table-spoon of sugar till very light ; on this pour % of a cup of 
boiling water ; on the top put the wliite of the egg beaten to a stiff froth, with 
a tea spoon of powdered sugar ; flavor with something as unlike other flavors 
the invalid has had as you can give liim. Mulled (to mull is to soften by heat, 
adding hot water, spices, etc. As Gay says : " Drink new cider, mulled with 
ginger warm" (it is not hard to take, even if not sick); jelly is another drink 
which may be taken with pleasure, i. e.,beat a table-spoon of red or black cur- 
rant jelly with the white of an egg and a little sugar ; pour over this a small 
cup of boiling water ; break a cracker in it, or a thin slice of toasted bread. 

Reniarks. — This would properly belong with drinks for the sick, wliicb 
see; but it had been placed with the other egg receipts, so I give it a place 
here. 

Eggs, Some of the More Common Ways of Cooking.— 
Poached.— It is now well understood that to poach an egg is to break it into 
boiling water and to dip some of the water, with a spoon, upon it, or them, as 
the case may be, until cooked to suit; then lift with a skimmer, upon a plate, 
or upon slices of buttered toast, or into egg cups, in which a bit of butter has 
just been put, and let each, otherwise, season to suit themselves. 

Eggs, Scrambled. — Put a tin basin upon the stove, in which you have 
put a table-spoon of butter, for }{ doz. eggs; when the butter is melted, the 
eggs having been broken into a dish (to see each is good) put them in, and 
as soon as cooked upon the bottom a little, begin to stir, or lift them with a 
spoon from the bottom, till all has had its turn upon the bottom, and conse- 
quently done, or thickened to suit. Serve hot, generally, for Sunday's tea, 
with bread and butter. 

Egg Omelet. — A French writer says the ".secret of an omelet is the 
know how !" — I wonder if that is not the secret of doing anji-hing well? He 
then gives us the Bordeau.x, or French fiisliion, which is good. He says: "Tilt 
the pan, to allow the eggs to run to the lower side, and scrape down from the 
upper half perfectly clean, pushing all the egg to the lower half. Pepper and 
salt. When set, turn over back on to the clean half of the pan, brown and 
serve. But if you do not put a table-spoonful of cold water to each egg in mak- 
ms an omelet, it will be leatherv (tough). If you put milk or flour it is not an 



VARIOUS DISHES. 461 

omelet, but a pancake. To take up, take hold of the pna -vvitJi the palm upper- 
most, place your plate over the pan and turn it quickly." 

Remarks. — i\Iost people have been in the habit of using milk, or flour, or 
both, while the Frenchman's plan leaves them tender and digestible. 

Egg Omelet with Green Com or Bread Crumbs.— Boil 1 dozen 
ears of nice corn 25 minutes, split the rows lengthwise with a sharp knife, then 
with a dull knife press out and scrape easily, to leave the hull as much on the 
cob as possible; add to this pulp 5 well-beaten eggs, season to taste, and fry to 
a nice brown in a little butter, turning over as a whole, or as the Frenchman 
above, on a clean half of the pan. In the absence of green corn, 1},^ cups of 
bread crumbs will make a good omelet. 

Remarks. — Omelets should be served at oncewheu done, as they fall if they 
stand after being dished up. 

Egg Omelet "with Oysters. — An egg omelet with oysters may be a 
new dish to some cooks, but I can assure them that it will be a favorite, if the 
family hke oysters. Stew a dozen oysters in their own liquor, if possible, if not, 
use a very little water; roll 2 or 3 lumps of butter the size of butternuts in flour, 
and put in and let it come to a boil; salt it well, and add black or cayenne pep- 
per to suit your taste. Take out the oysters and chop them, and, if necessary 
to make them thick, add a little flour; then put the oysters in again and set the 
saucepan in which they are back on the stove while the eggs are being fried. 
Beat 6 to 10 eggs until very light, and add to them 2 table-spoonfuls of cream 
or rich milk; fry in a well-buttered frvnng-pan. When done remove to a hot 
platter or deep plate and pour the oyster sauce over it. Serve wbile hot. — New 
Y'yrk Evening Post. 

Eggs-in-the-Nest — A Nice Dish for Breakfast or Tea. — Beat 
to a froth the whit^ of 6 eggs; a little pepper and salt; pour into a buttered 
baking tin, dip upon it 6 t^ble-spoonf uls of nice cream, 1 only in a place ; upon 
each spoonful of cream drop 1 of the yolks whole (being careful not to break 
them); place in a moderately hot oven to cook, and serve hot, a« omelet 
should be. 

Remarks. — I am very sorry I can not give credit to the originator of this 
dish, as her name ought to have gone with it, as it will be found especially nice, 
if neatly done. Where I first saw it there was no name given. 

I will now close the meat and egg dishes with directions how to take care of 
pigs' heads, sausage, etc. ; then take up the vegetable question. 

Head-Cheese, Souse, etc. — For the head-cheese, take the pigs' 
heads, fpet, ears, etc., and after soaking and cleaning nicely, cut off the lower 
jaw (some cut this off first, as it is very nice cooked with cabbage); boil 
until the bones can be easily removed; then chop fine with onions, 1 or 2 for 
each head, add salt and pepper, and place in molds till cold. It is usual, 
however, when these are cooked, to make a meal off them, and chop up 
the balance for the head cheese, and some persons prefer to eat it all as 
sauce cold, rather than take the labor of chopping, seasoning, etc. Every 
one can please themselves. They should all be soaked over night in salt 
water before cleaning them. 



463 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — My own choice is for an ear, or some otner part having 
plenty of skin, but not much fat. I am a great lover, also, of sage or sum- 
mer savory in seasoning any kind of fresh meats, in preference to any other 
of the "sweet herbs," as they are called. 

VEGETABLE DISHES— How to Cook.— I will first take up the 
sweetest (?) vegetable we have — truly, liowever, one of the most healthful, if not 
the most healthful, of all our vegetables. It is very much used, but ought to 
be used more extensively than it is in every family in the land. I refer to 
the well-known 

Onion, How to Cook It with Milk or Cream, Avoiding the 
Strong Flavor. — Peel, wash, and slice (under water to prevent affecting 
the eyes), 3 to 6, according to the size of the family, put into boiling water 
and boil 1 to 2 minutes, and drain off the water (which removes the acrid 
oil in which their peculiar sweet flavor resides); then pour over them a cup 
of scalding milk (cream is better still), in which a pinch of soda has been 
dissolved; put in a table-spoonful of butter, and cook till tender; pepper and 
salt, and stir % a tea-spoonful of corn starch or flour in a little cold milk 
and stir in, continuing to simmer a minute or two longer; then, if you have 
parsley, chop a little of it — % dozen sprigs — and put in the last moment 
before dishing up, and if you don't say it is a sweeter and more palatable 
vegetable than you supposed, the author will be very much disappointed. 

mCE— Its Value and How to Cook It.— Rice is being used much 
more, of late years, than formerly. It is very often substituted for potatoes, 
even at dinner, as it is much more nourishing, and more ea.sily digested; and 
although it may cost a little more than potatoes generally, yet it is relatively 
cheaj)er than oatmeal, and other grain grits, and certainly more palatable. It 
should always be cooked in a rice kettle, (which see, described in a note follow- 
ing Tapioca Puddings; some people call them farina kettles, because equally 
jraluable to cook farina, oatmeal, or any article liable to burn in an ordinary 
kettle. The rice, or farina, is put into an inside dish having a cover, and itself 
forming the cover of the outside one, which contains the water), which prevents 
any possibility of burning, on the same principle as a glue kettle. Only water 
enough is put upon the rice to moisten it nicely, which really steams it rather 
than boiling proper, in the usual, or large amount of water. If boiled in a 
common kettle, as formerly, 2 cups of water are required to every 1 cup of 
rice, with a little salt, in either case. When done, remove the cover, to allow 
the steam and water to escape — to dry it off, for a few minutes only, and the 
rice comes out a mass of snow white kernels, separate and distinct from each 
other; and as much superior to the soggy mass, of the old way, as a nice, dry 
and mealy potato is better than a water-soaked one. With the rice kettle to 
boil it in, 1 cup of water is enough for 1 cup of rice; and after it begins to boil, 
20 minutes is tlie usual time. It should be taken out, poured into a deep dish 
or tureen (so it may be covered when steamed dry) and let it stand, uncovered, 
before the fire, in only a moderately warm oven, with the door open, a few 
minutes, to dry off the surplus water, sending to the table hot. To be eaten 



VARIOUS DISHES. 463 

^vith butter and sugar, or these to be creamed together, half as much butter as 
sugar, if prefered. The Chinese, or East India cooks, you will see by referring 
to the remarks following Chicken Currie, boil their rice in a large amount of 
water, drain it off to use as starch, then put the rice back into the kettle and 
put over the fire again, to dry off the steam, or surplus water. Sec next recipe 
for the old way of cooking rice in the south, which is much the same as the 
India plan, above referred to. Using so much water to boil it in, then pouring 
it off, would seem to me, at least, to take away much of its nourishment; but 
still as they use this water in place of starch, like the India washerman, they 
may have the best of us after all, as the southern ladies are very much in favor 
•of stiff dress skirts, judging by the rustle of those who staid this summer in 
the north. This is, probably, as cheap a way as they can get their starch, as 
they raise the rice in the south. 

Rice, Southern Mode of Cooking.— Pick over the rice and wash it 
in cold water; to 1 pt. of rice put 3 qts. of boiling water and f^ tea-spoonful of 
salt; boil it just 17 minutes from the time it begins to boil; turn off all the 
water; set it over a moderate fire with the cover off, to steam 15 minutes. Take 
care and be accurate The rice water first poured off is good to stiffen muslins. 

Rice Merange, Baked.— Rice, 1 cup; milk, 1 qt.; 4 eggs; 2 lemons; 
powdered sugar, as below. Directions — Boil the rice 10 or 15 minutes, in the 
milk in a rice kettle, or tin pail, as mentioned before, and pour into a buttered 
pudding dish; grate in the yellow of the lemons; add the yolks of the eggs, 
■beaten slightly, with 5 table-spoonfuls of the sugar, and place in tlie oven to 
bake, % ^^ % of ^^ hour. To make the merange, or meringue, beat the whites 
with 7 table-spoonfuls of sugar, and tlie juice of 1 lemon. Place this upon the 
top to brown nicely, just before serving. May be served with butter, 1 spoon- 
ful, to 3 of sugar, rubbed together; or cream sauce, as preferred. The juice 
of the other lemon will make a nice lemonade. 

Rice Muffins.— To 1 qt. of sour milk 3 well beaten eggs, a little salt, 1 
tea-spoonful of soda and enough of rice flour (or cold mashed rice) to thicken 
to a stiff batter. Bake in rings. 

Rice Snow. — Five table-spoonfuls of rice flour; 1 qt. milk; 4 eggs — the 
whites only — whipped light; 1 table-spoonful of butter; 1 cup powdered sugar; 
-a pinch of cinnamon and same of nutmeg, vanilla or other extracts for flavor- 
ing; a little salt. Directions— "Wet up the flour with cold water and add to 
the milk when the latter is scalding hot; boil until it begins to thicken; put in 
the sugar and add spice; simmer 5 minutes, stirring constantly, and turn into a 
a bowl before beating in the butter; let it get cold before flavoring it; then whip 
a spoonful at a time, into the beaten eggs; set to form in a wet mold; put sweet 
•cream around it. This is delicate and wholesome fare for invalids; if you wish 
to have it especially nice, add % pt. of cream, whipped light and beaten in at 
the last. 

Rice Custard.— Into 1 qt. of boiling water stir 2 table-spoonfuls of rice 
flour, dissolved in a little cold milk; add 3 well beaten eggs to boiling mixture; 
.sjweeten and flavor to taste. 



464 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Icice Blanc Mange.— Sweet milk Q-4 cream if you have it), 1 qi. ; nco. 
flour, % of a cup; vanilla or lemon extract, or rose water, to taste; cream and 
and sugar, or raspberrj'^ or other jelly to serve with. Dikections — Heat the 
milk to the boihng point before stirring in the rice flour; and continue to stir 
constantly for }^ an hour, or until cooked so thick that you know it will harden, 
in the cups, or molds, to avoid burning, unless it is cooked in a rice kettle. 
Flavor the last thing, when a little cool. 

Red Rice, a Danish Dish.— Take ripe, red currants, 1% pts. ; very 
ripe raspberries, 1 pt. ; water, 1 qt. ; rice flour, 1 cup; sugar to taste, according 
to the acidity of the currants. Directions — Stew the currants until the juice 
flows freely, add the raspberries just before the currants are ready to strain; 
then return to the sauce pan, add the sugar; then the rice flour, stirring smoothly, 
and pour into molds; and when cold turn out upon a glass dish. Thicken with 
cream and sugar if desired. It may be made with red currant jelly, and rasp- 
berry jelly, in place of the fruits, out of their season. 

OATMEAL— For Bone and Muscle; or, as Food and Drink 
for Laborers. — Liebig has shown that oatmeal is almost as nutritious tts the 
very best English beef, and that it is richer than wheaten bread in the elements 
that go to form bone and muscle. Prof. Forbes, of Edinburgh, during some 
20 years, measured the breadth and height, and also tested the strength of both 
the arms and loins of the students of the University — a very numerous class, 
and of various nationalities, drawn to Edinburgh by the fame of his teaching. 
He found that in height, breadth of chest and shoulders, and strength of arms, 
and loins', the Belgians were at the bottom of the list, a little above them the 
French, very much higher the English, and highest of all the Scotch and Scotch- 
Irish, from Ulster, who, like the natives of Scotland, arc fed in their early 
years with at least one meal a day of good milk and good oatmeal porridge. 

As a Drink. — Speaking of oatmeal an exchange remarks that a very 
good drink is made by putting about 2 spoonfuls of the meal into a tumbler ot 
water. The western hunters and trappers consider it the best of drinks, as it i& 
at once nourishing, stimulating and satisfying. It is popular in the Brooklyn 
navy yard, 2% lbs. of oatmeal being put into a pail of moderately cold water. 
It is much better than any of the ordinary mixtures of vinegar and molasse& 
with water, which farmers use in the haying and harvest field. — New York Mail. 
Remarks. — I know the value of oatmeal as a food; and I have not a doubt 
of its value as a drink; putting the meal to common water for the drinking, by 
laborers, when at work. My son and myself drank of it, as used by the 
laborers on the Brooklyn bridge, as we \dsited that structure, passing through, 
there to the Centennial in 1876, and liked it very much ; and the superintend- 
ent said he should not be willing to even try to do without it; though I think 
they only put 1 lb. to a pail of water. It would certainly be very nourishing 
with 2 table-spoonfuls of it to a glass of water, as spoken of by the exchange 
above, half the amount would meet my own ideas, as sufficient, even when the 
nourishment was especially needed. 

Oatmeal Porridge, Scotch, and Cracknels, or "Scotch Ban- 



VARIOUS LISHES. 466 

nocts," — An Englishwoman in the Germantown (Pa.) Telegraph gives the 
following instructions to make 

Oatmeal Porridge.— "Oatmeal porridge is especially suitable for cM- 
dren. It nourishes their bones and other tissues, and supplies them in a 
greater degree than most foods with the much needed element of phosphorus. 
If they grow weary of it, they can be tempted back with the bait of goldea 
syrup, jam, or marmalade, to be eaten with the porridge. The Irish and 
Scotch make their porridge with water, and add cold milk, but the most agree- 
able and nutritive way is to make it entirely with milk, to use coarse oatmeal, 
and to see that it is not too thick." The following is a good receipt: 

Bring a quart of milk to the boiling point in an enamel-lined sauce-pan, 
and drop in by degrees 8 oz. of coarse oatmeal; stir till it thickens, and thea 
boil for half an hour. The mixture should not be too thick, and more milk, 
can be added according to the taste. 

For the Cracknels, or Scotcli Bannocks, to Keep a Year.— 
Take the finest oatmeal and stir in barely enough water to wet it through; add 
a pinch of salt; let it stand for 10 minutes to swell; then roll it out a quarter of 
an inch in thickness, first flouring the board and rolling pin with wheaten flour; 
cut it with a biscuit cutter, and bake in a moderate oven ; these cakes will bum 
quickly and only require to be of the lightest brown. If put in a close jar they 
vdll keep for several months. In the Highlands they preserve their baunocka 
In the barrels of oatmeal and keep them a year or so." 

Oatmeal Mush. — The true way to make oatmeal mush is in a rice-kettle; 
but if you have it not, a porcelain lined one is next best; iron will do. If made 
in the rice or double kettle; simply water enough to cover the meal is enough; 
then cover the dish and cook till done, without fear of burning. To make in 
an open kettle, put in water sufficient to make the right quantity, and bring to 
■aboil; adding a little salt; then stir in coarse oatmeal until it is as thick as you 
x^ish to eat it; then slip back on the stove to simmer slowly for half an hour, or 
lill done. Eaten with meat, or served with milk, milk or sugar, or cream, as 
desired. 

Oatmeal to Cook in an .Earthen or Stone Jar.— To one cup of 
of coarse oatmeal, add 1 qt. of cold water, in a stone jar; set it in a kettle of 
boiling water and boil 1 hour; do not stir it; serve with sugar and cream. — 
Alice Kimball, Winfield, Iowa. 

Eeinarks.—T\As. plan of cooking in an earthen crock in a kettle of water is 
perfectly safe, and not the least danger of scorching, whether it be oatmeal, 
hominy, corn, or wheat grits, cracked wheat, corn-starch, sea-moss, farina, or 
any of the nice breakfast dishes, mixed or cooked in milk. Even in cooking 
beans there is nothing better to bake them in than a stone jar. I cannot better 
close this subject than with a quotation from CasselVs (Scotch) Magazine, which 
says of oatmeal • 

"We have called it the food for bones as well as brain, musc'.e as wel! ?.-\ 
mind. To the laboring, or artisan class, it commends itself as an aiticle oi' diet 
on account oi cheapness, the readiness ana economy with which it can be 
20 



466 DB. CEASE'S EECIPES. 

cooked, and, while it is easily digested, it contains, as we have seen, a larger 
proportion than wheaten bread of the elements that go to form bone and mus- 
cle. The best Scotch oatmeal costs 2-pence a pound, and this contains far 
more true nourishment, in the opinion of some medical men, than the same 
weight of Liebig's extract. It commends itself to literary men, and all work- 
ers who earn their bread by the sweat of their brains. There are, as we happen 
to know, several well-known authors, who, though born and bred this side the 
Tweed, nevertheless swear by oatmeal porridge as a brain-inspiring compound. 
Then, as to its palatableness, we ourselves have long held the belief that not 
only is porridge rich in nutritive matter, but when nicely cooked, and eaten 
with new milk, is simply delicious, a dainty dish, fit, indeed, to set before any 
king." 

Remarks. — ^The only objection that can possibly be raised against oatmeal 
In the United States is its cost. "With the "Yankee" determination in this 
country to double our money every time we "turn" it, it costs in this city, 
Toledo, 1883, 5 cents per lb. which is double what it ought to cost, if millers gen- 
erally would prepare it; but from the expense of machines to hull it, this will 
not probably be done very soon. Yet, certainly, everybody can afford to buy 
enough for the "porritch,' and also to make a mush for breakfast. "So mote 
it be." Still the fact of having to pay 25 cents for 5 lbs. of oatmeal in free 
America is simply ridiculous, when oats can be bought for 30 to 50 cents a 
bushel. 

Cracked Wheat Mush, Very Excellent— The Same Also if 
Cooked Whole. — Cracked wheat makes an excellent mush, cooked and 
eaten the same as oatmeal; and is, no doubt, richer and more palatable to some 
than oatmeal. The kernel simply needs to be cracked, or broken. If it is done 
too finely, the flour needs to be sifted out. The author is fond of having wheat 
cooked whole. It takes longer boiling, but if nicely done and eaten with cream 
or milk and a little sugar if makes an excellent relish at tea-time, or any time, 
Can be cooked either cracked or whole, without burning, in a rice-kettle 
(which see), or by putting into a tin pail and setting into a kettle of water, with 
sticks or nails under the bottom of the tin pail, so this does not touch the bot- 
tom of the kettle. 

Beets, To Bake. — Beets are sweeter and nicer baked than boiled. The 
sugar, of which a good beet is full, is retained better by baking than by boiling, 
which extracts and carries off considerable of their natural sweetness. Turn, 
if need be, occasionally, to avoid burning. To be washed, but not peeled till 
-after baking. Serve with butter, pepper and salt, the same as if boiled, but 
they will be found nicer and sweeter than if boiled. 

Stewed Beets with Onions.— Pare thinly, and slice thinly, and put 
with some sliced onions, J^^ to J^ as much, according to the fondness of the 
family for onions, putting into a stew-pan with pepper, salt, and butter rubbed 
with a Uttle flour; stir into hot water or milk enough to cover them well, and 
stew till the beets are tender. Young beets will require about an hour, old ones 
longer. Serve hot at diniier. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 467 

Beets Hashed with Potatoes, a Very ITiee Dish.— The author 
is very fond of properly boiled or baked beets hashed with an equal amount of 
cold potatoes, and warmed up by putting in a bit of butter, a little water or 
milk, as potatoes are often done alone for breakfast. The sweetness of the 
beets is nicely brought out in this way. Pepper and salt, of course. Don't 
fail to try it. 

Parsnips, Cakes or Balls.— Wash and boil in water with a little salt 
in it until perfectly tender. AVhen cold, scrape off the skin, mash them, and 
for each cup of the mashed parsnips, put bread crumbs, % cup; a beaten egg; 
salt and pepper, to taste; flour the hands and make into balls, brown in hot but- 
ter, and serve hot. 

Parsnips Stewed in Milk.— Cut cold, boiled parsnips in slices, usually- 
lengthwise; put into milk, with a little butter, pepper and salt, and st«w a few 
minutes; then thicken with a little flour rubbed smoothly in a little water or 
milk. Parsnips are almost always served hot; but I have been very fond of 
them cold. 

Fried Parsnips.— Cut cold, well-boiled parsnips into long, thin slices, 
apply salt and pepper to taste, dredge or dip in flour, or not, as you prefer, and 
fry in hot drippings or butter. Drain a moment over a colander before serving. 

Egg Plant, Pried.— Cut in slices half an inch thick and lay in salt 
water 1 hour, drain, dip in beaten Qgg, then in cornmeal, cracker crumbs or 
flour, and fry until brown and nicely tender. They are good fried after ham. 
Pick as soon as full grown, not allowing to get ripe.-:-i^^2^, St. Johns, Mich. 

Tomatoes, To Broil. — Take ones, not very ripe, cut in thin slices, rub 
a little butter, salt and pepper together and spread over the slices nicely, and 
broil on a gridiron or beefsteak broiler, (which see). Serve hot. 

Remarks. — This is the only way the author cares for them. They are very 
nice done thus. 

Squash Baked. — Clean nicely, by cutting open and scraping out the 
inside with a spoon. Cut in suitable pieces, or, if a fully-ripe Hubbard, break 
in pieces, and place in the oven flesh side up. Allowing 1 hour for baking. It 
may be taken out of the shell when done, and seasoned with salt, pepper and 
butter, before serving; or allow each one to take a piece and season to suit 
himself. Even those not quite ripe are good thus, baked. Should come to 
the table "as hot as blazes." Boiled squash are seasoned the same, but the 
water must be pressed out as much as possible. Summer squash are most fre- 
quently boiled, but the water is seldom half pressed out as it ought to be. 

Potatoes— General Remarks.— Although less than one-tenth of the. 
potato fs really nourishing (the rest being water), yet with us Americans, Irish- 
like, there are but few meals eaten in which potatoes do not form a part. Bak- 
ing them, it is pretty generally known, is the most healthful way of cooking 
them, as it drives off much of the water and leaves them more nourishing than 
by steaming or boiling; steaming is next best, boiling the poorest way of all, as 
it so often loaves them watery and bad; yet, no one would always like them 



468 3)E. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

cooked ii. ;he same manner; hence, I shall give a kind of " Wll of fare," for a 
Tveek, drfterently cooked for dinner, after which I will also give some very 
choice ways of cooking and serving them. Remember this, however; that the 
most nutritious part of the potato — the starch — is richest, next to the skin, 
hence when they are to be peeled, raw, pare as thin as possible. Prof. Blat, 
the great French cook, says the skinning process, as he calls it, is all wrong. 
His plan is to dig out the eyes and peel after boiling, etc., claiming that the 
nourishment from them is not more than 7 or 8 per cent., the balance mainly 
vater, of which there is not a doubt. The following methods of preparing for 
dinner for each day in the week, will always help one to decide what, in the 
potato line, shall I have for dinner? And by turning to the actual bill of fare 
for a week, among the meat dishes, will help to decide the whole question as to 
what the dinner shall be. These directions, or recipes, are from a writer to the 
Jlousekteper, who you will readily see, had an excellent judgment, if not an 
actual experience in the matter. I am sorry they did not come to me so I can 
give the "writer's name. They were given under the head of: 

"Potatoe* in Seven Wr.yt," or for Dinner Each Bay of the 
Week. — The writer says: "Editor Housekeeper: — Let me give you a few little 
hints in regard to Vie diiferent methods of cooking potatoes, so that the oft 
abused boiled potato may be varied during the week at dinner: 

I. "Sunday. — Mashed potatoes; peel (thin), steam, place in a pan and 
maish, sdd milk, butter and salt, and then beat like cake batter, the longer the 
better, till they are nice and light. This steaming and beating will be found a 
great improvement. 

II. " MojTDAY. — Baked potatoes in their jackets. By the way, if any are 
left over they may be warmed over by not peeling them till cold, and then 
slicing. 

in. " TuKSDAT. — Peel and bake them with the roast of beef. 

rV. "Wednesday. — Prepare them in the Kentucky style, as follows: 
The potatoes are sliced thin, as for frying, and allowed to remain in cold water 
}4 hour. The slices are then put in a pudding dish, with salt, pepper and some 
milk — about 3^ pt. to an ordinary pudding dish. They are then put into an 
©ven and baked for an hour. When taken out, a lump of butter the size of a 
hen's egg is cut into small bits and scattered over the top. Those who have 
never eaten potatoes cooked thus, do not know all the capabilities of that escu- 
lent tuber. The slicing allows the interior of each potato to be examined, hence 
its value where potatoes are doubtful, though the poor ones are not of necessity 
required. The soaking in cold water hardens the slices, so that they will hold 
their shape. The milk serves to cook them through, and to make a nice brown 
on the top; the quantity can only be learned by experience; if just a little is 
left as a rich gravy, moistening all the slices, then it is right. In a year of 
emaU potatoes, this method of serving them will be very welcome to many a 
housekeeper. 

V. " Thursday. — ^Peel, steam and serve whole. 

VI. "Friday. — 'Potatoes a la pancake;' peel, cut in thin slices length- 
wise, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and fry in butter or beef drippings, turning 
like griddle cakes. 

VII. Saturday. — Potatoes boiled in their jackets. 

"' These are simple ways, but give variety. On Monday and Tuesday 
always prepare them in some way in the ovin, as as to leave top of stove free. 



FAlilOUS DISHES. 469 

Fried Potatoes (Saratoga's Secret).— It is my custom to make my 
Items as short as possible, and have them uaderstood, but " G, B. B." wrote tho 
following in such a spicy manner to the Springfield Republican, 1 think it will 
give an additional relish to the potatoes to give it in his own words. The nicety 
or daintiness of the dish more than pays for the labor of preparing it. His 
words were as follows: "Saratoga Potatoes, the poetry of common life, and 
costly charm of Delmonico's and Parker's, can be made in perfection in any 
kitchen by the use of a very simple apparatus, consisting of a large blade set 
slanting into a wooden trough with a narrow slit in the bottom, two wire 
screens or sieres, and a common spider Select 8 large potatoes, pare them and 
slice very thin with the cutting machine, soak them in cold water for 2 hours, 
then stir common table salt into the water, 1 tea-spoonful to a quart, and 3110^7 
them to remain in the brine % hour longer. Pour them upon the screen to 
drain, and put them on a spider with 1 lb. of clear lard over a brisk fire. When 
the sliced potatoes dry on a towel, wait until the lard is smoking hot, and pour 
a large plateful into the spider. The result is like a small sea in a white squall, 
and now the cook shows the artistic soul, which every votary of that noblest of 
the arts must possess to be worthy of the name. Patient and calm, with steady 
and incessant motion of the skimmer, she prevents adliesion of any two affec- 
tionate slices, and watches carefully for any tender burst of brownness to appear. 
Slowly it creeps and deepens until it rivals the hue of the fragrant Havana, 
Haste then takes the place of caution, lest any martyrs burn for the perfection 
of others; and they must be quickly spread upon another sieve to drain until 
dry and greaseless enough for the fairest fingers, then served hot to melt away 
like a kiss on sweet lips, with a dying crackle like the fallen leaves of autumn." 

Remarks. — Of course, these may be sliced with a knife, cutting them 
quite thin is the only point requiring special care. Sieves are not absolutely 
necessary, but help the drying or draining process considerably. A very satis- 
factory substitute may be made by any intelligent boy of a dozen years old. A 
frame of wood, about a foot square, on the principle of a picture frame, of soft 
■wood strips, half an inch thick by one inch wide, halved together at the earners 
and nailed ; then small holes every ^ inch and small wires woren across J^ or 
% inch apart each way, will answer every purpose. 

Home Style.— Wash, pare, and slice, in the ordinary way, as many 
potatoes as required for the meal; rinse in cold water, then, having placed a 
skillet upon the stove, with 2 or 3 spoonfuls of meat drippings, lard, or butter 
in it, to become hot, put in the sliced potatoes, sprinkling a little salt and pep- 
per upon them, and, as the bottom ones become browned, turn them till all are 
nicely browned, then take them up at once into a covered dish, to keep hot. 
This makes a nice dish while hot, but the}' are not relished after having become 
cold, Peachblows are not as good for frying as those which do not crack open 
while boiling— they become softer and more mussy Raw potatoes are to be 
taken in both recipes. 

Potato Balls, or Cakes. — When you have mashed potatoes left over 
at dinner, which have been seasoned with butter, salt, and milk, or cro im, 
make them, while warm, inio cakes ^ of an inch thick, and set by till irorning; 



4P70 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES, 

then beat an egg. into whicli dip the potato cakes, from whence lay them into 
a frying-pan, having a little butter in it, of the right heat to brown the cakes 
•quickly. Take up in a tureen to keep hot. Potatoes may be cooked and 
seasoned purposely for making these cakes; but it is best to prepare them and 
make up the cakes in the afternoon, as they brown better for having dried out 
0ver night. 

Saratoga Pried Potatoes, Short "Way.— Wash the potatoes clean, 
pare, slice with a potato-slicer, very thin, throw into cold water long enough to 
<ake out some of the starch, then wipe dry and put into boiling lard, a few 
pieces at a time. Be sure and keep the lard boiling. As soon as the potatoes 
,tre of a clear, golden brown, skim them out, drain them in a colander or sieve, 
ind serve hot. 

Bemarks. — If the potatoes are well covered with water, stirred up two or 
three times, and the water changed once, they being sliced very thin, an hour 
will remove much of the starch, which you must understand by the general 
sremarks above, takes away the nourishment; hence I should prefer less soaking 
than given in No. 8. 

Potatoes Pried With Eggs.— Slice cold boiled potatoes, and fry in 
butter till nicely brown, in this time heat 1 or 2 eggs, as below, and stir into the 
potatoes nicely, and take up at once, so as not to harden the egg, but merely to 
cook slightly. One egg is enough for 3 or 4 persons who are not especially 
fond of potatoes; if most of the family are fond of them have plenty, and use 
additional eggs to correspond. Choice. 

Potatoes "Tip-Top." — Boil 8 large potatoes in their skins, and let 
them cool. When cold, peel them and cut them into thick slices. Put into a 
stewpan 2 oz. of butter, in a thin slice; and when it is melted add 1 tea-spoon 
of well seasoned stock, or gravy (see gravy below), 1 tea-spoon of finely 
chopped parsley; chopped lemon, and 1 tea-spoon of mixed pepper and salt 
Stir these well together over the fire till hot, add the potatoes, simmer 5 min- 
utes, stir in the juice of a lemon and serve hot. 

Remarks. — Of course, if you have no parsley, and do not like onions, do 
without either, and still it will be "tip-top." 

Potatoes en Caisse (In a Case.)— Wash some large, fine potatoes of a 
mealy sort and bake them. When done cut a small hole in the top of each and 
carefully scoop out the whole of the inside; mash this fine, in a saucepan over 
the fire, mJxing with it a large table-spoonful of butter and a generous quan- 
tity of cream. Salt and black or white pepper to taste. jmJl stir in the whipped 
whites of 2 eggs. Fill up the skins of the potatoes with the mixture. Set 
them into the oven for a few moments and serve hot. These amounts are for 6 
large potatoes. Keep the same proportion for any number. 

Potatoes, Duchesse, or Potato Balls, Baked.— Boil and pas^ 
through a sieve 6 fine potatoes. There must be no lumps. Add 1 gill ef 
cream, the yolk of 3 eggs, pepper, salt, a little chopped parsley, and a hint of 
nutmeg. The mixture must be thoroughly smooth and well mixed. Take a 
table-spoonful at a time, form into a ball, brush the top slightly v/ith a beaten 
Qgg, placo in a buttered nan, and set them in the oven till nicely browned. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 471 

Potatoes wiv^ and Without Onions for Breakfast.— Boil pota 
toes a little underdone; i:^^" cold poal and chop finely; have an onion or two, 
if several in the family, also boiled underdone, and finely minced. Put on a 
saucepan with milk, 1}^ cups, and bring to a boil; then add butter, a table- 
spoonful as lifted from the crock, and when melted, stir in the potatoes and 
enion, and cook about 15 minutes, or until creamy. If onions are not tolerated 
by anyone use the potatoes alone, or with hashed beets, in the same manner. 

'Remarks. — The author takes them one day with onions, the next with 
beets. 

New Potatoes a la Creme or in Milk.— Take the small new pota- 
toes, scrape off the skins when washed, and boil, or better, steam them not quite 
done, the day before needed for breakfast; in the morning chop or cut fine, 
with any others left over; salt and pepper to taste. One cup of milk to 2 or 3 of 
potato Heat the milk with a table-spoonful of butter, and stir in the potatoes, 
and warm up nicely. 

Remarks.— A ]\Irs. Deacon Warner, for whose husband I worked in hay- 
ing the first half month I ever worked away from home, over 50 years ago, 
used to get them up in this way, and I thought them, and still think, they are 
the nicest I ever ate. Of course old ones may be used in the same manner, and 
are nice, but the new, it seems to me, at least, richer, and I know, more sweet 
and tender. 

Potato Fritters. This receipt was given by one of those persons who 
more recently have been having schools of instruction in the cities in the art of 
cookery. Miss Parloa. She says: 

One pint of boiled and mashed potato; ^ cup of hot milk; Stable-spoonfuls 
of butter : 3 of sugar ; 2 eggs; a little nutmeg ; 1 tea-spoonful of salt. Directions 
—Add the milk, butter, sugar and seasoning to the mashed potato.and then add 
the eggs well beaten. Stir until very smooth and light. Spread about ^ an 
inch deep on a buttered dish, and set away to cool. When cold, cut into 
squares. Dip in beaten egg and in bread-crumbs, and fry brown, in boiling 
fat. Serve immediately. 

Remarks.— I take this to be only another name for potato balls, but they 
will be a nice thing to have around about mealtime. 

Sliced Potatoes to Bake With Pork.— Dig out the eyes and pare 
very thinly, raw potatoes, and slice very thinly also, to nearly fill a 2-quart 
pudding dish (earthen). Season freely with salt and pepper over the top; then 
pour over sweet milk % full, which will carry the seasoning among the slices. 
Cut 5 or 6 slices of pork and lay over the top, as a covering. Bake about i 
hours. If the pork is likely to get too much browned, cover with thick brown 
paper till the potatoes are done. 

Escaloped Potatoes, or Potatoes with Cracker Crumbs.— Slice 
quite thin, cold boiled potatoes, to the amount of a quart or more, and roll 
crackers to nearly the same amount. Season the potatoes, about 2 tea-spoonfuls 
of salt and pepper to taste, and place half of the potatoes in a suitable baking. 
dish, placing bits of butter upon them; then half of the cracker crumbs and 



472 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

pour over ^ pint of cream (milk will do, but if milk is used, use butter more 
freely); then the balance of the potatoes, as the first, and cover with the bal- 
ance of the crumbs and cream, or milk, as before, with more butter, and bake 
until richly browned and well heated through. To be eaten with butter or 
any meat gravies for dinner or tea. The same may be done with sweet pota- 
toes, several other plans of cooking which are given below. 

Potatoes, Gravy for. — Put a table-spoonful or more of butter, accord 
ing to the quantity of potatoes you have, into a frying-pan and set over the fire 
until brown, being careful not to scorch it. Mix a table-spoonful of flour in a 
cup of tliin, sweet cream, or milk, if one has no cream; pour into the browned 
butter, boil up, season with p)epper and a little salt if necessary, and turn over 
the potatoes. 

Sweet Potatoes, to Bake— Moist and Nice. — Those with experi 
ence in baking sweet potatoes, claim them to be more moist, and sweeter, for 
having been half boiled, or steamed, before putting into the oven. Very small 
ones should not be chosen for baking. Bake in a moderate oven. 

Sweet Potatoes, Broiled. — Thinly pare large, fine sweet potatoes. 
Cut them lengthwise into thick slices, and broil them, upon a wire griddle, over 
a clear hot fire. "When crisp and brown, put them upon a hot platter, sprinkle 
pepper and salt over them and add butter cut into small pieces. Serve very hot. 

Sweet Potato Cakes — Very Nice. — Remove the skin from 2 or 8 
medium-sized sweet potatoes, left over, and mash them nicely, and mix in 
about 3 ozs. (3 small table-spoonfuls) of flour, salt and pepper to taste, a good 
lump of butter, and warm milk enough to make a good dough. Roll this out 
on the kneading board, and cut out a cake about the size of yoxu- baking tin; 
butter the tin well, and scatter a little flour over it; then lay in; when you think 
ii is nearly done, turn it over. If the bottom of the oven is very hot, put a 
grate under the baking-tin to prevent getting too much browned. The danger 
of burning is lessened if instead of one cake you cut the dough in buscuit-shape 
about 3 inches thick. If covered while baking, the cakes will be more moist. 
These can be made of other potatoes as well as of the sweet ones. 

Remarks.— E.\theT of these plans not only enable one to use up cold or left- 
over sweet potatoes, but "Irish" potatoes, too, and at the same time make a 
nice dish for the table— the same as though the potatoes had been cooked pmr- 
posely for these uses; in fact, it is well to cook some extra ones for either of 
these purposes, preferred, at the time. 

FRUIT— How and When to be Eaten to Receive the Great- 
est Benefit. — Oeneral Bemarks. — We now come to the question of fruit aa 
eaten in its natural state — uncooked — and also in its various forms of cookery. 
And as apples are used throughout the year, as well as more freely than 
any. other kinds, they will receive the greater attention; but what is said of 
them will apply, generally, with equal force to most other fruit, in their season. 
To derive the greatest benefit from the use of almost any kind of fruit, in its 
natural state, it should be eaten just before the meal, or at its close; then not 
any "nibbling" of it between meals; for this plan is a very great source, or 



VARIOUS DISHES 473 

cause of dyspepsia. When the eating of fruit does harm, it is generally becausQ 
It is eaten at improper times, in improper quantities, or when imperfectly 
ripened. An eminent physician recently said: " If my patients would eat a 
couple of oranges every morning before breakfast, from February to June, my 
practice would be gone." It is a simple thing to do, but it would be magical 
in its alterative action upon the system. And to derive the greatest benefit. 
horn the use of our common fruits, let only sufficient sugar, cream, season- 
ing, etc., be used to give a relish, that the pure fruit acids may have their 
cooling and correcting — alterative— influence upon the system. 

Fruit 'Cooking, Suitable Vessels for.— In cooking any acid fruit 
(and most of them are of an acid nature), tin, brass, or porcelain vessels are the 
best; never cook them in glazed earthen, on account of the lead in the glazing, 
nor in copper without especial care to brighten it with brick-dust and flannel, 
and to pour out as soon as done. 

Fruit as a Medicine. — Apples, peaches and strawberries, perfectly 
ripe and juicy, are not only some of our most delicate fruits; but they are a 
pleasant and alterative medicine (eaten in moderation, as suggested by the phy* 
sician in speaking of oranges). These fruits, perfectly ripe, digest in \% to 3 
hours, while boiled cabbage requires 4 to 5 hours. Baked apples and baked 
peaches (which see) make as healthful a dessert as can be placed upon the 
table. These, and strawberries uncooked, eaten frequently at breakfjist, with 
GraJiam bread and nice butter, without meat, will have the effect of removing 
constipation, correcting acidities, cooling and removing fever tendencies very 
effectually. This can be done with apples nearly all the year round ; and with 
children, especially, would save many a doctor s bill, as well as meet their 
craving desires for something of an acid nature, without being obliged to give 
them food requiring much longer time for digestion. "We will first give a 
receipt for baking peaches, which originated with myself, and carried into 
^jffect many times by my dear wife, since passed to her reward in the spirit 
world 

Peaches, To Bake for the Table, and for Canning, a Very- 
Choice Diah — Equally Applicable to Apples. — Wash fully ripe 
peaches, carefully rubbing off the furze, with a suitable cloth, from the skin, 
which is needed to hold this lucious fruit together; cut out a little of the skin 
from the blossom end, to allow sugar to penetrate and the juices to escape; then 
place a baking tin full of them, stem-end down, pour upon them water to fill 
half or two-thirds up, and scatter on sugar, according to their tartness, 
to make them palatable. Place in a moderate oven till entirely tender Serve 
hot; but if any are left over they are nice cold. The same plan is equally 
applicable to apples 

Remarks. — My wife, at one time, having some apples baked in the above 
manner, and there being also a large quantity of peaches that season, and som*. 
upon the table at that time, the thought struck me like a flash, to ask her if she 
ever thought of or saw peaches baked I never had, nor had she. Then I 
asked her to try some for the next meal, I think, which she did, with the most 



474 -Di2. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

perfect satisfaction — ^the nicest dish of baked fruit that, I think, I ever partook 
of. It was repeated many, many times, and, finally, when canning-time came, 
more than half that was put up was done in this way, and also proved entirely 
satisfactory, and was continued as long as she lived. The author will guaran- 
tee satisfaction to all who try it fairly. Many people, of late years, ask: "Will 
you warrant this to be, or do, as you say?" — I will, hence the guarantee above. 

Peach, Apple, and Berry Fritters.— Wash, pare, halve or quarter 
peaches or apples, according to their size, as many as you desire. Make a bat- 
ter of sweet milk (if you have it, if not, water), flour, and baking powder, at 
tbe rate of 2 tea-spoonfuls to 1 qt of flour, and a little salt, with an egg, if you 
have it, to each pint of milk used; when of proper consistence, stir in the pieces 
of fruit, and with a large spoon take up 1 or 2 pieces with some of the batter 
and drop into hot lard and brown nicely. Serve hot, with cream and sugar. 
They make an excellent substitute for pies and puddings. 

For Baspbenies Blackbeirm, Strawberries, etc. — Make the batter the same, 
but for each cup of berries, sprinkle upon them 1 table-spoonful of sugar; fry 
the same, but dust them thickly with powdered sugar to serve. 

Remarks. — Thus, with a little judgment on the part of the cook, an endless 
variety of dishes or articles of food may be prepared to meet the varied tastes of 
guests or of the family. English currants, or raisins, both properly stewed in 
but little water, and the raisins cut into halves to prevent their bursting and 
scattering the hot fat when put in; or any of the home-dried fruits may be used 
in this manner, thus extending the variety. 

Apples Dried, Their Wholesomeness as Food, and 'Manner 
of Cooking. — The Indiana Farmer recently made a lengthy plea for dried 
apples, from which I condense the necessary points to a full understanding oi 
the subject. It says: 

" Dried apples are not only a cheap article of food, but very wholesome; 
and if the girls will pay attention, I will tell them how to cook them," etc. 
These two points being admitted, their cheapness and wholesomeness, I can now 
condense very much, still retaining everything essential. Ck)ok but few at a 
time, as they become flat, or stale, by long standing. Take only %■ as much 
bulk as you need when cooked, as they swell very much. Put them into a pan 
of milk warm water 10 to 15 minutes; then mash thoroughly, and carefully 
examine every piece to see there are no worms in them, especially so if they 
•were dried upon strings; rinse nicely, and place in a porcelain kettle, or in a tin 
pan, and cover handsomely with cold water; cover tightly and slowly bring to 
a boil, having hot water to replenish with if .more is needed. When tender, 
but not mushy, add sugar to taste. If stewed too long they shrink and turn 
■dark. Have plenty of juice, and sugar to make them rich, but not to deaden 
the flavor of the apples, and you have a dish better than half the canned fruits 
in use. 

The Juice of Dried Apples a Great Beverage for the Sick. 
— The editor closes by saying: ''I must not omit to mention that the juice off 
€f mcely stewed dried apples is a delicious beverage for the sick, and possesses 



VARIOUS DISHES. 475 

a flavor that Is peculiarly refreshing and grateful, especially where there ia 
fever." 

Bemarka. — The author fully endorses all the points made by the editor, 
having always been very fond of sauce made of dried apples, having plenty ot 
juice. For me it is preferable to most other sauces, which are often much more 
expensive, but not half so palatable. For the beverage for the sick, a dozen 
quarters will be enough for a quart of water, with'simple sugar to taste, as the 
flavoring needs no doctoring generally. The evaporated apples are still so ex- 
pensive, that most families having an orchard, should continue their practice 
of drying for themselves. 

APPLE, PEACH AlTD OTHER FBUIT BUTTERS— How to 
Make. — The American Grocer, in giving an account of the manufacture of 
fruit butters, as a business in the cities, from dried apples, peaches, quinces 
and pears, using sugar and water in place of the juices of the fruit, closes in 
the following language, as to making them in the country. It says: " The 
same purpose that sugar subserves in the manufactories here, may be accom- 
plished there by the use of cider. When apples are ripe make, say 3 barrels, 
of cider. Then pare, and core, 4 bushels of apples. Then boil down the 3 
barrels of cider to 1^^^ (the author would say boil down the cider first), and set 
it convenient to the copper kettle, in which place the 4 bushels of apples. Pour 
on the apples from the cider enough to answer the purpose (to nearly cover 
them) and fire up. As the cider boils away, add more until it is all used up 
and the contents of the kettle brought down to a proper consistency, of which 
one must be judge. A little practice will make one perfect in this process. 
This is for apples. It will apply equally well to any other kind of fruit from 
which it is practicable to obtain the juice as one would from apples." 

Remarks. — Any other fruit may be made with the cider; but the flavor 
would not be so perfect of the kind used, as it would to use its own juices. 
Peaches and pears, when fully ripe and juicy, would easily supply the neces- 
sary amount of juice, or cider, removing the stones from the peaches before 
grinding and pressing. And even grape juice has been used to make peach 
butter. 

Of course these ciders should be boiled down the same as apple cider, 
above. While cooking the butter there must be watchful care and constant 
stirring, to avoid burning. If cooked down pretty thick, so as to just spread 
nicely, and then carefully put up in stone jars, and kept in a cool, dry place, it 
will keep all the year around. Pour into tubs as soon as complete, to avoid 
creating a verdigris on the copper, by standing, which is poisonous. The cider, 
in boiling dovra, needs skimming at each addition, as it is put in. This boUed 
cider is nice for minced pies, apple sauce, etc. 

It is claimed, however, by some, that the best apple butter is made by usmg 
sweet apples only; selecting the nicest, both for the cider and for the butter. It 
may be an advantage to those who have sweet apples in abundance, for, as a 
general thing, they are not as marketable as tart or sour ones. Most people wUl 
be "satisfied to have plenty of that made from nice, juicy, tart fruit, at least, I have 



476 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES, 

always been. I have seen apple butter that was flavored with winter-greer, bui 
give me the natural flavor only. The following short plans of making peacl. 
and apple butters, from a Blade writer, may suit some of our readers better thai, 
the others, hence I give them a place. Grape juice makes a nice butter witl. 
peaches, treated the same as cider, i. e., boiled when just pressed out. Why 
will it not do as nicely with apples? Those who have plenty of peaches caK 
soon tell by trying it 

Peach Butter. — Pare ripe peaches and put them in a kettle with sufiicieni; 
water to boil them soft, when sift through a colander, removing the stones. 
To each quart of peaches put IJ^ lbs. of sugar and boil very slowly one hour. 
Stir often so they will not bum. When done season with ground spice and 
cinnamon to taste 

Apple Butter,- -Boil down a kettle of cider to % of the quantity. Pare, 
core, and slice your aj )ples, and put as many into the cider as you think your 
kettle wUl hold wiunout boiling over. Let it boil slowly, stirring often. Whec 
done spice with ciunamou, and, if you like it sweet, put in some sugar. 

Pumpkin Butter, as Made in the North Woods.— Take out the 
seeds of 1 pumpkin, cut it in small pieces and boil it soft; take 3 other pump 
kins, cut them in pieces and boil them soft; put them in a coarse bag and press 
out the juice; add the juice to the first pumpkin and let it boil 10 liours or more 
to become the thickness of butter; stir often If the pumpkins are frozen the 
juice will come out much easier 

Remarks. — All I have to guide me as to the " North Woods " manner of 
making is that on the back of the slip cut from some newspaper; there was the 
date of the paper — Feb. 7, 1880, — also " Sleighing fair," and " Loggers feel bet 
ter," therefore, to know that " loggers felt better," they must have that class of 
persons among them; and hence it was from some northern paper, where loggers 
in the winter do congregate. It will make a good butter if boiled carefully to 
avoid burning. I should say boil the juice at least half away before putting in 
the nicely cut pieces of the 1 pumpkin, boiling it soft in the juice of the 3 other 
ones, after its reduction one-half. It makes a very good substitute for cow's 
butter, and for apple butter, too. But I must say if I used frozen pimipkins tc 
obtain the juice from, I should not want the one frozen that was to be cut up 
to make the butter of. I think it would not be as good if frozen. If any ot 
these butters are too sour add good brown sugar to make it sweet enough to suit 
the taste. We return to dishes made with applea 

Apple Snow.— Apples, eggs, lemon peel and powdered sugar. Take 10 
good-sized apples, peel, core, and cut into quarters; put into a saucepan with 
the rind of 1 lemon, and water enough to keep them from burning — about 
^ a pt. Then the apples are tender, take out the lemon peel, and beat the 
apples to a pulp; let them cool and stir in the whites of 10 eggs, beaten to s 
strong froth. Add 3^ lb. of powdered sugar, and continue beating until the 
mixture is quite stiff. Put on a glass dish and serve either with custard made 
with the yolks of the eggs, or with cream; or garnish with sponge cake or ladv- 
Snger cake, as you choose 



VARIOUS DISHES. 4.11 

Remarks. — What is called "pulp" above is often called in these "snow " 
mixtures puree — an East Indian word, meaning gravy, or soft mixture, in con- 
nection with their curries or much-spiced dishes. The French call these pulpy 
mixtures "meringues," but generally bake them into pies, having first baked 
the crust or pastry upon the plate or pie dish before putting in the meringue; 
then covering the pie, when just done, with the beaten white of an egg or two, 
with a table-spoonful of sugar to eack egg, and browning nicely before taking 
from the oven, or returning them to the oven for 2 or 3 minutes for that purpose. 

Apple Snow Ho. 2, with BoMt or BsJted Apples.— The apples 
may be roasted or nicely baked, then "pulped" or pureed through a colander 
to avoid the skins and cores. Otherwise treated the same as with the above 
i)oiled — the latter plan retaining much more of the flavor of the apples. 

Remark: — Please tell me why peaches, pears, and, perhaps, berries, will 
not do the same, except the " snow" part, which would be the color of the fruit 
used, not so white or snow-like. 

Apple ComiKJte.— P»re, halve and take out the cores of 6 large fair 
apples, throwing each piece into cold water to keep it from turning dark. Put 
Joaf sugar, y^ lb. , into an enameled itew-pvan with sufficient water — about 3 pts. 
As soon as it boils put in the apples with the juice of 2 lemons, stew gently 
totil the apples are sufficiently cooked but not broken. Then take them out 
^ref ully and lay them in the dish in which they arc to go to the table. Cut the 
rinds of the lemons into the thinest possible strips and put them into the syrup; 
boil till tender, by which time the syrup will be much reduced. When cold 
pour the syrup about the apples, and also dispose the transparent strips of lemon 
about them. This dish looks pretty with a bit of quince jelly placed in the 
hollow of each apple; or with a candied cherry in the hollow, and angelica cut 
into lozenges and inserted around the top of each apple. — Evening Post, Grand 
Rapid*, Mich. 

Remarks. — The word eompoU is the French for preparing fruit with a 
syrup for immediate use, as Webster's "Unabridged" puts it. It makes a 
nice dish. 

Apple*, Pears, FeftchM, etc., Spiced, or Sweet Pickles.— For 
each i)ound of these fruits, after being pared and cored, or pits removed, nice 
sugar, about 3^ lb., and good vinegar, 1 gill, with unground spices to taste, are 
boiled together until the fruit is tender; then the fruit taken out and the syrup 
and spices cooked together until the watery parts coming out of the fruit is 
evaporated, and then poured over the fruit and securely covered for use. Crab 
apples or any very sour fruit will require more sugar. 

Cherry Butter. — Boil the cherries till soft; then rub through a colan- 
der, and to each pint of the pulp add a pint of sugar. Boil carefully till thick, 
like otiier fruit butters. Can or keep in closely covered jars. 

Lemon Butter. — Sugar 1% cups; whites of 3 eggs and yolk of 1 beaten; 
butter % cup; grate the yellow off of 2 medium sized lemons; then squeeze in 
the juice and mix all, and cook 20 minutes by setting the basin containing it 
into a pan of boiling water. Very nice for tarts or as butter upon bread. 



478 DR. CHASE'S BECIPEa. 

Dulce de Lece, or Spanish Sauo*, or Buttor.— Put 1 qt. of 

nice sweet milk into a porcelain lined dish, with white sifted sugar, lib.; 
flour and ground cinnamon, each 1 teaspoonf ul. biuimer, stirring occasionally, 
5 or 6 hours, or lill of proper consistence when a little ia cooled. To be eaten 
cold, as a pudding sauce, or on bread for children. Valuable for children if at 
all diarrheal. 

Frosted Figs for Dessert.— Beat the whites of 2, 3 or more eggs, 
according to the amount you wish to serve, till so stiff you can almost turn 
the plate upside down without the egg running off; then stir in powdered 
sugar, to leave the frosting soft enough to dip the figs into it, to completely 
cover, if need be, by re-dipping. Dry in the oven or on a shelf above the 
stove. If done nicelj- they will be nice. 

Peach Figs, Very Nice.— Pare, halve and remove the stones from 
nice ripe peaches; weigh and half the weight in sugar. Heat both carefully 
wiihout water until the sugar is dissolved in the escaping juices; then boil till 
the fruit is clear or transparent; then take up with a fork, drawing off all 
superfluous syrup, placing on plates to dry, as next above, till there will be no 
more drainage; then sift sugar over them and pack in small boxes, as figs, 
with plenty of sugar over and between them. It takes labor, but when 
peaches are plenty they are very nice indeed; eaten same as figs. 

Tomatoes.— Nice ripe ones treated in the same way, first squeezing out 
their extra juices, are also nice. 

Honey, Artificial.— " Polly Anthus," of El Dora, 111., informs the 
Blade Household to make it as follows: 

"Take water, \% pts.; heat it till ready to boil; then put in pulverized 
alum, % oz . and when that is dissolved pour in white sugar 4 lbs., stirring till 
dissolved, then continue to boil 2 or 3 minutes. Put 5 drops of rose oil (oil of 
rose) into alcohol % pt., and while the syrup is hot put in 2 tea-spoonfuls of 
this alcohol and you have b% lbs. of nice white honey." 

Remarks. — The editor asked, " Does 'Polly Anthus' mean 5 drops of the 
burning fluid known as ' rose oil '? " Of course she did not, it was oil of rose, 
as I have indicated above, that she meant. For the kind of gasoline known as 
" rose oil" is not at all fit for such flavoring. That is referred to in Renovating 
Gloves, etc. The extract of rose, now much used in flavoring dishes, in like 
amount or a larger amount of rose water, a table-spoonful for a tea-spoonful 
will do very nicely. Oil of rose is quite expensive, still its flavor comes nearer 
to that of honey than any other. 

Sour Apples, to Cook so as to Keep Their Shape.— Some writer 
upon this subject says; I always cook them in quarters; putting them into 
boiling water, with sugar to taste; being sure to put on water enough at first, 
eo as not to stir or disturb them until done; then pour into a dish and you 
have a nice sauce to eat with cream as peaches. I like them better. 

Remarks. — There is no doubt but what the boiling water sets, or toughens, 
the surface, and prevents them from coming to pieces; but, it strikes me thai 
I, at least, would like peaches and creuu best. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 470 

Apple Charlotte. — Stew apples quite soft and flavor with lemon or cin- 
namon ; then prepare some nice bread and butter. Line the bottom of your 
pudding dish with it; then put a layer of the apple, and continue until filled; 
tiic^ poxiv over it a cold custard, and bake, and when cold turn out and serve 
■with sauce made of cream and sugar. 

Remarks — Charlotte is the French for a dish made of apple marmalade (a 
thick sauce), covered vdth crimiibs of toasted bread, while Tmse, which is gen- 
erally seen in connection with charlotte, is of Russian origination, and refers to 
cookery — then " Charlotte Russe " signifies a dish of custard inclosed in, or 
surrounded with sponge cake, etc. With this explanation you can get up 
either, and understand the whys and wherefores thereof. 

Apple Omelette.— Take ^ doz. large pippins, or other tart apples; but- 
ter, 1 table-spoonful; 3 eggs; a table-spoonful of sugar for each apple; nutmeg 
and rose water, or other flavor to suit. If rose water is used, but little — a tea- 
spoonful or two only will be needed. Directions — Pare, core and stew as for 
apple sauce, and beat it into a smooth pulp, while hot, adding the butter, sugar 
and flavor, and let stand until cold; then the eggs, beaten separately, the 
whites the last, when ready to pour into a deep, warmed and buttered dish, to 
be delicately browned in a moderate oven. It is best not eaten too hot. A 
wholesome dish, especially for children. 

Apple and Peach Preserve for Present Use.— Peel, halve and 
core, 6 large apples, selecting those of the same size: make a syrup of 1 lb. of 
granulated sugar and 1 pt. of water ; when it boils drop in the apples with the 
rind and juice of a lemon. As soon as they are tender, care must be taken that 
they do not fall in pieces; take the halves out one by one, and arrange, concave 
side uppermost, in a glass dish. Drop a bit of currant jelly into each piece, 
boil down the syrup, and when cool pour around the apples. This makes a 
very nice preserve for tea. Peaches can be substituted for apples, removing the 
pits cartjfully; treated in the same manner otherwise. 

Apple Jelly With the Pure Apple Flavor.- Cut nice tart apples 
into quarters without paring or coring. Throw each piece into a jar of cold 
water as quartered; then take out with the hand, when enough is done to fill 
another stone jar; and place in a moderate oven, with thick paper over the top, 
till perfectly tender (being in a stone jar they will not burn); then mash and 
strain ofl: the juice, and boil with 1 lb. of granulated sugar to each pint. The 
result is the most perfect flavor of the apple which ?lies near, and in the skin, 
seeds, etc. Porcelain kettles should be used for boiling. 

Remarks. — The usual way has been to pare and core, then mash, or grind 
in a cider mill, boiling the cider, then adding sugar, etc., but the flavor is not 
nearly so fine. Some use % l^ss sugar, and add gelatine (Coxes), or isinglass, 
about 1 oz. to each 3 large apples used. But the true way of baking, above 
given, is best 

Green Apple Jelly.— Take green apples and boil without paring, until 
perfectly soft; then vub through a sieve, or colander, and to each pint of the 
pulp add sugar ^ lbs., by j«itting on one-third and letting stand a few hours. 



480 ^R' CHASE'S RECIPES. 

then the rest, and to each 3 pts. add the grated peel of 2 lemons, and boil 15 or 
20 minutes, or until it begins to look clear, before putting into glasses or 
molds. 

Apple Short-Cake, Also Applicable to ATI Fruits.— Flour, 1 qt. ; 
cream of tartar, 2 tea-spoonfuls; soda, 1 tea-spoonful; salt, 1 tea-spoonful; but- 
ter, % cup; sweet milk to mix into rather a stiff dough. Roll out and bake 
nicely and split open; or bake in two thin cakes; and spread with nice butter, 
and cover with nicely sweetened apple-sauce, grate on some nutmeg; place tlie 
other half on this, the crust side down, if it was baked as a whole and split; 
then butter, etc., the other half the same way. The same if baked in two cakes; 
but if baked in two cakes it does not soak up so much or the butter and juices; 
and I .think it preferable. Any of the fresh fruits in their season, or stewed 
properly out of season, are remarkably nice in the same, manner; peaches and 
strawberries, however, are used more often than other kinds; but this is only 
from their superior deUcacy of flavor. If the apple-sauces made by baking 
and pulpinf , as for jelly, above, the flavor will be more perfect. 

Apple Dumplings, Baked, Delicious. — Tart, juicy apples, soda, 
(Bour milk, lard, salt and flour. Directions — Pare the apples, cut into halves 
and core. Make the pastry as for biscuit, only using a little more lard or drip- 
pings to make it short, as well as light. Take suflScient dough upon the knead- 
ing-board to cover one apple. Knead as for biscuit, then roll out large enough 
to cover the apple, placing one of the halves upon the crust, and putting a tea- 
spoonful of sugar into the place of the core; then placing another upon the first, 
folding over the crust and pinching, or crimping, to retain the juices, the same 
as for boiling. Having buttered a bread-pan, put the dumplings in it as pre- 
pared, the same as you would biscuit. Make a little depression upon the top 
of each and put a bit of butter into it. Bake 1 hour in a moderate oven ; but 
10 or 15 minutes before taking up take out and sprinkle a good handful of 
sugar over all and return long enough to brown the top nicely. To be eaten 
warm, with cream or sugar, or other pudding sauce. Very nice cold; also, by 
grating a little nutmeg into the sauce. 

Remarks. — The pastry for these dumplings may be made with sweet milk, 
or water, and baking powder 2 tea-spoonfuls to 1 qt. of flour, when sour milk 
is not at hand. Our first trial of them was made with water and baking 
powder, and gave us entire satisfaction. Milk is the richer, but not always to 
be had. 

Apple Dumplings, Boiled. — One of the writers in the WesUm Rural 
gives the following as her plan of making them. She says: "I make the crust, 
or dough, as for nice short biscuit, and nothing is better for these than the top 
of good rich buttermilk. Sift the flour in the bread bowl, making a hole in the 
center. Put into it 1 tea-spoonful of pulverized saleratus, and mix with it a 
handful of dry flour; add 1 pt, of rich buttermilk or sour cream and a pinch of 
salt. Stir briskly until it foams, then stir in the flour until you have a soft 
dough. Knep.d but little, and roll out in round pieces as for pie crust, but 
r ither thicker. Put the fruit on one-half of the crust, and dredge over it a Mr. 



TARlOUa DISHES, 4S1 

tie flour, wetting the edges of the crust, as for pies, to make it stick. Lap the 
crust over the fruit, fastening the edges securely. It now resembles the old- 
fashioned 'turnover,' and should be pricked with a fork to expel the air, and 
squeezed in the hand until it assumes a round form about the size of a large tea- 
cup. When they are all made in this way, drop them into a kettle containing 
about a gallon of boiling water, previously salted a little, and on the bottom an 
old plate, to prevent their burning. Keep them boiling briskly for % of an 
hour, covered closely, when they will be done, which may be determined by 
trying with a fork. Serve hot with cream and sugar, flavored with lemon or 
nutmeg. Pieplant is very nice served in this way, as well as strawberries, rasj>- 
berries and other fruits, and they always find a ready market at the dinner 
table." 

Apple Diimplings, Steamed.— Pare and punch out the core of nice 
juicy tart apples that will cook quickly; then take light biscuit dough, roll out 
1^ inch thick and fold around each apple. Put into the steamer to rise, then 
steam till done. Eat with cream and sugar, or butter and sugar rubbed 
together, or, what is very nice, maple syrup. 

Apple Tapioca Pudding.— Soak 1 cup of tapioca over night in 1 qt. of 
water; pare, core and slice a sufficient quantity of tart cooking apples, and add 
sugar as needed, with a little water to prevent burning or sticking to the bottom 
of the pudding-dish; set in the oven to bake, and when nearly done take out 
the dish and pour over the tapioca and return to the oven until the tapioca jellies. 
To be eaten with cream and sugar or other sauce, as preferred. 

Apple Custard.— Stew some tart, tender apples; sweeten and flavor to 
taste; then when cold pour over them a boiled custard, made of 4 eggs to 1 qt. 
of good milk, with sugar and nutmeg as you like. Let it be quite cold before 
served. 

Apple Custard Pie. — Stewed apples, green or dried, 3 cups; sugar, 1 
cup; 6 eggs; milk, 1 qt. Beat the eggs separately, mix the yolks with the 
apple and sugar, season with nutmeg, add the milk, and lastly the beaten whites 
of eggs. Bake like a tart without cover. — Toledo Post. 

Apple Bird's-Nest Pudding.— Alternate layers of thinly sliced bread 
and butter, and good, tart cooking apples pared, cored and sliced. Sprinkle a 
little sugar over the apples and dust vnth. cinnamon, nutmeg or allspice, as pre- 
ferred. When the pudding-dish is filled, grate over the last layer, which should 
be bread, the yellow rind of a lemon, and squeeze over all the juice of the 
lemon. Bake 1 hour in a slow oven, taking care to avoid burning the top. It 
will turn out of the dish if the latter has been well buttered. Serve hot, with 
or without pudding sauce. — Toledo Post. 

Remarks. — I suppose this takes the name of "Bird's-Nest" from its resem- 
blance when turned out of the dish to the rough outaide of a bird's-nest. But 
it is delicious, all the same, with cream and sugar or rich milk sauce. 

A Delicious Dish With Sweet Apples.— Bake sweet apples and slice. 
Sweeten nice cream, flavor with lemon, vanilla or nutmeg, and pour oyer the 
apples. — Old Hovsekeeper in Blade, 
31 



483 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — I think you now have the greatest variety of nice dishes made 
with apples, that the author has ever seen in one connection; one idea, now, aa 
to prevent the loss of apples by freezing, and I will close the subject. If ia 
the house keep in a closet, or some dark place, and keep covered until thawed 
out, which it is claimed will save them, by preventing softening and rotting. I 
think this was first given in the " Household " of the Detroit FVee Press. And 
•when frozen they may be cooked by putting into a covered dish, and cooked 
with hardly a perceptible difference. 

TOMATOES— Escaloped.— Peel and cut the tomatoes in slices J^ inch 
thick; make a force-meat of breadcrumbs, pepper, salt, butter and a little white 
sugar; put this in a pudding dish with alternate layers of tomatoes, having the 
tomatoes for the top layer (except with dry crumbs as below); put a bit of but- 
ter upon each slice and dust with salt, pepper and a little sugar; strew with dry 
bread crumbs and bake, covered, half an hour, then remove the lid and bake 
brown. 

BEANS— Old, to Cook Properly, Baked or Boiled.— When 
beans are kept over a year or more they become rather difficult to cook tender. 
One way to accomplish it is to soak them over night in soft water, and in the 
morning put them to boil, putting J^ tea-spoonful of soda into the water (and 
especially must the soda be used too when you have any time strong water to 
boil with). The water must be turned off as soon as it boils, and changed two 
or three times. Have a tea-kettle of boiling water ready to cover them when 
the other is poured off, as cold water hardens them again. After they begin to 
crack open they should be put in the oven, with a piece of pork previously 
freshened, and water enough to keep them from burning, and bake about two 
hours. 

To Boil. — The only thing different is to keep them m the kettle with the 
pork, being a little careful that the amount of water put in is only sufficient to 
have them only nice and moist when done, as it leaves them richer than if too 
much water is used; but if there is much water left when the beans are taken 
up with a skimmer, it will help enrich the porridge or broth next below. 

Remarks. — Beans are not only a very healthful dish, but they contain more 
iiourishment than any of the other vegetables in use; and as they — properly 
fooked — are also easy of digestion, they ought to be much more frequently 
found on every table, for the rich, as well as for the laborer, whom I do not 
call poor, for if he enjoys his labor as he should, he is the richer of the two. 
Either baked or boiled beans, warmed up, putting in sufficient hot water to 
keep them moist, are sweeter and nicer, to the author's taste, than when first 
cooked — always prepare, then, more than will be eaten at the first meal. 

Bean Porridge or Broth.— When the beans are skimmed from the 
kettle leave a tea-cupful or more in the kettle. Set it upon top of the stove 
where the beans will slowly cook fine. Then season with sufficient salt, pep- 
per, and butter to make it relish, and, with good graham bread and butter, it 
makes a soup fit for a king or a dyspeptic. With t lis, also, if more is made 
than needed at the first meal, it is best, the old saying is, (and it is true, too, if 
warmed every day), "when nine days old." 



VARIOUS DISHES. 483 

Boston Baked Beans.— An excellent and favorite dish with every New 
England family, if carefully prepared: Get a red, earthen jar (I believe the red 
ones are unglazed and, therefore, preferred). It should be 14 to 16 inches deep, 
with a wide mouth. Get the beans at a first-class grocery, lest they should be old 
or poor in quality; pick, wash and soak them over night in plenty of cold water; 
scald them the next day with a tea-spoonful of soda; they should not boil unless 
they have been long stored. Drain off the water twice, at least, to remove the 
taste of the soda, and to each 3 pts. of beans, before soaking, allow IJ^ lbs. of 
good, sweet, salt pork — a rib piece, not too fat, is best. Let the beans cover all 
but the top of the pork, which must have been freshened if very salty, the rind 
scraped and scored ; adding hot water enough to cover the beans, in which half 
a small cup of molasses has been dissolved. They should be put in the oven at 
bed-time, while there is still a moderate fire remaining. They will be ready in 
the morning. If the pork is not very salt, add a little salt to the water in which 
the beans are baked. — Boston Herald. 

Pork and Beans— Short, or Kansas Plan.— Pick the beans over 
carefully, and put into an earthen crock, and fill with cold soft water, and let 
stand over night; if the pork is too salt parboil it a short time, scrape the rind, 
and score it; put it, with the beans into a deep baking dish (why not bake them 
in the crock, the same as the Bostonians above — we know there is much less 
danger of burning in an earthen jar than in a tin or other metal dish), with hot 
water cover closely (this is certainly important at first), and set in the oven, and 
let them bake rather slowly until noon, or from 3 to 4 hours. Do not let them 
get too dry; if you can not see the water add more hot. — Kansas City Times. 

Bemarks. — Although there is, and must be, more or less sameness in all the 
above plans of cooking beans, yet there is sufficient difference in some things 
to justify the number I have given. The following will also be found valuable 
in cooking beans and corn together in winter, warming up, drying string beans, 
etc.: 

Winter Succotash.— This may be made with Limas, horticulturab, 
garden beans, or white field beans. The latter are seldom used for succotash, 
but they make it very nicely. The method of proceeding in each case is the 
same. Boil the beans without soaking until three-fourths done. In the mean- 
time put an equal amount (dry) of dried sweet com with 3 qts. water, and let it 
steep on the stove for 2 hours without boiling, then add to it the beans, and let 
them cook together gently until the beans are done. Serve warm and do not 
break the beans. 

Beans or Succotash, To Warm.— Put either beans or succotash into 
shallow dishes and cover with a little hot water. Heat slowly, and do not stir 
while warming, as that makes them mussy. If they are likely to burn putthem 
back where there is not so much heat. Dish them up with a flat ladle so as to 
mash them as little as possible. An excelleut dish for breakfast. In fact, 
baked beans, or any dish with beans in it, like bean porridge (which see), is all 
the better for having been warmed over — the more times the better the dish. 

String Beans for Winter Use.— Some writer in the "Household" 



184 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

department of the Blade informs us, and I have not a doubt of the fact, that 
string beans can be kept for winter use nicely, in the following manner: " String, 
but do not break them, scald a few minutes, then dry by fire heat, turning fre- 
quently so that they do not sour. When dry enough to rattle, put away in 
closely-tied paper sacks. To cook them, soak over night and dress the same as 
fresh- They taste more like green beans than dried corn does like green. 

Com, To Fry— Cut corn from the cob till there is about a quart of it, 
and carefully pick out all bits of stalk or silk. Beat 2 eggs very light, stir them 
into the corn, with 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, salt and pepper. Have some lard 
very hot, and drop in the corn a heaping teaspoonf ul (the author would say a 
table-spoonful) at a time. Fry a light brown. Canned corn may be used in the 
same way. 

Corn Oysters. — Nine ears of corn, 2 eggs, 2 table-spoonfuls of flour, 
pepper and salt. Cut the rows of corn length-wise, and then scrape it off the 
cob; beat the eggs light, add the flour, pepper, and salt, and fry the cakes 
about the size of an oyster in butter. 

Remarks. — These recipes are much the same, but make a very nice dish for 
breakfast. 

TOAST— With or Without Milk, and to Use Bread Crusts, 
Dry Bread, etc. — A lady writer gives her sisters tlie following plans of sav- 
ing bread which has been cut in larger quantities than needed, crusts, etc., 
which many throw away because they do not know how to use them. Her 
plans will prove a success, every time when followed with judgment. She says:: 

"There are times when bread accumulates and is thrown away. We can 
not make toast, for we have only just a little milk to spare. Let us tell you how 
to make a good-sized dish of toast with only one cup of milk— or none at ali. 
Toast each slice of bread nicely and brown; have a basin of hot water on the 
stove; salt the water a little, and dip each slice of toast, 1 at a time, into it. 
Let it remain a moment. Then lay it on the dish you wish to serve it in. Im- 
mediately on taking it from the hot water spread a thin slice of butter on each 
piece of bread, and so on until your dish is full. It is good just so. But to 
give it the appearance of milk toast, heat your small quantity of milk, add a 
little lump of butter, a pinch of salt, and hot water enough to just cover the 
toast and no more. 

Bread Crusts, for Balls, or Dressing.— If you have scraps and 
broken crusts which cannot be toasted, do not throw them away, but soak them 
until soft, with warm water. Add pepper, salt, and butter, according to taste. 
Mold into balls like an egg, and lay them in a pan with a roast of beef; turn 
them when brown and serve with a rich gravy, and you will think it a rich, 
nutritious dish. 

Remarks. — You will not only think it a rich nutritious dish, but it will b« 
such, in fact. 

Milk Toast, No. 1.— First toast the bread and lay it in a deep dish, 
then put a lump of butter the size of an egg in a frying pan; add 1 heaping 
table-spoonful of flour, and stir until it begins to brown; then poxir in 1 pt. of 
sweet milk and a little salt, and pour this over the bread. If you like \^ '.(V/Cit. 
add sugar, to your taste. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 485 

Remarks. — The ground work of this recipe was from a Mrs. S. Bearnes, to 
the Blade, in which she also gave an endorsement of the new plan of using 
strong soda water on burns (which see, among the recipes for burns), but I will 
give her plan in her own words. She says: " I want to tell you how I cure a 
bum. Wet a cloth in strong soda (baking soda) water, and wrap around the 
bum, or lay a little soda on and dampen it and let it remain a few minutes." If 
she had given her post-office address, I should have given it too. I have come 
as near as possible to giving her full credit. The wet cloth is the best plan. 

Milk Toast, No. 2. — Cut slices of bread very thin, toast quickly to a- 
light brown; butter, while hot, and pile them in a deep dish; then cover them 
with rich boiling milk. Let it stand a few minutes and serve. A little salt 
may be added if necessary. 

Milk Toast, No. 3. — The following is from a writer in the Rural New 
Torker, and gives a new thought or two, so I give it a place. She says: "A 
good way to dispose of dry bread is to make it into milk toast. It is very pop- 
ular with the workingmen and children, and often solves the problem that dis- 
turbs the cook when she is thinking what is lo be got for supper. Toast tho 
bread a short time before it is wanted. Set a half pan of milk on the stove 
and let it get scalding hot. Put in a little salt, spread the toiisted slices with 
butter and put them into the hot milk, and in a very few minutes remove to the 
table. If the toast is put in too soon, the bread will fall in pieces and is not so 
nice to serve. There should be plenty of milk for the amount of bread." 

Remarks. — I think it will be popular with everyone. I have made an entire 
supper of it many times. 

Boston Cream Toast.— Cut stale bread in slices J^inch thick, and toast 
a nice light chestnut color. Put 1 pt. of milk to heat with % cup of butter, a 
little pepper, and salt to suit the taste. Blend 3 large tea-spoonfuls of flour 
with cold milk, and when it boils, stir in and let it boil 2 or 3 minutes. — Now 
have ready a pan of hot water, a little salted, dip each slice quickly in the 
water, lay in a hot dish and cover with the hot cream. Serve immediately. 

II. Another nice dish is made by rolling light bread dough thin, cutting 
in strips and boiling in hot fat. Break each cake open as it comes from the 
kettle, and plunge it into the above cream. 

Remarks. — As Boston claims to be the "hub" upon which the world turns, 
I have thought to close the toast making with the Bostonian 'plan of making 
cream toast, as given by "P." of Toledo. It will be found very nice, and the 
second dish, or plan, using the same cream, will undoubtedly suit many per- 
sons—try them both, if fond of nice dishes. 

Bread to Fry in Batter.— One table-spoonful of sweet, light dough; 
make it into a thin batter by 1 cup of sweet milk; add 3 or 4 eggs, \% cups of 
flour, and 1 tea-spoonful of salt. Cut light bread into thin slices, dip into this 
batter, and fry in hot lard. Sprinkle with powdered sugar and garnish with 
jelly, if desired. 

Remarks.— When you have not the light dough on hand to make into a 
batter, simply beat an ogg or two, according to the number of persons to fir 



486 I>R' CEASE'S RECIPES. 

for, add a Kttle salt and a very little flour, rubbed smooth in a little cold water; 
dip in your slices of bread and fry as above, or, I think, butter or drippings is 
better than lard, as the lady says in " Frying after Ham." 

Pried Bread, After Ham. — After frying good smoked ham or 
shoulder, beat 2 eggs and % cup sweet milk together, dip slices of stale bread 
in this, wetting both sides; fry and turn quickly. — Mrs. M. C. Wanemaker, Nevy- 
ville, Ind., in Blade. 

Bread Pudding, Pried. — When you have bread pudding left over 
from dinner, it is very nice, next morning, to cut it into slices; then dip each 
side into cracker crumbs; then into beaten eggs, slightly salted, and again into 
the crumbs; then fry a nice brown, in hot fat to float them; take out with a 
skimmer or ladle, and drain a moment; serve hot, with powdered sugar over 
them. 

Prench Toast. — Any meat left over from roast beef, veal, turkey or 
chicken is to be freed from bone, finely chopped, using the gravy left, or a 
beaten egg and a little butter, to moisten it; while quite hot, the toast being all 
ready and nicely buttered, put the mixture over each piece, and send to the 
table hot. 

Remarks. — The French people are not only careful to save everything in 
the line of food, but always re-make it into some nicer dish than at first, and 
■which you would not suppose to have been served before. In this is the secret, 
not only of their living well, but cheaply. 

Stale Bread, to Pry, or Egg Toast.— Take 2 eggs, beat well; 1 cup 
of milk, and flour to make a stiff batter. Cut stale bread into thin slices, and 
dip into the batter, and fry a nice brown, in sweet butter. Serve hot, with 
butter, sugar or sauce, as you choose. 

Remarks. — "With coffee alone, or with other articles, this makes a nice dish 
for breakfast. Well, now, at the risk of being a little out of place with the fol- 
lowing plan of cooking eggs, as it is for a breakfast dish, and as these toasts are 
most generally iised at breakfast, I shall give a plan of cooking eggs for break- 
fast in this place, although it properly belongs with the egg dishes. It will be 
found very nice, and is as follows: 

Eggs, Pried or Baked, for Breakfast. — Put a table-spoonful of 
butter into a tin-plate, upon the top of the stove, and break in 10, or any num- 
ber of eggs needed for the meal, a Uttle salt and pepper, allowing the eggs to 
cook until the whites are "set;" then slip the tin-plate into a china, or stone- 
ware plate, and send to the table hot. If your stove-oven is hot, they wiU cook 
in half the time, if put into the oven. 

CUSTARD— How to Make.— If wanted rich with eggs, some use as 
many as 8 for 1 qt. of new milk, 1 cup of sugar, a little salt, and grated nut- 
meg to taste. Some persons use only 3 or 4 eggs to a qt. of milk — suit your- 
self, therefore, when they are not plenty. Vanilla or lemon extract may take 
the place of nutmeg for a change. Directions — Eggs to be well beaten, and 
the sugar then beaten in to get it all dissolved; then the milk and seasoning; 
place in a pudding-dish, or in cups, which is the more tasty way, and bake in 



VAMIOUS DISHES. 487 

a slow oven about J^ hour, or until the custard is firm in the center— when 
It is done. Some times nutmeg and lemon-peel are grated over the top of a 
custard, when served, in place of mixing in when made. 

Custard, Frosted. — Five eggs well beaten (reserving three whites for 
meringue), 1 qt. of milk, 5 table-spoonfuls of sugar, 2 tea-spoonfuls of vanilla, 
pinch of salt; put in a pudding-dish, which place in a pan of water in the 
oven and bake. When nearly baked, put upon the top the meringue made 
with the 3 whites and 2 table-spoonfuls brown sugar to each white, and any 
flavoring. Bake a light brown. — Domestic Monthly. 

Custard, "Without Eggs.— New milk, 1 qt. ; flour, 4 table-spoonfuls; 
Bugar, 2 table-spoonfuls; nutmeg or cinnamon to your hking, and a little salt. 
DmECTioNS — Place the milk over a quick fire, and as soon as it boils, having 
rubbed the flour smooth in a little cold milk, stir it in, and as soon as scalded, 
add the sugar, spices and salt. Bake, of course. 

St. James Custard.— Place over the stove 1 pint of milk, in which put 
one large handful of bitter almonds that have been blanched and broken up. 
Let it boil until highly flavored with the almonds; then strain and set it aside 
to cool. Boil 1 qt. of rich milk, and when cold, add the flavored milk, J^ 
pt. of sugar and 8 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, stirring all well 
together. Bake in cups, and, when cold, place a macaroon (a cake highly 
flavored with almonds) on top of each cup. 

French Tapioca Custard.— Five dessert-spoonfuls of tapioca, 1 qt. of 
milk; 1 pt. of cold water; three eggs; one heaping cup of sugar; one tea- 
spoonful of vanilla, and a little salt. Directions — Soak the tapioca in the 
water five hours. Let the milk boil in a farina-kettle or in a kettle set into 
boihng water; add the tapioca and water, and a little salt. Stir until boihng 
hot, then add the beaten yolks and sugar. Stir this constantly about five min- 
utes, but do not let it get too thick, or the custard will break. Pour into a 
bowl, and add the whites of the eggs previously beaten to a stiff froth; stir 
them in gently. Flavor and set aside in a glass dish till cold. Serve with 
canned or brandied fruits; it is a very delicious dessert. 

Remarks. — The French are celebrated for the amoimt of labor required or 
the changes to be made, but their dishes are also celebrated for their excellence. 
The Irish moss or carrageen, as called in the next, as well as tapioca, makes a 
nice dish. 

Carrageen Custard.— Procure carrageen (Irish moss), 1 oz., and divide 
into 4 parts; 1 part is enough for 1 mess; put the moss into water and let it 
remain untU it swells; then drain it and put it into 2% pts. of milk and place 
it over a fire; let it boil 20 minutes, stirring continually; then strain it, sweeten 
with loaf sugar (any white sugar will do), put into cups, and grate nutmeg 
over the tops. 

Remarks. — This is also served cold, of course. Any of the moss that la 
black, or dark colored, is not fit for tins use any more than it is to make a nour- 
ishing drink for invalids. 



488 i>i2. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Apple Custard. — Pare and punch out the cores of 6 apples (at least t 
for each person to be at dinner); set them in a new tin bread pan with a very 
little water, and stew them till tender; then put them in a pudding dish with- 
out breaking; fill the centers with sugar, and pour over them a custard made 
of 1 qt. of milk, 5 "eggs, 4 ozs. of sugar (1 cup will not be too much), and a 
very little nutmeg; set the pudding dish in a baking pan half full of water, and 
bake it % hour. Serve it either hot or cold, at the dinner. 

Remarks.— For the cold serving, let it be what is left over, as most people 
like hot dishes for dinner. 

Corn Meal Custard. — Corn meal, J^ lb.; sweet milk, 1 pt.; boil to- 
gether 15 minutes; and add butter, J^ lb. ; 6 well beaten eggs; rose water, salt 
and sugar, to taste. Bake carefully, not to burn the top. 

Remarks. — As we have corn meal puddings (which see), why not custard 
also? I think for the number of eggs 1 qt. of milk might be used, without 
detriment to the custard, making more, and still be rich enough for most peo- 
ple. I know it vdll be nice, if nicely made. Custards are generally served 
cold, at "tea;" but this would be nice hot for dinner, as well as cold at tea- 
time. 

Snow, or Kock Cream, a Substitute for Custard. — " Boil a cup 
of rice in new milk till quite soft, sweeten with powdered sugar and pile upon 
a dish. Lay upon it, in different places, bits of currant jelly or preserved fruit 
of any kind. Beat the whites of 5 eggs with a little powdered sugar to a stifif 
paste, flavor with vanilla, and add to this, when beaten very stiff, a table-spoon- 
ful of rich cream and drop over the rice roughly, giving it the form of a rock 
of snow." 

Retnarks. — Ornamental as well as a delicious dish at tea. 

ESSENCES — Lemon and Others. — As lemon and other essences or 
flavoring extracts are called for with custards and other dishes, in this connec- 
tion there can be no better place than here (between the custards and ice-creams) 
for them. The following is from a lady writer, no doubt— S. A. C, of Oco 
nee, 111.— and will be found practical and good. She says: " Best alcohol, 1 
pt. ; lemon oil, 1 oz. ; the peel of 2 lemons; put all in a fruit jar; let it stand 1 
week, shaking 2 or 3 times daily; remove the peel and bottle for use. I have 
used it 2 years and pronounce it much better than any I ever bought. Nearly 
all essences are made in the same proportion as lemon." 

Remarks. — This writer is correct as to the proportions. The peel gives 
lemon, orange, etc., an improved flavor. A fruit jar filled with lemon or 
orange peel, then filled with alcohol without the oils, makes a nice, highly- 
flavored extract. The author has made them for his wife, in her life-time, 
many times. Sliced pineapple, no doubt, will do equally well for that most 
delicious flavor. 

Ice-Creams and Water Ices, Strawberry. — As the "Widow 
Bcdott," of Nettleton, Mo., gives one to the Blade, which is perfectly plain, I 
will give it first. She says: "Rub 1 pt. of ripe strawberries through a sieves 
add 1 qt. of cream, ^ lb. of white sugar and freeze." 



VARIOUS DISHES. 483 

Bemarks. — l^o "foolin' " with this; it is perfect, having the pure flavor of 
the strawberry and the richness of the cream itself, without alloy. But as some 
persons will want a more elaborate one, we give the following, although I do 
not know its originator: 

Parisian Ice-Cream, the Best.— Rub well together 12 eggs and \}i 
lbs. of white sifted sugar; then add 2 qts. of perfectly fresh and pure cream: 
flavor as below named and cook in a farina boiler — a tin vessel set in a larger 
one containing hot water — stirring constantly till it thickens, but it must not 
curdle. Strain through a fine sieve and put on ice to cool. [The author can 
see no reason to strain, except it be to get the sugar all dissolved unless some of 
the egg curdles.] The more slowly the freezing is performed the firmer will be 
the product. When completed let it remain in the freezer with fresh ice and 
^alt around it for several hours to ripen. [This is the French of it.] 

For Flavors for Ice-Creams.— For 2 qts. use either 1 table-spoonful 
of extract of vanilla, 1 table-spoonful of extract of lemon and of lemon juice, 
or 1 pt. of finely strained strawberry juice with 4 ozs. of sugar, or 3 ozs. of 
chocolate and 4 ozs. of sugar dissolved in a little water and strained. Or the 
berries themselves or nice ripe peaches, as in the next recipe. 

Ice Cream with Berries or Peaches.— Fruit frozen with custard 
may not be particularly good for the digestion, bqt as it is a popular dish, it is 
well to know how to insure success when preparing it. Take 1 qt. of milk and 
1 qt. of cream, 6 eggs, 3 cups of sugar. It is a good plan when making any 
custard to beat the yolks of the eggs and the sugar together; then all the lumps 
can be crushed without difl3culty and there is less danger of the eggs looking 
stringy. To this quantity of custard one large pint of ripe berries, or peaches 
cut in small pieces, is the due allowance. Ta my taste 1 qt. is not too many. 
Heat the milk and cream, then add slowly the sugar and eggs. Cook it in a 
farina kettle, or in a pail set in a pan of water. "When thick take from the fire, 
remembering that it will be a good deal thicker when it is cold- When cold 
€tir in the fruit, and freeze as you do any ice cream. 

Remarks.— Hhh was published in the London (Out.) Free Press, sent me by 
my daughter, Mrs. Dr. Mills, living there, and I will vouch for it, and support 
the writer in the use of the quart instead of a pint of the berries. Strawberries, 
raspberries, red or black ; blackberries, either should be perfectly ripe ; or per. 
fectly ripe peaches, cut into quite small pieces, may be used with satisfaction 
without other flavoring. Mix in well just before putting into the freezer. 

Ice Cream Lemon. — Nice morning's milk, 10 qts.; sugar 10 cups; yolks 
of 10 eggs; corn starch, 3 table-spoonfuls; extract of lemon, 1 table-spoonful. 
Directions— Pour a quart or two of the milk upon the sugar, and see that the 
sugar is thoroughly dissolved; rub the corn starch smooth in a little of the milk 
and. stir in with the beaten yolks of the eggs, then the extract, and freeze at 
once, as but little time can be given to it at hotels or picnics. 

Remarks. — I have eaten it, and know it is very nice. The following is also 
anade by the same confectionery cook, who gave me the recipes while I was 



490 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

treating a sister of hers, whom she came in often to see, and hence the acquaitt' 
tance and this information. 

Water Ices, Iiemon. — Fourteen lemons, whites of il8 eggs, sugar, 10 
cups; vanilla extract, 1 tea-spoonful; water. Directions — Pour over the sugar 
3 qts. of boiling water, and boil 10 minutes; add 6 qts. of ice water and the 
juice of the lemons; then the beaten whites of the eggs, and vanilla, and freeze. 

Remarks. — Of course, these water ices are simply the juices of any fruit 
you desire the flavor of, diluted with water, properly sweetened to taste, and 
frozen the same as ice cream. If you wish to use fruits, as oranges, berries, 
etc., which contain but little acid, the flavor may be heightened by the addition 
of the juice of a lemon or two, according to the amount being made, as the 
following: 

Orange lee. — To avoid the seeds, etc., press out and strain the juice of 
1 dozen good-sized Florida or other sweet oranges, rubbing off the yellow zest 
of 4 of them with lump sugar, if obtainable, otherwise grating finely, or using- 
an equivalent of orange tincture or extract, at least 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls; 
sugar, 3 lbs., upon which pour 1 gal. of boiling water, dissolving by boiling if 
necessary. Set in a cold place to cool before freezing. 

Remarks. — It will be noticed in the first, above, vanilla extract was used, 
but I should use the extract of the fruit used, as the taste will be truer to nature, 
while the amount there given I should expect to be wholly lost from the large 
amoimt of lemons used. A pint of the juice of strawberries to each 3 qts. of 
water being used, would give their very nice flavor to an ice ; the sugar and 
other treatment the same. The first time I ate of these water ices was at Cape 
May, where my son and myself had run down from the Centennial, at Phila- 
delphia, to spend the Sabbath. At that time they were made very plain— all 
there was of the recipe I got by inquiry was " 8 lemons to 33^ lbs. powdered 
sugar, 1 gal. of water and freeze." But it was very nice, even as then made. 

SALADS, RELISHES, ETC.— There is probably no branch in the 
line of made-up dishes that will show a woman's skill to better advantage than 
In the variety of articles to which she can apply a well made salad to give 
piquancy — i. e., a pricking or sharp stinging, still a pleasant taste — to her salada 
or relishes for the dinner or tea-table. These may be eaten hot or cold, but I 
think that, like myself, most people prefer them made in time to get cold before 
serving. Sometimes the salt, sometimes the sour, and sometimes the mustard, 
or other spices may be made the most prominent, as she shall choose, or as the 
nature of the article used for the body of the salad shall require. Salads give a 
relish to bread and butter, and comes nearer satisfying all tastes than almost 
all, if not all, dishes; and if not made too piquant (too strongly spiced) are not 
as unwholesome as they are generally believed to be. Salad oil — pure sweet oil 
—which the author has a great dislike for on account of its taste, is the richest 
article used in making salads; but as the place of the oil can be so nicely filled 
with melted butter, or rich cream (the butter is considered best), in making a 
"salad dressing," he recommends rather than condemns their use. Any of the 
salad dressings may be applied, mixed with simply chopped cabbage, chopped. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 491 

or sliced potates, or any kind of chopped meat, as well as to the more elabor- 
ately mixed dishes. 

Salad Dressings, to Make Cold — Which may be put upon almost 
any cold dish left over from dinner, as cold potatoes, beets, string beans, meats, 
chicken or fish, and cabbage, or uncooked cabbage or lettuce in its season; any 
of which should be chopped rather finely and heaped in the center of a platter 
or bowl of suflScient size to allow mixing with it the salad dressing, to be made 
as follows: Take an even tea-spoonful of ground mustard and a salt-spoonful 
of salt and mix into a paste with good vinegar. It is best to use a fork for thia 
and to mix in a soup plate. Now add the yolk of 1 eg^, being careful not to 
allow the white to follow ; stir the yolk thoroughly through the mustard and 
begin to add the sweet oil or melted butter, as you prefer, in small portions, 
not more than a tea-spoonful at a time, but add continually as you mix. If the 
dressing becomes too hard, or looks stringy, add a tea-spoonful of vinegar from 
time to time, but not often. It should become a light creamy mass, and it will 
if it is properly stirred; and you go on adding oil or butter and vinegar until 
you have the necessary quantity (using more mustard and salt at the beginning 
and the yolk of another tgg, if the quantity is known to be for a half-dozen 
persons or more), when you taste to see if it is sufficiently salt or sour or piquant 
with the mustard; and if not, add either as you wish. Now this dressing is to 
be placed upon the chopped cold potatoes, or other chopped cold article or raw 
chopped cabbage or lettuce, and properly mixed through it with the fork, or 
two forks may be handier, leaving "rough and rocky" in appearance, or 
smoothing down with a knife blade, as you choose. 

Remarks — If this is used upon any cold article, a few fresh lettuce leaves 
may be stuck around the edge, or sliced bits of fresh tender radishes; or a few 
salt herrings split into fibers, and laid around, or put upon the dish, will meet 
vrith general favor. Many of these ideas I have taken from the American Gro- 
cer, a very reliable paper upon any class of subjects, to which it calls public 
attention. It is usual, when cold chicken is chopped, or other cold meats, for 
the ground work of the salad, to chop the white part of the celery, if you have 
it. to make an equal amount as there may be of chicken, or meat, and mix 
evenly together; then after the dressing is mixed in, garnish with, or stick 
around, the green tops of the celery. When cold potatoes are used for the 
salad, men will generally like it better; a small onion is also chopped finely, 
and mixed with the potatoes, ladies generally prefer it without, so a compro- 
mise might be made by using an onion half the time, or occasionally. 

Salad Dressing, to Make With Heat.— Although this is particu- 
larly adapted to raw, chopped cabbage, or lettuce, in its season, it will be found 
nice for cold meat, chicken, etc. Cabbage, J^ a small head; or fresh, crisp 
lettuce, in equal amount; vinegar, 1 cup; 1 Ggg; sugar, 1 table-spoonful; made 
mustard, 2 tea-spoonfuls; butter, 1 tea-spoonful; a little salt and pepper. Direc- 
tions — Chop the cabbage or lettuce finely, stirring the salt and pepper into it, 
and put into a bowl, or dish to await the dressing. Beat the ^gg, sugar and 
butter together, and add the mustard and vinegar, stirring well; put the H»ix. 



492 DE. CEASE'S BECIPES. 

ture into a stew pan upon the stove, stirring all the time, until it comes to a 
boil, when it is to be poured over the cabbage, or lettuce, or meat, as the case 
may be. The articles being all mixed cold it does not curdle; and the constant 
stirring while heating prevents its curdling during this process. The German 
girl, who first prepared this for us, brought it to the table hot, as her people 
prepared it; but there being some of it left over, I found that myself and family 
liked it better cold. So had it prepared, after this, in time to get cold by plac- 
ing on ice, whether for dinner or tea. It is nice at either meal. I will also give 
a few others. 

Salad Dressing for Tomatoes. — The author's preference for cold 
salads is shown to be the preference of others also, by the following: Take off 
the skins with a sharp knife, cut into thin slices, and lay in a salad bowl. Make 
a dressing by working 1 tea-spoonful each of salt and made mustard, % tea- 
spoonful of pepper, the yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs, with 2 table-spoonfuls of 
melted butter; then whip in with a fork 5 table-spoonfuls of good vinegar. 
Pour over the tomatoes, and set on ice or where it is cool for an hour before 
serving. — Rural New Yorker. 

Potato Salad.— A potato salad is easily prepared, and very nice alone; 
but if you have any cold fish, as called for in this recipe, it gives an additional 
relish. If you have no cold potatoes, boil or steam a dozen with their jackets 
on; when done peel and let stand till entirely cold; then slice them J^ inch 
thick; mix with some flakes of cold boiled fish (halibut, cod or salmon) and 
pour over them a salad dressing made with 6 table-spoonfuls of melted butter 
or salad oil, 6 table-spoonfuls of cream or milk, 1 table-spoonful of salt, ]4, ^^^^ 
quantity of pepper and 1 tea-spoonful of ground mustard. Into this mix 1 
cupful of vinegar. Boil well, then add 3 raw eggs, beaten to a foam ; remove 
directly from the fire and stir for 5 minutes; when thoroughly cold turn over 
the salad. Garnish with slices of pickled cucumber, cold beet, hard boiled 
eggs, celery or parsley. 

Remarks. — It strikes the author that if there is no cold fish on hand that a 
sprinkling of cold chopped turnips would do remarkably well, for variety's 
sake, to mix with the potatoes. They make a nice dish mashed with potatoes, 
for dinner, why not in a salad also. 

Cream Salad Dressing, in Place of Mayonnaise, or Salad Oil. 
— Rub the yolks of 2 hard boiled eggs through a sieve, 1 dessert-spoonful of 
dry mustard, 1 table-spoonful of butter, 1 tea-spoonful of salt, i^ pt. of cream; 
dther juice of 1 lemon or 2 table-spoonfuls of vinegar, and as much cayenne 
pepper as can be taken up on the blade of a small penknife. This is a good 
substitute for mayonnaise (given below), for those who like myself, do not like 
oil, for any dish of vegetables, chicken, or upon meats, at dinner or tea. 

Mayonnaise, Real, or French Dressing for Salads.— Yolks of 
2 or 3 eggs, 1 lemon, salad oil, 1 tea-spoonful each of pepper, salt, and brown 
or moist sugar. Directions — Mix the yolks of the eggs raw with the pepper, 
salt and sugar (a wooden spoon is said to be best to work it with); then begin to 



VARIOUS DISHES. 493 

work in, little by little, the salad oil (the author thinks not above 1 table-spoon- 
ful for each yolk used — the amount was not given by Warne's Model Cookery 
(English), from which I quote, but left to depend upon its creaming with the 
lemon juice), mixing so thoroughly that it may appear a perfect cream. Keep 
by your side the lemon, cut in two. As soon as the oil and eggs begin to mix, 
squeeze in some of the lemon juice, adding more oil, drop by drop, (little by 
little, as above mentioned, I think best, as drop by drop, imless you have a 
helper to drop it, would be too slow for Americans), then more lemon juice, till 
all is finished. Let it be a perfect cream before you use it, and mix in a cool 
place. 

Bemarks. —I have no doubt the mixing in a cool place will be an important 
point in keeping the oil less "greasy," as we say. In case the lemon juice is 
not acid enough to make all of a creamy consistence, add by degrees stirring all 
the time, as much good vinegar as will accomplish it. It is generally used for 
chicken, but may be used on anything used for salad, by those who prefer the 
oil, in place of butter or cream. It is simple and easily made. 

Lobster Salad. — Take the inside of a large lobster, boiled and cold; 
mince it finely; the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine, with 4 table-spoon- 
fuls of sweet oil, or butter softened; pepper, salt, vinegar, and mustard, to taste; 
mix all well, and add celery or crisp lettuce, also to taste; then garnish with 
hard-boiled eggs, sliced, when served. 

Chicken Salad.— Although there are general instructions that ought to 
enable any one to prepare a salad for a chicken, yet, as there are some people 
who can only work upon specific or positive directions, I will give one so 
explicit and plain that none can go amiss: Take a good-sized spring chicken, 
weighing 2}/^ or 3 lbs. ; boil it till perfectly tender. When perfectly cold, pick 
the meat from the bones, and if the skin is at all tough remove it, and chop the 
meat to the size of peas; also, if you have it, chop the white part of 4 or 5 heads 
of celery to the same fineness, and mix together just before serving, into which 
the dressing which has been made in the following manner is to be mixed: 
Rub the yolks of 2 hard-boiled eggs smooth with 1 tea-spoonful each of mustard 
and salt, 2 tea-spoonfuls of sweet oil or melted butter; 3 tea-spoonfuls of good 
vinegar, and if you like cayenne, as much as will take up upon half the length 
of a penknife blade; chop the whites of the eggs finely and mix in; then mix 
evenly into the chicken an celery mixture, or chicken alone if you have no cel- 
ery mixture, and garnish with the green leaves of the celery or other sweet 
herbs, as you like, 

"The Salad Bowl"— The Poetic EflTusion of the Rev. Syd- 
ney Smith; or, A Clerical Salad Adapted to All Dishes, 
Whether Meats, Fish or Vegetables.— Our salads would not be com- 
plete without this one in verse to help rivet the proportions and other points of 
importance to the memory of all lovers of salad dressings. He says: 



494 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

"To make this condiment your poet begs 
The powdered yellow of two bard-boiled eggs, 
Two boiled potatoes passed through kitchen sieve. 
Smoothness and softness to the salad give. 
Let onion atoms lurk within the bowl. 
And half suspected animate the whole. 
Of mordant mustard, add a single spoon. 
Distrust the condiment that bites too soon. 
But deem it not, thou man of herbs, a fault, 
To add a double quantity of salt; 
• Four times the spoon, with oil from Lucan crown. 
And twice with vinegar procured from town; 
And lastly o'er the flavored compound toss 
A magic soupfon of anchovy sauce. 
O, green and glorious! O, herbaceous treat! 
'Twould tempt the dying anchorite to eat. 
Back to the world he'd tempt his fleeting soul. 
And plunge his fingers in the salad bowl. 
Serenely full, the epicure would say. 
Fate cannot harm me, I have dined to-day." 

Jtemarks. — You will notice here that a couple of potatoes are brought in, 
and the smallest proportion of onion also, and a caution against too much mus- 
tard or cayenne, if that is used, not to bite too soon, with twice as much vine- 
gar, also of oil, while some use more oil than vinegar; and, lastly, a soupfon 
only of anchovy sauce {soupfon being the French for the least bit), a "sus- 
picion " only that a httle has been used, as the anchovy sauce is a highly- 
flavored sauce, the anchovies with which it is made being a small fish of the 
herring tribe, having a striking flavor of their own. A bit of that, if obtained, 
or a small amount of any of the catsups, Worcestershire or any other sauce, 
may be added to this or any other salad dressing; but the anchovy nor any 
other need be used unless you choose. 

SAUCES FOR THE TABUJ^.— Worcestershire Sauce.— The Drug- 
gists' Circular and Chemical Gazette gives the following recipe for making Lee 
& Perrin's Worcestershire sauce, which is undoubtedly the most celebrated and 
popular sauce in the market. It is made in such large quantities that few, 
unless it be those manufacturing sauces, would undertake to make it; but it 
, may be reduced (say by 15, or any less number, if one chooses) so as to bring it 
down to the wants of a family or neighborhood for the year. It is as follows: 
"White wine vinegar, 15 gals. ; walnut and mushroom catsups, of each 10 gals. ; 
Madeira wine, 5 gals.; Canton soy, 4 gals.; table salt, 25 lbs.; allspice and 
coriander seed, powdered, of each 1 lb. ; mace and cinnamon, powdered, of 
each 3^ lb. ; assaf cetida, 4 ozs. dissolved in brandy, 1 gal. Mix together and let 
stand 2 weeks. Then boil 20 lbs. of hog's liver in 10 gals, of water for 13 
hours, renewing the waste water from time to time; then take out the liver, 
chop it fine and mix it with the water in which it was boiled, and work it 
through a sieve and mix it thoroughly with the strained liquor which has been 
standing two weeks; let settle for 24 hours and carefully pour off the clear 
liquor and bottle for use. Prime." 

Remarks. — I should think the last part, at least, would have to be filtered, 



VARIOUS DISHES. 495 

or carefully strained again, to get rid of the sediment from the liver. If for 
sale, it had all better be filtered. And for me, I shoiild prefer that the assa- 
fcEtida be left out; yet in this amount, about 60 gals., its distinctive taste would 
not be noticed. 

Canton Soy, to i/aAe.— Boil 1 gal of haricot (kidney) beans (I think any 
large bean wUl do as well) in sufficient water to soften them; add 1 gal. of 
bruised wheat, and keep in a warm place 24 hours; then add salt, 1 gal., and 
water, 2 gals, more, and keep for two or three months in a tightly bunged stone 
jug. After this, press out the liquor, strain and bottle for use. It is chiefly 
used for fish. It was originally brought from Japan, made there from a bean 
known as the Dalichos soya, hence, for short, soy, or Canton soy, as it was 
shipped largely from Canton, East Indies. Its relish must come chiefly from 
the salt, which adapts it more particularly, as I should judge, to fresh fish, or, 
as in this case, making a nice addition to the Worcestershire sauce. 

Celery Sauce.— Celery, 2 to 4 large heads; veal or chicken broth, 1 or 
2 cups, and cream, or rich milk, 1 or 2 cups {i. e., if 2 heads of celery are used, 
1 cup; if 4 heads of celery, 2 cups each of broth and milk); salt and a blade 
of mace, or a bit of nutmeg; flour and butter (as above explained), 1 or 2 table- 
spoonfuls; water. Directions — Wash the celery carefully, cutting out all 
dark spots; then boil it 15 minutes in salted water; drain away the water, and 
cut into dice-like pieces ; rub the butter and flour together in a sauce pan, add- 
ing the veal or chicken broth, cream, or milk, and the blade of mace or bit of 
nutmeg, and a little salt, stew gently till the celery is tender and pulpy, when 
it may be poured over the meat or fowl, or served in a gravy boat, or bowl, and 
let each person suit himself as to a free or less free use of it. Mace and nut- 
meg are the only spices that seem to agree with the very fine flavor of celery; 
but they may, or may not be used, as j'ou choose. 

Celery Sauce (or Puree), as Made in India.— Clean 3 or 4 heads 
of nice celery, divide and cut into small pieces, using the white part only ; boil 
it in a sufficient amount of white stock. Season with white pepper, salt and 
nutmeg. When it is tender add a small piece of butter, rolled in flour, and 3 
table-spoonfuls of cream. Warm it up again, but do not let it boil. Poured 
over turkey, chicken or wild duck. — Indian Domestic Economy and Cookery. 

Mint Sauce (or Puree), as Made in India.— Wash nicely half a 
handful of young, freshly gathered green mint; pick the leaves from the stalks, 
mince them veiy fine, and put them into the sauce boat, with a spoonful of 
sugar, and 4 spoonfuls of vinegar. Served with hot or cold roast lamb, or mut- 
ton. — Indian Domestic Economy and Coolcery. 

Remarks. — The word puree is becoming so common, I will give the follow- 
ing explanation of it: 

Puree, Explanation of. — The word comes from India, and means a 
soft, pulpy mass, or sauce, made from either meats or vegetables, fruit, etc., 
reduced by cooking, beating, mashing and, if necessary, rubbing down to a 
smooth pulp in a mortar, and then mixing with a sufficient amount of liquid, 
whether it be stock or broth, for gravies; or milk, cream, etc., for sauces. A 



496 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

puree, then, signifies a sauce, taking its distinguishing name from the meat, 
vegetables or fruit from which it is prepared, seasoning being added to suit the 
kind being made. A catsup is really a puree of tomatoes. So whenever joxk 
see the word, which has now, even, become quite common in our own country, 
you will understand, at once, its character and manner of preparation. I have 
explained in other places that butter they call ghee; salt, with them, is nemvck. 

Sauce for Beefeteak, or Catsup Improved.— Black pepper, whole, 
and salt, of each 13^ ozs.; allspice, whole, horse-radish and small pickled* 
onions, of each 1 oz. ; ground mustard, J^ oz. ; good catsup, 1 qt. Directions 
^Pound the pepper and allspice finely, then bruise the radish root and onions 
together, and put all into the catsup, in a jug, cork and shake daily for 2 weeks, 
and strain through coarse muslin and bottle for use; or moderate heat, applied 
to all, in a sauce pan, for 2 or 3 hoiu^, then strained, will obtain the full 
strength of the spices. If too thick for use after the heat, thin suitably with 
good vinegar. 

Remarks.— li will be found very nice for any roasted or boiled meats, as 
well as steak. 

Ciiili Sauce. — Large, ripe tomatoes, 20; good sized onions, 6; large 
green peppers, 3; salt, 3 table-spoonfuls; brown sugar, 6 table-spoonfuls; ground 
cinnamon, 3 tea-spoonfuls; ground ginger, 2 small tea-spoonfuls; ground cloves, 
% tea-spoonful ; good vinegar, 6 cups. Directions — Mash the tomatoes, chop 
or slice the onions and peppers, mix all in a porcelain kettle or large tin pan, 
and boil till perfectly soft, and when cool rub them through a colander, and 
cook down to a proper consistency, that of catsup, and bottle for use upon 
meats, chicken, turkey, etc. 

Remarks. -To " bottle," means to bottle and cork tightly. And all sauces^ 
catsups, etc., should be kept in a cool cellar, except the one being used from. 

PiccaliUi, A Good Substitute for Sauces. — Green tomatoes, 1 pk.-, 
1 large cabbage, 1 dozen onions; chop them fine and put on ^ pt. of salt and 
let them stand over night; then drain off the brine, and scald in weak vinegar 
and drain off again; and now add 6 good-sized green peppers chopped fine, 
having removed the seeds before chopping; J^ to 1 pt. (as you like best) of 
grated horseradish ; then season with ground spices to suit the taste, at least 
1 table-spoonful of allspice and pepper, and half as much dry mustard; and also' 
14. table-spoonful of cloves. Now, in packing in a jar, if 6 to 8 or 10 quite 
small cucumbers (whole), which have stood in salt and water over night, are put 
upon each layer of an inch or two in thickness, they will be found a valuable 
addition, putting one in each sauce dish when served at table. Then all being^ 
closely packed, just cover with good vinegar, boiling hot, and cover closely, or 
put up in fruit jars, if plenty, and you will have a dish, as the saying is, " nice 
enough for a king," the author says nice enough for a better man than a king — 
nice enough for "an American citizen." 

Chow Chow With Cucumbers.— Take 6 large cucumbers just before 
they ripen, peel them, cut in strips, and remove the seed; 4 white onions, 6 
good-sized green tomatoes, and % a head of cabbage. Chop all fine, let them 



VARIOUS DISHES. ^97 

fitand in salt water over night, then pour off the water and add vinegar and 
spices to suit the taste. — Tnhune. 

Remarks. — See piccalilli to judge about the amount of spices, the principal 
difference being that cucumbere are in the lead in place of tomatoes and cab« 
bage. Three or 4 green peppers can be added if desired in any case, seeded and 
chopped as in the piccalilli. 

Chow Chow Without Cucumbers.— Take to 1 peck of green tomar 
toes, 6 large onions, 1 dozen green peppers, 1 large cabbage; slice the tomatoes, 
sprinkle over them 1 tea-cupful of salt, let them stand over night, drain off the 
liquor, chop fine, add the onions, cabbage and peppers, also chopped fine; pur 
on the fire to cook, with enough cider vinegar to cover, then add black pepper, 
cinnamon, cloves and allspice to suit the taste. Cook till tender, then covei 
closely in jars, but it will keep without sealing. 

Cole Slaw. — When cabbage is cut fine, seasoned with pepper, salt, vine 
gar, and a little sugar, it is generally called " Cold Slaw," but our heading is 
the right one, as it was originally made from the stalk and tops of a species of 
the cabbage family, but which does not head like the cabbage — kale, probably, 
the leaves of which curl and wrinkle, but does not head properly. For % head 
of cabbage finely chopped, about 1 table-spoonful of sugar, a pretty free use of 
pepper and salt, with good vinegar, makes a nice dish with but very little 
trouble. 

Cole Slaw With Cream. — For }4. ^^ad of cabbage, chopped fine, take 
% cup sweet cream, J^ as much vinegar with a table-spoonful of sugar in it, and 
mix with the cream; having salted and peppered the cabbage, pour over the 
mixture when ready to serve. Is also very fine. 

Cole Slaw With a Hot Dressing.— Slice and chop very fine 1 head 
(or enough for the family) of cabbage, and season with salt and pcrper. Beat 
3 eggs well together; mix with it 1 cup of Annegar, 1 tea-spoonful of unmixed 
mustard, 1 table-spoonful of sugar, and 1 table-spoonful of butter. Bring to the 
boiling point and pour over the cabbage. 

Remarks. — If the yolks only are beat and put in at first, and the whites 
beat and put in after removing from the fire, there will be no danger of curdling 
— the whites of eggs are very liable to curdle, especially if not stirred all the 
time while heating with the other ingredients. If not eaten till it gets cold, I 
should prefer it for my use to leave the butter out, to prevent a kind of greasi- 
ness in taste and appearance. 

Hot Slaw. — Butter the size o^ an egg, -^ cnr) of milk, yellow of 2 eggs, 
1 tea-spoonful of salt, J^ tea-spoonful of pepper, small level tea-spoonful of dry 
mustard, and 3 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. Put the butter into the skillet with 
the fine cut cabbage and the other ingredients, and stir all the time until the 
cabbage heats well through. — Western Rural. 

Remarks. — The following will also be found a very nice way to cuok cab- 
bage for variety's sake. 

Cabbage Baked, Very Nice.— Select a firm head of whitf cnbbage, 
quarter, rinse, and boil 15 minutes; pour off this water, and put ou 'hoxq ho& 



4SS DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

water and continue to boil until tender; drain off the water and set aside till 
cold; chop fine and season with salt and pepper, ^nd a table-spoonful of butter; 
beat 3 eggs well, then beat them into 3 table-spoonfuls of rich milk, or cream is 
better; mix all well together, and bake in a moderate oven till nicely browned. 
~- Farmer's Wife, in Toledo Blade. 

Remarks. — I knew from the nicety of the dish that she was a wife that a 
farmer ought to be proud of, or, as the saying goes now, might well afford to 
"tie to." The same of the following: 

Baked Cabbage With Grated Cheese.— Boil a firm white cabbage 
for 15 minutes in salted water, then change the water for more that is boiling 
and boil until tender. Drain and set aside until cool, then chop fine. Butter a 
baking-dish and lay in the chopped cabbage. Make a sauce in this way: Put 
1 table-spoonful of butter in a pan; when it bubbles up well stir in 1 table-spoon- 
ful of flour, add J^ pt. of stock and J^ pi. of water, both boiling. Stir until 
smooth, season to taste with pepper and salt, and mix well with it 4 table-spoon- 
fuls of grated cheese. Pour this over the cabbage, sprinkle rolled cracker over 
it, dot with lumps of butter and place in a quick oven for 10 minutes. This is 
almost as good as the more aristocratic cauliflower when cooked in the same 
manner. 

Currie Powder, as Made in India.— Take coriander seeds, well 
roasted, 3 ozs. ; tumeric, pounded, 3)^ ozs. ; cummin seed, 3 ozs. ; fenugreek, 
J^ oz. ; mustard seed, dried and cleaned of husks, % oz. ; ginger, dried, 3 ozs. ; 
black pepper, 3 ozs. ; dried chillies (the pod of the Guinea pepper; we use our 
common cayenne), 1% ozs.; poppy -seed, 1}^ ozs.; garlic, IJ^ ozs.; cardamons, 
1 oz. ; cinnamon, 1 oz. ; all ground finely and mixed well and bottled. 

Remarks. — As to the roasting of the coriander seeds, I should not, nor should 
I use the fenugreek. We use it only in horse medicines in this country, so 
far as I know. The poppy-seed I should not care to use, either; they may do 
.*or East Indians who eat so much opium, but should not want them "in mine." 
I will give a recipe from the Detroit Tribune which, I have no doubt, was the 
kind of currie powder used in making the chicken currie given in another place, 
of which I partook, and have explained there, as the lady there referred to told 
me she obtained the powder in Detroit already made. I will only say here I 
like it extremely well. If the amount given there to make a currie proves too 
hot of cayenne use less of the powder next time, It is certainly warming and 
comforting, even to a dyspeptic stomach, and I believe healthful for any one. 

India Currie Powder Americanized.— Take of ground cinnamon, 
mace and cloves, each, 1 dr. ; coriander seed and fresh yellow tumeric, each, 3 
ozs. ; black pepper and small cardamon seeds, each, ^ oz. ; cayenne, \i oz. 
Put all through a good mill and mix well ; put in a closely-stopped bottle. 

• Remarks. — The tumeric is of no particular value, except to give color to 
the powder. It has slight aromatic and stimulant properties, but they are so 
slight it is seldom used in medicine except to color ointments, etc. So if the 
color (yellow) is not desired, it can be left out without detriment lo ihe powder. 
If this powder is not as hot with cayenne as some may desire increase the 



VAUIOUS DISHES. 499 

amount by ^ dr. or whole dr. at the next making. It is better to add to rather 
than to get in too much at first to suit those who cannot bear the cayenne if too 
much is put in. For myself, I should prefer to add J^, or at least }£, oz. of 
ginger root to this currie powder and leave out the tumeric altogether, as the 
ginger is both aromatic and stimulating and a very healthful article, as well as 
pleasant to the taste, while the tumeric, as mentioned before, is only for its 
color. 

Catsup, Tomato. — The editor of the Journal of Commerce says the 
following recipe for tomato catsup has been in use in his family for fifty years. 
Certainly it is old enough to be a good one. He says: Take 1 bushel of toma- 
toes, cut them in small pieces, boil until soft, then rub them through a wire 
sieve, add 2 qts. of the best cider vinegar, 1 pt. of salt, i^ lb. of whole cloves, 
J^ lb. of allspice, 1 table-spoonful of black pepper, 1 good-sized pod of red 
pepper (whole), and 5 heads of garlic. Mix together and boil until reduced to 
one-half the quantity. When cold strain through a colander and bottle, sealing 
the corks. It will keep 2 or 3 years, as fresh as when first made. 

Remarks. — "Witli the pod of red pepper in place of so much cayenne, as is 
generally put into catsups, it will be as strong as most people desire it; but if no 
red peppers are at hand, a small amount of cayenne, say i^ a tea-spoonful, 
would equal it. More can be used by any one desiring it stronger, and even if 
2 or 3 red peppers were put in it would not be too highly seasoned to suit my 
taste. Let each one suit himself. If I was making this for myself I should 
not use only half as much cloves as the editor does; but let each one suit his 
own taste. Cloves, however, as well as red pepper, or cayenne, are rather 
piquant (sharp and biting) to the taste. 

Mushroom Catsup.— The editor, or some writer in the London, Ont, 
Free Press, in answer to an inquiry by " R," gave the following recipe for mak- 
ing mushroom catsup, and as it is quite a common thing with the English peo- 
ple, I will give it, believing it to be better than that made by our own people, 
who so seldom make it; and as it is called for in making the Worcestershire 
sauce, previously given, I give it a place. When properly made it is a nice 
thing, for I obtained some at one time of an English butcher, at Ann Arbor, 
while I was living there, which had been made by another Englishman living 
near (all English, you see), and it was splendid. This writer says: " Put alter- 
nate layers of mushrooms and salt in an earthen jar, using at least H lb. of 
salt to 2 qts. of mushrooms, and in this proportion for any amount. Let them 
stand i< a day; then cut the mushrooms in small pieces and let them stand 3 
days longer, stirring them well once a day; then strain them, and to every quart 
of juice add allspice and ginger, each ground, J^ oz. ; powdered mace, ^ tea- 
spoonful; and cayenne, powdered, 1 tea-spoonful. Put all into a stone jar, set 
it in a kettle of boiling water, and let it boil for 5 hours, briskly; then let it 
simmer in a porcelain kettle for f4 of an hour. Let it stand all night in a cool 
place; in the morning drain off the clear liquor and bottle it. Cork the bottles 
and seal tightly. The smaller bottles you use the better, as the catsup will no* 
keep its distinctive flavor long, if exposed to the air, by opening frequently." 



goo I>Ii- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Currant Catsup, for Baked Beans.— "A. B C.,^' in the Massachu- 
setts Ploughman, gives the following plan for an excellent catsup from currants, 
which needs no comment of mine. He says: I send you a recipe for making 
currant catsup, as in my mind it cannot be beat, to any lover of baked beans, as 
a dressing. To 5 pts. of strained currants (the juice from 5 pts. I understand 
it to mean), add 3 lbs. of sugar (brown will do nicely); 1 pt. of vinegar; 1 table 
spoonful, each, of cinnamon, pepper, cloves, and allspice, and J^ table-spoon- 
ful of salt (I should not be afraid of a whole one). Scald them well \ of an 
hour, then put in bottles and cork tight; it will keep for years; and as farmers 
generally have a quantity of currants that go to waste, I would like them to try 
this, and I think they will never be sorry. 

Bemarks. — The author thinks so too, that no one will be sorry for trjing it, 
although it would seem to me that % of an hour only to scald, or more pro- 
perly, to boil it, would hardly be sufficient, possibly it may, in all cases; but I 
would sooner risk it on 2 hours moderate boiling. I know it will be nice while 
it does not sour— the longer boiling will ensure this — still, if it will " keep for 
years," it is long enough. It will be as nice on other meats as on pork and 
beans, hence make plenty of it, if you have the currants that go to waste. 

Grape Catsup. — Pick 5 pts. of catawba grapes from the stem (Concords 
or Delawares vdll do, but are not so tart); wash them and let drain; then sim- 
mer till they are so soft you can rub all but the seeds through a colander (I 
think grape seeds will go through an ordinary colander, a wire sieve would be 
better) with care. After this is done add 2 pts. of brown sugar, 1 pt. of vine- 
gar, 2 tea-spoonfuls each of allspice and cloves, and 1 table-spoonful of cinna- 
mon, 11^ tea-spoonfuls of mace, 1 of salt, and J^ a tea-spoonful of red pepper. 
Put all into a porcelain kettle, let them boil slowly until they are as thick as 
you like catsup to be. Bottle, cork and seal. — London, OnL, Free Press. 

Bemarks. — Keep these proportions for any amount desired to make, it will 
be found good. 

Cucumber Catsup. — Cucumbers are said to make a nice relish for 
meat, in winter, treated as follows: Grate about 3 dozen medium sized green 
cucumbers and sprinkle pepper and salt to your taste (pretty strong I should 
say) over them; and allow a small sized white onion for each bottle. 
Heat enough cider vinegar to cover and pour over. Put up in large mouth 
bottles, and pour melted wax over the corks. If the air is kept from them, 
when you open a bottle in mid-winter, the odor will be delightful to the lover 
of the sometimes dangerous cucumber. 

Bemarks. — It seems to the author that if they were scalded in the vinegar, 
there would be a greater certainty of keeping nicely, although the cucumber 
flavor might be not quite so natural. 

Fresh Cucumbers, How to Prepare for the Table.— Slice them 
into cold water having plenty of salt in it, for an hour before dinner. In this 
way there is but seldom any bad effects from their being used freely; and if 
you have not the hour for soaking, slice into a plate and sprinkle on plenty of 



VARIOUS DISHES. 501 

salt, then turn another plate over them and shake a few minutes, and drain o£E 
the salt water, and serve as usual, with vinegar and pepper, and a little more 
salt if needed, which will also avoid the danger of colics, etc. 

Catsup, When Out, How to Make a Supply.— When your cat- 
sup gets low, or is all gone, take some canned tomatoes and add vinegar and 
spices, as in the Chili sauce, and boil slowly about 30 minutes, and strain if 
you choose; it will go further without and be nicer too. 

Remarks. — As we have just been giving a grape catsup, we will also give 
the plan of preserving grape juice by canning, as I cannot see why it may not 
be kept in this way sweet and nice for common service, as well as for mince 
pies, for which a writer says it is "better far than brandy or cider." The 
writer says: 

Grape Juice to Can for Common Service, etc.— Prepare the grapes 
as for jelly, let tlie juice be boiling hot, and can it in the same way you dc 
fruit. It is excellent for mince pies, better far than brandy or cider. 

Remarks. — It can be better only in that it is richer in body and flavor thaf 
cider made from a poor quality of apples. If I was going to boil it I should hf 
careful to skim off all the scum that would arise, which would remove all pulp 
of the grapes, that would have a tendency, if left in the juice, to start a fer- 
mentation, although if kept air-tight and in a cool cellar I do not see how it can 
ferment. It will be purer and clearer, however, if the pulp is thus removed by 
skimming. Should it be too tart on opening for common purposes, a little 
sugar might be added to make it more palatable, and still it would be far more 
pure than much that is purchased for this purpose. Only 1 lb. of lump sugar 
to each gal. might be put in and dissolved by the heat to remove the scum, 
which would give it more spirit and also help to preserve it, bottling or can- 
ning, remember, while hot. 

Canned or Bottled Wild Grape Juice.— Pick off all bad ones and 
scald stems and all with a very little water to start the juice, press out and 
strain, boil and skim, and can or bottle while hot. Makes a nice drink for the 
sick or well. One lb. of sugar to 1 gal. of the juice will make a nice wine, in 
kegs or barrels. 

JELLIES— Jelly Bag, Jams and Preserves, How to Make.— 
Oeneral Remarks.— ^eWiQS have, of late years, become very popular, and are 
much more frequently used than formerly, and, therefore, the housewife who 
gets hers up the nicest, i. e. , the clearest or most transparent, and having the 
purest flavor of the fruit of which it is made, carries off the premium of the 
neighborhood in which she lives. We will do our best, so that all may 
have them equally nice. In the first place, only the choicest, ripe fruit should 
be used, if plentiful ; if not, use such as you have, but cut out bad spots, and 
do not pare nor core any of the large fruits, as apples, pears, etc. , as much of 
the flavor is contained in these parts; but they should be washed and quartered, 
or even cut finer if very large, making al) pieces as nearly the same size as 
practicable; then cook perfectly tender and strain through the jelly bag, press* 



g02 I>R- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Ing as little as possible to get all the Juices and not to press the pulp through 
any more than you can help, nor should any more water be put in in the cook- 
ing than is absolutely necessary to prevent burning till the juices start by the 
heat, never more than to barely cover the fruit. 

The Jelly Bag is usually made of flannel, 10 or 12 inches across the mouth, 
and tapering to a point, the whole being 18 or 20 inches long, unless large 
amounts are to be made, in which case make as large as needed; and if only 
very small amounts are to be made, straining through a piece of flannel will 
do. If a bag is made there should be a stout cord around the top to suspend it 
Vrith, over a pole or some other convenience, to drain thoroughly before any 
pressure is applied; then, if you choose, for clearness' sake, remove this and 
Bet another dish, using tlie first drained off for your choicest friends. Press out 
then tlirough the bag all you like, which will be more of a jam than a jelly. 
Jams and marmalades are much the same, thick and containing all the pulp, or 
substance of the fruit. 

Jams and Marmalades contain the puree (which see for further explanation 
of), pulp, or substance of the fruit ; while jellies contain only the juices, with 
1 lb of nice white sugar to every 1 pt. of the juice — ^jams, about % lb. will do; 
while preserves contain the whole fruit, and a pound of sugar to a pound of 
fruit, but brown sugar may be used with the two last, as it is cheaper and they 
are not transparent to show the difference. Jams and marmalades (for marmal- 
ades, see Quince Marmalade,) need boiling or cooking until they are of a proper 
consistence, like apple butter, or nearly so; while jellies only need sufficient heat 
at first to raise the scum, which should be removed as it rises, after which to 
simply boil for a moment, or a few minutes — 5 to 20, perhaps, — according to 
the stiffness desired; longer boiling, of course, with apples or other fruits which 
are most watery. Pour into jelly glasses, if you have them, which have covers, 
otherwise cutting white paper to fit the top of the dish used, dipping it in alco- 
hol (some use brandy, but alcohol is purer), and laying on top of the jelly to 
prevent moulding; then a paper or cloth, wet in the white of an egg, over the 
top of the tumbler or other dish, to secure it to the top and from the air, will 
make all as safe as a rubber and screw-top can will do. 

To Preserve Peaches, Very Nice.— Pare them, and in quartering 
remove from the stone. Weigh the fruit thus prepared and allow 1 Ub. of sugar 
(white or brown, as you choose,) for each pound of peaches. Put some sugar 
In the bottom of the kettle, then peaches, and so on till all are in, having a 
little sugar left for the top. Set the kettle on the back of the stove to heat 
gently till the sugar is dissolved; then boil until clear and tender, being careful 
to break the pieces as little as possible. Take off any scum that rises, and 
when the fruit is clear, i. e., looks transparent, skim it out and put into your 
jars to fill them about three-fourths full. Continue to boil the syrup until thick 
enough, skimming when needed; then fill the jars with the syrup while hot; 
and it is not amiss, even with preserves or jams, to cover the jar with paper 
soaked in alcohol before covering with cloths — or coarse paper. If they begin to 
"work," i. e., to ferment, at any time, they were not boiled enough at first, and 
It must now be done again. Some people think it gives a better flavor to take 



VARIOUS DISHES. 50b 

tne meats from perhaps one-fourth, or more, of the stones, cutting them in bits 
and steeping in as little water as covers them to get their flavor, and putting it 
in the syrup while cooking. If I did this I should subject the parings to the 
same process; and this should be done with pears and quinces, putting in the 
cores also of them, to ensure their highest flavor. This extra water, of course 
will be evaporated in cooking the syrup. Treat berries and other fruits in the 
same manner; but, if you are not particular, continue the cooking without 
skimming out the fruit, it is more likely, however, to mash it up and make the 
preserves look mussy and more hke jams or marmalades than preserves. Each 
one can suit herself. 

In making jellies, jams or preserves from any kind of berries, currants, 
grapes, etc., do not do it in a way to mash the seeds, which would injure their 
otherwise very fine flavor. All fruit should be ripe to make good jellies. As 
these refer to making jelly with apples, pears, berries of all kinds, grapes, etc., 
I need not give special kinds, except those made or flavored with other articlesv 
as chocolate, coffee, rice, farina, lemons, etc. Still, I will give two apple jel- 
lies from other writers, to show that the instructions above given are borne 
out or corroborated by others, and to show the old way of using lemons in 
making apple jcll}% which almost, if not wholly, destroyed the fine apple 
flavor. The first is from a writer in the People's Ledger, the second I do not 
know from whence it came, but both plans are good for their respective 
ways of making them: 

Apple Jelly. — Cut your apples in quarters (do not pare or core them), 
dip each quarter into clear water, and put (hem into a jar to cook in the oven 
until quite tender; then strain the juice as usual, and boil with 1 lb. of sugar 
to 1 pt. of the juice. The most delicious jelly will be the result, with the full, 
pure flavor of the apple heightened by the cores having been left in, and not 
spoiled by the objectionable addition of lemon peel and lemon juice. 

Old-Fashioned Apple Jelly.— Take 20 large, juicy apples, pare and 
chop; put into a jar with the rind (yellow part) of 4 large lemons, pared thin in 
bits; cover the jar closely, and set in a pot of boiling water; keep water boil- 
ing hard all around it until the apples are dissolved; strain through a jelly bag, 
and mix with the liquid the juice of the four lemons; to 1 pt. of juice, 1 lb. 
of sugar; put in a kettle, and when the sugar is melted set it on the fire, and 
boil and skim about 20 minutes, or until, it is a thick, fine jelly. 

Remarks. — Here you see the apples were pared, and one-fifth as many 
lemons used as apples, which would make one think of lemons only, when 
eating it; but if lemon flavor is preferred, it will do very well to make it in 
this way. Suit yourselves, now you know both ways. Or you may like the 
next one better. 

Lemon and Apple Jelly. — Sugar, 23^ cups; apples, 3 large tart ones; 
lemons, 2 good sized ones; pare the lemons with a sharp knife to get just the 
thin yellow, and then peel off the white part, which is bitter, and throw away; 
pare the apples, then grate them and the lemons; put all into a stew pan and 
cook a few minutes, then strain or not, as you like. 



504 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES, 

If not strained it will be a kind of marmalade, or jam; but, if to be strained, 
the apples need not be pared nor cored, but chopped (the spots and specks hav- 
ing been removed), in which case the inside of the lemons may be chopped also, 
the yellow peeling being put in for chopping too. Either way it is nice; but if 
not strained it would be for present eating rather than long keeping, unless an 
equal weight of sugar was used. 

Apple Cider Jelly. — Boil nice sweet cider until it becomes a firm jelly, 
when cold. This, says a writer, is done in a large way, in the ordinary sugar 
evaporators in which maple sap, or sorghum juice, is boiled; but it maybe 
done in ordinary preserving kettles, if copper or brass. Enameled iron pots 
may be used, but no plain iron ones, as these give a dark color to the jelly. 

Remarks. — I should think, that unless sugar was used, nearly, at least, in 
the proportions given for jellies, generally, they would be too sour, or tart, to 
please most tastes. I see one Mary, of Napa, Cal., has the knack of making the 
most jelly I ever heard of, or could imagine, with only 1 pint of cider. Hear 
her: To 1 pt. of clear, sweet cider, allow 1 pt. of cold water; 2 lbs. of sugar; 
1 package of gelatine, 1 large pt. of boiling water. Soak the gelatine until it 
is entirely dissolved in cold water; then add to this the sugar, a spoonful of 
cinnamon, the juice of 2 lemons, the grated rind of 2, then the gelatine. Add 
the cider last; then put all in a thick flannel bag, and let it drain. Do not 
squeeze it at all. Put it in bowls or glasses, and set it away to cool. 

Remarla, — This is no doubt the place where the saying started, "as 
big as a pint of cider." It will make more jelly, notwithstanding the addi- 
tions over-top the foundation, or starting point, and the taste of cider will be 
tost, that is all. 

Chocolate Jelly.— Gra*e 4 table-spoonfuls, heaping, of chocolate, and 
put into % pt- of cold, sweet milk, with % of st, lb. of white sugar. Soak a 
3mall package of Cox's or other nice gelatine in cold water enough, only, to 
cover it, and when softened put it into 1 pt. more of milk and dissolve by heat; 
and when it boils, pour the milk containing the chocolate and sugar into it, 
stirring briskly; and when it boils again pour into a mold, or cups, and set it 
In a cold place. Serve with sweetened cream. 

Remarks. — Although called, and it will be, a jelly, yet, it is much like a 
blanc mange. Very nice for those who love the flavor of chocolate. 

Coffee Jelly.— Mrs. W., of Eau Claire, "Wis., sends the following way 
of making coffee jelly to the Blade, of Toledo. She says: Soak % a box of 
Cox's gelatine % an hour, in 3^ a teacup of cold water — as little water as pos- 
sible — 1 qt. of strong coffee, made as if for the table, and sweetened to taste 
(it will take considerable sugar); add the dissolved gelatine to the hot coffee, 
stir well, strain in a mold rinsed with cold water just before straining in; set 
on ice or in a cool place. Serve with whipped cream. This jelly is very pretty 
formed in a circular mold, with a tube in the center; when turned out fill the 
space in the center with whipped cream, heaped up a little. 

Remarks. — The only objection I can find with this lady, none with the 
recipe, is that there maybe other "Mrs. W.'s" there, so her identity is lost 



VAUIOUS DISHES. 505 

I have a sister living there now, a Mrs. Wanzer, but I am pretty smie she is not 
the one. 

Farina Jelly. — Boil 1 qt. of new milk; whilst boiling, sprinkle in, 
slowly, 1^ lb. of farina (kept by grocers); continue the boiling from J^ to a 
whole hour. Season with 5 ozs. of sugar and 1 tea-spoonful of vanilla. When 
done (this will be known by its jelling when cooled), turn into a mold and place 
it on ice to stiffen. Serve it with whipped cream. — Harper's Bazar. 

Qllince Jelly. — Wash and wipe, then pare and slice them (as the quince 
is hard and tough, and also being a dry fruit), put into a stone jar, 1 cup of 
•water to every 4 lbs. , with the peeling and cores, by which you get the pure 
flavor; put the jar into a pan or kettle of boiling water and boil until perfectly 
soft, the jar being covered ; then strain through the jelly bag and use a lb. of 
sugar for 1 pint of juice, as with other jellies, but do not spoil its purity of 
flavor by adding any other flavoring. [See, also, " Quince Marmalade," fol- 
lowing the jellies.] 

Claret Wine Jelly. — Gelatine, 1 oz., soaked in cold water, 3^ pt., till 
soft; then boil until dissolved and add a tumblerful of currant jelly, % lb. of 
white sugar and 1 bottle of claret wine, stirring over the fire until the sugar is 
dissolved; then beat the whites of 3 eggs and stir in briskly for 2 or 3 minutes, 
removing from the fire and still stimng 2 or 3 minutes longer, then strain 
through the jelly bag. If nicely done, it will be clear and of a fine red color. 

Port Wine Jelly, for the Sick.— Gelatine, i^ oz., soaked and dis- 
solved in 1 gill of water, as in the claret above; add a tea-spoonful of thick 
gum arable water, a little grated nutmeg and a table-spoonful of granulated 
sugar, stirring well together in a stew-pan, adding now good port wine, ^ pt., 
'\eating to a boiling point, seeing that the sugar is dissolved, then pour into tum- 
t)leTs. Makes a fine jelly for the sick, to eat as a "jell" or to dissolve in a 
little cold water as a drink. Very nice when wine is admissible, which it gen- 
erally is. 

Grape Jelly.— As a more particular guide in making jelly from any of 
the berries, currants, etc. , and to also corroborate my previous instructions, I 
will give the plan of a writer in the Detroit Post and Tribune for making from 
grapes. She says: " Pick the grapes from the stems (the same should be done 
with currants) and simmer them till soft in just enough water to cover them, 
pour into a jelly bag and strain. Measure the clear liquor in pts. and pour 
back into the kettle (a bell-metal one is best, scoured perfectly bright) and boil 
gently 20 minutes, skimming constantly. Then add for every pt. as measured 
1 lb. of white sugar and boil until it is hard enough when cold. Heat the 
glasses and pour into them while hot. Cover with egg paper." 

Remarks. — 1 would first put alcohol paper, pressed down along on the top 
of the jelly, as in our general remarks, to prevent a possibility of mold on the 
top. Treat strawberries and all other small fruits in the same manner. Rasp- 
berries are often mixed with half as many currants, when plentiful, to increase 
the amount of jpUy, otherwise made in the same way. I have never seen any 
cherry jelly, but I should think it would be nice. It might need a little longer 



606 I>R. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

boiling, as their juices are very watery; but the flavor and color would be "tip 
top." 

Grape Jam, Marmalade, etc., Remove the Seeds for.— To get 

rid of the seeds of grapes, with thumb and fingers press out the pulp contain, 
ing the seeds and throw the skins by themselves. Put the pulps in the kettla 
with very little water and boil till the seeds will separate easily; then niH' 
through a sieve, which retains the seeds; then put pulp and the skins together 
(the skins may be boiled in a little water till quite tender before mixing); then 
add the t,ugar, ^ to 1 lb., as you choose, to each lb. of grapes and cook as 
fruits till thick enough to suit. Very nice for pies or as a sauce, and if cooked 
down rather thick makes an excellent marmalade. 

Tomiato Jelly as a Meat Sauce. — Wash them carefully, if of the 
rough kind, cut them in pieces and stew them in only sufficient water to prevent 
burning, strain through the jelly bag, sugar pound for pint, as for other jellies, 
except boil briskly until it jells, depending upon their being very juicy or not. 
Rice Jelly, or Blanc Mange. — Boil 1 cup of rice in water, 1 qt, (in- 
the rice kettle is the best way). When perfectly tender, rub through a hair or 
wire sieve, or mash very smoothly, while as hot as you can work it; sweeten to- 
taste, and flavor with vanilla or nutmeg, and put into a mold or cups to cool. 
Serve with cream and sugar. 

True Rice Jelly. — Rice flour and white sugar, each, 1 lb. ; boil in water^ 
1 qt., until the whole becomes glutinous; then strain or drain through the jelly 
bag, and put into cups, mold, or glasses, as you choose. Very light food, 
cither of these, but also very nutritious. 

Lemon Jelly for Jelly Cake. — Take 6 large lemons, grate the yellow 
rind and squeeze out the juice. Mix with them thoroughly, 2 lbs. of sugar. 
Take 12 eggs, retain the whites of 4, and beat the others thoroughly; then pu4 
all together into a saucepan, which place in a pan of boiling water, and boi 
15 minutes, stirring constantly. This is very nice to lay up jelly cakes with. 
The whites retained come in for frosting the cakes, using powdered sugar to- 
make pretty thick if you wish it hard. The less sugar the softer the frosting. 
At least 1 table-spoonful of sugar to the white of each egg. 

Quince Marmalade or Jam. — Pare, core, slice, and weigh the fruit, 
stewing the skins and cores in a dish by themselves, with water enough to just 
cover. When the parings are tender, turn into a cloth bag, and squeeze ou4 
every drop of juice; put the quinces into the kettle, pour over the juice, cover, 
and let cook slowly, stirring and mashing with a wooden spoon (or potato masher, 
if very tough,) until the pieces have become a smooth paste. Now add % lb. ol- 
white sugar to each pound of the fruit, boil 10 minutes longer, stirring con- 
stantly. Remove from the fire, turn into jelly jars and tie down. — Rural New 
Yorker. 

Remarks. — If this was carefully cooked longer, or until quite thick lik« 
apple butter, as remarked above, there would be less requirement for absolutely^ 
excluding the air. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 507 

Quinces, A Pew When Canning Apples.— "When quinces arc 
scarce I have known a lady with whom I have boarded to put a few with her 
apples in canning, which, for my taste, at least, made both better. Cooking 
together, cf course, till tender, using sugar to suit the tartness of the apples. 

CANiaNG FRUITS, CORN, ETC.— How to Avoid Breaking 
the Cans— General Remarks and Directions.— It is a conceded fact 
that if fruit is properly put up in air-tight cans and kept in a dry, cool place, it 
is safe from fermentation; much difliculty, however, has been experienced by 
breaking cans when putting in the hot fruit. This difficulty has been entirely 
overcome by a cousin of mine, Mrs, Joseph Sanders, living near Bear Lake, 
Manistee county, Michigan, by wringing a large towel out of cold water, rinsing 
or wetting the can with cold water also, then wrapping the can with the cold, 
wet towel, being also careful to have the can sit on the towel, and every part 
covered with two or three thicknesses, and immediately filling with the hot fruit. 
I have seen her doing it; and a recent letter from a daughter of hers assures me 
that her mother "has put up her fruit in this way for ten years without break- 
ing a can." Have no fears in adopting it. After the fruit is canned, and stood 
an hour or two to cool, re-tighten the tops, as the cooling sometimes leaves them 
loose enough to admit air; then it is well to turn the cans bottom up over night 
or long enough to see they do not leak, for, if the juice leaks out, air would 
leak in and spoil it. It is not necessary to put in sugar when canning, unless 
you choose to do so. Use enough to make it palatable for the table when used. 
One-fourth to % lb. of sugar to 1 lb. of fruit, according to its sourness, will be 
found plenty to suit most tastes. For apples, pears, etc., which are not juicy, 
a syrup made with 1 lb. sugar to 1 qt. of water does well to heat them in and to 
fill the crevices among the fruit. Observe well these points and no trouble will 
arise. Rhubarb, it will be observed below, can be put up in jugs; tomatoes I 
have known to be put up in jugs and keep well; so may other things, also, no 
doubt, when cans can not be obtained in quantities sufficient. Small cans for 
small families, however, are best, as the fruits do not keep long after being 
opened. If a dark room is prepared in the cellar for canned fruit, strawberries 
and some others will not lose so much of their bright colors as they do in a 
room where the light is not shutout. With these general directions I need give 
but few recipes for samples of those out of the general lines of fruit. 

Canning Strawberries.— A lady says she uses % lb. of sugar to 1 lb. 
of the fruit sprinkling it on over night, then brings to a boil in the morning,— 
in porcelain or brass,— and keeping it in a dark, cool place, as the light discolors 
them, although it does not hurt the flavor. 

Remarks.— This, corroborates the author in points that she refers to. 

Canning Grapes.— Take fully ripe and sound grapes (Concords and Isa- 
bellas are very nice for this purpose), pick from the stems and pulp them, by 
pressing slightly with thumb and finger upon each one. Put the skins in a sep- 
arate dish; then heat the pulp and press through a coarse cloth, or sieve, to 
remove the seeds; then put juice and skins together in your kettle, and when 
thej come to a boil they are ready for the cans (see ]\Irs. Sanders' plan in the 
general remarks and directions above, to avoid breaking cans), and secure weU 



508 DH CHASE'S RECIPES. 

tvova. the air; it matters not whether glass cans, or jugs, if properly corked 
And sealed with wax. 

Bemarks. — Familiarize yourselves with the directions to know they will not 
leak the fluid out, nor the air in, before putting away, as above given. Cher- 
ries, I cannot see why, if done in the same manner, get rid of the stones, will 
not be nice for sauce or pies, as well as grapes, the stones, or seeds, are a nui- 
sance, in either case. Currants, berries, or other ordinary fruits need no spe- 
cial instructions; except it may be proper to say that some persons, in canning 
peaches, boil the stones in a small amount of water to extract the flavor, then 
heat the peaches in this water, sprinkling in the proper amount of sugar to fit 
them for the table; and also put a piece of white paper dipped in brandy (alco- 
Jiol is good, and cheaper) over the top before screwing on the cover. 

Canning Bhubarb Plant, Tomatoes, etc.—" Pansy," in writing to 
one of the papers upon this subject, says: Last summer I removed the skin 
from a quantity of rhubarb, put it over the fire with a very little water, watch- 
ing it closely to prevent it burning, boiled it 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, 
and filled and sealed one-gallon jugs, carefully corking them; used common 
sealing wax; and it is as nice now as the rhubarb we get from the garden in 
the summer. Grapes are just as nice this way as they are in glass jars. I put 
away 44 qts. of tomatoes and rhubarb in this way, and never lost 1 pint. I use 
glass jars, too, for preserves, peaches (canned), and sweet pickles; but I deci- 
dedly prefer jugs, for it is no trouble, and everything keeps so well in them. 

Remarks. — Rhubarb makes as nice a sauce, stewed, and sweetened to taste, 
as it does pies; and to be able to have it in winter, put up thus cheaply, will 
add to the variety of side dishes, and life's comforts generally. 

Canning Rhubarb in Cold Water, Without Cooking.— "S. D.," 
of Vernon, Mich., directs through one of the papers as follows: Cut the plant, 
when fully matured, and wash it; put a cup of cold water in the can, fill with 
the pieces, pressing it full, then fill to running over with cold water. Seal as 
usual, and set in a cool cellar. When wanted pour the water into the vinegar 
barrel. Make the pies as usual, except not quite as much sugar is needed as 
for the fresh plant. I have tested this and know it to be good. 

Remarks. — I cannot see why this is not a good and reliable way, although 
it has been deemed necessary to heat everything before canning. This may not 
be absolutely necessary. The water excludes the air from the crevices, and 
keeping in a cool place prevents fermentation. Let those who have it plenty 
try a few cans before going into it heavily. So vdth everything upon which 
there is a possible doubt, is the way that our valuable things are found out. 

Canning Sweet Corn. — It has been generally considered a very diffi- 
cult thing to can corn, so it would keep well; but a writer at Walled Lake, 
Mich., to one of the Detroit papers, thinks she has overcome; this difficulty, for 
she says: If these directions are strictly followed, you can enjoy the same pleas- 
ure that we have for years, of eating sweet green corn in winter. It will need 
only to warm when you use it out of the can. Directions — Cut the raw corn 
off the cob and fill your cans (after thoroughly scalding them) with the com, 



VARIOUS DISHES. 509 

take a spoon and press very hard so as to fill the can full, put on the cover 
loosely. Put the cans into your wash boiler after putting something under 
them to prevent them from breaking. I use the grate from the bottom of the 
oven. Fill in cold water up to the bulge of the can, put on the boiler cover 
and boil 4 hours, take off the stove and let stand until cool enough to handle, 
fasten the covers tight and set in a cool place in the cellar. I usually get mine 
ready in the forenoon and boil after dinner. 

Remarks. — There is not a doubt but what if this plan is followed, strictly, 
being sure that the cans are entirely full, when the cover is screwed down, but 
what it will keep nicely. Tin cans are used by those who put it up for sale, in 
large quantities, pressing full, then soldering on the top, boiling for the 4 hours, 
then piercing a hole to let out the air, and soldering up the hole, at once, which 
makes all secure. K this long boiling is too much trouble, you must take the 
old way of packing with salt, as next given. 

Canning or Putting Up Green Com "With Salt.— Take the corn 
when just right for the table, which should be the case above as well as in this, 
and scald it in the ear, as done for drying in the old way; then cut from the cob 
when cold. Place a layer of salt i^ an inch thick on the bottom of the deep 
(not the flaring) kind of earthen jar or crock; then a layer of the corn abouf 
2 inches thick, pressing tightly with a potato masher or square-ended stick; next 
salt again, as at first, or a little thicker, say % of an inch, as you go up; and so 
alternate till the jar is within an inch of the top, then fill with salt and tie a 
cloth over all. Set in a cool, dry cellar for winter use. To use, take out as 
many layers as needed, free from salt as possible, and wash off all the salt 
sticking to it; then soak in the evening and pour off at bed-time, and renew with 
fresh water and soak over night; then pour off again, which will generally be 
sufficient to remove the excess of salt, as the corn will not take up as much salt 
as supposed. Now taste a kernel, and if freshened enough, stew it for dinner, 
if not, soak again. Adding a small amount of sugar when cooking is consid- 
ered an improvement; some do this, even when cooking new corn in summer. 

Remarks. — A writer says: " I have used the above recipe for three years, 
and find it to be most excellent, the com coming out of the jar as good as when 
first put down. * * * It is such a good thing that every body should know 
it, and any one who tries it will not regret the experiment." If the canning is 
too much trouble, or if the canned runs out before the winter is gone, you must 
take one of the following plans of " Hulling," which is a great favorite with 
the author, otherwise fill the place with hominy. 

Hulled Corn, Improved Plans of Making.— The old way was to 
make a weak lye from hard wood ashes to remove the hulls, but a writer in the 
American Agriculturist gives her plan as follows. She says: " Soak over night 
by pouring over what you wish to make, hot water. In the morning put it 
into an iron kettle with warm water enough to just cover it; and for each quart 
of corn put in baking soda 1 table-spoonful, and boil till the hulls come off 
readily; then wash in clear water rubbing off the hulls with the hands, soaking 
and washing to remove the alkaline taste thoroughly; then boil until very ten- 



510 DR. CEASE'S RECirE8. 

der, salting towards the last to taste. Turn into a sieve and drain thoroughly. 
Eat hot or cold in milk." 

Remarks. — I cannot see the object of drawing off the water in which it was 
boiled. My mother and my wife always designed to have the water pretty well 
cooked away when done, then lift it together as much of the nourishment would 
be drained off. (I see, also, that the following writer does not drain.) It is 
very nice warmed up after frying meat, to eat with the same, for breakfast or 
any other meal, as well as wnth milk as the above writer only suggests. The 
author has often wondered why people did not use more of it, and could only 
account for it from the objection of the women to work it from the lye with 
the hands to remove the hulls. This difficulty has been overcome in the fol- 
lowing recipe by using a clean broom for that purpose, wiiich can be done 
as well with the soda above as with the ashes in the next. So, now, I trust, all 
lovers of hulled corn may have it in abundance, as it is a very healthful dish, aa 
well as a very cheap one, and relished by most persons if nicely done, i. e., if it 
is freed from its alkalinity and cooked until it is perfectly soft. 

Hullea Corn, or Making Hominy Withotit Putting the Hands 
Into the Lye.— Making hominy, or hulling corn, is not a big job nor one 
that we dread as we did " once upon a time," before we had learned this better 
way. This is how we make it: Take the corn of 1 doz. ears, put it in a kettle 
with a good bit more cold water than is required to cover it, and down in the 
center put a stout muslin sack long enough to contain 1 qt. of good ashes. Let 
it boil till all the strength is out of the ashes, then remove them and give the 
corn more room. Have the tea-kettle on the slovc with plenty of boiling water 
in to pour into the pot as the other boils off, Do not boil hard, but steadily. 
When the outside begins to come off the grains they are done enough. Now 
remove from the fire, drain off and empty the corn into a tub of cold water. 
Instead of rinsing with the hands, as our blessed grandmothers did, take a clean 
broom and swash and sweep the corn about in the tub " like forty," drain off; 
add 2 or 3 pailf uls of clean, cold water, and go over the cleansing process about 3 
or 4 times; then drain off and stand the tub of corn where it may have a chance 
to freeze all night. Tliis is as good for it as boiling. In the morning take a 
part, or all of it, and put it on to boil in cold water, and cook slowly until done. 
Never stir hominy; if you begin it you must keep it up, or it will burn fast to 
the bottom of the pot. Put a little salt in it. Have boiling water on the stove 
ready to replenish. Instead of stirring, lift the kettle by the bail and give it an 
occasional twirl, this way and that, to keep it from settling to the bottom. Let 
it boil until the grains are swollen and burst and lie up loosely. Leave in the 
liquor when you take it off the fire, and cover it up until it is cold. Cook in 
meat fryings, with a little of the water in which it was boiled. — Bonnie Boon, 
''Boon's Hollow," inMichifjan Farmer 

Remarks. — Although the name and place J.re fictitious, the plan is good 
and will prove satisfactory, else my name is not Dr. Chase. The freezing is 
not absolutely necessary; still in freezing weather it is a help. I should be glad 
to know, however, that every family would make it earlier, and later, too, than 
during the freezing mouths. 



VARIOUS DISHES. 5U 

Hulled Corn, or Hominy, Croquettes.— To each cup of cold, soft- 
sbooled hominy, or hulled corn, necessary for the family put 1 tea-spoonful of 
saelted butter or drippings, mashing and stirring it well together, then stirring 
In a cup of milk, or sufficient to make a paste. Now beat an egg with 1 tea- 
spoonful of sugar to each cup of corn used, mix in and, with floured hands, 
roll into balls (croquettes) and fry in butter, or after the meat is fried, in the 
gravy. If made pretty dry, they may be dipped in beaten eggs, then in cracker 
■crumbs and fried in hot lard, as you would doughnuts for tea; and in this caso 
a little finely-chopped ham, veal or chicken mixed in will give them an addi- 
tional relish. No comments, but simply a trial, is all that is needed. 

Hulled Corn, Hominy, or " Grits," to Bake.— Milk (always sweet 
and nice, unless sour is called for), 1 qt. ; liominy, hulled corn, "grits" (as kept 
"by grocers), cooked tender and allowed to get cold, 1 cup; 3 eggs and a litllo 
salt; sugar, 2 table-spoonfuls. Directions — Bring the milk to a boil and stir 
in salt and grits, or mashed hominy, or hulled corn, mashed, as the case may 
be. If uncooked grits are used, continue to boil slowly about 20 minutes, 
slowly, then remove from the fire, and when cool stir in the beaten eggs and 
sugar, and bake in a moderate oven, 30 to 40 minutes. The top may be glazed 
or meringued, with the beaten whites of a couple of eggs and a couple table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, or not, as you choose. Serve with any pudding 
saace, or simple sugar and milk, as you like best. 

Remarks. — It will be seen by the foregoing recipes that hulled corn, hominy 
or grits can be got up in different ways, adding to the varieties of the table, 
■which all good housekeepers like to do. Certainly the cheapness of hulled 
corn, which, when cooked and maslied, is as nice as the hominy, or grits, for 
these dislies can be no objection to the rich, while it may be a convenience to 
the laboring classes to use the hulled corn instead of the others, which are more 
expensive. 

Mush, Rye and Indian, to Make.— Take rather coarse Indian meal, 
S parts; rye meal or flour, 1 part; stir in Indian first, and cook 15 or 20 min- 
utes; then the rye, mixing thoroughly; then cook slowly for an hour, with the 
cover upon the kettle. Very nice and healthful with milk, or to fry, as next 
given. 

Mush, to Fry. — Beat an egg thoroughly, and roll a few crackers finely; 
iTaen slice the mush and dip in the egg, then into the cracker crumbs, and fry 
Su drippings, or after frying meat, or if wanted extra nice, in hot lard as you 
would doughnuts. 

Polenta, or Italian Mush, How to Make and Use.— A writer 
says: Boil 1 lb. of yellow Indian meal ("a pint is a pound the world around") 
for 1^^ hour, in 2 qts. of pot liquor (water in which meat has been boiled); or 
Jjoiling water, salted to taste, with 1 oz. of fat in it, stirring occasionally, to 
prevent burning; then bake J^ an hour in a greased baking dish, and serve it 
hoi; or when cold slice it and fry in smoking hot fat. This favorite Italian 
^ii-sh, she adds, is closely allied to the New England hasty pudding, and to the 
miushof the south. 



512 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — The difference is in simply leaving the " fat" out of the salteu 
water, using plain water instead of pot liquor. The French make the polenta 
by boiling the flour of chestnuts, or finely powdered chestnuts, in milk. I think 
this would be nice occasionally, the Italian frequently. 

Baked Squash. — Boil and mash a medium sized squash in the usual 
way, and, when nearly cold, stir in the beaten yolks of 2 eggs ; 3 or 4 table- 
spoonfuls of milk; 1 of butter rubbed in 1 of flour and melted in the milk; 
pepper and salt to taste as usual, and put into a buttered bake pan and set in a 
moderate oven until lightly browned; then having beaten the whites, and mixed 
into them the crumbs of 4 or 5 rolled crackers with a pinch of salt and a tea- 
spoonful of sugar, if you like, put it over the top and brown again, a few min- 
utes; serve hot. 

Remarks. — If summer squash is used, be careful to press out all the water 
you can, as they are much more watery than the winter varieties. 

Pried Squash.— Pare the squash and cut into rather thin slices (crook 
necks are nice for this purpose, other rich winter varieties will do); make a thin 
batter of flour and water, seasoned highly with pepper and salt; dip the squash 
into it and fry with hot butter, or drippings, to a nice brown, each side. This 
may be done in a hot oven, turning in either case. 

Remarks. — If nicely done, it is very nice, and makes a good substitute for 
sweet potatoes. 

Bread Balls, or Croquettes.— Crumble stale bread or bread crusts 
rather finely and moisten well with warm milk or warm water. If too moist 
press out with the hand, season with salt and pepper, adding powdered sage or 
summer savory, parsley or any other sweet herb, as you prefer or have on hand, 
or a variety of them, as hinted in "Seasoning Fare" below, with a little soft- 
ened butter and a beaten egg or two, according to quantity, to hold it in balls; 
make with floured hands. To be fried after meat or put into the dripping-pan in 
roasting beef, turkey, chicken, etc. 

Remarks. — 1 think those who try them will say: "Most noble Festus 
(author), thou art not mad, but speak the words of truth and soberness, " in giv- 
ing so nice a way to use up stale bread or crusts. These balls will be very nice 
with the roast turkey and roast pig for Thanksgiving dinner (as below), as well 
as for common use. 

Thanksgiving Dinner, with Suitable Recipes, Bill of Pare^ 
How to Set the Table, etc. — And now I don't think I can do better than 
',0 close the department of dishes for the table than in giving a bill of fare, with 
suitable recipes for a Thanksgiving dinner, which was sent to the Detroit Post 
and Tribune with, the writer's plan for setting the table, etc., which will cer- 
tainly hr found of great assistance to new beginners and very handy to refer to 
by everj' one upon such occasions, or when quite a number of visitors are to be 
iined upon any occasion. If the writer's name was given I have it not at this 
writing; but knowing the directions to be reliable, I will let her speak for her 
self. She says: 



VARIOUS DISHES. 513 

Thanksgiving is almost here, and how shall we celebrate the day? I for 
one believe in the old-fashioned Thanksgiving dinner, The following bill o' 
* ire may be of use to some of your readers; 

Oyster Soup. Celery, Pepper Sauce. 

Roast Turkey, with Currant Jelly. 

Baked Potatoes. Mashed Turnips. 

least Pig. Carrots with Cream. Baked Beans. Chopped Cabbaga 

Pumpkin Pie. Plum Pudding. 

Apples. Nuts. Cheese. 

Tea and Coffee. 

For the table I prefer a white cloth with fancy border, and napkins to 
match. A dasli of color livens up the table so, in the bleak November, when 
flowers cannot be had in profusion. Casters in the center, of course, flanked by 
tall celery glasses. At each end, glass fruit dishes filled with apples and nuts. 
A bottle of pepper sauce near the casters, and a mold of jelly by the platter of 
turkey, and small side dishes of chopped cabbage garnished with rings of cold 
boiled eggs. The purple cabbage makes the handsomest-looking dishes. Serve 
the soup from tureens into soup dishes, handing around to the guests. After 
this comes the piece de resistance, "Thanksgiving turkey." A piece of dark 
meat with a spoonful of gravy, and one of white with a bit of jelly and a 
baked potato (I should prefer a spoonful of mashed) should be served on each 
plate, leaving the other vegetables to be passed afterward with the roast pig. 
After this the salad, and then the plates should be taken away and the dessert 
served. Then come the apples and nuts, the tea and coffep. well seasoned with 
grandpa's old-time stories, grandma's quaint sayings and kind words and merry 
repartees from all. 

Below I give some recipes for these old-fashioned dishes, hoping they may 
be of use to some young housekeeper, preparing, perhaps, her first Thanksgiv- 
ing dinner: 

Oyster Soup. — Pour the liquor from 1 qt. of oysters, set over the fife with 
1 pt. of boiling water; skim when it boils up, and add 1 qt. of sweet milk; 
when it again boils up, stir in 2 tea-spoonfuls of butter rubbed in 1 of flour; 
then add the oysters, and salt and pepper to your taste; let it boil onlj' a minute 
or two, and serve in a hot tureen. See, also, that the soup dishes are well 
warmed before sending to table. 

Roast Turkey. — Make a stuffing of moistened bread-crumbs, rubbed smooth, 
with salt, pepper and powdered sage. Fill the breast and body, and sew it up 
with a needle and coarse thread. Put in the oven in a pan with a little water, 
basting it often. A turkey weighing 12 lbs. should roast at least 3 hours. 
Having washed the heart, liver and gizzard, boil them an hour or so in a sauce- 
pan; to make the gravy chop the giblets fine; put them back in the water in 
which they were boiled; add flour, rubbed smooth, in a little water; boil a min- 
ute or two, and serve in a gravy boat. 

Boast Pig. — Sprinkle inside with fine salt an hour before it is put into the 
oven; cut off the feet at the first joint; fill it very full of stuffing, with plenty 
of sage in it; tie the legs; rub it all over -^vith butter to keep it from blistering; 
baste very often while roasting. It will require about 2J^ hours to roast. Make 
gravy as for other roasts. 

Carrots with Cream. — Boil very tender with plenty of water; when done 
slice into a saucepan with a gill of cream; let them boil up once; salt and pep 
per to taste, and serve in hot nappies (side dishes). 

Boston Baked Beans. — Take 1 qt. of white beans, wash and soak over night 
in 2 or 3 qts. of water; in the morning pick them over and boil vmtil they begin 
to crack open ; put tliem in a brown pan ; pour over them enough of the water 
in which they have been boiled to nearly cover them. Cut the rind of a pound 
of salt pork into narrow strips; lay the pork upon the top of the beans and 
press down nearly even with them; bake some 4 or 5 hours. 



5U ^S CEASE'S RECIFES. 

P^Jtnphin Pie. — Stew a kettle full of pumpkin and press it through a colan- 
der. For a quart of the stewed pumpkin use about a pint or a little more of 
«?weet milk, 2 cups of sugar, 3 eggs and a tea-spoonful of ginge*' bake in a 
crust in a deep pie plate. 

Remarks. — The plum pudding will be found in another part of the book; 
also salads, sauces or any other thing that may be desired upon Thanksgiving, 
or most other important occasions. "Always room for one more " in an omni> 
bus or street car, so I give one on 

Seasoning Pood, Sweet Herbs for— How to Eaise, When to 
Cut and Dry, and How to Preserve their Plavor, etc. — It is a mis- 
taken idea that nicely flavored dishes are expensive. If purchased the herbs 
cost but a trifle per oz., and if raised at home it costs only a trifle to buy the 
seeds for them. The principal kinds used are sage, summer savory, thyme, 
parsley, sweet basil and sweet marjoram, tarragon, mint, mace, cloves, celery 
seed and onions. The mints grow readily along small streams and the others 
may be raised in boxes, even in the window or garden, wherever the sun will 
shine upon them. Sage need not be gathered till the last of September or first 
of October; summer savory, thyme and marjoram in July and August; basil in 
August and September; tarragon and parsley in June or July, or just before 
flowering; mints for winter use, when fully matured, in June and July. All 
should be gathered on a dry, sunny day and dried in the shade, and best if care- 
fully dried in an open, moderate oven, or else hung up close by a stove to dry 
quickly. And when very dry is the time to powder and sift them, and then to 
bottle and cork tightly or keep in air-tight cans, which saves their flavor per- 
fectly. 

Remarks. — The reason why French dishes are superior to other cooking is 
that they are seasoned with a variety of herbs or spices, or both; and the flavor, 
although indistinct {i. e., no one thing overbalancing another) from the variety 
used in a single dish; yet they are remarkably fine in themselves. Do the same 
if you wish an equally nice dish. [See, also, "Value of Sweet Herbs for 
Stews." Vinegars, pickles and some of the more common dishes for the table 
will be found in the Miscellaneous Department.] 

Roast Goose. — A goose should not be more than eight months old, and 
the fatter the more tender and juicy the meat. Stuff with the following 
mixture 3 pts. of bread crumbs, 6 oz of butter, or part butter and part salt 
pork, 1 tea-spoonful each of sage, black pepper, and salt, 1 chopped onion; 
do not stuff very full, and stitch the openings firmly together to keep the 
flavor in and the fat out. Place in a baking-pan with a little water, and baste 
frequently with salt and water (some add vinegar); turn often, so that the 
sides and back may be nicely browned. Bake 2 hours or more. When done, 
take from the pan, pour off the fat, and to the brown gravy left, add the 
chopped giblets, which have previously been stewed until tender, together 
with the water they were boiled in; thicken with a little flour and butter 
rubbed together, bring to a boil and serve. English style. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. 



1. WASHING FLUID.— Labor-saving and Not Injurious— 

Concentrated lye, 1 lb. , muriate of ammonia, and salts of tartar, each 2 ozs. j 
rain water, 2 gals. Directions — Dissolve the lye (here is a lie, indeed, as lye 
proper is a fluid, but this concentrated lye is a solid potash) in 1 gal. of the 
water and the salts of tartar, and muriate of ammonia in the other gal. of water, 
and put all into a 2 gallon stone jug, cork and shake, when it is ready for use. 
Put a suitable amount of water into your boiler for boiling your clothes; and 
when it is of a proper heat to put in the clothes, if they are very dirty, stir in 
I small teacup of the fluid, stirring well before putting in the clothes; if not 
t^ery dirty, y^ cup will be plenty; add half as much more to each additional 
boiler, if more than one is to be used at the same time. 

Remarks. — To soak clothes over night in cold water, use half as much oi 
the fluid, stirred well into the water before putting the clothes into the tub 
this saves very much in the labor of the washing, as it neutralizes 
the grease, or sweat, and loosens the dirt, or rots its face; but re- 
member, no soap should be put upon the clothes, nor into the soaking water, 
unless you use our bar Stanley soap given below. If they cannot be soakecS 
over night, soaking them from early-rising till after breakfast, will help const 
derably, putting in some of the fluid, the same as directed for over night. Then 
run through the wringer, soap dirty places, and they are ready for the boiler, 
as in the directions above, boiling 10 to 20 minutes, after which but very little 
rubbing on the board will be needed, rinse well in the bluing water, as usual, 

Mrs. Hardy, who gave me this receipt, and the foregoing instructions, is 
my sister-in-law, who has spent most of her life in a hotel, or a large boarding 
house, where much washing w;is to be done, and this is her favorite receipt 
after trying many others, and hence, from her practical knowledge and my own 
knowledge of the nature of the articles, I have every confidence it will prove 
satisfactory to all ; still, as there are those who have tried other receipts, and 
think so much of them, I will give a few more. 

2. Washing Fluid or Powder.— Sal-soda, 2 lbs. ; borax, 1 lb. ; salts 
of tartar, 2 ozs.; muriate of ammonia, 1% ozs. 

Directions. I. For the Powder. — If it is to be used as a powder, pulver- 
ize all, and mix thoroughly, put into a large mouthed bottle and cork for use, 
and use one rounding tablespoonful in each boiler of clothes, and half as much 
for each additional boiler, and this same amount to a tub of clothes for soaking, 
to be well stirred in, in either case. 

II. For the Fluid.— ii to be used as a fluid, dissolve the sal-soda and 
borax in 1 gal. of water, and the other articles in anotlier gaL of water, mix*ini 

515 



516 DE. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

put into a 2 gal. jug and keep corked for use. To be used in the same quantity 
And in the same way as No. L 

3. Washing Fluid.— Sal-soda, 1 lb. ; potash (or concentrated lye), 1 lb,; 
each dissolved in 1 gal. water respectively, then mix together and bottle. — ' ' Josie," 
of New York City, in Blade. 

Remarks.— She does not tell how, nor how much to use ; but the author 
says, use the same as No. 1, and a two gal. jug will do to hold it in. It will be 
found good and no trouble to make. 

4. New Mode of Washing, Saving Time, Iiabor and Fuel.— 

"The ill effects of soda on linen have given rise to a new method of washing, 
which has been extensively adopted in Germany, and introduced into Belgium. 
The operation consists in dissolving 2 lbs. of soap in about 3 gals, of water as 
hot as the hand can bear, and adding to this 1 teaspoon of turpentine and 3 of 
liquid ammonia; the mixture must be then well stirred, and the Unen steeped in 
it for 2 or 3 hours, taking care to cover up the vessel containing them as closely 
as possible. The clothes are afterward washed out and rinsed in the usual way. 
The soap and water may be reheated and used a second time, but in that case 
%. teaspoonful of turpentine and 1 teaspoonful of ammonia must be added. The 
process is said to cause a great economy of time, labor and fuel. The linen 
scarcely suffers at all, as there is little necsssity for rubbing, and its cleanliness 
and color are perfect. The ammonia and turpentine, although their detersive 
(cleansing) action is great, have no injurious effect upon the linen; and while 
the former evaporates immediately, the smell of the latter disappears entirely, 
during tlie drjing of the clothes. — Rural New Yorker. 

Remarks. — This writer speaks of the " ill effect of soda on linen," etc.; but 
the author must claim if soda is proi>erly used in washing, it will not injure 
clothes, i. e. , if it is combined with potash or lime, which give it its causticity, 
detergent or cleansing powers. For, during the past 20 years or more, I think, 
of my wife's life, she always kept a washing fluid ready for use, made of sal- 
soda and stone-hme, some of which was always put into the water to soak the 
clothes in, and also into the water to boil them in, and I never saw a yellow 
shirt, nor heard of any discoloring nor rotting of the clothing. I will guaran- 
tee that by none of the processes here given will they be injured, nor become 
yellow. Borax, which is particularly the thing used in the next, I know to be 
en excellent article to cleanse clothing, as well as to cleanse the scalp from 
dandruff. A teaspoonful of powdered borax, to water enough, washing the 
head daily, will soon remove the dandruff, and leave the scalp in a smooth and 
healthy condition, 

5. Washing— The Use of Borax in Washing Linen, Flannels, 
etc., — The following suggestions as to the use of borax in washing is from a 
correspondent of the Western Rural who had tested them. She says: 

"For an ordinary washing, use 1 teaspoonful (the author would say 2, for 
borax is a neutral salt and it has no excess of alkali, nor acid, and therefore 
does not injure clothing) of borax to 5 gals, of water and 2 ozs. of soap (it 
would have to be soft soap, else dissolved); soak the clothes in this over night; 
give them a thorough boiling, without wringing before the boiling. When the 
clothes are very much soil«J, see that the water is made soft with borax. 
[Made to feel soapy.] 3 tablespoonftils to a pail. Clothes thus washed will 
not turn yellow." 



MISCELLANEOUS. 51> 

In washing flannels, use 1 table-spoonful of borax to 5 gals, of water, with- 
out soap. It will not shrink them. For starching linen, use 1 tea-spoonful of 
borax to 1 pt. of boiling starch. For washing and bleaching laces, put 1 tea- 
spoonful of borax to 1 pt. of boiling water, leave your articles to soak in the 
solution for 24 hours, then wash with a little soap. For cleansing black cash- 
meres, wash in hot suds with a little borax in the water; rinse in bluing water 
—very blue — and iron on the wrong side while damp." 

Remarks. — For its use in removing dandruff, see the close of the remarks 
last above. A drachm of powdered borax dissolved in 2 table-spoonfuls of 
vinegar is said to be an excellent lotion for ringworm of the scalp; and its pow- 
der dusted about pantries, libraries, etc., is also said to be effectual in driving 
away roaches and other insects. — King. 

The autlior does not have to say "said to be," about its driving away 
roaches, as he has done it with great satisfaction, in drawers where they congre- 
gated so it could be got upon them; they left on the " double-quick." 

6. Borax, as Used By the Washer-Women of Holland and 
Belgium. — "The washer-women of Holland and Belgium, so proverbially 
clean, and who get up their linen so beautifully white, do it by the use of 
refined borax (kept by druggists) as a washing powder, instead of soda, in the 
proportion of a large handful of borax powder to 10 gals, of boiling water, sav- 
ing in soap nearly half. All of the large washing establishments adopt the 
same plan. 

"For laces, cambrics and lawns an extra quantity of the powder is used, 
and for crinolines (skirts) requiring to be made stiff, a stronger solution is 
necessary. Borax being a neutral salt does not in the slightest degree injure the 
texture of the linen. Its effect is to soften the hardest water. " — Touman's IHc- 
tionary of Every-Day Wants. 

7. Washing Fluid, Requiring but Little Boiling or Rubbing. 
— "Camphor gum, }4. oz., dissolved in alcohol, % pt. ; borax, J^ lb.; sal soda, 
1 lb.; dissolve the borax and sal soda in hot rain water, 1 gal., and stir in the 
others, and put into a 2 gallon jug, having 1 gal. of cold rain water in it, corfe 
and shake, when it is ready for use. Directions — Put 3^ cup of this to 1 pt. 
of soft soap, and apply to the dirty parts of the clothing, and soak in warm 
water % ^Q hour, or while breakfast is passing; need not then boil over 5 min- 
utes. "Washing will be done in half the ordinary time. Does not rot clothing, 
but makes it white. Table-cloths stained with tea, coffee, or fruit, throw into 
boiling water a few minutes, when they will be free from stains (I have seen 
statements to pour hot water through such spots would free them from the 
stain), while soap or suds when the clothes are dry will set the stains perman- 
ently." — Oermantown, (Pa.) Telegraph. 

Remarks. — I take this to be a very good fluid, as it has neither turpentine 
nor ammonia in it, and the quantity of camphor and alcohol is so small it will 
not be liable to open the pores of the skin, by which means colds are so easily 
taken by exposure wliile hanging out clothes after being over the hot suds in 
washing. The Bark Shanty Soap, below, will be just the kind to use with this 
fluid; but the common soft soap, such as is usually made from ashe.« and grease 



518 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

of your own saving, is, no doubt, the kind this Pennsylvanian refers to. I trust 
that all of our lady readers will be able to find something among these washing 
fluids or powders that shall fully meet their wants. Bluings arc kept so gener- 
ally now by the grocers and druggists they can be bought for less than they can 
be made. 

8. Flannels, To Wash and Dry, "Without Shrinking.— Flan 
nels should be washed with as little rubbing as possible; or, better still, pound 
ing without any rubbing at all, and drying rapidly, and pulling freely, both 
length-wise and across the goods, if you would avoid shrinkage. 

9. Washing Muslins, Cambrics, and Calicoes.— Stir some of 
the starch, after it is prepared for use, into the water in which any of these 
goods are to be washed. 

10. Or, soak them a while in water in which you have put 1 or 3 table- 
spoonfuls of salt to a pail of water. 

1 1 . For Black and White Calicoes. — A cup or two of weak lye 
to a pail of wate; is b^st for soaking in. 

12. For Pinlc or Green. — One or 2 table-spoonfuls of good vinegar 
to the pail of watci Is best. 

13. For Purple or Blue.— Use sal soda, or borax, in powder, 1 or 2 
table-spoonfuls to a pail of water; but, now, if you use the washing fluid, above, 
Boak them a little in that, and wash out, as usual, it saves all these troubles with 
the different colors. 

14. Ribbons, to Wash. — Wash ribbons in cold suds — not very strong, 
and do not rinse. 

15. Silk, Cashmere and Black Alpaca Dresses, to Cleanse. 
— Dissolve a table-spoonful of powdered borax in 1 qt. of warm water (soft 
water), and after dusting thoroughly brush such parts as need it, or the whole, 
if much worn, and iron on the wrong side. 

16. Black Silk, Alpaca, Serge and Lawn Dresses, to Do 
Over. — The following on the care and manner of doing over black silk, cash- 
mere, alpaca, serge and lawn dresses, which I take from Harper's Bazar, is 
well worth a place here, and will be found worthy of consideration by every 
woman into whose hands this book shall come. It says: 

" No lady should ever don her alpaca, cashmere or serge without giving it 
a thorough dusting with broom or brush. Dust permitted to settle in the folds 
of pleat or shirring will soon be impossible to remove entirely, and give the 
whole gown that untidy air so much to be deprecated in everything pertaining 
to a lady's person. 

' ' But after constant use for months, or maybe a year, the most carefully 
kept black dress will begin to show the effects of use, in a certain rustiness of 
hue and general dinginess of aspect, if no place actually rubbed or worn. Now 
is the time to expend a little skill and ingenuity in its renovation, when the 
economist may be rewarded by coming out in an old dress made new, sure of 
eliciting the admiration of at least all those who are in the secret. For the 
undertaking provide yourself with ten cents' worth of soap bark, procurable 
at an herb or drug store, and boil it in 1 qt. of hot water. Let it steep a while, 
and then strain into a basin for use. If the job is to be a perfect and thorough. 



MISGELLANEOm. 519 

one, take the body and sleeves apart and to pieces; rip off the trimming from 
skirt and over-skirt. Brush off all loose dust first, and then, with a sponge 
dipped in the soap bark decoction, wipe over each piece thoroughly, folding up 
as you proceed. Have ready a ladies' skirt board, for pressing, and well heated 
irons. Smooth every piece on the wrong side, including even silk trimmings; 
and when you have once more put it together you will be amazed to see the 
results of the simple process. One advantage in taking the whole dress apart 
is that, by putting the trimming on in some style a little different from what it 
was at first, the attraction of novelty is added to make the effect more pleasing. 
If one has not time, however, to go through the whole process, a dress may be 
greatly improved by being wiped over with this mixture (or the borax water 
above), and pressed on the wrong side while damp — indeed, for a time, it will 
look quite as good as new. The process may be repeated from time to time, as 
shall seem advisable. I have seen a cashmere, which had been worn two whole 
winters, taken apart and treated in this way, and the closest observer would 
have supposed the dress to have been put on for the first time, such was its soft, 
fresh look, and the vividness of its black. Grenadine may be submitted to the 
same sort of cleaning with fine results. 

" When a black lawn has become limp, tumbled, and generally forlorn- 
looking, the best mode of treatment to subject it to is, first a submersion in a 
pan of warm water, colored highly with indigo; then exposure to the air until 
just dampness enough is left to enable one to press it to advantage with a hot 
iron; and if this is carefully done, always on the wrong side, the lawn will 
come forth quite fresh, stiff, and renovated from its blue bath, and again do 
good service for another while. 

";Every particle of dust should be removed from a black silk or poplin 
every time it is worn, for nothing cuts either out so soon as these often imper- 
ceptible little gritty motes with which the air of a city is filled where coal is ia 
such universal use." 

17. Washing or Cleansing Woolen Blankets.— It is quite as 
important to have the woolen blankets on our beds clean, as to have our sheets 
pure and white. For the emination from our bodies are more quickly absorbed 
by them than by the muslin sheets; and as the women look upon the washing 
of a pair of blankets as a great undertaking, I will give them the easy way, 
recommended by the Boston Journal of Chemistry, which is about the same as 
practiced by my wife, in her lifetime. It is as follows: Put 2 heaping table- 
spoonfuls of powdered borax and 1 pt. of soft soap (or its equivalent of dis- 
solved bar soap), into a tub of cold soft water. Stir well to dissolve and mix; 
then put in the blankets, thoroughly wetting, and let them soak over night. 
Next day rub (the author says pound), and drain them out, and rinse thoroughly 
in two waters, and hang them to dry. Do not wring them by hand, but press 
out the water. They may be put through a wringer. 

Eemarks.— This makes light work of washing blankets. It will not be 
amiss, however, to say the washing water and the rinsing water should always 
be as nearly as possible the same temperature, but only to take the chill off, so 
as to avoid taking cold by having the hands in cold water — no soap should ever 
be rubbed on the flannels, but sudsing be used; and do not hang out on a very 
ccld day, nor hang close to a hot fire or stove; and iron with a moderately cool 
iron — not very hot— while damp, and there will be but little, if any shrinkage, 
alter moderate pulling even of skirts or other woolen goods. Under-skirts, 
etc. , of wool can oe washed in the fluid water, as above given, otherwise aa 
neaxiy like blankets are done as you can. 



520 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

18. Borax, Its Value Corroborated.— In the same connection the 
Journal goes on to say, further, of borax: 

19. Borax is the Best Koach Exterminator Yet Discov- 
ered. — This troublesome insect has a peculiar aversion to borax, and will 
never return where it has once been scattered. And, as this salt (chemists 
know all these things as a "salt") is perfectly harmless to human beings, it is 
much to be preferred for this purpose to the poisonous substances commonly 
used. 

" Borax is also valuable for laundry use, instead of soda. Add a handful 
of it, powdered, to about ten gallons of boiling water, and you need use only 
half the ordinary allowance of soap. For laces, cambrics, etc., use an extra 
quantity of the powder. It will not injure the texture of the cloth in the least. 

"For cleansing the hair, nothing is better than a solution of borax water. 
Wash afterward -with pure water, if it leaves the hair too stiff. Borax dissolved 
in water is also an excellent dentrifice, or tooth wash." 

Remarks. — See how well this plan agrees with the Holland and Belgium 
washerwomen above, as to the use of borax for laundry, or washing purposes. 
This writer says, also: "Dissolved in water, it is also an excellent dentrifice, or 
tooth wash, as scientists think it destroys the parasitic mite, or insect that exists 
in the fermenting food between the teeth." 

Borax as a Tooth Powder, or for Washing the Teeth. — I use 
borax in powder every morning, to cleanse my teeth. Borax in powder, i^ oz., 
with precipitated chalk, 3 ozs., with a few drops of oil of winter-green, which 
keeps my teeth clean and white, by rubbing the brush first on soap, then into 
the powder. Soap is essential once a day in cleaning teeth. Borax is, indeed, 
one of the most valuable salts we have for washing and cleaning purposes; but 
as we have now had a pretty thorough course of instruction in the various 
methods of washing, we will take up the question of soaps, for domestic pur- 
poses. Our first one, however, claims also, to make washing easy, which I very 
well know it will do. If you use any of the white bar soaps, your soft soap 
will be white — if any of the rosin-colored or yellow soaps, to make it with, such 
will be the color when done. 

1. Bark Shanty Soap, or Washing Iffade Easy.— Good bar soap, 
41bs. ; washing (sal) soda, 3 lbs. ; freshly burned stone-lime (which is also called 
"quick-lime"), lib.; salt, 2 ozs.; soft water, 5 gals. Directions— First, put 
the stone-lime into one gal. of the water, which is boiling hot; and, after stir- 
ring it a few times within an hour or two, let it settle, then pom- off the clear 
liquid into a suitable sized kettle to hold all, and add the balance of the water; 
cut the bar soap into thin slices, and put it with the soda, into the kettle, and 
boil until the soda and soap are fully dissolved, then stir in the salt, and pour 
when a little cool, into suitable jars (a pine half -barrel will do very nicely), and 
keep covered for use. 

^ma/'A;s.— This soap will save much of the rubbing of the clothing if a 
cup or two of it, according to the size of the washing, is dissolved by stirring it 
into cold water enough to cover the clothes, and they are soaked over night in 



MISCELLANEOUS. 521 

it; then dirty places are soaped with this before boiling; 15 or 20 minutes will 
be long enough to boil them, and slight rubbing of soiled places will be all that 
is needed, rinsing, bluing, etc., as usual. This amount of soap will do four 
times as much washing as the bar soap would have done by itself, and that, even 
if the money paid for the soda and the lime, which ought not to be above 15 or 
20 cents, at most, had been added to the purchase of bar soap. The lime, espe- 
cially, costs a mere nothing, but adds greatly, as well as the soda, to the deter- 
gent or cleansing properties of the soap. I call this "Bark Shanty Soap," from 
the name of the place where we lived one season, and where I obtained this 
recipe. It is on the shore of Lake Huron, 31 miles above Port Huron, where 
the timber is chiefly pine, and hence the ashes were not good for making soap; 
we, therefore, had to get the best substitute we could, and this being in 
use there, we soon learned its value, and will only add that although it will be 
found a great help and saving to those living in shanties, yet it will also be 
just as satisfactory to those living in cities, if they will give it a trial. It 
makes a half -solid soap very convenient to use. 

2. Soft Soap for "Washing and House Cleaning. — There are 
many other ways of making soap, nearly all of which contain some of the 
improvements or newer articles which have been introduced within the last few 
years in soap making, such as sal soda, lime, borax, etc. ; but few of them con- 
tain more than one or two of these. The next, although it has only one— 
the sal soda — yet you will at once see that Mrs. J. Lute, of Liberty, O., who 
sends it to the Blade, thinks very highly of it; and I give it to show the 
value of the sal soda mixed with soap wliich, in my own as well as in 
Mrs. Lute's opinion, will be a great help in washing clothes or house clean- 
ing, as the case may be. She says: 

"Take 4 lbs. of white, bar soap, cut it fine, and dissolve by heating in 
5 gals, of soft water, adding 2 lbs. of sal soda. When all is dissolved and 
well mixed, it is done. Yellow soap does very well, but I think the white 
is the best. This makes a very nice, white soft soap. You will think it a 
fraud when you first take it off the fire, but when it gets cool you will 
change your mind, and after one trial of it you will have no other. I have 
used it for three years, and am not afraid to recommend it to your readers." 

B£marks.—li this is thus good, where the lime can be got, will not the 
following be considerably better?— I think so. 

3. Hard Soap, Fifteen or Twenty Pounds from Seven.— Take 
7 lbs. of good hard soap; cut it in thin slices; sal soda, 2 lbs. ; unslacked (that is 
stone) lime, 1 lb. ; alum, 1 oz. ; borax, 2 ozs. ; benzine, 1 oz. ; soft water, 2 gals. 
Directions— Put the sal soda and lime into a dish and pour over them the 
water, boiling hot, (what is better, is to use a kettle which you can boil these 
in till the soda is dissolved and the lime all slacked), stirring well a few times, 
and let settle; then (or in the morning, if done over night,) pour off the clear 
solution into the kettle containing the slices of soap, put on the fire and let it 
remain until the soap is dissolved ; then, having dissolved the alum and borax 
in a little water, pour them in just as the soap comes off of the fire; and when a 



523 I>R- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

little cool put in the benzine, stirring well, and when it gets perfectly cold % 
■will be hard, and can be cut in pieces to dry. 

Remarks. — I have this from a Mrs. Baldwin, who has done a great deal of 
washing in her life, at Put-in-Bay, Ohio, and who has used this soap and knows 
its value, and hence recommends it very highly. And this recipe, I am well 
satisfied, has had a wide range, for I found, when I come to look over the items 
on hand for this department, I had the same recipe from a friend who lived 
in the southern part of the state, and his family prized it highly. Of 
course, this could be made into a soft soap by adding 5 to 10 gals, more of 
water, according to whether you would have it quite firm, or more easily takea 
up with the hand, and I will say here, too, I think if J^ to 1 cup of salt wias 
put in with the alum and borax, it would be a little firmer, as a hard soap, and 
also dry a little quicker. Rosin is also put into hard soap for the purpose of 
making it tougher, so it will not rub oflf quite so fast when rubbing it upon the 
clothing. Some persons think the rosin is detergent, that is it helps to cleanse 
away the dirt, but this is a mistake, if not wholly, it certainly has but very little 
power to do this. A table-spoonful of spirits of turpentine, has more of this 
cleansing power than a pound of rosin, but it does make the soap wear or iask 
longer. See next recipe for using rosin. 

4, Hard Soap with Concentrated Lye.— "Take 2 boxes (2 lbs.) of 
concentrated lye; soft water, 5 gals.; grease, 9 lbs.; rosin and borax, each, ^ 
lb. ; salt as below. Directions— Dissolve the lye in the water, and aad ilof 
rosin, broken finely, and boil till dissolved, stirring well ; then add the grease 
and the borax, in small pieces, and boil about 2 hours, or till the grease is takeis 
up, and it becomes soapy. If the grease was salty, stir in % tumbler of salt; 
if it was not salty, a full tumbler of salt, dissolved in 3^ gal. of warm water, 
and stir in, and continue the boiling % an hour longer. Soak a tub well iis 
cold water, and pour in the soap, and let it stand till cold. Cut out in cakes 
and put in a cool dry place to dry You may leave out the rosin, if you desire, 
I do not always use it." — Keystone, Cannonsburg, Pa. 

Remarks. — As I said in last recipe, above, the rosin makes the soap wear 
longer, when rubbing upon the clothes, if it rubs off too slow, so you have to 
rub too long to get on soap enough, use less rosin, or none at all, as you prefer. 

5. Hard Soap with Soda, Lime and Accumulating Grease^ 
etc. — Mrs. C W. Phillips, of Glencoe, Minn., informs us through the Blade, 
how to use the accumulating grease, by making a "hard soap which is excel- 
lent and economical." She says: 

" Nearly every family accumulates, through the winter, drippings from 
beef, mutton, ham, etc. These can all be utilized by boiling the grease in water, 
allowing it to cool, then removing it from the water, and boiling by itself agairs 
till all the water is expelled. Of course, the whiter the grease, the nicer will be 
the soap." 

Then take 6 lbs. of this grease, 6 lbs. of sal-soda, and m lbs. of newly 
burned or good stone-lime, with 4 gals, of soft water, and % lb. of borax-, oc 
in these proportions. Put soda, lime and water into an iron kettle and boili 



MISCELLANEOUS. 523 

stir till the soda is dissolved, and the lime is all slacked; then, when it is well 
settled; pour off the clear liquid; wash out the kettle and put in the liquid, 
grease and borax, and boil till it comes to soap, and pour into a well-soaked tub 
to cool, and when sufficiently hard, cut into bars and put on boards to dry. It 
is very nice, even for washing white flannels and calicoes; and, if a little per- 
fume is put in it is nice enough for the toilet." 

Remarks. — The old Windsor soap, as it used to be made, was flavored with 
oil of caraway, but more recently the oil of sassafras, which is cheap, has been 
used for perfuming soaps; ){ to 1 oz. would be enough for a " batch of soap" 
of 5 to 10 gals., according to whether a little or a considerably strong perfume 
is preferred. It should not be put in until the soap is pretty cool, then stirred 
in thoroughly. 

The Rural Home, under the head of " Home-Made Soap," gives the same 
recipe as this last, except it used only 3 lbs. of lime and no borax— otherwise 
just the same — and makes these remarks about il: "Were the good qualities of 
this inexpensive soap more generally known no family would go without it. It 
is valuable for washing clothes, making them very clean and white, without in 
the least injuring them, and is excellent for flannels and petticoats. It is good, 
also, for the hands, making them soft and smooth." Could any higher enco- 
miums or better recommendation be asked or given? I think not. And the 
only reason I give them is that the people may have confidence enough in these 
soaps to give them a fair trial, as they positively do not injure the clothing, but 
save much labor and expense, as compared with using only bar soap kept by 
grocers. I had also another recipe from the Inter Ocean, but it was just like 
this, except a caution to "be verj' careful not to get any sediment in from the 
lime." Simply be careful to pour off the liquid clear of sediment in any recipe 
using the stone lime, as the lime will not dissolve, but simplj- slacks, yielding 
up its caustic power, for which purpose only it is used, except for the hand- 
washing soap below, and there it is used only upon the hands; for clothing ic is 
best not to get in any lime lest it spot some colored goods. I will give you one 
more of these hard soaps from soda, lime and grease, as the amount is smaller, 
and is from a lady who is not afraid to give her name, and address also. It is 
as follows: 

6. Hard Soap, With Soda, Lime and Grease Only.— Soft water, 
11^ gals. ; sal sotla, 3 lbs, ; unslacked lime, 1 lb. ; clean grease, 3 lbs. Direc- 
tions— Put the three first articles together and boil to dissolve the soda and 
slack the lime; then let settle and pour off the clear liquid and put on the fire 
again with the grease and boil to proper consistence. One oz. of any flavored 
oil may be added, if desired.— .¥rs. W. W. Morse, of Lann, D. T., in Inter 
Ocean. 

Remarks. — As named in another place, any of these hard soaps may be 
made soft by using the proper amount of water to give the right consistence. 

7. "Why is Lime Used in Making Soap ? ^^—Explanation. —People 
seem to be so afraid of using lime in making soaps, like the foregoing; the 
question is of ten asked: "Why is the lime used? " and hence I will take the 



524 I>ii- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Yankee way of answering it: "Why does everybody that makes soap from 
ashes put lime in the bottom of the leach?" Simply because if he does not 
he will have great trouble, even if he can make it at all, unless he does put the 
lime in, is about all the reason they can give. But lime causes the absorption 
of carbonic acid in the lye from the ashes, and also gives the lye a caustic prop- 
erty that enables it to combine with the grease, and th.ereby makes the soap, 
which it could not do, or at least not well do, except for the lime. The lime, 
then, does not hurt soap, but makes a better soap than can be made without it. 
Well, then, if it is good to assist in making soap from ashes, or potash, which 
comes from the ashes, why should it be thought injurious to combine it with 
sal soda for the same purpose? The one question answers the other, and ought 
to satisfy every reasonable person that lime is good and not injurious, as some 
suppose, for soap-making purposes. The manufacturers make soap by the use 
of potash, or soda, in the form or what is known as soda-ash, which is caustic, 
by means of its process of manufacture; but this article (soda-ash) cannot 
always be obtained, while the sal soda, which is a carbonate, can always be got; 
then we combine the lime with it, which gives it the same causticity that soda- 
ash has, and we thereby get just as good a soap. So have no fears in using 
them. 

8. Soft Soap From Concentrated Lye.— To make soft soap with 
concentrated lye, take 1 lb. of it and dissolve it in 2 gallons of soft water; and, 
when it boils, add tallow, or clear grease, 4 lbs. Let it boil till it becomes 
clear; then add 2 gallons more of rain water. Mix well and set it by to cool; 
then take a cup of it, and add as much cold water as it will take, and still be 
as thick and ropy as you wish it, then add water in the same proportions to the 
whole. — Prairie Fariner. 

9. Soft Soap for House Cleaning, "Washing Clothes, etc.— It 
is well to have two or three strings to one's bow; hence I give one or two more 
soft soap recipes. This one I take from the Medical Brief, of St. Louis: Hard 
soap, 3 lbs. ; sal soda, 1 lb. ; aqua ammonia and spirits of turpentine, each 1 oz. ; 
soft water, 3 gallons. Boil the water and dissolve in it the soap and soda; 
remove from the fire and stir in the others. 

Remarks.— Oi\ of sassafras, ^ to 1 oz., may be used for flavoring, if 
desired, in this amount of any soaps. 

A lady editress of one of the "Household Departments" of an agricul- 
tural paper makes it as follows, using less soda, and no ammonia nor turpen- 
tine, still it will be found excellent for the purposes named 

10. Soft Soap, for Removing Grease from Floors, Shelves, 
etc. — Sal soda, % lb. ; bar soap, 1 lb. ; cut into small pieces; put them into a 
stone jar on the back of the stove, or range, when not very hot, and pour over 
it a pailful of cold water; stir it once in a while, and after some hours, when 
thoroughly dissolved, put it away to cool It forms a sort of jelly, and is excel- 
lent to remove grease on floors or shelves. 

Remarks. — The author will say good for cleaning all wood- work, and for' 
;^eneral washing too. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 525 

11. Soap from Refuse Grease.— Another lady says: The best way 
to iise up small lots of refuse grease, is to buy a box of concentrated lye (for 
sale by all grocers) and follow the directions on the bos. Nothing can be 
simpler, and we have never failed in getting the soap to come. 

Remarks. — This lady's instruction is sound common sense, and confirms 
what I have said heretofore. A little judgment will enable any one to succeed, 
by simply modifying, or changing, sometimes, to meet different conditions which 
may arise, in not always being able to get just what is called for in one recipe, 
by taking up another, the articles for which can be obtained. 

12. Pearline, Soapine, etc., to Make.— Tlie Scientific American, 
which is one of our most reJiable papers, informs us that these articles are made 
of powdered soap, and po\\»dered sal soda, equal, or about equal parts of each. 
Thus you see for a few cents you can make what they ask much more for; and 
it shows, too, what is thought by scientific men of sal soda as an aid in wash- 
ing. 

13. Soap for Machine-Shop Men, Blacksmiths, Engineers, 
Printers, Scouring, etc. — Take 10 lbs. of hard, yellow soap; sal soda, 3 
lbs.; borax and tallow, each 1 lb.; fresh slacked lime, as below; soft water, 3 
gals. Directions — Put the water, soda and borax into the kettle, and when 
dissolved add the tallow and the soap, shaved fine; and when these are dissolved 
stir in as much freshly slacked, sifted lime as you can stir in well. The lime is 
to be sifted through a common kitchen sieve to avoid coarse lumps. 

Remarks. — The lime thus stirred in greatly helps its scouring and cleansing 
properties; its roughness also helps greatly in washing hands covered with 
grease, ink, etc. It makes a good washing soap without the lime, but that adds 
more than half to its power of removing grease, ink, tar, etc., from the hands 
of machinists, where iron is worn into the grease on journals and by filing, etc. 
Without the lime it would make about 10 gals of splendid soft soap, if pre- 
ferred in place of the hard; and in this case the tallow need not be put in. 

14. Medicated, or Sulphur and Tar Soaps, To Make.— So 
much is being said about sulphur soap, in skin diseases and for toilet purposes, 
it will be a satisfaction to many people, no doubt, to know that if you take a 1 
lb. bar of any good, hard white soap, cut it fine and put it into a small jar and 
set that into a basin or pan of water and set on the stove till the soap is melted, 
then stir in, thoroughly, 1 oz. of the flour of sulphur and pour into a paper or 
wooden box to cool, after which you can cut it into squares and dry it, and your 
sulphur soap will be as good as any you buy. For the tar soap, do the same as 
above, except stir in \i oz, of creosote, which is the same in action as tar — con- 
tains the active principle of tar. No harm in combining them in one soap; the 
combination would work very mildly on any irritable skin. 

Rem4irk». — Renovation, or general cleansing of clothes of all kinds, gloves, 
boots, shoes, etc., very properly follows the foregoing soaps, washing fluids, etc. 

Renovation, Clothes Cleaning, etc.. Explanation of. — Renova- 
tion is the art of making new after injury or partial decay— re-making, from 
the Latin re, again, and novare, to make new. This word, then, may very 



528 DR. CUASE'S RECIPES. 

properly be applied to the cleansing of wearing apparel of all kinds, gloves, 
boots and shoes, paint and grease about the house; ink, paint, tar and grease 
spots upon clothing; also re-coloring faded and worn garments — in fact, every- 
thing in the line of cleaning or renewal may come under this head. It will be 
my purpose, then, to so explain as I proceed, the art of renovation that those 
who desire to do so may restore their faded or injured or soiled garments to be 
nearly equal to new. In the cities there are those who follow the various 
branches of this art with great success and profit. The following recipes and 
instructions will give the people the secrets of doing it at home just as 
well as to pay for doing it away from home, and, no doubt, also give some of 
the professional renovators some things new to themselves. The following 
compound or soap will, probably, clean a greater variety of colored garments, 
without injuring the cloth, than any preparation in use. Of course, I have not 
practiced this art myself, but I obtained these recipes from a woman who lived 
for a year or two in a house owned by me at the time, and who practiced the 
art, and had renovated clothing for myself and other members of the family, 
so I know their reliability. And I may be excused for saying I paid more for 
these recipes alone ($5) than I get for the book. 

1. Renovating Soap. — Marseilles (French) or Parker's best soap, such 
as used by barbers (I have seen Babbitt's common soap used, but the above was 
the original recipe), ]4 lb. ; alcohol, 1 oz. ; beef's gall, 2 ozs. ; saltpeter, borax, 
honey, sulphuric ether and spirits of turpentine, of each, J^ oz. ; camphor gum, 
3 drs. ; pipe clay, 1 dr. ; common salt, 1 small tea-spoonful. Directions — Put 
the camphor into the alcohol, the powdered pipe clay into the beef's gall, pul- 
verize the saltpeter and borax and put them and the salt into the honey. After 
2 or 3 hours slice the soap into a porcelain kettle, with the gall mixture, and 
place over a slow fire, stirring till melted; take off and let stand until a little 
cool ; then add all the other articles, stir well together and put into a glass fruit 
jar as soon as possible, as it soon hardens; then screw on the top, to prevent the 
evaporation of the strength, keeping in a dark closet, ready for use, as light 
decomposes or injures it. 

Remarks. — Those desiring to engage in the business permanently can take 
double or four times these quantities, according to the amount of work they 
may expect to do. 

2. Clothes Cleaning.— General Directions— To clean a pair of 
pants or coat (any color) that has been considerably soiled, open the jar, and 
with a stiif spoon loosen up some of the renovating soap and take out % ^^ oz. 
(a rounding table-spoonful) and dissolve it in 1 qt. of boiling soft water in a 
porcelain kettle, so as to keep it hot. Now whip and brush the article to be 
cleaned thoroughly, to remove all the dust; then, with a scouring brush (a. 
partly worn, consequently stiff, broom brush will do very well), saturate, or wet 
the soiled spots thoroughly with the hot solution from the kettle; and, as a gen- 
eral thing, it will be best to saturate the whole garment, else a part will look 
new (that which is renovated) and the rest will look old or dirty, except in cases 
of getting spots upon new clothing. After thoroughly wetting the garment with 



MISCELLANEOUS. 527 

"tlie solution, dry as thoroughly, in the open air is best. This wetting of the 
garment is best done by drawing it on a press-board, if you have one, as 
described below, also by spreading on a table or counter to be handy. After 
lieing dried, press the garment well, using what is called a "sponge-cloth," of 
stout unbleached muslin or drilling. If this is to be followed for a business, 
buy 3 yds. and tear it in two, lengthwise, keeping one for light shades of cloth- 
ing, the other for dark. AVhen ready to begin to press the garment take a basin 
of soft water and put into it some aqua ammonia, at the rate of 1 table-spoon- 
ful to 1 qt. of water, and, with the ammonia water, keep your sponge-cloth wet 
while pressing. 

Remarks. — For those following the business, a press-board, which can be 
got up by any good joiner, so that a pant's leg may be drawn upon it, and a 
smaller one suitable in size to enter a coat-sleeve, will be found more than suffi- 
ciently handy to pay their cost, as they will be found almost absolutely neces- 
sary in applying dye to black clothing where the color has been spotted or fadedj 
as explained under that head further on. The press-board referred to has two 
parts, a base, or bottom piece, then the pressing-board proper is supported by 
two standards about 5 or 6 inches from the bottom piece, with one end running 
out free to allow the leg or sleeve to be drawn upon it 15 to 18 inches for con- 
venience of pressing the single thickness of cloth, instead of double, if the leg 
■or sleeve is simply spread out on a table or counter. 

3. Alpaca Dresses— To Remove Wrinkles and Brighten their 
IiUSter. — Dust them nicely with a brush and spread them upon an ironing- 
lx)ard, or press-board, as referred to above, then, having wet the sponge-cloth 
^with the ammonia water, as directed for pressing clothing above, pass a moder- 
ately warm iron over them quickly a few times, and the work is complete. 

4. Renovating Dye for Black Clothing, to be Applied Only 
t>n the Outside— Cheap Ink, etc. — Logwood chips, 1 lb.; soft water, 
1 gal.; bichromate of potash, 24 grs. ; prussiate of potash, 12 grs. Put the log- 
wood into the water and let stand 12 hours, then boil % hour, strain while 
•warm, and having dissolved the potashes in a little boiling water, add them to 
the dye. Bottle, cork, and keep in a dark place. This is to be applied to spots 
on black clothing, coat collars, etc., where the color has been injured or faded 
out, the spots having been renovated and dried as given under the head of 
renovation; then, first having sponged the spots with suds, or the whole gar- 
ment, if it is to be applied to the whole, applying the dye with a brush, and dry 
again before the pressing is done. This dye may be used also to color worn or 
injured spots upon black kid gloves, black kid boots, etc., in place of ink, 
spoken of under those heads; in fact, this makes a very good, cheap ink for 
school children. 

Paint, Tar, Pitch, Ink, Grease Spots, etc., To Remove from 
•Clothing. — Take a Httle of the renovating soap, above, without water, and 
rah it into the soiled spots; let it remain a few minutes, then scrape off and 
«feanse with the ammonia water, also given for pressing clothing, under the 
bead of renovatioa If this does not fully accomplish it, use the renovating 



538 I>R- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

soap with the ammonia water. The drying, coloring, if needed, pressing, etc., 
to be the same. Tailors, it is claimed, use equal parts of ammonia and alcohol 
for cleaning coat collars, gr«ase spots on pants, etc., and that nothing is better; 
but for very nice articles chloroform is better than anything else, removes grease 
of all kinds, also paints, varnish, etc. 

Paint, Pitch, Oil, and Grease, To Kemove from Silk, Linen, 
etc. — Benzine (purified), also called benzole, 3 ozs. ; oil of lemon, }-^ oz. Mix 
and keep corked. Directions — Apply with a cloth or sponge to any spots upon 
any of the above named kind of goods, rubbing with the fingers until removed. 
The colors will not be injured. — Indian Domestic Economy. 

Remarks. — For sake of safety in using benzine, or benzole, as one kind is. 
called, see note after Kid Glove Cleaning. The lemon is only for flavor, or to 
hide tlic odor of the benzine. 

Fruit Stains, To Remove from Clothing, etc.— To remove fruit 
stains, hold them so you can pour boiling water through them; and if this fails 
in any case to remove the stain, then dip the table-cloth or other article into hot 
water, and place it over burning brimstone, as for bleaching flannels, below. 

Bleaching Flannels. — Wet them and place upon a stick over the top of 
a barrel, in the bottom of which is an old pan with some burning coals, and 
sprinkle on the fire a little, broken bits of brimstone and cover over with a piece 
of carpet to retain the smoke. Particularly applicable to children's flannels 
which have become yellowish, and which you do not like to wash for fear of 
shrinkage. 

Silks, To Remove Spots, etc.— Fuller's earth, 1 oz. ; saleratus, 1 even 
tea-spoonful, (if saleratus is not obtainable, get bicarbonate of potash of a drug- 
gist, the same amount); lemon juice. DraECTiONS — Dry the earth thoroughly, 
and mix in the saleratus evenly; then moisten with the lemon juice sufiiciently 
to form it into a roll or stick; dry in the sun. Wet the spots with hot water 
and rub it with the prepared earth. Dry in the sun ; then cleanse with clear water. 

Ink Spots, To Remove From Clothing.— Wet the spots with milk 
^sour milk is best — if you have no milk, wet with water, and rub a piece of 
lemon on some salt, then upon the spot, a few times will always remove it. If 
you have no lemon, a little oxalic acid in water, rinsed out with clear water, 
will do it— except the cheap school inks made with chromates of potash, even 
oxalic acid will not dissolve them; but the better inks, which are set with iron, 
the above will dissolve out. 

Remarks. — Remember, if oxalic acid is used, to keep it away from children, 
as it is poisonous, or corrosive upon the flesh, so upon clothing if left without 
rinsing. A drachm will be enough for any ordinary spot, the size of the hand. 
If rinsed out as soon as the spot disappears it will hurt no clothing. 

Ink— Printer's, To Remove From Clothing.— Saturate with tur- 
pentine, let alone for 2 or 3 hours; then rub well with the hands and dust out 
Saturate means to wet thoroughly. It may be necessary to use some of the 
renovating soap, or erasive 'compound, or some of the soap for the machine-shop 
uieu to wash away the discoloration. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 539 

Tar Spots, To Remove.— Tar spots may be removed by putting butter 
upon them for a few hours ; then cleanse with soap and water to remove the 
grease, using the renovating soap if needed. 

1. Kid Gloves, To Clean.— Take purified benzine, in a bowl or suit- 
able dish, sufficient to cover the gloves. Put the gloves into the benzine and 
saturate or soak to wet thoroughly; then having placed one upon a clean, smooth 
board, with a soft brush or soft sponge rub one way only, from the wrist 
towards the fingers, wherever there is any dirt, or all over is best, to make all 
look alike — clean, dipping them or the brush into the benzine as often as neces- 
sary to get out all the dirt ; and if this can not be done with the first lot, throw 
it away and pour in fresh, and rinse and squeeze out in the benzine till perfectly 
clean. White gloves you will suppose, while cleaning, to be spoiled, as it gives 
them a dingy appearance. Tinted or light shades will not look quite so dingy; 
but, never mind, partially dry them in the sun. Now, having prenously pre- 
pared a stick, a foot or more in length, carefully tapered, and rounded at one 
end to resemble a finger, insert it into each finger, carefully pulling the glove on 
by the wrist until smooth, then rubbing dry with fine soft muslin. When all 
is dry, polish with French powder (white), using soft white flannel in polishing, 
tJse care on the stick, and in all the processes, to keep the gloves smooth, for if 
wrinkled the surface would be broken. Keep them from shrinking by putting 
lipon the hands occasionlly when nearly dry; but if you are cleaning a smaller 
glove, for others, than will go upon your own hand, carefully pull them as 
needed to prevent shrinkage. 

Benzine, Benzole, Rose Oil, Ifaptha, etc. — Explanation. — Naptha, which is a 
preparation made by the destructive distillation of wood, but now better known 
te "wood alcohol," was formerly used for this purpose; but as this is now 
Worth 50 cents a quart, at least, and as the purified benzine, which is made from 
coal oil or petroleum, docs this work just as nicely, and cost not more than 
10 or 15 cents a quart, it is now almost wholly used for these purposes. This 
purified benzine is also known as "rose oil." Druggists understand all these 
names. Gasoline, even, will do the same work, but it has more of the odor, not 
being so thoroughly purified. Remember, it is the purified benzine that should 
be obtained; and, remember, too, all these articles are not only inflammable, but 
also explosive, if fire gets to them or the vapor arising from them. So do not 
use them near a fire, lamp, or gaslight, to insure safety. 

Remarks. — The gentleman from whom I obtained this recipe — using naptha 
— told me he paid $15 for it, after he had carried on clothes cleaning for eight 
years, and he considered it a good investment at that price. It will do the 
■work nicely, but the benzine is now the cheapest. 

2. Or if the gloves are not much soiled, set a saucer of sweet milk, and 
a piece of white soap upon the table. Fold a clean towel, 3 or 4 thicknesses, 
upon the table, or upon your lap, and spread the glove smoothly upon it Take 
a piece of clean white flannel and dip it in the milk ; then rub it upon the soap, 
then upon the glove, from wrist to fingers, continuing the process until the dirt 
is removed, when, if a white glove it will have a yellowish tint, dark shades of 
gloves wiU be darker stiU. Be careful to clean every part of the glove thorn 



530 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

ougLly, else there will be spots when done. Let dry or neai'ly so, then put co! 
your hands and work soft, and polish as in No. 1 above, and the result will be 
very satisfactory. 

3. Or, take a pan of white com meal, sifted; put on the gloves and make 
believe washing hands in the meal, carefully, for 10 or 15 minutes, according 
to the extent of soiling. Fold in a clean towel, and put a weight upon thenx 
for a time. (See also white furs to clean, for the propriety of using corn meal 
in removing dirt.) 

Kid Gloves, Black, Worn Spots, to Restore.— When black kid 
gloves are soiled, or turned white, in spots, from wear, wet the spots with black 
ink — a little poured into a sauce-plate, and apply by means of a bit of flannel, 
upon the end of a small stick, is a good w-ay — then, leaving a few drops of the 
ink in the plate, pour in a tea-spoonful of salad oil or sweet oil, and with the 
flannel rub the mixture over the whole gloves, and dry in the sun — ^polish on 
the hand with soft flannel. 

Ladies' Kid Boots— Black, to Re-Color Soiled, or Worn Spots. 
— First brush off all dirt, then color the spots with ink, or \vith the renovating 
dye, then with a little of the ink, or dye, in a little oil, as with black gloves, 
polish the whole uppers, so all will look alike. 

Remarks — Jettine, or liquid blacking, is much used, of late years, instead 
of ink and oil; suit yourself. 

Woolen Hoods (White), Nubias, etc., to Cleanse, or Reno- 
vate, Without Washing. — Dry nice wheat flour in a clean pan in the oven 
and rub it thoroughly into the hood, or nubia, until thoroughly cleaned, adding 
a very little bluing powder, if you have it, to the last rubbing— cleans them 
nicely and saves the shrinkage from washing; although our plans of washing 
woolens are excellent, and may be followed with these articles, if preferred. 

Paint Spots Upon Windows, to Remove.— Dissolve sal soda, i 
oz., in soft water, 1 pt. — in this proportion for as much as needed. Use it hot,. 
•with a piece of flannel, or sponge, on a stick, not to affect the fingers. Wash 
off with hot water, as soon as the paint spots are softened. 

Kid Boots, or Shoes, White and Light Shades, to Clean.— 
Use the purified benzine and sponge as for gloves, drying and polishing the 
same. If they are too small to admit the hand, stuff them to keep them full 
size. 

White kid boots, or shoes, can be cleaned by dipping a perfectly clean piece 
of white flannel in a little ammonia, and rubbing the cloth over a cake of white 
soap : after which gently rub the kid diligently, until the soiled places are white 
again. As the flannel becomes soiled change for a clean one, or a clean place. 

White Furs, to Clean or Renovate. — Half fill a stone jar with 
white corn meal (for a child's muff and tippet, a 2 gallon jar will be suitable), 
place it on the stove and heat the meal as hot as the hand can be borne in it, 
stirring to prevent the meal from scorching. Put one piece, at a time, in this, 
and rub until thoroughly clean ; then beat out the meal with a stick, 
further, if needed, for other pieces— the meal must be hot 



MISVEL LA NEO US. 531 

Finger Marks Upon Doors— To Semove.— Dissolve sal-soda, 1 oz.; 
in soft water, 1 pt., and go over the soiled doors or other painted wood-work 
with it, using a sponge or cloth, following with a wiping cloth, slightly wrung 
out of hot, clean water. 

Erasive Compound, or, Soap for Cleaning Clothes.— Sal -soda, 
3^4 lb. ; castile soap, 2 ozs. ; starch 1 oz. ; borax, % oz. ; soft water, 1 qt. Direc- 
•^ ,oxs. — Boil the soap in the water till dissolved, then add the other ingredients, 
all pulverized, and stir till all is dissolved, and pour into a square pan or box, to 
cool, when it can be cut into bars, of suitable pieces to wrap up for sale, if that 
is the purpose. Used for removing grease spots, paint, tar, etc., apply with a 
wet sponge by rubbing on the soap first, then on the spot till clean. 

Remarks. — The friend who sent me this for insertion in my "Third and 
Last Receipt Book," says: " It is equal to the "Lightning Eradicators," which 
are generally sold for 25 cents a cake, and as you will know, is much cheaper." 

These cakes of soap sold on the street corners for 25 cents, are only about 
1 or l\i inches long by 3^ wide and 3^ inch thick. The same friend also sent 
me the following ink, and the remarks connected with it are his also, but they 
can be depended upon, except the one I have modified, as to its not being equal 
to the best writing fluids. 

Ink— Black for School Purposes— A Quart for a Dime.— Ex- 
tract of logw^ood, % oz. ; bi-chromate of potash, 10 grs. ; dissolve in a quart of 
hot rain water. When cold, put into a bottle and leave uncorked for one week, 
when it is ready for use. At first it is a steel-blue, but becomes quite bla»k. I 
used this ink for a long time while in an office, and considered it equal to the 
best writing fluid. [This last remark, is all in which I disagree with him. 
It does, however, make a good school ink.] Moderate freezing does not hurt it. 

Brocade or Broche Shawls— To Clean the White Center — 
Also Applicable to Fine, White Lace.— Spread a clean, white cloth 
upon the table and sift over it, dry, white corn-meal, as large a spot as the 
shawl center, and lay the shawl upon it, and cover the center also, with the 
meal; then roll it up closely and put it away for a week, when, by dusting out 
the meal, the shawl will be nice and clean," so says " Valentia," of Brockwood, 
111., in the Blade, or, she says: 

2. Another and Quicker Way.— Is to take the same kind of corn 
meal. % P*- ^^^ coarse salt, i^ pt. ; mixing well, then with a brush, all being 
dry, scour, or rather rub well, both sides, this does the work quicker, but the first 
is the best because it saves the rubbing, which frets out the texture. Of course 
the lace would not stand the rubbing of this last plan. Understand no water ig 
to be used, it is all done by the dry process. 

HINTS FOR THE LAUNDRY.-Washing All Colors of Cali- 
cos, Percales, Muslins, Brown Linen, etc., and to Remove Paint 
and Wine Stains Prom Silks, Woolen and Cotton Goods.— Besides 
the foregoing receipts on general washings, etc. , I deem it best to put in a few 
items, or "hints," as the above heading has it, from various sources, which are 



532 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

generally short, and right to the point for quick work. These first are from 
Mrs. E. S. Barrett, of Sing Sing, New York, July 1882, in the Neic York 
Examiner, wherein she says: "Every housekeeper knows how vexatious it is 
to have colored fabrics ruined in the process of cleansing. A few practical 
hints about washing calicoes, percales and muslins will therefore be of real ser- 
vice to the readers of the Examiner. 

1. For Washing Black and White, Stone, Slate, or M-aroon 
Colored Cotton Goods.— Before washing black and white, stone, slate, or 
maroon colored cotton goods ; dip them in a solution of salt and water, made by 
dissolving two cupfuls of salt in 10 quarts of cold water, and hang them in a 
shady place to dry. The salt sets the colors. When dry, wash in a light suda 
in the usual way. Calicoes and muslins do not require a hot suds; water mod- 
erately warm is best. Never allow them to soak in the water. Wash quickly, 
turn the wrong side out, and dry in the shade. A little salt in the rinsing water 
is an improvement. Another way is to mix two cupfuls of wheat bran in cold 
water, making a smooth paste; then stir it into 1 qt. of soft boiling water. Let 
it boil 1 hour, then strain into 5 or 6 qts. of soft warm water. No soap is nec- 
essary, for bran has cleansing properties of its own. If there is black in the 
dress, or any other color that is liable to "run," add a tablespoonful of salt. 
Rinse thoroughly in one water. For starch, use a little white glue-water, cool 
and clean. Always iron on the wrong side with a moderately hot iron. 

2. How to Fix the Above Colors Permanently.— Blue, stone, 
and slate-colored articles may be made to retain their color perfectly by adding 
sugar of lead to the water in which they are to be washed for the first time. 
Dissolve 1 oz. of sugar of lead in a pailful of hot water; stir carefully until it 
is thoroughly dissolved, and let the mixture cool. When about milk-warm, put 
in the articles and let them remain an hour. Hang up to dry before Avashing. 
When dry, wash as directed in bran water. The sugar of lead fixes the color 
permanently, so that this treatment with it will not need to be repeated. Use 
this preparation with caution; sugar of lead is poisonous, but no danger in this 
way of using it. 

3. To Wash Brown Linen.— Take enough good timothy hay to fill 
a 10-quart kettle two-thirds full when pressed down; cover it with soft water, 
and let it boil until the water assumes a dark greenish color. Make flour starch 
in the usual way, and strain the hay water into it after it becomes cool or tepid; 
let the linen soak ten or fifteen minutes — not longer — then wash without soap. 
I divide the preparation into two parts, using one for rinsing. Linen dresses 
and dusters washed in this way will look new as long as they last 

4. Fruit or Wine Stains, to Remove from Silk, Woolen, or 
Cotton Goods. — Fruit or wine stains can be removed from silk, woolen or 
eotton goods by sponging them gently with ammonia and alcohol — a teaspoon- 
ful of ammonia to a wineglass of alcohol. Finish with clear alcohol. The 
fumes of a lighted match will remove remnants of stains. 

Washing Fine Under Clothing.— The Gerraantown Telegraj^h says 
lehat a leading fiiia of that city. Importers and retailers of hosiery goods, gives 



MISCELLANEOUS. 533 

the following directions for -vrasluug the above named line of goods, and also 
says their own experience enables them to testify to its excellence. Dissolve 1 
lb. of nice soap in 4 gallons of warm soft water in which well rinse the articles 
to be washed, drawing them repeatedly through the hand; press them as dry 
as possible, to remove the soap; rinse them again briskly in clean, lukewarm 
water; press out or put through a wringer, if you have one, and stretch them 
to their proper shape, and dry in the open air if possible. The only effects of 
iiibbing are to shrink and destroy the material; it should therefore never be 
resorted to with these kinds of goods. The material used in manufacturing 
silk underwear being an animal product, it is absolutely necessary that nothing 
but the best quality of soap and warm water should be used. 

Washing Flannels of Any Kind, so they Shall Not Turn 
Yellow or Shrink. — A lady signing herself " Michigan," says she wants to 
tell the ladies of the Blade how to wash flannels of any kind, so they won't 
turn yellow, nor shrink up, and that sort of thiug. Wash in cold water, using 
soap in both suds. Of course you can take the chill off if you are afraid of 
taking cold, but not have it a bit hot. Now don't laugh at such- an idea and not 
give it a trial, but this spring you wash your flannel blankets, woolen stockings, 
baby's flannel and then report. I learned of a Scotch lady years ago and never 
think of using hot water ; use soft water of course. 

Remarks. — Certainly the water being made a little warm will not cause 
shrinkage. The suds should be made before putting in the flannels, and not 
by rubbing the soap on them. 

For Washing Scarlet Flannels, etc., Without Fading or 
Shrinking. — To prevent scarlet flannels or worsted goods of any kind of this 
color, from fading by washing, it is claimed by some washer-women that the 
following plan is perfectly safe: ilix flour, J^ cup, little by little, with cold 
water, 1 qt. ; then boiling 10 or 15 minutes and mixing with the lukewarm 
suds, pressing and rinsing, up and down, a number of times, then passing 
througli the wringer, the goods wiU not be faded or tliickened, as there is to be 
no rubbing. 

IUmar1cs.—E.aX{GXs make wool, or felt hats, as they are called, by plaiting 
out a layer of wool upon a piece of cloth, at first, and dipping it into hoi 
water, then rolhng it with a little roller, re-dipping and rolling till they get the 
desired thickness, by the little hooks that are seen by the microscope only, 
which are upon the fibers of all good wool, to so take hold upon each other, as 
to make as heavy a body as desired. The same is done, to a certain extent, 
every time woolen goods is washed in hot water, by rubbing. Now any one 
can see to avoid thickening, "shrinking," as it is called, in washing flannels,, 
simply avoid hot suds, and do not rub them. (See Washing Fine Under Cloth- 
ing, etc., above.) Sudsing by an up and down motion, in first and second suds,, 
is the safest method. 

Colored Silk Handkerchiefs, To Wash.— To wash colored silk 
handkerchiefs make a good suds in lukewarm water, in which a little bit of 
carbonate of ammonia has been dissolved; rub the handkerchiefs lightly in th© 



534 DIt. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

hands till all tlie spots have disappeared. Then rinse them in lukewarm water, 
and squeeze them as dry as possible. Take hold of the two corners and shako 
and snap each one for a few minutes. Boll in a soft towel lightly, laying the 
handkerchief flat on the towel at first, squeeze tightly, and iron at once.— 
Detroit Free Press. 

Old Silk Dresses, etc.— To Benovate to Look Like TTew.— A 
•writer says: "A most satisfactory way to renovate old silks is to boil an old kid 
glove in 1 pt. of soft water until the glove shrinks to the size of a 4-3-cars-old 
child's hand; the liquor will then be glutinous; when cold, having brushed out 
every particle of dust, sponge the silk thoroughly and smooth wtth a hot iron 
upon the wrong side." 

Remarks. — If a dress, it may be well to take it to pieces, if much soiled, as 
recommended with " Silk Cashmere, etc., to Clean," which see. 

"Washing Carpets Without Taking Up.— Put a table-spoonful of 
ammonia in 1 gal. of moderately warm water, and with sponge or soft broom 
go all over the carpet, and you will be astonished to see how brightly it will 
look for the little labor and expense. [See " Spirits of Ammonia — Some of Its 
Uses, etc."] 

Washing Windows. — A writer says: " Have a pail partly filled with 
■water a little warm and dissolve in it a tea-spoonful of borax [the author thinks, 
it would be better to use a table-spoonful of powdered borax, or else the same 
amount of spirits of ammonia tol gal. of water, as above for washing carpetsjj 
have one chamois (a cloth will do nicelj') dipped into the water to wash the win- 
dows with, then with a dry chamois rub the window dry and polish. [A cha- 
mois skin is best to polish with, as it leaves no lint as a cloth will.] In this 
way windows may be cleaned in a very few moments and not wet the carpets 
nor tire the person." 

Lace Veils and Other Laces— To Wash or Henovate.— Wash 
veils carefully in alcohol and soft water, equal parts, simply squeezing in the 
hands in and out of the mixture; then lay a towel on a table and smooth out 
the veil and pin the edges to the towel to dry, when, if carefully done, it will 
look as good as new. Borax water is also used for the same purpose, drying 
the same way. 

For Other Nice Laces. — Naomi King, in Farm, and Fireside, says: 
•*'When you have some nice laces to wash put a little borax in warm soap suds 
and allow them to soak 1 hour; then shake about in it well and rinse in 2 or 3 
clear waters, as you see necessary, and to the last water add a little white sugar; 
never use starch. Pull out well, and place between white cloths in an old book 
until dry." 

Remarks. — She says a "little " borax and a " little " sugar, which is very 
Indefinite. A rounding tea-spoonful of powdered borax and the same amount 
of sugar would be plenty for 1 pt. of water. The borax would do good iq 
washing veils, and I think the sugar would also be good there, as with white oi 
other laces. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 535 

Softening Hard Water for Washing Clothes, Dishes, or 
Souse Cleaning. — A writer saj^s: " Take 3 lbs. of washing soda (sal soda), 
and 1 lb. of common stone lime, and boil in 5 gals, of water for 2 or 3 hours; 
then stand away to settle, and' dip off the clear water from the top and put into 
a jug (pouring off carefully is better). Can be used for washing dishes or clean- 
ing, and 1 teacup in a boiler of clothes, put in after the water is hot, will whiten 
the clothes, and soften the water, without injury to the hands, or clothes. I use 
an old iron pot to make it in." 

Remarks. — Some of these newspaper writers get some most excellent 
chings, but again, some of them make poor describers as to the best plan of 
using: for instance, this woman (for it is undoubtedly a woman), says: "Boil 
in 5 gals, of water," then further on, "put into a jug. Now, would it not 
take a big jug, or two or threp, small ones? and again, it cannot be to be used 
even in 5 gals, of water, without further dilution, for she says: "1 tea-cupful 
in a boiler of clothes, put in after the water is hot," etc., then why not boil it ia 
say 2 gals, of water? then a 2 gal. jug will hold it, and use a little less to a 
boiler of clothes, stirred well into the water when hot, before putting in the 
clothes; and half as much more for each additional boiler at the same washing 
will be plenty; in fact it does make a sjDlendid washing fluid as I have above 
suggested, and a table-spoon of it in a dish-pan of water for washing dishes will 
help much in cleaning the dishes; and a little of it in a pan of water for house- 
cleaning is, or will be, " just splendid," as the girls say. A spoonful of it in a pt. 
or a qt. of water for cleaning finger-marks off of doors or other wood-work, is 
good, and if kept ready-made, is always handy, although the spirits of ammo- 
nia (which see) in like quantities, is good for general house-cleaning, window- 
washing, etc. I do not know who this writer was, as it was a slip sent to me hav. 
ing no name attached, but I know enough to know it is a grand good thing. A 
little of this, say 2 table-spoonfuls of it in 2 qts. of hot water, is just the thing 
to soak feet in, to soften corns and to soften the dead skin about the heels, 
and to make a thorough work of cleaning the feet, generally. 

Softening Water— Clark's Method.— By adding burnt quick-lime 
(quick-lime is freshly burned or unslacked lime), to hard water, which contains 
lime (all hard water contains lime, 'tis the lime that makes it hard), it will 
become soft. The added lime seizes the carbonic acid gas which held the car- 
bonate of lime in solution, and so both the original carbonate of lime and that 
formed in the process, fall together as a white sediment This method is truly 
homoeopathic. 

Eemarks. — This writer is right as to the way it softens, but is tame in not 
giving the proper amount for a bbl. or some other measure. About 2 or 3 
table-spoonfuls of this stone-lime, just slacked with a little hot water, will be 
enough for a barrel, just drawn from the well. Rummage it in thoroughly, 
that is stir it with a stick that will reach the bottom till well mixed, and let it 
settle over night, or 2 or 3 hours. 

Ammonia, its Various Uses in House Cleaning, Washing, etc. 
—"A Farmer's Wife," in the Country Gentleman, says of it: There is no telling 
vWhat a thing will do till you try it. I knew ammonia, diluted in water, could 



536 DB. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

restore rusty silks and clean coat collars, but when I got a green spot on the 
carpet, I tried half a dozen other things before I thought of that, and that is 
just what did the work effectually. I put a tea-spoonful into about a tea-cup 
of hot water, took a cloth and wet the spot thoroughly, just rubbing it slightly, 
and the ugly spot was gone. It is splendid for cleaning your silver; it makes 
things as bright as new without any expenditure of strength; and for looking 
glasses and windows it is best of all; and one day when I was tired and my 
dish cloths looked rather gray, I turned a few drops of the ammonia into the 
■water and rubbed them out, and I found it acted like a charm, and I shall be 
sure to do so again some day. I suppose housewives have a perfect right to 
experiment and see what results they can produce; and if they are not on as- 
large a scale as the farmers try, they are just as important to us, and they make 
our work light and brighter too. Now, I do not believe in luxuriating in a 
good thing all alone, and I hope all the housekeepers will send and get a 10^ 
cent bottle of spirits of ammonia and commence a series of chemical experi- 
ments and see what they can accomplish with it Take the boys' jackets, the 
girls' dresses, and when you have cleaned everything else, put a few drops in 
some soft water and wash the little folks' heads, and report results. 

Bemarks. — These items are valuable in giving new thoughts to those who 
have few opportunities for observation, or reading the literature of the day: but 
they would be more valuable if they gave the proportions for each class of 
work to be done. This lady speaks of restoring rusty silk, how strong? For 
cleaning greasy clothing, use it strong, say a table-spoonful to 1 cup of warm, 
soft water, washing off with pure water directly; for silks, alpacas, etc., the 
same strength ammonia will be strong enough, brushing off soon with pure 
water; for looking glasses a little put on a cloth, clear, and folding some of 
the dry cloth on the back of tlie wet part, to keep it off the fingers, is best, aa 
it takes but a moment to take off fly specks, or dirt; for windows a table-spoon- 
ful of it in 1 pt of water will be plenty, wiping off nicely with a dry news- 
paper, as it leaves no lint Uke a cloth does; one- fourth ammonia for cleaning, 
boys' coat collars, and greasy clothing; for cleaning silver, 1 table-spoonful to 1 
pt. , or a little less of water, is enough, and, as she says, it is splendid for this 
and all other similar work; and as it is cheap, it makes a great saving. 

For Bee and Wasp Stings. — A little ammonia put upon bee and 
wasp stings, bites of spiders and all other poisonous insect bites, will neutralize 
the poison, preventing soreness and swelling. But mind, it only needs a very 
little put on, and wash off soon, to prevent its making a sore. 

Borax, for Roaches, Washing, and as a Dentifrice and Ca-^ 
tarrh Snuflf. — Although I have given an item on its uses, yet as I have an- 
other short item upon it, I will give it, to corroborate the other, and to show in 
a few words, what some people know of its value. This writer says: One-half 
pound of it powdered, and sprinkled around their haunts, will drive the 
roaches out of any house. A large handful of the powder to 10 gallons of 
water will effect a saving of 50 per cent, (one-half) in soap. It is an excellent 
dentifrice, and the best material for cleaning the scalp. (See the author's» 



mis€ella:^eo us. 537- 

remarks upon it, following the other recipe.) A recent medical writer also 
claims powdered borax to be valuable as a catarrh snuff. 

Iron Rust, to Remove from Clothing.— Get J^ oz. of oxalic acid, 
in small pieces, in a vial and keep corked. When a spot of iron rust shows 
on white table cloths, or other white clothing, dissolve 3^ tea-spoonful of the 
acid by pouring upon it 2 or 3 table-spoonfuls of hot water, and dip the spot in 
or wet it with a sponge, or bit of rag, and as soon as the rust is bleached out 
wash right out with clean water, so the acid will not hurt the goods. Lemon 
juice and a little salt is also good for the same purpose, laying out in the sun to 
bleach; if one application does not wholly remove it, do the same again. Or, 
instead of putting out in the sun, wet with lemon juice, and hold the spot over 
a steaming hot tea-kettle wiU do it very quickly. Or, the cream of tartar plan,, 
as given below, for removing fruit stains, will also remove rust. 

Fruit Stains, Recent, or Old, to Remove.— " Aunt Sopliia," in 
the Blade, tells us recent fruit stains may be removed by holding the linen 
tightly across the tub and pouring hot water through them, before any soap is 
put on; if old, tie up a little cream of tartar in the places, put into cold water 
and bring to a boil. If got upon table linen, rub on some salt, at once, then 
pour on the hot water. 

Bleaching Muslin. — Mrs. "S. M, B." sends the Blade the following 
directions, which she has practiced for 12 years without injuring tlie cloth. She 
says: "Into 8 qts. of warm soft water put 1 lb. of chloride of lime; stir with 
a stick a few minutes, then strain through a bag of coarse muslin, working it. 
with the hands [the author saj's with the stick] to dissolve thoroughly. Add 
to this, in a tub, 5 buckets of warm water, stir in the chloride water thoroughly 
and put in the muslin. [The muslin ought to be thoroughly wet first in plain 
water, so it shall take the lime water evenly.] Let it remain in 1 hour, turning 
it over occasionally, that every part may get thoroughly bleached. When 
taken out, wash well in two waters, to remove the lime, rinse and dry. This- 
quantity will bleach 25 yds. of yard-wide muslin. Tlie muslin will bleach 
more evenly and quickly if it has been thoroughly wet and dried before 
bleaching. " 

Remarks. — This lady makes a " mighty sight " of work, more than is nec- 
essary. She wants it wet and dried before putting into the bleaching water, 
when simply wetting is sufficient, and one good washing and rinsing after the 
bleaching is enough— all you want is to get rid of specks of the lime, and this 
has been done largely by straining off the water from the lime sediment at the 
beginning. Spreading on the grass is a good way to dry it. 

Mildew, to Remove from Clothing.— Take common soft soap and 
stir in quite a bit of salt, so the soap crumbles or grains, as it were, and rub on 
the spot and lay out over night, and if not effaced by morning wet it occasion- 
ally during the day. The chloride solution above is also good to remove mil- 
dew. Or, to put about i^ a cup of chloride of lime into 2 qts. of hot water, 
wetting the mildewed articles first in cold water, then put into the lime water 
until the mildew is bleached out, then rinse well in plenty of water to remove^, 
the lime. 



.^38 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

1 . GLOS S Y LINEN— How it is Done.— To give starched linen the 
appearance so much desired put a small bit of paraffine (size of a small pea for 
each bosom, or its equivalent of cuffs) into the hot starch, and when it comes 
to ironing use a small iron having a rounded point that is very smooth, and rub 
with great pressure and for a considerable time. A great deal of "elbow- 
grease " is absolutely necessary. 

2. Scorched Linen in Ironing, To Whiten.— If a linen shirt 
bosom, or any other article, has been scorched in ironing lay it in the bright 
sunshine, which will remove it entirely. 

Plat-Irons, To Clean from Bust or Starch. — Flat-irons often have 
starch stick to them, and occasionally a spot of rust from a drop of w^ater 
shows upon them, and I have often seen directions for cleaning them with salt, 
but the following plan is the only sensible way of doing it that I have seen; 
Have a piece of yellow beeswax in a coarse cloth; when the iron is almost hot 
enough to use, but not quite, rub it quickly with the beeswax cloth and then 
with a coarse cloth. 

Oil-Cloth— To Keep Bright. — Oil-cloths should never be scrubbed 
with suds, but carefully swept with a soft hair brush and washed with a cloth 
dipped into milk and water, half-and-half, but no soap, and dry and polish with 
an old soft cloth. In this way they will keep their original color a long time. 

Color of Plants and Flowers, to Retain, in Drying for Herb- 
ariums. — Botanists who are grieved at the rapid loss of color in the plants and 
flowers of their herbariums will be pleased to learn, says a Vienna journal, 
that if plants or flowers be dipped in a warm mixture of 1 part of hydro' 
chloric acid to 600 of alcohol before being placed between the driers they will 
not only retain their natural colors, but will also dry with greater quickness.-^ 
Sarper's Weekly. 

Remarks. — This is in the proportion of 1 dr. of the acid to 9 ozs. and 3 drs. 
of alcohol, and must prove -very satisfactory. 

2. Another Way. — Another new way for preserving the color of 
autumn leaves is given as follows: " Iron them fresh with a warm (not hot) 
iron, on which some spermaceti has been hghtly rubbed. This method pre- 
serves perfectly their lovely tints, and gives a wavy gloss which no other ofie 
secures. The process is very rapid and very agreeable, and no lady who has 
ever tried the tedious and uncertain experiment of pressing vnW ever again 
resort to it after trying this new and better way." 

Remarks.— "Yhe iron must be kept hot enough to keep the spermaceti soft, 
else it will not spread on the leaves. 

Tomatoes, To Bipen in December.— A Massachusetts gardener sells 
ripe tomatoes in December, by sowing the seeds in July, then potting the plants 
in a 9-inch jar, and maturing in a green-house with artificial heat as soon as 
needed. An infusion of tomato leaves has been recently found to not only 
destroy plant lice, but from its peculiar odor prevent their return for a 
long time. See these destroyers. 

Plant Jars, To Paint and Bronze for House Use.— Plant jars 



MISCELLANEOUS. 539 

for out-door use ought, to look well, be painted with bright colors, as red or 
blue — tlie foliage gives the contrast with its green ; but for house use paint them 
over with plain, cheap varnish, then with a bit of pad, or piece of broadcloth 
upon a thin, small bit of board, apply common bronze powder all over; or, to 
make them nicer, paint the bodies, some red and some blue, then bronze the 
rim, wliich gives them a gold-like appearance, contrasting prettily with the 
painted body. The bronze on a varnish will not stand the rains and exposure 
out of doors. 

Cracked Hands, To Cure.— A laboring man who had been troubled 
with cracked hands, and tried many other remedies without success, was finally 
told to put common copal varnish into the cracks wliich, in 48 hours, entirely 
cured them. Others came, but the same remedy always cured. He had givea 
it to others with the same success before making it public. He bought a 
10-cent bottte, kept it corked, and applied when needed with a bit of sliver from 
the fire wood. It is simple and efficient. Most all painters and paint dealers 
keep it. 

CARROTS.— Their Value as Pood for Man and Domestic 
Animals. — A writer, with whom tlie author agrees — except that he thinks pars- 
nips preferable to carrots for horses — says: "The carrot is one of the most health- 
ful and nutritious of our garden roots, and deserves to be much more extensively 
used for culinary purposes, and we urge our readers to give some of the early 
table sorts a trial. As an agricultural root, the carrot is not surpassed for feed- 
ing horses and milch cows, and every farmer should plant a few for this pur- 
pose. The carrot succeeds best on light, sandy loam, made rich by manuring 
the previous year. In freshly manured land, the roots often grow awkward 
and ill shaped. It is better to sow as early in the spring as the ground can be 
made ready, but if planting is necessarily delayed until late in the season, soak 
the seed 24 hours in tepid water, dry by mixing in sifted ashes or plaster, and 
sow on freshly prepared soil. " 

Bemarks. — In drills would be best, the author thinks, as explained in the 
item referred to. 

Pickled Carrots for Table Use.— A recent writer in the Rural New 
Yorker says, under this head: " Wash and scrape, boil until tender, cut into 
quarters of convenient length, and cover with vinegar. It is the best way to 
prepare carrots for the table." 

Remarks. — If the vinegar is properly spiced, this plan makes them very 
palatable. 

Beans Should Always be Cooked in Soft "Water.— A. C. Ar- 
nold, of Stamford, Conn., says: "I notice those who tell how to cook beans 
omit to say that soft water must always be used in beans, otherwise some of 
them will remain hard— a fact that I learned in the army." 

Remarks.— It is undoubtedly better to use soft water for cooking generally, 
"when it can be done. The same man sends the next item also, through the 
Blade, and as it is a thing needed in every household that ever cooks apples, I 



540 DR. CUASE'S RECIPES. 

will give it a place. His measurements are correct to make a suitable -sized 
corer. 

Apple Corer, to Make— Size to Cut the Tin, Etc.— Cut the tin 
3 by 4 inches and roll it up to be 4 inches long, and % inch in diameter, at the 
smallest end, as it should be a very little larger at the other end, to withdraw 
easily. 

Remarks. — If a small wire is put into the large end before rolling up, it will 
not hurt .the hand to push it through the apple, vdthout which, it would soon 
injure the hand. 

1. Silverware, to Brighten with Little Labor.- When it is 
desirable to brighten silverware without a formal scouring, prepare some pieces 
of silver cloth, as follows: Obtain hartshorn (carbonate of ammonia), 2 ozs., 
powdered or broken up finely, and boil it in 1 pt. of soft water. Dip suitable 
pieces of muslin in the liquor and hang up to dry without wringing. When 
dry, fold closely and put away for use. Simply rubbing the silver with one of 
these pieces wiU surprise you by its improved appearance. Never put soap on 
silverware, if you wish to keep its original luistre. 

2. Frosted Silverware, How to Clean.— Frosted ornamentation 
on silverware should never be cleaned with powder, but only with a soft brush 
and strong lye (from wood ashes, strained, or from concentrated lye or potash), 
accompanied by rinsings with soft water. After the frosted parts are properly 
dry, the smooth parts should be rubbed carefully with powder. — Harper's Bazar. 

Remarks. —The silver-cloth in next recipe above, will do nicely for the 
smooth part 

3. Polish for Silverware.- In place of using Paris white for a dry 
powder to polish the smooth parts of silverware, the following will be found 
better: Put 4 ozs. of Paris white into soft water, 1 pt., and boil it; when cool, 
bottle it, and add one oz. of aqua ammonia. Rub with a cloth wet with this 
mixture, shaken, and polish with chamois. 

Stains from Nitrate of Silver, to Bemove.— Wet nitrate of silver 
stains with discolored tincture of iodine in as much water as tincture. Then 
rub the stained spot with a piece of cyanide of potassa. It fades out, or changes 
at once (or the hyposulphite of soda will do, and is not poison), then wash 
immediately with water. Always use soft water if you can. This is from a 
photographer, and reliable. 

Cabbage, to Destroy the Cut- worm of, and to Prevent Club- 
feet. — Sprinkle a table-spoonful of salt around each plant ns set out, and mix 
slightly with the soil. Thus, you "kill two birds with one stone," besides it is 
a good fertilizer. I have seen more than half the plants set out in a garden 
patch, which were cut off the first night. This little trouble saves the loss, and 
makes them grow faster, too. [See also, cut worms to destroy. 

Crickets, to Drive Away or Destroy.— Put Scotch snuff into their 
holes. It is too much for them, and I think it would be more than roaches 
could stand the presence of. Put into crevices with a feather. 

1. Chimneys, How to Build to Avoid Burning Out.— When 



MISCELLANEOUS. 541 

building chimneys, keep a mortar-board of mortar for the purpose of 
plastering them upon the inside as the work goes on, tempered up by adding 
one-fourth as much common salt as of mortar, which forms a glaze that soot 
can not stick to, and hence there is none to burn. " Prevention is better than 
cure." 

2. Chimneys, to BTxild to Avoid Smoking.— A builder of long 
experience says: " To build a chimney that shall not smoke, give a large space 
immediately above the throat, wliich will cause a draft. It may then be nar- 
rowed, if desirable." This is good logic. 

3. Chimneys, Sky-lights, etc., to Stop Leaks.— Take fine, white 
sand, 20 measures; lithaige, 2; freshly slacked lime, 1; mix evenly together, 
dry; then wet to the consistence of soft putty with boiled linseed oil. It sets 
quickly, and forms a hard and durable cement. 

1. Moths in Carpets, to Prevent.— "Wet the floor around the edge 
of the room thoroughly with spirits of turpentine before laying the carpet, 
apply with a brush as you would paint; it kills the nits or eggs under the base, 
and also prevents further nesting. Salt sprinkled freely about the edge and 
over the whole carpet, while sweeping, is not only a preventive, but it also helps 
10 remove dirt, and if damp, prevents dust from rising while sweeping. 

2. Moths in Carpets, To Destroy, Without Taking Up.— 
On parts of a carpet where moths are suspected lay a coarse towel, slightly 
wrung out of clear water, spreading out smoothly; then place a piece of firm 
wrapping paper upon the wet towel to keep in the steam, and iron it thoroughly 
with a hot iron. If thoroughly done, the heat and steam kills them. Repeat 
at any time if satisfied more have hatched and come out from under the base 
or other hiding places. It does not injure the carpet, nor fade the colors, and 
does not need hard pressure, as it is the heat and steam that kills them. — Tlie 
Houseliold. 

3. Moths in Upholstered Furniture, Certain Remedy, Also 
Good for Furs, Flannels, etc.— A writer in one of tlie Grand Rapids' 
(Mich.) papers says, upon these subjects: "A sort of trade secret among 
upholsterers for ridding upholstered furniture of moths, is the following"; and 
gives an example: " A set of furniture '.hat seemed to be alive with the larvse 
(the insect moth in its first stage of development,) from the time it came new, 
and from which hundreds of these pest, aad been picked and brushed, was set 
in a room by itself. Three gallons of benzine were purchased at 30 cents a gal- 
lon, retail. Using a small watering pot with a fine rose sprinkler, the whole 
upholstery was saturated through and through with the benzine. Result — 
Every moth, larvae and egg were killed. The benzine dried out in a few hours, 
and its entire odor disappeared in 3 or 4 days. Not the slightest harm happened 
to the varnish, or wood, or fabrics, or hair stuffing. That was months ago, and 
not a sign of a moth has since appeared. The carpets were also well sprinkled 
all round the sides of the room, with equally good effect. For furs, flannels, 
indeed, all woolen articles containing moths, benzine is most valuable. Put 



542 " ^li' CHASKS RECIPES. 

tliem in a box; sprinkle with benzine, close the bos tightly, and in a day or two- 
the pests will be exterminated, and the benzine will evaporate on opening." 

Remarks. — In using benzine, as stated in connection with cleaning gloves, 
remember there must be no fire nor lamp burning, as the vapor of it carries the 
fire to the stuil itself, which is very inflammable, and explosive. With this care ' 
it is safe. 

4. Moth Powder, To Put Away Purs, Woolens, etc.— Lupulin 
(flour of hops), 1 dr. ; Scotch snuff, 3 ozs. ; powdered gum camphor and black 
pepper,. each, 1 oz.; cedar sawdust, 4 ozs. Mix thoroughly, and strew (or put 
in small paper bags) among the furs or woolen goods (after they have been 
thoroughly whipped with small rods) which are being put away. This powder 
contains some of all the best-known preventives. But if moth eggs have already 
been laid in them, unless the whipping takes them out, they will hatch and 
start their destructive work, unless the benzine or some other " killer " is used; 
hence it is best to keep an eye on them occasionally, and whip thoroughly again 
if any are seen. This whipping the moth and their eggs out. then sealing up 
in boxes or paper bags, is from the Boston Transcript, which adds: "If you. 
shut moths out, and shut none in, you are perfectly safe." Not a doubt of it. 

Cracks and Small Holes in Walls, To Pill.— Mix plaster of Paris 
to the consistency of soft putty, and apply immediately and smooth with a case- 
knife, will make it as nice as a mason would do it. Mix but little at a time as 
it sets quickly, unless you work it over every minute or two; but after it "sets" or 
becomes hard it is not good even to work over after that. If you have a nice, 
white sand, a little of it may be mixed in, but it does very well without it. 

ONIONS— Medicinal Effects Against Worms in Children and 
Colds in the Chest. — A mother writes to HanVs (Eng.) Advertiser upon 
these matters (which, also in my own judgment, may be relied upon) as follows: 
"Twice a week invariably — and it was generally when we had cold meat 
minced — I gave the children a dinner which was hailed with delight and looked 
forward to ; this was a dish of boiled onions. The little things know not that 
they were taking the best of medicine for expelling what most children suffer 
from — worms. Mine were kept free with this remedy alone. Not only boiled 
onions for dinner, but chives also they were encouraged to eat with their bread 
and butter, and for this purpose they had tufts of chives in their gardens. It 
was a medical man who taught me to eat boiled onions as a specific (positive 
cure) for a cold in the chest. He did not know at the time, until I told him, 
that they were good for anything else." The editor adds: "A case is now under 
our own observation in which a rheumatic patient, an extreme sufferer, finds 
great relief from eating onions freely, either cooked or raw. He insists that it 
is by no means a fancy, and he says so after having persistently tried Turkish 
baths, galvanism, and nearly all the potions and plasters that are advertised m 
certain alleviates or cures.'' 

■ Remarks. — For the author's opinion, and that of others, as to the value of 
onions as an alterative, see Medical Department upon them as an alterative, 

C-Lion Culture— The Newest Way. — The following item was 



MISCELLANEOUS. 54b^ 

recently published in the Evening Post, of Toledo, and I give it a place that my 
readers may judge for themselves whether they will continue to.drill their rowa 
only about a foot apart and cultivate wholly by hand or drill at least two feet 
apart and use the horse hoes or cultivator, which will, of course, require more 
land to raise a certain amount of bushels. This must, or ought to, be gov« 
erned by the amount of land one has, and also more particularly upon the 
amount of help which one has to aid in the hand part of the culture; for the 
thinning out the plants, as well as pulling the weeds within an inch or two of 
the row, must, in all cases, be done by hand. The writer says: "Onions will 
thrive in any soil, with proper fertilizers and good cultivation, yet they produce 
more profitably on old onion land, annually fertilized. Drilling in the seed and 
cultivating with horse power is a great improvement upon the old method. 
The rows should be far enough apart to cultivate with a horse hoe. This takes 
more land but pays best, where not very large onions are desired. Thinning 
onions so that only 1 is left to 3 or 4 inches of ground is being abandoned by 
onion cxilturists, as medium-sized bulbs demand better prices in most city 
markets. Everything which can promote rapid growth is essential in onion 
culture. It is better to sow the seed too thick than too thin. A drill set to drop 
8 or 3 seeds to each inch of a row answers the purpose best." 

Remarks. — Unless my ground was very rich and had been previously culti- 
vated T\ath onions, to have the weeds "well in hand," I should certainly prefer 
liot to have more than one seed to an inch at the very most. 

3. Onions, How Many Can be Raised to the Acre.— This 
question being often asked, should be judiciously answered, lest ,some person 
may be led into the business too extensively for his knowledge of how it must 
be done, as the Ohio Farmer speaks of, from a report that D. M. Ferry, of De- 
troit, JMich., grew 600 bushels of onions on an acre, and for which he was 
offered $2.50 a bushel, or $1,500 from an acre; and this, says the Farmer, led a 
farmer who heard of it, and knew no more of onion growing than he did of 
Sanskrit, to plant 5 acres of common com land in onions, the next season, the 
seed costing him $100. He didn't grow a bushel of marketable onions. Had 
he studied up the subject and planted the first season % or }4 of an acre, he 
might now be a successful onion grower, whereas he indulges in profanity at 
the smell of an onion. 

Remarks.— Bnt over 700 bushels have been raised to the acre, on a field of 
7 acres, as the Congregaiionalist, of Boston, shows by the following in answer 
to an inquiry of a correspondent, who asked: " How many onions can be raised 
to the acre ?" To which the editor makes this statement: " In answer to the 
above, we give a letter received recently from Deer Island, Boston Harbor, 
where one of the public institutions of Boston is located. ' In reply to yours 
of this date, I would say that in the year 1869, we raised, on 7 acres of land, 
5,000 bushels of onions, good measure. I selected and had measured off % an 
acre of land where the crop was the best, and measured from this % acre 486- 
bushels of onions. The onions grew very large. I sent 1 bushel to the fair 
that averaged 1 pound each.'" 

Remarks.— Ijni now, it is not to be understood that this was done on poony- 



544 DR. CHASE'S EECIPESL 

prepared soil, but rather soU adapted to them (a sandy loam is considered best), 
and previously, no doubt, cultivated to onions, having been well manured and 
well worked. 

4. Onions, How to Avoid Scullions.— Notwithstanding some peo- 
ple think that scullions will be scullions, the following from " D," of Fenton, 
Mich, through the Post and Tribune, of Detroit, in answer to a query of L. C. 
Zarbell, on avoiding scullions, says: " I will tell him what an old gardener says, 
and that is to draw the earth away gradually from the bulbs until they are quite 
uncovered and only the fibrous roots are in the earth, and you will never have 
scullions, but very large, sound onions. The seed should be sown very early to 
have the benefit of the coolness and moisture of early spring." 

5. Onion Raising, Value of "Wood Ashes as a Manure for.— A 
writer in one of the agricultural papers upon this subject says: Farmers who 
are so fortunate as to have an open fire-place, should place, as an offset to the 
cost of the wood, the value of the ashes produced. For onions there is no fer- 
tilizer equal to wood ashes, as they require a great deal of potash. Market 
gardeners and others who make a specialty of growing onions will understand 
that to succeed with the crop they need larger supplies of potash than they will 
ordinarily receive from barn-yard manures. 

Remarks.— I am unable to see why ashes from a stove are not better than 
from an open fire-place, as above named, as those from a stove are certainly 
more thoroughly burned, and hence mxist be stronger and better. Although 
wood ashes are undoubtedly an excellent manure for onions, yet well rotted stable 
taanure must be the principal dependence, except with those who liave plenty 
of hog manure, which has long been considered the best, but chiefly, no doubt, 
because it is more free from weed, and grass seeds, than stable manure; yet, 
where much com and com meal are fed to hogs, their manure is more than 
ordinarily rich. The following is a summing up of the whole matter of rais- 
ing onions. 

6. An Acre in Onions.— TTnder this head recently, the Chicago Times 
gave such minute instructions upon the whole question of onion raising, I will 
close the subject by giving it entire; as I deem the subject to be of such impor- 
tance as to justify all that has been said, and that this item will add to it; for 
there is not a doubt but what onions are the most healthful vegetable grown, 
being a valuable alterative, as well as nourishing, and also an article for which 
there will always be a reasonable demand in the cities. The Times says: 

" Few farmers seem to realize the fact that as much money maybe obtained 
from an acre of land in onions as from a 40 acre farm devoted to the usual 
crops. At present prime onions are worth $4.00 per barrel by the car-load, and 
250 barrels may be, and not unfrequently are, produced from an acre of land. 
Let no one, however, expect to realize $1,000 from an acre in onions who does 
not pay the best attention to the crop. To begin with, land naturally adapted 
to producing the crop should be selected. Experiments made in the eastern 
states, where large quantities of onions are raised for the southern market, show 
that there is no better soil for onions than that of a reclaimed bog. [Equiva- 
lent to our western marshes, which have been drained and well cultivated.] 
Tff couise the land must be well drained and the surface soil decomposed by 



MISCELLANEOUS. 545 

exposure to the action of the atmosphere. Most of our black prairie soils are 
suitable to the production of onions if they are rightly treated. The turf must 
become entirely rotted and mixed with the earth below. Land that has been in 
pasture for several years is easily prepared for a crop of onions, as the turf Is 
comparatively thin, while the soil is quite free from weeds. That portion of a 
pasture on which cattle and sheep lie at night may be converted into an onion- 
patch to excellent advantage. 

"A field for onions should be very nearly level. If there are elevations in 
it, the soil on them will be likely to wash away, carrying off the seed before it 
germinates, or leaving part of the onions exposed to the sun. A piece of land 
intended for onions should be entirely free from the seeds of weeds in the start, 
and there should be a determination on the part of the grower to allow none to 
attain any considerable size. Absolutely clean culture is essential to producing 
a paying crop. Neglect in this matter will cause a vast amount of work, which 
will not, after all, insure a good crop. A field of onions cannot be neglected 
on account of a demand for. labor on other parts of a farm. Unless a farmer 
has help that can attend to his field of onions during the season of plowing 
corn, cutting grass and harvesting grains, it will be better not to attempt to 
raise the crop at all. The care of onions, however, calls for light work, which 
may be chiefly performed by old men, partial invalids, women and children. 
Persons who cannot perform heavy work on the farm may engage in onion- 
raising to excellent advantage. 

" It is useless to undertake to raise a paying crop of onions on land that is 
not very highly manured. From 30 to 50 loads of manure should be applied to 
an acre of land designed for producing this crop. It should be well rotted and 
free from the seed of grass and weeds. Unleached ashes form a valuable addi- 
tion to composted stable manure. After a piece of land has been prepared for 
onions it is best to continue the crop for a series of years. As onions are gross 
feeders, it will, of course, be necessary to apply a coating of manure every 
season. The soil of an onion-field should be well pulverized and the manure 
thoroughly incorporated with it. After it is plowed and harrowed a roUer 
should be employed for crushing the lumps. 

" Many growers employ a hand-rake for fining the soil before the seed is 
sown. About 4 lbs. of seed are required for an acre. It should be the product 
of the previous season. [I would never use old seed.] The seed may be tested 
by counting out a certain number and placing them on some moist cotton l^d 
in a saucer. If good, it will germinate in 3 or 4 days. The seed should be 
sown as early in the spring as it is possible to prepare the land. Growers who 
aim to get the largest yield from a given amount of land allow only the space 
of a foot between the rows. There is a drill which plants two rows of onion 
seed at once. If sown by hand one seed should be dropped every inch. In 
order to mark the rows it is well to drop a radish seed every 5 or 6 inches 
[merely to point out the row so you can cultivate varieties]. The radishes will 
grow very rapidly, and will be large enough to pull before the onions attain 
sufficient size to be injured by their presence. If there is no market for rad- 
ishes in the vicinity, cabbage plants may be raised in tlieir place. When of 
eufiicient size they may be pulled and transplanted. 



646 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

"The cultivation of onions must be chiefly performed by means of YbxA 
tools. [See No. 2.] The shuffle hoe is the best implement for doing most of 
the work. It should be of the best quality, and great pains should be taken to 
keep it clean and sharp. After the plants are about four inches high they must 
be thinned so that each has a space of about three inches in which to grow. 
Some growers who seek to raise very large crops allow three onions to grow in 
the space of six inches. Of course, they crowd each other after they have 
become of nearly full size, but this thick setting is necessary to secure the maxi- 
mum yield. After they are thinned to the proper distance nothing is required 
byway of cultivation except to keep the soil light and free from weeds." 

Remarks. — I hardly suppose it would "pay big" if every person in the 
land should engage in raising onions, or even to put out and properly cultivate 
"an acre;" but of this there is no probable danger. But if those who do go 
into it from what has been here said upon the subject do not do it well, it will 
not be the fault of the author. [See, also, " Cucumbers, a Paying Crop."] 

CEMENTS.— Dr. Clioris' Magic Mender, or "Boss" Cement. 
—Acetic acid, 4 Fs — the strongest — 2 lbs. ; French isinglass, 1 lb. Boil in a 
porcelain kettle. 

Remarks. — I paid $5 for this recipe, and the above is all there was of it. 
The man, however, was selling it upon the street corners of this city (Toledo), 
and seeing what it would do, I paid the money, but was allowed to go with him 
and see it made. He bought the isinglass in a 1 lb. package for $1.25, and the 
acid, 2 lbs. for 50 cents, including the bottle, and he had a 1 gal. porcelain 
kettle with him, and first put the acid in and placed it on the stove in the hotel, 
kitchen where he was stopping, and when it was about boiling hot he took the 
package of isinglass by the end and stirring the acid with it it soon dissolved down 
near his fingers; then he dropped all in, and with a sliver from the wood, stirred 
it around a little all the time till it was dissolved; then commenced bottling it 
directly, by pouring some into a milk pitcher and then into the bottles, keeping 
the rest hot until all was poured in. He charged not to allow it to burn; and I 
afterwards found it would burn easily, hence he was careful of this, as it black- 
ens and destroys it. He said the isinglass generally cost him $1.25 per lb.; the 
acid, 15 to 25 cents per lb.; i^ oz., square, flint glass bottles, $1.25 per gross, in 
6 gross lots, in Pittsburgh; and the corks, 12 cents per gross, in Cleveland, in 
5 gross lots. I have made it in those quantities and placed it on sale in the 
stores and know its value. It was first shown at the Centennial in Philadelphia, 
under the name of " English Stratena," and the following rhyming, as given 
on some of the hand-bills wrapped around the bottles, will show 
What it is Good for.— 

For the carpenter putting his frame together. 

For the shoemaker working on fancy leather. 

For putting patches on boots so nice, 

And it holds them on as tight as a vice; 

For splicing belts and mending harness. 

Lamps, chimneys, or looking-glasses; 

For the clerk at his desk pronounces it safer 

Than any description of wax or wafer; 



MISCELLANEOUS. '?47 

For mending sugar bowls or ladles, 

For mending canes, clocks, or babies' cradles; 

For mending all dishes with ease, 

On wliich you can put bread, butter, and cheesej 

And every housewife, too, declares 

It beats the world on broken chairs; 

For fancy boxes, chessboards, stands; 

For picture frames and ivory fans; 

For broken tables, writing cases; 

For fractured lamps, Bohemian vases. 

All articles of glass or bone; 
For marble, porcelain, or stone. 
For fancy figures, busts of plaster; 
For images in alabaster. 
For meerschaum pipes it can't be beat^ 
It's all the better for the heat. 
In biUiard halls it's largely used 
For putting tips upon the cues. 
For hobby-horses, wood of skates, 
Dolls, hoops, and broken slates; 
For parasol handles, tips, and hooks; 
For fastening loosened leaves in books. 
In fact, 'twould take too long to mention 
All uses of this new invention; 
Whatever else there is about it. 
Whoever tries it ne'er docs without it. 

Eemarkg.— Where glue will answer the purpose, it will, of course, be found 
much cheaper (see No. 3); but for all nice work, if carefully made, without 
bunring, it will be found to beat it, as it takes considerable heat to dissolve 
isin class, hence its value for dishes. I sealed the bottles with No. 3 sealing wax, 
red, for bottling medicines. 

2. Cement for Tin Cans. — Into a small saucepan — block -tin is best — 
put 1 lb. of rosin, }4. ^^- of gum-shellac and 2 ozs. of beeswax. Melt this and 
mix well with an old iron spoon — both spoon and saucepan must be devoted o 
the purpose, for they will be useless for all others. When the cans are ready 
for sealing, pour a fine stream of hot cement from the spoon into the groove as 
directed. It is better to fill it only half full, and when all the cans are finished, 
give each one an additional coating. Stick labels on the can with this wax 
while it is hot. In opening them, crack the wax, and with a pair of scissors or 
claw, loosen a portion of it. Brush off the dust; pry up the lid, and the balance 
of the wax will come off easily. Be careful that none of it falls into the fruit. 
Put the scraps of wax into the saucepan, and it will help towards sealing nexi 
season's cans. — Mrs. L. V. M. A., Morrisonville, Til., in Prairie Farm. 

3. Cement, White and Cheap, with Glue, for General Pur- 
poses. — Best white glue, 1 lb.; gum-shellac, 1 oz. : alcohol, 4 ozs.; aqua 
ammonia, 1 oz. ; soft water, 23^ pts. ; dry, pulverized white lead, 4 ozs. 
Directions — Dissolve the shellac in the alcohol, to have it ready; then put the 
glue in the water, in a basin which can be set in a pan of water upon the stove 
BO as to dissolve the glue without burning it; when the glue is dissolved, but 



548 



DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 



iStill hot, stir in the powdered lead and the dissolved shellac; then add the 
ammonia, to keep it in liquid form, and bottle. 

Remarks. — It Is valuable for everything except materials where its white- 
ness would be an objection. Glue is always best to be applied hot, and to hot 
edges when practicable, but with this it is not necessary. Everything, how- 
ever, must be kept in place till dry. Leather belts or cloth must be weighted 
ail dry. 

4. China and Glass Cement. — A writer says: "To 1 pt. of milk 
add 1 pt. of vinegar; separate the curds from the whey, and mix the whey with 
the whites of five eggs; beat it well together, sifting into it a sufficient quantity 
of quicklime to convert it into a thick paste. Broken china or glass mended 
with this cement will not again separate, and will resist the action of fire and 
water." 

Remarks. — The curd is not used, and quicklime means the unslacked lime, 
but pulverized very finely before sifting in. I cannot see, however, why, if the 
lime is only recently burned, and good, it may not be slacked, and the finest 
powder of it used. Oyster shells burned make an excellent lime for cementing 
with white of eggs. I have used it. A lime of these may be used in the above 
if very finely pulverized. 

5. Cement for Marble and Alabaster.— Portland Cement, 12 parts; 
slacked lime and fine white sand, each 6 parts; infusorial earth, 1 part. Make 
into a thick paste, with silicate of soda. Needs no heat; sets in 24 hours; crack 
is not readily tonnd..^— Druggists' Circular. 

Remarks. — As stated in other places, where "parts" are mentioned, it 
matters not what sized measure Is used, whether a spoon, pint or peck, or if 
weights, whether it be drs., ozs. or lbs. Simply 12, 6 and 1, in this case, would 
be the number to use, or the proportions to keep. 

6. Japanese Cement, To Make— Strong and Colorless— For 
Fancy Paper Work, Etc.— Mix the best powdered rice with a little cold 
water; then gradually add boiling water till a proper consistency is acquired, 
being careful to keep it well stirred all the time; lastly, it must be boiled for 
one minute in a clean saucepan. This paste is beautifully white, almost trans- 
parent, and weJl adapted for fancy paper work, or other things requiring a 
strong and colorless cement. 

Coffee-Pots, Tea-Pots, Tin Saucepans, Etc., To Clean Inside. 
— When the inside of a coffee or tea-pot has become black from long use, fill it 
with soft water; throw in a small piece of hard soap, and boil it from 3^ to 1 
hour; and it will be as "bright as a new button," without labor or expense. 
When tin sauce-pans become ' ' grimmy " or dark from use, do the same with 
them, and you will be pleased with the result. Cover while boiling. Then 
scald out well and all is complete. 

Rust, to Remove from Stovepipe.— Rub a very little raw Knseed 
oil upon it, which stops its further eating; then dry it with a moderate fire, 
after which polish may be used if desired; but polish does not stop the deeper 



MISCELLANEOUS. 649 

oorrosion, creating into the pipe; hence, after a little, it will again show through 
the polish, unless the oil is first used. 

Barrels and Other "Wooden Vessels, to Cleanse.— Barrels for 
wine, or cider, also vessels for culinary purposes, holding food, etc., are ren- 
dered fit for immediate use by a solution of sal-soda, says the Journal of GJiern- 
istry, thus: " An ordinary barrel should be filled half full of water, and a solu- 
tion of about 2 lbs. of the soda in as much water as will dissolve it, poured in, 
and the liquids thoroughly mixed by shaking the barrel, which should then be 
filled to the bung with water, and allowed to remain from 12 to 14 hours; then, 
after withdrawing the discolored liquid, it should be well rinsed and filled with 
pure water, and should remain a few hours more, when it will be fit for use. 
Other wooden utensils may be similarly treated. 

Bemarks. — The soda should be fully dissolved in 3 or 4 qts. of water, by 
heat, before putting in. If not much musty, 1 lb. of soda will do. 

Cauliflowers, to Raise Successfully.— To raise this delicious spe- 
cies of cabbage, successfully, it is necessary to plow very deep, and upon a good 
or well manured soil ; for the roots of the cauliflower, by the middle of August 
have been known to penetrate to the depth of 3 feet. The main, or upper 
roots, however, extend horizontally, and are more numerous than the pene- 
trating ones. The seed should be sown in rich soil, heavily fertilized and well 
pulverized, in frames, or hot houses, and should be transplanted while small; 
and, at first, like cabbages, the plants ought to be frequently hoed and the dirt 
well loosened about them. Every morning was my rule with cabbage, and I 
always had good ones; but after they are well established, they do not need so 
much care. 

1. EGGS— How to Preserve Them, Four Plans. —Whatever 
excludes the air prevents the decay of the egg. What I have found to be the 
most successful method of doing so, is to place a small quantity of salt butter 
in the palm of the left hand and turn the egg around in it, so that every pore 
of the shell is closed; then dry a sufficient quantity of bran in an oven (be sure 
you have the bran well dried). Then pack them with the small ends down in 
a layer of bran and another of eggs until your box is full; then place in a cold, 
dry place. If done when newly-laid, they will retain the sweet milk and curd 
of a new laid egg for at least 8 or 10 months. Any oil will do, but salt butter 
never becomes rancid, and a very small quantity of butter will do a very large 
quantity of eggs. To insure freshness, I rub them when gathered in from the 
nests; then pack when there is a sufficient quantity.—^. Alexander. 

2. Eggs, to Keep from September to May.— This receipt is from 
Mrs. Wm. Church, who says: " The best way she finds is to take a pot or pail, 
or anything convenient, put about an inch or two of bran of any kind — I gen- 
erally take shorts from flour — being a farmer's wife I generally have it on 
hand — in it, put a layer of eggs, either end down, close together; then cover 
with meal, another layer of eggs, and so on until the box is full, occasionally 
giving it a shake to fill well between the eggs. This plan I have adopted for 
^ears with success, and the last when used — which is often the last of April and 



650 DH. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

the beginning of May — are as good as the first. I commence to pack In Sep- 
tember. The whole secret lies in carefully selecting fresh eggs, packing on end 
and keeping the air from them. Keep in a dry, cool place." 

3. Eggs, to Keep from September to April, as Good as 
Fresh. — This is from J. B. Strathnairu, who says: " I take a tub of any size 
and put a layer of common salt about an inch deep in the bottom; then grease 
the eggs with butter (of course salted butter), and place them in the salt with 
the small end down, so that they will not touch the wood of the tub near each 
other; then fill the vacancies with salt, and cover them again about an inch 
deep as before; then place another layer of eggs as before; then salt alternately 
till the tub is filled ; then cover the top with salt, and put them where they will 
not freeze. I have kept eggs in this manner from September until April as 
good as fresh. The grease on the shell keeps the salt from penetrating, thereby 
keeping the eggs fresh, while the saving qualities of the salt keep them from 
becoming putrid. This recipe is both cheap and good, as the salt can be fed to 
cattle afterward. 

4. Eggs— To Keep Two Years Perfectly Good.— This is from 
Emily Audinwood, Stanstead Plains, P. Q,: *'I have tried several experiments, 
but find none to answer so well as the following: I have kept eggs for two 
years, and found them perfectly good when used. Two pounds of coarse salt 
boiled 10 minutes in 1 gal. of rain water; pour off into an earthen jar. When 
nearly cool, stir in 5 table-spoonfuls of quick lime; let it stand till next day; 
then put in the eggs and keep them tightly covered until wanted for use." 

Remarks. — I formerly understood "quick lime" to signify slacked lime, 
but it is more generally conceded to mean unslacked, which has been powdered 
so it can be measured, about three times the strength of slacked, as by slacking 
it increases nearly, if not quite, this much in bulk. To be certain of having 
good lime, I should always obtain it unslacked and slack it only when I was 
ready to use It. The above, and the next item, I have quoted as reported in 
the Free Press, of London, Ont. It was sent to me by my oldest daughter, 
Mrs. Dr. Mills, who lives there, and knowing they mvist be valuable I give 
them. The Free Press closed by saying: 

5. Eggs— To Keep Nine Months.— "Wright, in his poultry book, 
recommends the following method for preserving eggs: To 4 gals, of boiling 
water add % a peck of new lime, stirring it some little time. When cold, 
remove any hard lumps there may be with a sieve, add 10 ozs. of salt, 3 ozs. of 
cream of tartar, and mix thoroughly. The mixture should stand a fortnight 
before using. The eggs to be packed as closely as possible, and to be closely 
covered up. If put in when new laid, he says they will keep nine months." 

Remarks. — This is something of the character of the old English patented 
recipe, except in that it recommends the mixture to stand a fortnight (two weeks) 
before using, which will temper it nicely, as the plasterer says of his mortar 
Were it not that Mr. Wright says "remove any hard lumps," etc., I should 
suppose he meant slacked lime, but this would have no lumps in it which need 
be put in, hence he, too, means "quick," or unslacked lime, which Is pretty 



MISCELLANEOUS. 551 

certain to have lumps, and which, if left in, is liable to break the eggs that 
might settle upon them, if not removed. 

6. Eggs, Preserving Six Months, Equal to Fresh. — A writer 
In the English Mechanic says: " In the year 1871-3, 1 preserved eggs so perfectly 
that after six months they were mistaken when brought to the table for fresh 
laid eggs, and I believe they would have kept equally good for a twelve-month. 
My mode of preservation was to varnish the eggs as soon after they were laid as 
possible with a thin coat of varnish, taking care that the whole of the shell was 
covered with the varnish I afterwards found that by painting the eggs with 
fresh albumen (whites of eggs), beaten up with a little salt, they were preserved 
equally well, and for a long period. After varnishing with albumen I lay the 
eggs on soft blotting-paper, as I found that when allowed to rest till dry upon 
the table the albumen or varnish stuck so fast to the table as to take a chip out 
of the shell. This is entirely prevented by the use of the blotting-paper. I 
pack the eggs in dry bran." 

7. The following is from a lady writer who does not boil salt, as in N"o. 4, 
nor cream of tartar as in No. 5. I can see no special advantages from the 
cream of tartar, only to make it look a little more formidable to obtain a patent 
upon in England, where first obtained some 75 years ago. She does not give 
her name, but says: 

8. Eggs, To Preserve Two Years.— To each patent pail (the com- 
mon wooden pail), add 1 pt. freshly slacked lime and 1 pt. of common salt; mix 
well. Fill your barrel half full with fluid of this strength ; put your eggs down 
in it any time after June, and they will keep two years if desired. 

9. Eggs, To Keep all the Year— Never Failing.— Put perfectly 
fresh eggs into a net, willow or wire basket, and hold them in boiling water 
while you count 20; then pack in jars, little end down, in dry salt, and keep 
from frost. Put up in the fall for winter use. — Mrs. Tillie Wales, Detroit, Mich. 

Remarks. — The author is well acquainted with this lady, and knows her 
to be practical and reliable. An Iowa lady pursues the same plan, except 
that she dissolves sugar in the water and packs them in charcoal and bran, as 
follows: 

10. Eggs, To Preserve.— Select perfectly fresh eggs (this must always 
be done, as old eggs or those exposed to heat or cold can not be preserved), put 
them, a dozen or more, into a small basket and dip for 5 seconds (20, as above, 
I consider not too long a time,) into boiling water, having 5 lbs. of sugar to 
1 gal. of water. Next place them immediately on trays to dry. The scalding 
water causes the formation of a thin skin of albumen next the inner surface 
of the shell, the sugar effectually closing the pores of the latter. The cold eggs 
are then packed, small end down, in a mixture of 1 part charcoal finely 
powdered and 2 parts of dry bran. Eggs so treated have been found perfectly 
fresh and unaltered after six months. — Mrs. A. Noyes, Volga County, Iowa, 
in Blade. 

11. Egg Preservatives, from Experiments at the Agricul- 
tural College of Iowa. — Eggs packed in drv, pulverized charcoal at the 



658 DB. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

college, June 25tli, were all bad November 20tb, Eggs packed in finely ptil- 
verized gypsum in June were good in December. Eggs kept in a refrigerator 
at 54 degrees remained fresh and sweet from July to November, seeming to 
prove that unaided cold air is a good preservative. 

Remarks. — Thus, it seems that dry gypsum (plaster of Paris), is an excellent 
preservative. I should expect it would so prove for it is, when dried in a kettle 
over the fire, a very fine powder, perfectly excluding the air, and if kept in a 
cool place no evaporation of the moisture of the eggs would escape. 

12. Eggs packed in boxes or barrels in dry oats, little end down, and the 
covers nailed if boxes are used, and headed up if barrels are used, then the 
boxes or barrels turned bottom up every week or 10 days, has proved successful; 
and the eggs were ready for shipment. Salt has been used in the same way, 
and the plaster of Paris might be, except from its being so fine it wiU run out of 
very small cracks or holes. 

13. Preserving Eggs Two Years, The Swiss Plan.— Prof. 
Sace, of Switzerland, reports having kept eggs two years by the following 
method. He says: " Cover the eggs — fresh ones — with a coat of paraffine, 2 lbs., 
3 ozs., avoirdupois, to 3,000 eggs. They do not lose weight or freshness. Has 
kept them two years. Stops the pores, but if not fresh and decomposition has 
commenced, it does not stop it. " — Druggists' Circular. 

Remarks. — I have seen a report in some of the papers that this plan failed; 
but I honestly believe that it was not the fault of the plan, but from not having 
fresh eggs; because it not only fills the pores, but moisture can not go out 
through the coat of paraffine. Still, some of the other methods may be 
equally good; for family use, the boiling in sugar water of No. 10, or the gyp- 
sum (plaster of Paris) of No. 11, would be less trouble, packing away and keep- 
ing cool, as in a refrigerator or cold room, also mentioned in No. 11. Any of 
these plans properly done will not fail. 

14. Eggs — To Determine the Sex of — Tested.— In "Navin's 
Work on Poultry" he gives a test made by A. T. Newell, of Philadelphia, Pa., 
who says: " Pullet eggs, or those which will produce pullets, are smooth on the 
ends; while those which produce the roosters have a zig-zag mark or quirl on 
one end. In selecting 200 for roosters, only 1 produced a pullet; and out of 50 
for pullets he got 50 pullets." 

Remarks. — See "Positive Remedy «f or Hog Cholera" for further knowl- 
edge of Navin's reliability. I have no doubt of the facts stated in that, as well 
as in this case. 

1. GRAFTING WAX— To Make.— Rosin, 4 lbs.; tallow and bees- 
wax, each, 1 lb. Melt, mix well and work, after cooling a little in cold water, 
until pliable. May be used at once, or will keep for years. — Blade. 

2. Grafting Wax. — A cousin of mine, Jerry Lawrence, of Strykers- 
ville, N. Y., who has followed grafting over 25 years, uses rosin, 1 lb. ; bees- 
wax, 6 ozs., and mutton tallow 4 ozs., claiming that, with the mutton tallow, it 
Is a good salve for cuts and bruises, which are often received in climbing and 
eawing among the trees. Using these proportions, and keeping a ball or two of 



MISCELLANEOUS. 658 

the wax in a covered pail with blood- warm water during the coldest part of the 
spring, when the wax would otherwise crack in spreading, saves the trouble of 
making two kinds. He keeps a little lard on the back of the hand to use occa- 
sionally to prevent the wax from sticking to the fingers. Make into balls of 3^ 
to % lbs., pouring from the kettle into the water only so much of the wax mix- 
ture as can be worked at a time, keeping the balance warm until all is worked, 
or pulled to whiteness. Melt the rosin first, then add the others. No. 1, it 
will be seen, is softer, and if anyone chooses they can make both kinds, the 
first for the coldest weather and this for the warmer, as the season advances 

3. Sealingwax, Red, for Bottling Medicine.— Rosin, IJ^ lbs.; 
tallow, lard and beeswax, each, 1 oz. Melt together and add American ver« 
milion, 1 oz. 

Remarks. — Dip while hot. It is nice for druggists, who dip their vial 
corks, to have ready for use, or for bottles after the cork is cut off closely. 

4. Sealingwax for Fruit Jars. — Best orange (gum) shellac and bees- 
wax, each, 1 lb. ; rosin, 4 lbs. Melt and dip or paint the corks with a brush. 
'Tis a red shade, but may be colored more if desired, any color. [See No. 3 
for a bright red. — Druggists' Circular. 

1. DOGS— Mange Upon— Sure Remedy.— Powdered aloes, ^oz.; 
flour of sulphur, 1 oz. Mix to a consistence of porridge, with spirits of tur- 
pentine, and apply with a brush or swab. 

Remarks. — " Cures every time," said a citizen of Ann Arbor to me, who 
had tested it. The word "mange" undoubtedly comes from the French 
demanger, to itch, as it causes such a degree of itching as to cause dogs and 
other animals to rub themselves almost constantly against whatever they can 
find. What will cure it in one animal will do the same with others. Probably 
arises from the acarus scabies, or itch mite, affecting children, and is, therefore, 
"catching," or contagious. 

2. Dogs Poisoned by Strychnia, Antidote for.— Salad oil (which 
is pure sweet or olive oil), }y^ pt., has saved them; so, also, has lard. — Journal 
of Applied Chemistry. 

Remarks. — The lard was used by the late James F. Reed, of San Jose, CaL, 
as they use strychnia there largely to kill gophers; hence the dogs are often 
poisoned. And as my books have always sold as readily in California as in the 
East, I deem it an important recipe, and add: 'Tis very important to give the 
oil when a person is thus poisoned, or warm lard if no oil is at hand — % pt. at 
least — strong coffee, etc., as directed under that head. 

3. Dogs, Cats, Hogs and Horses, To Drive Off Fleas on.— The 
Scientific American gives us the following for this purpose. The pennyroyal 
flavor is very strong and offensive to these "gentry," although many people, of 
which I am one, are very fond of it. The herb makes an effective tea, drank 
hot, to break-up colds, by starting perspiration. It says, under the head of 
'• Pennyroyal for Fleas: " " The oil of pennyroyal will drive these insects off; 
but a cheaper method, where the herb flourishes, is to throw your dogs and cats 
into a decoction of it once a week. Mow the herb, and scatter it in beds of 



554 J)R- CHASE'S BEGIPEB. 

pigs ouce a month. I have seen this done for many years In succession. Where 
the herb cannot be got, the oil may be procured. In this case, saturate strings 
with it, and tie them around the necks of dogs and cats; pour a little on the 
back and about the ears of hogs troubled with fleas, which you can do while 
they are feeding, without touching them. By repeating this application every 
12 or 15 days the fleas will flee from every quadruped, to their relief and 
Improvement, and your relief and comfort in the house. Strings saturated 
with the oil of pennyroyal, and tied around the necks and tails of horses, will 
drive ofl: lice; the string should be saturated once a day." 

Bread, Why We Butter It.— The layers of the wheat berry, as we 
proceed towards the center, become more and more completely starchy, and at 
the center but little else is found, and this portion makes our finest flour (super- 
fine). The finer the flour the less fit it is for nutrition. In its natural state, 
the wheat, with all its components present, is not fitted for perfect human 
development. There is a deficiency in the potential heat-producing materials, 
especially for cooler climates, there being only 2 per cent, of fat in wheat. We 
instinctively supply this deficiency by the addition of fatty bodies. We spread 
butter upon bresd, we mingle lard or butter with our biscuits or cake, and the 
fat meat and bread are taken alternatively or coincidentally. The starch, being 
a carbon hydrate, can aSord, comparatively, but little heat in consumption, and 
the fats (butter) are demanded by the wants of the system.— United States 
Miller. 

Bemarks.—mn?, is perfectly philosophical; we need fat in some form to 
keep up the heat of the body, and now-a-days so few persons will eat fat meats 
we must have butter; and it is only from eating too large an amount of it, or 
eating that which has become rancid or " strong," and therefore almost abso. 
lutely indigestible, that harm may arise from its use, A little nice butter is as 
necessary as it is desirable to almost every person. 

1. FENCE POSTS, TELEGRAPH AND TELEPHONE 
POLES, ETC. — To Prevent Decay, — Among the various methods here- 
tofore practiced for preserving the ends of fence posts, telegraph poles, ties and 
other timber to be placed in the ground, has been charring, or coating with 
coal tar, but it is said that while neither of these modes is sufficient alone, the 
two combined answers every purpose. The tar filling the pores of the charred 
surface, which in itself is indestructible, prevents absorption of moisture 
from the ground into the interior unaltered portion of the wood. In time the 
tar is converted into a kind of rosin, which is very durable. — Harpers* WeeMy. 

2 . The Science, Best and Cheapest Way of Preserving Wood. 
— The Journal of Foi'estry thus explains what is necessary to preserve wood: 
■' The primary cause of decay in wood is the fermentation and the decomposi- 
tion of the sap that is within the pores. Wood, pure and by itself, is not easily 
destroyed by the ordinary agencies of nature, namely, wet and dry weather, 
heat and cold, etc. If the sap within the pores can either be removed or ren, 
dered inactive, the wood may be preserved. There are several methods of doing 
this, such as saturating the wood with mineral salts, creosote, eta The cheap- 



misci-:lla xeo us. 555 

fst, easiest and therefore the best method seems to be to charge the wood with 
crude petroleum. Pine (if seasoned), for example, is made almost waterproof 
by saturating it with this simple material, and, therefore, made much more 
lasting. Crude petroleum is very cheap, and maybe applied with a brush until 
the wood will soak up no more. In the application care should be taken to 
avoid accidents by fire, and not approach the work with a flame until it is dry. 
An application of petroleum is especially valuable to much exposed woodwork." 

Bemarks.—For fence posts, it is well known to be important to place the 
butt end of the timber upwards, from the greater diificulty that water finds in 
ascending against the natural course of sap, in the pores. This done, then, and 
the posts painted with the crude petroleum, or by the charring and painting 
with the coal tar, it would appear they should become almost everlasting; and 
why our railroad men do not try this on sections of their ties, is almost unac- 
countable. With the great destruction of our forests, yearly, for this and all 
other purposes for which timber is used, must soon compel them to resort to 
this practice, else to be compelled to use iron or steel ties, at a much greater 
expense. Of course this is a free country, and they have a right to use un- 
painted and unprotected timber, so long as they can buy it; still, the painting 
with the petroleum would be far cheaper than such constant changing, as is 
now the necessary custom Were not only the whole of the posts, but also 
fence boards, petroleumed thoroughly, it would pay big. Try it a few times, 
as the fellow said about cedar rails, they would last a thousand years, for he 
had tried it several times! Of course this man's disregard to truth was very 
great; but not so great as these railroad men and timber speculators disregard 
to the destruction of our forests. In some parts of Europe, iron ties have 
already been tested, hence correct information could easily be obtained upon 
this important subject. Probably, in the United States, with the improvements 
in the manufacture of steel, this would take the place of iron for ties; but the 
importance of protecting fence posts is too great to be so generally neglected 
as it is. 

3. Fence Posts, the Importance of Seasoning, etc.— An experi- 
mental writer upon this subject very sensibly says: "To have a fence that will 
last we must have good posts, for that is the part that gives out first by rotting 
off at the surface of the soil. Then the fence has to come down, new posts be 
set, and the boards replaced. Sixteen years ago I experimented with fences, 
and find seasoned oak posts, oiled and then tarred with boiling coal tar, last the 
longest. I took green posts that were sawed 5 inches square at one end and 
2 by 5 inches at the other, and 7 feet long. I tarred half as many as would 
build my fence, and the other half I put into the ground green with nothing 
done to them. In 5 years after, the tarred posts were nothing but a shell under 
the ground, all the inside being decayed. Some of the other posts were rotted 
off, and some were about half rotten. Two years after, I built another fence, 
with seasoned oak posts, same size as the first, giving them all a good coat of 
oil, and in a few days after tarred them, as I did before, with coal tar, heated 
In a can made for the purpose, 4 feet deep and large enough to hold 4 posts set 
<m end. I left them in the boiling tar for about 10 minutes, then took them out 



666 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

and ended them up to dry. And now, after 14 years, not 1 in 10 needs replao 
ing. I shall never build another fence for myself requiring posts without first 
thoroughly seasoning, then oiling, and then tarring them. If they are tarred 
when green, the tar does not penetrate the wood, and in a short time will all 
scale off. When the wood is seasoned the oil penetrates the wood, and the 
coating of coal tar keeps out the moisture, thereby preserving the wood from 
decay." 

4. Fence Posts, Importance of Tamping, etc.— A correspondent 
of the Counti-y Qentleman gives the following as his plan, which the author 
fully endorses, of setting fence posts, except that when the hole is dug 2 feet 
deep to be tamped with stone I should not cut back in sharpening more than 
6 inches, while he cuts back 12 to 15. If only to be driven 1 foot, or even 
18 inches, 6 is enough in gravelly or any soil except hard-pan or hard clay. 
He says: 

I. " I first sharpen my posts, cutting back from 12 to 15 inches, according 
to the size. I then dig good sized holes, say 15 inches across and 2 feet deep; 
then take a crowbar and punch a hole in the bottom 10 or 12 inches deeper, 
making it large at the top by working the bar back and forth. I then drive the 
post with a heavy iron maul imtil the post is fully 3 feet in the ground. [The 
author can not think he means 3 feet below the hole dug for the stones; if he 
does it would require a 9 foot post — not at all probable.] I then fill the hole 
with small stones well tamped ynih. the head of the bar. Posts set in this way 
will be sound and serviceable when those set at the same time in the ordinary 
way and tamped with earth will be decayed and useless. A neighbor tells me 
that he made a piece of board fence over 30 years ago, in part of which he set 
the posts with stones, and the rest were tamped with earth. Those set with 
stone remained sound when the others had rotted away. 

II. Straight Post and Rail Fence. — He continues: "The best and most 
economical fence I can make is a straight fence of posts and rails. I set the 
posts in a line, 11 feet apart, using 12 foot rails, nailed on alternate sides of the 
posts, which gives them a small lap. I drive a good stake by the side of each 
post, held to the post by a wire placed above the bottom rails and a second wire 
below the top rails. Fence built in this manner is firm and strong, taking much 
less room than an ordinary rail fence, and is more serviceable in restraining 
unruly stock than board fence. One strand of barbed wire across the top of 
the posts, 8 or 10 inches above the top rail, will cause unruly stock to keep at 
a respectful distance after one trial." 

Remarks. — There is not a doubt but what rails, properly nailed upon the 
posts, are more economical than boards, yet, I think, more expensive, especially 
on our western prairies, and there, too, almost absolutely impossible to get the 
rails at any price. There is no doubt, either, but what the barbed wire along 
the top would be respected, even by unruly stock, after a single trial. Now, if 
the seasoned, oiled, and tarred oak posts of No. 3 are preferred, then set by 
tamping stones around them, as in this last recipe, and no dirt put on top of the 
stones, you will have a post that will last much longer than any other way, and 
well worth adopting especially where timber is scarce. 



M18VELLANE0XT8. 557 

1. ADVICE— Poetical, to Boys, but Equally Applicable to 
Young Men.— The following item, from the poetic writer, Eben E. Rex- 
ford, covers so much good in such a small compass, I am glad to lay it before 
my young readers. It is true in every point, and should be adopted as the rule 
of life, by not only every boy, but every young man coming upon the stage of 
action, for himself. The two next items I do not know who their author's are, 
still, as they teach us all a lesson of fact, they very appropriately follow tbo 
first. Rexford says: 

My boy, you're soon to be a man; 

Get ready for a man's work now; 
And Icarn to do the best you can, 

When sweat is brought to arm and brow. 
Don't be afraid, my boy, to work; 

You've got to, if you mean to winl 
He is a coward who will shirk; 

" Roll up your sleeves, and then 'go inf* 

Don't wait for chances; look about! 

There's always something you can do. 
He who will manfully strike out. 

Finds labor; plenty of it, too! 
But he who folds his hands and waits 

For "something to turn up," will find 
The toiler passes Fortune's gates. 

While he, alas, is left behind 1 

Be honest as the day is long; 

Don't grind the poor man for his cent. 
In helping others, you grow strong. 

And kind deeds done are only lent; 
And this remember: if you're wise, 

To your own business be confined. 
He is a fool, and fails, who tries 

His fellow-men's affairs to mind. 

Don't be discouraged and get the blues 

If things don't; go to suit you quite; 
Work on! Perhaps it rests with you 

To set the wrong that worries, right. 
Don't lean on others! Be a man! 

Stand on a footing of your own! 
Be independent, if you can. 

And cultivate a sound backbone! 

Be brave and steadfast, kind and true. 

With faith in God and fellow-man. 
And win from them a faith in you. 

By doing just the best you can! 

2. It Never Pays to Fret and Growl.— This writer has concen- 
trated the whole plan of life's work into a nut-shell, as follows 



558 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

It never pays to fret and growl 
When fortune seems our foe; 
The better bred will push ahead. 
And strike the braver blow. 

For luck is work, 

And those who shirk 
Should not lament their doom, 

But yield the play, 

And clear the way, 
That better men have room. 

Remarks. — It is only those who are determined to shirk, that need clear the 
way, for those who are alike determined to labor, as the first writer says, can 
find plenty of it, hence there is no need for any such to be left behind. It has 
been more recentlj'^ taught that luck is simply pluck, and as experience shows 
this to be a fact, and also that pluck means for every one to be at work, this 
writer is correct. And now, with a temperance pledge, written for little boys, 
being equally applicable to men, I will close these subjects, with the very best 
wishics that all shall succeed, as I know they will, if they adhere to the princi- 
ples here taught, so plainly that even a little child cannot misunderstand them. 

8. A Temperance Pledge. 

A pledge I make, no wine to take; 
Nor brandy red, that turns the head; 
Nor whisky hot, that makes the sot; 
Nor fiery rum, that ruins the home. 
Nor will I sin, by drinking gin; 
Hard cider, too, will never do; 
Nor lager beer, my heart to cheer; 
Nor sparkling ale, my face to pale. 
To quench mj thirst I'll always bring. 
Cold water from the well or spring; 
So here I pledge perpetual hate, 
To all that can intoxicate. 

Remarks. — It is certain that these writers had the welfare of the rising gen- 
eration deeply at heart, as well as the ability to clothe their thoughts with words 
calculated to make a lasting impression upon the minds of those for whose 
sake they were writing; and I should have been glad to have found their names 
connected with their articles; but as I did not, I can only ask that they be com- 
mitted to memory by the youth of every household, and that they form the 
governing principles of their lives, so shall peace and prosperity be doubly 
assured. 

. Now the foregoing advice, or, more properly, suggestions, to young men 
and boys, would seem to be incomplete, without a word to young women; 
hence we will give them an item, written for the Blade, by W. S. Frazier, under 
the head of " Beware." I shall head it as follows: 



MISCELLANEOUS. 559 

YOUNG LADIES— "BEWAKE." 

Beware, young lady, beware! 
A serpent lies coiled in the lees of that cup, 
Which your handsome "young man" has so gaily caught up 
And drained to the dregs. He may laugh at your fears. 
But if you would shun the disgrace and the tears 
Of the helpless, despairing, disconsolate wife 
Of a drunkard who has driven all hope from your life; 
When the years have flown by and the fiend has control 
Of that handsome young man, mind, body and soul — 

Beware I 

Beware, young lady, beware I 
This life has enough of pain, trouble and care 
For those who act wisely. Then turn from the snare 
Of the deadly drink demon; that promise, fair-spoken. 
Of reform after marriage, is sure to be broken. 
Oh, heed thou the counsels of wisdom and truth. 
That thy age be not cursed with the choice of thy youth. 
There are many young men, brave, noble and strong, 
Then choose not from Satan's Bacchanalian throng — • 

Beware! 

Bemarks. — All the counsel above given as to young men's success, if they 
heed or are governed by the "advice" given, is as applicable here to young 
women as to them; and I need only add that I have known several young 
women in my lifetime who, if they had heeded the advice of their friends and 
not married young men already addicted to drink, would have saved themselves 
from a life of suffering and wretchedness. Those who begin early in life to 
drink seldom reform; and, if they try to do so, more "seldom" hold out but 
a very short time It does seem as though they might, but they do not look 
high enough for support. Christ has said: " My grace shall be sufficient for 
thee." It must be to all who trust it fully, for He never spoke only what He 
knew to be facts. 

A Mortgage, Its Staying and Destructive Properties.— In the 
whole range of sacred and profane literature, perhaps there is nothing recorded 
which has such staying properties as a mortgage. A mortgage can be depended 
'ipon to stick closer than a brother. It has a mission to perform, which never 
lets up. Day after day it is right there, nor does the slightest tendency to slum- 
ber impair its vigor in the night. Night and day, on tlie Sabbath and at holi- 
day times, without a moment's time for rest or recreation, the biting offspring 
of its existence — interest — goes on. The season may change, days run into 
weeks, weeks into months, to be swallowed up in the gray man of advancing 
years, but the mortgage stands up in sleepless vigilance, with the interest a 
perennial stream, ceaselessly running on. Like a huge nightmare eating out 
the sleep of some restless slumberer, the unpaid mortgage rears up its gaunt 
front in perpetual torment to the miserable wight who is held in its pitiless 
clutch. It holds the poor victim in the relentless grasp of a giant; not one hour 
^f recreation; not a moment's evasion of its hideous presence. A genial savage 



660 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

of mollifying aspect while the interest is paid; the very devil of destruction 
when the payments fail. [Beware of them. — Author.] 

1. Feather Beds, Old, to Renovate Without Steam. — Old 
feather beds may be renovated or cleaned very satisfactorily by putting them 
out during a heavy shower, turning, to give both sides a good soaking. [And 
the author can't see, if it does not rain when and as hard or as long as it is 
desired for this purpose, why a woman can't get up a good " heavy shower" of 
her own by means of plenty of warm water and the ordinary house or garden 
cprinkler; she certainly could, and I think be better than the natural cold 
shower.] Dry thoroughly in the sun, beating with a stick to loosen up the 
feathers, as you do a carpet to get out the diist. The bed may lay upon the 
ground to receive the water, but should be placed upon slats or sticks across 
chairs, or something of this character, while drying. 

Remarks. — On boards or poles, one end on the fence sloping towards the 
Bun, is the better way. If there are stains on the tick they can be cleaned at 
the same time in the following manner: 

2. Feather Bed Tick, To Remove the Stains.— Pulverize some 
starch and stir it into sufficient soft soap to make quite a thick paste, enough to 
cover the spots caused by children's wetting it. When dry, brush off and wash 
with clean water by means of a wash-cloth or sponge. Dry again in the sun, 
and whip to lighten up the feathers. 

Corn Crib, Rat Proof.— A correspondent of the Practical Farmer 
gives the following directions for making that most necessary of farm build- 
ings — a rat proof corn crib. He says; " Build a good substantial house, 13 
feet wide, 8 feet high and as long as you want it. This vdll give you 2 cribs, 1 
on either side. Put your building on stone pillars, 1 foot, or more, above 
ground (mind, the pillars must not be wider than the sill, else the rats will stand 
on them). Side up with lath 23^x1 inches of hard wood — I used oak — putting 
them on up and down, being careful to have them just 3^ inch apart. The 
gables and any part of the building that does not come in contact with the corn 
can be sided up with common pine boards; for bottoms of cribs, laths length- 
wise, )4 ^^^^^ apart; balance of floor between cribs lay tight, of pine boards. 
My building has a string of ties between the sill and plate to nail to and cross 
ties to hold the building together. Every 8 feet of these ties spike a good strong 
scantling, or plank across them lengthwise of the building as far in from the 
plate as you want the width of top of crib, then set up studding from floor, as 
many as will be sufficiently strong for crib; mortice the end in floor, gain the 
top into the horizontal scantling about ^ of an inch, then lath the inside of the 
crib with any kind of lath (I would keep up the hard wood), just close enough 
to keep in the corn, commencing 10 inches from the floor, to leave room for the 
corn to come down into the trough, putting these lath on lengthwise. Then 
put a common sized door in the end, between the cribs. You can put a lock 
on the door, and all is secure— I did not lock mine and gained something by it, 
as I found a stray mitten in the crib on a cold morning. To get the corn in the 
crib make doors above the plate the size you want them, the same 9& donner 



MISCELLANEOUS. 681, 

windows, and hang the doors on and it will be completed. If any one wishes, 
to have a granary, they can use one side of the building for that purpose and 
the other for a crib. The size of my cribs is 3 feet in the clear at the bottom 
and 5 feet at the top, but I am well satisfied they might be much wider and stUl 
the corn would cure well. I have used this crib for about 10 years, and I can 
recommend it as an entire success. The secret of this crib is putting the lath 
on up and down; this gives no place for the rats to stand on to cut holes, and 
the building being 1 foot above ground they cannot reach the bottom. We are 
infested witli swarms ot gray rats, ana there is not a building on the farm from 
which we can keep them out except the corn crib. We keep corn over a year 
until the new crop is gathered in perfect safety." 

Remarks. — The 10 inches at the bottom, up to where the lath begins, may 
have a board of that width, or better still, 3 laths nailed on end cleats, to slip 
down behind cleats nailed on the studs. By taking one of these np, you have 
a nice opening to pass the scoop shovel under for corn, when desired. Hav- 
ing worked at carpentering and joining work for 20 years, before I began to 
read medicine, I know this will prove every way satisfactory, if done by a good 
common sense man. 

Bushel Boxes, How to Make.— In gathering potatoes, apples and 
other things, quite a saving in time and trouble can be brought about by mak- 
ing enough bushel boxes to fill the wagon-bed. If the inside of the wagon-box 
is 36 inches, the length of the boxes should be 17^^ inches (which gives 1 inch 
play to get them in and out). An ordinary wagon-box will hold 32 to 36 of 
them. With these boxes one has no use for baskets, and the trouble of shovel- 
ing out the load is saved. In handling apples and potatoes they are much less 
bruised and marred than when no boxes are used. Where one has a supply of 
these boxes, a large number of them, after being filled with apples, etc., can be 
piled up and emptied at leisure. In this case the time on stormy days can be 
devoted to assorting the products. They are also quite convenient, being square, 
for shipping on the cars. The ends are made of common pine boards, 13 
inches wide, planed on both sides, sawed to the exact width of 12 inches, and 
then cut into lengths of 14 ihohes. In these, holes are cut for the hands, as 
cleats would take up too much space and they would not pack well. To make, 
take an inch bit, bore 3 holes and trim with knife. The sides and bottoms are 
made of lath, cut just 173^ inches in length. Six pieces are required for the 
bottom and 5 for each side. One lath will make 2 lengths for sides or bot- 
tom. For 100 boxes 800 lath and 200 feet of common lumber will be required. 
Two 4-penny nails in each end of the lath is sufficient to make a permanent box. 
Get them ready in the rainy days of summer for fall use, and you will never be 
sorry. 

Dio Lewis* "Breakfast for Two Cents" — Good for Light 
Laborers. — Notwithstanding a large amount of sport was made over Dr. 
Lewis' publication upon the "Two-cent Breakfast," still for persons of a 
sedentary life and only light labor to perform, or perhaps no labor at all, his 
plan is most excellent for those who desire to enjoy good health and long lives. 



662 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Let this class of persons try it, and they will soon realize a feeling of enjoy 
ment and hilarity of spirit never before experienced. He says, " My experi« 
ence and observation has been that meat is a large item in the cost of living. 
By using less meat and more oatmeal, beans, peas, etc., the same amount of 
nourishment may be obtained. Get a good article of Scotch or Canada oatmeal, 
and to 1 qt. of boiling water slowly stir in 1 tea-cupful of oatmeal, to which 
add a little salt; lei i* cook slowly for half an hour, when it may be served 
with milk or cream ana sugar. Three cents worth of oatmeal, 3 cents worth 
of milk, and 6 cents worth of sugar will make a good meal for a family of 6 
persons. Some of the most healthy people I have ever seen had oatmeal morn- 
ing and night, and had fresh meat with vegetables at noon. By this method of 
living we make the morning and evening meal so inexpensive that the cost of 
our food will be reduced at least on" half. Beans and peas are cheap and 
nutritious." 

Remarks. — If I could say anything more to induce people to pay a greater 
attention to what the great hygienic doctor has said upon this subject I would 
most cheerfully do so, but I will only add that it is of the mosl vital importance 
to all who do not work at hard manual labor for a living; they must have the 
meat, if they can get it; but even with them the supper may, or ought, to be 
only a light meal, if continuous health and long life are any object 

Pea Vine Hay, To Cure. — Those who raise peas to any extent will be 
«urprised to see how stock will relish the vines in winter, if properly cured, and 
the best way to do it is to build a pen 3 rails high; then floor it over with rails 
and build up 3 or 4 rails more, according to how green the vines are, and fill in 
the vines; floor again, build up and fill in until 10 or 12 feet high; then cover 
to shed the rain perfectly. Like bean straw, they will not bear deep pack- 
ing, but still they are too valuable a feed for stock to be thrown away. And 
when oats arc sown with them, as they generally should be, the oat straw gives 
an additional relish and object to save them. 

Hogs, Pall Care of, for Early Slaughter.— Although considerable 
has been said in that department as to the care of hogs, as well as the treatment 
of hog cholera, etc., yet as I find an item upon this subject among my miscel- 
laneous matter I have thought best to give it here, hoping it may receive greater 
attention standing alone. It is best, when possible, to let swine have the range 
of a newly cleared field, where logs and brush have just been burned off, as 
they instinctively eat the coals that are left, which, it is well knovra, does them 
great good; but when this can not be done the next best thing is to place a mix- 
ture of salt, ashes (unleached), and charcoal (pulverized), and, the author thinks, 
sulphur, also, equal quantities, except the sulphur, perhaps, only one-half as 
much as of either of the others, under shelter, but where they can have daily 
access to it; and also to begin to feed early with peas, pumpkins, potatoes, etc., 
the potatoes and pumpkins properly cooked and thickened with pea meal, if 
plenty, else vdth shorts, or a little commeal when no cheaper article is at hand 
to be worked off; so that by I^ovember 15th, or 20th, at farthest, they may be 
iieady for slaughter. The charcoal is of vitui importance to hogs, unless the 



MISCELLANEOUS. 563 

stove coal, as mentioned in the other connection, proves to fill its place; an6 
there is no danger of their eating too much ashes or salt. Running vrater ought 
always, if possible, to pass through their pasture; and when not possible fresh 
water should be pumped daily for tlieir use, as well as for aU other stock, even 
to the chickens. 

1. CODLING MOTH, Remedy.— Dr. Hull, a leading horticulturist of 
Illinois, says that his lime remedy for the codling moth has proved completely 
effectual. The freshly slacked lime is thrown into the trees when the dew is on, 
or just after a rain, and after the fruit is set. A dipper or a large spoon may be 
used; but best of all, is a bellows made for the purpose (the author would say, 
with a long nose or nozzle to reach well up into the trees). The insects will not 
go where the lime is scattered; he says, " they go away." 

Remarks. — The author has not a doubt but what the lime will prove effec- 
tive, for the item given in his first recipe book, for destroying the curculio on 
plum trees, wherein sulphur and gunpowder with the lime was effectual; but it 
seems that lime alone does equally well, and is much less expensive. " Codling ' 
means an immature or small appl';, but so far as the moth is concerned, it is 
appUed to plums or any other fruit. But the curculio, a species of weevil, is 
most destructive to the plum, as you will see by referring to them. 

2. Codling Moth Effectually Disposed of.— A writer who signs 
himself " H," of Fenton, Mich., sends a plan to the Detroit Tribune, which he 
says effectually disposes of the codling moth. He says: " I take a piece of old 
woolen cloth, 5 or 6 inches wide, and long enough to go around the apple tree 
and lap an inch or two, and place this around the tree midway between the 
lower branches and the ground, and fasten it there with a tack driven in just 
far enough to hold. The moth will go under this cloth and deposit her egg, 
which matures in 13 days. Every 10 days I go through the orchard, draw the 
tacks carefully, unwind the cloth and mash every worm and moth I find, some- 
times as many as 40 under a single cloth. This followed up will utterly 
destroy them." 

Remarks. — It is said that the most successful fruit growers, east and west, 
have decided that there is no better remedy for the codling moth than to pasture 
liogs in the orchard to eat the wormy apples and the moths or worms therein. 
Chickens running in the orchard are also very destructive to moths, by eating 
all the worms or bugs they see; and I have seen it stated that 2 or 3 pigs put 
into a pen of one length of boards around apple, peach, or plum trees will 
destroy all these depredators. (See Borers, Remedy for, Curculio on Plums, 
Description of and how get rid of them, next below.) 

Borers in Peach and Apple Trees, Remedy for, and for Bark 
Lice on the Trees.— Mr. M. B. Batchman, of Ohio (residence not given), 
writing to the Fimit Recorder, of Palmyra, N. Y., gives the following valuable 
remedy to prevent the borers getting into the peach and apple trees. He says: 
•' Take a tight barrel and put in 4 or 5 gallons of soft-soap with as much hot 
water to thin it, then stir in 1 pt. of crude carbolic acid and let stand over night, 
or longer, to combine. Then add 12 gallons of rain-water, and stir well; apply 



1^64 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

to the base of the tree with a short broom or old paint brush, taking pains to 
wet inside of all crevices. This will prevent both peach and apple borers. It 
should be applied the latter part of June in this climate, when the moths and 
beetles usually appear. The odor is so pungent and lasting that no eggs will be 
deposited where it has been applied, and the effect will continue till after the 
insects have done flying. If the crude acid cannot be obtained, ]^ of the pure 
will answer, but it is more expensive. " [Crude carbolic acid is a black and dirty 
looking fluid, and if not kept by small druggists they can obtain it in the cities; 
but, mind you, it is a strong acid, and it will destroy the skin or clothing if you 
get it on them by breaking the bottle or otherAvise, so be careful The crude is 
what is used in washes for lice about poultry, horses, etc.] 

Remarks. — To the above, the editor of the Recorder added: " We believe 
the above remedy for borers would also exterminate grubs from strawberry, 
raspberry and blackberry roots — only that for strawberries dilute it with double 
the amount of water." To this I may add: I think 6 or 8 qts. of fine soot 
dissolved in a barrel of water and thoroughly sprinkled about the roots of these 
berry plants will kill the borers or grubs that trouble them, and probably 2 lbs. 
of potash in the same water would- also destroy them, sprinkled on in the same 
way. 

Forcing Plants.— For forcing plants that you wish to hurry forward for 
any reason, 6 or 8 qts. of fine soot dissolved in a hogshead of water and sprin- 
ded upon them and about the roots freely, is said, by the American Gardener, 
to do as well for plants as for bulbs, flowering plants, shrubs, etc. 

Bark Lice, or Scale Bugs on Trees, Shrubs, Plants, etc.— Posi- 
tive Remedies. — Prof. J. H. Comstock says that in fighting scale insects 
(scale bugs, bark lice) on trees and shrubs that poisonous fumes nor powdered 
substances have done any good, and that " they cannot be destroyed otherwise 
than by actual contact. Lye and solutions of soap have been eminently suc- 
cessful. Common or whale oil soap, % lb., to water, 1 gal. (dissolve by heat); 
or lye (concentrated, in lb. cans), 1 lb. to 1 gal. of water, applied when the 
trees are dormant (not growing — fall or very early spring), has been found to 
work equally well. Apply with a stiff brush, which reaches the scale under 
the bark and sweeps ofi" others, but cannot be used on the small branches, and 
on these Whitman's fountain pump syringe may be employed for spraying." 

Remarks. — Charles Downing, through the Rural New Yorker, says he useis 
"1 lb. of the lye to 6 qts. of water, just as the buds begin to swell in tha 
spring. This is undoubtedly strong enough to kill every one it touches. 

For Lice on Plants.— Prof. A. J. Cook, in the New York Tribune, 
says that one application of the following mixture is a complete cure for lice on 
plants: Soft-soap, 1 qt. ; water, 1 gal., and kerosene, 1 pt. The soap and water 
are heated to the boiling point, the kerosene added and all well stirred. The 
mixture is thus made permanent. It is also used on trees, killing the lice and 
restoring the vigor of the trees. 

Curculios on Plum Trees— Description of and How to Destroy 
Them.— Mr. A. K. Markham, of Mayville, wrote to Prof. A. J. Cook, of the 



MISCELLANEOUS. 565 

Agricultural College, Lansing, asking as follows: "Will you kindly describe, 
through the columns of the Pout and Tribune, or otherwise, the plum curculio 
so that an amateur grower can find him? There are many among our farmeri 
who don't know the pest. I have hunted with great care but have not yet, 
found a sufficient description for me or my friends to identify him. Pleasa 
make the description sharp and decisive so we can find tlie terror. " 

To this Prof. Cook made the following answer through the Post and 
Tribune: " The plum curculio, which has now for more than a week been mak- 
ing its destructive punctures and characteristic crescents in our plums, and 
which will continue its ruinous work for a month to come, is a little weevil-^ 
that is a beetle, with a prolonged snout or proboscis — not more than y^ths of an 
inch long. It is dark in color, marked with indistinct gray and buff. When 
at rest its snout or trunk is bent under the body. To surely find it at this sea- 
son place a white sheet or table spread under a plum tree which is bearing 
plums, and then give the trunk of the tree or the branches, if the tree is large, 
a sharp blow. The curculios will fall to the sheet. If early in the morning or 
late in the afternoon they will remain in their humped up condition, by which 
they feign death, and in which they resemble small dried buds so closely that 
they must be carefully inspected to remove the deception. If in the hot sun- 
shine, in the middle of the day, they will soon crawl, or often at once take 
wing. In this way any one will be able to identify the pests. Very soon their 
appearance is learned, and one has no trouble to see them at once, when they 
may be grasped between the thumb and finger and crushed. I have four plum 
trees. It takes me about 10 minutes each day to catch and destroy the cuicu- 
lios, and by this slight trouble we shall have a fine quantity of beautiful fruit 
If we should neglect to fight the " little Turk " we would ge* not a plum." 

Bemarks. — On May 25th Prof. Cook had given, in answer to a Mrs. O. L 
Morgan, of Hillsdale, Mich., a more full direction as to the sheet, which should 
cover all the space underlhe tree, or such part of the tree as was being jarred; 
and also of the mallet, etc., which should have a handle at lesst 6 or 8 feet 
long, and the ends of the mallet to be well padded with cloth, so a.s not to bark 
the tree, nor the large limbs, which must be hit quite hard to fetch them down. 
But I think a strip of board, 3 or 3 inches wide, 6 to 10 feet long, one end 
padded, will do as well, and white sheets enough laid down to cover the ground 
under the tree; and the curculios are then, of course, to be ma&hed, or de- 
stroyed, as you like, and all grt-en and other worms, which also eat iL«to a^jples, 
pears, cherries, plums, etc., which, when they shake down should also be de- 
stroyed. The shaking, or jarring down should be done just at dusk of the 
evening, and at early dawn, as long as they are found. It is said that corn cobs 
saturated with kerosene, and hung by strings to the branches, keeps <he curcu- 
lios away from the trees. This lady also made the following inquiry In rela- 
tion to 

1. CUBRANT WOEMS.— " Is London purple as good a iwmedy for 
currant worms as white hellebore, and in what proportion is it to bp used m 
small quantities? " 

To which Prof. Cook gave thia answer: " I should prefer white t'eiiebor* 



see DR. CHASE'S RECIPE8. 

to London purple in fighting the currant worms, as it is just as effectual and 
not so poisonous. If it is thought best to use London purple, and it is safe 
with the requisite precautions, use 1 oz. of the purple to 5 or 6 gals, of water." 
Knowing the ability of this gentleman to answer all such questions correctly, 
I have given them most cheerfully. (For the strength of the hellebore water 
for this purpose, see how to use it, below.) 

2. Currant Worms, to Avoid.— A writer of experience in the Fruit 
Recorder says: "There is no necessity of breeding currant worms; which is 
done by leaving bushes untrimmed, the worms always attacking the new growth 
first." He continues: "My plan is this: In starting a currant patch I confine 
the bush not to exceed from 1 to 3 main stems, and give all the strength of 
the root to their support. As hinted above, sprouts will start from the roots 
each spring, but they must be rubbed off when small. All currant-growers are 
aware that worms first make their appearance on a new growth and then spread 
over the bush. Consequently, no sprouts, no worms. This is just as plain as 
that 2 and 2 make 4. I have followed this plan for the past 2 years to my sat- 
isfaction, and have barely seen the effects of worms on 1 or 2 bushes where 
my plan was not fully carried out. But such currants I never saw grow, the 
common red Dutch being nearly twice as large as the cherry currant and a bet- 
ter bearer, I had a few bushes that actually broke down from their load of 
fruit." 

Remarks. — The plan of making a kind of tree of the currant gives so much 
better chance of cultivating around them, I have often wondered it was not 
adopted generally; and if any one will adopt this plan, he will see how much 
easier it will be to adopt the use of soot, as the Scotch do, to eradicate the 
worm, and at the same time to fertilize; as given in the next item. 

3. Currant Worms to Destroy, and to Fertilize the Ground. 
— Instead of the powdered hellebore, as heretofore used, copperas water, at the 
rate of 1 lb. to water, 6 gals., not only destroys the worm, by pulling over the 
top of the bush to sprinkle it upon the under side of the leaves, but also fer- 
tilizes the soil. But possibly the Scotch method of dusting fine soot upon them 
after a shower, or when the dew is on, and also working small quantities of it 
into the soil around the bushes, is the best way after all, as it is claimed this 
latter plan in a year or two will eradicate them from the garden altogether. 

4. Lime, Another Certain Bemedy. — A horticulturist near this 
city, Toledo, O., says in the Post recently: "The only remedy for the currant 
worm known to us, is to begin early in the season to scatter air-slacked lime on 
the leaves. This work must be frequently and thoroughly done, always after 
sun-down. Throw the lime from below upwards, or pull the bushes over, in 
order to let it catch on the under side of the leaves, and also from above. This 
will save the currants if done thoroughly and often." 

Remarks. — I know the lime will prevent the conoirachelus nenupTiar (a big 
name for the p lum weevil), or curculio, from stinging, and thus destroying 
plums, if thrown on freely, while in blossom, and for a few days thereafter; 
then why may it not also destroy or prevent the currant worm from putting la 



MISCELLANEOUS. 567 

his work upon currants? I have not a doubt of it. The same writer says also 
that cultivators of smaU fruits recommend Fay's Prolific currant as a healthy 
and vigorous grower, productive and easily picked from the bush, and as a rule 
making fruit-buds under cover of every leaf. Then it must be a good one to 
raise. I think the best plan of applying the Ume, or any powder, upon cur- 
rant bushes, more especially upon fruit trees, would be to have a bellows like 
painters use to put sand upon their painted work, putting the powder in the 
hopper, the wind carries it out freely. The nose must be quite long for fruit 
trees. 

5o Currant Worms, New Way of Destroying.— The Kalamazoo 
(Mich.) Telegraph gives a plan of destroying the currant worm, or caterpillar, as 
some call them, discovered accidentally by a piece of woolen rag having been 
blown into a currant bush by the wind, which was found to be covered with 
these leaf -destroying pests. Pieces of woolen cloth were then placed in every 
bush, and the next day the worms had almost wholly taken to them for shelter. 
In this way every morning they were taken out and destroyed, and the rag 
replaced for a new crop, until completely used up. If this fails to reach all, use 
the lime dust, or some of the solutions with the syringe or atomizer. See " Cur- 
rants and Gooseberries, Setting Out, etc. 

6. Currant Worms and Rose Slug, How to Destroy with 
Hellebore.— I. For the Currant Worm.— There are many persons who from 
the certainty of hellebore to destroy them, claim it the best remedy yet known. 
If to be used, the American Agriculturist tells us how to do it. It claims, also, 
that if used in this manner it is perfectly safe. As to the way of using it it says: 
" Place a table-spoonful of the powdered hellebore in a bowl; pour upon it a 
little boiling hot water; stir so as to wet every particle, then add more water, 
stir well and pour into a pail; then rinse the bowl and pour the washings into 
the pail, which is then to be filled with cold water. Thus prepared, the mix- 
ture is to be syringed over the bushes. Two, or at most three, applications will 
finish the worms, and it would be difficult to find a safer or more effective 
remedy. Success with this, as with all similar things, depends upon applying 
the remedy early. Those who will take the pains, and where there are but few 
bushes it is advisable to do so, can avoid much of the necessity of poisoning by 
destroying the eggs of the caterpillar. These are laid upon the underside of the 
lower leaves of the bushes, and the leaves themselves may be plucked and 
burned, or the eggs crushed between the thumb and finger." 

Remarks.— This would be about at the rate of 1 lb. of the hellebore to 
25 gals, of water; and if this much is needed, and it is put into a barrel contain- 
ing this much water a day or two before it is to be applied, first pouring boiling 
water upon it in a pail, etc., as if the bowl was used, then stirring it 2 or 3 times 
daily, it will be ready for use; but cover up carefully, that nothing may drink 
of it and be thus also destroyed. 

II. For the Rose Sing.— The same strength of the solution of the hellebore 
will also destroy the rose slug, generally, by a single application, if thoroughly 
done; but if one apphcation fails apply again more thoroughly. 



568 BB. CEAm'S RECIPE8. 

Chloride of lime dusted on both sides of the leaves has also destroyed the 
currant worm; but this soon absorbs dampness from the air, hence must be kept 
in an air-tight can, only when being used. 

7. Dust of Coal Ashes, Destructive to Currant, Cucumber 
and Cabbage Worms.— The Fruit Recorder says it has for 3 or 4 years 
saved their currants by dusting on the fine sifted ashes the same as the lime 
above, and adds: " They are as eflfective to keep the striped bug off the cucum- 
ber vines," and it thinks also effective against the cabbage worm. Certainly 
coal ashes is an excellent fertilizer for currants and all other small fruits, as 
given next below, and I have not a doubt, equally valuable for the orchard 
generally. 

Coal Ashes as a Fertilizer for the Soils; Also Valuable for 
Cherry and Other Fruit Trees, etc.— I. For the Currants.— Common 
coal ashes, well distributed about roots of currants, is one of their best promo, 
ters. This should be done by loosening the soil about their roots and placing 
the ashes near them, cover firmly with earth above, and the bushes will bear 
such clusters as will speak the beneficial effects of this application of material 
too commonly thrown aside as of no use. 

II. Cherry and other fruit trees also greatly accept this renovator, and if 
carefully bedded about the roots with coal ashes in the fall the yield of fruit the 
following year will surprise the cultivator. Especially is this effect produced 
in the black loam of Illinois. We have in our mind one fruit garden there 
where all the small fruit was treated in this way, and have never seen their yield 
excelled. — National Farmer. 

Remarhs. — Vick, the florist, says that " coal soot is one of the most valu- 
able substances the gardener can apply, either as an insecticide (insect killer) or 
fertilizer. It will kill insects on cabbage and other young plants. In liquid 
form, of about a peck to a hogshead of water, sprinkled over strawberries and 
roses from the watering pot, it acts as a fertilizer and insect destroyer." 

9. Currants and Gooseberries, Setting Out for Trees or 
Bushes. — Both the currant and gooseberry do better to grow from cuttings 
than from tlie roots. The wood of the last year's growth must be taken, cut it 
into pieces from 8 to 10 inches in length, and insert about half the length in the 
usual prepared garden soil, press the ground firmly with the foot, mulch, and 
there will be no danger of not growing. Set them where they are desired to 
remain permanently. If a small tree and not a bush is preferred, cut out all 
the eyes entering the ground. If a bush, let the eyes remain. We prefer the 
bush for two reasons: tlie first is, more fruit is obtained; the second, it is longer 
lived. In fact, the bush will live half a century, only requiring thinning out of 
the wood once in a while. As to the variety of currants, we prefer decidedly 
the old Dutch Red. It is not quite so large as some others, but it bears as 
abundantly and is less acid and of better quality. Of gooseberries we prefer 
the Downing. It is of good quality, an excellent bearer, aad has never mil- 
dewed upon our yiTQxrdsQ&.-^Q6rmaMi07jm Teiegrapk^ 



MISCELLANEOUS. BfiS 

10. Grafting Currants— To Avoid the Borer and Mildew. The 

Rural New Yorker says: "Lovers of the currant and gooseberry have reason 
to feel jolly over the success which seems to attend grafting them upon the 
Missouri currant {Bibes aureum), vphich is not liable to the attacks of the borer. 
Besides they are exempt from mildew. And thus by u single, happy hit the 
two great drawbacks to currant and gooseberry cultivation have been overcome. 
The beauty of these little trees when loaded with their pretty berries, as dis- 
played at the Centennial, is of itself enough to insure their general cultivation. 
It would be well for those who intend experimenting with grafting currants 
to bear in mind that there is a great differcmce in the variety of the 3Iissouri 
currant, some making better stocks than others." 

Remarks. — I will add, here, that tliere is no fruit that will show more 
speedily than the currant the effects of high manuring. If large and luscious 
berries are expected, thin out the bushes, and cover the surface with good rich 
manure, after having poked some into the ground around them as far out as 
the roots extend. 

Gooseberries, to prevent Mildew.— ^Edward Martin, of Freehold, 
N. J., says he prevents mildew on his gooseberries by raising the English vari- 
ety, and applying soapsuds with a garden syringe, costing only $1.50, begin- 
ning its application as soon as the fruit begins to form, twice a week for 3 or 
4 weeks, has never failed him, saving the suds on wash-days, for this purpose. 

1. CABBAGE WORM— Successful Remedy.— A correspondent 
of the New York Triburie makes the following statement as to the destruction 
of this late pest of the garden, not in the least injuring the cabbage, as anyone 
can judge. He says: " I have used salt for the cabbage worm — at the rate of 
a large tea-cupful to a pail of water — for the last two years with perfect suc- 
cess. Two applications have been all that were needed. It killed the worms 
(or at least they died) without hurting the cabbage at all." 

Remarks. — The cabbage worm being a soft-skinned thing, I think the salt 
will destroy them; if it does not in any case, try the copperas water, as given for 
destroying the currant worm above. The copperas will not injure th( cabbage, 
and, I think, either might be used double the strength given, if needed. 

2. Cabbage Worm, the Best Remedy, as Shewn by the New 
York Experiment Station. — Common yellow hard soap, 1 oz. ; kerosene, 
1 pt. ; water, 1% gals. ; well mixed and stirred and applied by means of a water- 
ing-pot, proved the best of anything tried at the above station in 1883. They 
state that " it kills all the worms it thoroughly wets, and does not injure the 
plant." They say "it must be kept thoroughly stirred while applying. Sev- 
eral applications may be needed." 

Remarks. — But if they will bring the soap and water to the boiling point, 
then stir in the kerosene, it will make a permanent mixture, like Prof. Cook'b 
In reference to nearly the same for lice or scale bugs on trees. 

3. Cabbage Plants, Best Manner of Setting Out.— In setting out 
cabbage plants it has been found best to pull off the largest leaves, leaving only 
the center, as they are then more certain to live and to do better, from the fact 



570 I>R- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

that the large leaves often wither and die for want of a ready support from jae 
transplanting. 

1. ANTS, ROACHES, LITTLE SPIDERS, ETC.— To Destroy. 

>— " Hot alum water," says a recent practical woman writer, " is the latesi sa,^ 
gestion as an insecticide (insect killer). It will destroy red ants, black ants 
roaches, spiders, chintz bugs and all other crawling pests which infest oui 
houses." 

Remarks. — This writer does not say how much alum to use. I should t^ay 
J^ lb to 1 pail of water, sprinkled about their haunts boiling hot, would do the 
work well. 

2. Another writer, after being pestered with red ants a year or tw(/, diove 
them away by placing raw sliced onions about the closets. 

3. Another by putting tar, 1 pt., into water, 2 qts., and placing in ,ohaliow 
dishes in the closets. 

4. Another by wetting sponges in sweetened water and placing where 
they enter the house, if that can be found, else in the closets, and after an hour 
or two dipping into boiling water. 

5. Another.— Destroys roaches by distributing the freshly dug roots of 
the black hellebore, bruised or strewed around the floor, or places where they 
frequent at nights, claiminr; it to be as infallible as it is poisonous, and they 
eat it with avidity. It grows in marshy places, and it is kept by drugolsts- 
these being dry however, would have to be soaked or steeped a little to allow it 
to be mashed. The water then might also be placed in shallow dishes, with 
bits of shingle laid on the edge to allow them to go up to it. See 8, 9 and 10, 
etc. 

6. Ants, to drive from Lawns or other Grounds.— CarboliG 
Acid, crude, 1 part to the water 40 parts, (ounces, pounds, or pints); mix and 
sprinkle upon their mounds. "Why not good then, about the houses where 
they infest? Standing the legs of safes for victuals in dishes of water wih beat 
them all badly as to getting their dinner from that quarter. 

7. Roaches.— Have been driven off, or killed, as I suppose by laying 
red wafers around for them to eat; the red being the result of the use of red 
'ead, which is poisonous and destructive. Lozenges made with red lead would 
do the same thing; a mixture of red lead, say one oz., with corn meal, % pt. 
moistened with molasses to a consistence of batter, and spread on the bottom 
of plates turned up, or on thin pieces of boards, wiU also destroy them, as they 
eat it greedily. 

8. Roaches. — I have seen it stated that a lb. of powdered borax scat- 
tered around their haunts would clear any house of roaches. I have scattered 
it upon them where they nested in drawers, etc., and have seen' them scatter 
with the dust upon them, like leaves before an autumn wind — like the leaves, 
never to retxirn. Yet I have heard others say it did no good; but with some 
of these plans, perseverance must conquer. 

9. Roaches, Ants, Spiders, Chintz Bugs, etc., to Destroy.— 
^ie Journal of Chemistry publishes the following, as efficacious for all Uiese 



MiaCELLANEOTTS. 571 

pests. It says: "Hot alum water is a recent suggestion as an insecticide, 
(insect killer). It will destroy red and black ants, roaches, spiders, chintz 
(striped or spotted) bugs, and all crawling pests which infest our houses. Dis- 
solve alum, 2 lbs. in 3 or 4 qts. of boiling water; then apply it with a brush, 
while nearly boiling hot, to every joint and cre\nce in your closets, bedsteads, 
pantry shelves and the like. Brush the crevices in the floor of the skirting or 
mop boards, if you suspect that they harbor vermin. If, in whitewashing a 
ceiling, plenty of alum is added to the lime, it will also serve to keep insects at 
a distance, and also cause the white-wash to stick better; 2 lbs. to a pail is 
enough. Roaches will flee the paint which has been washed in cool alum water 
of this strength. 

Remarks. — This is confirmed by the Cincinnati Times, only the Times rec- 
ommended it as strong as 2 lbs. to 2 qts. of water, put on hot with a white- 
wash brush. It also recommends carbolic acid diluted with water, and applied 
with a brush of feathers for the destruction of red ants; and says: "If they do 
not leave the first time, apply again stronger," but it does not give the proper 
strength. The crude, or black, dirty acid, which the crude is, could not be 
used on shelves in the cupboard or closets, but the pure, which is clean and 
transparent would have to be used, such as druggists sell, of about 50 per cent, 
strength, for about 25 cts. an oz. This strength would kill them certainly, and 
I think if as much water is added, it would still be strong enough. 

Roaches may be driven away by putting Scotch, or other highly dried snuff 
into their Iiaunts, or crevices, and about the shelves, etc. 

10. Roaches Utterly Destroyed.— A correspondent of the Country 
Oentleman says: " I give a recipe to your correspondent who wishes to know 
how to get rid of the insects he calls the cockroaches, although I think he mis- 
names them. Let his wife finish making peach preserves late at night in a 
smooth, briglit, brass kettle ; then persuade her it is too late to clean the kettle 
till morning, but set it against the wall where the insects are thickest and retire 
to rest. In the morning he will find the sides of the kettle bright as a new dol- 
lar, but he will find every insect that was hungry in the bottom of the kettle, 
when, if he uses the recipe I did, he will treat them to a sufficient quantity of 
boiling water to render them perfectly harmless. As I thought molasses cheaper 
than peach preserve juice, I ever afterward baited the same trap with molasses, 
and I caught the last one of millions. I pity any person troubled with them. 
I have lived 30 years since making the discoveiy (accidental), and have never 
had to repeat it." 

Remarks. — There is no mistake about the name, as Webster's Unabridged 
calls them cockroaches; but, for short, I have called them roaches, which 
everybody understands just as well; as it is only because they are so very 
troublesome, and hard to get rid of, that I have given so many plans by which 
they can be driven away or destroyed. 

1. BED BUGS— To Destroy.— Take a quart bottle and fill it with 
equal parts of best alcohol and spirits of turpentine, and add camphor gum, 1 
oz. Shake well when used, and with a small brush wet the crevices, foldings 
of the curtains, etc., if there is the least sign of the bugs having been about 



5,^2 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

them. This is harmless, and safe, except by candle light. If any doubt of its 
success, touch a bug with the least bit of it you can put on him. Use it freely, 
as it is inexpensive, but positive, in its destructive powers; and does not staia 
bed clothing. Still I must give some more, which are poisonous. Though 
the next is not poisonous, but more hkely to Inflame, or explode, than this; but, 
no matter what may be used, look over the bedstead in a week or two to meet 
any new ones, from nits not touched at first. 

2. Naptha alone, or even gasoline, will destroy bed bugs utterly and 
quickly. Put on as No. 1, freely. 

3. Bed Bug Poison. — Beat the whites of 4 fresh eggs well, and then put 
In 1 oz. of quicksilver; or in this proportion, for as much as needed, and apply 
with a brush, or feather, as most convenient — keep it out of the way of chil- 
dren, as it is very poisonous. Corrosive sublimate pulverized, % oz., beat in, 
in the same way, will do the same thing. Or it can be used in liquid form, as 
in the next recipe. 

4. Bed Bugs, to Get Rid of.— Spirits of turpentine, }{ pt. ; corro- 
sive sublimate, % oz. When dissolved apply with brush or feather to every 
crevice. Go over every 2 weeks till all nits are hatched out and killed— 2 or 3 
times will do it every time. It is poisonous. These poisonous things are more 
certain to prevent a return than the others. 

5. Another and better plan is to use carbolic acid, 2 drs., to water, i^ pt., 
and apply as the others. 

6. And finally, the grease cooked out of salt pork, or bacon, applied hot, 
by keeping over a dish of coals, is said to be everlasting in its effects of kill 
ing and keeping them away. The reporter of the plan had been 30 years with- 
out their return. - 1 should only fear the everlasting squeak of the bedstead, it 
applied in the joints, just where the bugs most do congregate. 

7. Bed Bugs, to Clear from Old Cracked Walls, etc.— Tear 
off the old paper and wash the walls with pretty strong boiling hot lye, made 
from wood ashes, or the concentrated lye, of which soap is made. Two ozs. 
of this would be enough for a pail of water. Put it freely to every crack, and 
about the base, at the floor joint, as well as next the plaster; then repaper and 
you are safe. If the wall is rough, and danger of nits, wash the whole wall 
with the hot lye. 

Caterpillars on Fruit Trees, To Destroy.— If for no other reason 
than for the looks of an orchard every bunch of caterpillars should be destroyed 
as soon as seen; but if left alone they multiply and soon extend from tree to tree 
so quickly, to the destruction of the orchard, it should be done to eradicate them 
entirely from the grounds, as notliing is so unsightly as an orchard or tree 
infested with these pests. The most positively destructive way of nVIding the 
trees of them is to have a sheet-iron dish made about 6 inches deep and 4 inches 
in diameter, with a tube-like piece, 5 or 6 inches long, standing at an angle of 
45° (quarterly pitch) from the perpendicular, at the bottom, into which put the 
end of a slender pole, fitted to enter the tube 2 or 3 inches; the tube, say, ' inch 



MISCELLANEOUS, 578 

In diameter, having 2 or 3 small holes near its attachment to the main dish, to 
allow the circulation of air to prevent its heating and burning the 
pole; and near the bottom of the dish 3 or 4 holes of % ^^ % ^^^^ 
diameter are to be made to allow a draft of air to make the char- 
coal bum, which is to be put into the dish and set burning; then an extra 
person besides the one managing the pole with the chafing-dish upon it, drops in 
a few pieces of broken up roll brimstone, when it is to be at once elevated to the 
nest; the fumes of the brimstone and the heat soon causes a stampede that is 
effectual. If you don't believe it, please burn a match under your nose, and 
you can soon tell what the result would be, if long continued. To give the 
caterpillars a chance to drop out, pass the apparatus up through their nest. No 
living thing can stand the fumes of burning sulphur; but brimstone in small 
pieces is best for this as it does not burn out so quickly as the fine sulphur. As 
soon as a nest is seen go for it, and you will soon eradicate them. The plan of 
of burning kerosene destroys the limbs too quickly. A day without wind is 
best, lest it drive the fumes away, rather than allow them to go directly upward 
through the nest. 

Weeds, To Destroy, in Gravel Walks.— To destroy weeds in 
gravel walks sprinkle them with carbolic acid, about the strength of 1 of acid 
to 40 of water. I have found it successful, but the process must be repeated at 
least once a year. — London Journal. 

Remarks. — There is no doubt of its success, but 1 lb. of stone lime boiled 
to each gallon of water, stirring a few times while boiling, then the clear water 
sprinkled on, or poured along the cracks of plank walks, wiU kill them just as 
surely, and not cost one-quarter as much. 

1. CISTEEN— How to Build.— I see that a subscriber wishes to 
know the best way to build a cistern. I have had the care of building quite a 
number, and would say to him, build two instead of one so large; dig the holes 
and put on two good coats of cement on the bank, and arch with good hard 
brick. One of my neighbors has one that I built for him 16 years ago, iu 
this way, and it has been in use ever since. I had one built for myself C 
years ago; the masons put brick all round, the brick settled and it leaked. I 
had another built 2 years ago, which was 8 feet across in the clear after finished, 
and 9 feet deep. This was plastered on the bank and arched with brick, and 
has been full of water ever since, and has not leaked a drop that I know of. 
I could mention more made in this way, but this is enough. I would not 
have brick or stone in the sides of a cistern if they were put in for nothing; 
they are simply thrown away. — Mentor, in Country Gentleman. 

Remarks. — If the Portland cement, which is the best water-lime, I think, 
in use, is obtained, or the best water-lime which can be got is used, there 
can be no doubt of the success in soil that does not cave; but in clay soil, 
they claim, nothing but tubs built of plank will keep out the surface water. 
This may be so, but it seems to me, even on clay, 2 coats of a mortar made 
with the best Portland cement would keep the surface water out as well as 
it would keep in what comes in by the spout. It would save much expense 



574 DR. CHASE'S BECIPE8. 

if successful, which I fully believe it would be. Any plasterer would know 
the proper amount of clean sand to use with it. 

2. Cisterns, How to Build Square or Round— The Differ- 
ence in Capacity with, the Same Number of Brick. — But few per- 
sons are aware that a square cistern holds considerably less than a round one, 
the walls containing the same number of brick. But it is a fact, nevertheless. 
For instance: about 2,800, or at most, 3,000, brick will make a cistern 10 feet 
square and 10 feet deep, having an inside surface of 400 square feet, and will 
contain 1,000 square or cubic feet of water, equal to about 7,500 gallons, while 
the same number of brick will make a round cistern of about 12% feet in 
diameter and 10 feet deep, which will contain about 1,270 cubic feet, or 9,225 
gallons, a gain of about 27 per cent, in capacity, with no more cost, either in 
brick, mortar, or laying the walls. Calculate about 7 brick to lay a 4-inch wall, 
for each square foot of wall desired, whether larger or smaller, deeper or less 
depth, it matters not. For the size above given, about 2 barrels of cement will 
be required, as the bottom ought to be about 2 inches thick. In laying the wall 
great care should be taken to ram or pack the dirt down very firmly behind it, 
so as to resist the pressure of water. The roof should be arched 2 feet below 
the top of the ground. 

ICE-HOUSE.— To Build Good but Cheap.— A year or two ago I 
had my attention called to an ice-house built by a farmer near me, which was 
simply a bin, made of rough boards, 16 feet square, and roofed over, leav- 
ing a large opening in the front and sides. He said his ice kept perfectly until 
the next winter. He put a layer of sawdust, about a foot thick, on the ground, 
and then stacked the ice snugly in the center, 18 or 20 inches from the walls, 
and then filled in with sawdust, and up over the top a foot or more thick. Last 
winter, before filling my ice-house, I determined to try this method. I 
accordingly tore out all the inside wall, and shoveled out the sawdust; then 
filled by stacking it snugly in the center, 15 or 20 inches from the wall. This 
space I filled in with pine sawdust, and covered the whole over the top a foot 
thick or more, i left out the window and took down my door and left it all 
open, so that the sun could shine in every day. Now for results. At the pres- 
ent time I have an abundance of ice, and the cakes seem to come out as square 
and perfect as when they went in, seemingly nothing lacking except what is 
used out. I am satisfied. how to build an ice-house. — Vor. N. T. Fanners' 
Club, in Bnral New Yorker. 

Remarks — I see this writer speaks twice of a "foot or more," i. e., of the 
sawdust over the ice. I should "go" for more, say as least 18 or 20 inches, and 
it strikes me as more correct also to keep out the sun; but have a window in 
each gable to allow the wind to pass through to carry off the moisture arising 
froin the ice I am honest in the opinion that a simple wall with 18 or 20 inches 
of sawdust between the wall and ice is better than a double wall. Tramp 
the sawdust down well as filled in. 

This is confirmed by J. S. Stephens, of Moore's Hill, Ind., writing to the 
Cincinnati Gazette, with a slight difference, in that he built his only 13 feet 



MISCELLANEOUS. 575 

eqiiare, keeping 18 inches of sawdust between the ice and boards, giving him a 
block of ice 9x9 feet, and digging six inches into the ground at the bottom, 
then putting in sawdust enough to give him 1 foot when settled with the ice 
upon it, so he had 6 inches drainage above the ground; he says, too, "the 
space above the ice to be open and free for circulation and for the sun to shine 
In." I would keep the sun out, except by windows, to let the air go through. 
The Gazette added the following comment: "We regard the above as one of 
the best plans for a cheap ice-house ever published. Many ice-houses costing 
three times what the above would cost, have proved failures, the ice all melting 
by mid-summer. 

SHINGLES.-To Make Fire-Proof and More Durable.— The 
Scientific American says: "Take a potash kettle or large tub, and put into it 1 
barrel of wood-ashes lye; 5 lbs. white vitriol, 5 lbs. alum, and as much salt as 
will dissolve in the mixture. Make the liquor quite warm, and put as 
many shingles into it as can be conveniently wetted at once. Stir them up, 
and when well soaked (say 2 hours) take them out and put in more, renewing 
the liquor as necessary. Thenlp-' the shingles in the usual manner. After 
they are laid, take the hquor out that is left, put hme enough into it to make 
whitewash, and if any coloring is desirable, add ochre, Spanish brown, etc., 
and apply to the roof with a brush or an old broom. This wash may bf» 
renewed from time to time. Salt and lye are excellent preservatives of wood. 
It is well known that leach tubs, troughs, and other articles used in the manu 
facture of potash, never rot. They become saturated with the alkali, turn yel- 
lowish inside, and remain impervious to the weather." 

Remarks. — "Where no wood-ashes are to be had, potash, or the concen 
trated lye for soap-making, 5 lbs. would be equal, or probably half stronger 
than the wood-ashes lye, as above given. Of course, putting the shingles loose 
into the mixture, takes up twice as much fluid as to put the butts in up to the 
hand, as sometimes done, and does not increase their fire-proof, nor lasting 
qualities. The dryer the shingles the better will they absorb the mixture. 

1 . CLOTH.— Fire-Proof.— For clothing to be starched, put }4 as much 
tungstate of soda as you use of starch; starching as usual, and ironing, which 
does not affect its fire-proof qualities. The tungstate of soda is often used as 
a mordant in dyeing, which, of course, makes them much less inflammable. 
There is so much life lost by dresses taking fire now-a-days it seems that advan 
tage ought to be taken of this plan of fire-proofing them when starched. 

2. For goods not needing to be starched, make a solution of % lb. of the 
tungstate to each gal. of water, wet thoroughly, and dry, twice, if to be abso- 
lutely sure against blazing. Soft water always. May be ironed. 

Cloths, to Water-Proof.— Dissolve sugar of lead, 10 ozs. , in a com- 
mon wooden pail of water; do the same with the same amount of powdered 
alum in another pail of water, and then pour together, and thoroughly wet the 
cloth therein, and dry, better without wringing. If weighted and allowed to 
soak awhile, all the better. 



576 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Water Proof Solution, or Paint, for Awnings, etc.— Put 1 oz. 
each of rosin and beeswax, to each pint of linseed oil needed. Apply 1 to 3 
coats, as you desire. 

Oiled Cloth for Hot Beds; Boxes for Hills, for Early and 
Safe Culture from. Bugs, etc. — Linseed oil, 4 ozs.; lime water, 2 ozs.; 
white of eggs, 1 oz. ; yolks of eggs, 2 ozs. Directions — Mix the oil and lime 
water with a very gentle heat; beat the eggs, separately, then mix all together. 
Keep these proportions for any amount wanted. Take stout, white, cotton 
cloth, of a close texture; stretch and tack it closely upon frames, or boxes, of 
any size you wish; then, with a paint brush, spread 2 or 3 coats of the mixture, 
as each coat dries, till the cloth is water proof. 

Its Advantages Over Glass. — It does not cost one-fourth as much; repairs 
are easily made; the boxes or frames are light to handle; and there is plenty 
light for healthy growth; and the moisture rising from the earth condenses on 
the under side of the cloth, and drips back; while glass becomes hot, and 
hence calls for more sprinkling, — Fruit Record. 

Remarks.— A box a foot square, placed over the cucumber or squash hills, 
and the dirt packed a little at the bottom ensures against bugs, as well as to 
hasten their growth. Tomatoes, melons, etc., and garden seeds of any kind 
will be hastened by their use; and if packed away carefully when done with 
them, they will last several years, by a new coat yearly. This covering is a 
certain protection aiso against late spring frosts. 

Greenhouse, or Hot Beds, Best Shading for the Glass.— Peter 
Henderson says the best shading he has ever used for the glass in greenhouses 
or hot-beds is naptha, mixed with a little white lead, so as to give it the appear- 
ance of thin milk. This can be put on the glass with a syringe, very quickly, 
at a cost not exceeding 25 cents per 100 square feet. It holds on the entire sea- 
son, until loosened by the fall frosts. There is no better authority than Mr. 
Henderson. 

1. CAITDrES— Everton Taffy, with Brown Sugar.— Put but- 
ter, }4 lb., into a suitable dish, with brown sugar, 1 lb. ; stir over the fire for 15 
minutes, or until the mixture becomes brittle when dropped in cold water; add 
lemon or vanilla flavoring after the cooking is completed; cool on flat buttered 
tins and mark in squares, before cold, so it can be easily broken. This is a 
cheap confection, and it is safe to say that no kind of candy brings in so large 
a revenue to the small manufacturers and dealers from the school children of 
New York as Everton taffy. 

2. Everton Taffy, with White Sugar.— Put loaf sugar, 1 lb., 
into a brass pan (any sauce-pan will do) with a cup of water; beat ]4 1^. of but- 
ter to a cream; when the sugar is dissolved add the butter, and keep stirring 
the mixture over the fire until it sets, when a little is poured on a buttered dish. 
Just as it is done add 6 drops of essence of lemon. Butter a tin, pour on the 
mixture, 3^ to ^ inch thick, and when cool it will easily separate from the 
dish. Mark off in squares, if you wish it to break easily. 

Remarks. — If this was not called Everton taffy, after its first maker, I 



MISCELLANEOUS. ' 577 

should consider it butter scotch, but under its new name, it will taste all the 
sweeter. 

3. Molasses Taffy.— Molasses, 2 cups (Porto Rico is best); sugar, 1 
cup; butter, size of a Guinea hen's egg; nuts, a cup or two, if you like; soda, 
% tea-spoonful. Directions — Put molasses, sugar and butter together, and 
boil to nearly the brittle point; add the nuts, if used, then the soda and if not 
brittle when dropped into cold water, boil until it is. Pour into buttered plates 
to cool. 

Chocolate C?ream8 and Caramels.— These Creams and Caramels 
were sent to the New York Examiner, by "Nula" of Clyde, Wayne co., N. Y., 
with the following explanation, also vouching for their reliability. It says: 
"Candies made at home are so much purer than those made by confectioners 
that reliable recipes for making them are really valuable. We liave used the 
following ones long enough to know that they can be depended upon. " 

Chocolate Creams. — Take 2 cups of granulated sugar, and % cup of sweet 
cream, and boil them together for just 5 minutes from the time they begin to 
boil. Remove from the stove, add a tea-spoonful of vanilla, and stir constantly 
until cool enough to work with the hands. Roll into little balls, and lay on 
buttered papers to cool. Put J^ of a cake of Baker's chocolate in a bowl, and 
set the bowl in hot water to melt. Do not add water. When the chocolate is 
melted, roll the balls in the melted chocolate with a fork, and replace them on 
the buttered papers. I never ate richer or more delicious chocolate creams. 
When the white mixture has partly cooled, it may be dropped on buttered 
papers, and nut meats be put on top, making it a pleasing variety. 

Chocolate Caramels. — Molasses 1 cup, 2 cups sugar, 1 cup rich milk ot 
cream, and % a cake of Baker's chocolate. Boil 20 minutes and turn into but- 
tered tins. Cut into squares when partly cool. Flavor with vanilla as you re- 
move it from the stove. The flavoring for any candy ought not to be put in 
until it is a little cool, to save evaporation of the fine aroma or flavor. 

Cocoanut Candy. — Put into a suitable kettle pulverized white sugar, 4 
lbs. ; the feeaten whites of 2 eggs, and the milk of 2 cocoanuts. Stir together, 
and place over the fire until you see it is thickening; then, having the meats 
nicely grated, put in, and watch and stir carefully, till it hardens quickly when 
dropped into cold water; then pour on buttered tins or marble slabs. Spread 
out to thickness desired, and before cold mark off to suit. 

Bemarks — If done with judgment and care, it is very nice. A gentleman 
or his wife, in the house where I room at this writing, Jan., '85, rottkes a 
hatch of this nearly every evening, and sells it the next day to the school chil- 
dren. They sometimes cook it till it takes rather a yellow or brown shade, as 
some of the children like it better than if left entirely white. 

Putty (Old), To Remove Easily.— It is quite difficult t. remove the 
old putty from tlie sash when a glass is broken ; but if you apply a hot solder- 
ing iron to the putty and pass it slowly over all that you desire to remove it 
softens it quickly so it can be removed nearly as readily as if just i»ut on. Any 
iron that is of such shape as to allow its close contact with the putty wiU do as 



578 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

well as a regular soldering iron, but one of these would be very convenient In 
every family — especially in the country — for purposes of soldering tinware, to 
save taking it to town to get it done, or otherwise stuffing a rag into the hole. 
Soft soap will do the same, but takes much longer. 

Flavoring Extracts, Lemon and Orange, Home-Made.— When- 
ever either of these fruits are being used cut the rinds rather finely and put into 
fruit jars or large-mouthed bottles and cover with alcohol ; fill and press in from 
time to time until full, keeping covered with the alcohol. After a couple of 
weeks the flavor will be nearly or quite equal to the extracts kept on sale, espe- 
cially so, if the bottle or jar is pressed full of the rinds and the crevices only 
ailed with the alcohol. Use the same as the extract. 

Elevator from Cellar to Pantry. — Elevators from kitchen to dining- 
room are very common, but not any more important than one from cellar 
t,o pantry. It can be made with 3 or 4 shelves, using plank for end pieces, and 
will be better if made with a back of wire cloth, with doors in front, having the 
same covering in the place of panels, the same as safes for victuals; then the 
-'voman can place her victuals therein and lower to the cellar without going 
down at all, and raise when wanted for the next meal. If a wife is worth sav- 
Sag, have one put in at once, and she will bless you, as well as the day you had 
it done. Make as light as jwssible to be stout enough for the purpose. Any 
good mechanic can do it. 

1. VINEGAR— from Sugar.— Good brown sugar, J^ lb.; soft warm 
^ater, 1 gal. Keep same proportions for any amount you desire to make, 
feast, good brewer's, J^ pt. or hop, home-made, 1 pt. strained for each 10 gals. 
OiRECTiONS — Dissolve the sugar in a pail by pouring hot water upon it and 
stirring, or else put into the keg and shake thoroughly to dissolve it; then add 
the balance of water for the amount to be made, and add the yeast when the 
ipater is only warm. To scald yeast kills it. The kegs or bbls. should never 
»e more than % or ^ filled, as vinegar to make quickly must have a large sur- 
tace to allow warm air to come in contact with the fluid. Put mosquito netting 
or coarse cheese cloth over the bung to keep out the flies and let the air in. If 
shaken daily it makes quicker — in from 2 to 4 weeks, according to the heat of 
'ihe sun or the warmth of the room in which it is placed. A pt. to 1 qt. of 
shelled corn will do very well in place of yeast, as it has a great fermenting 
power; but after 3 weeks at most, if corn is used, the vinegar must be drawn 
off to get rid of the corn. If you have 1 gal. of good vinegar to put into each 
5 being made, no yeast or corn need be used. 

2. Vinegar, from Molasses.— Good molasses, 1 qt. to each gal. of 
tvarm, soft water. Make every way the same as No. 1 . 

3. Vinegar, from Sugar or Molasses, Hop Yeast and Corn. - 
Mrs. K. J. Simpson of Hedgeman, Kan., in answer to an inquiry in the Blade, 
"how to make vinegar," says: "To 10 gal. of water take 10 lbs. of sugar, 1 
gal. of hop j^east sponge, set and let get light as for bread, boil 1 gal. of corn 
till tender, when cool pour in an open keg or jar all together, and in 3 or S 



MISCELLANEOUS. 67W 

weeks you will have the best of vinegar. Shaking or moving around does not 
iiajure it at all; it never dies; keep covered." 

Remarks — Here you see an open keg or jar is called for, knowing that air 
must come in contact with a large surface of the fluid to make quickly; but a 
keg or bbl. only % full, or a little more, gives a larger surface to the air, of 
course, laying on its side, and the bung only covered with open cloth or mos- 
quito netting, keeps out the flies and dirt and allows the daily shaking, which 
also hastens its oxygenation, souring, by giving a new surface to the air at each 
shaking. It is also more cleanly, because less likely to have anything get into 
it. But remember where sponge yeast and corn are used, when the fluid has 
worked clear, in about 3 weeks, it should be poured off, the dregs and com 
strained out, or otherwise got rid of, and the fluid returned and shaken daily 
till the vinegar is as sharp as desired. Another lady signing herself "'K. A. M." 
—Mama, I suppose it means — gives the following plan of making: 

Corn Vinegar.— "Cut off of the cob 1 pt. of corn, then take 1 pt. of 
brown sugar or molasses to 1 gal. of rain water; add the corn, put into a jar, 
cover with a cloth, set in the sun, and in 3 weeks you will have good vinegar. 
I have made it 5 years, and know it is good. Have cider vinegar, but like the 
corn vinegar best." 

Cider Vinegar. — Pure cider vinegar is acknovvledged to be the best that 
can be made. To make it quickly, a writer gives us the following plan. He 
says: "Expose a large surface of the cider to the action of the atmosphere; it 
will turn rapidly to vinegar; for instance, if the cider is put into buckets or tubs 
in the sun, and a mosquito netting is laid over the top of it so that the flies will 
not touch it, and shield it also from rain by boards, in 3 or 4 weeks you will 
have strong vinegar. The larger the surface exposed to the air, the sooner the 
fermentation will take place and vinegar be formed. Place a bucket of cider 
behind a cooking stove constantly in use, and you will soon have vinegar. 
Warmth and air are all that are needful." 

Remarks — This would be impracticable except in small quantities, and in 
warm summer weather. If this writer had said warmth, air and time are all 
that are needful to make vinegar out of cider, he would have covered the 
whole ground, for 'tis rather a slow process. Not much use to try to do any- 
thing more with cider the season it is made only, only to leave the bungs out of 
the bbl. to allow its first fermentation to proceed, or it is best to leave the bung 
out all the time, if the cider is to be made into vinegar. And those who desire 
to make it in quantities for sale, will do best, no doubt, to follow the French 
plan below described by the Maim Farmer, as follows: 

" Old cider or vinegar barrels, if sound, are preferred to new ones, but if 
new they are washed with scalding water; boiling vinegar is next poured in and 
the bung closed and the barrel allowed to stand until its sides become thoi ■ 
oughly saturated with the vinegar. This requires from 1 to 3 days, according.' 
lo the material of which the barrel is made. After this preparation it is filled 
about one-third with strong and pure cider vinegar and 2 gallons of cider. 
Every eighth day thereafter, 2 gallons of cider are added xmtil the barrel j.i 



580 -t/.7. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

two-thirds full. In 14 days after the last two gallons are added the whole will 
have turned into vinegar; one-half of which is drawn off and the process of 
filling with cider begun again. In summer the oxygenation will go on in 
the sun, but in cool weather the liquid is kept where the heat can be main- 
tained at about 80 degrees. By this process it takes a little more than two 
months to produce vinegar." 

Remarks. — You vdll understand this 16 gals, is produced in each bbl., so if 
a man is working 100 bbls. he makes 1,600 gals., or about 50 bbls. of 32 gals, 
er.ch (which is a legal bbl.), every two months of the summer season; and if he 
is going to carry it on for a business, as a man does in this city (Toledo, O.), 
and has a suitable building, he can work 500 bbls. as well as 100. In summer, 
free air is admitted by lowering and raising windows, and if he chooses, can 
make considerable in the colder months by keeping his room warm with 
stoves or furnace, if the demand justifies it. This gentleman tells me that 
some old, pure cider vimegar, to mix with the newer cider, is far preferable to 
yeast or any other ferment, which will be found to be a great aid, as mentioned 
in the close of the directions of No. 1 ; and if a larger amount than there 
named is used, even 1 to 3, or the bbl. filled one-third full, as in the French 
plan above, it will make all the quicker. Quite an important point for those 
who may wish to manufacture vinegar of pure cider, in the cities or for city 
trade, is to have one or more large casks in the building, holding 1,000 gals. 
(Mr. Hine, of this city, before referred to, has two such), into which it is all 
placed, before sold, as it insures a greater uniformity of taste, from the large 
amounts always kept in these large tanks or casks. Mr. Hine's 1,000 gal. casks, 
in cheap times, cost him only $50 each, but he thinks they pay in giving this 
uniformity of taste; as without them the taste depends upon the kind and qual- 
ity of the apples from which the cider is made. A 3-story building is none too 
high, as, after the first working of the cider is over in the lower story or base- 
ment, it is pumped to the third, and after 6 months or so it is run into barrels 
in the next story below by means of rubber tube siphons, and then again into 
the large casks, when properly worked or having become vinegar fit for sale — 
it is the true way of making pure cider vinegar in large quantities. 

Vinegar Prom Tomatoes, — It is claimed that ripe tomatoes furnish a 
juice, or cider, if you wish to call it such, that makes an excellent vinegar with- 
out the addition of sugar; but my own idea would be, that from }iio% lb. of 
sugar would be required to each gal. to make excellent vinegar. With this 
addition, no doubt, it will make good vinegar, for with 3* or 4 lbs. to each gal. 
it will make a good wine, if a slight taste of the tomato, which it retains, is not 
objectionable. 

Vinegar Prom Alcohol, or Proof Spirit, Strength Required.— 
It is recently claimed that to make vinegar with alcohol, or proof spirit, which 
is the cheapest — either should contain 80 per cent, of alcohol. It is necessary 
to use from 17 to 25 per cent, of it, i. e., 17 gals, of proof spirit with water to 
make 100 gals, makes good vinegar — this is about 1 to 6, while 25 per cent., or 
1 to 4, makes extra strong. This can be made in the sun, or a warm place, by 



MISCELLANEOUS. 581 

working with yeasi, as other vinegars are made, or by putting it through what 
is called the German process of filtering it through beech shavings, described 
in the U. S Dispensatory. But the plan of using any of the mineral acids in 
making vinegar is deleterious to health, and ought not to be done. 

VINEGAR, SPICED— For Table Use, Mixed Pickles, etc.— 
People of late years have got into the habit of spicing vinegar highly for table 
use, as well as for various kinds of mixed pickles, and even for the common or 
cucumber pickles, and as it gives an extra relish, if nicely done, I will give one» 
of the best; then one with plain celery, and one of currie flavor, which can be« 
prepared and bottled or jugged, always ready for use. For a highly spiced 
vinegar make as follows; but, if in any case the onions, garlics, or any of the 
spices are not desired from not liking their peculiarities, leave them out; or you 
may add half as much more of any spice you prefer to be most prominent in 
the vinegar: 

For each gallon of good cider vinegar, slice small garlics, 6; and small 
onions, 1 doz. ; horse radish, 2 good sized roots, also sliced; bruised ginger root, 
4 ozs. ; black pepper and allspice, unground, each 2 ozs. ; cloves, 20; cayenne 
peppers, 1 doz. , or 3 or 4 medium sized red peppers ; and mustard seed, 4 ozs. ; 
and if a yellow shade or color is desired, put in tumeric root, bruised, 1 oz. ; 
but as this is only to color, I prefer it without. Directions — Put all into a 
stone jar, place on the back of the stove, cover, and let steep, or keep hot 6 to 
10 hours; then strain and bottle for use; or set away in the jar, closely covered, 
as you prefer. Suitable for cauliflower, cabbage, cucumbers, or any mixed 
pickle ; or to use on the table, in place of common, plain vinegar, for which I 
like it very much. 

Celery Vinegar.— Put 3 ozs. of celery seed into a quart bottle, and fill 
with good cider vinegar, or white wine vinegar. After a few days it is nice to 
flavor soups, or gravies, or to use in place of celery salt, upon meats, etc. The 
more seed used, up to 4 ozs. , makes the stronger flavor. Diluted alcohol, or 
brandy, will suit some persons better than the vinegar. Let them use either, 
as they like best. 

Currie Vinegar.— Put currie powder (which see), 3 ozs. to each quart of 
good cider vinegar, and steep as spiced vinegar, above, then bottle, and add, as 
you like, of it to meat gravies, or sour pickles, etc. 

PICKLES— Very Fine for Present Use and Keeping Over. 
— Elma, of Hancock, N. Y. , in the Blade, gives the following plans, and as I 
know they are good, I adopt them: 

I. For Present Use. — I will give them in her own words; she says: "I 
want to give the best recipe for pickles I ever used. I found it 2 years ago in 
an old book, and I do wish you could all have one of the pickles, now about a 
year old Pick the cucumbers, being careful to leave on the stems. Small 
cucumbers make the nicest pickles. [I always prefer a medium sized pickle.} 
Wash them, sprinkle on enough salt to nearly cover, then pour boiling water 
over them. Let them stand till cold, or over night. Drain off the salt anc* 



682 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

water, and put them into cold, spiced vinegar. Repeat this whenever the cu- 
cumbers are picked, or until you have made pickles enough." 

n. To Keep Over Winter. — "Now for those wanted to keep all winter; 
take them out of the first vinegar, and cover them with some more, in which 
put spices to suit the taste. Be sure to have it scalding hot, and put a piece of 
alum in; also, a dozen slices of horse radish. A piece of alum the size of a 
large hickory nut for every 3 gallons of pickles. If you try this recipe, I don't 
believe you will make them any other way. I do hope this will be published 
before it is time to pickle. Every one that has ever eaten any of mine say, 
'How do you make them? I never ate such pickles before.' " 

Bemarks. — The putting on salt, and the water boiling hot, causes the cucum 
bers to shrink, i. e., they part with their own superabundance of water, so they 
do not reduce the strength of the vinegar; not only this, but it also extracts a 
gummy, or resinous juice, making them more palatable, and more healthful. 
Still if it is seen at any time the vinegar is not as strong as it should be, re 
scald, or throw away if very weak and flat, and put on new spiced vinegar, or 
good plain vinegar, as you choose. The alum sets, or helps to retain, the 
green color; and in the amount she uses, it will be no objection. Of course 
pickles, or cucumbers for making them, can be put up with salt, covering fairly, 
each well placed layer, with salt, as filled in, and weighted to keep them close, 
and thus they part with water enough to cover them, without any being added; 
then freshened, and treated as fresh, when desired to prepare them. No dan- 
ger of getting on too much salt, if soaked about 3 days, changing the water 
daily, when put into vinegar. 

Prenoh Pickles, Delicious.— Mrs. E. S. Swartsy, in the Housekeeper, 
of Minneapolis, Minn., gives us her recipe, which she says is delicious. " One 
colander of sliced, green tomatoes; 1 qt. sliced onions; 1 colander of pared 
and sliced cucumbers; 2 handfuls of salt; let stand 24 hoiu*s. (I should think 
over night was long enough.) Then drain and add celery seed and allspice, 
each 3^ oz. ; 1 tea-spoonful of pepper; 1 table-spoonful of tumeric (this is only 
for color — a yellow shade); 1 lb. of brown sugar; 2 table-spoonfuls of mustard, 
and 1 gallon of vinegar. 

Bemarks. — 'I should think a small head of cabbage, and 1 of cauliflower 
might be added also, with satisfaction ; and it would be more Yankeefied, if all 
Were chopped, and the vinegar put on hot. The currie vinegar, above, would 
be nice on some, of any kind of pickles, for a change. 

1. APPLES— Dried and Evaporated, How to Cook.— A lady 
in one of the Rurals becomes enthusiastic over dried apples, and tells us how to 
cook them, with which the author so fully agrees that he gladly gives it a place. 
She also covers the ground of cooking the evaporated apples prepared by the 
manufactories, but they sell so high I am glad to be able to give a plan, in the 
next recipe, of drying at home so they shall be nearly if not quite equal to those 
of the manufactories. This lady says: " After the apples are well washed and 
rinsed in at least two waters, place them in a porcelain kettle or tin pan; fill 
U> vessel nearly full of cold water; this, however, must depend on the size of 



MISCELLANEOUS. 583 

•the vessel and the quality of the apples. Let them very gradually come to 
boiling, keeping them covered tightly. As soon as they are boiling put in as 
much sugar as you think will be required. I generally use a tea-cupful to 1 qt. 
of apples, measured before being washed. Keep a tea-kettle full of boiling 
water always ready when you are cooking, and while the apples are stewing add 
boiling water from time to time, as it is needed. Boil them slowly and steadily 
until tender, but not until they seem to shrink up and turn dark. If you use 
white or brown sugar, and don't add spices, and don't mash the apples into an 
unsightly mass, and have plenty of juice, with sugar enough to make it rich, 
but not to deaden its taste of the apple, and serve up while fresh, you can have 
a dish good enough for anybody to eat, and something better than half the 
canned fruit in use. 

" The evaporated apples are better than the dried. They should be cov- 
ered with cold water and only let simmer 10 minutes. They are not in general 
use, and are of high price, I must not omit to mention that the juice of nicely 
stewed dried apples is a delicious beverage for the sick, and possesses a flavor 
peculiarly refreshing and grateful, especially where there is fever," 

Remarks. — This lady is perfectly correct in the idea that plenty of juice is 
the important part of cooking dried apples. They should also be covered, as 
she says, while cooking, and although they ought to be cooked tender, yet they 
should not be done to pieces nor mashed. In this manner, as the girls say 
now-a-days, "They are just splendid," — no better sauce made, for me. 

2. Drying Fruit at the Manufactories, and Home-Drying.-* 
At a recent meeting of the Ohio State Horticultural Society, at Canton, 
Mr. James Edgerton read a paper upon the modern methods of drying or evap- 
orating fruits. Mr. S. B. Mann, of Adrian, Mich., in response to requests from 
the members, gave an account of a fruit-drying establishment in his town, ia 
which five large Alden machines were used. It had cost $10,000, and had paid 
for itself in five years. Its capacity was 400 bushels every 24 hours. It gave 
employment to 50 or 60 hands, chiefly girls, working in 2 sets, day and night, 
paring and cutting the fruit. The benefit to the community from the establish- 
ment was great, and the neighboring farmers would be sorry to lose it from 
among them. Mr. Mann said, for the benefit of the ladies, that if they would 
slice fruit across, in thin slices, place it on trays in the sun, covered with thin 
muslm cloth, they could dry fruit which would closely resemble that prepared 
by the Alden process. Mosquito netting was not so good for covering as thin 
cloth. In the Alden process, the white color was obtained by driving the fimaes 
of sulphur through the dryer. (See "Evaporated Fruit.") 

These thin sliced apples ought to be dried on wooden trays, not on old tin, 
by any means. Wooden trays might be easily made about 2 feet long and 15 
to 20 inches wide, by nailing pieces of lath, slit up to J^ or % square, nailed on 
end cleats, with a lath of full width on the ends of the cleats running the whole 
length, to form sides, to prevent the apples from slipping off — the square bits 
of lath forming the bottom, nailed about J^ inch apart, to allow air to pass up 
through; the side lath going down a little, say J^ inch below tlie bottom ones, 
-wnich would thus allow the free passage of air under and up through the bob- 



684 JJ^. VJiJLtiJij'ti UECIFlijti. 

torn. The thin, or cheap muslin covering preventing the sun from turning tJje 
fruit dark colored, and the wood has no tendency, either, to darken the shade 
of the apples, or other fruit. When once made they last for years , with proper 
care. 

Canning Fruit. — The Manchester Mirror gives the following tables for 
time to boil, and the amount of sugar to each quart jar: 

Ounces, 

For cherries 6 

" raspberries 4 

" Lawton blackberries 6 

" field blackberries 6 

" strawberries 8 

" whortleberries 4 

" quince 10 . 

" small sour pears, whole 8 

" wild grapes . . ; 8 

" peaches 4 

" Bartlett pears 6 

" pineapples 6 

" crab-apples 8 

" plums 8 

" pie plant 10 

" sour apples, quartered 6 

" ripe currants 8 



Minutes, 

Boil cherries moderately 5 

raspberries " 6 

blackberries " 6 

plums " 10 

strawberries " 8 

whortleberries" 5 

pie plant, sliced 10 

small sour pears, whole. . . 30 
Bartlett pears, in halves. . . 20 

peaches 8 

peaches, whole 15 

pineapple, sliced 3^ in. thick 15 
Siberian crab-apple, whole 25 
sour apples, quartered. .... 10 

ripe currants 6 

wild grapes 10 

tomatoes 20 

Hemarks. — The plan of preparing fruit for canning is so well understood, 
generally, it is not deemed necessary to give any more instruction than is found 
in the tables. The sugar and the juices are calculated to make syrup enough 
to fill the crevices. If there is no juice, in any case, a very little water must 
be put in to start the juice and prevent the sugar from burning at the first. 

1. RATS— To Destroy or Drive Away.— Arsenic, bread, butter 
and sugar. Directions — If arsenic is to be used, get J^ or i^ oz., and label 
poison, and keep it away from children. To use it, first spread some slices ot 
bread lightly with butter; then sprinkle on rather freely of the arsenic, and over 
this with a little sugar, and with a case-knife press the sugar and arsenic well 
into the butter, so they will not fall off. Now, cut the slices of bread into 
squares of half an inch or so, and drop into the rat-holes, out of the way oi 
children, chickens, and other animals which you do not wish to kill. 

Remarks. — The rats will eat enough of it to kill some of them, and as 
soon as they begin to die the others will go away and remain a long time 
but as soon as they begin to show again repeat the dose, and this generally 
makes a clear riddance of them. 

2. Bats, To Get Rid of Without Poison, German Method.— 
A Grerman paper gives the following plan of doing this: " Having first for 
sorne days placed pieces of cheese in a part of the premises, so as to induce thti 
rats to come in great numbers to their accustomed feeding-place, a piece of 
cheese is fixed on a fish-hook about a foot above the floor. One rat leaps al 
this, and of course remains suspended. Hereat all the otaer rats take suddeD 
flight, and at once quit the house in a body." 



MISCELLANEOUS. 585 

Remarks.— VossMj our Yankee rats may be too smart for this, but li 
would make some amusement for the boys to try it, and it may prove satisfac- 
tory, especially if the hair of the one caught was singed enough to give a 
smell, not to burn the rat, then allowed to run into the hole, has driven 
them away many times. 

3. Bats and Mice, Simple Exterminator.— Another German 
newspaper gives the following simple method for exterminating rats and mice, 
which, it states, has been successfully tried by one Baron Von Backhofen and 
others for some time past: "A mixture of 2 parts of well-bruised common 
squills and 3 parts of finely chopped bacon is made into a stiff mass, with as 
much meal as may be required, and then baked into small cakes which are put 
around for the rats to eat." 

Eemarks. — Several correspondents of the same paper afterwards wrote to 
confirm the experience of the noble baron, as they call him, in the extermina- 
tion of rats and mice by this simple remedy. It must arise from the action 
of the squills. 

4. Another Simple Remedy.— A writer in the Scientific Amerijan 
says: " We clean our premises of rats by making whitewash yellow with cop- 
peras and covering the stones in the cellar with it. In every crevice or hole 
in which a rat may tread we put crystals of the copperas and scatter the same 
in the corners of the floor. The result was a perfect stampede of rats and mice. 
Since that time not a footfall of either has been heard about the house. Every 
spring a coat of the yellow wash is given the cellar as a purifier and rat exter- 
minator, and no typhoid, dysentery or fever attacks the family. Many persona 
deliberately attract all the rats in the neighborhood by leaving fruits and vege- 
tables uncovered in the cellar, and sometimes even the soap is left open for their 
regalement. Cover up everything eatable in the cellar and pantry, and you 
will soon starve them out These precautions, joined to the services of a good 
cat, will prove as good an exterminator as the chemist can provide. "We 
never allow rats to be poisoned in our dwelling, they are so liable to die between 
the walls and produce much annoyance." 

5. Another very Simple Remedy— Not Poisonous.— Take 
equal quantities of rye meal, and unslacked, finely powdered lime, mix well, 
dry, but water in flat dishes may be set near. Put this on pieces of dry boards, 
in places which they infest. They will eat it readily, and soon become thirsty, 
and go for the water which slacks the lime, and the gas destroys them quickly. 

6. Chloride of Lime — Put into their holes and scattered around the 
cellar, or wherever they trouble you, will absorb moisture, and then throw oft 
chlorine gas, which they do not like, and they generally leave on the double 
qmck. 

7. Tar— Daubed into and around their holes they very much dislike, and 
Till not stay unless they can keep their feet clean; they are a very cleanly ani- 
mal, and cannot bear to get daubed with any sticky stujQE. 



586 DR. CHA8E'S RECIPES. 

8. Rats, Mice, Roaches, Bugs and other Vermin— to Destroy 

— Phosphorus, 6 oz. ; flower of sulphur, 1 oz. ; cold water, 16 oz., (1 pt.); flower 
of mustard, 2 ozs. ; brown sugar, 8 ozs. ; rye flower, 12 ozs. 

Directions — First, rub the phosphorus and sulphur together, by adding 
from time to time 6 ozs. of the water, then the mustard, the balance of the 
Water, sugar, and lastly rye flour, and stir to the consistence of rather a soft 
paste. Put up in closely covered boxes or jars. Persons desiring to make only 
small quantities for home use, will take drachms — J^ of the amounts. It is 
to be spread freely upon slices of bread, and sugar sprinkled over it, and press- 
ed down with the kpife; then the bread cut into small squares and several of 
them put in different places where the vermin will easily find them. 
Tumerac or red saunders may be used for coloring by steeping some of the 
water, if it is being made for sale. 

Remarks — King says, in his Am. Dispensatory, that the above paste is con- 
sidered the best for the above purposes. It was first published by the Am. 
Jrurnal of Pharmacy, and may be relied upon. The phosphorus has a ten- 
den "7, of itself, to turn the paste to a reddish shade, in a little time after being 
mixed. Any of the foregoing plans will give satisfaction. Dr. King's Dispen- 
satory, I have had nearly 20 years, and always find it correct. 

RATS, ROACHES, ANTS AND MOSQUITOES — Penny- 
royal, Potash and Cayenne too much for them.— The Sdeniific 
American says: 

1. Against Mosquitoes.— If mosquitoes or other bloodsuckers infest 
our sleeping rooms at night, we uncork a bottle of the oil of pennyroyal, and 
these animals leave in great haste, nor will they retiirn so long as the room is 
loaded with the fumes of that aromatic herb. 

2. Rats, to Drive Away.— If rats enter the cellar, a little powdered 
I)otash thrown in their holes, or mixed with meal and scattered in their nm- 
ways, never fails to drive them away. 

3. Roaches, Ants, etc., to keep from the Buttery.— Cayenne 
pepper will keep the buttery and store room free from ants and cockroaches. 
If a mouse makes an entrance into any part of your dwelling, saturate a rag 
with cayenne, in solution, and stuff it into the hole, which can then be repaired 
with either wood or mortar. No mouse or rat will cut that rag for the purpose 
of opening communication with a depot of supplies. 

1, ROSE, OR SCALE BUGS-A New and Successftd Rem- 
edy for. — At a recent meeting of the California Academy of Sciences, Dr. 
Gibbons exhibited a large bunch of beautiful roses of exceeding fragrance, and 
in full bloom, wliich he gathered from a bush in his garden that 2 months be- 
fore was overrun with scale, or rose bugs, and nearly dead. He applied to it 
a mixture of crude petroleum and castor oil, daubing it slightly on the leaves 
and stem, with a small brush, not allowing any to fall to the ground or reach 
the roots. Rain followed, and the plants were then throwing out their first 
growth of leaves, to which the scale bugs had been directing their attention. 
Na sign of any scale insect could be seen in the garden. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 587 

Eemarks. — He does not give the proportions; but equal parts might be used. 
I see no use for castor oil at all. I believe the crude petroleum to be the 
destroyer. See the next receipt for using kerosene to destroy Lice on Plants. 
I think the kerosene would do as well, or perhaps better, on the rose-bugs Uiaa 
the crude oil, and it can be put on handier with the atomizer than the thicker 
oil with a brush. These bugs being on the under side of the leaf, the bush 
must be bent over, or the atomizer carried under the leaves, as tobacco smoke 
is done, or as the tobocco solution in No. 3. 

2. Lice on Plants— Successful Destroyer.— A correspondent of 
the California Horticulturist, having exhausted all the known remedies for 
destroying plant lice and other minute forms of insect life which play upon 
plants, resorted to coal oil (kerosene) which proved a complete exterminator. 
He says: " I procured from a druggist an atomizer, and filling the bottle with 
kerosene, sprayed over a camelia to be experimented upon. It was a very dirty 
plant, branches and leaves covered not only with scale; but with black fungus; 
a very small quantity sufficed to vaporize and cover the entire plant. After the 
fluid had evaporated and the plant was dry, the scales were found dead, shriv- 
eled, and partly detached, and with the slightest touch fell off; the black fungus, 
also, which everybody knows is so tenacious on the leaf, was dried up into a 
loose powder, which a shake sent to the ground." 

3. Green Lice on Plants, To Destroy. — A writer says: "Steep 
tobacco in water, and when the liquid is lukewarm, sprinkle the plants thor- 
oughly with it. Two or three applications will cause them to hasten their 
going, and generally prove sufficient to rid the plants entirely of them. If it 
does not, repeat until the plants are free. The natural dried leaf is best, in the 
proportion of one leaf to a quart of water, but any tobacco will do. The above 
will not injure the most delicate plant, and is better than smoke, so often 
recommended 

Remarks. —TYAs, can be applied much the handiest with an atomizer or 
garden syringe, and if either of these are thoroughly used success is certain. 

4. Rose-Bugs Killed by the Pyrethrum Powder, if Properly 
Applied. — The Rural New Tarker, among its brieflets, says; "The increasa 
©f the rose-bug is killed by pure pyrethrum powder, if blown upon it through 
a beUows. 

Remarks. — There is not a doubt of this fact, when it is properly applied, 
i. e., actually brought into contact with the bug, as it is a soft skinned mite, 
and the poison is thus absorbed which must kill it. The only trouble is in not 
being thorough and careful enough to reach all the bugs. The pyrethrum is 
also known as the Caucasian or Persian insect powder. It is imported from 
there under these names, and is very effectual in the destruction of insects upon 
which it is freely blown, except those like squash-bugs, which have a hard shell 
to protect them, allowing no absorption of the poisonous substances. The tech- 
nical name of the plant is pyrethrum roseum, from rosa, the rose, arising, proba- 
bly, from the fact of its destructive power over the rose-bug; at least I so reason, 
unless its own flames resemble the rose, which is not as likely to have originated 
Its name as the fact of its destructive powers over this insect. 



588 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

5. Rose-Bugs Killed in Air-Slacked Lime.— Air-slacked limt 
S. M. P. in the Rural New Yorker, says will kill rose-bugs on grape-vines, 
blown on in tbe same way as the pyrethrum powder; then why not kill them 
when at home, on the rose? I know it must,, if applied thoroughly to reach 
them all. I should, however not want the lime to lose its strength by very 
long standing before using If, however, put on too freely, it may turn the 
leaves yellow, which is the only objection to its use. 

6. Insecticide, or Insects on Plants, to Ball with the Juice 
of the Tomato Plant. — A writer in the Dmtsche-Zeitung states that he had 
an opportunity of trying a remedy for destroying green fly and other insects 
which infest plants. It was not his own discovery, but he found it among 
other receipts in some provincial paper. The stems and leaves of the tomato 
are well boiled in hot water, and when the liquor is cold it is syringed over the 
plants attacked by insects. It destroys black or green fly, caterjiillars, etc. : 
and it leaves behind a peculiar odor which prevents insects from coming again 
for a time. He states that he found this remedy more effectual than fumigat- 
ing, washing, etc. Through neglect a house of cameUas had become almost 
hopelessly infested with black lice, but two syringings with tomato plant 
decoction thoroughly cleansed them. — Gardeners' Chronicle. 

7. Insects on Hot-House Plants, as Destroyed in Paris. 
Prance. — Baron Rothschild's gardener, at Paris, France, says he destroys all 
tlie troublesome insects that may be in the hot-house, by vaporizing 2 qts. of 
tobacco juice in the hot-house; and he considers the remedy infallible, and also 
says it rarely injures the tenderest plants. 

Remarks. — He does not give the strength, but I should say 4 ozs. of tobacco 
would be plenty for the 2 qts. of the juice, as he calls it; and I should expect 
the doors ought to be closed also while being done. The vaporizing being done 
by setting the dish over a charcoal fire, on the plan of a tinman's heater used 
for heating his soldering irons. 

7. Bugs on Squash and Cucumber Vines, To Destroy with 
Saltpeter, — The following appeared in the Southern Husbandman: ''To 
destroy bugs on squashes and cucumber vines, dissolve a table-spoonful of salt- 
peter in a pail of water, put a pint of this around each hill, shaping the earth so 
that it will not spread much, and the thing is done. The more saltpeter, if you 
can afford it— it is good for vegetable but death to animal life. The bugs bur- 
row in the earth at night and fail to rise in the morning. It is also good to kill 
grub in peach trees — only use twice as much, say a quart to each tree. There 
was not a yellow or blistered leaf on 12 or 15 trees to which it was applied last 
season. No danger of killing any vegetable with it. A concentrated solution 
applied to beans makes them grow wonderfully." 

Remarks. — This same thing has been recommended also by the Wisconsin 
State Journal, and I have seen an inquiry about the proportion to use, in another 
paper, which answered 1 tea-spoonful to 1 gallon of water, or 1 table-spoonful 
to a pail. I do not believe that a J^ lb. to a pail of water would hurt the plants, 
as saltpeter is nitre, and this is naturally in the soil and is brought to the surface 
Jjy shading the soU with clover or even with a board. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 589 

8 Bugs on Cuciunber and Melon Vines, etc.. Simple 
Remedy. — "For the last five years," says a writer to the Chicago Times, "I 
have not lost a cucumber or melon vine or cabbage plant. Get a barrel with a 
few gallons of gas tar in it; pour water on the tar, always have it ready when 
needed ; and when the bugs appear, give them a liberal drink of the tar-water 
from a garden sprinkler or otherwise, and if the rain washes it off and they 
return repeat the dose. It will also destroy the Colorado potato beetle, and 
frighten the old long potato bug worse than a thrashing with a brush. Five 
years ago this summer both kinds appeared on my late potatoes, and I w^atered 
with the tar-water. The next day aU Colorados that had not been well protected 
from the sprinkling were dead, and the others, though their name was legion, 
were all gone, and I have never seen one of them on the farm since. I am 
aware that many will look upon this with indifference because it is so cheap and 
simple a remedy. Such should always feed both their own and their neighbors' 
bugs, as they frequently do." 

Remarks. — The gentleman does not say how many gals, of tar to a bbl. of 
water. I should say 4 or 5 would be plenty. See oiled-cloth for hot beds; 
boxes for hills, etc., which protects from bugs. 

9. Hubbard Squash, the Black Bug upon.— To Destroy.— A 
■writer, — "M. A. M.," — to the Detroit Post and Tribune, from Mt. Morris, 
says he destroys these black bugs by putting a shingle on the ground as near 
the hills as possible, at night, and in the morning scraps the bugs off the shingle 
into a bucket of hot water. If very thick, repeat 2 or 3 times a day as long as 
they last. Don't forget; it is a sure remedy. 

Remarks. — I should hardly expect many would crawl under the shingles 
in the day time, unless the sun was very hot, as the day is their time of depre- 
dation; but that in the night tliey would harbor under the shingle. 

10. Bugs, on Squash, Cucumber and Melon Vines— Kept off 
with Cayenne; also the "Worm from Cabbage.— A farmer by the name 
of Lynn, writes to one of the papers, that he has succeeded for many years in 
driving away cucumber and squash bugs from his vines, by dusting cayenne 
pepper upon them while wet with dew in the morning. He repeats the opera- 
tion once a week, and finds 5 cents worth sufficient to keep his cucumber, melon 
and squash vines free during the season. He recently tried it upon the cabbage 
worm with success. I have no doubt a few tastes of the cayenne would be 
enough for them. See remarks, also about boxes, after No. 8 above. 

11. Striped Bugs, to Destroy.— Another farmer says: "Saturating 
ashes with kerosene, and applying a handful in a hill will keep the striped bugs 
from cucumbers. It is not the bugs that recommend the recipe, but the people 
who have tried it. It is said to be more effective than a legislative enactment." 

Remarks. — If it is good for cucumbers, I will also warrant it as good for 
melons and squashes. 

FUNGUS— In Cellars, to Destroy.- The use of sulphur to destroy 
fungoid growths in greenhouses and vineries is well known to horticulturists. 
The same remedy may be applied to destroy fungus and mould in cellars, in 



590 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

many of which it exists to such an extent as to damage produce stored there. 
Take some stick sulphur, generally called brimstone, but 'tis only sulphur in 
stick form, and place in a pan and set fire to it, on a pan or kettle of coals is 
the best plan; close the doors, making the cellar as nearly air-tight as possible 
for a few hours, when the fungi will be destroyed and the mould dried up. 
Repeat this simple and inexpensive operation every 2 or 3 months, and the cel- 
lar will be free from all parasitical growth. 

Remarks.— 1 do not know the wTiter of this item, but I know the plan will 
accomplish the work. Fungus is a parasitical growth of living bits of animal 
life, meaning one only of the animals of which fungi is the plural, and means 
the mass of these actual living growths. 

1. PASTE.— Cement or Mucilage for Labels, Postage and 
Revenue Stamps, etc.— Soak good glue, 5 oz., in water, 20 oz., for one 
day; after which add rock candy or loaf sugar, 9 oz., and gum arable, 3 oz.; 
and when these are dissolved, it is ready to be spread on paper. It keeps well; 
does not get brittle nor wrinkled, and does not make the sheets stick when they 
are piled upon each other. — Dingier' s Polytechnic Journal. 

Remarks. — This paper said "parts" instead of oz. The author has made it 
plain for any one to understand; drachms or pounds can be substituted for ozs. 
just as well, according to the amount needed. It will be found reliable. The 
next receipt is from the same journal, and will be found equally reliable for 
labeling letters, or bottles in damp cellars, as this gum stickum is for stamps and 
common labeling. 

2. Paste, for Labels for Letters, Newspapers (Used by Print- 
ers), for Soda^Water Bottles, etc., for Damp Cellars.— "Stir into 1 lb. 
of paste of glue and ryemeal, spirits of turpentine 3^ oz. Labels attached with 
this paste do not get loose in damp cellars. But if for convenience sake it is 
desired to gum the labels before using them, add oil-vamish J^ oz, and magne- 
sia }4 oz. to each lb. of the paste, then gum them." 

Remarks. — See remarks with No. 1. Make a good thick paste, with rye 
flour, with 2 ozs. glue, first dissolved in the water will be about right. 

3. Mucilage, Simple and Good. — Put nice gum Arabic, ^ lb. into 
a J^-pt. bottle, then fill it with soft water, and cork. Turn it bottom upwards 
and shake occasionally for a day or two, or until dissolved, and it is ready to 
use for putting paper together of any kind. 

Remarks. — I made a quart of it using 1 lb. of the gum some 2 years ago, 
for use when I had a quotation to put on in writing this book, and although it 
is sour, still it is just as good as when made. It is said 3 or 4 drops of oil of 
cloves prevents it souring or moulding. It may prevent mould, but I doubt its 
preventing it from souring. The souring does not hurt it, nor has mine moulded. 
Some persons use as much gum tragacanth as they do of Arabic, say 2 ozs. each 
to 3^ pt. of water. The tragacanth is a little harder to dissolve, and, of course, 
is a little stronger also (see the next recipe), but the Arabic is good enough for 
me. This might be called "scrap-book paste," or mucilage, as you choose. I 
use it upon my little photos which I have for years attached to my letters — put- 



MISCELLANEOUS. 501 

ting it upon the sheets, before I cut them apart — and when dry they never have 
Btuck together, although a book is laid upon them to keep them flat. It is an 
excellent mucilage. 

Mucilage, for Fancy Work.— Gum tragacanth, 1 oz., corrosive sub- 
limate, a thimbleful, and soft water, 1% pts. Put into a bottle and let dis- 
solve, corking tightly. Stir occasionally with a stick. As it is poisonous, it 
should be kept out of the reach of children. The mucilage will keep for 
months. — Toledo Post. 

Remarks.— The sublimate being poisonous prevents insects from eating the 
fancy work put together with it. If it is too thin to suit any one, which I 
should think it would be, add more powdered tragacanth to suit. 

CEMENT, OR PASTE— New and Strong, That Sticks ta 
Leather, Wood, Stone, Glass, Porcelain, Ivory, Parchment, Paper, 
Feathers, "Wool, Cotton, Linen, and Even to Varnish.— A new- 
cement which is well spoken of is made by melting in an iron vessel equal parta 
of common pitch and gutta-percha; it is not attacked by water, and adlieres 
firmly to leather, wood, stone, glass, porcelain, ivory, parchment, paper, 
feathers, wool, cotton, linen, and even to varnish. — Pansy, Stryker, Ohio, in 



1. Glue, Liquid, and Moth Glue.— Take any sized bottle, and half 
fill it with whisky, and put in nice bits of glue to make it, when dissolved, which 
it will do in two or three days, as thick as molasses. It remains liquid, and la 
good for any purpose that glue is used for. 

2. For the motli glue, dissolve any amount of glue in as little water as 
possible, by putting it in another dish of water to prevent burning, then add 
only one-fourth as much nice white sugar, by weight as you use of glue, and 
when melted pour upon a slightly greased slab, or tin. Used by wetting the 
glue in the mouth, and touching the parts to be united and holding together a 
moment, 

3. Glue, Water-Proof.- Best clear glue, ^ lb.; new milk, 1 pint. 
DmECTiONS — Soak the glue in the milk 8 to 10 hours ; then boil, by setting the 
basin in a pan of water, with nails under the bottom of the basin, to prevent 
burning. Use as other glue. The casein of the milk aids in resisting damp- 
ness. 

See 4 and 5 which come from "D. B. M." of Oconomomoc, Wis., to one 
of the papers. 

4. Glue, to Resist the Action of Water.— "A glue which will 
resist the action of water is made by boiling best glue, 1 lb. in skim mUk, 
2 qts." 

5. Glue, Very Strong for Veneering and Inlaying. — " Take 
the best light brown glue, free from clouds and streaks; dissolve in water to the 
consistence of well-made glue, and to each pt add half gUl (3 ozs.) of the best 
vinegar, and IJ^ ozs. of isinglass.'* 



593 DR- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

5. Glues, Liquid.— "H.," of Mt. Clemens, Mich., in writing to on© 
of the papers, says: " Liquid glue can be made by adding to the ordinary so- 
lution of glue, for each lb. of glue used, 1 fl. oz. of strong nitric acid," 

6. " Or, take 1 part (oz.) of dry glue, powdered, and 3 parts (ozs.) of 
commercial acetic acid, which will dissolve the glue without heat." 

BeTuarks — See " Dr. Chase's Magic Mender," among the cements, which is 
made with isinglass dissolved in acetic acid, and is very strong. Glass or porce- 
lain dishes only, can be used with any acid, without dissolving the glues. See 
ftlso mucilages, cements, etc., for fancy or other work, above. 

7. Glue, Liquid, Simple, and Easily Made.— An excellent glue 
is made as follows : White glue, 3 ozs.; good vinegar, 1 gill (4 ozs.) Put into 
a wide-mouthed bottle, and set the bottle in cold water, letting it come to a boil 
gradually, and boiling until the glue is dissolved; then add alcohol, 1 oz.; and 
after this keep corked, for use. — Toledo Post. Good. 

1. WIRE-WORMS— Protection Against for Com.— I give you 
my experience with the wire-worm. Being troubled with the little pests one 
year, I was advised to soak my seed corn in a solution of copperas and saltpeter, 
using 3^ lb. each to a bushel of ears of common eight-rowed corn. The result 
was that my seed all grew, and I lost none by the wire-worms, and 1 never saw 
corn have so dark and vigorous a color before. Since then I have always 
soaked my com 13 hours after being shelled. I do not know as it would affect 
the cut-worm, but 1 have never been troubled with them since I used the solu- 
tion of copperas and saltpeter. Neither was I ever troubled with them when I 
plowed my corn ground lin the fall, which I w uld invariably do on old sod. 
Some farmers exterminate them by hunting them out in the hill and killing them 
by hand, but this is slow and tedious, and is liable to be slighted by hired help. 
An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure is a proverb true in this case.— 
J. B.., in Country Oentleman. 

2. Wire-Worms, Protection Against, as Done near London, 
Eng., where Soot is Plentiful.— An agricultural writer in the London 
Land and Water, under the head of "Soot vs. Wire-Worms," says: "I found 
the wh-e-worm so abundant in every part of the garden I was set to cultivate 
that 1 could scarely grow a potato or a carrot vdthout its being rendered useless 
by It; and, among the various things I was led to adopt as preventives, soot 
appeared to be the only effectual remedy. This I applied to potato crops in the 
following manner: The drills were got ready in their usual way and the sets 
laid m at the bottom of each drill. The soot was then put down upon them in 
quantity sufficient to cause the drills to assume quite a black appearance. This 
being done, the drills were closed in the ordinary manner to the natural level, 
and tne work was finished. Wherever soot was applied the crops turned out 
clean and good; scarcely a trace of the wire-worms' ravages was to be seen, 
while those from rows not dressed with soot were quite the reverse, the potatoes 
being pierced through in every direction and fit only for feeding pigs." 

R&marks. — This, of course, would be as good in America as in England. 
The chimney-sweeps of London make the soot plenty there; but this is not 



MISCELLANEOUS. 593 

followed in our country as closely, notwithstanding its great importance in pre- 
venting the start of fires. Where the soot can be obtained it is worthy of a trial. 

3. Wire-worms among strawberry vines may be destroyed by a liberal use 
of wood ashes, or some other form of potash. 

4. Wire-Worms, to Starve, or Destroy, When the Ground 
is Pull by Summer-Fallow and Salt.— A Michigan farmer writes to 
the New York Tribune, desiring information in relation to the treatment of 
low river-bottom land, on which he has failed to get a catch of cultivated grass. 
He says the original sod of wild grass was turned over and a fair crop of buck- 
wheat grown ; but the seeding of a cultivated grass was a failure, at least in 
spots. That the next season the land was well prepared and planted to com, 
which wire-worms destroyed. To this the agricultural editor of that journal 
replies : " The corn crop being destroyed by wire-worms is evidence that the 
same insect destroyed the grass seeding. I have never known any crop to grow 
uninjured, except buckwheat, on land infested with wire-worms. Weeds and 
some wild grasses, having a hard and tough root, like the buckwheat, will 
grow ; but the more delicate grasses and grain crops are destroyed. The best 
means of getting rid of the worms is to starve them, or they may be otherwise 
destroyed by the liberal use of salt, say at the rate of two barrels per acre ; or 
sowing two crops of buckwheat in succession, keeping the land well cultivated 
during the time the crops do not occupy it, so that the worms can find nothing 
to feed upon, will starve them, as they cannot feed on the buckwheat root, it 
being too hard. 

" I have in two instances destroyed this insect by a thorough summer-fal- 
low. A field of some ten acres of flat and mucky land was so full of worms 
that no crop could be successfully grown. This I desired to cultivate. The 
land was plowed late in the fall, and the following season plowed four or five 
times, at intervals, so that nothing was allowed to grow, since which time, 
some 20 years, no worms have been seen or their work. In another case a 
field of about 20 acres had been much damaged by them. It was summer-fal- 
lowed and plowed but three times, with intermediate cultivation with harrow 
and cultivator, so that nothing grew and no signs of the worm have appeared 
since, which was some six years ago, a crop of grain or grass having been 
grown annually since. I would advise the inquirer to summer-fallow his land 
one season in this thorough manner, allowing nothing to grow to feed the 
worms; then seed, first of October, to grass, of such variety as he desires to 
raise, without any grain crop with it, and I think he will gain his object of a 
good seeding." 

^cmarA».— Although this edition does not speak of applying salt, the season 
of summer-fallowing, yet, I should certainly do so ; and by the way, it has 
been found the refuse salt, which can be obtained at salt-boiling houses, can be 
got much cheaper than good salt, while it also contains chemical properties 
which make it much better than common salt as a fertilizer. This has been 
proved at the Saginaw. Two birds again killed with one stone, where this can 



594 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

be attained ; and where it cannot, the dirty and refuse salt from pork-packing 
houses, is much cheaper than barrel salt. 

5. Cut "Worms, to Destroy. — By accident I have discovered a means 
and time by which to destroy the great garden pest, the cut or collard worm. 
On picking up a piece of board that lay in my walk-way, a few days ago, i dis- 
covered several worms. Curiosity led me to turn other boards that lay near. 
To my great astonishment, when I had turned nearly a dozen, in different parts 
of the garden, I found that I had killed 76 worms and destroyed scores of eggs, 
which look like little bits of lint cotton rolled up. The next day I searched the 
same boards, which I had carefully replaced, and killed 78 worms. The third 
search I found a small collar-head (small cabbage) that had been cut for cows 
and left by being overlooked. On examining it, there were found under it and 
on it 26 worms. My suggestion is to lay boards (pine is the best) about for 
traps, in the spring, and watch them closely; the saving in young vegetables 
will be immense. — SoulTwm Plantation. 

Remarks. — Let this destruction of these worms commence as early as the 
spring opens, and you may consider your cucumbers, cabbages, etc., quite 
safe. 

6. Cut-Worms and Birds, to Prevent Prom Cutting or Pull- 
ing Corn and Other Grain, by Preparing the Seed Before Plant- 
ing. — The Ohio Farmer tells us that a horticulturist "prevents all kinds of 
grain from the ravages of the cut-worm, birds, etc., by dissohang sulphate of 
Iron (copperas) 1 lb. and aloes 1 oz. in water heated to 90 or 95 and sufficient to 
soak 1 bushel of seed grain in, before planting." The iron and the aloes are 
too much for them. I think also this would be too much for bugs on cucum- 
bers, squashes, melon vines, etc. 

1. CUCUMBERS— Fresh for Townspeople, who have only a 
Small Yard. — A Wisconsin gardener, on the strength of experience, recom- 
mends townspeople who want fresh cucumbers, to grow them in a barrel half 
sunk in the back yard, half filled with manure, and the remainder with soil; 
the seeds planted on the surface, and vines drooping over the sides. 

Remarks. — They do well, I know, by supporting the vines on bushes, al- 
though planted in the ordinary way in a garden. One writer says they will 
grow on a trellis as readily as grape-vines. In small gardens this is an object. 

2. Cucumbers, Melons, Cabbage, Tomatoes, etc.— To prevent 
Bugs from destroying the Plant. — I. For Cvcumbers. — Experience has 
shown that if a box or frame about 12 inches square, and 5 or 6 inches deep, 
having neither top nor bottom, is put over each hill of cucumbers when planted, 
and banked up around the bottom so that the striped bug cannot crawl under, 
they will never light down in the boxes, and hence, any plants thus protected 
are safe from their depredations. Boxes may be removed before the plants 
begin to run over them, and he saved for another year. Half-inch stuff is heavy 
enough for them, if well nailed. See also Oiled Cloth for Hot-Beds; Boxes for 
Hills; Safe Culture from Bugs, etc., which is only a little more expensive. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 595 

IT. For CcMage, Tomatoes, etc. — In place of boxes, other persons have 
recommended the peeling of ash, bass wood, or other saplings of about 4 inches 
in diameter, that will peel, be cut off in lengths of about 4 or 5 inches, and the 
rings placed over cabbage, tomatoes, or other plants as a perfect protection, 
securing well at the bottom to prevent their crawling under. "When the bark 
of any suitable tree cannot be got, pasteboard rings, I think, would answer 
all purposes, tied together to prevent them from opening out. The same as 
the barks would be. 

in. For Melons, or other plants in hills, use the bark of larger trees. 
This, the writer claimed to be better than paper, which I had recommended in 
one of my former books, as the bark does not soften down by the rains. Boxes 
will do just as well, if any less trouble to obtain. Either must be pressed a 
little into the ground so the bugs cannot crawl under. See also insecticide, and 
other things to destroy insects, bugs, etc. upon plants, 

4. Another plan, and claimed to be safe, is to sprinkle a little fine soot 
upon cucumber vines, squash, etc., which are liable to be attacked by any 
insects. If good against wire-worms (which see), why not good against these 
pests, too? It no doubt is. 

5. Another writer says: "Last season I kept the striped bugs from my 
cucumber vines by saturating (making perfectly wet) ashes vdth kerosene and 
applying a handful to a hill." He does not say, but I think he means to the 
ground, as they burrow in the ground at night, and, as a writer says in some 
other place, ' ' they don't come up, or out. in the morning." They are killed by it. 

e. Cucumbers a Paying Crop.— A correspondent of the Country 
Chntleman tells us how he makes cucumbers a paying crop. He says: 

" I find cucumbers a paying crop when grown for pickles, and sold either 
before or <if ter salting — price per hundered the same in either case. I plow as 
deep as 2 horses can pull the plow, then mark one way 4 feet apart, let- 
ting the plow run as deep as the ground Avas plowed. I then put a large shov- 
elfiil of good barnyard manure where each hill is wanted, say 4 feet apart, and 
then thoroughly mix with the soil, making the hills about 2 inches higher than 
the general surface of the ground. I plant about the middle of June. 

" As soon as the plants get large enough to be out of the way of the striped 
bug, I thin out to 4 plants to each hill. I cultivate them frequently, and hand- 
hoe them 2 or 3 times before the vines commence to run. In this vicinity the 
price ranges from 50 cents to $1 per hundred, and the product of an acre sells 
from $400 to $800." 

On the same subject a correspondent of the Portland (Me.) TVanseript 
says: 

" In my opinion there is nothing that a farmer can realize so much money 
from as he can from raising cucumbers. If they are pickled the right size and 
well preserved in strong salt pickle, there is always a market for them. Some 
farmers have already commenced raising cucumbers for the picklers, and are 
well pleased with the undertaking. The average crop for 1 acre of ground is 
about 50 barrels, which will bring about |5 a barrel at the factories. Perhaps 
it will be well to state to the farnaers of Maine that on account of the scarcity 
of cucumbers here hundreds of thousands of dollars go out of this state annu- 
ally for pickles. Even in Massachusetts and New York the supply does not 



596 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

meet the demand and they are compelled to go west for their pickles. This 
state is well adapted to the growing of cucumbers, and they are preferable to 
those raised in warmer climates." 

Remarks. — Although cucumbers are a paying crop near the cities, yet it is 
not expected that tlx' general farmer throughout the country would find it so, 
unless he can make previous arrangements with some of the city dealers, or fac- 
tories which put up ])icklcs, to buy what he may raise, put up in brine, or salt 
pickle as above called, which may then prove profitable, after a little 
experience at first, in a small way. See also the profitableness of onion 
culture. 

TURNIPS, BEETS, ETC.-To Keep Nicely in Cellars for 
Winter Use. Applicable to all Kinds of Roots and Large Fruits. 
—All kinds of roots keep better in the cellar by throwing fresh dirt over them; 
but turnips and beets especially keep much better for this, as they soon wilt 
and lose their freshness without it. Put in barrels, if it is too unhandy to 
thus cover them on the floor, by putting dirt in the bottom, and a layer every 
few inches, the roots not to come out to the sides by an inch at least, and then 

5 or 6 inches of dirt on top. Large casks or boxes will do as well, and be less 
trouble. Some people do not put any earth in until the barrel is filled to within 

6 inches of the top, then shake in dry sand, or dry road-dust, and cover with 
the same, or fresh earth. Only such as are wanted for winter use are treated 
in this way, the others stand in root-pits, ventilated as seen under that head. 

" A cellar," says a writer, " that is cool dry, dark and well ventilated, is 
the best place for preserving potatoes in large quantities. When smaller quan- 
titles are to be preserved there is nothing like dry sand. The same may be 
6aid of fruits and roots of all sorts." See below. 

This is fully confirmed by the next item, so far as lemons and oranges are 
concerned, from a California paper. 

2. Fruit Packing, Lemons, Oranges, Sweet Potatoes, etc., by- 
Sand, Effectual for, as Done at Los Angeles, Cal.— "The citrus, or 
lemon men, of Los Angeles," says the correspondent, " have made a discovery 
of great value to Florida." [Then why not to every place, or man who desired 
to keep fruit, sweet potatoes, etc., any considerable time, for any purpose?] 
" dry sand," he goes on to say, " is the best packing for lemons and oranges. 
The fruit must touch the sand. Experience (is our best teacher) warrants 
keeping for 5 months at least. The dry sand has absorbing power that appar- 
ently takes up all exudations subject to decomposition, the rind being very por- 
ous. Naturally the thoughtful mind suggests that, on the same principle, dry 
sand must have similar preservative effect on other fruits, such as pears, plums, 
nectarines, apples, and other smooth-skinned varieties." 

Remarks. — Yes, that is just what the principle does teach. If dry sand 
will keep lemons and oranges for 5 months, it will do the same with apples 
and the other fruits he names, and sweet potatoes as well, and every other fruit 
which perishes from the outside from natural dampness or from dampness 
«rising from the rotting of the skin, which is the way most fruits, sweet potar 



MISCELLANEOUS. 597 

toes, etc., do decay, as well as from slight bruising, which everyone must be 
careful not to do. 

Root Pits, To Ventilate. — A gentleman of Oswego county, New 
York, "J. T.," writes to Farm and Fireside, of Springfield, O., of the import- 
ance of ventilating root pits. He says: "I have found, by costly experience, 
that it is not safe to pile a great quantity of roots together and cover with earth, 
unless some means of ventilation is provided, such as by carrying one or more 
pipes, made of drain tile set on end, or narrow boards nailed together, from the 
center of the heap to the surface. These pipes may be loosely plugged with 
straw, which will prevent the entrance of frost. I once lost several wagon loads 
of beets, during a December thaw, by neglecting this precaution." 

Remarks. — This accounts for many "holes" of potatoes and other roots I 
have seen rotted, undoubtedly, for want of ventilation. I should prefer the 
small board box, in place of pipes, to run down well into the heap and have 
holes bored into the sides, to carry off the moisture clear up to the top of the 
heap, because if there is moisture at the top, the rotting will begin, and thus 
run downwards, by dripping from the rotting ones, and spoil all. 

1. CONCRETE— Proportions of Cement, Sand and Granite 
Used in Foundations in the United States and England. — A 
gentleman of Kansas made inquiry of the Blade for the process of making con' 
Crete, or artificial stone; to which the answer was: "There are various pro- 
cesses. The immense masses of concrete that form the foundations of the great 
East River bridge, between New York and Brooklym, are composed of Rosen, 
dale cement, 1 part (say bushels), 2 of sharp, clean sand, and coarse beach 
gravel, 4 parts. The gravel was from 1 inch to 2% in diameter. The cement 
and sand were first mixed with water in a mill, and afterwards mixed with the 
gravel by means of shovels used by hand. This concrete, it is expected, will 
last for centuries." 

2. Concrete, Proportions as Used in England.— Cooley, in his 
Practical Receipts (English), says: " Concrete, proper, is a compact mass, com- 
posed of pebbles, lime, and sand, employed in the foundations of buildings. 
The best proportions are 60 parts (bushels or any other measure) of coarse peb- 
bles, 25 parts of rough sand (meaning clean, sharp sand), and 5 parts of lime." 

Remarks. — Of course, he means water-lime, or, as we call it here, cement; 
the Rosendale, I think, being considered the best. Still, any good article will 
do. But many houses are built of it in the United States, and in doing so, gen- 
erally, the pebbles or gravel are not used as coarse as above given, but finer, and 
make up for it by putting in coarser stone, from the size of the first, upward; 
and often flat stone are put in ; but care should be observed in placing these in 
the frames of plank in which the house is carried up, that these stone are all 
well imbedded in the mortar or cement, else they weaken, rather than strengthen, 
the concrete walls. I like the proportions as used in No. 1 best, as it makes a 
stronger cement, and, especially, should greatly prefer it if I was going to use 
common stone lime in building a house or other concrete building. Good com' 



698 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

mon lime may do well for stables and other small out-buildings; but I should 
prefer the water-lime or cement for houses in which I expected to live. 

PRTTIT, EGGS, Etc.— Kept well by Cold ^tor&^Q.— The Scien- 
tific Amei'ican gives us the following practical fact upon this important point. 
It says the increasing use of cold storage for perishable food stuffs, which are 
apt to be scarce at certain seasons, is one of the characteristics of the time. 
Last summer when fresh eggs were plentiful and cheap, a gentleman in Che- 
nango county, N. Y., stored in a mammoth cooler some 5,000 barrels of eggs. 
Now they sell in this city as "fresh laid" eggs, at a large profit. As the eggs 
are removed, the cooler is filled up vdth ducks and other fowl to be sold next 
spring. 

Remarks. — This plan is certainly practicable, and has been done for some 
time past. It is done by means of ice. I think there is a patent on some forms 
of the coolers, but I have no doubt a good mechanic can get up a plan vdth an 
(ce house that would be effectual, and not be an infringement. See other Plans 
Df Preserving Eggs also. 

STAMMERING— to Cure.— A gentleman who had stammered from 
ehildhood to nearly manhood, gives the plan that cured him, as follows: He 
«ays, go into a room where you vpill be quiet and alone, get some books that 
Will interest but not excite you, and sit down and read 2 hours aloud to your- 
self, keeping your teeth together. Do the same thing every 2 or 3 days, or 
once a week if very tiresome, always taking care to read slowly and distinctly, 
moving the hps but not the teeth. Then, when conversing with others, try to 
speak as slowly and distinctly as possible, and making up yoiu* mind you will 
not stammer. Well, I tried this remedy, not having much faith in it, I must 
confess, but willing to do most anything to cure myself of such an annoying 
diflSculty. I read for 2 hours aloud with my teeth together. The first result 
was to make my tongue and jaws ache, that is while I was reading, and the 
next to make me feel as if something had loosened my talking apparatus, for I 
could speak with less difficulty immediately. The change was so great that 
every one who knew me remarked it. I repeated the remedy every 5 or 6 days 
for a month, and then at longer intervals until cured. 

Remarks. — It will be found tiresome at first, but, no doubt effectual if 
faithfully done, observing the rules, to speak slowly and distinctly in after con- 
versation as well as while reading; and I should think it important also, for 
some time at least, to keep the teeth shut while talking, as it gives something 
new to engage the mind in place of the old habit of hesitation which started 
the habit of stammering. 'Tis worthy of a fair, and if need be a long trial. 

PAPERING.— Making the Paste, etc.— As many people desire to 
do their own papering, a few hints will not be amiss: 

I. Walls that have been white-washed may be papered by first wetting 
the walls well with alum water, 1 lb. to 2 gals, of water, and letting dry before 
papering. 

II. Trim one edge off with the shears, and match the pattern as you cut 
off the lengths. 



MI8CELL ^NEOUS. 



in. Make the paste the day befor it is wanted to have it cold when an- 
phed to the ^ paper. A gal. or 5 qts. will be needed for a room requiring 13 to 
14 rolls^ Mix a little over 1 pt. of flour into a thin dough, and thin down to 
to avoid lumps; put then 1 gal. of water into a kettle, and when it boils, pour 
in the thin, hot batter and stir to avoid burning untU it boils again; then pour 
into a tin pail or pan, and let stand till next day, and if lumpy, strain and 
press through a coarse muslin, and proceed witli the papering. Rub out care- 
ruily with a towel all wind puffs, to avoid wrinkles when dry 

PLANTAmS, Etc.-To Destroy on the Lawns—The country 
gentleman tells us to destroy these pests by dropping carefully a simple drop 
of sulphuric acid into the center of the plant. One drop will do the business 
more will be likely to do harm. 

Itemarks. -The harm would be in its spreading to kill grass. The best 
way to do It carefully is to get what druggists call a "dropper." A small -lass 
tube, having one end small and bent, while at the other end is a small rubber 
bu b; but you must be careful, also, not to take up acid enough to reach the 
bulb as It would destroy that as well as the plants; and your clothes or fingers 
too. If you get it upon them. . like to see the dandelions in blossom; but 
toey spread so fast 'tis well to destroy them. It must be done as soon after 
they come up as possible, lest they get too large for a single drop. 

Toothache Drops, Japanese, Magical.-To quiet the pains in an 
aching tooth nothing can excel Japanese Drops. The formula (recipe) is- 
Put together equal parts of creosote, chloroform, carbolic acid (liquid) oil of 
peppermint, oil of cloves, and oil of camphor (camphorated oil, kept by drug, 
gists). The result is a liquid that will give almost instant relief, if applied on 
a bit of cotton to the ca^ity of an aching tooth, and yet is no more fiery in 
tte mouth than oil of cloves would be. The drops smell most stronglv of 
creosote, while peppermint predominates in the taste. It is best to swallow as 
httle as possible of the m\xtuve."-Countr?/ Gentleman 

Semarks.-This properly belongs to the Medical Department, but it is too 
good to lose, and hence I put it here. A little of it might be rubbed on the gum. 
but If you get too much about the mouth it will irritate it and make it sore So 

run^nTt r 1 ''^""'" '" P"* ^° t^« t««*^' °°t to have an overplus to 
Zcnli /'\f.''' ''Headache Cure, Magical." I have found it the most 
magical of anything I ever tried for the headache. 

Rum Sherbert-Rub loaf sugar over the rinds of 3 fresh oranges. 
To 3 qts. of water, add the juice of 1 doz. large oranges; sweeten to taste with 
loaf sugar (any white sugar will do), using also the sugar rubbed over the 
oranges; flavor highly with rum. and freeze. Grated pineapple may be added 
when It IS pwtly frozen, if liked. t^ ff j 

Remark..-l should like it better as a drink, rather than to freeze and eat 

1. SCARE-CROWS-How to Make.-Take two small, cheap 

^rrors. fasten them back to back, attach a cord to and han^ them to a pole 

When the glass swmgs the sun's rays are reflected all over the tleld. even if it 



600 DR. CHASj S recipes. 

be a large one, and even the oldest a i bravest crow will depart precipitately 
should one of its lightning flashes fall on him. [Good only while the sun 
shines.] 

II. The second plan, although a terror to the crow, is especially well 
suited to fields subject to the inroads of small birds, and even chickens. It 
involves the artificial hawk, made from a large potato and long goose or turkey 
feathers. The maker can exercise his imitative skill in sticking the feathers 
into the potato so that they resemble the spread tail and wings of a hawk. 
It is astonishing what a ferocious looking bird of prey can be constructed 
from the above simple material. It only remains to hang the object from a 
tall, bent pole, and the wind will do the est. The bird will make swoops 
and dashes in the most threatening m inner. Even the most inquisitive of 
venerable hens have been known to hurry rapidly from its dangerous vicinity, 
■while to small birds it carries unmixed dismay. — Scientific American. 

Remarks. — Take a long potato, and if the boy takes a little pains, he can 
get up a good representation of a hawk; and the longer the string, the more 
flopping around there will be to frighten the hens from scratching up the 
corn. Crows, I hardly think, would be much frightened by this last plan, 
A stuffed coat and pants would be better for them, 

2. Another plan is to string a few kernels of corn on long horsehairs, 
and place about the corn fields. The crows will swallow some of them and 
make such a noise of alarm as to drive the others away, while he will con- 
tinue to scratch his throat to get rid of the corn, or rather the hair, which 
is said to rid the field of them for the season. It is easily tried. 

3. Hawks and Owls, Best Way to Catch.— Set a pole, 15 feet 
high, or thereabouts, in a place near where the chickens are kept, and fasten 
a steel trap on the top and set it, so that when they light on it which they 
will do, it takes them, "sure pop," every time. 

STORING CELEIlY— For Spring Use.— The Germantown Tele- 
graph says: " AVe have tried most ways, but prefer this one, followed for many 
years. A trench is dug from 12 to 15 inches in depth and as long as may be 
suitable. Place the roots in this singly, side by side, at an angle — that is, 
leaning somewhat ; three inches of soil are packed against them ; then another 
line of stalks, until the bed is as large as may be convenient for covering, when 
another, if required, can be made. The soil should be added until within 6 
inches of the top of tlie stalks; then a layer of straw, then a layer of dry leaves; 
the whole to have a good board covering, to keep out water. Of course, rather 
high ground for the bed, or beds, should be selected, and a trench dug around 
the bed deeper than the bottom of the celery trenches, so made as to be sure to 
carry off all the water. If this plan is followed strictly, all others may be aban- 
doned, as the celery will keep not only till spring, but as long in spring as may 
be desired, if it is not all eaten beforehand." 

FLY POISON.— Arsenate of potassa, 1 oz. ; red lead, J^ oz, ; sugar, 5 
ozs. Mix well together, bottle and cork for use. and label Foiwii,. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 601 

Directions — Put a suitable quantity on plates, moisten with water and 
place where they are thickest. It is very destructive because very poisonousi 
yet so pleasant to tlie taste of the fly, they "go for it " quickly. 

FLY STICKUMPAST — Not Poisonous.— Melt rosin, 6 ozs., in a 
tin cup, then put in lard, 1 rounding table-spoonful, as a woman takes it up for 
shortening, or about 2 ozs., which should make it like very thick molasses when 
cold. Spread upon rather stiff paper with a little flat piece of wood or a knife, 
and place about the shelves, rooms, etc. If a knife is used to spread it, heat 
the knife over the fire when it will all wipe off with a piece of newspaper or 
cloth. It will hold all that light upon it, and the more that light the more will 
come, thinking something good has been found. It holds them fast. Place 
a paper over the cup to keep flies out when it is set away. 

LEGITIMATE BUSIi-iESS — To be Stuck to if You Would 
Avoid. Failure. — There so very many failures, I desire to say a word, if 
possible, to those who mean to do the right thing, to enable them to be success- 
ful, hence with some modification by myself on some points, I p^ive the follow» 
ing sensible article of some writer, I know not who, but I do well know if business 
men will be guided by it, i. e., stick to their legitimate business, keeping al] 
their capital in it, necessary to carry it on, there will not be one failure where 
there is now a score. 

" Well-directed energy and enterprise are the life of American jirogress; 
but if there is one lesson taught more plainly than others by the great failures 
of late, it is that safety lies in a legitimate business. No manufacturer, trader, 
or banker has any right to be so energetic and enterprising as to take 
from his legitimate business the capital which it requires to meet any emergency 
which may arise. 

' ' Apologies are sometimes made for firms, or persons, who have failed, by 
referring to the important experiments they have aided, and the unnumbered 
fields of enterprise where they have freely scattered their money. We are told 
that individual losses, sustained by those failures, will be as nothing compared 
with the benefits conferred on the community by their liberality in contributing 
to every public work. There is little force in such reasoning. A man's rela- 
tions to a creditor are vastly different from his relations to what is called the 
public. The demands of the one are definite, the claims of the other are just 
what the ambition and legitimate means of the man may make them. 

" The histories of honorable, successful business men unite to exalt the im- 
portance of sticking to one legitimate business, and it is most instructive to see 
that, in the greater portion of the failures, the real cause of disaster was the 
branching out beyond his legitimate business, in the taking hold of this and 
that tempting offer, and, for the sake of some hoped-for gain, venturing where 
they did not know the ground, and could not know the pit-fall until in it." 

Wages— Table Showing the Rate, from $2 to $25 a Week, 10 
Hours Per Day, Also Rate Per Day and Hour.— This table is so care 
fuUy worked out a mere glance shows the desired amount : 



DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 



Per 


Five 


Fotir 


Three 


Two 


One 


Half 


Fourth 


One 


Week. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 


Days. 


Day, 


Day. 


Day. 


Hour. 


1 2.00 


$1.66% 


$1.33% 


$1.00 


$ 66% 


$ .33% 


$ .16% 


$ .8% 


$.3% 


2.50 


2.081-3^ 


1.66% 


1.25 


.83% 


.41% 


.21 


.10% 


.4 


3.50 


2.9ia^ 


2.33% 


1.75 


1.16% 


.58% 


.29 


•14% 


.6 


4.00 


%.m% 


2.66% 


2.00 


1.33% 


.66% 


.33% 


.16% 


.6% 


4.50 


3.75 


3.00 


2.25 


1.50 


.75 


.37% 


.18M 


.73^ 


5.00 


4.16% 


3.33% 


2.50 


1.66% 


.83% 


.41% 


.21 


.8% 


5.50 


4.58% 


3.66% 


2.75 


1.83% 


.91% 


.46 


.23 


.9 


6.50 


5.41% 


4.33% 


3.25 


2.16% 


1.08% 


.54 


.27 


.11 


7.00 


5.83% 


4.66% 


8.50 


2.33% 


1.16% 


.58% 


.27 


.11^ 


7.50 


6.25 


5.00 


3.75 


2.50 


1.25 


.62% 


.31 


.12% 


8.00 


6.66% 


5.33% 


4.00 


2.66% 


1.33% 


.66% 


.33% 


.13% 


9.00 


7.50 


6.00 


4.50 


3.00 


1.50 


.75 


.37% 


.15 


10.00 


8.33% 


6.66% 


5.00 


8.33% 


1.66% 


.83% 


.41% 


.16% 


11.00 


9.16% 


7.33% 


5.50 


3.66% 


1.83% 


.91% 


.46 


.18% 


13.00 


10.83% 


8.66% 


6.50 


4.33% 


2.16% 


1.08% 


.54 


.21% 


14.00 


11.66% 


9.33% 


7.00 


4.66% 


2.33% 


1.16% 


.58% 


.23% 


16.00 


13.33% 


10.66% 


8.00 


5.33% 


2.68% 


1.33% 


.66% 


.26% 


17.00 


14.16% 


11.33% 


8.50 


5.66% 


2.83% 


1.41% 


.71 


.28% 


19.00 


15.83% 


12.66% 


9.50 


6.33% 


3.16% 


1.58% 


.79 


.31% 


20.00 


16.66% 


13.33% 


10.00 


6.66% 


3.33% 


1.66% 


.83% 


.33% 


21.00 


17.50 


14.00 


10.50 


7.00 


3.50 


1.75 


.87% 


.85 


22.00 


18.33% 


14.66% 


11.00 


7.83% 


3.66% 


1.83% 


.91% 


.86% 


23.00 


19.16% 


15.33% 


11.50 


7.66% 


3.83% 


1.91% 


.96 


.38% 


25.00 


20.83% 


16.66% 


12.50 


8.33% 


4.16% 


2.08% 


1.04 


.41% 



INTEREST— Simple and Easy Rules to Compute.— For find- 
ing the interest on any principal for any number of days. [The answer in each 
case being in cents, separate the two right-hand figures of answer to express in 
dollars and cents]: Four per cent. — multiply — the principal in all cases — by the 
number of days, and divide by 90; 5 per cent. — multiply by number of days, 
and divide by 72; 6 per cent. — multiply by number of days, and divide by 60; 
7 per cent. — multiply by number of days, and divide by 50; 8 per cent. — multi- 
ply by number of days, and divide by 45; 9 per cent. — multiply by number of 
days, and divide by 40; 10 per cent. — multiply by number of days, and divide 
by 36; 12 per cent. — multiply by number of days, and divide by 30; 15 per 
cent. — multiply by number of days, and divide by 24; 18 per cent. — multiply 
by number of days, and divide by 20; 20 per cent.— multiply by number of 
days, and divide by 18; 24 per cent.— multiply by number of days, and divide 
by 15; without regard to fraction or remainder in any ca.se; may add, however, 
the interest to the amount found for any fractional part of a dollar, if any such 
is found in the note or principal. 

1. STRAWBERRIES.— To Raise Large and Abundant— We 

have known strawberry growers to have the soil for strawberry plantations 
spaded 2 feet deep, and to apply 100 two-horse wagon loads of good stable man- 
are per acre, before a plant was put out. Then during the first season the soii 



MISCELLANEOUS. 603 

between the rows was stirred at least every 2 weeks, and in the fall the entire 
ground and plants were entirely covered with bog hay, which protects them in 
winter, and this mulch was left on the following season, not only to keep the 
berries clean but also to keep the soil moist underneath. Slaughter house ma- 
nure of the rankest kind is also used for this purpose, and the growth of vine 
which follows, and the size of fruit would certainly astonish any man who was 
not in the secret as to how the thing was done. This is the way in which new 
sorts are treated by professionals who expect to make a show of their pets at 
exhibitions or elsewhere. — Phonograph, Colby, Wis. 

Bemarks. — If this is the plan to show off their pets, it is the plan to raise then 
on generally. The deeper working of the soil, (see No. 3), and heavy manur- 
ing pay, also the covering or mulching with cheap hay, to avoid the soil getting 
upon the berries, and also the keeping of the ground moist, and weeds from 
growing. 

2. Strawberry Growers— a Hint— Band's to Plant with Wil- 
son's Albany. — A correspondent of the Fruit Ikcorder, (see No. 4), complain- 
ing that Wilson's Albany toward the last part of the season run small in the 
size of the berry, and that rich soil and good cultivation do not change this 
habit, is told |to plant amongst the Wilsons every third or fourth plant of 
Charles Downing, Colonel Cheney or Jucunda, all of which are in their prime 
toward the last run of the Wilsons. This proportion of these large sorts mixed 
in with the Wilsons will give a fine appearance to the fruit, and make them sell 
well to the last. 

3. Strawberry Culture— Kinds, and How to Grow Them. — 
A correspondent of the Post arid THbune says: "Any one can raise straw- 
berries who can grow corn or garden vegetables; yet few attain to perfection 
in strawberry growing. 

I. The first requisite is a deep, rich bed, 

II. The second requisite is good plants, and of kinds which will bear fruit 
without some other variety to fertilize them. If the Col. Cheney is planted 
alone very little fruit will be had, because this is a pistillate variety; so is the 
Green Prolific, and these varieties require the presence of some stnminate sort 
to fertilize them. The Wilson's Albany is a good staminate sort, and bears 
fruit without the aid of any other variety, except to get larger berries the last 
of the season as in No. 2. It is the best kind for general planting. A good 
variety to plant beside the Wilson is the Green Prolific. 

III. TJiirdly, after the plants are done bearing, the tops should be mown 
off close, •r cropped with a sharp knife. This prevents the plants throwing 
out runners so freely, and thus avoids the tendency to become matted together; 
it causes a strong growth of roots, and gives new, fresh and healthy foliage. 
It is almost equal to renewing the bed, because the plants are not taxed to support 
a new generation. 

IV. Lastly, strawberries need the earliest culture possible in the spring. 
The beds ought then to be covered with manure or hay, to keep the soil cool 



504 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

and damp, and to prevent the growing of weeds. With these points attended 
to, large crops will reward the grower. 

Remarks. — The author agrees with this gentleman, except in the spring 
culture. I believe it is a conceded fact, generally, that the culture, manuring and 
putting on hay, or straw, or sawdust, should be done in the fall. The manure 
spaded or forked in, and the straw or other covering put on, so the fall rains 
and the melting of the snow in the spring will carry the virtue of the manure 
well among the roots, and, consequently, give a better crop. In such a 
oase as given in the next, where no time could be given in the fall to do as these 
did, I would take time to put on a good covering of straw, or marsh 
hay, if plenty, which is no doubt best, as it is not so likely to blow off, after 
being wet by the rains. 

4. Strawberries, Killing Weeds Among.— The Palmyra (N. Y.) 
'EVuit Recoi'der, upon this subject says: " One of the finest yields of strawberries 
we ever saw was years ago on an old bed of Early Scarlet, grown on the farm 
of a brother-in-law. It had been kept clean up to July, when the press of farm 
work prevented any further attention to it, and the vines run helter-skelter and 
weeds grew freely, so that by December it was a complete mat of vines and 
weeds. "We recommended setting fire to it, which was done, and quickly 
burned over. In the spring the vines started freely, and soon covered the sur- 
face with their green leaves, and from about one-third of an acre, nearly 50 
bushels of splendid fruit was gathered. You can do this, and if the weeds are 
not sufiiciently scattered over it to burn over the entire surface, scatter a little 
straw or hay over the vacant places. The fire destroys the seeds of weeds but 
does no harm to plants." 

Strawberries, Liquid Manure for, While Growing. — I filled a 
half-hogshead with rainwater, and put into it a 34 lb. aqua ammonia and 34 lb. 
common niter (saltpeter). When the strawberry plants were blossoming out I 
gave them a sprinkling of the solution at evening twice a week until the fruit 
was nearly full size. The result was double the amount of fruit on those where 
the liquid was applied to what was obtained from those right alongside upon 
which none of the liquid was applied.—i^rttj^ Record. 

Remarks. — With all these points, I think any one can raise strawberries, as 
No. 3 puts it, if they will pay reasonable attention; and if extra attention, they 
will get extra crops. 

RASPBERRY CITLTURE — How to Prepare The Ground.— 
The richer the soil naturally, that can be given to them the better, then, one 
writer says, " The ground is prepared as you would for a crop of sugar beets 
(that is, deep ploughing and plenty of manure), using plenty of old manure and 
plowing deeply as possible: Shallow culture will not do for raspberries as the 
roots require coolness and moisture. Without these conditions, in dry seasons 
the crop will not perfect itself. The plants are usually set 4 feet apart each way, 
though some cultivators prefer 6 feet one way and 3 feet the other." 

2. Keeping Clear of Weeds the Two First Seasons, then 
Mulching or Covering.— C. Engle of Paw Paw, Mich, says: "Rasp 



MISGELLANiJOUS. 605 

berries should be hoed and kept well cleaned from weeds the first two seasons 
after setting. After that, a very good and easy way to tend them is to cover 
the sm-face, between the vines, with some kind of coarse litter, (straw or marsh 
hay is first rate), 5 or 6 inches in depth. That will prevent the weeds from 
growing, and keep the ground cool and moist. I have treated a patch in that 
way for 7 years past, (adding an additional light coating every spring), and see 
no dimunition in quantity or quality of the fruit. They do equally as well in 
the dryest season. I do not know that it would be practicable on a large plan- 
tation, but for a small patch it is just the thing." 

Bemarks. — If it is just the thing for a small patch, 'tis just the thing for a 
large one, if you desire to have it pay big. Undertake no larger field than you 
can do well, then you may reasonably expect it to do well. If you have not 
mulch enough to cover all the ground, let the hills be well mulched with man- 
ure; and if considerable straw is in it, 'tis so much the better, for the roots 
must be covered, if you expect large yields. 

3. The Kind to Raise.— The McCormick, also called the Mammoth 
Cliister Raspberries, is becoming one of the leading varieties among the black 
caps. T. T. Lyon says it is the largest, most vigorous and productive of them 
bU. Charles Downing says: "It has stronger and more vigorous canes, has 
fewer spines, and is the largest, best and most productive Black Cap we have 
seen." 

Remarks. — There may from time to time be varieties brought out that will 
eclipse the McCormick. Let everyone engaged in the business look well to 
this in obtaining plonts or canes, as everyone wants the best. 

Even now, 1884, the Rural New Yorker in its brieflets suggests Shaffer's 
Colossal as a large berry, combining a pleasant acidity with the true raspberry 
flavor among the black caps; and the Crimson Beauty or Hansell as the earliest 
red and the Sneider among blackberries to take the place of a part, at least, 
of the Kittatinny's, being more fruitful, and far more hardy; certainly good 
qualities to recommend it. And so may improvements go on, 

4. Pinching Off, or Cutting Back the Leaves, the Best Way 
— Those that understand the cultivation of the raspberry consider it the best 
way to pinch off when 3 or 4 feet high, according to the richness of the soil, 
else to cut back as soon as they reach 5 or 6 feet high, which certainly tends tQ 
make them more stocky, and to produce much stronger, lateral or side branches, 
which should also be pinched off or cut back, to insure a larger berry, and a 
larger yield of fruit. 

6. Blackberries — And red raspberries need much the same treatment 
as the black caps. 

Gardening in a Hogshead.— Sometime ago Mr. G. L. Record, of 
this city bored holes in rows around a hogshead, at a regular intervals, 6 inches 
apart, filling the hogshead with earth, and set a strawberry plant in each one 
of the holes, beside putting a number of plants on top. There are 100 plants 
growing from the sides of this novel Garden, which are now in full beauty and 
bloom, having a prolific growth of berries, and looking remarkably thriving 



606 DR- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

and healthy. Some of the berries are ripe, and have attained great size, one 
measuring 3 inches in circumference. — New Orleans Times-Democrat. 

Remarks. — I have seen cucumbers growing in, or rather on top of kegS 
filled with rich earth, so I know the thing is practicable for those who have only 
a small yard and no garden. 

Finger Marks Quickly Removed from Mirrors, Win- 
dows, etc. — Putting a few drops of ammonia on a cloth will do the work admir- 
ably. The same also from doors about the locks and latches. Take the cloth 
in such a way as not to irritate the fingers with the strong ammonia. See 
"Ammonia — Its Uses, etc." 

BRIMSTONE— A Disinfectant After Deaths from Cholera, 
Also an Exterminator of Bed Bugs, Roaches, etc.— L. H. Spear, 
in the Rural New Yarker, makes tlie following statement upon this subject, 
which will be found reliable. He says: "The 'Epidemic of Cleanliness,* as 
the present effort to prevent cholera has been called by those who have the sani- 
tary condition of our great cities in charge, mentions, among numerous 
preventives of malarial poison, the burning of brimstone in houses, and I 
doubt if any who hastily read the various directions for fumigating dwellings, 
know half the merits of this agent. A distinguished chemist once said of it: 
' While other disinfectants act for a time, so as to seem to destroy bad odors, 
they chiefly oover Viem up, but brimstone kills them.' All housekeepers should 
also know that by burning brimstone in a room infested with bugs, it will kill 
them. Put burning charcoal into a kettle and sprinkle a }4 lb. of powdered 
brimstone over it. Cloee all windows and doors for an hour or more, when 
they can be re-opened. 

Remarks. — Let any one who thinks this will not kill the bed bugs, roaches, 
etc. , even in the cracks and crevices of the walls, pass a lighted sulphur match 
under his nose, and tlien judge if he could stand it an hour? If the cholera 
visits your neighborhood, which it is almost certain to do at some time, this 
should be done to every room in which a cholera patient dies ; and may be done 
at any time in rooms where these pests have got a lodgement in the cracks of 
old walls. It is recently claimed that even cholera is caused by a living mite or 
"microbe," as they call them, and, therefore, the burning of the powdered 
brimstone, is sure death to them, and that no further spreading of the disease 
is possible. 

Cess Pools Disinfected Instantly.— Prof. Thos. Taylor reports that 
1 table-spoonful of spirits of turpentine in 1 pail of water will disinfect an 
ordinary cess pool instantly, and that in the sick chamber it will prove a power- 
ful auxiliarj' against germs and bad odors. 

Remarks.— Then, I think, 2 or 3 spoonfuls to the paU of water would be 
equally effective for a water-closet— privy. 

Oil on the Water has Enabled Vessels to Outride Storms 
at Sea.— The schooner George Sherman was reported, May 30, 1884, by the 
Chicago papers, to have ridden out the gale on Lake Michigan that week by 
pouring on the water 12 gallons of Unseed oil, which calmed the waves for a 



MISCELLANEOUS. 607 

^stance of half a mile fron the ship. This is, no doubt, true, but wonderful 
all the same — one of the mysteries of nature — Nature's God. 

Remarks. — If sailors do not have opportunity to read this, their friends 
may, and communicate it to them. 

INKS, Black. — Inks of late years are mostly made from the analine col- 
ors, which have been brought to such perfection as to make good ink, by put- 
ting the right amount of powder to the certain amount of soft water. John B. 
Wade, No. 40 Murray street. New York, deals in them, but druggists can fur- 
nish them anywhere, and others will of course soon deal in all these colors. 

1. The black is made by using what is called "nigrosine" or black ana- 
line, 1 oz. to water 1 gal. 

II. Violet, which is a very popular color, is made by using Hoffman's 
violet, 3 B., 1 oz., water 1 gal. Directions — Dissolve the powder with a lit- 
tJe alcohol or boiling water; and If desired to use as a copjing ink, sugar and 
gum Arabic, in the proportions given in the black ink from nut galls and log- 
wood below. 

III. Blue Is made by using Lleman soluble blue, }4 oz, to water 3 gals. 

BeTTharks. — I have these receipts from a nephew of mine, and have not per- 
sonally tested them, but I have others (see below as to 3 of these colors). Still 
it looks to me this would be rather pale, then try i^ gal. of water only to the ]4 
oz. of the soluble blue, and if this is darker than needed take a tea-spoonful of 
it and add a tea-spoonful of water, this would be equivalent to 1 gal., and so if 
it takes 3 tea-spoonfuls of water to make the desired shade, it will take the full 
8 gals. This will be better than if I had tested it myself, as it puts so many 
upon a plan to experiment for themselves. 

Muing for Clothes. — And by the way now this soluble blue is just 
the thing to make bluing for clothes being washed. But where the common 
soluble blue or Chinese blue is kept and used by painters, we put 1 oz. to 1 qt. 
of water, then a table-spoonful or two is enough for a tub of clothes, the woman 
judging for herself the depth of shade, putting in more or less to suit. 

IV. Red ink is made with eosine T. extra, or J. yellowish shade, 3^ oz. tc 
water 1 gal. 

V. Green is made very nice, by using methyl green, B. bluish dark shades 
J^ to 1 oz. to water 1 gal. 

Remarks. — I think all the powder should be dissolved in a little alcohol, 
else boiling water as with the violet No. 2. These are all analine inks, or col 
ors, although they have different names to distinguish them. The nephew that 
sent me these recipes also sent writing done with the red, black, and the violet. 
They were as nice shades as could be desired. Any one can make as dark, 
deep shade as they may choose by first using only half the water, then adding 
more as they prefer. 

2. Black Ink, With Nut Galls and Logwood for "Writing and 
Copying. — Inks made from the nut galls alone as the coloring agent are not 
as good a black as those made with the addition of logwood chips; hence we 
say : Log-wood chips, 1 oz. ; nut galls in coarse iwwder which have not been 



608 DR. CEASKS RECIPES. 

eaten by moths or worms, % lbs. ; purified copperas, 3 ozs. ; acetate of copper 
(verdigris), J^ oz. ; pulverized sugar, 3 ozs., and gum Arabic, 4 ozs.; soft water 
1 gal. If not to be used as a copying ink no sugar need be used and only 2 or 
3 ozs. of the gum Arabic to hold the colors suspended in the ink else they 
settle. Directions — Boil the logwood chips in the water for an hour or two, 
or as long as a woman would boil it for coloring; when cool, strain, mak- 
ing up for evaporation with more hot water; bruise the best blue galls, 
coarsely and put over the fire again till it begins to boil, adding the other arti- 
cles and set away until it acquires the desired blackness, strain and bottle 
for use. 

Remarks. — If properly made it is a black ink, at once, and all the time, 
does not fade, and is therefore suitable for all records. The others are cheaper, 
and a little less trouble to make, but do not give permanent satisfaction. 

3. Black Copying Ink, Cheap.— Ex. of logwood, % oz.; alum, 
powdered, 160 grs. ; bi-chromate of potash, 48 grs. ; soft water, 1 pt. Dfrec- 
TIONS — Dissolve the ex. and other drugs in half of the water, and percolate 
the rest of the water through the drugs. 

Remarks. — This percolation is the same as straining, only it is done through 
filtering paper in a glass tHmnel or tunnel, by druggists, the paper can be got of 
the druggist, and put into a common tin tunnel, such as used in almost every 
family in the country, the puckering of the paper as It is pressed down into the 
timnel lets the fluid run down readily. This receipt is the same as one of the 
best druggists in Ann Arbor, Mich., uses.' If not wanted for copying, add water 
to give the desired shade, and to make it flow more freely as a general writing 
ink. It is cheap and good. See also an ink for school children, also cheap, and 
flows easily. 

Ticket Writer's Glossy Ink. — To any good ink, 4 ozs., add gum 
Arabic, % oz. Let stand in a warm place, and shake frequently. When dis- 
solved, if too thick, add more ink, if too thin, more gum. It will produce a 
fine glossy letter; blue, red or other colors work with equal satisfaction. — 
Oracle, Out. 

INDELIBLE INK— For Marking Clothing, To Write With 
a Pen. — I. Ink, into an ounce bottle, put nitrate of silver, (lunar caustic), 1 dr. ; 
gum Arabic, clean and white, 3 or 4 pieces the size of a common pea; then fill 
% full with soft water. This ought to be in a dark-colored, glass-stoppered 
bottle. Else it must be kept in a dark place when not in use. This is the ink 
proper; but to make it permanent, we have to first use apoimce, which also 
prevents the ink from spreading in the cloth, as follows: 

II. Pounce — Into a 4 oz. bottle put sub-carbonate of soda, 2 drs.; fill 
with water. Directions. — Wet the places to be written upon with the poimce, 
and iron smooth with a properly heated iron; then rub hard over the same spot 
with the end of a tooth brush handle, to polish, that the writing may be done 
nicely with the ink, using only a quill pen; then pass the hot iron over the 
writing to dry, and set the ink, else dry in the sun. This, if properly done 
makes it Derfe<?tly indelible. — Indian Domestic Economy. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 609 

Indelible Ink, Quickly and Cheaply Made.— A correspondent 
of the Detroit Fi'ee Press Household, gives us the following very simple home 
made way of making the ink and doing the work, and I will guarantee it will 
prove satisfactory. She says: 

I. Rain water, 1 table-spoonful ; vinegar, ^ tea-spoonful lunar caustic, drug- 
gists keep this in small sticks, a piece 3 inches long; put all in an ounce 
bottle, and shake occasionally till dissolved. Keep in a dark place. 

II. Directions. — To each tea-spoonful of milk — needed to wet the places 
apon which the name is to be written — dissolve a piece of baking soda as large 
as a grain of corn ; iron it smoothly, and write the name with a quill pen with 
the ink immediately. 

Eemarks. — Dry with the hot iron or in the sun, as in No. 1. In the same 
communication the lady said: Common soda, (the same as baking soda), ia 
powder, with a damp cloth, and a brisk rubbing, is the best thing to clean tin- 
ware, rubbing it dry. 

INK, INDELIBLE— To Mark with a Plate— Dissolve pure 
sulphate of iron, (pure copperas), 1 lb. in acetic acid, IJ^ lbs., and add precipi- 
tated carbonate of iron, (sesquioxide), 1 lb., and stir till they combine. This 
should be done in an iron kettle over a slow fire. Then put in printer's varnish, 
3 lbs., and fine book ink, 2 lbs., and stir till well mixed; and to complete it add 
sethiops-mineral (black sulphuret of mercury), finely pulverized and sifted, 1 lb. 
mixed in thoroughly. 

Eemarks — This I obtained from an old stencil plate cutter, who had made 
and sold it many years. He said this would fill nearly 1,000 1 dr. bottles 
which he sold for 25 cts. each. The sulphuret of mercury gives it its indeli- 
bility. If you use ozs. in place of lbs. it will make about 60 bottles. If drs. 
are used instead of ozs. you will have only 7 or 8 bottles. Now suit yourself 
as to the araoimt you will make. Of course, to be kept corked. 

COLORING FOR DOMESTIC USES.— As the "Diamond, "dyes, 
analine and other colors are being so considerably used in coloring, at the time 
of writing this book, I shall only give a few recipes for those purposes, which are 
vouched for mostly by ladies who have used them, some of them yearly for 20 
years, suitable for woolen, silk, cotton, carpet rags, dresses, etc. 

Black on Dress G-oods.— From a lady who has used it yearly for 20 
years. In an iron kettle put warm water enough to cover 15 yards dress goods. 
In this dissolve ex. of logwood, 4 ozs. ; blue vitriol, 2 ozs. ; copperas, 1 oz. Be 
careful to have the ex. well dissolved. Of course everything should be dis- 
solved, but the ex. dissolves slowly. Wet the goods thoroughly, then put into 
the dye, and let simmer slowly, stirring and handling often, till dark enough; 
then wash in strong soap suds 2 or 3 times, and rinse until the water is clear. 
Press while damp. If the goods look rusty, the dye is too strong, put in more 
water. Cashmeres may be colored by this dye, and make up as good as new. 

Black, on Wool or Cotton.— And let me say right here, what will 
color wool nicely will also color silk. This is from Mary Zaring to one of the 
papers. She says : "I have seen so many recipes to color black, but i think 
39 



610 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

none as good as mine, as it leaves the yarn or wool soft as blue dye does To 
10 lbs of wool or cotton take 1 lb. of logwood (ex.) and 3 ozs., bichromate pot- 
ash, cost 10 cents; simmer your goods or wool 1 hour in the potash, then take 
the goods out in a tub and put in your logwood (ex.) and melt; wring out your 
goods and put in the logwood dye and let simmer 1 hour; then put back in the 
potash in the tub and let stand a little while; then wring out. This will not 
fade nor rub out as other black. I have colored fine pants this way three years 
ago and they are nice yet." 

Another Black. — For 10 lbs. of wool or other goods take 10 ozs. of 
bichromate of potash and 6 ozs. of crude tartar, or cream of tartar; dissolve 
together in an iron pot in 10 gals, of water, enter the wool or goods and boil 
114. bours, stirring occasionally; empty the pot and boil ^% lbs. of logwood or 
its equivalent, say 13>^ lbs. of extract of logwood, in enough water to cover the 
goods well (better to have too much than too little); enter the goods and boil 

1 hour; take it off and wash the goods in clean cold water, thoroughly, using 

2 or 3 waters. If too much of a blue black, add a little more logwood and boil 
again. — TJie Cultivator. 

Remarks. — The 8 next recipes ai*e from Reidout's Magazine, adapted to 
small amounts of goods, and will bo found very satisfactory: 

Black for "Worsted or ■Woolen Dress Goods, etc. — Dissolve 
% oz. bichromate of potash in 3 gals, of water. Boil the goods in this 40 min- 
utes; then wash in cold water. Then take 3 gals, water, add 9 ozs. logwood, 

3 ozs. fustic, and 1 or 2 drops D. O. V., or double oil of vitriol; boil the goods 
40 minutes, and wash out in cold water. This will dye from 1 to 2 lbs. of 
cloth, or a lady's dress, if of a dark color, as brown, claret, etc. All colored 
dresses with cotton warps should be previously steeped 1 hour in sumach liquor; 
and then soaked for 30 minutes in 3 gals, of clean water, with 1 cup of nitrate 
of iron; then it must be well washed, and dyed as first stated. 

Black for Silk — Dye the same as black for worsted, but previously 
steep the silk in the following liquor: scald 4 ozs. logwood and }£ oz. tumeric 
in 1 pt. boiling water; then add 7 pts. cold water. Steep 30 or 40 minutes; take 
out and add 1 oz. sulphate of iron (copperas), dissolved in hot water; steep the 
silk 30 minutes loager. 

Brown for "Worsted or "Wool. — "Water, 3 gals. ; bichromate of pot 
ash, % oz. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes; wash out in cold water. Then 
take 3 gals, water, 6 ozs. peachwood, and 2 ozs. tumeric. Boil the goods in 
this 40 minutes; wash out 

Imperial Blue for Silk, "Wool and "Worsted.— "Water, 1 gal., 
Bulphuric acid, a wine-glassful; imperial blue, 1 table-spoonful or more, accord 
ing to the shade required. Put in the silk, worsted, or wool, and boil 10 min 
utes; wash in a weak solution of soap lather. 

Sky Blue for Worsted and "Woolen.— "Water, 1 gal.; sulphuric 
acid, a wine-glassful; glauber salts in crystals, 2 table-spoonfuls; liquid extract 
oi indigo, 1 tea-spoonful. Boil the goods about 15 minutes; -rinse in cold water. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 611 

Claret for Wool or Worsted— A Short Way of Dyeing tha 
Same. — Water, 3 gals.; cudbear, 12 ozs. ; logwood, 4ozs.; old fustic, 4 ozs.; 
alum, % oz. Boil the goods in it 1 hour. "Wash. This will dye from 1 to 
2 lbs of material. 

Crimson for Worsted or Wool. — Water, 3 gals.; paste cochineal, 

1 oz. ; cream of tartar, 1 oz. ; nitrate of tin (tin dissolved in nitric acid, I think, 
— it used to be dissolved in amixtureof sulpliuric and muriatic acids, and called 
' ' muriate of tin,") a wine-glassful. Boil your goods in this 1 hour. Wash first 
in cold water, then in another vessel with 3 gals, warm water with a cup of 
ammonia, the whole well mixed. Put in the goods and work well 15 minutes. 
For a bluer shade add more ammonia. Then wash out. 

Fawn Drab for Silk.— Hot water, 1 gal.; annotto liquor, 1 wine-glassful; 

2 ozs. each of sumach and fustic. Add copperas liquor according to the 
required shade. Wash out. It is best to use the copperas liquor in another 
vessel, diluted according to the shade desired. 

Blue on Cotton Rags- Does Not Fade.- For 3 lbs. of rags: prus- 
siate of potash, 1 oz. ; oil of vitriol, 1 oz. ; and 2 large table-spoonfuls of cop- 
peras. Put all the ingredients together in an iron kettle, with a sufficient quan- 
tity of water, and when well dissolved put in the rags, stir well, and when they 
are of the desired color take them out and rinse well. It will probably take 
from 3^ to ^ of an hour to color. Be sure and rinse thoroughly. 

"True Blue" for One Pound of Rags that will Not Fade.— 
A lady in writing to the Blade says: " I see Mrs. Gloyd wants a recipe for col- 
oring blue on cotton, that will not fade, so I come in with one that I know to 
be good, as I have used it for 2 carpets and it has proved itself ' true blue ' every 
time. One oz. Prussian blue, % oz. oxalic acid; pulverize together, and dissolve 
in hot water sufficient to cover the goods. Dip the goods in this dye until they 
are the desired shade; then wring out and thoroughly rinse in alum water." 

Blue for Carpet Rags— Better than with Prussian Blue.— To 
the same inquiry " Perseverance Ann," of Pleasant Lake, Ind., says: " I must 
tell Mrs. E. G. Gloyd of a better way to color carpet rags blue than with Prus- 
sian blue and oxalic acid. Take 4 ozs. prussiate of potash, 2 ozs. copperas, and 
2 ozs. nitric acid, and dissolve in warm soft water, enough to cover the rags. 
This will color from 3 to 5 lbs., according to the shade you want. If you coloi 
part of them at a time you will have different shades. Wash the rags in the 
dye, wring out and air, and wash again till the color sets, which ought to be 
within half an hour; then rinse thoroughly and dry slowly in the shade. This 
colors woolen as well as cotton." 

Remarks. — Take your choice of plans, now, you have both. See her drab, 
below. 

Copperas Color for Carpet Rags, with Lye.— Mrs. M. M. Stark, of 
Nankin, Mich., to an inquirer in the Detroit Tribune, for coloring with cop- 
peras, says : "I have a good one, which I send. Dissolve ^ pound copperas 
in a pail fuU of hot water, also have a pail full of white Ije prepared. First 



012 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

dip the rags in the lye, then hang them in the sun and let dry, then dip in the 
copperas water and let dry, then in the lye, drying each time after dipping 
until you have the desired color." 

Remarks. — I notice that some others use as much as 1 lb. to a pail of water, 
and do not dry the rags between the dippings, but drain well, choosing a sunny 
day to do it out of doors. Certainly the stronger the dye the deeper' will be 
the color, and the less times of dipping would be necessary. None of them 
gpeak of putting water into the lye, perhaps the strength as run off from the 
ashes is intended, but it looks to me to be rather strong, if the ashes are from 
good hard wood. If more than one pail of copperas water is needed keep the 
came proportions. I should say 1 lb. to each pail needed. Dissolve in an iron 
kettle, as copperas is the sulphate of iron. One lady speaks of a strong lye, 
and she also used 1 lb. to a pail of water. 

Drab, with Tea, Pretty and Cheap, for Rags, Alpaca Dresses, 
etc. For Five Pounds of Goods.— The same Perseverance Ann, of 
Pleasant Lake, Ind., that gave the blue above, comec in with a drab. These 
persevering old maids are the ones to have around the home; they do things 
well and keep all in order. She says : "To the old lady who wanted my 
lecipe for coloring drab, I send the following : To 5 lbs. of goods take ^ 
of a pound of the cheapest green tea, and 2 table-spoonfuls of copperas. Tie 
the tea in a cloth and steep in a brass kettle, then add the copperas and skim 
thoroughly. Put in the goods, and stir and air till colored enough, which will 
be in a few minutes. If this is not dark enough take out the goods and add 
more dye-stuff (tea). This is very cheap and pretty for carpet rags and a weak 
dye will restore a faded drab alpaca to your complete satisfaction." 

Drab, with Nut Galls, for Bags or Yarn.— To make a very pretty 
iight drab for a carpet, take 1 pound of nut galls, and after breaking them up, 
put in an iron kettle with a sufficient quantity of water to dip 16 lbs. of rags or 
yarn. Boil 1 hour, then add 1 ounce of blue vitriol. When this is thoroughly 
dissolved, put in the yarn or whatever material you desire to color, and let it 
simmer for 1 hour. If not as dark as reqidred add a small quantity of extract 
of logwood and dip again. — Mrs. Eden Wood. 

Drab, with Sumach for Rags or Yarn. Lovely and Dark.— 
Another writer, name nor place given, says : "I like drab in a carpet so well, 
and I heard the other day that sumach bobs make a lovely dark drab, just boil 
them up and put in the rags, it needs no setting or preparation whatever; our 
neighbor girls had splendid luck in this way, and it is so easy. " 

. Remarks. — The only inconsistency I can see here is that no mordant to set 
the color is directed. I think without copperas or vitriol, as in the next ones 
above, it would soon fade. I leave that part to those, however, who have more 
experience in coloring than the doctor has, but merely suggest its necessity 
from the nature or things. 

Seal Brown, for 10 Pounds of Goods.— For 10 lbs. of goods, take 
3 lbs. of catechu, and put it in about as much water as you need to cover the 
goods welL Boil it until dissolved, then add 4 ozs. of blue vitriol, and stir until 



MISCELLANEOUS. 613 

every particle dissolves. After wetting the goods thoroughly, put them in the 
dye, and lift, and stir, and turn, and air, until there is no danger of spots; then 
let them remain in the dye until morning. Wring or drain. Then make 
another dye, by dissolving in hot water, 4 ozs. of bichromate of potash, 3 ozs. 
ol copperas, and 2 ozs. of ex. of logwood, in water enough to cover the goods. 
Allow them to remain in this dye 15 or 20 minutes, or until they are of the 
desired shade; but if they were some dark color when you first commenced, it 
would be well enough to leave out the logwood and copperas, and add them 
gradually, until the required shade be obtained. 

Remarks. — I am sorry I cannot give credit for this recipe, as I am well 
satisfied it is a nice one. It was an answer to an inquiry, and she begged par- 
don for not answering sooner, and in closing said: " This will dye cotton or 
wool, and as said ex. of logwood dissolves so slowly, I always begin that part 
a day or two before hand by keeping it soaking, stirring occasionally." 

Brown, with Japonica, for Seven Pounds of Bags.— In answer 
to an inquiry for coloring brown with japonica, I send the following, which I 
know is good : Take 6 ozs. bichromate of potash, 5 ozs. alum, 1 lb. japonica. 
Soak the japonica over night, dissolve the alum, wring the rags through the 
alum-water, then put them in the japonica and let them come to a boil; dissolve 
the bichromate of potash, wring them through the potash twice and wash then) 
in soap-suds. — Mrs. M. C. Lawton, of Coopersville, Mich., in Detroit Free Press 
HouseJwld. 

Dark Brown, with Catechu, for Woolen, Cotton Not So Dark. 
To 5 lbs. of goods take catechu, J^ lb., bichromate of potash and blue vitriol, 
each 2 ozs. Make a dye of the catechu and vitriol, in which boil the goods (of 
course, always water enough to cover nicely) slowly 1^^ hours, handling prop- 
erly, wring out; made a dye of the bichromate of potash, and dip in it 15 min- 
utes or till the shade suits. It is inexpensive and durable, says " Emma S. 
H.," of Nashport, O., in answer to " Black Ejes," inquiry in Blade. Tested. 

Butternut Brown, for Pour Pounds of Goods.— A writer in the 
Maine Fanner gives the following : " Steep hot, but not boil, J^ bushel but- 
ternut bark, until the strength is out. Then steep the goods 1 hour and air; 
then put in and steep J^ hour and let them cool. Add 1 oz. copperas to the 
liquor and bring it to a boil. If not dark enough use more copperas. Various 
shades may be produced in this dye by varying the bark and copperas. One 
part butternut and one part walnut bark answers well for a brown." 

Remarks. — Butternut is white walnut then what this writer means by 
"walnut," of cou-se, is black walnut bark, each in equal amounts. It will 
make a darker shade, using the same amount of copperas. 

Brown, from the Scaly Moss of Rocks, Permanent.— After giv- 
ing the last, the same paper added: The scaly moss from rocks and ledges is a 
good material for coloring brown. Gather the moss and place it in a brass 
kettle or tin dish, upon which pour cold water, then let it boil on the stove 3 or 
4 hovu^. Then skim out the moss, put in the goods, and boil until you have 
(he requisite color. It will never fade. 



614 DE. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — Thus you have a variety of excellent browns to meet all reason- 
able demands, and some of the articles can be obtained everywhere. 

London Bro"wn. — Goods, 3 lbs. ; camwood, % lbs. ; logwood, 3^ lb. ; 
quercitron bark, 1 oz. ; copperas, 3 ozs. Dieections — Boil the dye-woods for 
1 hour, add the copiieras, and handle, at boiling heat for 3^ hour. Rinse in 
cold water. 

Blue, Permaneuit.— For 3 lbs. of goods, take alum, 5 ozs. ; tartar, 3 
ozs., chemic. Directions.— Boil the goods with the alum and tartar, in brass, 
in water to cover well for 1 liour; remove the goods to warm water, in which 
you have put a little chemic, and if not as deep a blue as desired, take out and 
add a little more chemic 'till the shade suits. 

Yellow On Cotton. — For 10 lbs. of goods, take acetate of lead, 
and nitrate of lead in solution each, 1 lb. in a tub of cold water sufficient to 
work well. Work 15 minutes and wring out; into another tub of cold Avater, 
put bichromate of potash, 6 ozs. in solution, and work 15 minutes through this, 
and wring out; again work 10 minutes in the lead solution, wash and dry. 

Green — First color blue then color yellow, and you have a beautiful 
green. I know these receipts, (this plan, and the yellow above) to be excellent, 
for I have used them, says Leo, of Ft. Collins, Col. 

Scarlet on Cotton or Silk. — Warm water, 3 gais.; cream of tartar 
and cochineal, 1 oz. each; solution of tin, 2 ozs. Wet the goods in warm water, 
and when the dye boils, put in the goods and boil 1 hour, frequently stirring, 
them (I say always stirring handling back and forth to air, and make the 
shade even); then take out the goods and rinse in cold water. — San Francisco 
Cook. 

Pink on Cotton— Beautiful, That Does not Pade— Trailing 
Arbutus, of Steuben Co., N. Y., in writing to the Free Press (Det.) Household 
upon another subject, concludes as follows: 

"I am fearful of being too lengthy, but please have patience, for I want 
you to know how we color a beautiful pink that will not fade. After 3 years 
constant wear, ours is as good as new. To 4 lbs. cotton goods, put in a brass 
kettle enough soft water to cover them well ; put in a bag 2 ozs, cochineal, and 
let it lie in the water J^ or ^ of an hour, heating to a scalding heat. Get all 
the strength from the bag of color, then put in 2 oz. of cream of tartar, and 4 
ozs. muriate of tin — taking care not to get it on the hands. Put in the goods, 
stirring well, till the desired shade is obtained. If you wish more than one 
shade, put in part of the goods at a time — for the darkest first, and so on. It 
is a fine, light rose color for silks." 

Dark Tan for Cloth or Bags —To 5 lbs. of cloth, 1 lb. japonica, 8 
oz. bichromate of potash, 2 table-spoonfuls alum. Dissolve the japonica and 
alum in soft water, enough to cover the goods. Wash the goods in suds and 
put them in the dye; let them stand 2 hours at scalding heat; then set them 
aside in the dye till next morning. In the morning take them from the kettle, 
Mid after having put on as much soft water as before, dissolve in it the bi- 



MISCELLANEOUS. 615 

chromate of potash, into this put the goods and let them remain an hour at 
scaldhig heat. "Wash in soft water suds and dry. It will color twice as much 
dark enough for rags. It does not make the rags tender. — Jean, Lockhaven, Pa. 

Bright Red for Rags.— For 6 or 7 lbs.: Take redwood chips, 2'.^ lbs.; 
soak over night in a brass kettle; next morning put in alum, powdered, % lb., 
and boil to obtain the strength of the chips, leaving them in; put in the rags, or 
yarn, as the case may be, and simmer, airing occasionally, until bright enough 
to suit. It makes a color nearly resembling the flannel we buy. 

Nankeen, to Color. — Fill a five-pail brass kettle with small pieces o'i 
white birch bark and water, let steep twenty -four hours and not boil, then skim 
out the bark, wet the cloth in soapsuds, then put it in the dye, stir well and air 
often; when dark enough, dry; then wash in suds. It will never fade. — Tlie 
Household. 

I. CIDER, GRAPE JUICE, ETC.— To Keep from Fermen- 
tation. — I. A writer in the Prairie. Fanner says " that M. Pasteur, the great 
French scientist, has discovered that any fruit juice which is liable to ferment, 
can be kept any lengtli of time by heating to 140" F. , and then sealing it up, 
while hot, in air-tight vessels," and continues: 

II. "This is nothing new. Cider brought to a boil, skimmed, and then 
put into tight 10-gallon kegs will keep as long as wanted in cool cellars. . Those 
who are fond of sweet cider can in this way provide to have it at all times. If a 
slight fermentation is desired, a gallon or two may be drawn into a common 
jug and exposed to the air for a day or two, to give it a slight sparkk on the 
tongue. Cider should be boiled in brass, copper or iron, not in tin or galvan- 
ized iron pans." 

III. This is confirmed by the following, by bottling while hot, by a writer 
to the Elmira (N. Y.) Farmers' Club, who says: " Cider may be kept by heating 
to the boiling point when sweet, just from the press; skim and bottle while hot. 
Also that apples may be kept fresh until new fruit comes again by packing in 
hemlock sawdust. They should be first put into piles to sweat." 

lY. Another writer claims that "there is no benefit from any of the bung- 
hole additions," but "to make cider keep sweet have it made late in the fall, 
from sound, ripe fruit, and put the casks in a cool place till spring; then bottle, 
cork tight and tie the corks down. Lay the bottles on their sides in a cool dry 
cellar and you will be able to give your harvest hands a sip of cider at dinner 
any year." 

Bema/)'ks — Unless the cider is racked off, so as to get rid of the pomace 
(which is got rid of by the heating, or boiling, and skimming in the other cases), 
as soon as it has become clear by working or fermentation and settled, I ascer- 
tain it must become quite sharp before spring. Some persons, however, prefer 
it sharp; but as the sharpness comes from fermentation, which produces alco- 
hol, if no alcohol is desired in it, the fermentation must be avoided; and that is 
done by the heating to 140 degrees and bottling, as M. Pasteur, in I., above, or 
by boiling and skimming, as in II. , which removes the pomace, as it rises on 
being boiled, then bunging up in small, or 10-gal. kegs, though I think barrela 



616 DR. CHASWS EECIPE8. 

will do as well. The skimming should be done as it rises, before it really boils, 
adding a little cold cider, if need be, till all is well removed, else, as they say, 
the pomice will " boil in," become firm and settle, which, if it does, must be 
avoided in pouring off for bottles or kegs. 

V. Grape Juice, or that of other frnits treated in the same way as 
M. Pasteur and others recommend, bottling or canning while hot, and placing 
in a cool cellar, before any fermentation has begun, the result has been, and 
therefore will be the same. Thus heating and canning, or bottling grape juice 
you have an unfermented wine for communions, which does not intoxicate; 
but it never does, until after fermentation has taken place, which cannot occur 
without the presence of air. See unfermented wines below, where water and 
sugar are added. 

2. At a cider-makers' convention recently, a Mr. Cane, of Lenawee Co., 
Mich., claimed that sugar, 2 lb., and alcohol, 2 qts. to each lb., was better than 
lime and all other compounds to keep cider sweet I think it is a fact, even 
with 20 times 2 lbs. to a bbl. With that I will guarantee it, even without 
racking off till spring. 

3. Bottling Cider, to Keep for Years.— A writer in the New 
England Farmer gives his pirn of bottling cider that will keep for years; and 
its excellence was endorsed by the editor. He says: Leach and filter the cider 
through pure sand, after it has worked and fermented, and before it has soured. 
Put no alcohol or other substances vdth it. Be sure that the vessels you put it 
in are perfectly clean and sweet. After it is leached or filtered, put it in barrels 
or casks filled, leaving no room for air; bung them tight, and keep it where it 
won't freeze till February or March, then put it into champagne bottles filled; 
drive the c orks and wire them. It should be done in a cellar or room that is 
comfortable for work. The best cider is late made, or made when it is as cold 
as can be and not freeze." 

Remarks. — The leaching or filtering through sand, takes out the pomace, 
as the heating above does; but know ye, you cannot filter it until after it has 
worked, and the pomace settled, as the pomace clogs the sand. I wish to say 
here, I see it stated that 1 bu. of blood beets to every 7 bu. of apples makes a 
cider richer, and of superior flavor to that made of apples alone. I think, too. 
It would give it a fine color like wine. 

4. Boiled Cider — How to Do It, and Its Uses. — This is pre- 
pared by boiling sweet cider down in the proportion of 4 gals, to 1 (I have 
always bottled only 3 to 1). Skim it well during boiling, and at the last take 
especial care that it does not scorch. A brass kettle, well cleansed with salt and 
vinegar, and washed with clear water, is the best thing to boil it in. For tart 
pies for summer use it is excellent; and for mince pies it is superior to brandy 
or any distilled liquor, and in fruit cake it is preferable to brandy, and also nice 
to stew dried apples in for sauce. It is a very convenient article in a family. — 
Country Oentleman. 

1. WINE— Wild Grape, to Make.— I had occasion at one time, in 
i^jm Arbor, to use some wine, and a neighbor woman told me she had some 



MISCELLANEOUS. 617 

very nice of her own make. I obtained some, and proved it to be as she said, 

1 found it was made of wild grape juice — half-and-half — with water. First 
having mashed the grapes and let it stand 2 or 3 days, then press out and strain, 
adding the water and white sugar, 16 lbs. to each 5 gallon keg, and let work 

2 weeks, filhng up full with more of the same, and bung tight. In Febraary, 
when I obtained it, it was very nice indeed. Almost, if not quite, equal to port 
— better than half the port we buy. 

2. Blackberry Wine, to Make Properly. — Take, of course, clean 
kegs or casks; let the berries be ripe; extract the juice with a small wine or 
cider press, or it can be done through coarse cotton cloths; then pass the juice 
through a strainer; let the juice stand for 2 or 3 days in the tub until the first 
fermentation is over, then skim off the top carefully, and add to every quart of 
juice 3 lbs. of the best yellow sugar, and water enough to make 1 gallon. Put 
all in a kettle and let it come to a boil, and then skim again. When cool put in 
a keg, fill up to the bung, place in the cellar and let it remain there with the 
bung off until after the second fermentation, which will be in 4 or 5 days. 
Meantime keep the cask full by pouring in wine that has been reserved for 
the purpose. After the second fermentation put in the bung tight and let it 
remain in the cask several months, say to the following February or March, 
when it should be carefully drawn off and put in bottles, or, what is better^ 
demijohns of from 1 to 5 gallons. It will keep for any length of time with- 
out the addition of a drop of whiskey or brandy, and will prove a very 
agreeable and wholesome drink. — " Sophia B," in QermanUmn Telegraph. 

Remarks. — Mostly used as a medicine in looseness of the bowels, debil- 
ity, etc. ; taken immediately after meals, as a tonic, in quantities of a wine- 
glassful or more, as needed. 

3. Unfermented Wineg, to Make.— The juice of grapes, black- 
berries, raspberries, etc., pressed out without mashing the seeds, adding water, 
1 pt., and sugar, i^ lb. for each pint of the juice; then boil a few minutes, 
skimming if any sediment or scum rises, and bottling while hot, corking 
tightly, cutting off the corks, and dipping the tops into wax, and keeping in 
a dry, cool place, gives a wine that no one would object to, if iced when 
drank. They are nourishing, satisfying to the thirst, and not intoxicating, 
because there has been no fermentation. Made of grapes, this wine is in 
every way suitable for communion, but might be preferred as first men- 
tioned in v., under Cider, Grape Juice, etc., to Keep, above, where no water 
lior sugar are used. 

1. BEEBS — Gringer, English.— Loaf sugar, V4 lbs.; cream of tar- 
tar, 1% ozs.; ginger root, 1% ozs. ; 2 lemons; fresh brewer's yeast, 2 table- 
spoonfuls; water, 3 gals. Directions — Bruise the ginger, and put into a large 
earthenware pan, with the sugar and cream of tartar; peel the lemons, squeeze 
out the juice, strain it, and add, with the peel, to the other ingredients; then 
pour over the water boiling hot. When it has stood until it is only just warm, 
add the yeast, stir the contents of the pan, cover with a cloth, and let it remain 
near the fire for 12 hours. Then skim off the yeast and pour the liquor off ibto 



618 DR. CEASE'S HECIPES. 

another vessel, taking care not to shake it, so as to leave the sediment; bottle it 
immediately, cork it tightly; in 3 or 4 days it will be fit for use. 

2. Ginger Pop. — White sugar, % lb; cream of tartar and ginger root, 
bruised, each, % oz.; juice and grated yellow of 1 lemon; water, 1 gal.; fresh 
yeast, 1 table-spoonful; ess. of winter green or sassafras as you prefer, or half as 
much of each, if a mixed flavor is liked. Directions — Pat all into a jar, ex- 
cept the yeast and ess. ; and pour out over the water, boiling hot; cover, and 
let stand until it is only luke-warm, and add the yeast and ess., and let stand in 
a cool place 24 hours, strain and bottle, securing the corks tightly. It will be 
ready in about 3 days. More or less flavor may be used to suit different 
tastes. 

3. Cream Beer or Soda, any Flavor.— Sugar, 2^ -lbs.; citric 
acid, 2 ozs. ; juice of 1 lemon; water, 8 pts. Directions — Dissolve by heat, and 
boil 5 minutes; when cold add the beaten whites of 3 eggs, beaten into a small 
cup of flour; and then stir in the ex. of lemon, or the ex. of anj^ other flavor 
you desire; bottle and keep cool; put 2 table-spoonfuls more or less as you prefer 
into a tumbler, of cold water, and stir in )^ to 3^ tea-spoonful of soda, and 
drink at j^our leisure, as the eggs and flavor holds a cream on top. 

Summer Drink, Pleasant for Sick or Well Persons.— Mash a 
few currants, and pour on them a httle water, strain, sweeten, and add suffi- 
cient cold water to suit the taste, though it is best to use the currants pretty freely, 
and sugar accordingly, as the acid of the currant makes this drink pecu- 
liarly grateful to the sick as well as those in health, satisfying the thirst of 
either. Currant jelly in cold water makes a good substitute for currants; and 
is next to that of tamarinds, which is undoubtedly the beet to allay the thirst of 
fever patients of anything known. Lemons do very well. Sec next receipt. 

Lemon Syrup, to Prepare, When Lemons are Cheap.— A very 
handy way of supplying summer drinks, or even for winter, when lemons 
are at a low figure, is to take any quantity, press the hand upon each, and roll it 
back and forth briskly, to break the cells, and make the juice press out more 
easily into the bowl, never into tin, as it gives a bad taste from the action of 
the acid upon the tin. Remove all the pulp from the peels, leaving the rind 
thin, cut them up, and boil a few minutes in water, 1 pt. to a doz. peels; strain 
the water, and add the juice to it by measure, 'and put nice white sugar, 1 lb. to 
each pt, there was of the juice; leave in boil for 10 to 20 minutes to form the 
syrup, then bottle and cork tightly. One to 2 table-spoonfuls to a glass of cold 
water gives j'ou a cool, very healthful and very pleasant drink, for sick or weU, 
at any time of the year; and a currant sjTup may be made in the same way, 
using about half as much more sugar to each pint. 

Lemon, and Other Syrups, for Fountains, Home ITse, or 
the Sick. — Put in 4 ozs. of citric acid in a bottle with soft water, % pt. To 
make lemon, pine apple, orange, or any of the acid berry syrups, put 14. oz. of 
the above solution into 1 pt. bottle, add 2 drs. of ex, of lemon, or any of the 
otheid named, and fill with simple syrup, shake, and 'tis ready for use. One 



MI8CELLANB0 US. (510 

table-spoonful of th'.s syrup to a glass of water makes a very satisfactory drink 
for the sick or well. When made in a glass, if effervescence is desired, stir 
in % tea-spoonful, or a little less, soda. 

For Sarsaparilla, Vanilla, Etc. That have no acids in their composi- 
tion no acids should be put in — still they will not effervesce with soda unless 
the acid is used. 

Remarks. — I have used the lemon syrup made as above, 1 tea-spoonful, and 
1 tea-spoonful of sugar put in % pt. of hot water, which makes it very palatable. 
When taken an hour before meals it has no injurious effect upon the stomach 
or other parts of the system. See Hot Water for Dyspepsia for 
example. 

Lemonade — Portable, Convenient ar.d Slxcellent.— Powdered 
tartaric, or citric acid (the latter is preferable), 1 (jz. ; powdered sugar, 6 ozs. ; 
extract of lemon, 2 drs. Directions — Mix thoroughly and let dry in the sun. 
Rub thoroughly together after drying, divide into 33 powders. One makes a 
glass of good sweet lemonade. Handy to have when going hunting or picnic- 
ing. — San Francisco Cook. 

1. SUMMER DRINKS— For the Field or Workshop, Nour. 
ishing as well as Allaying Thirst.— Make oatmeal into a thin gruel; 
then add a little salt, and sugar to taste, with a little grated nutmeg and one 
well-beaten egg to each gallon, well stirred in while yet warm. This was first 
suggested by the Church of England leaflets put out among the farmers and 
Others to discourage them from carrying whiskey into the field. 

2. If the above plan is too m.uch trouble, although it is, indeed, veiy 
nourishing and satisfactory, take the Scotch plan of stirring raw oatmeal into 
the bucket of cold water and stir when dipped up to drink. I drank of this at 
the buikling of the New York and Brooklyn bridge, which I visited with my 
son while in New York in the Centennial year of 1876, on our way from Phila- 
delphia, and we were highly pleased with it. As near as I could judge, 3^ to J 
pint was stirred into a common 12-quart pail. The workmen drank of it freely 
preferring it to plain water very much. 

Home-Made Filter, Cheap and Very Satisfactory.— Take a 
large flower-pot, put a piece of sponge over the hole in the bottom, fill % ful' 
of equal parts of clean sand and charcoal the size of a pea; over this lay a 
woolen cloth large enough to hang over the sides of the pot. Pour water into 
the cloth and it will come out pure after the dust from the coal has been run oflf 
by a few fillings. When it works too slow take off the woolen cloth and wash it 
thoroughly and replace it again is all that will be required for a long time. 

Interest, Rates of the Western States and Territories, New 
York and Canada, and Consequences of Taking Usurious Rates.— 
The following rates of interest and consequences of taking usury, was collected 
by the Ledger, of Philadelphia, a very reliable source, and will show any one 
at a glance where they can obtain the largest interest for money they wish to 
invest in any considerable amounts : 



620 BB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

California — Ten per cent after a debt becomes due, but parties may agree 
upon any interest whatever, simple or compound. 

Colorado — Ten per cent on money loaned. 

Dakota — Seven per cent. Parties may contract for a rate of interest not 
exceeding 12. Usury (illegal or exhorbitant interest) forfeits all the interest 
taken. 

IdaTu) Territory — Ten per cent. Parties may agree in writing for any rale not 
exceeding 2 per cent per month. Penalty for greater rate is 3 times the amount 
paid, fine of $360, or 6 months' imprisonment, or both. 

llUiioia — Six per cent, but parties may agree in writing for 10. Penalty for 
usury forfeits the entire interest. 

Indiana — Six per cent. Parties may agree in writing for any rate not 
exceeding 10. Beyond that rate is illegal as to the excess only. 

Iowa — Six per cent. Parties may agree in writing for 10. A higher rate 
works a forfeiture of 10 per cent. 

Kansas — Seven per cent. Parties may agree for 12. Usury forfeits the 
excess. 

Michigan — Seven per cent. Parties may contract for any rate not exceed- 
ing 10. 

Minnesota— ^^yen per cent. Parties mav contract to pay as high as 12, in 
writing but contract for higher rate is void as to the excess. 

Missouii—Six per cent. Contract in writing may be made for 10. The pen- 
alty of usury is forfeiture of the interest at 10 per cent. 

Montana — Parties may stipulate for any rate of interest. 

Netyraska — Ten per cent, or any rate on express contract not greater than 12. 
Usury prohibits the recovery of any interest on the principal. 

Nevada — Ten per cent. Contract in writing may be paid for the payment 
of any other rate. 

New Mexico Territory — Six per cent, but parties may agree upon any rate. 

New York — Seven per cent. Usury is a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine 
of $1,000 or 6 months' imprisonment, or both, and forfeits the principal, even 
fn the hands of third parties. 

OAeo— Six per cent. Contract in writing may be for 8. No penalty attached 
for violation of law. If contract is for a higher rate than 8 it is void as to 
Interest, and recovery is limited to principal and 6 per cent. 

Oregon — Ten per cent. Parties may agree on 12. 

Utah Territory — Ten per cent. No usury laws. Any rate may be agreed on. 

Washington Territory — Ten per cent. Any rate agreed upon in writing is 
valid, 

Wisconsin — Seven per cent. Parties may contract in writing for 10, No 
interest can be computed on interest. Usury forfeits all the interest paid. 

Wyoming Territory — Twelve per cent, but any rate may be agreed upon in 
writing. 

Ontario — Six per cent, but parties may agree upon any rate 

Quebec — Six per cent, but any rate may be stipulated for. 



MISCELLANEOUS. 621 

BOOTS AND SHOES— Cement for Patching Without Sew- 
ing. — Pure gutta percha, eschewed or cut fine, )^<i oz., sulphide of carbon, 13^ 
ozs. is about the right proportions. It should be the consistence of thick 
molasses. Keep corked when not in use, as the sulphide is very evaporative. 
Directions — Cut the patch the right shape, pare the edge thin, remove all dirt 
and grease from the place to be mended. Apply 2 or 3 coats of the cement to 
boot and patch,, with a suitable spatula or flat stick, as a brush soon dries up; 
heat each and press on the patch with a warm burnishing iron, as shoemakers 
understand. 

Remarks — The sulphide of carbon, has proved the best solvent for the 
gutta percha. If well done, it will prove permanent and satisfactory. I have 
had them thus applied, and they kept their position for many months. 

Boots — To Make Water-Proof. — Farmers and others whose business 
calls them into wind, snow, etc. , ought to have their boots made purposely for 
them, not of thick, heavy cowhide, but kip or some soft and pliable leather, a 
kind the shoemakers know as a " nmner," is good, and the soles should be double 
the whole length, and of firm and well tanned leather, and before wearing the 
soles should be well filled with tallow, heated and dried in; then oil the uppers 
with castor oil, also heated in, at least, a tablespoonful of it to each boot; then, if 
out in muddy or damp weather, or snow, or if you are compelled to stand or work 
in water during the day, wash oflf the boots clean at night, warming them by 
the fire while wet, and rub in the castor oil, a teaspoonful at least to each boot, and 
there will be no shrinkage, nor hard boots to get on in the morning. Do this 
twice to thrice a week all vdnter, as the snow or mud demands. 

Remarks. — I have condensed this from a reiwrt of one Delos Wood, 
address not given, to the Indiana Farmer, retaining all that is essential to 
understand it. He says, "I have stood in mud and water 2 or 3 inches 
deep, for 10 hours a day for a week, without feeling any dampness or having 
any difiiculty in getting my boots on or off, by this heating every night." He 
had previously tried one of the water proof receipts containing rosin, tallow, etc., 
but found this the best plan. I will, however, give one of this kind, that any 
one may suit himself as to plans. The compounds containing rosin, how- 
ever, must have a tendency to harden the leather, but kerosene, as mentioned 
below, is now said to soften them as soft as when new, so suit yourselves as to 
•which shall be used. The oil dressing and blacking for leather, carriage tops, 
etc., below, must, from the nature of its ingredients, prove a good dressing for 
boots; but if I was making it expressly for boots, I'd leave out the Prussian 
blue. Neat's foot-oil, and castor oil are both very softening for all kinds of 
leather. Still, it is considered that rosin, and Burgundy pitch both have a ten- 
dency to harden leather; but, as seen below, it has recently been discovered 
that kerosene will soften old boots equal to new. 

Boots— Water-Proofing for.— D. S. Root, of Grand Rapids, Mich,, 
a traveling man, whom I met at Eaton Rapids, after learning that I was the 
author of the Receipt Books bearing my name, and that I am preparing my 
Third and Last, desired to give me the following receipt, hoping it might 



622 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

thereby do others as much good as it had him when tramping in snoW 
and wet: 

I. " Linseed oil, 1 pt. ; spirits of tiu-pentine, J^ pt.; beeswax and Burgundy 
pitch, each, 4 ozs. ; ivory black, J^ oz. Make, or simply heat together over a 
slow fire." 

Bemarks.~H.e kept it with him in winter, and applied as needed. I should 
prefer neat's foot oil or castor oil, as they are not so drying in their nature a3 
linseed. 

IL Mutton tallow with twice as much beeswax, makes a valuable water- 
proofing for boots, and they will soon take blacking after its application. 
One-fourth as much Burgundy pitch as tallow, might be put in. 

Farmer Boy's Water-Proofing for Eoots.—" Farmer Boy," of 
Buchanan, Mich., gave one of the papers the following water-proofing for 
boots, which will be found good. He says: " Melt together beef tallow, 4 ozs. ; 
rosin and beeswax, each, 1 oz., and when nearly cooled add as much neat's foot 
oil as the above mixture measures (6 ozs. will be near enough). It is to be 
applied with a soft rag, both to the soles and uppers. The leather should be 
warmed meanwhile before the fire, and the application well rubbed in. It 
requires two applications to make the leather thoroughly water-proof." 

Rubber Water-Proofing for Boots.— Neat's-foot oil, 1 pt. ; old rub- 
ber boots, 2 lb. ; rosin, 1 oz. Dlrections — Melt slowly, and then pour off from 
or take out the cloth of the old boots, and apply warm. The boots vsill be 
water and snow-proof. — " C. E. G." in Scientific American. 

Jettine, or Liquid Shoe Blacking— Water-Proof, and Does 
Not Soil Ladies' White Dresses.— Alcohol, 1 qt.; gum shellac, J^ lb.; 
camphor gum, size of a hen's egg; lamp black, 1 oz. Directions — Break up 
the shellac finely and put into a bottle with the alcohol, keeping in a warm 
place and shaking a dozen times daily till dissolved; then break up the gum 
camphor and put in, and when dissolved add the lamp black, when it is ready 
for use. Apply with a'sponge fastened with wire to the cork. The camphor pre- 
vents the cracking of the varnish. It may be applied to anything requiring a 
black finish. 

Boots and Shoes, Jet Polish for.— Nice clear glue, }i lb. ; logwood 
chips, '% lb, ; powdered indigo, isinglass and soft soap, each, 2 tea-spoonfuls; 
best cider vinegar, 1 qt. ; soft water, 1 pt. Directions — Put all together and 
boil 10 minutes, after it begins to boil. When cool, strain. Remove all dirt 
from the boots or shoes and apply with sponge or swab. 

Boots, Hard, to Soften. — The latest discovery as to the uses of kero- 
sene is that it softens boots or shoes which have become hard from water-soak, 
•ing, making them as pliable as new; but they should then have a coat or two 
of one of the castor oil or Neat's-foot oil dressings to prevent a like condition 
again. If you doubt it, try it on a piece of old leather, as I did first. 

Oil Dressing and Blacking for All Kinds of Leather, Carriage 
Tops, etc. — For 1 gal. , take Neat's-foot oil or fish oil (Neat's-foot is the best), 
Z qts.; mutton tallow, 2 lbs.; castor oil, 1 pt. ; ivory black, very fine, IJ^ lbs.; 



MISCELLANEOUS. 62^ 

Prussian blue, }£ lb. ; beeswax, J^ lb. ; rosin, J^ lb. ; Burgundy pitch, 1 oz. 
Directions— Put all together in an iron kettle over the fire; boil and stir J^ 
an hour; then set off and let settle 15 minutes, and pour off, free of all sedi- 
ment. When cold it is ready for use. 

Remarks. — Valuable as a water-proof for boots and shoes, harness, carriage 
tops, etc. The dirt in all cases to be cleaned off or washed off and allowed to 
dry, as the case demands. For this recipe, and the one for " Exceloior Axle 
Grease," an old farmer friend of mine and myself joined, paid $1 for them to 
a man who lived near Ann Arbor and was selling them on the streets, and had 
been doing so for some time, the articles giving satisfaction As the two seem 
to belong together, I will give the axle grease here, He called it 

Allen's Excelsior Axle Grease.— Castor oil and linseed oil, each, 1 
qt. ; tallow and rosin, each, 2 lbs. ; beeswax, 1 lb. Directions— Heat all well 
together, stirring to incorporate, and stir till cool. 

Remarks.—" If either of these are too hard," he said, "add a little Neat's 
foot oil; if too soft, a little more tallow." They Mill prove valuable. 

Boot, Shoe and Harness Edge Blacking, Cheap. — Soft water, 
1 pt; alcohol, 3^ pt.; tinct. muriate of iron and ex. of logwood, each, 2 ozs.; 
best blue nutgalls, 1)^ ozs. Directions— Pulverize the galls and put into a 
bottle, adding the others; let it stand a few days, shaking several times daily, 
until the extract of logM^ood is dissolved, when it is ready for use and will give 
great satisfaction. 

Remarks. — It has been customary to use all alcohol, but a shoemaker, con- 
sidering the use of all water in inks, concluded, and proved by test, that for 
summer, water is just as good; and for winter the above amount of alcohol is 
SuflScient. 

Rubber Boots, To Mend.— In a recent Blade a request was made for 
the publication of a recipe to mend rubber boots and shoes, to which they gave 
the following: " Cut 1 lb. of caoutchouc into thin, small shoes; heat in a suitable 
vessel over a moderate coal fire, until the caoutchouc becomes fluid; then add 
1^ lb. of powdered rosin, and melt both materials at a moderate heat. When 
these are perfectly fluid, gradually add 3 or 4 lbs. spirits of turpentine in small 
portions, and stir well. By the addition of the last, the rapid thickening and 
hardening of the compound will be prevented, and a mixture obtained fully 
answering the purpose of gluing together rubber surfaces, etc. 

Remarks.— A coal fire is called for merely to avoid the blaze of a wood fire, 
which is liable to set the turpentine on fire while pouring in. Avoid a blaze, 
and let there be only a moderate fire, makes it safe with wood. Over a stove 
will be most safe. One-fourth or % the amount can be made as well, keeping 
the same proportions; and, if I was making it, I should put all together in the 
vessel, as there would be less danger of burning the caoutchouc. Keep covered 
when not in use, to prevent its drying up. The rosin makes it very tenacious. 

Tanning Skins with the Hair or Wool On.— Alum, 3 lbs. ; rock 
salt (good hard salt vnll do), 14 lb. Directions — Soak the skin in water for 
one day; then reir>ov<^ aU the meat, fat, etc. Dissolve, by boiling, the aliun 



624 -D^ CHASE'S RECIPES. 

and salt in sufl3cient water to cover the skin — this amount for a deer, dog, wolf, 
or sheep skin — pour into a tub, and when only lukewarm, put in the skin 
and let it soak for 4 days, working it with a pounder or square-ended stick of 
wood every day; then dry in the shade — a warm shed is a good place to dry 
in. Then heat up the tan liquor again, and re-soak as before, after which wash 
out well and beat it with a wooden mallet till quite soft; dry again in the shade, 
rubbing it well from time to time ^ith the hands. If this is properly done, you 
will have a very soft and pliable skin, suitable for any purpose for which such 
skins are used. — Indian Domestic Economy. 

Remarks. — The following, which is somewhat different, I take from the 
Toronto Olohe, as it suggests the plan of coloring or dyeing, making them 
equal to those on sale in the stores. It was given under the following head: 

To Make Mats from Sheepskins. — "Take a fresh skin and wash 
the wool in strong soap-suds only slightly warm to the hand. P*ick out all 
the dirt from the wool, and scrub it well on a washboard. A table-spoonful 
of kerosene added to 3 gallons of warm soap-suds will greatly help the 
cleaning. Wash in another suds, or until the wool looks white and clean. 
Then put the skin into cold water, enough to cover it, and dissolve 3^ lb. 
of salt and the same quantity of alum in 3 pts. of boiling water; pour the 
mixture over the skin, and rinse it up and down in the water. Let it soak 
in this water 12 hours, then hang it over a fence or line to drain. When 
well drained stretch it on a board to dry, or nail it on the wall of the 
wood-house or barn, wool side toward the boards. When nearly dry, rub 
into the skin 1 oz. each of powdered alum and saltpeter (if the skin is large, 
double the quantity); rub this in for an hour or so. To do this readily, the 
skin must be taken down and spread on a flat surface. Fold the skin sides 
together and hang the mat away; nib it every day for 3 days, or till per- 
fectly dry. Scrap>e off the skin with a stick or blunt knife till cleared of 
all impurities, then rub it with pumice-stone or rotten-stone. Trim it to a 
good shape, and you have an excellent mat. Dye it green, blue, or scarlet, 
and you have as elegant a mat as those bought in the stores. Lambskins 
may be prepared in the same way and made into caps and mittens. Dyed 
a handsome brown or black they are equal to the best imported skins. 
Still-born lambs, or those that die very young, furnish very soft skins, 
which, if properly prepared, would make as handsome sacques, muffs, and 
tippets as the far-famed Astrakhan. In dyeing these skins shallow vessels are 
used, which permit the skin to be placed in them wool-side down, so that the 
skin itself is not injured by the hot dye." 

Remarks. — The coloring can be done with any of the recipes for color- 
ing woolen goods, being careful that the skin itself fe not allowed to touch 
the hot dye. 

1, RECIPES FOR BAKING POWDER. — Tartaric acid, 1 oz.; 
cream of tartar, 10 ozs. ; bicarbonate of soda, 5 ozs. Mix thoroughly. This 
is improved by the addition of 4 ozs. of flour. 

2. Cream of tartar, 6 ozs.; bicarbonate of soda, 2% ozs.; flour, 4)-^ ozs. 
Remarks. — This receipt was procured from a chemist, and is a receipt for 

«ie of the best brands of baking powder sold by the trade. 



HOUSEHOLD MEMORANDA. 



I once heard a prominent merchant say: " I have 

' saved a good many dollars, and added a good deal 

to the comforts of life, by carefully preserving val- 

: uable receipts, that I have from time to time come 

• across in the papers and from friends. I presume I 

have two or three hundred pasted and written in a 

scrap book, and would give $50 if I had them in 

book-form." Knowing the value of preserving val- 

; uable receipts, etc., I give here a few pages of blank 

leaves, that the patrons of this, my last book, may 

continue this subject of "Miscellaneous Receipts," 

; and thus have in convenient form whatever they 

may deem worthy of preserving. 



fefe 



HOUSEHOLD MEMORAKDA 



***** 



HOUSEHOLD MEMORANDA. 



no I 



SEnOLD MEMORANDA. :>] 



ik.......M............X..;-..^..................:. ..: : ^..^J 






EOUSEHOLn MEMOHAIWA. 



62i) 



s^^^s^^s^^ 





T..T.,T.,7..;;.A.;^.^.,'>.T,.^.^,^.^oo-w■«:.,:-^..::.:;,■^.^..T.AA.?..A.A.;^,^.J-.^.^.^-:,.w■::.^-c^ 


(J630 


nOUSEUOLD MEMORANDA. > 


) 


I 


\ 




) 






V 


v 




•■ 




7 I 


y 




y 




i 


]: 


I 


]: 


> 




\ 




I 




) 


;■< 


A .;. 


} ''■ 


i I 


") ) 


i \ 




;?■ 




■:; 


A 


II 


'1 


tiv .-I'l-i-;- 





HOUSEUOLD MEMORAKDA. 






:Q 632 



HOUSEHOLD MEMORANDA. C:' 



THE TOILET. 



1. HAIR DYE.— Black— Eley's Best.— I. Pyrogalic acid, 1 dr.-, 
distilled, pure rain-water, 6 oz. 

II. Nitrate of silver, crystals, 2 drs. ; strong aqua ammonia, 1 oz. ; gum 
arable, dissolved in a little water, 1 dr. ; mix all. 

Directions. — First apply ISo I, and let it dry; then No. II, and let dry. 
And if by carelessness there are any spots on the face, take them oflf with No. I 
of the " Brown." Alcohol will take them off, but not as nicely as the sulphuret 
of the next dye. 

2. Hair Dye — Brown, or a Lighter Shade. — I. Sulphuret of 
potash, 1 oz. ; distilled or pure rain water, Yz pt. 

II. Use the No. II of the " Black," — in other words, the dyes are the same. 

Directions. — Apply No. I, the sulphuret, and let it dry; then apply No. 
II of the "Black" until you get a little darker shade than you desire; then re- 
apply the No. I, sulphuret, which leaves'the desired shade by making it a little 
lighter than it was. 

Remarks. — "With care in this, you can make the beard or hair a very light 
brown, or quite a dark one; for if you get it darker than you wish, wash right 
off with the luster below. These dyes and the 1st luster below are from my 
friend C. S. Eley, a practical barber, and are very reliable; but it needs care and 
a Uttle experience to work well with hair dyes. 

1. LUSTRAL OIL. — Hair Tonic, or Sea Foam — Eley's.— 
Alcohol, 1 pt. ; glycerine, 1 oz. ; tinct. cantharides, 2 drs. ; aqua ammonia, 1 oz. ; 
rain water, 5 ozs. ; mix. Directions — Pour upon the head, or into the hand 
and apply to the head, rubbing well until the foam subsides. Apply more or 
less, freely at first, as the condition of the scalp demands. It dissolves the dan- 
druff; is good for a sore scalp, chapped hands, etc. For sore scalp apply once 
daily; for chapped hands, night and morning. See remarks above as to its 
reliability. I keep it in the office, and have used it many times. 

2. Barbers' Luster, or Hair Tonic — Bowers'.— Alcohol, 1 qt. ; 
distilled or pure rain water, 1% pts.; glycerine, 1 oz. ; aqua ammonia, ^X- oz., or 
just enough, when shaken together, to make it look milky or a little white. 
This receipt is from Henry Bowers, with whom I have shaved about 2 years. 
It is not quite as strong as Eley's, but cleans the scalp nicely. He has used it 
on my head with satisfaction. 

1. BOB HEATER'S SHAMPOO— Hair Tonic— Very Strong. 
—First put oil of sweet almonds, 4 ozs., into alcohol, 1 pt., and put in oil of 
633 



634 DR. CEASES' RECIPES. 

dergamot, 2 drs., or 1 dr., witli oil citronella, 1 dr., when it can be bad; then 
add aqua ammonia, 4 ozs. ; rye whiskey 8 ozs. ; gum camphor, % oz. ; mix. 
Shake before applying, and rub in thoroughly. 

Remarks. — "Bob" Heater, a barber of Dresden, Ohio, where I married, 
and afterwards lived 14 yrs., obtained the first part of this receipt from a Mr. 
Squires, and put to it what we call the addenda or added portion, which makes it 
a strong and efBcient tonic, to be used in cases where there is much falling out of 
the hair, or if considerable dandruff is present. He used it upon my own hair 
during the winter of '74, which myself, wife, and son spent in the " old home." 
It eradicated the dandruff and stopped the falling hair, and I still have an excel- 
lent head of hair at nearly 68 years of age, while at that time I thought it was 
all going. He had equal success with some others in a similar condition, 

1. HAIR OIL, OR DRESSING— Very Fine.— Castor oil and 
cologne alcohol, each yi pt. ; oil of lemon-grass, 1 dr. ; oil of bergamot, ^ dr. ; 
mix. 

Remarks. When in Dc-troit a year or two ago, a barber applied some oil 
to my hair, after asking, "some oil, sir? "and the perfume being superior to 
what my home barber used, I inquired its composition; and being refen-ed to 
his druggist, the above was the result. I have never smelled a nicer perfume. 
Barbers often use 2 ozs, of castor oil to 1 oz. of alcohol, when they desire an 
oil to help keep the hair in position. Even 2 to 1, like this, it is not gummy or 
sticky. But for ladies to keep their hair crimped, see " Crimps in damp 
weather," The next has 2 to 1 of castor oil. 

2. Hair Dressing— Striking in its Perfume.— Castor oil. 1 pt; 
cologne alcohol, ^ pt. ; oil of lavender (English is claimed to be the best), 2 drs. ; 
oil of bergamot, 3 drs. oil of citronella, 4 drs. ; mix. 

3. Hair Dressing that Turns Gray Hair to a Dark Shade, 
"Without Lead— Cheap and Very Nice. — Glycerine and rose-water, 
equal parts; say 1 or 2 ozs. each. Work well into the roots of the hair at each 
morning's dressing. 

Remarks. It is remarkable what a change in the shade of gray hair will 
soon take place by the use of this simple, but very nice dressing, I speak from 
personal experience and knowledge. 

4. Hair and Hand Dressing— Home Made Perfume— Very 
Pine. — Put rose petals (leaves of the flowers), or geranium leaves, or the 
flowers or leaves of any other perfume plants (the mignonette and helio- 
trope would be fine), that you desire into a bottle, pressing the bottle pretty full, 
then put in glycerine, all the bottle will hold; cork, or if a glass-stoppered bot- 
tle all the better. In 3 or 4 weeks the aroma (perfume) will all be extracted by 
the glycerine, when it may be stained or not, as you choose. Alcohol will do 
the same, but it is not equal to the glycerine. Directions: Pour a few drops 
of this perfumed glycerine into a bowl of water, and wash the face, hands and 
hair. Bay rum or a little spirits of camphor, poured into the water for the 
same purpose is cleansing and fine. My wife always used spirits of camphor 
for these purposes, with entire satisfaction. Washing the scalp once or twice a 



TEE TOILET. 635 

week with a weak solution of salt, in water, strengthens the hair follicles and 
skin, rubbing well in, after drying the hair with a brush as well as the ends of 
the fingers. 

SHAMPOO OR WASH— To Cleanse the Hair and Scalp o— 
Salts of tartar, powdered borax, aqua ammonia, each 1 oz. ; rain water, 1 qt. ; 
mix. Directions — Rub well into the roots of the hair once a week. Good for 
a tettered spot on any part of the body. Applying freely, (after using the hair 
dressing above) of glycerine and rose water. 

A wash of sage tea and borax, say 1 or 2 ozs., powdered to 1 qt. of the tea, 
IS claimed to cleanse the scalp, make the hair grow nicely and keep it soft. 

1. HAIR DRESSING WITH BAY RUM NICER THAN 
ALCOHOL. — " Eh-. Cap," of New London, Conn., gives "AngeUne," of the 
Detroit Free Prets Household, the following: 

"Bay rum, imported, 6 ozs. ; castor oil 2 ozs.; tinct. of cantharides, J^ oz. 
Perfume with anything you wish; will not only be good but harmless," 

Remarks. — Oil of bergamot, 1 dr., will give it a nice flavor, or oil of lemon- 
grass, or of heliotrope, 1 dr., would be "just splendid," as the girls say. 

1. HAIR RESTORATIVE — Which has Raised a Thick 
Head of Hair on a Bald Scalp.— Notwithstanding there are those who 
claim it cannot be done, there are those also who claim it can. The 
following is claimed by a physician to have done it upon his own head. It will 
do no harm, and on some heads it will, no doubt, produce a head of hair "where 
the hair ought to grow," but docs not, while in some cases it may not. It is 
owing to the condition of tlie hair follicles. If inflammation has destroyed them 
there is no hopes; while if the work is only in progress it will; so it is no harm 
to try it. It is: 

"Castor oil and alcohol, each 2 ozs.; tinct. cantharides and rain water, 
each 1 oz.; oil of bergamot, 1 dr.; mix, and use with a stiff brush." 

Remarks. — He does not say how often to apply. I should say twice a week; 
but I do not like a stiff brush, but rather the finger ends to rub it in thoroughly. 
If it excites any inflammation on the scalp use it only once a week. It will be 
noticed it is quite strong, so keep an eye to its action, so as not to inflame the 
scalp. 

2. Hair Wash or Restorative — Italian. — I will give one more 
wash or dressing, easily made, and very satisfactory. I have used it. It is: 

Syrup of rosemary, 2 qts. ; liquid potassa, % oz. ; aqua ammonia, 1 oz. ; oil 
of sweet almonds, 2% ozs. ; castor oil, 1 oz. ; good whiskey, IJ^ pts. 

Remarks— li looks a little milky at first, but soon clears up. Shake when 
xised. This is good for dandruff and to clean the scalp. 

3. Hair Restorative— To Turn Gray Hair to a Dark Color 
—Said to be Hall & King's —Lac sulphur, sugar of lead, each 1 dr. 
muriate of soda (common salt), 2 drs. ; glycerine 2 ozs.; bay rum, 8 ozs.; 
Jamaica rum. 4 oae. ; soft water. 1 Dt. Shake well before using and keep in a 
darE piao/. 



636 



DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 



Remarks.— Vrepaxaiion^ containing lead sometimes efflects the muscles of 
the eye-lids causing them to droop. I think if only used once a week, even 
wetting the scalp will not do this; but if the hair only is moistened, it is all 
SuflBcient, not wetting the head or scalp, I believe it will change the hair to a 
dark color, c\(m without the sugar of lead; then there would be no possible 
danger. I obtained this of my cousin. Dr. A. B. ]Mason. 

1. COLOGNE— Exceedingly Fine.— Oils of bergamot and lemon, 
(oil of lemon-grass would be nicer), each 2 drs. ; orange, 1 dr. ; rosemary 3^ dr. ; 
neroli, ^dr.: essence ambergris and musk, each 4 drops; cologne alcohol, 1 pt. 
Shaken occasionally. 

Remarks. — Cologne alcohol has been purified to remove all of the flavor of 
the corn spirits, and should always be used tor all purposes where a fine per- 
fume is desired, the difference in expense should be very trifling only. I could 
give more colognes, but if the oil of lemon-grass is used in this there can be 
none nicer. I will give a cheaper one which will be quite fine in flavor. 

2. Cologne — Cheap. — Cologne alcohol, 1 pt.; oils of English lavender 
and bergamot, each 1% drs.; oil of rosemary, ^ dr.; oil of cinnamon, 2 drops; 
essence of lemon, 13^ drs.; mix. 

1. PERFUME BAGS— To be Put in Among Clothing— 
Also a Preventive Against Moths.— Cloves, nutmegs, mace, carraway 
seeds, cinnamon, and Tanguine leaves, each i^ oz. ; Florentine orris root, 
3 ozs. Directions. — Have all ground to a fine powder, nicely mixed, and put 
up in small bags to place among clothing. It gives them a fine perfume which 
the moths protest against, and hence the clothing is saved from their destruct- 
tion. 

1. BANDOLINE— For the Hair— As Used in India.— Quince 
seed (which, in India, is called behdana), 3^ oz. ; essence of bitter almonds, or 
any perfuming oil, a few drops only; water 1 pt.; alcohol 3 ozs. Directions. 
—Pour the water, hot, upon the behdana, and let stand over night; strain; put 
the essence of perfuming oil in the alcohol, and add; then bottle, and keep 
corked. 

The ladies know that the miscellaneous properties of the behdana (quince 
seed) enables them to maintain any desired position of the hair, by first wetting 
with it and keeping the hair as desired until dry; but probably are not so well 
aware that the alcohol prevents it from spoiling by keeping it corked. 

Remarks. — The word, bandoline, comes from the French word bande or 
bandeau, meaning a band or belt, because the hair has to be kept in position by 
a band of thin cloth, or better, a bit of old lace, to allow the air to come in con- 
tact vdth the hair until dry. When quince seed are not obtainable, the follow- 
ing makes a good substitute: 

2. Crimps in Damp Weather— To Keep in Place. — A very- 
good bandoline is made by the use of gum Arabic or gum tragacanth (the 
Arabic is most use while the tragacanth is the best), say J^ oz. powdered, pour- 
ing on just enough boiling water to dissolve it; then adding alcohol enough to 



TEE TOILET. 637 

make it rather thin, (about 1 oz.). Let stand open all night, then bottle for use. 
Directions — Wet the bangs with this mixture at bed time, and twist or curl 
the bangs upon the forehead, as desired ; then put over a bit of lace, or a gauze 
band (French bandeau), to keep it in position till dry, or rather, till morning; 
then remove the bandeau, and pull the crimps out with the fingers until 
they are soft and fluffy." It does not injure the hair, nor will the bandoline of 
quince seeds above. It will not come out, even in damp weather. If there is any 
gum on the hair, rub it off with the fingers, and if it looks dull, touch the fin- 
gers to a little of the glycerine and rose-water dressing above, and pass them 
lightly over the hair to give it a shiny appearance. 

Hair Curling Liqiiid. — Salt of tartar (which is carbonate of potassa), 
J^ oz., aqua ammonia and cologne, each, 1 dr. ; glycerine, J^ oz.; alcohol, 1 3^ 
ozs., distilled or pure soft water, 1 pt. If you wish it to have color, add %d.T. 
of powdered cochineal. Shake daily for a week, and filter, or strain. Direc- 
tions — To use it, moisten the hair with it and adjust it loosely, as it dries 
it shows its tendency to curl ; then run the fingers through it to lighten it up, 
as you desire. 

1. COSMETICS FOR THE PACE.— For a very fine one, (see 
face wash), Mrs. Chase's following treatment of pimpled face, etc.: Put flake 
white, 3^ oz., in bay rum and water, each 2 ozs., and applied after shaking, 
to the face, with a piece of soft flannel, and when dry, wiped or rubbed off 
where too much white shows, is excellent. But I have much faith in the old 
lady's only cosmetic, given next below: 

2. An Old Lady's Only Cosmetic. — "The only cosmetic I have 
used," said an old lady, " is a flannel wash-cloth. For forty years I have bathed 
my face every night and morning with clear water as hot as I can bear it, using 
for the purpose a small square of flannel, renewed as often as it grows thick 
and felt-like. My mother taught me to do this, as her mother had done before 
her. No soap nor powder, nor glycerine even, has touched my face, and this 
is what my skin is at 60," she finished, touching with pardonable pride a cheek 
whose peachy bloom and fine soft texture gave effective emphasis to the recipe. 
— Harper's Bazar. 

Remarks. — This bathing of the face and neck with tlie hot water every 
night and morning, with a good rubbing with the fiannel, certainly brings the 
blood to the surface, and what is there so nice as the beautiful carnation of a 
lady's cheek and lips, who has never spoiled God's beautiful arrangement for 
this beauty with pinky powders, or the swarthy liquids, in her attempt to outdo 
nature's handiwork. The pale and sickly may be excused for trying to imitate 
it, but the healthy and naturally beautiful, cannot be excused in their attempts 
to beat it. It cannot be done, no matter how skillfully it may be tried. 

Hair to Bleach, or Color a Blonde.— "A. L. B." of Paragon, Ind., 
says to the Blade: Please give a recipe for coloring the hair a blonde. I have 
tried a good many things and have not succeeded ; to which they gave the fol- 
lowing: Mix in 10 ozs. of distilled water (pure rain water will do; but drug- 
gists keep distilled water, and it costs but little), acetate of iron and nitrate of 



638 DR- CHASE'S RECIPES, 

sflver, each 1 oz. , with nitrate of bismuth, 2 ozs. Moisten the hair with this 
mixture and, 1 hour after, touch it with a mixture of equal parts of sulphide of 
potassium and distilled water. 

Remarks.— From my knowledge of the nature of the articles, I haven't a 
doubt of its success; but not wishing to change my white locks to a beautiful 
blonde, I have not tried it. To give the hair a glossiness after its use, apply 
some of the dressings before mentioned. 

1. POMADE— For the Hair, Lips, Chapped Hands, etc.— Oil 
of sweet almonds, 4 ozs. ; spermaceti, 1 oz. ; oil of lemon-grass, or oil of neroU 
(which is oil of orange flowers), J^ dr. Directions — Use sufficient heat to 
melt the spermaceti in the oil of almonds, and when cool stir in the perfuming 
oil, and put into a large mouthed bottle, to reach it with the finger. Of course, 
all flavored, or perfumed, or alcoholic mixtures, should be kept corked. 

2. Pomade, Very Fine.— White wax, 1^^ ozs. ; pure glycerine, 2 fl. 
ozs. ; castor oil, 12 fl. ozs. ; oil of lemon (I would say lemon-grass), 5 drops; oil 
of bergamot, 2 drops; oil of lavender, 1 drop; oil of cloves, 10 drops; annatto, 
10 grs. ; alcohol and water as below. Directions— Dissolve the wax in >^ of 
the castor oil, with as little heat as possible, then titurate, or rub in the bal- 
ance of the castor oil and glycerine, and stir till cool, and add the perfuming 
oils. Rub the annatto in 1 dr. (tea-spoonful) of water until smoothly mixed, 
then add the same amount of alcohol to it, and stir it into the pomade. Do not 
use too much heat, and use the bandest (nicest) castor oil. — American Journal 
of Pharmacy. 

Remarks. — This makes a very fine pomade. The annatto is only to give it 
color. The same amount of cochineal would give it a reddish shade, instead 
of a yellowish, with the annatto. Tumeric would give a yellowish shade, and 
carmine a carnation, all fine in themselves, to choose from. But it is just as 
good without either. 

1. DEPILATORY— To Remove Superfluous Hair, Boudets, 
or the Best French.— Crystallized sulphide of sodium, 3 drs. ; quick (un- 
slacked) lime, 10 drs. ; starch, 11 drs. Directions— Reduce each, separately, 
to a fine powder. Mix and keep in well stoppered bottles. When to be used, 
moisten to a paste, with a little water, spread on the part to be denuded (from 
the Latin de, and nudare, to make naked), and leave on only 2 to 4 minutes. 
Lift it off with a dull knife, which fetches the hair with it. — Druggists' Circular. 

2. Depilatory, Our Own Druggist's.— Powdered, unslacked lime, 
8 drs. ; carbonate of potash (which is salts of tartar), and sulphuret of potas- 
sium, each 1 dr. Mix and keep dry, as the first above. Directions— Mix 
only to cover a small space at a time, leaving on only 5 to 10 minutes; then 
scrape off, which fetches the hair. 

Remarks. — I have had this prepared and sent to various persons, on their 
application to me for such a preparation. I tell all, however, better let the 
hair grow, than to try to destroy the follicles, as this would require to keep on 
the mixture till it would make a sore, equal to a bad bum. If in any case this 



THE TOILET. 639 

is done by accident, or to destroy the hair foiiicles, treat the sore the same as a 
bum. 

3. Superfluous Hair, To Destroy.— Under this head some writer 
gives the following, which is so near like what I have proposed for othei-s, I 
will copy it, as he has a plan of washing off with vinegar, which would be 
good if either of the above depilatories (this is a depilatory) are used: " Take 
fresh stone lime, 1 oz. ; pure potash, 1 dr. ; sulphuret of arsenic, 1 dr. Direc- 
tions — Reduce them to a fine powder in an earthen or glass mortar, and add 
enough soft water to make a thin paste. Then wash the hair in warm water, 
and apply the i)aste, by rubbing gently a little on the spot where you wish to 
remove the hair. As soon as the skin is much reddened, wash it off with 
strong vinegar. Do not let it remain on more than 3 to 5 minutes. "Wash the 
place with a flannel cloth, and the hair will be removed. The skin will be soft- 
ened and improved in appearance. 

Bemarks. — This, of course, can be kept in the dry powder in closely stop- 
pered bottles, as well as the others, but wet up only as much as you need to put 
on at a time. It should be put on as thick as a case-knife blade, either of them. 

Camphor Ice, for Bough Pace, Lips, Chapped Hands, etc.— 
Benzoated suet, 3^ lb. ; white wax, 3 ozs. ; powdered camphor, 1 oz. ; English 
oil lavender, 1 dr. Directions — To make the benzoated suet, it is rendered and 
strained and 2 drs. of powdered benzoin, or benzoic acid, stirred in; the wax 
is melted in it by gentle heat ; the camphor gum has to be powdered by putting 
a few drops of alcohol upon it (best let the druggist do this), then stirred into 
the wax and suet mixture, and when quite cool, the lavender added, and 
poured, into boxes or large mouthed bottles. Apply as often as needed to keep 
soft. 

Remarks. — I think vaseline, as now kept by druggists, equal, if not better, 
than the suet (lamb suet is used). 

1. Bay Bum, Barbers'.— Magnesia and powdered borax, each, 30 
grs. ; oil of bay, %io\ dr. , alcohol, 2 ozs. ; dilute alcohol, 1 qt Directions^ 
First, rub the magnesia, borax, and oil of bay in the 2 ozs. of strong alcohol, in 
a mortar; then put into a filter and gradually pour on the dilute alcohol to per- 
colate through the magnesia. — Mt. Vernon (0.) Barber. 

Remarks. — The more oil of bay the more it is like bay rum, It will prove 
very satisfactory for the hair or to use about the person when sick, by washing 
with a sponge and putting on the handkerchief, the same as cologne may be 
used, then passing over the face, smelling, etc. It is a grateful relief to the 
sick, thus used as freely as they desire. 

Wash for Ladies' Hands. — This very appropriately comes in here, as 
it is really a toilet wash. Put powdered borax, 5 ozs. , into a bpttle with water, 
1 pt. If this all dissolves, put in enough to always keep some borax, undis 
solved, at the bottom. When the garden work is done for the day, put enough 
into the water in which the hands are to be washed to make it soft or slip 
pery as suds. " It is very cleansing," says Prof. Beal, of the Michigan Agri- 



640 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

cultural College, Lansing, " and by this use of it the hands will be kept in 
excellent condition, smooth and soft and white." Of course, a little of this in 
water to wash the head will cleanse the scalp as nicely as the hands. 

Wash for the Hands When Roughened by Cold or Labor.— 
Wash the hands in vinegar in which a handful of Indian meal is put, rubbing 
thoroughly, then wash off and apply some of the hair dressing, made of equa? 
parts of glycerine and rose water, which will soften and heal them, and be fouad 
very grateful to their irritated, or even chapped condition, in the cold wintry 
winds. 

2. Wheat bran, in the water, is also considered excellent, so is oatmeal 
also good for the same purpose, but the following, perhaps, is a better way to 
use the last. 

3. Oatmeal Soap to Keep the Hands Soft in Winter.— Take 
the white castile soap (the white is the mildest), i^ lb., ind melt it with very 
gentle heat, in sweet almoad oil, 1 oz. ; then remove from the fire and stir ia 
oatmeal, IJ^ ozs. 

Remarks. — " Rosemary" says this is the only soap ladies should use in the 
winter; I will add if 1 dr. of Rosemary's oil were put in, it would make them 
think of her peculiar flavor, eveiy time they used the soapw 

1. DANDRITPP — To Remove, — Cleanse the scalp thoroughly. 
Take as much boracic acid as you can dissolve in a cup or pint of water, and 
apply the solution 3 times a day. 

Remarks. — There is nothing better than the white of an egg, well beaten, 
to cleanse the scalp. 

2. Mr. E. Wilson recommends the following wash for dandruff: Take of 
caustic potash, in solution, 2 drs. ; rose water, 8 ozs. Mix, and apply. 



RECIPES FOR THE DAIRY. 



BTJTTEI^. 



BUTTER MAKING— A "New Departure," or New Discov- 
ery in Setting Milk, Claimed to be of Swedish Origin but 
really a Yankee Invention.— The Rev. Dr. Prime published in the Xew 
York Observer what he understood to be, and consequently gave, as a recent 
Swedish discovery. He said: 

"A discovery has recently been made by M. Swartz, which promises to be 
most important to the dairj^ farmer. In the ordinary method of cream-sett in;^, 
the milk is placed in very shallow pans, and stands for 24 hours or more while 
the cream is rising. The milk, during that time usually turns sour, and the 
cream becomes contaminated with free fatty-acids, with partially decomposed 
albuminous bodies, and Tvith other products injurious to the flavor or keeping 
qualities of the butter. In Swartz's plan the milk, as soon as it reaches the 
dairy, is placed in deep metal pails standing in a vessel full of ice. Not only 
does the low temperature reduce the process of change to a minimum, but, 
quite unexpectedly, it also greatly facilitates the rising of the cream ; so that ia 
pails having sixteen inches depth of milk, the cream is nearly all obtained 
in twelve hours. The butter churned from the product is not only pure in 
flavor, but has remarkable keeping qualities. The plan is spreading rapidly." 

To the above I give the following explanation by a gentlemen signing him- 
self Ivenans, which shows that if the discovery was not actually made by Mr. 
Starr, of Litchfield, Conn., it had been used by him three or four years, at 
least, before it was made public in Sweden. This writer and traveler says: 

"I find the above in a newspaper of Paris, France, showing that the dis- 
covery is considered to be something new and wonderful. Some three or four 
years ago I wrote a notice, which was published in the New York Observer, of 
the splendid dairy of my friend, Mr. Starr, at Litchfield, Connecticut. In that 
notice I stated distinctly, with great particularity, Mr. Starr's method of setting 
his milk for cream; not in shallow pans, as the women of old were wont to do, 
but in narrow vessels about twenty inches deep, standing in ice-cold water, or a 
very cold place. This is the identical process now boasted of as the new discov- 
ery in Sweden, and spreading rapidly. It is a Yankee invention, and how 
long it has been in use I do not know. But they are smart in Sweden, as I 
know from observation, and will make use of every good invention or valu- 
able discovery in butter making or anything else." 

Remarks. There are those who claim that to heat the milk after straining 
inYo the pans, by setting upon the stove until the film upon the top of the milk 
begins to wrinkle will cause the cream to rise quicker and better than without the 
scalding, which experience will soon determine ; but I am well satisfied that those 
who are situated so they can have coW spring water to run through their milk 
house, by which they can reduce the temperature of the milk quickly; or thoss 
who are near large streams of water or lakes, sf that they can cheaply supply 
41 (Ul 



642 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

themsplves with ice for the same purpose, will find the cooling process not only 
the best but a very necessary plan to pursue, if they wish to make the most out 
of their opportunities. 

Butter — Gilt-Edged — How to Make.— At an exhibition of the 
Chester County Agricultural Society, Pa., Isaac Acker received the first prize 
on butter making, managing as follows: 

He feeds 10 qts. of corn meal and bran (mixed half and half, no doubt) to 
each cow per day, with hay, but does not think that corn fodder makes good but- 
ter. The temperature' of the' cream at churning was fifty-seven degrees, and 
it was churned from 12 to 20 minutes. Use 6 ozs. of salt and 3 ozs. of white 
sugar to 20 lbs. of butter. 

Butter Churning, or "Getting on Time."— There are many 
people who complain that " butter will not come." To such I would say that 
"Aimt Ellen," of Oxford, Pa., has found a remedy, given through the Blade. 
She says: 

" I have had a similar experience, and found the remedy by appealing to 
my sisters through the press. There came many replies, but I tried the advice 
of but one, and have never since had any difficulty about getting the butter 
on time. My adviser said never to let the milk stand longer than 24 hours, or 36 
at most, before skimming. That plan I have followed letting the night's milk 
stand 36 hours, and the mornings milk 24 hours. Most butter makers claim 
that the quality of the butter is better than if the milk is allowed to stand a 
longer time. In cold weather, I think the temperature of the cream, when 
churned, wiU bear to be higher than in summer. Sixty -six degrees is about 
right." 

Butter Coloring From Ten Years Experience.— Upon the sub- 
ject of artificial coloring for butter, I will give you the experience of Mrs. " S. 
E. H.," of Circleville, O., also given in the Blade. Her remarks are as 
follows: 

In answer to an inquirj^ how to color butter, I would say that I have used 
annaito for ten years, and find that it gives entire satisfaction. I buy it by the 
ounce. Take a lump about the size of a hickory nut and dissolve it in a cup of 
water. This will do several cliurnings. When you have the cream in the 
churn, stir up and add one tablespoonful, which will color 5 lbs. I expect to 
catch a "blowing up" from some of the sisters, but we cannot make yellow 
butter in the winter without it. If you make good, sweet butter the annatU 
will not injure, but improves the taste, for if an article doesn't look good and 
appetizing,' what is it good for? I am a farmer's wife, but I have good bread 
and butted the year around, and sell an average of 10 lbs. of butter a week, re- 
ceiving the highest market price." 

Remarks. — I can hardly understand why there should be any objection to 
the :ise of annatto. I know that my mother used it for coloring cheese when, 
from any cause, she thought the cheese would look better with it. Webster 
• says it is " a species of red, or yellowish red dyeing material, prepared from 
the seeds of a tree (Bixa orellana) belonging to the tropical regions of America, 
It is used for coloring cheese and butter." So whatever fault there is in its usf 
must be charged to Webster. But I agree fully with the Circleville lady'8 
opinion, that the annatto will not injure the butter nor those who use it, 
although for home consumption it need not be colored, but for what is to be 



THE DAIRY. 64S 

sold, will sell better, i. e., it will bring a higher price, and "will give better satis- 
faction to the consumer, if it !.■: properly colored; then, as it will not injure, 
why should it not be used, especially in winter? But I would recommend those 
who do color their butter, to use the annatto, preparing it themselves, as above, 
for you know not what the preparations may contain which are offered for sale, 
for this purpose, the annatto alone is all that is necessary; and in winter, I do 
think it is necessary. 

But there may be some persons who will prefer the following plan of color- 
ing with carrots, such can take their choice. I take the item from the German- 
town Telegraph, in which it seems to have first been published, quite a number 
of years ago, by which means the Telegraph thinks the "Farmer's Wife** 
obtained it, reporting, or republishing, through the Western Rural, from which 
the Telegraph takes it up again, and endorses, and tells how it came by it, at the 
first. With this explanation, and the addition of my own endorsement, I will 
let the Telegraph tell its own story. Have no fears in trying either the annatto 
or the carrots, as your convenience of obtaining the one or the other may 
demand. It says under the head of coloring butter: 

We notice in the Western Rural a brief communication from a " Farmer's 
Wife," describing her mode of coloring butter, which does not at all injure, 
but adds to the flavor of the butter. It is simply using the juice of the orange 
carrot, as follows: " For about 3 gals, of cream take 6 or more good sized car- 
rots, wash them and grate them on a coarse grater ; when grated pour on boil- 
ing water, which will extract the color. Put the cream into the churn; strain 
the carrot juice through coarse muslin into the cream, and churn. Should the 
cream be warm enough, the carrot juice must be cool before using. Aside from 
the coloring the carrots give the butter a sweet taste, similar to grass butter." 
This is the statement, and we wish to add our endorsement to its correct- 
ness in every respect. Some 15 years ago a neighbor asked us to buy her but- 
ler, and after trying it, and finding it unusually good, we engaged all she had 
to spare. Although it was in the midst of winter when we commenced to take 
it, we found it not only to be equal to grass butter, but to be similar to it in 
taste, and we decided that it was equally as delicious. Being unable to dis- 
cover the secret of its excellence, we called upon our neighbor for information. 
She smiled and said it was the way she always made butter in winter, as did 
her mother and grandmother; and then went on to describe the way it was 
done, which was exactly in accordance with that of the "Farmer's Wife" 
aforesaid — that is to say, grated orange carrot, boiUng water, straining it out, 
pouring into the churn, etc. We published the recipe at the time, which was 
republtshed in a number of other papers, and it is quite probable that this was 
the source whence the " Farmer's Wife" derived her information. 

Now this recipe is easy enough for any one to adopt. It is as plain as to 
make a cup of tea, and is equal to any so-called " gilt-edged butter" that was 
ever made in the absence of pasturage. From this it will be seen that there is 
no excuse for making the poor butter in winter that we see so much of. The 
only expense is a few carrots at a churning, and a few minutes of labor, which, 
are overcome a half score of times by the increased price of the butter sold. 

Butter Making, G-ood in Winter.— As there are a good many per- 
sons who think they can not make good butter in winter because the yellow 
color of summer is not imparted to that made in the winter, and hence that it 
is not of so good a quality. But, to such persons, the above vvill enable them 
to give their butter the proper color, and the following from an old butter maker 
S. F. Adams, will, no doubt, be found very interesting, because practical and 



044 -D^- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

certainly, satisfactory. To tlie inquiry of the editor of the Farmer, he makes 
the following full and very instructive answer: 

" At your request, I herewith give you our method of making butter in 
winter. We keep 10 cows, part of them' are natives, and part are Jerseys. The 
feed is nice, early-cut hay, given twice a day, regularly; 1 water them imme- 
diately after eating, when they will usually drink. Feed corumeal, wheat bran, 
1 qt. each, scalded, adding 2 qts. of sweet skiramed milk, to each cow, twice a 
day. Bed freely with sawdust and leaves. Give them all the salt they wish. 
We always milk before feeding them, and always clean the stable before sitting 
ilov.u to milk. We strain the milk through a cloth, then heat it to a tempera 
tare of 130*^, then set in small pans, in which it never stands over 36 hours, 
before skimming. The cream is kept in as cool a place as possible, without 
freezing. The room we keep the milk in has an even temperature by using a 
soap-stone stove. The milk is set on circular racks attached to upright posts, 
6 inches by 6, and 8 feet long, slats nailed across 8 inches apart; a pivot in each 
post allows the racks to swing around convenient for skimming or removing the 
milk. The racks made thus will hold 64 pans. I skim twice a day, and churn 
twice a week; the cream stands 12 hours after the last skimming, to ripen, be- 
fore we churn it. It is warmed by sweet, skimmed milk in tlie churn, tempera- 
ture 62*^ The butter is washed in 3 waters, then weighed, allowing % o^- of 
salt to a pound of butter. I use the best salt I can find in Boston. I use no 
tray, do not like them, but use a butter-box with tight cover, instead. I want 
my butter, after it has been salted, kept air-tight till lumped, then sent air-tight 
to market. The hand is not allowed to touch it at all. We use a butier- 
worker; would not make butter a week without one. The butter is put io 
square, pound lumps, stamped, and sent twice a week to Boston. Farmers 
who make a business of selling milk, do it the year round. Why should not 
butter makers do the same? Some may say, ' I can find no market for it,' but 
if they ^ill make a nice article, they can find a market. Why is it that 
seven-eighths of the butter that is sent to market sells for only about 30 cents, 
when, if made as it ought to be, it would bring about 40 cents, or more? 
Butter making, like other work, is a trade, and how many dairymen have yet 
to learn the trade? If a few men and a few women can make good butter 
and get a good price for it, why can not a large number do it, other things 
being equal? I hear some one say, 'It is too hard work for the women; 
let the men do it.' A man can make as good butter as a woman if he tries, 
and he should do it when there is a large amount to be made." 

Remarks. — If dairymen or farmers who wish to make good butter in 
winter will follow the instructions of this old butter maker, I have not the 
slightest doubt but what they will succeed ; but I wish to call especial atten- 
tion to the importance of sending to market twice a week, for it matters 
not what pains may be taken to keep butter from becoming rancid, it never 
iastes so fresh and nice as when just made. I speak, as it were, from a 
double experience upon this point, i. e., by dealing in it and in eating it. 
I say, therefore, both in summer and winter, what butter is to be sold, send 
it to market as soon as made, if you wish to obtain the best prices. 

Butter Not to be Gathered in the Churn, Nor Washed in 
Water, but Brine. — At a meeting of the Ohio Dairyman's Association, Mr. 
Hawley, of Syracuse, N. Y., said: " Butter should not be gathered in the churn, 
nor should it be washed with water, but with brine. If the butter is gathered 
In the churn it is spoiled by breaking and tearing down the grain and making it 
salvy, whereas it should stand in the grain like particles of steel. Brine will 
dissolve or cut the skins of the pellicles, and they will then be washed out with 
the buttermilk, instead of being left to putrefy and spoil the aroma of the butter. 



THE DAIRY. 64o 

Butter Wot to be Worked Too Past Nor Too Much. Tlie Jour- 
nal of GTiemistry, in relation to the -working of butter, says: " Do not work but- 
ter too much nor too fast. "Work slowly until all salt is thoroughly and evenly 
absorbed. Otherwise the butter will not be of uniform color. Working it too 
fast will destroy the grain, and the butter becomes salvy and lard-like in the 
texture. Let it stand or put it away in the tray for 24 hours. Then work it 
enough to remove all the buttermilk or surplus brine, so that the butter may 
become dry or like a piece of cheese. ^lold into rolls and set them away for 
24 hours, or until they become hard and firm. The cloth should now be put 
on, so as to cover one end, while the other is left open for the stamp. The 
cloth should be cut in pieces of exact size and dipped in brine and the butter 
rolled when the cloth is dripping wet. Butter should never come in contact 
with the bare hand. When in bulk it can be easily handled with a ladle and 
flat paddle." 

To Make Butter Firm and Solid in Hot "Weather.— An exchange 
gives information concerning a method in practice among the best English 
butter-makers for rendering butter firm and solid during hot weather: Carbon- 
ate of soda, 1 tea-spoonful ; powdered alum, 1 tea-spoonful, are mixed, and at 
the time of churning put into such a quantity of cream as will make about 20 
lbs. of butter. The effect of this powder is to cause the butter to become firm 
and solid and sweet flavored. Its action is upon the cream and passes off with 
the buttermilk. The ingredients of the powder should not be mixed until the 
time when it is used — Harper's Weekly. 

Prize Butter, First and Second— Ho^w They Were Made.— 
Charles S. Sargent, of Brookline, who took the first prize at a recent fair at 
Greenfield, Conn., reported his plan as follows: " The accompanying sample of 
butter is made from a small herd of registered Jersey cows. The cows are fed 

1 qt. Indian meal, 2 qts. shorts, i^' bus, carrots and about 10 lbs. English hay 
each per day. The milk, which is set in shallow pans, stands 24 hours before 
being skimmed, the temperature of the milk being as near 62° Fahrenheit as it 
is possible to keep it. In winking this butter two niles are observed: 1. No 
water is ever allowed to touch it; 2. The hands of the operators are never 
allowed to touch it, wooden paddles being used to work it with. It is salted 
with the best quality of table salt and is not colored. It sells at the present 
time at $1 per lb." The Farmington (Ct.) Creamery Company, which took the 
second premium, explains as follows: " This butter wa.s made from the milk 
of four imported Guernsey cows, which were fed on hay, sweet corn stalks anc) 

2 or 3 qts. daily of bran. It was made at the Farmiugten Creamery, and set 
24 hours in water in deep coolers. The cream stood 24 hours before churning. 
The butter was salted at the rate of % oz. of salt to the pound. 

Remark)!. — You see the importance of not washing the butter with water, 
but with brine; and also that it must not be handled with the hands, but pad- 
dles or spatulas only. 

Butter to Keep During Hot Weather.— Butter to be kept into ho4 
weather ought to be packed in jars, pressed in firmly, and a pickle made by 
using common salt, 2 lbs.-, saltpeter. J^ oz.; lump sugar, 3 ozs. to each qv r»' 



646 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

not water needed. Pour the hot water upon the salt, etc., and stir ua'rii dis 
solved, and let stand till cold; then pour over the butter, at least 3 inches m 
depth, it will keep it nicely. New ash or oak firkins will do, but are not as good 
as stone jars. 

IL A new flower-pot, washed clean, and wrapped with 2 or 3 thicknesses 
of wet cloth, is said, by turning it over a dish of butter, to keep it as hard as if 
placed in an ice-box. The same with a dish of milk. The cloth must be kept 
wet. 

Creamery, the Management and Advantage of m Butter- 
Making. — The management of a small creamery differs in no respect from 
that of a well-appointed private dairy. The only respect in which a creamery 
is different from a dairy is that it does the work of several dairies, and in doing 
this work it greatly reduc&s the cost of making the butter. If we follow up 
the season's work of a small creamery of, let us say, 200 cows, we shall find 
that one person, with the partial help of another, will be able to do all the work 
for this number of cows, which would probably be otherwise done in 20 sep- 
arate dairies. The advantage is obvious. In place of 20 sets of pans, the use 
of 20 milk-rooms, 20 churns and 20 pairs of hands in cleansing milk-pans and 
other utensils, there is but one, and the labor and time of 18 or 19 persons ars 
Sfived Besides, the product is all alike, of even quality, packed similarly and 
ii.\arketed through one agent ; so that all through the work there is sa%ang of 
Isibor and economy of expense. This, of course, reduces the cost of making 
tlic butter to the least possible amount, and at the same time raises the income 
to the highest possible point Instead of all the butter from these 20 small 
small dairies being sold at a village grocerj% and put up in the old-fashioned 
lolls, and being disposed of in trade, as was formerly the custom, at a very low 
price, the aggregate product is sent off at short intervals, and while fresh, in 
refrigerator cars, and along with the product of other creameries packed in a 
similar manner in the same kind of packages, and reaches the market in such a 
condition as to realize the highest price. This is an advantage which is equal 
in value to the saving of the cost, so that the patron of a creamery enjoys the 
double benefit of the lessened cost and the increased value. If dairymen lived 
before, it is not surprising that they can make money now, under these consid- 
erable advantages.— iV. T. Times. 

Milking Shed — Care and Kind of Milk-Pails, etc. — For summer 
dairying an open shed in which the cows can be tied and given a few mouthfuls 
of fresh green fodder after they are milked, and which should be cleanly 
scraped after each milking, is a very great advantage, which can also be util- 
ized in winter for sheep or other stock. Then the milk can be drawn free from 
dust and dirt "flicked" by the switching of the cows' tails; as will happen 
with cows loose in a barn-yard. Moreover, the milk-pails should be of tin and 
not of wood. An old wooden milk-pail can not be made clean by dint of any 
amount of scouring. Nor should the milk-pail be used for any other purpose, 
but, as soon as the milk is strained, the pail should be washed with cold water, 
scalded and turned bottom upward upon a bench or on a stand. 



CHIEESEl- 



HOME-MADE AND FANCY FACTORY — MADE FOR 
cJHIPPING.— I. Home-made.— Even those keeping only 5 or 6 cows 
will find it very convenient to know bow to make good home-made cheese after 
the butter season is over; and as I always draw upon those who do "know 
how " for points upon which I have not personal experience, I will first give an 
item from an experienced man, L. B. Arnold, as given in the N. Y. Tribune, 
upon this subject; then a shorter explanation obtained from a cousin of mine, 
David Sanders, of Strykersville, N. Y., who used to keep about 12 to 20 cows, 
and for several years made his own cheese at home, and sold it to the village 
retailers around him, whose demand, you will see in his statements, he could . 
never fully supply, for the reason, I will add (for I have many times eaten of 
his cheese), that his cheese was better than that made by others around him, for 
the home market. Mr. Arnold says: 

"As rennet is the principal agent in making cheese, that should be pro- 
vided first. If rennet extract can be obtained, that will be the best, because it 
is always pure and sweet, and uniform in strength, and comes with directions 
for using. But if it cannot be had, rennet may be prepared by steeping a good 
clean and sweet rennet in a weak brine at least two days in advance, and gi\'in§ 
it a half dozen or so good rubbings before using. The next thing will be"a tub 
large enough to hold two milkings of the dairy, with a little room to spare ; f oi 
4 or 5 cows a new wash-tub will do. It should be accompanied with a perfo 
rated division board about 10 inches wide, and just long enough to set down in 
the middle of the tub with a good fit; also a half-round perforated board just 
the size of one-half of the bottom of the tub, with the round part beveled to an 
edge on one side, both one-half inch thick. The tub should also have 2 spig- 
gots, or faucets, at the bottom and placed on opposite sides. 

"A thermometer will be wanted. Some convenience for heating one mess 
of milk so it will not get scorched must be devised For a few cows this may 
be done on the kitchen stove or range, with a tin pan large enough to hold the 
mess to be heated set in, or over, a pan or kettle containing water, or by some 
similar means. Then something must be provided for cutting the curd. If but 
little cheese is to be made, a car\ang knife or a thin spatula with sharp edges 
will do. If much is to be made, it will pay to get a five-bladed curd-kntfo 
There must also be provided hoops of the right size, form, and number, which 
may be of wood or tin, with wooden followers and cloths for pressing, and a 
press sufiicient to give a pressure of 15 or 20 hundred weight. Lastly, a place 
to cure the cheese without much variation from seventy degrees, and where it 
will not be very damp or very dry. Exclusive of a place to set the milk and 
cure the cheese, the whole apparatus for making cheese from three to six cows 
need not cost more than $10. 

" With this preparation we are ready to begin. I assume that the milk is 
furnished by the hand of the dairymaid clean and sweet. When the night's 
milk comes in. it will be strained into paas and set away where it will keep 
cool and sweet through the night. In the morning the cream should be dipped 
t)ft and the milk emptied into the tub. The morning's milk will be heated, not 
047 



648 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES, 

enough to warm the night's mess, from 90 to 94 degrees. Our grand-damea 
warmed the night's milk, but we prefer to warm the new milk. The new milk 
will be improved by heating, the night's milk will not. It would facilitate the 
work to heat the cold milk, but a good cheese is preferable to one quickly made^ 
The cream should be put into a clean strainer, and after the hot and cold milk 
have been mixed, the cream may be washed through the strainer by pouring 
warm milk upon it; and thus the cream is returned to tlie cheese. This done, 
rennet enough should be thoroughly stirred in to make coagulation begin ir 
13 to 15 minutes, and the tub wefl covered to prevent cooling. 

" When the curd has become hard enough to spHt with a clean fracture 
before the finger as it is passed along, the curd may be cut or carefully broken 
into half-inch cubes and left a while to settle, when a portion of the whey may 
be dipped off, and the curd again gently worked to prevent it becoming a solid 
mass again, and from the bottom, so that no part shall be missed. Repeat the 
stirring and dipping till the bulk of the whey is well reduced, as it will be in 
about an hour after the first stirring, and then turn in water enough at 140 to 
150 degrees to raise the contents of the tub 3 or 4 degrees, stirringcarefiilly in 
the meantime, that no part shall heat faster than the rest. When the bits of 
curd have had time enough to warm through, apply more water, and so repeat 
till the whole come;- up to 98 or 100 degrees. Then stir enough to prevent the 
curd from adlirring till it will begin to squeak between the teeth, or spring 
apart when pressed in the hand, when stirring may cease and the curd be 
allowed to settle together, and left in this condition as long as it can be, and 
not have the whey begin to turn sour. 

"Whey has generally been heated to raise the temperature of the curd. 
The only advantage in niising it is to prevent diluting the whey. But water 
is preferable, because the whey, which is heated to warm the rest, has its sour- 
ing hastened. Water, too, is better for the curd than whey. When the whey 
is suspected of approaching change, it should be dipped oil close, the divi>ion 
board put into the tub, and the curd all put on one side of it, and the tub tipped 
so it will drain. After a few minutes the tub may be tipped the other way, the 
division board removed, the curd turned back from the middle of the tub, the 
iialf-round board slid under it and raised a little from the bottom of the tub, the 
ili-snsion board replaced and tub tij-iped back as it was at first, when the curd 
will be in a condition to drain from the side and bottom. In this condition it 
rhould be left until the curd becomes so fibrous that it will pull apart and split 
with the appearance of well-boiled lean beef. 

" While lying in this condition to drain and ripen, it should be turned occa- 
tionally to keep all parts warm alike, and prevent an accumulation of escaping 
whey in any part of it, and kept covered to prevent cooling. The ripening of 
the curd is done by the influence of the rennet, and it goes on best at 98 degrees. 
If the temperature falls below that, the tub should be tipped back and the curd 
lovered with water at 100 degrees, till it is well warmed up. When the curd 
lias assumed the condition described it may be considered done. It will then 
be in a tough, solid mass, and must be made so fine that salt will strike through 
it in a short time and evenly. A small mess of curd may, in a few minutes, 
be hashed into inch cubes or less with a chopping-knife. For larger messes a 
curd-mill should be prepared vuth a concave and cylinder tilled with spikes, 
eomething like those in threshing machines, with a hopper over them to hold 
^he curd for grinding, the cylinder being rotated by hand. 

"If the cheese is wanted for immediate use, salt at the rate of )4. ^^ to 25 
lbs of curd should be evenly mingled with the curd. If to be kept long, % lb 
of salt to 15 or 16 of curd may be used. The pressing, bandaging and care in 
the dairy room may be left to the taste and skill of the dairy-maid. If it is 
desired to make cheese larger than the milk of one day will make, the curd 
should be made and pressed as described, and the pressed curd of one day may 
be chopped fine (or ground) and after being warmed by lying in water at lOG 



TEE DAIRY. 64i> 

degrees, may be mixed with the curd of the next day and both pressad together, 
a little extra salt being added for what may have been taken up by the warm 
water. It was the practice of onr ancestors in making dairy cheese, to drain, 
cool, salt, and press the curd as soon as it was out of the whey. This was their 
supreme error. The most essential improvement in modern cheese making 
consists in keeping the curd warm and as clear as possible of whey, and with- 
out salting, for 2 or 3 hours or more, after separating it from the sweet whey, 
and after our forefathers thought it necessary to hurry it into the press. 

"The treatment between the time of dipping and pressing is the most im- 
portant part of the process of manufacture. It is only while lengthening out 
this time, under proper conditions, that the curd ripens so rapidly and vigor" 
ously as to overcome accompanying defects. It will cure as much in 1 hour, 
under proper treatment at this time, as it will in a week in the curing room. 
It is then more than at any other time that it is made to acquire a full and 
pleasant cheesy flavor, and a solid, yet rich and plastic texture. It is also at 
this time more than at any other that the digestibility of the resulting cheese is 
promoted, and its heallhfulness and value as food determined, rendering cer- 
tain a cheese which is at the same time palatable to all lovers of cheese, and 
wholesome even to invalids, and more nutritious than any otlier animal food, 
and this is more than I dare say of the old modes of making. By dipping and 
pressing at once these benefits were, and still are to a large extent, missed. 
Formerly it seemed to be an important point to get, through with the work 
quickly. He was the best maker who could get through at the earliest hour. 
This is now reversed; time has become an element of importance in cheeso 
making when quality is the object, and the best workmen are those who make 
haste slowly." 

Bemarks. — I think his instructions are so plain that none need fail to make 
a good home-made cheese. And I think every farmer ought to make the cheese 
used at his own table. 

II. For making cheese from a dozen cows, or more, and it would be all 
the better if for any number above 5 or 6, to have what is called a vat, which 
would hold nicely all the milk for making the cheese. Such vats are made to 
be surrounded with water, or, at any rate, water under the vat, to prevent a 
possibility of scorching the milk; as they are placed upon a furnace to allow a 
flre imder them, for warming the milk and whey at the proper time; and also 
to allow cold water to be put into the outer shell which surrounds the milk vat 
proper, to aid in cooling down the night's milk, as you will notice my friend, 
Mr. Sanders, mentions in his explanations below. I had written to him in 
1879, when I first began writing upon this, my " Third and Last Receipt Book," 
now well on to six years ago (this writing is done Feb. 17, 1885, and I have 
written faithfully upon it all the time I could command, ever since, and, thank 
the Lord, it is now nearly completed, and I hope, and trust it shall do a great 
good to the people, for whom I have done my best). 

In writing to my cousin Sanders about sacking, or putting the cloth 
around the cheese, as wc see it comes from the factories, amount of rennet 
2o be used, best form of press, and several other points, as you will see in 
his answer, which I did not see given in the published items. I mention 
tMs that his answer may be the better understood. His letter is as follows: 

"Holland, N. Y., April 14, 1879. 
''Dear Cousin, A. W. Chase, M. D.— Yours of April 4th duly received. 
\. "In answer about sacking cheese: After the cheese has been in the 
prpas, say, 2 hours, take out, put on the sack snugly, turn the cheese, and 



650 I>R CEASE'S RECIPES 

return it to the press for 24 hours, or till next morning. Commence with 
light weight, and heavier towards the last, that will press the bandoge firmly 
into the cheese, and prevent Hies from getting in. I think the lever press 
the true principle of pressing. 

II. " In regard to skim-milk cheese, you can keep the milk just as 
long as it will keep perfectly sweet, although in quite cool weather it will 
frequently get bitter, and that would spoil the flavor of the cheese. 

III. " I can tell no exact rule for the amount of rennet, for there is 
so much difference in the strength of them. Must use judgment and practice. 

IV. " I will try to tell how we make our cheese. We strain the night's 
milk into the vat and put cold water around the milk (that is, in the outer 
shell under and around the milk, by which the milk is also heat, when desired, 
by a fire in the furnace,) to keep the milk from souring. In the morning, skim, 
put the cream in the strainer, and strain the morning's milk, which is warm, 
ihrough it to dissolve the cream (so you see, the cream is not to be taken away 
.Sor butter, if you wish good rich cheese); then heat to 80 or 85 degrees, when 
we add the rennet. It should coagulate in from 30 to 35 minutes; then stand 
40 minutes, and cut the curd; then stand about the same length of time before 
heating up the whey; when the heat has been raising about 10 minutes, com- 
mence'working gradually, till it gets to 100 degrees. Work it up with clean 
himds to keep the curd from sticking together, until it will cleave apart; then 
let the fire go down, ana let it stand "till the whey l)ecomes a sickish sweet, then 
d]"ain off the whey, add salt (see ]\Ir. Arnold's plan for the right amount), put 
into hoops, press 2 hours, sack, turn, and put back and press till next morning. 

" Last season we sent our milk to the factory, for the reason wife's health 
was not good enough to see to it (his wife made the cheese generally, which i 
always thought was too hard work for a weakly woman, and still think the 
same); but it did not net more than two-thirds as much as when made it our- 
selves. The lowest I have sold our own make of cheese for, since the war, is 
121^ cts. per lb. It is lower now; but mj customers last spring offered me 10 
cts. if I would supply them ; but I have never been able to supply the adjacent 
villagers with what they wanted. I have not kept my dairying accounts so as 
to give you figures of the amount of milk for a certain amount of cheese, nor 
of the profits of the business. Suffice it to say, I think it the best business for 
a farmer here, he can follow; and I agree with you, that every farmer should 
make his cheese for his own table. 

" Our best respects to yourself and family. David Sanders." 

Remarks. — I think between this gentleman's explanations and those of Mr. 
Arnold, any man, or woman, who is stout and healthy enough to do the work, 
will be able to master all the intricacies there are in the business of cheese 
making, whether it be with few or many cows, as the plan is the same; and 
those who keep a large number of cows, and wish to make cheese for the Lon- 
don (England) market, will be able to do so, by the following item, from the 
Rural New Yorker, which was given under the following head: 

2. Fancy Shipping Cheese.— The following is the process for "gilt- 
edge " fancy cheese for the London market, at one of the most noted factories 
in Herkimer county, N. Y. ; 

" In warm weather, during summer, the milk is cooled by running water 
under tlie vats to a temperature of 70° Fahr. The water is then turned off for 
the night, and the agitator kept moving very slowly until morning. If the 
weather is cool, in summer, the water is turned off when the milk has fallen 
to a temperature of 74°. In the morning the temperature of the milk ranges 
about 64° Fahr. Mr. Fairchild, the manager, says he does not want the tem- 
perature of the milk to have fallen below 64° in the morning because, when 
ibis is the case, the milk is too sweet, or has not sufficiently ripened for hia 



THE DAIRY. 651 

method of cheese making. In summer the milk is raised to a temperature of 
p9o Fahr., and a sufficient quantity of good, sweet rennet added to produce 
coagulation so it will be fit to cut in 1 hour. The coagulation should be carried 
so far as to have the mass break smooth and clear, on introducing the finger 
and raising it. 

"Then the curds are cut lengthwise of the vat with a gang of steel knives, 
and allowed to remain at rest for a space of ten minutes. They are now cut 
crosswise, and immediately after this operation the horizontal knives are used 
to divide the perpendicular columns of curd, and when this is completed no 
more cutting is allowed. Heat is now immediately applied to the mass, and its 
temperature is raised slowl}-, or gradually, until it reaches 98 deg. In the 
meantime, the curds are very carefully moved with the hands and the particles 
of curd are about J^ths of an inch through. Water is used under the vats for 
heating, and this is regarded as better than dry steam. When the mass has 
reached a temperature of 98 deg., heat is shut off; but in equalizing the tem- 
perature of the water under the vats and the curds, the latter will run up to 
about 100 deg. The curds are now stiiTed for from 10 to 15 minutes, and very 
slowly, or until the heat is all equalized through the mass. Then the curds 
are left at rest — the cheese maker's office being to watch and stir the curds 
occasionally until the acid begins to develop. It generally t.;ikes about an hour 
for the acid to develop sufficiently during hot weather, and when this point is 
reached which is indicated by the odor, or if the hot iron is employed the curds 
should only spin threads about %ths of an inch long. At this point, which 
must be determined correctly by the cheese maker, the whey is immediately 
drawn, and the curds dipped into the sink. They are here stirred until the 
whey is all out, when salt is applied at the rate of 3 lbs. salt to 1,000 lbs. of 
milk. 

"A proportion of annattoine is used during summer in the milk, as the 
London dealer to whom the cheese goes, on orders, require a colored cheese. 
The annattoine proportion is after Whitman & Burrell's recipe, and takes one 
teacupful for 1,000 lbs. of milk. This gives the desired shade and suits the 
London trade exactly. 

" In spring and fall, when the patrons are allowed to skim a portion of the 
milk, the process of manufacture is varied, and is as follows: The milk is set 
at a temperature of 84 deg. , and a quantity of rennet added sufficient to pro- 
duce coagulation completely in 40 minutes. It is then cut in the same way as 
for whole milk-cheese and the mass raised to a temperature of 96 deg., which 
ultimately runs to 98 deg. in equalizing the temperature of the water and curds. 
The late fall cheese is salted at the rate of 2}^ to 2% lbs. salt to 1,000 lbs of. 
milk and the winter cheese gets only 2 lbs. For this character of cheese he 
does not want so much development of acid as for the summer make. When 
under the hot iron test the acid is far enough developed when you can just 
perceive the strings to start on withdrawing the lumps of curd from the iron. 
In winter he regards it important to draw the whey as quickly as possible and 
get the curds in the hoop rapidly. 

Bemarks. -Thus we have the home-made cheese, on a small and on a large 
scale, and the very tip-top fancy cheese of the factories, so that all can be pleased. 
The factory plan, without the coloring, would be just the thing, for home mar 
ket or home use. 

3 . Buttermilk Cheese, Plain and Spiced, if Desired— German 
Plan — Excellent. — According to a German agricultural journal excellent 
cheese may be made of buttermilk by the following process: "The butter- 
milk, after being boiled and allowed to stand until cool, is placed in a cheese- 
form (loop) or heavy linen bag until the whey is drained off, when it is salted, 
not too heavily, and spiced according to taste, and thoroughly mixed. About 
a spoonful of aleohol is then added for each pound, and the mass is thoroughly 



652 I>R' CHASE'S RECIPES. 

kneaded, and formed into cheeses of any desired size or form, which are dried 
in the air, and then wrapped in clean linen cloths that have previously been 
moistened with hot whey, and packed in a well-covered cask, and stowed in a 
warm place. Four days suffice to render them fit for use, but they improve by 
age. The small hand-cheeses, which especially become very dry in winter, 
may be rendered palatable by simply wrapping them, when dry, in horse-radish 
leaves, and packing them closely in a cask. They wUl be found of a vei7 
agreeable flavor in from 3 to 4 weeks." 

Remarks. — Many persons are very fond of buttermilk cheese, and those 
who do not desire to spice them will simply use a little salt. 

Cheese Factory— What it Costs to Pit Up, Articles Needed, 
With Price of Each. — I cannot settle this point better than by giving an 
explanation in a recent number of the Fostoria Review by E. A. Davidson, of 
Gilroy, Cal., who reported the fitting up of his factory there for using the milk 
of 500 cows, which is probably as small a number as will pay to prepare for. 
It is probable that to buy in the cities of the Middle or Eastern States the cost 
would be somewhat less than in California. He says: 

* * I have recently fitted out a factory for about that number of cows, 
the cost of which forms the basis of the figures I give. The following will be 
found reliable. It will be observed that in my list no provision has been made 
for engine or force pump for forcing water into tanks, which in some localities 
may be necessary. It will be found much more desirable to have running 
water, either from spring or artesian well, where it can be procured without too 
great expense, as it will materially lessen the running expense of the factory as 
well as prove at all times a safeguard from tainted or sour milk, both of which 
are very liable to occur where there is a lack of good, pure running water. 
There are also cases of defect sometimes in the working of either pump or 
engine, and this causes much inconvenience, and many times actual cost in 
handling the milk. The following is a list of necessary apparatus, with present 
cost of each item: 

Three 600-gallon vats, $80 each $240 00 

One press with capacity for thirty 60-pound cheese, . 25 00 

Ten press screws, 70 00 

Thirty telescope hoops, 90 00 

One 80-gallon weighing can, 15 00 

One milk conductor, 5 00 

One curd sink, with perforated bottom, . . . 20 00 
One 6-horse-power boiler, with injector and pipes com- ) 075 OO 

plete, to connect with vats f 

Two bandagers, or curd fillers 5 00 

Two curd knives, one horizontal and one perpendicular 15 00 
One pair of scales, 900 pounds capacity, . . . 45 00 

One pair of scales for weighing salt, etc 10 00 

Two rennet jars, 5 00 

Two jars for coloring, 2 50 

One curd mill, 30 00 

One sink for washing and scalding dairy fixtures, . 10 00 

One set of testing instruments, 5 00 

Pails, dippers, curd scoop, etc., .... 6 00 

Total, $873 50 

Rtinaika. — Although our items, or recipes, for making and managing 
butter and cheese ar*- few, yet we think they arp tilain. and perfectly relihble 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 



KECEIPTS AND INSTRUCTIONS FOR THEIR CARE ANX 
TREATMENT. 



I3:OI?,SES 



General Remarks Upon Their Dispositions, Etc. — It is at 

admitted fact that " kind and gentle treatment makes a kind and gentle horse.'' 
Again, " a balky man makes a balky horse." " Bad drivers," too, " make bad 
horses." It is only in a few exceptional cases that a horse is naturally vicious, 
or even stubborn. Let good sense be shown, then, on the part of those who 
have the raising and care of horses, and they will show theirs by their kind and 
willing submission to all reasonable requirements which they understand. 
Kindly teach them, and they will as kindly learn. But curse and scream at 
them, and you excite their fears and injure their disposition to be kind, by every 
such want of judgment on the part of the driver, or the one who has the care of 
them in the stable. Then, if you want a kind and gentle horse, be kind and 
gentle towards them, and they will not fail you in more than one case in a hun- 
dred. But a pet to-day and a kick to-morrow will destroy their confidence in 
you, and leads them to expect abuse rather than kindness. The Arabs are 
accredited with being the most successful horse-trainers in the world; and they 
so appreciate the value of kindness that they take them into their tents with 
them, and bestow upon them as much love as they give to their children; and 
the children, in turn, make playfellows of the colts; and thus, although the 
Arabian horse is considered the most spirited of any in the world, yet with 
their intelligence gained by this constant and kind companionship, they are the 
most easily controlled of any. Beware of the impatience of boys and hired 
help, who are likely to think there is no way of showing their power over a 
horse but by jerking at the reins, and yelling or cursing at him. Treat horses 
with uniform and unvarying kindness and they will soon learn to have confi- 
dence in their master, and there will be but few "tricky" horses. It is well 
even to be on friendly terms with cows and sheep as well as the horse family, 
giving them salt, or a little sugar, pieces of apple, or any palatable thing, as bits 
of carrots, beets, etc. , and especially so with the younger stock, and thus teach 
every animal to allow itself to be handled in the yard. And if, when a 
colt or a calf is seen for the first time, it is handled kindly, and so petted every 
time it is seen afterwards, it will soon love to see you for the sake of the feed- 
ing, handhng, etc., and never more be afraid of you, as it soon will be unless 
this kind course is introduced and constantly pursued. That the disposition ot 

653 



654 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

the horse is, generally, kind, no one can doubt; therefore, if he receives kind- 
ness, and only kindness, in return, he will become more, and stiU more kind to 
his master and associate, which the master thus becomes, rather than an austere, 
rough, harsh and abusive one, which the naturally kind animal will soon learn 
to fear, and the next thing is to hate, and consequently kick or bite, or both, in 
self defense or to prevent your coming near enough to abuse him, when this is 
the custom of the master; and no one can honestly blame them for it, either. 
Learn then, to give the kindness you expect in return, and there will soon be a 
lasting friendship established that will end only with the life of one or the 
other. 

How Long a Horse Ought to Work. — It is now claimed by our 
best horsemen, that, with our many labor-saving machines, a horse ought not 
to be worked over 9 hours a day; at any rate he should have two hours at noon 
for eating, and to allow the digestion of his food, by which his strength will be 
greatly aided in his afternoon's work. See the digestion of the horse compared 
with that of the ox, showing how each should be fed. 

Raising and Breaking Colts.— A correspondent of the Practical Far- 
iiur, who says he has had considerable experience in handling colts, gives 
his views and practice upon this subject, also such examples of docility, 
after his manner of handling them, which are so consistent with what I con- 
sider the right thing to do in raising and breaking colts that I believe it will 
carry more force, or be more likely to be followed, than what I might be able 
to say, without corresponding examples, which I could not give. He says: 

" I have adopted the rule of haltering my colts at 10 days old, and lead it 
at its mother's side whenever I drive her. I have never found any trouble in 
teaching a colt to lead in this way, and long before it is weaned it will be per- 
fectly halter-broken. I have just brought up from the pasture a colt that was 
2 years old in April, to give it a little training. This colt was halter-broken and 
led at the side of its mother when sucking, and it is now as docile as any horse 
on the farm. A boy 16 years old, who is living with me, harnessed it a few 
days ago, and, after driving it round the yard for a short time, hitched it to a 
spring wagon and went off a)one with it. I should not have allowed it had I 
known what he was about, but he came back with the colt as gentle as my old 
carriage horse This has been about my experience with colts that have been 
taught to lead and handle when young. It is easy to accustom a colt to have 
the harness thrown on it, and chains wrapped around its legs, or to have some- 
thing fall from its back, without its being frightened, and if these things are 
ever learned it must be when the animal is young. I believe that it is easy to 
so train a colt that if the hold-backs come loose on a hill, and let the buggy 
against it, instead of being frightened and running away, it will brace itself 
and stop the buggy. I remember twice being placed in a position of great dan- 
ger, with a spirited mare that I had trained from a colt, and if I had not accus- 
tomed her to just such treatment as I recommend, I should undoubtedly have 
been seveiely injured or killed. The instances were these: I was approaching 
the Miami river, on a turnpike, and had just started down a long, winding 
■ hill, over a fourth of a mile long, when one of the bolts by which the shafts 
were attached to the buggy, dropped out. 'That side of the shafts dropped on 
to the mare's heels, and whenever I attempted to rein her in to stop her, the 
buggy would run against her. I went fully 300 yards down the hill before I 
could get her checked so that it was safe for me to jump out and catch the 
wheel and stop the buggy, but the mare made no attempt to kick or nm. The 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 655 

other case was this: I had stopped at the top of a long hill with a load of wood, 
and when I stepped on to the doubletree to climb on to the load, the stick I took 
hold of to pull myself up by, pulled out, and I fell with my head between the 
mare's heels, and the stick came rattling down over the chains on top of me. 
If she had started at all the wagon would have run over me, for I was exactly 
in front of the wheel. Now, I do not say that every horse can be trained to do 
as mine did, but I do say that if it is ever done it must be while it is young, and 
that what the colt is taught young it never forgets. I have no faith in the 
theory that a colt should never be put to work until it is 4 years old. Of course, 
we must exercise judgment and not strain our young horses by pulling thera 
hard, but I see no more reason why a colt should do nothing until it is full 
grown, than a boy, and every boy works from the time he is 12 or 14 years old. 
A well grown colt can be used for light work from the time it is 30 mouths old 
and made to pay its keeping, and if good judgment is exercised it will be all the 
better for it. One thing is indispensable in training a colt, and that is that you 
control your temper. The man who will get angry, and jerk and whip a colt, 
is not fit to have charge of it, and need not expect to render it docile and 
obedient. 

Remarks. — As this gentleman says, every horse may not be as docile as his 
was, even if trained the same; but the author fully believes that 9 out of every 
10 would be equally docile under just such circumstances. But most positively 
would not without this early training. 

Bitting the Colt and Training to Harness.— In the warm days of 
spring, when the colt is 1 year old, let the bitting process be commenced; and if 
the colt has been handled from its birth, as above suggested, it will usually sub- 
mit to the bitting process as quietly as he will to any other training. After put- 
ting on the bitting fixtures, turn him loose in a safe yard, i. e., with no obstruc- 
tions, as wagons, sheep racks, etc. , with which he might come in contact, allow- 
ing him an hour or so to become familiar with the harness, being careful to 
check him up but little the first time above what he carries his head naturally, 
but checking higher and higher each day until the proper carriage of the head 
is attained. I dislike an over-high carriage of the head in any horse. After a 
day or two, a cord 12 to 15 feet in length may be tied to the bits and the colt 
allowed or trained, if need be, to exercise in a circle or around you, but never 
carrying it so far as to tire or worry him, gently patting and petting him from 
time to time to show that no harm is intended. This should be gone over again 
and again through the summer and winter following, and when it is 2 years old 
it may be harnessed and hitched beside its mother, if she be gentle and kind, 
else beside an old, gentle horse, and driven quietly about, at first with only the 
harness on, then to a light carriage, with never more than two therein, and 
accustomed to driving until it becomes second nature to do as its companion 
does, but never upon long and exhaustive journeys; but simply enough to 
harden its flesh and aid its muscular development. And even from 8 until 4 
years old a colt should be driven with exceeding care, never over-loaded, as this 
is the critical age of the colt, or its period of second dentition, and it can not, 
therefore, masticate hard food, as it can after its teething is completed. Indeed, 
all young horses should be used with care, and never put to steady exhaustive 
work until they are 6 years old, after which, with this early care, they wiW 
become stouter and increase in power and speed until 10 or even 13 years < )14 



656 DR' CHASE'S RSCIPES. 

while if put to the haxde«4 work at 4 or 5, they will not improve beyond 
8 or 9. 

Weaning and Wintering Colts.— If the mare is allowed a few oats 
while in pasture, which is a very proper thing to allow, the colt will soon learn 
to eat with her, and as soon as this is obsen'ed, it should have a handful or two 
daily, where the mother cannot get in to eat them from it; by which means you 
increase its development and growth, and save the trouble of having to teach it 
to eat them at time of weaning. And as cool nights approach, it is best to take 
the mare to the stable over night, tying the colt near her; if a double stall, by 
her side; but not to allow suckling, which will take away half, at least, of the 
trouble of weaning without their knowing it; and if the mare will eat roots, give 
such as beets, carrots, turnips, apples, pumpkins, etc., all properly cut into small 
pieces to prevent choking; and some persons think all breeding mares should 
be taught to eat roots to ensure a better condition of health. The colt will also 
soon learn to eat them, but should not be allowed so much as to produce loose- 
iiessof the bowels; enough, only, to aid digestion. Some persons allow their 
colts to run with the dam till winter sets in; but it is not good for either the 
colt or the mother, especially if she is again breeding. The colt should be 
weaned, or shut off from the mother, about the end of the sixth month; but 
should be well cared for the first winter — in fact, all winters; should have 
either a warm stall, or at least a warm, dry place, with plenty of bedding, and 
a good brushing every day, being very careful and kind about the legs, to 
accustom it to after grooming; give a quart of good, sound oats daily, with 
sweet, clean hay, and its little feed of roots, it you liave them; but coarse cut 
food is not proper for a colt, as it packs too closely for the easy digestion of 
young animals. If the fall is particularly dry, when a colt is being weaned, a 
few bits of carrots, beets, or turnips wiU more especially be called for as aids to 
digestion, on account of the shriveled condition of the grass. With these aids 
it will not miss the mother's milk near as much as it otherwise would; ana if it 
has already been accustomed to them, so much less trouble will now be exper- 
ienced. If 3 or 4 colts can be shut off together in an adjoining field from the 
dams, there will be still less trouble than with one alone. 

Profit of Raising Colts. — A colt may be raised for about the same 
cost as a cow; but, at three years old, is generally worth as much as three or 
four cows. Not only must the right kind of mares be kept, and the right kind 
of colts be raised, but the mother must have the proper care, as indicated under 
the head of Brood-mares, Proper Care of, etc. She must also have ample stable 
accommodations, when needed. And as the profit of raising good colts is so 
large, as before remarked, and the demand for them is becoming so great, let 
the farmer keep the mares, which are just as kind and good to work on the 
iarm as the geldings, and let the latter go to the town-people who care not to 
engage in the breeding business. 

Colts of Ordinary Training— To Cure of Halter-Pulling.— 
Colts which have not been broken young to lead by the side of the mother, as 
previously instructed, often annoy their trainer by pulling at the halter. For 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 657 

such, place a spring-pole, a pretty stiff one, on the opposite side of the manger 
so he shall not see it; then pass the halter-strap, or what is better, a rope halter, 
that may pass through a hole in the partition or boards, put up for the purpose, 
passing to the pole, which shall give him at least 3 or 4 feet of play, and he 
will soon try his full strength upon it; but if properly done it will still hold 
him, and he will finally walk up to the manger — " the captain's ofiice " — and 
consider his passage paid for life on not a very large number of pulls either, if 
it is skillfully arranged. I have seen this done effectually and satisfactorily by 
taking the colt to the woods and trimming a sapling of such a size as to have 
the right spring to it, then cut off the top at a proper height, bending down and 
tying a long rope to the top and to the halter, then letting it up gently, when 
the contest would begin, but always with victory to the sapling, with only a few 
trials, although it is believed to be best to have the sapling hidden from his 
sight, yet he hardly suspects the sapling of being his opponent. 

Colts, to Teach How to Back. — When a colt has been somewhat 
accustomed to the harness, after our method of training and breaking, it will be 
well also to teach him how to back in the following manner: Having put on a 
bridle, lead him to the top of rather sloping ground, not very steep, placing 
the hind feet down the slope; then facing him, taking hold of the reins, close 
to the bits, with a hand on each side, press him gently backward, at the same 
time saying "Back, back," while you follow him, guiding him as he backs, 
to keep him descending the hill or slope, and not allowing him to turn sideways, 
stopping occasionally to caress him, but under no circumstances allow yourself 
to strike him, and he will very soon learn what is wanted of him and will will- 
ingly do it at the word being spoken every time, if done with patience and gen- 
tleness. After he has learned it fairly on the descending ground, do the same 
upon the level, after which harness him to a light empty buggy or wagon and 
do the same thing, first upon descending ground, tlien upon the level; and 
finally, if upon a road where the ground is solid, you may get into the vehicle, 
and with the reins gently pull upon him, always repeating the words, " Back, 
back," until he perfectly understands what is desired of him, when he will do 
it as readily as any other thing. It is only that horses do not know what is 
wanted of them, or that they are at first required to back greater loads than 
they are able to do, that there is so much trouble in backing them. If the colt 
is taught, the horse will know how to do it. And this plan is as applicable to 
horses as it is to colts; but for horses which have not had the advantage of 
training and breaking while a colt, as above indicated, it will require more time, 
as well as more patience, and a greater amount of gentleness, to accomplish the 
undertaking. Observe the three things above indicated and you will never fail: 
I. To place the colt or the horse with his back down hill. 
II. When harnessed, let it be only to a light empty wagon. 
III. Always be perfectly kind and gentle, teaching him what you desire him 
to know. Take only one at first, and after he is learned, if you have a mate 
for him, do the same with him; and finally, harness them together and carefully 
do the same with the span. It will more than pay in ihe after usefulness of the 
horses for aU the labor and pains of teaching. 
42 



Q?^.<' DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Brood Mares, Proper Care of, Before and at the Time oi 

Foaling. — The author is indebted to the "Veterinary" of the New York 
Spint and a correspondent of the Michigan Farmer for the following sensible 
instructions as to the proper food and care of brood mares at this critical period 
of their lives; and especially will it be found necessary to have an eye to the 
mother's conduct towards the foal or colt, if it is her first, as she may be kind 
to it and she may not ; still, watchful care is very important in all cases until the 
colt is up and doing well. The writers speak very much alike, as though one 
had copied from the other, in parts at least, but which is the copyist I do not 
know ; but as each is more full in some poinrs than the other, I shall use 
all important points without giving both in full, as that would only be a repeti- 
tion, my credit being given jointly, as above. The combination is sensible and 
worthy of consideration. It is as follows: 

" The best feed for the brood mare is cornstalks or good timothy hay, with 
trom 4 to 6 qt3. of ground oats and wheat bran (equal parts) each day. The 
ground oats and wheat bran not only enable the dam to make all necessary 
preparations to supply the coming foal with nourishment at the time when most 
needed, but it keeps her healthy and strong, and enables her to furnish the 
growing foetus (colt in uterus) with the best kind of material to make the best 
bone and muscle. The dam should also have moderate exercise, but it should 
be regular. If she be used in a team, she should not be driven faster than a 
walk, nor loaded too heavily, for in either case there is danger of injuring the 
dam and ruining the foal. She should be housed or sheltered nights and in all 
stormy weather. As foaling time approaches, she particularly needs the prac- 
ticed eye of the careful and experienced breeder. For she should be watched 
both day and night, as many a valuable colt has been lost that two minutes' 
\abor at the particular time would have saved. As soon as the colt is dropped, 
the attendant should see that its head is free from the membrane or sac with 
which it is enveloped, as the colt will otherwise soon smother. The next thing 
is to sever the umbilical cord about 5 inches from the foal and tie the end next 
to the colt to prevent bleeding, etc. This, if possible, should be done before the 
dam rises, as manj' a colt has been ruptured at the navel by the dam rising 
before the string was severed. After the above has been promptly attended to, 
leave the dam alone with the foal for half an hour and carefully watch her 
actions. Now, in case she seems disposed to injure, or in any way abuse the 
foal, it should be taken away from her and covered with a blanket until dry. 
at the end of a few hours, the attendant with whom the mare is most familiar 
should endeavor to assist the foal to suckle. If necessary the mare must be 
placed under more or less restraint. The twitch, strapping up one foot, or the 
side line must be resorted to, while the assistant renders the necessary assistance 
by holding the colt at the side and by putting the nose to tlie teat of the mare. 
After the colt is able to draw its nourishment from the dam without the aid of 
its attendant, little need be done but furnish ashed, if the weather be inclement^ 
and a liberal supply of good hay or stalks, and a peck of ground oats and bran 
per day until there is a full growth of green, spring grass." 

Bemarks. — The author can see nothing to add to these instructions, except. 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 659 

ehould it ever occur that from storms, or from the mare's " coming in " out of 
the ordinary season, she should have a double stall or a barn floor, well bedded, 
entirely to herself at ^ch time, together with the same watchful care to avoid 
accidents, that is above recommended, with which no danger generally need be 
apprehended. 

How to Choose or Buy a Horse.— The following simple rules will 
be found useful to all parties about to buy a horse: 

I. Never take the seller's word; if dishonest he will be sure to cheat you; 
if disposed to be fair, he may have been the dupe of another, and will deceive 
you through representations which cannot be relied upon. 

II. If you trust the horse's mouth for his age, observe well the rules given 
below, for that purpose. 

III. Never buy a horse while in motion; watch him while he stands at 
rest, and you will discover his weak points. If sound he will stand squarely 
on his limbs without moving any of them, the feet planted flat upon the ground, 
with legs plump and naturally poised. If one foot is thrown forward with the 
toe pointing to the ground and the heel raised; or if the foot is lifted from the 
ground and the weight taken from it, disease of the navicular bone may be sus- 
pected, or at least, tenderness, which is precursor of disease. If the foot is 
thrown out, the toe raised and the heel brought down, the horse has suffered 
from laminitis, founder or fever in the feet, or the back sinews have been 
sprained, and he is of little future value. When the feet are all drawn together 
beneath the horse, if there has been no disease there is a misplacement of the 
limbs, at least, and a weak disposition of the muscles. If the horse stands with 
his feet spread out, or straddles with the hind legs, there is weakness of the 
loins, and the kidneys are disordered. 

IV. Never buy a horse with a bluish or milkish cast in the eyes. They 
indicate a constitutional tendency to ophthalmia (soreness or weak eyes) moon 
blindness, etc. 

V. Never have anything to do with a horse who keeps his ears thrown 
back. It is an invariable indication of bad temper. 

VI. If a horse's hind legs are scarred the fact denotes that he is a kicker. 

VII. If the knees are blemished the horse is apt to stumble. 

VIII. When the skin is rough and harsh, and does not move easily and 
smoothly to the touch, the horse is a heavy eater, and his digestion is bad. 

IX. Avoid a horse whose respiratory organs are at all impaired. If the 
ear is placed at the side of the heart, and a whizzing sound is heard, it is an 
indication of trouble. Let him go. 

How to Judge the Age of a Horse.— The age of a horse, up to a 
certain period, is generally determined by his teeth. There are no two opinions 
alike on this point. But as almost every writer on this subject has some pet 
theory of his own, there are probably no two writers whose opinions agree as 
to the exact manner of arriving at a horse's age after it has attained the age of 
5 years. For the edification of our readers, we give from " Kendall's Treatise 
on the Horse," the following concise rules, which will be found generally cor 
rect : 



660 -Di2. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

I. Eight to fourteen days after birth the first middle nippers of the set of 
milk teeth are cut ; four to six weeks afterward, the pair next to them, and 
finally, after six or eight months, the last. All these milk teeth have a well 
defined body, neck and shoulder fang, and on their front surface grooves — or 
furrows, which disappear from the middle nippers at the end of one year; from 
the next pair in two years, and from the incisive teeth (cutters) in three years. 

II. At the age of two the nippers become loose and fall out, in their places 
appear two permanent teeth, with deep, black cavities, and full, sharp edges. 
At the age of three the next pair fall out. At four years old the corner teeth 
fall out. At five years old the horse has his permanent set of teeth. 

III. The teeth grow in length as the horse advances in years, but at the 
same time his teeth are worn away by use, about one-twelfth of an inch every 
year, so that the black cavities of the nippers below disappear in the sixth year; 
those of the next pair in the seventh year, and those of the corner teeth in the 
eight year; also the outer corner teeth of the upper and lower jaws just meet 
at eight years of age. At nine years old cups leave the two center nippers 
above, and each of the two upper corner teeth have a little sharp protrusion at 
the extreme outer corner. At the age of ten the cups disappear from the 
adjoining teeth; at the age of eleven the cups disappear from the corner teeth 
above, and are only indicated by brownish spots. 

IV. The oval form becomes broader, and changes, from the twelfth to the 
sixteenth year, more and more into a triangular form, and teeth lose, finally, 
with the 20th year, all regularity. There is nothing remaining in the teeth that 
can aftei-ward clearly show the age of the horse or justify the most experienced 
examiner in giving a positive opinion. 

V. The tushes or canine teeth, conical in shape, with a sharp point and 
curved, are cut between the third and fourth year, their points become more 
and more rounded, until the ninth year, and after that more and more dull in 
the course of years, and lose, finally, all regular shape. Mares have frequently 
no tusks, or only faintly indicated. 

What Makes a Horse Shy, and How to Avoid it.— A correspon- 
dent of the Michigan Fanner, says: "There never was a shying horse that 
was not near-sighted. Such horses do not see the object until getting right near 
it. Notlung will break the horse of this habit unless the blinders are discarded 
and an open head-stall used. Treat the horse kindly. Nev<jr whip him, but try 
to coax him up to the object, that he may smell of it. One of the worst shy- 
ers was broken by leading, riding and driving in a meadow among stone, 
stumps, boxes and buffalo robes in different positions every day, the horse being 
led up to them and allowed to eat a few oats off of the object. Let any one 
examine a well-behaved horse's eye and then a " shyer's " eye, and note the dif- 
fepnce. 

Managing and Shoeing Fractious Horses.— The following valu- 
able information is from the Live Stock Journal: "A beautiful and high-spirited 
borse would never allow a shoe to be put on his feet or any person to handle his 
i'^ei. In attempting to shoe such a horse, recently, he resisted all efforts. 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 661 

kicked aside everything but an anvil, and came near killing himself against 
that, and finally was brouglit back 1o his stable unshod. This defect was just 
on the eve of consigning him to the plow, where he might walk barefoot, when 
an officer in our ser\ace, lately returned from Mexico, took a cord about the siza 
of a common bed-cord, put it in the mouth of the horse like a bit, and tied it 
tiglitly on the animal's head, passing his left ear under the string, not painfully 
tight, but tight enough to keep the ear down and the cord in place. This done, 
he patted the horse gently on the side of the head and commanded him to follow, 
and instantly the horse obeyed, perfectly subdued, and as gentle and obedient 
as a dog, suffering his feet to be lifted with entire impunity, and acting in all 
respects like an old stager. The gentleman who thus furnished this exceedingly 
simple means of subduing a very dangerous propensity, intimated that it is 
practiced in Mexico and South America in the management of wild horses." 

Vicious Horses, Efacient Method of Subduing.— A new and 
very simple method of subduing or training vicious horses was recently exhib- 
ited at West Philadelphia, Pa., where the manner in which the very wildest 
horses were subdued so quickly, caused the Becordof that city, in making the fol- 
lowing report, to call it "astonishing." It says: "The first trial was that of a 
kicking or ' bucking ' mare, which her owner said had allowed no rider on her 
back for a period of at least five years. She became tame in about as many 
minutes, and allowed herself to be ridden about without a sign of her former 
wildness. The means by which the result was accomplished was by a piece of 
light rope which was passed around the front of the jaw of the mare just above 
the upper teeth, crossed in her mouth, thence secured back of her neck. It 
was claimed that no horse will kick or jump when thus secured, and that the 
horse, after receiving the treatment a few times, will abandon his vicious ways 
forever. 

"Method for STweing.— The method for shoeing was equally simple. It 
consisted in connecting the animal's head and tail by means of a rope fastened 
to the tail and then to the bit, and then drawn tightly enough to incline the 
animal's head to one side. This, it is claimed, makes it absolutely impossible 
for the horse to kick on the side of the rope. At the same exhibition a horse, 
which for many years had to be bound on the ground to be shod, suffered the 
blacksmith to operate on him without attempting to kick, while secured in the 
manner described." 

Remarks. — Much less trouble than the old Rarey plan; and the more simple 
the plan the easier it is to use it. If this ever fails, put under an ear, as they 
do in Mexico. 

White Feet in Horses or Spots on the Forehead — How to 
Produce a Match. — Take a piece of Osnaburg (coarse linen cloth originally 
made in Osnaburg, Germany) the size of the white on the corresponding foot; 
spread it with warm pitch and apply it around the foot, tying it afterward to 
keep It on in the right position; let it remain on three days, by which time it 
will bring off the hair clean and make the skin a little tender; then take of 
elixir of vitriol a small quantity, anoint the parts 2 or 3 times; or use a commou 



662 Dli- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

weed called arse-smart, a small handful, bruise it, and add to it about a half 
pint of water; use it as a wash until the soreness is removed, when the hair 
will grow entirely white. — Cncket on the Hearth. 

lieinarks. — If this will do the work on the feet, of which I have not a 
doubt, it will do the same upon the forehead, and in either case will do the 
horse no harm. 

Kicking and Runaway Horses— How to Cure of the Habit.— 
The Kicking. — If you have a horse which is accustomed to knocking out the 
dash-board with his heels, when things do not work to please him, proceed as 
follows: " Place around his neck a band like that used for riding with a mar- 
tingale. Then take two light straps (made for the purpose) and buckle them to 
the bits, on each side, and pass them through the neck-band, and also inside the 
girth, and buckle them securely to each fetlock of the hind feet, taking care, 
in the making, to have them of the proper length. When a horse is rigged in 
this manner, if he attempts to ' kick up behind,' each effort will jerk his head 
down in such a way as to astonish him, perhaps throw him over his head. He 
will make but a few attempts to kick when he finds his head thus tied to hi3 
heels, and two or three lessons will cure him altogether." 

F<»' the Runatcay. — The method for the runaway is equally simple and 
effectual: "First of all, fasten some thick pads upon your horse's knees, then 
buckle a strap, about the size of a rein, upon each fetlock forward, and pass 
the straps through the hame rings or some part of harness near the shoulder 
on each side and lead the straps back to the driver's hand as he sits 
in the buggy. He has thus four reins in hand. Start the animal without 
fear; don't worry him with a strong pull upon the bit, but talk to him 
friendly. When he attempts to run, he must, of course, bend his forward legs. 
Now pull sharply one of the foot reins, and the effect will be to raise one of his 
forward feet to his shoulder. He is a three-legged horse now, and when he has 
gone on in that way a little distance drop the constrained foot and jerk up the 
other. He can not run faster on three legs than you can ride, and when you 
have tired him on both sides pretty thoroughly, or if he refuses to take his 
trot kindly and obey your voice and a moderate pull on the bit, you can raise 
both his fore feet, drop him upon his knees, and let him make a few bounds in 
that position. The animal will soon find that he can not run away; that he 
is completely in your power, and by soothing words you will also be able 
to convince him that you are his friend. He will soon obey your commands, 
and will be afraid to extend himself for a run. Within a week or two some 
horses that were quite valuable animals in respect to everything but their 
bad habits of kicking and running in harness, were cured by methods 
described above." — Boston Herald. 

Remarks.— These plans, if managed skillfully, must prove effectual and 
satisfactory; and they ought to be generally known, for there are many 
horses given to one or both of these viciously evil habi 

Digestion of the Horse Compared with that of the Ox, 
Showing How Each Should be Fed,— The study of the physiology of 
the horse, as compared with that of the ox and other animals, is calculated to 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 663 

give such a knowledge to stockmen and farmers, that shall enable them to feed 
them in such manner as to obtain the strengtli needed at once by the digestion of 
the more concentrated articles of food, as oats or other grain, which for this 
purpose must be retained in the horse's stomach, while the hay or other coarser 
food may have passed on into the intestines. The horse's stomach has a capa. 
city, generally, of only about 16 qts., while that of the ox has about 15i^ times 
as much, or about 250 qts. But the intestines are somewhat reversed, the horse 
having a capacity of 190 qts., or thereabouts, while the ox has only 100. And, 
again, the ox has the advantage of a gall bladder for the retention and continu- 
ous distribution of bile during the digestive process, while the horse has none, 
and depends upon the saliva being properly mixed with his food by slower mas- 
tication, the bile flowing into the intestines at once, as it is secreted. "This 
construction," says Colvin, "of the digestive apparatus indicates that the horse 
was formed to eat slowly and to digest continuously the more bulky and 
innutritious food." Then, when fed on hay, it passes very rapidly through the 
stomach into the intestine. The horse can eat but about 5 lbs. of hay in au 
hour, which is charged, during mastication, with four times its weight of saliva. 
Now, the stomach, to digest it well, will contain but about 10 qts., and when 
the animal eats % of his daily ration, or 7 lbs., in 1)4 hours, at least, 2 storaach- 
fuls of hay and saliva, one of which must have passed on into the intestines. 
And, as observation has shown that food is passed into the intestines in the 
order in which it is received (first come, first served), we find that if we feed a 
horse 6 qts of oats, it, with the saliva and swelhng of the grain by mastica- 
tion (chewing), will just fill his stomach; and then, of course, if, as soon as he 
finishes his oats, we feed him his ration of hay, he will eat sufficient in % of an 
hour to force the oats entirely out of the stomach into the intestines, 
while but slightly digested. Then as it is more particularly the office or func- 
tion — duty or natural w^ork— of the stomach to digest the nitrogenous parts of 
the food — as oats or other grain — while it is believed the duty of the intes- 
tines is to digest the less nitrogeneous and more bulky parts of the food, as hay, 
etc., by the continuous pouring upon it of the bile, as above indicated (the prob- 
able reason why a horse hits no gall bladder), and as oats contain four or five 
times as much nitrogen or nourishment as the same bulk of hay, it stands to 
reason that the stomach must either secrete the gastric juice five times faster 
than usual, which is impossible, else it must retain the oats sufficiently long for 
digestion, or otherwise very much of their strength-giving properties are lost. 
Therefore, this knowledge says to the horseman, if you are going to feed hay, 
give it first and let the oats be given last, so that they drive the hay into the 
intestines, while they remain in the stomach for a more full and complete diges- 
tion. With the large stomach capacity, and the reserve of bile in the gall-blad- 
der to be poured out, as required with the ox, it matters not so much as to 
which class of food may be first given; still, I think there will be less colic and 
gaseous disturbances in either case when the hay is fed first, if it is to be given 
at all, especially at the mid-day meal. But, as the ox is a ruminating animal 
(chews over again), he ought to be fed dift'erently from the horse; having a 
large stomach capacity, as above explained, he needs coarse food to fill it; hence 



664 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

if working oxen are to be fed meal of any kind, at noon, let it be mixed with 
cut hay, or other coarse food, and he will be much more strengthened and 
refreshed for his afternoon work than if fed meal alone; and, as mentioned for 
the horse, let two hours be given them to eat, and ruminate, or re-chew, their 
food, by which means they obtain their strength for the balance of tlie day's 
work. Then, again, as the ox does not sweat like the horse, he cannot stand 
the mid-day heat as well as the horse can— a double reason for this rest at noon. 
[See also How Long the Horse Ought to Work.] 

Cribbing of Horses, What It Is and How to Cure It.— The 
subject of cribbing is such a distressing thing to see a horee continuously doing 
when hitched to anything upon which he can press his teeth; and whicli must 
be more distressing to the hoi-se, to be compelled, either from necessity or habit, 
to do it; and, as it is a subject which I never heard anyone give a plausible 
reason as to why horses get into the habit of it, and as I never saw anything 
printed upon the subject which appeared to throw any light upon this mystery, 
until Dr. Tuttle, of Clinton, Mich., Feb. 28, 1880, sent a communication to the 
Post and Tribune, of Detroit, which seems to give such a rational explanation 
as to its cause, and also a rational treatment, or cure, for it, I have felt con- 
strained to give his ideas, although I shall feel compelled to condense his letter 
considerably; yet, I will give that which will enable anyone to avoid the diffi- 
culty with colts, and to treat horses upon his rational plan, that have become 
diseased, as he claims, which has addicted them to this terribly distressing 
habit. I am aware that most people claim it to be wind sucking, and hence 
call them wnnd suckers, but it never seemed to me to be the fact; and Dr. 
Tuttle's idea that it is to get wind out of the stomach rather than to suck it in, 
as you will see below, I fully agree with, and believe his theory to be the cor- 
rect one, hence I give it the more cheerfully. In answer to ' ' What is Crib- 
bing? " he says: " Belch of wind from the stomach. Tliis is absolutely true in 
the first stage of every case." He admits the possibility "that horses which 
have followed the habit for years, may suck in and swallow wind, though I 
doubt it," he continues, " for by carefully watching 'an old stager' go through 
the motions of cribbing, you will observe that the shape of the neck, along the 
line of the gullet, indicates something coming up out of the stomach, but 
which is swallowed back again. As to its cause, he claims it to be indigestion 
—dyspepsia, which in man, by fermentation, or souring of the food, produces 
gas, and therefore belching of wind, as it is called — does the same with the 
colt, for he claims that it generally begins with the colt and the cribbing, at 
first, so far relieves the distress from the distention of the stomach, the habit is 
formed, and he ever afterwards follows it; unless the cause, indigestion, is 
cured. As to the cause of the indigestion, he thinks that it arises mostly with 
fall colts, which have been too early put upon dry feed, grain, etc., which it 
was not properly able to masticate, or chew sufficiently fine to make it digesti- 
ble, ''for remember," he says, 'if you please, that a colt doesn't have a full 
colt mouth (full set of milk teeth) until 2 years old ; so don't feed them on dry, 
hard, old corn, to 'keep 'em thriving,' any more than you would feed a 3 
months' old babe on corned beef and boiled cabbage and expect it to thrive." 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 665 

The last would be as sensible a thing to do as the first. Raising spring colts is 
his remedy, so as to avoid putting them so quickly upon other feed than grass- 
made milk, with grass to eat, if they want it, and warm weather in which to grow 
and develop. Then when winter comes, if grain seems necessary, give boiled 
oats, or oatmeal in limited quantities, just enough to keep the colt growing, and 
in condition. Early cut haj', a warm shed for stormy weather; feed regularly, 
water regularly before feeding, never after," etc. If after the foregoing care, 
signs of dyspepsia and cribbing appear, he claims there is something wrong in 
the diet, or handUng, which must be corrected, and hot bran mashes must be 
given, and continued, to keep the bowels continuously free, never allowing the 
movements to be hard and difficult. And the further treatment to be the fol- 
lowing, as for horses, in proportion to the age. To cure the disease when 
developed, " Bear in mind," he says, " you are treating dyspepsia, not cribbing, 
for the latter is only a symptom, a result of the former, and the treatment must 
be thorough and persistent " (continued). The following is his treatment for a 
horse of five years or older: 

I. Tinct. of mix vomica, 20 drops, in a swallow of water, before each 
feed, continued for months, if need be. " The effect of a small dose is all you 
need." It may be given by putting into a small bottle with a long neck and 
with about a gill of water, and given by putting into the mouth, as a drench, or 
by putting into a small amount of water in a bucket and drank before giving 
his full drink before the feeding. 

II. Condition Powder. — A heaping dessert-spoonful (small-sized table-spoon) 
of tlie following tonic powder (condition powder), thoroughly mixed with the 
feed ;it every meal: Powdered gentian, powdered Peruvian bark (always get 
the best red, unground Peruvian bark, and have the druggist grind or powder 
it tine), of each, 1 lb., and powdered Jamaica ginger root, % lt>., mixed thor- 
oughly. [And the author would say, keep it in a closely-covered tin box.] 

III. Graduated Dose According to Age. — He has graduated the dose to the 
age, as follows: For a horse 5 years or older, full dose, as above (20 drops); 4 
years old, ^ (17 or 18 drops); 3 years old, % (15 drops); 2 years old, j^ (10 
drops); yearlings, J^ (6 or 7 drops); sucking colts, i-^ to ^ (2 to 3 drops, 
according to the robustness of the colt). That in parenthesis is the author's, 
and will save every one the trouble of calculating at each time of giving the 
medicine. I will give Dr. Tuttle's closing paragraph in full. He says: 

" In closing, I would say I am not a horse doctor, nor do I wish to be, but 
a regular physician of nine years' experience ; that in the first years of my prac- 
tice, by hard, irregular work and unwise handling, I made a cribber of one of 
the finest horses ever owned in Michigan or driven by any man. Since then I 
have tried to study carefully and scientifically his very intelHgent efforts to 
obtain relief, and likewise the effects of treatment, hygienic and therapeutic {i. 
e., care as to proper feed and medicine). And 's\ith my knowledge of disease 
and remedies in man I have, by analogy and experience, arrived at the above 
conclusions, which I give to the public, hoping to assist horse-loving men to a 
better understanding of a hitherto unscientifically-treated disease, which is dis- 
tressing to both horse and owner. And I am confident that if this advice is 
carefully followed it will be found to result in cures far beyond that ever pro- 
duced by the choke-strap, to say nothing of the peace of mind which follows the 



666 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

humane treatment adopted for the relief of a distressing disease of the much 
abused, unappreciated, though intelligent horse." 

Remarks. — That but very few old horses which have long been in the habit 
of cribbing will be cured, is not probable, even with this treatment, which the 
author believes is most excellent; but that it will cure many colts of the dys 
peptic tendency, and consequently prevent the establishment of the habit he as 
fully believes, if done with care and persevered in, as Dr. Tuttle above 
describes, for months, or as long as needed; for his plan is in accordance with 
the principles of treating persons, which is reliable. And what is good for a. 
man is good for a horse. 

1 . Big Head or Big Jaw of Horses— Preventive and Curative 
Treatment. — Big head or big jaw proper is an enlargement and often a dis- 
eased and ulcerated condition of the bones, and treatment, unless taken early 
in the disease, seldom does much good; but for swellings of any of the fleshy 
parts proper treatment will cure, and may, if taken in time, prevent the bone 
difficulty. 

I. Then as soon as swelling of any fleshy part of the head appears apply 
the following volatile liniment freely: Olive oil, 8 ozs. ; hartshorn, 4 ozs. ; mix, 
and shake when used. It is very stimulating and valuable for man or beast 
Keep it well corked. 

II. Apply a bran poultice, re-applying as long as necessary, always apply- 
ing the liniment at each dressing. 

III. If the difficulty has long existed, and there is considerable constitu- 
tional disturbance, as swellings or lumps in other parts, apply some good blis 
tering liniment under the belly, well forward, to establish and maintain a run 
ning sore as long as the swellings or lumps continue, giving, also, one of the 
iJterative condition powders daily in his feed, with such other treatment and 
care in his diet or feed as may be necessary to re-establish good general health. 

rV. The Eyes. — The eyes in this disease, as well as other parts of the body, 
often become sore or swollen, or both. In such cases, make and use the 
t'ollowing: 

Cooling Eye Water for Big Head, Swellings, Sprains, etc.— 
Take a quart bottle and put into it pulverized, purified niter, i^" lb. ; and soft 
water, J^ pt.; and shake till dissolved; then fill with more soft water and cork 
for use. For the eye, dilute a little of this mixture with three times as much 
water, and wash the eyes two or three times daily. For swellings, sprains, etc., 
apply it as often, full strength. 

V. For Weak Eyes, shown by their watering more or less freely apply the 
following: 

Eye Water. — Acetate of lead, sulphate of zinc, and laudanum, each, 
^ oz. ; soft water, 1 pt. If the eye is very weak, reduce some of this with an 
equal amount of water, and apply as the mixture above. A tea-spoonful of this 
put into a 1 oz. vial and filled with soft water, will be an excellent remedy for 
sore or weak eyes of persons. Either of these are as good for cattle as for horses 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 667 

2. Big Jaw in Horses and Cattle, and Its Eemedy. — The 

Live Stock Journal speaks of this disease as follows: "This is more properly 
called 'dilation of the jaw bones.' In horses it is sometimes called ' big head ;' 
it is a bony tumor, in which the interior of the bone is absorbed, sometimes 
leaving a mere shell of bone divided into cells containing purulent or thick 
matter. This is supposed to be caused by a deficiency of phosphate of lime in 
food, rendering the bones deficient in this m.ost important element, and the fol- 
lowing prescription is often given with good result: 

" Phosphate Poioder. — Phosphate of lime, 6 ozs. ; powdered golden seal, 2 
ozs. ; powdered sassafrass, 3 ozs. ; powdered ginger, 2 ozs. ; oatmeal, 4 lbs. ; mix. 
This will be divided into 16 parts, one given in the food everj- night. 

"This will have a tendency to restore the missing elements in the bone. 
And the general diet should be food rich in phosphates. You may get your 
phosphate of lime by boiling beef bones in lye of wood ashes, and after it is 
reduced fine, wash with water and give a small quantity daily in food. The 
first thing to do surgically is to open it and let out any matter that it conlaina. 
Having removed the matter, inject the cavity with weak pyroiigneoTis aci<l or 
weak carbolic acid. This will cleanse it and render healing possible." 

Remarks. — I should prefer the pyroligneous acid to the carbolic, and 1 part 
of the acid to 3 of soft water would be weak enough to use at first; and after- 
wards 1 to 2, or even equal parts, to speed its healing. Both of these acids are 
disinfectant, i. e. , remove bad smells, as well as cleanse and heal, when used of 
proper strengths as above. 

3. Big Head in a Colt, and the Remedy— "L. P. J.," of Ben- 
zonia, Benzie county, ^Michigan, ]\Iay 27, 1880, wrote to the Post and Tribune, 
of Detroit, as to the condition of his colt, as follows: 

"What ails the colt? In December I discovered a small lump or Inmch 
coming on the left side of the face of my colt half way between the eve and the 
nostril. This grew larger until about the size of a man's fist. I then opened it 
with a knife. I had been using Centaur liniment and iodine and it had softened 
a little, but when opened it did not discharge and bled but little. I had also 
used beef brine. Almost immediately another bunch began to grow below this 
or back of it, and now the side of the face is badly swollen and the colt is fall- 
ing away in flesh. He is 3 years old this spring." 

To this their veterinarian, H. W. Doney, of Jackson, who had this depart- 
ment in charge, made the following answer: 

" Big head. The disease is located on a line between the ^ye and the nos- 
tril. Its first appearance is a small lump on the side of the head, which con- 
tinues to enlarge until the whole side of the face becomes swollen. It ison both 
sides sometimes. If your colt is very valuable, it will pay you to try a cure; if 
not, get what you can for it and do not bother with it. 

*"' Remedy. — Take while arsenic the size of a common field pea. or 6 or 8 
grs, ; wrap it in fine paper as close as possible, make an incision in the skin over 
the hard tumor, insert the arsenic, or the paper containing it, take one stitch, 
tie the ends in a hard knot, bleed the horse, and tm-n him out. In a short time 
the horse will swell, and this wili continue until the effects of the arsenic are 
exhausted. In a short time the effects of the arsenic will be seen. A circular 
piece of skin and the porous bone of the face will begin to slough off. In thp 
course of time the diseased portion will drop out. leaving a healthv sore, uinct 



608 DH. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

may be healed by an ointment rcade of elder and bittersweet fried in lard, with 
1 oz. of turpentine." 

Remarks. — A good-sized handful of each of these herbs to J^ lb. of lard 
and the 1 oz. of turpentine put in when taken from the fire, would be about 
the right proportion, and it will make a very healing ointment for any sore 
whatever. I now leave every one to adopt the plan of treatment in their stock, 
horses or cattle, here given, according to their condition, each judging for him- 
self which plan or medicines will be the best to meet their respective cases, 
being careful to look well to the general health in every case. In connection 
with the arsenic treatment, given in tliis receipt, I should also use the Phosphate 
Powder, in the next above, as it is both alterative and tonic. 

1. Bots in Horses, A New Remedy Worth its weight in 
Gold. — The department of agriculture publishes the following experiments, 
which a gentleman from Georgia tried and found effective in dispelling serious 
trouble in horses. He says: " About 30 years ago a friend lost, by bots, a 
very fine horse. He took from the stomach of the dead horse about a gill of 
bots and brought them to my office to experiment upon. He made prepara- 
tions of every remedy he heard of, and put some of them into each. Most had 
DO effect, a few effected them slightly, but sage tea, more than anything else; 
that killed them in fifteen hours. 

He concluded that he would kill them by putting them into nitric acid, but 
it had no more effect on them than water; the third day they were as lively as 
when put in. A bunch of tansy was growing by my oflice. He took a hand- 
ful of that, bruised it, added a little water, squeezed out the juice and pnt some 
bots into it. They were dead in one minute! Since then I have had it given to 
every horse. I have never known it to fail of giving entire relief. My friend 
had another horse affected with the bots, cured by this remedy. — Orange Visitor. 
Springfield, O., Nov. 1875. 

Remarks. — I have had no opportunity of testing this, but I give it, believing 
it is reliable. Is it not possible that it was because tansy would kill worms, 
that tansy bitters were once so common and popular? I believe it was. 

Drenching a horse with sweetened milk following it, half hour later, with 
strong sage tea then working it off with currier's oil, has been, heretofore, con- 
sidered the best known remedy for bots; but it is probable that a strong tea of 
tansy may be found a much better remedy than the sage, used similarly, 1 pt 
each, in the order above named, a half hour apart, only. 

Tansy Tea for Bots.— There is undoubtedly more in the virtues of tansy 
for bots, than appears upon the face of it; for the following item has been more 
recently going the rounds of the papers: "Tansy tea is said to be a sure rem- 
edy for bots in horses. Experiments tried upon bots show that while they resist 
tl>e action of almost every other substance, they are quickly killed by tansy. 
It is an easy matter to test it, by those who keep horses, when some of the bots 
Lave been passed, by putting them into some of the extracted juice of the tansy 



Bots, their Manner of Production and How to Avoid them. 

—It will not be amiss to state here, that bots do not, as many suppose, breed in 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 669 

me stomach of the horse, but simply grow there from the egg which is depos- 
ited on the flanks and legs by the bot-fly, iu their season, which is from July 
to October, during which time if an oiled rag is kept in the stables, and used 
upon the legs and sides of horees, as regularly as they are fed, with much rub- 
bing, also with straw, which takes the nits off better than a brush ; these nits or 
eggs will be mostly rubbed off, and consequently the horse will get but few, il 
any, into his mouth by licking or biting these parts, to be swallowed into the 
stomach, in which, if they reach it in this way, and this is the only way they 
do, or can reach it, the bot will be produced, and fully grown by spring, at 
which time also, they begin to let go their hold on the stomach. They hang to 
the stomach by little hooks upon their feet, and are carried on by the food 
passed off; and again develop, as the butterfly is produced from a grub, as it 
were, another gad-fly; and so on from year to year 

Be careful, then, to tise the oiled rag freely, and scrape off, if need be, as 
many as possible of these nits, or bot seeds, everj' day, as they are deposited, 
and you will have but little trouble with bots; and in fact bots never make 
trouble, except there be indigestion or other disease, which first disturbs them. 

During the fly season, also, if not at all times, the hair on the back part of 
the legs should be kept closely trimmed, as the rubbing off is easier upon short 
hair than that which is long and loose; and the shorter the hair the less deposits 
upon it can be made, 

1. OOLIC, OR BOTS, IN HORSES— To Cure.— A friend of 
mine near Ann Arbor, makes the following his dependence. lie says: Steep 1 
doz. good sized red peppers in 1 qt. of water; strain and give the whole, while 
warm. Work off", in an hour, with 1 pt. of ctu-rier's oil. 

Remarks. — He said it can be depended upon — neither colic nor bots can 
stand before it, and it will not hurt the horse nor cattle either. This gentleman 
assured me he had used it, and knew its exceeding value, but did not wish to 
have his name connected with it — contrary to the desire of most people. I 
have every confidence in it, for I knew him well — being a very quiet and ditti- 
dent, or bashful man; and hence I promised him not to publish his name. 
Red or cayenne pepper is the purest stimulant we have, and hence I have not 
a doubt it will do as he assured me it would. As it will warm up the stomach 
to do its work, and prevent the further accumulation of gas, or wind, from the 
indigestion, and thus cure colic and give bots a legal notice to vacate the prem- 
ises. 

2 . Colic in Horses— Its Cause and What is Needed to Cure It. 

As colic is caused by the indigestion of the food, a sour or gaseous stomach, as 
we say of persons, all that is needed to cure it is something to correct the acid- 
ity and to warm up the stomach, so that the digestipn can proceed again ; but 
as the indigestion and consequent acidity may have progressed so far it cannot 
be corrected, making it necessary to give an active cathartic to hasten the fer- 
menting food out of the system, it is well at first to give a full table-spoonful 
of saleratus dissolved in warm water, % pt. ; then, if you are where the pepper 
tea can be steei^ed at once, give it; but 'tis well to have something of an ano- 
dyne nature to help allay the pain, as well as to stimulate, which can be kept in 



670 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

the stable, always ready for use, like tlie following: Laudanum, sulphuric ether, 
chloroform, tinct. of cayenne pepper and ess. of peppermint, each, 1 oz.: tinct. 
of belladonna, }.{ oz. Mi.x. Dose — For a full-sized horse, give 1 table-spoon- 
ful in warm water, J^ pt, and repeat in 30 minutes, if not before relieved; or, 
put the pepper to steeping at once on giving the first dose of this, and if not 
relieved in 30 minutes give the pepper tea, as in No. 1, above, instead of repeat- 
ing this, would be preferable. But, if no peppers are at hand, repeat this as 
above without fear of Injury. For I know that a dozen drops of chloroform 
In a spoonful of water has relieved gaseous dyspepsia of persons, while this 
mixture has several other things in it making it more reliable in colic of horses 
and would be good for persons in doses of J^ tea-spoonful, repeated once or 
twice only, if not relieved in the i^ hour. 

II. In the meantime, if there is great distention of the bowels by gas, 
which is almost always the case In colic, do not overlook the importance of 
giving, or having given, the table-spoonful of saleratus dissolved in water, i^ 
pt., to stop the fermentation of the food, which causes this gaseous condition; 
and also to have got ready a physic containing }{ to ^ oz. of aloes dissolved in 
J^ pt. of water, in which you have put another table-spoonful of salerattis to 
make it dissolve, so it shall be quicker in its operation to carry off this ferment- 
ing food. 

III. If very great pain still exists, or does exist at any time, even as 
much as 2 ozs of laudanum has been given, so also has 2 ozs. of ess. of pepper- 
ment, or 1 oz. of sulphuric ether, or ^ oz. of chloroform, or l^ oz. of harts- 
horn, in 1^ pt. or 1 pt. of warm water, has and may be given; the laudanum 
to stop the pain, the others more to stop the fermentation, and consequent dis- 
tention of the stomach and bowels by the gas. Sometimes this gas is aided to 
pass off by. the rectum by giving warm water injections, turning the horse's 
head down hill and pumping in freely all the bowels will retain, even if it is a 
bucketful will do no harm, but by its wetting and softening influence aids the 
escape of gas and also the quicker action of the physic, if one has been given. 
If the gas is once started freely by the rectum consider your horse safe. 

IV. But, lastly, in no case allow the cruel custom of taking the horse out 
and running him, nor even trotting him, nor " rub his belly with a chestnut 
rail," nor the wicked and cruel custom of laying him on his side and getting a 
big heavy man with coarse boots to walk back and forth upon him, Some of 
the mixtures to relieve pain and stop the accumulation of the gas, then physic, 
and injections, if needed, to start the gas off, must be the main dependence. 
.\nd, I will only add, if you now allow your horses to die with colic it is not 
the author's fault, but will be chargeable to yourselves by neglecting to have a 
supply on iiand of what is liable to be needed any day. 

Corns, or Shoe Boil of Horses' Feet, Explanation of and Rem- 
edy. — Corns, also called shoe boils, are generally the result of bad shoeing, 
z. e., allowing the heel of the shoe to rest too far in, upon the sole of the horse's 
toot. They should nave their bearing upon the shell, or solid, outer part of 
the hoof; then there will be but few corns. But when they exist, the soft and 
Dart of the sole must be cut away, to allow the application of the fol- 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 671 

lowing remedy: Sulphuric acid, 1 oz. ; nitro-muriatic acid, J^oz. ; corrosive sub- 
iiinate, 1 dr. Dikections — Add, little by little, of one acid to the other, in an 
earthen bowl, in the open air, to avoid breathing the fumes arising from them 
in mixing. Mash the corrosive sublimate finely and add it to the acids. Then, 
having pared and trimmed down to the sore, apply the remedy with a swab, or 
pledget of lint and bind on till the con'osion or destruction of the hoof is 
stopped; then apply a soft healing ointment. 

]{cmnrkK. — This is from my old friend Wallington. a farrier of long prac- 
tice, which ought to be an assurance of its value; but knowing the nature of 
the preparation, I can assure anyone it will be found just the thing desired. Do 
not get it or either of the acids on hands or clothing. 

CONDITION POWDERS— Tonic and Purifying to the Blood. 
— Sulphur, ozs. ; gentian root, sassafras, bark of the root, elecampane root, 
ginger root, saltpeter and rosin, each 2 ozs.; digitalis leaves, buchu leaves, 
blood root, skunk cabbage root, cream of tartar, epsom salts, black antimony, 
fenugreek seed, and rust, or carbonate of iron, each 1 oz. Directions— Pul- 
verize finely, mix thoroughly, and keep in air-tight boxes. Dose — give 1 table- 
spoonful in feed, as below. 

Remarks. — In spring and fall use with all stock, as well as horses, 1 table- 
spoonful daily, in a bran-mash, until you see its beneficial action, or for 2 weeks; 
but in case of a horse, cow or ox, being in bad health, at any time of year, the 
same dose twice daily, in a bran-mash, may be given for a couple of weeks, or 
until the desired result-— good health — is obtained. Some horses will not, how 
ever, eat bran-mashes, then stir it in wetted oats. This is especially valuable 
in all the chronic diseases, as mange, distemper, grease-heel, big-head, big-leg, 
poll evil, fistulas, yellow water, etc. It will show its beneficial effects very 
quickly. 

2. Condition Powder, Relaxing, for Use in Scratches. 
Grease Heel, etc.— The following was published in the Post and Tnbune, 
by H. W. Doncy, of Jackson, Mich., in answer to an inquiry of "J. W.," of 
Paw Paw, for a condition powder to cleanse the blood, in spring, adding, " I 
have got 1 iior?--(' that has had scratches nwst of the time for 3 years, and I have 
doctored her most of the time." Mr. Doney, in answering, says: 

I. " You have a number of them already given, but here is one for the 
special purpose: Mandrake, aloes, epsom salts, gentian, blood root, .skunk cab- 
bage, gum myrrh, golden seal, stillingia, each 2 ozs. : sulphur, licorice root, 
ginger root and coriander seeds, each 4 ozs. ; nitre and lobelia, each 3 ozs. ; cam- 
phor gum and copperas, each 1 oz. Powder and mix thoroughly. Dose — One- 
half ounce (about 1 table- spoonful) once a day, in feed or drench. To aid the 
operation and i^roduce better results, give 1 pt. of sassafras tea (daily). If fever 
is present, give 15 drops of aconite (tinct. or fl. ex.), once a day. If paraly- 
sis in any form exists, give 15 drops of belladonna (tinct. or fl. oz.) once a day; 
or if nerve power is lacking, give 15 drops nux vomica (tinct. or 11. ex ), 
once a day." [These last medicines are poisonous, if used too much, or too 
often- 1 



673 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

n. Physic, or Purge. — Mr. Doney continues: " Give a good purge made 
of fluid extract of mandrake, blood root, liquorice, each 1 oz. Dose, 1 dr. 
Adding to each dose 1 oz. of aloes and 2 ozs. of epsom salts until the bowels 
respond freely; then lessen the dose. 

"II. Wnsli. — One oz. of white vitriol, 1 oz. of alum, 1 oz. gum catechu, 1 
qt. of oak bark solution, 1 oz. turpentine. Mix and use as a wash twice a day. 
Take the water in which you boil potatoes, 1 qt. Wash the limb with it before 
using the other. If it will not cleanse the limb thoroughly use oat meal soap. 
Rub the limb until the sore looks a briglit pink, and the surrounding portions 
of the leg white. Keep the stable well cleaned. Use a brush on the leg often." 

3. Condition Powder for a Stallion. — White rosin and madder, 
each, 4 ozs. ; black antimony gentian root, fenugreek seed, sulphur and gin- 
ger root, each, 3 ozs. ; anise seed, 2 ozs. ; Spanish flies, 1 oz. All made very 
fine and intimately mixed. Dose — A table-spoonful, a little rounding, in the 
morning's feed, as he begins to drag toward the last of the season. This is from 
Robt. Hudson, Winfleld, Kansas. No one need fear to use it. And without 
the Spanish flies, it is a good alterative and tonic powder for any other horse. 

Distemper in Colts— Treatment.— Distemi>er in a colt has about 3 
weeks to run its course; all the medicine required is a light dose of Epsom salts, 
say 4 to 6 ozs., and good nursing. Give warm bran mashes, linseed or oatmeal 
gruel; keep the animal warm, and rub the legs with cloths dipped in hot water; 
a table-spoonful of mustard in the water would be beneficial if the legs seem to 
be weak and numb, or cold. — N. Y. Times. 

Epizootic, the Most Successful Treatment.— Wm. Home, a vet- 
erinary, in the Country Qentleman, says: "In the treatment of the epizootic in 
horses, in 1872, no treatment in my own practice was so effectual, and none 
brought speedier or more permanent relief than a powerful stimulant applied to 
the throat outside, and tincture of lobelia, 1 oz. ; gelscmium, % oz. Mix and 
place on the roots of the tongue, 30 to 40 drops, 3 times a day. Plenty of 
pure air and general warmth, and comfort, make good nursing; not too much 
pampering and medication. 

Remarks. — The Sweeny Cure, which is a powerful liniment, and without 
the alcohol, will be as powerful a stimulant as anyone will need in these cases. It 
is not necessary to blister, however, if it is likely to do that; rub over with 
sweet oil to prevent the blistering. Or, if made without the cantharides, it will 
not blister. The lobelia helps the cough, and the gelsemium keeps down the 
fever by lessening the pulse. This is claimed to be a bad disease; then use the 
condition powder No. 1, in connection with the other treatment 

Galled Shoulders and Saddle Galls, To Prevent and Cure — 
I. To prevent shoulder galls for horses easily galled, have a collar shield of 
firm, smooth-surfaced leather, upon which the collar will move or slip easily, 
and thus not abrade or chafe off the surface hair, skin, etc.; and have the sad- 
dle lined with hard, smooth-surfaced leather — rawhide is best — like the militarj 
saddle, but never have one linexl with any woolen stuff. 



DOMESTIC ANTMALF. 673 

n. To Cure. — "Wash with soap suds, and apply the following solution: 
Copperas, 1 dr., and blue vitrol, J 2 ^^-^ ^^ water, 1 pt., which will reduce 
Inflammation, harden the surface, and aid the growth of new skin, if broken. 
Never put on the saddle nor the harness while the place is wet from the 
applicatioa 

Grease Heel.— [See Scratches, Grease, etc.] 

Heaves or " Windbroken,"— Necessary Caution in Feeding, 
and Cure for Many. — " Heaves and windbroken are one and the same dis- 
ease, the first being used to designate its mildest form ; and the latter when it 
reaches its severest stages. It is in reality a kind of asthma caused by over- 
feeding on clover hay, chaff, and other coarse, bulky and dusty fodder. The 
disease is seldom known where horses are pastured all the year, and clover in 
some of its species does not enter into the hay crop. If the horse has not had 
the heaves so long as to be wholly beyond help, try feeding on corn stalks, cut 
moist hay, with carrots, beets, turnips, potatoes, and other well known nutri- 
tious roots. Keep the bowels open by laxative medicines, and for a tonic give 
arsenic in 3 gr. doses for 3 or 3 weeks. Give the animal no dry hay, except a 
little handful at night; and if you have good, well cured corn stalks, these will 
suffice, with plenty of roots and cut hay (wet), with grain 3 times a day." — 
New Yoi'k Sun. 

Remarks. — There are some veterinarians who claim that the air cells, or 
some of them, are ruptured; when this is actually the case, there is probably no 
cure; but before this has occurred, it has been claimed by M. Hew, a French 
veterinarian, I think, that 15 grs. of arsenic, daily, for 2 or 3 weeks, as McClure 
and Harvey, in their work on the horse, inform us, " with green food or straw, 
and in some cases bleeding, was perfectly successful," in ten reported cases. In 
one it returned after 3 months, which "speedily yielded to a repetition of the 
same treatment. " The way to give it would be to sprinkle it in fine powder on 
a few thoroughly chopped roots, 5 grs. , morning, noon and night. There 
would be no danger in its use, stopping at the end of 2 or 3 weeks, or when the 
difficulty has been fairly overcome. 

INFLAMMATION OF THE BLADDER-Cause, Symptoms 
and Treatment. — Cause. — A correspondent of the Blade, of "Watertown, 
N! Y., says: " It is often caused by the abuse of diuretics, and the frequent use 
of rosin, with the idea that it loosens the skin and improves the appetite, too 
often results in this trouble. 

Symptoms. — "The symptoms are the passage of the urine in small quanti- 
ties, and frequently, with evident pain. The animal turns and looks at the 
flank; the hind legs are restless, and the tail is switched about violently, but 
chiefly downward. The horse moves stiffly, and with a straddling gait of the 
hind legs. 

Treatment. — " No diuretics should be given, but soft, mucilaginous food, 
such as linseed (flaxseed) and oats boiled {% pt. to 1 pt. would be enough to 
boil in a feed of oats), and given with cut hay and slippery elm bark tea. Thia 
will relieve the organ better than medi.cines. After the inflammation has sub- 



674 -D-R. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

eided and the symptoms have been relieved, 1 dr. of chlorate of potash may be 
given daily for 2 weeks in the food, which should be continued as before for a 
few days." 

Remarks. — The author would prefer the use of acetate of potash, rather 
than the chlorate, in like amount. The chlorate can be powdered and put in 
the feed; 1 oz. of acetate would have to be put in a bottle with 8 table-spoonfuls 
of water, as it softens very quickly in the air; then 1 table-spoonful coutain.s 
1 dr. Put it in the food or drink, as you choose. 

Liniments, Oils, Salves, etc., for Horses.— I. California Liniment. 
— " Opodeldoc, spuits of turi>entine, oU of origanum and black oil, each, 2ozs. ; 
gum camphor and red pepper, each, 3^ oz. ; aqua ammonia, 1 oz. ; best alcohol, 
1 qt. Mix and keep well corked. Grood in all acute pain, rheumatism, sprains. 
and swellings iu man or beast." 

Remarks.— This, with the Black Oil, "White Oil, Gargling Oil, and the 
Green Salve following, and the Condition Powders for Stallions, were obtained 
from the diary of Robert Hudson, of Winfleld, Kans., who had spent consider- 
able time in California, where he obtained them from practical horsemen; and 
from my own knowledge of the nature of the articles used, I am free to say one 
■»vill search a long time to find others equal to them: 

n. New York Sun's Limme^it.—Tha New York Sun says: " Of liniments 
there are as many different compounds as of condition powders; but a good one 
for horses and oOier animals may be made of 2 ozs. each of oils of spike, origa- 
Kum and wormwood, spirits of ammonia and spirits of turpentine; then sweet 
oil, 4 ozs., and best alcohol, 1 qt. Mixed and kept in a bottle, corked when not 
In use. " 

Remarks. -It is a good one for general purposes. See, also, "Sweeny 
Cure," which Is a liniment. 

m. Black Oil.— British oil, oil of spike (balsam of fir), tanners' oil, tam- 
arack balsam and oil of vitriol, each, 1 oz. ; spirits of turpentine, 2 ozs. Mix 
in tlie order named, putting in the oil of vitriol slowly, and when cool the 
spirits of turpentine. Better be in a quart bottte. Very healing, and to reduce 
inflammations by rubbing in or laying on with wet cloths or soft paper on 
either man or other animal. 

rV". White Oil, English.— Spirits of turpentine and alcohol, }4 Pt-'- o^i^e 
oil, 1 pt. ; hartshorn, 4 ozs. ; camphor gum, 4 ozs. Mix. Used especially in 
wounds and upon old sores. 

V. Qargling Oil. — White wine vinegar (good cider vinegar will do), 1 pt ; 
spirits of turpentine and sweet oil, each, 3^ pt. ; oil of vitriol, 1 oz. ; castile 
soap and saltpeter, each, 2 ozs. Doiections — Shave the soap fine, pulverize 
the saltpeter and shake occasionally till dissolved, when it is ready to use upon 
swellings, wounds, frostbites, etc., on horses or cattle, and it has been used 
extensively on persons. 

VI. Oreen Salve. — Spirits of turpentine, 4 ozs. ; beeswax, rosin and honey, 
each, 2 ozs.; lard, 12 ozs.; finely pulverized verdigris, 1 oz. Directions— 
Heat all gently together, e.xcept the verdigris, then remove from the fire and 
stir that iu as it beirin>* to cool, and stir till cold Put in tix boxes for use. 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 675 

liemarks. — Used upon old sores, cuts and wounds, and Mr. Hudson, named 
under the California Liniment, says it was considered there ".the best salve 
known." 

Mange in Horses, Remedy.— Wilkes' Spirit of the Times published 
the following as a safe and effectual remedy: " Whale (sperm) oil, 6 ozs.; oil of 
tar, 3 ozs. ; lac-sulphur, 2 ozs. ; mix thoroughly and apply with a hair brush, 
first washing the skin thoroughly. And at the end of the second or third day, 
the animal is to be again washed, and the remedy re-applied; as it is very prob- 
able that all the ova (eggs) of the mange (or itch) insect are not killed by the 
first application. 

liemarkt. — As mange ii as contagious with animals as itch is with children, 
keep them from others; and be careful also to purify the stalls, or places where 
they may rub; and the harness, or saddles, or such parts of them as come in 
contact with the diseased parts of the animal, should bo washed with strong 
soap suds having 1 part of carbolic acid (liquid) to 6 or 7 of the suds, and care- 
fully dried and aired, and the blanket, if any has be«n worn, should be boiled 
in soap suds, with 1 oz. of the carbolic acid, at least, to 1 pail of suda; »ud the 
curry comb, brush, etc., washed in the msno while hot; and afterwards wet 
with a solution of arsenic, or corro«lTe subUmate, 10 grs., to each ounce of 
water needed, to wet them thoroughly; for it is very difficult to kill all the 
itch or mange-mites which cauae the disease. Rub well with sulphur, also, 
the saddle, and inside the hameaa, before again putting upon the horses. With 
these cautions you may feel safe. See also the prei^aration for mange in dogs. 
It is certain there, why not with horaes? I think it would be. If there are 
any scabs on harness, or saddle, be careful to first remove them. And I think 
it advisable not to let the mites upon one's hands, lest he, too, get the itch. 
Remember the sublimate is poison, as well as the arsenic, so keep either out of 
the way of children. 

1. Poll-Evil, Fistula, etc., Successful Remedies.— Poll-evil sim- 
ply means a disease of the head, as the word " poll " comes from the Low Dutch 
poUe, the head, and as the word evil, in connection with disease, signifies 
one causing suffering, we get poll-evil, a disease of the horse's head from which 
there is much suffering. As to fittula, it is a Latin word and signifies a hollow 
seed, or pipe; hence, where we have a hollow pipe, running down into a sore, 
it matters not whether upon the head or the withers (highest part of the 
shoulders), of a horse it is really a fistula or a fistulous sore; and, as what will 
destroy the pipe which runs down to the bone, in one case, will destroy it in 
the other, we couple them together. 

When either has become a running sore, you will find the following recipe 
from the Germantown Telegraph, very satisfactory, as I have always observed 
the reliability of its recommendations. It says: " First, clean the sore with 
warm, soft water, and dry with soft, warm cloths; then drop on 8 or 10 drops 
of muriatic acid twice daily, till it looks like a fresh wound; after this, wash 
with suds of castile soap, and leave it to heal, which it will speedily do, if 
enough acid has been used. 



676 I>R' CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — If a pipe or pipes have already fonned, be sure to drop a few 
drops of the acid into each pipe, else it will be sure to break out again if the 
pipe is not destroyed. Do not touch the acid with the fingers, nor get it upon 
any place outside of the sore, for if you do, it will make a sore of itself, destroy 
clothing, etc. An alkali, as a lye made of wood ashes, or sweet-oil would be 
the antidote, and would need to be used quickly, if got upon the person or 
clothing. Any of the healing ointments or liniments may be used to heal with, 
keeping the sore properly covered to avoid dust and dirt getting into it. 

A bit of concentrated lye, which is used for soap-making, the size of a bean 
or pea, wrapped in a couple of thicknesses of tissue paper (white) and pushed to 
the bottom of the pipe, or each pipe, if there is more than one, will destroy the life 
of the pipe, and, hence, cause it to come out, and give a chance to cure it from 
the bottom. Keep a piece of cotton saturated with a good liniment or healing 
ointment, pushed to the depth of the sore, it causes it to heal from the bottom, 
otherwise it will break out again. The concentrated lye is better than arsenic or 
corrosive sublinate which are poisonous, and cause inflammation of themselves, 
■while the concentrated lye does not cause inflammation of the parts, only 
to kill the unnatural growth. The Telegraph claimed to have known the suc- 
cessful use of the acid plan for a number of years. The acid on the sore, and 
the lye in the pipes, if there are any, with cathartics and general tonic treat- 
ment with some of the condition powders, will cure every case, the author has 
not a doubt. 

Pawing in the Stable, to Cure Horses of the Habit.— Fasten a 

short piece of log chain — say five or six links — by means of a light strap to his 
leg, just above the knee — in the stable, of course — so the chain stays on the 
front of the leg, and see how quick the pawing horse will leave off the habit. 
In most cases a few days will be sufficient to effect a cuva.— New York Weekly, 

Pawing, Cure for. — It is said that this annoying habit can be cured in 
the following manner: Bore a hole on each side of the stall a little in front of 
where the foreleg stands. Insert a raw-hide, wedge tightly in, and allow the 
ends to reach well out toward the center of the stall. When the horse paws he 
will catch the rawhide with the foot with which he paws, and in fetching back 
the foot the cord of the rawhide hits him on the other foot. A few experi- 
ments will convince the horse that pawing with one foot always causes pimish- 
ment on the other, and soon the annoying habit is cured. 

1. Kingbone, Spavins, etc.— Certain Remedies.— -Rm^Sone.— 
Ringbone and spavins, poll-evil and fistulas are the most annoying diseases 
with which our domestic animals are afflicted; but with careful observation of 
the recipes the author has gathered during ten years of close scrutiny of every- 
thing published in our most reliable farm journals, will, we have not a doubt, 
enable our patrons to not only cure the lameness, but also to remove or cause 
the absorption of the bony enlargements in most ringbones and spavins, and to 
also cure the unsightly sores of poll-evil and fistulas. The first recipe I shall 
give for ringbone is from a correspondent (*' J.H.M., of "Wyoming, O.) in Farm 
and Fireside, of Springfield. O., in answer to " S. F. W." in the same, desiring 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 6T7 

a cure for this disease, which, if followed, he says, will never fail: " Take 
cantharides (of course, powdered), 2 ozs. ; mercurial ointment or spirits of tur- 
pentine, each, 4 ozs. ; tinct. of iodine, 5 ozs. ; corrosive sublimate (powdered), 5 
drs. Mix well with lard, 2 lbs. Directions — Cut off the hair from the lump 
and grease with and rub in well the above preparation. In two days after grease 
with fresh lard, and in 4 days wash off with soap suds. Repeat every 4 days 
until the lump disappears. I have cured two cases of ten years' standing." 

2. Ringbone and Spavin Cvire. — In the same issue of i\xeFarm and 
Fireside "O. H. L.," which I afterwards learned, by correspondence with tne 
editor, to be the initials of O. H. Loomis, of Kewanee, 111., says: 

"Mr. Editor:— I see in your excellent paper now before me an inquiry 
about ' ringbone ' on colts. Allow me to say that over thirty years since, hav- 
ing a horse with bone spavin, I obtained, from an English farrier, this recipe, 
which he said would stop the growing of the spavin and also cure ringbone. I 
tried it on my horse with success. I afterwards gave it to a friend with a colt 
which had a ringbone, and it cured it, and within the last year I had a young 
horse with ringbone growing so badly as to render him useless. I had the med- 
icine applied and it checked the growth, removed the lameness, and the horse 
has done a fine summer's work, apparently cured of ringbone. The recipe is 
this: Equal parts oil origanum, tinct. myrrh and corrosive sublimate. Used as 
a liniment, carefully, as it is severe but effective." 

Remarks.— The amount of corrosive sublimate not being given in this 
recipe, only to be equal with the origanum oil and tinct. of myrrh, led to the 
correspondence, which I shall give below, after having given what I consider 
to be a proper amount of the corrosive sublimate, not only in my own judg- 
ment, but I have also consulted one of our most reliable chemists and druggists 
in the city of Toledo of over 35 years practical experience, and he thinks with 
me that to dissolve 1 dr. of the corrosive sublimate in 1 oz. of best alcohol will 
be the right amount, and mix witli 1 oz. each of the oil of origanum and tinct. 
of myrrh. But if the best re-sublimed iodine, 1 dr., is added to the oz. of alco- 
hol with the corrosive sublimate it will be all the better and more certain for it. 
To apply, follow the same plan cOs directed in No. 1 above, and remember it is 
as good for spavins as for ringbones. Label it " Poison." and keep it out of 
the way of children. Tliis recipe, as first published, led some of the subscri- 
bers of the Farm and Fireside to inquire of the editor to obtain further instruc- 
tion as to the amount of the corrosive sublimate intended, and this led the 
editor to write " O. H. L."(Mr. Loomis, as above explained), and he said in 
answer: " The last time the druggist had the tincture already prepared. It is 
very strong — will take the hair off when applied — but it does the work. I have 
just returned from Kansas, where the horse is that I had it used upon last. He 
is well. The ringbone does not show only to a careful observer; has been 
worked hard all summer "When the remedy was first applied he could not trot 
—could hardly walk, and was pronounced worthless by horsemen. I do not 
think there is any danger in using the remedy, if careful. " So it will be seen 
that our plan of the tinct., 1 dr. of the corrosive sublimate to 1 oz. of alcohol, 
is the ti-ue plan; adding, also, 1 dr. of iodine, in crystal, to ihe same will 
improve it and cure without a doubt. Still, I cannot see why a man wIki desires 
to do good to his fellow-men should give only his initials instead i)f liis lul) 



618 BR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

name; for everybody knows that the name carries more than double weight 
that any man's initials will do. I trust I shall not offend 3Ir. Loomis by having 
given his name without asking his permission. If I have, I beg his pardon, my 
excuse being a desire to do the greatest good by giving the greater faith or con- 
flbdence in his recipe, which I know is good. 

4. Spavin, to Cure the Iiameness.— Iodide of mercury, 2 drs.; 
lard, 2 ozs. Rub well upon the enlargement; repeat in 2 weeks, or when the 
new hair has started out; and so continue till the lameneae is cured. — Dr. Home, 
in MicJiigan FarTuer. 

Remarks. — He doee not clmm that it will remove the bony enlargement; 
but I think upon a recent case and a young horse, it will cause its final absorp- 
tion. (See Fleshy Tumors on Cows and Calves). It is from the same veterin- 
arian. If the same amoimt of corrosive sublimate were put in, it will be likely 
to cause the absorption of the bony enlargement, as well as to cure the lameness. 

5. Ringbone and Spavin Car*.— Powdered cantharidea, powdered 
or finely shaved castile soap, rosin broken up finely, tinct. of iodine, and laud- 
aimm, each, B oz«. ; mercurial ointment, 5 om. ; pulverized white vitriol (sul- 
phate of zinc), 3-^ oz. ; oil of origanum, camphor gum, and Venice turpentine, 
each, 1 oz. ; pulverized corroeivt sublimate, i.^ oz. ; lard, 2 lb«. DnuccnoNS — 
Melt the lard and stir in the mercurial ointment and roein, stirring until these 
are also melted ; then add the powden, mixing well ; then add the others, and 
stir till cold. For ringbone or spavin, clip off the hair, and rub in the ointment 
well with a wooden spatula, or the heel of the hand; after two days, oil the 
place with sweet ofl (lard -^ill do), and in two days more wash the place with 
soap and water, and rub in the ointment again, as at first, and so repeat till the 
bone enlargement Is all gone. 

Remarks. — A nephew of mine, Wm. J. Call, of Gaylord, Mich., cf whom 
I obtained this recipe, told me he had cured ringbones with it satisfactorily. If 
it will cure ringbones, It will also cure spavins. Keep the same proportions if 
you wish to make less. Kemembering it will be better if the tincture of iodine 
is made double the usual strength by adding 3^ dr. more to each ounce used. 
With the foregoing variety of ringbone and spavin cures, with the following 
one for wind-galls or bag-spavins, no one need long keep a horse with these 
blemishes upon him. 

6. Ringbones and Spavins, Ointment for. — A farrier living near 
Toledo uses the following ointment for these purposes, which will be found 
good, used the same a-s the other applications, cutting off the hair, greasing, 
washing ofl, re-applying, etc., with care. " Bin-iodide of mercury, iodine, cor- 
rosive sublimate, and cantharides, all powdered, and mixed into cosmoline 
4 ozs." 

Remarks. — None of these preparations should be applied in winter, unless 
the animal can remain in stable, and be secured so his mouth can not reach the 
place, and to avoid cold, snow, etc. 

7. Ringbone, California Cure.— In February, 1883, I received o 
letter from a Mr. W. J. McClane, of Oakland, Cal., who said: "1 am, eefl 



DOMESTIC AMMALS. 679 

have been for the past 21 years, engaged in stock raising on an extremely large 
scale," etc. The correspondence arising from the fact of his having recently 
purchased a copy of my "Second Receipt Book," of which he spoke very 
highly, especially on the subject of making and keeping butter; and he con- 
tinues: "Hoping to hear of a third volume, in the course of time, I here-with 
send you a few recipes, which we Californians have used and greatly rely upon. 

I. " To Cure Ringbone.— Take a piece of soft lead pipe, or round bar 
about }{ inch in diameter (a common bar of lead, the author is sure, will do as 
well as anything, putting the round side next to the foot), and long enough to 
extend around the fetlock, above the enlargement. Bind the ends well with 
copper wire, suflBciently tight to let the lead bear upon the upper part of the 
ringbone quite loosely. The weight of the lead and the healing qualities tiierein 
will in a few weeks remove any ringbone. I have removed two from a horse 
in six weeks which were of two years' growth." 

Remarks. — I had heard of such a proceeding before, but not so distinctively 
as to feel assured in giving it. Now I have not a doubt of its practicability. 

II. " Warts on Stock, to Remove. — This gentleman's cure for warts was to 
saturate every morning with the milk of a milk-thistle, found in grain fields; or 
saturate a few times with a solution of corrosive sublimate." 

Remarks. — Proper strength of this would be ]^ dr. to 1 oz. of alcohol He 
added, " This is very poisonous," which is correct. The author has seen it 
stated by a stock-keeper that for many years he had cured warts on horses and 
cattle by putting on a good daub of tar such as wagons are greased with. 

in. " Hair on Galls, to Restore.— Make the spot or part sore if not already 
so, and heal it by rubbing it every morning with smoked bacon in the raw state. 

rV. ' ' Branding, to Defaee.—Creut/e a sore, and apply the raw bacon grease, 
as above." 

Remarks. — A sore may be made with any of the blistering liniments. See 
Horseman's Hope Liniment, among the Sweeny cures, and the pain killer with 
the pennyroyal in it. They are both from the same gentleman, and will be 
found very valuable. He will please accept the author's thanks for his interest 
in the welfare of man and the animal kind, by his contribution to the doctor's 
" Third and Last Receipt Book." 

8. Spavins, Blood or Bag (Wind GaUs), Thoroughpins, 
Splints, etc.. Permanent Cure for. — Very strong vinegar, 1 pt.; aqua 
fortis (nitric acid), spirits of turpentine, and best alcohol, each 1 oz.; mix. 
Directions — Bathe freely, rubbing hard. Rub downward until you cause 
quite a heat in the leg. It will not cause any blister, whatever, and before you 
realize it, it will disappear. It has been over 2 years since I cured my mare, 
referred to below, and she is as good as ever to-day. Bathe 3 or 4 times a day,, 
rubbing hard every time. It seems a very simple recipe, but I can warrant it 
a good one. — B. F. Ghamberlin, of Rich, Lapeer county, Mich., in Detroit Post 
and Tribune, Dec. 1880; to which he added: 

" It effects a permanent cure. I have tested it on my own horse, also ork 
others. I have a mare which had 2 spavins, 1 on each hind leg; also 2 thor- 
oughpins came with them. I tried several kinds of medicine with no effect^ 



680 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

until I got this recipe. The spavins (wind galls) were as large as a pint bowl 
I considered her almost worthless, she being a very small horse; but I not only 
cured her lameness, but caused the enlargement to disappear entirely in 3 weeks. 
You would not know to-day that she ever had a spavin." 

Remarks. — Certainly testimony as large as a pint bowl is all that may be 
demanded, for I never saw one of these wind-galls, or puflfy lumps, larger than 
half a hen's Gg^ — this was an extreme case— and so much the more .satisfactory 
for those who may need to try it, so I give liis own words of assurance. A 
thoroughpin is the same as a bag-spavin, or wind-gall, as they are also called, 
except it extends along a tendon up and down the leg, rather than in a lump, 
or puff — treatment the same. If it is ever found necessary to blister any of 
these wind-galls, as they are more often called, use No. 3, above, which con- 
tains all that is required for the longest standing cases, even for curbs, on the 
back of the leg, or splints. If not applied too long, and well greased with 
raw, fat bacon, the hair will come out again. (See Hair on Galls, to Restore, 
above.) 

9. Splints, Ointment for. — Bin-iodide of mercury, 1 dr.; powdered 
cantharides, 2 drs. ; and lard, % oz. ; mix evenly into an ointment. DiEEC- 
TiONS— Shear off the hair from the enlargement, and rub in the ointment 15 
minutes. The third day after apply sweet oil, lard oil, or lard, to soften and 
aid in removing the scab. The horse, or colt, must not be allbwed to get at the 
sore with his mouth. Continue until cured. 

Remarks. — The bin-iodide and cantharides in this case, and all the blister- 
ing, and applications of strong liniments, act as a counter-irritant to the penos- 
teum (the membrane covering all bones), or the membraneous sheath of the 
tendons, which are inflamed, in these diseases, and also stimulates the parts to 
an increased healthy action, by which the cure is effected. The cutting off of 
the hair is to prevent too thick a scab, which cannot be removed so easily. 

SWEENY— Liniment, Oils, and Other Cures for.— Webster gives 
us no such word; but it is well understood by horsemen, to refer to a shrink- 
age of the muscles over the shoulder-blade of the horse, with a tightening down 
of the skin to the shrunken condition of the muscles. If it was upon a per- 
son, physicians would say the muscles were atrophied, from lack of nourish- 
ment; then what will stimulate them to a healthy action, so that they shall 
receive their proper share of nutrition, will soon cure the difficulty; hence, the 
propriety of using some of the following liniments, or oils, upon the affected 
shoulder. And first I will give one from a Kansas stage driver, which he called: 

1. Sweeny Cure.— Oil of origanum, 4 ozs.; oil of spike, 2 ozs.; oil of 
hemlock, tinct. of cantharides, spirits of turpentine and camphor gum, each 1 
oz, ; mix and keep corked. Directions— Rub on well, once daily, lifting the 
skin well at first. Two to three weeks will cure bad cases. It will blister. 
But if it gets too sore miss a few applications, or rub over with sweet oil (lard 
will do), after applying. 

Remarks. — This was given me by a stage driver, over whose route I passed, 
April 20, 1876, from Wichita (Wich-c-taw) to Winfield, Kan. , assuring me he 



DOMESTIC animals: 681 

had cured many bad cases with it. The above, without cantharides, put into 1 
qt. of alcohol, will make a splendid liniment for man or beast, for general put' 
poses. Next I will give you the one spoken of in No. 7, of ringbones, Califor- 
nia cure, which see. 

2. Horseman's Hope Liniment— A Cure for Sweeny (" Cali- 
fornian").— I will give it in his own words: " Ninety-eight per cent, alcohol 
1 qt. ; 4 ozs. origanum oil, of best quality; 2 ozs. hemlock oil, pure; 2 ozs. sas 
safras oil, pure; add the oils and stand till cut (they will cut, or dissolve, by 
shaking, immediately); then add the following: 8 ozs. aqua ammonia, strong; 
4 ozs. gum camphor; 4 ozs. castile soap, shaved and dissolved in a little hot 
water; then add the whole to the alcohol and it is fit for use. I have cured 
Sweenys on 3 or 4 occasions with the above by applying and immediately cover- 
ing the parts with a heavy woolen blanket. " 

Remarks.— I do not think Mr. iMcClane [see No. 7 of Ringbones for expla- 
nation] intends to be understood that one application would cure, but that to 
continue its use a reasonable time daily would do it, of which I have not a 
doubt. Still, I think it a good plan in all cases to lift up the skin, by means of 
the thumbs and fingers, to break it loose, as it were, from its attachments to the 
muscles for the first few applications. Some persons, you will see in the next 
recipe, claim this " lifting up of the skin " and allowing it to fill with air will 
cure the disease. I cannot say that it will, but I know the breaking up of the 
attachment will help the cure by its stimulating the muscles and blood vessels 
of the shoulder to increased action, and the admission of the air will undoubt- 
edly cause an irritation, and thus help the stimulation. 

Sweeny, Simple and Certain Cure for.— A. TV. Baird, of Gibson, 
m., writes to one of the papers m answer to an inquiry for a cure for tliis dis- 
ease, saying: "The cure is short, easy, sure and simple. It is this: With the 
forefinger and thumb of the left hand pull up the skin on the shoulder, pretty 
well up on the shrunk place; then with the small blade of a penknife make an 
incision through one side of the skin that is pulled up. Then with both hands 
raise up the skin around the incision, and it will fill with air. Fill the shrunk 
place full; let your horse stand a few days, or run on pasture; he will soon be 
well; it is a certain cure." 

Remarks. — It strikes me that there would be more certainty of filling with 
air if a goosequill was passed just through the orifice in the skin and then 
inflated to its full extent by blowing. I will give one more, the oil, made with 
angle-worms, taken from the veterinary department of the Post and Ti-ibune, 
and will also remark that angle-worm oil has been considered valuable also foi 
stiff joints, rheumatism, etc. The additions to this will make it so much bettei 
than without them. It is as follows: 

4. " Oil for Sweeny.— Dig and wash clean angle worms to make 1 pi, 
and put them into a suitable bottle, adding salt, by weight, 1 oz. ; spirits of tur 
pentine and sassafras oil, each, 1 oz. Hang in the sun until the worms are dis 
solved, then strain and add oils of spike, hemlock and cedar and gum camphor, 
each, 2 ozs. ; best alcohol, 1 pt. Shake and bathe the shoulder night and mom 
Ing. If it blisters, or gives too much pain, rub on a little lard oil (or lard)," 



683 J^R. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks. — I think this will prove a very valuable oil for sweeny, and for 
the general purposes of a liniment. In the same issue was the following treat 
ment for 

Strains, Swelled Legs, etc.— Lotion and Liniment for. — I. 
Lotion. — Steep wormwood herb, 4 ozs., in sharp vinegar, 2 qts., and add salt. 
2 lbs. Bathe the limb thoroughly with this, then use the following: 

II. Liniment. — Oil of spike, 1 oz. ; oils of hemlock, cedar, and camphoi 
gum, turpentine and sweet oil, each 2 ozs., in 1 qt. of arnica. Shake before 
applying. 

Remarks. — The author not being much of an arnica man, would say, that 
in his estimation, this would be a far better liniment to put these into 1 qt. of 
alcohol. 

1. SCRATCHES, GREASE HEEL, ETC.— To Avoid and to 
Cure. — To avoid, keep the horse in good health, and in the wet and muddy 
season — fall, winter and spring — keep the naturally long hair of the fetlocks, 
especially of the hind legs, which are much the more liable to this disease, cut 
rather closely, so that by proper grooming, these parts soon dry, and thus avoid 
this difficulty — I say this, for as a general thing, it begins with slight inflam^ 
mation of the skin, when it is scratches, proper; but which, if allowed to pro- 
ceed to deeper and more extensive inflammation, causing the cracking of the 
skin, and the escape of a greasy and purulent, or foul matter, to exude from 
the cracks, which also excoriates and extends the inflammation to all parts 
which it touches, when "grease" maybe considered to have taken full pos- 
session; and if not now met with proper treatment, the exudation assumes a 
f«ml smell, and finally a fungus growth may arise in lumps— grape-like— to 
ojver the whole of the diseased parts, leaving a red and angry appearance. 
Of course this is not common; for proper constitutional treatment, by condi- 
tion powders, combining cathartics and diuretics, as well as tonics, with some 
of the following local applications, will prevent, or cure, this disease. (See Con- 
dition Powders, Nos. 1, 3 and 8, and also the one given in connection with 
Cribbing.) 

2. Grease Heels, National Live Stock Journal's Cure.— 
Attend to cleanliness. Apply during 2 days poultices of equal parts of bran, 
flaxseed meal, and powdered charcoal. Thereafter apply twice or thrice daily 
a portion of oxide of zinc ointment (this is made with oxide of zinc, 1 oz., to 
benzoated lard, 6 ozs.), previously removing all secretions of matter as well as 
dry scabs and crusts. [This must be done with warm water and castile soap; 
washing carefully and drying perfectly.] If, after a week or 10 days, the case 
does not improve satisfactorily, apply instead of the ointment twice or thrice 
daily a portion of a mixture of 1 oz. of Goulard's extract and 3^ oz. of car- 
bolic acid to % pt. of water. Give loosening food, among which may be mixed 
2 drs. of nitrate of potash, morning and evening, during 1 week. 

Remarks. — This poultice may be considered one of the best that can be 
made, which I know from personal experience, except the bran, to which I 
have no particular objections. Although I have never had the scratches proper, 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 683 

yet I had something much worse some 50 years ago. I had a foot mashed in a 
threshing machine, and mortification set in upon two of the toes, but the young 
physician was equal to the occasion with a poultice of flaxseed (properly boiled, 
as there was no flaxseed meal then kept by druggists), and thickened with pow- 
dered charcoal, the mortification was stopped from extending, and the mortified 
parts separated from the healthy parts ; when the tendons only had to be clipped 
to remove them wholly from the foot; hence no one need be afraid to tie to this 
poultice, and the whole treatment will be found good, not forgetting the consti- 
tutional or condition powder part of it, in all cases. 

3. Scratches, Canadian Remedy.— A Canadian correspondent of 
the Scientific American gives the following simple remedy for scratches in horses. 
He says: "Having tried many lotions, etc., only to obtain temporary relief 
for my horse, I concluded to try a mixture of flowers of sulphur and glycer- 
ine, which I mixed into a paste using sufllcient glycerine to give it a glossy 
appearance, and the results I obtained In a short time were truly wonderful. I 
apply this paste at night, and in the morning before going out I apply plain 
glycerine." 

Remarks. — This is undoubtedly very valuable, for in McClure and Har- 
vey's edition of Stonehenge's English work on the horse, in speaking upon the 
subject of grease, says: " The skin must be kept supple (soft and pliant), and at 
the same time suitable to a healthy action. For the former purpose, glycerine 
is the most valuable, being far more efficacious than any greasy dressing, such as 
we were obliged to employ before the discovery of this substance, etc. 

He uses it in all stages of the disease, to keep the skin soft. To stimulate 
to a healthy action, he uses: "Chloride of zinc, 30 grs., to soft water, 1 
pt., and thorough cleansing with soap and warm water, and thorough drying, 
applying this with a brush, only sufficient to dampen the parts, and 15 minutes 
after, applying glycerine, and if not improved in a few days, he increases the 
strength of the zinc solution to 40 or 50 grs. to the pt. — repeating night and 
morning with, of course, constitutional treatment. 

4. Scratches, Simple Remedy for.— A correspondent of the Western 
Rural sent this, as he calls it, " Simple Remedy for Scratches," which he also 
said has been thoroughly tested and proved highly successful: "Wash the sores 
thoroughly with warm, soft water and castile soap; then rinse them off with 
clear water, after which rub them dry with a cloth. Now grate up some car- 
rots and bind them on the sores. This should be repeated every day, for 4 or 
5 days, when the scratches will be cured. 

Remarks. — I know that carrot poultice is very good; but I would suggest 
here, that it should be repeated twice daily, night and morning, instead of only 
daily, as the writer directs; but, if no carrots are to be had, take the following, 
unless you prefer the first one, or some other of the recipes here given. Boiled 
and mashed turnips, thickened with powdered charcoal, are undoubtedly good, 
whether they will prove as good as the bran and flaxseed meal of No. 1 or not, 
I leave for each one to judge for himself, when either can be had ; or to use the 
one he can get the materials for, when the other cannot be obtained, this is tho 



684 i>i2. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

object of giving several recipes for any disease. There is, however, a different 
dressing in the next, to follow the poulticing, which is undoubtedly valuable, 
especially when the white lead is mixed with tanner's or currier's oil, as there 
recommended. 

5. Scratches or Grease Heel in Horses, Simple and Cheap 
Remedy. — The following which is the last I shall give upon this subject, was 
from one signing himself "A Subscriber," of Hillsdale, Mich., to the Detroit 
Tribune, in answer to an inquiry of H. E. Lyon, concerning the treatment of 
scratches; but to which he says: " I will state that I think it a case of grease 
heel, which is far worse than common scratches. The remedy prescribed in 
the Tribune is a good one, but I have a simple and cheap remedy. Cleanliness 
in the stable has much to do in the case, keeping the stable well cleaned and 
littered with clean, dry straw. 

I. " Give the following condition powder: Jamaica ginger, 8 ozs. ; gentian 
root, 2 ozs. ; niter, blood root, and arnica, each, 1 oz. ; crude antimony (black), 
}^ oz. Directions — All to be finely powdered and thoroughly mixed together, 
then give 1 large table-spoonful in bran mash once each day for 6 days; then 
omit 3 days, and again repeat 2 or 3 days. This is equally good for any horse 
that is out of condition, or wants an appetite. 

II. "For the sore heels: Cleanse the parts affected thoroughly with castile 
soap and soft water, and when thoroughly dry, boil turnips (have boiled and 
mashed and already mixed,) and mash, and to this add finely pulverized char- 
coal. Poultice with this for 3 days, changing the poultice twice each day; then 
cleanse thoroughly again with castile soap and soft water, and when the parts 
are thoroughly dry, mix (have already mixed) together tanner's oil and white lead 
to the consistency of paint; apply thoroughly with a brush to the affected 
parts once each day. A few applications will generally suffice. Cleanliness in 
the case has much to do in effecting a cure. The white lead is of the greatest 
importance in the case, but works best when incorporated with tanner's oil. 
Hoping this may prove beneficial to Mr. Lyon, I submit it to your consideration 
if you think proper to publish." 

Remarks. — Of course they published it, and it will be found good treatment, 
although I must say that our condition powders will have a more general action 
upon all the secretions than "Subscriber's"; but his turnip poultice with the 
charcoal thickening and the white lead in tanner's oil, will no doubt prove very 
satisfactory to all who try them. I have known common white-lead paint to 
act nicely upon galled shoulders, while this, with the tanner's oil in place of 
linseed oil, will prove more softening and, I think, also more healing. 

Surfeit in Horses, Cause and Cure.— Surfeit is a disease more par- 
ticularly affecting the skin, in which at first there will be found hard lumps, 
■and if not soon cured, will finally become sore and a sticky matter exude, form- 
ing scales or scabs, and the treatment become more difficult. It is believed to 
arise from the horse having been overworked or overdriven, by which the 
blood has become heated; then, by drinking cold water, or standing in the cold, 
•♦iiey become chilled, which shows itself in the skin, more particularly because 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 6S5 

the kidneys fail to depurate the blood, i. e., to take up and carry off the effete 
or worn out portions of the system, which are, therefore, thrown upon the skin 
in too great quantities to obtain free escape, and hence, diuretics, such as niter, 
y^ oz. .dissolved in a little water, and given in its drink night and morning, or 
an ounce daily of sweet spirits of niter in the same way for a few days, will 
if taken in hand soon, generally correct the difficulty; but if the horse is not in 
general good health, a general constitutional treatment, with some of the con- 
dition powders, care in his feed and grooming, as well as to see he is not again 
over-heated, will be necessary. Cathartics, however, are not considered as 
essential in this disease as diuretics. I do not see that any writer upon this 
subject directs any application to the skin; but I should most positively recom- 
mend the daily, or twice daily, application of a good stimulating liniment to be 
well rubbed into the diseased parts of the skin, for I know it will expedite the 
cure as much as an itch ointment helps to more quickly cure the itch. 

Remarks. — Many is the horse that has been spoiled by hitching into a 
buggy or wagon and being driven quickly to town, then allowed to stand for 
hours, often I have seen it till eleven o'clock at night, in a cold, dreary wind, 
while the driver " gossiped " and "guzzled " in a warm, comfortable room. If 
this must be done, for humanity's sake put the horse into a comfortable stable. 

1. WARTS ON HORSES OR OTHER STOCK-To Oure.- 
A farmer writing to one of the papers saj^s: " I had a mare some years ago 
that had a large wart on her side, where the harness rubbed and kept it sore. 
In the summer the flies made it worse. To prevent this I put on a good daub 
of tar, and in a few weeks the wart was killed and disappeared. I have fre- 
quently tried it since on cattle and horses, and seldom had occasion to make a 
second application. The remedy is simple and effectual." 

Remarks. — I am not able to see any chemical property in the tar to effect a 
cure; yet I have not a doubt of the fact, as above g-iven. If this fails in any 
case apply the following: 

2. Warts, Effectual Cure for, on Horses or Persons.— Take 
full strength acetic acid, and with a 3-cent camel's hair pencil (brush) just fairly 
wet the wart all over. A few applications will cure them on man or beast. 
Don't put on enough to run off the wart upon the skin, to make a sore. 

3. Put 1 oz. of powdered sal-soda (washing soda) in a 2 oz. vial and fill 
with water, and wet the warts thoroughly with this, is also effectual, by a few 
applications, in all cases, as with No. 2. A little of this soda in water to soak 
the feet in, for those who have corns, (which see) will soften up the dead part, 
and make its removal easy. 

1. WORMS— Successful Remedies.— For the long worm which 
inhabits the small intestines of the horse, and sometimes find their way into the 
stomach, a Mr. Rhodes, a farmer near Ann Arbor, Mich., gave me the follow- 
ing as a certain cure: Burn black ash bark, and give the ashes, in 1 table-spoonful 
doses, in his feed every morning for 3 mornings, then skip 3, till 9 doses are given. 

Remarks.— BeWamng that the alkali arising from these ashes coming in con- 
tact with the linings of the stomach, and intestines, will correct the mucus con- 
dition of these parts, in which the worms find themselves, I give it, expecting 



69*5 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

It to cleanse the parts and eradicate the worms. If this fails in any case, how- 
ever, give a drench of linseed oil, 1 pt., with J^ oz. of spirits of turpentine in 
it, and repeat it the third morning after, if the first dose does not cany them off 
freely. The same you will see is used as an injection for pin-worms, below. 
It is safe in either method of using. 

2. For the Pin-Worms that Infest the Eectum.— I cannot see 
why a solution, weak lye, made with these ashes, and injected, for a few times, 
will not also eradicate them. Some of these, however, almost always go 
higher up, to get out of the reach of injections, and after a week or 10 days 
return to the rectum, when the same shall be repeated, to clear them out en- 
tirely, no matter whether you use this, or inject the usual remedy; which is 
linseed oil, 1 pt. , with Ji oz. spirits of turpentine in it, injecting every morning 
for a week, with the repetition, as above. It is well also, after either of these 
treatments, to tone up the system with the tonic condition powders, which nevei 
come amiss, spring and fall, although no special disease may manifest itself. 

Heaves, a Claimed Cur9. — Although this is out of its alphabetical 
place, as I have tried to arrange the horse recipes, yet as it was given by the 
same man who gave the ash plan, above, for worms, I will give it here, and 
although I can hardly expect it to cure the worst heaves, as he claims, it may 
prove better than I have dared to hope, as the article, blood root, is known to 
be valuable in coughs and throat difficulties of persons. He says: Get blood 
root, 3^ lb. , pulverized, and give 1 table-spoonful in the feed, the same as the 
ashes were to be given for the worms, above, (on the old plan of take 3 and 
skip 3, till nine are taken), will cure the worst heaves: He says, however, fol- 
low it up till cured. 

Feeding Stock Horses, and Also Best Rations for Winter 
Feeding on the Farm. — Although considerable has already been said as to 
proper care in feeding work -horses especially to avoid colics, etc. ; yet stock 
horees, nor the plans of general feeding, and especially the winter care of 
horses, when but little is being done with them, have not been fully considered; 
and as such matters are known to be better understood by stockmen, I will 
quote from E. W. Stewart, in the Rural New Yorker, one of the most promi- 
nent men of that class in our country. See, also, an item taken from his prize 
essay on "Fattening Catlle," found under that head. Every word from such 
a man may be considered perfectly reliable and the best thing to " tie to " that 
can be found upon the subject upon which he is speaking. Upon the impor- 
tance of the horse as the motive power on the farm, and also |the importance 
of keeping him in full condition and strength in winter, he says : 

I. " The horse is the principal motive power on the farm, and therefore 
needs the best attention. This class of stock is kept wholly for its muscle, and 
the working and culture of the farm must depjend greatly upon the character 
and condition of the horses. The winter season is one of comparative leisure 
for horses, as farms are usually managed, and farmers appear to think horses 
require little attention when they are not in hard labor. They are quite in the 
habit of keeping them upon poor hay and straw at this season, reserving all 
grain for spring feeding. But this is very bad policy. Horses generally come 
to winter qxiarters in thin condition frcim their summer's labor, and "require 
judicious feeding and good care to recover their full working capacity; and 



DOMEbTlC AmMALS. 68'. 

farmers should remember tliat it is much cheaper to put horses in conditioi? 
when work is very light, and that all the extra flesh put on in winter represents 
so much extra labor available in spring. Besides, it should always be the aim 
of team-owners to keep their horses in good working condition, for it takes less 
food to keep up condition than to recover it when lost." 

II. To avoid colics and aid in digestion he says: " Let us examine a few 
rations for work-horses in winter. Horses are often subject to coUc from 
improper feeding. When fed upon cornmeal alone, its large percentage of 
starch renders it too heating, and, besides, it is a very concentrated food, and 
being just moistened with saliva so as to be swallowed, it goes into the stomach 
in the compact form of dough, and the gastric juice cannot circulate through 
it so as properly to perform its office, and internal heat, fever and colic often 
occur from want of proper digestion. All such concentrated food should be 
mixed with cut hay, the hay bemg just moistened so that tlie meal will adhere 
to it. This mixes the concentrated with the bulky food, and the hay separates 
the particles of meal so as to render the mixture porous and the gastric juice 
now circulates freely through the mass and operates upon the whole contents of 
the stomach at once, The best way to use cornmeal as a single grain food is to 
mix it with moistened (cut) clover hay. If the clover is of good quality it con- 
tains a larger percentage of albuminoids (muscle-forming food) tlian cornmeal, 
and thus helps to balance the constituents." 

[Possibly it may not be amiss to call attention here to the subject of scald- 
ing meal by pourmg on boiling water, as mentioned under the head of "Meal 
and Hay for Fattening Stock." If scalding it for fattening purposes makes it 
more digestible, why not in general feeding? Still, as it Is to be mixed with cut 
hay here it is not so absolutely necessary. — Author.] 

III. On the Best Feed or Rations for Work-Rorsag he tays: "But one of 
the best rations for work-horses is corn,' oats and flaxseed, ground together — tlie 
corn and oats in equal weight, and to 19 bushels of the mixture of corn and 
oats add 1 bushel of flaxseed, and grind flue, all togetner. The corn and oats 
make a well-balanced ration, and the flaxseed is rich in oil, muscle-forming and 
bone-building elements; but its oil is its greatest sanitary element. This small 
proportion of oil is just suflicient to keep the bowels in excellent condition, the 
coat sleek, and every part of the system in well-balanced activity. And then 
by feeding this ground mixture with twice its bulk of moistened cut hay you 
have as perfect a ration for work-horses as can be compounded. All regular 
grist-mills now have an apparatus for mixing different grains together, so that 
the farmer has only to carry the oats, corn or flaxseed in proper quantity to mill 
and they will all be mixed without hand labor. If the farmer has no straw- 
cutter he may use oats or wheat chaff to mix with the meal to render it porous." 

[The author would hardly risk the mixture of so small a proportion of 
flaxseed with the other. I should prefer it to be ground alone and put in the 
proper amount with each feed ; but possibly the machinery Mr. Stewart refers 
to may do it better than I should expect.] 

IV. For WinteHng Horses Doing but Little Wbrk—A7nount and Kinds of 
Feed Necessai-y.— Upon this subject he closes by saying: " In wintering horses 
that are doing but little work, straw may be fed with the last ration and the 
horses will do well. From 8 to 10 lbs. of this meal to each horse daily will 
bring them through finely, even on good straw. When oats are too expensive 
cornmeal and wheat bran mixed in equal weights, with 1 pt. of oatmeal to each 
horse, will give a good result. If hay is scarce, 2 lbs. of decorticated (hulled) 
cotton-seed meal, 4 lbs. of cornmeal, 4 lbs. of bran and cut straw will winter 
horses well. But there should always be a variety in the food. If the farmer 
has clover hay and straw, these should be mixed tosj^ctlior— better if both be cut 
before mixing, but they may be mixed in the manger without cutting." 



688 I>R' CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Amount of Food Necessary for a Horse at Work.— The Eng- 
lish railway (or, as we call them here, street car) companies, feed their horses a 
mixed feed, about as follows, for 6 horses. Hay, 376 lbs., and straw, 84 lbs., 
both cut into chaff; oats, 336 lbs.; Indian corn, 252 lbs.; beans, 84 lbs.; 
bran, 14 lbs. All mi.xed evenly together and gi'ound; then, I should judge, 
mixed proportionally, with the moistened cut hay and straw. This makes an 
average of 11 lbs. of the mixed hay and 16 lbs. of the mixed grain for each 
horse daily. A fair feed, if not overworked, as many of them do in our cities. 

A Pennsylvania farmer says: Two quarts of meal per day is not enough 
for a horse that is working; but an excellent mixture of grain is cracked corn, 
1 bushel, and oats, 2 bushels. [The author would say better if ground together 
in equal proportions. See Mr. Stewart's Best Feed, or Rations for Work 
Horses.] Of this, he goes on to say, a small horse that is driven, or worked, 
should have 2 qts. at a feed, given 3 times a day, with 5 lbs. of hay (cut), night 
and morning. And a horse that is not working, but will be, soon, would be the 
better for a daily feed of 2 qts of grain (oats) given at noon. 

Remarks. — This undoubtedly refers to a horse which is not being fed upon 
the meal mixture, but simply hay, or other coarse food. 

For Old Horses.— For old horses the oats should most certainly be 
ground, and their coarse food also cut, dampened and the ground oats mixed 
with it, as their teeth are not in condition to grind for themselves; and if they 
are left to do it, they do not get half the value of the grain. It is worthy of 
attention. Younger horses may do tolerably well grinding for themselves; but 
they will do much better if it is ground for them. 

Apples Valuable for Horses. — Remarks have been made in connec- 
tion with the subject of carrots, parsnips and other roots of valuable food for 
cattle, etc., in which apples are shown to possess, largely, the power of dis 
solving other coarse food for them, why not then good for horses? (See this 
pectine, or dissolving power, described in connection with carrots and other 
roots for cattle. Apples possess it in greater abundance than almost any other 
article known.) Of course it is only sour apples that have this power, and 
hence it is only them that should be fed. One writer says: I liave occasionally 
fed sour apples to my horses, with excellent results. They are a certain cure 
for worms. I feed half to a whole pailful once a week. Another one says: I 
am in the habit of turning my horses into the orchard in the fall, where they 
can eat as many apples as they like. I find they derive much benefit from them, 
and gain flesh much more rapidly than others which did not receive an apple 
feed. 

Parsnips Valuable as Food for Horses.— In the article above 
referred to, parsnips were spoken of as having been fed in France, by a horse 
breeder, there, for 20 years, with better success than when he used to feed car- 
rots, from the larger amount of pectine, or pectic acid, which they contain. It 
is from the presence of this dissolving power, in apples, as well as parsnips, 
carrots, beets, rutabagas, etc. , which make them so valuable as food, when pro- 
perly cut and mixed with other coarse food, as hay, cornstalks, straw, etc., all 
properly cut, both for horses and cattle. 



DOMESTIC AKIMALS. 689 

Turnips Valuable as an Occasional Feed for Horses.— Tviroipa 

are healthful for horses, when sliced, or what Is better, pulped finely and mixed 
with a little salt and corn meal. Of course rutabagas are richer than the flat, 
or field turnip. 

Bran, its Value for Eeducing Inflammation, and as a Lax- 
ative. — Bran mashes are cooling and laxative, and valuable after inflamma- 
tions, and for giving various medicines in, but should not be given in a dry 
state ; for if fed to any considerable extent dry, it is liable to form into lumpy 
secretions, which become almost, if not wholly, impossible to pass the bowels, 
and hence death has been known to occur from this cause. 

Halter Piilling, Sensible Remedy.— The Counti-y Gentleman, in 
response to a request from a correspondent for a cure for horses which have 
contracted the habit of halter pulling, says: " Take a sufficiently long piece of 
J^ inch rope, put the center of it under the tail like a crupper, cross the rope 
on the back and tie the two ends together in front of the breast snugly, so ther? 
is no slack, otherwise it would drop down on the tail. Put an ordinary haltet 
on — a good one — and run the halter strap or rope through a ring in the manget 
or from the stall and tie fast in the rope on the front of the breast, and theu 
slap his face and let him fly back. He will not choke nor need telling to stop 
pulling back. Let him wear it awhile, and twice or thrice daily scare him 
back as suddenly and forcibly as possible. After one or two trials you will see 
that he cannot be induced to pull back." 

Lice Upon Colts, Cattle and Other Animals— Easy and Safe 
Remedy. — J. M. Johnson says in the loica Homestead that aloes, in fine pow- 
der, is a specific for the destruction of lice on all animals. It has no poisonous 
properties, its intense bitterness being what kills. It can be freely applied, and 
as it is to be used in a dry state, its application is as safe in cold as in warm 
weather, consequently it is free from all objections urged against other reme> 
dies. Use with fine pepper-box, dusting and rubbing it in all over, then curry 
out inside of a week ; repeat if necessary. 

Ointment for Grease-heel in Horses. — Honey and lard, of each 
3^ lb.; tar, i^ lb ; white vitriol, and sugar of lead, of each 1 oz.; alum, % lb. 
The first 4 articles are to be melted together, and the others finely powdered 
and mixed in by stirring, and stirring until cold to keep them evenly mixed. 
This, in grease-heel, must be put on cloth and thoroughly bound on, and kept 
on for 36 hours; wash with casteel soap, and repeat the whole as needed. No- 
case is known where 3 applications did not effect a perfect cure 

Remarks. — "When cleaning or rubbing with fingers to remove scabs, always 
use flat of fingers and never the finger-nails. The parts must be dried by rub 
bing, after cleansing with casteel soap, before applying the ointment. 

If a man has a horse with grease-heel, this ointment is worth as Qiuch as 
his horse. 

44 



C-^^TTXiE- 



Working Oxen, etc.— Digestion— How to Peed.— See "Horsesi 
— Digestion of," compared with the ox, how they should be fed, etc. I wilr 
simply say here, that an ox having a larger stomach, or rather four stomachs, 
while the horse has but one, is not refreshed and strengthened as the horse is by 
a feed of meal alone, but needs it to be mixed with cut hay or cut straw, for a 
noon feed, and at least two hours for feeding and ruminating, i. e., " chewing 
his cud," to get the full benefit ot his dinner. 

As to Cows. — Although they ought to have the best of feed and care all 
the time, if rich milk, good butter or good cheese are expected from them; yet, 
the time when they need more especial care, is for a couple of weeks before, 
and at the time of calving, for if they pass this period without accident, and 
do not have milk-fever following it, there is generally but little trouble with 
them. This disease is not as prevalent in the Western States as in the Eastern, 
especially Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and Connecticut, and it is believed to 
be more prevalent on account of their higher feeding to obtain all the milk pos- 
sible from them, and also that of a rich butter, or cheese producing quality, 
and hence meal enters largely into their feed, which alone, is of a heating 
nature, and has a tendency, at this particular period, it is believed, to make the 
cow more likely to have milk-fever. A Mr. Ansel W. Putnam, of Danvers, 
Mass., gives his experience to his fellow dairy-men through the New York Trib- 
une, to enable them to avoid having this disease, which is far better than to be 
able to cure even after it has once set in, but the fact is few are cured. Let me 
say then, that as I fully believe Mr. Putnam's plan of giving cold water enough 
to satisfy thirst, is better than the giving only a little warm water, as heretofore 
recommended. I the more cheerfully recommend every one to follow all his 
directions, and thus avoid the disease. He says: 

Milk-Fever, To Avoid. — "I am in the habit of giving water to cows, 
as soon as they drop their calves, and I have never known a case of milk-fever 
when the cow had all thfi "yater she wanted soon after calving, and the want 
was kept supplied at short intervals, giving a pailful at a time, fresh from the 
well. In all cases of milk-fever that I have known anything about, the cows 
went without water for a long time, and then were allowed to drink a large 
quantity, and the re-action was too great for the system. 

"Cows which are fat," Mr. Putnam says, "should have no heating food 
for two weeks before calving. And, first, to milk the cow as soon as she calves, 
then to give her a bucket of water, fresh from the well, such as a thirsty man 
would relish. In half an hour after give her another, and so on until she is 
satisfied, '^pry few," he continues, " understand how necessary it is to supply 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 691 

the cow's system with water soon after calving, but it should be done gradually, 
as above directed." Mr. Putnam concludes as follows: "If the bag and teats are 
full before calving, the milk should be drawn out, and when great milkers are 
on pasture, it is a good plan to take them up two weeks before calving, and put 
them on dry food so as to check the flow of milk, for, when a cow is fed on 
dry hay only, before calving (the calf is ready for the milk as soon as it is ready), 
there is no danger of inflammation or fever." 

Remarks. Ha\ing become fully satisfied of the necessity of giving fresh, 
cold water to persons in fevers, as shown by the remarks following Typhoid 
Fever, and reasoning from analogy (the likeness or agreement between things, 
although the circumstances may be quite different), I see, at a glance, that the 
cool water to satisfy the cows, this within a reasonable short time, a (pailful 
every half hour, as Mr. Putnam has found, as above given), is the true way to 
prevent a cow from having milk fever, at all ; for no person, animal, or thing 
can long continue hot (and all fever is heat) if filled or covered with cold 
water. Nothing further need be said in favor of Mr. I*utnam's plan. Ic will 
be safe to follow it. 

MILK, TO INCREASE THE PLOW IN DAIRY COWS. AND 
THE BEST FOOD TO INSURE IT. 

1. Milk to Increase. — The agricultural editor of the Bee-Keepera 
Journal vouches for the following, handed him by one who had tried the plan 
to increase the flow of milk, and I have seen the same thing given in various 
other sources, and from the nature of the mixture I have every reason to 
believe it good. He says: 

" If you desire to get a large yield of milk, give your cow, three times a 
day, water, slightly warm, slightly salted, in which bran has been stirred at the 
rate of 1 qt. to 2 gals, of water. You will find that your cow will gain 25 per 
cent, immediately under the effects of it, and she "will become so attached to 
the drink as to refuse clear water, unless very thirsty ; but this mess she will 
drink almost at any time, and ask for more. The anaount of this drink is an 
ordinary water pailful at each time — morning, noon and night. Your animal 
will then do her best at discounting the lacteal {lac, the Latin >vork for milk, 
hence "lacteal," milky) fluid. 

2. The Best Pood for Increasing the ??low of Milk.— In the 

Eastern States, as before stated, milch cows are fed largely on corn meal, but I 
have the statement of a well-informed dairyman, that equal parts by measure, 
of corn meal, ground oats and wheat bran, well mixed, makes the best and 
most profitable feed for increasing the flow of milk, being much less heating 
than corn meal alone, and still very nourishing and satisfactory to the animal 
as well as to the dairyman by saving considerable expense, while at the same 
time he gets his increased tlow of milk, and the cow is not too fat for comfort and 
health, as they often become on corn meal alone. There are those, also, who 
claim that milch cows will be greatly benefited by mixing their feed with warm 
or hot water, if this can be done without too much trouble, at each milking. 
It is well-known that to give a family cow a warm mess in the mornings 



693 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

increases the flow of milk perceptably. Why should it not, then, do the same 
with any number of dairy cows? Cut the hay and pour hot water over it, and 
mix it so it is all wetted, then add the meal, or the mixed feed, referred to 
above, mixing thoroughly and feeding while warm. In a dairy of 20 cows the 
extra milk will more than half pay for the extra labor. (For the value of meal 
daily, to a cow giving milk, see next receipt.) 

Meal, the Value of, for Dairy Cows. — The editor of the Farmer and 
Mirror gives the following item, coming, he says, from one of the best dairy- 
men in Vermont. He says: 

" I have come to the conclusion, after seven years' experience in the feeding 
of meal every day to such of my cows as were giving milk, that in the future I 
would feed more meal instead of less. I believe that when the cows have been 
properly selected, and are of a breed that is reliable as to butter qualities, it 
amounts to a certainty that all we feed them above what is required to sustain 
their bodies, will be returned to us in butter with a large profit on the invest- 
ment. At the same time care should be taken not to overfeed. Gilt-edged 
butter cannot be made from cows thin in flesh or poorly fed." 

Remarks. — This idea of feeding meal is correct, but the mixed feed in the 
receipt above is the most profitable. To judge about the " breed that is relia- 
ble," as this writer puts it, see Jersey Cows, or the Best Cow for Small Farms, 
for I think it is now generally conceded that the Jerseys, also called Alderneys, 
are the best, although the Durhams are good as you will see under that head. 

To '* Dry off" Cows and other Animals.— I. As we have given the 
plan above, for increasing the flow of milk, it may not be amiss to also give a 
good plan here for drying-ofl, which is occasionally important, and as it is just 
as applicable to mares, when weaning the colt; and with slight modification, 
also valuable for caked-breasts, it is worthy of a place in this connection. It is 
as follows: Tar and good vinegar, earh J^ pt.; spirits of turpentine, 6 ozs.; 
beeswax and camplior gum, 2 ozs.; tallow, 4 ozs. Directions — Boil all 
together for 15 minutes, except the turpentine and camphor gum, the latter of 
which should be broken up very fine or pulverized by the druggist, by dropping 
upon it a few drops of alcohol, then these added when removed from the fire, 
and stirred imtil cold. 

The cow or the mare is to be milked dry night and morning, and the oint- 
ment rubbed into the udder and along the milk-veins for 3 or 4 days, or until 
the milk ceases to flow. 

For Caked-Breasts make it without the tar and rub it in well as long as 
needed to remove the soreness, then cease unless you desire to dry up the milk 
as the camphor has a great tendency to do. 

Remarks. — The camphor was not in the recipe as the author obtained it; 
but knowing its value upon the female breast, I have added it to the recipe, 
knowing it will prove so much the more reliable. The only objection to the 
tar upon the breast is, it stains the clothing, and is also more sticky. 

II. Another writer says a cow may be dried off in a short time by not 
milking her quite out, leaving some in the udder each milking, and by feeding 
4 qts. of dry corn meal in the course of the day, which, if she is to be fatted, 
wUl help to lay on fat, and gradually dry her off. This is uo doubt the fact. 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 693 

If toward the close of her milking season. Still I can see no objection to the 
dry meal, even if the ointment is used. 

Ointment for Swelled Bags, or Udders of Cows.— Sweet oil, 4 
ozs.; pulverized camphor gum, 1 oz. Dissolve over a slow fire, and rub in 
well 3 or 3 times daily. The author thinks the ointment for drying off cows, 
above, fully equal, if not even better, than this camphorated-oil, although only 
swelling is to be remedied here, which generally arrives from colds. 

Choked Cattle, Slire Remedy. — J. B. J. in Counti'y OentUman speak- 
ing of choked cattle, says: "The following recipe ought to be printed twice 
every year, as it is a sure remedy: Take of fine-cut chewing tobacco enough to 
make a ball the size of a hen's egg, dampen it with molasses so it adheres 
closely; elevate the animal's head, pull out the tongue and crowd the ball as far 
down the throat as possible. In 15 minutes it will cause sickness and vomiting, 
relaxing the muscles, so that the potatoe or whatever may be choking it will be 
thrown up." 

Remarks. — It is an almost absolute certainty that the tobacco will cause the 
relaxing of the muscles and consequent throwing up of the contents of the 
stomach, and a cure is just as certain as a relaxation. The laying of moist- 
ened tobacco upon a person's stomach with lock-jaw, has relaxed them, and 
saved the patient. It must not be kept on so long, however, as to cause deathly 
sickness. 

To Cure Foul Flesh or Sores Upon Stock.— C. Becker, of Bloom- 
ville, N. Y., writes one of the Rural's: "I have been in the habit for 35 
years of using oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid) and water in all cases of bad flesh, 
and never knew failure. Put 1 teaspoonful of the vitriol in i^ teacupful 
of water, cleanse out the sore with a soft rope, or otherwise make a swab by 
tying a piece of cloth on the end of a stick, saturate the aflBicted part well with 
the wash and I never knew it to fail by two washings." 

Remarks. — It would, most undoubtedly, prove as valuable for foot-rot in 
sheep, as for foul sores. 

To Cure Fleshy Tumors Upon Cows or Calves.— Bin-iodide of 
mercury, 1 dr. ; cosmoline, or vaseline, 2 ozs. ; thoroughly mixed and well rub- 
bed upon the tumors." — Dr. Home in Michigan Farmer. 

RemAirks. — For directions how to continue it [see Spavin to Cure Lameness], 
It is from the same veterinarian, but he prefers the bin-iodide here, to the iodide 
as used on spavins. 

Hoven or Bloat in Stock— Prevention and Cure.— O. J. L. of Mod- 
est Town (a very appropriate name for a place where the men are so modest 
they dare not give their name when reporting for an agricultural paper on the 
above disease), Va., made a report of the death of a cow and calf to one of the 
the farm papers, I think the Farm and Fireside, to which the veterinary surgeon 
A. T. Wilson, made the following sensible answer: " Your cow and calf both 
died from hoven or bloat, a very common result of injudiciously turning cattle 
into a rich clover patch. To prevent bloat, turn them in for an hour or so 
eveiy day for a week until they get used to it. To cure bloat, when seen ia 



694 Dn. CriASKS RECIPES. 

time, use 2 ounces each of hyposulphite of soda and tincture of ginger added 
to a quart of cold water. But in extreme cases, make an opening with a pocket 
knife, in lieu of a trochar, in the most prominent swelling or point on the left 
flank, and insert any small tube— a funnel. A quill or pencil case might 
answer." 

Remarks. — Saleratus used to be given to try to prevent the continued accu- 
mulation of gas in these cases, but of late % ^"P ^^ freshly powdered charcoal 
in a drench of water, is considered better treatment, as it aids the future diges- 
tion, as well as the present difficulty. This may be repeated morning and even- 
ing for a day or two, if the animal continues to show any signs of indigestion. 
But the hyposulphite of soda and tincture of ginger, if on hand, is reliable; 
even baking soda, double the quantity, will do well, with the tincture of ginger, 
or even without, if none is by you; but there is not much time to wait. Do 
quickly what is to be done. 

1. Hollow Horn, to Cure.— Alcohol, ^ pt.; camphor gum, 1 oz. 
Directions— When the gum is dissolved, put half of it into one ear of the ani- 
mal, and as soon as it has done snorting and blowing, put the other half into 
the other ear. Once cures every time. 

Remarks. — This is from a Mr. Bradly, living 2 miles below Ann Arbor, 
Mich. He said a druggist told him, at first, it would kill the cow. "It did 
not," he continued, " but cured her," and he said he had tried it several times 
with like success. 

2. Old Treatment of Hollow Horn.— The old treatment was to 
bore into the horn with a gimlet and inject vinegar, pepper, salt and water; and 
after this was injected into the horn, a couple of pieces of fat, salt pork, the 
size of one's two forefingers, with a tea-spoonful of cayenne put in a slit in 
each slice, was placed between the animal's grinders, and the head elevated 
until it chewed and swallowed them; and next day repeat without the pepper 
if dumpishness is still manifested. This would be good, too, for any animal 
■which is, as they say, "oflf its feed," or dull and heavy in appearance — ick, in 
other words. Let one piece be chewed and swallowed before the other is intro- 
duced. 

Scours and Diarrhoea in Cattle, Colts, etc., to Cure. — For scours 
in cattle, change the food and water. Give first 1 qt. of lard oil, with laudanum, 
2 ozs. After 3 to 4 hours, give powdered gum catechu, ginger, and gentian 
root, each, 2 ozs., in flaxseed tea, 1 pt., to any animal over 2 years old; half this 
to those under 2 years, and over 9 months, and one-fourth to one-third the 
amount to younger stock; repeating the dose twice daily, and withholding it as 
soon as the discharges diminish. Give nourishing food, and flaxseed tea to 
drink. In chronic (long standing) diarrhoea, give, morning and evening, 1 dr. of 
ammoniated sulphate of copper, dissolved in cold water, }^ pt. — Western Rural. 

ifema?-A;«.— While spending a couple of months at Eaton Rapids, Mich., I 
became acquainted with a gentleman there, Mr. A. Button, quite a "family 
doctor," by the way, who told me he once expected to lose a colt with Ihe 
scours, as the veterinurians tailed to cure it; but some one told him to dissolve 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 695 

a piece of alum the size of a ben's egg in a bucket of water, which would cure 
it. He tried it, and it did cure it. Why should it not again, aud cattle as well 
as colts? 1 would try it, if the above ever failed, or one of the following: 

Diarrhcsa of Cattle, Remedy.— Another writer says: "Three pecks 
of boiled potatoes, fed in the day, in 3 messes, warm, is an excellent remedy for 
dian'hcea in cattle." 

Scours in Cattle, Remedy. — Mr. James Door, of Dorchester, Mass., 
recommends fine wheat flour as a cure for scours in cattle. He says, *' Take 
1 qt. of the finest flour, mix smoothly with water, making it just thick enough 
to run, and administer at one dose. A second dose may be necessary, but one 
is generally sufficient for a cure." 

Remarks. — The author knows a rather thick milk porridge, given warm, is 
good for " looseness " of persons. Why not good for cattle? I should prefer 
it warm to cold, as this gentleman uses it, as I understand him. It may be good 
enough cold, but warmth will not make it less valuable, I am sure. 

I. Kicking Cows, to Make Stand Quiet.— A dairyman who has 
been troubled with the kicking of young cows, and who has found a plan to 
prevent it while milking, makes it public through the New York Tribune, and 
seeing at a glance that it must be a success, I give it a place. He says: 

" If cows kick, tie their legs together, I find it much better for myself 
and for the discipline of the cows to iet the rope hold them than it is to tiy to 
hold them myself. They soon learn that the rope can hold them; they also soon 
learn that man cannot hold them ^\ithout a rope. The rope I use is 6 or 7 feet 
long, and has a loop on one end. I put it around the right log above the gam- 
brel, through the loop, and draw it tight enough to keep it from dropping down, 
then behind the left leg and take a turn once around it (like a figure 8), then 
around both legs, then between the legs, around the rope that crosses in front and 
back of the legs, in such a way as to'draw them as near together as desirable, 
then make fast. It is not necessary to draw the rope tight enough to hurt the 
cow if she stands still. It matters not how hard or how long she tries to get 
away from the rope; it will stay there and it will liold her legs very near to each 
other so she cannot kick, and however hard she may pull on the rope, the part 
that is on the inside of one leg being on with a slip-noose, that on the other with 
a round turn, as soon as she stops struggling and the rope is slack they do not 
stop the circulation of the blood. I am particular in telling how I put the rope 
on when I need to tie a kicking cow, because it is the only way I have ever seen 
that will hold every time and not get tight enough to stop the circulation." 

II. Another dairyman takes the following plan to prevent cows from kick- 
ing when being milked. He says: " Before sitting down to milk I put a ' snap * 
attached to the end of a small rope into her nose and tie the rope to a pin put 
into the scaffold girt over the manger, slightly elevating her nose, and she 
stands as quietly while she is milked as the most gentle cow in the stable."— 
American Cultivator. 

Bemarks. — I have not a doubt but what either of these plans will secure the 
cow against kicking — they have something else to think of. On the same prin- 
ciple that the cord in the mouth of a vicious horse carried up over the head and 
enclosing an ear tightly enables the blacksmith to shoe him without trouble, 
"Which see. 



696 -DiJ. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Lice, To Kill, on Cows, Calves, Dogs and Poultry.— The New 
York Times \niorm.s its readers that "any oily or greasy substance kills them 
on any of the animals named; that sulphur is also fatal to them; that Persian 
insect powder, which is kept by all druggists, is the best of all remedies. Lin- 
seed oil and sulphur, well mixed, is an effective remedy when it is thoroughly 
applied. But it is useless to kill the lice all over the back of an animal and 
leave a colony alive on the brisket or under the thighs, where they usually 
abound, as in this case they soon spread all over again. 

L " Sulphur, 1 oz. ; fresh lard, 4 ozs., well mixed, makes the right proper- 



II. "Raw linseed oil, 4 ozs.; kerosene, 1 oz., or sulphur, 1 oz. 
ni. " Persian insect powder, 1 oz. ; fresh lard, 4 ozs. " 

Remarks. — Any of these thoroughly mixed and thoroughly rubbed in about 
the ears and all along the spine to the tail, briskets, between the thighs, where 
the skin is thin, about twice a week will soon eradicate them effectually on any 
animal ; but with poultry they must also be reached in the cracks and crevices 
of their roosts. You will find to put these parasitic animals (lice) into any of 
the above greasy mixtures they soon die. It is believed the grease stops up the 
pores in their skins or surface, and thus kills them, as a man would soon die if 
covered with an impenetrable varnish. But if the above ever fails, try the 
following: 

rV. Death for Lice on Animals or Plants. — Pour boiling water (1 gal.) on 
1 lb. of tobacco leaves; in 20 minutes strain and use it judiciously (simply wet- 
ting the parts with a sponge) on animals; on plants more extensively. 

Remarks. — It is believed that the reason why this may have failed in some 
cases, both on animals and plants, is because stems and not leaves have been 
used. Double the quantity of stems and longer steeping may answer the pur- 
pose; but the leaves are undoubtedly the most certain. 

V. Lice on Stock, Simple Remedy for.— A Mr. D. K. Shaver, in a letter to 
the Iowa Homestead, says: "A simple, sure and easily applied cure for lice on 
animals is to give a few slices of onions in their feed. They eat them readily, 
and one or two feeds does the business effectually." 

Remarks. — Certainly easy to try, and I have not a doubt but what all stock, 
as he says, will eat them readily. 

SALT— Its Importance for Milch Cows and Other Stock- 
Amount Daily Necessary. — 1. Its Importance. — An American, travel- 
ing in Switzerland, writes that " Here the milch cows are salted early every 
morning, and if fed in the stable, as they usually are, the salt is given before 
feeding. And they claim that by salting in this way their appetite is improved, 
they drink with more regularity, keep in better health, and give more milk, 
than when salted in the usual way, as practiced by dairymen in America. The 
Swiss dairymen think it very injurious to salt milch cows only once or twice a 
weeK, as they would lick too much salt at one time, and drink too much water 
for the day; they consider that stock in order to do well must be fed with reg- 
ularity every day ahke, and never given too much of anything at one time." 



DOMESTIC ANIMAL8. 69'< 

n. Amount Neeessai-y.. — One of our own stockmen says: "Salt should 
be furnished to all animals regularly, A cow, an ox, or a horse, according to 
size, needs 2 to 4 ozs. daily. Salt increases the butter in milk, helps the diges- 
tion and nutritive processes, and gives a good appetite. 

Remarks. — What more can be asked of any one thing which costs so little? 
I have seen dairymen who keep salt, in some covered place, where all the stock 
can lick it at their pleasure, and claim great advantage by it. The Swiss plan, 
for milch cows, is, no doubt, the best one; for twice a week, the custom of 
Americans, is not often enough to insure all the advantages to be derived from 
it, if given daily, or at least every other day. But the daily plan is undoubt- 
edly the best, as the Swiss put it, lest they drink too much water for the day. 

III. Salt, Amount Necessary for Different Kinds of Stock. — The French 
government, according to their custom of testing all such points scientifically, 
appointed a commission to examine into, and experiment if necessary, which, 
reported upon the amount proper for different kinds of stock, in ordinary con- 
dition, as follows: " For a working ox or a milch cow, 3 ozs. daily; for fatten- 
ing stall-fed oxen, 3J^ to 43^ ozs., according to size and fatness; for fattening 
hogs, 1 to 2 ozs.. for store sheep, J^ to ^ of an oz.; fattening sheep, double 
the amount; for horses and mules, 1 oz," 

And a private dairyman tound, after many trials, that with 3 ozs, of salt 
daily, his cows gave the most milk. And the noted French farmer and chem- 
ist, Boussingault, to test it thoroughly, "Fed 6 steers for 13 montlis, in 2 lots, 
the food being the same for each lot; but to one lot he gave 1% ozs. of salt 
daily, to an animal, and to ihe other lot none. A remarkable difference was at 
once manifest. The first lot were all sleek, smooth-coated and in perfect con- 
dition. The other became rough, mangy, and ill-conditioned, and weighed at 
the end of the test 150 lbs. less tlian those that had been supplied with salt." 

" Many other similar results," says the Michigan Farmer, which gave the 
above facts, " might be cited; but there ought to be sufiicient to induce those 
who still doubt the f alue of salt for all kinds of farm stock, to test it for them- 
selves." It closed as folio wa 

" Not only is salt an agreeable and needful article of food, but is in some 
diseases almost a specific remedy. For those parasitic diseases to which sheep 
are subject — such as the liver-rot (flukes in the liver), verminous bronchitis, 
(worms in the bronchial tubes),and worms in the stomach and intestines — salt is 
an unfailing remedy, as well as an effectual preventive. The irritating worms, 
which sometimes infest the rectum, of horses are removed at once by an injec- 
tion ot a solution of 1 oz. of salt in 1 qt. of water. But it is as a constant addi- 
tion to the food that it is most useful as a preservative of the health of our 
domestic animals," 

2. Salt and Ashes for Stock off Their Peed, —The Maine 
Farmer, says that one of their substantial subscribers recommends with neat 
stock (young, growing stock), — then why not good for cows when they get-off 
their feed? — chewing wood, bones, etc., to mix leached ashes, 1 qt., with the 
same amount of salt, and feed to a dozen head once a week, especially in the 



698 I>S. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

spring of the year, as it improves their appetite and agrees with them wondeaw 
fully. I should try it under such conditions whenever they occur. 

3. Salt as a Vermifuge, its Value for Cattle, Horses, Sheep 
and Hogs. — The New York Woi-ld, speaking of salt for stock, says: " If you 
want to keep your cattle, horses, sheep and hogs healthy, give them salt regu- 
larly. There is no better vermifuge than salt. Much of the so-called hog-chol- 
era is due to intestinal worms. Plenty of salt would prevent the accumulation 
of these worms. All animals desire salt, showing that it is a want of their 
nature, and imdoubtedly for wise purposes." 

Remarks. — Who can fail to see the value of salt for all stock, and that it 
should also be given regularly? None, certainly. 

Cows, Accidentally Over-Eating Meal, "What to do.— When a 
cow has accidentally eaten her fill of meal, do not allow lier to drink; and as 
soon as discovered, according to the size of the animal, give a (hink of from 1 
to 2 lbs. of Epsom salts, dissolved in warm water, and repeat the dose in 6 
hours if it has not operated; in 6 hours more, if has not yet worked a hole 
through, repeat half as much more, and so continue until a movement is obtained. 

Jersey Cows, the Best, Large Amounts of Butter from them 
Yearly, etc. — The Live Stock Record says: " Our opinion, and also that of 
the principal dairymen of the country, is that the Jersey, commonly called 
Alderney, is above all others the best cow. They are easily kept, very docile — 
a point not to be overlooked — and beautiful ; give milk of superior richness, 
from which is produced finely-colored, solid butter, having an equal texture 
and flavor. Butter made from such milk has been known to keep when placed 
in a dry (not cold) cellar without the use of ice, and when taken out was in a 
hard, firm condition, and was then sold 12 to 15 cents per pound higher than 
best ordinary butter. The cost for Jerseys is not much more than for scrub, 
and they will more than make up the difference in price in a few months." 

Mr. R. Goodman, in the Rural New Yorker, makes the, following statement 
as to the superiority of the Jersey over all others. He says: " The Jerseys of 
the present day, all over the United States, are not small or ill formed, but larger 
and much more symmetrical than was the average Jersey of 20 years since, the 
production of milk also being greater, and the yield of butter surprising, la 
the latter respect the breeders of all other classes of stock, and even the ordinary 
farmers, who have continued to swear by their native cows, are forced to admit 
that the Jerseys are superior to all others." 

Mr. Goodman, after speaking of some very large yields of milk, one herd of 
65 cows averaging 295 lbs. of butter each per year, one of 17 head, averaging 
225 lbs. each., and one of 15, averaging 281 lbs. each; and of the great Jersey 
cow, " Flora," owned by Mr. Motley, making 511 lbs., 2 ozs., in one year^ 
*' Pansy," 572 lbs., etc., closes as follows: " It is not always the Jerseys of the 
largest yield of milk which make proportionately the greatest amount of butter. 
Those more moderate in quantity are apt to be richer in quality, and a cow giv- 
ing 12 to 14 qts. of milk per day is usually a more profitable buttermaker than 
one giving 20 qts. We have in our herd Jerseys which produce, when flush. 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS, 6:>a 

over 40 lbs. of milk per day, but we set a higher value on others which yield less, 
but whose butter average for the year is greater. " 

Remarks. — There may be an occasional cow of other breeds, or possibly, a 
native, which gives an excellent yield, but the best general average belongs, 
undoubtedly, to the Jerseys. Only think of it, many Jersey cows have an 
average of from 9,000 to 10,000 lbs. of milk in a year. The well known Jersey 
cow, "Belle," owned by Mr. Elms, of Scituate, Mass., through the summer 
averaged 1 lb. of butter to 5 qts. of milk, and in December 4 qts. made 1 lb. of 
butter; but, suppose it took 5 qts., and she gave even only the 9,000 lbs., and 
as " a pint is a pound the world round," Belle's yield of butter for a year would 
be 900 lbs. Is there any wonder, then, that Mr. Elms sliould have refused 
$3,000 for her? The Board of Agriculture of the State (Mass.), speaking of 
this celebrated Jersey in their report for 1876-7, say, that, " in March she made 
193^ lbs. of butter per week; 16 in June, 14 in September, and in December, 10 
months from calving, and due to calve again in 2 months, made 1 lb. of butter 
daily." I have mentioned these facts that our readers may see the possibilities 
of the Jerseys, and that they may strive to reach the same point of excellence, 
by always saving the best calves for dairy and breeding purposes, and to breed 
from the best bulls that can be obtained, if it is expected to ever have a herd of 
cows that will pay any considerable sum over and above the expense and care 
of keeping. What has been done can be done again; but if we do not know 
what has been done we have no particular point to strive for. Yet it is only 
proper and right that all shall have an opportunity to judge for themselves, so I 
will mention what some writer has recently said upon the Durham, claiming 
superior milking qualities, and also an advantage for " beefing," as they see it 
in Ontario, for tliey, like the English, are great on beef, and fat at that. After 
giving an item from the Toledo Post, of what the Canadians think of the Dur- 
hams, I will also speak of one formerly owned by myself. The item was given 
under the head of 

Durham Cows, Their Value for Milk and Beef.—" In Ontario, 
Canada, considerable attention is being paid to raising Durham cows, on 
account of their superior milking qualities, and for their good beefing. It is 
claimed that a 9 year old Durham, fed on ground grain, with bran and grass, 
will give 30 lbs of milk at a morning's milking, and from 15 to 16 lbs. of butter 
is made weekly from her milk: The mixture of the Durham breed with the 
pure Canadian improves the beefing power of the animals, but decreases the 
quantity of milk. In regard to beefing, however, the Durham is far more 
profitable than the Alderney — Jersey." 

Remarks. — Just at the close of the late war I owned a remarkably fine 
Durham cow. She was not only an excellent milker, but was an easy keeper, 
and above all was remarkably kind; almost affectionate, if I may be allowed 
the expression, in relation to a cow. She would follow me, not only from 
place to place, about the lot. but if she saw me going to town, while she wa.s 
at liberty, she would follow me, and even into a store, if I had occasion to go 
in, unless I set a clerk to stand by the door to keep lier out. I had to do this 
several times, when she would see me start off, and I not see her in time to shut- 



700 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

her into the yard. ITo person could be more kind than she was, in her way. 
And if all Durliams are as good as she was to give milk, and as easily kept, 
the author would be a Durham man every time. (See Fattening Cattle, how a 
Yankee Farmer jMakes it Pay in Massachusetts; also see What Durhams are 
for Milk, and for Beef, above.) 

Calves, Raising by Hand— Hay, Tea, etc., for Them.— With 
good pasture for calves to run in, early cut and properly cured hay, of which 
to make the hay tea; oil-cake, or home-ground oatmeal, and the milk of one 
cow, three calves, after they are 10 days old, have been successfully kept, and 
all the cream from the cow made into butter after the calves were 4 weeks old. 
The plan was as follows: Directions — Boil good timothy hay, 1 lb. (better 
cut in a cutter, if you have one) and boil in water, 6 qts., for an hour, keeping 
covered, and make up for what may evaporate; then strain and let cool. While 
cooling, stir 3 table-spoonfuls of oil-cake, made fine, or pretty finely ground 
meal from oats, into 1 qt. of boiling water, slowly, as if making ' ' hasty pudding," 
and when properly cooked stir this and the milk of the cow, with a very little 
salt, into the hay tea, and give equally to the three calves. At the first feed 
while warm, but after a week or two it does not matter if given cold, but with 
each two weeks increase the oil-cake meal or the oatmeal, 1 table-spoonful tor 
each calf. And it was claimed that at three months old calves raised in thia 
way looked as well as those fed on milk entirely. They began to feed on gras3 
at a month old, and increased their feeding on the grass until they depended 
upon it almost entirely at 3 months. The trifle of salt must not be forgotten; 
and if they begin to scour, the milk was boiled and 1 table-spoonful of flour 
stirred in before it was added to the tea. But I should stir the flour into th» 
milk while scalding. After the first week there was no trouble of this kind, 
unless over-fed. 

Remarks. — T have condensed the above from some agricultural writer who 
was not willing to put his name to his recommendations; but as I see it must be 
good and was endorsed by the following, I have given it. I would say also, in 
ease of much scouring, 15 to 20 drops of laudanum to each calf which may 
scour may be added until relieved. For further instructions upon this point, if 
any bad cases, see " Calves, Indigestion of," etc. 

II. Hay Tea, Also for Calves, Without Other Help. — The " Young Farmer" 
who does the agricultural writing for the Boston Journal, under the above 
head, gives his experience, which goes to show plainly that calves can be raised 
upon hay tea, without milk or other help. Whether this one swallow (con- 
trary to the general rule, that one swallow does not make a summer), shall be 
considered a sufficient ground of reason for others to try it, I leave each one to 
judge for himself. I should have no fears in trying it, if I had calves to raise; 
. still I cannot see why a little thickening of the hay tea might not be made, with 
a proper amount of the finely ground oatmeal, although the milk, it seems, caa 
be left out without detriment. He says: 

" Being obliged to buy another cow a short time ago, to keep along my 
supply of milk, t picked one out with a calf 5 weeks old at her side. The calf 
was by a Dutch or Holstein bull out of a ^ths Jersey cow, and was a very 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 701 

promising heifer, in every way well formed. I could not bear to devote it to 
tlie butcher: and I was in a bit of a quandry as I had not a bit of milk, new or 
skimmed, to give it. At last a neighbor suggested hay tea. And hay tea it 
has had. Not a quart of milk or a spoonful of meal since I got it, and it is 
doing as well as any calf I ever raised; grows finelj', is fat enough, and seems 
to like its hay tea, and to be just as well satisfied with a full meal of that as it 
would be if it had taken its till right from the cow. I never tried hay tea 
before, and never saw it made or fed out. I should have given a few roots or a 
little meal, but for a desire to see how the tea went, without any other food, 
that I might know whether the calf thrived on that, or on other food. Thus 
far, I am'very well pleased with the result. It is not as much trouble to make 
the hay tea as to make porridge, and the cost is nothing. I cut my hay, the 
best and finest I have, about 4 inches long, and pour boiling water over it. Let 
it stand until about tlie heat of milk from the cow, then take the hay out and 
give it to the cow and the tea to the calf. One of my neighbors says I am 
making the liny worth more for the cow, and so getting a profit, besides rais- 
ing the calf. At any rate, she eats it greedily. The longer the hay steeps 
before it gets cool, the more strength there is in it." 

Remarks. — It will be seen in No. 1 that 1 lb. of hay was used for 3 calves. 
This "Young Farmer" does not give any weight, nor the amount of water, 
but I should suppose that at least 2 qts. should be left after what is absorbed 
by the hay, i. e., for one calf, and that if only the hay tea was to be given, I 
should use at least J^ or % of a pound of hay for 1 calf. Still, the author 
must advise, or think, it better to use a couple of table-spoonfuls of the oat- 
meal, made into mush, or hasty pudding, as No. 1 has it, than to depend on 
the hay tea alone. I think it will prove the most healthful in this way for the 
calf. That the hay tea is a grand invention, in raising calves, I have not a 
doubt. 

Feeding Calves in "Winter. — A person signing himself "Experience," 
of Muir, Mich., in answer to the inquiry of " Breeder," in the Detroit Tribune, 
that some of its many readers would tell him the best feed for calves in winter, 
says: "If he will give his calves wheat bran for their morning meal, and 
turnips for their evening meal, with what good clover hay they want, and give 
them a warm, clean stable, never let them out doors in the cold; water them in 
their stalls once a day — in the evening — he will have no trouble to raise good 
calves and keep them fat and growing. But under no circumstances should 
they be turned out of doors imtil spring, and if they are kept in the stalls on 
bran and turnips until feed is good, they are better for it. The bran should be 
fed dry with a small quantity of salt twice a week. 

Remarks. — The author cannot see why good, warm, dry sheds, with plenty 
of bedding or littering daily, will not do very nicely when stable room is not 
plenty. 

Indigestion of Calves, Remedies for.— Calves that are fed on milk 
principally, and carelessly managed, are liable to indigestion; becoming 
"pot-bellied," dull and thriftless, appetite varied, sometimes voracious, then 
not caring for their food at all; bowels irregular, or else regularly loose, and 
their passages offensive, which, if not soon remedied, the diarrhoea becomes 
chronic and troublesome to cure. The trouble is believed to arise from an 
accumulation of curdled milk in the fourth stomach (which is the one used 



702 T>R. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

until they begin to ruminate — chew the cud — ); hence laxatives are first called 
for, such as castor-oil or linseed oil, with bicarbonate of soda (baking soda) and 
ginger, and if really scouring, 15 or 20 drops of laudanum should be added. 
The dose for a calf of 3 months, of castor-oil, would beS ozs., with 3^ oz. each 
of the soda and pulverized ginger, with the laudanum, as above, if scouring. 
And for a few days, or until the condition is greatly improved or health estab- 
lished, give morning and evening, salt, soda, and pulverized ginger, % oz. each, 
in ailittle milk; or if the calf is flatulent (windy) dull and weak, add 1 oz. of 
sulphate of soda (glauber salts), to the salt, soda and ginger, twice daily till 
corrected. 

The diet in all such cases, must be carefully attended to. If unweaned the 
£alf should have its milk fresh and sound thrice daily. A daily allowance of 
linseed or gruel or bruised linseed cake will further be serviceable. Comfortable 
shelter, a dry bed and plenty of room are also essential. When protracted 
indigestion appears to result from weakness, and the mucous membrane has 
become irritable and relaxed, advantage usually follows the use of 8 or 10 drops 
each of muriatic acid and creosote, given every morning until it abates. 

Scoures, in Cattle, Horses, Calves and Cholera, or Diarrhoea 
of Persons. — Lewis Boynton, of Farmingdale, Bledsoe Co., Tenn., in answer 
to an inquiry about scours in cattle, in one of the papers, says: " Frequently a 
handful of salt will relieve cattle and horses of scours. It does not afford 
relief in 12 hours, I have recourse to a remedy for cholera that never fails: 
Spirits of camphor, tinct. of rhubarb, and laudanum, equal parts of each Mix. 
Dose — For an adult, 30 drops; for a horse or cow, a dessert-spoonful; for a 
calf, 1 tea-spoonful. If not relieved in 3 hours, repeat the dose. 

Remarks. — For a child I would add 8 to 10 drops, according to age, and 
repeat on persons half to an hour, if needed. Give in a little sweetened water 
to children. For stock, in i^ pt. drench. It will be found very valuable. 

Dairying— Its Profit if Well Managed.— To show the profits of a 
well managed dairy, I cannot do better than condense a report made by Jere- 
miah Pierce, of Hamburgh, N. Y., to the Lim Stock Journal, in 1873. Ham- 
burgh is in a great dairy section, and its cheese is celebrated all over the coun- 
try. Mr. Pierce milked 18 cows, and from April 14th to Nov. 15th — 215 days, 
sent to the cheese factory 80,708 lbs of milk; kept at home to feed calves up to 
July 1st, 9,625 lbs., making a total of 90,333 lbs., in the 215 days. Sold 8873^ 
lbs. of butter made before sending to factory. He allows 23 lbs. of milk for 
1 lb. of butter, I think rather a large allowance [see Jersey cows the best, etc.] 
which would regain 19,263 lbs. of milk to make the butter sold, or a total of 
109,595 lbs. of milk from the 18 cows— an average of 6,088 lbs. of milk to each 
cow for the season. Jerseys, it will be remembered under that head, have given 
9,000 to 10,000 lbs. per cow, in a year. 

He received for cheese, $886.14; for butter, $293.13; for calves, sold while 
young, $43.00; value of 5 calres raisea on milk, $60 00; pork made, 500 lbs., 
$30.00, making a total of $1,310.27. Gross receipts for each cow for the sea- 
son, $72.79. The season being a very dry one, he fed, to make up for short 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 703 

pasturage, barley sprouts and bran costing $161.08, being $8.94 to each cow, 
reducing the proceeds to $63.85 for each cow, which I still think is a prettj 
good average. 

Notice the point, however, that he feeds extra, as recommended in the next 
item, and by all dairymen, so far as I know, to make up for short pasture. He 
claims too, that he got more from his extra feed, than simply making up for 
the shortage of the grass, besides keeping his cows in good condition, and good 
heart, for the full supply of grass after the fall rains set in. Mr. Pierce says 
in his communication: " I raise my own cows," claiming that cows may be 
purchased for less money than it will cost to raise them, but many of these will 
be dear at any price. Then raise them, and raise the best you can. In this 
report Mr. Pierce made another remark which I consider of the utmost im- 
portance, i. e., that "cows which do not come in until they are 3 years old, 
make much better milkers, than those that come in at 2." He closes with this 
important exhortation: " Brother farmers, don't be afraid of feeding your cows 
too well. I hope to do better next year." 

Dairy Cows, to Feed Liberally.— The importance of feeding dairy 
cows liberally, more especially when pasture is short, was recently shown so 
satisfactorily by the National Live Stock Journal, I will give all its principal 
points, although largely condensed. The editor starts out with the idea that 
dairymen should study to produce all the food necessary far his cows upon the 
farm, using his most intelligent foresight to this end; but that he should never 
suffer them to go with deficient food, even for 1 week; for this he cannot 
afford to do. Hence, he says, when pasture is short, and he has no extra green 
feed for them, let us compare the cost of nutriment in some by-product, such 
as bran, cotton seed meal, linseed meal, corn meal, etc., some of which he can 
always find near at hand, with pasture grass. Pasture grass, he continues, has 
about 80 per cent, of water; and the nutriment of 100 lbs. of it is supiwscd to 
be worth 21 cents. The nutriment of 19 lbs. of fine bran, or 19 lbs. of corn 
meal, is just equal to 100 lbs. of grass. Cotton seed meal, 10 lbs. ; linseed 
meal, 12 lbs., have just the same nutriment. Then, as 100 lbs. of grass are 
considered a ration for an ordinary sized cow, per day, it is easy to get at the 
proper amount of substitute; for if J^ or % short, in the bite of grass, take the 
proportionate amount of the kind of feed, in pounds, daily, to make up the 
deficiency; which any dairyman can calculate for himself, knowing how much 
short the grass is. Let us suppose the dairyman is feeding 7 lbs. of fine bran; 
this, at $8 per ton, would cost 2| cents per day, or 19| cents per week. Now, 
the extra milk per week, would more than pay the cost. Besides, he might 
have added, it keeps the cow from falling off in flesh, and losing heart, or 
vital activity. But, he continues, if he should feed, instead of bran, 4 lbs. of 
linseed meal, daily, it would cost him 28 cts. per week; or if Z% lbs. of cotton 
seed meal, it would cost 22 cts. per week, or Q% lbs. of corn meal, it would 
cost from SO to 35 cts. per cow a week. If he has a command of all these, let 
him make up a ration nearly as follows: 4 lbs. of bran, }^ lb. linseed meal, and 
1% lbs. corn meal, to each cow per day, which vdll, in most cases, cost only 20 
cents per -^cek ; and will keep up a generous flow of milk till the fall rains 



704 I>R- CHASE'S RECIPES. 

renew the pasture, and then the extra food (the author -n ould say only ^ths of 
it) can be discontinued. He closes as follows: "We have known many who have 
used an extra ration similar to this during short pasture, and never found one 
who reported it unprofitable. The ration may be varied to suit all circum- 
stances. Corn meal will be found cheap in some localities; but it is always 
best to mix some bran with it; and in most parts of all our broad dairy belt 
bran will be found the cheapest extra food to make up for short pasture. 

Remarks. — Of course, any other class of feed can be chosen according to 
what is found in the market of the different sections of our great country 
— coarse middlings, shorts, etc. Then some millers mix all grades together, 
and in the Eastern States it is known as "mill stuffs," while the Westerner and 
Southerner know this mixture as " ship stuffs," " mill feed," etc. But I should 
prefer to hxxy them separate, then you know exactly what you are feeding. 
See "Milk — To Increase the Flow in Cows," and the remarks following it, for 
what many claim to be the best mixture for this purpose. The importance of 
the various roots, more especially as winter feed, will be seen below; also, for 
the value of parsnips for milch cows see close of remarks after " Carrots, 
Parsnips, Beets, etc.," below. I must be allowed to state here that Mr. O. W. 
Wanger, a dairyman of Illinois, says: "For ground feed for milch cows an 
effort is made to combine the elements that will produce the largest flow of 
milk and at the same time keep the cow in good condition, but not too fat. 
And it is found one part (equal parts) each of com meal, ground oats and bran 
will bring the best results." [This is the "Best Food" referred to above, and 
hence is confirmatory of that recipe.] "And," he adds, "with these con- 
veniences, good hay, this ground feed, good water and good care a cow yields 
as much milk during 6 months in winter as in summer, when the cow feeds on 
grass." And he recommends a little grain all summer. This, I suppose, refers 
to the ground feed above, for he adds: "When the milker is to milk a cow he 
first feeds her and then sits down to milk. The result is, the cow stands quiet, 
gives her milk at once and the flow is increased." He also recommends sowed 
corn to help the cows in dry times of the summer. Very important points, I 
know, from what I have seen done by others. He does not say whether his 
parts are to be by weight or measure, but I think he means by measure, as that 
is the common way unless weight is mentioned. 

"Winter Feeding of Cows, Horses and All Other Stock— The 
Importance of Roots or Oil Meal, etc., for.— It is a great change for 
cattle, horses, sheep, etc. , from a pasture where there is plenty of grass, and 
also plenty of exercise, to the stable or even a barn-yard, where comparatively 
there is neither grass nor exercise ; but the milch cows will show it the quickest 
by the shortness in quantity of milk given, unless some of the succulent roots 
or oil meal are given at once to make up for the change from grass to dry hay. 
Then, again, dry hay, oats, corn or cornmeal have a tendency to produce cost- 
iveness, and hence the importance of some of the roots or oil meal to be given 
directly to avoid the probability of costiveness becoming thoroughly established. 
People eat oatmeal or cornmeal mush, corn bread, apples, peaches, berries, etc., 
for this very purpose; why should it, then, not be as necessary for stock a*, for 



DOMESTIC ANJMALS. 705 

persons? It Is, and should receive the same care and attention, if we would 
keep them in a continuous healthy condition, so that the cows shall give the 
largest flow of milk, and that other stock shall continue to thrive instead of the 
hair becoming rough and staring and the animals losing flesh as well as heart ■ 
and appetite. Even poultry should have something of a succulent or juicy 
character to make up for the loss of green feed, insects, etc. 

Extra Value of Oatmeal or Flaxseed, Hoots, etc., in Winter 
for Cows and Breeding Ewes.— Tlie editor of the National Live Stock Jour- 
nal makes a very important suggestion in speaking upon the subject of roots or 
oil meal to make up for the absence of green food, that for cows or breeding 
ewes the oil meal or flaxseed, for these animals especially, have another and 
important value, enabling them to produce their young without trouble. We 
have such medicines of value in this respect for our own race, why not for 
stock? He says: "Every dairyman, so far as he can, should supply himself 
with 1 pt. of oil meal for each cow per day, or 3^ pt. of flaxseed, which should 
be boiled to a jelly and given with her other food. Oil meal is worth all it costs 
for food, besides being an excellent preventive of disease; and, also, has this 
further property, that when a small quantity of it is fed to cows during the 
winter we have never had any trouble with them at calving; and the small 
quantity of oil left in it seems to perform the same ofiice as a little grass or car 
rots and beets would, to cleanse the bowels as well as an emollient, or some 
such property or effect, upon the reproductive organs; and to this end some 
persons feed a small amount of flaxseed to their breeding ewes in winter vsith 
a like success." Sensible and well put, and the author knows them to be of 
extra value for all these purposes. 

Carrots, Beets, etc., their Value as Pood for Stock. — It has 
been heretofore claimed that the chief reason why the above named articles 
were valuable for stock was to avoid costiveness, and that carrots alone 
possessed this property— pectine, or pectic acid— which has the power of dis- 
solving or gelatinizing— turning to jelly— other kinds of food, which not only 
gave health and vigor, but also gave brightness to the eye, and a smooth, glossy 
coat to the animal. But a horse-breeder, in France reports having fed his 
horses for 20 years on parsnips, instead of carrots and oats as formerly, with a 
remarkable success, his stock showing a greater vivacity of spirit and a sleek- 
ness of coat than when fed on carrots. And Yeomans, the celebrated veterinar- 
ian, informs us that this beneficial result, from feeding these roots, arises not 
so much from their nutritive properties as from their effects in gelatinizing and 
dissolving other foods, thereby rendering them more easy of digestion. Por- 
tions of other coarse food, otherwise almost indigestible, when acted upon by 
this principle in these roots, are easily dissolved by the gastric juices, and a 
thorough and perfect digestion is obtained. 

Bemarks. — It has been well known that apples contain this principle — peo- 
tine, or pectic acid — in a great degree; hence, we can account for both horses 
and cattle thriving so well, as many have reported, while being fed a peck of 
apples morning and night, or when allowed to run for a time in the orchard, 
where they ate of them at pleasure. (See Apples for Horses, etc) But 

46 



706 DR- dEASE' 8 RECIPES. 

Teomans also says it is found in pears, quinces, currants, raspberries, and 
many other kinds of fruit, and also in various roots, such as turnips, beets, 
parsnips, etc. ; hence their great value as a food, or as auxiliary to the food 
both of man and beast. Closing with this important sentence: "A smaL 
quantity of roots or fruit mixed with other food, especially with dry food, has a 
wonderful effect upon the flesh, health and spirits of animals." Thus it maybe 
seen, and I have given this item chiefly that it might be seen, that it does not 
mattei so very much which kind of roots for animals, nor which kind of fruit 
or roots for man are raised and eaten; but that it is very important that some of 
them should be raised and used, if the best health of man and beast is worth 
looking after and working for. 

Then let every dairyman or farmer look at the matter in a common sense 
way, and raise the kind of roots that his land is seen to be the best adapted to — 
the longer and larger roots require the deepest and richest soil, and all require 
close and careful culture to obtain the best results; then, for winter-feeding, to 
have them carefully housed, and properly cut when fed, so that each animal 
shall get its proper share, remembering that while you thus aid the digestion of 
the coarser food, as hay, stalks and straw, by this admixture of roots, you also 
avoid costiveness, which was originally supposed to be the chief object to be 
gained by feeding roots. In other words, " two birds are killed with one 
stone," and really, the bird last found is of the greater importance of the two 
— the aid to digestion. (See Comparative Value, as Generally Understood, and 
also Nutritive Value, with table by which the difference is more easily seen.) 

I will onfy add here that of later years parsnips have been found more val- 
uable than formerly supposed, and they are now commended by many dairy- 
men as excellent for milch cows, increasing the flow of milk one-half, besides 
keeping them in a good healthy condition. Try them, thoroughly, by all 
means. 

Variety of Pood for Stock— Very Important.— It is a well estab- 
lished fact that a single kind of food is not enough for the best growth, health 
or comfort of animals. Like ourselves, the stock which we keep, does relish 
a change of diet— thrives better with a change of pasture so to speak— and 
gives fuller returns for the trouble of providing the variety of foods. Coarse 
fodder should be mixed with that which is of a finer nature; and the highly 
nitrogenous, fed with substances weak in nitrogen. Some farmers will feed 
their sheep corn one morning, add barley or oats the next, and thus keep up a 
continual surprise, heightened by a lick of salt now and then. It is the same 
love of change which makes the colt, cow, and even the oldest horse feel ^ad 
when turned into a new field. What man would like living on bread, or pota- 
toes, or meat, alone? Then feed your stock meal, or shorts, or roots — sometimes 
pne, then the other, is the better way — as remarked about the sheep above being 
sure to have a supply of roots for every winter. 

The Comparative Value of Roots for Winter Feeding as Gen- 
erally Understood. — A writer in the Rural Home places the comparative 
value of roots in the following order: Carrots, parsnips, sugar-beets, mangel- 
wurzels, rutabagas, Swedish turnips, and lastly, English or common field 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 707 

turnips, which are lighter, but do well for early feeding, before beginning on 
the richer roots, which also keep better. This writer did not mention potatoes, 
but another writer who had been experimenting upon the subject under the 
head of "Potatoes for Stock," says: "Potatoes for stock are worth 30 cents 
per bushel to feed to stock. They are not only nutritious, but excellent appe- 
tizers, and promoters of digestion. My experiments go to show that a peck of 
potatoes will produce as much milk as a bushel of carrots, beets or turnips." 

Remarks. — Although potatoes are well known to contain much more gen- 
eral nutritive and fat-producing properties than the other roots named, yet, as 
the others can be raised in so much larger quantities to the acre, and with so 
much less labor also, it is not probable that they will become the best for 
general winter feeding. And I must say here that I think this writer is in error 
as to carrots, and I might say parsnips, too (he does not mention the latter), but 
as to beets and turnips, they are not as valuable as potatoes. I will, however, 
give a table below, showing the proportionate nutritive, flesh-producing, and 
fat-producing properties of 22 different kinds of food for farm stock. I am 
sorry, however, that the sugar-beet is not shown among them. The table was 
made up from the experiments and analysis of the most eminent agricultural 
chemists and English feeders; and are undoubtedly the most reliable and trust- 
worthy that can be gathered at the time of this writing; and believing that they 
will prove of real value to farmers, dairymen, etc., I give the table a place. 
The calculation is based upon equal weights of each article, and is as follows: 

Nutritive Value of 22 Different Kinds of Pood for Farm 
Stock: 

Flesh Fat 
Food. pro- pro- TotaL 

ducing. ducing. 

Turnips, 1 5 7 

Rutabagas, 1 7 9 

Carrots 1 7 10 

Mangels, 3 8 13 

Straw, 8 16 23 

Potatoes, 2 17 23 

Brewer's grains 63^ 18 25 

Hay (early cut) 8 51 64 

Millet (seed) 8 76 85 

Buckwheat 9 61 69 

Malt 9 76 81 

Rye, 11 74 88 

Oats . 12 63 70 

Corn 12 63 80 

Wheat and barley, . . .. 12 66 32 

Dried brewer's grains 16 67 83 

Beans (English field), 22 46 74 , 

Peas, 22 61 79 

Linseed 23 112 82 

Cotton seed cake, 24 46i| 61 

Linseed cake 28 56 73 

Bran and coarse millstuff, .... 31 54 76 

Remarks.— "Bj this table, if you want simply to lay on flesh, you see the 
food for it; if fat for butchering piuT)oses, it is equally plain, while the general 



708 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

value for keeping stock in the most healthy and growing condition is shown In 
the total column. Milk being of the nature of fat, it can also he seen which 
will be the best food for milch cows, that which produces most fat. I will sim- 
ply mention here that there is quite a doubt amongst dairymen as to whether 
sugar beets do, or do not, lessen the flow of milk, and it is perhaps from this 
fact that they were not considered in the table. Although the sugar beet may 
not be equal to some of the other roots for milk, yet, for other stock they are 
good; and as they can be raised in such large quantities to the acre, many, no 
doubt, will raise them for general use. The maugel-wurzels and rutaba- 
gas can, with a rich and properly cultivated soil, be made to yield from 1,000 
to 1,500, and, in a few cases, even 2,000 bushels to the acre; and with any of 
these roots, if the ground is properly worked, it will be left in excellent condi- 
tion for succeeding crops. It would not be advisable, however, to feed roots too 
exclusively. It is better to feed part roots and part grain. Nor is it advisable 
to feed one kind of roots only. It is better to have a variety, both on account 
of the health and condition of the stock, and for the better results in milk which 
will be produced by a variety over any single kind. 

Boots, Culture of, for Stock.— As above remarked, the culture of 
roots needs a rich soil; and if it is not rich naturally, it must be made so with 
manures, fertilizers, etc., and also by deep plowing and thorough harrowing. 
Plow deeply, and harrow ; then re-plow and harrow, until as fine as possible, 
leaving no stones or turf to obstruct cultivation. The mangel-wurzel, it is 
claimed, is a great lover of salt; and as high as 30 bushels to the acre, 
Dr. Loring says, has been used with profit. Fifteen two-horse wagon loads of 
good, solid manure to the acre, is not too much, if you expect 1,500 to 2,000 
bushels of mangels (which has been raised) to the acre. The fertilizer when 
used, must, as well as the manure, be well worked into the surface of the soil. 
Sow in drills, beets, mangels, rutabagas, 'and parsnips, 30 inches apart; car- 
rots, 24. If possible, have a drill which completes the work of covering evenly 
as it goes. Begin to cultivate them as soon as the rows can be seen; keep clear 
of weeds, and thin carrots and parsnips to 4 inches; beets, rutabagas or 
mangels, 6 to 10 inches, as you think the lichness of the soil will demand. Of 
course, let all be done with horse-hoes, or such conveniences as you have, so 
that the rows simply need to be done by hand, remembering this, if the weeds 
get the start of you, you will pay dearly for it. Some claim that 5 lbs. of 
mangel seed is not too much for an acre; but if sowed with a drill, get it to 
scatter them properly as you go ; then have enough to go over the piece is all 
you want for any kind. Absolute amounts can hardly be given, as no two men 
would think exactly alike about it; better pull out a good many, however, 
rather than not to get in seed enough. 

Field Turnips, How to Peed to Cows Without Flavoring the 
Milk. — A writer in the Maine Fa/i'mer, says he raised 800 bushels, and fed all 
to his 16 to 20 cows — 1 pk. twice a day — by trimming oflf the rootlets and feed- 
ing only the solid turnip, after milking, no bad flavor was imparted to the 
milk. 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 'J'OO 

Remarks.— ThSil the whole flavoi of turnips is in the rootlets, I shoiild 
hardly expect to be the fact, but that feeding them only after milking is the 
more probable reason why the flavor is not retained. The plan is worthy 
of a trial, and if the reasoning is not correct, the turnips can be fed to other 
stock, while the milch cows can be supplied with something that has no partio« 
ular flavor as parsnips and turnips have, making either an unsuitable feed for 
cows while giving milk, imless the removal of the rootlets, as above, is foimd to 
be of general application. 

Growing Stock, Pea and Bean Meal Better than Corn for.— 
Much has been said of late years, as to feeding pea and bean meal to stock, as 
though they were equally valuable for all stock which the autlior does not 
think is correct, and seeing an item, in the Philadelphia Record, gi\'ing them 
the preference over corn for growing stock, which so nearly agrees with what I 
know to be the fact, I will give the item in fidl. It is as follows: " Growing 
stock should not be kept in a fat condition, for the demand of the system is 
chiefly for muscle producing matter. There is no concentrated material on the 
farm that supplies the desideratum in full, and though nature has furnished 
fanners with splendid agents for this purpose in the shape of peas and beans, 
the opportunity is not improved. For early pasture or soiling after rye, a 
piece of land broadcasted to tall-groTving green peas mixed with oats, is invalu- 
able. The writer of this once kept a cow up to a flow of |milk till late in the 
season by a succession of such crops, and that, too, on a piece of white sand 
land. It is not known by some that if these vines are cut and nicely cured, 
when just about to bloom, they will furnish a good crop of nutritious hay, but 
if not cut at flowering time the leaves will crumble away. Ground peas or 
beans are economical for feeding, owing to the great saving they effect. 
Farmers are tempted to part with them at $2.10 a bu., and they often bring 
more than that sum; but if we will stop and reflect that this meal, mixed half 
and half with corn meal, will enable us to dispense with one-tliird the quantity 
of hay, a great saving is made through the winter. For young calves nothing 
can equal it. If the farmer has no convenience for grinding them, the peas 
and beans can be cooked into a "mash " in the ordinary way, and if thus given 
liberally to stock, especially the younger portion, will push them rapidly for- 
ward. Pigs will grow fatter on it than on anything else. Young heifers 
become matured several months sooner. By the use of pea or bean meal, 
wheat straw (cut) can be used in the place of hay, and, taken as a whole, it is 
almost a necessity on well-regulated farms. Bear in mind, as stated above, 
peas and beans will not fatten stock as readily as corn, nor will the corn make 
the stock grow as quickly as these. Hence in winter we should feed these arti- 
cles together in order to get the best results." 

Remarks. — The author having been raised on the hard-pan hUlsinthe town- 
ship of Holland, Erie county, N. Y., where corn even was not a paying crop, 
something that could be more easily raised and in better paying quantities had 
to be sought out; and it was found in peas and oats sown broad-cast, as the 
above writer suggests, for the especial purpose of feeding to hogs, cutting up — 
mowing — and throwing to them as soon as the peas were well filled, at which 



710 i>R. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

time they would not only eat the pea:, with avidity, or greedily, but also chew 
the pods and vines with like relish, and at once begin to show their value 
which was continued until they were ripe, after which they were ground 
together and the meal used to thicken potatoes and pumpkins which were boiled 
together for the purpose of fattening the hogs until within a few weeks of kill- 
ing time, when cornmeal was used in its place, or else corn alone fed to harden 
the pork. And when any horses, cattle, or sheep, happened to be running in 
the pasture with the hogs they would eat the pea vines and oat straw with 
the sapie eagerness and relish that the hogs did the peas and oats. So I can 
vouch for the pea and oat mixture; and I have not a doubt of the value of 
beans, or bean meal, as a food for growing stock, although, generally, the 
trouble and labor of raising them will be much greater than that of raising peas, 
hence the advantage would be in favor of peas, the oats being sown with them 
for the purpose of holding up the peas, rather than for the oats themselves, 
although they are good. It is remarkable how much faster young pigs will 
grow as soon as the peas and oats are full and are thrown to them 
regularly. It only needs a trial to be adopted by those who have not seen 
tiiem used. 

Soiling Cows. — It undoubtedly pays to judiciously soil cows, as there is 
no other way by which so much milk can be obtained from a small number of 
acres. When the land is in proper condition, a cow can be kept upon one-half 
acre for summer and one acre for winter. Even better than this has been done. 
In starting, prepare the ground well — one-eighth of an acre of oats, thickly, for 
each cow, as early in the season as you can; two or three weeks after this sow 
the same amount of land to oats again for later cutting. Then prepare the 
;^ound and sow one-fourth of an acre to corn for each cow, which will prob- 
ably leave a surplus towards the winter feeding. 

Sweet Cornstalks for Cows.— "When the ears have been gathered the 
stalks of sweet corn make the very best of fodder. It is not only very sweet 
and nutritious, but as the ears are gathered before maturity the stalks, if cut at 
once, as they should be, are in the very best condition for use as fodder. There 
is some difBculty in curing the stalks; but in several years' experience with them 
in a rathei 'arge way we have had no trouble in keeping the fodder in excellent 
condition. The great point and need is to thoroughly dry the stalks out of 
doors. They should be first well wilted and partly dried upon the ground, laid 
down as they are cut in small bundles, which, when bound afterward, will 
make easily handled sheaves. After 24 hours or more of exposure the bundles 
may be bound with a straw band or an osier stalk, and the sheaves so made set 
up in stocks, loosely placed, so as to admit the air freely among them. The 
stock or small stack should be well bound at the top to exclude rain, and left 
out of doors until completely dried and cured. The fodder may then be safely 
housed in the barn or under the roof of an open shed near the barn, where it 
can be reached conveniently for use. Fodder so cured is equal to the best hay, 
and will be eaten with avidity and without wa^te or loss. Of more than 17 
acres grown last season and fed to cows in our dairy the past winter there was 
scarce a particle to be found in the manure, every fragment excepting some feyt 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 711 

pieces of some of the coarser butts having been consumed. This, of course, is 
due in a great measure to the fact that the fodder was finely cut and wetted, 
and the meal given mixed with it. The economy of such a practice and such a 
crop so used is too obvious to need comment. — Farmer's Magazine. 

Sweet Cornstalks with the Corn for Milch Cows.— The stalks 
above, when cured as in the foregoing recipe, are excellent even as winter food; 
but the following plan of feeding the corn upon the stalk while green as a sum- 
mer food, as practiced by Dwight Judd, of South Hadley , Mass. , for two years 
past, in the New York Herald, has the advantage largely in its favor. When 
asked what he considered the feeding value of sweet corn for milch cows, he 
said: " It is invaluable. Cornmeal is not to be compared with it as a feed for 
producing milk." He keeps, says the Herald, a herd of 20 as nice cows as can 
be found in this vicinity, and says: " When my cows fail a little in milk and I 
want for my trade a couple of extra cows, I tell my man to cut an extra row 
or two of corn, and in two or three days I have the amount of milk desired." 
He plants with a corn-planter, the rows 33^ feet apart, and 23 inches apart in 
the hills, dropping only 2 or 3 kernels in a liill; and commences feeding it as 
soon as the corn is fit for table use. 

Dry Cornstalks, the Best Way to Peed Them.— When hay is 
scarce, but cornstalks and straw are plentiful, the best way is to cut both finely 
and mix in proportions of 2 baskets of stalks to 1 of straw, and mix dry for sev- 
eral days' feeding, as it ■Rill not heat, but improve, by standing together. 
Of course, hay is better than straw treated the same way, and all classes of 
stock will relish it, and especially so if, when to be fed, it is first slightly 
wet, then a good sprinkling of meal or bran mixed in, nothing except occasion- 
ally, perhaps, a large butt may be rejected, but seldom that much is left; nor 
will any part of them be seen ip the manure if a proper amount of roots are also 
fed to help dissolve and gelatinize this coarser food, as previously explained. 
A correspondent of the Country Gentleman says he had rather have this fine 
cutting of coarse food than to have it steamed, if it was done even for the 
same expense. The cutting is certainly very desirable, no matter what stock 
is to be fed with it. 

Corn Fodder vs. Hay, Comparative Value of.— Professor J. W. 
Sanborn, of the Missouri Agricultural College, claims that he has proved, 
through a long practice and many experiments, that corn fodder has a prac- 
tical feeding value of two-thirds to three-fourths that of good hay. [Our own 
experience fully justifies the above estimate. — Editors, Farm and Fireside.'] 

Hungarian Grass for Milch Cows, Claimed better than Hay. 
A correspondent of the New York Sun claims that Hungarian grass, when sown 
thick enough to make fine stalks, is better than even good hay. He sows 3 
pecks of seed to the acre, on fine soil, and finely worked with harrow and 
roller, both before and after sowing; and sowing any time from the 15th of 
May to the 10th of June. Fit to cut in 9 weeks. Another writer thinks it val- 
uable for horses, after having fed it two winters. Changing only occasionally 
Hdth cut oats; and he adds: "nothing better for calves and milch cows." Eff 



7i8 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

BOWS even a bushel to the acre, and thinks It very valuable as a top-finish to 
stacks of wheat, clover, etc., as it is impervious to water, and very little 
injured, even that which is exposed on the outside of the stack remaining 
sound. Two to four tons have been raised to the acre, with 12 to 15 bu. of 
seed, wortli $1 to $1.50 per bu., and the straw valuable for feed after threshing, 
and a never failing crop, if sown on good mellow land. So, let all try it who 
think their hay crop is going to be short. 

Fattening Cattle. — A few words now upon the subject of fattening cat- 
tle, hogs, etc., would seem to the author as very proper; then, to close the cattle 
department with the consideration of silos, which, of late years, has been almost 
continually before the mind of the agriculturist, through this class of papers, 
until, finally, the government, through the agricultural department, has taken 
it in hand in such a way it would seem, at least, there can be but little chance 
for further doubt upon the subject of which however, it is our intention to leave 
each one to judge for himself, after he has any matter properly laid before him 
for examination, as we have done in all parts of this, our "Third and Last 
Effort," to benefit the people. Other people write items for their agricultural 
papers, I get them together, condense, and often re-write, to make a continuous 
whole, such parts as will enable any sensible man to profit by the hints, sugges- 
tions, and practice of their fellow farmers. First, then: 

Meal and Hay for Fattening Stock — Scalding the Meal a 
Great Saving. — An old farmer, whose custom has been to fatten a few ani- 
mals, gives his experience as to scalding his meal, merely, instead of cooking 
it, as has been the custom of many. He says: "My practice in fattening sheep 
and swine, as well as for feeding milch cows, has been to pour boiling water on 
as much meal as would not make the animals bowels move too freely, both at 
night and morning, and when the mush is cool, give it to the cow or pig. In 
covering the meal with boiling water in this way, the starch of the grain is dis- 
golveci, and the latent nutritive properties extracted, and the animal receives 
the e*\tire nutriment of the grain. I have for 2 years past fatted 2 ordinary 
sized cows, feeding only hay, and only 300 lbs. each of meal, apd yielded 
upw?~ds of 40 lbs. of rough tallow. Salt was given once a week, and occasion^ 
ally »■ table-spoonful of wood ashes. In my experience 100 lbs. scalded and fed 
as abr>ve, is equal to 200 lbs. fed dry." 

Remarks. — This is an undoubted fact — a gi-eat saving in the question of 
meal — as he speaks of knowing others who had fed from 700 to 1,000 lbs. of 
meal, without scalding, who got no more benefit than he did with his 300 lbs. 
Facts Uke these are " worth their weight in meal," if not "in gold." It saves 
others the labor and trouble of ex]Derimenting for themselves. 

2. Fattening Cattle, How a Yankee Farmer Makes it Pay 
in Massachusetts.— We take the following from the Springfield (Mass.) Re- 
publican, not so much to show how it was done, but to show that it can be done; 
for what has been done, can be done again, and if not done better than at first, 
it is because careful attention is not paid as to how others have made improve- 
ments upon the common ways of doing things. It says: "Franklin county has 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 718 

long been famous for its fat cattle, but the 47 head now standing in the stablea 
of Geo. W. Jones, at Deerfield, Mass., go a little ahead of anything yet seen in 
the county. They are all Durhams (see mention made of them, following what 
is said of the Jerseys, as the Best Cows. The question may be considered yet, 
as an open one — awaiting further discussion, and to be somewhat governed by 
circumstances, after all that may be said upon the subject); great fellows, so 
large they can hardly move themselves, the heaviest yoke weighing 4,600 lbs., tho 
next 4,400, and the whole averaging over 4,000 per yoke. They are fed 8 qts. a 
day each of meal and bran, and all the hay they want; water is supplied to their 
mangers in pipes. Those now in stall will be taken to Boston about Christmas, 
when Mr. Jones will stock up for the winter, his usual supply being 80 to 90 
cattle, 600 to 700 sheep, and about a dozen horses. Last year he cut about 350 
tons of hay, all of which, and about 75 tons more, he fed out. The cattle are 
kept in a sub-basement of the barn which has to be well ventilated during the 
winter, else it would become oppressively warm from the number of cattle con- 
fined there. Jones puts upon his own land, which lies along the west bank of 
the Connecticut river for half a mile, all the manure from his stock, raising 13 
or 14 acres of heavy tobacco every year, for which he gets prices considerably 
above that paid for tobacco grown by patent fertilizers. In fact, he is one 
farmer who has found out how to make farming pay." 

Remarks. — Now, then, suppose Mr. Jones did this without cutting hia 
hay (having machines for that purpose), and without scalding his meal (which, 
of course, he did not, otherwise it would have been mentioned), and, again, 
without the addition of the molasses, as given in the next item, whereby time, 
And consequently that much of the feed would have been also saved, any one 
can see, at a glance, how much better it would have paid if all these plans had 
been known and adopted, as every one can do, hereafter, thanks to Dr. Chase. 

3. Fattening Cattle, to Give Appetite.— The following item, 
with which we shall close the question of fattening cattle, is a quotation from 
iStewarVs Prize Essay upon feeding and fattening stock, which is so unique, i. e., 
so unlike anything else I have ever seen upon the subject, and yet, is so appar- 
ently reasonable, to say the least, I cannot do better than to quote what he says 
in his essay, as to the use of molasses in fattening stock, by which he claims a 
great saving in time, and consequently a saving of the additional food that 
would be required for the longer period required to fatten them, if the molasses 
was not used. It is intended to be understood, no doubt, that by using molasses 
with 8 or 10 times as much water with it, to moisten the dry food, they will 
eat more of it, and consequently fatten in less time than if the molasses was 
not given. His ideas about cooking food is also worthy of consideration, espe- 
cially in fattening stock. The item is as follows: 

"In fattening animals time is often a matter of importance to the feeder. 
Sometimes a month gained is equal to 20 per cent, greater weight at a later 
period. Cooking food renders its constituents more soluble and digestible, 
therefore more rapidly entering on flesh an fat. As a condiment and appetizer 
for fattening animals, molasses has no equal. A small quantity of sweet, upon 
hay, will cause a larger quantity to be eaten with a relish. We have often tried 
molasses upon poor animals with great satisfaction. A poor horse wiU show a 



714 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

change in condition in a few days. The molasses is not only an excellent con- 
diment, but an excellent food; and being so soluble and assimilable that it pro- 
duces an immediate effect upon the condition of the animal. Three pints may 
be fed to fattening animals per day, but to cows and breeding stock it must be 
fed sparingly, and not more than 1 pint per day to a cow, as too much sweet 
will prevent their breeding. When necessary to use straw for fattening stock, 
the use of molasses diluted with 8 to 10 proportions of water to wet the straw 
before steaming, will be found to render it very palatable, and cause it to be 
eaten, incorporated with other fattening food, as readily as hay. Some noted 
chemists have supposed all starchy food to be converted into sugar by the action 
of the stomach, before it becomes assimilated as food. Perhaps this will 
account for the remarkable effect of sweet food upon animals. 

Remarks. — The word condiment really means something to give an increased 
appetite, and a relish for other articles of food; and there is no doubt but what 
this plan of wetting the cut hay, corn stalks, or other articles of dry food, with 
sweetened water, as we will call it, does have this remarkable effect, as Mr. 
Stewart says, in fattening, and no doubt would also have the same effect in 
feeding generally; unless the question of silos and ensilage shall mark a gen- 
eral revolution in the whole subject of feeding. Of course that we must leave 
each one to judge for himself, after duly considering the whole matter, which 
we shall now lay before him. Bear this in mind, however, the food is found 
to be sweeter for having been put into silos — this molasses plan, to a certain 
extent, will, no doubt, help those who have not a silo, as yet, ready for use. 

SILOS AND ENSILAGE— Full Explanation to Build— What 
Crops are Best Adapted— Twenty-Six Questions and Answers. 
— Probably there has been no subject of more interest to the farmers which has 
been discussed more fully, and yet, upon wliich there was so much doubt as to 
whether it was really valuable or not, as that of silos and ensilage; and that 
doubt might not even yet have been made very clear, had not the government, 
through the agricultural department, taken it up, and through Mr. D. M. Nes- 
bit, proceeded to make an investigation into it, by addressing letters to well- 
known specialists, living in different states, and also in Canada, putting no less 
than twenty-six questions, which embraced all the vital points, and asking a 
free discussion upon all the points, which could be of general use, in understand- 
ing the whole subject. The questions were all numbered, and were aU answered 
satisfactorily, and in such a manner, that each answer related to the number 
of the question, and could thus be readily understood, by referring back to 
the number of the question; but to put it in book form, it will be better to put 
first, the question, and the answer immediately following, hence I shall adopt 
this plan, for the better understanding of the matter by our readers. The sub- 
ject was published in the Toledo Blade, September 22d, 1882. Of course it was 
not possible to publish the whole of the letters received, in the newspapers, so a 
summary was prepared by the Department of Agriculture, which will give a fair 
idea to those interested, as to the value and profitableness of giving a fair trial, 
by those who have not already done so, of the silo. The question will first be 
given then the summary or condensed answer, immediately following : 

I. Q. What is the best location of silo, with reference to feeding-rooms ? 

A. A few have been built at a distance from the stables, but generally th« 



i)0 .If '. ^' Tl a ANIMALS. 715 

■Cos are located with reference to convenience in feeding, in, under or adjacent 
to the feeding-rooms. Local considerations will determine whether the silo3 
should be below the surface or above, or partly above or partly below. This is 
not essential. Where the stables are in the basement of a bank barn, the bottom 
of the silo may be on the same level, or a few feet below, and the top even with 
the upper floor. This arrangement combines the greatest faciUties for filling, 
weighing, and feeding. 

II. Q. What form, or shape, is best for the silos? 

A. With rare exceptions the silos described show a rectangular (longer than 
wide) horizontal section, a few have the corners cut off, and one is octagonal (8 
square). The cylindrical (round) form seems to have obvious advantages. If 
under ground, a cylindrical wall is self-supporting against outside pressure, and 
may be much lighter than would be safe in any other form. If of wood and 
above ground, the walls may be stayed with iron bands. In any case, for a 
given capacity, the cylindrical form requires the least possible amount of wall. 
A given weight of ensilage in a deep silo requires less extraneous pres.sure, and 
esposes less surface to the air than it would in a shallow silo. For these rea- 
sons depth is important. If too deep there is danger of expressing juice from 
the ensilage at the bottom. Where the ensilage is cut down in a vertical sec, 
tion for feeding, a narrow silo has the advantage of exposing little surface to 
the air. 

III. Q. What dimensions, or how large, ought the silos to be? 

A. The silos reported vary in capacity from 364 to 19,200 cubic feet. Il 
entirely full of compressed ensilage the smallest would hold 9.1 tons, and the 
largest 480 tons, estimating 50 lbs. to the cubic foot. Practically, the capacity 
of a silo is less to the extent that the ensilage settles under pressure. This 
should not exceed J^l'th, though in shallow silos, or tho.se filled rapidly and with 
little treading, it is likely to be much more. A temporary curb is sometime* 
added to the silo proper, so that the latter may be full when the settling ceases. 

IV. Q. Of what should the walls be built — material and construction? 
A. For walls under ground, stone, brick and concrete are used. The 

choice in any case may safely depend on the cost. In firm soils that do not 
become saturated with water, walls are not es.sential to the preservation of ensi- 
lage. Above ground, two thicknesses of inch boards, with sheathing paper 
between (the latter said, by some, to be unnecessary), seem to be sufficient, if 
supported against lateral (side) pressure from the ensilage. 

v. Q. With what, and how, should the silo be covered? 

A. A layer of straw or hay will serve in ^ome measure to exclude air, but 
It is not necessary. Generally boards or planks are placed directly on the ensi- 
lage. The cover is sometimes made in sections of 2 feet or more wide; oftener 
each plank is separate. The cover is generally put on transversely, having in 
view the uncovering of a part of the silo while the weight remains on the rest. 
Rough boards, with no attempt at matching, have been used successfully. A 
little space should be allowed between the walls and cover, that there may be 
no interference as the settling progresses. 



716 I>R. 0HA8E' 8 RECIPES. 

VI. Q. Weighting down, what materials are used, amount required and 
how applied? 

A. Any heavy material may be used. The amount required depends on 
various conditions. It will be noticed that practice and opinions differ widely. 
The object is always to make the ensilage compact, and thereby leave little room 
for air, on which depend fermentation and decay. In a deep silo the greater 
part is sufficiently compressed by a few feet of ensilage at the top, so that there 
is small percentage of waste, even when no weight is applied above the ensilage. 
Screws are used by some instead of weights. The objection to them is that 
they are not self-acting like gravity. 

VII. What is the cost of a silo? 

A. The cost of silos, per ton of capacity, varies from $4 to $5, for walls 
of heavy masonry and superstructures of elaborate finish, and 50 cents or less 
for the simplest wooden silos. Earth silos, without wall, can be excavated with 
plow and scraper, when other work is not pressing, at a trifiing cost. 

VIII. Q. What crops are used for ensilage? 

A. Corn takes the lead of ensilage crops. Ry-e is grown by many In' con- 
nection with corn — the same ground producing a crop of each in a season. 
Oats, sorghum, Hungarian grass, field peas, clover — in fact almost every crop 
used in soiling has been stored in silos and taken out in good condition. There 
are indications that some materials have their value enhanced by the fermenta- 
tion of the silo, while in others there is loss. The regular values for ensilage, 
of the different soiling crops, can only be determined through careful tests, 
often repeated, by practical men. All thoughtful farmers would be glad to get 
more value from the bulky fodder of their corn crops than is found in any of 
the common methods. There are accounts of plucking the ears when the ker- 
nels were well glazed, and putting the fodder into the silo. The value of such 
ensilage, and the loss, if any, to the grain are not sufficiently ascertained to 
warrant positive statements. 

IX. Q. What is the best method of planting and cultivation? 

A. Thorough preparation before planting is essential. Corn, sorghimi, 
and similar crops should be planted in rows. The quantity of seed corn varies 
from 8 quarts to a bushel and one-half for an acre. A smoothing harrow does 
the work of cultivating perfectly, and with little expense, while the corn is 
small. 

X. Q. At what state of development is the fodder the most valuable for 
ensilage? 

A. The common practice is to put crops into the silo when their full 
growth has been reached, and before ripening begins. Manifestly one rule will 
not answer all purposes. The stock to be fed and the object in feeding must be 
considered in determining when the crop should be cut On this point must 
depend much of the value of ensilage. 

XI. Q, What weight of fodder is generally produced to the acre? 

A. Corn produces more fodder per acre than any other crop mentioned. 
The average for corn is not far from 20 tons— which speaks well for land and 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 717 

culture. The largest yield from a single acre was 58 tons, the average of a largo 
area on the same farm was only 123^ tons. 

XII. Q. What kind of corn is best for ensilage? 

A. The largest is generally preferred; hence seed grown in'a warmer climate 
is in demand. 

XIII. Q. What is the value of sweet corn as compared with other varie- 
ties? 

A. It is conceded by many that the fodder of sweet corn is worth more, 
pound for pound, than that of larger kinds, for soiling. Some hold that the 
same superiority is retained in the ensilage, while others think that the advan- 
tage after fermentation is on the other side. The sweet varieties generally do 
not yield large crops. 

XIV. Q. Preparation of fodder for silo; what machinery, etc., is used? 
A. The mowing machine is sometimes used for cutting corn in the field — 

oftener the work is done by hand. Various cutters having carriers attached for 
elevated silos, are in use and are generally driven by horse, steam or water power. 
Fine cutting, a half -inch or less, is in favor. It packs closer, and for this reason ia 
likely to keep better than the coarse ensilage. Fodder of any kind may be put 
in whole, and, if as closely compressed as cut fodder, will keep as well, if not 
better; but it requires much greater pressure. [And the author would say 
he should think it would be much more troublesome to get out, and not half so 
convenient to feed.] 

XV. Q. What is the best manner of filling the silo? 

A. During the process of filling, the ensilage should be kept level and well- 
trodden, A horse may be used very effectively for the latter. Some attach 
much importance to rapid filling, while others make it more a matter of con- 
venience. With the packing equally thorough, rapid filling is probably the 
best. 

XVI. Q. What is the cost, per ton, of putting the fodder into the silo? 
A. The cost, from field to silo, is variously reported, from 35 cents— and 

in a single instance 10 or 12 cents — for labor alone, to $2.00 and upwards per 
ton, though the higher amounts include the entire cost of the crop, not the 
harvesting alone. There is a general expectation that experience will bring a 
considerable reduction in the cost of filling. 

It is probable that with a more general adoption of ensilage, the best 
machinery will be provided by men who will make a business of filling silos. 
This could hardly fail to lessen the cost and bring the benefits of the system 
within the reach of many who otherwise would not begin. 

XVII. Q. What length of time before the silo should be opened? 

A. The ensilage should remain under pressure at least until cool, and bo 
uncovered after that when wanted. [This point seems to be the most vague, 
t. 6., the most indefinite of any of them. To " keep under pressure until cool," 
—how long is that? It is understood, of course, that the ensilage goes through 
a process of fermentation and becomes pretty hot, but how long it will be can 
only be told by the subsidence of the heat, after which, it seems, they can be 
opened when needed; but I should suppose it necessary to keep them tolerably 



718 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

well covered all the time until fed out— not necessarily weighted, but, stillt 
properly covered to exclude the air as much as possible. See next answer.] 

XVIII. Q. What is the condition of ensilage when opened? 

A. In nearly all cases the loss by decay was very slight, and confined tP 
the top and sides where there was more or less exposure to air. 

XIX. Q. "What deterioration, if any, after opening? 

A. Generally the ensilage has kept perfectly for several months, showing 
no deterioration while any remained in the silo, excepting where exposed for a 
considerable time. It is better to uncover the whole silo, or compartment of a 
silo, at once, and thus expose a new surface each day, than to cut down sections. 

XX. Q. What value has ensilage for milch cows? 

A. Ensilage has been fed to milch cows more generally than to any other 
class of stock, and no unfavorable results are reported. There can be little 
doubt that its greatest value will always be found in this connection. Several 
readers consider it equal in value to one-third of its weight of the best hay, an(? 
some rate it higher. 

XXI. Q. What effect has ensilage on dairy products? 

A. There is a marked increase in quantity and improvement in quality of 
milk and butter after changing from dry feed to ensilage, corresponding to a 
similar change to fresh pasture. A few seeming exceptions are noted, which 
will probably find explanation in aefects easily remedied, rather than such as 
are inherent. 

XXII. Q. What value has ensilage on other stock? 

A. Ensilage has been fed to all classes of farm stock, including swine and 
poultry, with results almost uniformly favorable. Exceptions are noted in the 
statements of Messrs. Coe Bros, and C. B. Henderson, where it appears that 
horses were injuriously affected. It should be borne in mind in this connection 
that ensilage is simply forage preserved in a silo, and may vary as much in 
quality as hay. The ensilage that is best for a milch cow may be injurious to 
a horse, and that on which a horse would thrive might render a poor return in 
the milk-pail. 

XXIII. Q. What quantity is consumed per head, daily ? 

A. Cows giving milk are commonly fed 50 to 60 lbs., with some dry fodder 
and grain. 

XXIV. Q. What is the method of feeding — alone or with other food? 
A. Experiments have been made in feeding ensilage exclusively, and results 

have varied with the quality of ensilage and the stock fed. It is certain that 
ensilage of corn cut while in blossom, or earlier, is not alone sufficient for milch 
cows. It is best to feed hay once a day, and some grain or other rich food, 
.unless the latter is supplied in the ensilage, as it is when corn has reached or 
passed the roasting-ear stage before cutting. Ensilage, as it is commonly under- 
stood, is a substitute only for hay and coarse fodder generally, and does not 
take the place of grain. 

XXV. Q. What is the condition of stock fed on ensilage, both as to gain. 
or loss, of weight aud health. 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 719 

A. The condition of stock fed on ensilage, both as to health and gain in 
weight has been uniformly favorable. 

XXVI. Q. What is the profitableness of ensilage, all things considered? 

A. There is hardly a doubt expressed on the profitableness of ensilage — 
certainly not a dissenting opinion. 

Remarks. — What more could be asked as to whether the silo, and conse- 
quently ensilage, was profitable, or not, when out of all these many inquiries 
of those who have fairly tested the matter, in eighteen different states and Can- 
ada, not one gives an unfavorable opinion. It is remarkable indeed, and 
should give encouragement to those who have not already tested it, to begin at 
once, with an expectation of final success. After having prepared the above, 
on the subject of silos, ensilage, etc., I saw the following items upon these sub- 
jects as they see them in England, and as a few practice them in America, and 
as there are a few points in them of a more practical cliaracter, showing an 
increase of nutrition, and making it easier of digestion by ensilage, and also 
giving more particularly the manner of building silos, etc., I will give them a 
place, as follows: 

Ensilage (in England) Claimed to Increase the Nutritive 
Powers of Green Forage. — The CJiemist and Druggist (English) in the 
winter of 1884, referring to previous notices of the subject of ensilage, says: 
"Since then two most encouraging statements have been published with regard 
to its value. Professor Thome Rogers reports that ensilage increases the nutri- 
tive powers of green forage; that the process obviates waste, saves time and 
increases the productive powers of the soil. The forage is made more di- 
gestible, and the farmer is enabled to get a double yearly crop. The silos 
should not be too shallow; not less than 20 to 25 feet deep. [This, the author 
thinks, should depend wholly upon the amount to be put up — if this amount 
of room is necessary, for the amount of stock kept, then the deeper the better, 
perhaps.] Had silos been common in England, millions of pounds worth of 
fodder would have been saved last summer. This is not the time, remarks the 
professor, when British agriculture can afford to neglect economies, whether 
large or small. [If English agriculture can't afford to neglect economies, can 
American?] Mr. F. Sutton confirms this view by comparing the relative 
value of hay and ensilage from a poor quality of grass. The hay was 
coarse and poor, destitute of sweet taste and odor, and contained a trace of 
ready-made sugar. Distilled with water, no essential oils were yielded, nor 
was there any flavor, save that of decaying grass. The specimens obtained by 
ensilage were highly odorous from the essential oils, and had a vinoiis fragrance, 
accompanied by a slight acidity. No ready-made sugar could be detected. It 
is argued, then, that a manifest improvement had been effected. That which 
was tasteless had been rendered appetizing and succulent (full of juice). A 
much larger proportion of soluble albuminoids (like albumen — white of eggs), 
soluble extractive matter, and digestible fiber was found in the dry ensilage as 
compared vdth dry hay, leading to the inference that a partial digestion had 
taken place in the silo. It seems a question which fairly invites discussion, aa 
to whether ensilage could not be employed advantageously in the storage of 



T20 DB CEASE'8 BECIPE3, 

medicinal plants. The question has already been advanced; i'ecent experiments 
might claim further attention to the subject." 

Remarks. — It is not expected that farmers will feel any particular interest 
in the last clause, as to ensilage benefiting medicinal plants, but the other parts 
are o much to the point, as to the value of ensilage for feeding stock, I deemed 
the item well worth a place in this connection. 

Silos and Ensilage— What They Are, How It is Done, and 
What They Think of It in Vermont.— T. H. Hoskins, M. D.. reports 
the following in one of the agricultural papers as to the value of ensilage, and 
also the most substantial and a cheaper way of carrying out the work. Under 
date of February 13, 1881, writing from his home, Newport, Vt., he says. 

"Gen. Thomas, of Montpelier, Gen. Grout, of Barton, and Capt Morton, 
of Essex, are the only persons in Vermont, within my knowledge, who have 
made public the results of their experiments with the new method of preserv- 
i*ig forage in the moist state by strong compression in air-tight pits. All three 
report entire success, and express enthusiastic confidence in the future of this 
new departure in farming. 

I. " What Ensilage and Silos Are, and How to Make and Feed TTiem. — 
' Silo ' is French for ' pit,' and ' ensilage ' the French equivalent of the English 
word ' pitting.' It is applied in this case to the pitting of green forage in such 
manner that it shall be preserved, by the exclusion, more or less perfect, of the 
air from the contents of the pit. This is effected by lining the bottom and sides 
of the pit w ith concrete or masonry (brick or stone), the surfaces of which are 
plastered with water-lime cement. The lines and right angles of such a pilt 
must be straight and true, so that no hinderance shall be offered to the settling 
of its contents under the pressure which is applied to them after filling. So 
far, green maize, taken about the time when the grain is ' in the milk,' has 
been used for ensilage almost exclusively; but all green forage may be equally 
well preserved in the same way. The preparation of ensilage is simply the cut- 
ting of the forage, by a suitable machine driven by horse or steam power, into 
small bits, not exceeding half an inch in length. These are dropped into the 
pit or silo, and rapidly levelled and trod down by men or horses. This levelling 
and treading should be as exact and thorough as possible. To facilitate the for- 
mer, horizontal lines about a foot apart may be drawn around on the walls of 
the silo. The treading must be especially well done at the corners, and some 
silos are built with curved in place of square corners, to facilitate this work. 

II. "How to Build a Substantial Silo and to Fill FurtTier Described.— In 
constructing the pits (making the silos) there is opportunity for the display of 
ingenuity and calculation, and upon the degree in which these enter into the 
work the cost in a general measure depends. Gen. Thomas enclosed his sila 
with a heavy stone wall laid in cement, at a cost which he did not like to state, 
but which he afterwards thought entirely unnecessary. Its size was 40 by IS 
feet, and 15 feet deep. The corn from 5 acres did not nearly fill it. He used a 
Baldwin cutter, propelled by horse-power, cutting a two-horse load every eight 
minutes. The whole cost of getting the ensilage from the field into the pit was 
less than the cost of cutting and stocking the same even in the field would have 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 721 

been. The work was completed in October. The ensilage was covered closely 
with planks, and heavily weighted with stone. Wnen opened in December the 
preservation was found to be perfect, and the ensilage was greedily eaten by all 
kinds of stock. To his cows he feeds a ration of 50 lbs. of ensilage daily. 
With this, and a moderate ration of cotton-seed meal, as good and as much but- 
ter is made as on the best pasturage. Referring to the construction of the silo. 
Gen. Thomas said it could be equally as well lined with brick or concrete as 
with stone, and much cheaper, one brick in thickness being sufficient when 
earth or sand was firmly rammed in behind the walls. [The author would say 
never less than an 8-inch wall.] The main point was to have the walls perfectly 
true and smooth, and the corners square, so as not in any way to interfere with 
the settling of the contents under pressure. The variety of the corn planted 
was the common Southern horse-tooth, which he thought the best. His crop 
was 20 tons to the acre, but he tliought this might be doubled by high manur- 
ing. He estimated the feeding value of ensilage equal to twice the weight of 
average hay." 

HI. Two Ghea'per Methods of Building Silos.— The doctor goes on to say: 
" Captain Morton's silo was muph more cheaply made. He dug a trench 13 
feet wide and 60 feet long, and only 3 feet deep. He walled this with stone» 
making the wall 9 feet high, and banking it up on the outside to within 3 feet 
of the top. It was pointed with mortar and cemented With water-lime on the 
inside, the whole cost being .$100. This silo was divided by a cross wall in the 
middle, and only J^ was used, in which tlie corn from 2 acres was placed, 
being cut in 3^ inch lengths, firmly trodden down, covered with boards and 
heavily weighted. The preservation was excellent, and all kinds of stock eat 
it freely. The whole cost of getting the fodder into the silo was under $10. 
He is now feeding it in combination with fine-cut hay and meal to 27 head of 
stock, young and old, including 7 cows in milk. The daily feed for the whole 
is made by mixing 250 lbs. of the ensilage, 180 lbs of cut hay, and 75 lbs, each 
of corn-meal and wheat bran, the whole well shoveled together, and fed to each 
animal in proportion to its size. They are all thriving, and his butter sells for 
85 cents a lb. His ensilage (which was exhibited at the meeting he addressed) 
was slightly acid, but he said that with a perfectly tight silo and sufficient pre* 
sure, he thought it could be preserved almost perfectly sweet. This was also 
Gen. Thomas' opinion. Captain Morton agreed with Gen. Thomas in prefer- 
ring southern corn for ensilage. He planted in drills 2 feet apart, using 1 bushel 
of seed to the acre, and tilling entirely by machinery. 

Gen. Grout built his silos with concrete walls, loose stones being puddled 
in with mortar, and the inside coated v/ith water-lime cement. The fodder was 
badly frosted when ensilaged, but kept perfectly. He used 300 lbs of stone to 
the square foot of surface to compress the ensilage, and would never use less. 
He is feeding it to 72 head of cattle, and 100 sheep. The daily cattle ration is 
80 lbs. of ensilage in the morning, and a mixture composed of 15 lbs. of finely- 
cut and moistened straw, upon which 2 lbs. of shorts are spr'nkled; which is 
fed in two feeds, noon and night. All the stock are gaining on this feed. The 
sheep were fed almost exclusively on ensilage, and had much improved on it. 
4a 



722 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

The entire cost of the crop in the silo was slightly less than $2 a ton, whic^ 
Gen. Grout believes can be considerably reduced. Like the other gentlemen 
named, he thinks the feeding value of corn ensilage equal to twice its weight of 
average hay. I fear this will prove an over-estimate. 

" We, in Vermont, are gratified to find that there is not going to be so much 
difficulty from the freezing of ensilage as we feared. "When the whole of the 
silo is below the surface no frost enters. The slight fermentation which goes 
on in the mass keeps the temperature well above freezing. This fermentation 
is very slight, and when the face of the mass is cut down in feeding that which 
remains undisturbed is unaffected; but that which is cut out, if left exposed to 
the air in a place where the temperature is not very low, will ferment so as to 
be decidedly warm in 12 hours. In this condition it is greedily eaten by the 
stock. It has then a sliglitly alcoholic odor, and a more or less acid taste. The 
better the preservation the less there will be of the latter." 

Remarks. — This item was so distinct and covered so much of importance 
for one to know who is contemplating a beginning with ensilage, I could not 
satisfy myself without giving it. The next and last item is upon the question 
of feeding ensilage to dairy cows and fattening steers, very plain and distinct, 
and of much importance to those who have no experience in its use for these 
pui-poses. 

Ensilage for Dairy Cows and Fattening Steers, How to 
Feed. — Tlie following is from a correspondent of the Country Gentleman, who 
says: " Such grave uncertainties seem to pervade the minds of many farmers as 
to the use of ensilage as food for milch cows; such doubts as to a possible 
peculiar taste of the milk, cream, or butter made from this food, that with your 
permission I will give my experience of last season, hoping it may lead some 
doubters to the right track. Last year I built a silo of 200 tons capacity, wholly 
ot stone and Rosendale cement, with a frame and roof for cover. It is a good 
one (I believe in no other), no water can get in, no sap from the corn can get 
out, as so many complain of when their silos are not half built, or made from 
stale cement or any poor material. On account of the long-extended drouth in 
this part of New Jersey, I was able to scrape together of good, bad and indif- 
ferent, half -dried, wilted, grown and half-grown corn, some 30 tons of ensilage 
after cured. This, however, was enough to satisfy my mind on this subject, if 
there ever had been any doubts. I used it as food for cows 110 days continu- 
ously, until all was fed out. Within a week from the time we began feeding 
hay, and though with an addition of grain, the cows lost at least 25 per cent, of 
milk, the cream did not make as much butter, and the butter was not of as good 
color or flavor. During the time of feeding ensilage we were unable to dis- 
cover any other than the most satisfactory taste to milk, cream, or butter. The 
cows were in the most perfect state of health, and kept in fine condition. 

Fattening Steers. — I fed for 90 days 8 western steers, which averaged a gain 
of over IJ^ lbs. per day. The ration for cows and oxen was 22 lbs. of ensilage 
morning and night, and 15 lbs. of cut cornstalks at noon. The cows had 3 qts. 
of cornmeal and 2 qts. of wheat bran per day, and the steers had 4 qts. of corn- 
meal for 45 days and 5 qts. for the last 45 days. Our success with the steers 



DOMESTIO ANIMALB. 728 

astonished my neighbors, who feed in the old way. The butcher says the cattle 
slaughtered well, and the meat was remarkably fine and gave every satisfaction. 
The use of poor ensilage, made from corn half ripe or frost bitten, like mine 
was, I have reason for believing, would not give such satisfactory results, as if 
I had had more perfect material. I am one who believes that to make good 
ensilage the corn should be cut at the right time, cut the right length, put away 
ill a good silo and covered over nicely, and then well and thoroughly weighted 
down. The seed planted should be the Southern gourdseed, drilled in rows 30 
to 40 inches apart, and the ground cultivated the same as any corn. The ensil- 
age should be cut % to % of an inch long. It is important to have a good, 
water-tight silo and heavy weighting — 300 to 350 lbs. to the square foot of sur- 
face. I believe in giving the animals all they will eat up clean, be it more or 
less. Contentment means fat in the bovine tribe, as well as riches in the human. 

Remarks. — The author agrees with this man in New Jersey, that "what is 
worth doing is worth doing well," if you can; if you have not the means to 
build the best silo, build a small one till you can do better, but don't fail to try 
it according to your means and ability, by which you will get more means. 
That is the object of the author in writing this book. "What it may pay me is 
nothing as to what it will pay others, if they heed its teachings. I would never 
have written it for what it will pay me, but the belief in what good it will do 
others has made it a delight, and the labor endurable. 

Ensilage Congress, Report of in 1886, Held in New York.— 
We will say, in closing the ensilage question with the following report, that we 
are indebted to a Frenchman by the name of August Goffart, for the discovery 
of this plan of preserving fodder in its green state, some 20 years ago, which, 
for economy or saving financially, for the farming community, probably, 
has not its superiority in the whole century, or for the past 100 years; and it is 
now admitted that he who does not make use of it, now, stands in his own light. 
The following facts were stated by those members of the Congress or conven- 
tion, who had given it a fair trial: 

" Alfred Reid, of Providence, gave the result of his experiments at feeding 
ensilage to twenty-eight head of cattle. He gave them three times a day all 
they could eat. He had put into his silos, corn, rye, grass, clover, Hungarian 
grass and sorghum. He gave the details of his expenditures on four acres of 
corn. The total cost in the field was $159.51 to raise 66 tons and 427 pounds 
of corn fodder. The cost of getting from the field to the silos was $69.37 for 
the 66 tons. The total cost of raising, carting and packing was $3.45 per ton. 

"A Mr, Roberts, of Poughkeepsie. asserted that with ensilage he had kept 
twenty-six cows, where without it he hpd kept but six. Probably this was 
imder highly favorable circumstances, though fresh, green fodder undoubtedly 
yields more than double the nourishment of dry. Cattle eat ensilage food 
ravenously, and it fattens, and increases the production of milk. 

"Some silos, or pits, are built 50 by 20 feet in size and bricked up. 
Others are made of boards, tongued and grooved and lined with tar paper. 
When built in bams they are said to work '•""ellently, as the frost is more ea» 



^ DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Jy kept off— although cattle eat ensilage food when frozen, though It Is less 
healthful. 

•* Mr. Percy, of Chatham, K. T., estimates the cost of a wooden pit Uned 
vdth the paper, 24 x 30 feet, at $125. Another member of the Congress made 
^e astonishing statement that with ensilage food he had kept a cow on two and 
t half cents per day. Ensilage food requires much pressing to properly pre- 
serve it, sixty -two pounds to the square inch being deemed about the right 
weight. A Pennsylvania farmer declared that with ensilage he had made but- 
ter at six cents per pound and sold it for fifty cents, asserting that old and tooth- 
less cows would thrive on it. Some dairymen mix it with meal. 

"All present at the Congress gave testimony to its great value, in increas- 
ing the quality and quantity of milk, in creating flesh, keeping cattle in a 
bealthy condition, and in its cheapness in comparison to dry fodder. Cheap 
pits or silos were pronounced just as good as expensive ones, and having the 
green fodder cut by means of a cutting machine, proved more efficacious than 
placing the fodder uncut into the pits. Ensilage food is said to smell like New 
England rum, and some joking rendered the Ensilage Congress lively, regard- 
ing the effect of fermented food in producing drunkenness among cattle." 



SHIEEIP. 



TWENTY-EIGHT YEARS IN SHEEP HUSBANDRY.— As 

the raising of sheep has become so common on almost every farm, we have 
thought we could not do better than to devote a few pages to this impor- 
tant subject. First, we will give a paper read before the Farmers' Insti- 
tute, at Hudson, Mich., Jan. 10, 1880, by Sidney Green, the well known farmer 
of Pittsford, Hillsdale County, whose experience of 28 years will give valui, 
ble hints, to say the least, upon almost all the important points of sheCf 
husbandry, so that new beginners may avoid the mishaps which Mr. Grea- 
and others have fallen into for the want of this very experience in their begil. 
ning. He says: 

I. Introduction. — "Ladies and gentlemen, I want to say right here 
that what I have to say will be largely in the line of my experience, and the 
way that I have managed my own flock of sheep during the past 28 years. 

"A year ago last July, a friend of mine living in Missouri, wishing to 
engage in the business of sheep raising on a large scale, and knowing that 
I had been somewhat successful on the small scale in the same business, 
wrote to me asking advice, and, in fact, asked of me just what this Insti- 
tute now asks. I complied with his request, and my whole essay was com- 
prised of but one word, and that was "Care." If every man, woman and 
child that owns a sheep, or even ever expects to, will take that one word and 
make it the key note of every move they make, guided by their best judg- 
ment and discretion, I will guarantee success in this important branch of 
farming. 

II. Care— What it Will Do.— "Care will make carcass; care will 
make constitution, care will save fodder; care will ward off disease; care will 
make fat, and fat will make wool and grease, and wool and grease will make 
money, and that is what we are after. Yes, care will do one other thing, 
care will make blood. 

"Were it not for the promise I have already made that I would relate 
my 28 years experience with sheep, what I have already said, carried out, 
would accomplish a better purpose than anything I could add, and this paper 
would be complete. It is true that we are guided to some extent by the 
experience of others. 

III. When and How He Began.— "In the fall of 1852 I bought 
in Oakland county, this State, 53 ewes of common stock for $1 per head, 
and one ewe, said to have been a pure cross between the Spanish and French 
Merino, for which I paid $25. I drove them to this county (Hillsdale) in the 



winter of 1853. 



725 



726 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

TV. Shearing.— Average "Weight of Fleece.— "The first shearing 
the lot averaged a little less than 4 lbs. per head. I raised 24 lambs the first 
season; I had the good fortune to raise from my pure-blooded ewe an extra 
buck lamb, which was the foundation for great improvement of my flock for 
those days. For the first few years the flock showed a greater improvement 
per year than they have since they have been brought to a greater degree of 
perfection. This, in fact, is my experience with crossing full bloods with 
natives. It requires greater skill to improve really good sheep than it does 
to improve an inferior grade. The second shearing showed an improvement 
of nearly IJ^ lb. per head. In the course of 5 or 6 years the average of the 
flock, numbering from 80 to 100, was a trifle over 6 lbs. per head. With 
good luck in the selection of rams, in 10 years from the start, my flock aver- 
aged 7 lbs. 

V. Drawbacks in the Business.—" Sheep business, like any other 
business, has its drawbacks. The use of what I supposed to be a full-blooded 
Spanish ram from Webster's flock of Vermont, set my flock backward on an 
average for 2 years 3^ lb. per head. This is the only real set-back that I 
ever have experienced. I soon recovered that loss, and have made steady 
gain since. So I estimate my average this coming spring at 9 lbs. per head, 
with the prospects of a little more. 

VI. Increase of Wool per Head by Using Blooded Rams.— 
" I have thus far shown simply the increase of wool per head during this time 
with the use of what we might call blooded rams, with the single exception 
of one blooded ewe. Here occurred an incident which was curious in its effects, 
and in after years proved to be an adulteration of blood. 

Vn. Danger of a Grade Buck upon a Blooded Ewe.—" My 
eyes have been wide open ever since to prevent the repetition of the mishap. 
The blooded ewe, which was pure gold in my eyes at the time, was, through 
carelessness, mated with a grade buck, and her second lamb was a nice grade; 
but the curious part of the affair was that that high and pure blooded ewe 
never afterwards raised a pure blooded lamb from mating with the purest blood 
I could find. Her breeding qualities were destroyed and her progeny was not 
reliable. I kept the ewe till she died — 15 years of age. 

VIII. Buck, Selection of, Suitable for the Flock.— "In select- 
ing a buck that is suitable for the flock lies the secret of success. If a man 
has not the judgment for himself, he had better borrow it from some one 
that has, until he is acquainted with the business sufficiently to prevent mis- 
takes and set-backs. In choosing a ram for myself, I want a low, heavy 
body, straight on the back, clear to the roots of the tail, broad and level 
over the shoulders, deep and heavy in the brisket, thick neck with heavy 
gullet; in short, constitution is the first strong point that will receive my 
attention. I want the wool of medium length, smooth on the surface, the 
thicker the better. The staple rather stiff and stubbed, with plenty of oil 
distributed evenly from the roots to the end. I like heavy folds, but do not 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 727 

M 4nt them to run over the back, nor do I like to see them too heavy over the 
neok. Horns, if any, set well from the head, fore-top as long as the rest of the 
fleece, down even with the eyes, then stop. Smooth, clear pink face and nose, 
short, thick velvety ears, wool full length, well down on the legs, and full heavy 
fleece on the belly. The foregoing is something of my ideal of a ram. 

IX. Time of Washing and Shearing and Putting Ewes and 
Lambs by Themselves.—" My flock is well washed and sheared from the 
15th to the 20th of June. They are turned on the largest range that I can 
spare. The ewes and lambs by themselves, the bucks by themselves; the rest, 
counted as store sheep, by themselves, making three flocks. From that time 
till after harvest all the attention they get is salt once c week (twice or three 
times I believe better), and all carefully counted. About the 20th of August I 
wean the lambs, taking them as far from their mothers as I can. Generally 
saving a piece of clover stubble for them, and giving them the best chance that 
I can. About the first of October I commence giving them about a gill {]^ pt.) 
of oats apiece daily. This is kept up until cold weather sets in, and then their 
grain is increased about % more and kept up until grass grows the ne.\t spring, 
They have a good shelter if they choose to occupy it. During storms they are 
forced to their shelter. I feed clover hay twice a day, and water once a day, 
and feed them grain at night. With this treatment my lambs are kept thrifty 
all winter. I claim that the grain fed early in the fall is the secret of winter- 
ing successfully. 

X. Time to Sort Out Breeding Ewes.— "About the first of Octo- 
ber I sort my breeding ewes. In doing this important work, I have diverged 
from the well established rules of breeders and made one of my own. Here I 
would call the attention of the Institute to a statement made before the Insti- 
tute one year ago, by our worthy president. He made this statement I 
think: 'He raised all the lambs he could.' Now if he meant that he tried to 
raise all that was born, then we do not differ, but if he meant that he tried to 
increase his flock as fast as he could, then his line of policy and mine lie in a 
different direction 

XI. His Rule. — "My rule is, in sorting for the breeding band, that none 
shall be less than 2J^ years old, and none that are inferior as to size, constitu- 
tion or thinness of wool My year-old ewes are turned with the wethers; and 
the older ones that have been excluded from the breeders are marked for sale. 

XII. The Result.— "The result of this policy is a large and uniform 
flock, with strong constitutions and heavy sheerers. 

Xni. Average Weight.—" I have just weighed three of my breeders, 
which is the fair average weight of the lot of 30. The heaviest weighed 140 
lbs., the lightest TOO lbs , a pick of the average 116 lbs. 

XIV. Land Too Valuable to Keep Inferior Sheep.— "Our 
lands are too valuable to keep inferior sheep, or to try to increase in numbers 
at the expense of size and quality. 

XV. Time to Divide in the Fall.— "My flock of 80 are divided 
from October, until they axe brought into the yard in three lots, breeders, store 



788 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

sheep and lambs. Then the breeders and store sheep are turned together fq 
the winter. I feed stocks twice a day. At noon they are fed light, with wheat, 
oats or pea straw. At night they are all fed about 1 gill of corn each. All 
have shelter, and are compelled to use it during storms. Your essayist last 
year made one remark that was worth its weight in gold as to tlie care of sheep, 
that was, 'to be quiet among them.' I treat my sheep so they think I am in 
their way, instead of their being in mine when I am among them. I feed a 
very little sulphur mixed with salt during the winter. I think it a preventive 
for pulling their wool. The first of March I take the breeders and keep by 
themselves till nearly shearing time. In connection with their grain, I prefer 
to feed a few roots or a little bran, but do not always find it convenient. 

XVI. Time for Lambs to Appear.- 'The lambs begin to make 
their appearance about the 20th of April. Great pains are taken at this time 
with this part of the fiock. Let the weather be what it may, the ewes and the 
lambs are all driven to their shelter every night, and the little ones are carefully 
cared for. This precaution is used until the weather gets warm and settled. 

XVII. Time for Trimming, Care of Fleeces, etc.— "My whole 
flock is carefully trimmed and examined about the first of April. The wool is 
washed and put in the fleeces at shearing time, so there is no waste. The theory 
that sheep will not do well for a long term of years on the same farm I take no 
stock in. For 28 years my stock has been kept on the same farm and the one 
adjoining. You see that I have reported a continued progress. This, I can 
assure you, has not been accomplished in a haphazard way. Nothing has been 
left undone for their thrift and comfort that is reasonably in my power to do." 

Remarks. — Tliere is one point, however, that I desire to call especial atten- 
tion to, shown by Mr. Green's carelessness, as he admits, after having given a 
whole essay in the one word "care," which would do everything he claimed in 
sheep culture — i. e., never allow a blooded breeding ewe to run with a lower 
grade buck, as his experience shows that it destroys, for some unaccountable 
reason, her power to afterwards produce full-blooded lambs, although mated 
with a full-blooded ram. By his carelessness he lost, as a breeder, the value of 
his $25 ewe, therefore have a care to his dearly bought experience in this par- 
ticular. This gentleman's experience was with the Merinos; but as there are 
those who consider the Cotswold as superior in several respects, I will give a 
short item upon them from the Country Gentleman, a part of which was from 
a catalogue of Mr. Harris, of Rochester, N. Y., whose opinion is considered 
reliable. The editor gives it under the head of 

Cotswolds and Cotswold Crosses, the Coming Sheep of Amer- 
ica, Furnishing the Largest Fleeces and the Largest Carcass.— 
Mr. Joseph Harris, of Rochester, has lately published a catalogue in which he 
gives his views of Cotswold sheep in the following terms: "The sheep are 
thorouglily acclimated. They have not been forced ; they are kept for use — for 
real value and not for show. They are housed in winter; they have sheds to 
run under, but spend most of the time in the open air. If well fed, and pro- 
vided with dry quarters under foot, there are no sheep that will stand exposure 



DOMESTIC ANIMAL8. ItQ 

to our severe winters better than the Cotswolds. The ewes are good breeders 
and good nurses. They frequently have two strong lambs, and occasionally 
three at a birth. I have never had a pure-bred Cotswold ewe in the flock that 
would not breed. We let the ewes have their first lambs when two years old, 
and they frequently continue to be good breeders till 10 years old. The Cots- 
wolds are the hardiest of all the English breeds of sheep. Of all well-estab- 
lished breeds, the Cotswolds are the largest. The celebrated experiments of 
Lawes & Gilbert proved beyond all question that the Cotswolds produced more 
nmtton and more wool than any other breed. In other words, they gained 
more rapidly, both in fleece and carcass, than any other breed. And not only 
this, but they gained more in proportion to the food consumed than any other 
breed." Mr. Harris' experience in crossing Cotswold rams on ordinary Merino 
ewes has heretofore been frequently referred to in these columns, especially in 
connection with notices of the cross-breeds exhibited by him at several shows 
of the State Agricultural Society. On this subject he remarks: " I am deci- 
dedly of the opinion that the ' coming sheep ' of this country will be what I 
will take the liberty to call 'American Cotswolds.' I have hitherto called these 
sheep * Cotswold Merinos.' This designates their origin. But the time has 
now arrived when the name loses its significance. For instance, I have Cots- 
wold Merino lambs with three or four crosses of pure Cotswold blood in them. 
In other words, these lambs have 93i|' per cent, of pure Cotswold blood in them 
and only GJ^ per cent, of the native or Merino sheep. The next cross will have 
only 33^ per cent, of the native or Merino blood, and the next only a little over 
13^ per cent, A few years hence American Cotswold sheep will be shipped by 
thousands and tens of thousands every week to the English markets. There is 
no reason why they are not now shipped in large numbers, except— the fact 
that they cannot be found. We do not raise enough of them or feed them 
well enough. Our beef cattle are better than our mutton sheep. The intelli- 
gence and skill of the American sheep-breeder has been largely directed to the 
perfection of the Merino. Wool and bulk have been the objects aimed at, and 
great success has attended their efforts. There are no better fine-wooled sheep 
in the world to-day than can be found in the United States. There are many 
sections where Merinos are the most profitable breeds of sheep to keep. But 
railroads and steamboats lead to rapid and wonderful changes. There was a 
time when I thought Cotswold or mutton sheep could not be raised with profit 
in the far West. I thought it was too far from market; but, if cattle can be 
raised and shipped with profit to England, long-wooled mutton sheep can bo 
raised and shipped with still greater profit." 

Remarks. — Notwithstanding the superiority of the Cotswolds in some par- 
ticulars, the Merino will still form the majority of our flocks, I have not a 
doubt, for many years to come, except it may be in favorable points for ship- 
ping to England or our largest cities, as our American people do not, as yet, eat 
half as much mutton as would be best for their health. Pork, I am sorry to 
say, except in the cities, is more frequently found upon our tables than aoy 
other meat. 



780 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Sheep, Value of on a Poor Farm.— "Some farmers of our acquain. 
'.ance/'says ilae Ame'tican Agriculturist, "feel an antipathy to sheep for the 
reason that they 'bite close.' We consider this their chief recommendation- 
They can only bite close where the pasture is short, and tlie pasture is short oniy 
on a poor farm. A poor farm "will necessarily be encumbered witli briers, 
weeds, and brush in the fence corners. Under such circumstances we should 
say to a farmer who has $20 or upward in cash, or credit for it, let him borrow 
the amount if he has to pay 1 per cent, a month for the use of it, invest it in as 
many ewes, not older than 3 years, as you can get for that money. Put them 
in such afield as we have described, and give them, in addition to what they can 
pick up, a pint of wheat bran and oatmeal each daily, with free access to water 
and salt. They will first go for the briers and clean them out; every portion ot 
that field will be trodden over and over again, nnd the weeds will have no 
chance. Fold them on that field during winter, and carry them feed sufficient 
to keep them thriving. Get the use of a good buck in season— Southdown 
would be preferable — and in the spring, if you have luck, that means if you 
give them proper attention and feed regularly, you will raise more lambs than 
you have ewes. The money will be more than doubled, and the wool and 
manure will pay for their feed and interest. In the spring you may put that 
field in corn with the certainty of getting 50 per cent, increase of crop. 

Remarks. — The author considers this perfectly sound advice to any farmer 
under the circumstances; and sound to every farmer who has not already got 
sheep on his farm, to obtain a few as soon as possible; for he will undoubtedly 
find them the most profitable for the amount invested in them of anything on 
the place. Confirmatory of this see the next two or three items. 

Sheep Better Than Neat Cattle.— A competent and experienced 
writer on this subject says: " One great advantage sheep have over other stock 
is, they never die of the contagious diseases which they contract. They get the 
scab, or foot rot, or something else, and if unchecked it gets them in bad condi- 
tion, and would ultimately, perhaps, kill them. But the very worst contagious 
diseases to which sheep are subject give the owner ample time to treat the 
affected animals, and the diseases are generally of a character which yield rap- 
idly to treatment. But a man may have a lot of hogs and feed them on hun- 
dreds of bushels of corn, and about the time the bottoms of his cribs are neared 
and he is thinking of selling, some disease breaks out among them — no one 
knows what it is or what to do for it — one animal after another, following in 
rapid succession, is affected, and the greater portion die. I have known farm- 
ers to be well nigh ruined by the appearance of a contagious disease of this 
character. Sheep are, happily, exempt from such rapid and fearful mortality. 
Besides, when a sheep dies — and they do die, sometimes, — its pelt is suflScient 
to pay for its keeping from the last shearing to its death. It makes no difference 
when it dies, or what kills it, the sheep never dies in debt." 

Sheep, More Made on Them than Upon Horses. — The Iowa 
State Register says that an old and careful farmer of Indiana, after 33 years' 
experience, informs them that he has made most on sheep, for the money 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Wl 

avested, and the least on horses. The following will show what an English 
/ai-mer thought upon the subject as early as 1523, and also be quite a curiosity 
to compare the spelling of those days with the present. " Boke," was book, 
and "cattell," cattle; "shepe," sheep, etc. But it will explain itself: 

Sheep the Most Profitable— Any Man Can Have Cattle (1523) 
—The "Book of Husbandry," published in the year above named, by Sir 
Anthony Fitzherbert, who styles himself " a farmer of 40 years' standing," in 
this work says: "A housebaud can not thryve by his corne without cattell; nor 
by his cattell without corne." And adds: " Shepe, in my opinion, is the most 
profitablest eattell any man can have." 

^emar/fcs— Certainly no higher authority nor older testimony need be sought 
to establish the fact that sheep husbandry is proti table— only use care, as Mr. 
Green tells us in the first item above, and success is certain. 

Sheep vs. Cows— Comparative Profit of.— This subject having been 
under considerable di.scussion of late, as to whether there was more profit in 
keeping sheep than cattle, or cows, I will give an item or two upon this sub- 
ject. Tlie first is from F. D. Curtis, in Rural New Yorker, compared with 
cows. He says: " Five coarse-wooled sheep will produce lambs at the rate of 1 
and }4 to the sheep, but quite often they will double their number. .Alediura- 
wooled sheep may be .safely relied upon to increase their numbers one and i^, 
while fine-wooled slieep will return a lamb for a sheep. The value of the lambs 
depends upon their quality wlien kept for breeding; or on their earliness and 
condition, when fitted for market. The price of lambs for these various breeds 
will range from $3 upwards. Wool was worth the past season from 35 to 45 
cents per lb. Six lbs. of wool per head is not an extra average for a well kept 
flock. They may be made to average more than that by extra care. A flock of 
combing wool sheep, with the same care and feeding which a good dairyman 
would give his cows, will average per sheep at least $10. Tliis would afford an 
income of $50 on a flock of five in the place of one cow. The proportion of 
income would not be so great in a large flock, as the average yield of wool 
would be less. The percentage of increase is likewise reduced, owing to the fact 
that the ewes receive less care and to their increased liability to accidents. If 
the flocks should be separated and kept a few in a place, not exceeding 13, a 
month before weaning time, the losses would be very few." 

Bemarks.—Mi: Curtis being well-known in agriculture, there can be no 
doubt in his reasoning, and, therefore, his thoughts are valuable. The next 
item is from the Practical Farmer, in relation to general stock, or steers, more 
particularly. 

Sheep vs. Cattle— Which Pays Best?— The Practical Farmer gives 
us the following upon this subject: " How often do we hear farmers ask this 
question; ' Which will pay me best, cattle or sheep?' " Now there is much dif- 
ference of opinion on this question. Those that keep cattle claim that they are 
the most profitable, and those that keep sheep think the same of their flocks. 1 
claim that sheep are the most profitable, and I will try and prove it. Take, for 
uistance, a 2-year-old steer, weighing 1,000 lbs., worth 4 cents per lb., or $40. 



782 DR. CHASE 8 RECIPES. 

What is the cost of raisiag to that age? First year to milk, grain and hay, $13; 
one summer's pasture, $4; six months' feeding hay or grain, $16; makings 
total cost of $32 This is a very low estimate ; everything is down to the lowest 
notch. Now you see that it has cost $32 to raise this calf. Subtract his keep- 
ing from what he sold for, and you have the profit of $8. This is counting 
for your trouble, allowing the manure to balance that. Now for the sheep. It 
will cost to keep and raise 8 lambs until they are 1 year old, for pasture, hay and 
gruin $12; fori year more for hay and grain, $20; making their total cost from 
birth to 2 years old, $32. Now, for the 8 head of sheep, weighing 125 lbs. per 
head, making 1,000 lbs. at 4 cents per lb., is $40. Two clips of wool, 16 
fleeces, weighing 5 lbs. per fleece, makes 80 lbs. of wool; at 32 cents per lb., 
$25.60. Now take the $40 that the sheep sold for, and you have $65.60 as 
total receipts. Subtract cost from this and you have $33.60 profit on 8 sheep 
against $8 profit on 1 steer, both weighing the same at same age, and both cost- 
ing the same for keep, leaving a balance of $25.60 in favor of sheep, showing 
clearly that it is better to keep sheep than cattle, especially where we have small 
farms. I think that this estimate is correct, taking prices in this neighborhood 
as a basis. 

Remarks. — This shows very clearly, for all ordinary cases, that there is 
more real profit in she^p than cattle; still every farmer must consider his situa- 
tion as to the adaptation of his farm to one or the other, and perhaps keep l)oth, 
if his farm is large and adapted to either; otherwise he must keep the kind of 
stock best adapted to the circumstances around him; but it is always an advan- 
tage to be well posted in everything in which he may engage. But I do think 
that every farmer should keep a few sheep, under all circumstances. 

Sheep, a Few Short Rules for the Care of.— The American Emi 
grant Company's circular says: 1. Keep sheep dry underfoot, with litter. This 
is even more important than roofing them. But never let them stand, or lie, in 
the mud or snow. 

II. Drop or take out the lowest bars as the sheep enter or leave a yard, 
thus saving broken limbs. 

III. Begin graining with the greatest care, and use the smallest quantity 
at first. 

IV. If a ewe loses her lamb, milk her daily for a few days, and mix a 
little alum with her salt. 

V. Give the lambs a little mill feed in time of weaning. 
VI. Never frighten the sheep if it is possible to avoid it. 
VII. Sow rye, for weak ones in cold weather, if you can. 
V III. Separate all weak, or thin, or sick, from those strong, in the fall, and 
give them especial care. 

IX. If any sheep is hurt, catch it at once and wash the wound with some- 
thing healing. If a limb is broken, bind it with splinters tightly, loosening as 
the limb swells. 

X. Keep a number of good bells on the sheep. 

XI. If one is lame, examine the foot, clean out between the hoofs, pare 
the hoof if unsound, and apply tobacco with blue vitriol boiled in water. 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 733 

Xn. Shear at once any sheep commencing to shed its wool, unless the 
weather is too severe. 

Remarks.— ThQ&e are excellent rules for the care of sheep, but as they do 
not give the strength of the vitriol wash for the foot, in rule XI, it will be well 
to use the recipe for foot wash, in cases needing such treatment. 

Sheep, Their Value for Fertilizing and Improving Worn 
Out Soil. — A correspondent of the American Farmer writes on the subject 
of the capacity of sheep to improve soil, and to renovate and bring up worn 
out land. He says: " From many years' experience and observation I am fully 
convinced that plowing in green crops with lime — such as clover and others — 
is the most economical and speediest means that a farmer can use for bringing 
up worn soil. Yet it can be very profitably done by the use of sheep — in pas- 
turing even. More than once and on more than one farm, I have seen dry, 
barren spots, such as gravel knolls and side-hills made fertile and productive in 
a single season, simply by salting a small flock of sheep on those barren spots 
twice a week during the summer; the sheep would be sure to resort there sev- 
eral times a day to lick up the salt, and thus leave their droppings, both liquid 
and solid, which are ver}' rich fertilizers; then the next season the most rank 
and luxuriant growths of grass and grain would be produced on those 'galled 
spots' of any other portion of the whole field ; thus the best kind of manure 
was applied and spread just where most wanted without any hard labor. 
Weight for weight, sheep manure is more fertilizing than either horse or cow 
manure, and next in value to hen, or hog droppings. Sheep are valuable fertil- 
^ers I am very sure." 

Remarks. — The author trusts that what has been said about sheep will in- 
duce all who have not got them upon the farm, to begin with them as soon as 
they can ; and that those who have them will make use of them to clean up 
brier patches, weeds, etc., and also to make use of their fertilizing power to 
renovate worn out soils, gravel knolls, side-hills, etc 

Sheep, Care of in Winter.— The weak ones should be separated from 
the strong, and wethers from the ewes; and especial care should be given to 
ewes that are to drop their lambs early. The springing of the udder is an 
unfailing sign of approaching parturition. The ewe should then be removed 
to a separate pen and kept quiet, but should be visited at least every 3 hours, 
and the last thing at night. It is rarely that any help is needed, except in very 
cold weather, to wrap a piece of soft blanket about the lamb, and to help it, as 
soon as possible, to get its first meal from the mother, when it will be all right; 
and the ewe may be left for a few hours. 

If apples are abundant in winter, a feed, once or twice a week, may be 
given to sheep ; or, in their absence, a feed of turnips, or other roots, cabbage, 
«tc., may be given them as often as necessary to avoid costiveness, or stretches, 
says a writer, an ailment common to sheep in this country, but unknown in 
Great Britain, where turnips are fed daily. Sheep feel the change from the 
green pastures to the dry feed of winter, as quickly, if not more so, than any 
other of our domestic aaimals, hence the importance of some of these juicy 



734 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

foods, in winter; and salt is of the same importance in winter as in summer; io 
fact it is better for any and all animals if they have daily access to salt. 

But I doubt the efficiency of General Marshall's plan, of New York, in 
forcing sheep to eat the orts or coarse butts of poor hay left in the racks by 
other animals, simply to get what salt they need. He places these orts in 
box-racks under cover for the sheep, which he says they eat readily after they 
have been well sprinkled with salt water. But my plan would be, if I had 
poor hay, to cut it in a suitable cutter and sprinkle it with sweetened water 
if necessary (see " Fattening Cattle, Use of Molasses in "); then mixing in a 
little meal to make up for the poor hay, and so there should be no orts left, 
and give to all animals daily access to salt; but I should not force my sheep 
to eat the poorest parts of the poor hay, left by the other stock, to obtain 
what little salt they needed. Sheep should be fed with the best of hay if you 
expect them to do well. 

Sheep, Sulphur and Salt Valuable for.— There are those among 
sheep breeders who consider, especially in winter, that sulphur, 4 ozs., to salt, 
2 qts.*, mixed and put where sheep can have access to it, under shelter, is val- 
uable in helping to ward off diseases, as foot rot, scab, mange, etc. It is un- 
doubtedly valuable, occasionally, for all stock, as well as for persons, who 
by the "grandmother plan," which was a good one, mix it with cream of tartar 
and molasses every spring and take a tea-spoonful every morning for 3 morn- 
ings, and skip 3, for the whole family, till 9 doses had been taken. Sheep, 
however, will eat it mixed with salt without the molasses. 

Breeding Ewes, Care of, for Profit.— Have good winter shelter, 
good clover hay, a few roots, a little grain daily, and water handy — water is 
more necessary in winter than in summer. Have no fears of their becoming 
too fat. If, occasionally, one gets too fat and drops her lamb out of season, 
she will be in season for the butcher, at a good price, after shearing. Sheep 
are cheap in the fall, when all are fat. Feed thus from the time they come 
into winter quarters, or earlier, if pasture is 'short, and until it is good in the 
spring; and your wool will be better and more of it, the ewes will be better 
supplied with milk, especially those raising twins; the lambs will be in bet- 
ter condition for the butcher; so will any of the flock, which from age or 
general failure to raise a lamb or two, it will be best to dispose of. If not 
cared for through the winter, but allowed to become poor, you can not sell 
till fall, when everybody else has them also for sale. 

Sheep, Peas, and Pea Straw, a Valuable Winter Food For.— 
There are so many useful things in the following item, which every sensible man 
.can see, who reads it, I am constrained to give them a place, although I do 
not know who the writer was. If I did know I should take great pleasure 
in giving him credit; still, I know so well that it contains too much good 
common sense to throw it away, and from what I know of raising peas for 
hogs, as given under that head, I know great benefit will arise to all who 
have suitable land for peas, if they raise them and use them as this writer 
directs for sheep. He says; 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 735 

L "I have made peas one of my principal crops for several years, and 
find these advantages: Peas are as sure a crop as any other, and one which 
leaves the ground in the best order for wheat. The yield will vary with the soil, 
40 bush, being a hirge yield. In preparing the land I aim to fall plow and fit 
with cultivator in the spring; although the best corn I ever raised was on corn 
stubble, spring plowed. Peas are better if drilled, but can be sown broadcast 
on the furrow if rolled afterward; Peas like a fine, dry loam or sandy soil 
best, but will thrive well on a clayey soil, if well fitted. I never have threshed 
peas with a machine, as it splits them badly, and sheep will not relish the straw 
as well as if threshed with the flail. If the vines are very luxuriant, sheep will 
not eat them very closely, but if cut before all the top jiods have grown white, 
sheep will not only eat, but relish the straw exceedingly well. If the straw is 
fed at night sheep will eat more than if fed in the morning or at noon. 

II. "Bugs in Peas, to Avoid. — "We have been troubled with bugs which 
sting the peas while yet soft, leaving the small eggs, which are hatched, the 
worm feeding upon the pea, leaving but a thin shell by the following spring. 
This is obviated by the early sowing so as to have the majority of the pods so 
hard by the time the fly arrives at maturity that it is impossible to pierce them. 
If the season be backward and this cannot be done, very late sowing will secure 
the same result. Good crops have been raised when sown as late as the 15th or 
20th of May. The quantity of seed will depend on the soil. If very fine and 
rich, 1% bus. to the acre; on ordinary soil, 2, and on very poor, 3, or better not 
sow any." 

Remarks. — There is not an inconsistent statement in this gentleman's 
remarks. Never let no one fear to venture upon raising peas for this purpose. 
Beans have been considered especially the food for sheep, but peas are easier 
raised, and will, no doubt, do just as well as beans fed in like quantity, about a 
gill, I believe, for each sheep, once daily. I must say here, however, that I am 
of the opinion it would be a decided advantage in raising peas to sow sufficient 
oats with them to hold them up, as suggested in relation to raising them for 
hogs, which see. Oats are then fed also to sheep; then, as they are a great 
help in supporting pea vines, which are to be allowed to ripen for sheep, why 
not sow them together and feed them together? Whoever tries them both ways, 
I have not a doubt but what he will afterwards always sow them together. 

Sheep vs. Dogs— How to Give the Advantage to the Sheep.— 
A remedy for sheep-killing dogs is given by a correspondent of the Prairie 
Farmer, which is better than legal enactments, as the case is settled without 
complaints, without lawyers, judge or jury. He says: " I have kept a flock of 
sheep for several years, varying from 100 to over 3,000 head, and for the last 8 
years have not lost a sheep killed by dogs. I keep my sheep yarded nights, and 
occasionally, varying from once in two weeks to once a month, I go out at 
bedtime and place around the outside of the pen bits of meat containing 
strychnine, which I take up again early in the morning if not eaten during the 
night. Result, immunity from dogs, and an old well on the farm has received 
a layer of dogs and a layer of dirt tintil it is about f ulL I have never killed a 



736 I>R- CEASE'S RECIPES. 

man's dog through malice, or anywhere except on my own premises and in pro- 
tection of my own property, and have not, to my knowledge, received any 
injury in retaliation for the death of any dog. The plan is just and right, and 
every fair-minded man must acknowledge it." 

Remarks. — The author can see only one point in this plan which may be 
wrong. It is in that he put out his strychnined meat only once or twice a 
month, whereas I should think twice a week would be better if there were 
many dogs about. 

Fattening Sheep.— An Ohio sheep-raiser, writing to the Rural New 
Yorker, says: " Sheep picked out for the butcher should be fed generously and . 
regularly, and upon this point too much stress cannot be laid. Care should be 
taken, however, to give the sheep only just enough for one meal at each feed- 
ing time. My own experience agrees with that of most successful sheep owners, 
that fattening cattle should be fed three times a day, though some of my neigh- 
bors think twice often enough. It is also very important that the sheep should 
not be allowed to suffer from want of water; neither should they lack a supply 
of salt; for although salt is not so necessary to them in the winter as in summer, 
still they will thrive better if it is fed to them at least once a week at all 



Remarks.— The author would say here that sheep as well as cattle should 
have daily access to salt and also to pure water. If fed salt only once a week 
they will eat so much of it as to make them over-dry, and consequently to over- 
drink, which is a bad thing to do. I have never seen an account of any animals 
over-eating salt when it is kept where they can have access to it whenever they 
like; and I believe they will eat only what is good for them if it is so placed. 

Pea e.nd Oatmeal for Fattening Sheep.— As nothing was said 
above as to what kind of food should be used for fattening sheep, the author 
would suggest peas and oats, which may have been grown together, or, better 
still, to grind them together; then cut nice hay and properly wet it with sweet- 
ened water if you like (see " Fattening Cattle, Molasses for," etc.); then mix in 
this mixed meal, and I will guarantee the fattening to be quickly and satisfac- 
torily done. See also peas for sheep, above. 

Foot Rot in Sheep, Successful Remedy.— Sulphuric acid, 2 ozs., 
water, 1 oz. ; and put into the mixtures old copper cents (I say old, because the 
old ones are purer copper than the new ones), and when the cents are dissolved 
it is ready for use. Directions— Remove all the rotten and decaying parts of 
the hoof with a knife or any convenient instrument — a knife like the black- 
smiths use in horseshoeing, have the end bent up or around a little, is best— 
the knife being sharp to cut off if need be any projecting bits of the decaying 
hoof, avoiding if possible, any bleeding; then apply the mixture thoroughly 
to every part which was diseased. If thoroughly applied, once will gener- 
ally be sufficient; but if there is any of the disease between the hoofs, 
besides cleaning out all that can be with the knife, a piece of soft cord or string 
must be wet with the mixture and drawn through to make thorough work of it 
and prevent its spreading again from this part. 



DOMESTIC AMMALS, 737 

Memarks. — Some persons have recommended tar a sa cure for the disease, but 
in my estimation there is nothing curative in it; but if the disease is lirst killed 
by the use of this acid mixture, or some of those below, then immediately 
apply tar over the affected part, it will protect the foot from the dampness of 
the ground and help to hold the acid mixture in place to make a more certain 
and positive cure. This acid mixture I am much in favor of, as it is very much 
like the celebrated Longworth cure of scrofula in persons. He puts 2 coppers 
into 1 oz. of nitric acid on a plate, and when eifervescence ceases, t. e., after it 
ceases to eat the copper any more, he then adds 2 ozs. of pure vinegar; then, 
with a swab, wash the scrofulous sores twice daily; and if it causes too much 
pain, reduce, so it can be borne, with a little rainwater. One man is reported 
in my " Second Receipt Book " as using this mixture upon his ankle for four- 
teen months, which effected a perfect cure, after years of suffering. The cop- 
per not only neutralizes much of the strength of either of the acids, but it adds 
to their power of destroying or killing the disease in sheep's feet, or on the 
scrofulous sores of persons, as above indicated. The difference, it will be seen, 
is, that for the foot-rot 2 ozs. of the acid is used to 1 of water, while for the 
scrofula 1 oz. only of the acid is used to 2 of vinegar, and this to be still 
reduced with water if need be, although the stronger it can be borne upon the 
scrofulous sore, the sooner will be the cure. There are those who think foot- 
rot in sheep, like scrofula, is a disease of the blood; but I think not, but that it 
is contagious and wholly external; while in treating scrofula internal altera 
tives should be taken to make the quicker cure, still there can be no objection 
to the mixture of sulphur and salt, as given above, being placed where the sheep 
can have daily access to it. Persons should also take the sulphur mixture as 
given under the head of scrofula, which see. 

Sheep, Foot-Rot in— A Flockmaster's Sure Cure for.— A corre 
spondent signing himself " Flockmaster," writing to the Post and Tribune, says; 
"I have seen for the last year, inquiries for what will cure foot-root in sheep, 
and for the sake of the valuable animal I will give to the readers of the Posx 
and Tribune a sure cure for the disease in all its stages: Muriatic acid, 3 ozs.: 
butter of antimony and corrosive sublimate; each, 1 oz. Mix in an open- 
mouthed bottle. Take the sheep and cut the decaying hoof away to the quick 
of the foot, as long as any opening can be found penetrating deeply into the 
hoof, but avoid making it bleed. [He don't tell us why, but blood neutralizes 
the butter of antimony.] Then with a smooth, sharp stick dip in the bottle and 
thoroughly rub the foot all over. It is a harsh treatment, but I wUl warrant a 
cure every time, if it is thoroughly applied." 

Remarks. — He gives us no address, still I have no doubt of its efficacy. He 
Bays to " lub the foot all over," by which I suppose he means only the diseased 
part or parts, as it is no object to put it oii the sound parts of the hoof; but a 
soft cord or string wet with it may be drawn between the hoofs, if there is any 
disease there. Care should always be used not to apply too freely, nor to get 
any of these mixtures upon your person, eyes, etc.; and don't let them lay 
around loose for children to get at, as they are poisonous as well as corrosive 
and destructive to healthy parts as well as to the diseased part. 



?38 DR- CHASE'S RECIPES 

Another Remedy— Never Known to Fail. —A writer in the Ohio 
Farmer says: "For foot-rot, here is a cure I have never known to fail: Take 
carbolic acid and pour it on a piece of copper — an old-fashioned penny will do 
— let it stand until the acid ceases to act on it. Be sure not to apply till the acid 
ceases to eat the copper. Keep the copper in all the time. Clean the hoof and 
apply with a swab. One or two applications will be sufficient." 

Remarks. — He does not say how much acid. Carbolic acid is obtained by 
druggists in the form of crystals, but is generally kept dissolved in the least 
dmount of water that will dissolve it. This is the knid lie refers to, and 1 oz. 
may be put upon 1 cent, and if it eats it all up put in another, so there is some 
copper still left undissolved is the way to use it; otherwise, as in the above 
cases, to cleanse off decaying parts of the hoof before applying. But now we 
come to a 

Preventive of Foot-Rot in Sheep.— A Mr. Karkeek, who is claimed 
to be good authority, writes to one of the agricultural papers that when the 
prevalence of wet weather makes it probable that foot-rot may set in, "it is 
easily prevented by carting a quantity of earth and throwing it up in the form 
of a mound in the center of the yard attached to the shed, and upon this mound 
strew small quantities of freshly slacked lime." 

Remarks. — This confirms the general idea that foot-rot is brought on by 
external causes rather than internal, and hence the idea given in one of the 
" Short Rules for the Care of Sheep," and that is: " Keep sheep dry under foot 
with litter," etc. Sheep dearly love rolling, or even hilly, land, and cannot be 
well kept on low, wet grounds, and especially so if there are no knolls nor 
elevated dry grounds upon which they can gather themselves to rest and sleep, 
and hence the advantage of the mound in the yard or litter to keep their feet 
dry in winter. 

Sheep Ticks, Dip and Other Remedies for.— It is important, 
soon after shearing sheep, to see that the lambs, especially, are freed from these 
pests; for after shearing, to get away from the light, and the exposures of the 
cold, when the old sheep have parted with their covering, the ticks will escape 
to the lambs, often to such an extent as to stunt their growth, reduce them in 
flesh, and seriously weaken them by the loss of blood ; when, otherwise, they 
would be in their best condition. The Hearth and Home gives us the usual 
strength of the dip necessary to free them when numerous, as follows: "Cheap 
plug tobacco, 5 lbs., broken up and boiled in 2 pails of water; then 30 gals. 
I'idcd. will make dip enough for 100 lambs, or 50 sheep. After dipping keep 
ilicui dry a day or two." 

To dip them have a water-tight box large enough to hold a lamb, or a 
sheep, if any are to be dipped, so as to entirely cover them with the dip. Ar 
range a sloping table at the side of the box which will allow all the liquid to 
run back into it. Then take a lamb by the forelegs with one hand, with the 
other cover up the mouth and nostrils, let an assistant take the hind legs, and 
immerse the lamb entirel}', long enough to allow the dip to penetrate the wool, 
lay the lamb on the sloping table and squeeze out the surplus liquid, and the 
operation is complete. If this is done every year, it is claimed that ticks will 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Tti 

soon disappear altogether; but it strikes the author that ticks are as natural to 
sheep as lice are to hairy animals, and that they must be thus destroyed when 
ever they appear. K fowls are permitted access to the sheep yards they will 
eagerly search for ticks and pick them out of the wool, but we would rather 
trust to the more effectual process of dipping. Not long after this process of 
dipping, a careful examination of the lambs should be made, and if there is 
only occasionally a tick seen, every one of them must be snipped with a pair of 
small scissors; but if very many are left from a want of proper penetration of 
the dip into the wool, it must be repeated, to make a thorough destruction of 
them, to eradicate them from the flock, before cold weather sets in. 

Scab in Sheep, Successful Remedy.— Quick silver, 1 lb. ; Venica 
turpentine, % lb. ; spirits of turpentine, 3 ozs. ; melted lard, i}^ lbs. DmBO- 
TiONS— Work the first articles together thoroughly in a mortar; then mis sato 
the warm lard and stir imtil cold. Apply to aU scabs, and all places indicating 
the disease — at shearing, or whenever any indications appear — use a swah^ o^ 
spoDge, in applying, rubbing carefully when the skin demands it. 

Eemarks.—A farmer of Olney, Oregon, who had used it 10 years saya 
"It saves wool and sheep." There is not a doubt of the success of this oint- 
ment for scab in sheep, and I have not a doubt, either, but what it will cure ali 
eruptive skin diseases of persons. If less in amount is needed, keep the same 
proportions. Let it be apphed in fine weather, else keep the sheep under sheda 
for a few days; lest cold drenching rains might cause irritation from the quick 
silver, which is mercury. (See Scab Remedies also for other animals. See 
Sulphur and Salt, Valuable for Sheep, above.) It is also claimed that sulphur, 
moistened with Spirits of turpentine, and rubbed into the sores, will cure it I 
am, then, of the opinion that it is caused by an itch mite, the same as itch, oa 
persons, which sulphur will kill ; then why not cure scab, which is an itch, on 
^eep, dogs, and all other animals. 

Sheep Marking Ink.— Take linseed oil, 1 pt.; litharge, 2 ozs.; lamp. 
b'**ick, 1 oz. Boil together, and it is ready to use; and it will not crisp or injure 
thl wool. 

Sheep, Wash to Prevent Them from Barking Fruit Trees.— 
The following wash is recommended as a sure preventive of sheep barking fnait 
trees: " Take soap, the dirtier and stronger the better, and make a very strong 
suds; dissolve J^ lb. whale oil soap in every 6 gak., and into this stir, with 
brush or old stub of broom, sheep manure until it is as thick as good whitO' 
wash, and with this mixture wash the trees as high as the sheep can reach. It 
will be found that no sheep will come near enough to rub against them for at 
least two months, the time depending much on the amount of rain. Keep the 
mixture handy, and repeat the application as often as necessary — twice in • 
summer will often suffice. Sheep running among fruit trees should have plenty 
of good fresh water; it is thirst that first induces them to gnaw the bark, but, 
after they have once got a taste, they eat because they like it. The above mix^ 
ture will effectually keep them away, and, besides it is a very good application 
for the health of the trees, keeping the bark smooth and fine, and killing any 
insects that may come in contact with it." 



3:o(3-s. 



The Best Kind for Profitable Raising, etc. — No matter ho"W 
much the doctors may say against eating pork, it will always be eaten, 
and I am among the number who like my pork and beans, as well as 
ham and eggs, the ham part being nice and tender to begin with, and has 
been nicely cured, smoked, etc. I always expect to eat some of them as 
long as I may live, and it being the same with many, very many others, 
I will try to give a few ideas that shall benefit the others, to obtain the best 
breeds, how to prevent or cure their diseases, manner of feeding, etc., to tha 
best possible profit. And as I desire to be as short as possible, I can not 
cover the point as to the difference in breeds, and as to their value in the 
markets, easier than to quote from the Western Rural upon these questions. 
It says : 

Raising Hogs.— Which the Most Profitable.— "Did our farmer 
readers ever take a slate and pencU in an evening and estimate the difference 
between a good and poor breed of hogs? The increasing demand for ham 
and lard in all parts of the world shows that hogs that yield largely 
of these profitable parts are in demand. The consequence is there is a range 
in the market at this time at St. Louis, from $4.50 to $7.50, and at Chicago, 
from $4 to $7, showing a difference of three per cent, in favor of the good 
hog. Nor is this all. While the improved breeds of hogs can be made as 
easily and with equal food to average at 15 months old 350 pounds, as the 
' greaser ' hog will 175 pounds. Or a little better hog will 225 poimds. If 
a farmer has 50 head of the latter class to sell now, he will get, at $4 per 
cwt., $1,125. If he has 50 ' greasers,' which are too numerous in this coimtry 
yet, he will get $700. But if he has 50 of the best Poland-China, Suffolk, 
Berkshire, etc., which have cost no more, and which have rendered a large 
amount of satisfaction, he will receive $2,450. These are figures that can- 
not be disputed, and are within the reach of every farmer who has 160 acres 
of land in cultivation. The number, weight, or price is not overestimated." 

Remarks. — Remarks are almost absolutely out of the question, for figures 
don't lie, and there are too many whose experience have given them the $700, 
instead of the $1,125, or the $2,450. Don't do it again, is all that is neces» 
riary to add. As to feeding, etc., see that head. On the question of the best 
breeds, I will quote from a writer in the Rural World, of St. Louis, Mo., 
who gives the following reasons for his preference of the Berkshires, over aii 
others. He says- 

Berkshires the Best.— " While at St. Louis, I took a good deal of 
pains to study the tastes of the packers as the breed of hogs. I could 

14^ 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 7« 

plainly see that they preferred those that had a strong dash of the Berkshire 
blood Mine were all half, and some of them nearly full Berkshire, and they 
suited the buyers. The Poland-Chinas that were young, and not of the coarsei 
strains of that breed, were also in demand, and pleased the packers very much. 
Both breeds furnish good hams and shoulders, as well as side meat, and have 
but little offal. 

"From a long experience, I am satisfied that I can fatten the Berkshire 
in one-half the time, and with one-half the corn required by the scrub breeds. 
I wish that accurate experiments for farm purposes could be made with this 
breed in comparison with the Chester White, Poland-China, Essex, or anj 
other breed. I feel certain that the Berkshire would bear off the palm. 
Was there ever a hardier, healthier breed? Mine have never had an bour of 
sickness, nor mange, nor any skin disease. Do you see any comparing witt 
them as breeders? Other breeds may have as many pigs, but will they raise 
as many nice, salable ones? The Berkshires are so thoroughly established 
that they reproduce themselves in their offspring. All their pigs are fine. 
They require no weeding out. They are nicely turned, square built, plump 
fellows that please the eyes of all. The color is good. Tbey are sufllcientlj' 
active and industrious, and are good gleaners and grazers, are just the righ^ 
size for the packers, and furnish the finest hams to be found anywhere. 
They have less offal, are not coarse, have small bones and are perfect." 

Ee7nark8. — Although it seems that the Berkshires have a clear track, ye* 
I will give one more item in their favor, it being short, and right to the point, 
as follows : 

Berkshire Swine— Points of Superiority Over all Others.— 
Mr. S. A. Knapp, an Iowa swine breeder, thus states his very high opinion ol 
*he Berkshires : 

"The Berkshire hogs are superior to all others for the following reasona 

"1st. They possess greater vitality, and hence are less liable to disease. 

"2d. They are more prolific. Mature sows seldom raise less than 8 or 9 
pigs. 

"3d. Being strictly a thoroughbred hog, the pigs are uniform— all choice. 

•''4th. Their flesh is firmer than that of any other hog. They furnish 
superior ham, shoulder, and bacon. They bring a higher price for the English 
market. " 

Remarks. — Simply, "none others need apply." By all mean? give them a 
trial. Still, for family use, I prefer a smaller hog, which makes its best at 
about 150 to :^t most, 200 lbs. My stomach is not strong enough for the verj 
large and very fat kind, but I know their great value for the market, and 
consequently to the farmer's profits. There is another advantage claimed by 
many writers in favor of the Berkshire, and that is, that they are less liable to 
have hog cholera than most other breeds. 

A Small, Quick-Growing Hog Desirable.— Another writer makes 
the following statement of the value of a, small hog, as compared with the 
(arger ones. He says : 



f42 HR CBASE'& EBGIPEh 

"A small, early maturing hog 's much more valuable than a large one, ait 
no more food will be required to raise two good, quick-growing ones than foi 
a large but slow, all-lard-hog." 

Remarks. — Some of both would be my plan ; let others suit themselves. 

1. Hog Cholera— Its Cause and Best Know^n Remedies. — 
Cause. — A writer for the Country Gentleman, of Bronson, Mich, speaking of 
the cause of cholera in hogs says: "I have never known an iustance of 
cholera among hogs that had clean quarters and were fed regularly, kept warm 
and dry, although fed exclusively on corn, if they had also pure drink. The 
disease is not caused by any one thing alone, but by a combination of manj 
unfavorable circumstances. To put a hog into a cold, wet, muddy place, 
exposed to hot days and chilling nights, compelled to pick its food out of the 
dirt and filth and drink from a filthy trough or hole, are enough to make the 
best of the swine race sick. All such abuses invite a sure penalty, and the 
wonder is that more do not get cholera, or something else, and die." 

Remarks. — All writers upon this subject agree upon the same things, but 
none of them put it in such terse, or plain language. Some have written half 
A column, and some more, and not said half as much as this writer, with hig 
few notea. Then give hogs clean quarters, feed them regularly, keep them 
warm and dry, feed corn, or any other suitable feed, and see that they have 
plenty or pure water, if you would avoid cholera. If you allow the other 
conditions of cold, wet and mud, and only a dirty hole to drink out of, it 
deems pretty certain that, generally, you will pay the penalty by losing your 
hogs. You see the difference, "you takes your choice." 

"Ringing" Hogs Claimed to be a Cause of Cholera.— Quite a 
good many writing upon this subject of hog cholera, claim that the 
unhealthful habit of "ringing" hogs is a prominent cause of this disease; 
together with the habit of always keeping hogs in the same pasture frorr; year 
to year A writer in the Cincinnati Gazette ^ni it in the foUowmg shape? 

"Another cause," he says, "is found m hogs occupymg one heia or peo 
from year to year, without cleansing, or plowing under, the acci/7hvlated filth, 
the hog constantly " rung," denying him a taste or smell of fresh earth, or 
the use of an instinct that teaches him in bilious derangements to search for 
busrs, worms, or vegetable roots, the natunil excitants of stomach, liver and 
bowels. Another cause is scanty feeding, muddy, stagnaut and filthy water, 
oblisring' them *^" allay their thirst often from the draining c^ ^heir own 
discharges. 

• • When tL<, uisease first made its appearance a few years ago, it was 
characterized by many symptoms resembling cholera in the human being, 
even watery discharges, emaciation and rapid waste. Its most usual form now 
is loss of vitality, emaciation and drying up, with occasion .1 paralysis, or nn 
entire suspension of secretions; no discharges; with an inflammHtory state <.-f 
the liver, sympathetically affecting head, throat and lungs." 

Remarks. — This last idea cannot be doubted, and hence should never be 
allowed. A "change of pasture" for hogs is of as much importance, and 
will give them as much pleasure and benefit as for other stork The following 
receipt is this writer's plan of preventing, as well as curing \ht disease : 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 741 

3. Hog Cholera — Preventive and Cure— 'Madder, sulphur, 
resin, saltpetre and black antimony, each 1 lb., assafoetida, 3 oz. 

Directions. — " Pulverize and mix well ; then feed three table-spoonfuls to 
each five hogs, three times a week, with a little salt, more bran, and ashes. 
[I take it this would be stirred into moistened bran, or bran-slop, from what 
he says below.] Commence feeding before the cholera gets into your neigh, 
borhood, and continue until it ceases from the same ; and if, during the time 
and before your hogs are properly medicated, one should take the disease, 
immediately remove it to a dry pen. Give one table-spoonful of this mixture 
in 1 gal. of water or table-slops once per day; and in order to make the cure 
doubly sure, take one-half pint soft soap, 1 table-spoonful pine (common) tar 
1 table-spoonful of lard ; warm and mix well, and drench the hog ; and mj 
word for it, it will cure ninety-nine out of the hundred, 

" If you will treat the first one or two in this manner, the disease will 
spread no further. And you must remember that as fast as the disease 
spreads, or in a ratio to the number infected, its malignancy increases, until it 
will almost defy control. 

Caution. — " If the season should be wet, keep your hogs on short timothy 
pasture ; if dry, on the best growth clover you have, and these are valuable 
helps. Sweet milk alone is said also to be good." 

Remarks.— It is considered very important, if a hog is attacked with the 
ciisease, gets dumpish, lies around, or tries to get into the litter, or straw, of 
Ihe pen, to remove him at once from the others, lest the disease spread, 
although quite a good many writers claim the disease is not contagious. 
Although it may not be contagious, yet perhaps it will spread in a herd if 
the sick ones are not separated from the others. See the last paragraph 
before the Caution above, as to its greater "malignancy," according to the 
number infected 

Everything that will throw even the least light on the subject of hog 
cholera is of such great importance that I cannot refrain from giving an 
Iowa man's opinion upon the origin of this disease. It is from the Patron'i 
Helper, of Iowa. It is based upon close confinement, i. e.. always in the same 
pasture, and also upon ringing, to prevent their rooting up the soil. His 
argument is strong, and his theory undoubtedly correct. Then let piggy's nose 
go free to root as it pleases, as indicated below ; and also pay as much atten- 
tion as possible to the plan of nice clover if the season is dry; and short 
timothy if the season is wet, as given in the last paragraph, or Caution, above, 
if you hope for success. The following are his ideas and argument : 

4. Hog Cholera— its Origin —"Let us watch our hogs in their ample 
pasture. Some are browsing the herbage, some are destroying it by extracting 
the roots. Otliers— what are they doing ? Tiiey are rooting into that woody 
hillside; into that hard, calcareous soil. The crackling sound indicates that 
they are eating the day icith its limesitom pebbles. What can this be for V Well, 
we cannot tell. We know it is a fact. It may effect something chemically; 
but we sometimes doubt that, it being too crude to enter into the animaJ 
ecenomy. Perhaps its effect is mainly mechanical 



744 DB. CHASE'K npjrrPKS. 

" The poor pig has no rights tnat man or dog are bound to respect, outside 
of his pen, so it is furnished a pen; may be one or two acres; frequently much 
less. In 'Mrs. Piggy' goes with her numerous progeny. Everything goes 
well for a while. They eat tlie grass and turn over the soil and thrive. Ths 
owner improves his herd by an infusion of Chester White, Poland- China or 
Berkshire blood. He is well satisfied with the profits of the investments. 

"Anon! a change has come in the condition of things. The surface soil 
is now all rooted over. The desirable properties are exhausted or befouled 
with droppings. The pigs endeavor to dig deeper, but the filthy mass falls to 
the bottom; and soon it is said the pigs are not doing well. 

" The owner changes their food, gives them sulphur and antimony and 
what not. He concludes they look a little better, but they don't do well yet. 
In fact, he sighs for the 'good old Elm Peelers and Prairie Rooters.' It does 
not stop here. The pigs are constipated, dyspeptic and mangy. Their blood 
is out of order, and ulcers are found on some so as to cause portions of the 
flesh to slough off. In fact, they have got the cholera. No wonder. Had 
the proprietor made a vegetable garden or a corn field of his hog lot a year or 
two ago, and furnished his hogs with another pasture, his improved hogs 
would have improved the strength and vigor of Ms herd, and also the condition 
of his finances." 

Remarks. — If the result is liked, let every one go and do likewise; if not 
liked, take the sensible course that is sure to prevent the disease. Let their 
noses alone, and give them a large pasture, a woody one if possible. (See U 
in Reports below). 

5. Hog Cholera— Its General Symptoms and Treatment, 
by Prof. Cressey. — The following was given through the Scientific Amer' 
ican. The symptoms are given very full, and the treatment is a common-sense 
plan, and will undoubtedly be found very satisfactory, if taken before the 
diarrhoea sets in. The larger amount given, of course, will be understood for a 
large hog, and the smaller amount for a small one. He says: 

" Hog Cholera is known as ' Blue Disease,' ' Red Soldier,' ' Distemper in 
Pigs.' etc. This is undoubtedly a blood disease, and belongs to the anthrax 
malignant type of fevers. 

Symptoms — Firat Stage. — "The disease sets in and usually secures a firm 
hold upon the animal before its presence is suspected. The one aiTected wiL 
isolate himself from the rest and burrow in the litter, often remaining thus till 
death, though sometimes they will run about as if wild, grunting and squeal- 
ing as if in great pain. Dullness, drooping head and ears, and loss of appetite 
are the symptoms observed, if at all, in the first stage. Now is the time to 
remove him from the herd. 

Second Stage. — " In what may be called the Second Stage, the abdominal 
pains are indicated by lying on the belly, with fore-feet outstretched, and, 
when caused to move, uttering shrieks. The skin takes on a purple color, 
particularly upon the back and ears, along the abdomen and inside the thighs. 
The pulse is rapid, but feeble. 

Third Ste^re.— "Diarrhoea sets in and becomes profuse in the Third Stage. 
The dejections are black and offensive. The pulse weakens and finally 
becomes imperceptible. Breathing is difiicult and spasmodic, owing to the 
condition of the lungs, and an irritating cough comes on. General weakness 
is now apparent; the animal can scarcely stand, his legs get entangled like a 
tipsy man's, and complete paralysis soon results. Eruptions on the skin may 
have followed the first discoloration, which now are succeeded by sloughing 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 745 

and ulceration. Insensibility precedes death from three to six hours. The 
malady sometimes appears in less fatal forms, accompanied by colored skin 
and loss of appetite for a few days, when recovery follows; but this is uncom- 
mon. On post mortem (after death) examination the appearance of rapid 
decomposition is manifest, and all the tissues seemed transfused with blood. 

Treatment. — " After diarrhoea sets in death is almost certain. Before that 
event, administer quickly — by means of a drenching-horn or long-necked 
bottle, and, if the pig is large, tying him to a post with a rope around his 
upper jaw — Epsom salts, 2 to 4 oz. ; sulphur, 2 to 6 drs.; gentian and ginirer 
(powdered), 1 to 2 drs. ; molasses, 2 to 3 table-spoonfuls; gin, % pt. Clean bed 
ding and comfortable pens, with light diet of vegetable food, are required. A 
free run in a bare pasture or lane is a great help. In this, as in all other sick 
ness, when possible, prevention is the best treatment, and simply consists ii 
careful feeding, plenty of vegetable food, cleanliness and exercise." 

Eemarks.—Oi course, the "exercise" he refers to can only mean a large 
run— plenty of room; still I do not see that he will move about much in this 
condition. The room, or "exercise " should have been provided before this. 

6. Hog Cholera— Reports to the State Board of Agricul- 
ture of Illinois, with Preventive.— The State Board of Agriculture, of 
Illinois, a short time since, sent out to the various swine-breeders of the State 
a series of questions to obtain all possible knowledge as to the cause and the 
best known remedies. The answers were in accordance, or agreeing generally 
with the ideas as given above. No positive cure was claimed to be known. 
Preventives, by care, removing sick ones from the herd, etc. , were the leading 
recommendations I will quote from only two or three of them; the first, 
because he claims exemption of his Berkshires; the second, because he gives a 
preventive in the line of medicines ; and the last, because his herd escaped the 
disease by " good feeding and keeping, and giving plenty of salt." 

I. The first was from George iL Caldwell, a breeder of Berkshires, of 
Carlinville. He says: 

" I am satisfied that the Cholera is owing to the sudden transition from a 
laborious, half-starved condition to one of high feed ; and so convinced am I 
that, while I have a pig, I intend to feed him liberally until sold. During the 
last three years my best Berkshires were running by the side of the diseased 
stock, and some of the older sows with them nearly all the time. I have 
always fed my young Berkshires, and have lost none of them. I do not ctm- 
sider the disease contagious. My hogs died in the Branch, and some of my 
neighbors' hogs, just below, on the same stream, were healthy, and all the 
water they got was from the Branch. These hogs, however, were on clover, 
and fed some corn all the season." 

Remarks. — Here you see strong reasons why this gentleman does not think 
the disease is contagious. The other two believe it is contagious. 

H. The second is from Lemuel Milk, of Kankakee, who keeps on an 
average 1,000 head of hogs. He reports: 

" My experience is, that the fat hogs are more liable to be attacked. 1 
think that hogs having range of fields and woods are not so liable to be 
affected. I believe the disease is contagious— have no doubt of it from my 
experience and observation. I have used as a 

"Preventive of Hog Cholera.— Copperas, black antimony and fenu 
greelc seed, each 5 lbs.; sulphur, 4 lbs., and saltpetre, 3 lbs " 



746 VR CE^SE'i, RECIPES. 

He does not tell us, tut, of course, all should be pulverized and evenly 
mixed; and for dose and manner of giving, see " Hog Cholera Preventive and 
Cure," where quite a similar mixture is given — except less antimony, and 
the author would not use more than 2 lbs. of the antimony here given. He 
closed as follows : 

" I have used as a remedy, with good result, carbolic acid, given in slop 
and sprinkled on the bedding of the sick hogs. Several weeks after, the dis- 
eased hogs recovered; they became strong and healthy, after every hair had 
come off. The hogs opened, that had died with choleio., generally had their 
stomachs full of worms." 

III. The third is from 0. B. Nichols, of Carlyle, Clintoxi county, also an 
extensive breeder. He says : 

" I believe the disease contagious, because one-half to three^ourths of the 
herd die, as a general thing, when allo\fed to run and sleep together." And 
closed by saying : " While last year my neighbors suffered heavy bosses, 
mine escaped the cholera, as I believe, by good feeding and good keeping, iind 
by giving them plenty of ^\i.— Springfield {111.) Corre-opondent of Chicago 
Tribune. 

Hog Cholera— Two Well-Tried Cures for.— The Greenville (IlL. 
Advocate published these cures : " The first is from a correspondent at Mill 
Grove, who says the receipt was first published in the Prairie Farmer some 
years since. The quantity given is for 100 hogs and is mixed with slop to 
have enough for a few doses, say one pint of the slop to the hog, each time. 
The following is the receipt : 

I. "Sulphur, 2 lbs. ; black antimony, ^ lb.; arsenic, 2 oz. 

" Our correspondent says he has tried it on a lot of fifty hogs, and curec' 
All that were able to walk to the trough to eat the slop. 

" The Second.— 'Pxol. J. B. Turner published the following preventives in 
Ihe same paper {Prairie Farmer), which our correspondent says he has seen 
used with perfect satisfaction : 

n. "Wood ashes, 1 pk,; salt, 4 lbs.; black antimony, copperas and 
sulphur, each, 1 lb. ; saltpetre, J lb. Pulverize and mix, moisten and put in a 
trough under a shed, where the hogs can have free access to it. 

8. Hog Cholera, Preventive and. Cure. — Maoris Rural New 
Yorker publishes the following : " We have recently published reports of a 
new and dangerous hog disease now prevailing in the western states. Hon. T. 
C. Jones, of Ohio, publishes in the Delaware, 0., Oazette the following pre« 
ventive treatment with directions what to do in case of an attack • 

"'A mixture of ashes (wood), 1 pk.; salt, 4 lbs.; copperas, 7 lbs.; 
sulphur, 1 lb.; kept constantly in a trough, is of great service. If predis- 
posed to cholera, hogs will eat it more freely than when free from aU symp= 
toms. If a hog gets down, try to get into him a gill (4 oz.) of coal oil in slops; 
it has sometimes been effective when other remedies have failed.' " 

Remarks. — If 1 lb. of black antimony, pulverized, was added to the above 
I think it would be all the better for it. "Coal oil," of course, means 
•'kerosene," which is getting to be used by some physicians for persons, 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 747 

?;Iving a few drops internally and rubbing it on freely, for throat diseases, 
rheumatism, etc. 

9. Calomel as a Cure for Hog Cholera.— A Mr. Benj. J. Kemp, 
of Marion county, Ind., says he has cured all cases of hog cholera on his 
farm by giving sixty grains of calomel to each grown hog, mixing it with 
flour dough. 

ifemar As.— Although I am not much of a calomel man, yet I should have 
no fears of trying this ; but I should think better of Mr. K. if he had given 
his post-office address. I suppose, however, he wanted to avoid correspond- 
ence, like many others do now-a-days. The following is also from an In- 
diana man : 

10. Hog Cholera, Preventive and Ciire.— Madder, saltpetre and 
ilulphur, each, 1 lb. ; black antimony, i lb. ; assafoetida, 2 oz. 

Directions.— AW the articles to be pulverized and mixed thoroughly. 

Dose. — In case they are sick, give four table-spoonfuls to five hogs onco 
daily, in slop. Twice a week in the same proportion, as a preventive. 
Tested. — Correspondence of tlie Indiana Farmer. 

Remarks.— This is much like No. 3, but I like this better, as it has only 
half the antimony in it as No. 3, and this man's mode of giving I also prefer. 
The severity of the disease and the great losses from it, is my excuse fof 
giving all the information I have upon the subject of hog cholera. One more, 
and I am done. 

11. Soap Believed to Exempt Hogs from Cholera.— A writet 
sayf 

"The exemption of hogs fed from the slops of hotels and private families 
from attacks of cholera is attributed to the fact that such slops contain a con- 
siderable amount of soapy water. The effect of potash is to cleanse the hog's 
intestines of worms, making them more vigorous and healthy, and a little soap 
fed with corn is therefore recommended both for economy and as a safeguard 
against disease. 

i2e7«ar Am.— Soap enters into the formation of many pills for its carmina- 
tive properties, why should it be thought singular, or no account for hogs ? 
But so far as the alterative properties are concerned, the ashes in the above 
preventives would have the same effect. There is not a doubt but what hoga 
should have salt as regularly as cattle, or other domestic animals ; and a little 
ashes with it would be a benefit occasionally for all stock. 

12. Hog Cholera, Positive Remedy from "Navin on the 
Hog" ; Valuable also for Chicken Cholera, and as a Condition 
Powder for Horses, Cattle, etc.— After the foregoing matter had all 
been written I found the following from "Navin on the Hog," and which he 
30 highly extols, I must give it a place, for I unow it will prove valuable for 
all the conditions for which he recommends it. He says: 

1. For Hogs — Ginger and sulphate of inm (copperas), each 4 ozs. ; black 
antimony, sulphur and nitre (saltpetre), each 3 ozs. All pul\ erized and mixed 



748 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Dose, fur a large hog, 1 tea-spoonful 3 times a day. For a hog less than 190 
lbs., a level tea-spoonful only; smaller according to size. 

Remarks. — He does not say how to give it, bi'* like the others, I should 
give it in a little slops ; or if the hog is too dumpish ;o eat, drench it in a little 
slop or gruel. He claims to have used it successfully in every case, from the 
commencement of the disease in his neighborhood. It being his condition 
powder, in use by him for ten years for horses. If diarrhoja in the hogs hat- 
set in, he takes alum, 2 ozs., and white-oak inner bark, 2 ozs., steeping the 
bark, mixing in the alum, and gives; and if it continues obstinate he gives 
lard, 1 lb. melted with spirits of turpentine, 1 table-spoonful ; continuing the 
powder till the hair is bright, and the skin clean and healthy. He says it 
never failed him in ten years use of it, even in the last stages of the disease. 

For Chickens — He says, also, it is good for chicken cholera, 1 tea 
spoonful in 1 pmt of dough for 1 dozen chickens. 

We shall have something now to say upon the subject of feeding and 
fattening hogs, and also upon the question as to the value of charcoal or 
carbon in some form as preventive as well as curative of other diseases, as 
diarrhoea or scours of hogs, arising from over-feeding while fattening, etc. 
The importance of charcoal for hogs while fattening is so generally believed 
we can scarcely open an agricultural paper which does not have something in its 
columns upon it. I will give the opinions of a few papers and persons, whose 
experience enables them to write what they know, and what the author feels 
assured he can recommend to his readers, to go and do likewise, expecting to 
receive the same satisfaction. Under the head of 

Carbon for Hogs, the Western Rural says: 

"There is no doubt in our m;nd of the benefit from feeding crude carbon- 
aceous matter to swine when they are kept in close pens. The avidity with 
which hogs eat rotten wood is well know;n. Charcoal is but another form of 
carbon. Bituminous (having a kind of mineral filth in it, over soft mineral 
coal,) is still another form. The utility of feeding wood and coal has long 
been recognized. We, some years since, substituted the ordinary Western 
stone coal with the best results, where from two to five hundred hogs were 
kept in close pens and fed on the refuse of the city hotels. Something of the 
kind seems as necessary to ihem as salt to strictly herbivorous (herb- eating) 
animals. We have known them to consume a pound in the course of a day, 
and again they would not seek the coal for some time. Just what particular 
use the coal is in the animal economy is not so easy to answer. Swine are 
especially liable to scrofulous and inflammatory diseases. Carbon, in the shape 
of coal, is an antiseptic, and the probability is that it acts in this way in puri- 
fying the blood.' 

Charcoal, or Burnt Com for Hoers.— Under this head the New 
England Farmer says : 

"We have but little doubt ihat charcoal is one of the best known reme- 
dies for the disordered state into which hogs drift ; usually having disordered 
bowels, all the time giving off the worst kinds of evacuation. Probably the 
best form in which charcoal can be given is in the form of burnt corn — per- 
haps, because when given in other forms the hogs do not get enough. A 
distillery was burnt in Illinois, about which a large number of hogs were kept 
Cholera prevailed among these hogs somewhat extensively. In the burning o\ 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 749 

&e buildings a large amount of corn was consumed. To this burnt an6 par- 
tially burnt corn the hogs had access at will, and Che sick commenced recover- 
ing at ouce, and a large proportion of them got well. Many farmers have 
practiced feeding scorched corn, putting it into a stove, or building a lire upon 
the ground, placing the ears upon it, leaving them till pretty well cliarred. 
Hogs fed on still slops are liable to be attacked by irritation of the stomach 
and bowels, coming from too free generation of acid, from fermentation of 
food after eaten. Charcoal, whether it be produced by burning corn or wood, 
will neutralize the acid, in this way removing the irritating cause. The char- 
coal will be relished to the extent of getting rid of the acid, and beyond that 
It may not be. Hence it 13 well to let the wants of the hog be settled by the 
hog himself." 

Mineral Coal for Hogs. — The following is from -Tudge Katon, in 
Prairie Farmer, He says: 

"The hog seems to crave carbon in a concfentrated form, and hence we 
may conclude it is necessary to his well-being. He will eat charcoal freely, 
which ts tasteless and not nutritious. From the same natural prompting we 
see them eat wood when so decayed that they can do so. 

"For myself I have for many years been in the habit of feeding my hogs 
with an abundance of our common bituminous (soft) coal, preferring the poor- 
est, or that which contains a large amount of sulphur and iron, and, I think, 
with the happiest results. [Where iron is needed see those recipes containing 
copperas, which is the sulphate of iron — a good remedy for me.] Let a 
farmer who has never tried it throw in a lump of coal as large as his fist, and 
he will be surprised to see the hog leave the corn and crunch the coal, as if it 
;o^ere the most luscious morsel. Sulphur has long been known as a valuable 
•emedial agent for hogs, and iron is a well-known tonic, acting specifically 
upon the blood, thickening and strengthening it. Here, then the hog, by 
iating the coal, gets other important elements besides the carbon. 

"I have never known a hog well supplied with this coal, to be sick, or off 
Ms feed for a single day, and although I cannot give figures showing actual 
results of careful experiments to prove it, I believe hogs ilius supplied will eat 
more and assimilate their food better, will make appreciably more pork, with 
a given amount of corn, than those which are without it. At least, I am well 
satisfied with the way in which my hogs llnive— grow and fatten — under this 
treatment. Coal is cheap, and others, it tluy have not done so, may try it 
it little expense." 

Remarks. — It can tlius be seen not only how generj»^l the opinion is, that 
carbon — charcoal, soft, or bituminous— mineral — coal, or properly and thor- 
oughly burned com are carbon — is almost, if not absolutely necessary for hogs 
Vvhile fattening ; aud it is as well known also, that wheu they are pretty well 
fattened is the time when their stomachs are the most likelv to get out of order 
from the over-feeding, or perhaps, more properly speaking, long and constant 
feeding. They refuse their food, become dumpish, and perhaps scours or diar- 
rhoia sets in, and all the labor of feeding, and the value of the hog is lost by 
neglect to see that charcoal, soft or mineral coal, with plenty of sulphur in it 
or the burnt com has been fed, or kept where the hogs could have free access 
to them ; and salt and wood ashes mixed and kept also where they can partake 
of them as they like, should be attended to early in the fattenmg if you would 
avoid loss in the end. These more simple remedies will be found all-sufficient 
when cholera is not prevailing ; when it is, then prepare a/so some of the pre- 
ventives against that disease, which see above, which always means givsi 
before in this book. 



750 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Hogs, Preparing Pood for— Peas claimed Better than Corn.— 
The Fostoria Review informs us that a writer in one of their exchanges states: 

" The present practice in any country, I believe, is to prepare food for 
hogs either by steeping, steaming or boiling, under the belief that cooking in 
any shape is better than giving iu the raw state. But 1 now assert, on the 
strongest possible grounds — by evidence indisputable, again and again proved 
by actual trials, in various temperatures, with a variety of the same animals, 
variously conducted — that for fast and cheap production of pork, raw peas are 
fifty per cent, better than cooked peas or Indian corn in any shape." 

Remarks.— i am well aware that raw peas, when young, that is, growing, 
but being what we know as " full," i. e. got their full size and ready to use "at 
table," if cut up and fed to hogs thus, they thrive and grow upon them very 
fast. As it is from decided statements of this kind that others are induced to 
try the experiment for themselves, and establish or refute such statements, I 
have given it a place. I have not a doubt but what the writer is honest in his 
position, and if further test shall prove it true, generally, there may be consid- 
erable profit to those who can raise more peas than corn to the acre, which no 
doubt many can. Still, I must say that I believe more pork can be made in 
the same time from either peas or corn if they are ground and properly cooked, 
or boiling water, at least, poured upon the meal, and the meal stirred as it 
should be, as will be seen in fattening cattle, than if fed unground and 
uncooked. There can be no doubt upon this position of properly cooked food 
being better for fattening purposes than uncooked. See " Meal and Hay for 
Fattening Stock— Scalding the Meal a great Saving." 

Hog Feeding Experience of an Iowa Breeder and Packer.— A 
hog breeder and pork packer of Iowa gives his experience in the business 
to one of the agricultural papers as follows: He has demonstrated to his 
entire satisfaction that after his spring pigs had reached about 300 lbs. they 
ceased to grow with any profit. His pigs on the first of January weighed 
nearly as much as they did on the first of February, notwithstanding he had 
kept up the feeding. He is a great advocate of taking good care of hogs. He 
would never shut up his hogs more than five weeks before he wants to market 
them. His food early in the fall was pumpkins, steamed and mixed with 
middlings, the proportion being about one-half a bu. of middlings to 40 gals, 
of steamed pumpkins. His object was to develop the bone and muscle of the 
hog without adding fat. This he continued three months, and then put them 
in a close pen and fed them meal and middlings steamed. After shutting them 
up for five weeks they gained two pounds a day until they reached 300 lbs., 
and then ceased to grow to any extent. 

Remarks.— WhevQ this man used middlings to thicken his steamed pump- 
kin, to give bone and muscle, or to make his pigs grow, would be just the 
•place tor pea and oat meal to come in, as oats are generally sowed with peas, 
to help hold them up, as peas fill better if they stand up than they do when 
fallen down, as they almost always do if sowed alone. Boiled or steamed 
potatoes, when they are plenty, when the pumpkins are all used up, or part 
pumpkins and a part potatoes do excelleptly well, thickening with the pea and 



DOMKRTIC A M MALS 751 

oar inp.il, and would generally be considered cheaper than tbe middlings as 
ab<i>e mentioned 

Hogs —Corn Claimed to be the Best Food for, and Best when 
Cooked. — T am well aware that there are some people who yet think that it 
is not at all neceisarv to cook food for hogs, or other stock, I do not pro 
pose to enter into the discussion of the subject, I will say that I think com- 
mon sense tells us that it is better to cook food to fatten hogs ; but I will give 
an item from the American Rural Home, which was given under the above 
heading, then let every one judge for himself as to whether it is best to 
grind and cook corn, or to let the hogs grind and cook it for themselves. The 
item is as follows: 

" Corn is the best feed for hogs, and may be fed in the ear, while sort, but 
when hard, should be ground fine and wet with hot water, or otherwise 
cooked, for it has been proved, by repeated experiments, that corn thus fed 
v;ill make from one-third to one-half more pork than when fed unground and 
uncooked ; and a bushel should make from ten to twelve pounds of meat 
when thus fed to good feeding stock." 

Remark. — See above, Preparing Food for Hogs, Peas Claimed Better than 
Corn, etc. 

Fattening Hogs, Roots Valuable for.— The Dublin Fai^rnenf 
Gazette gives the following as to the value of roots for fattening pigs. "Pigs" 
is quite often used while speaking of these animals, when hogs would be the 
proper word. It says : 

" Parsnips, carrots, Swedish turnips, and especially raangel-'-urzel, will 
all fatten pigs. These roots ought not to be given in a raw siate, but always 
cooked and mixed with beans, peas, Indian corn, oats or barley, all of which 
must be ground into meal. When pigs are fed on such cooked food as we 
have stated, the poi k acquires a peculiarly rich flavor, and is much esteemed, 
especially for family use. 

Store Pigs, Value of Roots for.— The following Item from the 
American Agriculturist will strengthen the above idea from the Gazette, and 
add another root to the list, as this item, no doubt, refers to the common field 
turnip, whicb is not enumerated in the other. I must add, however, what tie 
Agriculturist does not mention, and that is, I think the turnips should be 
cooked. It says : 

" Store pigs will thrive well on roots with a slop of bran, sour milk and 
water. A supply of roots on hand will greatly reduce the cost of feeding 
store pigs. Turnips that cannot well be fed to cows may be given to the pigs. 
Give your pigs a warm, dry bed." 

RcnMrks. — It will be seen by referrmg to the Cattle Department thai if the 
rootlets are trimmed oft" of the turnips, tney can be fed to milch cows, without 
fiavormg the milk. 

Store Pigs and Breeding isiowa, Corn and Oats (Irouud To- 
gether for, Bettor than Either Alone.— A writer upon this subject 
says : 

" A bushel of corn weighs nearly twice as much as a bushel of oacs. but 
if ground together the mixture makes a better feed for growing pigs and 
breeding sows than either grain alone." 



752 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Bemarka. — There is not a doubt but what this is a fact — oats too light 
alone, aud corn heavier and more heating ; but when ground together, thej 
combine all the elements needed for making growth ; but there is not a doubt, 
either, if they have a good patch of the artichoke to run to, named in the nexl 
item, they will thrive equally well on much less of meal. Try them, if you 
want a good thing for hogs, ot children, either. Most persons are fond of 
them raw, as they have a pleasant sweetish taste. It is claimed, also, that they 
are a good preventive against hog cholera 

Growing Hogs and Breeding Sows, Artichokes Valuable 
for, Amount Raised to the Acre. — Prof. Johnson, the farm superin- 
tendent of the Agricultural College of Michigan, has given a good deal of 
attention to the artichoke as food for hogs, and thinks they are not only 
bealthful, but that they give a certain sweetness to the pork. For fattening 
purposes, he says, " corn will always be most valuable ; but for growing 
fiwine, and before the fattening process begins, the artichoke furnishes excel- 
lent food." He planted a patch near the pens, and turned the breeding sows 
into them early in the spring, allowing them to "root, hog, or die," as suited 
them best, but found that the artichoke furnished a succulent, juicy food for 
the sows, just when it was most needed, and most diflScult to obtain from 
other sources. 

Artichokes.— Amount to the Aero, Labor of Raising, Getting 
Rid of them when desired, and Preventive of Cholera, etc.— I. 
It is but very little labor to raise artichokes. Plant on good soil, properly 
plowed and harrowed, then furrow it two or three feet apart as you choose, 
and an eye dropped every few inches, and properly covered, is about all the 
trouble ; for they grow quickly and spi-ead all over the ground so as to keep 
down weeds, especially after the first season. They yield from 300 to 800 or 
more bushels to the acre; the hogs dig them as wanted, and all they want, and 
it is said by plowing them up in June, when the tops are about a foot in height, 
they can be exterminated if desired. My father always used to have them 
growing along the garden fence for the pleasure of us children, but sixty years 
ago there was but little known of their value for swine, but many a one have I 
dug for eating raw, and for mother to pickle for table use, if the other pickles 
run out before spring. Of course the winter does not hurt them. A writer 
speaking of the danger of frost upon the ordinary roots for stock, says: " Beets 
endure but little frost, turnips improve with a little, carrots stand a good deal 
of it, but parsnips, salsify, and artichokes may be left out all winter with 
advantage." 

II. Preventive of Cholera.- Another writer says: "Where the 
artichoke is planted largely in districts as food for hogs, the cholera has pre 
vailed only to a very limited extent." 

Apples Good for Hogs, and Hogs Running in the Orchard 
Destroy the i^odling Moth.— Fallen apples may be gathered and fed, 
profitably to hogs, horses or cattle in moderation; but where one has enough 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 753 

hogs to consume all as they fall. It is probably the best thing to do to turn 
them into the orchard; as those that fall early, especially, contain the moth, 
whose sting, or eating into its heart, has caused it to fall thus early. The word 
codlin, as Shakespeare has it, means "almost an apple," hence we get the 
"codlin," or "codling moth" — a moth that makes codlins, or early falling 
apples, which, if not eaten or picked up soon and carried out of the orchard, 
the moth will return to the tree for further depredation and its own increase. 
" The destruction of the early fallen apples also destroys the moths and saves 
the remainder left upon the trees." 

Sows Eating their Pigs, to Prevent, and Cure the Habit.— I. 
To prevent it, keep a trough of the following mixture where all the hogs can 
have access to it: "Wood ashes, salt, sulphur and powdered charcoal, in about 
equal bulk, mixed, and see especially that sows partake of it about this period ; 
then if they commence the eating of their young, give them in small pieces one 
pound of salt pork; and ten or twelve hours later give them half as much 
more as long as they will eat it, and see also that they have frequent tastes of 
this preventive mixture. 

n. To Cure the Habit.— A little salt daily and a handful of charcoal 
to each hog once a week, it is claimed, will prevent cholera and other diseases; 
then, if the above mixture is kept where all hogs can eat of it at their pleasure, 
the author will guarantee it preferable to the salt and charcoal alone. Still, 
if cholera was prevailing in a neighborhood, he would advise some of the pre- 
ventives found under that head, having antimony, saltpeter, etc., with the salt 
and charcoal. Keep on the safe side is a good motto to go by. And it is by 
thus satisfying the natural desire for what their systems need, that a ravenous 
taste is prevented, that of eating their pigs. 

Scurvy Pigs, Simple Remedy.— Wash the scurvy hair and all parts 
troubled with the scurf thoroughly every day for a few times with buttermilk. 
A fanner who has tried this so many times as to be sure of hia position, says: 
"It will entirely and speedily remove the scurf.'* 

Lice on Hogs, Easy Remedy.—" Carbolic acid 1 oz. to water, 10 
ozs., makes a wash that destroys the lice without injury to the hog." Then it 
would on other animals, as cattle, cats, dogs, fowls, etc. 

Kidney-Worm in Hogs and "Fluke" in Sheep, Remedy for. 
— The Rural Alabamian asserts that kidney -worms in hogs, and the fluke- 
worms that infest the livers of sheep are identically the same. A parasitic 
insect— an insect drawing its whole support from another animal, as lice upou 
an animal, or worms in them— and the editor claims also " that lye made from 
hard-wood ashes, if given daily, will work a cure; also rubbing turpentine 
upon the loins." 

Reinarks.— There is nothing said as to the amount to be given, but we 
should say, if the lye is pretty strong, two or three table-spoonfuls in a small 
amount of slop, two or three times daily, would be plenty. Of course it 
could not be given without diluting, else it would destroy the mucous mem- 

48 



754 -DiZ. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

brane of the mouth, throat, etc., as cows have been killed by drinking lye left 
where they could get at it. But why not salt and ashes mixed, in place of 
the salt and charcoal mentioned just above? If they will take enough of 
it, it will do as well without a doubt, and I have no doubt of their value in 
such cases. 

Com and Pork, How to Get the Most from, by the Way of 
Feeding.— The Chicago Herald informs its readers that "an Ohio pork 
grower has learned by experimenting that a bushel of com fed on the cob will 
produce only nine poimds of pork, while an equal quantity, groimd, and the 
meal fed raw, gives twelve pounds ; but a bushel of com boiled gives thirteen 
pounds, while if groimd and the meal cooked, makes about 16i pounds." 

Eamark. — Now farmers, continue the old plan and get the nine pounds, 
or talr? ^e common sense plan, that is, do the best you know and obtain the 
16|, s^- JOM likft best. Although eveiy experiment might not exactly meet 
these ^iiresy yet tbeie is sot a doubt but what they will come veiy near 
them. 



POULTRY. 



HENS, CHICKENS, TURKEYS, DUCKS AND GEESR- 
Winter Care of. upon a Large Scale — House For— Best Breeds, 

Etc.— As it has been thoroughly taught through the newspapers for several 
years passed that poultry raising upon a larger scale than about fifty hens could 
not be done safely, I propose to give a different idea, by quoting the report of 
a committee of the New York Farmers' Club, made through the Hearth and 
Borne. All that is needed to carry on the business upon a large scale is to 
know how, and that is learned from this report, from one who has proved, by 
several years' experience, that it has been done and therefore can be done again. 
The committee was appointed by the Club to visit poultry yards and ascertain 
the best mode of carrying feathered stock through cold weather, which was 
as follows: 

" On Wednesday last we spent the day at the farm of "Warren Leland, 25 
miles north of this city ( New York ). at Rye Station, and have derived, from a 
careful survey of his yards, ideas which we consider important. We find him 
carrying 150 turkeys, about 300 hens, a large drove of ducks, and several 
dozen of geese through the winter without the loss of any of his poultry by 
disease of any sort, and without the freezing of their feet or their legs. We 
learn that he never has maladies among his poultry, that he will aUow the 
greater part of his hens to set in the spring, and each of them will yield aa 
average brood of 10 chicks; so that he will raise about 3,000 chickens from his 
present flock, and his losses be very few. How does he do it ? 1. His hens, 
ducks and geese have the best winter quarters we have ever seen provided for 
any of the feathered tribes. Their main barrack or hennery is a stone house 
75 feet long and 20 feet wide, and faces south. The openings on the north 
side are small and filled with window-glass, and in some cases with double 
sash. Those on the south side are much larger, consisting of double doors, 
which are opened on sunny days. In the middle of the north side is a wide, 
old-fashioned fire-place, with crane and a big camp-kettle. Nearly every day 
in winter a fire is lit and fed with chunks, knots and old logs that would other- 
wise be knocked about the wood-yard. The walls are of stone, and the floor 
of rock or earth, so the fire can be left without the least danger. On cold days, 
and especially in cold rains, the hens gather before this fire and warm them- 
selves and trim their feathers. The chimney can easily be closed, or the logs 
rolled out into the middle of the building, and feathers or sulphur used 
to make a fumigation. This is done whenever hen-lice appear; and the open- 
ings of the house can be closed so as to hold the fumigation till it penetrates to 
every crack. Smoke he finds better than carbolic acid, or kerosene, or white- 
wash to drive vermin. 

" The roosts are oak slats 1 inch thick by 2^^ inches wide, fastened to the 
rafters near the ridge. They are nailed at different heights and at proper 
intervals. About 2 feet below the perches is a scaffold of boards that fit quite 
closely. This is from time to time covered with plaster and ashes. Aoout 
once a month the accumulations are shoveled down and piled up for the corn- 
field. He calculates that 50 heus yield in the course of a year as much com- 

755 



7oG DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

post as would be worth f50 in bone-meal; that is to say, if he threw away his 
hen-droppings, and had to buy the same amount of fertilizing salts in bone- 
dust, it would cost him $50. He has paid special attention to the comfort of 
his hens on the perch. They sit on a slat 2% inches wide; their breast-feathers 
come down and cover their feet, and protect them from freezing in the coldest 
nights. Of course, there is no lack of dry ashes in their house, and he finds 
that after the fire goes out the hens use the hearth as a place to nestle and 
shake ashes through their feathers. They enjoy it, and it keeps them sound 
and comfortable. 

"The offal of the farm, as entrails, feathers, heads, scraps from lard, and 
all the odds and ends from the kitchen are thrown into this bouse, and the 
hens pick it over, eating all they want. Then, as soon as spring opens, all this 
trash is shoveled and scraped out, composted and taken to the corn-field. 
Besides this refuse, his poultry eat about 1 bushel of corn a day in winter, and 
J^ a bushel in summer. He raises large crops of corn because he has strong 
manure to feed his crops with. In spring, after a hen has hatched, her nest is 
taken out, the straw burned, and the box whitewashed inside and out, then 
filled with fresh straw and put back for another family party. 

Best Breed. — "After many trials of breeds he has settled upon the 
White Brahmas. They lay more uniformly the year through, make the best 
mothers, and the chicks grow the fastest. During summer his poultry have a 
wide range, and scour the fields for lialf a mile or more consuming grasshop- 
pers. His turkeys nearly make their weight on grasshoppers and beetles, with 
a handful of corn night and morning. One man has little to do in spring and 
summer but to take care of chickens and young turkeys. In winter they 
require but little attention, and this man then attends to the calves and lambs." 

"The cost of his poultry-meat — and he often kills in a season 300 turkeys 
and 3,000 chickens — he considers to be about 250 bushels of corn, and the 
wages of his hen-wife for half the time. His gains he cannot give exactly, for 
the poultry is eaten very freely by a large family and sent to the Metropolitan 
when prices are high, or the supply in market defective in quality. He does 
not keep exact account of his eggs, for, as a rule, he says the best thing to do 
with an egg is to let a good motherly hen make a chicken of it. Your com- 
mittee conclude their report by an expression of opinion that the common ideas 
on the subject of poultry-raising on a large scale are erroneous. It has been 
said again and again in this Club and in farm journals that there is no use in 
trying to keep more than about 50 hens; if one goes deeper into the poultry 
business there is backset from lice and roup and gapes and cholera and the 
sudden death of hens and chicks from causes unknown. This is a fallacy. 
In the manner above described, by the wise use of smoke and lime and ashes 
and a fire, by cleanliness and a wide range in mild weather, we find Mr. 
Leland taking about 4,000 feathered animals through the season, for year after 
year, without calamity or loss, and on an expense that is very trifling and 
unfelt on a large farm." 

Remarks.— 1 wish to speak here of two points particularly, which I believe 
to be worthy of absolute confidence. First, the perches being made of 2% by 
1 inch slats, fastened so they sit upon the flat or broad side of the perch, mak- 
ing it not only easier for the hen to sit upon it, but she does not have to cling 
her toes around a pole to be able to keep her position, which strains the cords 
and makes them more liable to freeze in winter. And second, these slats will 
not crack open by shrinking, as everybody knows poles do; thus preventing a 
harbor for lice, right under the hen, which amounts to more, as I know it 
must, than one would suppose by a mere thought upon the subject. 



DOMESTIC AjnMALS. VS? 

Another thought or two are -worthy of consideration. Mr. Leland con- 
siders fumigation, smoke from feathers, or sulphur, better than kerosene, or 
carbolic acid washes. There is not a doubt of it, as the smoke will reach every 
crack and crevice, while many will be missed with the washes. And the idea 
of a chimney and a pretty large fire-place in the hen house, is really the grand- 
est idea of all, by it he secures warmth, life, and health, to his poultry in damp, 
as well as cold winter weather. Let the size of the house be in proportion only 
to the number of poultry you wish to keep. 

Now, all that is necessary to consider before engaging in the poultry 
business is, what does the market demand in my neighborhood, or within 
points I can quickly reach by rail? 

Still, as some people will neglect their duties towards their poultry, and 
some will get cholera, gapes, roup, etc., I will give a few of the best remedies 
for them, manner of feeding, kinds of food considered best generally, their 
need of pure water, dust baths, etc, I will reverse the order of na ming them 
and begin with 

Dust Baths, Necessary for Poultry to Keep tliem Free from 
Lice.— Unless you have a fire-place in your poultry house, as in the case 
reported above, take dry, fine sand, or dry dust from the road, twenty measures 
(the size of the measure to be governed by the number of hens to be provided 
for); wood ashes, five measures; and " flowers "(fine) sulphur, one measiure, 
and mix well together and place in large, shallow boxes, or in a comer of the 
poultry house ; at all events, sheltered from rain and snow. They delight to 
bathe and dust themselves in this, as much as boys delight to bathe and frolic 
in the creeks of a warm summer day; besides it keeps the lice from troubling 
the poultry if the house and perches are kept free of them by washes or 
fumigation. The following is considered one of the best washes for a poultry 
\iouse, perches, etc. 

Lice in Poultry Houses, the Best "Wash to Destroy Them.— 
Pake 1 lb. of hard soap, sliced thin, and put into an iron kettle with water 
2 qts. ; or soft soap and water, each 1 qt. , and heat till it boils ; thea removi? 
from the fire and stir in kerosene, 1 qt., continuing the stiiTiug until the kero- 
eeue is all absorbed into the mixture. This may be poui'ed into a common pail 
of hot water, stirred well and immediately applied to the perches and every 
possible crevice about the house where the perches are fastened ; an*! it 
enough is made in these proportions, to wash the whole inside of the house 
and every nest-box (the nest being first taken out and burned, new straw bemg 
ut'terwards put in), it will be all the more certain to make a " clear riddan'^e ' 
of the lice. The composition I take from the K Y. Rural of Augiost 30> 
1884, so it may be considered the latest thin':;' out for this purpose ; and it may 
be noticed, it is much like Prof. Beal's remedy to kill bark lice on fruit tre'-'-s. 
I know it will prove " too much " for all bee which it can be made to reach. 

2. The following is from the American Agrimlturht, is quite differeiJ-^r 
from the above, is very thorough in its plan of work, and may therefore suit 
some people better by the removal of every cleat and everything else from »^nfr. 



758 DR^ CEASE'S RECIPES. 

poultry house before applying the wash. The carbolic acid is, no dcubt, u 
effectual as the soap and kerosene, and may be used, if preferred, instead o f 
the first above. The item was given in answer to an inquiry by 0. Kellogg, 
of Bradford Co., Pa., whose poultry was infested with lice, and wanted to 
know how to get rid of them. The editor says : 

" Take out of the house every perch, nest-box, or movable thing; remove? 
all battens, cleats, or anything whereby a crevice is made, so that the inside ii 
smooth. Then make a whitewash of fresh hme, into which put one ounce of 
carbolic acid to a pailful. Wash the house thoroughly with this. Then wash 
the out&ide. Then smear the perches with a mixture of lard and kerosene, 
putting it on thick, so that when the fowls roost they will get some of it on 
their feathers. Also, put scmie of it on each fowl, under the wings. This 
will clear the house, and the hens will clear themselvea, if no recruita are fiu:- 
nished from the house. 

" In a month, or less, if there is occasion, wash the house again, and 
grease the rooets ; take care to fill all holes and cracks in the poles. It would 
be well to pass the poles through a fire made of straw, exposing them to the 
flame, before greasing them." 

3. liio© on the Poultry, an Ointment or Grease ft)r.— If there 
are any lice on the poultry themselves, besides niakiog a clean job of the 
house by on« of the above plans, aanoint the necks and heads, if any are to be 
seen there, and imder the wings, around the "vent," and inside the thighs, 
legs, etc., every place where the feathers are not thick, with lard pretty well 
thickened with "flowers" (fine) sulphur, one ounce at least to one pound of 
lard. Sulphur is considered, with grease, to be death to lice, but be this as it 
may, the lice cannot crawl on the poles nor slata, if they are xised as freely as 
they ought to be, if a good coat of the ointnaent is smeared over them ; and I 
can see no reason why some keroeene, say two table-^poonfula to each pound 
of lard, may not be added, with the sulphur ointment for the poultry, as well 
as for the rooets, etc. 

If poultry is badly corered with lice, soeac insect powder may be dusted 
among the feathers, not much will be needed, using the bellonrs as used for 
" bugs " about the bedsteads. At all events, keep the poultry free from lice, 
else do not keep poultry. If no insect powder is at hand, dust sulphur among 
the feathers, it will do equally well, at least many claim this to be " all-suffi- 
^sicnt," It is roooonmendfid in the next item below by the lovia Siaie B£gister, 

L Tto Prevent Lioe Upon Setting Hens.— Which says that two or 
three leaves of tobacco placed in the nest of a setting hen, then plachag the 
eggs upon them, will kiU or drive off any lice which may be upon the hen, 
and prevent them from getting upon them, which tiiey frequently do while 
setting, ercn if not upon them at the commencement ; and 

n. Sulphur sprinkled among the feathers, when the tobacco cannot be 
olAaiaed, is good to destroy lice on the fowls, and to keep them at a distance. 
nL Again , another writer says, to put a table-spoonful of sulphur in 
the neet of a hen or turkey to be "set," will destroy all lice upon the fowls, 
and «Jso prevent them from getting into the nest and thus infesting the 
'*se*^j:.'* This should not be used too freely, lest it may injure the your<> 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. "^SD 

chicks when they are hatched. Simply greasing the heads of very young 
chickens will prevent lice from getting upon them. The old nest should 
always be taken out and burned, and new straw used for each setting. The 
nest-box should also be always re-whitewashed at each setting. 

IV. It is also claimed that hog's hair, used in place of straw for the nest, 
is newr infested with lice. A writer says: "Hen lice won't stay in hog 
hair." Some writers claim that nine out of every ten hens that die, die from 
the effects of lice. Then "for heaven's sake," as we often hear said, keep 
your hens free from lice, else, as we have suggested, do not keep poultry. 
Whenever you see a hen drooping around, refusing to eat, and the comb look- 
ing blue or dark at the points or end, pick her up and look for lice, which, if 
found, "go for them" at once, as I have directed; clean the house, renew the 
dust bath, and put all things again in " tip top " order. And remember I 

Water, Clean and Pure— Its Importance Daily for PoTiltry.— A 
writer in the Fancier'a Journal believes that cholera will seldom trouble 
poultry if they have a daily supply of pure water, and " that the omission to 
furnish it is one of the worst forms of cruelty to animals." Another writer 
says: " Poultry should be as regularly watered as horses, cattle or any of the 
domestic animals." These statements from those in the business should be 
taken as the "word for the wise," which "is sufficient." The tonic given 
below can be occasionally used by putting into their drinking water, as there 
directed. It is believed to be more needed in winter than summer, unless 
disease is prevalent among them in the neighborhood. A few words now as 
to food for poultry, necessity for variety, etc 

I. Food— Several Kinds Necessary for Poultry to do WelL— 
It has been thft custom to feed poultry almost wholly upon corn, summer and 
winter. But, as in other things, great rmprorement has been made, and it has 
been found as necessary to give a variety of food to fowls as it is to persons or 
other domestic animals if you want them to do their best. Corn, buckwheat, 
wheat, oats, cooked vegetables of all kinds, meats, cooked and raw, fruit, 
refuse from the table, raw cabbage in winter, as a substitute for the tender 
grasses they obtain in summer; and some think it important to cut fine and give 
them rowen or second growth hay, or dried grass, more correctly speaking ia 
the winter; but the cabbage or other vegetables cooked, as aboved named, may 
take its place very satisfactorily; but one or the other, or both, at different 
times for variety's sake, would be better, and sour milk is also claimed to be 
*' one of the best feeds for poultry, especially for young chickens, that can be 
given them," says the iVetc York Herald, "as they thrive wonderfully upon a 
diet of sour milk, and it may be given them in place of water to great advant* 
age." 

IL Com at night in winter time is especially valuable.from the increased 
beat or warmth it gives them during the cold months; while the other grains 
are better in summer for general feeding, sometimes mixed, at other times a 
feed of one, then the other. 



760 I^R' CEASE'S BECIPES, 

III. Buckwheat is especially valuable as s fattener, and is also par- 
ticularly an egg producer, besides it is well liked by poultry generally. 

IV. Oats are not a favorite with poultry unless ground and made into 
dough, no doubt for the reason of its length of kernel, in the sharpness of th» 
ends, making it difficult to swallow. 

V. Fine Gravel, unless they have easy and near access to it, shoula 
always be kept where the poultry can scratch and pick it over, as they will do 
daily, and eat it in considerable quantities as an aid in cutting their food in the 
gizzard. 

VI. Charcoal, broken finely, should also always be given them once or 
twice a week at all times of the year. 

Raising Chickens, by a City Woman, with Great Success.— 
The following was reported through the Country Oentleman. The lady says: 

"I have brought up chickens by hand; had 103 at one time, and never had 
an insect (lice) on them. I put sulphur under their wings and on the backs of 
their heads, and once or twice put a pinch in their food, and they were perfect- 
ly free from these exhausting pests. Speaking of chickens, I would like to 
say for the benefit of novices (beginners) in chicken raising, I am one who 
never had a case of gapes among my chickens; never saw a chicken with the 
gapes. I think the reason was I never let them run in the damp, and if I saw 
any tendency to looseness of the bowels, I always put a stiff dose of cayenne 
pepper in the food every day until they were cured, and out of 109 chickens - 
hatched I only lost four, and those died from accidents — boards fell on them, 
I never let my young chickens run unheeded in the grass. I fixed up what I 
called "my yard," with boards propped against sticks driven into the grass; 
and then I covered over the whole place with mosquito netting to keep the 
little ones in, and to prevent the old fowls from stealing the young chicken's 
food. Chickens must be fed every three or four hours at first. [Allow 
me to say here, not the first day, but after that.] I never feared hawks, for 
we kept Guinea hens, and never lost a chicken. Many country people have 
expressed astonishment that I, a city woman, should bring up chickens that 
never had the gapes. Great care did it. Never let a chicken get its feet wet, 
and it will never have the gapes. I always had plenty of coal ashes for the 
little things to roll and pick in; ashes, not cinders. If a number of chickens 
are in one place (I had about thirty in each place,) the ashes must be changed 
once a week while they are very young, and every other day as they grow 
older." 

I will mention, for the good of others, I visited a family during the past 
eummer (1884), in a village in Ohio, where the woman was raising about 100 
chickens in a space not two rods square. I remarked to her, "you have four 
times as many chickens in that yard as you ought to have," etc. The cholera 
got amongst them and she lost a large number of them, not long after. 

Many persons in different sections of the country are using some of the 
incubators, such as we see at the fairs, for hatching and raising chickens. 
;some use heat from lamps to keep the eggs at about 102 degrees F., and some 
use the heat produced by fermenting horse manure, for the same purpose ; but 
before any one goes into either plan extensively, they had better be certain they 
Lave not been humbugged or deceived in the information they received about 
the undertaking. To give proper instructionc would require mucb more space 



DOMESTIC AMJIAZS. 76J 

than I can give it, hence this caution. There is no patent on the use of horso 
roanure, nor that I am aware of on the use of lamps, still on some forms of 
apparatus connected with them, there are patents, I believe. 

Remarks. — Observe here, care with sulphur prevented lice. Putting a 
little cayenne in the food if looseness appeared, saved them. Keeping out of 
wet grass saved from gapes, and cholera too, no doubt. The coal ashes made 
the dust-bath, and her care in changing the ashes often and keeping only about 
thirty in one place or yard, as she calls her difterent enclosures, kept them in a 
thriving and healthy condition. Notice, too, that Guinea hens are the specific, 
positive thing against hawks, (see their value also below in gardens, as devour- 
«rs of bugs and all insects therein. 

Chicken Cholera, Successfxil Remedies.— It has become a well- 
settled fact that if chickens have warm and dry, but well-ventilated houses, of 
a size to correspond with the number kept, with their dust-baths, are properly 
fed, and have free access to pure water daily, with ordinary care, they will 
hardly ever have cholera, or other diseases. Then if it begins, see in which of 
these points you have failed, and correct it at once. And 

I. It has also been found that onions chopped and put into the food once 
a day for several days, then once a week, and also ground ginger, a little (I 
should say as freely as they would eat it) in their meal at their next feeding, 
every day or two will cure cholera; then I claim they will prevent it, if fed 
occasionally, when it is known to be prevalent in a neighborhood. A writer 
says : " Raw onions and a very little ginger against the world for curing 
cholera, if the disease has not been allowed to run too far," and adds, " too 
much whole corn we have found injurious ; it should be in meal, and only 
given once in three or four days in hot weather 

II. Common red pepper, or Cayenne, one" tea-spoonful in a quart of 
milk, or a quart of meal, says Mrs. J. E. Duvall, of Jamestown, Pa., "is the 
way I cured mine." I know the Cayenne and the ginger are both valuable in 
cholera, or looseness of the bowels, of persons, why not with these smaller 
animals ? It must so prove. A poultry fancier (one who has a special liking 
for raising poultry) " cures chicken cholera by feeding, every other day, for 
two weeks, bran mash, in which he puts a liberal dose of common red pepper. 
One old biddy," he says, " was determined to die, crouched in an out-of-the- 
way spot. But I sought her out, gave her a whole pepper, in doses, one hour 
apart, kept her in a warm place, and she, in a few days, gave me notice she 
could take care of herself." 

III. " Hog's lard," another one claims, "cold, in doses of one level table- 
spoonful to a fowl, and if not better, repeated in twenty-four hours, is a tried 
and true remedy, and will cure if anything in creation will cure." 

IV. Alum and copperas is also claimed to be a well-tested remedy for 
chicken cholera, given in the following manner: "At the first symptoms," 
(drooping and looseness) " dissolve, for each gallon of drinking water, one tea- 
s^^oonful of each, and put in ; and at the same time give daily, in the soft feed, 
a little sharp sand at the rate of one tea-spoonful to each fowl. In sever© 



763 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

cases, give at once, by hand, mixed in a little dough, a piece of sX-zyo. and cop- 
peras, each the size of a pea, and also mix a tea-spoonful of sand with a little 
meal and water, for the fowl Continue the medicated water, and sanded 
feed, until all signs of the disease disappear." 

2. Chicken Cholera, an "Infallible Remedy."— A correspondent 
of the Blade, I believe, says : 

"I have found a mixture of two ounces, each, of red pepper, alum, resin, 
and sulphur to be an infallible remedy for this scourge. Last summer I lost 
more than fifty common fowls from cholera, my Buff Cochins not being 
affected. I chanced to see the above mixture recommended, and tried it, mix- 
ing one table-spoonful in three pints of scalded corn meal, and, though several 
fowls were in the last stages of the disease, they recovered, and I have not lost 
a chicken since. In severe cases I would advise giving one-third of a tea- 
epoonful in a meal-pellet to each fowl every day till well. Put a small lump 
of alum, say the size of a hickory nut, in their drinking water." 

Bemarks, — This receipt calls for resin (rosin) as one of the ingredients ; but 
from my knowledge of the nature of rosin and copperas, I should much prefer 
copperas in the place of the rosin, and with the copperas I should have no 
fears at all. The writer says : "Alum the size of a hickory nut, in their 
drinking water." This amount, or one tea-spoonful powdered, would be the 
right quantity for one quart, or enough for oneMozen fowls, and then I'd also 
put in the same of copperas, or, preferably the tonic below, as there directed. 
If " Cochins " do not take this disease, they are correspondingly more valuable 
than other breeds, 

VI. Rue for Otiolera.~From the New York Sun. It says . 

" Get a few cents' worth of garden rue at your nearest druggist's and 
break up fine and mix with chopped vegetables, meat, and cooked corn meaL 
Put a pinch of the rue leaves in tiie food every day, until there are no further 
signs of the cholera. Every poultry keeper should have a bed of rue ia his 
garden to u»o whenever it is needed. Five cents' worth of rue seed will pro- 
duce plants enough for a neighborhood, and they will grow almoat any- 
where." 

Bemarks.—'Wiih. this disease, as with erery other, in animals, as well a£ in 
persons, begin with the remedy you determine upon as the best, or the one you 
will try, " vrith the first symp^ms," and you will hare bat little trouble, and 
less loss. 

Tonlo for Poultry.— The sulphate of iron, copperas, has often beea 
recommended by poultry men as a valuable tonic for fowls of all kinds, 
especially valuable in the "moulting season," besides occasionally in summer, 
but more often in cold winter weather. Many formulas, or receipts, have 
been given for it, but I like the one best given by the SorUhem Farmer, being 
always ready to use when needed, as it is all givon in ones, and will, tiierefore, 
be easily remembered, as follows : 

" In one one gallon of w»nn water disBolve one pound of sulphate of iron 
(copperas) and then add one ounce of sulphuric acid. Put the mixture into a 
jug, from which it may be ueed as n^ded. To one quart of drinking water 
add one tea-spoonful of ti>e solution It gives the water a rusty appearancf 
amd a pungent tasle " 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 763 

Bemarka. — It is a disiofectant, keeping the drinking vessels free from 
living bacteria or mites, of living animals, from which it has been recently 
claimed, that cholera of persons arises. Once a week, or so, then, let more of 
it be put into the drinking vessels, and scrubbed around with an old broom, 
then nicely rinsed and turned up to the sun and dried, after the fowls have 
had their morning drink and gone upon their daily excursion for grasshoppers 
and other pickings, 

L Gapes in Poultry.^ Cause and Suooeesful Remedies.— 
I. Cause. — Although this disease is believed to be contagious and epidemic, 
i. e, one catches it from another, and is liable to affect a whole neighborhood, 
yet it is claimed to originate from foul water, exposures to wet, and a want of 
nourishing food- Then look out that none of these are allowed, and avoid 
gapes. The gapes are caused by the preeeoce of worms or maggots in the 
heart, and trachea, or windpipe, which nuiket them gape, or, perhaps, more 
correctly speaking, to gasp for breath. 

EL Remedies.— Camphor spirits, 1 or 2 tear^poonfuls to 1 qt. of their 
drinking water at the commencement may prove all that is needed ; but if any 
become bad, a bit of camphor gum the siie of a grain of wheat, for a chick, 
and of a small pea for an older fowl, put into the throat and retained there 
untU swallowed, is claimed to be a "Bare cure." But a tea-spoonful of cam- 
phor spirits should also be put into each quart of their drinking water. 

IIL Tobacco. — Smoking them by putting the lot into a box, or boxes, 
with a pan of live coals in it, upon which sprinkle fine cut tobacco, covering 
up the box and smoking them till drunk. Says R L. Scott in the Blade, "1 
will warrant every chicken." 

IV. Salt Butter has cured bad cases, giving in the morning while they 
are hungry they will eat it readily. If too sick to eat put some down, the 
first time, the next morning they will eat it of themselTos. Giving two or 
three times will generally be^ sufficient. Thia, with pepper, is reoommended 
below. 

V. Black Pepper.— A Mrs. M. D. Bush, of Saline, Mich., informs the 
Detroit Ihtt a'nd Triburu: " Obtaining the grain pepper and grinding it, one 
tea-spoonful is mixed In a half tearsxxxjnful of Indian meal with a little water. 
Open the chicken's mouth, drop in one pill of It per day till cured. One dose 
will usually cure them, if given when first taken. Have seen no lice at alL" 

Remaa-kt,— Seeing " no lice at all," ahows she took good care of her chick- 
ens. 

Another writer says that two or three grains of ground black pepper in % 
Kttle fresh butter (it may be fresh made, but I prefer it salted as for table), two 
or three times a day for a week cures gapea. I have no doubt they will eat if; 
readily, as I know they are fond of the stimulating taste of cayenne; why not 
then of the black? I believe the cayenne to be the better of the two for this 
disease. Many writers speak very highly of giving the camphor pills and 
putting it in their drinking water, one next below of brimstone as a preven< 
tive; why should not the use of the tonic, given in cholera above, be also a 



764 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

preventive of gapes? I believe it will be if given twice a week in the water 
with other proper care. 

2. Gapes in Chickens.— Certain Preventive.— A correspondent 
of the Germautown Telegraph, who lost 70 chickens the year before now says : 
"That fresh water daily with a lump of roll brimstone kept in it will be found 
a certain preventive." 

Remarks. — From my knowledge of the value of sulphur in diphtheria, I 
I have great faith in it as a preventive in gapes, as both diseases are supposed 
to arise from living parasites in the throat, and sulphur is death to them. I 
should prefer, however, to sprinkle in flour of sulphur along the drinking 
trough, to ensure a better distribution of it in all the water. A tea-spoonful 
to a quart would be sufficient, and the water stirred before the chickens come 
to it. And if allowed free access to it, I have no doubt, they would pick at 
the sulphur and eat considerable of it. Why not, by the way, miy this 
amount of sulphur in a quart of their food, made by wetting up corn and oat- 
meal ground together, whenever there is gapes about, especially in wet 
weather, if they have to be allowed to run out. I know, from the nature of 
it, it will pay. (See also sulphur in roup, below.) And this mixed feed twice 
a week, is all the corn, or corn-meal poultry ought to have in smnmer, as corn 
or corn-meal alone is too heating a food for warm weather. Other grains 
named previously, with scraps of meat, cooked vegetables, etc., should make 
the summer food. Boiled carrots are especially valuable. 

1. Roup in Poultry— Description of Successful Treatment, 
Boup Pills, etc.— I will first give an item from the London (Ont.) Free Press, 
because it gives the description of it, its cause, treatment, and the roup pills, 
which can be used in the powder form if preferred, by mixing it in the feed of 
corn and oat-meal mash, saving the trouble of catching each fowl and^orctng 
a pill down its throat. It says: 

" "Whenever you have a northeast storm, with damp, chilly, disagreeable 
weather, look out for the roup. Roup is to the fowls what heavy colds are to 
human individuals, and as we may have cold in the head, cold in the bowels, 
sore throat, and other disturbances from cold, the term ' roup ' covers them all. 
Roup in some forms is contagious, while in other shapes it may exist in a flock 
without affecting any but those of weak constitutions. The first thing to do 
with the affected fowl is to clean out the nostrils, and every breeder should 
have on hand a small syringe, which should be put to use early. Roup, when 
malignant, makes known it8 presence by a peculiar, disagreeable odor. The 
sick fowl looks drospy, and a slight pressure on the nostrils causes a discharge, 
which is very offensive in smell." 

I. Of Roup Treatment: " Make a solution of copperas water, and with 
the syringe inject some of it into the nostrils, and also down the throat. [I 
would use the tonic, of full strength, for tliis purpose; having the acid in it 
makes it better than without.] If the bird is no better in a few hours, try a 
severer remedy, which is the injection of a mixture of coal oil and carbolic 
acid. Add 10 drops of carbolic acid to 1 table-spoonful of coal oil, and force a 
small quantity into each nostril. This will cure when all other remedies fail, 
Night and morning give the roup pills or powder, either in the food or by 
forcing it do^vn the throat. Add some, also, to the food of those that are 
n-ell." 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 765 

IT. Roup Pills — "How to make Roup Pills," the Free Press continues, 
" is what most persons desire to know. The basis of all roup pills or powders 
is asafetida. This is combined with tonics and cathartics. Here is the 
method, and by which a large quantity may be made at a small cost. Take 1 
tea-spoonful each of tincture of muriate of iron, red pepper, ginger, saffron, 
chlorate of potash, salt, and powdered rhubarb ; mix them intimately. After 
thoroughly mixing add 3 table-spoonfuls of hypo-sulphate of soda, and mix 
together well. Then incorporate this with 1 oz. of asafetida, working it 
together until the whole is completely mingled, occasionally softening it, when- 
ever necessary, with castor-oil. This can be made into pills or dry powder. 
It is of the same composition as many of the roup pills, which are sold at 50 
cents a box." 

Remarks. — Unless fowls are bad, mixing this in the powder form into the 
feed will be the least trouble, mixing in enough so each fowl would get what 
would make a common sized pilL If the tonic is used to inject a little into the 
nostrils, as in No. I. above, only a little, say }^ tea-spoonful would be enough 
to inject into the throats at one time ; and it might do if reduced half with 
water. The mouth, throat, eyes and nostrils, if much stuck up with the dis- 
charge, should be washed out clean with warm water, then sponged with the 
reduced tonic water, just above named, and for the eyes it might be reduced 
with two or three times as much water as of the tonic. I should prefer this to 
the carbolic acid and kerosene, or coal oil. The following with sulphur, or 
the next one after, with aconite, may be preferred. 

2. Cure for Roup, "with Sulphur.— An agricultural writer says: 
' 'Last fall I had two roosters affected ; the first one was almost choked to 

death when I found him, a hard, cheesy substance having formed in the wind- 
pipe. I had saved the lives of others by taking it out with the point of a 
scissors. In this case I took a piece of writing paper, made a funnel the size 
of a child's finger, opened the beak and another person blew a half tea-spoonful 
of sulphur down his throat. We put him out, I supposed, to die, but he did 
not, and after the third dose he could crow as loudly as ever." 

Remarks. — Sulphur has cured hundreds of cases of diphtheria of children, 
why not cure roup in fowls? It undoubtedly did, and will, again. 

3. Roup— Cure with Aconite, from the Canada Poultry 
Chronicle. The Chronicle says: 

"When the fowl is attacked with the characteristic cough of this malady, 
or has tenacious mucus about the beak with difficulty of breathing, I place it 
in a wicker coop, in a quiet shed, and put before it a drinking fountain con- 
taining about a gill (4 ozs.) of water, with which I have mixed one drop of 
tincture of aconite. In every instance during three years, this treatment has 
had an effect almost marvelous; for upon visiting the patient an hour or two 
afterwards, I have found that the symptoms have vanished. The attack for a 
day or two is liable to return, yet each time in a lighter form, but, continuing 
the aconite water has in no instance with us failed completely to remove the 
ailment in about forty-eight hours." 

Remarks.— li so bad when found, that they will not drink, pour a tea spoon- 
ful of the aconite water down the throat, occasionally, once in an hour or two, 
( until they can drink it. 

Scabby Legs of Poultry— Mix equal parts of lard and kerosene oil 
Into a paste, with sulphur, and rub upon the legs daily until the scabs come 



766 



DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 



off ; then rub on a little sweet oil, or a little lard or fresh butter "Will do Bh 
well. 

Egg-Eating Hena— Simple, but Certain Remedy For.— Make an 
opening into the large end of an egg and let out the contents, beat it up and 
mix into it enough strong mustard to re-fill it, and paste on a bit of cloth to 
keep it in : then place it where the egg-eaters can see and get at it. They will 
" go for it " at once, and as quickly go away. It is too much for them. And 
as they take it for granted that all eggs are alike, they give up the habit. I 
cannot see why it would not be as good for egg-eating dogs as for hena. 

POULTRY.— The Ar^rage of Different Breeds as Layers.— 
Table, -with Remarks ujKDn Best Setters and Mothers, "Winter 
Layers, etc. — Experiments have shown the following to be about the 
average laying capacity of the different breeds, yearly, and the weight of eggs 
to the pound : 



BB£KI>S. 



No. Eres 
per lb. 



No. Per 
T«ar. 



No. Per 
Year. 



Light Brahmas and ) „ 
Partridge Cochins. ) * ' 

Dark Brahmas 8 

Black, White and | „ 

Buff Cochins ) " 

Plymouth Rocks. 8 

Houdans 8 

La Fleche. 7 



130 

130 

115 

150 
150 
150 



Creve Coeurs 8 140 

Black Spanish. 7 140 

Leghorns 8 160 

Hamburghs 9 150 

Polish 9 125 

Dominiques 9 135 

Games 9 130 

Bantams 16 90 



Bemarks. — Thus it is seen that the Leghorns arerage more eggs generally 
than any other breed, but in our cold northern winters their combs and wattles 
freeze imless they have a warm house and good care. They sometimes do 
better than the above average given — remember than the table refers only to a 
general average. But I see a report in the Blade, from J. Bechtol, Polk City, 
Iowa, stating that he had bought a " rooster and a puUet of the Leghorns, she 
beginning to lay February 28, 1882, and up to July 30 — 153 days— he had 
146 eggs, kept in a yard twenty by forty feet only." 

Next to them come the Plymouth Rocks, Houdans, and the Hamburgs. 
While I was stopping in Eaton Rapids, Mich., for some weeks, two or three 
years ago, I saw a gentleman receiving at the erpre^ office, a number of 
Speckled Hamburgs, and in talking with him I found he had proved them 
excellent layers. They are quite a hardy breed, too. One writer speaks of 
the old "Bolton Grays" as being much like the Silver Pencilled Hamburgs, 
but beating them as layers, quite often producing 200 eggs a year. Thus, 
aside from the old Bolton Grays, which may not now be obtainable, this 
writer, J. G. McKeon, of Acworth, N. H„ to the Boston Cultmitor, says that 
" in his experience no variety of fowls equal the Hamburgs as layers, being 
small eaters, and wonderfully prolific, but on account of their small size, not 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 767 

recommended for their flesh." The Plymouth Rockfl and Brahmas are espe- 
cially recommended as winter layers ; but it is also claimed that well-lighted 
and warm quarters, with a variety of food, corn at night, a hot or warm musb 
made of the mixed meal, or best ground feed for hens, with cooked potatoes 
and cooked carrots in the morning, are especially valuable as egg-producing 
food, with chopped meat at least once a week, and vegetables mixed with the 
mixed meal, or oatmeal, made up as the " boarding-house hash," the noon feed 
to be of mixed grains, is excellent as a winter plan of feeding when eggs in 
large quantities are expected. I would add to the "hash" once or twice a 
week, a tea-spoonful of powdered Cayenne to every quart of the mixture, 
when, with all this care, I guarantee a " fair show" of eggs all winter. It 
will be noted in the first item given under the head of poultry that of the large 
breeds Mr. Leland considers, for general purposes, none will be found superior 
to the Brahmas. The Buff Cochins, it is thought, make the best setters and 
mothers, of all the others. Let people, then, supply themselves with the 
breed that is best for what they wish to do — for eggs, the best layers ; lor 
chickens to sell, some of the large breeds that mature the quickest, etc., and 
give care accordingly. 

I will give, however, the following item from the New England Farmer, 
upon the question of the best breed for farmers and families of the villages 
who only desire to keep one kind, for home use, home sales, etc. ; although I 
think them equally valuable for shipping, if any one should desire at any time 
to do so. This item will also confirm, in its statements, several observations 
made in other places upon this subject. 

Best Breed of Fowls for Fanners and Families in Towns.— 
One breed is enough for the farm, or for villagers, keeping only for home use. 
What is wanted is a good sized hen, a good layer, a good mother, a non-setter, 
(not inclined or determined to set,) and a fine table fowl, which the Plymouth 
Rocks are conceded to combine in a greater degree than any others. The 
White Leghorns will beat them in the number of eggs ; and the Cochins and 
Brahmas as a table fowl exclusively; but the last n&med being great consum- 
ers of food, lose their prestige, or superiority. But let it be remembered, 
whether on the farm, or in the village, it is care and attention to cleanlines&, 
food, and all other details of management which give their proper returns in 
eggs and merit. 

Best Ground Feed for Hens.— Commeal, oatmeal and middlings, 
each 50 lbs., bran, 10 lbs., bone meal, 3 ozs., cayenne, 1 oz.; mix evenly 
together for use, 

Direeiiom. — If you can afford it, put milk on the fire till it wheys, and is 
scalding hot, if no milk, water, the same; add 1 te*-8poonful of salt for a 
dozen fowls, and stir in of the mixed meal, to make a stiff batter, and bake 
four hours. Crumble to feed. This meal can be fed dry, or as any other meal, 
for much feeding ; and if you have no milk to spare, it makes a feed nearly 
equal, to boil meat scraps to a soup, adding potato parings and other vege- 
tables, as for a common soup, then thickening with the meal and baking as 
mentioned, for at least one feed daily. — Poultry JaiirnoL 



768 DB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Poultry Maxims, or Short Statements of Important Facts. — 

1. Give hens constant access to lime, of which to make shells, and always 
give them access to gravel 

2. A fresh egg has a lime-like surface, old ones become glossy and 
smooth. 

3. Charcoal in pieces the size of a pea, or burned corn once a week is 
valuable for all poultry. 

4. If eggs are expected, give a warm feed every morning of mashed 
vegetables so moist as to allow thickening with middlings, or corn, oats, wheats 
and buckwheat ground together in equal quantities; buckwheat alone, or the- 
mixed small grains, buckwheat being one of them, for the noon feed, and 
cracked corn, or whole kernels at night. Once a week putting a tea-spoonful 
of cayenne into the morning feed, for 1 dozen fowls, and once a week, black, 
popper, twice as much, in its place, which not only increases the production o£ 
eggs, but wards off disease. 

5. Meat, chopped, and fed once a week induces laying, and poultry,, 
young or old, are very fond of warm dish water in winter, with a little com 
meal, or mixed meal in it; and are also very fond of oatmeal gruel; and all 
the better if it can be made of milk, or at least half milk. It promotes warmth 
and makes flesh ; but better with water only, than none. 

6. Wheat, oats, and barley boiled together, promotes laying, or either 
two of them; buckwheat is good with them, but does not want boiling more 
than half as long. 

7. Feed only what will be eaten up clean and at once, else they 
become too fat and quit laying; while in summer, any of the mixed or mashed 
feeds not eaten up, soon sours, and invites disease. 

8. Fine gravel, or coarse sawdust are as essential to the thriving of poul- 
try as good and varied food. They will not keep healthy without them. 

9. Early chickens must be fed by lamp-light at night, if expected ta 
mature quickly. They will soon learn to enjoy it ; and four times by day- 
light, the last of these at early dark, the final at bed-time, if for an early 
market. 

10. Pullets generally begin to lay eggs in about eight months from hatch- 
ing ; then those hatched in March or April, if properly cared for, will be tha 
more certain to make excellent winter layers. 

11. Gather eggs twice daily in summer, and three times in winter. 
Young Chickens— Best Food For— How Often to Feed, Etc. — 

The following well-written and sensible instructions are from " Fanny Field," 
in the Ohio Farmer. She says: 

" The first meal, which should not be given until the chicks are at least 
twelve hours old, is hard-boiled egg. crumbled fine, or stale wheat bread 
crumbs, moistened with milk. We make it a rule to feed nothing tlie first 
week except the egg, bread crumbs and curds. When a week old we begin on. 
cooked oat meal, boiled potatoes, cooked rice, etc. Cooked corn meal may ho 
fed the second week, but we think they do better without any corn meal unlii 
the third or fourth week •, then we give almost any cooked food, adding a 



DOMESTIC ANIMALS. 769 

tittle cooked meat when the egg is dropped from the bill of fare, unless insects 
are plenty. As soon as they are old enough to swallow the grains, give cracked 
corn, cracked oats, wheat, etc., at night. Two or three times a week mix a 
little bone meal with the feed— a table-spoonful to 1 pt, of feed. Season the 
food slightly with salt and pepper. Give milk to drink if you can get it. Feed 
often — five or six times a day. Feed all they will eat up clean, but do not 
leave any food around to sour. Sour, sloppy food is responsible for a good 
deal of mortality among the infant chicken population." 

Bemarks. — The " bone meal " referred to here is undoubtedly good ; and 
if it cannot be obtained at the stores, which has been finely ground and put up 
for sale, the best substitute is to burn bones til' white, then pound and pulverize 
them in an iron mortar as finely as practicable, will do very well, and is 
especially important until the chickens are allowed to take the range of the 
fields. 

Fattening Poultry for Market— Best Pood for. Etc.— Ameri- 
can, French and English Plans, Etc. — " No fowl," says the American 
Agriculturist, "over two years old, should be kept in the poultry yard, except 
it be an extra good mother or a finely-feathered bird, desirable for breeding — 
such may be kept till 10 years old, or as long as useful. All other hens or 
roosters should be fattened for market at the end of the second year." They 
should be confined in a room or shed that can be closed and made quite dark, 
if you wish the greatest speed in fattening ; the floor to be covered with two or 
three inches of sifted coal ashes, dry sand, dry earth, or dry straw ; best in the 
order named. The food should be given four times a day, and pure water 
always before them. 

1. The Americans think buckwheat meal, mixed with skimmed milk 
into a thick mush, with a tea-spoonful of salt to enough for 1 doz. fowls, is 
the best food for fattening ; and that two weeks should do it, if the room is 
dark and cool. Then ship at once to market, 

2. The French claim that no meal for fattening should be made from 
grain less than one year old, and that the water used in mixing should have 
suet added to it, at the rate of % oz. to each 2 qts. of meal ; and a small 
quantity of coarse gravel also added to aid the digestion ; and no food to be 
given within twelve hours of the time the fowl is to be killed. They also feed 
largely of the Belgian yellow carrot, boiled or stewed, and mashed, claiming a 
very rich and peculiar flavor is imparted to the flesh by its use. All carrots, 
that I ever saw are yellow, but the Belgian may be peculiarly so, and may be 
richer in flavor than our common kinds, still I think they will " fill the bill.'^ 

3. The English have a great liking for the flesh of the Dorking fowls, and 
prepare them for the London market by shutting up in a dark room, the sama 
as the Americans and French do; but they feed a mixture of suet, 1 lb., 
chopped fine; sugar, ^ lb. with each 4 lbs. of meal ; and give milk as their 
drink five or six times daily, and claim a gain of 2 lbs. a week ; and with 
young turkeys, that even 3 lbs. a week is often gained. Thus turkeys might 
be brought up to about 40 lbs. for the New York market, where, of this weight 
at Christmas time, I see some of the papers claim they are worth $1 a pound. 
Beai in mind, however, that in all cases their droppings must be often removed 



770 -051 CEASE'S RECIPES. 

and the floor covering also renewed if the same room is continuously used. 
Best to rake over the floor covering daily. 

Dressing Poultry for the Market, the Best Way.— There are 
two ways of dressing poultry for market — dry picked and scalded. Fowls 
dressed in the former way in all cases bring the his;hest prices. It should be 
the aim of every farmer, in disposing of his poultry, to ship it in as good con- 
dition as possible, in order to catch the eye of the butcher or grocer, and secure 
a ready sale. Greater skill is required to dry -pick than most people imagine, 
in order that the "bird "may look plump and handsome. To do this work 
properly, or with any degree of satisfaction, the fowls should be plucked when 
warm— that is, immediately after they are killed — as, if allowed to get cold be- 
fore stripping, you are apt to tear the flesh. Commence by plucking the wing 
and tail feathers, then the back, from head to tail. Pluck the feathers from 
the "craw" crossways ; stomach and breast feathers should be plucked down- 
ward—that is, from the legs to the head. In dressing poultry by this method 
you get a double advantage of those dressed by the hot-water process, as you 
can save all the feathers, being careful to keep separate all the tail and wing 
feathers ; and where many are dressed, the sale of feathers amoimts to quite 
an item of profit. Dressing poultry by the scalding process is by no means a 
good and profitable one, as it depreciates the value of the birds, they looking 
anything but dainty, and do what you will, they will never look enticing to the 
buyer" ; moreover, you lose the value of the feathers. 

Remarks. — Allow me to say here, I think it best to wait long enough after 
killing, to allow the fowl to become a little cooled, as if the feathers are 
plucked too soon, as anyone can tell by trying, there will be a little blood set- 
tle into the orifices, from which the feathers are pulled, and thus make them a 
little spotted, if done too soon. This is of importance to observe. If they are 
killed as the French do it, they having a knife much like a screw-driver, the 
end being the sharpest, the legs held by another person, the mouth opened, the 
fowl being on its back, the knife is put just back of the " roof of the mouth," 
and pressed in to separate the vertebrae, or bones of the neck, which kills them 
quickly ; and then hang up by the legs till done bleeding, the feathers may 
then be removed at once ; and this hanging up by the legs, to bleed, sliould be 
done, if the head is cut off in the old way. The fowl keep better for being 
hung up to bleed ; but, if the head is cut off, the skin must be pulled over the 
bone of the neck and tied, and all blood carefully removed from every part of 
the fowl, before packing. The entrails are never to be removed, unless so un- 
derstood before shipping. 

Packing Poultry for Market.— If poultry is killed in cold weather,, 
for maiket, it ought to hang twenty-four hours before packing, to allow all 
animal heat to pass off, and thus prevent its spoiling ; then pack in clean ry.i. 
straw, if obtainable, but any straw, free from chaff and powdery dust, will dc 
First an inch of straw, at least, and the fowls placed in with straw betweeq 
each, so they do not touch each other, then straw again ; the top of the boa^ 



DOMESTIC ANIMAL8. 771 

or barrel, so filled with straw that there shall be no shaking or Jostling about 
Mark plainly, to whom addressed, the number of chickens, and the weight of 
them ; and also your own name on the package, to show you are not ashamed 
of your work, and to help the commission man to keep each lot by themselves, 
for they will soon learn who does his work the best. 

Guinea Fowl, Their Value to Keep Away Hawks, and Bugs 
from Garden Vines. — Although the noise of these pretty animals is quite 
annoying to most people, yet, as this very noise scares off the hawks, they 
should be kept by all who raise many chickens ; and also for the reason that 
they do not scratch the garden like our common chickens, but " go for the 
bugs," on all garden vines, without injuring the most ddicate placte ; bfince it 
would be well to keep a few on every farm. 



AGRICULTURAL. 



Tiie Suocessftil Parmer.— What he Does, and "What he Does 
Not,— Applicable to all Business Men.— The successful farmer does 
nothing but farm. He invests his money as fast as made in a way to improve 
the farm. He informs himself by magazines, farm journals and books, as to 
his business, bo he can do his work intelligently. Upon such farms no weeds 
are allowed to mature their seeds after the wheat or other crop is off; and no 
weeds in fence corners, nor other places, stand as high as a man's head ; nor 
are fences, nor buildings neglected or dilapidated ; no implements are left 
exposed to the weather, nor stock unsheltered and uncared for; but everything 
is attended to at the right time; and the consequences are natural and sure. 
Enterprise and thrift show themselves in everything. 

Bemartcs. — A whole volume in but few words. Let every business man 
adopt the same rules, and he will be alike sure of success. 

Hay, Time to Cut. — There is scarcely a subject of greater importance 
to the agriculturalist, than the proper time to cut hay, so it shall contain to the 
fullest extent its nourishing, or flesh -making, properties; and experiments in 
the United States, as well as in England, France and Germany go to show, 
most decidedly, that that time is: As soon as possible after the blossoming 
and setting of the seed, whether it be timothy or clover. 

A writer in the Prairie Fa/rmer says: " Do not wait for the grass, or the 
clover to get ripe before you cut it for hay. Any of the meadow grasses are 
in their prime for hay, so far as nourishment is concerned, just as soon as they 
are out of bloom." 

Dr. Sturtevant, in the Country Gentleman, says: "According to the talk 
of Wolff, red clover hay, cut in full blossom, contains 13.4 per cent, of albu- 
minoids (nourishment), and when ripe, only 9.4, or a loss of 80 pounds to each 
ton," and this he goes on to show amounts, in the New England States alone, 
to 5,000,000 tons difference in its nourishment. 

Dr. Arnold says: "Dried grass is worth as much as cornmeal, pound for 
pound, while after grass has blossomed and is made into what is called hay, it 
is not worth half as much as cornmeal to feed out." 

Remarks.— As these points are considered by most writers upon this sub- 
ject to be the facts, nothing further need be said to induce sensible farmers to 
do this when possible considering other work ; I will, however, give a word 
from a writer in the Germantown Telegraph, who says: " The greatest losses 
of farmers com<<. from late cut hay, cold stables, and, consequently, poor 
stock." A vrora Sc the wise is sufficient. 

172 




SL'ccKvSSFrL far:\iing. 



AGRICULTURAL. 773 

Manuring— Its Advantages Shown in the John Johnston 
Farm. — The editor of the Country Oeritleman gives the following account of 
a visit to this farm at Geneva, N. Y. And as I believe it to be applicable, 
generally, in all sections of our country, and of such great importance, I give 
it a place. He says: 

"Mr. Johnston came to Geneva from Scotland, fifty-two years ago, with 
little capital, comparatively; but having much of the economy, energy and 
thrift necessary to enable any one to succeed in a comparatively new country, 
fie is now, at the age of eighty-four, a hearty, vigorous farmer, able to oversee 
his farm and farm bands, and apparently as capable of directing and conduct- 
ing all the operations necessary to make a farm pay, as at any time during his 
long life. 

"On being asked where lay the secret of his success, replied, 'manure, sir, 
manure, and plenty of it.' The main object in his farming has always been to 
make all the yard manure possible; and by its free use he brought his wheat, 
which was then the staple crop in western New York, from 12 or 15 bushels 
per acre to 30, and became celebrated as a farmer who would be sure to have 
a crop sufficient to meet all obligations. 

"After some years he purchased fifty acres adjoining his original farm, the 
owner of which said that manure would do no good on the land. In the barn- 
yard there was three years' manure accumulated, which !Mr. Johnston ob- 
tained with the farm. He paid $l,oOO for the fifty acres, most of which ha 
borrowed, 'but,' said he, 'that manure paid every cent for the farm.' " 

Remarks. — If Mr. Johnston could double, or more than double, his crop, 
by the use of manure, other farmers can do the same. The object of this 
report is to induce them to do it. And until sufficient "yard manure" can be 
made by keeping more stock, a judicious use of some of the '' fertilizers," or 
"phosphates," as the manufactured articles are called, or lime, or a mixture 
of lime, ashes, plaster, gait, and hen manure will be used- These were not 
known in Mr. Johnston's days as they are of later years. 

Salt, Its Uses as a Manure.— A correspondent of the Country Gen- 
tleman says his experience in the use of salt in agriculture leads him to the 
following conclusions ; 

"It keeps the land cool and moist. It neutralizes drouth. It extermin- 
ates all soil vermin. It prevents potato rot. It glazes and stiffens straw, pre- 
venting crinkling and rust. It keeps the ground in such condition that the 
berry of many kinds of grain fills plumply, however long-continued the hot 
and dry weather may be." 

Remarks. — Unleacbed ashes, probably " stiffens straw" more than salt 
does, especially if grain falls from over-manuring with stable manure. 

2. Salt as a Manure, Amount per Acre for Different Crops. 
—The French and German agriculturists recommend, salt per acre, for 
clover, 150 lbs. ; for wheat or flax, 250 ; and ^or barley and potatoes, 300 lbs., 
to be sown broadcast early in the season. 

3. Ashes, Lime, and Salt for Wheat.— A Wisconsin -wheat grower 
makes an important point on the use of ashes and iime and salt as a manure 
for wheat. He plowed up sod and sowed twelve bushels of unleached ashes, 
mixed with ten bushels of air-slacJjed lime, to three acres, before the whtat 
was sown^ and when the wheat was up a httle. he sowed on also one barrel ^ 



W4 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Bait, which gave him twenty bushels to the acre of plump, fine berry, weigh- 
ing 62 lbs. to the bushel, while another acre of the same field, without these 
gave him only ten to the acre. Such facts as these tell the whole story. Qo 
and do the same. 

"WTaeat-Qrowing Maxims, or, "Much in Little."— A maxim 
being a condensation of a weU-established fact, somebody has taken the labor 
of condensing several facts into short maxims upon the subject of raising 
wheat, and although they have get " into print " without credit to the origina- 
tor, still as they contain so much of real value in so few words, I deem it best 
to give them a place : 

I. The best soil for wheat is a rich clay loam. 
n. "Wheat likes a good, deep, soft bed. 
HL Clover turned under makes just such a bed. 
rV". The best seed is plump, heavy, oily and clean. 
Vc About two inches is the best depth for sowing the seed, 
VL The drill puts in the seed better and cheaper than broadcasting. 
VIL From the middle of September to the last of October is the best 
time for sowing. 

Vni. If drilled, one bush, of seed per acre ; if broadcasted, two bush. 
IX One heavy rolling after sowing does much good. 
X. For flour, cut when the grain begins to liarden ; for seed, not until 
It is hardened. 

Com. Raising for Soiling, "Winter and Spring Feeding.— 
In answer to inquines in the Detroit THbune as to raising corn-fodder, J. E. 
Estes, of Commerce, Mich., gave liis plan from ten years' experience. He 
says: 

"I plow my ground early in spring ; keep it well cultivated until the first 
or middle of June, then I mark out with a marker thirty inches wide, sow 
with a one-horse drill four bushels per acre, keep well cultivated. It will soon 
cover the ground. Cut when the juice is sweet in the joints, with a common 
com knife ; put in large stocks and let it stand until cold weather, then draw 
as you want it to use. In this way it will cure green and nice. I have raised 
from three to five acres for the last twelve years with good success." 

Remarks.— KW, so far as I know, agree that drillmg is the best plan, espe- 
cially so if it is probable that weeds will be troublesome ; then, by frequent 
cultivation they will be kept down ; but all do not, agree as to the amount of 
seed per acre. In Western New York one claims that two bushels produce 
stalks nearer the right size than any other amount of seed— the thicker it 
stands the smaller the stalk. Ten acres of com, no doubt, are now sown for 
fodder where one was ten years ago. 

2. Com For Summer, Fall, and Winter Feeding— Time to 
So-w, Etc.— For soiling in early summer, sow as early as the middle of May, 
in fair seasons. For later summer and fall feeding sow every two or three 
weeks after the first. For winter, sowing from the middle to the last of June 
is considered the best time tor sowing. In all cases of drilling, keeping well 
cultivated is of the utmost importance ; and as soon as the ends of the leaves 



AGRICULTURAL. 775 

begin to get dry it is thought to be the best time to cut it, the juices then being 
just fully matured, the fodder gives the greatest amount of animal heat when 
fed. If drilled, cut with a common corn-cutter; if broadcast, cut with a cradle 
or self -raking reaper. Let lay until wilted and a little dry; then bind into 
moderate sized bundles and put about a dozen into a "stock" or "'shock," 
binding the top securely to shed the rain and to keep standing until perfectly 
dry And if drawn in at all, unless it is perfectly dry. it must not be stored 
too thick, as it gathers dampness and molds without these precautions, except 
in cold winter weather. The soil for this purpose, if not rich in itself, ought 
to be made so, as well as for rye. 

3. Com Cut in the Blossom Better than Hay for Milch 
Cowa. — An Illinois dairyman, name not given, claims that " corn cut when 
in blossom, bound and set up till cured, is better for milch cows than the best 
hay." Certainly several tons of it can be raised where one of hay can be — 
then "go for it." 

4. Rye— Its Value for Fall and Spring— Green Feeding.— 
Those who need fall and spring green feed for stock should not fail to take a 
piece of their best land, and if not naturally rich, make it so with barn-yard 
manure or good fertilizers, then plow and make fine with the harrow, and 
have it ready by the last of August or early in September, and sow to rye. 
This will give fall feed ; and what is not cut till spring will grow up again, and 
give two or three more cuttings, according to the season. It is strange that 
more rye is not sown for this purpose, for it is wonderful what an amount of 
feed it will furnish upon good, rich soil. 

L S-w^eet Potatoes, Fruits, Seed Com, Etc., to Keep for 
Months. Even in the South.— A correspondent of the So^itliem CuUivator 
writes thai after testing every plan given for preventing decay in fruits with- 
out success, had adopted the following with entire success He says: 

"Take good, perfect sand, free it from trash, etc., by sieving it. Put it 
in a large metallic vessel— I use large syrup boilers — mixing flour of sulphur 
through the whole, enough to fumigate it well, then heat to a temperature 
that will volatilize the sulphur. After maintaining this heat till the sand is 
dry, let the mass cool to a moderate warmth, and putting your sweet corn — or 
other grain difficult to keep — into barrels or boxes, pour the sand in, filling the 
same well, and packing down closely. In heating the sand, the vessel should 
be covered to retain as much as possible the sulphurous fumes. I put in the 
corn, stripped of the shuck, and thus the sand sieves well through the barrel. 
This certainly balks the wevils, and even rats do not burrow in it. It is appli- 
cable to any grain — even seed wheat, so difficult to preserve in this latitude. 
This sand keeps perfectly all such fruits as oranges, apples and lemons, putting 
them away in shallow boxes in a cool place. I've kept these fruits for months, 
perfect and plump, when if exposed to atmospheric beat and moisture they 
would have decayed in a few days." 

Remarks. — This gentleman does not speak of sweet potatoes, but I know 
the dry sulphurous sand will do it, as well as other kinds of fruit, hence I have 
named them in my heading. I think, however, that apples should pass 
through what iscallfi " a sweating," by laying two or three weeks <ibout thr^ 



776 DR. CHASE'S EECIPE3. 

feet thick on a barn floor before putting up for the next season's use, or before 
shipping on sea voyages. The same with sweet potatoes before putting into the 
sulphured sand. I have not a doubt, either, but what with a little extra care 
in packing and getting the sand well among them, and covering the boxes 
nicely, grapes may be kept in the same way for spring use. In our northern 
country, what he calls a " cool place," must not be such as to freeze in winter. 
Still, 

2. The True Secret of Keeping Fruit over winter is, to keep it as 
near the freezing point as possible, not to freeze; say at 34° or 35°, which is 2 
or 3 above freezing. But a few degrees above this, never above 50°, and 
always below 40°, is better; but to do this ice house arrangements must be made 
to suit one's conveniences, and amounts to be put up ; the best plans for which 
all are now supposed to understand. With ice-houses the sand packing is not 
necessary; and for small amounts the " poor woman's", plan, next below, will 
be all suflScient. 

3. Keeping Sweet Potatoes over Winter in the Living Room. 
— "A poor woman," says one of the editors of a northern paper, " just told us 
how she keeps her sw^eet potatoes over winter, as follows : When dug and 
properly dry for packing, she obtains dry sand, with which the bottoms of 
kegs or boxes are covered. Then a layer of sweet potatoes is put in, not 
touching each other ; then sand, and so on. They are kept in the living room, 
raised two inches from the floor." 

Remarks. — The only secrets seem to be dry sand and raising the boxes 
from the floor by means of strips of plank, to allow air under, as well as 
around them. Then, why not in any room or cellar that does not freeze ? 
They will do as well, at the same time being more out of the wsy. There is 
not a doubt, however, that the sulphur heated among the sand, in drying as 
above, is a very valuable addition. 

4. Sweet Potatoes. How to Grow and to Keep.— It has been 
considered heretofore that sweet potatoes could only be grown upon sandy 
soil and in ridges ; but the 0?iio Fanner informs its readers that they have 
grown 160 bushels to the acre of good, merchantable sweet potatoes upon thin 
clay soil, by a shallow cultivation, applying only ten good two-horse loads of 
manure, worked in with a cultivator after the shallow ploughing, and then 
planting in hills made on the ridges — the ridges three feel apart and the hills 
three feet from each other. He cultivated several times after plowing before 
planting, and made the hills high, so as to brush off three or four inches at- 
the planting, to set the plants in fresh earth — only one olant to each hill. The 
hills are made small, to allow the sun to keep the hill warmer than if made large, 
and the shallow cultivation is to keep the potatoes nearer the surface than if 
ploughed deep. The idea of only one plant in a hill is to obtain larger pota- 
toes than if two or more were allowed, on the same principle that not more 
than two stalks should be allowed to stand in ahiU of common or " Irish" 
potatoes, as recommended below 



AGRICULTURAL, nil 

To Keep Well, he dried them by spreading upon boards a few days in 
the sun as you would apples. [The great apple raiser. Pell, on the Hudson, 
■who ships largely to England, "sweats" his apples two or three days, in his 
apple house, three feet thick, then takes to an upper room and spreads out to 
dry before packing ] "Whether this would do as well for sweet potatoes I am 
not certain. Test, only, can settle that. There must be no bruising of either, 
if expected to keep long. 

I. POTATO CULTIVATJON.— Soil Needed, Seed to Select, 
etc. — L Soil Needed.— Perhaps no plant appreciates a good, rich soil more 
nor pays for it better, than the "Irish," or common potato. Then take your 
best soil and make it as rich as you can, if not already so. 

II. Selecting the Seed. — Although in the United States it is gener- 
ally understood that the "crown," or seed end eyes, are the best, yet there 
has been a controversy in England upon the subject of seed, some claiming 
for a number of years, that the stem end only should be planted ; and that 
these furnished a larger, and consequently a better potato. I think I can 
explain this difference of opinion readily, although I have but little experience 
in raising them. It is well known that the eyes on the seed end are much 
more nmnerous than on the stem end. It has been the custom generally, until 
recently, and is still the custom except by a few, to cut off the seed end and 
to put two or even three of these pieces to each hill. This, of course, gives 
a large number of stalks to each hill, while the stem end, having not half as 
many eyes, has only had two or three pieces to the hill, the stalk, of course, 
being equally less in number. And now, of late years, a few persons have 
found out that the hill of potatoes with only two or three stalks gives a larger, 
and consequently a better potato than the hills having many stalks. There- 
fore, the stem end men have got the largest and best potatoes, because they 
have less stalks in the hills, as they have less eyes. The authoi is willing tc 
stand or fall by a fair test of this opinion. 

III. Potatoes. How Many to the Hill, Etc.— It is claimed, of 
late years, by those who have tested it, that large potatoes only, should be 
selected for seed, and that only one eye should be kept on each piece, and only 
two pieces for a hill, if you want large marketable potatoes. Henry Ivss, of 
Genesee Co., N. Y., says : "That cut seed from large potatoes yield S to 10 
per cent, better than small ones planted whole." Another writer says : " You 
always find your largest potatoes when there is only one large vine." A writer 
in the American Cultivator reports he has thinned his potato vines, when they 
exceed this number, to two in a hill, and that his father did the same for fifty 
years before him. Pulling up the weaker ones as he would weeds from the 
hill." A writer in the Indiana Farmer says: "One great secret in potato 
cultivation, is, not to have too many eyes in one piece, and cut large ones for 
seed." 

i?ewi<irA:s.— Differences op Opinion Balanced by Common Sense.— 
The author has observed for over fifty years, being at this writing November 
1884, nearly 68 years old, that in almost eveiy attempted improvement, the «x> 



9-78 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

perimenters go from one extreme to the other ; then, as it used to be the cus. 
torn to put 3 or 3 pieces of the seed-end of potatoes into a hill which would 
have from, perhaps, 4 to 6 eyes to a piece, they now come down to two pieces 
only, with only one eye to a piece. Now let common sense come in and make 
it 3 to 5 eyes, or stalks, to stand in each hill, and 1 will guarantee, all things 
being equal, as to richness of soil, proper cultivation, etc., the best results will 
be obtained. I have seen the statement of a writer, that one stalk of corn only 
to a hill, would give more corn to the acre than a larger number ; but I say 
tbat soil that will not nourish three or four stalks to the hill is not as rich as it 
c ight to be, and can be made. The same will hold good also, with potatoes. 

2. " HillinET," or Level Cultivation, Which ?— It is equally a 
cc needed fact, of late years, that land which is fit for potatoes, at all, that is, 
dr ^, rich soil, it is best to cultivate without hilling, which allows the rainfall 
tc settle about the roots and ensures also, larger and better potatoes than when 
" \iilled up," which certainly turns the water away ; as water has always run 
<*' wn hill, and no doubt, will still continue to do the same. 

Remarks. — The " successful farmer" that we started this department with, 
o!\ly needs to see a point, when his common sense at once adopts it. The fore- 
fusing condensed facts are all he needs upon the subject referred to. 

L Potato Bugs Beaten.— A farmer of Goguac Prairie, near Battle 
Creek, Mich., gives to the Inter-Ocean, his plan of not only beating the potato 
bugs, but also getting remarkably fine and large potatoes, 1st by harrowing 
his ground to make the surface very loose and fine, then 2d, marking off, and 
dropping his potatoes on the surface, putting no dirt over them, but covering 
rrith straw, to the depth of a foot, which retains the moisture in the soil, and 
so far beats the bugs, that what few may get on to them above the straw, have 
tsever iniured them, and the next best thing is, he gets large and clean potatoes 
by[simply pitching over the straw and picking up the crop, besides saving the 
t^me otherwise spent in cultivation. Those having straw will do well to try it. 

2. Bugs Kept Entirely from Potatoes. Another man, of Janes- 
ville, Wis., who had ten years' exi)erience in Colorado, from which the " bug " 
started, claims entire success over them, by simply planting two or three flax, 
soeds in each hill, the bugs not attacking his potatoes at all, while his neigh- 
bors without the flax, were overrun with them. If as simple a thing as this 
will "beat the bugs." 'tis better than Paris green or hand-gathering. Certainly 
ten years was long enough to test it. 

Seed Com, Melons, Cucumbers, etc.— Selecting and Saving 
to Have the Best Results. — To have the best seed com, go through the 
field and select and mark with red chalk the long, well-filled ears, and as soon 
as the husks begin to turn, gather them, and braid into traces and hang in a dry 
cool place. When to be planted break off the tip one-fourth the length of the 
ear, and throw among the corn for feed; the same with two or three rows of 
the ill-shaped kernels at the butt; for it is a weU established fact that the corn 
ttom the butt ripens earlier than from the tip-end of the ear. What has bee:: 



AGRICULTURAL. 



many times proved need not be done again, unless it be for one's own satisfac- 
tion. Take all the advantage possible in selecting wheat, or other grain, to 
use the plumpest and heaviest berries; and it would also be well to save that 
for seed from parts of the field that ripen the earliest, to get the best results. 

II. Melon, Squashes, Cucumbers, Beans, Peas, and all seeds possible 
should be kept in the pulp or shell till wanted for sowmg, whenever possible' 
Select the earUest, fuU, medium sized melons, cucumbers, etc., growing three 
or four feet from the hill, and put stakes by them before you begin to picR for 
use or market. Let them ripen and rot down upon the vines; then put a piece 
of board under each one, mashing down to break the rind, so the juice will 
dry out ; and when dry, cut off from the vine, and also cut off one-fourth of 
the blow-end and throw it away. When properly dry, put away in the pulp 
till wanted for planting. Seed thus kept sprouts quicker and is more vigorous 
in growth, and using only the stem-end seeds, insures an earlier ripening, the 
same as with corn, which has been well-proved many times. Even garden 
seeds are better when the stalks are nicely dry to put paper around them, to 
save scattering seeds and allow them to remain in the plant till wanted to sow 
or plant, as above. Of course all seeds must be secured from the rarao-es of 
their lovers, rats and mice. ° 

Weight, Pounds per Bushel of Grain, and Most Articles in 
Common Use.— Shelled com, 56 lbs. ; com in the ear, 70; wheat, 60; buck- 
wheat, 52; rye, 56; oats, 32; barley, 48; onions, 57; potatoes, Irish. 60;' sweet, 
55; turnips, 55; beans, white, 60; castor, 46; clover seed, 60; timothy seed, 45*; 
flax seed, 56; hemp seed, 44; dried peaches, 33; dried apples, 24 ; salt, coarse,' 
50; fine, 55; com meal, 48; bran, 20; plastering hair, dry, 8; lime, ''quick " 
i. e. unslacked, 80; stone coal, 80. ' ' 

Fruit Trees, Right Soil For, How to Plant.— I. The Soil.— 
If the soil where an orchard is designed to be set out Is not rich, it should be 
made so before setting out, by deep culture and plenty of barn-yard manure, 
well worked in with the previous crops. 

n. How TO Plant a Tree.— Dig the hole two or three inches deeper 
than needed; loosen up the bottom by pick, if needed, a few inches; then put in 
soil, the last inch or two actual surface soil, and place the tree upon it, spread- 
ing out the roots level with their starting point at the tree, and work 'the fine 
surface soil in among them, to leave no vacancies, keeping the fine fibres all in 
their natural directions and completely covered with the soil, packing the dirt 
as tightly as you can with the hand only, setting so that about four Inches of 
dirt shall be above the roots; and this is to be sprinkled on in a fine state, being 
very careful that no one steps upon this loose soil, nor even to pat it, or pack 
it with the shovel; then it will settle naturally and evenly, not incline the tree 
more to one side than the other; and the first rain will have a chance to fiU 
any possible crevices under the roots, in the settling of the loose soil. After a 
rain or two, mulch if you have suitable coarse manure for the purpose ^GoU' 
iiensedfrom F. B. EUiott in the Cleveland Herald. 



780 Lll CEASE'S RECIPES. 

2. Fruit Trees.— Trimming, Best Time, etc.— The best time to 
trim any fruit, or other trees, or vines, is to pinch off the buds or sprouts when 
you see one is growing where you don't want it ; if too large to rub or pinch 
off, use the pocket knife; and although in July or August is considered the 
best time for trimming, yet branches not exceeding half an inch in diameter 
may be trimmed off at any time when the sap is not frozen. Still R. N. 
Handy, in Green's Fruit- Oroicer, says: 

"That the best time to trim apple trees is from June to August, as the 
wounds then heal over much quicker and better than in the winter months." 
Good authority or corroboration. And the time to trim apple trees, is the 
time for all fruit trees. 

But Large Branches, if they ever have to be removed, but will not 
nave to be if properly trimmed from the beginning, should be trimmed off in 
f "ebruary or March, so the wound will become dry before spring growth com- 
mences; and I would always cover a large wound with tallow, well rubbed in, 
or a coat of graftmg-wax, no matter what time of year the trimming was 
done. 

T. T. Lyon, of Coldwater, in the MicMgan Farmer, tells his brother 
rarmers that "in case of very thrifty, non-bearing trees," a thorough trimming 
in July or August will check wood-growth and encourage fruiting the next 
season. 

lo Manuring and Care of Orchards.— If the soil was, or Las been 
made rich before putting out an orchard, and mulching was done properly 
after setting out, whether it was fall or spring planting, and the mulch, coarse 
manure or litter was put on to extend beyond the extremities of the roots, as it 
always should, no further manuring will be needed for two or three years only 
as may be needed for sur-h crops as are raised upon the ground ; after that a 
good, thorough manuring again over the whole surface. It is deemed of more 
importance to mulch well soon after spring planting than fall, to prevent dry- 
lag out the moisture from the loose dirt by the heat of summer, while in the 
north, snow generally protects over winter; but 'tis best to do it within two or 
^hree weeks after planting, if no mice are in the field, and if mice, the snow must 
fce kept well tramped down around the trees, and if the tramping extends out 
over the mulching, 'tis likely to kill any mice nesting therein. See next receipt 
aiso against mice, rabbits, etc. 

I. Fruit Trees— To Protect From Mice and Borers.— "M," a 
correspondent cf the Maine Farmer, in answer to an inquiry of one signmg 
himself •' Novice," ( one new in any business) says he has for ten years pro- 
tected his trees from mice by binding a piece of birch bark around the base of 
the tree with twine, which lasts two or three years^ or until the growth bursta 
ihe twine, then a new siring is to be tied on again. 

II. Bores— To Protect Against Borers.- Cover the lower end Jt 
&e bai'k an inch or more with dirt. Where birch bark is not plenty, other 
iiaiiEB, or why noc caiTed building-paper, as neither mice nor rabbits like the tar. 



AQBICULTURAL. 781 

Again, he says, he has " never known mice to attack trees which received a 
coat of whitewash made of quick lime (unslacked lime), and applied in the fall 
of the year." Put in some soap, too, as in next. 

III. Fruit Trees— To Protect Against Rabbits.— Dr. Hassby, in 
the Western Planter, protects his trees from rabbits by a wash " made from air- 
slacked lime and soft soap, brought to the consistency of common paint, with 
common flour paste added to make it adhere. 

IV. Again, it is claimed that axle-grease and lard, equal parts, wexl 
mixed and rubbed upon young trees, protect from rabbits. The rosin in it, no 
doubt, is offensive to them, as I know the tarred paper is. 

V. Mice and Rabbits— Late Toledo Remedy Agai^iat 
Girdling Trees, Improved. — A few days after I had prepared these items 
upon the care of fruit trees, I saw a report in the Blade of a meeticg of the 
Horticultural Society, of this city, horticulture having more especial reference 
to garden culture, the word coming from the Latin hortus, a garden, and cultor, 
a cultivator, as Webster's " unabridged " informs us, wherein the secretary 
advised washing the lower part of the tree with the following mixture, as a 
protection against mice and rabbits girdling them: " Carbolic acid, 1 oz., 
mixed with strong soap-suds, 1 gal.; then diluted with 2 or 3 gals, of water." 

The Improvement.— In place of the "strong soapsuds," the author 
says, take one gallon of good soft soap and water, not more than one gallon, 
mixed with the carbolic acid, one ounce. This will give the strength of acid 
that Mr. Saunders, of the "Washington public grounds, uses on his trees, which 
is not too strong, (see in pear blight); and it also gives a mixture more like 
Prof. Cook's, of Lansing, or Michigan Agricultural College, against bark lice, 
borers, and other pests, given below, insuring according to my best judgment, 
not only an improvement, but reaUy one of the best, if not the best application 
■which can be made against mice and rabbits, against the borers, and all other 
pests of the trees, as it makes a wash sufficiently thick to adhere well to the 
bark, leaving such a body of the mixture, too, upon the tree, that neither mice 
nor rabbits will like as food, for it is for this purpose they seek. Tliis, of 
course, should be applied late in the fall, before these depredators begin their 
winter's work. See also among the receipts for sheep, a Wash to Prevent them 
from Barking Trees. It will be as good against rabbits and mice as sheep. 

Knowledge vs. Ignorance. Their Different Results.— At the 
same meeting above named, Capt. Nixon said : 

"As a general rule, success was the result of knowledge, failure the result 
of ignorance," which agrees well with our starting point in this department. 
The Successful Farmers which see. Then, as the wise man says, "Get knowl- 
edge, and with all thy getting, get understanding," for these things eradicate 
ignorance upon any and all subjects. 

Girdled Trees by Mice or Rabbits, to Restore the Bark.— 
If a tree is not girdled entirely around, make a clay mortar, and apply a good 
thickness by means of cloths, and you are safe. A loamy soil will do, but if 



782 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

neither, then apply grafting-wax spread on cloth in the same way, melting to 
spread, covered with common mud from the road. Says a correspondent of 
the Rural New Yorker, "The bark will grow again without a scar." 

L Fruit Trees, to Secure Against Bark Lice Borers, etc.— 
Prof. A. J. Cook, of the Agricultural College, Lansing, Mich., informs the 
readers of the Detroit Tribune, that an application of soft soap to the trees the 
first week in June, and at the same time in July, will ensure safety against the 
borers ; and it also exterminates the bark lice, if the rough bark is scraped off 
to ensure the soap reaching them alL 

I. For the Lice, the scraping may be done earlier, and the soap, 
diluted only enough to apply readily as a wash, but to extend to all large 
branches, and the trees will start into new life and more active growth from its 
application ; and, if done from the setting out of an orchard, there will be 
little or no trouble from these pests. 

n. The Borer makes its appearance about the first of June and deposits 
its eggs upon the bark, near the ground, and another writer says, referring 
more particularly to the peach borer, " These pests can be entirely exterminated 
by removing a small portion of the earth from the body of the tree near the 
roots, and filling its place with a quart of soft soap. If the borer has attacked 
the tree this will kill him, and if not the soap will not injure the trees and the 
borer will not get at them through the soap." 

If it is good for peach trees, it is as good for apple trees, or any other. 
Bands of cloth should be put arovmd trees by the middle or last of June, to 
prevent the ascending of the pest that stings the fruit, and care taken to kill 
all that take " lodging " under the bands. 

nL Fruit Trees, Plants, etc., Chloride of Lime Ensures 
Against G-rubs, Vermin, etc., on Trees and Plants. — Le CuUivateur, 
a French journal, says: 

"If chloride of lime be spread on the soil, or near plants, insects and vermin 
will not be found near them," and adds : "By its means plants will easily be 
protected from insect plagues by simply brushing over their stems with a solu- 
tion of it, or sprinkling upon. It has often been noticed that a patch of land 
which has been treated in this way remains religiously respected by grubs, 
while the unprotected beds around are literally devastated. Fruit trees may 
be guarded from the attacks of grubs by attaching to their trunks pieces of 
tow smeared with a mixture of hog's lard and chloride of lime, and ants and 
grubs already in possession will rapidly vacate their position. Butterflies, 
again, will avoid all plants whose leaves have been sprinkled over with this 
chloride of lime water." 

Reinarks and Directions. — This journal does not give the strength of the 
above mixture, but one ounce of the chloride to eight of lard would be plenty, 
no doubt, and one-half pound of the chloride to a pail of water, enough lor 
the " solution." 

IV. Examination of the Trees for the Borer, and Remedy, 
if They Have Entered the Wood.— Prof. Cook advises "a thorougl 
examination of the trees in September, to ascertain whether the borer has gone 



AGRICULTURAL. 733 

teto the wood. If he has he must be followed closely with a small wire, or he 
must be dug out with a sharp knife, making as small a cut as possible," 

Rema/rks. — It will be remembered that the borer enters the wood a little 
under the soil, or very near it ; and if holes are cut to get them out, as above 
spoken of, you should apply the soap after it, and also cover the wounds with 
dirt, or with the clay mud bound on, if much above the ground, as for girdled 
trees, above. 

Fruit Trees, Old, Mossy, and Diseased Bark to Renew.— 
The old plan for mossy and diseased bark, was, to sprinkle on thoroughly of 
wood ashes, but except there is moss to- catch and hold the ashes, or many 
crevices in the bark, the ashes would amount to but little — the later plan of 
scraping and applying soft soap, reduced only to allow applying with a brush, 
as a wash, is quicker and better, and more destructive to caterpillars and other 
destructive insects which infest the trees ; but, lest the soap nor the ashes may 
prove sufficient in all cases, especially in pe?,r blight, I will give the wash as 
used by Wm. Saunders, of Washington, D. C, who has, or has had, charge 
there, of the public grounds, as follows : 

Pear Blight, Diseased Bark, etc., Wash for.— Put stone lii^e, % 
bu. ; sulphur, 4 lbs. into a tight barrel, slacking the lime with hot water, to the 
consistency of common white-wash, keeping the barrel covered with an old 
piece of carpet ; and when to be applied, add carbolic acid yi oz. to each gal. 
of the wash. He applies it early in spring to the body and large branches; but 
thinks it would be better if applied later, or about the first of June, when 
borers, caterpillars, etc., appear. And if any diseased bark, he scrapes ofiE 
or cuts off all that can be done readily. 

Remarks.— This, was reported to the Norfolk, Va. , Horticultural Society, 
and spoken of highly for pear blight by G. B. Leighton, and it has also been 
recommended by others in the same favorable manner. 

The Oermantown Telegrap?i, however, speaks very highly of the ashefl 
process to clean off old scaly and deadened bark, and also as being destnic 
tive to all insects infesting pear or apple •!;rees. So let each person please 
himself. But if I was going to use the ashes I should make a wash of 
them, and put on, and not wait for rains to do the work, after having 
sprinkled them on dry, as recommended. 

Barren Trees, Remedy for. — Let it be remembered that barren soil 
makes barren fruit trees. As it is not possible to grow fruit from the same 
soil every year unless a supply of manure, ashes, iime, bone-dust, and stable 
manure, is properly composted, and applied every other year in sufficient quan- 
tities at least 2 to 4 bush, to each tree, according to the size, and therefore the 
distance the roots extend, the larger share being out over the extremities of the 
roots, where the smaller fibres or suckers are. I do not mean growing sprouts 
called suckers, but the fibers of the roots which suck up the nourishment and 
thus help to make the fruit as well as add to the growth of the tree, foliage, 
•etc. These roots and fibres often extend 8 to 10 feet from the tree, and at thia 



■784 DR. CHASE'S BEGIPE8. 

nater point is the place for the largest portion of the fertilizers to be spread. 
Feed your fruit trees where the fibers of the roots are. 

Swamp Muck, Lime and Ashes, a Valuable Manure for 
Fruit Trees. — " I.ucky is he," says a writer, who owns a reclaimed swamp 
of muck, for he goes on to say, " If this is thrown out in a heap and mixed 
with lime it forms a stimulant to fruit trees which cannot harm, but never fails 
to invigorate in a wonderful manner, etc., to which I would say, use ashes also 
with the lime, in about equal proportions, and as freely as you can afford it, 
io be mixed between layers of the muck, in filling up. In the end, to be finely 
mixed before applying. 

Ashes— Their Value in Orchards and Garden.— A gardener 
realized the value of ashes to be so great in the garden and orchard that he 
J'^cently recommended, through the Rural ^ew Yorker, that even the trim- 
mings from apple trees, as soon as dry enough, with all weeds and other rub- 
bish, be burned "for the fertilizing matter they contain." He gives a case 
where the trimmings of an orchard and the rubbish about had been burned, 
and the ashes put upon the outer roots of the trees to their great advantage, 
a.'id squashes grew in great abundance on the ground where they were burned; 
aad for experiment "a hill was planted ten feet off, manured with a small 
quantity of the ashes, and another with horse manure. The hill with the ashes 
grew three times as great as the other, and was twice as productive." Cer- 
tainly a fair test. 

Remarks. — The immortal Liebig, many years ago, pointed out the im- 
portance of potash to the soil for grain, tobacco, hemp, etc., and from this 
time on, the enterprising farmer has been using it more or less, according to 
his convenience of obtaining it, and means to purchase with, etc., until now, 
lime, ashes, and the nitrate of soda from South America, plaster, phosphates, 
«tc., all come in to give a full supply. So fully was the editor of the Scientijio 
American long ago satisfied of the importance of potash, lime, etc., for renew- 
ing the growth of old fruit trees, he gives us an experiment of his as follows. 
He says: 

"Some twenty-five years ago, we treated an old hollow pippin apple tree 
as follows: The hollow, to the height of 8 feet, was filled and rammed with a 
compost of wood ashes, garden mould and a little waste lime. The filling was 
securely fastened in by boards. The next year the crop of sound fruit was 16 
bushels from an old shell of a tree that had borne nothing of any account 
for some time. But the strangest part was what followed. For seventeen 
years after filling, the old tree continued to flourish and bear well." 

Remarks.— Thxia it appears, it makes no difference whether the potash 
in the ashes, with the lime, reach the tree through its roots or by absorp- 
tion from the hollow of the old, rotting and decaying body. It has also 
been abundantly proved that even by putting a mixture of wood and coai 
ashes alone around the stems or trunks and roots of fruit trees, vines, cur- 
rant and other fruit bushes, in early spring, has generally greatly benefited 
.apples, peaches, grapes, etc., both in quality and quantity, and the trees, 
shrubs, vines, etc., last and bear much longer for it. Then, as it pays, iu 
'*^\ Doints let it be done properly, and at the right time — "early spring." 



AGRICULTURAL. 785 

Pota.sh— Its Value as a Manure for Fruit Trees, Crops, Etc., 
and in "What it is Found. — The foregoing has sufficiently shown the 
value of potash as a manure for orchards, so I need only say it is equally 
valuable for all crops; and now it remains only to show in what it is 
found. The fact is, nothing grows in the line of fruits nor crops, which 
does not contain it, and need its return, to keep up a supply. The potash 
of commerce is made from wood ashes; and grass, grain crops, and conse- 
quently all straw and weeds, leaves, barn-yard maniire, roots, and fruits of all 
kinds, contain it; so any one can see that all these things which have passed 
the point of usefulness as food, etc., should find their way into the compost 
heap or manure pile, so that at the proper time, they, with the potash they con- 
tain, may be returned to the soil. 

Pear Culture— Great Success in — Applicable to All Othei^ 
Fruit.— A Mr. Quinn, at Newark, N. J., has a large pear orchard, in which 
he had been so successful, the editor of the Horticulturist paid him a visit the 
last of August, recently, to ascertain by what means he had been more success- 
ful than others. He found " the ' standards ' were full to overflowing, and the 
• dwarfs ' so over-abundant as to need support," and continues: " Mr. Quinn's 
success in pear culture has been due to three points only: 

I. '* He cultivates his orchard constantly, permits no other crop to grow 
between, and allows no grass nor weeds to be seen, and mulches heavily in 
time of fruiting. 

II. "He prunes in early summer and winter, carefully, and has thus 
built up an orchard of splendid shape, healthy limbs, and able to bear any 
reasonable 'amount of fruit without strain. 

ni. "He takes especial pains with packing, always using clean, new 
2ialf -barrels, assorts into even grades, and packs solidly and handsomely." 

Remarks. — The foregoing points are all of the utmost importance, in the 
cultivation of any fruit crop whatever, except perhaps, as apple trees are 
planted considerably farther apart than pears or phima for g, few years at least 
other suitable crop may be cultivated between the rows, but never to the injury 
of the roots, and especially never galling the trees with the whiffletrees. 
Attention to all the above points and the various items previously given, no 
one need fail of being a successful horticulttuist, where the market justifies 
its undertaking. 

Plum Trees. The Well-known Remedies Against the Cur- 
culios. Insuring a Pull Crop of Fruit.— Ever smce 1833, when an old man 
by the name of David Thomas told his neighbors to "jar their plum trees and 
curculios on sheets, and destroy them," a few persons have practiced this plan 
and have had good crops of plums ; still, very many people will not take this 
trouble ; let all such put their chicken coops under their plum trees like Daniel 
Billig does, and get crops that require propping up from their heavy loads ; or 
like Peter Myers, make a pen of one length of boards under each plum tree, 
and put two pigs in each pen, who also had to prop his trees to prevent theii" 
Jjreaking down with plums. These were Illinoia men, and their names ^t 



786 DR- CHASE'S RECIPES 

into the papers by a report of J. D. Piper to the Horticultural Society of that 
State. 

IL A French gentleman, not many years since, had large orchards 
surrounding his mansion, among them about three acres in plums, from which, 
although blossoming finely, he got no fruit ; he therefore fenced it up for a 
chicken yard, leaving the trees for shade ; but the very next year he was pro- 
foundly astonished by having a very large and abundant yield of pliuns, ac- 
tually breaking down many branches. 

m. An Old and successful fruit grower reports that to " plant tansy at 
the roots of the plum trees, or by hanging branches of the plant on the limbs of 
trees, you will not be annoyed with the curculio." And claims it is the most 
successful curculio preventive he has ever tried . Then why not good about other 
fruit trees ? Still 1 do not see that it can be grown about the roots and allow 
cultivation. I can, however, see that it would be quite a mulch in itself, as it 
grows abundant on good soil, and will mat down considerably. Then let no 
one further doubt, but follow one of these plans best suited to his convenience 
and, like these men, have a f uU yield of fruit. That it may be so, is the rea- 
son I have given these short accounts of past successes. 

Quinces. Their Successful Cultivation. — Many persons put their 
quince trees, or "bushes," as more generally called, in the dryest and most 
outof-the-way place they can find, then let them take care of themselves, i. e., 
they receive no cultivation at all, grass and weeds reigning supreme. But the 
qiiince is a native of the sea shore, and although it does not need a wet soil, 
yet it does require a moist but porous, else a well-drained soil ; and to keep up 
its natural demand for a saline, or salt-loaded atmosphere of its sea-coast na- 
tivity, must not only be as well cultivated as Mr. Qumn's pear orchard above, 
but must also have a supply of salt, broadcast, as far as the roots extend. To 
a full-grown tree or bush three or four quarts will not be too much. The 
principal points aDove are from Dr. Sylvester, of Lyons, N. T., through the 
Prairie Fa/rmer, but my own knowledge and observation tells me the same 
things. 

Shade Trees, Where to Plant— Shade trees are usually planted too 
near the house, and also too near each other, making the rooms dark and 
damp, especially so if evergreens; nothing more out of place than large ever- 
greens on the sunny sides of a house, but a few rows of them and other suita- 
ble timber groves on the north side make excellent wind-breaking protection 
for house, bam, sheds for stock, etc. It is well to have plenty of shade trees 
about, but set the more open topped on the east and south, the dark evergreens 
on the west and north, where none, or not enough, are yet provided. 

Forest Trees, Planting In the "Wwit, a Success. — I see it stated 
in the American Mctsenger, for January, 1886, that Measrs. Douglas & Son, 
near Ft. Scott, Kansas, finding that €00 acras they planted with forest trees 
are a complete succees, are planting 500 mns Mwe. Before next April they 
Will have 1,300,000 trees planted. 



AQBICULTURAL. -JS^ 

Eemarks. — Others can do it as well as they ; and if they do not wish to put 
out as many, can put out enough to break the winds ftom their houses, bams, 
sneds, etc., and soon have enough for their home use, for fence posts, fuel, etc 
And as anyone who desires to put out trees would be likely to inquire, " what 
shall I put out ?" I will name a few kinds that have done well in the west, and 
show also what may be expected to be their growth in 10 to 20 years. 

Hardy Trees, Rapidity of Gro-wtli, etc.— The following varieties, 
all things considered, are the best for general cultivation in the North-west: 

Cottonwood, soft maple, silver poplar, black cherry, ash-leaved maple, 
catalpa, black walnut, and white walnut. H. C. Raymond, of Council Blufis, 
Iowa, states that the following named varieties, planted when one foot in 
height, attained the following diameters and heights when ten years of age : 

Cottonwood, Diameter, 9 inches. Height, 35 feet, 

SoftMaple " 8 " " 30 " 

Silver Poplar " 9 " " 30 " 

Black Cherry " 6 " " 28 " 

Ash-leaved Maple " 5}4" " 27 " 

Catalpa " 6 " " 25 " 

Black Wahiut " 5 " " 20 " 

Butternut *' 5 " , " 20 " 

Hon. Suel Foster, of Muscatine, Iowa, reports the following as the growth 
of the varieties named twenty years, after transplanting : 

Soft Maple Diameter, 16 inches. Height, 35 feet. 

HardMaple •' 14>^ " " 20 " 

Black Cherry " 11 " " 40 " 

The chestnut, twenty-four years from seed grew to be 10 to \Q% inches in 
diameter and 30 to 89 feet in height. The European larch, ten years, trans- 
planted, attained a diameter of 4 to 7)^ inches, and were 20 to 30 feet in 
height. 

The Osage orange south of the north line of Missouri, the Prairie Farmer 
thinks is the quickest to give fence posts, and that they are more durable than 
any other, easily cut and split when green, but very hard when dry. Grape- 
vine posts of this timber, perfectly sound after 14 years' use, and some poles of 
it of 4 to 5 inches in diameter lay the same length of time under the ledge and 
yet perfectly sound. They think it admirably adapted for farm timber and 
farm fuel all over the west and southwest, not too far north, of any other. 
For felloes of wheels it outsets 4 to 1 the best white oak, and valuable for all 
purposes that hard wood can be put to. Probably no timber is equal to the 
black walnut when large enough for sawing; and the hard maple for making 
one's own sugar, as they may be tapped by boring when 6 to 10 inches in 
diameter. The chestnut makes splendid rails, and furnishes a salable not, if 
the children can spare them. Now let each one judge for himself according 
to his situation and his wants. 



788 DR' CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Labels for Trees, Wood Very Durable.— Make nice smooth strips 
of thiu board, with a hole in one end for copper wire ; then soals: the strips in 
strong copperas water and dry them; then soak again in lime water, after 
which, write the name upon them and attach to branches with wire, loosely. 
Soaking in the two mixtures forms a gypsum, which is almost insoluble, and 
therefore very durable. — Report of Horticultural Society, of Berlin. 

Remarks. — The report claims that the same processes of soaking twine, 
or netting would make them very dm-able, but as the proportions were not 
given, experiment would have to settle that, not to get the solution so strong as 
to rot the goods. For the wooden labels, it matters not how strong, if a 
pound to a bucket of water, so much the better, but one-fourth these amounts 
would be as "strong" as I should try them on netting, or twine for netting. 

Zinc Labels for Marking Trees, Plants, etc., to Write Name 
"with Pencil or Ink.— The Ebriieulturist says : "The best labels for trees 
or plants may be made by writing with a lead pencil when moist upon slips of 
zinc, and attaching with a copper wire." Although the Country Gentleman 
claims "this writing will last for years," yet I think it cannot show very 
plainly, and hence give the following : 

Ink for Zinc Labels, for Trees, Plants, etc.— Take by weight, 
verdigris, 2 parts, say drs. ; sal ammoniac, 1 dr. ; water, 30 drs. 

DiRECTioxs. — Rub the powders in a mortar with a little of the water at 
first. Then adding all, bottle and keep corked up to prevent the ammonia 
from escaping. Write upon the strips of zinc with a quill pen, shaking often 
while writing. Some attach the zinc labels by cutting one end narrow, then 
bend it around a limb. Others with copper wire. This ink makes a black 
mark that will show iplainly, and also be durable. 

Pall Planting Best for Raspberries, Blackberries, Currants 
C5-ooseberries, Grapes, etc.— The Fruit Recorder .teUs its readers that all 
of the above-named fruit " set out in the fall, even in October, before the leaf 
drops, will make double the growth and double the fruit the next year than 
if planted in the spring." I recommend its early setting, that the fall rains 
may settle the dirt nicely about the roots so they begin their growth with the 
opening of spring, " even throwing out rootlets in the fall," mulching before 
freezing with litter of any kind, manure, tan bark, sawdust, inverted sods, hay 
or straw, — over each hillr— and they will come out all right in the spring, and 
begin to grow as soon as frost is out, scarcely a plant failing. 

Remarks.— There isn't a doubt about it. And it is believed by the author 
that fall planting of fruit trees must be found equally advantageous, in being 
more likely to live and also to thrive better generally. And now, as we began 
this department with " The Successful Farmer, "What he Does Not and "What 
he Does, Applicable to All Business Men," we will close it with : 

The Happy Parmer, How He Does His Work, Equally Ap- 
plicable to All Laborers, and to Everybody.— The following 
thoughts have more reference to the spirit in which work is best done, than to 
the way, physically, of doing it. Carlyle says : 



AGRIOULTURAL. "JBD 

" Give us, O, give us the man who sings as his work I He will do nuse 
in the same time — he will do it better— he will persevere longer." 
Another writer makes short work of it in the following couplet : 
*' Whistle and hoe, sing as you go ; 
Shorten the row by the songs that you know.** 

Another thinks it important to "push things" "in life's earnest battle,** 
as well as in war ; and also shows us that those "only prevail," or come off 
final victors, who " never say fail," by the following stanza ; 
*' Keep pushing ! 'tis wiser than sitting aside. 
And sighing and watching and waiting the tide i 
In life's earnest battle, they only prevail, 
Who daily march onward and never say faiL" 

No matter how distasteful any particular kind of work may be, in the 
beginning, if it is taken up with a feeling that one has got to " Hoe his own 
row," and that although there may be some other kind of work that would 
suit better ; yet, as this is all that offers for the present, I am going at it as I 
would if I loved it. Of such, a writer says : 

" Who loves his work and knows how to spare. 
May live and flourish anywhere." 

Then all I have fmlher to say is, go at whatever you have to do with 
cheerfulness, "sing," or "whistle," as suits you best ; but be cheerful, any- 
how ; "push things" whenever they need pushing ; never allow a thought of 
*' giving up the ship," and you will soon love your work, and must " flourish" 
—succeed — almost "anywhere," and at almost anything, because entered upon 
with a "determination to conquer " be you farmer, laborer, or business rn^^t 
boy or girl, man or woman, in the nature of things you muat succeed- 



MECHANICAL. 



L BRASS, TO CLEAN.— Nitric acid, 1 part; sulphuric acid, ^ part; 
(half as much) in a stone jar. Dikections.— "Have ready a pail of fresh water, 
and a box of sawdust. Dip into the acid (or swab on), then into the water (or 
swab on), and rub with the sawdust. A brilliant color is immediate. If 
things are greasy, first dip into a strong solution of potash or soda (or swab on), 
to out the grease. It is used at the U. 8. arsenals, and considered the best in 
the world. 

2. How to Clean Brass, Copper, Tin, etc.— The following mix- 
ture will be found the best thing for cleaning brass, copper, tin, stair-rods, 
taps, and even windows, and it is quite worth the trouble of making : Whit- 
ing, pulverized rotten stone, and soft soap, each 1 lb. ; vinegar, 1 cup, and as 
much water as makes it a thick paste; spirits of turpentine % pint. Direc- 
tions. — Let it boil fully 10 minutes, and when nearly cold, add the turpentine, 
and store in wide-mouthed pickle jars of glass or stoneware. When to be 
used, put a very little of it on a rag, and rub the article until it becomes 
bright. Polish with a soft leather dipped in powdered bath-brick. Unless 
bath-brick is used, it soon tarnishes. 

3. Brass, the Dirtiest, to Clean Very Quickly.— Finely rubbed 
bichromate of potassa, mixed with twice its bulk of sulphuric acid, and an 
equal quantity of water, wiU clean the dirtiest brass very quickly. 

4. Another.— Clean brass with a paste made of oxalic acid, 1 oz. ; rot- 
ten stone, 6 oz, ; and enough whale oil and spirits of turpentine, in equal quan- 
tities to mix. 

5. Stained Brass, Silver, etc., to Clean. —Whiting wet with 
aqua ammonia will clean stains from brass and silver, and is excellent for 
polishing door knobs, of brass, or silver, faucets, fenders, rods, etc. 

B^marks.—M\ the foregoing are good, so take your choice of such as you 
eon obtain the handiest. 

L Steam Pipes to Cover, to Prevent Loss of Heat,— Coal 
a^es 4 parts (qts. or bxishels, no matter what the measure), sifted through a 
fiddle 4 meshes to the inch; calcined plaster (of Paris), wheat flour, and fine 
dry ^y, each 1 part (1 measure of each of these are used to 4 of ashes.) 

DrRBCTioNS — Mix ashes and fine clay together (with water), to the thickness 
<rf tiiin mortar, in a mortar-trough; mix the calcined plaster and flour together 
<Ssy, and add to the ashes and clay mortar, as you want to use it; put it on the 
f^)es in two coats, according to the size of the pipe. For a 6-inch pipe, 1st 
€oat 1^ inches thick, the 2d coat about % inch. Afterwards finish with a 

^.00 



MECEAmCAL. 791 

hard finish, same as for a room. About 2% hours will be required to set, on a 
hot pipe. 

2. Steam Pipes, Protection Efficient and Cheap.— A mechanic 
reports through the Detroit Post and TrUmtie, a little different from the above, 
you will see, using hair and leaving out the flour. He says: " One hundred 
lbs. of clay are mixed with water, and 100 lbs. of fine ashes added and well 
kneaded, then mix with 1 lb. of hair. This mixture is well incorporated and 
allowed to stand until needed to use. Just before using, 10 lbs. of ground 
plaster of Paris are mixed with it. The mixture, of course, soon sets, and 
cannot be kept over 12 hours after the plaster is added." 

llemarks.—i:h.e clay should, no doubt, be dry, then made fine, else allow- 
ance made for the moisture in it; and this latter make no distinction as to ashes, 
whether wood or coal I think cleanly sifted coal ashes preferable. The plas- 
ter of Paris, it will be seen too, is not calcined (dried in a hot kettle.) If so 
done, it sets quicker, which is its only advantage, and it may be an advantage, 
sometimes, not to have it set too quick. The hair, I think, a decided advan- 
tage, but it should be thoroughly whipped- If good for pipes, it must be 
equally good for boUers. 

"Zincing Iron "—Without a Battery.— " The following" is an 
excellent and cheap method for preventing iron articles, exposed to the air, 
from rust. They are to be first cleaned by placing them in open wooden 
vessels, in water, containing ^ to 1 per cent. (" ^ to 1 per cent.," means % to 
to 1 pt., or part, to 100 pta. or parts, in the "wooden vessel" of water), of 
common siJphuric acid, and allow them to r emain in it until the surface 
appears clean, (bright) or may be rendered so by scouring with a rag or wet 
sand. [This may be done in a revolving cylinder by machinery.] According 
to the amount of acid, they may require to remain in from 6 to 24 hours. 
[Then, if time is of any account, use more acid, up 5 or 6 per cent.] Fresh 
acid must be added according to the extent of use, and the amount of liquid; 
and when this is saturated with the sulphate of iron (the rust of iron f rcwn the 
articles being cleaned) it must be renewed. After removal from this bath 
("wooden vessels,") the articles are rinsed in fresh water and scoured imtil 
they acquire a clean metallic surface (become " bright," as above remarked); 
and then they are to be placed in water, in which a little slacked lime has 
been stirred, and kept there until the next afternoon. When thus freed 
from rust, they are to be coated with a tliin film of zinc, while cold, by 
means of chloride (more commonly called muriate) of zinc, which is made 
by filling three-fourths full a glazed earthen vessel with muriatic acid, then 
adding zinc clippings (little pieces of zinc) until effervescence ceases. 

[Effervescence is shown by the rising of bubbles; when these stop rising, 
it has dissolved all the zinc it will cut, is saturated, as chemists say, and 
is then called muriate of zinc, and is the same as tinners use upon their 
seams before applying solder.] 

" This liquid (muriate of zinc) is now to be turned off from the undi^ 
solved zinc and preserved in glass vessels. 



793 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

" For use, it is poured into a sheet zinc vessel, of suitable size and shape 
for the objects or articles to be zinced, and about l-30th part of its weight of 
finely powdered sal ammoniac is to be added. The articles are to be immersed 
in this ("cold," as above mentioned), and a scum of fine bubbles forming on 
their surface in from one to two minutes, indicates the completion of this part 
of the operation. The articles are next drained so the excess may flow 
back into the vessel. The iron articles are thus coated with a thin film of 
zinc, and are to be placed on clean sheet-iron plates, heated from beneath, 
until perfectly dry, and then dipped piece by piece, with tongs, or other 
means, into very hot, though not glowing molten zinc, for a short time, 
until they acquire the temperature of the melted zinc, into which they are 
being dipped. They are then removed and beaten, or tapped lightly, to 
cause any excess of zinc to fall off, while yet hot." 

Nickel Plating, Without Battery.— " To a dilute solution of the 
chloride of zinc— 5 to 10 per cent.— (5 to 10 lbs. to 100 lbs. of water)— enough 
sulphate of nickel is to be added to give the solution a decidedly green 
color, and it is then to be heated to boiling in a porcelain vessel. The 
heating makes the solution cloudy, but does not injure it. The articles to be 
nickel plated are to be carefully cleaned of rust or grease, (see 1st receipt 
above for cleaning brass), and then suspended in the solution from 30 to 60 
minutes, the bath being kept at a boiling temperature. When the articles are 
observed to be imiformly coated, they may be removed, washed in water; 
in which a little chalk is suspended, dried, and finally polished with chalk, 
or other suitable material." 

Remarks. — This discovery is credited to a Prof. Slatba, and will be 
found valuable. Precipitated chalk is very fine, but rotten stone, as in 
some of the above receipts for polishing brass may be found preferable. 
2iincing is done mostly on small cast-iron articles, while this nickel-plating 
is used on a finer class of goods. 

Silver Plating, With a Battery.— 1. Dissolve 1 oz. of pure silver 
<like old coin) in nitric acid, by pomlng the acid upon the silver until all is 
dissolved— perhaps 4 ozs. of acid to cut 1 of silver— then dissolve salt in soft 
water until very strong; now pour of this salt water into the acid and silver 
until all the silver sinks to the bottom, scientists say, until all is "thrown 
down;" then fill the jar or bottle with soft water, shake up, and let settle; 
then pour off carefully, and fill again and again, for three times, siiaking welj 
each time, or until there is no acid or taste of acid left. This, if carefully 
done, without waste, gives you 1 oz. of silver in fine powder. 

3. In a suitable jar or dish, dissolve cyanide of potassium, 6 ozs. in soft 
rain water, 3 qts., into which put the silver powder, which will be dissolved 
therein, and this constitutes the plating solution. 

3. In this solution the articles to be plated are to be suspended upon a 
silver hook. And in this solution must also be suspended a plate (generaUy in 
sheet form) or piece of pure silver, with about as much surface as there is 
surface to the articles to be plated, as it is necessary to keep the strength of 



MECHANICAL. 793 

the solution up to this standard— the silver, therefore, that is deposited upon 
the articles being plated, dissolved off of the " plate, sheet, or piece of pure 
silver," as it is deposited upon the articles — the solution remaining full strength 
and ready for continued use. Of course the " battery" is connected with this 
" plating solution," 

Remarks.— HhQ battery used is the same as used by telegraphers, who will 
instruct one how to prepare and " connect " it. All articles to be plated must 
be freed from grease with a solution of potash or soda, as in the above pro-- 
cesses. This is from a friend in Ann Arbor, whom I know to be reliable from 
over 25 years acquaintance. 

Steel— To Temper Very Hard.—" Take water, 2 measures— no mat- 
ter what size — wheat flour, % measure, and 1 of common salt. 

Directions. — Mix into a paste ; heat the steel to be hardened enough to coat 
with the paste — by immersing it in the composition — after which heat it to a 
cherry red and plunge it in cold, soft water. If properly done, the steel will 
come out with a beautiful white surface, and very hard." 

Remarks. — It is said this is the process by which Stubbs' flies are tempered, 
which are recommended below, for drilling glass. 

1. Stieel and Iron Machinery— To Keep Prom Rusting.— 
Powdered camphor gum, 14 oz. ; lard, 1 lb. ; a httle black lead. 

Directions. — Dissolve the gum in the lard by heat; remove the scum, stir 
in just black lead enough to give an iron shade. Rub this over cleaned steel or 
iron machinery of any kind, and leave on 24 hours; then rub with a soft linen 
cloth, and it is safe from rust for a long time. 

Iron or Steel Varnish— To Prevent Rust.— Rosm, 120 parts (drs., 
ozs. or lbs.); gum sandarach, 180; gum lac (shellac), 60; spirits of turpentine, 
120; and alcohol, 180 parts. 

Directions.— Pulverize the three first articles and melt together; and 
gradually (and carefully, to avoid taking fire), add the turpentine, continuing 
the heat until all are again dissolved (if they harden) in the turpentine; 
then add the alcohol, and filter through a fine cloth (muslin) or thick filtering 
paper, bottle and cork for use. — Manufacturer and Builder. 

Remarks.— The straining or filtering indicates its intention for fine articles; 
without it, it would do for outside railings, or ornamentation; and if desired black, 
for iron balustrades, fence, etc., add a Uttle fine lamp-black, which will adapt 
it to such work, and look very nicely. See also Black Paint How to Make 
for Iron Work. 

3. Steel— Rust Upon— To Remove.— Cover the steel for a couple 
of days with sweet oU; then with finely powdered unslacked lime (known as 
"quick" lime), rub the steel until all the rust is removed; re-oil to prevent 
further rust. — Indian Domestic Economy. 

2. Another plan, is, to place the rusty article in a bowl of kerosene 
else to wrap the steel in a cloth well wet with kerosene, and let it remain 24 
hours, or more; then scour the rusty spots with brick dust. 



794 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

Remarks.— li brick-dust is used, bath or bristol brick would be best, Dut 
the powdered unslacked lime would be better than either, as it has an active 
power in itself of removing rust, and if time cannot be given, this powdered 
quick-Ume, and the sweet oil or the kerosene, will remove it in a few 
minutes, by thorough rubbing; so will it with ammonia. Always apply oil, or 
some of the oily mixtures, at the last,to prevent the rust from deeper penetra- 
tion. 

4. Steel Dinner Knives, Rust to Remove.— Cover the steel 
■with sweet oil, well rubbed in; let them remain 48 hours, and then using im- 
slacked lime, finely powdered, rub the knife till all the rust has disappeared. 

Remarks. — I should not like to go without my meals while this process 
was going on; hence I should let them lie over night only, and risk the job at 
that. 

5. Steel Apparatus, and Pine Instruments, to Preserve 
Their Polish, by Preventing Rust— Prof. Olmsford, of Yale Col- 
lege, says-: "This is done effectually, by melting slowly together, lard, 6 or 8 
oz., and rosin, 1 oz. ; and stirring till cooL It can be wiped off nearly clean, if 
desired as in a case of knife blades, or it can be thinned with coal oil, or ben« 
zine. The surface should be bright and dry, when applied, as it does not pre- 
vent oxidation (rusting) already commenced." 

Remarks.— li any spots of rust, remove first with the sweet oil and piece of 
quick lime, as below. And remember there must be no salt in the lai-d. 

0. Steel, or Iron Buckles, Jewelry, etc., to Clean.— Take ^ 
piece of unslacked lime, free from grit, or hard specks, and touch it to sweet 
oil, then rub them with it, and finish with chamois or buckskin. For orna- 
mental jewelry, see next below. 

1. Jewelry, Ornaments, Gold Chains, etc., to Clean. — Wash 
In soap suds; rinse in dUute alcohol (half water, half alcohol), and lay in a box 
of dry sawdust to dry; then rubbing with the sawdust, is a nice way to clean 
such goods. 

2. Gilded Washed, or Plated Jewelry, to Clean.— Henry M. 
M. Morrison, of Wis., says : " The work of cleansing gilt articles is a delicate 
task, but they may be cleaned by rubbing them very gently with a soft sponge 
or brush, dipped in a solution of borax, J^ oz., to water, 1 lb., (a pt. is a lb. 
the world aroimd); then rinsing in pure water and drying with a soft linen 

3. Another.— To clean gilt jewelry, put cyanide of potassium, 1 oz. to 
boiling water % pt., and when cold, add aqua ammonia, % oz., and alcohol, 1 
©z., brush gently the articles with this compound. Rinse and dry with a cloth, 
ishamois, buckskin, or sawdust as in No. 1, above. 

Remarks.— CYQxAde of potash is poison, so don't let children drink it nor 
get it into a sore spot in using it. 

4. Silverware, to Keep it's Original Luster.— The proprietor 
of one of the oldest sUverware houses in Philadelphia says: " HousekeepCTS 



MECHANICAL. 795 

ruin their silverware by wasliing it in soapsuds, which destroys the original 
luster, and makes it look like pewter. When it needs polishing, he says: take 
a piece of soft leather (chamois) and whiting and rub hard. 

Remarks.— WhQn, of course, never use soap in cleaning it, but take the 
following : 

5. Silverware, to Wash. — "Put aqua ammonia, 1 tea-spoonful to 
very hot water, 1 pt., and wash quickly with a small soft brush, kept for the 
purpose only, and dry with a clean linen towel ; then rub very dry with cha- 
mois. Washed in this manner silverware becomes again brilliant, and requires 
no polishing with any of the powders, or whiting usually employed, and lasts 
much longer. 

-Bernards.— Nothing could be more sensible, still the following is also 
sensible : 

6. Silverware, Knives and Porks, Tin, etc., to Brighten afker 
Cleaning. — Put the finishing touch to them by rubbing with old, dry news- 
paper. It is a fine polisher. Some of these receipts are quite domestic, but 
Still they are equally mechanical. 

Silvering Powder.— Chloride of silver, 1 dr.; potaasa alum, 8 drs.; 
common salt and cream of tartar, each, 1 oz. 

DrREcnoNS. — First dip the article to be silvered into a strong solution of 
salt in water , then rub with the powder ; wash and dry with a soft cloth, and 
polish with any of the above plans. 

Remarks. — Druggists in small places may say there is no ** pota£sa alum," 
but there is, and also " ammonia alum." 

Zinc, to Clean.— Take sulphuric acid, 1 oz.; water, 2 ozs. 

DiKEcnoNS. — Wash quickly with the mixture, rinse immediately with 
warm water, wipe dry with a cloth, and polish with whiting, brightens it 
nearly equal to new. 

Soldering Q-erman Silver. — To solder GJerman silver, pour out some 
spirits of salt into an earthen dish, and put a piece of zinc in it. Then scrape 
the parts clean that are to be soldered, and paint over with the spirits of salt. 
Next put a piece of pewter solder on the joint and apply the blow-pipe to it. 
Melt five parts of German silver and four parts of zinc into thin cakes, then 
powder it for solder. — Rural New Yorker. 

Remarks. — The phrase, "spirits of salt," is the old name for muriatic acid, 
as now called ; and all the zinc should be put in that the acid will dissolve ; 
then it is called " muriate of zinc," which is what is to be put on. Where he 
says, " Then scrape the parts clean that are to be soldered, and paint over with 
the spirits of salt." This "muriate of zinc" is the proper "flux," or solution 
for all soldering. See Soldering Cast Iron, next below, calling for the "mu- 
riatic acid." It should be kept corked and away from children, as it is 
poisonous — eats or destroys clothing, as well as flesh, hence apply with a swab. 

2^ Soldering Cast Iron. A paper called the Engineer says that 
Soldering cast iron is generally considered to be very difficult, but it is only 



796 BB. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

a question of thoroughly making bright the surface to be soldered, and using 
good solder and a clean swab, with muriatic acid. 

Remarks. — The muriate of zinc is the article to use in this, as in all other 
solderings. 

Glass Globes, to Clean.— If the globes are much stained by smoke, 
soak them in tolerably hot water with a little washing soda dissolved in it, then 
put a tea-spoonful of powdered carbonate of ammonia into a pan of lukewarm 
water, and with a tolerably hard brush wash the globes till the smoke stain 
disappears ; rinse in clean, cold water, and let them drain till dry. They 
will be quite white and clear. 

RerriaTki.—K.q}xa. ammonia, which is more likely to be in the house, will 
do as well, but a tea-spoonful of either is not enough for a " pan of water,'' 
but only for a pint of water or one quart at most. 

1. WTiite Paint, to Clean.— Take a small quantity of fine whiting 
on a damp piece of flannel ; rub gently over the soiled surface and the effect 
will almost equal the original purity. 

Remarks.— '$>QQ the next receipt for washing off, if needed. 

2. Oil-Painted Surfaces, to Clean.— Take a piece of soft flannel, 
put it in warm water, and squeeze it till it feels dry ; next dip gently on to some 
very finely pulverized French chalk, and rub the painted surface with the flan- 
nel ; the effect will be the removal of all dust, greasy matter, and dirt ; the 
surface is next washed with a clean sponge and water, and dried with a piece 
of wash-leather. This method does not injure the paint like soap, and pn> 
duces a very good result. 

iJemarAa— Wash-leather is split sheepskin, prepared as chamois, and used 
for the same purposes, very properly, too, because much cheaper. 

Tracing Paper, to Make.— To wet common drawing paper, or any 
other kind, with benzine, it becomes transparent immediately, and can be 
placed over a drawing, or picture, to be transferred, by tracing with a pencil, 
ink, or water-colors, which will not spread nor run upon its surface. This is 
condensed from the Engineering and Mining Journal, and may be relied upon. 
If the work is not completed before the paper loses its transparency by evapo- 
ration of the benzine, you can dampen that part again, to complete it. Thia 
is a new discovery, and valuable. 

1. Glass, to Break as You Like.— File a little notch in the edge, 
at the point you wish to break from ; then put a suitably shaped red-hot iron 
upon the notch, and draw, slowly, in the direction you wish. A crack will 
follow the iron, caused by the heat, if not drawn too fast. 

2. Glass, to Drill. — To drill glass, use a file drUl, and keep it wet 
with a mixture of camphene and spirits of turpentine. Heretofore turpentine 
has been used alone. The camphene helps to give the drill a better bite.-. 
Scientific American^ 

Remarks. — It is daimed that a Stubb's triangular, or 3-square file, ground 
(c proper shape, makes the best drill for glass, and some have claimed that 



MECHANICAL. 797 

Water only or turpentine, do equally well to keep the glass wet \^tli. Again 
turpentine with garlic juice in it, is claimed to be the best. The file must be 
ground so that the edge is sharp, and the width that the hole is to be. The file 
perhaps, had best not be heated, as the temper can seldom be made equal to 
that of the maker, (if Stubbs tempers his files as given on page 793, why 
can not any good blacksmith do it ?) but if heated, while hot shape it to suitp 
then re-temper as Stubbs is said to do ? A man in Jackson, Mich., claimed, in 
writing to the Scientific American, that he had drilled 4 holes through }^ inch 
plate glass in 15 minutes, and that water was equally as good as turpentine 
to keep wet with. 

1. Furniture, Black Walnut Stain.— Take 1 pt. of very thin glue, 
Its adhesiveness being just perceptible between the thumb and fingers. Put 
Into it 1 tea-spoonful of raw umber,stir it well, and put on warm with a sponge or 
brush. When dry, brush off and varnish, or, 

2. Take 1 tea-spoonful of Venetian red and % tea-spoonful of lampblack, 
mix into a paste and then dilute with 1 pt of glue- water, as before.— JburwaZ of 
Chemistry. 

3. Ebony, or Black Stain Upon Pine, or Other Soft Woods.^ 
Make a strong decoction of logwood by boiling, and apply boiling hot, 3 or 4 
times according to the shade desired, allowing it to dry between applications ; 
then apply a solution of acetate of iron. This is made by putting iron filings 
into good vinegar. These penetrate the wood deeply, and are very black, or 
less deep, according to the number of applications. 

4. Polish, Fine For Furniture.— Linseed oil, and old ale, each ^ 
pt.; the white of 1 egg, beaten; alcohol, and muriatic acid, each 1 oz., mix. 

DiUECTiONS. — Dust the furniture, shake the polish, and apply with a wad 
of batting or cotton flannel, and finish with an old silk handkerchief. 

Bemarks. — This, and any of the others, wiU keep any length of time, if 
corked. 

6. Polish to Brighten Old Furniture, Pianos, etc.— Dissolve 
orange shade, gum shellac, 4 oz. in 95 per cent, alcohol, 1 qt. ; then add linseed 
oil, 1 qt. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 pt. ; shake and also add sulphuric ether, and 
aqua ammonia, each 4 oz. Shake well when used, rubbing until a polish ap- 
pears. — Good Cheer. 

6. To Take Bruises Out of Furniture.- Wet the part with warm 
water; double a piece of brown paper 5 or 6 times, soak it in warm water, and 
lay it on the place; apply on that a warm, but not hot, flat iron, till the moist- 
ure is evaporated. If the bruise be not gone, repeat the process. After two or 
three applications, the dent or bruise will be raised to the surface. If the bruise 
be small, merely soak it with warm water and hold a red-hot iron near the sur- 
face, keeping the surface continually wet. The bruise will soon disappear. 

(Note — ^This valuable receipt was obtained from New Zealand.) 
iJeTwar^s.— For the sweet-oil plan, see the next receipt. 

7. Polish, Excellent and Good.— To make a good poHsli for fumi* 
tuts?, take alcohol, good vinegar and sweet-oil, equal parts of each, or a little 
more of the last. Shake the bottle well, daily, for three weeks, when it is fit 
for use. but the longer it stands, the better it is. The furniture must be rubbed 
till the polish is dry. Apply every 3 or 3 months; and rub the furniture with 



798 L^i. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

a dry clotli every time it is dusted For dining-room tables and sideboards, 
use the polish every week, as it makes them beautifully bright. 

Remarks. — White-wine vinegar, when it can be got, is considered the best 

8. Polish for Pianos, etc. — Raw linseed oil (raw, which is unboiled 
oil, the kind intended in all, except the last one given), 1 qt. ; spirits of turpeu' 
tine, % V^- '■> alcohol, benzine, and aqua ammonia, each, 4 oz. Shake when 
applied, and rub well. 

9. Polish, Cheap and Good. — Gum shellac and rosin, each 2 oz.; 
alcohol, 1 pt. ; mix and let stand 24 hours, or until dissolved, shaking occa- 
sionally; then add spi."ts of turpentine, 3 pts.; boiled linseed oil, 2 qts. ;red 
analine, 15 grs. ; oil of citronella, >^ oz. Shake well when used. Apply with 
cotton flannel. 

Remarks. — This is given in large quantities, as it has been made and sold 
extensively. The analine is only to color, and the citronella to flavor. 

Furniture, Upholstered, Carpets, Furs, Fannels, Etc.— The 
Trade Secret for Ridding of Moths. — A trade secret among upholsterers 
for ridding furniture, etc., of moths, is the following: " A set of furniture 
that seemed to be alive with the larvae, and from which hundreds of these pests 
had been picked and brushed, was set into a room by itself. Three gallons of 
benzine war, purchased, at 30 cents a gallon, retail Using a small watering 
pot, with a fine rose-sprinkler, the whole upholstery was saturated through and 
through with the benzine. Result: Every moth, larvae and q^ was Mlled. 
The benzine dried out in a few hours, and its entire odor disappeared m 3 or 4 
days. Not the slightest harm happened to the varnish, or wood, or fabric, or 
hair-stuflSug. That was months ago, and not a sign of a moth has since ap- 
peared. The carpets were also sprinkled all around the sides of the room, with 
equally good effect. For furs, flannels— indeed, all woolen articles containing 
moths,— benzine is most valuable. Put them in a box, sprinkle them with 
benzine, close the box tightly, and in a day or two the pests will be externu- 
nated, and the benzine will all evaporate on opening. In using benzine great 
care should be taken that no fire is near by, as it is very i nflammtable.- Tecwm- 
seh (Mich.) EercUd. 

Remarks.— There is not a doubt of this fact, for I know that benzine is 
*• death to bed-bugs," and so is gasoline, which may be equally good for moths, 
and being much cheaper, is worthy of trial It will evaporate, too, as quickly 
as the benzine. 

L Paint— Cheap, as Used at Xorra OoDege, Suitable for 
Fences, Cheap Buildings, Tenement Houses, Etc. — Crude petroleum, 
3 parts — qta or gals. — boiled linaeed oil, 1 part, with " mineral paint," for 
body. 

. Remarks.— A report havixig got into aome of Ite papers, that such a paint 
had been used on some of the ooUege buildings, an inquiry about its value led 
Prof. S. A. Knapp to nu^e the following explanation. He says: 



MECHAJS'ICAL. 'm 

"Five buildings and considerable fence upo:i the Iowa Agr^^uiturai 
College Farm, have been painted with this preparation, Upon some of them 
it has been one year, and thus far it has appeared to be fully equal to more ex- 
pensive paints, in body, durability and in retention of color. It is especially 
adapted to cheap outbuildings, covered with rough boards. If 25 lbs. of white 
lead be added to each 100 lbs. of mineral paint, the mixture answers a very 
excellent purpose for tenement houses. [I see another writer claims that 1 lb. 
of lead to 4 lbs. of mineral paint, is suiHcient.] Many experienced painters 
have examined the buildings covered with this paint, and aflarmed that it made 
a better covering than pure lead and oil. This is doubtless an extreme view. 
It may, however, fairly be considered as a reliable paint for protectioa of the 
fences and cheaper farm buildings." 

2. Black Paint— How to Make for Iron Fences, Balustrades, 
Farm, Implements, Etc.— Coal-tar, 2 qts. ; benzine, or benzole, 1 pt., or a 
little more, to thin it, to lay on nicely with a brush. As the benzine is very 
evaporative, make no more than is to be used at the time. — IndustriaZ Monthly. 

Remarks. — This is claimed to be more durable than oil and lamp-black 
paints, even where that was varnished, having been in use three years wher 
the report was made. 

3. Paint for Floors.— A writer claims there " is but one paint suitable 
for floors, and this is French ochre. And, 1st, if the boards have shrunk^ 
clean out the cracks, and, with a small brush, give them a heavy coat of ooiled 
linseed oil, then putty them solid and smooth. 2d. Paint the whole floor 
with a mixture of much boiled oil and little ochre for the first coat; then after 
it is well dried, give two more coats of much ochre and little oil ; and finally 
finish with a coat of first-rate copal varnislu It is extremely durable for floors, 
windows, or outside, such as verandas, porticoes and the like, A floor stain, 
he continues, is best mixed in oil, and finally varnished," 

Remarks. — If " a floor stain is best mixed in oil and varnished," take the 
following; 

4. Floor Stain.— "Bcaled linseed <A\, 1 gal.; 5 cts. worth, or 2 heap- 
ing table-spoonfuls of burnt umber; heat the oil hot in an iron kettle — soap 
will clean it easily — then stir in the finely powdered umber, and with an old 
paint brush apply it as hot as you can; then, says a lady in the Blade, fareweD 
scrubbing. A mop, wrung out of warm water, will clean it nicely." 

Remarks. — This amount was given for a floor of 14 to 16 feet square; but 
it is about twice as miich as needed if only one coat is to be given. The fol. 
lowing receipt may be liked better, as it has spirits of turpentine in it, which 
causes it to penetrate the wood more de^ly; and it has some "dryer "also, 
which makes it dry quicker than without it. It was givMS ia the Detroit Posi 
and Tribune, coming from a painter, as follows. 

6. Stain Black Walnut for a Pine Floor, light Shadai— " Poi 
an ordinary sized room, bwled oil and spirit? of turpentine, each 1 qt ; drye?, 
1 gill (4 ozs.); burnt umber, i^ lb. Mix thoroughly and thin, or your floo» 



300 Di2. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

will be black as your shoe nearly. [Then put in only sufficient of the umber 
to give the shade desired.] If the floor is not to be varnished, use turpentine, 
1 pt. only, and boiled oil, 3 pts., to make it more glossy." 

3. Paint, Flexible, for Canvas. — Yellow soap, thinly sliced, 2 J 
ozs. ; boiling water, 1^ gals. Dissolve the soap by more heat, if necessary, and 
grind the whole solution, while hot, with 125 lbs. of good oil-paint. Keep 
same proportions for any amount needed. 

7, Paint, Old, to Remove.— Stone lime, 3 ozs.; pearlash, or salera- 
tus, 1 oz. 

Directions. — Slack the lime with water, and mis in the pearlash, or salera- 
tus, using only water enough to make a paste. Spread this upon the paint to 
be removed, and let it remain over night, or until soft, when it can all be 
scraped off. — Sckntijic American. 

Eemarks. — Where pearlash or saleratus cannot be obtained, sal soda may 
take their place. 

Fire-Proof Wash for Shingle Roofs.— Freshly slacked lime, sai$ 
and fine sand, or wood ashes, equal parts, made into a wash and put on freely 
as any ordinary whitewash is done, is said to render shingles flf ty-f old more 
safe against taking fire from falling cinders, or otherwise, in case of a fire iu 
the vicinity. — Fireman's Journal. 

L Cement, Crystal, or Liquid Glue for Gteneral Purposes. 
— "Hard water, 3 qts.; white glue, 3 lbs.; dry white lead, J lb.; aqua am- 
monia, 1 oz. ; spirits of camphor, 2 ozs. ; salt, 1 heaping table-spoonful ; alco- 
hol, 1 qt. ; gum shellac, ^ lb. 

Directions.— Put the shellac into the alcohol until dissolved. Dissolve the 
glue in the water by putting into a tin dish and setting into a pan of hot water 
to prevent burning the glue, till dissolved ; then put the glue water and shel- 
lac, dissolved in the alcohol, together in a pan or kettle, to allow all to be 
brought to a boiling heat, stir in the powdered white lead ; then the ammonia 
and spirits of camphor, and lastly the salt ; stir and boil a few minutes, and 
bottle while hot 

Eemarks. — This receipt was sent to me by Albert Stockwell, of Flint, 
Mich., who, in canvassing for my receipt books, always carried this cement 
with him, for sale, to help in his expenses. He spoke very highly of its great 
strength as a cement. 

2. Cement for Iron Works.— It is sometimes advisable to fix two 
pieces of iron, as pipes for water or steam, firmly together as a permanency. 
A rust cement is frequently used, and the materials are sal-ammoniac, sulphur 
and iron borings. If the cement is desired to act quickly, the proportions 
should be : Sal-ammoniac, 1 part by weight ; sulphur, 2 parts ; iron borings, 200 
parts. The sal-ammoniac and sulphur should be pulverized, and the borings 
of iron tolerably fine and free from oil. The mixture should be made with 
water to a conveniently handled paste. The theory of its action is simply 
miou by oxidation. 



MEGHAmCAL. 801 

3. Cement for Leather.— Sulphide of carbon, 10 parts ; spirits of 
turpentine, 1 part ; into which, in a suitable bottle, put finely cut shreds of 
pure gutta percha, to make a thickly-flowing liquid. To remove grease from 
the belts or leather to be joined, put a cloth upon it, and apply a hot iron for 
a while : then apply the cement to both surfaces, put together and apply pres- 
sure until dry. 

4. Cement for Rubber, and to Fasten Rubber to Metal, 
Glass and Other Smooth Surfaces.—" Powdered shellac is softened to 
ten times its weight of strong wat 3r of ammonia, whereby a transparent mass 
Is obtained, which becomes fluid after keeping some little time, without the 
use of hot water. In three or four weeks the mixture is perfectly liquid, and 
when applied it will be found to soften the rubber. As soon as the ammonia 
evaporates the rubber hardens again — it is said quite firmly — and thus becomes 
impervious both to gases and to liquids. For cementing sheet rubber or rubber 
material in any shape to metal, glass or other smooth surfaces the cement is 
highly recommended." 

n. Cement for Rubber Goods, Fastening' Rubber Soles, 
Leather Patches, Straps, etc.— Fill a bottle one-tenth full of native 
Indian rubber (gutta-percha) cut in minute shreds ; pour in benzole till the 
bottle is three-quarters full ; shake every few days until the mixture is as 
thick as honey. This dries quickly. It is useful to mend rubber shoes Ox any 
other rubber goods, as a water and air-tight cement for bottles — simply dip- 
ping the corks into it, and for a hundred other purposes. Three coats of this 
will unite leather straps, patches and rubber soles with firmness. To make a 
patch invisible, shave the edge of the leather quite thin. 

6. Cement, Similar to that upon Postage Stamps, Gummed 
Labels, etc., Good for Scrap Books, Labeling on Tin, Glass, etc. 
— Dextrine, 2 ozs. ; acetic acid and alcohol, each, i oz. ; water, 2^ ozs. 

Directions.— Mix the dextrine, acetic acid and water, stirring until thor- 
oughly mixed ; then add the alcohol For attaching labels to tin, first rub the 
surface with a mixture of equal parts of muriatic acid and alcohol ; thea 
apply the label gummed with a very thin coating of the cement, and it will 
adhere almost as well as on glasa A thin coat only is needed on " scraps*** 
for scrap books. 

Remarks. — Knowing the value of a paste, or cement, somewhat similar to 
this, where the adhesion depended upon the dextrine, I have every confidence 
in this for all the purposes named. 

6. Cement for Small Leaks in Steam Boilers.— Experiments 
have shown the following to be effectual for stopping small leaks from the 
seams of boilers, pipes, etc. Mix equal parts of air-slacked lime and fine sand; 
and finely powdered litharge equal to both the first Keep the powder dry, in a 
bottle, or a covered box. When wanted to apply, mix, as much as needed, to 
a pastes with boiled linseed oil, and apply quickly, as it soon hardens. 

51 



809 DR CEASE'S RECIPES. 

II. Cement. Steam-Tight, and "Water-Tight for Joints.— 
Pure white, and red leads, equal parts mixed with boiled linseed oil, to the con- 
sisteacy required, has been extensively used for this purpose. 

Steam Boilers, to Prevent Incrustation from Becoming Hara 
— A bar of zinc having accidentally been left in a steam boiler, when undei 
repairs, it was afterwards found to have disappeared, or dissolved, by whictj 
the incrustations, iostead of becoming hard, were muddy and soft, and hencfe 
easily removed. This proves that the zinc, and iron of the boiler, forms a bat- 
tery, the zinc being consumed, while the iron is protected, which is claimed to 
be a valuable discovery in engineering. The size of the bar of zinc would 
necessarily depend upon the size of the boiler, and how long the run was to b« 
between cleanings. 

Nails, to Drive Into Hard Sessoned Timber.— The editor of the 
Mew Oenesee Farmer gives the following account of witneseing an eiperi- 
ment of driving naOs into hard seasoned timber, fairly dried. " The first two 
nails, after passing through a pine board, entered about an inch, only, into the 
hard wood, then doubled down under the hammer; but on dipping the points 
of six or eight nails into lard, ev^ one wa« driven home without the least 
difficulty." 

i2emorA».— Carpenters who are engaged In repjuring old buildings some- 
tallies carry a nnall lump of tallow for the purpose on one of tiieir boots or 
(bhoes, 

Calcimining. — Take four lbs. of Paris white, put it in a pail, cover it 
with cold water and let it stand over night. Put into a kettle 4 oz. of glue, 
and cover it also with cold water. In the morning set the glue on the stove, 
and add enough warm water to make 1 qt. ; stir it imtil dissolved. Add the 
glue to the Paris white, and pour in waa» water till the pail is three-quarters 
full. Then add bluing, a little at a time, stirring it well until the mixture is 
slightly bluish. Use a good brush, and go over one spot on the wall till it is 
thoroughly wet. If your brush dries quickly, add more warm water, as the 
mixture is too thick. The brush must bo kept wet This mixture costs thirty, 
eight cents. — Scientific American. 

Se-wingr Machine Oil, to Make, and Ho"w to Use.— Take the 
brat parafflne oU, and the best sperm oil, equal parts. Mix. 

To Use. — Clean off the old oil with benzine, or kerosene, then apply. Thii* 
I obtained from a sewing-machine agent who said he had manufactured and 
sold much of this oil, having been in the business over 14 years. Machines 
•boaid be cleaned and re-oiled as often as they bea>me the least gummy. 



BEE-KEEPING. 



flii order that I might give the people the benefits of experience in Bee-Keeping, I engager 
^ Dr A. B Mason, onl of the mc^t successful bee-growers in the country, to write this 
chapter for this work.] 

H«no I Keep all ocJoniefl stronff, and dont pot off till tonwrow what sbonld he done tcnlay. 

In order that those interested in the science of Bee-keeping, who may read 
the following on the subject, may understand the meaning of the terms I shall 
use, I will say that the home or receptacle for the bees is called a " hive," not a 
"skip," "skep stand," or "gum," etc., and the bees when in a hive make a "col- 
ony,"'nota " swarm," and when part of a colony leaves a hive by what is known 
as swarming, it is a swarm, but the moment it is put in a hive it is a colony. 

The suggestions that follow are not intended for those largely engaged in 
hee-keepmg, or those who understand the subject, but for those who wish to 
keep only enough colonies to furnish their tables with pure, healtJif lU [pud 
most delicious sw^eet honey. 

• Any one wishing to be informed in regard to the natural history of the 
honey-bee, and for more elaborate instructions in regard to Bee-Kecping, should 
procure some standard work on the subject, such as "Langstroth on the Honey- 
Bee," which is a thoroughly scientific work; or, "Cook's Manual of the 
Apiary," or, " Quinby's ISIysteries of Bee-Keeping," both of which are thor- 
oughly practical, and up with the times. 

Any good supply dealers can furnish any of the articles used in Bee-keep, 
ing. All references and directions are given for those of the Langstroth hive. 

HOW TO COMMENCE BEE-EZEEPING. 

The first thing to procure, if such is not already on hand, will be one or 
more colonies of bees, which, in its natural condition, during the honey season, 
will be composed of a fertile queen (the only perfect female in the colony), more 
or less drones (or males), and from 20,000 to 40,000 workers. Some speak of a 
" king-bee " also, but there is no king in a colony of bees. 

WHAT HIVE TO USE. 

It is claimed by many that the hive known as the Langstroth is the one 
most in use. After having used different styles, for several years I adopted the 
Langstroth, and would rather pay for such than use any other, if furnished me 
for nothing Whatever style may be adopted, let it by all means be one with 
movable frames, and have but one sized frame in the apiary. 

In using the Langstroth hive, many prefer having it so narrow tJiat it will 
hold but eight frames, claiming that number of frames is aiough to raise tbo 



g(m DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

necessary amount of brood, and obliging the bees to put the surplus honey in 
the sections or upper stories. 

When referring to the Langstroth hive, reference is usually had to the size 
^f frame, as it is immaterial what the external appearance of the hive may be, 
that being left to the taste or fancy of the bee-keeper. 

Before commencing any operation with bees, it will generally be better to 
be provided with a bee-vail and a smoker, and if you don't want to be stung at 
all, get a pair of rubber gloves. The vail can be bought ready made for about 
fifty cents, or it can be made from bobinett. Brussel's net is much better but 
tnore expensive. Get 1% yds., that is about f of a yard wide. Sew the ends 
together and hem one edge, and put a rubber cord in the hem of such length as 
Vvill hold the vail close around the crown of the hat you wear, or use a hat as a 
bee-hat, and sew the vail, without the cord or hemming, to the edge of the rim. 
A. smoker may be had for from 50 cents to $2.00, in which rotton wood or cot- 
ton rags may be burned. The rubber gloves will cost from $1.75 to $2.00. 

HOW TO PROCURE THE FIRST COLONIES, ETC. 

12 not already supplied with bees, it will be best to get them as near home 
as possible. 

Italians are undoubtedly the best, and our motto demands that only strong 
colonies be purchased, and if purchased in the fall not more than two-thirds as 
much should be paid for them as they would be worth in the spring. 

Prepare a place on the ground for the hives, and if it is where the hens will 
not scratch, remove the grass and cover so thickly with sawdust where the hives 
are to set, and for several inches beyond on all sides, that neither grass nor 
Weeds will grow through it. Place the hives six or more feet apart each way, 
end have them face south or east. The reason for placing them so far apart 
will be given under the head of swarming. Put a stick two inches square and 
as long as the hive is wide under the front end of the hive, and a like piece, 
Under the back end. 

If the bees are not in the kind of hive that it is intended to be used, they may 
be readily transferred in either of the following ways. 

TRANSFERRING. 

The best time for this method is early in the season, when there is but little 
honey and brood in the hive, and always on a warm day. If possible, when the 
bees are busily engaged in gathering honey. "When fruit trees are in bloom is 
as good a time as any, although I have transferred in October with splendid 
success, but don't aitempt it late in the season unless you understand the 



Before commencing this operation, as many hives should be provided as 
there are colonies to be transferred. Gret everything ready that may be needed. 
If the colony is in a box hive, the following will be needed: A hand-saw, a 
hammer, a chisel to cut nails, a sharp, thin knife (a pointed shoe or case knife 



BEEKEEPING. 865 

is good), a board a few inches larger each way than the frame to be used, with 
one side covered with one or more thicknesses of flannel, a wing or a small 
brush broom, a small box without a top, a dish of water and a towel. In addi- 
tion to these, something will be needed to hold the combs in place when fitted 
in the frames. The best things for this purpose can readily be made. Get 
some wire, about No. 14 is best, cut into pieces 11 1^ inches long for the Lang, 
stroth frame. At J^ inch from one end bend to a right angle, at J^ of an inch 
T'rom this angle bend the same way as the first to a right angle. At Q% inches 
'rom this second angle bend the same way to a right angle. The first two bends 
ibrm a hook that is to be placed over the top bar of the frame, and the last bend 
makes an end that is to be pushed under the bottom of the frame after it is filled 
with comb. Prepare 6 or more ior each frame that is to be filled. 

If the bees are at all disposed to rob, place what is to be used in some 
building or room where the bees can not enter. Now go to the hive to be trans- 
ferred from and blow a little smoke in at the entrance. The object in smoking 
the bees is to frighten them, when they will fill themselves with honey, which 
puts them in the same-condition a cross, hungry person is after a good dinner — 
good natured. It is said that a bee full of honey will not sting unless pinched 
in some way. Then move the hive to one side and set the new one without the 
frames in its place, and carry the old hive, bees and all, to where you have placed 
the things you are to use in transferring, and turn it bottom side up if it is a box 
hive. Place one edge of the small box, before spoken of, on one edge of the 
now turned-over hive. Either prop or hold up the opposite edge of the box and 
drum lightly on the hive with the hammer or a small stick, and you will soon 
see the bees going up into the box. In this way drive out »n the bees that 
•mil readily leave, keeping them subdued with smoke. When all or nearly all 
the bees are in the box, empty them out on the ground or sawdust in front of 
the new hive. Now run the saw down one or two sides of the hive on the 
inside, cutting the combs and cross sticks loose from the sides, choosing the 
sides from which the flat sides of the comb can be most readily got at. Then, 
with the chisel, cut off the nails and remove the two sides of the hive. Remove 
one or more of the combs, or as much as will fill one of the frames and lay on 
the cloth that has been fastened to the board as already directed. The cloth 
prevents injuring the sealed brood as the uncovered board would do. Place 
one of the frames on this comb in such a way as to save as much of the brood 
as possible, and with a sharp, thin knife cut the comb to the size of the inside 
of the frame so it will fit snugly. Put on as many of the previously prepared 
wires as may be needed for the upper side. Then raise the board, comb and 
frame up edgewise, and turn the frame and its contents and lay the wire side 
down on the cloth and put wires on the now upper side, and it is ready to place 
in the new hive where the bees are. Proceed in the same manner till all the 
worker comb has been transferred, rejecting all drone comb, if there are othei 
bees within two or three miles, and let your less careful neighbors raise the 
drones. Brush the remaining bees, if any, down in front of the new hiva 
The honey from the remaining pieces of comb can be extracted or fed bad( 
to tUe bees and the comb made into vii&. 



806 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

GIVE PBAMES, OR STABTEBS OF FOUNDATION. 

If there is not enough suitable comb to fill all the frames, it will be best t« 
fill the empty ones with comb foundation. Cut the foundation so as it will 
reach within one-eighth of an inch of the ends of the frame and about three- 
eighths of an inch narrower than the inside of the frame. If you cannot afford 
«o much foundation, put a strip of any width (called starters) from half an 
Inch to wider along the center of the under side of the top bar of the frames, 
«o as to give the bees a guide by which to build their combs straight in the 
frames, and to make sure that they will be straight, place each frame with 
these guide pieces in them, between frames of comb if possible, but do not 
separate the combs that have biX)od in them till settled warm weather, or the 
brood may get chilled. 

As soon as the bees have fastened the combs securely in the frames, whicli 
Will be in from one to three days, the wires should be removed. 

Another method of transferring is called the Heddon plan, in wMch the 
combs are not transferred, and is as follows : 

Prepare a hive and have the frames filled with comb, if possible; if not, 
put in full sheets of foundation, or strips, as already directed, and place it 
Where the one stands that is to be trans^^erred. 

If one or more combs of brood can be procured from some other hive and 
put in this the bees will be more apt to be contented with their new home. If 
neither combs or foundation can be had, proceed as directed under the heading 
"How to get straight combs." 

This method of transferring should not be attempted except in warm 
Weather and when there is a good flow of honey. About swarming time is the 
best. 

Now drive out nearly all of the bees, as before directed, making sure that 
Ihe queen is driven out with them, and empty them down in front of the new 
hive, and see that all enter. Then place the old hive a few feet back of its old 
location with entrance in the opposite direction from what it was before. Afta" 
two or three days, move the old hive a few inches towards its old location and. 
also turn the entrance a little towards its former direction, and so continue to 
fio every day or two till it stands by the side of the new hive with the entrance 
the same way, which should be accomplished in at least three weeks from the 
time the transfer was made. 

In twenty-one days from the time of the transfer all the yoimg bees will be 
hatched in the old hive, when all the bees should be driven from it and united 
with the colony in the new hive, first destroying the queen that is with the bees 
just driven out. The old hive may now be taken apart, the honey be extracted 
from the combs, and then melt them into wax. If the surplus arrangements 
have not been added to the new hive it may now be done. This method of 
transferring saves much work and perhaps many stings. 

The future methods of procedure will depend on what kind of honey it Is 
faitended to secure, comb or extracted, not strained, as some call if*. 



BEE-KEEPING. 807 



COMB HONEY. 



It wDl generally be best for those keeping but a few colonies to buy the 
hives already prepared with the needed fixtures. I would advise the use ol 
Bections holding not more than 3 pounds, one lb. is better and not over \% 
Inches wide. The comb is more apt to be built straight in the narrow sections 
than in the wider ones. 

Fill each section with a very thin comb f oimdation, fastening it firmly at the 
top, letting it come within i^ of an inch of each end and J^ of an inch of the 
bottom of the section. If it is not desirable to use so much foundation, cut it 
into triangular pieces, long enough up and down to reach within % of an inch 
of the bottom of the section. If fovmdation is not used, it will hasten and aid 
the bees in starting in the sections to procure some nice white pieces of comb 
and cut and use as directed for foimdation. 

Be sure and have everything in readiness for immediate use, for a few 
days after makes the difference between a good supply of honey and none at 
all. 

If the colony is strong, (and none other should be kept), and it is gathering 
honey, the sections may be put on as soon as the wires are removed from the 
transferred combs. The honey secured from fruit bloom is dark colored and 
usually bitter, and may be extracted and kept to be fed back to the bees if at 
any time they should need feeding, or it can be used in making honey vinegar. 
When the sections are nearly filled with honey, and the bees are still gathering, 
they should be raised up and another tier prepared like the first placed undei* 
it on the hive. The bees will usually commence at once to work in the new 
and also finish the old ones. As soon as the old ones are finished they should 
be removed, for the longer they are left on the hive the darker they will be- 
come, for the bees do not always have clean feet When the second tier of 
sections is nearly finished, remove the imder tier, and should the honey flow 
continue, they should be raised and another tier put under as at first, and the 
operation should be repeated as often as necessary. After being removed 
from the hive, comb honey should be kept in a warm dry room, never in a eel 
lar, unless warm and dry, and never allowed to freeze. 

EXTBACTED HONEY. 

In addition to the appliances already on hand as before spoken of, a honey 
extractor and a honey knife will be needed if extracted honey is to be secured. 
An extractor can be had from $6 to $25, the price depending upon the size and 
style. A good one can be bought for from $8 to $14, and a knife for from 50 
cents to $1.50. 

Procure a hive the same as for comb honey, but in place of the sections, 
etc., get one or more extra stories with frames, to put on the lower hive. Some 
of the most successful producers of extracted honey use upper stories only 6 
inches deep. Fill the frames with foundation, or put in starters, as directed 
tmdar tTMisferring. If the colony is strong and gathering honey rapidly, tbgi 



■808 DR. CHASE'S BECIPES. 

second story may be put on as soon as the wires are removed from the trans- 
ferred combs, otherwise not till a sm-plus is being gathered. If the colony is 
not strong enough to occupy the whole of the second story, 2 or 3 frames and 
a division board may be put in and the remainder of the lower story be kept 
covered so as to retain the heat of the bees. When the second story is nearly 
filled with honey it may be extracted, or it may be raised up and another pre- 
pared as before directed, be put under it, and so continue to do till the honey 
season closes and the extracting can all be done at once. But the better plan is 
to do the extracting as soon as the honey flow from each kind of flowers ceases, 
for the mixing of diflerent kinds of honey destroys their distinctive flavors. 
The better way is to extract the yield from fruit bloom as soon as white clover 
begins to yield honey, and then again after white clover and before basswood, 
and after basswood and before the yield of dark honey from fall flowers. Aa 
different localities often yield different kinds of honey, each one must judge foj 
himself when to extract. 

Another method is to have hives of only one story in which the bees raisb 
brood, this is called the brood nest If honey is coming in rapidly it may be 
be necessary to extract 2 or 3 times a week, so as to give the queen room to 
deposit eggs. If this is neglected the cells will be filled with honey and brood 
rearing will necessarily have to cease, and as the amount of honey gathered 
depends upon the number of bees, it is desirable to raise as many as possible, 
that is, keep all colonies strong. 

When ready to extract, blow a little smoke in at the entrance of the hive. 
If the honey is to be extracted from the brood nest move the hive just back of 
■where it now stands and place an empty one, without any covering, in its place. 
Keniove the cover and quilt off the hive to be extracted from, and if the bees 
are cross smoke them enough to make them quiet. Have ready another empty 
hive or comb holder in which to place the combs to be extracted. Remove one 
of the combs and shake the adhering bees into the empty hive on the old stand. 
Such bees as have not been shaken off should be brushed off with a wing or 
brush. Then place this comb in the empty hive or comb holder. Proceed in 
like manner with the remaining combs. If any of them do not need extracting 
place them in the hive where the bees have been shaken. Take the combs to 
the honey extractor and with the uncapping knife remove the cappings from as 
many of the combs as the comb basket will contain. Then by revolving the 
comb basket the honey will be thrown out of one side of the combs, which 
should then be reversed and the honey thrown, or extracted, from the other 
side. Proceed in this manner till all have been extracted, when the combs 
should be placed in the hive where the bees are and the hive closed up. Pro- 
ceed in like manner with all the colonies that need extracting. If the combs 
contain unsealed brood be careful not to revolve them so rapidly as to throw it 
out. A little practice will soon enable one to do it properly. Should there be 
upper stories to extract from, and not from the brood nest, the hive need not 
be moved, and the bees may be shaken on the ground. ia front of the hive. 



BEE-KEEPma. 80» 

SvYarming is the natural method of obtaining increase^ and tisiiaBy cccaia 
dtiring the latter part of May or in June when the colony has become populous 
and the bees are actively engaged in breeding and gathering honey. Usually 
about 10 o'clock, or between 10 and 2, on a bright, warm day, the greater por- 
tion of the workers not engaged in gatheiing stores, having their honey sacks 
filled with honey, rush from the hive as though a ghost were after them. After 
flying about for a short time, the swarm usually lights on some convenient tret 
or bush. During an experience of twenty years I have known but one swarm 
to leave for parts imknown without first lighting. 

To prevent constant watching and anxiety in swarming time, I clip off two 
thirds or more of one of the wings of the queen as soon as she commences to 
deposit eggs. 

A swarm will not " run away " unless a queen accompanies it, and she can 
not go if one of her wings is nearly gone. Be sure and remove enough of the 
wing, or the queen will still be able to fly, although it will be apt to be quite 
slowly, if too little has been taken off. 

A swarm may light without a queen being with it, the same as if the queea 
accompanied it, but it will finally return to its old home. 

If two or more swarms issue at the same time they are very apt to light 
together, if they light at all. When they miss their queens and return they 
are pretty sure to divide up and go to their own hives. 

I have previously given directions for placing the hives at least 6 feet apart, 
and on or near the ground. The reason of this can now be readily seen. If a 
swarm issues when no one sees it the queen will not be likely to crawl 6 feel 
and enter the wrong hive and be killed, and the hive being on the ground, she 
can crawl back and enter her own hive. It will not do to let them swarm and 
go back many times, or they may become disgusted wi1;Ii their queen and 
destroy her, and while the swarming fever lasts it interferes materially with 
honey gathering and brood rearing. 

HXVOTG A SWAEM. 

If the queen's wing has not been clipped, a good way to proceed is to placti 
the hive where it is to stand permanently. Have the frames filled with founda- 
tion, or with starters in them as before directed. If there is a supply of extra 
combs use them in place of foundation. 

As soon as the swarm issues take one or more combs from the hive the 
swarm has come from, at least one of the combs to have young brood in (but 
bs sure there is no queen cell on either of them) and place in the center of the 
hive prepared for the swarm. Place the frames left in the old hive in the center 
and fill the empty places thus made with frames that have been prepared for 
the new hive. Have ready a box or basket that will hold 6 or 8 quarts, without 
top, and as soon as the swarm has lighted shake or orush the bees into it, and 
«is soon as the bees have settled on it carry them to the hive prepared for th&nk 



810 DR. CEASE'S RECIPES. 

and gradually sfiake or brush out a few at the entrance of the hive, and as soon 
as they begin to enter, the remaining bees may be poured out in front of the 
hive. All should be made to enter, so as to be sure that the queen is in, or they 
might swarm out. The hive should also be shaded during the hottest part of the 
day, and it would be better if every hive coiild be shaded in the same way dur- 
ing warm weather. 

MY METHOD. 

I clip a wing of every one of my queens, and when a swarm issues pro- 
ceed as follows : As soon as a swarm is seen coming out, go with a queen cage 
or glass tumbler to the hive and watch for the queen, which, being clipped, 
will soon be seen crawling on the ground, making vain attempts to fly. Place 
aer in the cage or tumbler. Be careful in going to the hive that you do not 
step on her. 

As soon as the swarm is all out move the hive it has just left two or more 
jods away, and put a new hive, prepared as before directed, in its place. As 
4>efore stated, the swarm will usually return without lighting, and as soon as 
they begin to enter let the queen loose at the entrance, and be sure she enters 
the hive. If the swarm should light the same as if the queen were with it, it 
can be hived as already directed, letting the queen run in with the first that 
enter. 

As soon as the other bees have all entered move the hive to where it is to 
remain and place the old one in its former location and the work is done. 
Sometimefj the swarm while circling around in the air finds the old hive, even 
when moved some distance away, and will enter unless prevented by again 
moving it, or covering it up. 

Hives in which swarms are to be put should be kept in the shade for if 
left in the sun they will sometimes become so warm that the newly hived 
swarms will not stay in. them. 

APTEK SWARMS. 

If it is not desirable to have more than one swarm from each colony, it 
may be prevented in either of the following ways : 

If extra queens are in readiness all the queen cells should be destroyed as 
soon as the colony has swarmed and a new queen be given to it. This will 
save the old colony from being without a laying queen for over two weeks. 
Care must be taken to remove every queen cell before attempting to introduce 
the queen. 

Another method is to remove all the queen cells but one as soon as the col- 
ony has swarmed, and at the farthest not later than sis or seven days after the 
swarm has issued. If all the queen cells but one are destroyed as soon as the 
sw?.rm has issued other cells will sometimes be started, so it will be better to 
to wait, or examine again for queen cells in three or four days. 

Occasionally the colony wiU swarm without having started any queen cells, 
LTi which case it will be twenty-four or more days before it will have a laying 
;ijiaeen unless ooe is finmished it. 



BEE-KBEPINQ. 811 

HOW TO CLIP A QUKETN'S WING. 

As soon as the queen has commenced to deposit eggs, usually about eight 
or ten days after being hatched, take hold of the left wing with the left thumb 
and whichever finger comes most handy, (or if left handed use the right hand), 
being careful not to grasp or squeeze the abdomen, raise her from the comb, 
and let her stand on another finger or on the knee, and with a smjill pair of 
sharp scissors, one blade of which is carefully passed under the right wing, 
dip off at least % of it, being very careful not to injure either of her legs, then 
replace hei on the comb among the beea. 

HOW TO GET STBAIGHT COMBS. 

If no foundation is to be used, and the bees are to make their own combs, 
and it is desired to have them straight in the frames, it may be easily accom- 
plished in the following manner: 

Have the lower side of the top bar of the frames made V shaped. Raise 
the back end of the hive about 6 inches, and as the bees always begin comb 
building at the highest point, they will begin at the back end of the frames. 
When they have started comb nearly half the length of the frames they are at 
work on, reverse every other one, putting the front end of the frames at the back 
end of the hive, and if the combs already built are straight, the filling out of 
the other ends of the frames will necessarily be straight It will be well to look 
at the combs occasionally while they are being built, and if they are being 
started wrong, or are being made crooked, they can readily be bent and fixed 
straight. A little attention to this will easily secure that much to be desired 
object, straight combs. When the combs are started the full length of the toj; 
bar, the back end of the hive should be lowered to the right position. 

BOBBING. 

When the flow of honey ceases, bees are very much inclined to rob. To 
prevent this, keep the entrance to the hive closed to the size necessary for tha 
use of the colony. If robbing has already begun, close the entrance so that 
but one or two bees can pass at a time. If this does not stop it, cover the 
entrance with some loose, wet hay or straw. Bees do not like to crawl through 
this, and the colony wUl generally be able to repel the attack. 

WINTEEING. 

It is well known that to winter bees successfully is the most difiicult part 
of bee-keeping, and this one thing may be put down as an axiom: Extremes of 
heat or cold are detrimental to bees. If the temperature becomes extremely 
low, the bees take more food to keep up the animal heat; they become uneasy 
and throw off much moisture which may condense and freeze aroimd the 
cluster encasing them in a solid wall of ice, thus preventing them reaching 
ttie honey, and they actually starve with plenty of honey hi the hive. Tue 



812 DJU CHASE'S RECIPES. 

remark is often made in the spring by those that had a fo jv colonies and losi 
them in the winter. "My bees all died with lots of honey in the hive; I wonds? 
what was the reason?" 

If the temperature becomes too high they will also become restless and ea 
more than is for tlieir good, become diseased, foul their combs and hive, m& 
die with plenty of honey in the combs. 

CELLAJE WINTEKIWG. 

It will readily be seen that it is desirable to avoid either of these extremes, 
heat and cold. To do this, as soon as there is settled cold weather, which ia 
this locality is usually about the middle of November, place the bees in a dark, 
quiet cellar that will keep vegetables well, and maintain an even temperature 
of about 45°. Of course the bees should have plenty of honey to eat, and 25 
lbs. will be none too much to last them till they can gather a supply in the 
luring. To prepare them for the cellar remove everything above the frames 
and put three or four sticks, % inch square, and nearly as long as the hive is 
wide inside, crosswise on the frames, and put on a new honey quilt. This wiU 
give the needed ventilation, retain the heat, and give the bees a chance to move 
over the tops of the frames. This should be done before cold weather, so when 
it is time to put the bees in winter quarters all it will be necessary to do will be 
to remove the cap and carefully place the colony in the cellaTc 

OUTDOOR WINTEEINao 

If the bees are to be wintered out doors 35 lbs. of honey will be none to<* 
much for each colony. A new quilt and sticks should take the place of the old 
quilt the same as for cellar wintering. Corn fodder or straw may be placed 
about each hive to aid in keeping oS. the cold, but the entrance should be left 
partially open and shaded from the sun. 

A better method of outdoor protection is to take a box without top or 
bottom and 8 or 10 inches larger each way than the outside of the hive and as 
high as may be needed. Place this box over the hive and fix the entrance S9 
that the bees can get out and in, and fill the space between the box and hive 
with chaff, cut straw or dry leaves, well pressed down, and cover the top of the 
hive in the same way, and finish by covering the box with a flat, or slanting, 
roof that is water tight. 

The best outdoor wintering arrangement I have ever seen is that used by 
H. D. Cutting, of Clinton, ]\Iich., now and for several years past, Secretary of 
the Michigan State Bee-keepers' Association. It is simple, cheap and durable. 
I don't know that he ever made one to sell. It is very easily made and can be 
taken apart and put away (in the flat) in a moment and will last for years. It 
is made of lumber % ov % inch thick, dressed on one or both sides, or it need 
not be dressed at all. Cut it so it will be 8 or 10 inches longer than the hive 
for the sides, and 8 or 10 inches longer than the hive is wide for the ends. Foi 
each hive make 8 pieces or cleats, about 1 inch square and 4 inches longer 
■Jian tlie hive is high, un.ess tlie cover Is high. 



BEE-KEEPINO. 818 

To make the sides place 1 of the inch square pieces % an inch from the 
end of the board cut for the sides, if 3^ inch stuff is used, or % of an inch if 
% stuff is used, and nail fast; making as wide as the cleats ar« long, and put 
anotlier cleat at the other end in the same -way. For the end pieces place the 
cleats 1 inch from the ends of the boards that have been cut for the ends; make 
as many of these as may be needed. The sides and ends may be fastened at 
the corners with two hooks at each corner, or screws may be used if more con- 
venient. The cover may be made like a house roof, or in any way that may 
suit ones fancy or convenience, always making sure that it is water tight. Set 
the hive to be prepared for winter on a board that is as wide as the inside of the 
above described box, and some longer than its length so as to furnish an alight- 
ing place for the bees. Fix an entrance for the bees and place the box in posi- 
tion, and pack as already directed. The ends of the cleats will stand on the 
edges of the bottom board so that rains will not wet the packing. 

"Whatever method of protection is adopted, whether it be corn fodder, straw, 
or packing in a box, it should not be removed till settled warm weatLer in the 
spring. 

MY METHOD OP WINTERING. 

As soon as possible after the frost has killed the flowers so that the bees 
can gather little or no bee-bread, I examine each colony and select such combs 
as have little or no bee-bread in them, and place as many in one side of the 
hive as the bees may need to cluster on, and put in a division board. If there 
is not honey enough in the selected combs for the bees to winter on, I uncap 
the honey in some or all of the others, and place them on the other side of the 
division board so the bees will carry it over into the combs they are to winter 
on. If there is still a lack of winter stores, I feed more honey or syrup made 
of either granulated, or coffee A sugar. Don't feed poor sugar if you wish to 
save the bees. 

The empty or extra combs are put away to be used again in the spring. 
At this time put on the sticks and new honey quilt as before directed, and when 
it becomes settled cold weather, place all in the cellar. 

The object in taking away the bee-bread is to prevent the loss of bees frona 
diarrhea. I have wintered in this way with perfect success for the last seven 
winters, not losing a colony from disease. 

During cold weather all the bees need to eat is food which will produce heat, 
and that is furnished by the honey or sugar syrup, which, when pure, is fully 
digested, leaving nothing to be discharged as feces, consequently there can be 
no diarrhea, unless it be induced by extremes of heat or cold. 

I believe that colonies wintered in the cellar are more apt to become weak 
^rom the loss of bees in the spring than those that are wintered outdoors if 
properly protected ; but those wintered in the cellar consume much less honey. 

The same protection may be given them when they are brought from the 
cellar in the spring, as has been recommended for outdoor wintering, and wiU 
largely, if not wholly prevent spring dwindling. 



814 DR. CHASE'S RECIPES. 

Whatever method of wintering may be adopted, the secret of doing it suc- 
cessfully is, to keep the bees in an even temperature, and with little, or na 
nitrogenous food. Pollen, called also bee-bread, is nitrogenous food. 

If the bees are wintered in the cellar, place them on their summer stands 
as early in the spring as they can gather pollen from willow and soft maple 
blossoms. If convenient place each hive where it stood the previous season. 

With the division board keep the bees crowded on as few combs as they 
may choose to occupy, moving it and giving new combs from those removed 
when preparing for winter, as often as they may need them. 

If it is desired to keep the honey quilt clean for future winter use it may 
be removed and the one taken off in the faU replaced; but it will be well t© put 
the wintering quilt on top of the other to help retain the heat 'till settled warm 
■weather. 

HONEY VINEGAB. 

All waste honey, and that with a bitter and unpleasant taste may be made 
Into vinegar that is better flavored than that made from cider. 

When extracting honey, the dishes used will have honey adhering to them 
which should be rinsed off with as little water as possible, and the sweetened) 
water thus obtained should be put in a keg, barrel or crock and placed where 
it will be kept warm. During warm weather it may be placed in the sun, and 
so covered that air may readily enter, and dirt and flies be excluded. The cap- 
pings removed from the combs with the uncapping knife, after the honey has 
drained from them, may be washed with water, and will add materially to the 
amount of sweetened water. The sweeter the water the stronger the vinegar 
will be ; but it will not sour as rapidly if made too sweet at first 

ENEMIES OP BEES. 

Bees have many enemies, but I shall notice but two, the toad and the 
moth-miller. The only objection that I know of to the hive resting on the 
ground is, that it makes it convenient for Mr. or Mrs. Toad to readily reach 
the bees, where they will quietly sit and make a square meal of bees. Although 
they are good in the garden and on the farm, they are bad around the bee- 
hives. Be sure and keep them away, even if you are obliged to kill tliem. 

The moth-miller is sometimes very troublesome, but seldom does any 
harm if all colonies are kept strong. Don't invest in motli-proof hives, or 
moth traps, but keep all tlie colonies strong and the motii-miller will nol 
trouble. 

POTJL BROOD. 

Among the diseases of bees, foul brood takes first rank. The success oi 
the most convenient method of curing it (and the one I shall give) would indi- 
cate that the cause of the disease is in the honey; but the disease itself is 
developed in the young brood, causing it to die, usually before it is sealed 



BEE-KEEPING. «15 

over. It may also lurk in and about the hive, and a hive that has contained 
a diseased colony should not be again used for any purpose tUl thoroughly 
disinfected by boiling. 

"When a colony is badly diseased it may frequently be known by the 
odor without opening the hive. To me it is very much like that given off 
by the melting of bad glue. 

It may be quite readily known on examination of the combs, especially 
if badly diseased. If but few cells of brood are affected it may not be* 
detected by one not acquainted with it, and if extracted honey is -taken ma^ 
readily be communicated to every colony, for it is very contjigious. 

When the brood first dies it usually has the appearance of pus, or " majJ- 
ter," and settles down in the lower back comer of the cell, and is light col- 
ored; but the longer it is dead the darker it becomes, sometimes getting almost' 
black. 

If the disease is suspected, take a pin and with the head slowly attempt 
to remove the putrid mass from one of the cells. If it clings to the pin and 
also to the cell, and stretches out like a thread of rubber, and finally lets gd 
the pin and draws back into the cell, it is quite safe to call it foul brood. 

Being so contagious, it, by many, is considered difficult to cure; so mudi 
so that it is directed to burn a good log or brush-heap, and when well oa 
fire throw the hive, bees and all, into the fire. But Uiis is a useless waste, 
the bees, hive, and irames may be saved and the combs melted into wax. 
Probably the best way is to have a starving box to hold about a peck, with 
one side off, or an empty hive may be used. Shake and brush all the beea. 
of the diseased colony into the stiirving box and cover the open side with; 
wire cloth, so that not a bee can escape, and do not let a single Ihjc from the 
colony being treated go to any other colony, for it will be pretty sure to carry 
the disease with it. Set this box in a cool, dark place, where no bees can 
reach it, placing the box so that the wire cloth will be on the side, not on th» 
top or bottom. 

Now melt the combs into wax, and thoroughly boil the hive and frames and 
everything connected with it, in water, and it is again ready for use. Do not iise 
the old location again unless it has been thoroughly scalded, ground and all, 
■with boiling water, or covered one or more inches deep with salt, which is to b© 
left to be dissolved by the rains and dews. 

After the bees have been in the box two or more days some of the bees wili 
be seen falling to the bottom, having consumed all the honey taken with them, 
and are actually starving. If they were well filled with honey when put in the 
box it may be six or more days before the honey is all used up. When a few 
bees fall to the bottom, say 100, more or less, and are crawling slowly about, 
they may be placed in the boiled or some other hive that has been prepared with 
foundation or starters. 

I would not use any comb for a few days, for if any of the bees should sdU 
have any f oud honey it would be deposited in the cells and so continue Uie 
disease. 



816 DR CHASE'S RECIPES. 

The bees in the starving-box must be very closely watched, for when their 
honey is all consumed they soon die. Look at them several times a day after 
^he second day. 

To cleanse the hands or anything else that it will not do to put into boiling 
water, prepare a solution of salycilic acid as follows: 

Salycilic acid, 16 grs.; borax, 16 grs.; water, 1 oz. Put in a bottle and 
shake often till the acid and borax are dissolved. 

Thoroughly moisten the hands, etc., with this preparation and no fears 
aeed be entertained of spreading the disease by handling some other bees 
dy hive. 



GLOSSARY, 

OB 

DICTIOMRY OF MEDICAL TERMS 

Used in This Work. 



Ab-do-men. The belly, or the lower front part of the body. 

Ab-lu-tion. Washing of the body externally; cleansing by water. 

Ab-nor-mal. Unnatural; irregular; not according to rule. 

Ab-or-tion. Childbirth before the proper time. 

Ab-ra-sion. A superficial wound caused by bruising the skin. 

Ab-sorb-ent. Glands and vessels which absorb or suck up substances; med- 
icines which absorb, or combine with acid matter in the stomach or bow* 
els. 

Ac-couch-eur. A man who attends mothers in childbirth. 

Ac-e-tab-u-lum. The socket that receives the head of the thigh bone. 

A-cho-li-a. Not sufficient of bile. 

A-cid. Sour, sharp, pungent, bitter or biting to the taste. 

Ac-tual Cau-te-ry. Used in surgery; burning or searing with a hot iron. 

Ac-u-punc-ture. Pricking with needles; one of the operations of surgery. 

Ac-ute. Diseases attended with violent symptons; the reverse of chronic. 

Ad-he-sive. Tenacious, sticky; apt or tending to adhere. 

Ad-he-sive Plaster. Sticking plaster. 

Ad-i-pose. Membrane or tissue; fat. 

A-dult Age. Manhood or womanhood; a person who has attained full size 
and age. 

Af-fec-tion. Disorder, disease, malady. 

Al-bu-men. An element found in both animal and vegetable substances. 
The white of an egg. • 

Al-bu-mi-nose. A substance produced in the stomach during digestion. 

Al-i-ment. Nourishment, nutrition; anything necessary for the support of 
life. 

Al-i-ment-a-ry Ca-nal. The entire passage through the whole intestines 
from the mouth; the passage for the aliments. 

Al-ka-li. A substance which, when united to acids, neutralizes thfim. 

Al-ter-a-tive. A remedy which gradually restores healthy action. 

Al-ve-o-lar. Relating to the sockets of the teeth. 

Al-vine. Relating to the intestines. 

Am-aur-O-sis. A loss or decay of sight, produced by various ( 
63 817 



818 GLOSSARY. 

Am-en-or-rhe-a, An obstruction of the menstrual discharges; absence of 

the menses, 
Am-ni-ot-ic Liquid. The fluid surrounding the foetus of the womb. 
Am-pu-ta-tion. The act of cutting off a limb or other part of the body. 
A-na-sar-ca. A dropsy of the whole body; a general dropsy. 
A-nas-to-mose. To communicate with each other; applied to arteries and 

veins. 
A-nat-o-my. Study of the body. 

An-em-i-a. Lack of blood; a comparatively bloodless state. 
An-es-the-sia. Numbness or paralysis of sensation. 

An-eu-rism. A soft tumor, caused by the rupture of ^e coats of an artery. 
An-i-mal-cules. Animals so minute as to be visible only with a micro 

scope. 
An-o-dyne. Any medicine which will allay pain and induce sleep. 
Ant-acid. A substance which neutralizes acids; alkalies are antacids. 
An-thel-min-tic. A medicine that destroys worms. 
An-thrax. A dusky red or purplish kind of tumor, occurring in the neck. 
An-ti-bil-ious. An opposing medicine counteractive of bilious complaints. 
An-ti-dote. A preventive, or remedy for, poison or any disease. 
An-ti-dys-en-ter-ic. A cure for dysentery. 
An-ti-e-met-ic. A remedy to check vomiting. 

An-ti-lith-ic. A medicine to prevent or remove urinary calculi or gravd. 
An-ti-mor-bif -ic. Anything to prevent or remove disease. 
An-ti-pe-ri-o-dic. That which cures periodic diseases, such as ague, intermit 

tent fever, etc. 
An-ti-scor-bu-tic. A remedy used for the scurvy; blood purifiers. 
An-ti-sep-tie. Whatever resists or removes putrefaction or mortificaifon. 
An-ti spas mod-ic. Remedy for cramps, spasms, and convulsions. 
A-nus. The external opening of the rectum, lower intestines. 
A-or-ta. The great artery from the heart. 
Ap-a-thy. Insensibility to pain. 
A-pe-ri-ent. A mild purgative or laxative. 
Ap-pe-tite. A desire for food or drink. 

Ar-o-ma. The agreeable odor of plants and other perfumed substances. 
Ar-o-mat-ic. Spicy and fragrant drugs. 

Artery. A vessel that conveys the blood from the heart to the organs. 
Ar-thro-di-a. A joint movable in any direction. 
Ar-tic-u-la-tion. The union of bones with each other, as at the jointi 
Ar-tic-u-la-ted. Having joints. 

As-car-i-des. Pinworms found in the lower portion of the bowels. 
As-ci-tes. Dropsy of the abdomen. 
As-phyx-ia. Apparent death, as from drowning. 
As-sim-i-la-tion. The process by which food is changed into tissue. 
As-then-ic. Debilitated. 

As-trin-gent. A medicine which contracts or puckers up surfaces ■with 
which they come in contact; used in flooding, diarrhea, etc. 



GLOSSARY. 819 

At-O-ny, Debility; defect of muscular power. 

At-ro-phy. A loss of strengtli and wasting of flesh without any sensible 

cause. 
At-ten-u-ants. Medicines for reducing the weight of the body. 
Au-ri-cle. A cavity of the heart. 
Aus-Ctil-ta-tion. The art of detecting disease by listening to the sounds of 

lungs, heart, etc. 
Axilla. The armpit; hence axillary, pertaining to the armpit. 
Ax-il-la-ry Glands. Situated in the armpit, secreting a fluid of peculiar 

odor. 
Bal-sam-ics. Medicines possessing healing properties. 
Bile or Gall. A secretion from the liver which aids digestion. 
Blister. A thin watery bladder on the skin. 
Bougie. A taper body introduced into a passage or sinus to keep it open 

or enlarge it. 
Bright's Disease. A dangerous disease of the kidneys. 
Bron-chi-tis. Inflammation of the bronchial tubes; the branches of the 

windpipe in the lungs. 
Ca-chex-y. A bad state of the body. It may be caused by blood poisons. 
Cal-cu-lus. Stone or gravel found in the kidneys and bladder. 
Cal-Ious. Hard or firm. 
Caloric. Heat. 
Cap-il-la ry. Fine, hair-like. 
Capsicum. Cayenne pepper. 

Capsule. A dry, hollow vessel containing the seed or fruit. 
Carbon ic Acid Gas. A gas of two parts of oxygen and one part oi 

carbon. 
Ca-ri-es. Ulceration of a bone. 
Car-min-a-tives. Medicines which allay pain by expelling wind from the 

stomach and bowels; an aromatic medicine. 
Ca-rot-id Artery. The great arteries of the neck that convey blood to the 

heart. 
Car-ti-lage. A hard elastic substance of the body; gristle. 
Ca-ta-me-ni-a. The monthly discharges of women. 
Cat-a-plasm. A poultice. 

Catarrh. A discharge from the head or throat; a flow of mucus. 
Cathartic. An active purgative. 
Cath-e-ter. A curved instrument introduced into the bladder, for drawing 

off the urine. 
Caus-tic. Burning; a corroding or destroying substance which bums or cop- 

rodes living tissues, as nitrate of silver, potash, etc. 
Cau-ter-y. A burning or searing any part of the body. 
Cell. A small elementary form found in vegetable and animal tissue. 
Cer-e-bel-lum. The lower and back part of the brain. 
Cefr-e-bral. Pertaining to the brain. 
CJer-e-brum. The upper and front part of the braia. 



820 GLOSSARY. 

Cer-e-bro-Spinal. Pertaining to the spinal cord and brain. 

Ce-ru-men. The wax of the ear. 

Cha-lyb-e-ate. Containing iron in solution, as found in mineral springs. 

Chan-cre. A venereal or syphilitic sore. 

Chol-a-gogues. Medicines that cause an increased flow of bile, such as calo- 

mel and podophyllin. 
Chol-er-ic. Easily irritated; irritable. 
Clior-dee. A painful drawing of the chords of the penus. It occurs in 

gonorrhea. 
Chron-ic. To continue for a long time, and becoming a fixed condition of 

the system. 
Chyle. A milky fluid, mixing with and forming the blood. 
Chyme. The pulp formed by the food after it has been for some time in the 

stomach, mixed with the gastric secretions. 
Cir-cu-la-tion. The motion of the blood, which is propelled by the heart 

through the body. 
Clav-i-cle. Collar-bone. 
Co-ag-u-la-tion. A change from a fluid to a solid condition, as' in the 

coagulatioa of the blood. 
Co-ag-u-lum. A clot of blood. 
Co-a-lesce. To grow together; to xmite. 

Col-lapse. Sudden failure or prostration of the vital functions. 
Col-liq-ua-tive. Excessive discharges from the body which weaken the 

system. 
Co-lon. A portion of the large intestine. 
Co-ma, Com.-a-tose. Stupor; disposed to sleep. 
Com.-press. A bandage, made with several folds of linen. 
Con-cus-sion. A violent shock. 
Con-fluent. Running together. 
Con-ges-tion. An accumulation of blood. 

Con-junc-ti-va. The membrane that lines the eyelid and covers the eye. 
Con-sti-pa-tion. Costiveness. 

Con-ta-gious. Catching, or that which may be communicated by contact 
Con-tu-sion. A bruise. 

Con-va-les-eence. An improvement in health after sickness. 
Con-vul-sions. Involuntary and violent movements of the body. 
Cor-dial. A medicine that stimulates and raises the spirits, 
Cor-ne-a. The transparent membrane in the fore part of the eye. 
Cor-rob-O-rants. Tonics or strengthening medicines, 
Cor-ro-sive. Substances that consume or eat away. 
Conn-ter-ir-ri-ta-tion. Driving disease from one part by irritating another 

part. 
Cra-ni-um. The skull. 
Cri-sis. The turning point of a disease. 
Cu-ta-ne-ous. Pertaining to the skin. 



GLOSSARY. 821 

Cuticle. The outer skin. 

Cyst. A bag or sac containing matter or other fluid. 

Debility. Weakness. 

De-coc-tions. Medicines that are prepared by boiling; 

Deg-lu-ti-tion, The act of swallowing. 

De-liq-ui-um. The act of fainting. 

Delirium. Wildness, temporary loss of the mind. 

De-mul-cents. A mucilaginous medicine, as flaxseed or ^lor Arabic, 

Den-ti-tion. The act or process of cutting teeth. 

Den-tri-frice, A preparation for cleaning the teeth. 

De-ob-stru-ent. A mild laxative. 

De ple-tion. To diminish the quantity of blood by bloovJ-letting or othw 

process. 
Dep-u-ra-tion. Cleansing from impure matter. 
De-ter-gent. Cleansing medicines as laxatives and purgatives. 
Di-ag-no-sis. The act of determining diseases by symptoms. 
Di-a-pho-ret-ics. Medicines which aid or produce perspiration or sweating. 
Di-a-phragm. Midriff; the muscular division between the clifist and the 

abdomen. 
Di-ath-e-sis. Tendency of the body to any form of disease, as scrofulous 

diathesis. 
Di-e-te-tic. Relating to diet. 
Dil-a-ta-tion. Act of spreading in all directions. 
Di-lu-ted. Reducing the strength of liquids with water. 
Di-lu-ting. Weakening. 

Dis-cu-tient. Medicines which scatter or drive away tumors. 
Dis-in-fec-tants. Articles which purify infected places. 
Dis-lo-ca-tion, A bone out of its socket. 
Di-u-ret-ic. A medicine that increases the amount of urine. 
Dor-sal. Having reference to the back. 
Dras-tics. Active or strong purgatives. 
Du-o-de-num. The first of the small intestines. 
Dys-cra-sia. A bad habit, producing generally a diseased condltiosi of tb*- 

system. 
Dys-pep-sia. Difficult of digestion. 
Dys-pha-gi-a. Difficulty of swallowing. 
Dysp-noe-a. Obstructing the breath. 
Dys-u-ri-a. Difficulty and pain in discharging urkie. 
Eb-ul-li-tion. , The motion of a liquid by which it gives off bubbles of vapor. 
Ef-fer-vesce. To foam as in soda-water. 
Ef-flor-es-cenee. Redness of the surface, as in measles, etc. 
Ef-flu-vi-a. Exhalations from substances, as from flowers or decaying mat 

ter. 

Ef-fa-sion. An escape of fluids from their natural position Into the tissues 0* 

cavities of the body. 
E-lec-tri-za-tiou. Medical use of electricity. 



823 GLOSSARY. 

E-lec-tu-ary. Medicines prepared with honey. 

E-lim-i-na-tion. To escape from the body, as by the pores ct the sMn. 

E-mac-i-ate. To waste away; to grow thin. 

Ika-bry-o. The early stage of the foetus. 

Em-e-sis. The act of vomiting. 

Emet-ics. Medicines which produce vomiting. 

Em-men-a-gogue. A medicine which will aid the menstrual dischargei 

E-mol-li-ent. A softening medicine, flaxseed, etc. 

E-mul-sion. A mucilage from the emollients. 

E-nam-el. The outside covering of the teeth. 

En-ceph-a-lon. The whole brain. 

En-cys-ted. Enclosed in a cyst or sac. 

En-dem-ic. A disease peculiar to certain localities. 

E-ne-ma. An injection by the rectum. 

En-er-va-tion. A, reduction of strength. 

En-te-ri-tis. Inflammation of the bowels. 

Ephemeral. Of short duration. 

Ep-i-dem-ic. A disease that prevails in a certain district 

Ep-i-derm-is. The outer skin; the cuticle. 

Ep-i-gas-tric. Pertaining to the upper part of the abdomen. 

Ep-i-glot-tis. Trap-door cartilage at the root of the tongue, preventing food 

or drink from entering the wind-pipe. 
Ep-i-lep-tic. Subject to epilepsy, convulsions, or the falling sickness. 
E-piph-O-ra. A surplus secretion of tears, causing what is termed a wateiy 

eye. 
Ep-i-spas-tic. Blistering. 
Ep-is- tax-is. Nose bleed. 

Er-e-thism. Morbid energetic action of irritability. 
E-ro-sion. Eating away; corrosion. 

Er-rhine. A medicine to promote the discharge of mucus from the nose. 
E-rue-ta-tion. Raising wind from the stomach; belching. 
E-rup-tion. Pimples or blotches on the skin. 
Es-ohar. The dead part, which falls off from the surface. 
Es-cha-rot-ic. An application which sears or destroys the flesh. 
Eu-sta-chi-an Tube. A narrow canal leading from the side of the throat 

to the internal ear. 
E-vac-u-a-tion. The discharge by stool or passing of urine from tiie bladder. 
Ex-ac-er-ba-tion. Violent increase in a disease. 

Ex-an-the-ma. An eruptive disease, as small-pox, scarlet fever, measles. 
Ex-ei-sion, The act of cutting out or off. 
Ex-cit-ant. A stimulant; a nerve remedy. 
Ex-eor-i-ate. To wear off the skin in any way. 
Ex-cres cence. An unnatural growth of a part, as a wart or tumor. 
Ex-ore-tion. That which is thrown off. 
Bx-fo-li-ate. Scaling or peeling off. 
Ex4ia4a-tion. TJirowiag off of vapor, air, g««, ete. 



GLOSSARY. 833 

Ex-OS-tO-sis. An unnatural growth from a bone; a bony tumor. 
Ex-pec-to-rant. A medicine which produces or aids the discharge of mucus^ 

from the bronchial tubes or lungs. 
Ex-pec-to-rate. To discharge mucus or saliva from the mouth. 

Ex-pi-ra-tion. The act of expiring; breathing out tne air from the lungs. 

Ex-trav-a sa-tion. A collection of blood into a cavity, or under the skin, a 
blood blister. 

Pae-cal. Relating to the faeces. 

Faeces. The natural discharges of the bowels. 

Pa-ci-al. Having reference to the tace. 

Far-i-na-ceous. Containing starch, as farinaceous food, meal or flour from 
vegetables. 

Fau-ces. The pharynx and back part of the mouth. 

Feb-ri-fuge. A medicine to drive away fever, producing perspiration. 

Pe-brile. Having reference to fever; feverish. 

Fe-mur. The thigh bone. 

Fetid. Having a disagreeable odor. 

Fi-brine. Animal matter found in blood. 

Fi-brous. Composed of small threads or fibres of animal or vegetable mat- 
ter. 

Fil-ter. To strain through a paper made for that purpose. 

Fil-tra-tion. Straining. 

Pist-u-la. An ulcer. 

Flac-cid. Flabby, soft, relaxed; as a flaccid muscle. 

Flat-u-len-cy, Pla-tus. To inflate the stomach with gas, 

Flood-ing. Uterine hemorrhage. 

Flush. A flow of blood to the face. 

Flux. An unusual discharge from the bowels, diarrhea. 

Foetus. The child in the womb. 

Fo-men-ta-tion. Bathing by means of flannels dipped in hot water or med- 
icated liquid. 

For-mi-ca-tion. An unpleasant sensation, like the creeping of ants. 

For-mu-la. A medical prescription. 

Fract-ure. A broken bone. 

Friction. Rubbing with the dry hand "or coarse cloth. 

Pu-mi-ga-tion. Smoking a room or anything to be cleansed. 

Func-tion. The particular acting of an organ, as the function of the heart. 

Fun-da-merit. The anus; the lower extremity of the rectum. 

Fungus. A spongy flesh in wounds, as proud flesh, a soft cancer which 
bleeds when touched. 

Gal-van-i-za-tion. Use of the galvanic current. 

Gan-gli-on. A knot or lump on tendons; an enlargement in the course of a 
nerve. 

Gangrene. Partial death of a part, often ending in entire mortification. 

Gar-gle. A wash for the mouth and throat. 

Gastric. Belonging to the stomach. 



824 GLOSSARY. 

Gastric Juice. Secretion of the stomach. 

Gas-tri-tis. Inflammation of the stomach, 

Ges-ta-tion. The period of pregnancy. 

Gland. A soft body, the function of which is to secrete some fluid. 

Glot-tis. The opening into the windpipe at the root of the tongue. 

Glu-te-us. A name applied to the muscles of the hip. 

Gran-u-la-tion. The healing of a wound or ulcer with healthy matter. 

Gru-mous. Thick, clotted, concreted; as grumous blood. 

Gut-tur-al. Relating to the throat. 

Hab-it. A peculiar state or temperament of the body; pre-disposed to do 

some particular thing. 
Hec-tic. A remitting fever. 
Hem-a-le-mes. Hemorrhage from the stomach. 
Hem-a-tu-ra. Hemorrhage from the bladder. 
Hera-a-to-sis. An excessive or morbid quantity of blood. 
Hem-i-ple-gia. Paralysis of one side of the body. 
He-mop-ty-sis. A spitting of blood. 

Hem-or-rhage. A flow of blood, as from the lungs, nose, etc. 
Hem-or-rhoids. The piles; bleeding piles. 
He-pat-ic. Relating to the liver. 
Her-ba-ceous. Pertaining to herbs. 
Hereditary. Inherited from a parent. 
Her-pes. Disease of the skin, as tetter, ringworm, etc. 
Her ni-a. A rupture, and protrusion of some part of the bowels. 
Hu-mors. The fluids of the body, excluding the blood. 
Hy-dra-gogue. A medicine that produces a watery discharge from the bow- 

els, used in dropsy. 
Hy-drar-gy-rum. Metallic mercury, quicksilver; a physician's name for 

calomel. 
Hy-dro-gen. One of the elementary principles, alway j existing in water, of 

which it composes the ninth part. 
Hy-dro-pho-bia. The rabid qualities of a mad dog. 
Hy-gi-ene. The art of preserving health by diet, 
Hyp-o-chon-dri-a-cal. Melancholy; low-spirited. 
Hyp-not-ics. Medicines which produce sleep. 
Hy-po-der-mic. To insert under the skin. 
Hy-Ster-ic-al. Subject to hysteria; nervous. 
I-chor. A biting, watery, and acrid discharge from ulcers. 
Id-i-op-a-thy. An unhealthy condition not preceded by any other disease. 
Id-i-o syn-cra-Sies. Peculiarity of constitution or temperament. 
Il-e-OUS. Colic in the small intestines. 
H-i-ac Region. Region of the small intestines. 
Im-be cil-i-ty. Weakness of mind. 
Im mer-se. To plunge under water. 
In a-ni tion. Emptiness; weakness; exhaustion. 
In-cor-po-rate. To mix medicines. 



OLOSSART. 

In-cu-ba tion. To hatch eggs; slow development of i 

In-ci-sor. A front tooth. 

In-di-gest-i-ble. Not easily digested. 

In-dis-po-si-tion. A poor state of health. 

In-fec-ti-ous. Contagions. 

In-flam-ma-tion. Attended with heat; a redness or swelling of any part. 

In-fu-sion. Medicine prepared by steeping, not boiling. 

In-ges-tion. Forcing into the stomach. 

In-jec-tion. Any preparation sent into some part of the body by means of a 
syringe, 

In-oc u-la-tion. Communicating a disease to a healthy person by injecting 
contagious matter in the skin. 

Is-chu-ra. Not able to pass the urine. 

In-spi-ra-tion. Drawing air into the lungs. 

In-spis-sa-tion. The act of thickening by boiling or evaporatioa. 

In-teg-u-ment. A covering; the skin. 

In-ter-cos-tal. Between the ribs. 

In-ter-mit-tent. Ceasing at intervals; fevers which come on at regular 
intervals. 

In-tes-tines. The bowels. 

Jug-u-lar. Applied to the veins of the throat. 

Lac-er-a-ted. Torn from. 

Lach-ry-mal. Pertaining to the tears. 

Lac-ta-tion. Act of nursing, or sucking. 

Iian-ci-na-ting. Piercing, as with a sharp pointed instrument; hence lanci- 
nating pain. 

Iian-guor. Feebleness; lassitude of body. 

Lar-ynx. The upper part of the windpipe. 

Laxative A gentle cathartic; a medicine that loosens the bowels. 

Iiesion. A flesh wound. 

Lethargy. Excessive drowsiness. 

Leu cor-rhe-a. A whitish discharge from the womb. 

Llg-a-ture. A thread for tying blood-vessels to prevent bleeding. 

Li-ga-tion. The art of using a ligature. 

Lin-i-ment. A fluid lotion or wash to be applied by friction. 

Lith-on-trip-tic. A medicine to dissolve the stone or gravel in the bladder 

Li-thot-o-my. The operation of cutting to remove the stone in the bladde:; 

Liv-id. Black and blue spot on the surface. 

Lo-clii-al. Pertaining to discharges from the womb after childbirth. 

Lum-ba-go. Rheumatic pains in the loins and small of the back. 

Lum. bar. Pertaining to the loins. 

Lymph. A thin, colorless fluid in the lymphatic vessels. 

Lymphatic. Small vein-like vessels pervading the body; absorbents. 

Mae-er-a-tion. Steeping or softening with water. 

Mao u-lar. Colored spots; blemishes. 

Mai-Bad. Mai practice; not according to axassaoo^ 



836 GLOSSARY. 

Ma-la-ri-a. Bad air; air which tends to cause disease supposed to arise from 

decayed vegetable matter. 
Mal-for-ma-tion. Irregular formation or structure of parts. 
Ma-lig-nant. Violent; dangerous; liable to produce death. 
Mar -row. A soft substance in the bones. 
Mas-ti-ca-tion. The act of chewing. 
Mas-tur-ba-tion. Self-abuse. The most injurious, self-destroying of aU 

habits. 
Ma-te-ri-a Medica. The science of medicine. 
Ma-trix. The womb. 

Mat-u-ra-tion. The formation of pus or matter in any part of the body, 
Me-dul-la Oblongata. A nervous mass in the lower part of the brain. 
Men-ses, Menstruation. The monthly sickness of women. 
Men-stru-um. A liquid used to dissolve solid substances. 
Me-phit-ic. Suffocating; noxious; pestilential. 

Met-a-car-pus, That portion of the hand between the wrist and fingers. 
Me-tas-ta-sis. A change of disease from one location to another. 
Met-a-tar-sus. The part of the foot between the ankle and the toes. 
Mi-as-ma, Miasmata. Malaria; exhalations from swamps, lowlands and 

decaying matter. 
Morbid. Unhealthy; deseased; corrupt. 
Mor-bif-io. Producing disease. 
Mor-bus. A disease of the bowels; cholera morbug. 
Mu-ci-lage. A glutinous, watery solution of gum. 
Mu-cus. Animal mucilage secreted by the mucous membrana 
Mus-cles. A bundle of fibres; the organs of motion; they constitute the flesiL 
Nar-cot-ies. Medicines that produce sleep, relieve pain, or stupefy. 
Nau-se-a. Sickness at the stomach; may increase until vomiting takes placa 
Na-vel. Center of the abdomen. 

Ne-g'IS. A liquid made of wine, water, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon Juice. 
Ne-phr-it-is. Inflammation of the kidneys. 
Neph-ros. The kidney. 

Ner-vine. A medicine that soothes a nervous excitement. 
Neu-ral-gia. Pain in the nerves. 
Neu-ras-the-nia. Nervous exhaustion. 
Noc-tur-nal. Occurring in the night. 
Nor-mal. Natural and healthy condition. 
Nos-trum, A patent medicine. 
Nu-tri-tious. A substance possessing nourishmeoL 
Obtuse. Dull, not acute. 
CE-de-ma, A watery swelling. 
Ol-fac-tory Nerves. The nerves of smell. 
O-men-tum. The covering of the bowels. 
Oph-thal-mi-a. Disease of the eye. Inflammation of the eyes. 
O-pi-ates. Medicines which promote sleep. 
©p-tie Nerve. The nerve which enters the back part of the eje. 



GLOSSABT. 827 

Or-thop-nos-a. Asthma; great difficulty of breathing, caused by diseases of 

the heart or diaphragm. 
Os-si-fy. To change flesh or other soft matter into a hard, bony substance; 

from osteo, a bone or like a bone. 
O-vum. An egg. 

Ox-y-gen. A gas that forms one-fifth of the atmosphere. 
Pal-ate. The partition separating the cavity of the mouth from that of tho 

nose. . !,•»,««. 

Pal-pi-ta-tion. A fluttering or unnatural action of the heart, m whicH it 

beats too rapidly and strongly. 
Pan-a-ce-a. A remedy for all diseases; a universal medicine. 
Pa-pil-la. A red point upon the tongue or elsewhere. 
Par-a-cen-te-sis. Puncturing of the chest or abdomen for the purpose ai 

drawing off water. 
Pa-f al-y-sis. Palsy; losing control of any part of the system. 
Par-a-lyt-ic. One affected with paralysis. 
Par-a-ple-gi-a. Paralysis of the lower portion of the body. 
Par-ox-ysm. A fit of disease at certain periods. 
Pa-thol-o-gy. Doctrine of disease. 
Par-tu-ri-tion„ Childbirth. 
Pec-tor-al. Relating to the chest. 

Pel-vis. A bony cavity forming the lower part of the trunk of the body. 
Pep-sin. A peculiar substance in the stomach which aids digestion. 
Per-i-car-di-um. The sac containing the heart. 
Per-i-car-dit-is. Inflammation of the pericardium. 
Per-spi-ra-tion. Sweat. 

Per-i-ne-um. The part between the anus and organs of generation 
Per-i-os-te-um. The membrane covering the bones. 
Per-i-to-ne-um. The membrane which lines the abdomen and covers th» 

bowels. 
Pe-te-chi-8e. Purple spots which appear upon the skin in low fevers. 
Phag-e-den-ic. Corroding, eating; applied to ulcers. 

Pha-lan-ges. The bones which form the fingers and toes. 

Phleg-mat-ic. Dull; sluggish; heavy. 

Phar-ynx. The upper part of the throat. 

Phlo-gis-tic. Tendency to inflammatory. 

Phthys-io-al. A condition of the system tending to pulmonary consump- 
tion. 

Phlegm. A mucus from the bronchial tubes. 

Ple-thor-ic. Of a full habit of body; corpulence, 

Pleu-ra. A membrane that covers the lungs and folds upon the sides. 

Pleu-ri-sy. Inflammation of the pleura. 

Pneu-mo-ni-a. Inflammation of the lungs. 

Pol-y-pus. A pear shaped tumor. 

Pre-scrip-tion. A physician's formula for the preparation of medicines. 

Probe. An instrument for examining the depth of a wound. 



S28 GLOSSARY. 

Prog-no-sis. Guessing the termination of a ( 

Pro-lap-sus Ani. Falling of the anus. 

Pro-lap-STis Uteri Falling of the uterus. 

Pros-tra-tion. Loss of strength. 

Pro-phy-lac-tic. A medicine to prevent disease, 

Pty-a-lism. A copious flow of sahva; salivation. 

Pu-ber-ty. Full growth; perfection. 

Pu-er-pe-ral. Fever at or soon after childbirth. 

Plumon-a-ry. Pertaining to, or affecting the lungs. 

Ptil-mon-i-tis. Inflammation of the lungs. 

Pulse. The beating of the heart or blood-vessels, espedally of the arteries. 

Pulp. A soft mass. 

Pun-gent. Piercing, biting, stimulating. 

Pur-ga-tive. A gentle cathartic; a medicine acting on the bowels to loosen 
them. 

Pur-u-lent. Consisting of pus or matter. 

Pus. Unhealthy matter. 

Pustules. Elevations of the skin containing pus. 

Pu-trefac-tion. To decompose by fermentation. 

Pu-tres-cent. Pertaining to the process of putrefaction. 

Py-ro-sis. A peculiar disease of the stomach better known as water-brash. 

Rectum. The lower portion of the large intestine. 

Re-frig-er-ant. Medicines which lessen the heat of a body. 

Reg-i-men. The regulation of diet and habit in order to restore health or to 
cure disease. 

Res-o-lu-tion. To return to health; dispersion of an inflammation before pus 
has formed. 

Re-solv-ents. Applied to inflammations. 

Res-pi-ra-tion. The process of breathing. 

Re-sus-ei-ta-tion. Reviving from apparent death, as drowning. 

Ret-i-na. The internal nervous tissue of the eye. 

Ru-be-fa-cients. Medicines that causes redness of the skin, as mustard, rad- 
ish leaves, etc. 

Ru-bif-ic. To make red. 

Sac-cha-rine. Ha\ang the properties of sugar. 

Sa-li-va. The spittle; the secretions of the mouth. 

Sal-i va-tion. Increase of the secretion of saliva. 

San-a-tive. A curative medicine; to heal. 

San-guine Abounding in blood, or having the color of blood. 

Sa-ni-es. A thin discharge from wounds or ulcers. 

Scab. A formation over a sore in healing. 

Scarf-skin. The outer skin of the body. 

Scir-rhous. Hard; knotty, generally of a cancerous nature, 

Scor-bu-tic. Partaking of the nature of scurvy. 

Scro-tum. The bag containing the testicles. 



QL0S8ART. ^9 

Se-cre-tion. The separation of any substimce from the blood for a particular 

purpose. 
Sed-artive. The opposite of stimulation. A quieting medicine which allays 

irritation and soothes pain. 
Sed-en-tary. Sedentary habit; accustomed to, or requiring much sittmg; 

inactive. , 

Seid-Utz. A village in Bohemia, from which Seidlitz powders denved its 

name. 
Sem-i-nal. Pertaining to or contained in seed. 
Serous. Thin, watery substance, Hke whey. 
Serum. The watery, or milky portions of the blood. 
Sin-a-pism. A mustard plaster. 
Sin-ew. That which unites flesh to a bone. 

Slough. Death from a part; the part that separates from a wound. 
Sloughing. The act of separating the dead flesh from a sore. 
Sol-u-tion. Composed of a liquid and a solid substance. 
Sol- vent. Having the power to dissolve solid substances. 
Sor-des. The dark matter deposited upon the lips and teeth in low fevers. 
Spasm. A sudden contraction of the muscles; cramps, convulsions. 
Spe-eif-ic. An infallible remedy. 
Spinal Col-umn. The back-bone. 
Spi-nal Cord. The nervous marrow in the backbone. 
Spleen. The milt; it is situated in the abdomen and attached to the stomach. 
Squa-mous. Having scales. 
Ster-num. The breast-bone. 
Ster-tor. Noisy breathing; snoring. 
Ster-to-rous. The act of snoring. 

Stimulants. Medicines that are calculated to excite a healthy a«tioa 
Sto-mach-ic. A cordial for the stomach, exciting its action. 
Sto-mat-i-tis. Inflammation of the mouth. 
Stool. A discharge from the bowels. 
Stran-gu-ry. Difficult and painful passage of iirine. 
Striet-ure. Unnatural contraction of any passage of the body. 
Stru-ma. Scrofula. 
Stupor. Insensibility; numbness. 
Styp-tic. A medicine which stops bleeding. 
Sub-cu-ta-ne-ous. Under the skin. 
Sudor. Sweat. 

Su-dor-if-ics. Medicines that cause sweating. 
Sup-pos-i-to-ries. Medicinal substances introduced into the rectum to favor 

or restrain evacuations, or to ease pain. 
Sup-pu-ra-tion. The act of forming pus. 

Sut-m-e. The peculiar saw-like joint uniting the bones of the skulL 
Symp-tom. A sign or token of disease. 
Syn-CO-pe. To swoon; fainting. 



830 GLOSSARY. 

Syph-i-lis. A contagions disease from sexxial intercourse with those who 

have venereal disease. 
Syph.-i-li-tic. Pertaining to the venereal disease or pox. 
Syr-inge. An instrument for injecting liquids into the bowels, ear^ throai; 

or other parts of the body, 
Tan-nic Acid. An astringent made from oali bark. 
Tera-per-a-ment. A peculiar habit of body. 
Ten-don. A fibrous cord attached to the extremity of a muscle. 
Te-nes-mus. Difficulty and pain at stool; a painful bearing down sensation 

in the lower bowels. 
Te-pid. Warm, but not hot. 
Ter-tian. Occurring every other day. 
Tes-tes. The testicles. 
Tes-ti-cles. Two glandular bodies situated in the scrotmn, belonging to toe 

male organs of generation. 
Tet-a-nus. Locked jaw. 

Tib-i-a. The large bone of the leg below the knee. 
Tinct-ure. Medicine dissolved in alcohol 
Thorax. The chest. 
Tor-mi-na. Severe griping pains. 
Ton-ics. Remedies intended to strengthen the system. 
Ton-sil. Glands situated on each side of the throat. 
Tor-pid. Dull; stupid; lifeless. 
Trachea. The windpipe. 
Tu-ber-cle. A pimple, swelling, or small tumor. 
Tu-me-fac-tion. The act of forming a tumor. 
Tu-mor. An enlargement of any part of the body; a swelling. 
Ty-phoid. Resembling typhus; weak; low. 
Ty-phus. A nervous fever, malignant, infectious, etc. 
Ul-cer. A sore which discharges pus. 
Um-bil-ic. Pertaining to the navel. 
U-rea. A substance found in the urine. 
U-re-ter. The duct leading from the kidneys to the bladder. 
U-re-thra. Duct leading out from the bladder; the canal of the penis through 

which the urine passes from the body. 
U-rine. Water from the bladder. 
U-ter-us. The womb. 
Vaccinate. To inoculate with the cow-pox by Inserting the vaccine In the 

skin. 
Vaccine. Matter of the cow-pox. 
Va-gi-na. The passage from the womb to the vulva. 
Vag-in-is-mus. Spasm of the vagina, caused by morbid Irritability. 
Val-e-tu-di-na-ri-an. A person of a weak, sickly constitution. 
Va-ri-o-lous. Pertaining to small pox. 
Ven-e-ry. Sexual indulgence. 
Ve-nous. Relating to the veins. 



OLOSSABT. I 

Ven-ti-la-tion. A free admission or motion of air. 

Ver-mi-fuge. A medicine intended to destroy worms. 

Ver-ti-gO. Dizziness; swimming of the head. 

Ves-i-cle. A little bladder of water formed under the skin. 

Vir-U-lent, Extremely injurious; malignant; poisonous. 

Vi-rus. Contagious poison. 

Vis-ce-ra. The internal organ of the body. 

Vis-cid. Sticky; tenacious. 

Volatile. Easily evaporated; substances that evaporate on exposure to i 

atmosphere. 
Vul-ner-a-ry. Pertaining to wounds. 
Vul-va. The external opening of the female genital* 
Whites. Fluor Albus. 
Zy-mot-io. Contagious diseases, such as may be inoculated. 



Publisher's Notices. 




DR. CHASE?S RECEIPT BOOK. 



We desire to place a copy of iMs vxnfk in 
the hands of every family, and, if the neigh- 
borhood has been canvassed and there is no 
agent through whom it can be purchased, 
■we will send by mail, free of postage, single 
copies to any address on receipt of the regu- 
Isir subscription price. 

We at all times desire agents. The terms 
are liberal, and the agency to sell this work 
in any field will afford a good living to any 
man or woman of intelligence. Agents will 
be assigned territory in the order of their 
application. For name and address of the 
publishers, see title page. 



DR. CHASERS FAMILY MEDICINES. 

So great has become the demand foi 
Dr. Chase's Family Medicines (many think 
we are the manufacturers because we pub- 
lish Dr. Chase's book), owing to the fact 
that they possess great merit, that we are in 
almost daily receipt of letters of inqiiiry 
which not only make extra work for us in 
answering the correspondence, but inquirers 
do not receive as prompt attention as they 
would if they addressed the manufacturers 
direct. All inquiries for Dr. Chase's rem 
edies should be addressed to 

THE DR. A. W. CHASE MED. CO., 
No. 18 EllicottSt., 

BuFFAi.0, N- 1 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



A. 

Abdomen, enlargement of, in pregnancy . .278 
ABORTION: Causes and treatment. ..258-261 

Precautions after. 281 

Symptoms 1 

Abscess-What it is, and how to treat 189 

ACCIDENT: Falling into deep water 96 

From chloroform, to prevent 95 

How to manage 93 

Poisoning by— what to do . . 94 

ACID: Chromic, for cancer 35 

Citric, for cancer 35 

Drinks, for the sick 314 

Gallic, in consumption 118 

Hydrochloric, ia croup 106 

In stomach 251 

Sulphurous, for scarlet fever 63 

Acute inflammation of eyes, water for 156 

Acute rheumatism, new remedy for 38 

AGUE: Chinoidine, how to give for 90 

German cure for 91 

How to prevent and avoid 92, 123 

Symptoms 1 

Various remedies for 86-97 

Alabama, resorts in, for consumptives 115 

ALCOHOLIC LIQUORS: Cure for love of. 167 

Use of, leaves permanent injury 167 

ALTERATIVE : For female debility 273 

For stomach 137 

For syphilis, successful 202 

Or blood purifiers 162-163 

Pill for neuralgia 75 

Relaxing anodyne, for asthii.a 201 

Rheumatic 38 

Syrup for boils 60 

Ammonia, Giles' Liniment of Iodide of 43 

Ammonia-Saline treatment for diabetes. ..177 

Animals, Dr. Mason's Liniment for 41 

Anodyne for asthma 5;01 

ANTIDOTE: For poisoning by nux vomica 

or strychnine 47 

For poisoning by various causes 93, 94 

For tobacco chewers' weak stomach. ..180 

Milk as, for lead poisoning 62 

Anti-fat medicine 46 

APOPLEXY: How to cure 131 

Symptoms 2 

Appetite, to increase or restore 152 

Arrowroot jelly for the sick 816 

ASTHMA: Quick relief and remedies for. .200 

Symptoms 3 

ATROPHY: Cause and treatment of 190 

Symptoms 3 

Ayer's Cherry Pectoral for colds, etc 125 

B. 

BABIES: Receipts 377 

Babies. (See Children). 

Back-ache, liniment for 44 

BALM OF GILEAD BUDS: For sore lungs.216 

Tincture of, for cuts, etc 215 

Baim, Oriental 42 

BALSAM: Blackberry, for children 196 

For wounds, cracks, etc . . 98 

Bandaging 82 

53 



B ALS AM— Continued. 

Beckham's Genuine, for coughs, etc . . .153 

BARBER'S ITCH: Ointment for .103 

Symptoms 4 

BATHING: Of new-bom child 293 

Of patient after child-birth 299 

BATTERY ELECTRIC: Faradic, m sciatica 37 
Simple and cheap, how to make and use 36 

Beans, a cure for Bnght's disease 154 

Bearing down of the womb 270 

BEEF: Broth for the sick 308 

Essence of 305 

Tea, how to make 304, 305 

Beefsteak for the sick 317 

Beer, alterative, for purfying the blood 163 

Belly-aches 252 

Best Liniment, the J" 44 

BIG NECK: (See Goitre). 

Symptoms. 18 

Birth. (See Labor.) 

BILIOUSNESS 86 

Cholagogue or bilious tonic 86 

Remittent fever and symptoms. 87 

BITES: Frost, remedies for 142, 143 

Of mad dogs, to cure 131, 243 

Of poisonous insects, etc 210 

BITTERS: Alterative 163 

Hop, without spirits 210 

Mrs. Chase's magic tonic 273 

Stomach 137 

Blackberry balsam and cordial for children 196 

BLADDER: Inflammation of 253 

Symptoms 4 

State of, in child labor 285 

BLEEDING: Of lungs, womb, rectum &c., 48 

Styptic for 130 

(See Hemorrhage: Nose.) 

Blistering in diphtheria 55 

Blisters, blood, to prevent 58 

BLOOD : blisters, to prevent 58 

Purifying the. safest way 137 

Purifiers, or alteratives 162, 163 

Spitting, valuable remedy for 184 

BLOODY FLUX: Treatment of 234 

(See Dysentery). 

Symptoms 4, 14 

BOILS: Head, salve for 97 

Poultice for 137 

Symptoms 4 

Treatment for 58, 60 

To scatter 60 

BONE LINIMENT: 41 

White's Nerve and 43 

BORAX: For erysipelas, 183 

For nervous "headache 183 

Its value in catarrh, inflamed eyes, 

dandruff, etc 18^ 

For washing clothes 184 

BOWELS: Action of, dming pregnancy.. .280 

Action of, after child-birth . .300 

Blackberry tea for difficulties of 315 

Griping of, Golden Oil for 40 

Inflammation of 253 

Inflammation of. poultice for 137 

Inflammation of , symptoms ^5 

Loose, remedy for 138 

Of children, to keep regular c ... .193 

CSee also Diarrhoea; Dysentery). 



834 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



BRAIN: Inflammation and concussion 

of 846,247 

Inflammation of , symptoms 5 

BREASTS: Cold in, remedy for 124 

Gathered, salve for 99 

Sore, to avoid and cure 275 

Swelling of, in newly-born child 396 

Bright's disease of the kidneys, cure for. .154 

Brister's Spanish Corn Destroyer 159 

Broken breast, to avoid 275 

BRONCHITIS: Chronic, remedy for.. 183, 856 

Symptoms 6 

Treatment for 254, 855 

BRONCHOCELE: 44, 46 

Alterative pill for 44 

Alterative syrup for 45 

Dr. Mason's remedy. . 45 

Symptoms 5 

BROTH: For the sick, beef 308 

Chicken 307 

Mutton 307 

Veal 307 

Vepetable 308 

BRUISES: Liniment for 44,215 

Salve for 96 

To prevent lockjaw after 83 

Buchan's Dr., Preventive for Ague. 92 

Bugle-weed ; its value in consumption, etc., 184 

Bunions, remedies for 158, 159 

BURNS: Artilicial skin for 142 

Remedies for 79, 163 

Salve for 98,99,101 

Butternut pills 135 

c. 

California Cure for cancer 3.^j 

Calomel, substitute for IGl 

Camphor Liniment, strong -iO 

CANCER: Esmarch's or German treatment 3J 

Green ointment for 91) 

In ear 35 

Liniment for 33 

New Painless remedy for 34 

Of the womb 271 

Poultice for 33 

Relief of pain in 34 

Salve for 33 

Symptoms 6 

Wild parsnip root in 3.5 

Canker Sore Mouth 13« 

Carbolic Salve 98 

CARBUNCLE: Painless treatment for 58 

Specific for 59 

Symptoms 6 

CAStOR OIL: Custard, to make 109 

To overcome nauseous taste 106, 109 

CATARRH : Borax in, value of 183 

Gargle for 57 

Nasal, common sense treatment for ..164 

Ointment for 166 

Ophthalmia caused by, wash for 155 

Snuff for 165 

Symptoms 6 

CATHARTIC: Pills, compound 185 

Pill, Dr. Chase's .. ..245 

Catnip Tea, to make 815 

Chaflns, ointment for 97, 102 

Chamomile Tea, a good tonic 315 

ChangeofLife 267 

CHAPPED HANDS, Etc.: Cold cream of 

glycerine and rose for ..... 108 

Salve for 96,97,98 

CHICKEN: Broth for the sick. 307 

Panada 810 

Water 310 



CHICKEN POX: Treatment for i9M 

Symptoms 7 

CHILBLAINS: Remedies for 142,143 

Symptoms 7 

CHILDREN: Chclera infantum 296 

Colds of, onion syrup for ISi 

Convulsions in 238, 877 

Diarrhoea 277 

Diseases of 195-199 

STench remedy for hiccoughs in 85 

Fretful 277 

Food for 277 

Having dyspeptic tendency 150 

Jaundice in. . . 202 

Liquid physic for, in constipation 136 

Management of 193-195 

Mild eye-water for 156 

Newly-born, management of 293-296 

Nursnig, colic 277 

Pap f or diarrhcea of 316 

Sore mouth of 277 

Summer complaint 179, 196 

Urinary diseases of 198, 199 

Weakly, food for 149, 150 

W^eakly, rice coffee for 311 

CHILLS AND FEVER: Prevention and 

avoidance 8& 92,183 

Remedies for 86-98 

(See Ague.) 

Chlorine Water in Diphtheria 63 

CHLOROFORM: Liniment 48 

Poisoning by, symptoms 7 

To prevent accident from 96 

CHOLERA: Drops and powder for 187 

Incipient, milk in treatment of 60, 139 

Infauible cure for 127 

Other remedies 128, 238 

Symptoms R 

Vomiting in, to Ciieck 141 

CHOLERA INFANTUM: Jauses and treat- 
ment 226 

Symptoms 8 

CHOLERA MORBUS: Causes and treat- 
ment 285 

Symptoms ^. 8 

Chromic Acid, valuable for cancer 35 

Chromium, Chloride of, to remove cancer. 34 

Cinders in the eye. to remove 92, 93 

Citric Acid for relief of cancer 35 

Claret Punch for the sick 313 

CLEANLINESS: Importance of in children 194 

In the sick room 803 

Climate, changes of, in consumption 113 

Clothing of children 194 

Cod-liver oil, substitutes for 118 

COFFEE: Corn, for the sick 310 

Cause of sick headache 107 

Rice, for the sick. 311 

Value of in typhoid fever 67 

COLD FEET: Ointment for 101 

Remedy for 813, 214 

Cold, suspended animation from 241 

COLDS: General Washington's cure 133 

Onion syrup for, in children 124 

To break up, remedies 120-185, 115 

(See also Coughs, also Influenza. 

(X)LIC: Drops and powder for 127 

(German remedy for 46 

Of babies 277 

Pain-killer for 129 

Painters', treatment 230 

Quick relief for 197 

(Quinine cure for 46 

Robinson's liniment for 41 

Syrnptoms 8 

Collodion, pliable, for bums, etc . . 148 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



CONCUSSION: Of brain 846 

Symptoms 5 

Confinement, probable date of in preg- 
nancy 279 

Congestion of lungs 251 

CONSTIPATION: During pregnancy 280 

Hot-water cure 46 

Newer remedies 47 

Of weakly women and children 136 

Symptoms 9 

Syrup for 135 

Valuable piUs for 46, 136 

CONSUMPTION: Ayer's Cherry Pectoral 

for 135 

Crude petroleum for 112 

Effect of climatic changes on 113 

Gallic acid in 118 

Hot water cure for 118 

New French remedy for 110 

Ointment for cold feet in 101 

Pulmonary, prevention of 109 

Simple home cure 113 

Substitute for cod liver oil. . 112 

Symptoms 9 

Troublesome cough in, to ease 109 

Valuable remedy for 184 

Where to go to cure 114.-117 

Coutagious diseases, Disinfection for 08, 69 

Contracted cords, liniment for. 37 

Convalescence, raw egg and milk in 312 

CONVULSIONS: In children 232 

Symotoms 10 

Copperas, S<ilution of, as disinfectant 68 

CORDIAL: I'.lackberry 196 

For children 195 

Cords, Contracted, liniment for 37 

Com coffee for the sick 310 

Corn tea for the sick 311 

Com meal gruel for the sick 308 

CORNS: Brister's Spanish Destroyer 159 

Remedies for 158-160 

Salve for 160 

Costiveness, (see Constipation). 

COUGH: Attending slight hemorrhage of 

lungs 50 

Ayer's Cherry Pectoral for 125 

In consumption — remedies 109 

Peckham's Balsam for 153 

Remedies for 121-124 

Various remedies for 130-125, 216 

Whooping, remedies for 185, 136 

(See also, Colds; CoH'sumption). 

Counter-irritant, Croton Oil as 100 

Cow's teats, warts on, hand remedy for. . .161 

Cracks, salve for 96, 97, 98 

CRAMPS: During child labor 285 

In the stomach 193 

Creosote, solidified, for toothache 78 

Croton Oil, for counter-irritation 100 

CROUP: Emetic for 106 

External remedy 106, 210 

Instantaneous, internal remedy 105 

Onions a sure cure for 106 

Preventive of 106, 107 

Symptoms 11 

Cure All liniment 43 

{.'urrant Shrub for the Sick 313 

Custard, Castor oil, to make 109 

CUTS: balm of gilead f or 215 

Bleeding from, remedy for 50, 84 

Hot water poultice for 164 

Remediesfor. . 163,164 

*ialvefor 97,96,101 



Dance, St. Vitus, cure for 130 

Dandruff, value of borax for 183 

Davis', Perry, Pain-killer 48 

Deafness, and Earache, valuable remedy for 77 
Debilitating Diseases, milk treatment of. . . 61 

DEURIUM TREMENS: Treatment of 190 

Symptoms 12 

DIABETES : Ammonia— Sahue treatment 

for 177 

Ergot in i78 

Incontinence and dribbling of urine 178 

Other remedies 179, 180 

Symptoms 12 

Valuable diet for 176 

Valuable remedy for 184 

DIARRHCEA: Gruel for 308 

Chronic, remedies for . . 128 

Compound for 138 

Cordial for 1 95 

Milk in treatment of 60. 139 

Muscovite, or raw beef cure for 128 

Of children, pap for 316 

Of children, driiik for 150 

Of infants 138, 277 

Powder for 1.51 

Remedies for 127, 128, 138, 189 

Symptoms 18 

DIET : For patient after child-birth 800 

For the sick 304 

Milk, for indigestion 61, 149 

To avoid diphtheria 56 

Valuable, for diabetes 176 

Dilation of strictures 242 

DIPHTHERIA: Blistering in 55 

Chlorine water for 53 

Cm-e for 51 

Dr. Scott's treatment for 54 

French remedy 66 

Homeopathic remedy 54 

Ice a remedy for 51 

Latest Allopathic treatment for 55 

Specific and preventive for 52 

Successful remedies 50, 53 

Sulphur treatment 51 

Symptoms 13 

To avoid 56, 107 

(See Disinfectants ) 

Diseases of Children 195—199 

Diseases of Women 261—272 

DISINFECTANTS: For contagious dis- 
eases, how to use, etc 66 

Nitrate of lead, in small-pox 71 

Diuretics, valuable 216 

Donahue's Rheumatic Liniment 42 

Draft in sick room 317 

DRINKS: Acid for the sick 314 

For thirst of fever patients 314 

Pectoral 314 

Raw egg, for invalids 314 

DROPS : Cholera 127 

Toothache, Dr. Chase's 78 

DROPSY: Hepatic, substitute for calomel 

in 161 

Remedy for 46 

Symptoms 13 

Syrup for 45 

Drowned Persons, resuscitation of 80 81 

Duties of nurse during pregnancy, etc. 278-301 

Dust in the eyes, to remove 92 93 

DYSENTERY: Milk in treatment of. . . 60, 139 

In children I9.i 

Successful remedy for 139 

Symptoms 4, 14 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



DYSPEPSIA. Gaseous, effectual remedy. .151 

Hot water for 152 

Lime water and milk for 59, 61, 149 

Liquid remedy for 135 

Otherfoods for.. 148, 149 

Symptoms 14 

Tamarind water for 309 

Various simple remedies for 150, 151 

Voltaire's food for 147 

Dy6uria(see Children, Urinary Diseases of). 



EAK: Ache, remedies for 76, 77 

Fungous growth in 35 

Ulcerations in 77 

Earth Cure for tumors, etc 216 

Eclectic Vermifuge 143 

Eczema (see Salt Rheum). 

EGG: Raw, and milk for the sick 312 

Raw, drinks for invalids 314 

Toast for the sick 316 

With mUk punch, for the sick 312 

Eggnog, for the sick 311 

Electricity, use of in sciatica 36 

Elixir for cure of Ague, etc 91 

Ely's Magic Remedy, for headache and 

toothache 108 

EMETIC: Best in use 180 

Croup 106 

Quick, for accidental poisoning 93 

finglish Shrub, for the sick 313 

Enlarged prostate, suppository for 188 

ENLARGED VEINS: Treatment of 235 

Samptoms 30 

/nuresis (see Children, Urinary Diseases of). 
EPILEPSY: Of long standing, German 

cure for 165 

Successful remedies 212 

Symptoms. . 16 

Ergot, in diabetes 178 

ERYSIPELAS: Borax a remedy for 183 

Dr. Chase's treatment of 176 

Facial, (of face) 175 

In nose, certain cure for 58 

New and successful remedy 175 

Symptoms 17 

Esmarch's Treatment for Cancer 34 

Essence of beef for the sick 305 

Exercise, importance of 194 

EYF.S: Acute inflammation of 156 

Catarrhal ophthalmia, water for 155 

Cinders and dust in, to remove 92, 93 

Films of, cure for 157 

Granulation of 157 

Stye upon, to remove 158 

To remove iron and steel from 156 

Washes for 155, 156 

Weak, mild remedy for 156 

Eye Waters, to make, 155, 156 



r. 

FACE: Chapped, ointments for. .fi6, 97, 98, 102 

Erysipelas of 175,176 

Neuralgiain 74,76 

Toilet wash for . . 103 

Worms, to remove 133 

Fainting, treatment for 191 

Falling Sickness. (See Epilepsy). 

Fatigue, milk as a restorative 62 

Fat People; food to reduce their fleshiness. 166 
" .Complaints 261-277 



FELON: Hot water poultice for 164 

Remedies for 130 

Symptoms 17 

FEVER: Attending hemorrhage of womb. 49 

Bilious ■ 87 

Drinks for thirst in 314 

Hay, treatment .235 

Scarlet, milk treatment 61 

Scarlet, preventive and specific for 52 

Scarlet, remedies for 63, 64, 256-258 

Sores 236 

Tamarind water for 309 

Typhoid , milk treatment 61 

Typhoid, treatment in 66, 67 

Yellow, treatment 224 

Films on the Eye, to remove 157 

Fingers. Printer's sore, to cure 58 

Fitch's Dr. S. S., rules to prevent consump 

tioB... 109 

FITS : Epileptic, German cure for 1 65 

Epileptic, successful remedies 212 

In children .232 

Flaxseed: Lemonade, for coughs 122 

FLOODING: After labor, treatment... 291, 300 

To prevent 277 

FLORIDA: Raising oranges in 120 

Resorts in, for (Consumptives 116 

Fluor Albus (See Leucorrnea.) 

Flux, bloody, treatment of 234 

Foetus, movement of, in pregnancy 279 

i<OMENTAT10NS:Hop 222 

Hot, for many diseases 222 

FOOD: For dyspeptics 147, 148 

For newly -born child 294, 295 

For patient in child-labor 287, 297 

For the sick ...802,317 

In diabetes, to use and avoid 177 

Of babies 277 

Onions for, their value 137 

To reduce fleshiness of fat people 166 

(See also Dyspepsia.) 
Fowler's Solution, use of in cure of cancer. 84 

Freckles, to remove 332, 133 

FRENCH: Ointment for scald-head 198 

Remedy for consumption 109 

Remedy for hiccoughs 85 

Remedy for gonorrhea 208 

Fresh air, importance of, for the sick 302 

Frostbites, remedies for 142, 143 

Fungous Growth in the Ear , 35 

G. 

Gallic Acid, in consumption 118 

GALL STONES: Remedy for 191 

Symptoms 17 

GANGRENE: Treatment of 234 

Symptoms 18 

GARGLE: Common, for sore throat 57 

For tonsilitis , 140 

Grandmother's, for sore throat 56 

New, for sore throat 56 

Strong tea, a speedy remedy . . 57 

Garlic, to cure Gout 136 

Gaseous Dyspepsia, remedy for 151 

aGathered Breast, salve for 99 

Genital Organs, external, itching of. ...<., ...276 

Gentian root, tea of, to make ...... 315 

GERMAN : Cure for ague, etc. . - , 91 

Remedy for epilepsy....... ....165 

Remedy for neuralgia... ... 73 

Treatment for cancer 34 

Gilead buds. Balm of, for cuts, etc 215 

Giles' Liniment of Iodide of Ammonia 42: 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



est 



Gleet, remedies for 308, 

(See Gonorrhea). 

GLYCERINE: and rose, cold cream of 102 

Ointment for chapped hands, etc 97 

GOLDEN OIL: for griping of bowels 40 

In sciatica 37 

Recipe for 37. 40 

GOITRE: Alterative pill for 44 

Alterative sjonip for 45 

Mason's remedy 44 

Symptoms 18 

To cure without coloring skin or cloth- 

GONORRHEA:' Remedies for.".'.".'.*. .".".".205^209 

SjTnptoms 18 

GOUT: Cured by garlic 136 

Symptoms 18 

Graham pudding for the Sick 316 

Grandmother's Gargle for Sore Throat 56 

Granulation of Eyelids— remedy 157 

GRAVEL: Remedy for 48 

Symptoms 19 

Green ointment, for old sores, etc 99 

Griping of bowels. Golden Oil for 40 

(See also Colic: Cramps). 

GRUEL: Cornmeal 308 

Milk and rice 309 

Milk, with raisins 308 

Oatmeal for invalids 149, 309 

Gums, sore, remedy for 140 

Gunpowder, burns from ; remedy 79 

B. 

Hacking cough, remedy for •, . . .122 

Hamlin's Wizard Oil, recipe for 42 

HANDS: Chapped, remedies for. 96, 97, 98, 103 

To soften, remove tan, etc 103 

Hard corns; to prevent and cure 158-160 

HAY FEVER: Treatment of 235 

Symptoms 20 

HEADACHE: Ely's Magic Remedy for. . . .108 

Liniment for 44 

Nervous, remedy for 139, 183 

Simple home remedy 74 

Symptoms 20 

Tea and coffee, the cause of 107 

To cure 107 

HEALTH : Average beat of pulse in 170 

111, indicated by neuralgia 75 

111, how brought on in many cases 82 

Rules for winter 123 

The true way to %ti 

HEART : Burn, remedies for. 108, 244 

Burn, symptoms of. 20 

Disease, value of buttermilk in 108 

Diseases of 244 

Disease, symptoms of 20 

Palpitation of— remedy .'.85,' 108 

Shrinking of, cause and remedy 189 

Heat in the sick room 303 317 

HEMORRHAGE: From kidneys .180 

Of cuts, wounds, &c 50, 84 

Of females, pill for 277 

Of largest blood vessels, styptic for . . . . 130 

Of lungs, womb, rectum, &c 48 

Slight, of lungs, with cough 50 

Symptoms ^.^ . 20 

Uterine, during pregnancy 281 

Uterine, specifics in 48, 179 

Hemorrhoids. (See Piles). 

Hfipbane, poisoning by— remedy 94 

HERNIA: Of children, to cure 197 

Symptoms 21 05 

^Craatment Of ,, 234 



Hiccoughs and nose bleed, remedies tot 84, 85 

Hives 120 

HOARSENESS: remedies for 120,121 

(See also Coughs). 

Hop Bitters, without spirits, to make 210 

Hop fomentations 222 

Hot Vapor Baths for Hydrophobia 131 

HOT WATER: cure 218 

Cure for consumption 118 

For dyspepsia 152 

Poultice for cuts, etc 164 

Humphrey's Dr., Pills 87 

Husking, cracks made in, salve for 97 

HYDROPHOBIA: Hot vapor baths for. . . .131 

Portuguese cure for 131 

Remedy for 243 

Symptoms 21 

HYPOCHONDRIOSIS: Substitute for calo- 
mel in 161 

Symptoms 21 

HYSTERICS: Treatment of 233 

Symptoms 21 

z. 

Ice, as a remedy for diphtheria 51 

IMPOTENCY: Special tonics for 180-183 

Symptoms 21 

Incontinenceof urine, remedy., for 178, 198, 199 

INDIAN: Syrup for cough 123 

Vegetable svrup 122 

Indigestion. (See Dyspepsia). 
Inflammation: Acute, of eyes, valuable 

remedy 156 

Health rules for winter 123 

Hot water poultice for 164 

Of bladder 253 

Of bowels 252 

Of brain 246, 247 

Of eyes, value of borax in 183 

Of kidneys 252 

Of lungs 249 

Of stomach 251 

Of throat 248 

Of womb 272 

Salt washing for 213 

INFLAMJIATORY RHEUMATISM : Lini- 
ment for 39 

New remedy 38 

Remedv for 38 

INFLUENZA: (a Cold), Symptoms 214 

(See also La Grippe.) 

Treatment 214 

Ingrowing toe nails, to cure 336 

INJECTION: For gonorrhea 206, 207 

For leucorrhea 207, 267 

Insomnia (see Sleeplessness). 
Intermittent Fever (see Ague). 

Internal Rheumati.sm, remedy for 39 

Iodide of Ammonia, (jiles Liniment of 42 

Iron, to remove from eyes 156 

ITCH : Barber's, ointment for. 1 03 

In leucorrhea 103 

Magical cure for 103 

Ointment for 97, 101, 102 

Winter, certain remedy for 44 

Itching of genital organs 278 

J. 

Jalap, Powder of. in gonorrhea 206 

Jelly for the sick 316 

JAUNDICE: Substitute for calomel in. ...161 

Successful remedies 801-203 

Symptoms ...»-. 28 



638 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



S. 

KIDNEYS: Affections of, Red Drops for. ..809 

Bright's disease of, remedies for 154 

Hemorrhage from, remedy 180 

Inflammation of 25^ 

Inflammation of, symptoms.. ^ 

Pecliliam's Balsam for troubles of ibS 

King's, Dr. T. B., Remedy for diarrhoea.... 138 

Kings evil. (See Scrofula). 



LABOR— CHILD-BIRTH: Pains 283 

The "Bag of Waters" 284 

The three stages -*» 

F.RST Stage:- 

Articles needed • • -^ 

Attention to state of bladder 285 

Clothing of patient 287 

Cramps during 288 

Food for patient 287 

Preparation of bed 286 

Second Stage:— 

Assisting at birth 289 

Duties of nurse during 288 

Tying the cord 289 

Third Stage:— 

Convulsions 292 

Fainting 292 

Management of child 293 

Management of mother after . . 297 

Management, if child is still-bom 301 

iiADIES: Mrs. Chase's Liniment for 37 

Cure for neuralgia '6 

LA GRIPPE: (or Russian Influenza) 215 

Receipts for 215 

Symptoms *J2 

Lamb Chops for the Sick a;--?H 

Laxative for Piles 186, 187 

LEAD: Nitrate of, as disinfectant in small- 



pox. 



Ointment, for piles 18( 

Poison, milk an antidote for 62 

LEMONADE: Flaxseed, for coughs 122 

Warm, for scarlet fever 63 

LEMONS: As medicine 175 

'^alue of, in sickness and health 174 

Length of Life 168, 169 

LEUCORRHEA: Injection for 207, 267 

Itching in, ointment for . 103 

Red Drops for 209 

Remedy for 179, 180, 266, 277 

LIFE: How to lengthen 168 

Table of expectation of 169 

Turn of 267 

Light in the Sick Room 303 

Lightning Liniment 43 

LIME WATER; As a preventive of boils.. 59 

For indigestion, etc 61, 149 

With milk for indigestion 61 

LINIMENT: Anti-periodic, for liver and 

spleen troubles 88 

Camphor and soap to dry up milk. 276 

Chloroform 43 

Cure-all 43 

Dr. Mason's 40 

For ague, etc 

For inflammatory rheumatism 

For sciatica, lumbago, stiff joints, &c. 37 

German, for colic, &c 46 

Giles' 42 

Golden Oil, Dr. Chase's 40,42 

Lightning 43 

Mrs. Chase's, for ladies 40 

Mustang 46 

Nerve and Bone 41 

Opodeldoc 4c 



LINIMENT- -Continued. 

Robinson's II 

Strong Camphor 40 

"The Best'*^ 44 

To reduce swellings 38 

White's nerve and bone 43 

LIQUOR: Cure for love of (67 

Use of, leaves permanent injury 167 

LIVER: Difficulties, liniment for 88 

Inflammation of 345 

Inflammation of, symptoms 22 

Pill. Dr. Chaso's "MS 

Regulator 135 

Syrup 135 

Lockjaw, to relieve and prevent 83, 84 

Loose Bowels, remedy for 138 

Lumbago, liniment for 37 

LUNGS: Congestion of 251 

Hemorrhage of 48, 50, 188, 189 

Inflammation of 249 

Inflammation of, symptoms 22 

Sore, Balm of Gilead for 216 

Sweating process for inflammation of. .250 



IKE. 

Magnetic ointment 101 

Malignant Scarlet Fever 258 

Management of Children 193-195 

Marriage, chances of women for 169 

MASON'S, DR. A B : Liniment 41 

Rf med y for ulcerating teeth 140 

MEASLES: Herbal treatment for 222 

Malignant 221 

Striking in 221 

Symptoms 219 

To bring them out 221 

To distinguish .219, 220 

Meat tea for the sick 305 

Menorrhagia, remedy for 179 

Menses. (See Menstruation.) 
MENSTRUATION: Cessation of, or turn of 

life 267 

Deficient and painful 268 

First signs of 262 

Profuse 265 

Retention of 263 

Suppression 264 

To restore 265 

Menthol, in sciatica 37 

Mercury, substitute for 161 

Midwifery 278-301 

MILK: And rice gruel 3C9 

Antidote and preventive for lead poison 62 

As a medicine 61 

Asfood 62 

Diet, with lime water, for indigestion 61, 149 

Hot, as restorative after fatigue 62 

In diarrhoea, dysentery, etc 60 

Punch for the sick 312 

Porridge with raisins 308 

Suppression of. while nursing 274 

To dry up, while nursing 276 

With raw egg, for the sick 312 

Milk-Scab of Children, to cure 198 

Mint tea to make 315 

MISCARRIAGE: Causes and treatment 258-261 

Symptoms 1 

Treatment after 281 

Moles, to remove 132 

Monsel's Salts, for hemorrhages 189 

Monthly Turns, or Menses (see Menstrua- 
tion). 
Mortification (see Gangrene). 



KEBICAL INDEX. 



Hofher, maa&gement of, after child-birth 

297-301 

Urs. Chase's Liniment for Ladies. . . . 40 

Mrs. Chase's Magic Tonic Bitters 273 

MUMPS: Treatment for 223 

Symptoms. i.'23 

Muriatic Acid, in croup 106 

Muscovite Remedy for Diarrhcea 138 

Mustang Liniment 42 

MUSTARD: Plaster, substitute for 129 

Hot, footbath 222 

Mutton broth for the sick. 307 

Mutton for the sick 317 

N. 

KAUSEA: ComcoflCeefor 810 

Mint tea for 315 

Spiced plaster for. 101 

Neck, swelled 44,45 

Negus for the Sick 312 

NERVE LINIMENT: 41 

White's 43 

Nervous Headache, remedy for 131), 183 

NERVOUSNESS: Remedies for 103, 104 

(See also Nervous Headache). 
NEURALGIA: A warning of poor health.. 75 

English remedy for 74 

German cure for.. 73 

Ladies' cure 76 

Of face, latest cure for, 76 

Tonic pill for 75 

Simple remedy 74 

Symptoms 23 

Nighr Sweats, remedies for 184 

NIPPLES: Hardening of, in pregnancy 279 

Sore, remedy for 274, 275, 277 

Norton's Salve, for general purposes 97 

NOSE: Bleeding of, remedies. . .84, 85, 188, 189 

Polypus in, remedy for 78 

Sore, certain cure for 58 

NURSE: Duties of, in pregnancy, et^. .278-301 

What constitutes a good one 30S 

NURSING: During pregnancy and labor 

. : 287-801 

Sore Mouth 120 

Suppression of milk durkig. 274 

NUX VOMICA: For constipation . 47 

Remedy for poisoning by. . . 43 

O. 

OATMEAL GRUEL: For the sick 808 

For invalids and children 149 

Obesity, to reduce 166 

OIL : Castor, to overcome taste 108-109 

Cod liver, substitute for 112 

Croton, for counter-irritation 100 

Dr. Chase's Golden, in sciatica 37 

Golden, recipe for 37, 40, 43 

Hamlin's Wizard 42 

Of eggs, for hernia of children 197 

OINTMENT: Barber's itch 102 

Catarrh 165 

Chilblains and frost bites 143 

French, for scald-head 198 

Glycerine, for chapped hands, &c 97 

Green, for old sores, etc 99 

Itch 97,101 

Lead, for piles 187 

Leucorrhea, itching in 103 

Magnetic 101 

Norton's 97 

Stimulating, for cold feet 101 

Tumors, bruises, etc 96 

Balm of Gilead, or Oil 98 



ONIONS: A sure remedy for croup 108 

As poultice, and for food , 137, 195 

In whooping cough 126 

To purify the blood 137 

Ophthsdmia, Catarrhal, wash for 155 

Oriental Balm 42 

Oyster essence, for the sick 306 

P. 

PAIN: In back, from gonorrhea 208( 

In the stomach, liniment for 48< 

Internal, or colic, German remedy 46 

(See also Pain-Killer; Cramps; Stom- 
ach). 
PAIN-KILLER: Dr. Chase's Golden Oil... 40 

In place of mustard plaster 129 

Internal for diarrhoea, &c 128 

Perry Davis' 42 

Trul V magical for all purposes 129 

PAINTERS' COLIC: Treatment of 230 

Symptoms 230 

PALSY: Causes and treatment 239 

Shaking, cure for. 130 

Symptoms 23 

Palpitation of the heart— remedy 85, 108 

Panada, recipes for 310 

Pap, for diarrhcea of children 316 

Paralysis. (See Palsy). 

Parsnips, wild, root of, in cancer 35 

Peckham's Genuine Balsam, for coughs, 

etc 153 

Petroleum, crude, for consumption 112 

Pennyroyal tea, to make 315 

PILES: After child-birth 299 

Bleeding, remedies for 185, 188 

Cure for 141, 187 

During pregnancy 280 

Glycerine ointment for 97 

Laxatives for 186,187 

Lead ointment for 187 

Substitute for calomel in 161 

Symptoms 23 

Tumors in, simple remedy for 188 

PILL: Alterative 44 

Butternut 135 

Compound Cathartic and Liver 135 

Dr. Humphrey's 87 

For ague, chills, etc 86, 90, 91 

For constipation 46, 136 

For epileptic fits 212 

For female debiUty 273 

For hemorrhage of women 277 

For neuralgia 74 

Tonic, for sexual debility 183 

Pimples, remedies for 132, 133, 134 

Pin-worms, remedies for 144, 145 

Pitting of small-pox, to prevent 71, 72 

PLASTER: Mustard, substitute for 129 

Spiced, for nausea and vomiting 101 

Weak back 100 

(See also Poultice, Salve.) 

PLEURISY: Remedy for 191 

Svmptoms 24 

PNEUJIONIA: Typhoid, treatment for . . . . 193 

Symptoms 30 

POISONING: By nux vomica or strychnine 

remedy for 47 

From various causes ... 94 

From wild vines, earth cure for 216 

Lead, milk an antidote 62 

Quick emetics in case ofT. 93 

Poison Ivy, antidote 94 

Poison Oak, antidote , P4 



840 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



POLYPUS: In nose, remedy for 78 

In womb. . . 270 

Pork, exciting cause of diphtheria 66 

Porridge. (See Gruel). 

Portuguese Cure for Hydrophobia 131 

POULTICE: Croton oil, as.. . 100 

For cancer 33 

For neuralgia 74 

Hot 222 

Hot water for cuts, etc 164 

Onion, for boils, etc 137 

Onion, for diarrhoea, etc 195 

Pumpkin 99 

Robinson's, for inflammation, etc 99 

Slippery elm 223 

Spiced, for nausea and vomiting 101 

Yeast 223 

POWDER: Cholera 127 

Compound, of jalap, in gonorrhea 206 

Dyspepsia, or diarrhoea 151 

For use in cancer 34 

PREGNANCY: Action of bowels in 280 

Management of 279-280 

Probable date of confinement 279 

Natural labor . .283 

Symptoms of 278 

Utenne hemorrhage during 281 

Vomiting during 277 

(See also Labor). 

PREVENTION: Of blood blisters 58 

Of chills and fever, ague, etc 92 

Of consumption 109 

Of croup, diphtheria, etc 106, 107 

Of diphtheria by diet 56 

Of hemorrhage from wounds 50 

Of pitting in small pox 71 

Of scarlet fever and diphtheria 52 

Prickly heat in children, remedy for 195 

Printer's sore fingers, to cure 58 

Proud flesh 232 

Prurigo. (See Itch). 

Public speakers, loss of voice 120 

Puddings for t'ne sick 315, 316 

Pulse, in health, average beat of 170 

Pumpkin poultice for inflammations, etc . . 99 

Pus. (See Abscess). 

Pyrosis, or Waterbrash 229 



Q- 

Quiet in the sick room 303 

QUININE: How to dissolve 126 

In ague, chills, etc 89 

In whooping cough 126 

To cure colic 46 

QUINSY: New remedy for 154 

Salvefor 99 

Symptoms 24 



It. 

RADWAY'S READY RELIEF: Recipe for 42 

In whooping cough 127 

Raspberry Vinegar for the sick 314 

RECIPE: Alterative syrup 45 

Baby's ...277 

Blackberry balsam and cordial 196 

Brister's Spanish Corn Destroyer 159 

Castor oil custard 109 

Chloroform liniment 43 

Compound Cathartic Pills 135 

Cure-all liniment 43 

Dr. Chase's Golden Oil 37, 40 

Dr. Humphrey's Pills — . 87 



RECIPES-Continued. 

Gile's Liniment 4S 

Golden Oil Liniment 48 

Hamlin's Wizard Oil 48 

Liver regulator 135 

Magnetic Ointment 101 

Mustang Liniment 42 

Oil of eggs for rupture of children 197 

Opodeldoc liniment 43 

Oriental Balm 43 

Patent liniments 42 

Perry Davis' Pain-killer 48 

R.R. R 42 

Donohue's Rheumatic Liniment 48 

Syrup for dropsy 45 

Toothache Drops, Dr. Chase's 78 

Teas and broths for the sick. . .304-308, 311 

Wheys 309, 310 

White's Nerve and Bone Liniment 43 

RECTUM; Hemorrhage of 48 

Strictures of 241 

REMEDY: Ague, chills and fever, etc. . .86-99 

Asthma 200 

Bed-wetting 298 

Bleeding of cuts, wounds, etc 50 

Bi-ight's disease of kidneys 154 

Burns and scalds 79 

Cancer 33 

Carbuncles and boils 58-60 

Catarrh 57 

Certain, for winter itch 44 

Chilblains, and frost bites 142, 143 

Cholera 187,128,141, 236 

Constipation 46, 47 

ConsumpUon 109-118, 153, 184 

Corns, bunions, warts, etc 158-160 

Coughs and colds 120-125 

Croup 105, 106, 210 

Delirium tremens 190 

Diabetes 176-180 

Diarrhoea, etc 60,138.139 

Diphtheria 50-56 

Dropsy 45, 46 

Dr. Scott's for diphtheria 54 

Dyspepsia, etc 147-152 

Earache, etc 70, 77 

Epilepsy 165 

Erysipelas 175, 176 

Felon 130 

General Washington's, for colds 123 

German, for colic 46 

Gravel 48 

Hand, for warts on cow's teats 161 

Headache 107, 108, 139 

Hemorrhages, etc 48, 130, 179, 188 

Hiccoughs and nose bleed 84, 85 

Homeopathic, for sore throat 53 

Indicated by condition of tongue-. .171-174 

Inflammatory rlieumatism 38 

Internal rheumatism 39 

Itching 97, 101, 102 

Liver complaint, constipation, etc 135 

Measles 219-222 

Neuralgia 73-76 

Painful menstruation 268 

Piles 14i, 142, 185-188 

Pimples and skin diseases 132, 133, 134 

Poisoning by nux vomica or strychnine 47 

Polypus in nose 78 

Quinsy 99,164 

Ring-worm 163,229 

Rheumatism 33, 141 

Scarlet fever 63, 64 

Sciatic rheumatism . 36 

Scrofula.... 141, 148 

Seasickness 161 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



841 



ftEMEDY— Continued. 

Sleeplessness and nervousness 103, 104 

Slight hemorrhage of lungs, with cough 50 

Sore fingers of printers 58 

Sore nose 58 

Sore throat 56, 57 

Spinal affections 33 

Sunstroke and apoplexy 131 

Syphilis and gonorrhea 204-209 

Tonsilitis 140 

Toothache 77,78, 108 

Typhoid fever 66, 67 

Ulcerating teeth 140 

Vomiting, in cholera 141 

Whooping-cough 125. 126 

Worms 143-147 

fiesuscitation of drowned persons 80, 81 

Rheumatic Liniment 42 

BHEUMATISM: Alterative for 38 

Cure for 141 

External remedies for 37 

Golden Oil for 37 

Inflammatory, liniment for 38, 39 

Internal remedy for 39 

Liniment for 33, 43 

Robinson's Liniment for 41 

Sciatic, successful remedies for 36 

Symptoms 25 

Sice Pudding for the sick 315 

BICKETS: Remedy for 192 

Symptoms 25 

EINQ-WORM: Remedies 163,229 

Symptoms 26 

•fiose. (See Erysipelas). 

Robinson's Liniment 41 

aULES: For health 82,137 

Management of accidents 93 

Poisoning, for 93 

Resuscitating the drowned 80. 81 

R. R. R. Liniment 42 

EUPTURE: Of children, to cure 197 

Symptoms 21, 26 

Treatment of 234 



Sage tea, to make 315 

SALYCILATE OF SODA: Inflammatory 

rheumatism, for 38 

Nervous headache, for 139 

Tonsilitis, for 140 

Salicylic Acid in inflammatory rheumatism 39 

BALT RHEUJI: Salve for 97 

Symptoms 15 

TYeatment for 227 

Bait Washings important in disease 213 

EALVE: Barber's Itch, etc 103 

Black, or healing ointment 101 

Carbolic 98 

Cancer, for 33 

Chaps, cracks, &c. , for 96, 97, 98 

Cold feet, in exhausting diseases, for. .101 

Corns, for. .160 

Felon, for ..130 

Gathered breasts, for 99 

Green, for old sores, etc 99 

Healing, for hernia 198 

Inflamed wounds, for 98 

Itch, for 97, 101 

Magnetic Ointment 101 

Norton's 97 

Quinsy, for 99 

Robinson's, for inflammation, etc 99 

Tumors and bruises, for 96 

Weak back, for 100 

White swelling, for. 142 



Scab, Milk, of children 198 

Scald-head— treatment 198, 227 

Scalds, instantaneous relief for 79 

Scarlatina. (See Scarlet Fever). 
SCARLET FEVER: Malignant, with putrid 

sore throat 258 

Milk in treatment of 61 

Remedies for 63, 64, 256, 257 

Remedy and preventive for 52 

Symptoms 26 

To distinguish measles from 221 

To present spread of 65 

When dangerous to others 64 

SCIATICA: Cured by electricity 36 

Linimentfor 87 

Simple home remedy 74 

Sciatic Rheumatism, successful remedies.. 36 
Scirrhus. (see Cancer). 

Scott's, Dr., remedy for diphtheria 54 

SCROFULA: Remedies for 141, 142 

Symptoms 27 

Scurvy, salve for 97 

SEASICKNESS: Cure for 161 

English remedv 161 

SEXUAL DEBILITY: Tonics and remedies 

for 180-183 

(See also Impotency). 

Shaking Palsy— cure for 130 

Shampoo, borax 183 

SHINGLES: Treatment for 195 

Symptoms = 2' 

SHRUB : Currant, recipe 3ia 

English recipe 313 

Sick, Food for the 302-317 

SICK HEADACHE: Remedies 107,108 

Robinson's Liniment for 41 

Tea and coffee cause of 107 

SICK-ROOM: Its location, etc 302 

Temperature of . . . 302, 307 

Ventilation of 317 

Singers, loss of voice, etc 120 

Skin, artificial, for burns, etc 14'3 

Skin diseases— remedies for 132, 133, 134 

SLEEP: Amount needed 104 

As a medicine 104 

For children 194 

Of new-born child 296 

Sleeplessness, remedies for 103, 104 

Slippery Elm poultice 223 

SMALL-POX. Curesfor. 70 

Disinfectants in ....68,71 

Pitting, to prevent 70, 71 

Successful remedy 64 

Symptoms , 28 

Vaccination in 72 

Snakes, bites of, antidote 94 

Snuff, for nasal catarrh 165 

SODA: Salicylate of, in inflammatory rheu- 
matism 38 

Salicylate of, for nervous headache 139 

Salicylate of. for tonsilitis 140 

Soft Corns, to prevent and cure 158-100 

Solidified Creosote for Toothache 78 

SOLUTION: Copperas, as disinfectant ... 68 

For ague ...36 

Fowler's, for cancer 34 

Of quinine 126 

Zinc, as disinfectant 68 

SORE BREASTS: In pregnancy 280 

To avoid and cure .275 

Sore Chest, Pecidiara's Balsam for . 1.5S 

Sore Eyes, remedies for 155, 156 

Sore Gums, remedy for 140 

SORE MOUTH: In new-born chUd 296 

Symptoms 29, 228 

TreAtraent for 228 

Sore Nipples, remedy for 274, 275- 277 

aora Nose, certain cure for *^ 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



80RES: Bad, tocure 232 

Collodion for 142 

Fever 236 

Salrefor 97, 98,99, 101 

80RE THROAT: Good old grandmother's 

gargle for 5P 

Homeopathic remedy... 53 

Peckham's Balsam for 153 

Prevention of 107 

Putrid, with scarlet fever 258 

Robinson's Liniment for 41 

Remedies for 57 

Sage tea for 315 

Sour Milk Whey, to make 310 

SPASM: Of stomach 193 

(See also Convulsions). 

SPECIFICS: For diphtheria 52 

For hemorrhages 48, 130 

Spermatorrhea. (See Sexual Debility). 

Spiced plaster for nausea, etc 101 

Spinal affections, liniment for . 33 

Spleen difficulties, liniment for 88 

SPRAINS : Capital remedy for 163 

Liniment for 43 

Remedy for 210 

St. Anthony's Fire. (See Erysipelas). 

Stiff joints, liniment for 37 

Still-born child, treatment of mother after 

birth of 301 

Stimulant for sexual debility 181 

Stings, of wasps, bees, eic 209, 210 

Stitch in the side 2.32 

St. John's Wort and Stramonium, ointment 

of 96 

STOMACH: Acid in 251 

Bitters, or alterative for 137 

Oamps in the, remedy 193 

Inflammation of 251 

Inflammation of, symptoms 28 

Pain in, liniment for 42 

Weak, tobacco chewer's, cure 180 

Stone. (See Gravel). 

Stones, gall, remedy for 191 

Strains.Tiniment for 43 

STRAMONIUM: Poisoning by, remedy. .. . 94 

St. John's Wort and ointment of 96 

Strictures of the rectum 241 

Strong drink, cure for love of 167 

Strychnine, remedy for poisoning by 47 

ST. VITUS DANCE: Cure for 130 

Symptoms 28 

Stye on eye, to remove 158 

Styptic Colloid, bleeding of wounds 50 

Stybtic, for bleeding of largest vessels 130 

Suffocation 241 

SULPHUR: As disinfectant 68 

Treatment with, for diphtheria 51 

SUMMER COMPLAINT OF CHILDREN: 

Remedy for 179, 196 

Gruel for 308 

Sunburn, to remove 133 

SUNSTROKE: How to cure 131 

Symptoms 29 

Suppository, for piles 188 

Suppressed menstruation. (See Menstrua- 
. tion). 

Suspended Animation from Cold 241 

Sweating at night 184 

SWELLED NECK: 44,45 

Alterative pill for 44 

Alterative syrup for 45 

Mason's remedy 44 

SWELLING: Liniment to reduce 33 

Of breasts in new-born child 296 

Remedy for 210 

White, salve for 142 



SWOLLEN TONSILS: Homeopathic remedy B3 
Salicylate of soda for 140 

SYPHILIS: Successful remedy for 202 

Sy mptnms 29 

SYRUP: Alterative 45 

Alterative, for boils 60 

Cough 121, 124, 125 

For cough, in consumption 109 

For dropsy 45 

Indian, for coughs 122, 123 

Liver, in place of pills 135 

Onion, for colds of children 124 

Whooping cough lafr 

T. 

Tamarind, use of, in fever 309 

Tan, to remove 102 

Tape Worm, remedies for 145, 146 

Tapioca Pudding for the sick 316 

Tar Plaster, for scald head 198 

TEA: Blackberry, to make 315 

Beef and meat 304, 305 

Catnip, to make 315 

Cause of sick headache 107 

Corn, for the sick 811 

For neuralgia 74 

Gentian and chamomile 315 

Herb, for the sick room 315 

Mint, to make 315 

Pennyroyal, to make 315 

Sage^ to make 315 

Strawberry leaf, to make 315 

Strong, as a remedy for sore throat — 5T 
Teething of children, summer complaint 

from 196 

Teeth, ulcerating, remedy for 140 

Temperature of sick rooms 302, 317 

Tetanus, or lockjaw, remedies and prevent- 
ives 83, 84 

Tetter, remedy for 133. 134 

Texas, resorts in, for consumption — 114, 115 

Thompson's Improved Liniment 44 

THROAT: Inflammation of 248 

Sore, grandmother's gargle for 56 

Sore, homeopathic remedy for 53 

Sore, prevention of 107 

Sore, Robinson's Liniment for . . . . . 41 
Sore, several gargles and remedies. .56, 57 

Sore, value of borax in 183 

THRUSH: In new-bom child 296 

Symptoms 29, 228 

Treatment for 228 

TINCTURE: Alterative for rheumatism,... 38 

Cough, for consumptives 109 

Of Balm of Gilead, for cuts, etc 215 

Tonic, for sexual debility 181, 182 

Whooping cough 126 

Toast, egg, for the sick 315 

TOBACCO: Chewer's weak stomach, anti- 
dote 180 

Poisoning by, remedy for 94 

Injurious effects of its use 211 

Toe-nails, ingrowing, to cure 236 

Toilet Wash for face 103 

TONGUE: The condition of system sho'rni 

byit 171-174 

Tied, treatment of ?33 

What it tells ITO 

TONIC : For female debility ?73 

For impotency, or sexual debility. .180-183 

Gentian and chamomile 315 

In ague, etc 91 

Mrs. Chase's Magic for female debility 273 
Stimulating, for nervous debility, etc. .868 



MEDICAL INDEX. 



TOXSILITIS : Remedy for 140 

Symptoms 28 

TONSILS, SWOLX£N: Homeopathic rem- 
edy for 53 

Salicylate of soda for 140 

TOOTHACHE: Drops, Dr. Chase's 78 

Remedies for 75, 77, 78, 108 

TREMENS, DELIRIUM: Treatment for... 190 
Symptoms Vi 

True way to health 82 

TUMOR: Cancerous. (See Cancer). 

Earth cure for 216 

In womb 270 

Salve for 96 

Symptoms 29 

Tm-n of Life 267 

TYPHOID FEVER: Milk treatment 61 

More malignant form, treatment in — 67 

Symptoms. . 29 

Use of water in 67 

Value of coffee in 67 

TYPHOID-PNEUMONIA: Treatment 193 

Symptoms 30 

Typhus. (See Typhoid Fever). 

U. 

Ulcerating testh, remedy for 140 

ULCERS: Indolent 238 

Bandaging for 82 

Ointment for 99, 101 

Simple 237 

Symptoms 30 

Urinary diseases of children, remedies for 
198, 199 

URINE: Difficulty in passing, in pregnancy 281 
Offensive, of women 277 

UTERINE HEMORRHAGE: During preg- 
nancy.. 281 

Specifics in 48,179 

Uterus, diseases of 269-272 



V. 

Vaccination, origin and object of 72 

Vagina, tumors in 270 

VARICOSE VEINS: In pregnancy 279 

Symptoms 30 

Treatment ..235 

Veal broth, for the sick 307 

Vegetable broth, for the sick 308 

Veins, varicose or enlarged 235 

Vermicide. (See also Vermifuge; Worms). 

VERMIFUGES: Various 143-147 

(See also Worms). 

Ventilation in sick-room 317 

Voice, loss of, by singers, etc 120 

Voltaire's food for dyspeptics 147 

VOMITING: During labor 285 

During pregnancy 277 

In cholera, to check 141 

Peculiar case 140 

Spiced plaster for 101 



garmth of sick room 303 

wARTS: On cow's teats, the hand cure ..161 

Remedies for 158-161 

JVash for the face 104 

JVasp-stings. certain cure for 210 



WATERBRASH: Remedy 229 

Symptoms 31 

WATER: Barley, to make 310 

Chicken, to make 310 

Eye 155,156 

Hot, cure .216 

Hot, for consumption lis 

Hot, for cuts, etc 164 

Hot, for dvspepsia 152 

Lime for dyspepsia, etc 59, 61 

Value of in fevers 67 

Weak Babies, food for 150 

WEAK BACK: Liniment for 33 

From gonorhea 209 

Valuable plaster for lOO 

Weak Eyes, remedies for 157 

WEAK STOMACH : Milk and lime waterfor 149 

Tobacco chewers', antidote for 180 

(See also Dyspepsia). 

Wet nurse, importance of.. .. 295 

Wetting the bed 193 

Wen. (See Tumor). 

WHEY: Sour milk remedy 310 

Tamarind — 309 

Wine 309 

White Swelling, salve for 142 

Whites. (See Leucorrhea). 

WHITE'S Dr.: remedy for spinal affections 33 
Nerve and Bone Liniment 43 

WHOOPING COUGH: Relief of 126 

Remedies for . 125, 126 

Symptoms 31 

Quinine for 126 

Wild Parsnip, root of, in cancer 35 

Wine Jelly for the Sick 316 

WINTER: Cough, or chronic bronchitis.. .123 

Health, rules for 123 

Itch, certain remedy for 44 

Witch-hazel, for hemorrhages 48 

Wizard Oil, Hamlin's 42 

WOMB: Bearingdown 270 

Cancer of 271 

Diseases of 269-272 

Falling forward of, after child birth. ..293 

Hemorrhage of 48, 49, 188, 189 

Inflammation of 272 

WOMEN : Chances of, for marriage 169 

Diseases of 261-277 

WORMS : Eclectic vermifuge 143 

Face, to remove 134 

General discussion of subject 143-147 

Pin, remedies for 144, 145 

Symptoms 31 

Tape, remedies for 145, 146 

WOUNDS: Hot water poultice for lo4 

Peckham's Balsam for 153 

Poisoned, Earth cure for 216 

Punctured, and other, to avoid lockjaw 83 

Remedy for bleeding from 50, 84, 188 

Salve for . . . 98, 101 



YEAST: In scarlet fever and small-pox 64 

Poultice for gangrene 234 

Poultice, to make 223 

YELLOW FEVER: Treatment for 224 

Symptoms 32 



Zinc, Solution ^i, as disinfectant. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Aconite, to cure roup in poultry 765 

Acre, quantity of onions to 543, 544 

Advice, poetical, to boys and men 557 

Age of horse, to judge 659 

Agricultural Department 772-789 

Alabaster, cement for 548 

Alcohol, vinegar from 680 

Alice's Gingerbread 879 

Allen's Excelsior Axle Grease 623 

ALMOND: Blanching, for cake 366 

Icing for cake 369 

Pudding, or Chester 343 

ALPACA: Care of, and doing over 518 

Dresses, to remove wrinkles and restore 

luster .527 

AMERICAN: Bologna Sausage 416 

Green pea soup 425 

AMMONIA: Cookies with 381,893 

Its use in washing, etc 535 

For bee and wasp stings 536 

An Acre in Onions 644 

ANIMALS: Domestic, carrots as food for. 539 

Fleas on, to drive away 553 

(See Domestic Animals). 

An Old Lady's only Cosmetic 637 

Ants, to destroy 570, 586 

Apus, or cake without eggs or yeast 393 

Apparatus, steel, to keep polished 794 

APPLE: And other fruit puddings 340 

Bird's-nest pudding 341, 481 

Bread, to make 329 

Butter , 475, 476 

Charlotte 341,479 

Cider jelly 504 

Compote 477 

Corer, to make 540 

Custard 481, 488 

Custard pie .361,481 

Custard pudding 341 

Dumplings 480, 481 

Fritters ... 386,474 

Fruitcake 385 

Jelly 479,503,504 

Jelly, with pure apple flavor 479 

Omelet 479 

Pie. Grandmother's 361 

Pickles, spiced or sweet 477 

Preserve for present use 479 

Pudding, Dutch style 340 

Shortcake 399. 480 

Shortcake pudding 340 

Snow 476,477 

Sweet, pudding 340 

Trees, borers in, remedy 563 

Turnover pudding 364 

Turnovers, fried or baked 364 

APPLES: Cannmg of 507 

Cheese and, fritters.... 406 

Dried 474 

Dried and evaporated, to cook 582 

Good for hogs 752 

Mock Minced K)ies with 358 

Pork chops fned with 441 

Sour, to cook nicely 478 



APPLES— Continued. 

Sweet, delicious dish with — 481 

Sweet, Indian pudding with 353 

Tapioca, pudding with 338, 481 

Tart, bread pudding with 341 

To bake and can 473 

To keep fresh 615 

Valuable for horses... 688 

"Arf and Arf " Buckwheat cakes 407 

Artificial Honey 478 

Artichokes, Value-of, for hogs 759 

ASHES: As manure 773 

For stock off their feed 697 

Value of in orchard, etc 784 

Wood and coal for currants 569 

Wood, as manure for onions 544 

Asparagus, soup, of India 425 

A Temperance Pledge 559 

Aunt Lucy's Spice Cake. 393 

Aunt Rachel's Bread Pudding. 349 

Author's Favorite Sauce for Puddings 337 

Average weight of sheep 72^ 

Axle Grease, Allen's Excelsior 623 



BAKED: Apple Dumplings 480 

Apples 473 

Batter puddings 347 

Beans, Boston 483, 513 

Beef's heart with dressing 407 

Beets 466 

Blackberry pudding 350 

Boston brown bread 327 

Cabbage, very nice 497 

Cabbage with grated cheese 498 

Eggs ^ 486 

Fish, sauce for 449 

Ham cakes, for breakfast or tea 441 

Hominy or " grits " 511 

Indian bread, for tea 337 

Indian puddings 352, 353 

Meat and rusk pudding 351 

Or cottage pudding , 335 

Or steamed graham bread 323 

Peaches 47^ 

Potato balls 470 

Potato pudding 351,352 

Qnick pudding 346,350 

Rice merange 163 

Rye and Indian, or brown bread 326 

Sliced potatoes with pork 471 

Squash 467, 512 

Suet pudding 349 

White-fish and shad 448 

Baking, heating oven for, etc . 367. 397 

BAKING POWDER: How to use in mak- 
ing cake 367 

Biscuit with ......400 

Receipts • 624 

BALLS: Biscuit -432 

Bread crust for 484 

Bread, or croquettes 618 

Duck and Oyster ...447 

Fish 448 



BU 



GENERAL INDEX. 



845 



BALLS— Continued. 

Ham 440 

Meat 431, 434 

Potato 469, 470 

Bandoline, as used in India for the hair. . . .636 

Barbers' bay rum, to make 639 

Barbers' Luster for the hair 633 

Bark-lice, ramedy 563, 564 

Bark Shanty Soap, or washing made easy, hiO 

Barley soup 422 

Baron Brisse's rice pudding 344 

Barren trees, remedy 783 

BATTER: Buckwheat to keep sweet 408 

Puddings 346,347 

To fry bread in 485 

Bay rum, barbers' recipe 639 

Bean soup 419, 420 

BEANS: Baked, currant catsup for 500 

Boston baked 483, 513 

Old to Cook properly 482 

Pork and, Kansas plan 483 

Porridge or broth 482 

Should be cooked in soft water 539 

String, for winter use 483 

Winter Succotash 483 

BEEF: Balls, with uncooked meat, 431 

Balls, with left over meat 431 

Cold roast, broiled 437 

Corned, to boil with cabbage 436 

Cold, to economize 432 

Curing of, Pennsylvania method 410 

Dr. Warner's recipe for curing 414 

Dried, with eggs 433 

Flank of, rolled and corned 437 

Fresh, to cook to eat cold 437 

For farmers, fresh in hot weather 411 

Head Cheese, from bony pieces 434 

Heart, to bake with dressing 437 

Liver, to fry 435 

Loaf 439 

Pickle for 410,413 

Pot Roast, or stew 4.35 

Pressed 414 

Roast, or baked 435 

Savory, or mock tongue 436 

Soup 422 

Steaks, to keep fresh a long time 412 

Tongue, potted 437 

BEEFSTEAK: And salt pork with onions. 433 

Broiler, to make 430 

Broiling in spider 432 

Fried, in cracker crumbs 433 

How to cook 430 

Mock Duck with 447 

Pudding, boiled 351 

Smothered with onions 433 

To keep fresh a long time 412 

BEE-KEEPING: Comb Honey 807 

Enemies of Bees 814 

Extracted Honey 807 

First colonies, to procure 804 

Foul brood 814 

Give frames or starters 806 

Hives for 803 

Hiving a swarm 809 

Honey Vinegar 814 

How to commence 803 

How to get straight combs 81 1 

Robbing 81 1 

Swarming. 809 

To clip a Queen's wing 811 

Transferring 804 

Wintering 811,812,813 

BEER: Cream 618 

Ginger, English 617 

Bees (see Bee-keeping). 



Bee Stings, Ammonia for 536 

BEETS : Hashed with potatoes 467 

Stewed with onions 466 

To bake 466 

BED-BUGS: Sulphur to exterminate 606 

To destroy 571, 573 

Belgian method of washing clothes 517 

Benzine to clean gloves, etc 629 

Berkshire hogs and swine the best 740, 741 

BERRIES: Ice Cream with 489 

When to plant 788 

BERRY: Black, pudding, jam, jelly, and 

cordial 350 

Fritters 474 

Whortle (Huckle), pudding 351 

Berwick Sponge Cake, Improved. 388 

Best Yeast, the 323 

Big Head of Horses, to cure 666, 667 

Big Jaw in Horses, to cuie 666, 667 

BILL OF FARE: For a week 428 

For Thanksgiving Dinner 513 

Bird"s-Nest Pudding 341, 481 

Birds, to prevent from puUing grain.. . .594 

BISCUIT: Balls 432 

Breakfast 400 

From bread dough, to make 321 

Naples 324 

Plain and light 399 

Quick 400 

Southern 401 

S weet 400 

Tea cake, instead of 383 

With baking powder, quick 400 

With soda, cream of tartar and sweet 

milk 400 

BLACK: Clothing, renovating dye for 527 

Ink for school purposes 531 

Silk, care of, and doing over 518 

To dve 609, 610 

BLACKING: For all kinds of leather. .622, 623 

For shoes, etc ... 622, 623 

Black ink, to malce. . . 607, 608 

Black oil f.>r horses . 674 

Black pepppr for gapes in poultry 763 

BLACKBLRRY: Cordial for children 350 

Fritters 474 

Jam 350 

Jellr 350 

Pudding 350 

Wine, to make 617 

Black-berries, culture of 605 

Black- walnut stain 797, 799 

BLANC MANGE: Corn starch 346 

Rice 464, 506 

Blankets, cleansing 519 

BLEACHING : Flannels 528 

Muslin 537 

The hair to blonde color 637 

Bloat in stock, to cure 693 

Blue, to dve .611, 614 

Bob Heater's Shampoo 633 

Bob, the Sea Cook, his recipe for mock- 
turtle soup 424 

BOILED: Apple dumplings 480 

Batter Pudding 346 

Beefsteak pudding 351 

Blackberry pudding 3.50 

Cider, how to make and use 616 

Codfish 448 

Custard pie 360 

Dinner, how to get up 418 

Fig pudding 339 

Hunters' pudding 342 

Icing for cakes 368 

Meats, hints for 429 

Poor man's pudding.... 345 



84B 



GENERAL INDEX, 



BOILED— Continued. 

Rice, India fashion 454 

Turkey, English 451 

Whortleberry pudding 351 

Bologna Sausage, to make 415, 416 

Boots, ladies' kid, to re-color 630 

BOOTS AND SHOES: Cement for patch- 
ing 621 

Jet polish for 622 

Jettinefor 622 

Rubber, to mend 623 

Tosoften 622 

Water-proofing for 621 , 622 

BORAX: For tooth powder. 520,536 

For washing 516, 517, 536 

For -nashing clothes 516, 517, 518, 536 

To exterminate roaches 520, 636 

To remove dandruff 640 

BORERS: To avoid in currant bushes. . . .569 

In fruit trees, remedy for 503 

"Boss'" Cement 546 

BOSTON: Baked beans 483, 513 

Brown bread 327 

Cake 891 



Cream toast 485 

Bots in Horses, to cure 668-670 

Bower's Lustral Oil, for the hair 633 

Boxes, Bushed tc make 561 

Boys, advice to, poetical 551 

Bran, value of for horses 689 

Brass, to clean 790 

BREAD: Apple 829 

Balls 512 

Boston Brown 327 

Breakfast loaf. 322 

Brown 326, 327 

Crumbs, egg omelet with 461 

Crumbs, mock minced pie with 3.58 

Crumb pudding 851 

Crumbs, queen of puddings with 844 

Crust of, to make soft and delicate. . 821 

Currant suret loaf 3C4 

Dough, biscuit from 821 

Dry, and cold beef, balls , . . . 432 

Dry to use 484 

Ginger 379.380 

Good, how to make 319-330 

Graham 324, 325 

Griddle cakes 408 

Hop Yeast Potato 323 

Indian 327 

Kind of flour to use 820 

Kneading 821 

Meaningof 319 

Minnesota com 327 

Naples, or biscuit 324 

Old-fashioned Indian 827 

Potato 323 

P-.idding, Aunt Rachel's 349 

Pudding, fried.... 486 

Pudding, St. James' 344 

Pudding, with tart apples 341 

Pumpkin 329 

Quick 400 

. Bice 324 

Bye 326 

Bye and Indian ■ 326 

Sauce for roast pigeons 455 

Setting the sponge.... 320,323 

Southern corn 327, 328 

Stale, pudding of 349 

Tofry . 485.486 

To stand in cook room tUl cool 322 

Vienna bread or yeast 322, 323 

Wheat and Indian, steamed 326 



5S4 



BREAD— Continued. 

Why we butter it , 

Yeast for, to make 

Bread crusts for balls, dressing, etc. . 484 

BREAKFAST: Biscuits 400 

Buns 395 

Cake, Norwegian 405 

Eggs-in-the-nest, a nice dish for 461 

For two cents 561 

Ham cakes for 441 

Muffins 401 

Potatoes for .... 471 

Turkey hash for 458 

Wafflles 401 

Breaking glass 796 

Breeding Ewes (see Sheep). 

BRIMSTONE: A disinfectant 606 

To exterminate bed-bugs 606 

Brisse's, Baron, Rice Pudding 344 

Brocade Shawls, to clean 5.31 

Broche Shawls, to clean 531 

BROILED: Beefsteak 430, 432, 833 

Cold roast beef . 437 

Ham 440 

Mackerel 449 

Oysters 446 

Pigs feet, "a la Bamum" 443 

Tomatoes ... 467 

Venison steak 434 

Broiler, beefsteak, to make 430 

Brood mares, care of 658 

BROTH: As made in India 426 

Bean 482 

Scotch 423 

Mutton 423 

BROWN: Boston, bread, baked 327 

Bread, baked and steamed 326-327 

Bread, New England style . . 326 

Hairdye 633 

To dye 610,611-614 

BuckeyeCake 391 

Buck, selection of for breeding 726 

BUCKWHEAT: Batter, to keep sweet. . . 408 

Cakes, Mock 407 

For poultry 760 

Griddle cakes 406.407 

Buffalo Cake 391 

BUGS: Bed, to destroy 571. 578 

Black, in Hubbard squash, to kill. 589 

Chintz, to destroy — 570 

On squash or cucumber vines, to kill 

..Tr. 688.589 

Potatoe to keep away 778 

Rose, remedy for 586-588 

Striped to destroy 589 

To exterminate 586 

To prevent, on vegetables 594 

To prevent, on vines ^f^ 

BUNS: Better than baker's 395 

Breakfast 395 

Easter, or " Hot Cross," 395 

Burnmg, to avoid in roasting turkey.. 454 
Burns and scalds, remedy for. ... 429 

Burnt Com for Hogs . .. 748 

BUSHEL: Pounds per, of grains, etc 779 

Boxes, to make 561 

Business, how to succeed in 601 

BUTTER: Advantage of creamery for 

making ^... 646 

Cherry 477 

Churning 642 

Coloring 642 

Fruit.. 475,476 

Gathering and washing ^ 644 

Gilt-edged, to make - .643 

Good, in winter. 643 



GENERAL INDEX. 



847 



BUTTER— Continued. 

How to work 645 

111 smelling, to correct 429 

In making cake 365 

Lemon 477 

" New departure " in making 641 

Prize, how made 645 

Spanish fruit 478 

Sponge cake 389 

To keep, in hot weather 645 

To make firm in hot weather, 645 

Why used on bread 554 

BUTTERMILK: Cheese from 651 

Graham gems with 403 

White cake with 383 

C. 

CABBAGE: Baked, very nice 497 

Baked with grated cheese 498 

Bugs in, to prevent 594 

Plants, best way to set out 569 

To destroy cut worm 540 

To prevent club feet 540 

Worms, remedy 569 

Cake : Apees, or without eggs or yeast. .393 

Apple fruit 385 

Apple fritters 386 

Baking,— heat of oven, etc 367, 397 

Boston 391 

Boston Cream 38a 

Buckeye 391 

Buffalo 391 

Buns and rolls, various 395-397 

Caraway Cookies 393 

Charity 890 

Chocolate 871,878,374 

Chocolate jelly 373, 874 

Charlotte Polonaese 377 

Choice 391 

Cider 391 

Cocoa cones 375 

Cocoanut 374, 375 

Cocoanut drops 375 

Coffee 386.387 

Cold water 892 

Common 392 

Cookies 381, 393, 394 

Com 4i»3, 404 

Corn-starch 876,378 

Cream 382, 393 

Crullers 405 

Currant 386 

Custard jelly 381 

Dark 389 

Delicate, various 384 

Delicious filling for layer 372 

Drop 394 

Farmers' geins 394 

Fig pound 386 

French cream 382 

French loaf. 384 

Fried, or doughnuts, etc 405 

Fritters, various 406 

Fruit, various 386, 887 

General remarksand explanations, 366-368 

German crisps 392 

Gingerbread. 379,380 

Gluger cookies 381, 394 

Ginger drop 379 

Ginger snaps 378, 379 

Griddle, various 407-405* 

Ham, for breakfast <»■ tea... 441 

BormiCs 385 

icingfor 368.369 



CAKE— Continued. 

Jelly 875.376,381 

Jumbles 3*4,385 

Kansas puffs 378 

Keeping 368 

Lady 376 

Lady fingers, as made in India 370 

Lemon 371 

Lemon jelly 371,372 

Lemon jelly for 506 

Loaf 383 

Love knots for tea 376 

Macaroons 304 

Making up of 367 

Marble. 370,371 

Martha's 369 

Materials for 365-367 

Molasses 387 

Muffins 385 

National 377 

Norwegian breakfast 405 

Nutmeg 391 

OrangjeUy 372,373 

Prince of Wales 378 

Palmetto flannel. 401 

Philadelphia cream puffs 390 

Poor man's 390 

Pork 395 

Potuto 390, 469 

Potato puffs 390 

Round 3S9 

Raised 392 

Raisin 386 

Ribbon 370 

Rock 391 

Roll jelly 875, 376 

Rose flavored cookies 393 

Rusk, various 401,402 

Ryeand Indian 406 

Rye drops 394 

"SaUy Long"ortea 393 

Sally Lunn 392 

Saratoga tea 383 

Scotch 391 

Scotch oat 399 

Short-cake, various 397-399 

Snow 3S2 

Spanish fritter puffs 390 

Spiced, various 392 

Sponge pudding 343 

Sponge, various 888, 389 

Sugar cookies 381 

Sweet potato 4<2 

Tea, various 382, 383 

To stand in cook-room till coo.l 822 

Vanilla 391 

Velvet cream 40i 

Vermont Johnny 40a 

Waffles 401,404 

Watermelon 371 

Wedding .S87 

Weights and Measures for 368 

White 383 

White Mountain 383 

Without eggs 391 

Calcimining, how done 802 

Calf 's liver head-cheese 435 

Calicoes, washing of . .. . 518 

California cure for ringbone. .678 

Method of packing fruits 596 

Calomel, for hog cholera = 747 

CALVES: Feeding in winter.. 701 

Indigestion of , remedies 701 

Lice on, to kill 696 

Raising by hand ?00 

(See also Cattle.) 



^B 



GENERAL IIWEX. 



Cambrics, washing of 518 

Camphor Ice, to make 639 

Canadian Remedy for Scratches 683 

Candied Peel, with Dulce of Cambridge 

pudding 343 

PANDIES: Chocolate caramels 5T7 

Chocolate creams 577 

Cocoanut 677 

Everton Taffy 576 

Molasses taffy 577 

CANNING: Fruit 584 

General remarks 507 

Grapes 607 

Rhubarb plant, etc 508 

Sausage 415 

Strawberries 507 

Sweet com , 508, 509 

Tomatoes 608 

To avoid breaking cans 607 

Canton Soy, to make 495 

Caramels, chocolate, to make 577 

Caraway Cookies 893 

carbon for hogs 748 

(.■■> 1 -^ of sheep in winter 733 

Cai pet rags, to dye blue 611 

CARPETS: Moths in, to prevent 641 

To remove moths 798 

To wash without taking up 534 

Carrageen Custard 487 

Carriage tops, oil dressing for 6aa 

Carrot Soup 426 

CARROTS: For cows 705 

Pickled for table use 539 

Their value as food . . 639 

With cream 513 

Cast iron, to solder 795 

Caterpillars, on fruit trees, to destroy — 672 

Catarrh Snuff, Borax for 536 

Cats, fleas on, to drive away 6N3 

CATSUP: Cucumber 500 

Currant, for baked beans . BOO 

Grape BOO 

Improved 496 

Mushroom 499 

Tomato 499 

When out, to make a supply 501 

CATTLE: Big jaw in, to cure 667 

Bloat in 693 

Calves, raising, feed, wintering — 700,701 

Choked, remedy 693 

Condition powder for 747 

Digestion of 690 

Dairy cows, to feed 703 

Durham 699 

Foodfor 705-714 

Hollow horn 694 

Indigestion of calves, remedies 701 

Jersey 698 

Kicking cows, to make stand still 695 

Lice on, remedy 689, 696 

Milk-fever, to avoid 690 

Milk, to "dry off" 692 

Milk, to increase 691 

Neat sheep better than 730 

Over-eating, what to do 698 

Profit of dairying 702 

Salt and ashes for 696-698 

• Scours and diarrhea 694, 695, 702 

Sores or tumors, to cure 693 

Silos and ensilage '"14-724 

Swelled bags, to cure 693 

Winter feeding of 704 

Versus sheep ''SI 

Cauliflowers, to raise successfully 549 

Cayenne Pepper, for rats, bugs, etc.. 586 



CELERY: Sauce, tomake 49S 

Soup, rich and creamy 421 

Storing of 600 

Vinegar, to make 581 

Cellar, elevator from, to pantry 57» 

Fungus in, to destroy BS©' 

CEMENT : China and glass ,'i48 

Dr. Choris' Magic Mender 546 

For iron work 600^ 

For labels, etc 590, 591, 801 

For leaks in steam boilers 801 

For leather 801 

For leather, wood, glass, etc 591 

Fortincans 547 

For marble and alabaster 548 

For patching boots, etc ^1, 801 

For rubbers 801 

Japanese 548 

Proportion of, in concrete 597 

Steam and water tight, for joints 80^ 

White and cheap 547 

Cess pools, to disinfect instantly 606 

Chapped Hands, Camphor Ice for 639 

Charcoal for hogs 748 

Charcoal for poultry 760 

Charity Cake 390 

CHARLOTTE : Apple 341, 47» 

Polonaise 377 

CHEESE: And apple fritters 406 

Buttermilk, plain and spiced 651 

Baked cabbage with 498 

Fancy Shippmg 650 

Home-made ..647 

Italian 452 

Parmesan, with Welsh rarebit 457 

Factory, articles, and cost 652 

Cherry butter 477 

Chester Pudding, English 345 

Chestnut Pudding, to make 339 

CHICKEN: Beef or veal head cheese with. 434 
CHICKENS; Cholera in, to cure.... 748, 761 -762 

Curried 458,421 

Carrie, with rice, Indian 453 

Fricasseed 453 

Hash , 435 

In peas 455 

Oyster pie 446' 

Pies 3G2 

Relish 455 

Salad 493 

Soup 421 

Stew 442 

To prepare for picnics. 452 

Young, best food for 768 

Young nice way to cook 455 

(See Poultry.) 

Chicken cholera, remedies 761-762 

Children, oatmeal gruel for 427" 

ChiliSauce 496 

CHIMNEYS: How to build 540, 541 

To avoid smoking 541 

To stop leaks 541 

China, cement for 548 

Chintz bugs, to destroy 570 

CHLORIDE OF LIME: For giubs, etc., 

on trees 782 

To exterminate rats, etc 585 

CHOCOLATE: Caramels to make ....577 

Creams, to make 577 

Icing for cake 369 

Jelly ...504 

Jelly cakes. 373,374 

Marble cake 37t 

Choice cake .,... 39' 

Choked cattle, sure remedy 693 



QENERAL INDEX. 



;H0 LERA: Chicken, to cure. 748, 761, 762 

Disinfectant after 606 

In hogs 742-747 

Jhopped eggs, with pudding, a la ereme. . .336 

■Jhops, pork, fried with apples 441 

Dhow chow, to make 496, 497 

CHOWDER: Famous Rhode Island, or 

St. James' 444 

With flsh or clams 450 

Christmas, plum pudding, old style 335 

Churn, butter not to be gathered in 644 

Churning, of butter 642 

CIDER: Apple, jelly 504 

Boiled 616 

To keep 615,616 

Cake, without eggs or milk 391 

Vinegar 579 

Cistern, how to build 573,574 

Citron, preparation of, for cake 366 

Clams, chowder with 450 

Claret, wine jelly 505 

CLEANING: Brass 790 

Coffeepots, etc., inside .548 

Flat irons 538 

Glass globes 796 

Oilcloth 538 

Painted surfaces 796 

Silverware. 540 

Zinc 795 

(See Washing). 

CLEANSING: Barrels, etc 549 

(See Washing. ) 

CLOTH: Fireproof 575 

Oiled for hot beds, etc 576 

Waterproof 575 

Fruit stains, to remove from 528 

Indellible ink fc. marking 608, 609 

To remove iron rust from 537 

To remove grease, etc., from 527 

To remove mildew from. . 537 

CLOTHES-CLEANING 525,526 

Soap for 526,531 

(See W^ashing). 

Club feet, of cabbage to prevent 540 

Coal for hogs 749 

Cocoa, cones 375 

OOCOANUT. Cake 374,375 

Candy, to make 577 

Drops ...375 

Milk in cooking rice 454 

CODFISH: And eggs 448 

Balls 448 

To boil 447 

Codling Moth, remedy for 563 

COFFEE: Cake 386,387 

Jelly 504 

Coffee pots, to clean inside 548 

COLD BEEF: And dry bread or biscuit 

balls 432 

Roast, broiled 437 

To use economically 432 

COLD: In the chest, onions for 542 

Storage of fruits, eggs, etc 598 

Water cake 392 

W^earher. soup plates to be heated in. . .418 

Cole fcold) slaw to make 497 

Colic in horses, to cure 669 

Colhips, Scotch, with veal 438 

Cologne, fine and cheap 636 

Color of plants to preserve in drying 538 

COLORED: Cotton goods to wash 5.32 

Silk handkerchiefs, to wash 5;i3 

COLORING. For domestic uses 609-615 

Of butter 642 

Colors of cotton goods, to fix 582 



54 



.ti64.655 
, 65f 



COLTS: Diarrhoea.-,.-- - - 

Raising and breaKl' 

Weaning and wintef^f. . . 
(See Horses). 

CombHoney W; 

Compote, apple 477 

Common cake 392 

Concentrated lye, for soap 521, 523 

Concrete proDortioos of materials for 597 

CONDITION'PO WDERS : For Horses 

665,671, 672 

For Horses and Cattle 717 

Condy's Fluid, for disinfecting, etc 429 

COOKIES : Caraway 393 

Excellent 381 

Ginger 381 

Ginger, with molasses 394 

Plain 393, 394 

Rose flavor 393 

Spiced 394 

Sugar 381 

With ammonia, 381. 393 

Cook room, bread, cake and pie to stand 

in till cool 322 

Cooling, of bread, cake, and pie 322 

Copper, to clean 790 

Copperas color, for carpet rags 611 

Copying ink, black 607, 608 

Cordial, Blackberry, for the children 350 

CORN and bean soup 419 

Bread 404 

Bread, old-fashioned.. 327 

Bread, Minne.«ota 327 

Bread, Southern, far-famed 327 

Bread, Southern, improved 328 

Burnt for hogs 748 

Cake 403,404 

Cut in blossom for milch cows 775 

Dodgers, Kentucky 404 

Dodgers, white 328 

Fodder for cows 711 

For hogs 751 

For poultry 759 

Fritters 406 

Green, egg «melet with 461 

Green, soup 421 

Hulled, to make 609-611 

Oysters 446, 484 

Popped, pudding, to make — 339 

Vinegar 579 

Raising for soiling and feeding 774 

Seed, to keep 775 

Tocan 508,509 

Tofrv 484 

To keep birds from 594 

To make vinegar with 578 

Corn and pork, to get the most from 754 

Corn crib, rat proof 560 

CORNED : Beef, to cook with cabbage 436 

Beef, flank of, rolled 437 

CORN MEAL: Custard 488 

Muffins 409 

Corns of horses' f^t, to cure 670 

Cornstalks for cows 710,711 

CORNSTAUCH : Blanc mange 346 

Cake 376, 378 

Float with 346 

Pudding 353 

Snow pudding with a37 

COSMETICS: For the face 637 

An old lady's only one 637 

Cotswold sheep, the best 728 

COTTAGE PUDDING: Recipes fer . ..335, 336 

Sauce for 336 

COTTON GOODS : Colored, to wash 532 

To dye 609, «1] 



850 



GENERAL INDEX. 



(Jovenng^ for steam pipes 790, 791 

COWS: Dairy, to feed ....703 

Dairying, profit of 702 

Durham 699 

General remarks as to car© of 690 

How to feed field turnips to 708 

Jersey 698 

Kicliine, to stand quiet 695 

Milk fever, to avoid 690 

Milk, to d ry off 692 

Milk, to increase 691 

Over-eating, what to do 698 

Soiling 710 

Tumors on, to cure 693 

(See also Cat lie.) 

Cows vs. sheep, comparative profit 731 

Cracked hands, to cure 539 

Cracked wall.s, to clear of bed-bugs 572 

CRACKED WHEAT: Pudding 345 

Mush, excellent 460 

CRACKERS: Crumbs of, beefsteak fried 

with 433 

Crumbs of, mock minced pies with. . . 358 

Suet pudding with 349 

To make 409 

Cracknels, Scotch, of oatmeal 465 

Cracks in walls, to fill 542 

CREAM: Batter puddings with 347 

Cake, various 382, 393 

Coleslaw with 497 

Croquettes, a substitute for hash 432 

Fritters 406 

Ice, to make 488,489 

Muffins, with 402 

Or custard pudding 3.36 

Of tartar, how to use, for cake 366 

Pastry or pie-crust 356 

Pie 359,360 

Pudding 353 

Puffs, PhUadelphia, 390 

Salad 492 

Spongecake 389 

Toast, Boston 485 

Velvet, a delicious dessert 401 

Beer or soda, to make 618 

Creamery, management of 646 

Creams, "chocolate, to make 577 

Crib, corn, rat proof 560 

Cribbing of hor=es, to cure 664 

Crickets, to drive away — 540 

Crimps, to keep in place, in damp weather G36 

Crisps, German 392 

CROQUETTES: Cream, a substitute for 

hash 432 

Duck and oysters 447 

Hulled com, to make 511 

Or bread balls 512 

Crullers, or FViwl Cakes 405 

CRUMBS: Bread, queen of puddings with.aw 

Bread, or meat and rusk pudding 351 

Bread and cracker, mock minced pie 

with 358 

Cracker, beefsteak fried with. . . 433 

CRUST: For pies 355, 356, 362 

Of bread, to make soft and delicate — 321 

Pie, baking before filling 357 

Pie, glaze of, to prevent escape of 

juices 3.56 

CUCUMBERS : A paying crop ... 595 

Bugson.tokiU 588,589 

Chow-Chow with or without 496, 497 

Fresh, for towns-people 594 

Fresh , to prepare for table. 500 

Selectio of ,..778 

Oucumber catsup.. ,......«.. .o. .500 



CULTIVATION: Of onions 542-546 

Of Potatoes 77V, V78 

CULTURE: Of Quinces 766 

Of Raspberries, keeping clear of weeds 604 
Of Raspberries, mulching or covering. . 604 

Of Raspberries, pinching off leaves 605 

Of Raspberries, the kind to raise. . . .605 

Of Roots, to feed stock 708 

Of Strawberries 603 

Cup cake. Rye Drops 394 

Curculios on plum trees, rstnedy 564, 785 

Curling liquid, for the hair 637 

CURRANT: Cake 386 

Sweet loaf 324 

Catsup 500 

Bushes to set out 568 

Bushes, grafting 569 

English, for cake 366 

To avoid borer and mildew 569 

When to plant 788 

Worms, remedy 565-568 

CURRIE: Chicken; as made in India 421 

Chicken, with rice 453 

Powder, to make 498 

Curried veal or chicken 4.58 

Currie Vinegar, to make 581 

CUSTARD: Apple 481,488 

Apple, pie 361, 481 

Apple, pudding 341 

Cake, or Improved Berwick Sponge 

Cake 388 

Carrageen 487 

Com meal 488 

French tapioca 487 

Frosted 487 

How to make 486 

Jelly cake 381 

I^mon pie, extra 358 

Pie, boiled..... 360 

Potato pie 361 

Pudding 336 

Rice .....463 

St. James' 487 

Substitute for 488 

Without eggs 487 

Cutlets, rabbit 434 

Cut-worm of cabbage, to destroy 540 

Cut-worms, to destroy 594 



Dairy cows, to feed 703 

Dairying, profit of 703 

Dandruff, to remove 640 

"Dandy" custard pudding ...336 

Danish tapioca pudding 342 

Darkcake 389 

Decay of fent-e posts, etc., to prevent 554 

DELICATE: Bread crust, to make 321 

Cake 384 

Delicious dish with sweet apples 481 

DELMONICO'S: Recipe for cooking oys- 
ters 445 

Substitute for hash 432 

Dentifrice (see Tooth-Powder; Borax). 
Depilatory to remove superfluous hair.638, 639 

Dessert, delicious 401 

Diarrhoea, to cure 702 

Diarrhoea of cattle, to cure 694, 695, 702 

DIGESTION: Of Cattle 690 

Of Horses 662 

DINNER: Boiled, how to get up 4ltJ 

Graham bread for ,...325 

Potatoes for, each day in tho week 468 

Thanksgiving oil! of fare, etc 513 



GENERAL INDEX. 



853 



Dio Lewis' " Breakfast for Two Cents," 5GI 

Dish of Scraps, a 4« 

DISINFECTANT: After cholera.:;.. .■;; "gog 

For cess pools, quick cOG 

Disposition of Horses, general remarks on.6o3 

Distemper m colts, treatment 672 

DODGERS: Kentucky com . 404 

White corn 3.33 

DOGS : Fleas on, to drive away! '...'.'. 553 

How to give advantage to sheep over. .735 

Lice on, to kill 696 

Poisoned by strychnine, antidote . .' .' .' .' '. 553 

Mange upon, sure remedy. . . 553 

DOMESTIC ANIMALS: Carrots as food for 539 

Horses and, treatment of 653-689 

(bee Horses, Cattle, Dogs. Cows, Poultry). 

nrnfr^ri^Tr^o' *^ ^^^. ^^^'^Vi'it from 321 

DOUGHNUTS, or Fried Cakes . 405 

Raised " "405 

Drab, to dye 610 612 

Dr. Chase's Magic Mender '546 

DRESSING: Baked fish with.:..':: 448 

Beef's heart, to bake with ' ' 437 

Bread crust for 434 

Salad for any kind of meats, etc! ' ! .* .' .436 
(See also Salad ; Sauce). 

DRIED: Apples.. 474 

Apple shortcake qqq 

Beefwitheggs .".." ■'■■43,3 

Peach pudding 041 

DRIED APPLES : How to' cook W'.'. 583 

Juice of, as beverage for the sick 474 

Manner of cooking 474 

Wholesomeness of, as food ...'.'.'.' 474 

Dnllingglass •■793 

Drink, summer, pleasant ' 618 

Drippings in making cake 365 

DROP CAKES: Ginger ....,....."■■379 

Or macaroons ,394 

Rye, cup .V 394 

Ryeand Indian .'.'.".*. 406 

Drops, Japanese Toothache "..'.'" 599 

Dr. Warner's recipe for curing beef '414 

Dry bread and cold beef balls 432 

Drying of fruit 5JJ0 

Dry bread, to use 434 

Duchesse Potatoes .'." *.'.'.\' 470 

DU(3K: And oyster croquettes..*..','. 447 

Mock, with veal or beefsteak '447 

Roast, with potato stuffing ". 447 

To bake, wild or tame 443 

Duke of Cambridge Pudding, with candied' 

peel g^ 

Dulce de Lece, or Spanish 'sauce .'.' '.'. 473 

Dumplings, apple 48()'481 

Durham cows ' 2Xq 



Dust bath« 



necessary for poultry. 



Dutch apple pudding. 
"Dutch Turkey" .... 
DYE: Forthehair .... 

.^,,Ji*t?5^'^*'°&' fo"" "^lack clothing" 

DYEING: Black for silk 

Black, in dress goods .','" 

Black, on wool or cotton. 
Blue, for carpet rags. . . .".'.' *.*.' ' 

Blue, on cotton rags 

Blue, permanent !..'!.*!!! 

Brown, for woolens '.'.'.'. 

Brown, various shades .',*.' V.' 

Bright red 

Claret, for ^ 



.757 



Copperas with lye. 

Crimson 

Dark tan 

Drab 

Drab, with tea 



438 

....C33 

527 

610 

.. ...(509 
.609,010 

, 611 

....611 

614 

610 

.618, 614 
... 615 

611 

611 

611 

614 

612 

612 



DYEING-Continued. 

Fawn drab 01] 

Green !*!'*' 614 

Imperial bluejfor silk and wool! .!!!!! 'eiO 

Nankeen. 515 

Pink, in cotton !!'! 614 

Scarlet in cotton or silk ! ! ! ! " 614 

Seal brown !!!!612 

Sky blue for woolens ! ! ! ! 610 

"True Blue" eil 

^ Yellow :.::..."... •eii 

Dyes for Domestic Uses 609-Gl'5 

DYSPEPSIA: Healthfuhiess of 'hard- 
boUed eggs in 459 



B. 

Easter, or " Hot Cross " Buns 395 

Ebonystain forwood !!!!!!797 

Egg -eating hens, remedy !!!!!!!! !766 

EGG: Muffins, to make 450 

Plant, fried !!!!!!! !467 

Preservatives ,". ! "551 

Toast ! ! ! ! ! 486 

EGGS : Batter pudding with !!!!!!! !317 

Cake without 391 39.3 

Chopped, with pudding, a la Cre'tite.. .'.33G 

Codfish and 44;^ 

Dried beef with !!. ' 433 

Fried or baked, for breakfast 486 

Fried potatoes with 470 

Gruel of, for the sick .".'.'." ' '46O 

Ham and 449 

Hard-boiled, in dyspepsia, ! ! ! ! ! 459 

How to boil 459 

How to preserve ! ' ! !549-552 

Indian puddings without .3,62 

In making cake ! ! ! 866 

In-the-nest ' '451 

Minced veal with ! ! ! ! ' !458 

Muffins with and without 402 

Omelets 439, 440, 460, 461 

Poached with fried ham .440 

Potatoe cake, without., .393 

Rusk, without 397 

Tapioca pudding without 3,38 

To determine sex of !!552 

To keep by cold storage !.598 

Elevator from cellar to pantry 578 

ELY'S: Sea Foam, for the hair. 633 

Best Hair Dves 633 

ENGLISH: Chester or almond flavored 

pudding 343 

Currants, for cake. 866 

Ginger beer, to make "'617 

Method of boiling and frying turif'ey.! 451 

Plum pudding 332,3:34 

Welsh rarebit 456 4 ■j7 

Yorkshire pudding '" '341 

ENSILAGE, how to accomplish 714-724 

(See Silos and Ensilage). 
Epizootic, successful treatment. 672 

Erasion Compound. . ' ° '531 

ESCALOPED: Oysters .'■ .'!!.". ..363 '445 

Parsnips 444 

Potatoes 471 

Tomatoes. ...::!:::::!!:!:482 

Veal 453 

Essences, flavoring, to make. ' ! ! 488 

Evangeline's Gingerbread. ...!..!!'!! 378 
Evaporated Apples, how to cook. . . ! . . "582 

Evertou Taffy, to make '576 

EWES : Breeding, care of ! ! ! ! '734 

Breeding, how spoiled !!!!!!! 728 



^% 



GENERAL INDEX. 



BWES. -Continued. 

Breeding:, time to select 727 

EXTRA: Batter-pudding 347 

Brown Brea<l, steamed 3iJ7 

Lemon custard pie 358 

Extracted Honey 807 

EXTEACTS: Flavoring, to make 488 

Lemon and orange to make 578 

Eye Water, for horses 666 



FACE: Cosmetics for 637 

Rough, camphor ice for 639 

Factory, cheese, articles and cost. 652 

Failure in business how to avoid 601 

Famous Rhode Island chowder 449 

Farina Jelly 505 

Farmers' gems to make 494 

Farm, value of sheep on 730, 733 

Fast or spirituous sauce for puddings 334 

FATTENING: Hogs 751,752 

Poultry 769 

Sheep 736 

Stock, howtodoit 712-714 

Pawn drab, to dye ...611 

FEATHER BED: Tick, to remove stains.. 560 

To renovate 560 

FEEDING: Dairy cows 703 

Stock horses 686 

Feet, pigs', broiled "alaBamum" 442 

FENCE POSTS: Importance of seasoning. 555 

Importance of tamping, etc 556 

To preserve 554 

Fermentation, to keep fruit juices from. . .615 

Fertilizer, coal ashes as 568 

Field turnips, how to feed and not flavor 

milk 708 

FIG: Poundcake 386 

Pudding, boiled, to make 339 

FIGS: Frosted for dessert 478 

Peach, very nice 478 

Tomato 478 

Fillmg, delicious for layer cake 372 

Filter, home-made, cheap 619 

Fingers, Lady, to make 376 

FINGER: marks on doors, to remove 531 

To remove from windows, mirrors, etc. 606 

Fire-proof cloth, to make 576 

Fire-proof shingles, to make 575 

Fire-proof wash for shingles 800 

FISH : Bakf d and stuffed. . . 448, 449 

Balls 448 

Chowder with 450 

Hints for cooking 429 

Potato pudding with 352 

To fry 449 

Fistula in horses, remedies for 675 

Flank of beef, rolled and corned 437 

Flannel cakes. Palmetto 401 

FLANNT:LS: Moths, to remove 541-798 

To wash 533 

To wash and dry 518 

Flat-irons: Toclean 538 

FLAVORS: Almond, in pudding 343 

Essences for 448 

For ice cream 489 

Of herbs, how to preserve. 514 

Strawberry, for pudding sauce 337 

FLAVORING EXTRACTS: For cakes. 366 

Lemon and orange 578 

To make 448 

Flaxseed forcows 705 

Fleas, to drive away 553 

Fleece, care of 728 



Flexible paint for canvass 800 

FLIES: poison for 600 

To drive away 430 

FLOAT: Strawberry 346 

With com starch or flour 346 

Floating island pudding 345, 346 

Floor, paint and stain for 799 

FLOUR: Good, essential to good bread... 320 

To prepare for making cake 365 

Graham, pumpkin shortcake with 398 

FLUID : Condey's Disinfecting 429 

Washing 515, 516,517 

Fly poison 600 

Fly Stick-um-fast 601 

FOOD: Forfarm stock 706-714 

For poultry 759 

(See Horses; Cattle.) 
Foot rot in sheep, to prevent and cure. 736-738 

Forest trees, planting of 786 

Foul flesh on stock, to cure 693 

FRENCH : Chocolate jeUy cake 373 

Cream cake 382 

Depilatory 638 

Dishes, why superior to others 514 

Loaf cake 384 

Method of destroying insects 588 

Pickles 582 

Salad 492 

Tapioca custard 487 

Toast 486 

Fresh beef, to cook for use when cold 437 

FRICASSEED: Chicken 452 

Rabbit pie 363 

FRIED: And boiled turkey 451, 452 

Apple turn-overs 364 

Beefsteak in cracker crumbs 433 

Bread 485, 436 

Bread pudding 486 

Cakes 405 

Cakes, rye and Indian 406 

Eggs 486 

Ham 439,440 

Minced turn-over 363 

Mush 511 

Norwegian breakfast cake 405 

Oysters, according to Delmonico 445 

Pork chops, with apples 441 

Potatoes, Saratoga 469, 470 

Potatoes, with eggs 470 

Salt pork .439 

Squash 512 

Fritter puffs, Spanish 390 

FRITTERS: Apple 386 

Corn 406 

Cream ..406 

Cheese and apples 406 

Fruit and berry 474 

Minced meat 438 

Plain, and quick 406 

Potato 471 

Orange 40« 

Oyster 446 

Sweet 406 

Frogs, how to cook 450 

FROSTED: Custard, to make ....487 

Figs, for dessert 478 

Silverware to clean 540 

Frosting (see Icing). 

FRUIT: As a medicine 473 

Butters 475 

Cake, apple 385 

Cake, plain 386 

Cake, premium 386 

Cake that will keep for months 387 

Cake, very nice 387 

Canningof 584 



GENERAL INDEX. 



853 



FRUIT— Continued. 

Dried -...474 

Drying of 583 

Home dried, for cake 366 

How and when to be eaten 472 

Pacliing, California method 596 

Piclvles, spiced or sweet 477 

Pies 361 

Preserved 479 

Selection of for cake 306 

Shortcakes 480 

Stains, to remove 638, 532, 5:^7 

Stale bread pudding with 349 

Suitable vessels for cooldng. . . . 473 

To keep 775-776 

To keep by cold storage 598 

Various, puddings of 340 

(See also Apple; Peach; Tomato.) 

FRUIT TREES: Barren, remedy 783 

Caterpillars on, to destroy 572 

Chloride of lime for grubs, etc 782 

Girdling of, to prevent and cure . . .781, 782 

How to plant 779 

Labels for 778 

Manuring of orchards 780, 784. 785 

Old bark, to renew 783 

Pear blight 783 

Pearculture 785 

Plum trees 705 

Quinces 786 

Rapidity of growth 787 

Right soil for 779 

Shade trees 786 

To protect from mice and borers, 

.. 780.781,782 

To protect from rabbits 781 

Trimming, etc 780 

Various berries 78S 

Fungus in cellars, to destroy. 589 

FURNITURE: polish for 797.798 

Stain for 797 

Upholstered, moths in 541 

EUBSc Moths to remove from 541, 798 

TO put awar 542 

■Vt/Tiite. to clean 530 



Galled shoulders, to prevent and cure 672 

Game Soups 425 

Gapes in poultry, to cure 763 

Gardening in a hogshead 605 

Gargling Oil for horses, etc 674 

Geese. (See Poultry) 

GELATINE: Icing for cakes with 369 

Snow pudding with 337 

Queen Mab's pudding with 344 

Gems. Graham, to make 402, 403 

GENERAL REMARKS: On making bread. 319 

On making cake 365 

On making pies 354 

On making pudding 331 

GERMAN: Crisps, to make 392 

Method of getting rid of rats 584 

Silver, to solder . . .795 

GINGER: Bread 379,380 

Bread, poor man's. 380 

Cookies 381 . 394 

Snaps 378,379 

GINGER: Beer, to make 917 

Pop. to make 618 

Girdling of trees, to prevent and cure 781 

GLASS: Cement for 591,548 

To break as you like 790 

To drUl 796 

Globes, to clean 796 



Glaze, pie crust, to preventescapeofjuices.356 

Glossy Ink, to make i,-;x '^ 

Gloves, kid, to clean °^'?^? 

GLUE: Cement with, cheap 547 

For veneering, etc cArvl} 

Liquid 591,59- 

Mothproof ^ 

Waterproof ;:^-.ri 

Golden Buck or Welsh rarebit .4o6, 4o7 

GOOD BREAD : Good flour essentia,! to ... . oi?0 

How to make ■ . • — • ^^9 

good flour essential to good brearf, . . 

Groose, roast 

GOOSEBERRIES: Setting out 

Toavoid mildew 569 

When to plant Jo^ 

Grafting wax, to make 553 

QRAHAM : Bread, one loaf. v„; -^^ 

Bread, tomake 324,.%'5 

Breiid, with soda, baked or steamed. . .325 

Flour, pumpkin shortcake with 398 

Griddle cakes 408,409 

Gems 402,403 

Muffins 402 

Pop-overs 403 

Grain, pounds per bushel 77» 

Grandmother's apple pie 361 

GRAPE: Catsup, tomake... 500 

Jam or marmalade 506 

Jelly, tomake 50o 

Juice, to can or bottle 501 

Juice, to keep 615 

Grapes, tocan 507 

Grass, Hungarian, for cows 711 

Gravel for poultry 760 

Gravel walks, weeds in, to destroy 573 

GRAVY: For potatoes 472 

(See also Sauce.) 

Gray hair, to restore color to. 635 

GREASE: Refuse, to make snap 525 

Spots to remove from clothing 527 

To make soap 522, 52& 

To rt'Diove from floors, et* 524 

GREASE HEEL: Of horses, ointment f.-.r.6.S9 

Tocure 671,682-684 

Green apple jelly to make 479 

GREEN CORN: Soup 421 

Tocan 509 

(See Corn.) 

Greenhouse, best shading for glass 576 

Green lice on plants, to destroy 587 

Green pea soup 425, 426 

Green salve for Horses 674 

Green, to dye 614 

GRIDDLE CAKES: "Arf and Arf" 407 

Batter for, to keep sweet 408 

Bread 408 

Buckwheat ^06 

Graham 408,409 

Indian 409 

Mock Buckwheat 407 

Oatmeal 408 

Rice 40S 

"Grits," to make --ll 

Growth of trees, rapidity of 787 

Gruel, oatmeal, for invalids and children. .4;J7 
Guinea fowl, value of 7'^2 



HAIR: Pomade for . 



Superfluous, to destroy 038, wa 

To bleach 637 

Hair curling liquid 637 

II AIR DRESSING: with bay rum 635 

With home-made perfume "^ 



854 



GENERAL INDEX, 



HATR DYE: Brown. 

Eley'sbest., 

HAIR OIL: Very fine. 



That turns gray hair 634 

HAIR RESTORATIVE: Good 635 

Hall and King's 635 

Italian 635 

HAIR TOOTC: Bob Heater's shampoo ... 633 

Barbers' luster 633 

Eley'- sea Foam..... 633 

Hair wash, Italian 635 

Halter pulling of horses, remedy 656, 689 

HAM: And eggs, extra nice 440 

And tongue toast 440 

And veal odds and ends economically 

used 441 

Balls 440 

Broiled 440 

Cakes, baked 441 

Curing of 410. 411, 412, 413 

Fried, with poached eggs 440 

Loaf 439 

Omelet with 440 

Pies, chicken and 362 

To bake, and omelet from "odds and 

ends" 439 

To keep after beiug'smoked ...413 

To keep the year round 415 

HANDS: Dressing for -634 

To keep soft in winter 6f0 

Wash for Ladies' 639 

Wash for, when rough from cold 640 

Handkerchiefs, colored silk, to wash 533 

Hands, chapped, pomade for 638 

Hands, cracked, to cure .539 

HARD BOILED EGGS: In Dyspepsia 459 

In typhoid fever 459 

Hard soap, to make 521-523 

Hard Water, to soften 535 

Harness, breaking colts to 655 

HASH: Chicken 435 

Delmonico's substitute for 432 

Liver 435 

Poultry 462 

Hawks, best way to catch 600 

HAY: Pea- vine, to cure 562 

Time to cut 773 

HEAD CHEESE: Beef or veal, with 

chicken 434 

Calf's liver 435 

"Scrapple" in place of 441 

Tomake 461 

Heart, beef's, to bake with dressing 436 

Heat of oven for baking cake 367, 397 

Heaves in horses, to cure 673, 686 

Hellebore, for currant worms, etc 567 

Hens (see Poultry.) 

Herbarium, to prepare plants for 538 

HERBS. Sweet, for seasonmgfood 514 

How to raise, etc 514 

Value o' for stews, etc 443 

Hermits 385 

Hides, tanning with hair on 623 

Hives, for bees 803 

Hiving Bees, various methods 809, 810 

H'^GS: ApplpR, good for 7.52 

Artichoke for 7.52 

Berkshires, why best 740 741 

Best kind to raise 740 

Carbon for. 748, 749 

(;ause 742 

Cholera of 742-747 

Corn and pork, to get most from 754 

Corn for 751 

Oalomel for 747 

Fall care of. 562 



I HOGS— Continued. 

Fattening 75^ 

Flees on. to drive away 553 

Kidney-worm to remove 753 

Lice on. to destroy 753 

I Origin of T43 

t'reparing food for 750 

Preventive and cure 743, 745, 746, 747 

"Ringing" hogs, a cause 743 

Scurvy on 753 

Soap, a preventive 747 

Sows eating their pigs, to cure habit 7.53 

Symptoms and treatment 744 

Hogshead, gardening in a 005 

Holes, in walls, to fill 543 

Holland method of washing clothes 517 

Hollow Horn, to cure 694 

Home-made cheese 647 

Home-made flavoring extracts 578 

Home-made filter, to make 619 

Home style of cooking potatoes 469 

Hominv, to make 509-511 

HONEY: artificial 478 

Comb 807 

Extracted .807 

Pudding. 350 

Vinegar, to make 814 

HOP YEAST: Potato bread 323 

To make vinegar 878 

Horseman's Hope Liniment 681 

HORSES: Apples valuable for 688 

At work, food necessary for 688 

Big head, swellings and sprains, to 

cure 667 

Bots in, remedy 668. 669 

Bran for 689 

Brood mares, care of .658 

Colic in. to cure 669 

Condition powder for .747 

Corns or shoe boils 670 

Condition powders 671, 672 

Cribbing of, to cure 663 

Digestion of 662 

Distemper in colts, treatment 678 

Epizootic 672 

Feeding 686 

Fleas on, to drive away 553 

Fractious, managing and shoeing 660 

Galled spots, to prevent and cure 672 

General remarks 653 

Grease heel, to cure 689 

Halter Pulling, remedy 657, 689 

Heaves in, to cure 673, 686 

How to choose and buy 659 

How long they ought to work 654 

Inflammation of bladder of 673 

Kicking and runaway, to cure 662 

Lice on, remedy 689 

Liniments, oils and salves for 674 

Mange in, remedy 675 

Old, food for 688 

Parsn ips good for 688 

Pawing to cure 676 

Poll-evil, fistula, etc., to cure 675 

Profit of raising 656 

Raising and breaking 654, 6.55 

Ringbone, spavin, etc, to cure 677-679 

Scratches, grease heel, etc., to cure. 682-684 

Scours in, remedy 702 

Shving, cause and curs 660 

Splints, ointment for 680 

Strains, swelled legs, etc., to cure 682 

Surfeit in, to cure 684 

Sweeney, to cure 680,681 

Thoroughpins to cure .679 

To .iudge age of 659 



GENERAL INDEX. 



855 



HORtjES-Continued. 

To teach to back 657 

Turnips valuable for 689 

Vicious to train 661 

Warts on, to cure 685 

Weaning and wintering colts 656 

White spots on, to match 661 

Wind galls, to cure 6T9 

Worms, remedies for 685, 686 

HOT BEDS: Oiled cloth for 576 

Best shading for glass 576 

"Hot cross" buns, to make 395 

Hot slaw, to make 497 

HOT WEATHER: To have fresh meat in .411 

To make butter firm in 645 

To keep butter in. 645 

House cleaning, value of ammonia for 535 

Household memoranda 625-632 

Hoven in stock, to cure 693 

Hubbard squash, black bug on, to destroy. 589 

Huckleberry pudding, boiled a51 

HULLED CORN: Croquettes, to make. . . .511 

" Grits," to make 511 

To make 509-511 

Hungarian grass for cows 711 

Hunter's Pudding, boiled 342 



ICE: Camphor, for chapped haiids, etc. .. .639 

Cream, various, to make 488, 489 

House, to build good and cheap 574 

(ces, water, to make 488^90 

iCING: Almond ...SeS 

Boiled, for cakes 368 

Chocolate 369 

Colored 369 

With gelatine 369 

Without boiling 369 

fli-smelling meats, etc. to correct 429 

Imperial cake ... 389 

Improved Berwick Sponge Cake 389 

Improved Catsup 490 

Improved Southern Corn Bread 838 

JLNDIAN: And lye bread 326 

Asparagus soup. . 425 

Boiled rice 45-! 

Bread, extra, steamed. . .327 

Bread, for tea, baked 32r 

Bread, old-fashioned "ttr 

Broths, veal and lamb 426 

Brown bread 3:6 

Chicken currie 421, 453 

Currie powder 498 

Drop cakes 406 

Green pea soup 425 

Griddle cakes 408 

Meal, Johnny cake, etc 403, 404 

Method of making lady fingers 376 

Method of making Prussian soup 424 

Mush, to make 511 

Puddings, various 852, &53 

Puree, to make 495 

Rusk .... 401 

Wheat and, bread 826 

Indelible Inks 60S, 609 

Indigestion of calves, remedy 701 

inflammation of bladder, in horses 673 

LNK: Black 607,608 

Black copying 608 

Black, for school purposes 531 

Cheap 527 

For zmc labels for trees, etc 788 

Glossy 608 

Indelible. 608,609 



INK— Continued. 

Marking, for sheep 639 

Printer's, to remove from clothing 928 

To remove from clothiHg.. .. .527 523 

Inlaying, glue for 591 

Insecticide (See Insects) 

INSECTS: On plants, to kill 588 

On plants, French metliod of killing. . .588 
INTEREST: Rate of, in Western States 

and Canada 620 

Simple and easy rate for 60a 

Invalids, Oatmeal gruel for 427 

Irish Moss Custard 487 

Irish Stew, to make 443, 444 

IRON: Cement for 800 

Flat, to clean 538 

To prevent nist 793 

Iron, to solder 795 

Zincing. 791 

Iron Rust, to remove from clothing 537 

Island, floating, puiding 345 

ITALIAN: Cheese 453 

Hair wash 635 

Mush, to make.. 511 

Or MacaroniSoup 428 



JAM: Blackbeny 350 

Grape 506 

Quince 506 

James', St., stale bread pudding, 344 

Jams and marmalades, to make 502 

JAPANESE: Cement, to make 5.58 

Toothache drops .599 

Japonica, to dye with 316 

Jars, plant, to paint and bronze 3.38 

JELLY: Apple 50:5,504 

Apple cider 504 

Apple, with pure flavor 4'i'9 

Bag, to make .508 

Blackberry 3.50 

Cake 376 

Cake, chocolate 373, 374 

Cake, lemon 371 . 372 

Cake, orang© 372, 373 

Chocolate 504 

Claret wine. 505 

Coffee 504 

Custard cake 381 

Delicious for any layer cake 372 

Farina 503 

Grape 505 

Lemon and apple 503 

Lemon, for cake 509 

Port wine, for the sick 505 

Quince 505 

Rice 506 

Rolls ..375,376 

Tomato 506 

Veal 458 

Jersey cows 698 

Jettine for ladies' shoes 628 

Jewelry, to clean ^ 794 

Johnny cake, Vermont , 403 

JUMBLES: Or sand tarts 884, 385 

Rich 385 

Soft 385 



Kansas Pork and beans 

Kansas Puffs, to make 

Bees (See Bee-Keei^ng) 



856 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Keeping cakes, hints for 368 

KentucKy con dodgers 404 

Kerosene, to keep off striped bugs 589 

Kicking cows, to quiet., 695 

Kicking horses, to cure of habit 668 

KID: Boots to recolor ....530 

Gloves, to restore worn spota 530 

Gloves, to clean 529 

Kid ne y worm s, in hogsito remove 758 

Kneading of bread 321 

Knives- toclep from rust 794 

X. 

Labels: Cementfor 801 

Fortrees 788 

LACE: Fine white, to clean 531 

To renovate 534 

Ladies' hands, wash for 639 

LADY: Cake 376 

Fingers, as made in India 37« 

LAMB : Broth as made in India 428 

Roast, meat sauc« for 438 

Shoulder of , stuffed 438 

LAMBS: Time toappear 738 

(See Sheep) 

Lard, in makmg cake 365 

Laundry, hints for 581-538 

(See Washing). 

Lawn dresses, car© of 518 

LAWNS: plantains on, to destroy 599 

To drive ante from 570 

Layer strawberry short cake 397 

LEAKS: In chimneys, etc., to stop 541 

In steam boilers, cement few 801 

Leather, cement for 591, 801 

Legitimate business, how to succeed in 601 

LEMON: And apple jelly MS 

Butter 477 

Cake 871,372 

Custard pie, extra 358 

Essenceof , to make 488 

Flavoring extract, to make 578 

Ice Cream 489 

Jelly, for cake 506 

Pie, quick! y made 358 

Pie, with raising 359 

Sauce, for puddings 349 

Sponge cake 389 

Syrup, to prepare 618 

water ices 490 

Ijemonade, excellent, to make 619 

Lemons, to pack 5«)6 

UCE: Bark, remedy for 563, 564 

In poultry, to destroy 757, 758 

On cattle, horses, etc , remedy 689 

On hofTS, to remed V 753 

On live stock, to kill 696 

On plants, to destroy 587 

Toprevent on setting liens 758 

LIGHT: Biscuit, to make 899, 401 

Muffins, very nice 402 

LIME: Air slacked, to destroy roee-bngs. . 588 

As manure 773 

Chloride of, for rats, etc 585 

For currant worms 566 

In making Soap 828, 523 

LINEN: Brown, towash 532 

Glossy, how done .638 

Scorched, to whiten 5S3 

To remove paint, etc. , from 5^ 

liniments for Horses ©?4, ea>, 681 

MPS: Chapped, Camphor Ice for 639 

Oiapped, Pomad« for . ©8 

ilJQUID: For curling hais «7 



Liquidglue 591, 59^} 

Liquid manure for strawberries d04 

LIVER: Beef, to fry 435 

Calf's, head cheese 436 

Hash, to make 435 

Livestock, warts in, to cure 685 

(See Horses; Cattle; Sheep; Hogs.) 

LOAF: Cake. 383 

Cake, French 384 

Currant, sweet 324 

Meat, various 439 

One, of graham br«ad 325 

Vienna, breakfast 332 

Lobster salad 493 

Logwood, black ink from 607 

London brown, to dye 614 

London "Hot Cross" Buns 395 

Love knots for tea 376 

Susy's, Aunt, spiced cake 392 

Luster, to restore in alpaca dresses 527 

Lustral Oil (See Hair Tonic) 

Lye, concentrated, for soap 521, 533 

nz. 

Mab's, Queen, pudding with gelatine 344 

Macaroni soup, Italian 422 

Macaroons, or drop cake 394 

Machinery, to keep from rusting 793 

Mackeral. Broiled 449 

Magical Toothache Drops 599 

Make-believe terrapin soup 424 

Management of fractious horse 660 

MANGE, in dops, remedy for 553 

In horses, remedy 675 

MANURE: Ashes, lime and salt, for wheat. 773 

For orchard, etc 784, 785 

Liquid, for strawberries . .604 

Salt as 773 

Wood ashes for onions 544 

Manuring, advantages of . . 773 

Marble cake, to make 370 ''71 

Marble, cement for 548 

Mares, brood, care of 658 

Marking ink, for sheep 739 

MARMALADE: Grape 505 

Quince 50b 

To make 502 

Martha's cake 399 

Mats, to make from sheepskins 624 

Maxims for poultry keeping 768 

Mayonnaise or French salad 493 

Meal, value of for dairy cows 692 

MEAT: And rusk pudding, baked 351 

Balls, from left-over 431 

Balls, nice 432,434 

Cold, economical use of 432 

Curing, various methods .. 410-414 

Fritters, minced 439 

General remarks for cooking 428, 429 

Mmced, for pies 416 

Pies... 36e 

Potato pudding with ..352 

Potted. Scotch 438 

Putid or ill-smelling, to correct 429 

Salad dressing for 436 

Sauce for, Delmonico's 449 

Scotch potted ;:j,„^^ 

Mechanical Department 790-802 

Medicated soaps, to make 525 

Medicine, fruit as 473 

MELONS: Selection of ...778 

Bugs on, to prevent 689, 594 

Memoranda for Household. """ ""'' 

Merang'e, rice, I 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Mice, to exterminate 585, 586 

Milch cows (see Cows: Cattle). 

MILDEW: To avoid on currant bushes.... 569 

To remove from clothing 537 

MILK: Batter pudding, with and without 

346,347 

Butter, white cake with ,383 

Cocoauut, for cooking rice 454 

Leuion cake, with and without 371 

New potatoes in 471 

Soup . 4-:o 

Sour, batter puddings with 347 

Sour, suet pudding with 348 

Sweet, biscuit with 400 

Sweet, suet pudding with 349 

Sweet, white cake with 3S3 

Tapioca pudding without 338 

Toast 4&4,485 

To clean kid gloves 529 

To increase in cows G91 

Milk fever of cows, to avoid G90 

Milking, sbed for C46 

Milk-pails, care of and kind C46 

MINCED: Meat for pies 416 

Meat fritters 4;J9 

Pies, Crust for 355, 357 

Pies, various 354, 357, a">8 

Turn-over pies 363 

Veal, with poached eggs 458 

Mineral coal for hogs 749 

MINT: Sauce made in India 4'»5 

Sauce for roast lamb 4:38 

Mirrors, finger marks to remove from 606 

MOCK: Beef tongue, or savory beef 4.36 

Buckwheat cakes 407 

Duck, with veal or beefsteak 447 

Mincedpies 3-;S 

Turtle soup 4 ."4 

MOLASSES: Cake 337 

Cake with, how to bake 3o5 

Ginger cookies with 394 

Spongecake 888 

Vinegar from. . . 578 

Taffy, to make 577 

Mortgages, destructive properties of 539 

Mosquitoes, to exterminate 580 

Moss, scaly, of rocks, to dye with 613 

Moth, codling, remedy for ..563 

Mother's strawberry shortcake 398 

Moth glue, to make 691 

MOTHS : In carpets, to prevent 541 

In upholstered furniture, etc 541 

Powder, to put away furs, etc 541 

Trade secret, to remove 698 

To prevent 636 

Mrs. Chase's sponge cake , 3S8 

Mrs. Rice's gingerbread..., 380 

Mucilage, to make 590, 591 

MUFFINS: Breakfast 401 

Corn meal 402 

Eggs.. .: 450 

Graham.. 402 

Mush.... ...385 

Rice 463 

MUSH: Cracked wheat. 466 

Italian or Polenta ., ., .511 

Muffins 385 

Oatmeal .465 

Rye or Indian , .... .511 

To fry ..511 

Mushroom Catsup, to make. . . . 499 

MUSLIN: Bleaching of ....- .5.37 

Washing of , 518 

MUTTON. Loaf.... 4.39 

Stews ..........442,443 



Nails to drive in hard timber 802 

Nankeen, to dye 615 

NAPLES: Bread or biscuit 324 

Pudding, with candied peel 343 

Naptha to clean clot hes, gloves, etc 529 

National Cake, to make 377 

New England style, of brown bread 326 

New Potatoes, ii /a crfwif 471 

Nickel Plating 792 

Night, setting bread sponge over 323 

Nitrate of Silver, stains to remove 540 

Noodle Soup, to make 423 

Noodles, for soup, to make 423 

Norwegian Breakfast Cakes, fried 405 

Nut Cakes, or Doughnuts 405 

NUT GALLS: For black ink 607 

Todyewith 612 

Nutmeg cake 391 

O. 

Oat-cakes, Scotch 399 

OATMELAL: Cracknels 465 

For cows 705 

For sheep 735 

Griddle cakes 408 

Gruel for invalids and children. . 427 

Or Scotch Cake 404 

Mush 465 

Porridge 465 

Scotch bannocks 46.5 

Soap, to keep hands soft , . .640 

Value of .464 

OATS: For hogs 7,51 

For poultry 760 

ODDS AND ENDS: Ham, omelet from.... 4:39 

Ham and veal, to economize 441 

Oil-Cloth, to keep bright 538 

Oiled cloth for hot-beds, etc .576 

Oil on the wat«»r in storms at sea 606 

Oil, sewing machine, to makeand use 802 

OINTMENT : For grease heel in horses . . 689 

For lice on poultry -.758 

For sprains of horses 678 

For splints in horses 680 

OLD-FASHIONED: Apple jelly 503 

Christmas plum pudding 335 

Combread ..327 

Dishes, recipes for 518 

Gingerbread 379 

Indian pudding 353 

Strawberry shortcake 398 

Old putty, to remove easily 577 

Old silk dresses, to renovate .534 

OMELET: Apple 479 

Egg 460 461 

From " odds and ends " of ham 4.39 

Oyster 446 

With ham 440 

ONION: Beefsteak and salt pork with 433 

How to cook to avoid strong flavor 462 

Soup, 427 

ONIONS: An acre in .544 

Culture of, newestVay ,..,. 542 

How many to the acre 543 

How to avoid scullions 544 

Bledicinal effect on worms 542 

Potatoes with 471 

ORANGE: Cake 372,373 

Flavoring extract, to make 578 

Fritters 406 

Ice, to make... 490 

Pie .35^ 

Pudding, to make - .■.■,..... „ 3i* 



b58 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Oratiges, to pack 596 

Orcttards, care of 780, 789 

Oveu, heating of, for baking 367, 397 

Owls, best way to catch COO 

Oxe a (see Cattle;. 

OY-STER: Broiled 446 

Corn 446,448 

Egg omelet v. ith 461 

Escaloped 363 

Escaloped, according to Delmonico 445 

Fried, according to Delmonico 445 

Fritters 446 

Omelet 446 

Pie 363 

Pie, with chicken 446 

Soup 513 

Stew, according to Delmonico 415 



P. 

f aCKING: Of fruits, California method. . .596 

Poultry, for marUet 770 

pails, milk, kind and care of 646 

PAINT: Black, for iron fences, etc 799 

Cheap to make . 798 

Flexible, for canvass. 800 

For floors 799 

01d,toremove 800 

Spots on windows, to remove 530 

To clean 796 

To remove from clothing 527 

palmetto flannel cakes . • 401 

Pan Cakes (See Griddle Cakes.) 

Pans, preparation of, to bake cake 367 

Pantry, elevator to, from cellar 578 

Paper, tracing, to make ..796 

Papering, how to do it 598 

Paradise pudding, to make 335 

ParisitiD ice cream, to make 489 

Parker House breakfast rolls 397 

PARSNIP: Cakesor balls 467 

Escaloped 444 

Fried 467 

Stew 444 

Stewed in milk 467 

Valuable for horses 6e8 

rASTE: For papering, to make 598 

Tomake 590 

t^ASTTRY: Baking: for pies, before filling. . .357 

Or crust for pies 355, 356, 363 

latching boots and shoes, cement for 6i'l 

tawing Of horses, to cure 676 

PEA; Green, soup 425, 426 

Meal, tor growing stock 709 

(•EACH : Bread, suggestion for. 330 

Butters 475, 476 

Dried, pudding 341 

Figs, very nice 478 

Fritters 474 

Ice cream 489 

Pickles, spiced or sweet..., 477 

Preserve, to make 502 

Pudding 840 

Pie 361 

To bake and to can 473 

Trees, borers in, remedy 563 

i*a Piecrust ...356 

7EAR: Blight, wash for 783 

Culture 785 

B:*earline, to make 525 

Pears, pickled, spiced of sweet 477 

sr'JkAS: And pea straw tor sneep 734 

Chicken cooked in. 455 

Forhogi. = ,,.,o....... 750 



.410 



Peel, candied, with pudding. .... 

Pennsylvania method of curing meat. 

Pennyroyal for rats, bugs, etc 5«6 

Perfume bags to scent clothing 636 

Permanganate of Potash, to correct putid 

meats, etc 429 

Philadelphia Cream Puffs 390 

Picalilli, to make 496 

Pickle, for canning meat 410. 413 

PICKLES: French, deUcious 582 

Very fine for present and futm-e use.... 581 

Fruit, spiced or sweet 477 

Carrot, for table use 539 

PIES: Apple and other fruits 361 

Apple custard 361, 481 

Apple turnover 364 

Baking pastry before filling 357 

Boned custard 360 

Chicken and ham 368 

Chicken and other meats 362 

Chicken, oyster 446 

Cream 360 

Cream, crust baked first 359 

Cream pastry or crust 356 

Crust, glaze of 356 

Crust, pea 356 

Grandmother's apple 361 

General remarks 354 

Lemon and raisin 359 

Lemon, custard 358 

Lemon, quickly made 358 

Minced 354,357 

ili need meat for 416 

Minced, turn-over, fried or baked 363 

Mock minced 358 

Orange -359 

Oyster 363 

Pastry or crust for 355, 362 

Potato custard 361 

Pumpkin 514 

Pumpkin and squash 360 

Rabbit, fricasseed and roast 363 

Squash, very rich 360 

Sweet potato 361 

To stand in cook-room till cool .322 

PIE-CRUST 855-362 

Bakmg before filling 357 

Cream 356 

For mince pie 357 

Glaze of, to prevent the escape of juices 357 

Pea. 356 

Pie-plant, to can 508 

Pie-pudding, of various fruits 340 

Pig Roast 513 

Pigeons, Roast, and sauce for 455 

Pigs'Feet, broiled, "■• a la Barnum^'' 442 

Pine, stains for 797 

Pink, to dye 614 

Pin-Worms in Horses, to cure 686 

Pipes, steam, to cover 790, 791 

Pitch, to remove from clothing 527 

PLAIN: Cookies 893,394 

Fritters 406 

Fruitcake 386 

Shortcake 397 

Plantains, to destroy on lawns 599 

Plant Jars, to paint and bronze 5.38 

PLANTS: Lice on, remedy 664, 587 

Forcing 564 

Plated Jewelry, to clean.... 794 

Plating, Nickel and Silver 792 

Pledge, a Temperance 558 

PLUM PUDDING: Christmas, old styie.. 335 

Englisn 331,334 

Other Recipes for 333,334 

Sauce for. 333,334 



GENERAL INDEX. 



859 



Plum Treps, Curculios on, remedy 564, 785 

Poached Eegs 460 

POISON : Bed-bugs, for &< 3 

Flies, for 600 

Polenta mush, to make 511 

POLISH : For boots and shoes .^...b£i 

For furniture 797, 798 

For silverware ^T; 

Of steel instruments, to preserve <94 

Poll-evil in horses, remedies o75 : 

Polonaise, Charlotte, to make. . . 377 

Pomade for hair, etc o^ 

Pop, ginger, to make. bW 

Pop-corn puddmg, to make 3^ 

Fop-overs, Graham and wheat 41^ 

POOR MAN'S: Cake 390 

wmgerbread ^ 

Pudding, boiled 345. 

PORK: And beans 483. 

Batter pudding with o47 

Cake , 3951 

Chops, fried, with apples 441 , 

K\^^"ry::::::::::::-.:::::::::iipoi^cAKE:Fig. 

Salt, pudding, to make 3391 Flam, 



POULTRY: Average of breeds as layers . -^66 

Best breed ',?^; XS 

Cholera in chickens '"^'^n 

Dressing and packing ^'" 

Dust baths necessary. . 'O^ 

Egg-eating hens, remedy ^00 

Fattening tor market ^o^ 

Foodfor •••■• ^^Alf. 

Gapes in, to cure and prevent '°^' ixi 

Ground feed for 12° 

Guinea fowl, value of i^ i'o^ 

Hints for cooking 4^'?fx 

Houses, lice in, to destroy. • • • ■ '^' 

Lice on, to cure and prevent '^' X«q 

Maxima for keeping ^^ 

Raising by a city woman ^r ; " ic^ 

Roup in. to treat ' ~c2 

Scabby legs to cure ■ ■ . 'OD 

(See also Turkey; Goose; Chicken; 
Duck.) „- 

Tonic for '^ 

Water, clean and pure ^ 

Winter care of, on large scale .55 



Sliced potot.;^ baked with. 471 j POWDER: Baking,.recipe for 0^4 

St,ew with mutton 44:5] Baking, use of, m calce ;;;;;:;;::::498 



Stew with mutton 

To get the most from "54 

To keep fresh in hot weather 411 

PORRIDGE: Bean 482 

Oatmeal "f" 

Scotch 423 



Moth, to T>utaway furs, etc 542 

Pyrethrum, for rose bugs 587 

Silvering, to make 

Tooth, borax for.. 

Prints to nreserve 5j4 Premium, fruit cake . . 

POTASH? For ratk, bugs, etc 586 1 PRESERVE: Apple and peach, forpresent 

Permanganate of, to correct putid 



.520 



.479 



meats, etc 

Value of as manure 785 

Potato bugs, to keep off 778 

Potato bread, to make ^a-?S 

POTATOES: Balls 469, 470 

Cake 390 

Cake, without eggs, quick process 390 

Cultivation of " ' ' il? 

Custard pie 361 

Duchesse 4^0 

En caisse 4^0 

Escaloped 4^ 

Fried with eggs Vfin-fin 

Fried, Saratoga 469,4(0 

Fritters 471 

General remarks 46, 

Gravy for 572 

Hilling 778 

Home style 469 

Hop yeast, bread 323 

How many to hill 777 

In seven ways 468 

New, a la crem» 471 

Pudding S.-'d 

Pudding, with meat or fish 3.')2 

Puffs 390 

Salad 492 

Sliced, to bake with pork 471 

Soup 420 

Stewed 444 

Stuffing, roast duck witQ 447 

Sweet, cakes of 472 

Sweet, pie 361 

Sweet, pudding 352 

Sweet, to bake or broil 472 

"Tip-top" 470 

With onions for breakfast 471 

t>OTTED: Beef tongue 437 

Meat, Scotch 438 

Pot roast, beef - • 435 



Peach, verynice e^n 5^ 

Preserving eggs ^a-Ta 

Pressed beef 414 

Prince of Wales cake eig 

Printers' ink, to remove from clothmg o28 

Prize butter, how made 645 

Proof spirit, vinegar from 580 

Prune pudding, to make 339 

Prussia soup, as made in India: 424 

PUDDING: Almond flavored 343 

Apple charlotte 341 

Apple custard 341 

Apple, Dutch style 3^» 

Apple pie. or Yankee style 340 

Apple shortcake 340 

Apple tapioca 481 

Apple turn-over ^°* 

Baked as cake • — „• •; ^ 

Batter, boiled or steamed, various. d4b, g47 

Baron Brisses' rice 344 

Beefsteak, boiled 351 



Bird's-nest. 



.341 



Blackberry, baked or boiled 3.^t 

Blanc mange, or substitute for 346 

Bread, Aunt Rachel's 349 

Bread crumb • ^gj 

Bread, fried , 486 

Bread, with tart, apples 341 

Chester, English ^ 

Chestnut. 339 

Christmas plum, old style 335 

Cornstarch ^ •ooc 

Cottage, and sauce *»^ ^^ 

Cracked wheat 345 

Cream • ^^ 

Cream or custard g^o 

" Dandy " custard — ^* 

Banish, or tapioca • 34^ 
ried peach ... ^J 

Duke of Cambridge ""•^ 

En^-lii^h pJ'mi ' <^^ 



bttO 



GENERAL INDEX. 



PUDDING— Continued. 

Fig, boiled 339 

Floating island 345 

Fruit batter, baked or boiled 347 

General remarks and directions XJl 

Honey 350 

Hunters', boiled 348 

Indian, various 362, 353 

Meat and rusk 351 

Naples 343 

Orange 33H 

Paradise . . .23S, 

Plum and sauce for 233, 334 

Plum, to Englishman's taste, in rhyme 334 

Poor man's boiled 345 

Pop-corn 339 

Potato 351, a52 

Prune 339 

Queen Mab's with gelatine 344 

Queen of, the, with bread crumbs 344 

Quick, baked 346,350 

Sago 338 

Salt Pork 339 

Sauce, fast or spirituous 334 

Sauce for, snow or white 337 

Sauce for, author's favorite 337 

Snow, with gelatine 337 

Sponge cake 343 

Stale bread, with or without fruit 349 

St. James' stale bread 344 

Strawberry float, a substitute for 346 

Suet 348,349 

Sweetapple 340 

Sweet potato 352 

Tapioca, various 338,342 

Whortleberi-y, or huckleberry 351 

With chopped eggs, a la creme 336 

Yorkshire, English 341 

POFFS: Kansas 378 

Philadelphia cream 390 

Potato 390 

Spanish fritter 390 

PmiPKIN: Bread to make 329 

Butter 476 

Pie 360,514 

Shortcake, with Graham flour 398 

Puree, as made in India 495 

Puiid, or ill-smelling meats, etc., to cor- 
rect 429 

Putty, old, to remove easily 577 

lYretlu'um Powder, for rose bugs 587 



Queen Mab's pudding, with gelatine 344 

Quick pudding, baked 346, 350 

Queen of Puddings, the, with bread-crtmibs344 

QUINCE: Jelly 505 

Marmalade or jam 506 

Use in canning apples 507 

Quinces, cultivation of c = 786 



EiiBBrr: Cutlets 

Pie, fricasseed and roast. 363 

Babbits, girdling trees by 781, 

Rachel's, Aunt, bread pudding 349 

Rags, to dye 611 

Rail fence, the best 556 

Raised cake, comake 

Kaised doughnuts 405 

Eaisin cake, to make 386 

Kaising chickens in the oity ...-,. .760 



Raising hogs, the best ,.740, 741 

Raising onions 544 

RAISINS: Batter pudding 347 

Lemon and. Pie 359 

Preparation of, for cake 366 

Rapidity of growth of trees 787 

Rarebit, Welsh, or Golden Buck. 4od, 457 

RASPBERRIES: Culture Of 604 

Fall planting best 788 

Fritters 474 

Kind to raise 605 

Rat-proof corn crib 560 

Rats, to destroy or drive away 584-^86 

RECIPES: Barbers', for bay nun 639 

Bread, etc., for 319-330 

Buns, for .395 

Cakes, for 365^09 

Crackers 409 

Dr, Warner's, for curing beef 414 

For the dairy 641-6.52 

For baking powder 624 

For the toilet 633 

Making butter 641-646 

Miscellaneous 515-640 

Pies, for 354-364 

Puddings, for. 331-353 

Rolls 396,397 

Rusk 396 

Shortcake 397, 398, 399 

Red, bright, to dye rags 615 

Red rice, a Danish dish 464 

RELISH: Chicken, for journeys, etc 455 

(See also Salad.) 

REMEDY: Bark-lice, for 563 

Borers in trees, for 563 

Bots and colic of horses, for 668-670 

Cabbage worm, for 569 

Certain, for moths 541 

Chicken cholera, for 761, 762 

Codling moth, for 563 

Curculios on plum-trees, for 564, 7.S5 

Currant worms, for 565-567, 568 

Foot-rot in sheep, for 736-738 

Hog cholera, for 743, 745, 746, 747 

Rose bugs, for 586-588 

Sheep ticks and scabs 738, 739 

To exterminate rats, etc 584-586 

RENOVATING: Old clothes 525 

Old silk dresses 534 

Soap for 526 

White furs 530 

Woolen hoods, etc 530 

Renovating Dye for black clothing 527 

Restorative (see Hair Restorative). 

Rhode Island Chowder, famous 449 

Rhubarb, to can , , - 508 

Ribbon cake, to make .370 

Ribbons, to wash ,o 518 

RICE: Blanc Mange.... oo 464 

Bread 324 

Chicken currie with 453 

Custard 463 

Griddle cakes 408 

Its value, and how to cook it. 46S 

JeUy 506 

Merange, Baked 463 

Muffins 463 

Pudding, Baron Brisse's 344 

Red, a Danish dish - 464 

Snow 463 

Soup 422 

Southern method of cooking 463 

To boil, India fashion 454 

Waffles ...404 



Ringbone of horses, to cure 676-69© 

I " Ringing " hogs, a cause of cholera. ...... 74d 



GENERAL INDEX. 



861 



ROACHES: To destroy 570,571 

To exterminate 520, 536, 586 

ROASTS: Beef 435 

Beef, cold, broiled 437 

Duck, with Potatoe stuffing 447 

Goose 514 

Lamb, mint sauce for 438 

Pig 513 

Pigeons, and sauce for 455 

Pot, beef 435 

Rabbit pie 363 

Turkey 450, 513 

rlock Cakes, to make 391 

Rock Cream, substitute for custaisd 488 

ROLLS: Breakfast 396 

Jelly 375, 376 

Parker House 397 

Roofs, shinglas, to make lire-proof 800 

Root Pits, to ventilate 597 

ROOTS: For winter breeding of stock 706, 70? 

Value of, for hogs 751 

ROSE: Bugs, remedy for 586-588 

Flavor Cookies 393 

Slug, to destroy 567 

Rot Foot in Sheep, to cure 736-733 

Rough Face, camphor ice for 639 

Roup in poultry, to cure 764, 765 

RUBBER: Boots, to mend 623 

Ceiaeut for 801 

Water proofing for Boots 622 

Rue for cholera in Chickens 763 

Rules for care of Sueep 732 

Rum Sherbet 599 

Runaway Horses, to cure of habit 6C2 

RUSK: Indian 401 

Meat and, or bread-crumb pudding 351 

To make 396, 401 

RUST: Iron, to remove from clothing 537 

On steel, to remove 793 

To remove from flat-irons 538 

To remove from stovepipe 548 

KYE: And Indian drop cakes 406 

Bread 326 

Drop cup cakes 394 

Mush, to make 511 

Value of, for stock feed 776 



oaadle Galls, to pi-event and core , o72 

Sago Pudding, to make 3:^ 

SALAD: Chicken 493 

Cream 490 

Dressing for tomatoes 492 

Dressing, hob and cold, to make , .491 

For any kind of meat, etc 436 

Lobster 493 

Mayonnaise or French 492 

Potato 49ii 

" The Salad Bowl" , 493 

iSaieratus, how to use, in making cake 366 

"Sally Long " or Tent Cake 393 

SALT : As manure 773 

For worms in cattle 598 

Its importance for cattle 696-698 

Putting up green com with 509 

Valuable for sheep 734 

SALTPETER- To kill bugs in squagh, etc.. 588 

Use of, in curing meats410,411, 412, 413, 414 

feiiLT PORK: Beefsteak and, with onions, 433 

How to fry 439 

Pudding, to make 339 

Siut-rising bread, to make. 338,329 

SAND: Packing fruits m.... 596 

Pi oportion of, in conerece , , . 597 

bandwiches fritters 406 



SARATOGA: Fried potatoes 469, 47o 

Tea cakes 382 

Sarsaparilla syrup, to prepare 619 

SAUCE: Author's favorite, for puddings. .337 

Bread, for roast pigeons 455 

Dulcede lece, or Spanish 478 

For baked fish 449 

For meats, Delmonico's 449 

For plum puddings 333, 334 

For potatoes 472 

For cottage pudding 335, 3-i6 

Lemon, for puddings ^48 

Mint, for roast lamb 438 

Strawberry flavor, for puddings 337 

Sweet, for puddings 333. a34 

Tomato jelly, for meats 506 

See also Salad ; Sauces for the Table.) 

SAUCES FOR TABLE: Celery 49t, 

Chili 496 

Chow-chow 496, 497 

Cole (Cold) slaw 497 

Cucumber catsup 500 

Currant catsup 500 

CuiTie Powder, American .498 

Currie Powder, as made in India. 498 

Grape catsup 500 

Grape juice, canned. , 501 

Hot slaw 497 

Improved catsup 49& 

Mint, as made in India. 495 

Mushroom catsup 499 

PicamU 496 

Puree, explanation of .495 

Tomato catsup 499 

Worcestershire 494 

(See also Salad; Sauce.) 

SAUS AG E : Bologna, Americanized 418 

Bologna, as made in Germany 415 

Seasoning required 414 

To can or preserve , 415 

Savory beef, or mock tongue 436 

Scabby legs of poultry, to cure 765 

Scab, in sheep, remedy 739 

Scalds and bums, remedy for 429 

Scale-bugs, remedy 564, 686, 587 

Scare-crows, how to make 599 

Scarlet, to dye 614 

SCOTCH: Bannocks, or cracknels 465 

Broth, or soup 423 

Cake 891,404 

Collops. with veal 438 

Mutton soup 423 

Oat-cakes 399 

Porridge 423 

Potted meat 438 

Scouring, soap for 525 

Scours in cattle, to cure 694, 695, 702 

Scrambled Eggs 460 

" Scrapple," in place of head cheese 441 

Scraps, a dish of 434 

Scratches in horses, to cure 671, 682-684 

Scurry on pigs, to cure 753 

Seal Brown, to dye 612 

Sealing Wax, for bottling, etc 553 

SEASONING: Amount of, for sausage. . .414 

Food, sweet herbs for 514 

Forsoups 422 

SEED CORN: Tokeep ...775 

To select .....778 

Seeds, grape, to remove 506 

SETTING : Out cabbage plants 569 

Out currants and gooseberries 668 

Sponge for bread 830. 323 

The table for a dinner 513 

Sewing machine oil, to make, 8(Bi 

Sex of eggs, to determine S5St 



862 



GENERAL INDEX. 



SHAD : Baked, and sauce for . . , 448, 449 

To fry .• 449 

Shade trees, where to plant 786 

SHAMPOO : Bob Heaters, strong 633 

Or wash for hair 635 

SHEARING OF SHEEP: Time for 727 

Weight of fleece 726 

Shed for milking 646 

SHEEP: Average weignt of 727 

Better than neat cattle 730 

Breeding ewes, care of 734 

Breeding, selection of stock for 726, 727 

Breeding, time for 727 

Care of, in winter 733 

Care of, what it will do 725 

Cotswold, the best 728 

Fattening .736 

Fluke-worms to expel 753 

Foot rot in, remedies 736-738 

General remarks 725 

Increase of wool 726 

Keeping inferior 727 

Marking ink 739 

More profitable than horses 730 

Scab in, remedy 739 

Shearing 729 

Short rules for care of 732 

Sulphur and salt valuable for 734 

Ticks, remedies for 73fl 

Tune for lambs to appear 7*28 

Time for trimming 728 

Time to divide in fall 727 

To prevent from barking fruit trees. . .739 

Valuable winter food for 734 

Value of, on poor farm 730 

Value of, to fertilize soil 733 

Versus cows 731 

Versus dogs 735 

Sheepskins, to make mats from 634 

Sherbet Rum, to make 599 

SHINGLES: Fire-proof, wasn for 8(i0 

To make fire-proof and dmuble 575 

Shipping Cheese 6^-650 

Shoe Boil of Horses, to cure 670 

Shoeing a fractious horse 660 

Shoes (see Boots and Shoes.) 

SHORTCAKE: Apple 399 

Apple, and other fruits 480 

Apple pudding 340 

Dried apple - 399 

Mother's strawberry 398 

Plain 397 

Pumpkin, with Granam flour 398 

Strawberry 897,398 

Sweet, with soda 397 

Shculderof lamb, stuifed 438 

Shrmking, to avoid in washing flannels, 518 533 

SILK: to dye 609,610,611 

To remove spots from 528 

To remove paint, etc., from. 528 

Silk dresses, old, to renovate like new 534 

Silk handkerchiefs, to wash 533 

Silos, how to build 714, 724 

SILOS AND ENSILAGE: Claimed to 

increase nutritive qualities of food. . .719 

Full explanations to build 714 

In England., 717 

What they are, and how done, in Ver- 
mont 790 

SILVER: German, to solder 795 

N itrate of, stains to remove 540 

Silver Plating 792 

Silvering Powder, to make 795 

SILVERWARE: PoUsh for. 540 

To clean 640,794,495 



Sky-lights, to stop leaks in , 54, 

SLAW : Cole or cold, to matce 497 

Hot to make 497 

Sliced potatoes, baked with pork 471 

SMOKING: Meats 410 

Of chimneys, to avoid 541 

To keep hams after 412 

Snaps, Ginger 378. 379 

SKOW: Apple 476,477 

Cake 382 

Or rock cream, for custard 488 

Pudding, with com starch 337 

Pudding, with gelatine 337 

Rice, tomake 463 

Sauce, for puddings 337 

Snuff, Catarrh, borax for 536 

SOAP: Bark Shanty 520 

Erasive compound 531 

For printers, machinists, etc 525 

For scouring 525 

From refuse grease 525 

Hard.tomake 521-523 

Medicated 525 

Oatmeal to keep hands soft 640 

Renovating 626 

Sort, to make 521, 534 

Why lime is used .....523 

Soapine, to make 525 

SODA: Biscuit with 400 

Com cake with 403 

Graham bread with, baked or steamed. 325 

How to use, in making cake 366, 367 

In making soap 522 

Sweet shortcake with 397 

SOFT: Bread crust tomake 321 

Gingerbread 380 

Jumble? 385 

Molasses cake : 387 

Softening hard water 535 

Soft soap, to make 521,524 

Soil, coal ashes a fertilizer for 568 

Soiling cows 710 

Soiling, raising com for 774 

SOLDERING, cast iron 795 

German silver 795 

Soot ft>r protection against ^vlre worms .. .592 

Sores upon stock to cure 693 

SOUPS : Asparagus of India 425 

Barley 421 

Bean 419 

Beef 422 

Carrot 426 

Celery, rich and creamy 421 

Chicken 421 

Chicken cream ..421 

Chicken currie 421 

Com and bean 419 

Game .425 

General remarks ,.....- 418 

Green com 421 

Green pea 426 

Green pea, American. 425 

Hints for cooking 429 

Macaroni, Italian 422 

Milk 42C 

Mock-turtle.. 424 

Noodle 42d 

Onion 427 

Potato 420 

Prussian, as made in Ifeilft •gj 

Bice 4^ 

Scotch broth. 423 

Scotch, ormuttoa ^ 

Scotch porridge ••■1S 

Seasoning for ..„ ., 42*^ 

Split pea 436 



GENERAL INDEX. 



36S 



fcOUPS—Continued. 

"Stock,' explaQationan<lhowtomake.4S7 

Tomato ., 420 

Turkey, from waste . 425 

Veal or lamb broths, Indian 426 

Sour apples, to cock nicely 478 

SOUR MILK: Batter puddings wtth 847 

Graham gems with. ....403 

Suet pudding ,..,. 848 

Souse (see Head Cheese). 

SOUTHERN: Biscuit 401 

Corn bread 827,828 

Method of cooking rice. , 463 

SOWS Breeding, food for 751 

Eating pigs, to prevent o „753 

(See Hogs.) 

SPANISH: Fritter puffs.. 890 

Sauce, or butter 478 

Spavins on horses, to cure e77-4j8y 

SPICED: Cake.... 892,394 

Cookies SW 

Fruit pickles . . .477 

Vinegar pickles, etc .581 

Spices, how to use in making cake 306 

Spiders, to destroy , 570 

Spirituous Sauce for puddings 334 

Split Pea soup , 426 

Splints in Horses, to cure 680 

SPONGE: Cake pudding 844 

Setting the, for bread 320 

Setting the, for bread over night 323 

SPONGE CAKE: Butter ,.889 

Cream .389 

Improved Berwick, or custard cake. . . .388 

Lemon , 889 

Molasses. ...388 

Mrs. Chase's 888 

Orange JeUy ,,873 

Plain.... ..888,389 

Pudding 3+3 

SPOTS: Grease, etc., to cemove 527, 528 

Paint, on windows to remove 530 

Worn, on black kid gloves, to restore. .530 

Sprains in Horses, to cure 666, 682 

Spring, storing celery for 600 

SQUASH: Baked ,. ,..467, £12 

Bugsin, tokiU 588 

Fried. .. .512 

Hubbard, black bug, to destroy 589 

Pies 860 

STAIN : Black- walnut TO7, 799 

Ebony 797 

For floors 799 

Fruit, to remove 528, 687, 532 

Nitrate of silver, to remove .640 

On brass, etc., to remove. . . , 790 

To remove from feather bed tick. ..... .560 

STALE . Breaii pudding, St. James'.. ..... .344 

Bread pudding, with fruit 849 

Bread, to fry . , 486 

Stallion, Condition Powder for .672 

Stammering, to cure 598 

Starch, to remove from flat-irons 538 

STEAKS. Beef, broiled and fried..430, 432. 433 

Venison, broiled , 4.34 

STEABI BOILERS: Cement for leaks in.. .801 

To prevent incrustation 802 

STEAMED. Apple dumpUngs 481 

Batter pudding 346, 847 

Brown bread 826, 327 

Cottaere pudding 3.36 

Graham bread, with soda. 325 

Indian pudding 353 

Suet pudding...... 818 

Wheat and Indian bread.- 329 

Steam oipe CO <30vei-.. . ., — . . ., .?90,791 



Steam-tight cement ....808 

STEEL: Knives to ctean 794 

To keep from rusting — . 793 

To removeru«t from. 793 

To temper.............. ,.793 

STEW; Beef 435 

Irish 443,444 

Mutton and pork 443 

Mutton, chicken, etc 442 

Parsnips 444 

Potato... ...............444 

Oyster, according to Delmonico 445 

Value of sweet herbs for .443 

Venetian 444 

Stick-um-fast, for flies 601 

Stines, of bees and wasps, ammonia for.. .336 

3T. JAMES': Chowder ..449 

Custard , , . . , ... 487 

State bread pudding.... 344 

"Stock " for soup, how to make 427 

Storage, cold, of fruits, etc 598 

Storms at Sea, oil on the water in 606 

Stove pipe, to remove rust from .548 

Straining of soup not necessary ,...418 

STRAWBERRY: Float . , 346 

Fritters ..474 

Ice, to make .488 

Sauce for pudding 337 

Shortcake 897,398 

STRAWBERRIES: Culture of 603 

Hints to growers of 603 

Killing weed among 604 

Liquid manure for 604 

To can 507 

To raise large and abundant 602 

String beans for winter use 483 

Strychnia, dogs poisoned by, antidote for. .553 

Stuffed shoulder of veal or lamb 4.38 

SUBSTITUTE: For custard 488 

For hash. Delmonico's 432 

For pudding, or olanc mange 846 

For pudding or strawberry float 346 

Succotash, winter 483 

SUET: Pudding with sour mUk, steamed.. 348 

Pudding with sweet milk, baked 349 

SUGAR: Batter pudding without ...347 

Cookies .881 

Forcake, kind of ......365 

Raisin cake without 386 

Tea cake without 383 

Vinegar from „ ..578 

SULPHUR: A disinfectant .606 

Soap, to make . ...525 

To cure roup in poultry. 765 

To exterminate bed-bugs 606 

Valuable for sheep ... ..734 

Sumach, to dve rags with... .....612 

SUMMER DRINKS: Oatmeal water 6l9 

Pleasant ...... 6l8 

Superfluous hair, to remove . .638, 639 

Surfeit in horses, cause and core 084 

Swarming bees 809 

Sweeny in horses, remedies for. ... 680, 681 

SWEET: Apple puddings., 340 

Apples, Indian pudding with. 353 

Biscuit... ...............400 

Currant loaf ..324 

Fruit pickles 477 

Herbs, value of for stews, etc . . .443 

MUk, biscuit with 400 

Milk, batter puddings with 346, 347 

Milk, suet pudding with . . -349 

Potato pie ,.. 361 

Potato pudding ...352 

Sauce for puddings. = .,..333 

Shortcake with soda. = ....., = ..397 



864 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Sweet apples, delicious dish with 481 

Sweet corn, to can 509 

Sweet herbs for seasoning food 514 

SWEET POTATOES: BroUed 472 

Cakes 472 

Pudding of 352 

To bake 472 

To grow... --^j-lt^ 

Tokeep...... ^^>l'^ 

To pack 5% 

Swelled Bags, of cows to cure 693 

Swellings in Horses, to cure 666, 68'i 

SWINE: Berkshire, the best 741 

(See also Hogs). 

Swiss plan of preserving Eggs » <; ^^ 

Syrups, lemon, and others to make — 618, 619 



T. 

TABLE: How to set for dirner 513 

Of comparative weignts tind measures 

for culinary purposes 868 

Of wages 601 

Sauces, for. 494-501 

TAFFY : Everton, to make 576 

Molasses, to make 5'^7 

Tamping of Fence Posts, important 556 

Tan, dark, to dye 614 

Tanning skins with hair on 623 

Tansy Tea, for Bots in Horses 668 

Tapioca Custard. French 487 

TAPIOCA PUDDING: Apple 481 

Danish 342 

Various 338 

Without milk or eggs 338 

TAR: Spots to remove 529 

To exterminate rats, etc 585 

To remove from clothing 527 

Soap, to make 525 

Tart Apples, bread pudding with 341 

TARTAR: Cream of. Biscuit with 400 

How to use in cake 366 

TEA: Cakes 882,383,393 

Ham cakes for 441 

Love knots for 876 

Tansy, for bots in horses 668 

To dye with 612 

Tea-pots, to clean inside 548 

Teeth, washing with borax 620 

Temperance pledge, a 558 

Tempering steel 793 

Terrapin soup, make-believe 424 

Thanksgiving dinner, bill of fare, etc 512 

The happy farmer 788 

"The Salad Bowl," 493 

Thoroughpins of horses, to cure 679 

Ticket writers, glossy ink 698 

Ticks, sheep, remedy 738 

TIN: Cans, cement for 547 

To brighten 795 

To clean 790 

"Tip-top" potatoes ....470 

TOAST: Boston cream 485 

Egg 486 

French 486 

Ham and tongue 440 

With and without mUk 484 

Tobacco for gapes in poultry 763 

TOMATO: Catsup 499 

■Jelly 506 

Plant, juice of, to kill insects on plant8.588 

Soup to make 420 

Vinegar, to make .580 

TOMATOES: Bugs on to preyent 666 

Escaloped.... .....«8 



TOMATOES— Continued. 

Prepared as figs 478 

To Broil , ....0...467 

To can 509 

To ripen in December., 538 

TONGUE: Beef, potted 437 

Toast, with ham 440 

TONIC: Condition powder, for horses 671 

For the hair 633 

For poultry 762 

Toothache Drops, Japanese 599 

Tooth powder, borax for , 520 

Tracing paper, to make 796 

Training Gmgerbread. old-fashioned 379 

Training colts to harness 655 

TREES: Borers in, remedy 563 

Caterpillars on, to destr- y 572 

Rapidity of growth 787 

To prevent sheep from barking 739 

Trimming of sheep, time for 728 

Tumors on cattle, to cure 693 

TURKEY : Boiled and fried 451, 452 

"Dutch" 438 

Hash 452 

Boast 451, 513 

Soup, from bones and left-over meat.. 425 

To prepare for picnics 452 

(See Poultry.) 

TURNIPS: To keep nicely, for winter 596 

Valuable for horses 689 

Turtle soup, mock 424 

Twist Cakes or doughnuts 405 



Unfermented wines, to make 617 

Upholstered furniture, to remove moths 

from 798 

Usury, penalty for, in various States 620 



VANILLA: Cake, to make 891 

Syrup, to prepare 619 

Various dishes oi meats, vegetables, 

poultry, etc 428-514 

Varnish, to prevent rust 793 

VEAL: Broth, as made in India 426 

Curried 458 

Escaloped 458 

Head cheese, with chicken 434 

Jellied 458 

Loaf 439 

Minced, with poached eggs 458 

Mock duck with 447 

Odds and endsjof , to economize 441 

Scotch collops with 488 

Shoulder of . stuffed 438 

To prepare for picnics ..452 

Vegetable dishes, how to cook 46^-472 

Veils, lace to renovate 534 

Velvet cream, a delicious tsssert — 401 

Veneering, glue for 591 

Venetian, Stew, to make 444 

Venison Steaks, broiled, u . 434 

Ventilation of Root Pits, . 597 

Vermin, to exterminate. 686 

Vermont Johnny cake 403 

Vermont method of buUding Bilos 784 

Vicious Horses, to subdue 661 

VIENNA: Bread ^ 

Yeast 823 

VINEGAR: Cel«7.... Ml 

Cider ,.. c...... JTO 



GENERAL INDEX. 



VINEGAR- Continued. 

Cora 

Honey 

From alcohol or proof spirit 

From uiuiasstis . 

From sugar. 

From .sugar, hop yeast and corn.. 

From tomatoes 

Spiced, for piclcles, etc 

Vines, Bugs on, to prevent 



579 
.H14 
.580 I 

r.78 

,57Hi 

.5:8 

,580 
.581 
589 



w. 

WAFFLES: Breakfast 401 

Rice 404 

With yeast 404 

Wages, table showing 601 

WALLS: Cracked, to clear or bed-bugs.... 57:2 

Clacks in, to till 54d 

WARTS : Effectual cure for 685 

On live stock, to cure 685 

Warner's, Dr.. recipe for curing beef 414 

Wash : Fire-proof, for shingles 800 

For hands when roughened by cold — 640 

For ladies' hands 639 

For pear blight 783 

For the hair, Italian 635 

To prevent sheep from barking trees. .739 
WASHING: Bark Shanty Soap, to make . .530 

Borax for 516, 517, 5:36 

Brown linen 532 

Calicoes 518 

Carpets, without taking up 534 

Clothes cleaning 525 

Colored cotton goods 5:32 

, Colored silk handkerchiefs .533 

Fluids and powders 515, 510. 517,535 

Flannels 518, 533 

Hard soap, to make 531-.533 

Laces 534 

Muslins and cambrics 518 

New mode of .516 

Ribbons 518 

Silk, cashmere, etc 518 

Softening water for 535 

Soft soap, to make 531, 524 

Value of ammonia for 535 

Windows 534 

Woolen blankets 519 

Washing butter in brine ,644 

Washing fluid and powder 515, 516. 517, 525 

Washing of sheep, time for 727 

Wasp stings, ammonia for .536 

Water cake, cold 392 

WATER: For poultry 759 

Hard, to soften 535 

Water ices, to make 488-490 

Watermelon cake, to make 371 

Water-proof cloth, to make 575 

Water-p roof paint, to make 576 

Water-proof glue 591 

Water-proof, boots and shoes, to make.621, 623 

Water-tight cement S02 

WAX: Grafting, to make 552 

Sealing, for bottling, etc 553 

Weaning, colts 656 

Wedding cake, very rich 387 

WEEDS: Among strawberries, to kUl 604 

To destroy in gravel walks *. 573 

Week, bill of fare for 428 

Welsh Rarebit or Golden Buck 456-457 

Western Rural's Graham Bread 324 

WHEAT: And Indian bread 326 

Bread, good, to make 319 

Cracked, mush 466 

Cracked, pudding of 345 

Manure for 773 

Maxims for growing. 774 

Pop-overs , .403 



WHITE: Cake 333 

Corn Dodgers 328 

Mountain cake 383 

Or snow sauce for puddings 337 

Cement ,547 

Fish, baked, and sauce for 448, 449 

Furs, to renovate 530 

Oil- English, for horses 674 

Pamt, to clean 796 

Whortleberry pudding, boiled 351 

Wild grape juice to boitle 501 

Wild grape wine, to make 616 

Wilson's Albany Strawberries, kinds to 

plant with 603 

" Wind broken " horses, to feed 673 

WINDOWS: Finger marks, to remove 

from 606 

To remove paint spots from 530 

Washing...; 534 

WINE : Blackberry, to make 617 

Jelly, claret 505 

Jelly, port 505 

Stains, to remove 532 

Unfermented, to make 617 

Wild grape, to make 616 

W^NTER: Care of sheep in 733 

Feeding calves in 701 

Feeding of all stock 704 

Food for sheep in 735 

Good butter in. 643 

Rations for farm stock 686, 687 

Succotash, to make 483 

Value of roots in, to feed stock 706 

WINTERING: Bees , 811-813 

Colts 656 

Wire- Worms, protection against 592, 593 

Wood-ashes, as a manure for onions 544 

Wood-ashes for currants 568 

Wood, best way of preserving 554 

Wooden Vessels, to cleanse 549 

Wool, increase of, in sheep 726 

Woolen blankets, to wash 519 

Woolen goods, to dye 609-611 

Woolens, to put away 542 

Worcestershire sauce 494 

Working butter, manner of 645 

WORMS : Cabbage, remedy 569 

Currant, remedy 565, 566, 568 

Cut, to destroy 594 

In cattle, salt for 698 

In horses, remedies 685, 686 

Kidney, in hogs, cure 753 

Onions for 542 

Wire, protection against 592, 593 

Worsted, to dye 610, 611 

Wrinkles, to remove from alpaca dresses. .527 



Yankee style of apple pudding 340 

YEAST: Cake without 393 

Hop, potato bread with 333 

Hop, to make vinegar 578 

How to make 330 

Vienna 333, 323 

Waffles with 404 

Yellow, to dye 614 

Yorkshire pudding, English 341 

Young ladies—" Beware ", 559 

Young men, advice to poetical S37 



Z. 

Zinc, to clean 795 

Zincing iron 791 

Zinc labels for trees. . ..................... .78? 



BOSTON KUDLl' 



111 

3 9999 05987 637 3 






*^-t#KM!M#s#1 








;fcfe^ m-^^..!^ u 



