"Fine Dry Goods at Retail.'' 

LET us help you fit out your boat=-= 
we have all the right Kind* of sup- 
plies. If you want to be perfectly satis- 
f ied with your table linens, your sheets 
and pillow cases, your curtains, mat- 
tings and linoleums, etc., come here for 
them— have none but the satisfaction 
giving sorts—and the prices are not way 
up either. 

G.C.Mei«sel 

Port Huron.. Mich. 



BAINES BROS., 

Provision Merchants and Shippers of 

Beef, Mutton, PorK and Poultry, 
Lard, Sausage, cSc. 

HOTEL and VESSEL SUPPLIE.S A SPEC- 
IALTY. 

43, 44 and 45 Elk Street Market. 

BUFFALO, N. Y., 

Telephone "Seneca 346." 
Residence Telephone. Howard 367. 



J. P. BROGAN, 

Wholesale and Retail 

GROCER. 



SHIP SUPPLIES. 



The best of everything in Groceries. 

CLEVELAND, OHIO. 

Launch Delivery. 
Bell Tel. West 228. Cuy. Tel. A 1099. 

Geo. Randmon $ Son, 



M 



Special attention given to the Marine Trade. 

238 DETROIT STREET. 

CLEVELAND, O 



INDEX. 



PAGE. 

Preparing and Serving Fruits .5-7 

Oysters, Clams, Lobsters and Frog Saddles 8-11 

Soup Broths and Bouillons 12-18 

Fish — Buying, Preparing and Serving them 19-2" 

Buying and Selecting Meats 21-26 

Beef, and the various ways of serving it 26-31 

Veal — How to prepare and serve the same 32-36 

Pork 37-40 

Mutton and Lamb _ _ 41-4 i 

Poultry 45-4 5 

Game... 49-51 

Meats and their Accompaniments 52-54 

Dressings — Making and preparing them 66-Kfi 

Sauces 57-f.Q 

Eggs and Omelettes 61-63 

Vegetables . 04-71 

Fritters 72-74 

Salads and Relishes 75-79 

Salad Dressings 7'J 

Miscellaneous Receipts 80-85 

Bread. Rolls, Gems and Griddle Cakes 8C-j2 

Pastes, Patties, Pies. Etc 93-97 

Hot Puddings .98-102 

Cold Puddings and Jellies 103-1C6 

Sweet Sauces for Pudding. Fritters. Etc. 107-108 

Cakes. Cookies, Friedcakes 109-11 j 

Icings and Fillings for Cakes 116-118 

Ice Creams. Water Ices. Punches. Etc 119-123 

Bev erages 124-12" 

Hints to Cooks and Stewards 126-128 



Marine Stewards and Cook's Guide 

....and.... 

Manual of Cooking 



....IS.... 



FOR SALE, 

And will be sent, Prepaid, on receipt of the 
price, $ 1 .00, by the author, 

Charles J. BrooKs, 

STEWARD AND CATERER, 

PORT HURON, - MICH. 



Member of Stewards and Cook's Union, 
Local 299, Port Huron, Mich. 



Marine Stewards and Cooks' Guide 

....and.... 

Manual of Cooking 



Especially Adapted for the Use of 

Marine Stewards and 

Cooks 



By CHARLES J. BROOKS 



Price, $ \. 00. 



COPYRIGHTED 1903, By CHARLES J. BROOKS 



'Blessed is the man who gets wisdom from 
another man's experience." 



THE LIBRARY OF 
CONGRESS, 

Two Copies Received 

JUN 29 '903 

r- ] C 3 

CLASS) ct, XXc, No. 

5" S" 6 C ■ 

COPY B. 






PREFACE 

It is my earnest desire to put before you a book that will 
aid you in the fulfillment of your duties. My aim has not 
been economy alone, but to place the cooking of the plain 
foods upon a higher standard. No doubt there may be de- 
fects in it but I look with pleasure upon my work, and trust 
that it may be a benefit to those who are anxious to attain 
such knowledge. 



Yours tr.uly, 




& 



CUv^r 




CHARLES J. BROOKS 

Publisher of the 

Marine Stewards and Cooks' Guide and 

Manual of Cooking. 



Press of 

The Herald Publishing Company 

Port Huron, Michigan 









Marine Stewards and Cooks' Guide 

....and.... 

Manual of Cooking 



By CHARLES J. BROOKS. 



PREPARING AND SERVING FRUITS. 



APPLES 

Northern Spies, Greenings, Spietzenburgs and Bald- 
wins are best for table use. Polish off with a cloth 
and serve with assorted fruits. 

PEARS. 

California, and Bartlett Pears are the best for table 
use, serve with assorted fruit. 

PEACHES. 

California or the large yellow Crawford are the 
best. If to serve whole brush with a soft brush or 
cloth to remove the down, and serve with assorted 
fruits. 

SLICED PEACHES. 

Pare and slice, sprinkle with powdered sugar and 
set on ice until ready to serve. 

PEACHES IN CREAM. 
Peel and slice the peaches very thin, sprinkle with 
powdered sugar and serve with cream. 



6 PREPARING AND SERVING FRUITS 

CHERRIES. 

Serve in clusters if possible, or take the pits out, 
roll in powdered sugar and set on the ice until ready 
to serve. 

GRAPES. 

Malagas, Catawbas, and Concords, are the best. 
Wash well and be sure the bunches are free from in- 
sects before serving. 

FRESH CURRANTS. 

Currants can be served in small clusters, or sepa- 
rated, cleaned and rolled in powdered sugar and 
served with cream. 

PLUMS. 
The California, Greengage, or large Blue plums 
are very nice, when served with other assorted fruits 

STRAWBERRIES. 

If the berries are large leave the stems on and 
serve with a dish of powdered sugar. 

Or another good way is pick off the stems, wasn 
well roll in powdered sugar, set on ice for one hour 
and serve with cream. 

STRAWBERRIES IN CREAM. 

Pick off the stems, wash well and serve with sugar 
and cream. 

Raspberries, Blackberries and Huckleberries may 
be served the same as Strawberries. 

BANANAS. 

Wipe off with a cloth, chip off the ends and serve 
with assorted fruits. 

BANANAS WITH CREAM. 

Peel and slice the bananas very thin, sprinkle with 
sugar and serve with cream. 

ORANGES. 

Oranges and Tangerins may be served whole with 
mixed fruits. 176 size is a good one to serve this 
way. 

A good way is to cut in half and serve with a dish 
of powdered sugar. 



PREPARING AND SERVING FRUITSJ f* 7 

SLICED ORANGES WITH CREAM. 
Peel and slice very thin, sprinkle with sugar and 
serve with cream. 

PINEAPPLE. 

To tell when a pineapple is ripe, if the top stems 
pluck out easy it is ripe,- if not it is not ripe enough 
to eat. 

Peel and remove the center core, cut in half inch 
slices and serve with powdered sugar. 

PINEAPPLE WITH CREAM. 

Peel and cut in small dice, sprinkle over with 
sugar and serve with cream. 

GRAPEFOOD. 

Cut in two cross-wise, remove the seeds, chip 
some ice on them and serve. Some people prefer a 
little wine poured in them just before serving. 

MELONS. 

The Osage and Nutmeg melons are the best for 
table use. Quarter and remove the seeds. Place a 
piece of cracked ice in each and serve. 

Melons that are ripe enough for table use should 
be a little spongy at the blossom end.. 

WATER MELONS. 

Are in season from June until October, should be 
kept on ice until serving time, cut in quarters, re- 
move the rind and cut in neat slices and serve. 



Mixed nuts and raisins may be served at the end 
of a course dinner. 

Serve the nuts with, cracker, picks and side dishes 
for the shells. 



OYSTERS, CLAMS, LOBSTERS AND 
FROG SADDLES. 



Oysters are good from Sept. 1st until May 1st. 
Shell oysters may be kept alive a long while if 
packed in a barrel, with three or four holes boivd 
in the bottom of the barrel and keep them in a cool 
place with a good sized lump of ice on them, sprinkle 
a couple of handfuls of corn meal down through them 
for them to feed on. Shucked oysters wants to be 
kept packed in ice, it is better than to put the ice in 
with them, as that makes them watery and takes 
away the flavor also. Oysters that are turned a lit- 
tle should have a pinch of soda added to them, and 
they can be used most any way then except raw. 
Live Lobsters want to be kept packed in plenty of 
sea weed with chipped ice over it. To keep clams 
put them in a small barrel, cover with sea weed and 
pieces of ice and they will keep a long time. To 
garnish these dishes use lemons, parsley, water 
cress and lettuce. 

OYSTERS 

OYSTER COCKTAIL. 

One half dozen selects in cocktail glass, add two 
table spoonfuls of oyster sauce and serve. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

Sauce to serve with raw oysters, one pint of good 
tomato catsup, one wine glass of Worcestershire 
sauce, one table spoonful of tabasco sauce and one 
half pint of good vinegar, shake well and serve. 

SELECTS. 

Selects are served raw, fried, broiled and panned. 

SEAL COUNTS. 

Seal counts are served raw, broiled, fried, panned 
and roasted. 



OYSTERS, CLAMS, LOBSTERS, ETC. 9 

STANDARDS. 

Standards are served stewed, baked, creamed, es- 
calloped. 

OYSTER STEW. 

Take one pint of oysters let scald in their own li- 
quor, add a little salt, skim and add one pint of hot 
milk, butter, pepper, a little crushed crackers, serve 
at once. 

PLAIN STEW. 

Same as oyster stew, use a little more oyster liquor 
and no milk. 

CREAM STEW. 

The same as oyster stew, only use half cream 
and half milk, thicken a very little with butter and 
flour and serve. 

DRY STEW. 

Put a little butter in a small pan, add some oys- 
ters without any liquor on them, simmer five min- 
utes, salt and pepper and serve. 

BOX STEW. 

Use seal counts and cook the same as dry stew, 
place on a slice of toast, and turn half cup of cream 
sauce over and serve. 

BOSTON STEW. 

Cut a slice of toast the same as for milk toast and 
turn over it a plain milk stew. 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

The same as dry stew only use large oysters, salt 
and pepper and a few drops of sherry wine. 

OYSTER ROAST. 

Take large oysters in the shell, remove the top 
shell and add a little butter, salt and pepper, and set 
in a hot oven five minutes, serve right in the shell. 

BROILED OYSTERS. 

Use the seal counts, wipe dry, dip in melted but- 
ter and then in cracker crumbs and broil over a 
clear fire, serve on toast or plain. 



10 OYSTERS. CLAMS. LOBSTERS. ETC. 

FRIED OYSTERS. 

Take large oysters wipe dry, dip in cracker 
crumbs and then in beaten eggs, in cracker crumbs 
again and fry in hot fat. garnish with slices of lemon. 

ESCALLOPtD OYSTERS. 

Crush but not too fine, one pound of oyster crackers, 
put a layer in the bottom of a bake dish then a layer 
of oysters, salt and pepper and small bits of butter, 
continue until the pan is full, moisten with milk and 
bake in a moderate quick oven and serve with slices 
of lemon. 

CELERIED OYSTERS 

Put a lump of butter in a stew pan, add one head 
of celery chopped fine and simmer until tender, add 
one pint of oysters, a little chicken stock, let stew 
a few minutes, thicken with butter and flour, add one 
cup of cream, salt and pepper, serve on toast or 
plain. 

CLAMS 

CLAM COCKTAIL. 
Mix and serve the same as oyster cocktail. 

STEAMED CLAMS. 

Steam one dozen clams five minutes, break off the 
upper shell, add a little melted butter and pepper, 
serve in shell on a oyster plate. 

BAKED CLAMS. 

Put the clams on a bake sheet and set in a hot oven 
five minutes, take out, loosen the clam from the shells 
be sure not loose any of the liquor, add butter and 
pepper and serve hot in the shell. 

CLAM STEW. 
Stew the same as oysters, plain, niilk, or cream 

stew. 

CLAM PATTIES. 
Stew the clams and add a little chicken stock, 
thicken with butter and flour, salt and pepper, add 
half cup of cream, serve in pattie shells. (For Pat- 
tie shells see Pastry.) 



OYSTERS, CLAMS. LOBSTERS, ETC. ■ 11 



LOBSTERS 

BROILED LIVE LOBSTERS. 

Split the lobster and remove ail foreign substance, 
grease a tissue paper, lay on the flesh side and 
broil over clear coals, flesh side down at first, serve 
with lemon, butter, Garnish with parsley and lemon 
and serve. 

BOILED LOBSTER. 

Put on in boiling water and let boil for fifteen 
minutes, take up, split, remove all foreign substance, 
brush over with melted butter, and serve with Maitre 
De Hotel sauce. 

LOBSTER a la NEWBURG. 

Take the meat of two lobsters, saute in butter, add 
a glass of sherry wine, beat up the yolks of four 
eggs and a cupful of cream, red pepper, a little mus- 
tard and salt, shake well over the fire until it thick- 
ens, serve hot. 

FROG SADDLES. 

In preparing frog saddles pass one joint of the 
leg through the muscle of the other so as to hold 
them together. 

FROG SADDLES 

Prepare as above, roll in cracker crumbs and beat- 
en egg and fry in hot fat, serve with Sauce Tartare. 

CREAMED FROG SADDLES. 

Prepare and stew in chicken stock until tender, 
skim and add a little cream, the juice of an onion, 
thicken with butter and flour and serve. 

BROILED FROG SADDLES. 

Brush over with butter and broil over clear coals, 
serve with butter sauce. 

SAUTE OF FROG SADDLES. 

Saute the legs in butter with a little onion and 
lemon juice, serve on toast. 



SOUPS, BROTHS AND BOUILLONS 



STOCK 

Good stock is the main factor in good soup mak- 
ing, and with out it your work would be a failure or 
otherwise a poor soup. Good stock can be had with 
a little care and saving of the things that go to 
make it. In the first place when ordering meats have 
the butcher throw in some stock or soup bones, the 
bones that he has trimmed out of your meat, you 
have bought them and they will be given for the ask- 
ing, have a pot or stock kettle, take the bones that 
you have got cut up in small pieces, add 
cold water enough to cover and set on 
the back part of range where they will 
just simmer, do not throw out the bones af- 
ter the first day, but keep adding to it when carving 
your roasts, add all the bones and scrap pieces of 
meat that you should happen to have left, you can 
run the stock pot five or six days and still have it 
good. The first two or three days your stock will 
be white and so you can run cream soups and broths 
and as your stock gets darker you can make the 
heavier brown soups. 

Miost soups can be made from plain stock with 
the exception of those such as Chicken, Veal, Oyster 
and Clams. 

Do not add vegetables to the stock pot in warm 
weather as they would be liable to sour it if there 
should be a little left over from the day before. 

BEEF TEA. 

Take three pounds of good lean beef, neck piece is 
good, chop fine, add one stick of celery, put in an air 
tight jar and place in a kettle of boiling water and 
keep the water boiling about four hours, take out 
strain and season. 



SOUPS, BROTHS AND BOUILLONS 13 

BEEF BROTH WITH VEGETABLES. 

Take good clear stock, three onions, one head of 
celery, three small carrots and a bunch of parsley, 
chop all quite fine, boil together thicken just a little, 
season and serve. 

BEEF AND CELERY BOUILLON. 

A good brown clear stock, add three onions, one 
carrot and a small turnip sliced and boil together, 
take one large head of celery, cut into small dice, 
stew until tender, strain your stock and add the 
celery, juice and all, thicken just a little, add a spoon- 
ful of W/orchestershire sauce, salt and pepper and 
serve. 

ENGLISH BEEF BROTH. 

Take a good heavy brown stock, slice small, four 
onions, one head of celery, one turnip and a bunch 
of parsley, boil all together, thicken, add a spoon- 
ful of Worchestershire sauce, season and serve. 

ENGLISH BEEF BROTH WITH BARLEY. 

Same as above, add one cupful of barley, simmer 
altogether and serve. 

MEXICAN BEEF BROTH. 

English Beef Broth with one can of tomatoes and 
three green peppers chopped fine, season and serve. 

BISQUE OF TOMATO. 

Take good beef stock, add one can of tomatoes, one 
head of celery, three onions and a bunch of parsley, 
chopped fine, thicken with butter and flour, season 
and serve. 

PUREE OF TOMATO. 

Take a good brown stock, plenty of ripe tomatoes, 
one ham knuckle, one half dozen onions, head of 
celery, three carrots and a small turnip, add half 
dozen cloves, some whole alspice and a little mace, 
boil all together, thicken with browned flour, salt and 
red pepper, strain and serve. 

These soups are the same as the above soup with 
these specials adds. 

Puree of tomatoes with rice. 

Puree of Tomato with Spaghetti. 

Puree of Tomato with Vermicilla. 



14 SOUPS, BROTHS AND BOUILLONS 



TOMATO WITH RICE. 

Beef stock, one can of tomatos, three onions chop- 
per 1 fine and one cup of rice, boil all together, thick- 
en with butter and flour and add half pint of milk, 
season and serve. 

CREAM Or TOMATO. 
A good white soup stock, one head of celery, four 
onions and a bunch of parsley, boil all together, 
thicken witn a little butter and flour, strain, add 
quart of milk and one can of tomatos chopped fine, 
season, salt and pepper. 

PUREE OF NAVY BEANS. 
Good beef stock, piece of salt pork, one quart of 
beans, four onions, celery, one carrot and one tur- 
nip, one half dozen bay leaves, boil all together, take 
out the pork and pass all through a colander or 
Tamis, season with salt and pepper and serve with 
croutons. 

PUREE OF SPLIT PEAS. 

One quart of dried peas, a good brown stock, six 
onions, one carrot, celery, two bay leaves and a piece 
of salt pork, boil all until tender, pass through a 
colander, add some of the pork, diced and serve wiLi 
croutons. 

GREEN PEA SOUP. 

One quart of dried green peas, a good white stock 
six onions, celery, a bunch of parsley and some mint, 
simmer until tender, pass through a tamis, add some 
chopped green onions and serve with croutons. 

CREAM OF GREEN PEAS. 

Take new peas, a good veal or chicken stock, 
some green onions, cut in half inch lengths, add a 
head of lettuce shredded, thicken with butter and 
flour, add one quart of milk and a little mint. 

PUREE OF VEGETABLES. 

Take a good brown stock, add one half doz. onions, 
celery, one carrot, one turnip, some tomatoes, stew 
until tender, rub through a colander, season and 
serve with toast sticks. 



SOUPS, BROTHS AND BOUILLONS 15 

VEGETABLE SOUP. 

A rich beef stock, slice, celery, onions, carrots, 
turnips, cabbage and parsley and one teaspoonful of 
sugar, thicken a little and season. 

SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH. 

Mutton stock, six onions, three carrots, three good 
sized potatoes, and one small turnip, dice fine and 
simmer until tender, thicken and serve. 

MUTTON BROTH WITH BARLEY. 

Mutton stock, four onions, three carrots diced, 
and one cupful of barley, thicken, add a little chop- 
ped parsley and serve. 

MUTTON BROTH WITH LEEKS. 

One bunch of leeks and some young carrots, cut off 
in rings and add a bunch of chopped parsley to a good 
mutton stock, simmer, thicken and serve. 

VEAL BROTH. 
Veal stock, three onions chopped fine, some celery 
and parsley, thicken a little and serve. 

VEAL BROTH WITH RICE. 

The same as above, add one cup of cooked rice. 
CREAM OF VEAL. 

Veal stock, celery, onions and one carrot, simmar, 
pass through a tamis. thicken with butter and flour 
add quart of milk and a grating of nutmeg. 

CREAM OF VEAL WITH NOODLES. 

The same as above with two good handfuls of 
noodles cut fine and cooked tender. 

CHICKEN BROTH. 

Chicken stock, onions, celery, one carrot and a 
bunch of parsley, mince the vegetable except the 
carrot, simmer for one hour, take out the carrot, 
thicken a little, season and serve. 

CREAM Or CHICKEN. 

The same as cream of veal. 



Cream of chicken with rice. 
Cream of chicken with noodles. 
Cream of chicken with mushrooms. 



16 SOUPS, BROTHS AND BOUILLONS 

CREAM OF CUCUMBERS. 

Mutton stock, celery, onions, four cucumbers, boil 
all until tender, mash through a tamis, thicken with 
butter and flour, add one quart of milk and serve. 

CREAM OF OYSTERS. 

Chicken stock, add some celery and a little onion 
minced, simmer and strain, add half the quantity 
of oyster liquor and soni' 1 of the oysters, let come to 
a boil, thicken with butter and flour, salt, pepper and 
one quart of milk. 

CREAM OF CLAMS. 

Wash two dozen clams, boil in chicken stock with 
celery and finish the same as cream of oysters. 

CLAM BROTH. 
Chicken stock, celery, onions and a little piece of 
salt pork, simmer, add one dozen clams, strain and 
thicken, salt, pepper. 

CLAM BOUILLON. 

Take part Consomme and part clear white stock, 
add one quart clam juice, season and serve. 

CREAM OF BARLEY. 

Beef stock, six onions, one head of celery, small 
piece of turnip chopped fine, add two cups of barley, 
simmer, rub through a tamis, return to the fire, add 
butter and very little flour, one quart of milk, salt and 
pepper. 

CREAM OF CORN. 

Beef or veal stock, one half dozen ears of corn or 
one can, four onions, celery, parsley, boil all together 
take out the corn if in the ear, pass the rest through 
a colander, return to the fire, cut the corn from the 
cob and add to the soup, thicken with butter and 
flour, add quart of hot milk, serve. 

CREAM OF ONIONS. 

Beef stock, one dozen onions, a little piece of 
celery, parsley, boil all together, pass through a 
sieve, return to the fire, thicken with butter and flour 
add a few chopped green onions, boil ten minutes 
longer, add one quart of hot milk, season with salt 
and pepper. 



SOUPS, BROTHS AND BOUILLONS 17 

CREAM OF CELERY. 

Veal stocK, one large head of celery, three onions, 
bunch of parsley, one carrot, boil all until tender, 
strain, add butter and flour and some of the chopped 
celery, add milk, salt and pepped and serve. 

CREAM OF RICE. 

Chicken stock, onions, celery, parsley and two 
cups of rice, cook all together, rub through a colander 
add hot milk, thicken with butter and flour, salt and 
pepper, 

CREAM OF ASPARAGUS. 

Veal stocK, three onions, celery and one large 
bunch of Asparagus, cook until tender, remove the 
asparagus, strain the soup, thicken with butter and 
flour, add the asparagus chopped fine and hot milk, 
season and serve. 

CREAM OF SPINACH. 

Beef stock, onions, celery, and spinach, finish the 
same as Cream of Asparagus. 

OXTAIL SOUP. 

Brown beef stock, three oxtails, one half dozen 
onions, two carrots, one turnip, celery, parsley, boil 
all together until tender, strain the soup, thicken 
with browned flour, add some of the vegetables chop- 
ped fine, the meat cut from the tails, a little catsup ; 
Worchestershire and one glass of port wine, season 
and serve. 

MOCK TURTLE SOUP. 

Beef stock, one calfs head, ham knuckle, slice and 
fry brown, one half dozen onions, one carrot, one tur- 
nip, one head of celery, sprinkle with flour, add the 
stock and calf head, some parsley, simmer all togeth- 
er for three hours, strain, cut some of the meat from 
the head in dice, add two hard boiled eggs chopped 
and one lemon, shredded, half glass of sherry wine, 
season and serve. 

TURKEY SOUP. 

Beef stock, the carcass of two or three turkeys, 
some celery, one carrot and three onions, simmer 
for two hours, thicken a little, strain, and add one 
cup of boiled rice. 



18 SOUPS, BROTHS AND BOUILLONS 

CLAM CHOWDER. 

Three dozen clams boiled in beef stock ten minutes, 
strain, remove the clams from the shell and chop, re- 
turn to the stock, dice fine one pound of pickled 
pork, fry a light brown, add eight onions, sliced to 
the pork and a little celery, diced, simmer a few- 
minutes and add this <to the stock, also one can of 
tomatoes and six raw potatoes, sliced thin, simmer 
all about half an hour, thicken, add a little hot milk 
and serve. 

FISH CHOWDER. 

Take half beef stock and the rest the liquor fish 
has bden boiled in, prepare and finish the same as 
clam chowder, omit the tomatoes and add about two 
pounds of boiled fish flaked. 

CONSOMME. 

Is made from good strong clear stock, two gallons 
of stock, four onions, one head of celery, two carrots, 
one turnip, parsley and some sliced tomatoes, bay 
leaves, allspice, cloves and whole pepper, one grated 
nutmeg, cut the vegetables up, add the spices and two 
pounds of chopped lean beef, half dozen eggs, mix 
all together and stir in the stock which must not 
be too hot, set on the back part of the range where 
it will slowly come to a boiling point, simmer for 
about two hours, strain it through a cheese cloth, 
season and serve. It should be a clear amber color 
when done. 

CONSOMME WITH RICE. 

Add one cup of cooked rice that has been well 
washed to a plain Consomme. 

CONSOMME VERMICILLA. 

Stew Vermicilla until tender, wash it well in coid 
water and add to the consomme. 

CONSOMME a la JULIENNE. 

Shred some celery, one small carrot, one piece of 
turnip fine, stew until tender, add a few green peas, 
drain and add to the consomme. 

CONSOMME PEERLESS. 
Contains green peas, diced chicken and a few 
noodles cut very fine. 



19 



FISH— BUYING, PREPARING AND 
SERVING THEM. 



FISH AND THE VARIOUS WAY OF 
COOKING THEM. 

The ways and modes of cooking fish are many. I 
will endeavor to give you a few of the best and most 
simple ways of cooking them. In buying fish you 
should be sure that tney are strickly fresh. The 
way to tell if fish are fresh is the eyes should be 
clear and bright, the gills red and the flesh hard and 
firm. The gills of a fish is the first part to spoil or 
become tainted and therefore should be removed if 
the fish have to be kept any length of time. in 
boiling or baking fish it is better to leave them 
whole as they retain their flavor better. In boiling 
always add a little vinigar to the water, it makes the 
flesh firmer and whiter. It improves the flavor of 
fish, if allowed to lay in salt and water for half an 
hour before cooking. In frying fish the fat should 
be smoking hot before putting in the fish. 

Always give fish plenty of time to cook and be 
sure it is well done. There is nothing so disagree- 
able or unwholesome as underdone fish. 

WHITEFISH. 

May be baked, broiled, fried, planked and made 
into fillets. 

BROILED WHITEFISH. 
Split and take out the backbone and broil over a 
clear bed of coals, flesh side first, serve with Maitre 
De Hotel sauce. 

BAKED WHITEFISH. 
May be baked whole with fish dressing or boned 
and baked plain or with the various fish sauces. 



20 FISH 

PLANKED WHITE FISH. 
S^>lit and take out the bones, sprinkle with cracker 
crumbs, salt and pepper and little bits of butter, take 
a nice smooth maple board, lay the skin side of the 
fish next to the board and bake in a good hot oven 
until browned, serve on the plank and garnish with 
parsley and sliced lemon, or remove to a platter, 
serve with a lemon butter sauce. 

FRIED WHITE FISH. 

Cut the fish into portions, roll in cracker crumbs 
or corn meal, fry in good hot fat until done, serve 
with tomato sauce. 

FhJLLETS OF WHITE FISH. 
Cut into long thin strips, roll and sqewer with 
toothpicks, roll in cracker crumbs and beaten egg 
fry in hot fat, serve with Espagnole sauce and 
sliced lemon. 

LAKE TROUT OR SALMON TROUT. 
May be broiled, boiled, baked and fried. 

BROILED TROUT. 
Bone and remove the skin and broil the same as 
White fish. 

BOILED TROUT. 
'Put the trout on in cold water enough to cover it, 
add a chopped onion, some bay leaves and a little 
whoie allspice, let come to a boil and then set it 
back until it is time to serve. 

Good served with egg, parsley or cream sauce. 

BAKED TROUT. 
May be baked plain or stuffed with dressing, serve 
with tomato, lemon butter or Espagnole sauce. 

FRIED TROUT STEAKS. 

Cut in steaks and fry the same as White fish. 

All other fish are practically cooked the same way. 

FISH AND THEIR SAUCES 

PICKEREL. 

Broiled pickerel, lemon butter. 
Baked pickerel with dressing. 
Fried fillets of pickerel, tomato sauce. 
Boil© ' pickerel, Peerless sauce. 



FISH 21 



HADDOCK. 

Boiled haddock, egg sauce. 
Baked haddock, Espagnole sauce. 

BLUE FISH. 

Broiled blue fish, Maitre de Hotel sauce. 
Baked blue fish, chili sauce. 
Fried blue fish, parsley butter. 

PIKE. 

Boiled pike, cream sauce. 
Baked pike plain or with dressing. 
Broiled pike, lemon butter. 
Fried pike, Creole sauce. 

HERRING. 

Baked herring. Chili sauce. 
Fried herring, parsley sauce. 

PERCH. 

Fried perch, lemon butter. 
Baked perch, tomato sauce. 
Boiled perch, Peerless sauce. 
Fillets of perch, Espagnole sauce. 

BASS. 

Boiled sea bass, Hollandaise. 

Boiled striped bass, parsley sauce. 

Broiled black bass, lemon butter. 

Broiled bass with bacon. 

Baked bass with dressing. 

Fillets of bass, Maitre de Hotel sauce. 

RED SNAPPER. 

Baked red snapper with dressing, tomato sauce. 
Boiled red snapper, cream sauce. 
Baked red snapper, a la Creole. 

MACKEREL. 

Broiled Spanish mackerel, lemon butter. 
Baked Spanish mackerel, tomato sauce. 
Fillets of mackerel, baked, Chili sauce. 
Boiled salt mackerel, butter sauce. 
Broiled salt mackerel, Maitre de Hotel. 



22 FISH 

CODFISH. 

Boiled codfish, parsley sauce. 

Baked codfish, tomato sauce. 

Pried codfish steak, Creole sauce. 

Boiled salt codfish, egg sauce. 

Creamed salt codfish, baked potatoes. 
FISH TURBOT. 

Take cold cooked fish, pick it all up into flakes, and 
take out the bones, put a thin layer of the fish into 
a bake dish, add salt and pepper, some chopped 
parsley and two hard boiled eggs sliced, moisten with 
cream sauce, then another layer of fish and so on 
until the dish is full, sift cracker crumbs over the 
top and bake for half an hour. 
SHRIMPS 
FRESH OR CANNED SHRIMPS. 

Are fine when served hot. Pick over the shrimps 
put them on in hot water for five minutes or until 
they are thoroughly heated through, remove from 
the water and serve witn any of the various fish 
sauces. 

CLAM CHOWDER, CONEY ISLAND STYLE. 

Mince one pound of pickled pork, fry a light brown, 
add six onions sliced, and one can of tomatoes, line 
a bake dish with sliced potatoes, put a layer of 
clams and same of the stewed pork, onions and toma- 
toes, now a layer of crackers and so on until tho 
dish is full, bake for one hour and^serve piping hot. 
CODFISH CHOWDER a la CREOLE. 

The same as clam chowder, only substitute codfish 
for the clams and add one chopped green pepper and 
a cupful of boiled rice, bake in a slow oven. 
CODFISH BALLS. 

Boil two pounds of codfish until tender, remove the 
bones and pick it up into fine pieces, add to the 
fish two-thirds as much mashed potatoes with butter 
and pepper and a little chopped parsley, shape into 
cakes, dip in beaten egg and crumbs, and fry in hoc 
fat. 

SARDINES. 

Remove from the can and lay them on a cloth so 
as to free them from oil, broil over a clear fire an! 
serve on toast with sauce tartare. 



FISH 23 

CANNED FISH. 

A good way to serve canned fish is to place the 
can in boiling water, and leave about five minutes, ot 
until thoroughly heated through, remove from the 
water, open the can and turn out on a platter, gar- 
nish with slices of lemon and parsley, serve wick 
cream sauce. 



24 



BUYING AND SELECTING MEATS. 






MEATS 

Great care should be taken in selecting meats, a 
good buyer is worth double the man that does not 
pay attention to what is given him, when you order 
your meats stay and see them cut and be sure that 
you get the same when your meat is delivered. In 
selecting beef see that tnere is plenty of out side 
fat and the flesh a nice smooth grain and a bright 
red in color, a pime rib consists of seven or eight 
ribs, notice the ends of the ribs and see that they 
are small and narrow, do not take any with a large 
wide rib as it is old and libel to be tough. In select- 
ing steak try it between the thumb and finger and if 
penetrated easily it is tender and will eat fine. In 
selecting veal see that there is lots of kidney fat 
which should be clear and wnite, the flesh firm and of 
a pinkish color. Veal is in its prime when two 
months old. 

Mutton must be selected by the firmness of the 
flesh and fineness of the grain, its good color and a 
clear white fat. Never figure on keeping lamb very 
long as it soon spoils, it is better to ouy lamb 
whole or half and cut it yourself, it will cost you 
about one third less by doing so. 

Pork to be good should have a thin rind and the 
flesh should be smooth and cool, but when it is clam- 
my or soft- to the touch it is not good, above all meat, 
pork is the most disagreeable when stale. 

POULTRY. 

In selecting poultry the best way to determine if 
it is young is to try the skin under the leg or wing, 
if it is easily broken it is young or turn the wing 
backwards, if the joint yields easily, it is tender, 
select those that are a lctle fat and yellow skin, they 
are of the finest flavor. In buying turkeys a young 



BUYING AND SELECTING MEATS 25 



one will have a smooth black leg, old ones are al- 
ways rough and reddish, in selecting ducks and 
geese, those that are young have yellow feet and 
bills, in old ones they are more red and rough. 

GAME. 

Venison to be good should have lots of kidney fat 
and plenty of outside fat on the saddle, the fat 
• should be clear and white. Venison to be of fine 
flavor should hang and age for some time, if pos- 
sible leave the hide on, and dust the inside with 
powdered charcoal, if it be only a piece, lay in a pan 
of powdered charcoal and cover with the same about 
half an inch and it will keep for a long time. When 
you are ready to cook it, wash well and cook in 
what ever way you wish. 

In selecting Rabbits and Squirrels, choose those 
with soft ears, sharp claws and a well round body, 
and you may be sure they are young and tender. 
Partridges when young have dark colored bills and 
yellow legs, they should hang for some time before 
using, never pick feathered game of any kind until 
you are ready to use them. 

Wild ducks should hang at least two weeks before 
using. When ready to cook, place a small onion, one 
carrot and a piece of celery in each to remove any 
fishy flavor that may be in them. 



26 

BEEF— AND THE VARIOUS WAY OF 
SERVING IT. 



if? 



In carving beef it takes skill and patience to do it 
well, as is the same with all other meats. Rib, rump 
round or shoulder roast should be carved so that the 
lean and the fat can be served a little of each to each 
person, to carve a rib roast, stand it on the large 
end on the carving board, remove the chine, and 
cut of the first two or three ribs so that you can use 
that for well done if you get orders for it, then 
carve broad, level thin slices and serve with the 
pan gravy, the other roasts can be carved on the 
same principal as the rib roast, short ribs should be 
served with the bone in. 

RIB ROAST. 

Never have the bones removed as that spoils the 
flavor as well as the beauty of the roast. To roast, 
lay in roast pan, ribs down, but do not add any 
water to it as that causes steam in the oven and 
allows the juices to escape from your beef, it is good 
roast beef you want, not good gravy, the gravy will 
take care of itself, be sure and not get it to well done, 
never stick a fork in beef while roasting, if you want 
to turn it, take it by one end of the rib and do so 
a good rib roast wants about two and one half hours 
in a good hot oven, when done remove the meat, add 
water to the pan and make the gravy. 

Shoulder roast, have the shoulder blade removed, 
tie tightly with a string and roast the same as a rib 
roast. 

Round roast, only use the upper side of the round 
for roasting as the under side will be found to be 
very tough and is only good for boiling or making 
stews. 

Rump roast for flavor is the best of all, and can 



BEEF 27 

be carved and served about to the best advantage, it 
also is best for pot roasts. 

Short ribs of beef are best if boiled about an 
hour before roasting, serve with peeled potatoe \ 
baked brown in the pan with them. 

SHORT RIBS WITH MACARONI. 

Boil the macaroni until tender, add salt and pepper 
and some of the gravy to it and serve with the ribs. 

STEAKS. 

Porter House, Sirloin, Rib or Club steak, Shoulder 
and Round, are the various cuts of steaks, and great 
care should be exercised in cooking them. To broil 
a steak properly, your fire should be good and hoi, 
season well, grease the grate, lay on the steak and 
broil as liked, rare or well done, turn often to pre- 
vent burning. In frying a steak put a little butter 
in the pan, let it get smoking hot, place in your 
steak and fry over a hot fire, turning often, brush 
over with butter and serve. 

BEAF STEAK PIE. 

Take beef steak or other pieces, cut in inch pieces, 
fry brown with one onion and a little celery chopped 
fine, add about a pint of stock, thicken, salt and 
pepper, put in bake dish and cover with a meat pie 
paste and bake. 

BEEF STEAK AND OYSTER PIE. 

The same as Beef steak pie only add about a pint 
of oysters. 

HAMBURG STEAK. 

Take scrap pieces of raw beef, chop very fine, add 
one onion and salt and pepper and a few bread 
crumbs, mix well and fry in small cakes. 

Hamburg steak, Creole sauce. 

Hamburg steak, mushroom sauce. 

Hamburg steak, onion sauce. 



28 BEEF 

BEEF STEW WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Take either flank, neck or shoulder piece of beef, 
cut in pieces about two inches square, put on in cold 
water, add three onions, one carrot and a small tur- 
nip sliced fine, half an hour before serving add some 
dumplings made with flour, baking powder, two 
eggs, salt and water enougx. to make a stiff dough, 
thicken, add salt and pepper and serve. 

ENGLISH BEEF STEW. 

Use a flank piece of beef, cut in pieces, fry a nice 
brown, stir in some flour and stock enough to cover 
it, add three onions, one carrot, one turnip and a 
head of celery cut fine, boil about three hours, thick- 
en a little more and season. 

POT ROAST OF BEEF. 

A piece of the round is the best for this, put in an 
iron kettle with water enough to cover, let boil until 
it has almost all boiled away, take out the meat, 
pour off the liquor in a bowl, return the pot to the 
fire, put in a lump of butter the size of an egg, dredge 
in some flour and put in the beef, turn often and 
when well browned add the liquor that you turned 
out and a little onion juice, thicken a little more and 
serve. 

TENDERLOIN OF BEEF WITH MUSHROOM. 

Trim a tenderloin of beef, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, put in roast pan with one onion, one carrot 
and some celery shredded fine, roast in a good hot 
oven, turning often, cut off in small portions and 
serve with mushroom sauce. 

TENDERLOIN STEAKS BROILED. 

Trim the tenderloin, cut steaks about two inches 
thick, stand on end and flatten with a cleaver, rub 
over with butter and broil over clear coals. 

BEEF a la MODE. 

Take a small round of beef, mix one and one half 
table spoonfuls of salt, one half of pepper, one half of 



BEEF 29 

ginger, one half of mace, one half of cinnamon, one 
of cloves, rub into the beef well and let stand over 
night, in the morning take a poultry dressing, add 
some salt pork diced and a little of the mixed spices, 
cut deep insertions in the beef stuff with the dressing 
and bake about four hours, make a good pan gravy 
And serve. 

BEEF HEART. 

Boiled beef heart with horseradish sauce. 
Boiled beef heart with mustard sauce. 
Baked beef heart with celery dressing. 
Baked beef heart with bread sauce. 

STEWED BEEF HEART. 

Wash well and cut in inch squares, cover with 
stock, add one onion, some celery and a bunch of 
parsley, thicken with browned flour and serve. 

BOILED BEEF TONGUE, PIQUANT SAUCE. 

After boiling a beef tongue remove the skin while 
hot. 

Boiled beef tongue with mashed turnips. 
Boiled beef tongue wiui tomato sauce. 

LIVER. 

Braised beef liver with fried onions. 
Baked beef liver, a la Creole. 
Fried beef liver with Chili sauce. 

BEEF KIDNEY STEW. 

Dice one pound of salt pork, cut in pieces three 
kidneys and wash well, fry the pork well done, add 
the kidneys and one onion, some celery and beef 
stock enough to cover, stew one hour, thicken, sea- 
son and serve on toast 

CORNED BEEF. 

Should be put over in cold water and if very salty 
change the water once while boiling. 
Boiled corn beef with mustard sauce. 
Boiled corned beef and cabbage. 



30 BEEF 

NEW ENGLAND BOILED DINNER. 

Take ten pounds of corned beef, three pounds of 
pickled pork, boil together, add turnips, carrots, 
parsnips, onions, potatoes and cabbage, all washed 
well and sliced, be sure and do not put the vege- 
tables in altogether, but add them according to the 
required length of time for cooking, dish a little of 
each of the vegetables and meats and serve. 

STEWED CORNED BEEF, PLAIN OR ON TOAST. 

Take cold corned beef, cut in inch pieces, add one 
onion, some celery and a little sage, cover with stock 
and stew about one hour, thicken with flour and 
season to taste and serve. 

CORNED BEEF HASH. 

Mince three pounds of beef fine and two pounds 
of chopped potatoes, one small onion, some butter 
and pepper, half cup of milk, put in a bake dish and 
bake a golden brown. 

STEWED CORNED BEEF WITH EGG DUMPLINGS. 

Prepare the same as stewed corned beef, drop in 
the dumiplings half an hour before serving. 

CORNED BEEF CROQUETTS. 

Mlince three pounds of beef, add one onion, some 
pepper, a little chopped parsley and a little cream 
sauce with a handful of bread crumbs, mix alto- 
gether, shape into croquetts, dip in egg then in bread 
crumbs, fry, serve with tomato sauce. 

SMOKED BEEF WITH STEWED TOMATOES. 

Take two pounds of beef chipped, add water and 
boil five minutes, drain add one can of tomatoes, 
butter and pepper. 

SMOKED BEEF MINCED WITH SCRAMBLED 
EGGS. 

Take one pound of chipped beef, parboil in water, 
drain, add half cup of milk and four well beaten eggs, 
butter, pepper, serve on buttered toast. 

CHIPPED BEEF IN CREAM. 

Parboil two pounds of chipped beef, drain and add 
one quart of good cream sauce, simmer and serve. 



BEEF 31 

ROAST BEEF HASH. 

Take pieces of cold beef, two onions, mince fine, 
add one third as much potatoes chopped, salt and 
pepper, a little beef gravy and half a glass of catsup, 
mix all together and fry brown, or put in a bake 
dish and bake half an hour in the oven. 

BAKED BEEF HASH a la CREOLE. 

Prepare the same as above and serve with a spoon- 
ful of Creole sauce on the side. 

BEEF STEW WITH VEGETABLES. 

Take cold scraps of beef, cut in inch pieces, add 
three onions, one small turnip and some celery diced, 
stew all until tender and serve on toast. 

BAKED BEEF PIE. 

Stew cold beef the same as above, add three cook- 
ed potatoes, put in a bake dish, cover with meat pie 
paste and bake. 

BEEF AND POTATO CAKES. 

Use cold mashed potatoes, and the same amount 
of beef chopped fine also one onion and some parsley, 
salt and pepper, mix well together and make into 
cakes, roll in bread crumbs and fry a nice brown, 
serve with any good sauce or just plain as you like. 



32 



VEAL— HOW TO PREPARE AND 
SERVE THE SAME. 






ROAST LOIN OF VEAL. 

Season the meat with salt and pepper, place in 
roast pan and roast for one hour without adding 
any stock or water, baste with a little beef drippings 
if it becomes dry, when half cooked add some stock 
or water and roast until tender, strain and thicken 
the gravy, add a teaspoonful of Worcestershire 
sauce and serve. 

ROAST LOIN OF VEAL 
WITH CELERY DRESSING. 

Bake the dressing separate and add a little of the 
veal gravy to it from time to time. 

Roast loin of veal with stewed prunes. 

Roast shoulder of veal with sweet potato dressing. 

ROAST SHOULDER OF VEAL WITH BREAD 
SAUCE. 

Mlake the bread sauce as follows: Strain the gravy 
add a little minced onions, celery and nutmeg and 
bread crumbs to make a thick sauce, simmer fifteen 
minutes and serve. 

ROAST LEG OF VEAL, STUFFED, CRANBERRY 
SAUCE. 

Remove the bone, fill the space with dressing and 
roast in a slow oven. 

Boiled leg of veal with celery sauce. 

Boiled leg of veal with oyster sauce. 

BRAISED BREAST OF VEAL. 

Cut the veal up in pieces about two inches square 
put in roast pan, salt and pepper and a little beef 
drippings, roast for half an hour turning often until 
nicely browned, shake in a handful of flour, some 
minced onions and celery and beef stock, cook until 
tender and serve with fried sweet potatoe cakes. 



VEAL 33 



BRAISED SHOULDER OF VEAL. 

Bone a shoulder of veal, roll and tie securely, salt 
and pepper and rub over with flour, take a thick bot- 
tomed kettle or sauce pan, put in some beef drippings 
oae minced onion, put in the meat and set over a 
moderate hot fire, turn often until well browned 
moisten with a little stock, set on the back part of 
the range and let simmer slowly about two hours, 
thicken the gravy and season with salt and pepper 
and a little catsup. 

Boiled breast of veal with bread sauce. 

Boiled shoulder of veal, oyster sauce. 

STEWED BREAST OF VEAL. 

Cut the veal into pieces two inches square, add two 
onions chopped fine, cover with water and stew until 
tender, season and thicken with butter and flour 
and a little chopped parsley. 

STEWED BREAST OF VEAL WITH NOODLES 

Cut the noodle paste about half inch wide, ano 
one and one half inches long, stew about ten min- 
utes add to the stewed veal and serve. 

VEAL POT PIE. 

Cut the veal in pieces, also half a pound of pickled 
pork, three onions chopped fine and a small piece 
of celery, stew until almost done, take biscuit dough 
roll out, cut in two inch squares, add to the etew 
and cook slowly half an hour longer and serve. 

FRICASSEE OF VEAL. 

Take breast of veal cut up the same as for stew, 
add three onions, some chopped parsley, stew until 
tender; .nicken with butter and flour and beat in the 
yolks of three eggs, season and serve. 

FRICASSEE OF VEAL WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Make a plain dumpling paste, and drop them in 
half an hour before serving. 

FRICASSEE OF VEAL WITH BISCUIT. 

Make a light baking powder biscuit, break them 
open, lay on platter and cover with the fricassee and 
serve. 



34 VEAL 

BAKED VEAL PIE. 

Take a breast of veal, three onions, one half dozen 
potatoes, sliced, and a little piece of salt pork, stew 
all until tender, thicken, season and turn into a bake 
dish with a little chopped parsley, cover with meat 
pie paste and bake a rich brown. 

VEAL PATTIES. 

Cut three pounds of lean veal up in half inch 
squares, add one whole onion and a piece of celery, 
cover with water or chicken stock, if you have it, 
stew until tender, remove the vegetables and thicken 
with butter and flour, add a little chopped parsley 
some grated nutmeg, salt and pepper and serve in 
pattie cases or shells. 

FRIED VEAL CUTLETS. 

Season the cutlets with salt and pepper, dip in 
flour and fry in beef drippings. 

VEAL CUTLETS BREADED, TOMATO SAUCE. 

Season the cutlets, dip in egg and then in cracker 
crumbs and fry in lots of good beef drippings, serve 
with tomato sauce. 

Veal cutlets breaded, mushroom sauce. 

Fried veal chops with ham or bacon. 

VEAL CHOPS FRIED WITH TOMATOES. 

Slice the tomatoes, season and roll in cracke** 
crumbs and fry with tne chops. 

FRIED VEAL CHOPS WITH CREAM GRAVY. 

After frying the chops turn off all grease, add a 
cup of milk and thicken a little, season and serve. 

VEAL SWEET BREADS. 

Lay in tepid water an hour, wash well, put on and 
boil five minutes, drain and slice, and serve in the 
various ways. 

FRIED SWEET BREADS. 

Dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in goo.l 
beef drippings. 

Fried sweet breads with tomato sauce. 
Fried sweet breads, Creole sauce. 



VEAL 35 

BRAISED SWEET BREADS WITH MUSHROOMS. 

Put a lump of butter in a fry pan, add the sliced 
sweet breads, with one minced onion, and cook over 
a hot fire, turning them often, when nicely browned 
shake in some flour, add a little chicken or veal stock 
and about a pound of mushrooms, simmer slowly half 
an hour longer, season and serve, add a little sherry 
wine if you have it. 

CREAMED SWEET BREADS. 

Prepare and cook the same as for veal pattie , 
serve plain or on toast. 

SWEET BREAD PATTIES. 

The same ?.s veal patties. 

BAKED SWEET BREADS au GRATIN. 

Prepare the same as creamed sweet breads, turn 
into a shallow bake dish, sprinkle over with breal 
crumbs and bits of butter and bake fifteen minutes 
and serve. 

CALF LIVER FRIED. 

Cut in thin slices, dredge in flour and fry in beef 
drippings, serve with any good meat sauce. 

Calfs liver and bacon. 

Baked calfs liver with Chili sauce. 

BRAISED CALF LIVER WITH BACON. 

Cut the liver in men pieces, also dice the 
bacon, one onion minced and fried, add the bacon 
and the liver and fry all a nice brown, add one pine 
of Espagnole sauce, simmer a while longer and serve 
on toast. 

CALFS BRAINS. 

Wash well in cold water, put on and boil fifteen 
minutes, throw into cold water, remove all string/ 
substance and prepare in the various ways. 

SCRAMBLED CALFS BRAINS. 

Prepare as above, while hot beat up with a fork, 
add salt and pepper, a little nutmeg, butter and the 
well beaten yolks of three eggs, let simmer five min- 
utes and serve on toast* 

CALFS BRAINS BREADED AND FRIED. 

Serve with mushroom sauce. 



36 VEAL 



CALFS BRAINS au GRATIN. 

Prepare the same as for scrambled, add a little 
chopped parsley, turn into a bake dish, sprinkl-3 
with bread crumbs and bake a nice brown. 

DISHES MADE FROM COLD COOKED 

VEAL 
VEAL CROQUETTES. 

Mince fine some veal, add a little onion juice, salt 
and pepper and nutmeg, some bread crumbs and 
moisten all with cream sauce, shape into rolls about 
two inches long and dip in egg and bread crumbs and 
fry, serve with any good sauce. 

VEAL HASH WITH CREAM SAUCE. 

Mince the veal fine, add one onion and a little pars- 
ley, moisten with stock and bits of butter, beat np 
two eggs and mix all together, bake half an hour 
and serve with cream sauce. 

VEAL HASH WITH POACHED EGG. 

Prepare same as above and serve with a poached 
egg on each prder. 

BAKED VEAL AND OYSTER PIE. 

Take cold veal dice and add to creamed oysters 
sprinkle with bits of butter, cover with a thin pio 
paste and bake. 



3? 



PORK 



Pork is a meat that require* thorough cooking and 
be sure that it is well done before serving. Pork is 
cut up in pieces known as shoulders, loins, legs anr! 
bacon, to carve a leg of pork begin at the knuckle 
and carve upwards, a shoulder, remove the blade and 
cut across the grain of the meat, so as to serve fat 
and lean alike. 

Ham or bacon to be good must be hard and firm 
the fat, white and cleor, that which is soft and 
flabby has not been cured enough before smoking 
and will not keep as well. 

PORK. 

Roast leg of pork with sage dressing. 

Roast shoulder of pork with baken onions. 

Roast loin of pork, apple sauce. 

The shoulder, leg and loin are used for steaks and 
chops. 

Pork steak with fried onions. 

Pork steak with cream gravy, after frying the 
pork, dust a little flour in the pan, add cup of milk 
let come to a boil and serve. 

Pork chops 1 roiled, with horseradish. 

Pork chops fried with apples. 

Pork chops fried, sauce Robert. 

Pork chops breaded with tomato sauce. 

BOILED FRESH PORK, MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Boiled fresh pork, mustard sauce. A shoulder piece 
is best for this. Use the fresh bacon or shoulder 
piece. 

BAKED PORK PIE. 

Take pieces of fresh pork, cut in about inch pieces 
fry a light brown, add three onions and a little sage, 
stir in some flour and add stock enough to cover, 
cook half an hour, put in bake dish and cover with 
a meat pie paste and bake. 



38 PORK 



SPARE RIBS STUFFED AND BAKED. 

Crack the ribs down the center, fold over and 
stuff with sage dressing, bake a nice brown. 
Pried spare ribs and baked sweet potatoes. 

BRAISED SPARE RIBS. 

Cut in portions by cutting between every other rib. 
put in roast pan and bake in oven until a nice brown, 
make a gravy by adding a pint of brown stock, a 
little minced onion sage and celery, one spoonful of 
catsup and Worchestershire sauce. 

PICKLED PORK. 

Pickled pork boiled with mustard sauce. 
Boiled pickled pork with cabbage. 
Boiled pickled pork with vegetables. 
Boiled pigs hocks with cabbages. 
Boiled pigs feet, vinaigrette sauce. 
Boiled pigs feet, mustard sauce. 

PORK SAUSAGES. 

Six pounds of pork, fat and lean mixed, two table- 
spoonfuls of salt, one fourth of black pepper and 
three of sage, grind all through a machine very fine 
and it is ready for use, if you want to keep it a few 
days put in a crock, pour lard over the top and set 
in a cool place. 

PORK TENDERLOINS. 

This dainty piece is unlike all the rest in flavor 
and is much nicer, on account of there being no fat 
in them, they should be well buttered. They may 
be cooked in various ways. 

Fried porK tenderloin with sweet potatoes. 

Fried pork tenderloin with apples. 

Tenderloin stuffed and baked. 

Serve with any good meat sauce. 

BROILED PORK TENDERLOIN. 

Split and flatten out well, broil over clear coals 
brush over with butter and season with salt and 
pepper. 

SALT PORK. 

Fried salt pork with parsnips. 

Fried salt pork with cream gravy. 

Fried salt pork with apples. 



PORK ' 39 






HAM. 

Boiled ham with vegetables. 
Boiled ham with orange sauce. 
Boiled ham with Yorkshire sauce. 

BAKED HAM, SOUTHERN STYLE. 

Boil a ham two hours, remove the rind, scour th« 
fat with a sharp knife into dice, mix brown sugar and 
cracker crumbs, a little pepper and rub into the ham 
bake well in a moderate oven two hours longer, 
serve with Cumberland sauce. 

MINCED HAM a la CREOLE. 

Take what scraps of ham you should happen to 
have left, mince fine with one onion, one teaspoonful 
of mustard, pepper and a little brown sauce, mix well 
together and bake, serve with a spoonful of Creole 
sauce around it. 

MINCED HAM AND SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Three pounds of minced ham, add a little butter 
and pepper, put in stew pan, add one cup of milk 
let come to a boiling point, stir in six well beaten 
eggs, serve on toast. 

HAM CROQUETTES WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Mince two pounds of ham very fine, add one cup of 
bread crumbs, butter, pepper and a little mace, mix 
in one half cup of brown sauce, shape, dip in egg 
and crumbs and fry, serve with a border of green 
peas. 

HAM AND EGGS, COUNTRY STYLE. 

Take small fillets of ham, parboil five minutes, 
drain and fry when almost done, break in one egg for 
every piece of ham you have, baste the dripping over 
the eggs, sprinkle with chopped parsley and serve. 

BACON. 

Boiled bacon with spinach. 
Boiled bacon with Chili sauce. 
Braised bacon with fried tomatoes. 
Fried bacon with mustard sauce. 



40 PORK 



SCRAPPEL. 

Take pieces of fresh pork that you can't use up 
any other way very well, boil until tender in as little 
water as possible, take out and chop it fine, return to 
the kettle, add salt and pepper, stir in cornmeal 
enough to make it good and thick, turn out in moulds 
or pans when cold slice and fry brown, a fine break- 
fast dish. 

PORK LOAF. 

Take the head and about four pounds of nice lean 
pork and three or four pigs tongues, add three onions 
and a little sage, boil all together until tender, take 
out the meat, allow it to cool enough to handle, free 
from bones and cut into long thin slices, let the stock 
boil down until you have about a quart, strain and 
season, lay the meat in a mold, sprinkle with chop- 
ped parsley, salt and pepper between the layers, when 
full turn over enough of the stock to just cover it 
and set away to cool, a fine luncheon dish. 

PICKLED PIGS FEET. 

Clean the feet well, cut off the toes, split and boil 
until tender, remove from the fire and allow to 
cool in the stock they have been boiled in, place the 
feet in a jar with allspice, bay leaves, cloves and a 
little mustard seed and some sliced onions, pour 
over hot vinegar enough to cover and let stand three 
or four days before using. 

Pigs cheeks and tongues may be pickled in tb.3 
same way and are fine. 



41 



MUTTON AND LAMB 



*fc 



ROAST SADDLE OF MUTTON 

Season the meat well and roast in a moderate hot 
oven about two and one half hours, do not let it 
get too well done, strain off the drippings, add a 
pint of stock, a little Worchestershire sauce, thick- 
en a little and serve. 

ROAST SHOULDER OF MUTTON, PEERLESS 
DRESSING. 

Bone the shoulder, fill the space with dressing, tie 
with twine and roast in a moderate oven and finish 
the same as saddle of mutton. 

ROAST LEG OF MUTTON, CELERY DRESSING. 

Bone the leg and fill the space with dressing, 
tie, and roast the same as shoulder of mutton, serve 
with jelly sauce. 

BOILED LEG OF MUTTON, CAPER SAUCE. 

Be sure and do not get it too well done as you loose 
all the havor if you do. 

Boiled shoulder of mutton with horseradish sauce. 
Bone and roll the shoulder before boiling. 

BRAISED SHOULDER OF MUTTON, WITH 
BROWN POTATOES. 

Prepare and braise the same as braised shoulder 
of veal. 

STEAMED LEG OF MUTTON. 

Remove the bone from the leg and fill with dress- 
ing, if you so desire or just plain, steam about two 
hours, take out, place in a roast pan, season with salt 
and pepper, place in the oven for half an hour, or 
until nicely browned, serve with currant jelly. 

ROAST LEG OF LAMB WITH MEAT SAUCE. 
Season well and roast about one and one half hours 
in a good hot oven. 



42 MUTTON AND LAMB 

BROILED SHOULDER OF LAMB. 

Remove the shoulder blade, season well and broil 
over a slow fire, turning often to prevent burning, 
when done season with salt and pepper and butter, 
serve with bread sauce and a garnish of green peas. 

Breast of lamb is fine either roasted or broiled, 
serve with green peas and mint sauce. 

MUTTON STEW. 

Cut the mutton in two inch pieces, put on in co'.d 
water, let come to a boil, turn off this water, add 
fresh water with three onions and half a dozen pota- 
toes sliced, when tender thicken and season. 

IRISH STEW, DUBLIN STYLE. 

The same as stewed mutton only add two carrots, 
a small turnip, three onions and one half dozen pota- 
toes sliced, when all are tender thicken and add three 
or four spoonfuls of mashed potato, season and serve. 

MUTTON CHOPS BROILED. 

Use the rib chops for this, cut in uniform size, trim 
off the rib end, season with salt and pepper and broil 
over clear coals and turn often, when done brush 
over with butter and serve with French fried pota- 
toes. 

MUTTON CHOPS, FRIED WITH CUCUMBERS. 

Peel the cucumbers, slice lengthwise, lay in salt 
and water half an hour, trim the chops, season and 
fry, dry the slices of cucumbers on a towel, dip in 
egg and bread crumbs and fry a nice brown, serve 
with the chops. 

BAKED MUTTON CHOPS AND SWEET POTA- 
TOES. 

Pare the potatoes, cut in half, trim the chops, lav 
them in a roast pan with the potatoes, season all with 
salt and pepper, bake in a hot oven half an hour, turn- 
ing often, make a gravy from the pan and serve. 

Fried lamb chops with green peas. 

Fried lamb chops breaded, parsley sauce. 



MUTTON AND LAMB 43 

STEWED BREAST OF LAMB. 

Cut the lamb up in medium sized pieces, put on in 
a stew pan, cover with water, add three onions, a 
piece of celery and a small bunch of parsley, stew 
until tender which will be about one and one half 
hours ,thicken with butter and flour, season and 
serve. 
STEWED BREAST OF LAMB WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Stew the same as above, when dishing up add a 
spoonful of green peas on the side. 
STEWED BREAST OF LAMB, EGG DUMPLINGS. 

Half an hour before serving add by spoonfuls an 
egg dumpling paste. 

FRIED BREAST OF LAMB, MEAT SAUCE. 

Cut about two inches square, season and dip in 
flour, fry a nice brown, when all is fried place a cover 
over the fry pan and steam ten minutes and serve. 
FRIED LAMB FRIES. 

Wash well and put on and boil five minutes, drain, 
remove the outer skin, slice half inch thick, dip in 
egg and cracker crumbs and fry a nice brown. 

Fried lamb fries with tomato sauce. 

Fried lamb fries with tartar sauce. 

Boiled lambs tongues with bread sauce., 

'Braised lambs tongues, mushroom sauce. 
PICKLED LAMBS TONGUES. 

Boil until tender, remove the skin while hot, pack 
in a stone jar in layers, add bay teaves, celery, thre« 
or four cloves and a couple of red peppers pour a 
good strong vinegar over all and set away for three 
days before using. 

BAKED LAMB OR MUTTON PIE. 

Prepare and season the same as stewed mutton, 
turn into a bake dish, cover with a meat pie paste 
and bake a nice brown. 

LAMB OR MUTTON HASH. 
- Mince fine any cold cooked pieces you may hap- 
pen to have, add a little onion and celery chopped 
fine and fried in butter a grating of nutmeg and a 
spoonful of Worchestershire sauce, moisten with 
cream sauce or gravy, bake in the oven half an hour 
and serve. 



44 MUTTON AND LAMB 

LAMB CROQUETTES WITH GREEN PEAS. 

Mince fine cold cooked lamb, add a little onion 
juice, salt, pepper, nutmeg and a little chopped pars- 
ley moisten with cream sauce shape into croquettes, 
dip in egg and bread crumbs and fry in hot fat, serve 
with green peas on the side, or with any good meat 
sauce that you wish. 



45 



POULTRY 



rfc 



Singe and clean thoroughly, being careful not to 
break the galL save all rat as it makes the best kind 
of drippings for frying in, the necks, livers and hearts 
should also be saved and boiled tender, chopped fine 
and added to the gravy, thus making giblet sauce. 

TURKEY 

ROAST YOUNG TURKEY STUFFED, CRANBERRY 
SAUCE. 

Prepare as above, stun with poultry dressing, turn 
back the wings, tie the legs down to the popes nose 
with twine, rub over with butter or drippings, dust 
over a handful of flour, and roast in a moderate hot 
oven turning one or twice, after being in the oven 
an hour or so add a pint of water or stock and baste 
with that every half hour until done, make a good 
gravy from the pan and serve. 

Boiled trukey, oyster sauce. 

Boiled young turkey, bread sauce. 

BROILED YOUNG TURKEY, CRANBERRY SAUCE. 

Clean and split down the back, remove the neck 
and back bone, flatten and remove the breast bone, 
brush over with butter, salt and pepper and broil 
over a clear bed of coals, turn often to keep from 
scorching, when done brush over with butter, garnish 
with sliced lemon and parsley and serve with cran- 
berry sauce. 

ROAST YOUNG GOOSE, APPLE SAUCE. 

Clean and prepare the same as turkey, stuff with 
celery, sausage or sweet potato dressing and roast 
in a moderate oven, do not get too well done as it 
will not carve well, serve with apple sauce. 



46 POULTRY 



STEAMED YOUNG GOOSE, GIBLET SAUCE. 

Prepare and stuff with dressing, place in a steam- 
er and steam for three hours or until tender, in the 
meantime put the giblets on to boil, when done chop 
fine, thicken the liquor they were boiled in, add the 
giblets, season and serve. 

BAKED GOOSE WITH BACON, GOOSEBERRY 
SAUCE. 

Clean and split, season with salt and pepper, roast 
in a hot oven until tender, carve into good size pieces 
serve with a slice of bacon and a spoonful of goose- 
berry sauce. 

ROAST DUCK. 

Prepare and roast the same as goose and serve 
with giblet sauce. 

CHICKEN 

ROAST CHICKEN. 

Clean and prepare the same as turkey, stuff with 
poultry dressing and serve with giblet sauce. 
Boiled chicken, bread sauce. 
Boiled chicken, celery sauce. 
Boiled chicken with oyster sauce. 

STEWED CHICKEN. 

Quarter the chicken, add half pound of pickled pork 
sliced, three onions, one carrot and a piece of celery, 
cover with water and stew until tender, remove th« 
vegetables, dice the pork fine and thicken the liquor, 
season with salt and pepper and serve. 

STEWED CHICKEN WITH DUMPLINGS. 

Prepare and stew the chicken as given in first re- 
ceipt, when all is cooked tender, add by the teaspoon- 
ful a plain dumpling paste, cover and stew fifteen 
minutes longer and serve. 

CHICKEN POT PIE. 

Prepare the chicken, and stew with three onions, 
four potatoes, one carrot and a piece of celery sliced, 
when almost done season and roll out a plain paste, 
a little stiffer than for dumplings, lay it in on top 
of your stew, cover and cook one half hour longer and 
serve. 



POULTRY 47 



FRICASSEE CHICKEN. 

Cut the chicken up in small pieces, add three 
onions, one carrot, a little celery and a bunch of pars- 
ley, cover with water stew until tender, take out the 
chicken, strain the liquor, thicken with butter and 
hour, some chopped parsley and beat in the yolk 
of three eggs, add the chicken season and serve. 

CREAMED CHICKEN WITH MUSHROOM'S. 

Select two large chickens, add to them three onions 
one carrot and some celery diced, boil the chicken*? 
until tender, remove the chickens and let the liquor 
boil down until there is about two quarts, strain and 
thicken with butter and flour, season with salt and 
pepper and add two cans of button mushrooms, take 
the chickens, free the meat from the skin and bone, 
dice it into half inch squares and add to the sauce 
simmer fifteen minutes longer and serve. 

CHICKEN PATTIES. 

The same as creamed chicken omitting the mush- 
rooms, and serve in pattie cases or shells. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN WITH BISCUIT. 

Make a pan of plain baking powder biscuit, cut 
small about the size of half a dollar, split, lay on the 
platter and serve some of the fricassee over them. 

FRICASSEE CHICKEN WITH EGG DUMPLINGS. 

Prepare the fricassee and when almost done add 
small spoonfuls of egg dumpling paste, cook fifteei 
minutes and serve. 

BROILED SPRING CHICKEN. 

Clean and split the chickens, remove the neck, 
back and breast bones, flatten a little, season with 
salt and pepper, brush over with butter and broil 
over clear coals, turn often to ^prevent burning, when 
done brush over with butter and garnish with parsley 
and serve. 

BAKED CHICKEN PIE. 

The same as stewed chicken, when almost done 
season, turn into a bake dish, cover with a meat pie 
paste, bake one half hour and serve. 






48 POULTRY 



BAKED CHICKEN AND OYSTER PIE. 

The same as baked chicken pie only add one pint 
of nice fresh oysters, prepare and bake in the 
usual way. 

FRIED CHICKEN. 

Quarter the chickens, wash well, season with salt 
and pepper, roll in flour and fry in nice beef drip- 
ping with the pan covered, turning often until nicely 
browned, make gravy from the pan and serve. 

Fried chicken with cream sauce. 

Fried chicken with bacon. 

Fried chicken, breaded, mushroom sauce. 

Fried chicken with corn fritters. 

Fried chicken and oysters and tomato sauce. 

STEWED CHICKEN GIBLETS WITH CELERY. 

Clean the giblets, cut in inch squares, add one 
onion and a head of celery, diced fine, stew until ten- 
der, thicken with butter and flour, season and serve. 

STEWED CHICKEN GIBLETS WITH RICE. 

Stew the gibbets as in former receipt, thicken and 
season and serve on a bed of well cooked rice. 

CHIuKEN CROQUETTES. 

Mince cold chicken fine, add the juice of one onion, 
a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, a small hand- 
ful of bread crumbs, moisten with cream sauce, mix 
well, mould into the desired shape and dip in egg 
and bread crumbs and fry in hot fat, serve with 
cream sauces, or any that you desire. 

MINCED CHICKEN ON TOAST. 

Take cold chicken mince it fine, add the juice 01 
one onion, a little chopped celery, nutmeg, moisten 
with cream sauce, put in sauce pan, set on the bac 1 ?: 
part of the range and let simmer one half hour, sea- 
son and serve on slices of buttered toast, sprinkle 
a little chopped parsley over the top and serve. 



49 



GAME 



VE,NISON 

ROAST SADDLE OF VENISON. 

Wash the saddle of venison well and season with 
salt and pepper and roast in a good hot oven, turn- 
ing and basting frequently, do not cook it too well 
done, have it just about medium, serve with jelly 
sauce. 

The dishes that you serve venison on should be 
kept very hot, as it soon chills after being removed 
from the oven. 

ROAST SHOULDER OF VENISON. 

Bone and roll the shoulder, season with salt and 
pepper and bits of butter and roast in a good hot 
oven, bake in a separate pan some celery dressing to 
serve with the venison. When done take up the 
meat and make a gravy from the pan and add one 
table spoonful of currant jelly and serve 

VENISON STEW WITH VEGETABLES. 

Cut the venison in two inch pieces, add three 
onions , a small carrot, some celery, two or three 
cloves and some parsley, chopped, stew all until 
tender, thicken with butter and flour, season and 
serve. 

BAKED VENISON PIE. 

Cut the venison up into two inch pieces, season 
with salt and pepper, roll in flour and fry a nice 
brown, add three onions, one carrot, a piece of tur- 
nip and some parsley chopped fine and stock enough 
to cover, stew all until tender, thicken and season, 
turn into a bake dish, cover with meat pie paste and 
bake half an hour and serve. 

BROILED VENISON STEAKS. 

Cut steaks half inch thick, season, brush over with 
butter and broil over a clear fire, have it rare and 
serve with jelly. 



50 GAME 



FRIED VENISON CHOPS WITH SWEET POTA- 
TOES. 

Trim the chops and season, roll in flour and fry, 
peel and split half a dozen sweet potatoes and fry 
with the chops, make a gravy from the pan, turn 
over the chops and serve. 

RABBITS 

BAKED RABBITS. 

Dress and wash the rabbits, season well, roll in 
flour, place in the roast pan, lay small pieces of but- 
ter all over them and bake three-quarters of an hour 
in a moderate oven, turning and baiting often, take 
up the rabbits, add a cup full of stock, a glass of 
wine, a little jelly, thicken and strain, pour over the 
rabbits and serve. 

FRIED RABBITS. 

Clean and wash the rabbits, quarter and season 
them, roll in flour and fry a nice brown, serve with 
mushroom sauce. 

STEWED RABBITS. 

Dress and wash well, quarter and lay in stew 
pan with just water enough to cover, add some sliced 
onion, a little celery and mace, stew all until tender, 
thicken with butter and flour, season and serve. 

BAKED RABBIT PIE. 

Prepare the same as stewed rabbit, turn into a 
bake dish, cover with a meat pie paste, bake half 
an hour and serve. 

SQUIRRELS. 

Prepare and cook the same as rabbits. 

PARTRIDGE. 

Pick and dress, stuff with dressing and roast the 
same as chickens. 

QUAIL. 

Pick and wash, split down the back, wipe dry, 
brush over with butter, salt and pepper, and broil 
over clear coals, serve on a slice of toast with jelly 
on the side. 



GAME 51 



ROAST WILD DUCK. 

Pick thoroughly and wash, place in ea/jh one onion 
a small carrot and a piece of celery, rub the breast 
over with butter and roast in a good hot oven, do not 
get too well done ,serve with orange sauce. 

ROAST MALLARD DUCK WITH CELERY DRESS- 
ING. 

Prepare and stuff with the dressing, rub over 
with butter or beef dripping and roast about one and 
one half hours in a moderate oven, serve with a 
jelly sauce. 



52 



MEATS AND THEIR ACCOMPANI- 
MENTS 






BEEF. 
ROASTED, BOILED, BROILED AND FRIED. 

Yorkshire Pudding, Sweet Potato Cakes, 

Browned Potatoes, Horseradish Sauce, 

Mustard Sauce. 

Mushroom Sauce, Creole Sauce, 

Espagnole Sauce. 

PORK. 
ROASTED, BROILED OR FRIED. 

Sage Dressing, Sweet Potato Dressing, 

Raisin Dressing, 

Apple Sauce, Cranberry Sauce, 

Onion Sauce, 

Tomato Sauce, Chili Sauce, 

Robert Sauce, 

Sage Sauce, 

Jelly Sauce. 

VEAL . 
ROAST, BOILED, FRIED. 

Celery Dressing, Peerless Dressing, 

Buttered Spinach, 

Stewed Prunes, Cranberry Sauce, 

Jelly Sauce, Tomato Sauce, 

Bread Sauce, Oyster Sauce, 

Tomato Sauce, 

Celery Sauce. 

MUTTOK AND LAMB. 

ROAST, BOILED, FRIED. 

Peerless Dressing, Currant Jelly, 

Jelly Sauce, Piquant Sauce, 

Caper Sauce, Celery Sauce, 

Green Peas, 

Mint Sauce. 



MEATS AND THEIR ACCOMPANIMENTS 53 

ROAST POULTRY. 
TURKEY. 

Poultry Dressing, Chestnut Dressing, 

Oyster Dressing, Sweet Potato Dressing, 

Cranberry Sauce, Jelly Sauce, 

Giblet Sauce. 

CHICKENS. 

Poultry Dressing, Oyster Dressing, 

Celery Dressing, 

Giblet Sauce, Jelly Sauce, 

Bread Sauce. 

GOOSE. 

Sage Dressing, Sweet Potato Dressing, 

Sausage Dressing, Giblet Sauce, 

Apple Sauce, Cranberry Sauce, 

Sweet Potato Cakes, 

Gooseberry Sauce. 

DUCKS. 

Poultry Dressing, Oyster Dressing, Celery Dressing, 

Giblet Sauce, Cider Apple Sauce, 

Jelly Sauce*, , Cranberry Sauce, 

Orange Sauce. 

BOILED POULTRY. 

Celery Dressing, Peerless Dressing, 

Oyster Sauce, Bread Sauce, Cream Sauce, 

Onion Sauce, Caper Sauce, 

Bechamel Sauces. 

FISH. 
BAKED, FRIED OR BROILED. 

Lemon Butter, Parsley Butter, 

Maitre de Hotel Sauce, Creole Sauce, 

Tomato Sauce, Chili Sauce, 

Eispagnole Sauce, Mushroom Sauce, 

Fish Dressing, Celery Dressing, 

Peerless Dressing. 

FISH. 
BOILED OR STEAMED. 

Oyster Sauce, Cream Sauce, Egg Sauce, 

Bread Sauce, Caper Sauce, Parsley Sauce, 

Onion Sauce, Peerless Sauce. 



54 MEATS AND THEIR ACCOMPANIMENTS 

HAMS BACON AND BEEF TONGUE. 

Boiled Spinach, Mashed Turnips, 

Yorkshire Sauce, Orange S'aucr, 

Piquant Sauce, Espagnole Sauce, 

Jelly Sauce, Mustard Sauce, 

Horseradish Sauce. 

GAME. 

Celery Dressing, Sweet Potato Dressing, 

Chestnut Dressing, 

Jelly Sauce, Orange Sauce, 

Cumberland Sauce, Cranberry Sauce, 

Cider Apple Sauce, 

Espagnole Sauce, Mushroom Sauce, 

Sweet Potato Cakes. 



55 



DRESSINGS— MAKING AND PRE- 
PARING THEM 



•jb 



DRESSINGS FOR MEAT, FISH AND 
POULTRY 

To prepare bread for dressing always soak it in 
cold water and squeeze out as dry as possible, never 
pour boiling water over it as that makes it soggie 
and heavy, always use dry stale bread. 

SAGE DRESSING. 

Prepare a four quart pan full of bread, chop six 
onions fine and a small handful of powdered sage. 
Saute the onions in some of the pork drippings, add 
the sage and mix thoroughly with the bread, add salt 
and pepper and bake with the meat. 

DRESSING rOR POULTRY. 

Prepare a four quart pan of bread, chop six onions 
and a head of celery fine, saute in drippings, add a 
tablespoonful of powdered sage, thyme and mar- 
goram salt and pepper mix well. 

OYSTER DRESSING. 

For fowl and fish, add one quart of standard oys- 
ters to a mild poultry dressing, stuff and bake. 

CHESTNUT DRESSING. 

Blanch and skin two pounds of large Italian chest- 
nuts, chop fine and add to a mild sage dressing. 

SWEET POTATO DRESSING. 

To serve with game, one dozen sweet potatos boil- 
ed and mashed, two quarts of prepared bread, but- 
ter, salt and pepper and a little sage and thyme, 
mix thoroughly and bake. 



56 DRESSINGS 

FISH DRESSING. 

Two quarts of prepared bread, one bunch of par- 
sley chopped fine, a small onion, a little summer 
savory, butter, salt and pepper and minced lemon 
rind, mix well, stuff and bake. 

RAISIN DRESSING. 

Add one pound of seeded raisins to a good poultry 
dressing. 

SAUSAGE DRESSING. 

Take sage dressing and add one third of good 
sausage meat, mix well, do not add any drippings to 
the bread as you will find there will be plenty in the 
sausage meat. 

PEERLESS DRESSING. 

Two quarts of prepared bread, some chopped 
green onions, a little parsley, butter, pepper and 
salt and a little grated nutmeg. 

CELERY DRESSING. 

Take two quarts of prepared bread, one onion, a 
large head of celery chopped fine, salt and pepper 
and butter, mix thoroughly. 



57 



SAUCES 



ir 



FOR MEATS, POULTRY, FISH AND 
GAME 

CREAM SAUCE. 

Bring one quart of milk to a boiling point, melt 
two tablespoonfuls of butter and stir in three table- 
spoonfuls of flour, now add the hot milk slowly and 
stir quickly until you have added all the milk, let it 
simmer for one minute and season with salt and 
pepper. 

EGG SAJCE. 

Boil three eggs hard, mince them fine and add 
to one pint of cream sauce. 

OYSTER SAUCE. 

One half pint of oysters, stew and thicken a little, 
season with butter, pepper and salt and a slight 
grating of nutmeg, add one cup of cream sauce, !«t 
simmer about five minutes and serve. 

PARSLEY SAUCE. 

One pint of cream sauce, add one small bunch of 
parsley well washed and chopped fine, simmer over 
the fire five minutes and it is ready to serve. 

BREAD SAUCE. 

Take four large slices of bread, trim off the 
crusts and crumble it up fine, add it to one and one 
half pints of milk, also one small onion grated and 
a little nutmeg and butter, let it come to a boil, beat 
well so that it will be free from lumps, do not add 
salt before it is done cooking or it will turn yellow. 

PEERLESS FISH SAUCE. 

One pint of cream sauce, a little of the liquor off 
the boiled fish, three hard boiled eggs minced fine, 
one small bunch of parsley, cook five minutes then 
add one lemon sliced very fine, salt and pepper and 
serve at once. 



58 SAUCES 

CELERY SAUCE. 

Stew one head of celery until it is tender, add one 
cup of milk and a little chicken or veal stock if you 
have it, thicken with butter and flour and season 
with salt and pepper. 

CAPER SAUCE. 

Take one pint of good stock and one half cup of 
capers and boil together thicken with flour and a 
little butter, pepper, salt and one cup of milk, serve 
with boiled mutton or fish. 

HORSERADISH SAUCE. 

Work into one pint of cream sauce one cup of 
horseradish and one cup of beef stock, season and 
serve. 

HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. 

One pint of fish stock, one cup of milk, thicken 
with butter and flour, add one small bunch of pars- 
ley minced fine, beat in the yolks of three eggs, 
let simmer one minute, then add the juice of one 
lemon, season and serve. 

MAITRE DE HOTEL SAUCE. 

Into some melted butter work in some minced 
parsley, lemon juice and a little grated nutmeg. 

LEMON BUTTER. 

One cup of melted butter, add the juice of two 
lemons, serve hot. 

BECHAMEL SAUCE. 

One pint of chicken stock and one pint of milk 
thicken with butter and flour and add one cup of 
minced mushrooms, let come to a boil and serve. 

TOMATO SAUCE. 

One can of tomatoes, one pint of brown stock, two 
onions, one carrot, some celery, one dozen cloves 
and one tablespoonful of whole allspice, let boil 
one and one half hours, thicken and strain, season 
to taste. 



SAUCES 59 

CREOLE SAUCE. 

One can of tomatoes, one half dozen onions minced 
but not too fine, three green peppers chopped and 
one half dozen mushrooms, saute the onions, peppers 
and mushrooms in butter until tender, add the toma- 
toes and one pint of Espagnole sauce, pit and slice 
half dozen olives and add to the sauce. 

CHILI SAUCE. 

Four quarts of tomatoes washed and cut fine, one 
dozen onions minced and one half dozen green pep 
pers chopped fine, put on to boil with one quart of 
vinegar and one cup of sugar, one tea spoonful of 
cinnamon and one half teaspoonful of cloves, let 
simmer about two hours, when cold add salt to 
taste. 

ESPAGNOLE SAUCE. 

Is the foundation of all brown sauces and is made 
as follows, take some beef and veal bones and a ham 
knuckle, slice three carrots, one turnip, one half 
dozen onions, and braise all until nice and brown, 
add celery, parsley, bay leaves, cloves and allspice 
and a bunch of sweet herbs and enough flour to 
thicken the quantity of sauce you want to make 
moisten gradually with good stock and add any 
gravies that you may have on hand, a few tomatoes 
and let simmer slowly for several hours, strain and 
season to taste. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Take one pint of Espagnole and add- the juice of 
two and grated ' rind of one orange and a little 
cherry wine, simmer a few minutes and serve. 

CURRANT JELLY SAUCE. 

After taking your roast out add one pint of good 
brown stock, a minced onion and a little celery, 
simmer and strain, thicken and beat in one cup of 
currant, jelly and a little port wine if you have it, 
to be served with game. 

CUMBERLAND SAUCE. 

One pint of Espagnole, two tablespoonfuls of jelly 
a little prepared mustard, a half cup, of port wine 
and one tablespoonful of Worcestershire sauce. 



60 SAUCES 

PICQUANT SAUCE. 

To some Espagnole sauce add some minced 
pickles., olives, capers, lemon juice and a few mush- 
rooms chopped fine and one tablespoonful of jelly 
let simmer and serve. 

ROBERT SAUCE. 

Good with fried chops, make a good brown gravy 
from the pan, add half glass of tomato catsup, a tea 
spoonful of mustard, Worcestershire sauce and a 
few minced mushrooms. 

SAGE SAUCE. 

Make a gravy from the roast pan and add a little 
powdered sage and one table spoonful of tomato 
catsup, season with salt and pepper. 

MUSHROOM SAUCE. 

Take too thirds Espagnole and one third tomato 
sauce, add fresh or canned mushrooms and a glass 
of sherry wine, simmer and serve. 

MINT SAUCE. 

One bunch of spear mint, chop une and add one 
cup of vinegar, and half cup of water, half cup of 
sugar, simmer for a few minutes and it is ready to 
serve. 

GIBLET SAUCE. 

Take the neck, wings and giblets of the fowl and 
stew until tender, make a good gravy from the pan 
and add the minced giblets with a spoonful of the 
dressing, beat in season and serve. 

YORKSHIRE SAUCE. 

Into a good brown sauce work in some tomato 
catsup, one chopped green pepper and two or three 
pickles minced fine. 

MUSTARD SAUCE. 

Take one pint of stock, thicken with flour, salt, 
pepper, add one cup full of prepared mustard a little 
tomato catsup and Worcestershire sauce, beat well 
and serve with boiled meats. 



61 



EGGS AND OMELETTES 



ir 



EGGS 

BOILED EGGS. 

Soft boiled: one minute, medium: three minutes, 
hard boiled: six minutes. 

FRIED EGGS. 

Put a lump of butter into a fry pan, break in two 
eggs, baste well with the butter and serve on toast. 

SCRAMBLED EGGS. 

Beat the eggs up well, have the pan good and hot. 
add eggs, stir lively until cooked, season and serve 
with chopped parsley. 

POACHED EGGS. 

Drop the eggs into boiling water, which has had 
a little salt added to it, set back and let cook two 
minutes, take up and serve on toast. 

SHERRED EGGS. 

Take individual bake dishes, moisten with butter, 
break in two eggs, salt and pepper and bake in the 
oven four minutes, drop a little piece of butter on 
and serve in the same dish. 

CREAMED EGGS. 

Beat up one half dozen eggs with one cup of milk, 
season, put a lump of butter in a sauce pan, add the 
eggs and stir quickly until cooked, pour over slices 
of buttered toast and serve. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

Take one half dozen boiled eggs, cut in two, re- 
move tne yolks, mash fine, add a lump of butter, a 
little cream, salt and pepper, a little nutmeg and 
chopped parsley, fill the eggs, put the halfs together 
dip in beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in hot 
fat, serve with tomato sauce, or are fine served cold 
for lunch. 



62 EGGS AND OMELETTES 

EGGS Wl"i H CREAM SAUCE. 

Hard boil one half dozen eggs, cut in two, lay them 
on a platter and pour cream sauce over garnish 
with parsley and serve. 

EGGS a la CREOLE. 

Hard boil the eggs, split and serve with a Creole 
sauce over them. 

EGGS AU GRATIN. 

Break one half dozen eggs into a bake dish, 
sprinkle over with grated cheese, salt and pepper 
and bake, serve in the same dish. 

OMELETTES 

To prepare eggs for omelettes beat well, add a lit- 
tle milk, salt and pepper and make up as follows: 

PLAIN OMELETTE. 

Prepare three eggs, put a lump of butter into a 
fry pan, let it get good and hot, add the eggs, let 
them cook a little, then take hold of the handle 
firmly and jerk the pan toward you letting it strike 
up against your side, with this motion the omelette 
will form into a roll, let it brown well, turn out on a 
platter, garnish with parsley and serve. 

PARSLEY OMELETTE. 

Prepare three eggs, add some minced parsley and 
proceed as in plain omelette. 

CHEESE OMELETTES. 

Prepare the eggs, add some grated cheese and 
proceed the same as plain omelette. , 

HAM OR BACON OMELETTES. 

Mince the ham or bacon fine, fry a nice brown and 
add three eggs well beaten and finish the same as 
plain omelette. 

TOMATO OMELETTE. 

Take a nice ripe tomato, cut in dice and saute in 
butter five minutes, make the omelette in the usual 
way, place a spoonful of the tomato in the center 
finish and serve. 

MUSHROOM OMELETTE. 

Prepare the same as tomato omelette. 






EGGS AND OMELETTES 63 

OYSTER OMELETTE. 

Prepare three eggs and let cook a little as in plain 
omelette lay in three or four nice oysters and roll the 
omelette in the usual way. 

OMELETTE a la CREOLE. 
Prepare the same as plain omelette, add one 
spoonful of Creole sauce and serve. 

JELLY OMELETTE. 

Prepare the eggs in the usual way let them cook 
a little, put a spoonful of jelly in the center, roll it 
up, let it brown on one side, turn out on a platter, 
dust over with powdered sugar and score the top 
with a hot iron and serve. 



64 



VEGETABLES 



The cooking of vegetables is too often neglected. 
Just as much care should be taken in the season- 
ing and preparing of vegetables as any other dish 
that is made, it is usually left to some under help 
that does not understand it, and therefore a great 
deal is wasted and L±at is what we want to try 
and avoid if it can possibly be done. In selecting 
vegetables be sure that they are fresh and sound, so 
that half of them does not have to be wasted m 
preparing them for the table. 

POTATOES. 

When buying potatoes they should have a smooth 
skin and brittle when picked with the nail. 

It is better to peel potatoes that are to be us^d 
the next day,' the night before, let stand in cold 
water, in hot weather put a little ice in with them. 

In boiling potatoes always put over in boiling water 
and a little salt. Potatoes that have been frost bit- 
ten, add a little piece of saltpeter when boiling and 
it will take away the sweet taste. 

To bake potatoes always chip the ends so that 
they will be nice and mealy when baked. 

If they have to stand any length of time after 
being baked, sprinkle lightly with water and cover 
with a cloth and keep in a warm oven until time ;o 
serve. 

Always save your beef drippings for frying pota- 
toes in, it is the best. 

MASHED POTATOES. 

They should be mashed as soon as they are 
drained, add butter and salt and a little white pepper. 
The milk should always be hot when added as it 
makes them soggy to add cold. 



VEGETABLES 65 

CREAMED POTATOES. 

Pare and cut in large dice, boil until almost done, 
drain and add one cup of cream sauce, let simmer fo * 
ten minutes longer and serve, a little chopped parsley 
added improves the flavor. 

ESCAlLOPEl) POTATOES. 

Pare and slice quite thin, wash well in cold water, 
put a layer in the bottom of a bake dish, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper and small bits of butter and a 
little flour, then another layer of potatoes and so on 
until the dish is full, add milk enough to cover and 
bake in a moderate slow oven, (a little grated onion 
is liked by many in this. 

POTATO PUFFS. 

Take cold mashecl potatoes, add a well beaten egg 
and a slight grating of nutmeg, form into balli, 
brush over with egg and bake in a good hot oven, 
good to serve at supper or luncheon. 

POTAiOES a la DUCHENE. 

Mix the same as for Potato Puffs, add chopped 
parsley and bake in a bake dish a golden browr. 
Good to serve with fish supper. 

GERMAN FRIED. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes, season with salt an 1 
pepper and fry a good brown. 

FRENCH FRIED. 

Pare and quarter lengthwise raw potatoes and fn r 
in hot fat enough to cover them, when done take u$ 
and season with salt and pepper and serve at once. 

NEW YORK FRIED. 

Raw potatoes sliced, and fried the same as French 
fried. 

HASHED BROWN. 

Miince cold boiled potatoes, season and fry the 
same as German fried. 

LYONAISE POTATOES. 

Mince an onion and fry a light brown, then add 
minced cold boiled potatoes and fry the same as 
hashed brown. 



66 VEGETABLES 

SARATOGA CHIPS. 

Pare potatoes and slice very thin and lei stand in 
ice water, rinse well to get the starch out and try 
in hot fat until they are crisp, take up and season 
with salt and put on a dry cloth so that it will absorb 
all the greese. Nice to serve with fish. 

POTATO a la JULIENNE. 

Cut potatoes small like matches, and fry the same 
as French fried. 

SWEET POTATOES. 

Can be cooked the same as the common potato. 
Very nice fried the same as French fried, or baked, 
mashed, boiled or stuffed. 

SWEET POTATO CAKES. 

Take cold cooked sweet potatoes, mix the same 
as for potato puffs, m'ake in small cakes and fry a 
nice brown. Nice to serve with gam© of any kind. 

STEWED TOMATOES. 

One can of tomatoes, butter, teaspoonful of sugar, 
salt and pepper. If fresh add a pinch of soda while 
stewing. 

BAKED TOMATOES. 

Cut off the stem end, place a piece of butter ami 
salt and pepper on top of each and bake for half ar 
hour, serve hot on a slice of toast. 

ESCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

Alternate layers of crackers and tomatoes, butter 
pepper and salt, bake one hour and serve, you may 
use br$ad instead of crackers. 

FRIED TOMATOES. 

Slice raw tomatoes, season and dip in cracker 
crumbs and fry a light brown. 

NEW CORN ON THE COB. 

Husk and trim the corn, put in boiling water, put a 
handful of the husks in too, it improves the flavor, 
boil about 2'0 minutes and serve hot. 

Canned corn should just be brought to a simme^ 
with butter, pepper and salt and a little milk added. 



VEGETABLES 67 

CORN FRITTERS. 

Cut the corn from the cob or use canned corn, 
add it to a batter made as follows: two cups of 
flour, one cup of milk, one teaspoonful of baking 
powder and one of butter, drop spoonfuls of it into 
hot fat and fry a nice brown. 

CORN CAKES. 

The same as corn fritters, only make the batte. 
a little thinner and fry the same as Griddle cakes. 

GREEN PEAS. 

In cooking green peas the addition of a little mn t 
adds to the flavor. If they should be garden peas, adi 
a little sugar along with the rest of the seasoning 
and you will find they will be equal to garden pea*. 
the Marrowfats are the best. 

GREEN PEAS IN CREAM. 

When cooked save a little of the liquor of them, 
thicken and add a eupful of cream sauce, season and 
serve. 

STEWED GREEN PEAS. 
Cook until tender, add butter, pepper and salt. 

STRING BEANS AND LIMA BEANS 
Is cooked the same as green peas, creamed anu 
stewed. 

NEW BEETS IN BUTTER. 
Boil until tender, drain, and let the cold water run 
on them, remove the skin, chip or dice them, add but- 
ter, salt and pepper and a tablespoonful of vinegar. 

BOILED BEETS WITH VINIGARETTE SAUCE. 

Boil and slice, add a cup of vinegar, one half ot 
water and tablespoon of butter, thicken a little and 
i. erve hot. 

CAULIFLOWER IN CREAM. 

Wash well and pick in to pieces, boil until tender, 
drain and add one pint of cream sauce, simmer five 
minutes and serve. 

CAULIFLOWER au GRATIN. 

Prepare the same as creamed, put it into a bake 
dish, sprinkle over with cracker crumbs and bake 
twenty minutes. 



68 VEGETABLES 

STEWED CABBAGE. 

Take a large head of cabbage, quarter and wash 
well, pour boiling water over and cook until tender, 
drain and chop fine, add butter, pepper and salt. 

CREAMED CABBAGE. 

Prepare the same as for stewed cabbage, drain and 
add one pint of milk, thicken with butter and flour, 
salt and pepper. 

BAKED CABBAGE. 

Prepare and bake the same as Cauliflower an 
Gratin. 

FRIED CABBAGE. 

Shred one head of cabbage fine, put into a pan 
with some good beef drippings and fry over a slow 
fire, add some bacon cut fine and two good tart ap- 
ples, when done salt and pepper to taste and serve 
hot. 

CELERY. 

Celery is more to be eaten as a relish, but it is 
most delicious served in this way, cut in inch lengths 
and stew until tender, add one cup of cream sauc;. 
simmer five minutes and serve. 

CELERY au GRATIN. 

The same as Cauliflower au Gratin. 

HOT SLAW WITH CABBAGE AND CELERY. 

Shred one head of cauoage and one head of celer.*, 
stew until tender, drain, add butter, salt, red pepper 
and one cup of vinegar, serve. 

BRUSSELL SPROUTS. 
Clean thoroughly, coo^ and serve the same as 
Cauliflower. 

KAIL. 
IVDay be stewed, creamed and baked the same a^ 
cabbage. 

OYSTER PLANT. 
Should be fresh pulled and brittle, scrape the out- 
side skin off and throw into cold water. 
STEWED OYSTER PLANT. 
Cut into half inch lengths and cook until tender, 
drain, add one cup of milk, butter and salt and 
pepper. 



VEGETABLES 69 

CREAMED OYSTER PLANT. 

Prepare the same as stewed, when done add one 
cup of cream sauce, let simmer, season and serve. 

FRIED OYSTER PLANT. 

Cut in finger lengths, boil until tender, drain, dip 
in beaten egg and flour, and fry in hot fat, season 
and serve. 

FRIED EGG PLANT. 

Peel and lay in salt and water tor an hour or so. 
Season the slices with salt and pepper, dip in egg 
and flour and fry in hot fat, be sure that it is well 
cooked before taking up. 

STU. FED EGG PLANT. 

Cut the egg plant in half, scrape out the inside, 
and stew until tender, add some minced veal, butter, 
salt, pepper and bread crumbs enough to thicken, 
fill shells with this and bake about fifteen minutes 
and serve hot. 

LEEKS. 

Stew and serve the same as celery. 
STEWEl, ONIONS. 

Peel and stew until tender, drain, add one cup of 
milk and a little butter, salt and pepper and serve. 

CREAMED ONIONS. 

Prepare and cook the same as stewed onions, add 
one cup of cream sauce, let simmer and serve hot. 

BAKEL ONIONS. 
The same as Cauliflower au Gratin. 

FRIED ONIONS. 
Peel and slice large onions, put in a fry pan with 
plenty of good drippings, cover and fry a nice brown, 
season with salt and pepper. 

TURNIPS. 
Turnips can be boiled plain or mashed with butter, 
pepper and salt, or stewed the same as oyster plant. 

^ARROTS. 

In the spring while young and tender can be cooked 
the same as oyster plant, stewed, creamed and fried. 



70 VEGETABLES 

PARSNIPS. 

Are very goed stewed, creamed, mashed or fried, 
and serve the same as oyster plant. 

SPINACH. 

Should be picked carefully and washed, put on in 
boiling water with a little piece of bacon, it improves 
the flavor, when done drain and add butter, salt and 
pepper. 

SPINACH WITH EGG. 

Stew and serve with a slice of hard boiled egg on 
each order. 

ASPARAGUS. 

Asparagus is one of the best vegetables we hava, 
and is very nice stewed, cut into half inch lengths 
stew until tender, drain, add one cup of cream sauce 
and season. 

ASPARAGUS ON TOAST. 

Wash well and cut of the tough ends and put on 
in boiling wat&r and cook until tender, take up and 
keep hot, take a cup of the liquor it was boiled in 
and a cup of milk and tnicken with butter and flou*, 
salt and pepper, lay the Asparagus on slices of toast 
put some of the sauce over and serve. 

SUMMER SQUASH. 

Summer squash is best pared and sliced, steam 
until tender, mash fine, season with butter, salt and 
pepper. 

HUBBARD SQUASH. 

Split open, clean out all the seeds, cut in smaH 
pieces and bake for one hour, put a bit of butt?**, 
salt and pepper on each and serve. 

MUSHROOMS. 

Are in season and eatable from April first until 
December first. There are over fifty different varie- 
ties of mushrooms and if you are not certain about 
them being good, try one by cooking it with an onion, 
ft the onion turns black it is poisonous, and if the 
onion remains white it is good. 






VEGETABLES 71 

CREAMED MUSHROOMS. 

Wash thoroughly so as to be free of sand and grit, 
put a lump of butter in a fry pan and simmer until 
tender, add a little cream and a Little thickening, salt 
and pepper and serve on toast. 

FRIED MUSHROOMS. 

Fry in butter and serve on toast or plain as you 
like. 

BAKED MUSHROOMS. 

Place in a bake pan with butter, pepper and salt 
and a little lemon juice and bake fifteen minute^, 
take out the mushrooms, add one cup of milk and 
thicken, pour over and serve plain or on toast. 

Some vegetables when cooked together make very 
appetizing dishes. 

SUCCOTASH. 

Corn and Lima beans stewed together, seasoned, 
butter, pepper and salt. 

PONTOMAGUS. 

Small new potatoes and green peas creamed to- 
gether, very fine. 



72 



FRITTERS 



In frying fritters be sure and have plenty of good 
hot fat, enough to float them in, and fry about six 
or eight minutes, dust over with powdered sugar 
and serve. 

FRITTER BATTER. 

To one quart of flour add one and one half of 
milk, two eggs, a teaspoonful of oaking powder ani 
half cup of sugar and one tablespoonful of melted 
butter. 

APPLE FRITTERS. 

Pare, core and slice the apples, dust over with 
flour, dip into the fritter batter and fry, serve with 
lemon or nutmeg sauce. 

PEACH FRITTERS. 

Cut the peaches in half, take out the pit, roll in 
powdered sugar and flour, dip in the batter and fry, 
serve with brandy sauce. 

PEAR FRITTERS. 

Peel and quarter the pears and fry the same a> 
peach fritters, serve with lemon sauce. 

PhNicAPPLE FRITTERS. 

Peel and take out the core of the pineapple, slice 
in one quarter inch slices, dust over with sugar, di.o 
in batter and fry the same as apple fritters, serv3 
with Sabayon sauce. 

BANANA FRITTERS. 

Peel and cut the bananas crosswise, roll in 
flour, dip in the batter and fry a nice brown, serve 
with rum sauce. 

ORANGE FRITTERS. 

Peel and siice the oranges, remove all seeds, roll 
in flour, dip in the batter and fry. Serve with 
port wine sauce. 



FRITTERS 73 

LEMON FRITTERS. 

Take one quart of flour, two teajspoonfuls of 
baking powder, one small cup of sugar, one tabls- 
spoonful of butter, mix well, add one cup of milk, 
and three eggs, and lemon flavor, drop in the hot fat 
by the spoonful and fry a nice brown. Serve with 
nutmeg sauce. 

VANILLA FRITTERS. 

The same as lemon, except add the vanilla flavor- 
ing. Serve with sweet cream sauce. 

RASPBERRY FRITTERS. 

Make a batter the same as for lemon fritters, omit 
the lemon flavor, stir in one quart of raspberries, and 
fry, serve with custard sauce. 

STRAWBERRY FRITTERS. 

Prepare and make the same as raspberry fritter?. 

COCOANUT FRITTERS. 

Add half pound of shredded cocoanut to a lemon 
fritter paste, fry and serve with vanilla sauce. 

FIG FRITTERS. 

Chop fine two pounds of figs and add to a lemon 
fritter batter and fry in the usual way, serve with 
brandy sauce. 

PRUNE FRITTERS. 

Stew the prunes until tender, remove the pits, re- 
turn to the fire, add a little lemon juice and grated 
rind, some sugar, let come to a boil, thicken witoi 
corn starch until it will just drop of the end of th? 
spoon, butter a bake sheet, turn out the prunes on*"i 
it, smooth down with a palate knife until about 
half an inch thick, let it get cold, with a sharp knife 
cut into diamonds or squares, dip in cracker crumb?, 
then in egg and cracker crumbs again and fry in ho' 
fat. Serve with custard sauce. 

CREAM FRITTERS. 

Bring one quart of milk to a boiling point, add 
one and one half cups of sugar, a little butter and 
flavor with vanilla, thicken with corn starch enough 
so that it will just drop from the spoon, spread on 
a bake sheet and make the same as prune fritters. 
Serve these with syrup sauce. 



74 FRITTERS 

COCOANUT CREAM FRITTERS. 

Prepare and make the same as cream fritters. 
Serve with vanilla sauce. 

CMOCLATE FRITTERS. 

Make the same as cream fritters, only add grated 
choclate to taste and cook the same way. Serve 
with Sabayon sauce. 

QUEEN FRITTERS. 

Take one and one half cups of water, one cup o*: 
melted butter, put over the fire and let come tc 
a boil, stir in one and one half cups of sifted flour, 
stir and cook five minutes, remove from the fire 
and let cool enough to handle with your hands, now 
work in one at a time ten eggs or maybe more ac 
cording to their size, drop with a spoon, pieces about 
the size of a walnut and fry crisp and a nice light 
brown. Serve with maple syrup sauce. 

JELLY PUFFS. 

The same as queen fritters, after frying fill wito 
any kind of good jelly, dust over with powdered 
sugar and serve with custard sauce. 



75 



SALADS AND RELISHES 



«$■ 



TO PREPARE RELISHES FOR THE 
TABLE, 

In making salads, great care should be taken that 
everything be the freshest that can be obtained, the 
vegetables fresh and crisp, the oil the very best, the 
meats well cooked, in fact, every ingredient first 
class to insure success. 

The dressing should not be mixed with the salad 
until ready to serve, as the vinegar takes away the 
crispness of the vegetables. 

SLICED TOMATOES. 

Select nice sound ripe tomatoes, pour boiling 
water over them, and let them stand three minute?., 
peel and slice on a bed of lettuce, add a few pieces 
of chipped ice and serve with French dressing. 

RADISHES. 

There are two varieties, the long and the round 
radishes. Wash well, scrape aad cut off the ends, 
serve on lettuce leaves with cracked ice over them 

WATER CRESS. 

Pick over carefully, wash thoroughly, let lay in 
ice water for half an hour and serve with French 
dressing. 

CELERY. 

Cut off the roots and the green tops, scrape the 
outside stalks, if large, split it in two once and lay in 
ice water until it is time to serve. 

CUCUMBERS. 
Peel carefully and lay in cracked ice until time 
to serve, When serving, slice very thin onto lettuce 
leaves, and serve with French dressing. 



76 SALADS AND RELISHES 

LETTUCE. 

Pick the leaves off separately, wash well, and lay 
in ice water for half an hour or until crisp, serve 
with hard boiled egg sliced and French dressing. 

CHICORY. 

Pick over carefully and rinse in ice water and 
serve the same as water cress. 

GREEN ONIONS. 

Trim off the ends, remove the outer skin and ia^ r 
on a few lettuce leaves with cracked ice over and 
serve. 

GREEN ONION SALAD. 

Shred one head of lettuce fine, and place in salad 
bowl, cut green onions in half inch lengths, plac-i 
in the center, pour over some French dressing ami 
serve. 

CUCUMBER SALAD. 

Dice the cucumbers fine, shred one head of let- 
tuce and serve the same as onion salad. 

TOMATO SALAD. 

Shred one head of lettuce, and place in the salad 
bowl, chip some tomatoes in half inch pieces and 
place in the center, pour over a little French dress- 
ing, and place one spoonful of Mayonaise on top 
and serve. 

WATER CRESS AND RADISH SALAD. 

Cut the water cress up fine and slice the radishes 
very thin, mix well with French dressing, place on 
lettuce leaves, put a spoonful of Miayonaise on top 
and serve. 

SUMMER SALAD. 

Shred one head of lettuce fine, dice tomatoes, 
cucumbers, onions and radishes* mix Weill Witn 
French dressing, place in the center of the shredded 
lettuce, put some mayonaise over the top and serve. 

CELERY SALAD. 

Cut the celery into half inch lengths, mix with one 
head of lettuce cut fine, mix with vinegar, salt and 
pepper, place on a lettuce leaf, put two or three 
spoonfuls of Mayonaise over and serve. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 77 

COLD SLAW. 

Shred fine one head of crisp cabbage, mix with 
salt and pepper and vinegar enough to moisten, adi 
one cup of cream salad dressing and serve on a 
lettuce leaves. 

CABBAGE AND CELERY SALAD. 

Mince the cabbage and celery fine and prepare 
the same as cabbage salad. 

CABBAGE SALAD. 

Take one good solid cabbage that has uniform 
leaves, trim off the outside leaves, cut off the bottom 
of the stock, and an even slice off the top, cut the 
inside out leaving about two leaves on the outside 
forming a shell, chop the cabbage very fine, mix 
well with cream salad dressing, refill the shell with 
the salad and serve garnished with hard boiled 
eggs, sliced. 

POTATO SALAD. 

Slice cold cooked potatoes fine, add one onion 
and a small bunch of parsley chopped fine 
season with salt and pepper, thin a t Mayonaise dress- 
ing down about one half with vinegar, turn over 
the potatoes, mix well and serve on lettuce leaves. 

POTATO SALAD HOT. 

Dice one dozen cold cooked potatoes fine, with 
one bunch of parsley, cut one quarter of a' pound o f 
bacon up fine and fry a nice brown, add three onions 
chopped, and a teacup of vinegar, add the potatoes, 
stir ;■] together, cover and let cook five minutes anl 
serve. 

SARDINE SALAD. 

Cut the sardines into half inch lengths, shred one 
head of celery fine, moisten with French dressing, 
place upon lettuce leaves and serve with Mayonaise 
dressing over the top. 

SALMON SALAD. 

Chop one head of celery fine, pick the salmon 
into small pieces, moisten with vinegar, salt anJ 
pepper, place upon lettuce leaves and serve with 
salad dressing. 



78 SALADS AND RELISHES 

SHRIMP SALAD. 

Cut the shrimps up into pieces about half an inch 
in size, also one head of celery, with salt and peppe\ 
moisten with salad dressing and serve on lettuce 
leaves with Mayonaise. 

LOBSTER SALAD. 

Cut the lobster and celery up fine and prepare 
and serve the same as shrimp salad. 

CRAB SALAD. 

Pick the crab meat to pieces, add the same 
quantity of minced celery, moisten with Mayonaise 
dressing and serve on lettuce leaves. 

OYSTER SALAD. 

Cook one quart of oysters until plump, have the 
same quantity of celery chopped, also two pickles, 
moisten with Mayonaise dressing, and serve upon 
lettuce leave garnished with hard boiled egg sliced. 

HAM SALAD. 
Chop cold boiled ham fine with a little celery, 
line a salad bowl with shredded lettuce, moisten 
the ham and celery with cream salad dressing, put 
in the center of the bowl, turn some of the dressing 
over the top and serve. 

CHICKEN SALAD. 

Take cold boiled chicken, free from all skin and 
gristle, cut into dice, add the same amount of celery, 
moisten with Mayonaise dressing, place upon lec- 
tuce leaves, put some of the dressing over the top 
and serve. 

VEAL SALAD. 

Cut the veal into small dice and prepare the same 
as chidken salad. 

RUSSIAN SALAD. 

Peel and dice fine, one turnip, one carrot, and a 
little celery, stew until tender, drain and let cool, 
add half can of sifted peas, mix well with French 
dressing, shred one head of lettuce, line the salad 
bowl with it, heap the salad on it with a spoonful of 
Mayonaise on top and serve, garnish with pickled 
beets. 



SALADS AND RELISHES 79 

GAME SALAD. 

Take any nice lean pieces of game, dice fine, add 
equal quantity of celery, mix well with a little vine- 
gar, salt and pepper and Mayonaise dressing, line 
the salad bowl with lettuce leaves, put in your salad 
garnish with celery tops and serve. 

SALAD DKE.SSINGS 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING, No. 1. 

Put the yolks of four eggs into a bowl that is ice 
cold, use a spoon or small whip and blend the yolks 
together, now add a little oil, a few drops at a 
time, and stir slowly as it thickens, add a little 
lemon juice, and then oil again, now add one half 
teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of red pepper, and 
one quarter of a teaspoonful of dry mustard, work 
in slowly, add more oil, and lemon juice and a littio 
vinegar until you have about a pint altogether, set 
on the ice until ready to serve. 

MAYONNAISE DRESSING, No. 2. 

Put one quart of good vinegar on to boil, mix 
one half cup of sugar, one half cup of flour, two 
tablespoonfuls of salt, two tablespoonfuls of good 
dry mustard, and one half teaspoonful of red pepper, 
mix well together, moisten with vinegar, add the 
yolks of twelve eggs, beat altogether, add a little of 
the hot vinegar and stir briskly until you have ail 
the hot vinegar added, cook five minutes, remove 
from the fire and beat in one pound of good butter, 
put on the ice and let cool, when you want to use 
some of it take a little in a bowl and thin it down 
with cream or milk and serve. 

MAYONNAISE WITH WHIPPED CREAM. 

Whip up one cup of double cream until it is good 
and stiff, work in one small cupful of No. 2 Mayon- 
naise and beat three minutes longer and serve. 
CREAM DRESSING. 

Whip up one cup of double cream, two table- 
spoonfuls of sugar, and one cup of vinegar, beat into 
the cream slowly, season with salt and red pepper 
FRENCH DRESSING. 

Take two tablespoonfuls of olive oil, one tea- 
spoonful of salt, one half of pepper, mix with the 
oil and add one half cup of vinegar and serve. 



80 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS 



ir 



WELSH RAREBIT. 

Use one half pint of stale beer, one half pound 
of cheese grated, yolks of two eggs and a little corn 
starch, mustard, red pepper, and salt, heat the beer 
and beat in the cheese and then the other ingre- 
dients, dip slices of toasted bread in the hot bee.', 
place in a deep platter and turn the Rarebit over 
and serve. 

GOLDEN BUCK. 

Make the same as Welsh Rarebit. Place a poacheJ 
egg on the toast, turn the rarebit over and serve. 

YORKSHIRE RAREBIT. 

Toast a slice of bread, dip it in beer, place a piece 
of fried bacon on it, spread over a little mustard, cut, 
a slice of cheese one quarter inch thick, put on top 
of the bacon, place in the oven ten minutes or until 
the cheese is melted, remove to a platter, make a 
sauce of half a cup of cream sauce and two tea- 
spoonfuls of Worcestershire sauce, beat well, ana 
turn over the rarebit and serve. 

POTTED MEAT FOR SANDWICHES. 

Take cold meat of any kind, any small pieces that 
you may have left over, put them through a meat 
chopper and mince very fine, add one quarter as 
much butter as you have meat, some prepared mus- 
tard, salt and pepper, and half a dozen chopped 
pickles, and a little Mayonnaise, mix all to a smooth 
paste and spread between slices of bread, a lettuce 
leaf in between, and you will have a fine sandwicn. 

BAKED PORK AND BEANS. 

Soak the beans over night, in the morning boil 
with a little soda until the skin cracks when blown 
upon, take lots of good fat pickled pork, the fatter 
the better, cut up in large dice, add a little molasses, 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS 81 

one onion or two, sliced, and a little mustard, put all 
together in a crock and cover with water and bake 
five or six hours, keep adding water so as not to let 
them get too dry while cooking. 

HEAD CHEESE. 

Take one pig's head and two or three pieces of 
good corned beef and three large onions, boil all 
until the meat falls from the bones, remove from the 
fire and when cool enough pick out all the bones an.i 
add a little powdered sage, some more salt and 
pepper, mix well together, put in a cloth sack, or 
mould and press it with a weight until cold. 

CROQUETTES. 

Croquettes may be made of any cold meats, fisn, 
or game that may be left over, mince the meat fine, 
add a little onion juice, nutmeg and chopped parsley, 
moisten with cream sauce and a handful of bread 
crumbs added, mix thoroughly, and form in a finger 
shaped rolls, bread and fry in hot fat, serve with 
any good meat sauce. 

BAKED MACARONI au GRATIN. 

Break the macaroni into short lengths, cover with 
boiling water and simmer until tender, drain and 
add grated cheese, season and moisten with cream 
sauce, put in a bake dish sprinkle over with grated 
cheese and cracker crumbs and bake in a moderate 
oven until a nice brown. 

MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

Stew the macaroni until tender, add one cup of 
grated cheese and moisten with cream sauce and 
serve. 

MACARONI WITH TOMATOES. 

Stew until tender, add one can of tomatoes chop- 
ped fine, butter, pepper and salt, bake about half an 
hour and serve. 

SPAGHETTI a la ITATIENNE. 

Break into short lengths and stew until tender, 
drain and add equal parts of tomatoes and espagnole 
sauces, a little grated cheese and minced ham, sea- 
son and serve. 



82 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS 

SPAGHETTI a la CREOLE. 

Stew the spaghetti until tender, drain and add 
Creole sauce and a little grated cheese. 

VERMACILLI a la CREAM. 

Stew until tender, drain and add a little creara 
sauce, butter, salt and pepper, serve hot 

NOODLE PASTE. 

One pound of flour, two tablespoonfuls of butter, 
salt, and the yolk of eignt eggs, mix up into a stiff 
dough, roll out and cut in any desired shape. 

CHEESE STRAWS. 

One pound of flour, one half pound of finely chop- 
ped cheese, a little mustard, red pepper, and the yolk 
of six eggs, mix well together, roll out in thin sheet, 
cut long thin strips and bake in moderate oven. 

SALTED ALMONDS OR PEANUTS. 

Shell the nuts, and pour boiling water over them, 
let stand for five minutes, remove the skins, put 
a piece of butter in a frying pan, add the nut meats, 
and shake over a good hot fire until nearly browned, 
add a little salt and they are ready to serve. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING 
FOR ROAST BEEF, SHORT RIBS AND VEAL. 

One pint of milk, four eggs well beaten, salt and 
two cupfuls of flour and two teaspoonfuls of baking 
powder, beat altogether well, take some of the drip- 
ping from the pan, put in a shallow bake dish, pour 
in the pudding and bake twenty minutes, serve with 
the roast meat with the gravy poured over 

TOMATO TOAST. 

Stew the tomatoes, add butter, salt and pepper, 
cut thick slices of stale bread, toast brown, moisten 
with hot water, put the tomatoes over and serve. 

CODFISH ON TOAST. 

Take one pound of codfish, freshen (if salty > 
mince one onion and fry brown, add one half can 
of tomatoes, the fish cut up small, and cook one naif 
hour, thicken a little, toast slices of bread, moisten 
with hot water, turn th^ fish over it and serve hot 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS 83 

HAM TOAST. 

Take one half pound of cold cooked ham, mince 
fine, beat up two eggs, half a cup of milk, butter, 
salt and pepper, stir and cook until it thickens, turn 
over slices of toast and serve. 

MINCED VEAL ON TOAST. 

Take cold cooked veal, mince fine, add butter, salt 
and pepper, beat up two eggs, add to one cup of 
cream sauce, stir in the veal with a little grating of 
nutmeg, cook five minutes and serve on toasted 
bread. 

MINCED CHICKEN ON TOAST. 

The same as minced veal on toast, garnish with 
chopped parsley and serve. 

MUSHROOM TOAST. 

Mince fine one half dozen mushrooms, fry in but 
ter, add one cup of milk or cream, thicken, add salt 
and pepper and turn over slices of well toasted 
bread. 

OYSTER TOAST. 

Take large select oysters, saute in butter, add a 
little minced celery and one cup of milk, thicken, 
season and pour over slices of toast, sprinkle a little 
chopped parsley over the top and serve. 

CHEESE TOAST. 

Toast thin slices of bread until nicely browned, 
spread over with a little prepared mustard, slice 
some new cheese thin, put on the toast, set in th«3 
oven until melted and serve hot. 

FRENCH EGG TOAST. 

Cut stale bread in thin slices, beat up three eggs 
with a little milk and a grating of nutmeg, dip the 
bread in this and fry in hot fat until nicely browned, 
sprinkle with powdered sugar and serve with jelly. 

CREAM TOAST/ 
Heat one pint of milk to a boiling point, add a 
piece of butter the size of a walnut, and thicken 
a little with corn starch, pour over slices of well 
toasted bread and serve. 



84 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS 

MILK TOAST. 

Toast one half dozen slices of bread, a nice brown, 
butter it and cut into squares, place in a bowl and 
add one pint of hot milk. 

DIPPED TOAST. 

Toast one half dozen slices of bread and trim off 
the edges, moisten with hot water, put the slices to 
gether and serve. 

CLUB SANDWICH. 

Cut the bread in thin slices and toast a good 
brown, slice some turkey and ham very thin, put 
some of the meat on one of the slices, and put a 
lettuce leaf on top of that with a little mayonnaise 
spread over it, slice a pickle very thin and add to the 
sandwich, now some more of the meat, and the top 
slice of toast, cut in diamond shape and serve on a 
platter garnished with parsley. 

TOMATO CATSUP. 

Take one gallon can of tomatoes, add one tea- 
spoonful of cayenne pepper, one tablespoonful of 
mustard seed, have a tablespoonful of whole cloves, 
and one table spoonful of whole alspice, put on an! 
cook until reduced one third, remove from the flro 
and mash through a fine wire seive, return to the 
fire again, add a small handful of sugar and half a 
pint of good vinegar. 

PLAIN DUMPLING PASTE. 

Sift together one quart of flour and two teaspoons- 
ful of baking powder, one teaspoonful of salt and a 
sr, all handful of butter, mix into a. soft dough with 
water or milk, work into small round balls with a 
spoon and drop in the liquid. 

EGG DUMPLING PASTE. 

Sift together one quart of flour, and two teaspoons 
ful of baking powder, add salt and half a cup of bu:- 
ter, beat up six eggs and add to the flour with 
enough milk to make a soft dough, drop in by the 
spoonful. 

MEAT PIE PASTE. 

Sift together one quart of flour, one teaspoonful 
of baking powder and one half pound of lard, a little 
salt and water enough to make a soft dough, roll out 
about one half inch thick and bake. 



MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS 85 

OAT MEAL. 

Put one quart of water on to boil, add a small 
handful of salt, stir in enough oat meal to make 
a soft mush, set on the back part of the range and 
simmer for one hour and serve. 

CORN MEAL MUSH. 

Bring one quart of water to a boiling point, add 
enough corn meal to make a thin mmsb add a little 
salt, set back and let it cook slowly about one hour 
and serve. 

CRACKED WHEAT. 

Cover with cold water and soak for two hours, put 
on the back part of the range and let come to boil, 
and cook about two hours, stir often and serve with 
milk or cream. 

BOILED HOMINY. 

Soak the hominy for three hours, drain and add 
salt and boiling water enough to cover it with, and 
let cook at least three hours, serve with milk or 
cream. 

BOILED RICE. 

Wash the rice and put on to boil in lots of water, 
stir often and let cook slowly, after cooking about 
one hour put into a colaader and drain, wash well 
in cold water, return to the sauce pan, add a little 
milk, a small piece of butter and a little salt, simmor 
a few minutes and serve. 

CURRIED FRESH PORK. 

Cut the pork into dice and fry a nice brown and 
some onions sliced and two tart apples, sprinkle 
over with flour, and add stock enough to make a 
good gravy, stew half an hour longer, add two table- 
spoonsful of curry powder, season and serve with 
a dish of boiled rice. 

MINCE MEAT. 

One pound of beef suet chopped fine, one pound of 
good lean beef cooked and cut fine, one pound of 
raisins, one pound of currants, one half pound of 
citron, five pounds of apples cut fine, the grated rind 
of two lemons, one tablespoonful of cinnamon, the 
same of nutmeg, and one teaspoonful of cloves, all- 
spice, mace and ginger, one quart of cider, one half 
pint of brandy, mix thoroughly, fill into jars and keep 
in a cool place. 



BREAD, ROLLS, GEMS AND 
GRIDDLE CAKES. 






The making of good bread is an art, that cannot 
be obtained any other way than careful practice and 
long experience, in making bread you should watch 
it closely and study the process, so that you are 
sure of success, use nothing but spring wheat flour 
in making bread and rolls. There are two ways of 
making bread, one by setting a sponge, the other 
what is known as the straight dough process. The 
straight dough process makes the best bread. 

In warm weather it is best to use the latter and 
in cold weather the former, Compressed Yeast is the 
best to use at all time, when it can be obtained, if 
you have to use dry yeast always set a sponge and 
give it plenty of time to raise. 

The time required for the raising of the dough 
depends on the temperature of the room and the 
ingredients used, never allow the dough to get 
chilled, always keep it in a uniform temperature if 
possible, in baking never open the oven door the 
first twenty minutes the bread is in, as the cool 
air admitted will have an unfavorable effect upon 
it. 

Salt is one of the main factors in bread making, 
not only on account of its flavor, but because it 
makes the dough rise better. 

In mixing the dough with milk, it should be boiled 
first not simply scalded, just heating the milk will 
not prevent the dough from souring, while the boil- 
ing of the milk will act as a preventative. 

PLAIN WHEAT BREAD. 

THE STRAIGHT DOUGH PROCESS. 

One gallon of water, two ounces of yeast, a good 
handful of salt and the same of sugar and one quart- 
er of a pound of lard, dissolve the yeast, salt, sugar 
and lard in the water which should be luke warm, 






BREAD, ROLLS, GEMS, ETC. 87 

mix in flour enough to make a medium sffif dough, 
work it until smooth and non adhesive, then cover 
with a cloth and let rise until doubled in size, it 
will then sink if touched with the hand, then work 
it again, using as little flour as possible, repeat this 
twice and it is ready to form into loaves, divide 
into, pieces of equal size, mould into round balls aftd 
let them rest a while then form into long loaves 
place in the pans and let rise double im size before 
putting in the oven, bake between fourty five min- 
utes and one hour according to the size of the 
loaves. 

FRENCH BREAD. 

One gallon of water, two ounces of yeast, a small 
handful of salt and the same of sugar, prepare and 
mix the same as plain bread, mould into long loaves 
about two inches thick, place on a bake sheet quite 
aways apart so that they cannot touch one another 
while rising, score across the top with a knife, let 
rise to double their size and bake in a hot oven, 
when done wash over with milk and let cool but do 
not cover up. 

VIENNA BREAD. 

Use two thirds milk and one third water, enough 
to make a gallon, two ounces of yeast and a small 
handful of salt, mix thoroughly the same as plain 
bread. Make into loaves and finish the same as 
French Bread. 

GRAHAM BREAD. 

Take one gallon of water, two ounces of yeast, a 
small handful of salt, the same oH lard and one pint 
of molasses, mix into a stiff dough, using half wheat 
flour and half Graham, prepare and bake the same 
as plain bread. 

RYE BREAD. 

Take three quarts of water, two ounces of yeast, 
a small handful of salt, a few carraway seeds, make 
into a stiff dough using two thirds Rye flour and one 
third wheat flour, prepare and finish the same as 
French bre@<d. 



BREAD, ROLLS, GEMS, ETC. 



CORN BREAD. 

Take one half gallon of water, one and one half 
ounces of yeast, a little salt and two tablespoons- 
ful of lard, work into a stiff dough using two thirds 
wheat flour and one third corn meal, finish and bake 
the same as plain bread. 

BOSTON BROWN BREAD. 

Take one pint of each, wheat flour, corn meal, 
Graham flour, add two cups of New Orleans molas- 
ses, one teaspoonful of soda, a little salt, and one 
tablespoonful of lard, one pint of sour milk and the 
rest water, mix into a stiff sponge, put into Brown 
bread tins and steam for two hours, take out of 
the steamer, and place in the oven ten minutes, re- 
move from the tins and serve hot. 

PLAIN ROLLS. 

One quart of water and one quart of milk, one 
ounce of yeast, a tablespoonful of salt, one cupful of 
sugar and one half pound of lard and butter mixed, 
dissolve all the ingredients in the luke warm water 
and add flour enough to make a firm dough, cover 
and let rise until twice the size, knead down firm 
again, repeat this twice, then mould into round balls, 
set them on greased baking sheets a little apart, let 
rise again and bake. 

GERMAN ROLLS. 

Make a dough the same as for French bread, roll 
out in small round balls, lay on a greased bake 
sheet a little ways apart, let rise and bake, when 
done brush over with egg and milk. 

VIENNA ROLLS. 

Take dough the same as for Vienna bread, mould 
out into small bails let rise a little then roll with 
the palm of the hand so that it will be pointed on 
the ends, place on greased bake sheets so that they 
will not touch one another, let rise and bake, brush 
over with milk. 



BREAD, ROLLS, GEMS, ETC. 89 

SPLIT ROLLS. 

Mjake a dough the same as plain rolls, mould into 
round balls and let rise a little, then with a small 
rolling pin about an incn thick press down through 
the ball of dough, now grease the dough and fold 
the two halfs together, lay on a greased bake sheet, 
let rise and bake, brush over with water. 

FRENCH OK FINGER ROLLS. 

Prepare the dough the same as for plain rolls, 
mould into round balls, let rise a little while, then 
roll out into finger shape rolls, about six inches long 
and pointed at the ends, place on greased bake 
sheets a little ways apart and bake, brush over with 
water. 

HOT CROSS BUNS. 

Take plain roll dough, add three eggs and one 
fourth of a pound more of butter and two pounds of 
currants, mould into round balls and lay on greased 
bake sheets, when baked brush over with one cup of 
milk mixed with a small handful of sugar and two 
eggs added. 

CINNAMON COFFEE CAKE. 

When making plain bread cut off a piece about five 
pounds, work into the dough one half pound of but- 
ter and three eggs, make into a smooth dough, let 
rise a little tnen cut off pieces about one half pound 
each, mould into balls and roll out about three 
fourths of an inch thick, brush over with melted but- 
ter and sprinkle w*ui granulated sugar and cinna- 
mon mixed, let rise and bake in a moderate oven. 
TEA BISCUIT. 

Take two quarts of flour and two ounces of baking 
powder, one cupful of butter and lard mixed, a little 
salt and milk, enough to make a smooth dough, roll 
out one half inch thiciv, cut with a biscuit cutter, 
brush over with milk and bake twenty minutes. 
SOUR MILk BISCUIT. 

Two quarts of flour, one fourth of a pound of but- 
ter or lard, one teaspoonful of salt, stir into this one 
quart of sour milk and one and one half teaspoonsful 
of soda, knead it up quickly, roll it out nearly half 
an inch thick, cut with a biscuit cutter and bake in 
a quick oven. 



90 BREAD, ROLLS, GEMS, ETC. 

BEATEN BISCUIT. 

Take two quarts of flour, a teaspoonful of salt, one 
tablespoonful of butter, two eggs, mix up with one 
pint of milk and beat well until the dough blisters, 
pull off some small pieces and form into balls, stick 
with a fork, and bake in a quick oven. 

GRAHAM GEMS. 

Take one quart of milk, two w$ll beaten eggs, 
two teaspoonsful of baking powder, a little salt, mix 
in Graham flour enough so that it will drop off the 
spoon nicely, grease the gem pans and get them 
good and hot, drop in the dough and bake. 

BREAKFAST GEMS. 

One quart of milk, four eggs well beaten, three 
teaspoonsful of baking powder, one quart and one 
half of flour and a little salt, beat well for five min- 
utes, grease and heat the gem pans, put in the 
dough and bake. 

MUFFINS. 

One pint of milk, three eggs well beaten, three 
teaspoonsful of baking powder, one half cup of butter 
a little salt and one quart and a half of flour, beat 
all together five minutes, drop into patty pans well 
greased and bake twenty minutes. 

EGG MUFFINS. 

Take one quart of flour, three eggs well beaten, a 
little salt, sugar and butter, two heaping tablespoons- 
ful of baking powder, mix well and stir in one and 
one half pints of sweet milk, fill the muffin pans 
two thirds full and bake in a hot oven. 

CORN MEAL MUFFINS. 
Take half corn meal and half wheat flour and mix 
the same as plain muffins. 

JOHNNIE CAKE. 

Take two quarts of wheat flour and one of corn 
meal, two ounces of baking powder, one fourth 
pound of sugar, six well beaten eggs and one half 
pound of butter or lard, mix into a stiff batter with 
milk or water, put in greased pans about three 
fourths of an inch thick and bake in a hot oven. 



BREAD, ROLLS, GEMS, ETC. 91 



POP OVERS. 

One quart of flour, one half teaspoonful of baking 
powder, a little salt and butter, mix up with one 
quart of milk with four eggs added, beat up briskly 
and drop into hot muffin pans and bake thirty min- 
utes. 

WAFFLES. 

Two pounds of flour, one ounce of baking powder 
eight eggs, one fourth of a pound of sugar, one half 
pound of butter, a little salt, a little nutmeg and 
milk, mix into a batter the same as pan cakes, but a 
little stiffer, bake in waffle irons. 

WHEAT OR FLANNEL CAKES. 

Sift together two quarts of flour and two ounces 
of baking powder, add a small handful of sugar, one 
half cup of butter, a little salt and grated nutmeg, 
four well beaten eggs and milk or water enough to 
make a thick batter and bake. 

CORN CAKES. 

Take two thirds wheat flour and one third corn 
meal, mix and prepare the same as wheat cakes. 

GRAHAM CAKES. 

Use two pounds of wheat flour and one pound of 
Graham flour, three ounces of baking powder, one 
fourth of a pound of sugar, one half cup of butter, six 
eggs, a little salt and milk, prepare the same as 
wheat cakes. 

RICE CAKES. 

The same as wheat cakes, only add one pint of 
boiled rice, finish and bake the same. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

One quart of luke warm water, one pint of milk, 
one ounce of yeast, a Utile sugar and salt, and buck- 
wheat flour enough to make a stiff batter, cover and 
set away over night, in the morning dissolve one 
teaspoonful of soda in warm water and add to 
the batter, beat up and bake. 

BUCKWHEAT CAKES. 

Use two thirds buckwheat, one third wheat flour, 
mix the same as Graham cakes, if they do not brown 
very good add a little molasses. 



92 BREAD, ROLLS, GEMS, ETC. 

ECONOMICAL PANCAKES. 

Make a batter using half wheat flour and the rest! 
stale bread, have about one and one half gallons 
altogether, add one ounce of yeast, a little sugar, 
salt and three well beaten eggs, let this set over 
night, in the morning add one teaspoonful of soda, 
dissolved in luke warm water, add to the batter, beat 
well and bake. Always save a cupful to make a start- 
er for the next morning, you may add any little odds 
and ends that you happen to have left, such as boiled 
rise, mush, gems, corn bread, etc., etc. 






93 



PASTES, PATTIES, PIES, ETC. 



PUFF PASTE. No. 1. 
Take two pounds of good butter and knead it in 
cold water five minutes, remove to a table and 
work it until dry and flexable, set in the ice box 
until cold and hard, sift one teaspoonful of baking 
powder with two quarts of flour, now add one third 
of the butter to the flour and mix by rubbing be- 
tween your hands until smooth, add ice water 
enough to make a stiff dough then roll out the paste 
about half an inch thick, add some more butter in 
pieces about the size of walnuts, sprinkle over with 
flour, press down with the palm of the hand, fold the 
paste over from all four sides, and roll out again 
about one fourth of an incn thick, add the rest of the 
butter, sift over a little flour and fold as before and 
roll out the third time, now fold it up, press it into 
a cake and set it on the ice until ready to use. 

PUFF PASTE No. 2. 

Sift together two quarts of flour and two tea- 
spoonseful of baking powder, add one pound of lard 
and rub into the flour until smooth and fine, now 
moisten with one pint of ice water and the whites 
of two eggs beaten stiff, mix into a smooth dough, 
roll it out into a thin sheet, add one half pound of 
butter in small pieces, sprinkle over a little flour, 
and roll it up into a long roll, double in the ends, 
flatten out and reroll, spread over another one half 
pound of butter and repeat as before, roll and double 
it up into a cake and set on the ice until ready to 
use. 

PLAIN PIE PASTE. 

Take two one half quarts of flour, add one spoon- 
ful of baking powder, a little salt and two pounds of 
lard, mix all until smooth, add ice water enough to 
make a stiff dough, work as little as possible and 
handle very lightly, set on the ice until ready to 
use. 



94 PASTES, PATTIES, PIES, ETC. 

PATTIES ON SHELLS. 

Roll out puff paste No. 2, one half inch thick and 
cut out with a glass or cookie cutter and with a 
cutter a little smaller than the first, cut the center 
almost through, place upon bake sheets and bake 
in a quick oven, when done take off the little cap, 
dig out the center and they are ready to use. 

APPLE PIE. 

Peel and core tart apples, slice very thin, and fill 
pie plates that have been previously lined with pie 
paste, sprinkle over with sugar, a little butter and 
cinnamon, cover with the top paste and bake in a 
moderate oven. 

APPLE CUSTARD PIE. 

Line the pie plates with paste, slice the apples 
very thin and half fill the plates, pour over them a 
custard made of one quart of milk, four eggs well 
beaten, one cup of sugar and a little grated nutmeg, 
bake in a moderate oven. 

APPLE MERINGUE PIE. 

Stew the apples with very little water until tender, 
sweeten to taste and add a little cinnamon, butter, 
and the yolk of one egg beaten in, fill the plates and 
bake until just done, whip up the whites of three 
eggs to a stiff froth, add half a cup of powdered 
sugar, flour, beat again and spread on the pies 
about one fourth of an inch thick, return to the 
oven and bake a golden brown. 

PEAR PIE. 

Pare, core and slice ripe pears, or take preserved 
fruit, sweeten to taste, flavor and finish the same as 
Apple pie. 

PEACH PIE. 

Peel and stone the peaches or if preserved fruit 
is used, strain off the juice, slice and sprinkle with 
sugar and finish the same as Apple pie. 

PEACH CUSTARD PIE. 

Peel and stone the peaches and slice very fine 
and finish the same as apple custard pie. 



PASTES, PATTIES, PIES, ETC. 95 

PEACH MERINGUE PIE. 

Peel, stone and stew the peaches, sweeten and 
finish the same as apple meringue pie. 

APRICOT PIE. 

Pare and stone the apricots, cut up fine, sweeten 
and finish the same as apple pie. 

APRICOT MERINGUE PIE. 

Peel, stone, and stew the fruit and finish the 
same as apple meringue pie. 

PLUM PIE. 

Remove the pits from the plums, dust lightly 
with flour sprinkle with sugar and bake the same 
as apple pie. 

RHUBARB PIE. 

Peel and cut the stalks cross wise, mix with plenty 
of sugar, add a little nutmeg and a pinch of salt 
and finish the same as apple pie. 

CHERRY PIE. 

Stone the cherries, dust over with flour, add sugar 
enough to sweeten and bake the same as apple pie. 

GRAPE PIE. 

Pick and wash the grapes, dust over with flour, 
add sugar and a little cinnamon and bake the same 
as apple pie. 

STRAWBERRY PIE. 

Pick off the stems and wash well, dust over with 
flour, add sugar enough to sweeten and fill into 
pie plates that have been lined with paste, put on the 
top paste, brush over with milk and egg and bake 
one half hour. 

BLACKBERRY PIE. 

Pick and wash the berries and prepare the same 
as strawberry pie. 

RASPBERRY PIE. 

Clean the berries and proceed the same as straw- 
berry pie. 



96 PASTES, PATTIES, PIES, ETC. 

HUCKLEBERRY PIE. 

Pick oyer the berries, wash well and finish the 
same as strawberry pie. 

CURRANT PIE. 

Clean the currants and finish the same as straw- 
berry pie. 

GOOSEBERRY PIE. 

Pick carefully and clean the berries and prepare 
the same as strawberry pie. 

CRANBERRY PIE. 

Stew the berries with very little water on them, 
sweeten to taste, when cool fill pie plates previously 
lined with pie paste, roll out and cut pie paste in 
narrow stripes, cover tue top with these strips, 
forming little squares, trim the edges and bake in 
a moderate oven. 

FRUIT CUSTARD PIE. 

All fresh fruits may be made up the same as 
apple custard pie. 

EVAPORATED OR DRIED FRUIT PIES. 

Wash the fruit thoroughly, soak over night in 
water enough to cover in the morning stew until 
tender sweeten to taste, and make the same as 
berry pie. 

MINCE PIE. 

Line the pie plates with plain pie paste, fill with 
mince meat and cover with puff paste, brush over 
with egg and milk and bake one half hour. 

PUMPKIN PIE. 

Take one can of pumpkin, the same amount of 
milk, two small cups of sugar, one half cup of molas- 
ses and four eggs well beaten, one teaspoonful each 
of ginger and cinnamon, beat altogether and bake 
with an under paste. 

SQUASH PIE. 

Take the same amount of squash as you did pump- 
kin and finish the same as pumpkin pie. 

SWEET POTATO PIE. 

The same as pumpkin pie, except substitute sweet 
potato pulp for the pumpkin. 



PASTES, PATTIES, PIES, ETC. 97 

CUSTARD PIE, No. 1. 

Line pie plates with good paste and fill with cus- 
tard made as follows: beat up ten eggs, add two 
small cups of sugar, one nutmeg grated, and two 
quarts of sweet milk, bake in a moderate oven. 

CUSTARD PIE, No. 2. 

Beat up six eggs to a cream, add one and one 
half cups of sugar, two tablespoonsful of flour, a 
pinch of salt, flavor with vanilla and nutmeg, and 
lastly one quart of milk that has been scalded and 
let cool, beat altogether, and fill pie plates that has 
been lined with puff paste and bake. 

COCOANUT CUSTARD PIE. 

Line pie plates with puff paste, add a handful of 
shredded cocoanut to each and fill with custard that 
has been flavored with vanilla, bake twenty minutes 
in a moderate oven. 

VANILLA CREAM PIE. 

Put one quart of milk on to boil, beat up four 
eggs, two small cups of sugar, and four tablespoons- 
ful of cornstarch, flavor with vanilla and beat into 
the hot milk, add a little butter and fill in pie plates 
that has been lined with good paste. Make a mer- 
ingue of the whites of two eggs beaten with two 
tablespoonsful of powdered sugar spread over the 
top and bake a golden brown. 

LEMON CREAM PIE. 

Same as vanilla cream pie, except substitute lemon 
for vanilla. 

ORANGE CREAM PIE. 

Make the same as vanilla cream pie, except substi- 
tute orange for vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM PIE. 

Add one half cup of grated chocolate to one quart 
of vanilla cream, and finish the same as vanilla 
cream pie. 

LEMON PIE. 

One quart of water, the juice and grated rind of 
four lemons, three small cups of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of butter and the yolks of six well beaten 
eggs, thicken with one half cup of corn starch, line 
pie plates with puff paste, fill. 






98 



HOT PUDDINGS 



«£• 



PLUM PUDDING. 

One pound of sugar, one pound of seeded raisins, 
one pound of currants, one pound of mixed peel 
shredded fine, one half pound of bread crumbs, one 
pound of fluor, one pound of beef suet chopped fine, 
one nutmeg grated, eight eggs well beaten, one glass 
of brandy and one level teaspoonsful of soda dissolv- 
ed in a little hot water, and the grated rind and juice 
of two lemons, clean and prepare the fruit, chop the 
suet and mix with the flour and bread crumbs, beat 
up the eggs;, add the brandy, lemon juice, soda and 
water, and mix altogether thoroughly, dampen a 
cloth and dust over with flour, put in your pudding, 
tie up tightly giving pleBity of room to swell and 
steam three and one half hours, serve with brandy 
sauce. 

STEAMED FRUIT PUDDING. 

One half pound of sugar, one fourth of a pound of 
butter, one half pound of flour, one fourth pound of 
bread crumbs, one and one half teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, one half pound of raisins, one ha!f 
pound of currants, one fourth pound of citron, ono 
cup of milk, five eggs well beaten, and the juice 
and grated rind of one lemon, work the butter and 
sugar together, add the eggs and milk, stir in the 
flour, crumbs, and the fruit and a little ground 
spice, grease cans or moulds, that have tight fitting 
covers, put in your pudding allowing room to swell 
and steam two hours, serve With brandy sauce or 
hard sauce. 

STEAMED RAISIN PUDDING. 

Prepare the same as for steamed fruit pudding, 
only add one and one half pound of raisins and no 
other fruit. 



HOT PUDDINGS 99 



STEAMED CITRON PUDDING. 

The same as steamed fruit pudding except that 
you add one pound of citron finely shredded, and 
the whites of eight eggs, do not use the yolks, steam 
about one and one half hours and serve. 

STEAMED FIG PUDDING. 

Prepare the same as steamed fruit pudding, sub- 
stitute one and one half pounds of figs in place of 
the other fruit. 

STEAMED CURRANT PUDDING. 
Prepare and steam the same as fruit pudding, 
substitute one and one half of currants tor the other 
fruit. 

SUET PUDDING. 

One pound of flour, one pound of bread crumbs, 
one pound of suet, one pound of sugar, one pound 
of raisins, one pound of currants, one pint of molas- 
ses, one teaspoonful of soda, three eggs and a little 
mixed spice. Mix and prepare the same as plum 
pudding, steam three hours, serve with brandy or 
rum sauce. 

INDIAN MEAL PUDDING. 
Take two quarts of milk, one half pound of corn 
meal, one half cup of molasses, one half pound of 
sugar, a little butter and four eggs, one half pound 
of raisins and a little cinnamon, put the milk and 
butter on to boil stir in the corn meal and le 4 : 
simmer until thoroughly done, remove from the 
fire, beat up the other ingredients and add to> the 
cooked meal, turn into a pudding dish and bake 
until firm, serve with hard or nutmeg sauce. 

FARINA PUDDING. 

Prepare and bake the same as corn meal pudding 
RICE PUDDING. 

Wash and boil one pound of rice, with a little 
salt, when cooked chain, and add one tablespoonful 
of butter, and a custard made with four egg ami 
one quart of milk, a little grating of nutmeg and 
lemon flavoring, bake one hour and serve with cream 
or hard sauce. 



100 HOT PUDDINGS 

TAPIOCA PUDDING. 

Soak one and one half pounds of tapioca one hour, 
put two quarts of milk on in a double boiler, add 
the tapioca and cook until it is of a transparent ap 
pearanee, then add one pound of sugar and three 
eggs and a little butter, flavor with lemon and serve 
with cream sauce. 

SAGO PUDDING. 

The same as tapioca pudding except that you 
substitute sago for tapioca. 

BREAD PUDDING. 

Break stale bread up into small pieces, soak in 
cold water, squeeze out dry, place lightly in a pud- 
ding dish and pour over it a custard made of one 
quart of milk, five eggs, one pound of sugar and 
flavored with nutmeg, bake one hour and serve. 

CABINET PUDDING. 

Line the pudding dish or mould with stale cake 
and pour over it a custard made of one quart of milk, 
four eggs, one fourth of a pound of sugar, steam o' 
bake for one hour and serve. 

QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

Take lady fingers or any stale sponge cake, line 
a pudding dish with it, and pour over it a cream 
made as follows, one quart of milk, the yolks of 
three eggs, and two tablespoonsful of corn starch, 
one half pound of sugar, flavor with vanilla, put the 
milk on in a double boiler and let come to a boiling 
point and stir in the eggs, sugar, corn starch and 
cook five minutes, turn over the cake and set in thp 
oven for half an hour, beat up the whites of the eggs 
with half a cup of powdered sugar, spread over the 
top of the pudding, bake a golden brown and serve. 

CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Take one quart of milk, six eggs well beaten, one 
tablespoonful of flour, one half pound of sugar, beat 
altogether, flavor with nutmeg and bake. 






HOT PUDDINGS 101 

CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PUDDING. 

Melt one half cup of grated chocolate and add to 
a plain custard pudding and bake, when done beat 
up the whites of two eggs and a little powdered 
sugar spread over the top and finish in the oven. 

FRUIT CUSTARD PUDDINGS. 

The same as custard pudding, with the addition of 
grated fruit, such as bananas, pineapple, cocoanu;, 
etc. 

STEAMED ROLL PUDDING. 

Make a paste of two pounds of flour, one fourth 
of a pound of butter or lard, four teaspoonsful ot 
baking powder, one half pound of sugar, a little salt 
and three well beaten eggs, and milk enough to 
make into a dough like for biscuits, roll out half an 
inch thick, strew over a little mixed fruit, roll up 
into a long roll and steam for two hours, serve with 
caramel or cream sauce. 

STEAMED APPLE ROLL. 

Make a paste the same as for steamed roll pud- 
ding, slice apples very thin and cover the paste with 
them, sprinkle over with sugar and flavor with 
nutmeg, roll up and steam three hours and serv3 
with custard sauce. 

STEAMED PEACH ROLL. 

Peel and stone the peaches, slice very thin and 
finish the same as steamed apple roll, serve with 
cream sauce. 

STEAMED BERRY ROLL. 

Take any fresh berries, raspberries, strawberries, 
huckleberries, etc., and finish the same as steamed 
apple roll, serve with sauce. 

BAKED OR STEAMED DUMPLINGS. 
Take paste the same as for steamed roll, roll out 
and cut into six inch squares, peel and quarter nice 
tart apples, place one on each square of paste, add 
sugar and spice and a little butter, fold the edgeo 
altogether, and steam or bake for one and one half 
hours, serve with nutmeg sauce. 



102 HOT PUDDINGS 



PEACH DUMPLINGS. 

Peel the peaches, cut in half and remove the stone 
and prepare the same as apple dumplings. 

FRUIT DUMPLINGS. 

Berries, pineapple, or dried fruits may be, made 
into dumplings, prepare the same as apple dump- 
lings. 

COTTAGE PUDDING. 

Take one quart of flour and two teaspoonful of bak- 
ing powder, one cup of sugar, two cups of milk, 
three eggs well beaten, one half cup of butter, a grac 
ing of nutmeg, cream and butter and sugar, and add 
eggs and the milk, and then the flour; mix well and 
bake in a moderate oven, and serve with cream 
sauce. 

FRUIT CHARLOTTE. 

Line a bake dish with stale bread cut thin, then a 
layer of mixed fruit, such as apples, bananas, 
peaches, berries, etc., sprinkle over with sugar and a 
little butter and cinnamon and then another layer 
of bread, fruit, etc., until the dish is full, moisten 
with a custard made as follows, one quart of milk 
and three well beaten eggs, bake in a moderate oven 
and serve with sweet sauce. 

PEACHES WITH RICE. 

Peel large nice peaches, cut in half and remove 
the stone, make a syrup sauce and stew the peaches 
in it until tender, boil some rice until tender, drain 
and add butter and sugar, and serve with a spoonful 
of rice on a pudding dish with half a peach on top 
and some of the sauce poured over. 



103 

COLD PUDDINGS AND JELLIES 



*&* 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

Stew two pounds of prunes until tender, remove 
the pits, add two cups of sugar and thfe grated rind 
and juice of one lemon, return to the fire and let 
come to a boil, thicken with corn starch so that it 
will ju'st drop from the point of a spoon, turn into 
a pudding mould and set on the ice until cold, serve 
with whipped cream, or plain cream sauce. 

CORN STARCH BLANCE MANGE. 
Take two quarts of sweet milk and bring to a 
boiling point, add a little butter and one pound of 
sugar, dissolve three fourths of a pounds of corn 
starch in one quart of cold milk and stir into the 
hot milk, let it cook about five minutes and removf 
from the fire, beat up the whites of three eggs good 
and stiff and blend into the Blance Mange and set 
on the ice until cold, serve with custard sauce. 

ORANGE PUDDING. 

Pee 1 ! and slice oranges very thin, sprinkle over 
with powdered sugar and turn over them a coin 
starch Blanc Mange and set on the ice until ready 
to serve. 

PINEAPPLE PUDDING. 

Peel and slice the pineapple very thin. Prepare 
and finish the same as orange pudding. 

STRAWBERRY PUDDING. 

Pick the berries over carefully and wash well. 
Prepare and finish the same as orange pudding. 

BANANAS PUDDING. 
Peel and slice one half dozen bananas thin and 
mix with the Blanche Mange and serve with cus- 
tard sauce. 



104 COLD PUDDINGS 

CHOCOLATE BLANCE MANGE 
Beat in one cup of grated chocolate into a corn 
starch Blance Mange and set on the ice to cool, serve 
with cream sauce. 

STRAWBERRY SHORT CAKE. 

Sift two quarts of flour with four teaspoonsful of 
baking powder, add one tablespoonful of salt, and 
one heaping cupful of butter and lard mixed, and 
one cup of sugar, add milk enough to mix into a 
medium dough, divide the dough in half and roll 
out one quarter inch in thickness, place upon a bake 
sheet and brush over with butter, now roll out the 
other half and place upon the first and bake in a. 
moderate oven for half an hour, pick over the berries 
and wash them, take about half of them and crush 
to a pulp, add sugar and the remaining berries, spl't 
the short cake and put plenty of berries in between 
and a good lot on top, sprinkle over with powderel 
sugar and serve with cream. 

RASPBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Pick over the berries, prepare and finish the 
same as strawberry shortcake. 

HUCKLEBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

Take one quart of flour, one pint of sweet milk, 
two cu^pfuls of sugar, half a cupful of butter, one 
teaspoonful of salt and two of baking powder, make 
into a thick batter and add one quart of huckleber- 
ries, spread out half an inch thick on a bake sheet 
and bake in a moderate oven, to serve, cut in squares 
and serve hot with butter. 

BLACKBERRY SHORTCAKE. 

The same as strawberry shortcake except sub- 
stitute ripe blackberries for strawberries. 

PEACH SHORTCAKE. 

The same as strawberry shortcake, except sub- 
stitute sliced peaches for strawberries. 

BANANA SHORTCAKE. 

Make a cake of two cups of flour, one cup of sugar, 
three eggs well beaten, one tablespoonful of butte»*, 
one teaspoonful of baking powder and milk enough 



COLD PUDDINGS 105 

to make into a thick batter/ spread on a bake sheet 
half an inch thick and bake, when cool split the cake, 
and put a layer of sliced bananas in between, 
spread over with a cupful of vanilla cream, pu- 
on the top cake and another layer of bananas and 
cream, beat up the whites of three eggs to a stiff 
froth, add three tablespoonisful of powdered sugar, 
spread over the top and brown in the oven, serve 
with cream. 

RHUBARB SHORTCAKE. 
The same as banana shortcake, except substitute 
rhubarb for bananas. 

ORANGE SHORTCAKE. 

The same as banana shortcake, except substitut-j 
sliced oranges for bananas. 

BOILED CUSTARD. 

Beat seven eggs very light, omiting the whites 
of two, add one quart of milk and half a cup of 
sugar, put in a double boiler and let come to a boil- 
ing point, remove from the fire and let cool, beat 
up the whites of two eggs with two tablespoonsful of 
powdered sugar and a little grated nutmeg, added, 
when the custard is cold heap this on top and serve. 

LEMON CUSTARD. 

The same as boiled custard, omiting the nutmeg, 
and add lemon flavoring. 

ORANGE CUSTARD. 

The same as boiled custard with the addition o.' 
the juice of two oranges added. 

BANANA CUSTARD. 

Beat up seven eggs very light, add one quart of 
milk and one cup of sugar, add one half dozen b9 
nanas, sliced thin, and bake, beat up the whites of 
three eggs with half a cup of powdered sugar, spread 
over the top of the custard when done, and brown 
in the oven, serve with whipped cream. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE No. 1. 

Line a pudding mould with sponge cake or lady 
fingers, make a custard of one pint of milk, six well 
beaten eggs, one cup of sugar and flavor with vanilla,. 
cook in a double boiler, until it is a thick custard, 



106 • COLD PUDDINGS 

soak one ounce of gelatine in a little water and when 
the custard is cold add the gelatine and one quart of 
cream that has been whipped to a stiff froth, blend 
all together well, turn into the mould and set on 
ice until serving time. 

CHARLOTTE RUSSE, No. 2. 

Line a glass dish with lady fingers and fill with 
whipped cream, flavor and set on the ioe until 
time to serve. 

WHIPPED CREAM. 

Whip some double cream quite stiff, add a little 
powdered sugar and flavor with vanilla. 

FRUIT SALAD. 

Put into a glass fruit dish, one small pineapple 
sliced, three oranges sliced thin and one half dozer 
bananas sliced, make a syrup of one half pint of 
water and one cup of sugar boil together five min- 
utes, then add one glass of brandy, turn over the 
fruit and set it on ice until time to swerve. 

LEMON JELLY. 

To one package of gelatine, add one pint of cold 
water, let stand one hour, then add the juice of 
four lemons and the grated rind of one, three cups 
of 'sugar and one pint of boiling water, let it all 
come to a boiling point and strain into moulds and 
set on the ice to cool. 

ORANGE JELLY. 

The same as lemon jelly except substitute oranges 
for lemons, add also the juice of two lemons. 

FRUIT JELLY. 

Into a jelly mould slice three bananas, a little 
pineapple and two oranges and pour over one quart 
of lemon jelly and set away to cool. 

WINE JELLY. 

Take one two ounce package of gelatine and soak 
in half a pint of cold water, then add three cups 01 
sugar, and the juice of three lemons and the grated 
rind of one, now add one quart of boiling water ami 
stir until the gelatine is all dissolved, strain and add 
one pint of good wine, pour into moulds and set in 
the ice box to cool. 



107 



SWEET SAUCES FOR PUDDINGS, 
FRITTERS, ETC. 



«$* 



PLAIN SWEET SAUCE. 

One quart of water, two tablespoonsful of corn 
starch, one and one half cups of sugar and the 
juice of one lemon, a little grated nutmeg. 
WINE SAUCE. 
Take one quart of sweet sauce and add a glass of 
port or Mladeira wine. 

BRANDY SAUCE. 
One quart of sweet sauce seasoned with nutmeg 
and cinnamon, add a glass of brandy and a tea- 
spoonful of carmel. 

RUM SAUCE. 
Make a plain sweet sauce, to a quart add one 
tablespoonful of caramel and one cup of rum. 
CREAM SAUCE. 
One quart of half cream and half milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter and one half pound of sugar, bring 
to a boil and add two tablespoonsful of corn starcb, 
stir over the fire until it thickens, flavor as yoa 
desire and serve. 

ALMOND SAUCE. 
Make a plain custard sauce and add chopped ai- 
monds to it. 

CUSTARD SAUCE. 
Beat up six eggs, two cups of sugar and one 
tablespoonful of corn stach together and add one 
quart of milk boiling hot, flavor as you desire. 
CARAMEL SAUCE. 
Two cups of brown sugar, put it on in a fry pan 
over a slow fire and keep stirring it until it is all 
melted and a golden brown, add one pint of water 
and a large spoonful of butter and two tablespoons- 
full of corn starch, a little vanilla flavoring and iu 
is ready to serve. 



108 SWEET SAUCES 



CHOCOLATE SAUCE. 

Take two cu^b of sugar, a spoonful of butter ani 
half a cup of fleur, mix well together, add one quart 
of boiling milk and a small cake of grated chocolate 

CHERRY SAUCE. 

Make a syrup sauce of two cups of sugar and a 
pint of water, let boil and add one pint of cherries, 
pitted, stew about half an hour and serve. 

LEMON SAUCE. 
Two cups of sugar and half cup of flour, one 
spoonful of butter, add one quart of boiling wate.*, 
the juice of three lemons and the grated rind of one, 
beat in the yolks of three eggs. 

ORANGE SAUCE. 

Make the same as lemon sauce only substitute 
oranges. 

NUTMEG SAUCE. 

One cup of sugar, one half cup of flour, one 
ounce of butter, and one grated nutmeg, beat in one 
pint of boiling water and one of milk. 

GOLDEN SAUCE. 

The same as nutmeg add the yolks of half a dozen 
eggs and beat up well. 

RAISIN SAUCE. 

Take the nutmeg sauce and add one pound of 
chopped raisins and the juice of one lemon. 

VANILLA SAUCE. 

Two' cups of sugar and one half cup of flour, one 
ounce of butter, mix well together and add a quart 
of boiling milk, flavor with vanilla. 

HARD SAUCE. 

One pound of sugar, three quarters of a pound of 
butter, creamed well together, beat the whites of 
two eggs well and flavor as you desire, blend alto- 
gether and keep on ice until served. 

SABA YON SAUCE. 

Into a rich custard sauce, work a glass of brandy 
or a good white wine. 



109 



CAKES, COOKIES AND FRIEDCAKES 



CAKES 

CAKE MAKING. 

In cake making great care should be taken, let 
everything be the very best, and see that you have 
everything at hand before you start mixing. 

The flour shouid be soft, winter wheat is best, and 
always sift it well before using. 

Baking powder, cream tartar and all dry ingre- 
dients should be sifted with the flour before using. 

Fruits for cakes should oe washed well, and dried 
and dusted over with flour to prevent it settling to 
the bottom of the cake while baking. 

Cream the butter and sugar, beat the eggs separ- 
ately and then add the flavoring and lastly the flour. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

Cream together one half pound of butter and on 3 
half pound of sugar, add six eggs well beaten, ona 
small cup of molasses with half a teaspoonful of soda 
dissolved in it, one nutmeg grated, and a teaspoon- 
ful of each, cloves, cinnamon, alspice and one wine 
glass of brandy, stir altogether and add one and one 
half pounds of flour, and one and one half pounds 
of seeded raisin, one pound of currants cleaned, and 
one half pound of candied peel shredded fine, the 
fruit should be well floured before adding, mix well 
together and bake in a moderate oven. 

WHITE FRUIT CAKE. 

Take one half pound of butter, one pound of suga - * 
and cream together, add the whites of seven eggs 
beaten stiff, a little lemon flavoring, and one half 
pint of sweet milk, beat in one and one fourtn 
pounds of flour that has been sifted with two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, then add one pound of 
seeded raisins and one pound of blanched almondo 
chopped, and one fourth pound of citron peel shred- 



110 CAKES 

ded fine, also one fourth pound of cocoanut, sift a 
little flour over the fruit before stirring it in, bake 
in a moderate oven about two hours. 
POUND CAKE. 

One pound of sugar and three fourths pound of 
butter creamed together, beat in one dozen eggs a 
few at a time and a little lemon flavoring, then ad'l 
one pound of flour and one teaspoonful of baking 
powder, mix lightly but thoroughly, bake in pans or 
moulds, lined with paper and in a moderate oven, 
when done turn out on a board bestrewn with sugar 
to prevent it from sticking, allow the cake to col 
before covering with icing. 

CITRON CAKE. 

The sarnie as pound cake, except add one pound of 
citron shredded fine and dusted with flour. 
RAISIN CAKE. 

The same as citron cake except add one pound of 
raisins seeded, and dusted with flour. 
CURRANT CAKE. 

The same as raisin cake, except substitute cur- 
rants for raisins. 

ANGEL FOOD. 

Beat up the writes of thirty-six eggs to a stiff 
froth, add one and one half pounds of powderel 
sugar, flavor with vanilla and one and one fourta 
pounds of flour, sifted with one teaspoonful of cream 
of tartar, bake in moulds free from grease, in a siovv 
oven, when done place the moulds upside down and 
allow the cake to cool, then with a knife loosen the 
cake around the edges, tap on the table to detach, 
and ice over with vanilla iceing. 
GOLD CAKE. 

The same as angle food, except add the beaten 
yolks of the eggs and one half cup of milk and finish 
the same. 

WHITE CAKE. 

One pound of granulated sugar, one pound of but- 
ter creamed together, the whites of eight eggs 
beaten stiff, flavor with vanilla, add one pint of 
milk, ane one and one half pounds of flour with thres 
teaspoonsful of baking powder sifted together, bake 
in a moderate quick oven. 



CAKES 1 1 1 

CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

The same as white cake with three ounces of grat- 
ed chocolate melted and added ice with vanilla 
icing. 

WINE CAKE. 

Two and one half pounds of sugar, one pound of 
butter creamed together, the yo>lk# of ten eggs, one 
and one half quarts of milk, four and one half pounds 
of flour and three ounces of baking powder, flavor 
with lemon-, mix and bake the same as loaf cake. 
Ice with golden icing. 

CUP CAKE. 

The same as wine cake, only bake in small moulds 
or cups, when done remove from the moulds and ice 
the tops and strew over with cocoanut. 

JELLY LAYER CAKE. 

On« and one half pounds of sugar, three fourths of 
a pound of butter creamed together, and nine eggs 
well beaten, one pint of milk, flavor with vanilla 
and add two- and two thirds pound sof flour and five 
tea#poonsful of baking powder, bake in layer tins 
and spread with fruit jelly. 

LOAF CAKE. 

Take two pounds of sugar and one pound of but- 
ter, cream together, and add six well beaten eggs, 
dissolve three teaspoonsful of soda in a little ho* 
water, add one tablespoonful of cinnamon and one 
nutmeg grated, three pounds of sifted flour and on 3 
pound of raisins seeded and chopped and one pound 
of currants well washed. Mix well together and 
bake in loaf tins in a moderate oven. 

LUNCH CAKE. 

One pound of sugar, one half pound of butter 
creamed together, the yolks of five eggs, one and 
one half pints of milk, two and one half p »uiids of 
flour and four teaspoonsful of baking powder, one 
tablespoonful of cinnamon, and two pounds of cur- 
rants, washed and cleaned, mix well and bake in 
small loaf tins in a moderate oven. 



112 CAKES 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

Two pounds of sugar and one and one fourth 
pounds of butter creamed together. Beat up the 
white© of ten eggs to a stiff froth and add one pint of 
milk, sift together two and two thirds pounds of flour 
and three teaspoonsful of baking powder, mix al- 
together and bake in layer tins. For caramel filling 
see cake fillings. 

MARBLE CAKE. 

Take caramel cake mixture, color one part red, 
another chocolate, and leave one part plaine. Place 
marble like into paper lined tins, and bake in a mod- 
erate oven. When done remove from the tins and ice 
over with vanilla icing . 

LEMON SPONGE CAKE. 

One pound of sugar and ten eggs, beat up together 
for five minutes, add one half cup of milk, and one 
and one fourth pound of flour with one teaspoonfu! 
of baking powder added, beat altogether and bake 
in layer tins, when cool fill with lemon filling and ice 
over. 

JELLY SPONGE CAKE. 

The same as lemon sponge cake, except spread 
fruit jelly between the layers and ice over. 

JELLY ROLL. 

Take the mixture the same as for jelly sponge 
cake and spread out on a paper lined baking sheet 
about one fourth of an inch thick and bake in a hot 
oven, when done, immediately turn the cake bottom 
side up on a paper covered slab or table, the paper 
previously dusted over with sugar. Remove the 
paper lining from the cake, spread over with jelly 
and roll up, forming a long roll, dust over with 
powdered sugar, and cut in the desired lengths. 

FIG ROLL. 

The same as jelly roll, except when the cake is 
done, spread over with fig filling and finish the same 

VANILLA CREAM CAKE. 

Make a batter of one pound of sugar, two table- 
spoonsful of butter and eight eggs creamed together 
add one cup of milk, and one and one half pounds of 



CAKES 113 

flour sifted with two teaspoonsful of baking powder, 
the juice and grated rind of one lemon, mix well 
together and bake in layer tins, when done spread 
a vanilla cream filling between the layers and ice 
over with vanilla icing See filling, for vanilla cream 
filling. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM CAKE. 

Mix and bake the same as vanilla cream cake and 
fill with chocolate cream filling. For filling, see 
fillings. 

ORANGE OR LEMON CREAM CAKE. 

Mix and bake the same as vanilla cream cake and 
fill With the various fillings. 

LADY FINGERS. 

One half pound of sugar, ten eggs, one half pound 
of flour, and vanilla flavor, beat the sugar and yolks 
together until .spongy, beat the whites very firm an 1 
mix in, add the flavor and mix in the flour lightly, 
lay out in finger shapes upon sheets of paper, using 
a paistry bag and lady finger tube, sift powderei 
sugar over, and place upon bake sheets and bake 
in a hot oven, when done, allow to cool, wet the 
under side of the paper and when the cakes become 
moist, take off and stick two together. 

MACAROONS. 

One and one fourth pounds of almond paste, three 
fourths of a pound of powdered sugar, three fourths 
of a pound of granulated sugar, one ounce of flour, 
and about eight or nine whites of eggs, form the 
whole into a paste and lay out in dots on paper, upon 
baking sheets, dust over lightly with powdered 
sugar and bake in a slack oven, when done, allow to 
cool, wet the under side of the paper and take off. 

GINGER BREAD. 

Cream together one half pound of sugar and one 
half pound of butter, add six well beaten eggs, one 
quart of molasses and one quart of sour milk, and 
one and one half ounces of soda, two teaspoonsful 
of ground ginger, one of cinnamon and one half of 
alspice, mix well together and add three and one half 
pounds of flour, bake in paper lined moulds or tins, 
when done ice over with a plain icing or if served 
hot dust over with powdered sugar and serve. 



1 14 CAKES 

JUMBLES. 
Cream together one pound of sugar and one half 
pound of butter, add three well beaten eggs and one 
half cup of milk, add two teaspoonsful of baking 
powder and one and one half pounds of flour or 
enough to make into a soft dough, break off pieces 
the size of a walnut and roll out in finger shaped 
rolls, join the ends and place upon a bake sheet and 
bake in a moderate oven. 

FRUIT JUMBLES. 

The same as the above receipt except add a little 
more flour and one pound of mixed fruit and finisn 
the same. 

COOKIES. 

Cream two cups of sugar and one of butter, add 
two eggs and one cup of sweet milk, half a nutmeg 
grated, and five cups of flour sifted with two tea- 
spoonsful of baking powder, mix into a soft dough 
and roll out one quarter or an inch in thickness, cut 
with a cookie cutter, place upon bake sheets and 
bake in a brisk oven, water may be used in place of 
milk. 

LEMON COOKIES. 

The san*e as plain cookies, except add the juice 
and grated rind of two lemons in place of the nut- 
meg. 

SUGAR COOKIES. 

One cup of butter, and two of sugar, creamed to 
gether, add flavor with vanilla, three eggs well beat 
en, one half cup of milk and three teaspoonsful of 
baking powder mixed with one and one half pounds 
of flour or enough to make a soft dough, roll out m 
a thin sheet, and cut with a Cookie cutter, have a 
pan with some granulated sugar in it, as you cut the 
cookies lay them in this, and then onto a baking 
sheet, and bake in a hot oven. 






CAKES 115 



GINGER COOKIES. 

C^eam together one cup of sugar, and one cup of 
butter, add one cup of molasses and one egg, one 
half cup of sour milk one teaspoonful of soda dis- 
solved in boiling water and one tablespoonful of gin- 
ger, mix in flour enough to make a soft dough and 
finish the same as sugar cookies. 

DOUGHNUTS OR FRIEDCAKES. 

Success in making good friedcakes depends as 
much on the cooking as in the mixing of them. In 
the first place there should be plenty of hot lard, 
and the lard should never be so hot that it will 
smoke or cool enough to boil, fried cakes will cook 
in about five minutes and doughnuts eight minutes, 
when done dust over with powdered sugar. 

Never stir cake after the butter and sugar is 
creamed, but beat clown from the bottom,, and over, 
this laps air into the cake batter, and produces little 
air cells, which causes the dough to puff and swell 
when it conies in contact with the heat while bak- 
ing. 

Cakes when done will show a slight springiness 
when pressed down upon the surface with the fing- 
ers, or try it with a straw or wire, and if done it 
will come out clean and smooth, and the cake will 
do to' take out. 

FRIED CAKES. 

Cream together one pound of sugar and one fourth 
pound of butter, yolks of twelve eggs, two and one 
half pints of milk, a little nutmeg and lemon flavor- 
ing, four pounds of flour sifted with two ounces of 
baking powder, mix well together into a soft dough, 
roll out about three fourths of an inch in thickness, 
and cut with a fruit cake cutter and fry immediately 

DOUGHNUTS. 

Take dough the same as for plain rolls, roll out 
one fourth of an inch in thickness and cut with a 
doughnut cutter, lay on a board that has been 
dusted with flour, and cover with a cloth to rise, fry 
and finish the same as fruit cakes. 



116 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS FOR CAKES 






ICINGS. 

Use nothing but very fine powdered sugar, and 
have the whites of the eggs ice cold. Spread the 
icing over the cakes with a broad thin knife, and if 
the first should be a little thin let it dry a little and 
apply a second coating. 

The flavors generally used are Lemon, Orange, 
Vanilla, Chocolate, Almond and Rose. 

PLAIN ICING. 

Take the whites of three eggs and one pound of 
sugar. Have the whites of the eggs in a bowl and 
add a little of the sugar; beat with a spoon or pad- 
dle for about ten minutes, adding a little of the sugar 
at intervals until all the sugar is all used up. This 
makes a tender icing and one that will dry much 
sooner than the old way . 

WATER ICING. 

Water icing is made of fine powdered sugar, work- 
ed into a paste with water or orange, lemon or fruit 
juices, it may be colored any shade desired, to obtain 
a glossy surface, the cakes after being iced over must 
be set at the oven door to slightly dry. 

BOILED ICING. 

Take one pound of sugar and one quarter of a 
pint of water and boil until it clears and threads 
from the spoon, beat up the whites of two eggs until 
stiff, now add the boiled sugar by degrees and beat 
briskly until it becomes snowy white and the thick- 
ness desired. 

CHOCOLATE ICING. 

Add three ounces of melted chocolate and half a 
teaspoonful of butter to boiled icing, beat altogether 
and it is ready to use. 



ICINGS AND FILLINGS FOR CAKES 117 



ALMOND ICING. 

Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, pound them 
in a mortor with a little sugar, until a fine paste and 
Add to a plain icing. 

TUTTI FRUITTI ICING. 

Mix with a boiled icing, one half pound of mixed 
candied fruit chopped fine, beat up and use. 

FLAVORED ICINGS. 

Take either plain icing or boiled icing and flavor 
as desired, lemon, orange, vanilla, rose, etc. 

GOLDEN ICING. 

Take the yolks of the eggs and prepare the sam° 
as plain icing, flavor as desired. 

COCOANUT ICING. 
Ice the cake with plain icing and take a handful of 
cocoanut and shake over the cake and press with 
the hand. 

FILLINGS FOR LAYER CAKES. 
VANILLA CREAM. 
Put one pint of milk on to boil, beat up two eggs, 
add one cup of sugar, and half a cup of corn starch, 
and one tablespoonful of butter, mix well together 
and add the hot milk, stir briskly and let cook five 
minutes longer and let cool, flavor with vanilla. 

CHOCOLATE CREAM. 
Add one half cup of grated choclate to a vanilla 
cream filling. 

ORANGE OR LEMON CREAM. 
One pint of milk, the yolks of four eggs, one table- 
spoonful of corn starch and one and one half cups of 
sugar, the juice of two lemons and the grated rind 
of one. Prepare the same as vanilla cream. 

BANANA FILLING. 
To one cup of plain icing add three bananas mash- 
ed fine and the juice of one lemon. 
ORANGE FILLING. 
Peel two large oranges, remove the seeds, and 
chop fine, also the juice of half a lemon and add to 
one cup of plain icing. 



118 ICINGS AND FILLINGS FOR CAKES 

RAISIN FILLING. 

Chop one half pound of seeded raisins and add to 
one cup of plain icing also the juice of half a lemon. 

CARMEL FILLING. 

One half pound of brown sugar, and one table- 
spoonful of cold water, put the sugar and water on 
to boil, stir, and let boil until it is a golden brown, 
beat up the whites of two eggs and two tablespoons- 
ful of butter and three of water, beat this into the hot 
sugar and beat until it is cool. 

FIG FILLING. 

Wash and chop one pound of figs, and stew until 
tender, add one cup of sugar and let it stew until 
thick. 

NUT FILLING, 

Chop one half pound of mixed nut meats fine and 
add to one cup of plain icing. 

LEMON JELLY FILLING. 

Put one cup of water on to boil, add two cups of 
sugar, one tablespoonful of butter, the yolks of 
three eggs, and the grated rind and juice of two 
lemons, let boil three minutes and add one table- 
spoonful of corn starch. 



119 



ICE CREAMS, WATER ICES, 
PUNCHES, ETC. 



i? 



ICE, CR.EAM 

In preparing ice cream be sure that the can and 
all utensils are thoroughly clean. Place the can in 
the freezing tub and surround it with cracked ice 
mixed with course rock salt, strain the ingredients 
into the can, put on the cover and turn until it is of 
a smooth and firm consistency, which will take about 
twenty five or thirty five minutes, in freezing the 
preparation should increase about one third, there- 
fore you should never fill the freezing can very full, 
draw the water off the freezing tub occassionally 
and replace with more ice and salt, care should be 
taken not to have the cream turned too long, as the 
cream will often churn, or otherwise become too 
hard, which impairs its flavor, appearance and value, 
if the ice cream is to be kept for some time, it should 
be repacked with plenty of ice and salt, and the tub 
covered over with a burlap or a sack of some kind. 

Fresh fruit, such as peaches, bananas, strawber- 
ries, raspberries, etc., should be crushed and passed 
through a fine colander, and the pulp mixed with 
sugar in quantity according to the acidity of the fruit, 
and should be added when the cream is half or 
nearly frozen. The same rule should be applied to al- 
coholic liquors. Be careful in using flavoring ex 
tracts and essences and use sparringly as it takes 
but very little. 

ICE CREAM, No. 1. 

One gallon of cream and one and one half pound 
of sugar dissolved in it, flavor and freeze. 



120 ICE CREAMS, ETC. 

ICE CREAM, No. 2. 

Take two quarts of milk and two quarts of cream, 
two pounds of sugar, ten eggs and two ounces of corn 
starch, place the milk and half the sugar on the fire 
and let come to a boiling point, mix the eggs, sugar 
and corn starch together, and stir in the boiling milk, 
return to the fire and thicken but do not. boil, add 
the cream and set where it will cool, flavor, strain 
and freeze. 

ICE CREAM, No. 3. 

One gallon of milk, twelve eggs, two and on s 
half pounds of sugar, and four ounces of corn starch. 
Prepare and finish the same as No. 2. 

VANILLA ICE CREAM. 

Add vanilla flavor to any one of the ice cream 
preparations and freeze in the usual way. 

LEMON ICE CREAM. 

Add the extract of lemon to> either preparation 
1, 2 or 3, but the flavor of the fresh fruit is much 
more desirable if you have it, to a gallon of pre 
pared cream add the juice and grated rind of two 
lemons and freeze. 

ORANGE ICE CREAM. 

The same as lemon, except substitute oranges for 
lemon. 

STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. 

Add two quarts of crushed strawberries to a gal- 
lon of prepared cream and freeze. 

RASPBERRY ICE CREAM. 

The same as strawberry ice cream, substitute 
raspberries for strawberries and freeze. 

PEACH ICE CREAM. 

Add to either of the ice cream preparation, two 
quarts of peach pulp and one half dozen of the kern- 
els crushed. 

BANANA ICE CREAM. 

Crush to a pulp one dozen bananas and add a few 
drops of banana extract to either preparation 1, 2 or 
3, and freeze in the usual way. 



ICE CREAMS, ETC. 121 

PINEAPPLE ICE CREAM. 

Add one quart of grated pine apple to either re 
ceipt 1, 2 or 3, and a little pineapple extract and 
freeze. 

CHOCOLATE IC ECREAM. 

Dissolve a small cake of unsweetened chocolate 
in a little milk and &dd to preparation 1, 2 or 3, and 

COFFEE ICE CREAM. 

Add one quart of good coffee and half a pound of 
sugar to either preparation 2 or 3, and freeze. 

CARAMEL ICE CREAM. 

Make the same as No. 2, except take the sugar, 
add a little water and boil until a light brown, stir 
this into the cooked ingredients, add two quarts of 
cream, and freeze in the usual way. 

PHILADELPHIA ICE CREAM. 

Freeze receipt No. 1 and add two quarts of whip- 
ped cream and flavor with vanilla. 

NEAPOLITAN ICE CREAM. 

Take one gallon of cream that is frozen hard anl 
divide it into three equal parts and color one with 
chocolate, another with rose or strawberry as rel, 
and flavor the other with vanilla as white, place in 
brick shaped moulds in three layers first red, thei 
white and then chocolate, close the moulds carefully 
and pack in ice and salt and allow to freeze three or 
four hours. To remove the ice cream from the 
moulds dip them in hot water, and hastily remove 
the lids and turn out on a cold board, cut in slices 
across the layers and serve. 

TUTTI FRUITTI ICE CREAM. 

Add one pound of finely chopped assorted candie 1 
fruits to preparation 1 or 2, and place in moulds 
and freeze, and serve the same as Napolitan ice 
cream. 

WATER ICES. 

Water ice consists of sugar fruit and water, and 
are frozen the same as ice cream. When fresh fruit 
cannot be had preserved fruit may be used as the 
latter contains more sugar, less sugar should be 
used than the receipt calls for. 



122 ICE CREAMS, ETC. 

SHERBET. 

They differ from water ices in being lighter and 
more frothy. The addition of three or four whites of 
eggs beaten stiff and stirred into the preparation of 
any of the water ices will produce this result. 
PEACH WATER ICE. 

Three quarts of water, two pounds of sugar the 
juice of four lemons, and one and one half quarts 
of peach pulp, mix altogether and let stand about 
two hours, strain and freeze. 

PINEAPPLE WATER ICE. 

The same as lemon water ice except omit the rinds 
and add one quart of grated pineapple after the 
ice is frozen. 

STRAWBERRY WATER ICE. 

Take three quarts of water, two pounds of sugar, 
juice of five lemons and two quarts of strawberry 
pulp and a little red coloring, mix, strain and freeze. 
RASPBERRY WATER ICE. 

Same as strawberry water ice except substitute 
raspberries for strawberries. 

LEMON WATER ICE. 

Take three quarts of water, two pounds of sugar 
and half a dozen lemons, dissolve the sugar in the 
water grate the rind of two of the lemons and boil 
ten minutes in a little of the water, let cool and 
add the juice of the lemons, mix altogether, strain 
and freeze. 

ORANGE WATER ICE. 

Take three quarts of water, two pounds of suga* 
half a dozen oranges and two lemons, dissolve the 
sugar in the Water, add the grated rind of two 
oranges that has been boiled in a little water and 
the juices of the lemons and oranges, four yolks of 
eggs beaten, stir altogether, strain and freeze. 
BANANA SHERBET. 

Take two quarts of water, one and one half pounds 
of sugar, one half dozen bananas crushed to a pulp, 
the juice of two lemons, mix and freeze, when about 
half frozen add the whites of four eggs beatea 
stiff. 

PEACH SHERBET. 

Same as banana sherbet, excGjfpt substitute one and 
one half quarts of peach pulp for the bananas. 



ICE CREAMS, ETC. 123 

PINEAPPLE SHERBET. 

Prepare and mix the same as banana sherbet, ex- 
cept substitute one quart of grated pineapple pulp 
for the bananas. 

PUNCHES. 

They are prepared and frozen the same as water 
ices. Just before serving add what ever liquors 
you want and a Meringue paste made by beating 
the whites of four eggs and add three fourths of a 
pound of powdered sugar. 

RUM PUNCH. 

Two and one half quarts of water, the rind of one 
and the juice of six lemons. Prepare the same as 
lemon water ice, after the punch is frozen work in 
one half pint of rum and a meringue paste made of 
the whites of four eggs and three fourths of a pound 
of sugar, turn three minutes and serve. 
MARASCHINO PUNCH. 

The same as rum punch, substitute one half pint 
of Maraschino for the rum and freeze. 
ROMAN PUNCH. 

The same as rum punch, except use one half 
brandy instead of all rum and finish the same. 
MADERIA PUNCH. 

The same as rum punch, except substitute one 
pint of Maderia wine for the rum. 

LALLA ROOKH PUNCH. 

Prepare and freeze two quarts of vanilla ice cream 
then add one fourth of a pint of rum and one half 
pint of sherry wine, turn five minutes longer and 
serve. 

FROZEN MILK P.UNCH. 

Scald two quarts of cream, add three quarters of 
a pound of sugar, a little grated nutmeg, a small 
piece of stick cinnamon, one fourth of a pint of rum, 
let stand for one hour then strain and freeze. Short- 
ly before serving whip one pint of cream stiff and 
add to the punch. 

FROZEN EGG NOG. 

Beat up eight eggs, add one half pound of sugar 
and one quart of milk, strain and freeze, when al 
most frozen add one half pint of rum and one half 
pint of brandy, finish and serve in glasses with a 
little nutmeg grated on top. 



124 



BEVERAGES 






ir 



COFFEE. 

To make good coffee use three fourths Java and 
ore fourth Mocha as this blend makes the very 
best coffee. 

Boiling water is a very important factor in mak- 
ing a good cup of coffee, but the average cook is 
very apt to over look this fact, coffee to be good 
should be boiled about three minutes, whether it 
be made in an urn or pot, but be careful and do not 
let it boil after the first time as that will spoil the 
best of coffee. In making coffee it should always be 
weighed or measured, so that it may always be the 
same, and insure a good cup of coffee. To one gal- 
lon of water take seven ounces of coffee, add one 
egg and the crushed shell and half a cup of cold 
water, mix well and add two quarts of boiling water 
and let come to a boil, and boil about three minutes, 
now add one and three fourths quarts of boiliog 
water and set on the back part of the range for about 
ten minutes, and it is ready to serve. Serve with 
cream and sugar. 

TEA. 

A good blend is one half Japan and one half Eng- 
lish Breakfast mixed. To make a good cup of tea, 
the first thing to be done is cleanse the tea pot 
thoroughly, use one half ounce of tea to one quart of 
boiling water, be sure that the water is boiling, but 
do not let it boil after., you have added the tea, set 
on the back part of the range for ten minutes, and 
it is ready to serve. 

ICtD TEA. 

Make the tea a little stronger, then when you 
serve it hot let it steep about half an hour and pour 
over cracked ice, strain and serve a slice of lemon 
in each glass. 

ICED COFFEE. 

Take good strong coffee and pour over cracked 
ice, strain and serve the same as iced tea. 



BEVERAGES 125 

CHOCOLATE. 

Take one cup of grated chocolate and add one pir-t 
of boiling water, let it boil about five minutes, then 
add three pints of hot milk and serve. 

COCOA. 

Use the same amount of cocoa as you do choco- 
late, rub the cocoa smooth in a little cold water and 
prepare the same as chocolate. 

LEMONADE. 

Take four large lemons to one quart of water and 
sweeten to taste. Peel the lemons, add one cup of 
sugar, and pound them together five minutes, add 
the juice and the pulp and then the water, and a little 
cracked ice, stir up well and strain, serve with a 
straw in each glass. 

MILK PUNCH. 

Take one quart of milk, add one cup of sugar, one 
large glass of brandy or rum and a little cracked ice, 
shake well together, strain and grate a little nutmeg 
over the glasses, and serve with a straw in each 
glass. 

EGG NOG. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs, add one half pound of 
white sugar and dissolve, pour in gradually ow 
large glass of good whiskey, half a nutmeg grated 
and one and one half pints of rich milk, beat the 
whites to a froth and stir in last, serve with a 
straw in each glass. 

CHOCOLATE PUNCH. 

Take one quart of rich milk, one half cup of melted 
chocolate, one small cup of sugar, and two eggs 
beaten, mix altogether add some cracked ice and 
shake well, strain and serve with a straw in each 
glass. 

CLARET CUP. 

One quart bottle of claret, one bottle of soda water, 
two lemons cut thin, one cup of sugar and one large 
glass ol brandy and the same of sherry wine, a little 
grated nutmeg and cracked ice, mix well and strain. 



126 



HINTS TO COOKS AND STEWARDS 



If the range is choked with soot, open the smaJ 
door under the oven and apply a lighted paper, 
small pieces of zink or a little salt thrown on the 
fire some time helps. 

Celery or green vegetables that have to be kept 
two or three days, will keep good if wrapped in 
brown p?per and moistened with cold water. 

Always save the tops of celery, if they cannot be 
used right away, hang up to dry, it will come in gocl 
to flavor soups and sauces with. 

Laundry -fjoap for washing dishes, etc., will be 
found to last twice as long if the wrappers are re- 
moved and thrown in a box so that it can 
dry out before using. 

In mopping floors use just a little washing soda in 
the water and you will find that the floor will stay 
clean longer. 

For cleaning brass or copper, take a pint of vine- 
gar, one cup of salt and whitening enough to make 
a paste, use with a brush or cloth. 

Mleat that has become a little tainted, wash well 
in vinegar, salt and water and it will remove all 
smell and taste. 

Beef roast that is included to be a little tougn 
should be boiled until almost done, then taken out 
and roasted in a hot oven. 

To prevent glasses from cracking, take the edge 
of the glass between the thumb and finger and you 
can pour in any kind of hot fluid and they will never 
crack. 

The ice box should be cleaned at least once a 
week thoroughly, always keep a small bag of char- 
coal in the box as that absorbs all unpleasant odors. 

In boiling ham or bacon always let it sim- 
mer (not boil fast) and you will find it will be more 
evenly cooked and will carve a great deal better, al- 
ways put on in boiling water. 



fell NTS TO COOKS AND STEWARDS 127 

Granite or enameled ware should be greased on the 
inside before using, it will prevent it from cracking 
or chipping. 

In buying ice take what you get and don't kick, 
as every butcher has a different way (8) of looking at 
a ton. 

Always be sure and get a bill with your goods. 

Never buy a bruised ham. 

Ham or bacon should have a clear surface, and no 
spots as they go all the way through. 

Always hang up your meats as they keep a grea: 
deal better than to lay them on anything. 

If your ice runs low spread out your meat, sprinkle 
with a little salt, give the box a little ventilation, 
when you want to use some of it wash thoroughly, 
and you will find it will keep a long time this way. 

If the managers are kicking on your meat bill3 
watch the butchers scales. 

Don't buy the butchers basket, they need it more 
than you. 

When you ask a butcher for scale you are always 
at his mercy and he will show you up some day. 

Some grocers and butchers think twelve ounces 
is a pound but insist on sixteen. 

To glaze pastry beat the yolk of one egg and two 
tablespoonsful of milk, when pies are nearly baked 
brush over with a soft brush and set back to glaze. 

Salt will curdle new milk, hence in making saucas 
and gravies, etc., the salt should not be added until 
the dish is prepared. 

Milk that has been the least bit turned may be 
sweetened by adding a pinch of soda. 

In preparing pineapples the knife that is used to 
peel should never be used to slice it, as there is 
acid in the peel that is libel to cause a sore mouth 
after eating the pineapple. 

To remove ink from linen or any other article, 
dissolve a little oxalic acid in water, wash the goods 
thoroughly and rinse in cold water. 



128 HINTS TO COOKS AND STEWARDS 

For coloring sauces, gravies, etc., one pound of 
brown sugar, put on in a fry pan, stir and let it burn 
until it is black, gradually add a pint of water, strain 
and bottle and it is ready for use. 

You should save all little pieces of bread and 
grind up fine, bread crumbs should always be used 
for covering articles for frying, as cracker crumos 
absorb the grease. 

In chopping suet remove all fibre and sprinkle 
with flour to keep it from sticking. 

Do not put pans or kettles on the range paitly 
filled with water to soak as this only makes them 
harder to clean, fill with water and set away from 
the heat. 

In washing silver ware add a little ammonia to 
the water and rinse in hot water and dry with a 
clean dry towel. 

A soft cloth wetted in alcohol is excellent to wipe 
of plate glass windows or mirrors. 

A good polish to brighten up furniture, sideboards, 
etc., equal proportions of linseed oil, turpentine and 
vinegar, shake well and apply with a linen rag and 
polish with a clean duster. 

Iron rust stains may be removed from marble 
wash stands or slabs by rubbing well with lemon 
juice, all other stains can be removed by using equal 
parts of chalk, pumice stone and common soda, make 
into a paste and apply with a soft cloth. 

In making pies if the fruit is very juicy add a 
little soda it will prevent them running over and so 
will not spoil the look of the pie. 

To prevent sausages from breaking, parboil about 
two minutes in water and roll in a little flour and 
fry. 

Water bottles, vinegar cruets or glass of any 
kind may be easily cleaned, by adding one raw 
potato diced and a little lemon juice, shake thorough- 
ly, and wash with a glass brush. 

Meat or poultry that is to be kept a few days 
should be rubbed over with powdered borax and 
charcoal and it will be found to keep a great deal bet- 
ter, wash thoroughly before using. 



N. H. WITT COMPANY, 

MARINE MEAT MARKET. 
Meats, Mlilk, Ice, Groceries, Deliveries made by our 

tugs. 
"NICK," "LYRIE," "HE.RMIN WITT." 

Both Phones No. 35. 
11 East Superior Street. DULUTH, MINN. 



Cbc marine Supply €o 



♦t 



EVERYTHING FOR THE 
MARINE, TRADE.x^^^ 

Fairport Harbor, = Ohio. 

SMITH BROS., 

PORT HURON'S LEADING GROCERY. 

We give special attention to the Marine Trade. 
Quick service and prompt delivery. 

516 Huron Ave., Port Huron, Mich. 

The Central Meat Market, 

D. H. BRYCE, Prop. 

Fresh and Salt Meats. 

Game, Oysters and Fish in season. 

Special attention given to the Marine Trade. 

Phone No. 778. 

932 Military Street, Port Huron, Mich. 



FRE,D C. MEISEK. 

DEALER IN 

FRE.SH AND SALT MEATS. 

Sausages of All Kinds Always on Hand. 
11 East Seventh St. v between State and French. 

Vessels supplied on short notice. Milk, Ice and jFish. 

Bell Phone 687 K. 

ERIE, PA. 



De Reliance Steam Laundry, 

J. MITCHELL and R. T. EMERSON, Props. 
Special Attention Given to Marine Trade. 

The best of service and Standard Rates. 

446-448 Clintort Street, 

Hello No. 342 S. MILWAUKEE, WIS. 

Che f ulton mca market 

GAY CO., Proprietors. 

Fresh Salt and Smoked Mleats, Poultry, Fish and 
Game. 

Special attention given to Marine Trade. 

408 West Secord Street. ASHLAND, WIS. 



Chris. Zepp. Phil. Zepp. 

ZEPP BROTHERS, 

Successors to 
E. G. ASHLEY. 

GROCERIES, MEATS AND GENERAL SHIP 
. SUPPLIES. 
38 Summit Street. 
Both Phones 134. TOLEDO, OHIO. 



Theo Conraurdy, 

Proprietor of 

EXCELSIOR STEAM LAUNDRY 

All work promptly attended to, Marine Work a 

Specialty. 

1119 Georgia Ave. SHEBOYGAN, WIS. 

Northwestern Telephone 343. 

0, K. Steam Laundry Company, 

We give the Marine Trade our special attention. 

Quick service and prompt delivery guaranteed. 
308 Lapeer Ave. Bell Phone 429. 

PORT HURON, MICH. 

F. H. CORKILL, 

Proprietor of 

City and Marine Meat Market. 

The Choicest of Meats, Poultry and Fish. 
203 Broadway. LORAIN, OHIO. 

Cbe Chicago JMarine JVIeat JMarfeet, 

SIEGEL BROTHERS, Proprietors. 
Ships supplied on Short Notice. We make a special- 
ty of Chicago Meats. 
Wholesale and Retail Dealers in all Kinds of 
Fresh, Salt and Smoked Meats, Sausages, Fish Milk 
and Ice. 
Bell Phone 181-K. Mutual Phone 1364. 
11th St., bet. Walnut and Cherry. 
CHICAGO, ILL. 



Croy Steam Laundry, 

A. S. BROWN, Proprietor. 
FINE LAUNDRY WORK A SPECIALTY. 

Particular Attention Given to Promptness and 

Carefulness. 

Telephone 87. 

Brown Block, SAULT STE. MARIE, MICH, 



T. M. SULLIVAN, 

Groceries and 
Ship Supplies 

21 RUSH ST., = = CHICAGO. 

Telephone 26. 

W. H. Stone Co. 

MARINE SUPPLIES 
Groceries and Meats. 

163-165 92nd Street. SOUTH CHICAGO. 

J. A. Koehler. C. H. Koehler. 

KOEHLLR BROTHERS, 

CITY AND MARINE MARKET. 

Meats and Sausages of all Kinds. 

Vessel Supplies a Specialty. Steam launch delivery. 
Both 'Phones 344. 

209 Adams St., SANDUSKY, OHIO. 



United States Laundry. 

Special Attention given 
to Marine Trade^^^^^ 

PROMPT DELIVERY GUARANTEED. 

66-68-70 Broadway, Buffalo, N. Y. 

__^__ . , . 

Herman Bittner. 

DEALER IN 
MEATS, POULTRY, FISH AND GAME. 

Marine Trade a Specialty. 

Ludington St., ESCANABA, MICHIGAN. 

KITCHEN STOVES 

...AND RANGES 

And Hardware of all kinds at the Big Hardware Store of 

S.L.BOYCE,«SSON, 

PORT HURON, MICHIGAN. 

Don't forget to call. 



GE,0. GOUGEON, 

DEPARTMENT STORE <S MEAT MARKET 

A Specialty of Boat Supplies. 

703 and 704 North Henry Street, 

Both Phones 1886. 

WEST BAY CITY, MICHIGANw 

M. Kerber. C. F. Miller. F. A. Kerber. 

KERBE,R <& MILLE,R, 

DEALERS IN 
GROCERIES AND PROVISIONS. 

We make a Specialty of Filling Orders for Vessels 

Promptly. 

502-504 Tiffin Avenue, 

Bell and Harrison 'Phones 299. SANDUSKY, OHIO. 

Che Coraitt 0a$b Grocery and meat market, 

T. SPADEMAN, Manager. 

Dealer in 

Foreign and Domestic Fruits and Vegetables in 

Season. 

Game and Poultry in Season. 

Staple and Fancy Groceries and Fresh Cured Meats. 

Telephone 169. 900 and 902 Reid St., cor. Third Ave. 

LORAIN, OHIO. 

HANSEN & JENSEN 

Wholesale and Retail 

Fresh and Salt Fish and Provisions, 

North Tilden Ave. 

ESCANABA, MICHIGAN. 



DIRECTORY 

ASHTABULA, OHIO. 
P. H. Cheney & Sons, Grocers. 15-17 Bridge Street. 
T. J. Renwick, Meat Market, 98 Bridge Street. 

ASHLAND, WIS. 
The Fulton Meat Market, 408 West Secord Street. 

BUFFALO, N. Y. 
RusselJ-Watson Hardware, 145 Main Street. 
Barines Bros. Meat Market, 43-44-45 Elk St. Market 
United States Laundry, 66-68-70 Broadway. 

WEST BAY CITY, MICH. 
Geo. Gougeon, Ship Supplies, 703 N. Henry Street. 

BATTLE CREEK, MICH. 
Hygenic Food Co. Ltd., Maple Flake. 
CLEVELAND, OHIO. 
Geo. Randerson & Son ,Meat Market, 238 Detroit 

Street. 
J. P. Brogan, Grocer. 

CHICAGO, ILL. 
T. M. Sullivan, Ship Supplies, 21 Rush Street. 

SOUTH CHICAGO, ILL. 
W. H. Stone, Groceries, Meats, 163-165 92nd Street 
J. C. Paul & Co., Burnshine, 59 Dearborn Street. 

DULUTH, MINN. 
N. H. Witt Co., Groceries, Meats, 11 East Superior 
Street. 

DETROIT, MICH. 
Edgar A. Murray, Vermin Destroyer, 1467 Woodward 

Avenue. 
Wm. H. Kolbe, Boat Supplies, 173 Jos. Campau Ave. 

ESCANABA, MICH. 
Herman Bittner, Meat Market, Ludington, Avenue. 
Hansen-Jensen, Ship Supplies, N. Tilden Avenue. 



ERIE, PA. 

Fred C. Meiser, Meat Market, 11 East Seventh Street 

Wm. Beckman, Groceries, 963 West Fourth Street 

The Chicago Marine Meat Market, 11th Street, be 

tween Walnut and Cherry. 

FAIRPORT HARBOR, OHIO. 
The Marine Supply Co. 

LORAIN, OHIO. 
T. Spademan, Groceries, 900-902 Reed Street. 
City and Marine Meat Market, 203 Broadway. 

MILWAUKEE, WIS. 
The Reliance Steam Laundry, 446-448 Clinton Street. 

MANITOWOC, WIS. 
Schuette Bros. Co., Ship Supplies. 
R. Dawson Co., Meat Market, 308 East Water Street. 

MIDLAND, ONT. 
The Playfair Preston Co., Ship Supplies. 

PORT HURON, MICH. 
G. C. Meisel, Linens and Carpets, Cor. Water and 

Military Streets. 
S. L. Boyce & Son, Hardware, Military Street. 
Smith Bros., Grocery, 316 Huron Avenue. 
D. H. Bryce, Meat Market, Military Street. 
O. K. Laundry, Water Street. 

SANDUSKY, OHIO. 
Kerber-Miller, Groceries, 502-504 Tiffin Avenue. 
Koehler Bros., Meat Market, 209 Adams Street. 

SAULT STE. MARIE, MICH. 
The Troy Laundry, 212 Portage Avenue West. 

SHEBOYGAN, WIS. 
Excelsior Steam Laundry, 119 Georgia Avenue. 
H. Heinecke, Meat Market, 805 Indiana Avenue. 

TOLEDO, OHIO. 
The Peerless Laundry, 402 Front Street. 
Zepp Bros., Ship Supplies, 38 Summit Street. 
Miller Bros., Groceries, 737 Summit Street. 



Miller Bros. 



WHOLESALE AND RETAIL 



Groceries and meats. 

735-737-739 Summit Street, cor of Walnut. Brand 
Store 2101 Lagrange. 

Marine Supplies a Specialty. 

SUPPLY STEAMER 

MILLER BROS. 

TOLEDO, OHIO. 




SCHUETTE 
BROTHERS CO. 

Manitowoc, Wis., 

South Side. 

General Merchandise 
and Boat Supplies. Your 
patronage is Solicited. 



Zom J. Rennick, *«£&-* 

Western Beef Handled Exclusively. 

The best assortment of meats found in the city. Ice 

handle I in connection. 

Vessel supplies a specialty. 

Phone 403. Residence No. 485. 

Corner Bridge and Hulbert Sts., 
Launch Delivery. ASHTABULA, OHIO. 



THE PLAYFAIR PRESTON COMPANY, 

LIMITED. 

Wholesale. and Retail Dealers in 

General Merchandise* 



Special Attention to Marine Trade 

Supply vessels night or day. Fresh milk, butter ard 
eggs. Vegetables and all kinds of fruits in season — 
Always on hand. 

Satisfaction Guaranteed. 

MIDLAND. ONT. 

H. HEINECKE, 

DEALER IN 

FRE,SH, SALT AND 
SMOKED ME.ATS,*M 

Special attention given to the Marine Trade. 

The best of everything and prompt delivery guaran- 
teed. 

805 Indiana Avenue, 

SHEBOYGAN, WISCONSIN. 

:''M 



