




udiGi^et t\em\^?^ tter%*^ri^ 



m\ i 






FROM THE LIBRARY OF 

James B. Herndon, Jr. 



PRESENTED BY HIM TO THE 

School of Hotel 
A dministration 

CORNELL UNIVERSITY 



.■• ■ •■■ ■ 'J 

^ "ft .!t-''lr !' i" -"-"fl 



Brown & Poison's 
sssCoRN Flour 






SH™ITi_Z!— p-iMrir "L-"'!, 



Ctt-??. &e used in all cases where butter 
and flour thichejiing for sauces is recom- 
lYiended ,. and as it requires no hutter is to 
be preferred on account of its plainness. 

• LOVELOCK'S 

IMPROVED 

MINCING AND SAUSAGE-MAKING MACHINES, & COFFEE 
MILLS FOR DO)yiESTIC USE. 




Thev are unrivalled for simplicity and efficiency, and for promoting domestic economy 
are invaJuable in every household. Can be obtained of Ironmongers and Dealers in all 
parts of the World. Purchasers are cautioned against imitations. 

J. F. iOVELOCK. Broadway Works, 201, MARE ST., HACKNEY, LONDON. 

ESTABLISHED 1856. 



Cornell University Library 
TX 735.K4 



Fifty lunches, 




3 1924 000 693 857 



FIFTY LUNCHES 



^ 



A. KENNEY-HERBERT 

(" Wyvern ") 

"CORDON ROUGE," AUTHOR OF "FIFTY BREAKFASTS," "FIFTY DINNERS," 
"COMMON-SENSE COOKERY," ETC. 



EDWARD ARNOLD 

37, BEDFORD STREET. 70, FIFTH AVENUE 

{All rights reserved) 




The original of tliis bool< is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924000693857 



INTRODUCTION. 



I HAVE endeavoured to give in this little handbook 
recipes for a variety of dishes, including rechauffes of 
fish, flesh, and fowl, which have not appeared in 
either of its predecessors, " Fifty Breakfasts," and 
" Fifty Dinners." These I hope will be found prac- 
ticable, useful, and satisfactory. I have not attempted 
to describe pieces inontees for the sideboard — galan- 
tines, pressed and spiced beef, brawns, raised pies, 
&c., &c., methods for the preparation of which have 
been recorded in my larger work, "Common-sense 
Cookery." Seeing, indeed, that the space available 
for " Fifty Lunches " was limited, I thought it 
better to confine myself to the discussion of smaller 
and more delicate things. It will be found that I 
have attempted to invite attention to dishes made 
with eggs and entremets de legumes for the luncheon 
table, for I think that the excellent opportunities 
offered by these articles of food are still lost sight of 
by the English menagere, while we are all too much 
addicted, by force of habjt, to the consumption of 



iv INTRODUCTION. 

meat. And since this has been a distinct feature of 
" Fifty Lunches," I have not submitted, as in the 
companion books, menus for abstinence days. Soups 
were so fully described in " Fifty Dinners " that I 
have not included them in the suggestions now pre- 
sented, and as in the case of that little treatise I have 
left to the taste and judgment of my various readers 
the alternative of adding a joint of meat or cold piece 
to their bill of fare if necessary. 

Out-of-door luncheons at cricket matches, picnics, 
boating parties, and race meetings are specialties in 
their way which I have not touched upon, neither 
have I said anything about the contents of the sports- 
man's basket. The subject may perhaps form an 
excuse for another little book. But givers of luncheon 
parties within doors ought to find, I think, some little 
assistance in " Fifty Lunches." Just one word of 
advice. Let the menu for such gatherings be as 
short as possible. Nothing in the way of entertain- 
ment is less enjoyable than an over- wrought midday 
meal, dragging its slow length along till the afternoon 
is almost spent. If the day happen to be warm, and 
the room at all full, the discussion of a series of good 
things becomes exceedingly trying to many people, 
a reunion which should be as light in its effect as 
possible waxes dull and heavy, and thus the most 
hospitable intentions are not appreciated. 

A. K.-H. 



MENU I. 

(January.') 

COtelettes de iihne a la Oogu6. 

F^toncles k la Cingalese. 

Tapioca k la crdme fouett^e. 

Colombines de jambon. 



I. Lay a hare upon a board, cut it in two behind 
the shoulders, and remove the hind legs and thighs. 
Set aside all the portions thus removed 
for civet, soup, or jugged hare. AH- you Hare cutlets 
want for the cutlets is the saddle. First ''* '« Goguc. 
remove the two back fillets from this, and 
the under fillets. Out of these trim as neatly as you 
can as many cutlets as the meat will yield half an 
inch thick, two and a half long, and one and three- 
quarters across in the broadest part. Some cooks 
complete the cutlet-like appearance by slipping into 
each of them a piece of bone, which may be taken 
from the ribs. Next, lard the meat through — i.e., 
di'aw the strips of bacon through, not in and out as 
in ordinary larding, and snip off the ends short with 
scissors, giving the meat the appearance of being 
studded with little nails of bacon. When shaped and 
nicely prepared, lay the cutlets on a dish for the present 
while you proceed to make a broth with the trimmings 
and backbones left after the preparation. Chop these 
up small, and put them into a stewpan with an ounce 



i FIFTY LUNCHES. 

of butter, two ounces of lean of uncooked bacon, 
two of onions, two of carrot, and half one of celery, 
all minced small ; season with pepper and salt and 
a large teaspoonful of mixed dried herbs. Fiy over 
a low fire till beginning to brown, then moisten 
with a claret-glassful of chablis. Keep over a low 
fire until the wine is nearly exhausted, at which time 
moisten with three gills of warm broth, boil up, simmer 
for an hour, and strain. An hour before they are 
wanted dry the cutlets upon a floured cloth, dip them 
in beaten egg, and roll them in finely sifted, well- 
pounded white crumbs that have been previously 
dried in the oven. Let the breading dry thoroughly 
before you repeat the process, and let that dry also 
before proceeding to fry the cutlets in boiling clarified 
suet. When of a rich golden colour they should be 
drained, dried, and dished. 

The sauce — to be served in a sauce-boat — should 
be made as follows : — Skim the surface of the broth 

which you strained from the bones, &c., 
Saiweala jjj^j^g g, roux in a clean stewpan over a 

low fire with half an ounce of butter and 
half an ounce of flour ; stir in the broth by degrees ; 
bring to the boil, skim, and pass through a hair sieve. 
Finish with a tablespoonful of finely minced cooked 
ham, and half one of orange-peel very finely pared, 
free from pith, and chopped small. 

2. Nine scallops will do for this dish. First make a 
pint of fish broth as explained for the whiting creams 
(Menu ii.), using milk or milk and water for the 



CEYLON CURRY OF SCALLOPS. 3 

moistening. Have this ready in a bowl. Now put 
into an earthenware casserole or stewpan an ounce 
and a half of butter ; melt this over a 
low fire, and add four ounces of finely ^J^j-Zops'^''^ 
minced onion. Fry gently till the onion is 
soft, but not coloured ; and then put in — previously 
mixed to a paste with milk in a soup plate while the 
onions were being cooked — one tablespoonf ul of creme 
de riz, one teaspoonful of turmeric powder, half a tea- 
spoonful of powdered cinnamon, and a saltspoonful of 
salt. Fry this with the butter and onions for five 
minutes; then moisten with the broth, add a table- 
spoonful of ground sweet almonds with two of desic- 
cated cocoanut, and a tablespoonful of pounded 
green ginger (procurable at all Stores, and the 
herbalists at Covent Garden). Bring to the boil, 
and simmer for half an hour. Now empty the 
contents of the stewpan upon a large hair sieve, pass 
the hquid through it, catching up all the pieces 
of ginger, &c., and return it to the casserole ; bring 
nearly to the boil, then sUp in the scallops, reduce 
the heat to simmering, and in twenty minutes the 
fish will be tender. Take the pan from the fire, 
stir in the juice of half a lemon and a tablespoonful 
of cream. If done in a French earthenware casserole 
■ the curry had better be served in it, with a napkin or 
frilled paper pinned round it, a dish of well-boiled 
rice accompanying. 

Boiling Rice. — Always choose a large vessel for 
this work : two gallons of water should be allowed 
for six ounces of rice, a dessert-spoonful of salt and 



4 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

the juice of a lemon should be put into it. Do not 
wet the rice by washing beforehand ; the best Patna 
is thoroughly refined and requires no washing. 
When the liquid boils freely thro,W in the dry rice ; 
maintain the high temperature, stirring now and then 
with a wooden spoon. Watch the clock, and after 
ten minutes' boiling begin to test the grains by taking 
a few out with the spoon and pinching them between 
the finger and thumb. In twelve or fourteen minutes 
they ought to be quite tender without pulpiness, the 
exact time depending upon the size of the grains. 
When this stage has been reached boiling should 
be immediately stopped by the throwing in of half 
a pint or so of cold water. Lift the pan from the 
fire, empty its contents on a wire sieve, drain off all 
the water, returning the cooked rice to the hot dry 
vessel in which it was boiled. Put in a quarter of 
an ounce of butter to detach grains that may stick 
to the side of the pan, and work the rice about with 
a two-pronged steel fork. Shake well, cover with a 
hot folded napkin (not the lid), and set the pan in 
front of the fire, or on the most moderate part of 
the hot-plate upon a " safe-boiling stove mat," giving 
it a shake every now and then. This drying process 
should take from eight to ten minutes. Stir about 
again with the steel fork to loosen the grains, and 
serve. By following this method failure is impos- 
sible. 

3. Two tablespoonfuls of the best tapioca should 
be taken for this, and if uneven in size the large lumps 
should be lightly pounded in a mortar to get them 



COLOM BINES OF HAM. 5 

uniform — the size of a small pea. Soften the tapioca 
by soaking it for a short time in cold water, strain it 
off, and put it into a stewpan in a pint of 
cold milk ; set it over a low fire, warm up Tap'ocawith 
and simmer gently, stirring every now and cream. 
then to keep it smooth ; sweeten with a 
tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and when it is soft draw 
the pan from the fire and cool it. As this is proceeding 
beat up four fresh eggs, and stir them by degrees into 
the cooled tapioca and milk ; set the pan over another 
containing boiling water, and turn the liquid to a 
custard. As soon as this issatisfactory flavour it with 
such flavouring as may be liked — almond, lemon, 
orange, vanilla, or ratafia — and empty it into a bowl. 
When cold, stir the custard well, blending finally 
with it a gill of separately whipped cream ; empty all 
into a glass dish, scatter the surface over with crushed 
ratafias or powdered praline, and serve. If preferred, 
the tapioca custard after being cooled may be dished, 
and the whipped cream laid lightly on the surface of 
it. To whip well remember that cream must be very 
cold. It is clear that a compote of any fruit might 
be handed round with this dish. 

4. These are little moulds of ham puree masked 
with chaud-froid sauce, and prettily dished in a circle, 
with broken jelly garnish. For the ham 
puree weigh four ounces of lean cooked gfh^m'.^'^^ 
ham and one of fat ; mince small, pound 
well, and pass through a hair sieve ; season with 
pepper, salt, and a pinch of mace, stir in two raw 
yolks, and half an ounce of cooked mushroom cut 



6 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

into small squares ; put the mixture into buttered 
bouchee-moulds, and steam in the manner described 
for the cremes in No i, Menu ii. Let them get 
cold in the moulds, and then turn them out upon 
a joint dish. During the operation make the chaud- 
froid masking as follows : — Put two gills of milk on 
the fire with the well- washed trimmings, stalks, &c., 
of two ounces of mushrooms, season with salt and 
pepper, and bring slowly to the boil ; then stir in a 
quarter of an ounce of soaked gelatine, and simmer, 
stiiTing well till the gelatine is dissolved, then strain 
through a hair sieve, and mix with it the yolk of a 
fresh egg. This will tint the liquid a pale buff. Set 
it in a cool place, and, as the mixture begins to 
thicken, take up each of the little moulds of ham 
with a skewer, and dip it into it ; this will coat them 
evenly. Dish as described. 



MENU II. 

(January.') 

Fetits crimes k la Dieppoise. 

Odtelettes de veau k la Bordelaise. 

Poudiag k, la Turque. 

Bouch6es k la Dauphise. 



I. These can be made of any white fish. I will 
take a sixpenny whiting. Order it to be sent home 
as it is. Take the flesh from each side in 
two fillets, and put them aside separately, creams with 
Chop up the head, bones, and skin, put shrimp 
them into a stewpan, moisten with half a 
pint each of cold milk and water ; season with salt 
and pepper, bring slowly to the boil over a low fire, 
then add two ounces of minced onion, half one of 
celery, a sprig of parsley, and a teaspoonful of dried 
herbs. Simmer forty-five minutes and strain. Put 
the strained broth into a saute-p3.n with an upright 
rim, boil, put in the fillets, reduce to simmering, and 
as soon as soft take them out, put them into a 
mortar, and pound them to a paste ; weigh, and for 
six ounces of whiting allow two ounces of butter 
or fat of cooked ham, and two ounces of bread 
panada; mix, and pass all through a wire sieve. 
Now add to the puree thus obtained two whole eggs 
and the yolk only of another. Beat well together, 
season, add a tablespoonful of cream, put the mixture 

7 



8 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

into buttered darioles, tap each smartly on a folded 
cloth laid on the table to cause the filling to be 
even, and poach very gently about thirty-five minutes. 
The steaming should be done in this vs^ay : — Choose 
a roomy stewpan, lay a sheet of paper folded in 
four at the bottom of it, pour in hot water about 
an inch deep, set on the fire, and when nearly boiling 
shp in the darioles ; let boiling begin, but at once 
reduce to gentle simmering, keeping the pan covered. 
While this is proceeding, turn the broth in which 
the fillets were cooked to a sauce, thickening with 
half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour. 
Bring to the boil, pass through a hair sieve, add three 
pennyworth of picked shrimps finely minced and a 
tablespoonful of cream. When the creams are ready 
turn them out of the moulds, dish in a circle on a 
hot dish, and mask with the sauce. A pile of cooked 
fillets of cucumber may be arranged in the centre. 
This dish may be made of previously cooked fish, 
but in that case it would be advisable to get a few 
fish-cuttings to make a broth for the sauce. The 
creams can also be served cold, masked with the 
sauce, reduced to such a consistency as to coat them, 
cucumber or other salading in the centre, dressed with 
mayonnaise sauce. To get a smooth masking omit the 
shrimps in making the sauce, and use them in the salad. 

2. Choose six veal cutlets, trim them neatly, and 
lard them in the ordinary manner. Set them aside 
while you prepare a satUe- or fricandeau- 
Veal cutlets pan with a cover, to receive them in this 
with Borde- ^ -d . . ■. r ■., 

laise sauce, manner : — Butter its surface with an 

ounce and a half of butter, lay over that 



ENDIVE PUREE. 9 

three ounces each of finely minced onion, carrot, and 
turnip, and the peelings and stalks (chopped small) 
of a quarter of a pound of mushrooms ; season with 
pepper, salt, and powdered herbs ; fry for five 
minutes, then add an ounce of meat glaze ; melt this 
and lay the cutlets on the surface of the vegetables, 
larded side uppermost. Moisten now with hot broth 
in sufficient quantity to come level with the surfaces 
of the cutlets, cover them with a buttered paper, 
cover the pan, and simmer gently for about an hour 
and a quarter ; when quite tender take the pan from 
the fire, remove the cutlets, strain off the broth into 
a bowl, wipe out the pan, brush off any pieces of 
vegetable that may adhere to the cutlets, and lay 
them in the pan again. Have ready melted an 
ounce of glaze, dilute this with half a gill of the 
strained broth, push the pan into the oven, and 
glaze the cutlets by basting them with the melted 
glaze. When heated through and nicely glazed, 
arrange the cutlets in a line on a small hot joint 
dish (silver if possible) garnished with endive puree, 
and send this sauce round in a boat. Having 
skimmed off all fat from the broth, take two gills of 
it, add one gill of good thick tomato puree, boil up, 
add a teaspoonful of cornflour diluted with broth, 
skim, strain, and serve. 

Remove the outside leaves from two heads of endive 
of a good size, wash them well, cut each in four, 
and plunge the pieces into fast-boiling 
salted water ; boil for twenty or twenty- ^^^f-f^^ 
five minutes, drain, " refresh " them with 



10 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

a douche of cold water, and, after pressing all mois- 
ture from them, turn them out on a board and chop 
them up as small as possible. Melt two ounces of 
butter in a stewpan, put in the chopped endives, 
dust over with salt and a pinch of powdered mace, 
and stir without stopping over a moderate fire until 
the vegetable has absorbed the butter ; next moisten 
with half a gill of ci^eam, good white sauce, or milk, 
stir till well mixed and of a fairly thick consistency, 
and arrange the fiiree round the cutlets. 

3. Make a pint of coffee custard in this way : — 

Roast four ounces of coffee-berries by moving 

„ „ them about over a low fire in a saute- 

Cojjec 

custard pan, lubricated with half an ounce of 

^iddinga butter. Boil three-quarters of a pint 

of milk, take it off the fire, empty the 

newly roasted berries into it, and let them thus soak, 

covered up, in a warm place for about an hour. 

Strain, and turn the milk to a custard with four eggs, 

sweetening with an ounce of sugar. Strain this when 

made. Choose a pint border mould with a hollow 

rim, butter it well, line it with crushed ratafias, pour 

in the custard, and steam gently (process given in 

No. i) till firm. Let it get cold in the mould, then 

turn it out, glaze it with diluted apricot jam, fill the 

hollow rim with preserved chei'ries, and send apricot 

sauce in a boat separately : — Put three tablespoonfuls 

of the jam in a gill of water, with a liqueur-glass of 

rum ; boil, pass through a strainer, and let it get cold. 

4. Choose a dozen feoMcAec-moulds, line them with 



COFFEE CUSTARD PUDDING A LA TURQUE. ii 

melted aspic jelly about an eighth of an inch thick, 
keep them on ice, fill them with anchovy cream, and 
when set tm-n them out ; dish in a circle, and garnish 
with hard-boiled eggs and cress. For the anchovy 
cream take four hard-boiled yolks of egg, twelve 
fillets of anchovy, and two tablespoonfuls of mayon- 
naise sauce ; pound, and pass all through a hair sieve, 
add a giU of diluted aspic, and fill the hollows of the 
lined bouchee-m.o\AdiS. Let this set. 



MENU III. 

(January ^ 

(Eufs brouill^s aux queues de crevettea. 

Cdtelettes de mouton en chevreuU. 

Compote de marrons au kirsch. 

Olives farcies k la Boyale. 



I. Half a pint of shrimps nicely picked will be 
enough -for this. The buttered eggs require great 

care, being but rarely properly done, by 
Buttered English cooks. The preparation must be 
IfwimL! creamy, not over-cooked in solid lumps as 

it so often is. The quantity of butter 
should be accurately weighed ; it should be of the 
best quality, and put in as by and by directed. Then, 
be it observed, the dish must not be kept waiting ; it 
should be served as quickly as a souffle. If cooked 
over a fast fire it will be lumpy — perhaps leathery ; 
if too much butter is used it will be greasy. The 
process must be conducted patiently, if the true con- 
sistency and smoothness are to be arrived at, in the 
following manner : — Break five large or six small 
eggs into a bowl with a saltspoonful of salt and a 
dust of pepper ; mix them well. Weigh three ounces 
of butter ; divide this into two equal portions, cutting 
one of them up into small pieces and putting the 
other into a stewpan over a low fire. Melt the latter 
and then pour in the egg mixture, whisk it without 



COOKED MARINADE. 13 

stopping till signs of thickening show themselves ; 
then take a wooden spoon, add the small pieces of 
butter one by one, and stir the contents of the sauce- 
pan about unceasingly until the mixture is evenly and 
lightly set. Now pass in the shrimps with a table- 
spoonful of cream ; stir together and serve in a 
legumiere or fireproof china dish, with sippets of 
nicely fried bread arranged round it. 

2. Out of the best end of a neck of mutton trim 

seven nice cutlets, flatten with a cutlet bat, and lard 

with bacon in the manner explained for 

the hare cutlets in Menu i. Then lav Mutton cut- 
,, . ,, ,. , , lets roebuck 

them m an earthenware dish, and covev fashion. 

them with a cooked marinade, cold, made 
as follows : — Mince up finely three ounces of onion, 
three of carrot, half one of celery, one of parsley, 
and one of mixed herbs, or a tablespoonful 
of the dried ; butter a stewpan with an ^„arinadc. 
ounce and a half of butter or clarified 
beef dripping, melt it, and then lay over it the 
minced vegetables and herbs ; fry till coloured, and 
then moisten with two gills of warm water and two of 
vinegar (Maille's French) ; bring to the boil, keep that 
up for two minutes, add a gill of claret, half an ounce 
of salt and a quarter of pepper, strain, and keep it in 
a basin till cold, then take off the fat, and use. This 
should be done, of course, the day before, and the 
cutlets should remain in the marinade all night. 
When to be cooked, drain them from the liquid, 
wipe them with a di-y cloth, lay them in a deep- 
sided saiUe-pan, on a bed of vegetables as given for 



14 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

No. 2, Menu ii., just cover with boiling broth made 
from the mutton trimmings, and continue to cook 
them very gently till tender. Now take them out, 
trim them, brush them over with melted glaze, and 
keep them in the mouth of the oven. Take two 
gills of the broth in which they were cooked, add 
half its quantity of the marinade, stir this into a 
roux made with half an ounce of butter and half an 
ounce of flour, which should be ready in another 
stewpan, bring to the boil, skim carefully, strain, add 
a dessert-spoonful of chopped olives, and serve in a 
sauce-boat. Dress a circle of turned olives round the 
cutlets, which should be arranged in a line on a flat 
silver dish, and serve. French beans go well with 
these cutlets, and poinmes de terre sautSes. 

3. Choose thirty nice chestnuts, take off their 

brown skins, put them into warm water 

Compote of over the fire for a minute or two, and when 

cltcstittits 

with kirsch. getting hot take them out and peel off their 

red skins ; make a pint of weak syrup with 

a pint of water, ten ounces of sugar, and the zest of 

a lemon ; arrange the chestnuts on the surface of a 

roomy saute-pan, pour in the syrup in quantity just 

enough to cover, and simmer gently for twenty 

minutes, then drain them, and arrange them in a 

glass compote-dish ; strain the syrup into a clean pan, 

add a sherry-glass of kirsch with the juice of half 

a lemon, and boil it down till it slightly coats the 

spoon ; cool, pour it over the chestnuts, and set the 

dish in a cold place. Whipped cream, if liked, may 

be laid on the surface to finish with. Care should.be 



STUFFED OLIVES A LA ROYALE. 15 

taken to keep the chestnuts whole ; slow cooking 
will assist this. 

4. First make a custard a la Roy ale : — In a small 
bowl beat up three fresh eggs, add a gill of milk, 
two tablespoonfuls of cream and one of 
grated Parmesan with seasoning ; pour stuffed 
the mixture into buttered dariole-moulAs, Royale. 
steam gently till set, let them get cold, 
hollow out with a scoop a space in the centre of 
each, slip in an olive farcie, covering the opening 
with a little wad of the custard scooped out; turn 
out the moulds, arrange them in a circle, garnish 
with any nice small salading, and serve. Before 
using the olives farcies wipe them carefully to get rid 
of the oil in which they are preserved. 



MENU . IV. 

(January.) 

Orlys de merluche. 

Faisan au riz tomato. 

Eclairs au caf6. 

Cremes de fromage. 

I. The first thing to be done in this case is to make 
the batter, for it must rest at least two hours before 
being used. Put three and a half ounces 
haddocl- '~'^ Vienna flour into a bowl, rnake a hollow 
in its centre, and break into it the yolks 
only of two eggs, add two tablespoonfuls of salad 
oil, and a saltspoonful of salt ; mix well, and then 
stir in by degrees enough lukewarm water to bring 
the batter to the consistency of thick cream, coating 
the spoon when lifted from it with a smooth film the 
eighth of an inch thick. Set the bowl aside now, 
covered with a cloth, in the ordinai-y warmish 
temperature of the kitchen. Db not put it into a 
cold larder. When to be used stir into it the white 
of one of the eggs whipped to a froth. 

Prepare the fish next, having procured a nice 
haddock. First take off the flesh on both sides of 
the fish, and put the two fillets thus procured upon 
a wooden slab ; with a sharp knife divide these into 
smaller fillets about two inches long, half an inch 
thick, and an inch wide. Lay these out upon a joint 



PHEASANT WITH RICE. 17 

dish, sprinkle them with lemon-juice or good French 
vinegar, and dust them over with salt and pepper 
and powdered herbs. Next, with all the bones, head, 
and trimmings make two gills of broth for the sauce 
(No. I, Menu ii.), a sherry-glass of chablis or sauterne 
being used if possible in the decoction. Strain this 
when ready, thicken it, add a gill of tomato puree or 
a tablespoonful of conserve ; boil up, skim, reduce till 
of a nice consistency and pass through the hair sieve, 
finishing with a tablespoonful of cream. Serve this in 
a sauce-boat. As for the fillets, lift them from the 
marinade, lay them on a clean floured cloth, dry them 
thoroughly, finish the batter with the white of egg 
as already described, dip the fillets into the batter, 
and pass them one by one into a deep bath of boiling 
fat. As soon as a nice golden colour, take them out, 
lay them on a wire drainer over folded paper in 
front of the fire, and when drained and dry, sprinkle 
with salt, lay them on a hot napkin on a hot dish, 
and serve, the sauce accompanying. 

.2. For this the pheasant must be ti-ussed for boil- 
ing, and it is worth noting that the process is 
appUcable to birds which are too old for 
roasting. Set a roomy stewpan on the with tomato- 
fire, large enough, that is to say, to hold flavoured 
the pheasant easily. Pour in enough cold " 
stock, or milk, or milk and water in half and half 
proportions to eventually cover the bird when it is 
put in. Bring the liquid to the boil, then plunge in 
the pheasant, keeping up the high temperature for 
five minutes, then add four ounces of onion, two of 

3 



i8 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

carrot, one of celery, one of parsley, and a bouquet 
garni, with half an ounce of salt and a dozen pepper- 
corns. This addition will stop the boiling, after 
which ease the heat under the vessel to gentle 
simmering, and on no account permit this to be 
exceeded. The tenderness of the pheasant will 
entirely depend upon the slowness of the cooking. 
An hour and a half should effect this. Then strain 
off the broth, wrap the bird in a hot cloth and put 
it back into the hot empty pan, closely covered, to 
keep hot, while you turn a pint of the boilings to 
a sauce, thickening with an ounce of butter and one 
of flour, bringing it to the boil, and passing it through 
a hair sieve. 

Boil separately, during the last half hour of sim- 
mering the pheasant, eight ounces of the best 

Patna rice (see No. 2, Menu i.), and after 
Tomato- returning it to the pan as therein directed 
rlce°"'' stir in two ounces of fresh butter, and 

half a pint of hot tomato puree; mix with 
a two-pronged fork, and finally shake in two ounces 
of grated Parmesan cheese. Now take a hot joint- 
dish, place the pheasant in the centre of it, mask it 
with as much of the sauce as is necessary, sending 
the remainder in a boat, and arrange the rice all 
round it. If liked, the bird can be cut up, the pieces 
being laid neatly on the dish, the masking poured 
over them, and the circle of rice round the whole. 

3. Put two gills of water into a casserole or stew- 
pan over a low fire with a pinch of salt, half an 



ECLAIRS WITH COFFEE. 19 

ounce of sugar, and four ounces of butter ; as soon as 
the last is melted take the pan from the fire, and stir 
in by degrees eight ounces of flour. Mix 
well to get rid of lumps, replace the ^'^'""'^ "'^'^ 
pan on the fire, keeping it low, and work 
the paste vigorously until it leaves the side of the 
stewpan. Take it off the fire, let it get half cold, 
and then add three eggs one by one, working them 
well into the paste, and the zest of an orange or 
lemon. Now put the paste into a forcing-bag -v^rith 
a rather wide plain pipe, and squeeze it out in four 
and a half inch lengths upon a buttered baking-tin 
lined with buttered paper, glaze over with beaten 
egg and push the tin into a moderate oven ; watch 
them, and when nicely risen, take out the tin, pass 
the blade of a knife under the eclairs to detach 
them, lay them on a wire dirainer, and put them 
into the oven, now warm, with the door ajar to 
dry. Let them get cold, then open them gently 
on the sides, and squeeze in cream enough to 
fill their cavities, brush over all with thin apricot 
glaze, and mask the surfaces with cofEee icing made 
in this way : — Put a gill of syrup into a bowl, mix 
with half a gill of very strong coffee, then stir in by 
degrees glazing sugar sufficient to bring it to the 
consistency of thick mayonnaise. Use as directed. 
In laying on the glaze be careful to keep it smooth ; 
the blade of a palette-knife dipped in hot water will 
enable the cook to effect this. 

4. Make half a pint of custard with three whole 
eggs, stir in half an ounce of soaked gelatine ; when 



20 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

dissolved, cool, and whip, adding two ounces of 
grated Parmesan and a gill of whipped cream with 

one tablespoonful of chopped ham and 
Little cheese one of chopped cooked macaroni. Fill 
Milanaise. little darioles with the mixture, set them 

on ice or in a cold place ; turn out when 
firm, and serve prettily dished with broken aspic 
and picked leaves of endive as garnish. Mayonnaise 
sauce may accompany. 



MENU V. 

{Febniaty.) 

Filets de baxbue k la Bonnefoy. 

Foulet k la Toscane. 

FroflteroUes au chocolat. 

(Eufs k la Russe. 



1. Out of a small brill make six neat fillets. With 
the skin, bones, and trimmings make a nice broth, 
about three-quarters of a pint enough ; 

turn this to a sauce, passing it through the ^fUlfiU^ts a 
hair sieve to get it smooth, add a table- 
spoonful of finely chopped parsley and a teaspoonful 
of minced gherkins. Keep this hot in the bain-marie 
while you bread-crumb and fry the fillets in boiling 
fat. Drain, and dry these, sprinkle salt over them, 
dish in a hot dish upon a paper garnished with 
parsley and lemon, and serve the sauce separately. 

2. This is a useful dish, being negotiable with a 
cold roast fowl. Begin by cutting up the fowl and 
taking all the meat in as nice pieces as 

you can from the bones. Put this in a Chicken or 
dish aside, while you chop up all the xoscane. 
bones, skin, and trimmings of the bird. 
Choose a stewpan, put the bones into it, cover them 
with milk and water, bring slowly to the boil, add 
four ounces of onion, one of celery, one of parsley. 



22 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

a bouquet, and the chopped stalks and peehngs of 
a quarter of a pound of fresh mushrooms ; add a 
seasoning of salt and pepper, and simmer for one 
hour, then strain ; turn the Hquid to a sauce, passing 
it through the hair sieve, and adding a tablespoonful 
of cream ; lay the pieces of fowl in this with the 
mushrooms which .yielded the trimmings, separately 
fried and cut into' squares, two ounces of cooked 
macaroni, cut into quarter inch-lengths, and a table- 
spoonful of coarsely chopped cooked ham. Heat all 
up gently, and at the last dust over the whole a fine 
layer of grated Parmesan. Serve as you would a 
fricassee in an entree-dish, puree de pommes de terre 
accompanying. 

3. Make the same paste as that described for 
eclairs (No. 3, Menu iv.), squeeze it out in rounds 

instead of oblongs about the size of a 
ProfiteroUes racquet ball. Bake in the same way, dry, 
chocolate. ^nd having made an incision in each fill 

the cavities of the profiterolles with cream. 
Arrange on a silver dish and accompany them with 
chocolate sauce in a boat made in this manner : — 
Dissolve two ounces of unsweetened chocolate in 
half a pint of water, add half a stick of vanilla or 

a teaspoonful of the essence, two ounces 
Chocolate gf gifted Sugar, and a squeeze of lemon- 

juice ; stir together till creamy, and serve. 
If sweetened chocolai a la vanille is used neither sugar 
nor vanilla will be needed. A tablespoonful of cream 
is an improvement. Some serve the profiterolles in 
a dish in the sauce, but this has the effect of making 



EGGS A LA RUSSE. 23 

the former sodden. This dish may be served hot or 
cold. 

4. Break four eggs, separating the yolks from the 
whites and putting each in separate basins ; mix well 
without beating, giving each a slight 
seasoning of salt and white pepper and ^^' f '" 
a tablespoonful of cream. Next choose a 
dozen little saucer-shaped bouchee-moulds an inch and 
a half in diameter, butter them, and three-parts iiU 
them with the white mixture. Put all the yellow 
mixture into a buttered shallow fireproof pan (one 
of the kind sold for small gratins will- do) ; the liquid 
should be not more than half an inch deep. Now 
steam each 'of the preparations very gently until set ; 
then put them aside in the moulds to get cold. To 
finish, take the small moulds first, and with a 
vegetable scoop remove enough of the white from 
the centre of each to form a cavity similar to that 
left in a hard-boiled egg after removing the yolk, 
turn the little cups thus formed out- of the moulds, 
and fill each cavity with a small teaspoonful of fresh 
caviar, which should be prepared before using with 
a few drops of lemon-juice and a dusting of Nepaul 
pepper ; arrange all the little cups of caviar in a 
circle on a dish, and then turn your attention to the 
yellow mixture. Out of this stamp as many rings as 
you have moulds, using two round cutters for the 
work, the larger one an inch and a half, the smaller 
an inch in diameter. Drop one of these gently 
upon the top of each cup, so as to leave the 
caviar visible in the centre, surrounded by the 



24 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

yellow ring. All the remnants of yellow should be 
finely granulated by being pressed through a wire 
sieve and used as a carpet in the dish containing the 
cups. Over all a fine lacewoi'k of garden cress care- 
fully dried may be scattered. By forming the cups 
of custard a la Royale blanche you insure uniformity 
of shape ; the cups formed by an ordinary hard- 
boiled egg, when cut in halves across, rarely have 
the cavity in the exact centre, one side being some- 
times so thin as to be quite brittle. Then the 
mixture with the cream and seasoning is more 
delicate than plain egg. 



MENU VI. 

(^February.) 

Morue sal^e k la bonne feniine. 

C6telettes de mouton k la Louise. 

Charlotte pralin^e. 

CrouBtadea a la Boh^mienne. 



I. Salt cod can often be procured from the fish- 
monger very partially salted, and only requiring a 
short period of soaking. Ordinary salt 
cod should be steeped in tepid water for ^^^^ '^"^ « 
six hours, and in cold for six hours, the femme'f 
water in each case being changed four 
times. To dress after soaking, put the fish into cold 
water, and bring to the boil, simmer immediately 
for five minutes and it will be done. To serve (say 
two pounds) boil, drain, and mash two pounds of 
potatoes, moistening with two ounces of butter and 
a gill of the cod-boilings ; get the puree smooth and 
creamy by passing it through a wire sieve, finish with a 
tablespoonful of cream and two of grated Parmesan. 
This should not be nearly as stiff as mashed potatoes 
in the English way. With it make a bed upon a 
very hot dish, lay the cod upon it, and mask the 
whole with hard-boiled egg sauce, the moistening of 
which should be the fish-boilings. The dish is im- 
proved if one-third of the liquid used for cooking the 
cod be milk. 

25 



26 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

2. Choose a nice neck of mutton, divide it into the 
neatest cutlets you can, trim them, give them a dust 
of pepper and salt, and place them en 
altUkwlth marinade during the night. For the garnish 
spinach you want one ounce of blanched onion, a 
fa'LoiUsc pound of spinach that has been picked, 
- " washed well, blanched for five minutes in 
boiling salted water, and drained of all moisture, one 
small cabbage lettuce, also blanched and drained, and 
two tablespoonfuls of butter. Take a quart stewpan, 
melt the butter at the bottom of it over a low fire ; 
put into it the onion very finely shredded, fry this 
gently till it turns a pale yellow, and then add half 
an ounce of flour, the whole of the spinach and the 
lettuce also finely cut up. Stir the vegetables about 
in the melted butter till 'they begin to change 
colour, and then moisten with a quarter of a pint 
of good broth ; stir this well, and put in a teaspoon- 
ful of powdered white sugar, three saltspoonfuls of 
salt, and a good dusting of black pepper. Add 
another gill of broth and let the vegetables simmer for 
about fifteen minutes, stirring them to prevent their 
catching at the bottom of the pan, till they assume 
the consistency of a thick puree, when they should be 
passed thi-ough a wire sieve. Add a tablespoonful of 
cream and they will be ready to accompany your 
cutlets. These should be drained from their mari- 
nade, wiped dry, dipped in melted butter, and grilled 
over a bright clear fire. Prepare a neat border of 
pounded rice", fill it with the puree burning hot, and 
arrange the cutlets round the outside of the circle, 
with bunches of watercress for garnish. 



CHARLOTTE WITH BURNT ALMONDS. 27 

3. Choose a round plain charlotte-mould, five inches 
in diameter. Buy one and a half dozen savoy biscuits. 
Make half a pound of Genoise paste, out 
of which (half an inch thick) cut a round C/tdr/oWc 
a little larger than the circumference of almonds. 
the mould. Make a glace royale (or cook's 
paste) with white of egg and icing sugar, and 
cut the savoys neatly so that their edges may be 
straight and clean. One of the rounded ends may 
be left to form a scalloped edge round the top. Ar- 
range these one by one round the inside of the mould 
rounded ends uppermost, sticking them together by 
brushing their edges with the sticking-paste. When 
the circle has thus been completed put the mould in 
the oven (a very moderate one), so that the case you 
have made may set firmly, and when this has been 
done turn it out. Next make five ounces of pra- 
line with three ounces of powdered sugar and two of 
blanched and chopped almonds ; i.e., melt the sugar 
over a low fire in a small saucepan, let it turn a nice 
brown colour, then slip in the almonds, stir well for 
a minute or two, stopping before the sugar turns too 
dark a tint, and then pour out the whole at once on 
to a cold slab. It will harden immediately. When 
cold, pound this in a mortar, sifting the fine powder 
and keeping some of the rougher pieces to use when 
finishing the case. This should be done as follows : 
Set the case upon the genoise slab, fixing the two 
together with the glace royale, and tie round the case, 
about an inch and a half below the top of it, a band 
of pink or pale-blue satin libbon, finishing it with a 
bow. Lastly, fill the hollow of the case with whipped 



28 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

cream, flavoured with the powdered praline, the 
rougher pieces being sprinkled over the top of it. 
For a little mould of this size half a pint of cream 
will suffice. Keep it very cold before whipping, and 
pass in the powdered praline at the same time. 

4. For these you will require six open short paste 

cases, which may be baked in oval or round patty- 

, , pans. The paste should be made in this 

Cvou^tctdGS 

with salad way : — Put three ounces of flour upon a 
alaBohe- pastry-board, make a little well in the 
centre of it, into that put an ounce and a 
half of butter and the yolk of one egg ; mix, adding 
an ounce and a half of grated Parmesan cheese and 
half a gill of water to complete the paste. Roll this 
out as thin as possible, butter the patty-pans, line 
them with it, prick the hollows and fill them with 
raw rice, bake a pale brown ; cool, empty the cases 
thus made, and when cold turn them out of the pans. 
To finish, fill each case with an anchovy salad made 
in this manner : — Allow two fillets of anchovy for each 
case, remove the oil from these, and cut them into 
quarter-inch pieces. Take for each a tablespoonful 
and a half of finely cut and cooked macedoine of vege- 
tables (the French preserved is very good). See that 
this is dry, then sprinkle with tarragon vinegar, mix in 
the anchovy pieces, finish with just enough mayonnaise 
sauce to moisten nicely, and arrange the salad in a 
little pyramid in each case. Broken aspic may be 
arranged in the dish with the croustades. 



MENU VII. 

(February.') 

Tranche de saumon poch^e. 

Carr^ de mouton k la TurcLue. 

Cr^me de macarons au noyeau, 

(Eufs k la Livournaise. 



1. A SLICE of salmon weighing about a pound 
having been procured, not more than an inch thick, 
and a pennyworth of iish-cuttings, make 

a pint and a half of broth with the latter S/ice oj 
at once, strain it, add a glass of chablis, poached. 
and pour it into an eight-inch saiite-pa,n 
with an upright rim. Bring to the boil, then put in 
the salmon; let it boil a minute, then simmer for 
eight or ten till tender. Drain off all the broth, 
leaving the salmon in the dry pan, covered with a 
hot cloth, while you turn half the broth to sauce, a 
roux of three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the 
same of flour being ready in a different stewpan. 
Boil up and skim, passing it rapidly through a hair 
sieve, and finishing with the yolk of an egg and a 
squeeze of lemon-juice. Divide the salmon into nice 
pieces, dish on a small flat silver dish, mask with the 
sauce, and serve. 

2. A neck of mutton should be got for this. With 
the scrag and trimmings make a broth, and trim the 



30 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

best end neatly as a small joint. The broth should 
be made the previous day. For the luncheon dish 

put the broth on to boil, then slip in the 
mutton piece of best end, with four ounces each 

piUXo a la of onion, turnip, and carrot, an ounce 
urquc. ^^ celery, a bunch of parsley, a bouquet 
garni, and a seasoning of pepper and salt. Simmer 
now until the meat is tender (about one hour and a 
half if the fire be kept quite low), then strain off the 
broth, keep the piece of mutton in the empty pan 
covered with a hot cloth and with the lid on. 
Rapidly boil up the broth, adding when boiling 
six ounces of best Patna rice, proceeding precisely as 
described in the case of ordinary boiled rice in Menu i. 
Drain, dry in the same manner, mix into it an ounce 
and a half of butter and a large teaspoonful of tur- 
meric powder. This will give the rice a pale yellow 
tint, and a slight flavour. Now uncover the mutton, 
divide it into cutlets, lay these in a hot dish overlapping 
each other, smother them with the rice, and having 
quickly turned three-quarters of a pint of the broth 
to a sauce, add a gill of tomato conserve or puree 
to it and send round in a boat. 

3. Boil three gills of milk, flavouring it with 
almond essence, let this get cold ; now beat three 

whole eggs and one yolk extra in a bowl. 
Cream of -(^ith two ounces of sugar, using a whisk, 

'UlClCClYOOItS <~f f tj 7 

with noyeau. ^nd passing in the flavoured milk. Put 
the bowl over a stewpan containing boil- 
ing water and stir over the fire until the custard 
begins to form ; when thick enough to coat the 
spoon add an ounce of gelatine that has been dis- 



. CREAM OF MACAROONS WITH NOYEAU. 31 

solved in hot milk, take the bowl out of the stew- 
pan, and continue to stir for a few minutes,, adding 
two ounces of macaroons which have been soaked 
in milk and pressed through a sieve ; whip all 
together, add a gill of whipped cream, and a liqueur- 
glass of noyeau. Line a wetted plain mould with 
paper, pour in the mixture, set in on ice, and in due 
course turn the cream out, remove the paper, and 
serve with a syrup tinted pink with cochineal, and 
flavoured with noyeau and the juice of half a lemon. 

4. Make a dozen cups with custard a la Royale 
blanche as in the case of ceufs a la Russe. Make the 
yellow custard also. Treat the latter in this way : — 
When cold empty it into a mortar, add an ounce of 
butter, eight of iillets of anchovies that have been 
freed fit)m oil, a large dessert-spoonful of finely 
minced ohves, and a dozen capers ; pound tho- 
roughly, moisten with a spoonful of cream, arrange 
the farce in the hollows of the cups, forming it dome- 
wise above the level of the cups, dust granulated 
hard-boiled egg over all, and serve as in the case of 
ceufs a la Russe. 



MENU VIII. 

(^February.') 

(Eufs pocli^s k la fermiire. 

Foitrine de veau auz tomates. 

Fommes au kirscli. 

Crimes aux crevettes k la Momay. 



I. For this you will want half a pound of mush- 
rooms. Peel them and cut off the stalks, put the 

mushrooms aside, chop up the peelings 
Poached ^^^ stalks, wash and dry them, put half a 
fermiere. pint of milk in a small stewpan with these 

chopped trimmings and a seasoning of 
salt and white pepper ; bring to. the boil and simmer 
for ten minutes, then strain the milk through a fine 
tamis or hair sieve. Now put half an ounce of butter 
into the stewpan, after having washed it, set this over 
a low fire, stir in half an ounce of flour, mix a roux 
without colouring, then moisten with the strained 
milk ; bring gently to the boil, put in the peeled 
mushrooms and simmer them till tender. To finish, 
choose a silver or china legumiere, make it very hot, 
take the mushrooms out of the sauce, cut them into 
nice pieces, arrange them on the dish, pass the sauce 
through the hair sieve ; heat it up again, stir in a 
tablespoonful of cream, and pour it over the mush- 
rooms ; arrange half a dozen poached eggs on the 

surface, and serve. 

32 



BREAST OF VEAL WITH TOMATOES. 33 

2. Choose a piece of breast of veal, bone it, spread 

over the surface of the meat a half-inch layer of veal 

stuffing ; roll the meat up, and secure it 

in shape with ties of string or tape. Take Breast of 

'vccil "With 
africandeau or stewpan large enough to tomatoes. 

hold the roll of veal, put into it two ounces 
of clarified dripping, melt this over a moderate fire, 
and then put in, minced quite small, three ounces 
each of onion and carrot, half one of celery, a dessert- 
spoonful of parsley cut up, and the same measure of 
dried herbs in a muslin bag ; fry all together, adding 
half an ounce of glaze, lay the roll of meat upon the 
top of the vegetables and fry with them till it is 
coloured ; now moisten with warm broth made from 
the bones ; bring to the boil and then simmer till done 
— about two hours enough. Lastly, take out the meat, 
remove the strings, lay it on a flat dish made hot to 
receive it, cover closely ; pass the vegetables and 
broth through a hair sieve, put the puree thus made 
over a quick fire, skim off all fat, add a gill of tomato 
puree or conserve, pour over the veal, and serve with 
tomatoes, separately cooked, in a ring round the meat, 
alternated with rolls of crisply cooked bacon. To 
cook rolls of bacon, lay them, after rolling, in a small 
baking-tin and put that into the oven ; watch, and 
when cooked nicely take the tin out, and use the 
rolls as directed. 

N.B. — In all cases when a boned joint is chosen 
for luncheon it is highly advisable to prepare it the 
day before. The bones and trimmings can then be 
set to make a broth. During the night the meat may 
be marinaded with advantage. 

4 33 



34 



FIFTY LUNCHES. 



3. Here, having procured enough apples for a nice 
compote — the number will obviously depend upon the 

size of the fruit — ^it will be necessary to 
fP^^f wife make a pint of weak syrup with powdered 

sugar and water ; ten ounces of sugar will 
yield the sort of syrup we want with one pint of 
water. Set this over the fire to simmer, flavour with 
a liqueur-glass of kirsch, then slip in the apples neatly 
pared and quartered. Cook gently till the pieces of 
apples are done, stopping before they break or 
become pulpy ; drain them with a perforated spoon 
from the syrup, and lay them on a glass compote-dish. 
Now put into the syrup two tablespoonfuls of apricot 
jam, another liqueur-glass of kirsch, a teaspoonful 
of cornflour, or creme de riz, and the juice of 
a lemon ; bring to the boil, and stir continually till 
the consistency attains that of thin treacle, after 
which cool, and strain it over the pieces of apple ; 
let the dish become as cold as possible, and serve. 
Whipped cream may of course be laid over the 
apples, or cream may be handed separately, accord- 
ing to taste. 

4. For this little savoury' make a cheese cream 
(see No. 4, Menu iv.), and fill nine little darioles 

with it by degrees, setting in each dariole, 
Creams with j^jgQ ^y degrees, as much minced picked 

SltVi'lllvS CI let J <j J IT 

Mornay. shrimps as the cream will dilute nicely. 
Let the moulds become firm, then turn 
them out, dish tastefully, and serve. 



MENU IX. 

(March.) 

(Eufs k la poisBonni^re. 

Epaule d'agneau aux concombres. 

Macaronade k la Dubois. 

CroHtes aux laitauces. 



1. A NICE way of turning cold cooked fish to 
account. Required, about a pound of cold cod, 
turbot, or any white fish ; trim the fish 

into neat pieces, picking out all bones, f^V^'''^ 
make about half a pint of fish broth and poissonniae. 
turn it to a sauce. Now choose a silver 
gratin-dish. or fireproof china baking- dish, arrange 
the fish in the centre, surrounding it with a circle of 
hard-boiled eggs cut into halves, with their cut sides 
uppermost ; mask the whole with the sauce, dust 
over with grated Parmesan, and set in the oven. As 
soon as the surface has taken a slight colour the dish 
can be served. 

2. Bone and roll the shoulder of lamb, seasoning 
well, and laying a few slices of cooked streaky 
bacon over the meat before rolling it ; tie it in shape 
and wrap it in buttered paper ; roast carefully, basting 
well, and removing the paper during the last seven or 
eight minutes. When done lay the roll on a hot dish, 
remove the ties, slice it neatly in quarter-inch slices, 

35 



36 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

using a very sharp knife, so that they may overlap 
each other, brush over them some diluted glaze, and 
garnish with cucumber fillets that have been sepa- 
rately simmered in thickened broth, which will form 
their sauce when dished. 

3. For this you want half a preserved pineapple, 
a pint of almond-flavoured custard, and a dozen 
macaroons. Lay the macaroons in a co)w^ote-dish and 
tipsify them with mai'aschino, cut the pineapple into 
quarter-inch squares and arrange a layer of them 
over the macaroons, moisten with the custard (which 
should be rather thick), sprinkle the surface with the 
rest of the pineapple, and, if you like, cover with 
whipped cream. 

4. Make the short paste, recipe for which was 
given for No. 4, Menu vi., roll it out a quarter-inch 
thick, and, using a two-inch cutter, stamp it out in 
rounds ; prick these, lay them on buttered paper on 
a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a moderate oven. 
When done, take them out, and let them get cold. 
Complete them in this way, spread them over thinly 
with green butter, sprinkle over that chopped cooked 
herring roe and olives, and mask with mayonnaise 
sauce. Dish nicely garnished with broken aspic, and 
a small salade cuite in the centre. 



MENU X. 

(ilarcJi.} 

Bordure de saumon a la Farmentier. 

Noisettes de mouton a la Soyer. 

CrotXtes k la Normande. 

Salade a la belle alliance. 



1. Take six ounces of cold cooked salmon and 
pound it in a mortar with two ounces of butter and 
two of bread panada ; pass all through a 

wire sieve into a bowl ; now stir in two ^°^'^<^^°J 
whole eggs and the yolk only of another. 
Work all well together with a wooden spoon, and 
finish with a tablespoonful of cream. Butter a round 
pint border mould and fill it with the mixture, steam 
gently till nicely set, mask with maitre d'' hotel sauce, 
and fill the centre of the border with small new 
potatoes moistened with maitre d' hotel butter. 

2. Cut out of the best end of a neck of mutton half 

a dozen noisettes, i.e., neat round-shaped fillets — the 

meaty part of the cutlets only. Put these aside and 

turn all the bones and trimmings to 

broth. This should be done the day be- ^oisMesof 
- • -1 1 , 1 mutton a la 

fore. On the morning required cook the Soyer. 

noisettes in the manner explained for the 

cutlets in No. 2, Menu ii., i.e.— braise them, using the 

broth aforesaid for their moistening. Dish them in 

37 



38 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

the same way, garnished all round with flageolets 
and this sauce accompanying : — Having skimmed off 
all the fat from the broth, thicken three gills of it 
with butter and flour ; boil, skim, pass through the 
hair sieve, tint it a nice brown with caramel, flavour 
with a sherry-glass of claret, and garnish with strips 
of cooked ham and white of egg, and two gherkins 
chopped small. 

3. Weigh half a pound of Normandy pippins, soak 
them for a couple of hours in cold water, after which 

drain them, put them in a stewpan with. 
Cake crusts q^q ygj.y £nely peeled rind of one lemon 
mande. and one orange, two ounces of powdered 

sugar, a stick of cinnamon, the juice of 
the lemon and orange, and sufficient claret and water 
in half-and-half proportions to cover them. Simmer 
slowly until the pippins are tender but not broken, 
then drain them and lay them on a dish to get cold. 
Now add two tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam to the 
syrup in which the fruit was cooked, bring to the 
boil, simmer for five minutes and strain through a 
hair sieve ; return the liquid to the stewpan, and 
reduce it until it attains the consistency of thickish 
honey, finish with a sherry-glass of cherry brandy and 
let it get cold. Now out of a stale madeira cake cut 
three or four slices half an inch thick, and with a 
two and a half inch cutter starnp out as many rounds 
as you have pippins to serve ; fry these lightly in 
butter just to seize their surfaces, and let them get 
cold. Arrange your dish finally as follows : — First 
place a circle of the cake croutes, brush them over 



SALADE A LA BELLE ALLIANCE. 39 

with some of the reduced syrup ; place a pippin on 
each, mask them all with the rest of the syrup, and 
serve with Devonshire cream, which, if you like, may 
be squeezed through a forcing bag in little cones 
between each pippin, or in the centre of the dish. 

4. This kind of salad makes a nice luncheon 
savoury : — Take from four to six ounces of cold 
cooked chicken and from two to three 
(half the weight) of cold cooked tongue ; ^^j?'^^,f- '" 
cut both meats into julienne-like strips, ance. 
open a small (the smallest) tin of pate de 
foie gras, melt off the fat, wipe the pate, and cut it up 
into slices also ; boil, and set to get cold a quarter 
bundle of seakale ; cut the vegetable into strips, using 
a silver dessert-knife ; now take a silver or china 
legumiere, make a bed at the bottom of it with some 
of the seakale, over that arrange a layer of mixed 
meats, then more seakale, sprinkling over each layer 
a seasoning of pepper and salt ; finish the arrange- 
ment in dome shape, with strips of seakale outside, 
and moisten with mayonnaise sauce, keeping the 
whole as cold as possible ; garnish round the base of 
the dome with hard-boiled eggs in halves, turned 
olives, and little heaps of broken jelly. 



MENU XI. 

{March.) , 

Merlans k la maltre d'hdtel. 

Poulet en pilao. 

Fain de marrons. 

Canapes au jambon. 



I. Buy three medium-sized whitings as they are, 
that is to say, not skinned and twisted round by the 
iishmonger. Remove the flesh in fillets. 
Whiting a la one from each side of the fish, retaining 
d'hotcl. ^hs skin. With the heads and bones make 

a pint of broth, moistening with milk and 
water in half-and-half proportions (see No. i. Menu ii.). 
Choose a gralin-dish or fireproof china baking-dish, 
butter it, sprinkle over the butter a tablespoonful of 
finely minced parsley, lay the whiting fillets in a line 
upon this bed, brush melted butter over their upper 
surfaces and sprinkle with minced parsley, shake a 
few drops of lemon-juice over them also, and pour 
three tablespoonfuls, of the broth round them. A 
quarter of an hour before luncheon push the dish 
into the Dutch oven, bake for eight or ten minutes 
before the fire, turning the dish round once, and 
basting once or twice during the cooking. Serve in 
the dish laid upon another with a napkin folded upon 
it. During the baking turn the remainder of the 

broth to a sauce by thickening it with half an ounce 

40 



PILAO OF FOWL. 41 

each of butter and flour, and finishing it with a table- 
spoonful of minced parsley and a squeeze of lemon- 
juice. Pour this over the fillets before serving. 

2. Prepare and cook the fowl precisely as explained 
for faisan au riz, Menu iv., and boil the rice in the 
broth in the same way. Those who like 

a highly spiced pilSo must give directions fy^° °^ 
accordingly, the spice being stirred in 
with the broth. The rice may be tinted pale yellow 
with turmeric powder, as directed for riz a la Turqtie, 
Menu vii., but that is a matter of taste also. Dish 
the bird smothered with the rice, and garnished as 
follows : — A circle of hard-boiled eggs in quarters all 
round the base of the mound of rice, and a sprinkling 
of cardamom powder over the rice, while pistachio 
nuts or almonds lightly fried in butter with an equal 
quantity of sultana raisins (two ounces of each) should 
be scattered over the whole ; fry the raisins and nuts 
in butter over a very low fire, or they will be hard. 
In India the cook also adds rings of fried shallots ; 
these must be sliced finely lengthwise, and tossed 
in butter till dry. About three ounces should be 
enough. All the garnish should be ready before the 
boiling of the rice, for the dishing should be as expe- 
ditious as possible ; a little delay has the effect of 
making the rice greasy. — N.B. The broth in which 
the rice was boiled may be used for a thick white soup, 
like lait d'amandes, or creme d'orge. 

3. Remove the outer skin of a dozen large chest-, 
nuts, scald them to facilitate the removal of the 



42 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

inner skin, then lay them in a stewpan just covered 
with milk flavoured with vanilla. Simmer slowly 

until the chestnuts are soft and most 
Slfe. °f ^^^ "lil^ absorbed, then rub the whole 

through a hair sieve. You ought now 
to have half a pint measure of puree ; sweeten this 
with an ounce of sugar, flavour with two tablespoon- 
fuls of kirsch or any liqueur that may be available. 
Pass in half a pint of vanilla-flavoured custard, in 
which an ounce of gelatine has been dissolved, and 
as the mixture cools, whip it well, finishing with a 
gill of whipped cream. Have ready a pint and a 
half plain mould lined with wetted paper, pour in 
the cream, and set the mould in ice. Serve with a 
gill of syrup tinted pink with cochineal flavoured with 
lemon-juice and a glass of the liqueur used in the puree. 

4. Make nine round biscuits of the savoury short- 
paste given for No. 4, Menu iv., mixing into the 
composition a tablespoonful of finely minced lean of 
cooked ham. Roll out half an inch thick, stamp 
out the biscuits with a two-inch cutter, bake, and 

let them get cold. Also make nine little 
collates moulds of cream of ham, using small 

saucer-shaped botichee-raoulds one inch and 
three-quarters in diameter, and making the cream as 
explained for the colombines, Menu i. Steam in the 
same way, let them get cold, then turn them out, and 
place one on each biscuit, rounded side uppermost, 
sprinkling finely granulated hard-boiled egg mixed 
with a dessert-spoonful of finely minced olives over 
all. Dish tastefully, and serve. 



MENU XII. 

(ilarch.) 

(Eufs sur le plat aux tomates. 

EagoUt de lapin k I'lrelandaise. 

Merveilles frites. 

CroHtes a la m^nag^re. 



1. The tomatoes for this dish must not be very 

ripe. Scald them, peel off their skins, cut them in 

quarters, drain them on a wire sieve, then 

mince, and arrange them on a buttered E£i^ ""■ i''-'^ 
J- ri-i_ i_i- J.1 i disk with 

lireproof dish, enough being taken to tomatoes. 

make an even bed half an inch deep. 

Dust over the bed thus formed a seasoning of pepper, 

salt, and finely sifted herb mixture ; break eggs 

enough for the party, lay them carefully on the 

tomatoes, push the dish into the oven, and cook 

until the eggs are set. Sprinkle grated Parmesan 

over all, garnish with sippets of fried bread, and 

serve. 

2. This uncommon way of dressing rabbits is to be 
recommended for a change : — Get a pair, take all the 
meat from the bones in as neat pieces as 
possible, cutting them afterwards a uniform ^^-f^ rabbits. 
size as nearly as can be without waste. 

Break up the bones, including the heads, and put 
them into a stewpan ; cover with cold water and milk 

43 



44 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

in half and half proportions, set over a low fire, and 
bring slowly to the boil, skimming off all scum ; now 
add a pound and a half of Spanish onions cut in 
quarters, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and a muslin 
bag containing a dessert-spoonful of dried sweet herbs. 
Simmer for a couple of hours, then strain, picking 
out all the onion, which set aside. Next proceed to 
cook the meat in this way : — Put the broth on again, 
and when hot without quite boihng put in the meat 
immediately, reduce the heat, and simmer veiy gently 
until nicely done ; then strain off the broth, and put 
the meat on a plate. Have ready two pounds of 
well-boiled potatoes ; mash them, moistening with 
the rabbit broth ; stir in with them the onions which 
were set aside, and then pass all through a hair sieve 
into a bowl. Moisten the puree now with enough 
broth to bring it to the consistence of a thickish 
cream ; put this into a stewpan, put the meat into 
it, and stir gently over a moderate fire till hot 
enough to serve. Now, using a slice, lay the meat 
upon a hot entree-dish, and mask it entirely with the 
putce, serving at once. 

3. Dry, sift, and weigh five ounces of the best 
flour, put it into a bowl, make a hollow in the centre 
of it, into which break two eggs ; add an ounce of 

sifted sugar, a pinch of salt, two tablespoon- 
fri'thrs ^^^^ °^ brandy, and two ounces of butter. 

Mix the butter and eggs iirst, then work 
the flour with them, and the other ingredients, until 
a nice paste is formed, finishing it with the rasped 
zest of a lemon. Give it an hour's rest, then roll it 



THE HOUSEWIFE'S TOASTS. 



45 



out thinly, cut it into inch ribbons three inches long, 
have ready a pan of boiling fat, drop the ribbons into 
it, fry till of a nice golden colour and crisp ; then 
drain, dry on a wire drainer, dust over with sifted 
sugar, and serve piled upon a hot napkin, sending 
round lemon and sugar. 

4. Out of a slice of stale bread a quarter of an inch 
thick stamp out rounds with a two-inch cutter ; fry 
these a golden colour, and let them get 
cold after drying them in the mouth of ^IjJ'fZ'sts. 
the oven. Prepare a mixture as follows : 
Put into a mortar two ounces of fresh cream cheese, 
one ounce of butter, six fillets of anchovies freed from 
oil, six capers, a teaspoonful of made mustard, and a 
seasoning of salt and Nepaul pepper ; pound well, 
moistening with just enough ci'eam to bring the mixture 
to the consistency of jam, pass it through a hair sieve, 
spread it on the fried crotltes, smoothing the surfaces 
with a palette-knife dipped in warm water ; garnish 
the top of each with an olive farcie, and scatter some 
well-dried garden cress lightly over all. 



MENU XIII. 

{April.) 

Morue sal^e au riz tomato 
F^t^ de veau chaud. 

Marrons ^tuT^s. 
Crimes de rbubarbe. 



1. Turn to Menu vi., and prepare a piece of salt 

cod — say one pound and a half — in the manner there 

described. With the boilings make three 
Saltcoawith ... , it.- i • -j. -it, x 

tomato- g"" of sauce, thickening it with two- 

flavoured thirds of an ounce of butter and an ounce 

"'^' of flour ; stir in one gill of tomato sauce 

to flavour it and a tablespoonful of cream. Boil 

six ounces of rice in the manner explained in 

Menu i., and finish it as given ior faisan au riz, Menu 

iv. Dish the cod in the centre of a hot flat dish, 

arrange a circle of the rice round it, mask the fish 

with some of the sauce, and send the rest round in 

a boat. 

2. Select a small, yet deep, pie-dish large enough 
to contain a pound and a half of veal, and half a 

pound of ham with adjuncts. Ask the 
hcrni tie butcher to cut the veal in slices a quarter- 
inch thick, spread these upon a board and 
cut as many neat pieces out of them as you can, three 
and a half inches long and two and a half wide 
Season the surfaces of these pieces of meat with salt 

4<5 



STEWED CHESTNUTS. 47 

pepper, and powdered dried herbs, and lay over 
each of them a thin sUce of streaky bacon (cooked) 
slightly smaller than themselves. Roll each up. 
Now butter the pie-dish, sprinlde over it a nice layer 
of chopped parsley and chopped cooked mushroom, 
arrange a layer of the rolled meat upon that, and 
over it slices of the ham, hard-boiled eggs sliced, 
and pieces of cooked mushroom, repeat this again 
with another layer of rolls, &c., filling the pie-dish 
and covering the surface with thin slices of cooked 
bacon ; moisten with two gills of really good meat 
gravy. Lay a nice cover of puff paste over the top 
and bake it for an hour and a quarter in a moderate 
oven. 

3. Remove the skin of two dozen chestnuts, scald 
them, and peel off their inner skins. Set them aside. 
Now put two ounces of minced onion into 
an earthenware stewpan with one ounce ^f^^^^^ts. 
of butter ; fry till brown, then stir in an 
ounce of flour, mix well, and moisten with three gills 
of good broth and one of claret ; season with pepper, 
salt, and powdered rosemary, and bring slowly to the 
boil ; skim, simmer ten minutes, and strain through 
a hair sieve. Wash out the stewpan, put back the 
strained sauce, and bring it to the boil ; now sUp in 
the prepared chestnuts, lower the heat to simmering, 
and stew gently till they are done. Lastly, take off 
the stewpan, lift the chestnuts out with a perforated 
spoon, arrange them on a Ugumiere, stir the yolks 
of a couple of eggs into the sauce, and pour it over 
them. 



48 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

4. Cut up a pound of rhubarb, and simmer it in 
just sufficient syrup flavoured with the zest of a lemon 
to cover it. When it is soft enough to 
larba'cains. ^u™ to a furde, strain it from the juice, 
to which add half an ounce of dissolved 
gelatine, pass all through a hair, sieve adding to the 
pulp thus obtained a couple of gills of whipped 
cream ; whip altogether, and fill a dozen wetted 
darioles with the cream, set them on ice, and wheij , 
firm turn them out, arrange them in a circle on a 
pretty dish and serve. The forced rhubarb is the 
best for this on account of its colour ; the sweetening 
will, of course, be in the syrup — ten ounces of sugar 
to a pint, but be careful not to have it too sweet ; a 
sherry-glass of kirsch is an immense improvement. 



MENU XIV. 

CApril.) 

(Eufs poch^s k. la Celestine. 

Tranches de boeuf gratin^es. 

Flageolets k la Romaine. 

Tartelettes amandines. 



1. With a pennyworth of fish- cuttings make a good 
fish broth — about three gills enough — ^following the 
rules already given for the process. Strain 

off, and at once proceed to thicken, com- Poached eggs 
mencing with three-quarters of an ounce Celestine. 
of butter and the same of flour ; boil up 
and continue the boiling, stirring attentively all the 
time, until the sauce has become reduced one-third 
and coats the spoon when the latter is lifted from 
it. This point having been reached, stir into the 
sauce half a pint of picked shrimps which have been 
cut up into a coarse mince. Have ready six croutes 
of fried bread, lay them on a ^ra//«-dish slightly 
buttered, cover each croute with the shrimp sauce, 
lay a poached egg on the top of that, push the dish 
into the oven for two or three minutes, and serve as 
hot as possible. 

2. A good way of serving up en rechauffe cold roast 
or braised beef. First make a sauce as follows : — 
Thicken three gills of broth, lending it assistance with 

5 ' « 



50 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

an ounce of meat glaze or a cup of strong, gravy 
drained from the dripping of the roasted joint, and 

flavouring it with the stalks and peelings 
gmtinfesf'^ of half a pound of mushrooms, bring to 

the boil, simmer for fifteen minutes, and 
pass the sauce through a hair sieve, catching up the 
bits of mushroom. Separately fry in butter the 
peeled mushrooms, cut up into a coarse mince, dust 
over with flour, and moisten with a gill of the sauce ; 
keep over a low fire tiU the minced mushroom is 
cooked and the consistence of the mince nearly that 
of jam. Now having cut the beef into a series of 
nice slices, warm them first of all in the remaining 
sauce, take them out, drain, and lay them on a board, 
spreading the mushroom mince thinly over their 
upper surfaces ; then lift them with a slice and 
arrange them in a line overlapping each other 
on a gratin-dish, the mushroom-covered sides upper- 
most ; mask over with the remaining sauce, with 
which a dessert - spoonful of marsala has been 
blended, push the dish into the oven to heat 
thoroughly ; serve garnished with well-made potato 
pufee. 

3. A vegetable specially dressed instead of a savoury 
for a change. Blanch half a pound of green 

flageolot beans in boiling salt and water. 
Flageolet drain them after five minutes' boiling, and 
Romaine. give them a douche of cold water from 

the tap, drain this off, and let them cool 
while you fry two ounces of finely minced onion in 
an ounce of butter over a low fire till turning brown ; 



ALMOND TARTLETS. 51 

then put in the beans, turn them about with the 
butter and onions for a minute, and moisten with 
warm broth and tomato pmee in equal proportions 
sufficient to cover them. Simmer now gently till the 
beans are tender, skimming off the butter as it rises ; 
lastly, stir in two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, 
and serve in a legumiere with short-paste biscuits 
made as described for No. 4, Menu ix. 

4. Make, or procure, enough puff paste to line half 
a dozen patty-pans. This having been done, prick 
and brush over their hollows with apricot 
glaze. Weigh two ounces of almonds fartlcU. 
after peeling them, chop them up small, 
fry gently in butter till a nice brown, then pound 
in a mortar with two ounces of finely sifted sugar 
flavoured with a liqueur-glass of noyeau, empty the 
contents of the mortar into a bowl, and stir in with 
a wooden spoon the yolk of an egg and two whites, 
with the zest and juice of a lemon ; mix until the 
mixture is creamy, then add to it a tablespoonful of 
minced citron ; with this three parts fill the patties, 
allowing for rising in the baking, set them on a 
buttered paper in a buttered baking-tin, dust over 
with sugar, and bake in a gentle oven. Dust over 
with sugar again before serving. 



MENU XV. 
{April.) 

CoquUlea i, la Carmelite. 

Pigeons en matelote. 

Oatean en demi-deuiL 
Darioles k la Dlilanaise. 



I. For this we require six scallop shells, either of 
silver or china, four ounces of cooked salt or fresh 

cod, two hard-boiled eggs, two fillets of 
Scallop^ anchovies freed from oil, and two gills of 

Carmelite. ^^^ broth or milk flavoured with anchovy. 

Turn the last to a sauce with half an ounce 
of butter and half an ounce of flour, bring to the boil, 
and stir in a tablespoonful of tomato conserve ; mix 
well, and pass through a hair sieve. Now butter the 
shells, chop up the cold fish, also the hard-boiled 
eggs, put the mince into a bowl, season it with salt 
and white pepper, add a pinch of mace, cut up the 
fillets of anchovy and mix them with the mince, and 
then moisten with enough of the sauce to bring the 
mixture to the consistency of rather fluid jam. Fill 
the shells with this, smooth their surfaces, shake a 
canopy of finely sifted raspings over them, dot a few 
little pieces of butter over them also, and then bake, 
but do not allow the coquilles to dry up in that 
process. They should come to table moist and 
thoroughly hot. 



STEWED PIGEONS WITH MUSHROOMS. 53 

2. Get two (or three) Bordeaux pigeons according 

to requirements. Have the Uvers put back into the 

birds after cleaning them. Truss as for 

boiUng, the legs turned inwards. Melt an Stewed 

° J. , , ° . , i • i -i pigeons with 

ounce ot butter in a stewpan, put mto it mushrooms. 

six ounces of streaky bacon that has been 
blanched and cut into inch squares ; fry till light 
brown, then remove the bacon and put it on a plate ; 
next put the pigeons into the same pan and fry them 
in the butter and melted bacon fat till they begin to 
brown, then take them out and set them aside with 
the bacon. Into the stewpan now stir an ounce of 
floui", making a rotix with the butter left in it, and 
moisten, when it is mixed, with a pint of broth ; add 
the stalks and peelings, chopped small, of half a 
pound of mushrooms, season with salt and pepper, 
stir over the fire till boiling, simmer ten minutes, skim, 
and strain through a pointed strainer. Wash out the 
stewpan, put the pigeons into it with the strained 
sauce, a bouquet garni, the pieces of bacon, and a 
Spanish onion weighing eight ounces cut into quar- 
ters and blanched beforehand. Simmer twenty-five 
minutes, add the peeled mushrooms, simmer for 
ten minutes longer, and all being now done, take out 
the pigeons, cut them into halves, lay these on a hot 
dish, remove the bouquet, and after stra:ining it skim 
the fat off the sauce, garnish the pieces of pigeon 
with the mushrooms, onions, and bacon, heat up the 
sauce, pour it over them, and serve. 

3. Put into a bowl six ounces of sifted sugar, four 
whole eggs, and the zest of a lemon, whip over hot 



54 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

water till just warm ; remove the bowl and continue 
beating the mixture until it is cold and thick, then 
stir in by degrees four ounces of warm 
Cake in half sifted flour, and flavour with vanilla. 
"' Butter a circular border mould having a 
hollow rim, pour in the mixture, and bake in a 
moderate oven ; when done turn the cake out, brush 
it over with apricot glaze, arrange a ring of chocolate 
creams all round the rim, and send chocolate sauce 
separately. This can be served either hot or cold, 
and whipped cream may be put into the hollow 
centre. For the sauce see No. 3, Menu v. 

4. Make half a pint of custard with a gill and a 
half of milk and three eggs, have ready an ounce 
M ,j f and a half of cooked macaroni cut up into 
macaroni quarter-inch lengths, a tablespoonful of 
ala tomato conserve, and two tablespoonfuls 

of grated Parmesan or Gruyere. Butter 
six dariole-raoulds, half fill them with the minced 
macaroni, without pressing it too closely, stir into the 
custard the cheese and tomato conserve, season with 
pepper and salt, and pour the mixture gently into 
the darioles, filling them three-quarters full. Steam 
the little moulds as described in No. i. Menu ii. 
Serve cold, dusted over with grated Parmesan, and 
garnished with watercress. 



MENU XVI. 

(April.) 

C6telettes de saumou poch^es. 
CarrS d'agneau aux ^pinards. 
Crfeme Anglalse au praline. 
CEufs de vanneau en croustades. 



I. For this we want six ounces of cooked salmon, 
two ounces of butter, and two ounces of bread 
panada. Put these ingredients into a 
mortar, poimd well, and pass the whole Cutlets of 
through a hair sieve into a bowl. Stir in poached. 
now two whole eggs and the yolk of a 
third, beat well together, season, and moisten with 
a tablespoonful of cream. Poach a little bit of this 
to test its consistency, and if satisfactory butter a 
dozen cutlet-moulds, fill them with the mixture, 
tapping them on the table to cause it to fill the 
moulds properly, and smoothing the surfaces with a 
palette-knife dipped in hot water. Poach the cutlets 
in the manner given in No. i, Menu ii., and when 
they are done take them out ; have ready on a dish a 
mound of mashed potato well sloped outwards, turn 
out the cutlets, arrange them round the mound, 
having masked them with a sauce verte, and fill in 
the outside of the ring with bunches of watercress. 
Sauce verte : — Have ready half a pint of fish broth 
thicken this, colour it a pale green with spinach- 

55 



S6 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

greening, reduce till it coats the spoon well, and 
finish it with finely minced chervil, parsley, and 
tarragon if procurable, with the squeeze of half a 
lemon. 

2. Roast the best end of a neck of lamb, dishing in 

this way : — Sever the cutlets from the little joint, 

arrange them upon a hot flat dish over- 

Neckof lapping one another, brush over with 
lamb with r'x' o j 

spinach. melted glaze, and garnish round the dish 
with small new potatoes that have been 
tossed in butter and sprinkled with parsley. The 
spinach, separately dished, should be cooked in this 
manner : — Pick the leaves carefully, rejecting all that 
are bruised and discoloured, wash them very care- 
fully, drain and plunge them for five minutes into 
boiling salted water, using plenty of it, and a roomy 
non-tinned vessel. The moment that the five 
minutes expire take the pan off the fire, drain the 
spinach on a large sieve, and refresh it with a good 
douche of cold water. Press out all moisture, turn 
the spinach out upon a board and chop it up, then 
put it into a casserole with two ounces of butter 
melted and hot, season with pepper, salt, and a 
pinch of mace, and stir it over a moderate fire for 
ten minutes without leaving it, thus absorbing all 
moisture, and finish with two tablespoonfuls of cream 
or good white sauce. If a stiff consistency be de- 
sired half an ounce of flour may be mixed with 
the butter in the second stage of the work. These 
proportions are worked out for two pounds of 
spinach. 



PLOVERS' EGGS IN CASES. 57 

3. Make a pint of custard with three gills of milk 
(boiled) and four large or five small eggs, flavour it 
well with praline, put it into a buttered 
charlotte-mould lined with buttered paper, Pi-aline 
and steam gently until firm. The success pudding. 
of these custard puddings entirely depends 

on the slow steaming, directions for which have been 
already given. For the making of praline see No. 3, 
Menu vi. Stir the powder into the custard. 

4. Plovers' eggs are nice of course in any way. 
All you have to do in this case is to make little short- 
paste cases with the paste given for No. 4, 

Menu vi. ; roll it out thin, and with it line fl,°'!^l'l '^' 
as many little oval patty pans two inches 
long as you have eggs to serve. After baking these 
and letting them get cold, turn them out of the pans, 
butter them with green butter, set a shelled hard- 
boiled plover's egg in the centre of each, and serve 
on a flat dish prettily garnished with watercress. 



MENU XVII. 

(,May.) 

(Eufs brouill^s aux asperges. 

Blanquette de veau k la citoyeune. 

Beignets de riz. 

Boudins k la Napolitalne, 



I. A SMALL bundle of asparagus will meet the 

requirements of this dish. Untie the bundle, wash 

the vegetable, and cut the tender green 

Buttered gjj^jg \^^q quarter-inch lengths ; set these 

eP^s with 

asparagtts. aside ; slice up the stalks into strips, put 

them into a stewpan, cover them with 
cold milk and water in half-and-half proportions, 
season with salt, set over a moderate fire, and bring 
to the boil ; simmer then till as soft as you can get 
them, after which turn the contents of the pan out 
upon a hair sieve, pressing as much pulp as you can 
with the liquid through it. Next with half an ounce 
of butter and half an ounce of flour make over a low 
fire a roux at the bottom of the rinsed-out stewpan, 
moisten with half a pint of the boilings, and 
bring to the boil, skim, and add the cut-up green 
ends ; simmer these for twelve minutes, or until 
they are tender (the time will depend on the fresh- 
ness, size, and natural tenderness of the asparagus), 
and when ready pour the whole into a hot legumiere, 
arrange over the surface a canopy of buttered eggs 

58 



BLANQUETTE OF VEAL A LA CITOYENNE. 59 

(No. I, Menu iii.), garnish with sippets of nicely fried 
bread, and serve. 

2. A pound and a half of cold roast veal, not over- 
cooked in the first instance, will do for this. Cut the 
meat into thickish slices, trim these neatly 

(all trimmings will come in for a mince on Blanquette 
another occasion), dust them over with fuoyenne.'^ 
flour, and let them remain on a dish while 
you prepare a sauce to receive them. At the 
bottom of a stewpan put half an ounce of butter, 
set over a low fire, and stir in half an ounce of 
flour, and when well mixed moisten with half a 
pint of good veal or chicken broth, which may have 
been made from bones, trimmings, or giblets. To 
this when it comes to the boil add the stalks and 
peelings of a quarter of pound of mushrooms, and 
such seasoning of salt and white pepper as may be 
necessary. Simmer for fifteen minutes, stirring and 
skimming off all scum, and then pass the sauce 
through a hair sieve. Return it to the washed-out 
stevirpan, mix with it a gill of tomato sauce, put in 
the pieces of veal, and keep over a very low fire 
until sufficiently hot to serve, carefully avoiding boil- 
ing. Serve within a circle of mashe.d potato, and gar- 
nish the surface with the mushrooms which supplied 
the peelings, nicely broiled, and little rolls of bacon. 

3. Boil four ounces of rice as already described, 
drain it, and empty it into a bowl ; stir into it two 
whole eggs and two yolks that have been beaten 
up in a gill of warm milk, set this in hot water over 



6o FIFTY LUNCHES. 

the fire till thickened, add two tablespoonfuls of 
crushed ratafias, and the zest of an orange, sweeten- 
ing with an ounce and a half of sugar ; 
fritters when thoroughly blended turn the mix- 
ture out upon a slab, and with two wooden 
spoons pat it into a flat cake about three-eighths of an 
inch thick ; let this rest and it will get firm. When 
wanted divide the cake into small rounds or ovals, 
using a cutter for the operation, flour, egg, roll them 
in very finely pulverised and sifted crushed ratafias, 
dip into boiling fat a few at a time till golden, drain, 
dry, and serve on a hot napkin dusted over with 
sugar. An apricot syrup sauce flavoured with any 
nice liqueur may accompany. 

4. Make half a pint of custard, using a gill and a 
half of milk and two whole eggs, season with salt 

and white pepper, and stir in a table- 
pitmngs" spoonful of grated cheese ; have two 

ounces of spaghetti boiled, cooled, and cut 
up small ; butter nine daiioles, half fill each loosely 
with the spaghetti, moisten till three-quarters filled 
with the cheese custard, and steam the little puddings 
till set (about fifteen minutes) ; let them get cold, 
turn them out of their moulds, dish in a circle with a 
small salad of cooked vegetables and strips of 
anchovy in the centre, and granulated hard-boiled 
eggs shaken over the little moulds. If liked hot, 
turn them out as soon as they are done, and mask 
with Milaiiaise sauce, to which a tablespoonful of 
finely minced olives and anchovies may be added as 
a garnish. 



MENU XVIII. 

(.May.) 

Salade de savtmon k la Farmentier. 
Fetits poulets auz lesiunes nouveauz. 
Beignets ^ la Somame. 
Caisses de concombre k la maiini^re. 



1. A POUND and a half of cold cooked salmon 

should be ready for this. Peel off the skin, and cut 

the fish into neat pieces ; lay these out on 

a dish, dust them over with pepper and Sa/mo« 

,, J . ,, .., ,,.,,. salad with 

salt, and sprinkle with salad oil and vine- cucumber. 

gar. Prepare a garnish of cooked fillets , 
of potato, or use a dozen small ones the size of a 
plover's egg for the purpose ; make two gills of 
mayonnaise sauce, turning it pale green with the 
juice of the leaves of one bunch of watercress ex- 
pressed after boiling them for five minutes, draining, 
cooUng, and drying them, and finishing with a table- 
spoonful of very finely minced chervil, chives, and 
tarragon. Arrange the pieces of salmon in a dome 
in the centre of a flat dish, mask with the sauce, and 
garnish round with a chain of the potatoes and a 
few of the nicest leaves of a cos lettuce torn (not cut) 
into small pieces. 

2. Two spring chickens having been procured, truss 
them for roasting, rub with a shallot, season with 



62 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

salt and powdered rosemary, and cook them a la 
casserole, as follows : — Choose a large casserole, 

melt three ounces of fresh beef drip- 
chicken with ping or butter at the bottom of it, put 
early vege- in the birds, and turn them about in 

the fat over a low fire for ten minutes 
to seize them without colouring. Now cover and 
push the casserole into the oven, basting the birds 
every now and then with gravy or good broth, 
covering the pan again on each occasion. As 
soon as done, take them out of the casserole, dish 
them on a flat dish, skim the fat off the surface of the 
liquid left in the pan, and pour it over them; gar- 
nish round with little heaps of separately cooked 
young carrots, turnips, and peas, the two former 
cut into little balls with a scoop, new potatoes 
accompanying. 

3. Soak four ounces of macaroons in milk, the 
latter being just sufficient to soften them thoroughly, 

and no more. Put this into a bowl, and 
macawois. ^Tcak in four whole eggs ; mix and add 

an ounce of sugar, the juice of a lemon 
and the zest, and a tablespoonful of finely minced 
green citron. Mix to the consistency of paste, spread 
it out on a slab three-eighths of an inch thick, and 
set it aside to grow firm. Finish as in the case of 
No. 3, Menu xvii. 

4. Choose a good-sized cucumber, cut it into two- 
inch lengths, peel these carefully, and with a tube 
cutter cut out the seeds and part of the vegetable. 



CUCUMBER CASES WITH SHRIMPS. 63 

thus forming a little drum of cucumber ; fill up the 

hollow with a farce made of three ounces 

of pounded shrimps, one of Canada, and Cucumber 

one of butter with seasonmg, and moistened shrimps. 

with a dessert-spoonful of cream, steam, 

and serve cold with mayonnaise sauce and a garnish 

of cress. 



MENU XIX. 

(May.) 

Crabe grating 

Mazagran de poulet. 

Groseilles vertes a la cr^me. 

Fetits crimes d'asperges. 



1. Take all the flesh from a medium-sized crab, 
tear it to shreds with two forks ; put this into a 

, stewpan over a low fire, moisten with a 
gill of good sauce made upon a fish broth 
foundation, cut up an ounce and a half of butter into 
small squares, and add these by degrees, mixing in 
lastly one-third of the whole bulk of nicely mashed 
potato ; work all together smoothly, season with salt 
and pepper, butter a large silver coquille (or six 
smaller ones), fill it with the mixture, smooth over 
the surface with a palette-knife dipped in hot water, 
dust over with grated Parmesan, baste with melted 
butter, and bake for a few minutes in a moderate 
oven. Serve, when the surface has slightly browned, 
laid upon a hot napkin. 

2. Take all the meat from the bones of a cold roast 
fowl, separating it from skin and sinew ; mince the 

meat and put it aside ; break the bones 

dHckeZ"' °^ "P ^i^^ a chopper, and with the skin, &c., 

make a broth in the manner given for 

No. 2, Menu v., turning it to a sauce in the same way. 

64 



LITTLE CREAMS OF ASPARAGUS. 65 

Boil six ounces of rice as described in Menu i., 
stir into it, when cooked, strained, and returned to 
the pan, two ounces of butter and a gill of tomato 
■puree; arrange this in a circle in a hot entree-dish, 
and, having meanwhile heated the mince in the 
sauce, pour it into the hollow centre, sprinkle 
finely minced cooked ham over the surface, and 
serve. 

3. This is a variation of gooseberry fool, which is 
perhaps rather less common. Weigh a pound of 
picked gooseberries, put them into a 
stewpan, and moisten with a syrup made •P«''«'« "/ . 

^OOSG bcTvi cs 

with half a pint of water and eight ounces %,nh cream. 
of sugar ; stew very gently till the syrup 
is absorbed and the fruit is reduced to a pulp ; then 
pass it through a hair sieve into a bowl ; if additional 
sweetness be liked, additional sugar may now be 
stirred in, together with a gill of cream. Put this 
into a glass compote-dish, and cover the surface with 
whipped cream. 

4. Half a small bundle of asparagus will do for 
this ; boil and simmer the heads in milk till tender, 
then strain, let them get cold, cut off the 

green ends in small pieces the size of a ^}f,lZaiul 
pea, and press as much of the pulp as you 
can from the stalks through a sieve ; turn the milk in 
which the asparagus was cooked to a savoury custard, 
using one egg per gill. Now butter nine darioles, 
arrange the green ends at the bottom of them to form 
the tops when they are finally turned out, stir the pulp 

6 



66 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

into the custard, fill the moulds three-quarters full, 
steam gently till set, and when cold turn them out. 
Arrange them neatly on a flat dish, garnish with 
broken aspic and garden cress, and serve with a 
sauce mayonnaise made without mustard, plain red 
wine vinegar being used instead of tarragon, so as 
not to interfere with the flavour of the asparagus. 



MENU XX. 

(ilfoy.) 

Coquilles de poiaaon frold. 
Croquettes de boeuf ^ la Viennoiae. 

Pots de cr6me au caf^. 
Eacalopes de foie graa au mad^re. 



I. Almost any cold cooked fish can be used in 
this manner, or even mixed fish, such as salmon and 
whiting, sole and shrimps, or turbot and 
lobster, enough only being required to fiU, ^°^';'j/^'' '" 
say, six china scallop shells after making 
an allowance for the other materials. Cut up the 
fish in small pieces, and add to it one-third of its 
bulk of cold cooked mushroom cut into small squares, 
and for six shells a dessert-spoonful of minced pickled 
gherkins ; put all into a bowl, and moisten it with a 
tablespoonful of salad oil and a teaspoonful of tarra- 
gon vinegar, seasoning with pepper and salt ; leave it 
thus marinading for a quarter of an hour. Take the 
mixed mince now out of the bowl, and in another 
one dress it with mayonnaise sauce ; next fill the 
scallop shells with the mince, trimming it in a dome, 
and masking the surface with mayonnaise; decorate 
the outside of the dome with strips of anchovies, 
crumbled white and yolk of egg, and garden cress 
loosely shaken over all. Serve on a flat dish sur- 
rounded with watercress. 

67 



68 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

2. Take three-quarters of a pound of tender un- 
cooked beef, lean without any fat, skin, or sinew, and 

pass it through the mincing machine ; add 
^"'f „ , one-quarter of its bulk of finely minced fat 

CYOQtt-CttCS CI 

la Viennoise. bacon, two Ounces of mushrooms, a table- 
spoonful of parsley, herbs, and shallot that 
have been minced and fried together, a seasoning of 
pepper and salt, and two whole eggs ; work all 
together, and shape out of it portions the size of a 
bantam's egg ; roll these on a floured board to dry 
them, then egg and bread-crumb them. Next plunge 
them into a pan of boiling fat simply to seize them 
externally ; drain and dry them, put them in a saute- 
pan, moisten nearly level with their tops with a 
rather thin brown sauce to which a gill of tomato 
puree has been added, and simmer them for three- 
quarters of an hour over a low fire, basting them 
throughout the operation ; lift them out with a 
perforated slice, lay them on a hot flat dish, and 
strain the sauce over them ; a ring of equally sized 
new potatoes may be arranged round the margin of 
the dish. 

3. Flavour a pint of milk with a quarter of a pound 
of coffee berries, as described for No. 3, Menu ii. 

After an hour's rest, strain and turn this 
Little to a rich custard with six eggs, strain it 

'}'}lOtt7tCiS of <-j<j / 

coffee cream, through a hair sieve, add a gill of cream 
to it, put it into little earthenware pots 
(china cases would do), steam them till set very 
gently, and let them get cold ; then turn them out, 
dish and serve with pure cream as a sauce, or with 



BROWN CHAUD-FROID GLAZE. 69 

whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla 
in a glass dish. 

4. The smallest sized pcite de foie gras will do for 
this. Open the tin or terrine, as the case may be, 
melt the fat round the pate, and pour it 
off ; with a very sharp knife cut the i)dte Escalopes of 
into slices a quarter-inch thick ; trim and madeira. 
lay these out on a flat dish, mask them on 
their upper sides only with brown chaiid-froid glaze 
flavoured with madeira, and when this has set lift 
them with a slice, arrange them round a small block 
of fried bread, fill the space round them with broken 
aspic, and send dry toast round separately. 

Brown chaud-froid glaze : — Put half a pint of plain 
brown sauce on the fire ; see that the colour is good 
— a rich brown ; a few drops of caramel 
will give this ; stir in a quarter of an ounce Brown 
of soaked gelatine, dissolve this over a giazc. 
moderate fire, skimming off all scum ; 
lastly add a dessert-spoonful of marsala, which in 
cooking may be substituted for madeira. Pour into 
a basin. As this cools it will gradually set, and the 
masking should be done the moment the consistency 
is such as to coat the spoon well when dipped into 
it ; it should flow without lumps as honey or treacle 
does. If the dish with the escalopes be set over 
crushed ice the setting will be much more rapid. 
Trim off the portions of glaze which may have over- 
flowed the edges, and slip the slice under the esca- 
lopes to dish them. 



MENU XXI. 

(Eufs poch^s k la Crispi. 

Cdtelettes d'agneau ^ la Princesse. 

Crotltes au chocolat. 

Boutons rouges k la Bolouaise. 



I. Boil three ounces of spaghetti, return it to the 
hot pan after draining, season, stir in an ounce of 
butter and keep it as hot as possible. 
Poached eggs "wrhile this is boiling prepare a salpicon as 
follows : — Peel and mince four ounces of 
mushroom, chop up an ounce of onion, put an ounce 
of butter into a satite-pan, melt, add the mince, a 
. tablespoonful of chopped parsley and seasoning. 
Fry, gently cooking all evenly, putting in with the 
other things four chickens' livers and half an ounce 
of glaze. Continue the gentle frying until the livers 
are quite soft, then empty all upon a wire sieve, and 
rub the mixture through it. To finish, arrange the 
spaghetti upon a buttered gratin- or china fireproof 
dish, at equi-distances make six hollows each large 
enough to hold a poached egg ; into these first put 
an allowance of the liver puree, then dust grated 
Parmesan over, and push the dish into the oven for 
a minute or two. When hot draw it out, lay a 

poached egg over each hollow, and serve. 

70 



TOMATO SAVOURY. 71 

2. The cutlets having been neatly trimmed should 
be grilled, laid round a mound of spinach and served 
with this sauce : — Wash, dry, and slice 

up a small cucumber, skin and all, butter f '''"'' '^^^''^^ 

a la 

a stewpan with an ounce of butter, put in Princcsse. 
the pieces of cucumber and fry them 
gently over a low fire ; do not let them turn brown, 
but stir in half an ounce of flour, and when well 
mixed moisten with just sufficient milk to cover ; 
bring to the boil, season with salt and pepper, and 
simmer till the vegetable is soft ; then work it through 
the hair sieve. Warm up again, finishing with a 
tablespoonful of cream. This should be pale green, 
the consistency of rich soubise, and very delicately 
flavoured with the cucumber. 

3. Cut nine or a dozen neat oval, round, or heart- 
shaped croutes a quarter-inch thick out of a stale 
madeira cake, fry them a golden yellow, 

and dry upon a drainer in a slack oven, ^"^J^^ crusts 
mask with apricot glaze, set aside to late. 
get cold. Whip half a pint of cream till 
stiff, flavouring it with vanilla and sweetening it with 
finely sifted sugar. When ready, arrange this in the 
centre of a glass compote-dish., lay the croutes round 
it over-lapping each other, and send round a cold 
chocolate sauce as described for No. 3, Menu v. 

4. Put an ounce of butter into a stewpan, melt over 

a low fire, and add a dessert-spoonful of finely minced 

onion ; fry gently for five minutes, and 

stir in a pound of ripe tomatoes of a good tomato 
.... il savoury. 

colour cut up mto small pieces. Keep 



72 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

the fire low, stirring to prevent catching, and season- 
ing with salt, pepper, mace, and finely powdered 
basil. When the tomatoes have been cooked to a 
pulp mix in with them three-quarters of an ounce of 
soaked gelatine, and keep this well stirred until it is 
thoroughly dissolved. Now pass the whole through 
a hair sieve, putting the liquid that comes through 
into a dish in which it can spread and lie a quarter 
of an inch deep. If set over ice this will soon be- 
come firm, and can then be stamped out into rounds 
with an inch and a half cutter ; arrange these for 
the present on a flat dish while you melt all the 
pieces and set the liquid again, stamping it out into 
little rounds the size of a shilling. Now lay over 
each larger round a little mould of anchovy cream 
(see No. 4, Menu ii.), put a little tomato button on the 
top of each, arrange the little savouries on a flat dish 
with watercress as a garnish, and serve. 



MENU XXII. 

(June.) 

Truite saumon^e k la gel^e. 

Pigeons farcis aux petits poia. 

Omelette sucrde aux ^raises. 

Crimes d'artlchauts auz anchois. 



I. Choose a small salmon trout about a pound or 
a pound and a half in weight, poach very gently in 
good fish broth and chablis (two-thirds of 
the former to one of the latter) until ^"Jjf g"/''""' 
tender, putting in with it a small bunch 
of tarragon and seasoning. When it is done, strain 
off the broth, and when free from moisture lay the 
fish on a flat silver dish. When the broth is cold, 
pass it through a fine tamis into a clean stewpan, 
and for three gills put into it three-quarters of an 
ounce of soaked gelatine, and the whites of two eggs 
well beaten:,- set over the fire, and stir the whole with 
a ware whisk till it boils, then take off the stewpan, 
and let the liquid cool for ten minutes. After this 
pour it through a well-rinsed piece of flannel. Pour 
it back, and strain it again until it , is quite clear ; a 
slight colour may be given by putting a saltspoonful 
of Liebig's extract into the liquid at the time of the 
clarifying. Pour the greater part of this out into a 
dish or pan to the depth of three-eighths of an inch, 
put the rest in a bowl, and as it begins to set brush 



74 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

over .upper side of the fish with it so that it may 
glisten. When the flat piece of jelly has formed cut 
a number of triangular pieces out of it, garnish round 
the fish with them, leaving a space between each for 
a similarly sized triangle or round of solidified tomato 
(see No. 4 in the last Menu). Chop up the i-emnants of 
the jelly, put a little of it over the fish and the rest 
in the dish round it ; hard-boiled eggs, turned olives, 
' sliced gherkins, and mixed salading will complete the 
adjuncts ; mayonnaise sauce should accompany. 

3. Make a stuffing with three ounces of bread 

crumb soaked in stock or milk, one ounce of cooked 

fat bacon cut into very small pieces, the 

Pigeons livers of the pigeons and one chicken's 

tcivcts ivttlt 

green peas, liver minced, two ounces of chopped 

mushroom, a dessert-spoonful of minced 
garden herbs, or a teaspoonful of powdered dried 
herbs, pepper, salt, and one well-beaten egg, mix 
well, and with this fill the cavities of three nice Bor- 
deaux pigeons, bard them with bacon, wrap them in 
buttered paper, and roast briskly for fifteen minutes, 
basting with melted butter, and removing the cover- 
ing during the last five. Cut each bird in half with 
a sharp knife, and lay the halves on crisply fried 
croutes of bread ; garnish with watercress, and serve 
with clear gravy and bread sauce, a dish of marrow- 
fat peas accompanying. 

3. Choose twenty of the best strawberries out of a 
small basket, see that they are clean, pick, and cut 
them into four pieces each, marinade these pieces 



LITTLE ARTICHOKE CREAMS WITH ANCHOVIES. 75 

in a soup plate with a liqueur-glass of maraschino, 
squeeze half a lemon over them, and dust them 
over with finely sifted sugar. With all 
the remaining strawberries make a puree, Sweet ome- 
flavouring it with maraschino, sweetening strawberries. 
it in the same way and passing it through 
the hair sieve. Make an omelette sti'cree of four eggs 
as explained in the Appendix, and just when it is 
ready to serve, spread the marinaded strawberries 
over the surface, turn it over and dish it, dust it 
over with sugar, and pour the puree round it ; serve 
at once. 

4. Boil four good-sized artichokes ; let them get 
cold ; then detach the leaves one by one, and with a 
silver dessert-knife scrape the fleshy part 
of each into a soup plate, pick the chokes articlwlie 
out of the bottoms and add the latter "'^''^"^^/''' 
to the scraped pulp. Bruise all with a 
silver fork, and mix this with a gill and a half of 
savoury custard ; finish as described for the asparagus 
creams (No. 4, Menu xix.), serving pure cream as a 
sauce with the little moulds, and decorating each 
with two Uttle fillets of anchovy laid crosswise over 
their tops. 



MENU XXIII. 

{June.') 

CBufs brouilles aux legumes 
Kari de poulet au riz. 
Foudiug de banaues auz fraises. 
Canapes k la Moscovite. 



I. The vegetables for this — a macedoine — should be 
in some variety, young, and separately cooked ; the 

carrots, turnips, and French beans should 
^"J^'^^'^f, be cut into squares, the asparagus in little 
vegetables, pieces the size of the peas. Blanch the 

three former in boiling salted water for 
five minutes, empty them upon a sieve, drain, and 
put them into a buttered saute-pan with a gill of 
water, season them with salt, a pinch of sugar and 
pepper ; cover and simmer them very gently over a 
low fire, moving them about occasionally to insure 
even cooking. Assuming that you have a heaped-up 
tablespoonful of each variety, you must have half a 
pint of white sauce ready in a stewpan, and as soon 
as the vegetables have been simmered sufficiently 
put them into it, with an equal measure each of 
cooked peas and cut-up asparagus. Mix two yolks of 
egg with a coffee-cupful of the sauce and stir it 
gently into the stewpan ; bring nearly to the boil, 
watching the vessel carefully, th,en turn out the 
vegetables and their sauce upon a hot legumicre, 

76 



BANANA PUDDING WITH STRAWBERRIES. 77 

covering the surface over with a canopy of buttered 
eggs made at the moment (see No. i, Menu iii.), and 
shaking a fine layer of grated Parmesan over it just 
before serving. 

2. For very full directions for curry-making please 
see the Appendix. We are still very far from being 
able to obtain anything worthy of the 

name in London from any public source, C/«c&e« 
notwithstanding advertisements to the ^J/^f "" 
contrary. A stew shghtly flavoured with 
curry powder is not a curry — it is a stew spoilt by 
ignorance. The recipe for boiling rice will be found 
in Menui. 

3. Choose four ripe bananas, peel them, scrape off 
any fibre that may adhere to them, slice them in 
halves longitudinally, cross-cut the halves 

and divide each quarter thus obtained in pudding 
two, lengthwise. Lay these pieces out on ^'''' 
a dish and marinade them with a liqueur- 
glass of maraschino, the juice of half a lemon and a 
dusting of sifted sugar. Turn them about occasion- 
ally. While they are resting, turn half a pint of milk 
to a custard with four whole eggs, sweetening with 
two ounces of sugar, and straining it when made 
through a hair sieve. Take a pint border-mould, 
butter it well and line it with buttered paper, lay in 
it the slices of banana crosswise, leaving spaces for 
the custard to filter through ; when packed pour in 
the custard, leaving half an inch for rising, and set the 
mould to steam very gently till set. Let it get cold 



78 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

in the mould, then turn it out ; fill the centre with 
carefully chosen strawberries, pour a gill of straw- 
berry syrup flavoured with maraschino over all, and 
send round pure cream as a sauce. 

4. Out of stale bread stamp half a dozen two and 

a quarter inch rounds a quarter-inch thick ; fry them 

a golden yellow in butter, drain, and 

Caviar ^ tj^em. When quite cold butter them 

canapes, ■' ^ 

and spread a layer of fresh caviar over 

them, mask the surfaces of the canapes completely 
with mayonnaise sauce as cold as possible, and serve 
on a flat dish garnished with watercress. To priepare 
the caviar, a few drops of lemon-juice and a sprink- 
ling of Nepaul pepper are alone necessary. 



MENU XXIV. 

COtelettes de saumon k la p^cheur. 

Ragotlt d'agneau au riz. 
Spaghetti fourr6 aux cbampignons. 

Cr^mc h. rambaasadrioe. 



I. Weigh, after removing the skin and bones, 
eight ounces of cooked salmon, three ounces of bread 
panada, and three ounces of butter ; bruise 
the fish and pound it in a mortar with the Salmon 
panada, the butter, and the yolk of one .pechcur. 
egg ; pass this through a hair sieve into a 
bowl ; now season the puree with salt, pepper, and a 
pinch of mace, add two whole eggs and a table- 
spoonful of cream or good white sauce ; butter a 
dozen cutlet-moulds, and fill them with the mixture, 
tapping them on the table to shake it well home, and 
smoothing the surfaces with a palette-knife dipped 
in hot water. Lay the cutlets in a wide saute-pan or 
baking-dish upon folded paper, pour boiling water 
round them to a little less than half their depth, 
push the pan into the oven, and simmer gently there 
until they are cooked firmly. Take them out then, 
let them get cold, when turn them out of their 
moulds, lay them on a flat dish over ice, mask them 
with white chaud-froid glaze tinted pink with lobster 

79 



8o FIFTY LUNCHES. 

coral, and, when set, release them, trimming off the 
glaze which has escaped over the edges, and dish in 
a circle round a block of fried bread, garnished with 
parsley, filling round the outside space with broken 
jelly, hard-boiled eggs, and houtons rouges made as 
described for No. 4, Menu xxi. 

White chaud-froid glaze : — Make a savoury custard 
with half a pint of chicken broth for meat, of fish 
broth or milk for fish, with three yolks, 
White strain, stir in two tablespoonfuls of aspic 

glaze. jelly melted, stir well, cool, and use. If 

no jelly be available this is a simple make- 
shift : — Boil two ounces of chopped mushroom in 
half a pint of milk, mix in a quarter ounce of soaked 
gelatine, strain off carefully, and stir in the yolk of 
an egg. Use light-coloured mushrooms, scraping off 
the dark gills to avoid colouring the sauce. 

2. This can be made of neck cutlets or a shoulder 
boned and cut into neat fillets, a broth being made 
of the bones and trimmings at once. The 
White ragout ragout must be kept quite white. Having 
rice. trimmed the meat, proceed to blanch it by 

■ plunging it into boiling water for three 
minutes. Take it out, put it upon a wire sieve, and 
let a douche of cold water pass over it from the tap. 
Have ready in a deep-sided saute or fricandeau-pan 
a bed of minced turnips, onions; and celery (four 
ounces of the first and two of the last) and a muslin 
bag containing a teaspoonful of dried herbs, lay the 
meat upon this bed and moisten all with the mutton 



SPAGHETTI WITH MUSHROOMS. 8i 

broth freed from fat, and milk in half-and-half pro- 
portions in quantity sufficient to cover well. Keep 
the pan over a low fire, never allowing the liquid 
to boil on any account, but simmering very gently, 
the surface covered with a sheet of paper, until 
the meat is three-parts done. Now take out the 
meat and muslin bag and pass the vegetables and 
the broth through a hair sieve, and, having mixed 
a rotix in the washed-out pan with half an ounce 
of butter and half an ounce of flour, stir in by 
degrees the puree obtained from the vegetables 
and broth ; bring to the boil, and if too thick add 
enough broth or milk to correct the mistake ; re- 
duce the heat under the pan, and put back the 
meat with three dozen balls of turnip, scooped 
out of fresh turnips, about the size of large playing 
marbles ; continue the simmering until the meat 
and the turnip-balls are , tender, then dish the ragout 
in this way : — Lay a circle of riz tomate (see No. 2, 
Menu iv.) round the edge of a hot silver dish, 
shaping it neatly with a wooden spoon ; arrange the 
meat in the centre of it, straining over it just enough 
of the sauce to mask it nicely, lay the turnips like a 
necklace all round the edge of the meat near the 
rice, and having given it enrichment with the yolk of 
an egg, send the rest of the sauce in in a boat. 

3. Peel and cut off the stalks of half a pound of 
mushrooms, wash the peelings and chop 
them up with the stalks, boihng them up Spaghetti 
in half a pint of milk. Strain when the rooms. 
latter is flavoured, and thicken the milk, 
cooking therein the mushrooms themselves, cut 

7 



82 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

into largish squares, and seasoning with salt and 
pepper. Keep this hot in the bain-marie while you 
boil and strain four ounces of spaghetti, stirring into 
it at once, while hot, an ounce of butter and two of 
grated Parmesan. With this line a buttered pie-dish 
or fireproof china legumiere, leaving a hollow in the 
centre, into which put the mushrooms, covering the 
surface with the remaining spaghetti ; smooth over 
the surface, dust it over with grated Parmesan, dot 
it over with bits of butter, and push into the oven 
till thoroughly hot and the surface has taken colour. 
Serve on a neatly folded napkin. 

4. Put into a stewpan three gills of milk, three 
ounces of sifted sugar, and the zest of a lemon ; set on 

the fire, bring to the boil, stirring in three- 
Ambassa- quarters of an ounce of soaked gelatine ; 
pudding. cool a little and empty the milk into a basin 

in which six yolks of eggs, freed from 
whites, have been broken, place the bowl over a pan 
containing boiling water, and custardise its contents, 
stirring gently during the process, pass this through 
a hair sieve, and as it cools flavour it with a liqueur- 
glass of kirsch and whip it to a froth, passing in by 
degrees as you do so a gill of stiffly whipped cream. 
Next set in ice a plain charlotte-mould (pint and a 
half) ; having lined it with wetted paper, lay over the 
bottom of it a layer of ripe strawberries that have 
been marinaded with kirsch, pour in enough of the 
cream to set them, then arrange another layer, setting 
that, and continuing the operation until the mould is 
packed. When firm, dip the mould in a basin of hot 



AMBASSADRESS' PUDDING. 83 

water, wipe the bottom of it with a clean dry cloth, 
and turn out the pudding, setting it on a glass dish, 
and masking it with a rich strawberry syrup flavoured 
witli kirsch and lemon- juice. 



MENU XXV. 

(July.-) 

Filets de sole 4 la- Bercy. 

Cdtelettes d'agneau a la Hurillo. 

Fetits pois h. la C^cile. 

Croustades k la SibyUe. 



I. It is essential for this dish that there should be 

a pint and a half of very strong fish broth to work 

upon- as a basis. Make this, then, as de- 

Filletsofsolc scribed for No. i, Menu ii., but moistening 

a la Bercy. .^, . , , , ,r r i. j - 

With a pint and a half of water, and using 

two pennyworth of white fish-cuttings. Strain and 
keep this ready. Order a sole weighing a pound 
to be filleted in plain fillets, not rolled, and all the 
bones, skin, and head sent in with it ; put the latter 
into the fish broth with a gill of chablis, sauterne, 
or hock, and boil and simmer' to extract all the 
flavour. Now choose a ten-inch s«itfc'-pan with 
an upright rim, scatter over it a finely minced 
shallot (half an ounce) and an ounce of minced 
mushroom, lay the fillets of sole on this, and 
moisten them with sufficient of the broth to cover 
them, boihng ; put the pan over a low fire to 
simmer slowly after this for twelve or fourteen 
minutes, according to the thickness of the fish ; take 
out the fillets with a slice when they are done and 
lay them side by side on a hot fireproof dish, cover- 



GREEN PEAS A LA CECILE. 85 

ing them with a hot cloth. Strain off the broth in 
which they wei'e cooked, add the remainder of the 
broth which was not used, and pass the whole 
gradually into a stewpan having a mux ready at the 
bottom of it made of an ounce of butter and an 
ounce of flour ; mix and then boil fast, and stirring 
continually until it is reduced to the consistency of 
thickish batter ; when thus reduced, stir in the juice 
of half a lemon and an ounce of butter, mask the 
fillets with it, push them into the oven for five 
minutes, garnish with parsley and lemon, and serve. 

2. Roast the best end of a neck of lamb, having it 
done half an hour before the time required ; slice it 
up at once into cutlets, brush these over 

on one side with melted glaze, and cover La"ib cutlets 
that with a fine mince of ham and olives, 
diluted with thick brown sauce to the consistency 
of jam, shake a layer of grated Parmesan over that 
and cover with finely sifted raspings, lay all'in a saute- 
or baking-pan, moistened with melted glaze, push 
this into the oven, baste once with melted butter, 
and when hot and lightly coloured dish on a flat 
silver dish garnished with watercress, sauce Milanaise 
(No. 3, Menu xxvi) accompanying. 

3. Procure half a peck of fresh young peas ; shell 
them ; put the peas into a bowl covered up ; wash 
the pods, and slice them up into shreds ; 

put these into a stewpan with three sprigs Green peas 

of mint and moisten with just sufficient 

hot water to cover them, put in a dessert-spoonful of 



86 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

sugar and one of salt. Boil up, and simmer for an 
hour, straining the liquid away from the pods. Into 
that, when boiling in another vessel, put the peas, 
and boil fast until they are done ; strain and leave 
the peas on the sieve while, with half an ounce of 
butter , and half one of flour, you make a roux ; 
moisten this with half a pint of the broth in which 
the peas were cooked, bring to the boil, strain 
through a hair sieve, put in the peas, warm them up 
gently, finishing the sauce with a tablespoonful of 
cream. Serve in a hot legumiere with sippets of fried 
bread, or biscuits cut out of paste, made in the 
manner described for No. 4, Menu vi. 

4. Make nine little shallow cases of the paste just 
mentioned rolled out thinly and laid in buttered 

patty-pans, the hollows filled with raw 
Cromtadcsh j-j^-g^ ^^^ |-[jg patties baked in a moderate 

oven. When done, let them get cold, 
and shake out the rice. Make a rather coarse mince 
with two chopped hard-boiled eggs, six fillets of 
anchovies, two tablespoonfuls of cooked mushroom, 
and one pickled gherkin ; stir in after seasoning just 
sufficient cream to moisten the mixture slightly, 
and fill the croustades, trimming the mince in a 
dome ; sprinkle over with grated ham, and dish the 
croustades on a flat dish with a cucumber salad in 
the centre, and garden cress lightly shaken over all. 



MENU XXVI. 

{ynly.) 

F&t4 de saumon froid. 

Cailles k la flnanci^re. 

Fonds d'articliauts k la Milanalse. 

Compote d'abricots au liirsch. 



I. Take for a seven-inch oval raised pie- mould 
one pound and a half of uncooked salmon ; also 
procure a fresh haddock or whitings 
enough to yield half a pound of flesh 
without bone. Trim the salmon, freed from skin 
and bone, in small fillets, and put them on a dish, 
seasoning them with pepper and salt. With the 
whiting or haddock flesh make a forcemeat exactly 
as explained for the creams in No. i. Menu ii., taking 
for eight ounces of fish three each of panada and 
butter. With the bones in like manner make a broth 
moistening with water and a sherry-glass of chablis 
instead of milk. When the forcemeat is ready, line 
the mould, after buttering it well, with raised pie 
paste rolled out three-eighths of an inch thick. Having 
pressed this well into the mould, spread over the 
bottom and sides a good casing of the forcemeat, 
leaving a hollow in the centre ; fill this with the 
salmon, packing it closely, and finish it at the top 
with more forcemeat. Lay on a cover of puff paste, 
with a small hole for the escape of gas generated in 

87 



88 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

the cooking ; cover with buttered paper, and bake 
in a moderate oven for an hour and a half. Mean- 
while strain, skim, and reduce the fish broth till you 
have about a gill and a half of strong essence. When 
the pie is baked take it out of the oven, and after a 
quarter of an hour pour in through the hole in the 
top the reduced fish broth. Let it get quite cold all 
night in the larder — over ice if the weather be hot — 
and remove the mould just before serving. A new 
potato salad would be a nice accompaniment. After 

boiling slice the potatoes, let them get 
^alad°^'*^° cold, and arrange them in a salad bowl, 

lubricate with best salad oil drop by drop 
until the potatoes glisten, now shake over them a 
fine mince of^chervil, chives, and tarragon, finishing 
with a few drops only of the best French vinegar. 

2. Blaise six quails in a stewpan, covering them 
with thin slices of fat bacon, and pouring round them 
two gills of really good broth and one of 
financiere. chablis or sauterne. Cover the pan, and 
put it in the oven, let its contents simmer 
very gently, basting every now and then, till the 
birds are done, then strain off the broth, turning 
it to a sauce with a rotix made ready beforehand 
in another stewpan, and adding another gill of 
broth ; tint a nice brown with caramel, skim, and 
finish with a claret-glassful of chablis that has been 
boiled down to half that quantity ; pass this now 
through a hair sieve, rinse out the stewpan, put back 
the quails and the contents of a bottle of financiere 
garnish, and heat all together gently. Prepare a 



COMPOTE OF GREEN APRICOTS. 89 

border of pounded rice, lay this on a hot silver dish, 
brush over its surface with melted gla^e, fill its centre 
with the finaiiciere garnish, and lay the quails half on 
the border and half on the garnish, legs inwards ; 
pour the sauce over the centre, and serve. 

3. Trim neatly, blanch, and simmer in broth six 
artichoke bottoms, preparing the following sauce 
while they ai-e cooking : — Put half an 

ounce of butter into a stewpan over bottoms with 
a low fire, melt, and add two ounces of Milanaise 
finely minced onion, fry very gently till 
soft without colouring, stir in half an ounce of flour, 
and then moisten by degrees with half a pint of milk ; 
bring to the boil, simmer fifteen minutes, adding 
seasoning and a heaped tablespoonful of grated 
Parmesan ; pass all through a hair sieve, and finish 
with a tablespoonful of cream. Dish the artichoke 
bottoms on a legumiere, and pour the sauce over them. 

4. Trim a pound of young apricots in halves, re- 
moving the stones and peeling off the skin. Dust 
finely sifted sugar over them. Make a syrup as fol- 
lows : — Put six ounces of sugar into three- 
quarters of a pint of water with two Compote 0/ 
tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, the finely cots. 
peeled rind of a lemon and its juice ; boil 

up, simmer five minutes, skim and strain ; put the 
apricots into this and stew them very gently about 
twenty minutes till they are tender ; let them get 
cold and then add a sherry-glass of kirsch, and serve 
in a glass dish with whipped cream. 



MENU XXVII. 

(July.) 

Sole au beurre vert. 

cetelettes de volaille k, la Villeroy. 

Haricots verts soubis^s. 

FSches aux macarons. 



I. Make an incision along the backbone on the 

upper side of a sole up to within an inch of the head 

at one end and the tail at the other, pass 

gffen butter. ^ ^"^^^^ S^^'"? ^"^^^ ^"^^'■" ^^^ ^^^^ '^^ 
either side of the incision, loosening it 

from the bone. This having been done, diy the sole, 
dusting a little flour over it to take up any moisture, 
then turn it over on a dish containing an egg 
beaten up with a dessert-spoonful of salad oil, drain, 
and then lay it on a cloth on which a layer of finely 
sifted, pounded, oven-dried crumbs has been spread. 
Turn it, and see that the crumbing is evenly laid. 
Let it dry, and repeat the egging and crumbing 
again. Let the second coat dry, shake off super- 
fluous crumbs, and then prepare a bath of boil- 
ing fat and lay the sole in it, the incised side 
uppermost ; under the influence of the very hot fat 
the two edges of the cut side will curl outwards, 
leaving a hollow space between them. When the 
desired golden tint has been attained, lift the fish, 
drain and dry it on a wire drainer, dish it on a hot 

90 



CHICKEN CUTLETS A LA VILLEROY. 91 

dish lined with paper, pouring into the cavity formed 
by the curled flesh an ounce of melted green butter. 
Garnish with lemon and parsley, and serve. 

2. With six ounces of cold cooked chicken and two 

of foie gras make nine or a dozen cutlets, following 

the recipe give in No. i. Menu xxiv., in so 

far as the other component parts of the Chicken 

. , , ^, ,. ^ , cutlets a la 

mixture and the cookmg are concerned, villcroy. 

Let them get cold, then turn them out, 

and glaze them with white chicken chaud-froid glaze, 

using in this case a broth made from the bones and 

trimmings of the chicken, with which three ounces of 

mushrooms have been simmered. Finish the cutlets, 

and dish them in the same way, introducing between 

each of them a round iillet of cold cooked tongue 

stamped out with a cutter. 

3. French beans, if young, should only have their 
ends pinched off ; the practice of shredding them is 
an erroneous one, for it deprives the vegetable of 
of half its flavour. Plunge the beans, say a quart 
measure of them, into boiling salted water in a non- 
tinned vessel. As soon as tender drain them, put 
them back into the hot, dry vessel in which they were 
cooked with an ounce of butter cut into little pieces, 
turn them with a fork over a low fire as this melts 
and they dry nicely, finally moistening with two gills 
of well-made soubise sauce, to obtain which follow 
the recipe given for sauce Milanaise, omitting the 
cheese, but adding the cream in the same way. 
Serve very hot in a legumiere with biscuits, as given 
for the peas in Menu xxv. 



92 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

4. Choose peaches for this that have fallen prema- 
turely from the tree ; six will make a nice dish. 
Prepare them in the manner described for the 
apricots in Menu xxvi., making, as in that case, a 
strong syrup with apricot jam to strengthen it, and 
any nice liqueUr to flavour. Tipsify a dozen maca- 
roons with the same liqueur, arrange them in the 
centre of a glass compote-dish, put the half peaches 
in a circle round them, pour in the syrup, and serve 
with pure cream as a sauce. 



MENU XXVIII. 

(Eufs poch^s k la Lyoimaise. 
Rognons de veau au vin blanc. 

Fouding k I'ananas. 
Tomates farcis k la Trouville. 



1. Six good-sized artichoke bottoms being ready — 
hot, cooked as described for No. 3, Menu xxvi. — lay 
a poached egg on the surface of each, trim- 
ming off the edges of the whites with a Poached 
round cutter so that the egg may rest 'j^omaisc. 
neatly on the fond, mask over with a 

sharp sauce made as follows : — Put a teaspoonful of 
finely minced shallot into a stewpan, moisten with a 
gill of the best vinegar, boil over a quick fire until 
only a tablespoonful remains. Keep this at hand. 
Take half a pint of thickly reduced brown sauce, add 
to it two fillets of anchovy freed from oil, stir in the 
reduced vinegar, boil, sldm, and pass the sauce 
through a hair sieve, heat up again, and pour over 
the eggs as already mentioned ; serve on a flat silver 
dish, garnished with sippets of fried bread. 

2. Skin and cut into slices the thickness of a penny 
piece two veal kidneys. Put into a deep saute-pan 
or fricandeau-pan an ounce and a half of y^^^ j^^„g^5 
butter, melt it over a low fire, and add with white 
two tablespoonfuls of minced onion ; fry ^^"^■ 

93 



94 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

for two or three minutes, and then put in the 
sliced kidneys, increase the heat, and fry quicldy 
till these are seized, then remove the pan, take out 
the pieces of kidney and lay them on a dish. Next 
mix in with the onions and gutter left in the pan an 
ounce of flour, place this over a low fire, and when 
thoroughly blended add two gills and a half of good 
broth and a gill and a half of white wine (chablis or 
sauterne), a bouquet garni, and stalks and peelings 
of two ounces of mushroom minced ; bring slowly to 
the boil, skim, and simmer a quarter of an hour, then 
strain ; lay the kidneys in the rinsed-out saute-pan, 
moisten with the sauce, put in the peeled mush- 
rooms, heat up gently, simmering very slowly till 
the kidney slices are tender, and then serve as a 
ragout within a border of rice or mashed potato. 

3. Preserved pineapple will do for this pudding. 
Cut the fruit into slices a quarter of an inch thick, 

then remove the eyes and any tough part 
tuddmi" there may be, cutting the slices thus 

trimmed into fillets the width of your first 
iinger. Put all the ti-immings and the syrup strained 
from the fruit into a small saucepan, with a table- 
spoonful of apjricot jam, the zest and juice of a lemon, 
and a sherry-glass of rum ; boil up, and strain. This 
will be the sauce to accompany the pudding, hot or 
cold as you may desire. During this operation mari- 
nade the fillets with rum — a liqueur-glass sprinkled 
over them, with a dust of sifted sugar, is enough. 
Butter a plain pint and a half charlotte-mould, line 
it with paper, and butter that too. Arrange a pattern. 



STUFFED TOMATOES A LA TROUVILLE. 95 

if you like, for the top and walls of the pudding with 
strips of the fruit and rows of crystallised cherries 
cut in halves, then pack the hollow of the mould with 
the pineapple fillets, laying them crosswise, with little 
spaces between them,, through which the custard 
must presently filter. This should be made of half a 
pint of milk, a gill of cream, and five whole eggs, 
with an ounce and a half of sugar and the zest 
of a lemon. When ready pour the custard in by 
degrees, leaving about an inch of the mould free 
to allow for the rising. Steam the pudding very 
gently, and when firm turn it outj pouring the 
syrup over it. If required cold, let it get cold 
in the mould over ice, set the syrup in ice, and 
having tui-ned the pudding out pour the cold 
syrup over it, and have whipped cream served on 
a separate dish. 

4. Choose six ripe tomatoes of good colour and of a 
like size ; slice off the stalk ends parallel with the width 
of the tomato, and with a teaspoon scoop out the 
inside carefully, thus forming a cup ; set these aside 
over ice while you empty all the scooped-out part 
and sHced ends into a stewpan with a 
teaspoonful of minced onion and half an SJtiffed 

r . ,i oi lu- ii i.-ii ci. tomatoes a la 

ounce of butter. Stew this gently till soft, TrouviUe. 

and then pass the tomatoes through the 
hair sieve, return the puree to the stewpan and bring it 
to the boil, reducing until it coats the spoon like jam, 
stirring continually during the operation. Set a basin 
on ice, and whip a gill and a half of cream in it till 
stiff, passing into it the tomato pulp, one granulated 



96 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

hard-boiled egg, and six fillets of anchovies cut into 
little pieces. Fill the cases with this ; dust grated 
Parmesan over them, and serve on a flat dish, gar- 
nished vsrith watercress or salading. 



MENU XXIX. 

{August.) 

Omelette fourr^e au homard. 

Escalopes de veau k. la Contadma. 

F^ves de marais k la poulette. 

Crime pocli^e au gingembre. 



1. Take all the flesh from a small lobster or half a 
medium-sized one, from four to six ounces being 
enough. Of this make a mince, rather 

small than otherwise, put a gill of good g°„gig[ig 
white sauce into a stewpan", stir in the 
mince, heat gently over a low fire without boiUng, 
season with salt, Nepaul pepper, and mace, and 
finish with a dessert-spoonful of cream. Make an 
omelette of five eggs, as explained for savoury omelette 
in the Appendix, and just before turning it out of the 
pan quickly spread the lobster mince over the surface, 
dishing immediately ; scatter finely minced parsley 
over the surface, and serve. 

2. This may be made of cold cooked veal or of 
uncooked, the only difference in the operation being 
that the escalopes, neatly cut in small 

rounds or ovals, should in the former Escalofcsoj 
case be merely gently heated up in the Contadina. 
sauce, and in the latter stewed equally 
gently in it — boiling in both instances being studiously 
avoided. Make the sauce in this way : — Melt an 

8 97 



98 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

ounce of the best fresh butter in a stewpan over a low 
fire, stir into it one tablespoonful of finely minced 
onion, six ounces of tomatoes cut up, a saltspoonful 
of powdered rosemary, and a seasoning of black 
pepper and salt ; fry together gently for ten minutes, 
then mix in half an ounce of flour ; work this well 
till blended, and then moisten with two gills of broth 
and one of chablis or sauterne ; bring to the boil, 
skim, simmer for ten minutes, and pass all through a 
hair sieve ; now return the sauce to the rinsed-out 
pan, put in the meat, and either stew or gently warm 
it as the case may be. Serve as a ragout inside a 
circle of spaghetti that has been boiled, drained, 
moistened with melted butter, and dusted over with 
grated Parmesan. A sprinkling of finely minced olives 
should be scattered over the surface of the ragout. 

3. If broad beans be very young, not more than 
three parts grown, they need not be de- 
Broad prived of their skins, but if at all old they 

foulette. must after shelling be plunged into boil- 
ing salt and water until just tender, when 
their skins can be peeled off. As this is carried out 
they should be cast into a bowl of cold water, then 
drained. Have ready a poulette sauce made as 
follows : — Put half an ounce of butter into a stewpan 
over a low fire, melt, and stir in half an ounce of 
flour, moisten with half a pint of milk, bring to the 
boil, and pass through a pointed strainer into another 
stewpan, add two yolks of egg that have been mixed 
with half a gill of cream, season with salt and white 
pepper, and put in the beans ; heat up gently in the 



BROAD BEANS A LA POULETTE. 99 

bain-marie for fear of the egg curdling, and serve in 
a legumiere, with the biscuits mentioned for No. 4, 
Menu vi. Scatter finely minced chervil over the 
surface of the beans to finish with. 

4. For a pint and a half mould take two and a half 
giUs of milk, three whole eggs and two yolks, two 
tablespoonfuls of ginger syrup, and the zest of a 
lemon or orange. Boil the milk, and as it cools beat 
the syrup and eggs together in a bowl, then add the 
milk and zest and turn the mixture to a custard over 
another vessel containing boiling water. Butter a 
plain charlotte-mould, line it with buttered paper, 
ornament the top with a pattern cut out of preserved 
ginger, and make a fine mince of all the trimmings 
and as much more of the preserve as may be required 
to yield four tablespoonfuls. Stir this into the custard, 
fill the mould with the latter and steam it gently until 
firm — about forty-five to fifty minutes — then turn out 
and serve with a syrup flavoured with ginger and 
lemon-juice. Equally nice cold with a cold syrup. 



MENU XXX. 

iAugnsf.) 

(£ufs aux crevettes k la Cingalese. 

Salmis froid de "grouse." 

Macaroni fourr^. 

Fruits frapp^s au champagne. 



1. Having made three gills of Ceylon curi-y sauce as 

described for No. 2, Menu i., and strained 

Eggs with it put into it with the cream and lemon 

shrimps ala ^ :r. . , , • . j 1. • 

Cingalese. half a pmt of picked shrimps, warm up 

gently, and having arranged six poached 

eggs on hot toasts on a hot silver dish, pour the sauce 

over them and serve. 

2. For this take all the meat from a cold grouse in 
as neat pieces as possible, dust them over with flour, 

and put them aside ; while with the 
^fgromT^ crushed bones, skin, and trimmings, 

moistened with three gills of good broth, 
you make as good a grouse essence as you can in the 
manner described for the hare broth in No. i. Menu 
i. ; turn this to a sauce, as in the case of sauce a la 
Gogue, adding a quarter of an ounce of soaked 
gelatine during the process. Strain this through a 
hair sieve, and as it cools and begins to thicken, set 
a dish on ice, and with a trussing needle plunge each 



FRUITS ICED WITH CHAMPAGNE. loi 

piece of grouse into the sauce, coating it well ; lay 
these in a mound in the centre of the cold dish, 
reserving the best-looldng ones for the outside ; keep 
it in an ice closet, or in a vessel with ice round it, 
and when required take it out, surround the mound 
with broken aspic, and hard-boiled eggs in quarters. 
A salad made of fonds d'artichauts in the manner 
givsn for orange salad, kept as cold as possible, 
might accompany. 

3. This is a handy way of disposing of nice 
remains, such as cold sweetbread, chicken or tur- 
key's liver, foie gras, &c. Make as good ,, 

-' J J t> ! ■,,,-, Macaroni 

an assortment as you can with cooked with 
mushroom, tongue, ham, and any of the savoury 
things first named, all cut into a coarse 
mince. Having prepared six tablespoonfuls of such 
a salpicon, put it into a stewpan, moisten it with a 
gill and a half of good brown sauce, and heat it 
gently up without boiling. Boil and prepare four 
ounces of macaroni, and finish the dish like spag- 
hetti fourre aux champignons in Menu xxiv. 

4. Select three or four varieties of fruit ; pine- 
apple, peaches, apricots, bananas, &c., in quantity 
sufficient for the party. With a silver knife trim the 
fruit in nice pieces, and put them in a 

china bowl over ice ; make half a pint Fruits 

tCCUf 'Wttli' 

of apricot syrup, flavoured with lemon champagne. 
and a glass of old brandy, and with it 
moisten the fruit as you do salad with dressing, 
turning it over with a wooden spoon and fork. 



102 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

Owing to the cold the syrup will by degrees coat the 
fruit. Let it rest over the ice till wanted, and at the 
last pour over it a pint of iced champagne, serving at 
once. 



MENU XXXI. 

(,August.') 

(Eufs brouill6s a la cbasseuse. 

COtelettes de mouton k la Verdi 

G&teau glac6 k la crime. 

FondB d'artichauts k la Russe. 



I. Take the remains from a brace of cold grouse, 
from four to six ounces enough, free this from skin 
and sinew and pass it through a mincing 
machine ; with the bones, skin, &c., make Buttered 
a strong broth as explained for the hare game!* * 
cutlets in Menu i. Thicken and reduce 
this ; as soon as it is ready put in the mince (the con- 
sistency being about as thick as jam) and heat it 
gently in the bain-marie. Have ready six well-fried 
croutes of bread three inches long, two broad, and a 
quarter thick ; keep them hot in the mouth of the 
oven. Make now aeufs brouilles (see No. i. Menu iii.) 
with five eggs and three ounces of butter, and the 
moment they are ready spread the croutes over with 
the grouse mince ; arrange them on a hot silver dish, 
mask them with the buttered eggs, scatter finely 
grated ham over all, and serve. Everything depends 
upon the excellence of the essence produced from 
the game bones and the rapidity of serving the 
moment the buttered eggs are done. Practicable 

with any kind of game. 

103 



104 



FIFTY LUNCHES. 



2. Turn to Menu xxv., and having read the recipe 
for coteleties a la Murillo, proceed in the same manner 

with a best end of neck of mutton, having 
Mutton^ chosen one from a small sheep free from 
Verdi. excess of fat. Roast the neck as there 

explained, divide it into cutlets as soon 
as it is done, lay them on a well-buttered paper in 
a buttered baking-tin, and mask their upper sides 
with thiclcy reduced Milanaise sauce (No. 3, Menu 
xxvi.), push into the oven for two or three minutes 
to heat gently, then take them out with a slice and 
arrange them on a hot flat dish surrounded with riz 
tomate, No- 2, Menu iv. 

3. Work to a cream in a bowl four ounces of 
butter, add two ounces of sugar and the zest of a 

lemon ; work ten minutes, stir in the yolks 
wmcrZm. Of three eggs, and when smooth four 

ounces of well-sifted flour, passing it in 
by degrees, and mixing with it, flake by flake, the 
whipped whites of three eggs ; flavour with vanilla. 
With a brush butter a circular border-mould well, 
let this get cold, and then dust over it half an ounce 
of glazing sugar mixed with half an ounce of Groult's 
fecule de pommes de terre, pour in the cake mixture, 
filling the mould two-thirds of its depth only ; set 
the mould on a baking-tin, and bake in a slow oven 
for forty minutes ; turn the cake out on a wire 
drainer, and when cold set it on a silver or china 
dish, filling the centre with whipped cream with 
which raspberry or strawberry syrup has been 
blended. If liked this may be served hot. Fill the 



ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS A LA RUSSE. . 105 

hollow with peaches or apricots heated in syrup 
flavoured with nim, and dust finely sifted sugar over 
all. 

4. Spread over the hollows of six artichoke bottoms 

which have been cooked and laid on a dish over ice, 

a layer of fresh caviar prepared with a 

squeeze of lemon-iuice and a dust of Artichoke 
-I? , ■^ , .,, bottoms a la 

Nepaul pepper ; mask over with mayon- Russe. 

naise sauce ; let the fonds thus prepared 

get very cold, and then dish in a circle on croutes 

specially made of the paste given in Menu vi.. 

No. 4. 



MENU XXXII. 

{August.) 

Salade de crabe. 

Foulet k la Parmentier. 

EpinaTds k la crime soubis^e. 

Figues glacis au kirscli. 



I. Have a medium-sized crab sent in untouched 
by the fishmonger. Dress it yourself as follows : — 
Crack and pick out all the meat of the 
claws and the breastplate, shred it, put 
one-third of this on one side, and mix with the other 
two-thirds in a bowl the liver and cream of the back, 
dressing it with this sauce : — Put a dessert-spoonful of 
powdered mustard into a bowl with a saltspoonful 
of salt, a pinch of white pepper, a teaspoonful of 
minced chives, and the hard-boiled yolks of two 
eggs ; add a dessert-spoonful of salad oil to these 
ingredients, bruising them well to a paste with a 
clean wooden spoon ; next throw in the yolk of 
a raw egg, and work vigorously, adding oil in small 
quantities by degrees till you have a couple of gills 
of sauce ; finish now with a dessert-spoonful of 
tarragon vinegar, pass all through a perforated 
strainer, and keep it in a bowl over ice. With a 
pint of aspic jelly fill a round border-mould, setting 
it in layers over ice with hard-boiled egg-yolks, balls 
of green butter, and turned olives alternated therein. 



GREEN FIGS GLAZED WITH KIRSCH. 107 

Finish by turning out the border, fill the centre with 
the dressed crab masked with the shredded meat 
that you saved, garnish over all with a fine lace-work 
of garden cress, and a ring of golden lettuce-leaves 
round the outside of the border, the remaining sauce 
in a boat. 

2. Out of six or eight good-sized half -boiled potatoes 
cut about three dozen rounds or fillets about two inches 
long, one inch wide, and a quarter thick ; 

dry them in a cloth, and then put them Parmmttl^ 
into a stewpan with an ounce of butter 
over a low fire, and move them about, tossing them 
occasionally until they are done. Cut up a cold 
cooked chicken in nice pieces, and prepare it exactly 
like poulet a la Toscane in Menu v., substituting the 
potato fillets or rounds for the macai-oni. 

3. For the preparation of the spinach see No. 2, 
Menu xvi., but finish with two table- 
spoonfuls of soubise sauce, and one of Spinach with 

Cf£0.fft ciitd 

cream. Make the soubise in the way soubise. 
given for sauce Milanaise (No. 3, Menu 
xxvi.), omitting the cheese. Serve with biscuits made 
of the paste described for No. 4, Menu vi. 

4. Slightly unripe green figs will do for this — a 

dozen or dozen and a half. Stew them 

very gently in iust sufficient syrup to cover Green figs 
iu -A- i.1; ■ ■ X 1 A &azed with 

them, with the juice of a lemon, and a kirsch. 

sherry-glassful of kirsch ; stop when they 

are tender, then take them out and let them get cold 



io8 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

in a china dish over ice. Meanwhile reduce the 
syrup over the fire, adding two tablespoonfuls of 
apricot jajn to it ; when like honey strain it, and 
when cold begin to baste the figs with it. The cold 
will cause the glaze to mask the fruit, and when that 
has been done let the figs remain over ice till wanted, 
then serve with whipped cream in a separate dish. 
This may be flavoured with any liqueur, with brandy 
or with rum. 



MENU XXXIII. 

[September.) 

An^ille k la tortue froide. 

Lapin braisS k la Borg'li^se. 

Cr^me k rAntoinette. 

Timbales k la Turque. 



I. Skin, and fillet an eel of about a pound in 
weight, subdividing the fillets into two-inch lengths. 
Put the skin and bone, with twopenny- 
worth of white fish-cuttings, to make a ^o^'j^oj 
pint and a half of good fish broth, using tartare. 
weak meat or chicken broth for the 
moistening, three ounces each of onion, carrot, and 
turnip, and seasoning with sweet herbs, parsley, 
salt, and mignonette pepper. Skim the scum off 
carefully, boil up once, and after simmering three- 
quarters of an hour strain off the broth. Let 
it get cold, and skim the surface well ; now put 
it into a clean stewpan with a claret-glassful of 
chabhs, bring to the boil, and put the fillets into it ; 
after two minutes draw back and simmer slowly 
till they are tender, then take them out and lay them 
on a dish under a weight. Proceed now to reduce 
to three gills, and then clarify the broth, adding to it 
half a teaspoonful of Liebig's extract, half an ounce of 
soaked gelatine, and the whites, slightly whisked, of 
two eggs. Stir round continually over a fast fire. 



no FIFTY LUNCHES. 

working with the whisk, until signs of boiling show 
themselves, then let the liquid barely simmer for ten 
minutes, after which it can be strained through a 
tamis. Pour it back and strain again. Now place a 
plain pint and a half charlotte-mould in a basin with 
ice round it, pour in about the eighth of an inch of the 
liquid to set a pattern, which should be arranged at 
the bottom of the mould — olives, gherkins, and hard- 
boiled eggs can be used for this purpose.. When set, 
begin to pack the mould by degreed, setting layer after 
layer of eel fillets with sliced hard-boiled egg here 
and there and little squares of anchovy cut from six 
fillets. When packed and set, let the mould remain 
in ice till required when serve surrounded with well- 
selected lettuce leaves and watercress, very cold 
tartare sauce accompanying, made like the sauce 
given for the crab No. i, Menu xxxii., but with a 
garnish added to it of minced chives, chervil, tar- 
ragon, and gherkin, a teaspoonful of each, except the 
tarragon, of which half a teaspoonful will be enough. 

2. Truss a rabbit as for boiling after stuffing it with 
this stuffing : — Take the liver, heart, and kidneys of 
the rabbit, cut them up, and fry them (Jaire revenir) 
in an ounce of butter over a low fire with a table- 
spoonful each of minced Portugal onion 
b^^'^'d ~ / ^^^ carrot, and a quarter of a pound of 
Borghese. minced mushroonls. After five minutes' 
frying moisten with a sherry-glass of 
chablis or sauterne, and add half an ounce of glaze. 
Continue to cook slowly, and as soon as the meat is 
soft let it get cold, and then empty the contents of 



HARE OR RABBIT STUFFING. iii 

the sfl«/e-pan into a mortar, pounding and passing 
the whole through a wire sieve. The puree thus 
obtained, seasoned with salt and pepper, 
should be stirred into a bowl with the p"rf'"' 
usual three ounces of bread crumb, minced stuffing. 
or powdered herbs, zest of lemon, two 
ounces of butter, and two eggs. Before packing the 
rabbit with this, Une the inside with thin strips of 
cooked streaky bacon. Line the bottom of a stew- 
pan with an ounce of butter, and two ounces of 
uncooked bacon cut into dice ; set the pan on the 
fire, and melt the butter, lay the rabbit over it, and 
fry for about seven minutes, turning it to ensure 
even colouring, then take it out and put it on a dish 
while you put an ounce and a half of flour into the 
butter, stir for three minutes, and then moisten with 
five gills of broth ; bring to the boil, skim, and pass 
through a strainer. Rinse out the pan, put in the 
rabbit, moisten with the sauce, putting in with it a 
musUn bag containing a dessert-spoonful of herbs, 
four ounces of sliced onion, four of carrots, and two of 
celery. Simmer slowly now for three-quarters of an 
hour, then add twelve ounces of young turnips cut into 
neat shapes ; continue the simmering till the turnips 
are done, then lift the rabbit and place it on a hot 
dish, arrange the pieces of turnip neatly all round it, 
skimming and pouring the sauce over it through a 
strainer ; curls of bacon crisped in the oven may be 
laid at intervals round the turnip garnish. 

3. Custardise two and a half gills of cold parboiled 
milk sweetened with two ounces of sugar, with four 



112 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

yolks of eggs, adding during the process half an 
ounce of soaked gelatine and lemon flavouring ; when 

well mixed and smooth pass through a 
Cream a clean hair sieve into a bowl, whip, and 

add a gill of whipped cream. Have a 
pint and a half mould on ice, arrange a pattern of 
preserved cherries, which have been marinaded in 
maraschino, at the bottom of it, set this, and continue 
setting layers of cherries with the cream till the 
mould is filled. Keep on ice till required, turn out, 
and then pour over it a gill and a half of syrup 
flavoured with a liqueur-glass of maraschino, and the 
juice of half a lemon, tinted pink with cochineal. 

4. Line nine buttered darioles with cold parboiled 
spaghetti, arranging it with a trussing needle in a 
coil round the bottom, and in rings round 
fh"/"' A^/""^ the sides. Chop up rather finely four 
Titrque. ounccs of lobster, dilute this with a gill 
of savoury custard with which a tea- 
spoonful of curry powder and a tablespoonful of 
cream have been mixed ; fill the little moulds with 
this, and steam gently till set, turn them out, and 
serve with a sauce made as follows : — Melt half an 
ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir in a teaspoonful of 
minced shallot ; fiy till coloured, add a teaspoonful 
of curry powder and a large one of rice flour, fry 
five minutes more, and then moisten with a gill and 
a half of milk, put in salt and a teaspoonful of grated 
green ginger ; boil up, strain, add a dessert-spoonful 
of cream and the juice of half a lemon. The tim- 
bales and sauce will be very nice cold if preferred 
in that way. 



MENU XXXIV. 

{September.') 

Croustades k la poiasonni^re. 
Ferdreaux k la Suisse. 

Fur^e de bananes. 
Crimes d« champignons. 



1. With the paste given for No. 4, Menu vi., line 
half a dozen mince pie pans, buttering them well 
and rolling the paste out about as thick 

as a penny piece : prick and fill these ^"'^ , , 
with raw rice, bake in a moderate oven, 
shake out the rice, and tui-n out the little saucers 
thus obtained. Have ready six large tablespoonfuls 
of nice mince of cold turbot, moistened and warmed 
up with a gill of lobster sauce (or any cold fish with 
shrimp sauce) flavoured with an atom of mace. Keep 
this hot in the bain-marie, and the saucers hot in 
the mouth of the oven. When required, and not 
till that time or the cases will be sodden, fiU each 
with the hot mince, dust freely over with grated 
Parmesan, and serve on a hot napkin. 

2. It often happens that old partridges have to be 
disposed of. If this be the case, truss a 

brace for boiUng, fiUing the cavity of i^^^f^^' " 

each bird with a stuffing composed of 

two ounces of bread crumb, two of chopped par- 

9 "3 



114 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

boiled onion, the livei-s of the birds, an ounce, for 
each, of chopped mushroom, and one well-beaten 
egg ; sew up the vents and simmer the birds in 
broth and milk in half proportions, surrounded with 
eight ounces of finely sliced onions, two of celery, a 
muslin bag containing a dessert-spoonful of sweet 
herbs, pepper, and salt. When done, lift the birds, 
keep them covered up with a hot cloth in the pan in 
which they were done, from which the broth and 
vegetables have been strained off. Pass the onions 
and celery through a hair sieve, and blend the puree 
with the broth over a low fire, mixing first half an 
ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour to effect 
that object ; as the sauce is cooking add a gill of fresh 
tomato puree, boil up and pass through the sieve again, 
heating it up afterwards, and finishing with a table- 
spoonful of cream. Dish the birds, mask them with 
the sauce, garnish all round with well-boiled rice, 
and serve. 

3. Choose six ripe bananas, peel, scrape off their 
fibre, and mash them with a silver fork, flavour 
with a liqueur-glass of maraschino, the juice of a 
lemon, and a gill of strawberry syrup as sold for 

ices. Work this well, and pass it all 
iurJe"' through a hair sieve (that is reserved for 

sweet cookery) into a bowl. Make two 
gills of custard, blending with it two yolks, and half an 
ounce of gelatine, and sweetening with two ounces of 
sugar. Pass this through a hair sieve and blend it 
with the banana puree, adding a gill of whipped 
cream ; pour all into a china compote-dish, which set 



LITTLE CREAMS OF MUSHROOMS. 115 

over ice, cover the surface with whipped cream, and 
serve. 

4. Peel and remove the stalks from half a pound 
of mushrooms, choosing light-coloured ones ; with a 
silver spoon scrape out the gills ; cut up 
the mushrooms, sprinkle them with salt Little creams 
and lemon-juice, and cover them, while rooms. 
with the well-washed stalks and trimmings 
finely minced you flavour a couple of gills of milk, 
seasoning it with salt and white pepper, then boiling 
up and simmering for ten minutes. Strain this off, 
wipe out the pan, put half an ounce of butter and 
half an ounce of flour into it, mix, add the strained 
milk and the cut-up mushrooms ; boil again and 
simmer, adding a quarter ounce of gelatine, and 
stirring carefully ; when the mushrooms are quite 
soft, empty the contents of the pan upon a hair sieve, 
pass all through it, add half a gill of whipped cream, 
mix well, pour into small darioles, set over ice, and 
serve garnished with watercress. 



MENU XXXV. 

(Seftember.") 

MaoLuereau marine aux olives. 

Hachis de ttoeuf grating. 

Compote de reine Claudes frambois^es. 

Fetits fromages aux anchois. 



1. Boil one large or two medium-sized mackerel in 
a liquid half water and half vinegar ; as soon as done 

take them out, lay them in a deep earthen- 
Mackerel ware dish, and pour the liquid over them. 
olives cold. Let them lie in this all night. For lun- 
cheon take them out, carefully remove the 
flesh in two fillets, one from either side of the fish, 
lay these on a dish over ice, mask over their surfaces 
with mayonnaise sauce gai^nished with chopped olives, 
arrange round them a circle of turned olives and cold 
cooked fillets of cucumber with bunches of iwater- 
cress, broken aspic jelly also if available, and 
serve. 

2. Mince up a pound and a half of cold roast beef, 
freeing it from all sinew and skin. Put this aside 

while you make a sauce as follows : — Put 
gtatine. ^'^^° ^ stewpan an ounce of butter, melt 

it, and add two tablespoonfuls of minced 
onion and the same of mushroom ; fry very gently, 
and add an ounce of flour ; stir it for three 



LITTLE CREAM CHEESES WITH ANCHOVY. 117 

minutes, and moisten with three gills of stock ; 
boil up, tint a good brown with caramel, simmer 
for ten minutes, and strain through a perforated 
strainer into a bowl ; now add a tablespoonful of 
marsala, and stir in the minced beef. Have ready 
boiled two pounds of potatoes ; mash these well, 
pass through a hair sieve, adding two tablespoon- 
fuls of grated Parmesan, the yolks of two eggs, an 
ounce of butter melted, and a tablespoonful of cream 
with seasoning ; out of this form a neat border 
upon a fireproof china dish, brushing, it over with 
melted butter. Fill the centre of the border with 
the mince, set it in the oven to brown, and when ready 
take it out, garnish with grilled mushrooms, and serve. 

3. Make a pint of plain syrup, adding to it half a 
pound of raspberry jam and the juice of a lemon. 
Set over the fire, and when the jam has 
dissolved well turn the whole out upon a Greengages 

tfl YClSiioCYW 

hair sieve and pass the syrup through it. gyrup. 
Now put two dozen greengages into a 
stewpan, cover them with the syrup, and stew gently 
till done ; then take them out, put them in a glass 
compote-dish, pour the syrup over them, let this get 
cold, and smother with whipped cream. 

4. Weigh four ounces of finely grated Parmesan 
or Gruyere, add to it in a bowl a table- 
spoonful of made mustard, a dessert-spoon- Little cream 
r , r ,, , . T^ , . . ^,, , cheeses with 
ful of the best French vinegar, six fillets anchovy. 

of anchovy, and the yolks of three eggs ; 

work the whole through a hair sieve into a bowl, 



ir8 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

and add to it a gill of whipped cream. Have ready 
half a dozen little saucers made like those given for 
No. I, Menu xxxiv., cold, fill them with the mixture, 
dust over with Parmesan, and serve. 



MENU XXXVI. 

(September.) 

(Eufs duTS k la SIoscoTlt& 

■Hashed venison"— haricots verts soubis^s. 

Salade des chasseurs. 

Tourte k I'ananas. 



I. Pour half a pint of liquid aspic jelly into a flat 
dish, so that its depth may be about three-eighths of 
an inch. Let this get firm over ice, and 
then with an inch and a half round cutter Hard-boiled 
dipped in hot water cut out ten discs, lifting Moscovite. 
them and laying them in a circle on a round 
silver or china dish placed over ice. Chop up the 
trimmings of the aspic for garnish. Boil five large 
eggs hard, let them get cold in iced water, shell 
them, sHce off the rounded ends (sufficiently to admit 
of each half egg sitting upright), and with a very 
sharp knife cut each egg in half crosswise ; next scoop 
out the yolks, and set each little cup of white thus 
formed on a disc of jelly. Pound the five yolks with 
five fillets of anchovy and an ounce of iced butter, 
and press this through a wire sieve, so that the puree 
may come through hke vermicelli. Also make a puree 
with four ounces of picked shrimps moistened with 
half a gill of hollandaise sauce ; fill the hollows of the 
eggs with this, pressing it through a forcing pipe. 

Trim the puree in neat dome shape, and smooth it 

119 



120 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

with a palette-knife dipped in hot water ; dress the 
surfaces of the eggs with the vermicelli made with 
the yolks, and decorate the dish with the broken 
aspic, and a lace-like screening of garden cress. 
Eggs prepared in this way make an excellent garnish 
round a block of cold fish masked with aspic, and 
served with cold mayonnaise sauce in a boat. 

2. Cut the venison into neat slices, and for a pound 
of meat see that you have ready three-quarters of 

a pint of really strong broth. Make a 
vmison marinade as follows in an earthenware 

bowl : — Two gills of light claret, in which 
a dessert-spoonful of red currant jelly has been 
dissolved, half a gill of good French vinegar, a 
teaspoonful of minced shallot, a tablespoonful of 
chopped parsley, a teaspoonful each of chopped 
thyme and marjoram, half a saltspoonful of black 
pepper, and one of salt. Arrange all the slices of 
venison on a large joint dish, spreading them over 
its surface, having first carefully trimmed off all skin 
and gristle ; then pour over them the marinade. Let 
them lie in this as long as you can, turning them 
occasionally. To complete the hash put an ounce of 
butter into a stewpan, melt and mix in an r ounce of 
flour, and stir over a low fire till lightly browned, 
then pass in the broth by degrees, and the marinade 
strained from the meat ; bring to the boil, skim 
carefully, and continue the boiling, stirring well till 
the sauce is reduced one-third : cool it somewhat 
now, and strain it over the slices of venison, which 
should be laid in another stewpan. Place this over 



OPEN TART OF PINEAPPLE. 121 

very gentle heat till hot enough to serve without 
boiling, and then keep it in the bain-marie closely 
covered till required. Hashes and minces are im- 
proved by being kept at gentle heat in the carefully 
made sauce. For the haricots verts soubises see Menu 
xxvii. 

3. This is a nice way of using the remains of cold 
game : — Cut off all the meat you can find and keep 
it ready. Make as strong an essence with 

the crushed bones as you can, following f^;^^'""'^ 
the recipe given for the broth in No. i. 
Menu i. Assuming that you can get half a pint, 
blend. with it a quarter ounce of diluted gelatine, 
and strain this through a hair sieve ; when cold it 
should be a jelly such as you find in game pies. 
Dress the meat and jelly broken into convenient 
pieces in a mound in the centre of a dish, mask it 
with mayonnaise sauce, garnish round with hard- 
boiled eggs, turned olives, rolled fillets of anchovy, 
and cold cooked artichoke bottoms, and serve as 
cold as possible, with Nepaul pepper and mayonnaise 
sauce in reserve. If Uked, the meat may be set in 
the jelly in a round basin, and turned out and 
garnished when required. 

4. Line an open tart-tin with puff pastry, filling the 
hollow in the centre with raw rice ; bake in a moderate 
oven, and when done shake out the rice 

and let the case get cold ; then fill the ^t^Zl^le. °^ 
tart with slices of preserved pineapple, 
moistening with thick golden syrup made as follows : — 



122 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

Put into the syrup of the pineapple three tablespoon- 
fuls of apricot jam, a liqueur-glass of rum, the juice 
of a lemon and a teaspoonful of cornflour ; boil up, 
strain,, and cool; when cold pour over the pineapple 
slices, and cover the surface with whipped cream, 
with which an ounce of pounded pistachio nuts may 
be blended. 



MENU XXXVII. 

(October.) 

Br^me de mer k la Maltalse. 

Quenelles de gibier frites. 

Crofltes aux pSches. 

Canapes k la Nantaise. 



I. Choose a sea-bream weighing about a pound 
and a half. Take the flesh from each side, thus 
obtaining two fillets, and subdivide each 
of them in three pieces. Then proceed f^^'MMaise^ 
with the head and bones to make a broth, 
moistening with weak stock if available, if not, with 
water, following in other respects the recipe for the 
broth given for No. i. Menu xxxiii., and cooking the 
fillets in the same way. After laying them on the dish 
as therein described, put another dish over them with 
the weights of the kitchen scales upon it to press the 
fillets flat. Next put, for a pint of broth, one ounce of 
butter into a stewpan, melt it over a low fire, and stir 
in an ounce and a quarter of flour ; cook the roux till 
coloured slightly, and then pass in the broth by degrees, 
adding a few drops of caramel to colour, and one gill 
of tomato puree or freshly made sauce ; bring to the 
boil, and skim ; pass all through a hair sieve, rinse out 
the stewpan, and pour the sauce into it. Release the 
fillets from pressure, trim them neatly, and, taking 
them up with a slice, slip them into the sauce, place 

123 



124 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

the pan over a low fire simply to heat up gently 
without boiling, and stir in the juice of half a lemon 
and a dessert-spoonful of minced pickled gherkins. 
Serve as you would a ragout. 

2. The remains of any game will do for this. 
Assuming that we have six ounces of meat free from 

skin, sinew, and bone, take two ounces 
gam/fi?ed^ of fat of cooked ham and two of bread 

panada, pound the meat with these in- 
gredients thoroughly, and pass through a hair sieve ; 
add two eggs, seasoning, and a tablespoonful of game 
essence, which should be made from the bones in the 
manner described for the sauce in No. i. Menu i. 
Now butter ten quenelle-moulds, fill them with the 
mixture, tapping each on the table to insure even 
filling, and poach the quenelles very gently as already 
described. When firm, remove them from the water, 
and set them to get cold. After this turn them out, 
flour them, brush them over with egg, and crumb 
them as described at page 90. Fry in a deep bath of 
boiling fat till of a golden colour, then drain, dry, 
sprinkle with salt, and pile in a pyramid upon a hot 
napkin, fried parsley for garnish, and a sauce a la 
Gogue (page 2) accompanying. 

3. Out of slices cut from a stale madeira cake 
stamp neatly nine round croutes two and a half inches 

in diameter and three-eighths of an inch 
im^aches. thi'^k ; fry them in butter, dust over with 

sifted sugar, and dry in the oven. Let 
them get cold and then arrange them in a circle in 
a flat dish. Next, having drained nine half peaches 



CANAPkS OF SARDINES. 125 

(preserved) from their syrup, turn the latter to thick 
glaze with apricot jam, as given at page 34, flavouring 
it with madeii-a. Let this cool, and then mask the 
peaches with it. Serve very cold ; cream can of 
course accompany. 

4. For this take a dozen sardines from the tin, free 
them from oil by spreading them out apart on a large 
joint dish, tipping it up on edge and 
pouring very hot water gently over the ^^ardines °^ 
fish ; the water will drain downwards, 
carrying the oil with it. After having done this take 
up the sardines with a slice, and lay them on a clean, 
dry cloth. Have ready a dozen pieces of fried bread 
(cold), a quarter of an inch thick and the length and 
width of a sardine ; spread butter over each and lay 
a sardine upon it ; mask with cold mayonnaise sauce, 
sprinkle over with chopped olives. To dish, lift the 
canapes with a palette-knife and arrange them in a 
star pattern with a bunch of watercress in the 
centre and fillets of beetroot between them. 



MENU XXXVIII. 

(October.) 

Grondiu k, la Komaine. 

Escalopes de veau k la Marengo. 

Flamri aux pommes. 

Fetites salades k la DeauvUle.. 



I. Choose a gurnard about a pound and a half in 
weight, fillet it, and follow the process recommended 
for the sea-bream in lyienu xxxvii., as far 
Romahfe^^"' ^^ *^ preparation of the broth is con- 
cerned, and the cooking of the fish 
therein. Put the latter under a weight in the same 
way, and thicken the broth, but without colouring or 
.adding the tomato. Strain the sauce when it is 
finished. Have ready four ounces of boiled lasagne 
(ribbon macaroni) cut into two-inch lengths. Butter 
a fireproof gratin-dish, arrange a layer of the 
macaroni upon it, dust grated Parmesan over the 
layer, and having released the fish fillets lay them 
over it ; dust with Parmesan, and cover with 
macaroni ; dust again, and pour in by degrees 
enough of the sauce to moisten well ; shake a rather 
thick layer of cheese over the surface, and dot a 
number of little bits of butter over it ; push the dish 
into the oven, and when thoroughly hot and nicely 

coloured, serve. 

126 



PUREE OF APPLES MOULDED. 127 

2. Out of a slice of the fillet of veal half an inch 
thick and about a pound and a quarter in weight, 
trim as many neat pieces as you can about 

two inches long and an inch and a half ^arefJo 
across; bat them with a cutlet-bat, and 
put them into an earthenware casserole, with a table- 
spoonful of salad oil and an ounce of butter, over a 
low fire ; cook slowly, turning the pieces of meat 
every now and then so that they may be evenly 
seized and coloured. When this has been effected, 
mix in with them a tablespoonful of minced onion, 
a bouquet garni, and half a pound of sliced tomatoes ; 
cover the pan closely, and push it into a moderate 
oven, drawing it to the door of the oven at intervals 
of a few minutes, and basting the meat with the 
liquid drawn from it and the tomatoes. Have 
ready a gill of good brown sauce flavoured with 
a dessert-spoonful of chablis, and just at the last, 
when the meat is cooked, stir it into the casserole. 
Dish as you would dish a ragout, garnished with 
rolls of fried bacon, and serve with pomtnes de terre 
sautees. 

3. This must be prepared the evening previously 

with the freshest baking apples. Weigh ten ounces 

of sifted sugar, and choose ten apples each 

about the size of a lawn-tennis ball. Put ^"''^^ "/ 

, , 1 apples 

the sugar into a stewpan (earthenware or moulded. 

enamelled), moisten it with a claret-glass- 
ful of water and a liqueur-glass of rum ; peel, core, 
and mdnce the apples, put the pan over a low fire, 
pass in the mince ; stew very gently, adding the zest 



128 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

and juice of a lemon and a saltspoonful of powdered 
cloves ; when thoroughly hot stir in half an ounce of 
soaked gelatine, and when the fruit is pulpy pass all 
through a hair sieve ; wet a border- mould, put it in 
ice or in a cold larder, pour in the puree, and let it get 
firm and as cold as possible. Turn out the flamri when 
wanted, filling the hollow of the mould with whipped 
cream, and pouring a syrup flavoured with rum and 
lemon round the outside. 

4. Cut up and cook three dozen fillets of cucumber, 
stop as soon as you can pass a trussing needle into 
the vegetable easily, and drain the fillets 
Little salads gn a sieve. Let them get quite cold, and 
iiille^ cut them into quarter-inch squares. Pick 

a dozen large prawns from their shells, 
and cut them into similar pieces. With these fill 
half a dozen darioles, mixing the two fairly. Melt 
half a pint of aspic jelly, put it in a bowl over ice and 
whisk into it half a gill of oil and a dessert-spoonful 
of vinegar, thus making a mayonnaise collee, adding 
one yolk to colour it ; immediately it attains the con- 
sistency of smooth cream pour it into the darioles, 
setting the prawn and cucumber squares in it over 
ice. Turn them out when required, and dish in a 
circle with a garnish of cress or curled endive. 



MENU XXXIX. 

(flctoher.') 

(Eufs durs k la Bretonne. 

Fauplettes de boeuf k rEspagnole. 

Salsifis au gratin. 

Compote de bananes au zeste d'orange. 



I. Soak a pint measure of dried white haricot 
beans during the night in cold water,- drain the 
next morning, and put them into a casserole 
or stewpan with a four-ounce onion sliced, Hard-boiled 
a bouquet garni, a bacon bone or piece of Bretonne. 
the lean, and a saltspoonful of pepper ; 
cover well with cold water, set them over a good fire, 
and boil until they are tender. As soon as this has 
been done, place a sieve over a basin, and empty the 
contents of the pan upon the sieve, thus draining off 
the liquid in which the beans were cooked. Leave 
the beans on the sieve. Put an ounce of butter into 
another stewpan, set it over a low fire, and stir in 
when the butter has melted two ounces of minced 
onion, fry very gently until the onion turns a pale 
brown, then mix in an ounce of flour ; when smooth 
pass in a pint of the beans water which was strained 
off, bring to the boil, tint with caramel, skim, and 
pass all through a hair sieve ; pour the sauce into the 
rinsed-dut stewpan, and stir in the cooked beans from 
which the bouquet, onion, and bacon bone have been 

10 129 



I30 FIFTY LUNCHES.. 

removed ; heat up gently without boiling, then dish 
in a legumiere, arranging eight halves of hot hard- 
boiled eggs on the surface just before serving. 

2. For this dish you want six slices of uncooked 
tender beef not more than a quarter of an inch thick, 

four and a half inches long, and three 
Paupiettesof^[^Q_ The butcher should cut these to 
brown sauce, order. Lay them, out on a board, brush 

over their upper sides with beaten egg, 
season with pepper and salt, and spread over them 
the following farce, which should be mixed separately 
in a bowl : — Two ounces of bread crumb, half an 
ounce of minced blanched onion, a saltspoonful of 
powdered rosemary, one of powdered marjoram, one 
ounce of minced mushroom, a dessert-spoonful of 
minced parsley, half an ounce of fat of ham minced 
small, and one whole egg. This must not lie too thickly 
on the beef, neither should it be carried further than 
within half an inch of the edges of the slices. Next 
roll the pieces of meat over, enveloping the farce, and 
secure each roll with two pieces of string. Butter a 
deep saute-pan (having, a cover), or a. fricandeau-pa.n, 
with an ounce of butter, and lay over it two ounces 
each of onion, carrot, and turnip finely minced, the 
stalks and peelings of a quarter of a pound of mush- 
rooms minced, and seasoning ; set over a low fire, 
put in the paupiettes, and fry so as to seize and colour 
them {/aire revenir) ; then moisten to half their depth 
with broth, cover closely, push the pan into a mode- 
rate oven, and cook gently there, basting every now 
and then with the cuisson in the pan. As soon as 



SALSIFY AU GRATIN. 131 

tender take out the paupieUes, lay them in a pyramid 
on a veiy hot silver dish, and cover closely. Strain 
off the broth, add a gill of tomato sauce or conserve, 
and pass it into a stewpan in which a roux of half an 
ounce of butter and half one of flour has been prepared 
to receive it. Bring this to the boil, skim, pass it 
through a pointed strainer over the paupiettes, and 
serve, garnishing with turned potatoes arranged in a 
chain round the outer edge. 

3. Scorsonera — the black salsify — is a better vege- 
table than the white, but is not so easily got. This 
dish is designed for the latter. Half a 
bundle will be enough. Choose nice |;'jji£ ""^ 
pieces, wash, scrape, and trim them an 
equal length, cutting off the thin ends, and casting 
them into cold water in which a dessert-spoonful of 
vinegar has been mixed. Have ready on the fire in 
a stewpan a pint of uncoloured broth, or milk and 
water in half and half proportions, and half an ounce 
of butter ; bring this to the boil, slip in the salsify, 
partly cover the pan, and simmer till the vegetable is 
tender ; then drain it, arrange the pieces neatly on a 
flat grati7t-dish, thicken half a pint of the cuisson, add 
a dessert-spoonful of cream, mask the salsify with it, 
strew grated Parmesan over the surface, and set the 
dish in the oven till heated and coloured, serving 
with a garnish of croutons or biscuits of savoury 
short-paste, No. 4, Menu iv. 

N.B. — In the case of black salsify cook the roots 
without cutting and peeling, reserving trimming until 
afterwards, when they are cold. 



132 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

4. Peel a dozen ripe bananas, scrape off their fibre. 

Have ready on the fire in an earthenware or enamelled 

„ , J , pan a hot syrup — three gills of water, six 
Compote of ^ r jii.2i ij-j 

bananas ounces of sugar, and the finely peeled nnd 

with the zest of two oranges with their juice. As soon 

as the bananas are trimmed plunge them 

into boiling water, drain at once, and transfer them 

to the syrup, which now remove from the fire. Let 

the bananas marinade in the syrup for an hour, then 

take them out, lay them in a china bowl over ice, 

strain and reduce this syrup, cool it, pour it over the 

fruit, and serve with whipped cream. 



MENU XL. 

(October.') 

Loup-de-mer k la Dubois. 

Noisettes de lapin au celeri. 

Pommes en surprise. 

Darioles k la Calaisienne 



I. About a pound and a half of hake having been 

procured in slices not moi-e than half an inch thick, 

lay them upon a joint dish, season them 

with salt, pour two tablespoonfuls of salad ^"^^ ™''* 

., ,, , 1 ii ■ ■ r i horse-radish 

Oil over them, add the juice of a lemon, sauce. 

cover with coarsely chopped parsley, and 

let them lie in this marinade half an hour ; then turn 

them, continuing the process another half hour. Now 

lift the slices, drain, and dry them on a cloth, flour 

them, brush them over with an egg beaten up with a 

teaspoonful of the marinade, and then turn them over 

upon a cloth containing a couple of breakfast-cupfuls 

of finely sifted oven-dried crumbs. Let the crumbing 

dry well before proceeding to fry the fish, which 

must of course be done piece by piece in boiling fat 

deep enough to cover them. Serve with this sauce : — 

Put a coffee-cupful of horse-radish raspings into half 

a pint of milk, boil up, season with salt, and simmer 

ten minutes ; then strain the milk into a bowl, stir two 

eggs into it, and turn it to a custard over a vessel 

containing boiling water ; finish with a teaspoonful 

of reduced vinegar. 

133 



134 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

2. Take the flesh off the bones of a nice rabbit. 
Put the former aside ; break up the latter, and put 

them into a stewpan with four ounces of 

Fillets of onions, three each of carrots, turnips, and 
rabbit with , , i- , j_ ■ ■ i i. 

celery. leeks, a muslm bag contammg a dessert- 

spoonful of dried herbs, an ounce of celery 
and one of parsley, and a seasoning of salt and mig- 
nonette pepper ; pour in sufficient cold water to cover 
well ; put over a low fire, boil up, skim, and simmer 
for a couple of hours. Strain the broth off, rinse out 
the stewpan, return the broth to it, set it on the fire, 
and bring to the boil. Now put in the rabbit meat 
cut into neat pieces, and three heads of young celery 
each cut in half lengthwise ; cover the pan, and 
simmer very gently for an hour and a quarter. By 
this time the rabbit and celery should be done ; strain 
off the broth, arrange the former on a hot dish, and 
cover them up while you rapidly thicken the broth in 
a stewpan with a roiix ready to receive it made of an 
ounce of butter and an dunce of flour ; bring to the 
boil, skim, stir in a tablespoonful of cream, and pour 
through a strainer over the rabbit and celery, garnish 
with rolls of fi'ied bacon, and serve. Unless com- 
menced quite early in the morning the broth should 
be made on the previous day. 

3. Make a pound of puff pastry and roll it out 
thinly. Choose six cooking apples of equal size, say 

the size of a lawn-tennis ball or a little 
pastry cases, larger, pare them neatly, and with a tube 

cutter an inch wide cut straight through 
the centre of each, thus forming a hollow right 



LITTLE MOULDS OF SHRIMP PURAe. 135 

through the apple and removing the core. Cut the 
pastry into six squares, set an apple in the centre of 
each, brush all the apples over with melted butter, 
pow^der them -well with sugar, and fill the hollows with 
apricot jam flavoured with any liqueur you like ; now 
damp the edges of the squares of paste, draw them 
together at the top of the apples, fixing them securely, 
and covering the joining with leaves cut out of the 
paste. Arrange the apples upon a buttered baldng- 
sheet, brush them over with beaten egg, and bake 
them in a gentle oven three-quarters of an hour. 
Dust over with sugar, and serve on a hot napkin. 

4. Make a custard with half a pint of boiled milk 
and three eggs, stir in half an ounce of soaked gela- 
tine, strain through a sieve, and add a 
paste made of a gill measure of picked moulds of 
shrimps pounded with four fillets of shrimp 
anchovy ; mix thoroughly, put in a table- ^ 
spoonful of Devonshire cream, set the dariole-moulds 
in ice, fill them with the mixture, and when cold and 
firm turn them out. Dish in a circle decorated with 
curled endive. 



MENU XLI. 

{November.') 

(Eufs poch^s b. la Gounod. 

Cdtelettes de pore, sauce Robert. 

Chou fris^ au riz. 

Macaronade a I'Alg^riemie. 



1. With a round cutter two and a quarter inches 
in diameter stamp out six rounds of bread three- 
eighths of an inch thick ; fry in butter, 

wUktongi^' and keep them hot on a wire drainer in 
the mouth of the oven ; with a two-inch 
cutter stamp out six rounds a quarter-inch thick of 
cold cooked tongue ; warm these in thick brown 
sauce with a shght marsala flavour, and poach six 
eggs very carefully. Arrange the crotites on a flat 
silver dish, put a round of hot tongue upon each, 
trim, and lay a poached egg on the surface of the 
tongue, mask with the brown sauce, and serve gar- 
nished with watercress. 

2. The cutlets, nicely trimmed, should be grilled, 
paper frills should be slipped over the ends of the 

bones, and they should be arranged round 

Pork cutlets ^ pyramid of mashed potato garnished 

'wtth swucc A c3 

Robert. with a dozen small tomatoes that have 

been cooked in the oven on a buttered 
baking-tin, well basted during the cooking with 

136 



CURLED CABBAGE WITH RICE. 137 

melted butter, and dusted over finally with grated 
cheese. Sauce Robert should be made as follows : — 
Chop up two ounces of mild onion and fry gently in 
a casserole over a low fire in half an ounce of butter ; 
stop before colouring commences, and pour in a gill 
of chabUs, sauterne, or hock ; continue the cooking 
till the wine is reduced and forms a glaze, then pour 
in by degrees two gills of good broth, increase the 
heat, and when the liquid is near boiling-point add a 
large teaspoonful of cornflour diluted with broth ; 
boil now for five minutes and skim, tint with caramel, 
lastly adding a large teaspoonful of mustard mixed 
with tarragon vinegar ; strain at once after this into a 
hot sauce-boat, and serve. 

3. Cut a small savoy cabbage in four pieces, soak 
them in cold salted water half an hour, then plunge 
them into boiling salted water, and keep Curled 
at that temperature for ten minutes ; next cabbage 
turn them out upon a sieve, which place '^' 
under a tap of cold water, and as soon as the hot 
water has drained away " refresh " the pieces of 
cabbage with a douche from the tap, and when thus 
cooled press all moisture out of them. Prepare a 
stewpan of a size just large enough to hold the 
cabbage nicely, line it with slices of uncooked bacon 
and a three-ounce onion cut into thin rings, arrange 
the pieces of cabbage over that bed, and moisten just 
level with their tops with hot broth, cover with 
buttered paper, and place the pan over a low fire, 
simmering gently for a couple of hours. As this is 
proceeding boil four ounces of best Patna rice in the 



138 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

manner described at page 3, adding, after returning 
it to the dry hot pan,' an ounce of butter, a dusting of 
salt and pepper, and a heajbed-up tablespoonful of 
grated Parmesan. Keep this hot closely covered in 
the bain-marie. When the cabbage pieces are done 
drain them, arrange them on a very hot dish, cover 
them, and quickly thicken three gills of the strained 
broth ; as soon as this is done put the rice in a circle 
round the cabbage, pour the sauce over the latter 
through a strainer, and serve, with grated IParmesan 
accompanying. For abstinence days milk may be 
substituted for meat broth and butter for the bacon 
in cooking the cabbage. 

4. Select three dozen large dates, wash them, dry 
them with a cloth, pick out their stones, lay them in 

an earthenware or enamelled stewpan with 
Dates in ^-^q ounces of sugar, the finely peeled rind 
macaroons. 3-1''^ juice of a lemon, a stick of cinnamon, 

and just sufficient light claret to cover 
them ; bring nearly to the boil, and then simmer 
gently, turning the fruit occasionally until it is soft 
and nearly all the liquid absorbed. When this has 
been done let the dates get cold in the pan. To 
finish, set a china dish over ice or in a cold larder, 
and arrange the dates upon it ; over them place a layer 
of macaroons that have been marinaded with liqueur, 
and pour over all gently by degrees a pint of rich 
custard flavoured with vanilla with which an ounce 
of gelatine has been dissolved. Set the layer of dates 
first, then the macaroons, and lastly pour in the rest. 
Whipped cream may be laid over the surface. 



MENU XLII. 

(November.) 

CooLuilles aux bultres st, la Momay. 
Langue de veau k la V^nitienne. 

Mousse de topinambourG. 
Omelette sucr^e aux plstaclies. 



I. Six silver or china scallop-shells being available, 

or one large one, make a coarse mince of any nice 

cold cooked fish — turbot, brill, cod, or 

other white fish, six good tablespoonfuls Oyster 

, . i_ /-. i. J r scallops a la 

being enough. Get a dozen fine sauce Momay. 

oysters with their liquid, and have ready 

three gills of fish broth. Prepare the oysters in this 

way : — Put them with their liquid into the fish broth 

(cold) over a rather low fire, watch closely and at the 

first indication of boiling draw the pan away, let the 

oysters remain two minutes in the warm broth, then 

drain them, trim off their beards, and place them 

ready with the minced fish. Next thicken the 

strained broth with half an ounce of butter and half 

an ounce of flour ; boil, skim, and reduce this till it 

coats the spoon ; then butter the shells and lay in 

the mince, allowing three oysters for each shell. 

Now add a tablespoonful of grated Parmesan to the 

sauce, and use it for moistening the mince. Dust 

Parmesan over the surfaces of the shells, heat in the 

oven, taking care to avoid burning or exhausting the 



140 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

moisture, and then serve on a folded napkin garnished 
with parsley. 

2. Having trimmed a good-sized fresh calf's tongue, 
soak it in cold water for an hour, then put it into a 

casserole or stewpan, and cover it with hot 
Calf's tongue broth, bring to the point of boiUng, and 
tienne. '' then slip into the pan three ounces each 

of onions, carrots, turnips, and leeks, all 
cut into small dice, an ounce of celery, a bag con- 
taining a dessert-spoonful of dried herbs, and season- 
ing ; simmer for about three hours, then take out 
the tongue, and strain off the broth. At once, while 
it is hot, scrape off the skin of the tongue and put 
it away. This should be done the day before or 
quite early on the day itself. Having taken the fat 
off the broth, proceed to thicken three gills of it, 
bring to the boil, skim, and add half a gill of marsala. 
Next, having sliced up the cold tongue (or vvarm, as 
the case may be) in slices three-eighths of an inch 
thick and placed them in a casserole, strain the sauce 
over them, adding a gill of tomato sauce or puree. 
Let them marinade in this till wanted, when set the 
pan over a low fire and gently warm the tongue as 
you would a ragout. When hot take out the pieces 
of tongue, arrange them on a hot silver dish in a line 
overlapping each other, pour the sauce over them, 
and garnish with a ring of glazed button onions, 
Jerusalem artichokes, Brussels sprouts, or any nice 
garnish. 

3. Boil and simmer a pound and a half of young 



SWEET OMELETTE WITH PISTACHIO NUTS. 141 

Jerusalem artichokes in just enough milk to cover 
them ; when tender strain off the milk, 
and pass the artichokes through a hair Mould of 
sieve ; custardise half a pint of the milk artichokes. 
with three eggs, and as it cools pass the 
ftiree into it ; season with pepper and salt, and add 
a gill of whipped cream ; butter a plain charlotte- 
mould, line it with buttered paper, pour the mixture 
into it and steam gently about three-quarters of an 
hour. Turn out the mould when it is set, and mask 
with Milanaise sauce. 

4. Peel and pound with a dessert-spoonful of noyeau, 
or any liqueur that may be available, one ounce of 
pistachio nuts ; blend with them four rata- 
fias that have been crushed to powder ; Sweet omc- 
add an ounce of sugar, and just enough taMo nuts' 
syrup flavoured with the liqueur to bring 
the puree to the consistence of jam ; warm this gently 
and pass it into an omelette, made as described in 
the Appendix for sweet omelette, at the time indi- 
cated for the addition of jam. 



MENU XLIII 
(November.) 

Timbale de morue. 
Petit-sal6 k la Wyvern. 
Navets k la mar^cbale. 

CroQLuettes de riz. 

1. Boil three ounces of spaghetti for ten minutes 

only, drain, and spread it out upon a joint dish. 

Butter a plain pint charlotte-mould well, 
Timbale of ^^^^ j^j. ^^^ ^^^^^^j. gg^ cold all round the 

top and sides of the mould ; then, direct- 
ing it with a trussing needle, line the top and sides with 
the spaghetti, coiling it in circles round the former, 
and setting it in layers like the straw hoops in a bee- 
hive all round the sides. When the mould is lined, 
fill it with a mixture made exactly like that given for 
the fish creams in Menu ii., substituting codiish for 
the whiting in these proportions : — Eight ounces of 
Cod, three of butter, and three of bread panada, three 
whole eggs, half a gill of fish broth, and a tablespoon- 
ful of cream with seasoning. Steam the timbale very 
gently for about three-quarters of an hour, and when 
firmly set turn it out, wipe off the butter which will 
cling to the spaghetti, and serve garnished with 
parsley. Sauce hollandaise may accompany. 

2. This way of serving a nice piece of boiled 



RICE CROQUETTES. I43 

pickled pork has been tried and approved of. Dish 

the piece of meat when it is ready on a 

flat dish, arrange round it a ring of white ?^'lf'\ ^ ^^ 

haricots, cooked as described for No. i, withharicots. 

Menu xxxix., but moistened with white 

sauce made with their cuisson and garnished with 

chopped parsley, and mask the pork with freshly 

made tomato sauce mixed somewhat stiffly. 

3. Choose four four-ounce turnips, pare, and cut 
them in sUces about the thickness of a halfpenny, 
trim these in rounds or ovals as much the 

same size as possible, drop them one by Baked 
one into cold water, and when all are mar/chale. 
ready drain and turn them out upon a 
clean cloth to dry ; butter a saute-pan with two 
ounces of butter, set it over a low fire, and lay the 
turnip slices in it, moving them about till turning a 
pale gold colour ; then lift and arrange them in a 
buttered fireproof china baking-dish in layers, dusting 
them with grated Parmesan, and when the dish is 
filled moisten the whole with sauce Milanaise, page 
89 ; cover the surface with grated cheese, and pour 
the butter out of the saute-pan over it. Push the 
dish into a moderate oven and bake until it is 
coloured and you can easily pass a skewer through the 
slices of turnip. Serve in the dish laid on a napkin. 

4. Blanch six ounces of Carohna rice in boiling 
water for five minutes, then drain and 
transfer it to another stewpan containing f^gq^^^ffgs 
a quart of boiling milk, four ounces of 

sifted sugar, an ounce of butter, and the zest of a lemon. 



144 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

Simmer now for an hour over a low fire, remove the 
pan, and when the rice is cool, having absorbed 
nearly the whole of the milk, break into it two whole 
eggs, mix well, and spread it out upon a dish to a 
thickness of an inch and a half. When cold and 
firm cut the mass into pieces an inch wide and one 
and a half long. Strew a pastry board over with 
crumbled ratafias that have been grated, or pounded 
and sifted ; put the portions of rice upon this bed, 
and roll them in cork shapes, then dip them in well- 
beaten egg and crumb them with the same crumbs. 
Fry when quite dry in a deep bath of boiling fat till 
a golden colour, and drain afterwards on a wire 
drainer laid on a sheet of brown paper in front of 
the fire ; then dust them liberally with sifted sugar, 
and serve with hot apricot syrup~ sauce, flavoured 
with rum and lemon. An easy luncheon dish if the 
rice be prepared the day before or very early in the 
morning, to allow of its getting cold. 



MENU XLIV. 

{Noveviber.) 

(Eufs aux hultres k la Mathurin. 

Quasi de veau a la pMerine. 

Chartreuse de pScbes. 

Croustades au merlucbe fum^e. 



1. Prepare a dozen and a half sauce oysters as 
explained for No. i, Menu xlii. Boil four eggs hard, 
cool them in cold water, and remove their 

shells. Fry in half an ounce of butter an Hard-boiled 
ounce and a half of minced shallot ; as oi^ters. 
soon as slightly coloured stir in half an 
ounce of flour, mix well, and moisten with the oyster 
broth, half a gill of chablis and half a gill of tomato 
puree or sauce ; boil up, skim, and strain through a 
hair sieve. Now butter a fireproof china dish, slice 
up the hard-boiled eggs, arrange them in the dish, 
cut the oysters in halves, after having removed their 
beards, and lay them over the eggs ; moisten all 
with the sauce, warm in the oven till as hot as 
possible, and serve with sippets of fried bread 
arranged round the dish. 

2. Bone a piece of the chump end of a loin of veal, 
stuff it with the stuffing given for No. 2, Menu xxxix., 
and cook it in the manner described for breast of 
veal, Menu viii. When done, take out the meat, dish 
it on a hot dish and cover it closely ; strain off the 

II '45 



146 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

broth, skim off the fat, and having a roux ready in 
a stewpan of an ounce each of butter and flour, pro- 
. ceed to thicken it, adding the chopped 

chump end stalks and peelings of half a pound of 
of veal with mushrooms ; bring to the boil, skim, and 
strain the sauce over the piece of meat, 
garnishing with the mushrooms which yielded the 
trimmings separately broiled. 

3. Very easily made with preserved peaches. Take 
a pound tin, strain off the syrup into a clean sauce- 
pan, put into it two tablespoonfuls of 

Chartreuse apricot jam, the juice of a lemon, a glass 
of sherry or madeira, or a liqueur-glass of 
liqueur ; warm gently over the fire, adding half an 
ounce of soaked gelatine ; when this has dissolved 
pass the whole through a clean hair sieve reserved 
for sweet cookery. Now set a mould in ice, arrange 
a pattern at the top according to fancy and set it 
with a little of the syrup ; when set arrange a layer 
of peaches, set it in like manner, and continue the 
process until the mould is filled ; turn it out when it 
is wanted, and serve with whipped cream. If set in 
a border-mould the cream can be put in the centre, 
with minced preserved cherries scattered over it. 

4. Make the croustades cases as explained for No. 

4, Menu vi. Take eight ounces of the 
Cream of flesh of a smoked haddock after having 

stuoficci lidcL- 

dock in cases, poached the fish till nicely softened, picked 

out all bones and removed all skin. Pound 

this in a mortar with an ounce of butter to a paste. 



CREAM OF SMOKED HADDOCK IN CASES. 147 

passing it all through a hair sieve ; moisten the paste 
with half a gill of milk, the yolks of two eggs, and a 
tablespoonful of cream, seasoning with salt, Nepaul 
pepper, and a dust of mace. Thicken the mixture as 
you would make a custard in a bowl over a vessel 
containing hot water, and just when wanted heat the 
empty croustades, fill them with the mixture, sprinkle 
the surfaces with chopped olives, and serve on a hot 
napkin. Do not fill the cases too soon or the paste 
will be sodden. 



MENU XLV. 

(December.') 

Foisson St. Pierre k la Kouennaiae. 

T£te de cochon aux choux de Bruzelles. 

Riz froid aux aI)ricotB. 

Boucb^es k la Norv^gieime. 



1. Remove the flesh of a small John Dory in two 
fillets ; make a strong broth of the head and bones as 

previously described ; dry with flour, egg 
John Dory and bread-crumb the fillets after shaping 
naise. ' each neatly. Make a sauce with two gills 

of the broth and one gill of tomato puree, 
boihng up, skimming, and reducing it till creamy and 
well flavoured ; fry the fillets in boiling fat, drain, 
dry, sprinkle with salt ; dish on a hot dish garnished 
with olives farcies and parsley, with the sauce in a 
boat. 

2. Choose half a young pig's head, fresh. Put it 
into boiling broth with the vegetables, seasoning, 

&c., given for the breast of veal. Menu 
^7fc r'^"'* viii., and simmer until sufficiently tender 
sprouts. fo admit of the easy removal of the bones. 

Having done this, put the meat under a 
weight ; cool the strained broth, and remove all fat. 
Next turn a pint and a half of the latter to a sauce 
with a roux of an ounce and a half of butter and the 



LAX BOUCHEES. 149 

same of flour, add to it the chopped peelings and 
stalks of half a pound of mushrooms, boil up, skim, 
and simmer ten minutes, after which strain off the 
sauce. Now cut the meat of the head into neat 
pieces, put them into a stewpan, cover with the 
warm broth, put in the mushrooms which yielded 
the trimmings, and simmer over a low fire till the 
meat is perfectly tender and the mushrooms done. 
Arrange a border of Brussels sprouts on a hot dish, 
put the pieces of meat in the centre, boil up, skim 
the sauce once more, sharpen it with a squeeze of 
lemon juice, and pour it through a strainer over the 
latter. This will be found as nice in every respect as 
a calf's head. 

3. Prepare six ounces of Carolijia rice as described 

for No. 4, Menu xliii., with this exception — when 

you take it off the fire turn it into a china 

or silver dish, cool, and later on set it Compote of 

ytcc 'wttft 
over ice, turning it about with a silver apricots. 

fork as you stir into it a gill of cream ; 

upon this bed lay as many preserved apricots, cut in 

halves, as will cover it, mask the layer with a syrup 

flavoured and thickened in the manner given for 

No. 4, Menu xxxvi., cover that with whipped cream, 

and serve. 

4. Make a custard as described for No. 4, Menu v., 
but without separating the yolks from the 
whites— using four whole eggs, seasoning, ^",^,^^^^^ 
and two tablespoonfuls of cream. Pour 

this into buttered bouchee-iaoulds two inches in 



ISO FIFTY LUNCHES. 

diameter, and steam until set. Let them get cold in 
the moulds, and then with a vegetable scoop hollow 
them out as cups, but leaving enough margin to 
make sure of their not breaking. Fill these hollows 
with lax puree, rather stiffly worked, garnish with an 
olive farcie, and serve upon a bed of broken aspic, 
or, the part scooped out having been passed through 
a wire sieve, may be scattered over the dish as a 
carpet, the bouchees being arranged in a circle over 
it, and a thin veil of well-dried garden cress scattered 
over all. For lax puree, take two ounces of the fish, 
free it from oil, and pound it with a couple of filleted 
anchovies, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, and two 
ounces of butter, season with Nepaul pepper and a 
pinch of mace, pass through a hair sieve, and use. 



MENU XLVI. 

(December.') 

(Eufs en baril au pur^e de faisan. 

Dinde k la Chevali^re. 

Chottz de Bruxelles k la WyTem. 

Beignets k la Noel. 



1. Peel and slice off the ends of six hard-boiled 

eggs so that when set upright they will look like little 

barrels : then with a tube-cutter remove _ , , 
,' , , ,, , , . ,. , Barrels of 

the yolks, and set the barrels in a dish eggs with 

over ice ; next fiU the hollows with phea- pheasant 

'btivdc 
sant puree slightly diluted with jellied 

sauce, and lay a disc of cooked truffle on the top of 
each. With the removed yolks make the sauce given 
for No. I, Menu xxxii. Garnish the dish with broken 
aspic jeUy and curls of celery. The proportions for six 
barrels should be four large tablespoonfuls of minced 
pheasant mixed with two tablespoonfuls of strongly 
reduced sauce made on the lines of sauce a la 
Gogue (page 2), with which (during the cooking of 
the broth) a quarter ounce of gelatine has been dis- 
solved. Let the salad sauce, quite cold, accompany 
the dish in a boat. 

2. A very good rechauffe. Pick separately the 
white meat from the remains of a cold turkey — 
about twelve ounces, freed from skin, xurkey a la 
sinew, and bone enough — and pass it Chevalihc. 

151 



1 52 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

through the mincing machine ; out of the meat 
of one thigh and drumstick trim as many neat little 
fillets as you can, adding any little trimmings 
there may be to the mince. With the bones make 
a pint of broth as described for No. 2, Menu v., 
and with it prepare a sauce in the same way. To 
finish the dish, put the mince into a stewpan and 
dilute it with just sufficient of the sauce to bring 
it to the consistency of jam, warming the whole 
gently over a low fire. As for the fillets, dip them 
into the sauce and roll them in finely pounded crumbs, 
frying them a golden yellow in boiling fat. Dish the 
mince inside a circle of mashed potato, arranging 
the fillets round the outside of it, alternated with 
rolls of crisply- fried bacon, and let the remainder of 
the sauce, heated up to steaming-point, be served in 
a boat. 

3. Choose the Brussels sprouts for this dish of the 

same size, trim them neatly, and plunge them into 

boiling salted water in 3 non-tinned vessel 

JjViisscIs 

sprotits for three minutes, then drain them in a 

Wyvcm's colander. Next take a fricandeau-pan or 
lai-ge satite-pnn with a cover, the object 
being to get a wide but shallow vessel in which the 
sprouts can be well spread out. In this melt an 
ounce and a half of butter, and, for a pound of 
sprouts, stir in four 1 ounces of finely minced Spanish 
onion ; fry this gently over a low fire until the onion 
atoms are soft but not coloured, then lay the drained 
sprouts over them, and moisten with sufficient broth 
to cover nicely, simmer very gently till the vegetables 



PLUM-CAKE FRITTERS. 153 

are done, then, with a trussing needle, take the sprouts 
out of the pan, setting them on a dish aside for the 
present. Pass the broth through a hair sieve with 
the softened onion, return it to the rinsed-out pan, 
set it on the fire, and thicken it slightly with a tea- 
spoonful of rice or cornflour, bringing it to the boil 
when you do so ; skim, draw the pan back, add two 
tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan, a tablespoonful 
of cream, and the sprouts. Warm gently, and serve 
in a legumiere with sippets of fried bread. 

4. Cut neatly out of slices of cold plum pudding, 
three-eighths of an inch thick, a number of oblongs — 
say two and a half inches long and one 
and a quarter across. Make the batter f'H'^rt"'^ 
given at page 16, sweetening it with an 
ounce of powdered sugar, and adding a liqueur-glass 
of brandy with the squeeze of a lemon. , Marinade 
the pieces of pudding with sugar, lemon-juice, and a 
few drops of brandy. When the time arrives for 
their preparation for the table, lift the pieces with 
a sUce, and lay them on a clean, dry cloth, finish off 
the batter with the whipped white, dip the pieces 
into it, and pass them into a bath of boiling fat. 
Then drain, dry, and serve in a hot dish, sprinkled 
with powdered sugar. This is a good sauce : — Beat 
two ounces of sifted sugar with eight ounces of butter 
to a cream, add a liqueur-glass of brandy, sheny, or 
madeira, keep it in a cool larder, and serve in a cold 
sauce-boat. 



MENU XLVII. 

(December.') 

Br6me-de-meT k, la MontreuU. 

Escalopes de li^vre k la Czarine. 

Fommes aux fruits ^ la Farisienne. 

Croustades de truffes. 



I. This dish may be made with any white fish. I 
take sea-bream for a change. Remove the flesh of a 
fish weighing a pound or pound and a 
Sea^ream a quarter in one long piece from each side. 
Make three gills of broth with the bones, 
using milk for the moistening. Cook the fillets in this 
as explained for poached salmon, Menu vii. ; set them 
aside under a weight, and strain in the broth. Thicken 
this with three-quarters of an ounce of butter and the 
same of flour, skim, add half a pot of Ruff's cream of 
lobster, stir well over the fire, and strain through a 
hair sieve. Return the sauce to the rinsed-out stew- 
pan, and, setting it over a quick fire, bring to the 
boil, reducing one-third of its quantity, and stirring 
continually till that has been effected. Now butter 
a gratin-dish, and having trimmed each fillet neatly 
in an oval form, lay them side by side upon it ; mask 
them with the sauce, smoothing it with a palette- 
knife, push the dish into the oven to heat thoroughly, 
then garnish all round with separately cooked balls 
of potato cut with an inch scoop, and serve. 

154 



APPLES WITH FRUIT A LA PARISIENNE. 155 

2. Prepare as many neat fillets as the back of a 
hare will yield in the manner described for the 
cutlets in No. i, Menu i. Make a pint 

of hare broth in the same way, and f^^tS^ 
strain when it is ready. Now lay the 
fillets in a saute-pan, moisten with enough of the 
broth just to come level with their surfaces, cover, 
and stew very gently till tender. While this is pro- 
ceeding, stew a dozen and a half chestnuts in the 
way given at page 52, using the remainder of the 
hare broth for the moistening. When both are 
ready pile the hare fillets in the centre of a hot 
entree-dish, arrange the chestnuts in a circle round 
them, and keep them hot while, with a roux pre- 
pared beforehand, you thicken the two broths 
blended ; boil, skim, and pour through a strainer 
over the fillets, serving at once. 

3. Pare, quarter, and core six good-sized cooking 
apples, put them in a stewpan, and cover them with 
three gills of weak syrup, adding the ^^^^^^ ^.^,^ 
juice and zest of a lemon and a few fruit d la 
drops of cochineal. Set over a low fire, ^«'''S2«»"«. 
and simmer gently till just tender. Make a border 
of rice in a pint border-mould with a hollow rim, 
sweetening, and flavouring the rice with lemon. 
Cut one good-sized apple into quarter-inch squares, 
also cut up a pear in the same way, and when the 
quarters of apple have been cooked sufficiently and 
removed from the syrup, put the little squares into it 
and stew them in like manner. Have ready a mince 
cut from two crystallised apricots and two greengages, 



iS6 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

and choose a dozen preserved cherries. When the 
squares are ready, strain off the syrup, putting the 
former with the minced apricot and greengage. Now 
put the syi'up into a stewpan with a tablespoonful of 
apricot jam and a liqueur- glass of kirsch ; boil, 
adding a teaspoonful of rice-flour, straining it ofE 
through a hair sieve when it is ready. Now, having 
kept the rice in its mould in a cold place, and having 
the apple quarters, the mince, and ,syrup also cold, 
turn out the former upon a glass dish, fill the hollow 
with the mince, and pile the apple quarters dome- 
wise over all, pour the syrup over this, and dot the 
cherries over the surface tastefully, using a trussing 
needle for the operation. Cream should be handed 
round with this. 

4. Six medium-sized uncooked truffles will be 
required for this, and six little oval tartelette-cases 

made out of the paste described at 
pasiy^ases. P^g^ ^^- Clean carefully, pare, and cook 

the truffles in enough chicken broth and 
sauterne in half and half proportions to cover them, 
putting in with them two ounces of minced onion, a 
teaspoonful of herbs, and a piece of garlic the size 
of a small pea in a muslin bag, and half an ounce of 
butter ; boil for ten minutes, and let the truffles get 
cold in the liquid ; then take them out and cut them 
into little squares or slices, thicken the broth, adding 
half an ounce of glaze or a gill of pure meat gravy, 
boil, skim, and strain into another stewpan, put in the 
truffles, heat up gently, heat the cases also, fill them, 
and serve immediately as hot as possible. 



MENU XLVIII. 

(December.') 

(EufB dim k la mode de Caen. 

"Dry curry." 

Haricots k la LlToumaise. 

Marmelade de poznmes. 



1. Take a six-ounce Spanish onion, peel, divide it 
in halves, lay them on a board and cross-cut them 
in slices three-eighths of an inch thick, fjard-boiled 
Plunge these into boiling water for iive e^s, Caen 
minutes, then drain, spreading them out f"'^^i°"- 

on a clean cloth. Melt an ounce of butter in a stew- 
pan, put in the blanched onions, stir over a low fire 
till soft but without browning them, then mix in half 
an ounce of flour and three gills of broth or milk, 
with a seasoning of salt, pepper, and mace ; stir gently 
over the fire for twenty minutes, then lay irt four hard- 
boiled eggs cut into slices, and three ounces of cooked 
ham trimmed in julienne-like shreds. Dish in a 
legumiere, garnished with sippets of fried bread. 

2. Select any meat you like,, or a chicken, for this, 
and proceed as directed in the Appendix, marking 
the variation in the cooking to be fol- „_ 
lowed if it be desired to use cooked 

meat. Rice should of course be served with this, 
and the usual chutneys, &c. 

157 



158 FIFTY LUNCHES. 

3. Soak a pint measure of white haricots for twelve 
hours, then drain, put them into a stewpan with a 
yrr, f J thicli shcc of lean bacon, a four-ounce 
cot beans d onion cut into quarters, half an ounce of 
la Livour- celery, one of carrot sliced, and a muslin 

bag containing a teaspoonful of dried 
herbs, season with a quarter of an ounce of salt and 
half that quantity of pepper. Cover with three pints 
of lukewarm water, and bring once to the boil, then- 
simmer gently until the beans are tender but not 
broken. Now, turning the beans out on a sieve, 
strain off the water into a bowl beneath it, pick out 
the muslin bag and other vegetables, and let the 
beans lie as they are till wanted. Next, having a 
roux ready in a stewpan made with an ounce of butter 
and an ounce of flour, stir in by degrees a pint of 
the water in which the beans were boiled ; boil, skim, 
and put into it two tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan 
and a gill of tomato conserve or puree. Pass all 
through a hair sieve. Arrange the beans in a fire- 
proof china dish, moisten them with the sauce, dust 
over with grated Parmesan, dot a few pieces of 
butter over the surface, and push the dish into the 
oven, serving it as soon as it is thoroughly hot. 

4. Eight apples the size of lawn-tennis balls will 
be wanted for this. Pare, quarter, and core them, 

then mince them up, put the mince into 
^/appilt^'^ a stewpan with the juice and zest of a 

lemon, moisten it with just sufficient 
syriip to cover nicely, and stew the fruit gently until 
sufficiently soft to pass through the sieve. This 



MARMALADE OF APPLES. 159 

having been done, stir into it two tablespoonfuls of 
apricot jam and a liqueur-glass of kirsch, maras- 
chino, or any nice liqueur ; set this in the stewpan 
again, and reduce it over the fire, stirring continually 
until it becomes a stiff puree or marmalade. When 
this condition has been reached let it cool, and when 
cold arrange the puree in a dish in a dome-shape, 
using a palette-knife dipped in hot water to smooth 
its surface ; powder over then with finely sifted 
sugar, and garnish round with croutes of stale madeira 
cake which have been lightly fried in butter, cooled, 
and dusted with sugar. If liked, the surface of the 
sugar coating the dome may be glazed with a sala- 
mander or glazing-iron. 



MENU XLIX. 

{For a summer luncheon party.) 

Truite aaumon^e h. la r^moulade. 

(Euf8 poch^s k la Crispi 
ipaule d'agneau k la Frincesse. 

Asperges froids k la cr&me. 

Fouding de bananes aux fraises. 

Canapes de caviar. 



I. Turn to Menu xxii. and follow the recipe there 

given, substituting this sauce : — Scald and mince as 

finely as possible half an ounce of 

Salmon trout parsley, the same of chervil, the green 

a la remou- , , . ■, ■ l 

lade. stem or one young onion, and six tarragon 

leaves ; pound them in a mortar with 
six fillets of anchovy freed from oil, a dessert- 
spoonful of French mustard, and five hard-boiled 
yolks of egg ; pass the puree through a hair sieve 
into a bowl laid over ice, beat into it two raw 
yolks, and drop by drop two gills of the best salad 
oil as in the case of mayonnaise ; finish with a dessert- 
spoonful of the best French vinegar and a table- 
spoonful of finely minced pickled gherkins. Keep 
the sauce as cold as possible. 

jTat't/F' 2- This Will be found at page 70. 

160 



BANANA PUDDING WITH STRAWBERRIES. i6i 

3. And this at page ^K. For the sauce Shoulder of 
a la Fnncesse see page 71. Princesse. 

4. Wash, trim, and cook the asparagus as usual, 
release the bundle and lay the vegetable in a 
legumiere over ice with ice in a dish 

over it. Before serving season it with ^°^^ aspara- 
salt and pepper, and sprinkle it with cream. 
tarragon vinegar. For the sauce put a 
gill of cream over ice and beat it with a whisk till 
stiff, serving it in a cold sauce-boat. 

5. For this see No. 3, Menu xxiii. N.B. — A com- 
pote of fresh strawberries, set in syrup Banana pud- 
as described in page 75, might be served ding with 
sepai-ately, the pudding being steamed in ^irawbtirttes. 
a plain charlotte-mould, and glazed when cold with, 
apricot glaze. 

6. For these see page 78. 



MENU L. 

{For a winter luncheon party.) 

(Eufs duTS auz hultres i. la Mathurin. 

Faupiettes de boeuf a rEspagnole. 

Faisans au riz tomato. 

Croustades de champignons. 

Fain de marrons au kirsch. 

Maxmelade de pommes. 

Canapes k, la Nantaise. 



1. See No. i, Menu xliv. 

2. This will be found at page 130. 

3. And this at page 17. 

4. Prepare a dozen oval croustades (page 28). Make 
half a pint of sauce (page 32). Cut the mushrooms 
which yielded the trimmings into quarter-inch squares, 
and simmer them gently, seasoning and stirring con- 
tinually, till quite soft. Keep this hot. Heat the 
cases, fill them the last thing with the ragout, dust 
over with raspings, and serve. 

5. See No. 3, page 41. 

6. This was given for No. 4, Menu xlviii. 

7. And this at page 125. 

l6z 



APPENDIX. 



On Curry-lUakiug. 

The proportions I am about to give will be found reliable 
approximately for one pound of meat, or fish, a full-sized 
chicken, or a pound of vegetables. The vessels I recom- 
mend are French earthenware casseroles, which I consider 
by far the best for curry-making. They are admirable for 
slow cooking, and are very easily cleaned. Curries may be 
left in them without any risk, and may be served in them 
without dishing up if a napkin or frilled paper be pinned 
neatly round them. As curries improve by a day's keeping 
this is worth noting. 

Prepare the meat as follows : — Uncooked veal, mutton, 
lamb, pork, or beef, in three-quarter inch squares ; a chicken 
as ior fricassee, but making three pieces of the breast (cross- 
cut), two of each thigh, and two of each leg, for chickens 
in India are used when much smaller than English birds. 
Fish should be cut into squares like meat ; cucumbers, 
vegetable marrows, potatoes, and Jerusalem artichokes in 
neat pieces, cauliflower in sprigs, eggs (hard boiled) in 
halves lengthwise, &c., &c. 

Weigh four ounces of onion (Portugal preferred), and 
chop it up quite small ; put two ounces of fresh butter 
into the casserole, set it over a moderate fire, and when 
the butter has melted put in the minced onion and cover 
the pan, leaving the onion to fry gently, softening it 
thoroughly, and gradually browning. There must be no 
burning, but it must brown. 

While this is going on, prepare the " curry stuff," or 
mixtui'e, as follows : — Put into a soup plate a tablespoon- 
ful and a half of curry powder, a dessert-spoonful of curry 
paste, a saltspoonful of salt, and a tablespoonful of crime 
de riz or rice-flour. Turn these to a paste by moistening 
them slightly with stock or milk,'amalgamating the whole. 

Next make the nutty infusion. In a small bowl put one 
tablespoonful and a half of desiccated cocoanut and one of 
ground sweet almonds, and pour over them a breakfast- 
cupful of boiling water. Cover this up to infuse, and 
leave it alone until the end of the whole process. 

By this time the onions should have cooked sufficiently, 
163 



164 APPENDIX. 

so add to them the curry mixture, and carefully fry for ten 
minutes at least, so as to work away the crudity of the curry 
powder. This step is absolutely essential, and its omission 
in English recipes and in ordinary practice is the cause of 
the roughness in curries so much complained of by foreign 
artists. 

When well fried, moisten, as in sauce-making, by degrees, 
with the best broth or stock at hand — fish broth for fish, 
milk or vegetable broth for vegetables, giblet broth for 
chicken, and so on. A pint will be found enough for 
the quantity of meat under treatment. 

When all has been stirred in accelerate the heat some- 
what, and then prepare the flavouring of green ginger (very 
necessary) and subacid. The former is contributed in a 
rasped or pounded state to the extent of a generously 
filled teaspoonful ; the latter by a teaspoonful of red- 
currant jelly with the juice of half a lemon. If available, 
a dessert-spoonful of good chutney may also go in. 

Now let the contents of the pan boil, skim, and add, 
after browning it in a sfl«/«-pan in an ounce of butter, the 
uncooked meat, reducing the heat at once to simmering. 
The process now cannot be too gently conducted — an 
hour and a half is not too much to allow. Taste the 
sauce to see whether the subacid is sufficiently noticeable, 
also whether any more salt is needed. Corrections having 
been made accordingly, the nutty infusion should be poured 
into the curry through a strainer, the sediment being well 
pressed to expel all the milk. The curry can now be served, 
rice, dished separately, accompanying. 

Kindly observe a few salient points in this system of curry- 
making. Why do I use crhne de riz 1 I do so because I 
want to absorb the butter as by liaison. Few Indian cooks 
take this trouble unless instructed to do so. The conse- 
quence is that there is generally a most undesirable exudation 
of the fatty element in their curries, which, the moment 
extreme heat passes off, becomes greasy. A halo of this 
surrounding a curry is not an attraction to be encouraged. 
Next it may be asked. Why employ both powder and paste ? 
This, I think, is quite necessary to produce a Madras curry 
at its best, because there are ingredients in the paste which 
cannot enter into a powder — tamarind, green ginger, a very 
little garlic, almonds, mustard oil, &c. 



APPENDIX. I6S 

The green ginger and the nutty infusion are important 
features rarely attended to in England, and yet they are 
easily got. You can use an infusion of the desiccated 
cocoanut and ground sweet almonds sold for pudding- 
making. The " milk " thus produced makes a very good 
substitute for the fresh extract of cocoanut used in India. 
Green ginger can be got at all the Stores or the herbalists 
in Covent Garden. Next as regards the subacid. Apple 
is, I know, recommended by many. I see no harm in 
it, but it is not nearly as good as tamarind, the ingredient 
used in India. I am personally quite contented with red- 
currant jelly blended with lemon-juice. This dissolves 
easily, can be added as desired, and provides all that is 
wanted. There is another thing. In some recipes you 
find that you are advised to rub the pieces of chicken 
or meat with curry powder, and fry them with onions. 
This is quite superfluous in my system. All that is 
necessary is to toss the meat in butter in a sauU-^zn 
sufficiently to "seize it," and then to pass it into the 
curry sauce. We have enough onions and " curry stuff " 
already in the composition. 

Touching curries made of cooked meats. It is a mistake 
to say that these are not worth eating. They can be turned 
out very well indeed by my method, provided you take care 
to have a really good moistening broth, assisted, say, with 
an ounce of meat glaze, and if you will remember these 
points : — Cooked meat does not need re-cooking, therefore, 
when you have got your well-flavoured sauce ready, slip in 
the meat, and let it marinade as long as you can therein 
without any cooking whatever. Then, when you want to 
serve, bring the contents of your casserole very gently to 
steaming-point, and send it up without delay. 

Diy Curry. 

To prepare a Dry Curry proceed to commence with 
exactly as in the previous case, but omit the creme de riz. 
When the onion has browned nicely, stir in the " curry stuff," 
which should be worked to a paste with good broth or 
gravy. Fry this in the same manner for ten minutes, then 
put in the squares of meat, the green ginger well pounded, 
and a coffee-cupful of strong nutty infusion — no other 
moistening. Keep the fire low throughout the process. 



i66 APPENDIX. 

turning the meat about with a wooden spoon until the 
moisture is gradually absorbed, the pieces of meat separate 
from each other, and surrounded with a powder formed by 
the ingredients which have been slowly dried during the 
process. This only requires patience. A quick fire will 
burn the curry, and make the meat tough. 

The Savoury Omelette. 

The recipe for this omelette differs somewhat from those 
usually propounded, being that of the cuisiniere bourgeoise 
rather than that of the Chef. The latter looks very nice, 
and is often finished tastefully with a pattern skilfully 
wrought with glaze, cordons of purees, and other decoration. 
To my mind the omelette suffers in being made so pretty, 
and is not as good a thing to eat as that of roadside inn or 
cabaret. 

An omelette ought never to be stiff enough to retain a 
very neatly rdlled-up appearance. If cooked with proper 
rapidity it should be too light to present a fixed form, and 
on reaching the hot dish should spread itself rather, on 
account of the delicacy of its substance. Books that 
counsel you to turn an omelette, to fold it, to let it brown 
on one side, to let it fry for about five minutes, &c., are not 
to be trusted. If you follow such advice you will only 
produce, at best, a neat-looking egg pudding. 

Timed by the seconds hand of a watch an omelette of six 
eggs, cooked according to my method " by the first inten- 
tion," takes forty-five seconds fi-om the moment of being 
poured into the pan to that of being turned into the dish. 

Though cream is considere.d by some to be an improvement, 
I do not recommend it. Milk is certainly a mistake, for it 
makes the omelette leathery. I confess that I like a very 
little minced chives in all savoury omelettes ; but this is a 
matter of taste. Finely chopped parsley should be added 
with a seasoning of salt and pepper. The general rules to be 
observed in omelette-mzking, according to my process, 
then, may be thus summed up : — 

1. Mix thoroughly, but do not beat the eggs, and never use 
more than six for one omelette, omitting two of the whites. 

2. It is better to make two of six than one of twelve eggs. 
Success is impossible if the vessel be too full. If using four 
eggs, omit one white. 



APPENDIX. 167 

3. Three eggs, mixed whole, make a nice-sized omelette, 
quite the best for the beginner to commence with. 

4. Use a proper utensil, rather shallow, with narrow, well- 
sloping sides; a twelve-inch fireproof china pan will be 
found excellent ; see that it is clean, and quite dry. 

5. Do not overdo the amount of butter that you use for 
the frying — enough to lubricate the pan evenly to the extent 
of a quarter of an inch is sufficient. 

6. Be sure that your pan is ready to receive your mixture. 
If not hot enough the omelette will be leathery, or you will 
have to mix it in the pan like scrambled eggs Ueufs brouilles). 

7. The moment the butter ceases to fizz and turns 
brownish, the moisture having been expelled, the pan is 
ready. 

8. Pour the mixture into the pan so that it may spi^ead 
well over the lubricated surface, then instantly lift up the 
part of the omelette that sets at the moment of contact, and 
let the unformed portion run under it ; repeat this two or 
three times if the pan be at all full, keep the left hand at 
work with a gentle see-saw motion to encourage rapidity in 
setting, give a finishing shake, and turn the omelette into 
the hot dish before the whole of the mixture on the surface 
has quite set. 

9. The omelette, slightly assisted by the spoon, will roll 
over almost of its own accord if the sides of the pan be 
sloped as I have described, burying within it the slightly 
unformed, juicy part of the mixture which remained on tlie 
surface ; it will not require folding. 

10. Three-quarters of a minute is ample time for the 
whole operation', if the pan be properly hot when the 
mixture is poured into it, and the heat evenly maintained. 

11. Have the hot dish close by the fire, so that you can 
turn the omelette into it instantcr. A little melted butter, 
vyith some chopped parsley and chives, may, with advan- 
tage, be put into the dish. 

12. It is above all things necessary to have a brisk fire 
under the pan while the omelette is being cooked. A fairly 
sized gas boiler serves the purpose. The small three-egg 
omelette can be made successfully over a powerful methy- 
lated spirit lamp. The ordinary kitchen fire is unsuited for 
this work unless it can be brought up level with the hot 
plate, with a clear live coal surface. 



i68 APPENDIX. 

As it lies in the dish this omelette will not look like a 
bolster — it will take a natural, rather flat, irregular oval 
shape, golden yellow in colour, and flecked with green, 
with the juicy part escaping from beneath its folds. 

Tbe Sweet Omelette. 

Break three eggs, carefully separating the yolks from the 
whites, whisk the latter to a stiff froth, and mix the former 
in a basin with an ounce of sugar and- a few drops of lemon- 
juice. Set a twelve-ineh omdette^^axi on the fire with an 
ounce of butter, melt this and see that it covers the pan 
well without leaving any dry spaces ; when the butter is 
hot without, browning, quickly blend the yolks with the 
stiff whites and pour the njixture into the pan, smoothing 
it over with the palette-knife; Keep the heat below the 
vessel rather low, and -leave the omelette alone for two 
minutes, after that detach the edges with the palette-knife, 
and note if the under parf is setting nicely ; as soon as this 
is observable pass the palette-knife under the whole omelette, 
double it over, and turn it into a hot silver dish, which should 
be ready close at hand, dusted well with sugar. Dredge 
sugar over the omelette liberally, and serve!. 

Any flavour can be communicated with the sugar when 
mixing the yolks — orange, lemon, ratafia, vanilla, &c., &c. 

For omelette au rhum put a dessert-spoonful of this spirit 
into the bowl with the sugar and yolks, and when the 
omelette is dished pour a sherry-glassful of rum round it, and 
ignite it as you do brandy for a Christmas plum-pudding. 

If preserve of any kind is to be added, melt four table- 
spoonfuls of it separately in a small stewpan, adding a table- 
spoonful of liqueur, and just before doubling the omelette 
over spread the preserve rapidly over its surface. 

If provided with a glazing-iron the sugar spread over the 
surface of the omelette may be turned to caramel by an 
application of the heated iron. 

It will be found that the mixture I have described is as 
much as a twelve-inch pan can hold. Accordingly, if several 
guests have to be served, have two omelettes made and sent 
in rapidly in succession, the mixture being got ready before- 
hand. 



INDEX 



DISHES OF EGGS. 

Buttered eggs with asparagus ,5^'. 
„ „ with game . 103 ; 

„ „ with shrimps . 12 

„ „ with vegetables 76 ;, 

Eggs a la Livournaise . .31 
„ „ Russe . . .23 
„ barrels of, with pheasant 

puree .... 151 
„ in the dish with 
tomatoes . . . .43 
Hard-boiled eggs a la Bre- 

tonne 129 

Hard-boiled eggs a la mode ■ 

de Caen .... 157 
Hard-boiled eggs a la Mosco- 

vite 119 

Hard-boiled eggs a la poisson- 

niere 35 

Hard-boiled eggs with oysters 145 

Omelette with lobster . . 97 

Poached eggs a la Celestine . 49 

„ „ „ Cingalese . 100 

„ „ „ Crispi . 70 

„ „ „ fermiere . 32 

„ „ Lyonnaise 93 

„ „ with tongue . 136 



DISHES OF FISH. 
Brill fillets a la Bonnefoy 



169 



PAGE 

£od (salt) a la bonne f emme . 25 

« „ „ with tomato- 
•/ '• ' tinted rice . . .46 
, „ ♦imtiale of . . . 142 
^ab, au gratin . . .64 
" ,,.. ■ salad .... 106 
JSelS in jelly a la Tartare . 109 
Fish, cold, in shells .. ' . . 67 
„ creams of, with flJirimp 

sauce . • '* i. 7 

„ croustades ■\'^.'^ ■ 113 

„ in shells a la Carmelite . 52 

„ with eggs ... 35 

Gurnard a la Romaine . . 126 

Haddock, orlys of . . .16 

Ijake with horseradish sauce 133 

John Dory a la Rouennaise . 148 

Lobster omelette . . .97 

Mackerel fillets with olives . 116 

Oysters scalloped a la Mornay 139 

Salmon, border of, a la Par- 

mentier . 37 

„ cutlets a la pecheur . 79 

„ poached. . 55 

„ pie . . . . 87 

„ salad with potatoes . 61 

„ slice of poached . 29 

Salmon-trout in jelly . . 73 

Scallops, Ceylon curry of . 2 

Sea-bream a la Maltaise . . 123 

„ „ Montreuil . 154 



170 



INDEX. 



Sole fillets a la Bercy . 


84 


)f 


with green butter . , 
ings a la maitfe d'hpfel 


90 


Whit 


40 




SAUCES, 




Sauce, apricot sweet 


ID 


)) 


a la tiogue . 


2 


?» 


„ Soyer . 


38 


)i 


Bonnefoy 


21 


f, 


Bordelaise . 


9 


>j 


Ceylon (curry) . 


3 




chaud-froid, brown 


69 


II 


„ white 


89 


)) 


Contadina . 


97 


J) 


for beef gratine . 


49 


)» 


for blanquette or fri- 






cassee 


59 


n 


for boiled pheasant 


18 


)t 


for chicken a la Toscam 


; 22 


» 


for orlys of fish . 


17 


jj 


for p.pached salmon 


29 


,) 


horseradish, for fish 


133 


)j 


matelote, for pigeons 


S3 




maitre d'hotel 


40 


ji 


mayonnaise coUee 


128 


,, 


Milanaise 


89 


n 


plum-pudding 


153 


II 


poulette 


98 


11 


princess (cucumber) 


71 


II 


remoulade . 


160 


II 


Robert . 


137 


II 


roebuck 


14 


II 


shrimp . 


8 


It 


Soubise 


91 


II 


Tartare 


110 




venison 


120 


II 


Venitienne . 


140 


II 


verte for salmon . 


55 



DISHES OF MEAT. 

Beef croquettes a la Viennoise 68 

„ minced au gratin . . 117 
„ paupiettes of, a I'Es- 

pagnole . . . 130 



PAGE 

49 
140 
107 

21 

91 
64 



Beef, slices of, gratines . 
Calf's tongue a la Venitienne 
Chicken a la Parmentier 
„ „ Toscane 
„ cutlets a la Villeroy . 
„ mazagran of 
Chickens, little, with new 

vegetables . . . .61 
Curry, Ceylon. ... 2 
„ dry . . . . 16s 
„ Madras . . . 163 
Fowl, pilao of ... 41 
Game, quenelles of, fried . 124 
Grouse, salmis of . . . 100 
Hare cutlets a la Gogue . . i 
„ fillets a la Czarina . 155 
Lamb cutlets a la Murillo . 85 
„ „ „ Princesse . 71 
„ neck of, with spinach . 56 
„ ragout of, with rice . 80 
„ shoulder of, with cu- 
cumber . . .35 
Mutton cutlets a la Louise . 26 
II .1 ,1 Verdi .. 104 
„ „ roebuck fashion 13 
„ neck of, a la Turque . 30 
„ noisettes of, a la Soyer 37 
Partridges a la Suisse . . 113 
Pigeons stewed with mush- 
rooms 53 

Pigeons stewed with peas . 74 
Pheasant with rice . . .17 
Pig's head with Brussels 

sprouts 148 

Pork cutlets, sauce Robert . 136 

„ salt, a la Wyvern . . 142 

Quails a la financiere . . 88 

Rabbit braised a la Borghese no 

„ . Irish stew of . .43 

„ noisettes of, with celery 134 

Turkey a la Chevaliere . . 151 

Veal and ham pie . . .46 

„ blanquette of, a la Citoy- 

enne . . . .59 

„ cutlets a la Bordelaise . 8 

Veal, breast of, with tomatoes 33 



INDEX. 



171 



Veal, chump of braised with 

mushrooms 

„ escalopes a la Contadina 

„ kidney with white wine 

„ stewed a la Marengo . 

Venison, hashed 



PAGE 

97 

93 

127 

120 



VEGETABLES. 

Artichoke bottoms a la Mila- 

naise . 89 
„ „ a la Russe 105 

„ creams, with an- 
chovy . . -75 
Asparagus, cold, with whipped 

cream . . i6i 
„ creams . . .65 
Broad beans a la poulette . 98 
Brussels sprouts a la Wyvem 152 
Cabbage with rice . . . 137 
Chestnuts, stewed . . 47 

Cucumber salads a la Deau- 

ville 128 

Endive puree .... 9 
Flageolets a la Romaine . 50 
French beans with soubise . 91 
Haricots (dried) a la Livour- 

naise 158 

Jerusalem artichoke cream . 140 
Mushroom creams . . .115 
Onion and celery puree a la 

Suisse 114 

Peas a la Cecile . . .85 

Salsifis au gratin . . . 131 

Spinach puree . . .56 

„ „ a la Louise . 21 

„ „ with cream and 

soubise '- . 107 
Tomato puree, consolidated 

for savouries . . -71 
Tomatoes stuffed a la Trou- 

ville 95 

Truffles in croustades . . 156 
Turnips a la marechale . . 143 



SAVOURY ENTREMETS. 



Macaroni fourre 
Rice with tomato . 
Salad a la belle alliance . 

„ sportsmto's . 
Spaghetti with mushrooms 

SWEET DISHES. 



PAGE 

lOI 

18 

39 

121 

81 



Almohd tartlets . . .51 
Ambassadress' pudding . . 82 
Antoinette cream . . .112 
Apple puree moulded . .127 
Apples in pastry cases . . 134 
„ marmalade. . . 158 
„ with fruit a la Paris- 

"ienne . . . 155 
„ vrith kirsch . . 34 
Banana pudding with straw- 
berries . . .77 
„ puree .... 114 
Cake crusts a la Normande . 38 
„ with chocolate . 71 

„ with peaches . 124 

Cake in half mourning . . 53 
Cake with cream . . . 104 
Charlotte with burnt almonds 27 
Chartreuse of peaches . . 146 
Chocolate sauce . . ■ . 22 
Coffee custard pudding a la 

Turque . . .10 
„ glaze .... 19 
Compote of apricots with rice 149 
„ „ bananas with zest 

of oranges . 132 

„ „ green apricots . 89 

„ „ chestnuts . . 14 

Cream of macaroons ■. . 30 

Dates in custard with maca- 

, roons 138 

Eclairs with coffee . . 19 
Fancy fritters . . .44 

Ginger pudding . . .99 
Glace royale . . . .27 
Green figs glazed with kirsch 107 



172 



INDEX. 



Greengages in raspberry syrto' 117 
Green gooseberry ,puree with' 

cream . . '. . > . 65 
Little moulds of coffee jSjeam 68 
Macaronade a la Dubojfe .36 
Mould of chestnuts^ J*. , 41 
Peaches with macaroon?. . 92 
Pineapple open tgrt ' . . 121 
„ pudding. .• .94 
Plum-pudding fritters . . 153 
Praline custard pudding . 57 
„ to make . . .27 
ProfiteroUes with chocolate' . 22 
Rice croquettes . . . 143 
„ fritters . '*•'■ .-^ . . 59 
Rhubarb creams . . .48 
Roman fritters with maca- 
roons 62 

Sweet omelette with pistachio 

nuts . . 141 
„ „ with straw- 

berries . 74 
Tapicoa with whipped cream 5 

SAVOURIES. 

Artichoke bottoms a la Russe 105 
„ creams with an- 

chovies . . 75 
Bouchees a la Dauphine . 10 
Canapes of ham . . .42 



Canapes of sardines . . 125 
-„ „ caviare . . 78 

Colombines of ham . . 5 
Cream of smoked haddock . 146 
Croiltes with herring roes . 36 
Croustades a la Bohemienne . 28 
. . „ „ Sybille . . 86 

Cucumber cases with shrimp 

puree 63 

Darioles of shrimp . . . 135 
Eggs a la Livournaise . .31 
„ „ Russe . . .23 
Foie gras escalopes with 

madeira .... 69 
Housewife's toasts . . .45 
Little cheese creams . . 20 
„ „ „ with an- 

chovies 117 
„ creams of asparagus . 65 
„ salads a la Deauville . 128 
„ moulds of macaroni . 54 
Mushroom creams . . .US 
Neapolitan puddings . . 60 
Norwegian bouchees . . 149 
Plovers' eggs in cases . . 57 
Salad a la belle alliance . . 39 
Shrimp creams a la Mornay . 34 
Stuffed olives a la Royale . 15 
Tomato savoury . . .71 
Tomato stuffed a la Trouville 95 
Truffles in cases . . .156 



COLONEL KENNEY HERBERTS POPULAR WORKS 
ON COOKERY/ 




-SENSE COOKERY 

FOR ENGLISH HOUSEHOLDS. 

Based upon MMern Wtt^ish/ and. Continental Principles, and 
Tw'hitv Menus- worked out in detail. 



A. KENNEY^^HE^BERT (Wyvern "), 

Don of the Order of the Cordon-Rouge, Author of " Cidinary jottings," &c. 
Large Crownl 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. 

"A book which is sure to ^ve a large circulatiori, since the- author, the well- 
known ' Wyvern,' has been fqrac^e time generally accepted as perhaps the chief 
English authority on the art oi^cogkery." — The Times. 

"An elaborate treatiseori the (Julinary art. The rule.s are laid 4own simply and 
clearly, and the recipes are givWi with such precision as to quantities that mistakes 
can scarcely occur if proper atnbition is paid to the instructions." — Morning Post. 

" Alike to learnefa %nd adedls the bOok will be found useful and suggestive." — 
Manchester Courier. 





A. KENNEY HEF^BERT (-'Wyvern"), 

Cordon-Rouge, Author af "Culinary jottings," &c. 
Crown 8v^-'^Gloth^jprice 2S. 6d. 

" All who know the culinary w^^^K*' Wyvern ' are aware that they combine 
a remarkable conviction, and (on t^^&ole) exdfellent taste with an exceptional 
practicalness and precision in defMrTJis 'Fifty Breakfasts ' will well sustain 
this reputation." — Saturday Review. ^^' 

" An admirable collection of memis fQCfce opening meal of the day." — Speaker. 

"Autolycus," in a review of ^/^^Isftinassavs :^"JDistinctlv it is a book to be 
read and studied." — Pall Mall Ga. 




London: EDWi!i?D ARNOLD, 37, Bedford Street, Strand, W.C. 

S ^ablisljitr to i\t |jrbia #ffitf. 



HIGHEST HONOURS AT ALL EXHIBITIONS. 



Ohogolat-Menier 



FQK 




ireaKfast. 


^^^n 




jliM^M 


luncneon. 


|HHMi^^ 




l^mH^H 


AND i 


J^^^^^^^B^ 




■^[n^ui 


Sappjfei^ 


^^^^^^^^^g_^^_^ 


iB^mmB 



>1VHA?>IG£: DAfbi¥ SALES, 



The Largest Factorf In the World. 



WORKS: NOI^&L-SUR-IV^NE, PARIS. 



SOLD RETAIL EVERYWHERE. 



^.r 



