Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



The Arthur and Elizabeth 
SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 



Gift of 

Alfred Perrin 



f 



"Dainty Dishes 



5> 



A collection of choice receipts 



By Adolphe Meyer, author of "Eggs and How to Use Them," the "Post-Graduate 

Cookery Book," etc. 



(Copyright, 1903, by Adolphe Meyer.) 



Published by 

THE CATERER PUBLISHING CO*, 

New York City. 



General Index 



Pages 
Hors d'oeuvre and Savouries (cold) '. 5-1 1 

Hors d'oeuvre and Savouries (hot) 12-20 

Fish and Shellfish 21-35 

Entrees (cold) 36-39 

Entrees (miscellaneous) 40-68 

Vegetables 69-75 

Egg Dishes 76-79 

Cheese Dishes 80-86 



(For detailed index of dishes see back of book.) 



j\ r 






COLD HORS D'OEUVRE AND SAVOURIES. 



Amandes Salees— Salted Almonds. 

Parboil arid peel some Jordan almonds and put theni 
(on a clean baking sheet) to roast in the oven. When 
tihey have taken a light color besprinkle them with a 
light solution of Gum Arabic and dredge them (at the 
same time) with fine salt. Allow the almonds to cool 
and serve them in small shells. 

PisTACHES Salees — Salted Pistachio Nuts. 
Proceed as for Salted Almonds 

Noisettes Diablees — Deviled Hazel Nuts. 

Prepare as Salted Almonds, adding some cayenne 
pepper to the salt. 

Olives Farcies aux Anchois — Stuffed Olives 

WITH Anchovies. 

Stone some Lucca olives and put inside them some 
chopped fillets of anchovies. Serve the olives in a 
shell and pour over a few drops of olive oil. 

Olives Farcies au Beurre d* Anchois — Olives 
Stuffed with Anchovy Butter 

The same as the preceding receipt, using anchovy 
butter instead of the chopped anchovies. 

Batons Sales a l'Allemande — German Salt 

Sticks. 

Roll out some puff paste trimmings ( J4 inch in thick- 
ness) and cut off bands 4 inches long a-nd Ji to flinch 

5 



wide. Lay the bands on a moistened baking sheet, 
brush over with tgg, and strew over crushed rock salt 
and carraway seed. Bake in a hot oven. 

Batons de Caviar — Caviar Sticks. 

Prepare the sticks as for German Salt SHcks, 
but have them somewhat smaller and without salt and 
carraway seed. When baked, split lengthwise and fill 
the inside with a layer of caviare. 

Canapes a l'Alsacienne — Alsatian Canapes. 

Have ready some square, oblong pieces of toast. 
First butter these, then put around die border some 
finely chopped smoked beef tongue and in the center 
some pur^ of f oie gras blended with ^ the amount of 
whipped cream. (Put the pur6e into a forcing hzg, 
to which attach a small channeled tube.) 

Canapes a la Lorraine — ^Lorraine Canapes. 

Proceed as for Alsatian Canapes, except that instead 
of the puree of foie gras use finely chopped breast of 
chicken, capon or turkey. 

Canapes a la Reforme — ^Reform Canapes. 

Take some small pieces of toast, about ij^ to 2j4 
inches, spread over some Ravigote butter, and garnish 
with finely shredded smoked beef tongue, truffles, white 
of hard-boiled egg and gherkins (about J4 inch in 
length and i part of each). Sprinkle over a little 
finely chopped meat jelly and serve on a napkin. 

Canapes de Jambon a la Diaele — ^Deviled Ham 

Canapes. 

Chop some lean ham very fine and spread it on small 
pieces of buttered toast. Besprinkle liberally with 
paprika and heat in the oven for a few minutes. 

Canapes de Langue de Boeuf a la Hongroise — 
Beef Tongue Canapes, Hungarian Style. 

Chop fine some cooked smoked beef tongue, add to it 
just enough chicken cream forcemeat to give it some 

6 



«i 



consistency, spread it on small pieces of toast, besprin- 
kle liberally with paprika, place on a buttered pan and 
heat it for 8 to lo minutes in a hot oven. 



Oeufs au Caviar — Caviarr Served in Eggs. 

Cut off both the ends of 6 hard boiled eggs and then 
cut the eggs transversely in two. 

Remove the yolks and pound them with an equal 
amount of butter. Next affix a small dianneled tube 
to a* small forcing bag, fill up with the yolks and dress 
a neat border around the tops of the eggs. Then fill 
the cavities with caviare. 

Put the eggs in a cool place and serve on a folded 
napkin. 

Feuilles de Laitue a la Genoisb — ^Lettuce Leaves^ 

Genoese Fashion. 

Cut 2 hard-boiled eggs and i dozen anchovy fillets in 
small squares and season with pepper and a little 
mayonnaise sauce. 

With the paste cutter, cut out some crisp lettuce 
leaves about 2>4 inches in diameter ; put a teaspoonf ul 
of the anchovy salad in eacli and decorate with dhopped 
beets, capers and parsley. 



Feuilles de Laitue a l'Indienne — ^Lettuce Leaves^ 

Indian Style. 

Proceed as for ^ La Genoise, using lobster instead 
of anchovies. Season with curry powder. 



Medaillons a la Strassbourgeoise — Medallions, 

Strasburg Style. 

Pound 4 ounces of pate de foie gras trimmings in 
the mortar with 2 ounces of butter and rub through a 
fine sieve — ^spread this over some oval shaped pieces 
of toast, put some finely chopped truffles around the 



border and garnish the center with fancifully cut slices 
of truffles. 

Medallions a la Wbstphalienne-^Medallions 

Westphalia Style. 

Butter some oval shaped pieces of toast, lay on each 
a slice of lean, raw Westphalia ham, garnish the center 
with fancifully cut gherkins and (wi£ a fine channeled 
pastry tube) make a border of Montpellier butter. 

Medallions de Homard a la Russe — Medallions 
OF Lobster, Russian Style. 

Pound the meat of a cooked lobster with a^ gill of 
cream to a fine pulp, rub through a fine sieve and put 
into a bowl. Then incorporate a tablespoonful of 
Mayonnaise and season highly. 

Spread this preparation rather thickly over some 
oval shaped pieces of toast, decorate with fine strips of 
fillets of anchovies and some chopped eggs and 
parsley. 

Petites Bouchees de Homard a la Gelee — Small 
Lobster Patties with Jelly. 

Prepare some small puff paste patties and when cold 
fill them with equal parts of cooked lobster, celery and 
gherkins, cut in very sniall squares. 

Lay a few leaves of watercress on the border of the 
opening of the patties, season the lobster well and add 
just a little Mayonnaise sauce to bind the ingredients. 

Sprinkle some chopped lobster coral over the filled 
patties and, last, some chopped aspic jelly. 

Serve on folded napkin. 

Note. — ^The above can also be made with shrimps or 
crawfish. 

Petites Bouchees Montglas a la Gelee — Small 
Montglas Patties with Jelly. 

Cut equal parts of cooked breast of chicken, fat 
goose liver, truffles and smoked beef tongue into very 

8 



small squares and finish the patties as directed for 
Stnall Lobster Patiies with Jelly. 

Petites Bouchees Massarena a la Geleb — Small 
Massarena Patties with Jelly. 

Proceed as in the preceding receipts, using though 
the following ingredients: Spanish olives, celery, 
sweet red peppers, truffles, breast of chicken, smdked 
beef tongue and gherkins. 

Choux a la Creme au Fromage — Cheese Cream 

Puffs. 

Put into a pan 2 gills of water and 2 ounces of butter 
with a pinch of salt ; set on the fire and when the water 
boils incorporate 4 ounces of sifted flour, and stir vig- 
orously with a wooden spoon until the paste detaches 
from the pan. Then remove the pan from the range 
and after 10 minutes incorporate 4 to 5 eggs, one after 
the other. 

Next, through a pastry bag (to which a round 
J^-inch tube has been affixed), press out small round 
cakes onto a lightly buttered baking sheet. Brush 
them over with beaten egg-yolk and bake in a medium 
oven. 

When baked, make an incision on the side and fill 
them with cheese cream. 



Petits Choux a la Suedoise — Small Puffs^ 

Swedish Fashion. 

With the same paste as directed for Cheese Cream 
Puffs make cakes (rather small, to be about Ij4 inch 
when baked) . 

Fill tlie cakes with the following: Three ounces of 
well cleaned anchovy fillets, 2 ounces of butter and the 
yolks of 4 hard-boiled eggs, all pounded in the mor- 
tar, rubbed through a fine sieve and then blended with 
I gill ot whipped cream. 

When the puffs are filled, brush them over witii 

9 



partly melted jelly and besprinkle with finely chopped 
trufHes, parsley, lobster coral and the white of a hard- 
boiled egg. 
Serve cold on a napkin. 

Eclairs au Caviar — Caviare Eclairs. 

With the same paste as in the previous receipts pre- 
pare small cakes about 2^ inches long and ^ of an 
inch wide. When baked, fill these with caviare. 

Eclairs a la Rossini — Eclairs^ Rossini Style. 

Prepare the same cakes as in the preceding receipts. 
Fill them with puree of foie gras with chopped truffles. 
Dip in brown Chaudfroid sauce and coat with melted 
jelly. 

Salade de Poisson a la Russe — ^Russian Fish 

Salad. 

Prepare very small tartlet crusts, and when cold fill 
them with a salad of cooked fish, dressed with Tartar 
sauce. 

Decorate the tc^ with finely chopped eggs (the white 
and yolk chopped separately), beets and parsley, and 
in the center lay a half teaspoonful of caviare. 

Salade de Volaille a la Russe — ^Russian Chicken 

Salad. 

Proceed as above, using a chicken salad instead of 
fish salad. Cut the chicken in small squares, with all 
sorts of green vegetables in season. 

Crabes Durs Froids^ Dresses a l'Anglaisb — 
Dressed Hard Crabs, English Fashion. 

Put some crab meat into a bowl, season with salt and 
Cayenne, blend with Mayonnaise dressing and add a 
good dash of vinegar. Fill the crab shells with this 
salad and decorate the top with chopped beets, parsley 

10 



and the white and yolk of egg (chopped separately), 
so as to obtain a vari-colored effect. 

TOMATES AUX CrEVETTES A LA RaVIGOTB — TOMATOES 

WITH Shrimps, Ravigote Sauce. 

Plunge some large ripe tomatoes into a basin of boil- 
ing water (long enough to remove the skin), let get 
cold ; then in each make an incision i inch in diameter 
where the stem was attached, and with a round vege- 
table scoop hollow out and squeeze lightly to free from 
all seeds ; season with salt, and lay on a towel or sieve 
with the aperture downward.- 

Five minutes before serving, fill the tomatoes with 
shrimp salad seasoned with Ravigote sauce, and serve 
on a napkin. 

tomates a la veii^itienne — ^tomatoes, venetian 

Style. 

Proceed as for Tomatoes with Shrimps, Ravigote 
Sauce, using finely chopped breast of chicken, fowl or 
turkey instead of the shrimps. 

TOMATES A LA SUEDOISE — ^TOMATOES, SWEDISH StYLE. 

The same as the preceding receipts, filling the toma- 
toes with a salad made of chopped hard-boiled eggs 
and anchovies. 

TOMATES A l' AmERICAINE — TOMATOES, AMERICAN 

Style. 

The same as the preceding receipts, using two-thirds 
of lobster and one-third of celery, both chopped very 
fine, seasoned highly and dressed with Mayonnaise 
sauce. 

Truffes en Imitation — Imitation Truffles. 

Mix some pate de foie gras trimmings with one- 
sixth part of good butter, then shape into balls of con- 
venient size and roll them in finely chopped trufHes. 
Give tiie balls tihe shape of truffles, then place them in a 
cool place and after a while coat them with melted 
jelly. 

11 



HOT HORS D'OEUVRE. 



Allumettes d'Anchois — Anchovy Allumettes. 

Roll some pufF paste trimming out very thin and cut 
out strips I inch wide and 3J^ inches long. 

Place on each strip of paste a fillet of anchovy (pre- 
viously soaked, dried and dipped in Villeroi sauce). 
Moisten the border of the paste and lay over it (and 
the fillet) another strip of oaste ; brush over with beaten 
tgg yolks and bake in a medium oven for about 15 
minutes. 



Allumettes de Gibier — Game Allumettes. 

Proceed as directed for Anchovy Allumettes, using 
puree of game (either partridge, grouse, snipe or 
quail) instead of anchovies. 



Allumettes a la Puree de Foie de Volaille — ^Al- 
lumettes WITH Puree of Chicken Livers. 

Take some chicken livers, cut small and saute them 
in butter. Have them rather underdone, and at the 
last moment add a little chopped shallots. Drain and 
when cold pound them in the mortar, then rub through 
a fine sieve. 

Put the puree in a pan, heat well without boiling and 
incorporate by degrees some well reduced Brown sauce. 
Season to taste and when the puree is cold finish as in 
Anchovy Allumettes. 

12 



. ./ . 



Attereaux de Farina, a- la Suisse — Farina 
Skewers, Swiss Fashion. 

Cook the farina as explained for Farina Crusts, put 
into a pan, to get cold, cut into round pieces 54 iiich in 
diameter and J4 inch thick, and stick these pieces on a 
silver skewer with alternate slices of Swiss cheese 
(}i inch in thickness) ; egg and bread-crumb the skew- 
ers and fry in hot lard. 

Serve on a folded napkin. 



Beignets Frou-Frou-^Frou-Frou Fritters. 

Have ready some thin unsweetened French Pan- 
cakes, fill them with puree of foie gras mixed with 
chopped truffles and fold them in three or four. 

Cut the folded pancakes in lozenge shape, dip in a 
light frying batter and fry in hot lard to a nice golden 
color. 

Serve on a folded napkin. 



Beignets Marie Louise — Marie Louise Fritters. 

Proceed as above, but instead of puree of foie gras 
use some chopped truffles, mushrooms and ham, 
blended with thickly reduced Madeira Sauce. 



Beignets a la Sarah Bernhardt — Fritters, Sarah 

Bernhardt Style. 

Parboil some marrow cut in small squares, drain and 
add the same amount each of truffles and mushrooms 
previously cooked, then blend with thickly reduced 
Madeira. Sauce. 

Cut bands of unsweetened pancakes, 2j4 by 4 inches, 
spread over them the above preparation, wrap up and 
let get cold. 

Ten minutes before serving dip the fritters in frying 
batter and fry crisp in very hot lard. 

18 ^ 



Beignets de Cervelles de Veau — ^Calf^s Brain 

Fritters 

Cut a cooked calf s brain into J^ inch thick slices, dip 
them in frying batter and fry in hot hrd. 

Serve .either with tcmiato, piquant or some other 
sharp sauce. 

Beignets de Cervelles de Veau a la d'Uxelle — 
Calf's Brain Fritters^ dTTxelle Style. 

Dip some sliced calf's brains into thickly reduced 
Italian sauce and allow to get cold thoroughly. 

Egg and bread-crumb the brains twice, fry them in 
hot lard and serve on a folded napkin. 

Beignets de Champignons a la Nemours — ^Mush- 
room Fritters, Nemours Style. 

Clean and wash 24 fresh mushrooms, cut them in 
small cubes and cook in butter until they have lost alt 
moisture; add 2 gills of Bechamel sauce, season with 
salt, pepper and a pinch of nutmeg, bind with 2 or 3 
egg yolks and put on ice to cool. 

Cut from a round milk roll slices 54 inch thick and 2 
inches in diameter, steep them in cream for just i min- 
ute, then put on each some of the mushroom mixture, 
smooth over, dip in bread crumbs, then in beaten eggs, 
and then again in bread crumbs. Five minutes before 
serving, plunge in very hot fat. Serve on a napkin. 

Beignets de Moelle a la d'Uxelle — Marrow Frit- 
ters d'Uxelle Fashion. 

Cut some beef marrow into thick slices and steep in 
cold water for a few hours; then parboil, drain and 
allow to get cold. 

Have ready some thickly reduced d'Uxelle sauce, 
dip the slices of marrow therein, and set them on a 
lightly oiled dish on ice. 

When perfectly cold, and when ready to serve, dip 
the marrow in frying batter and fry in smoking hot 

14 



/ 



lard. When done, dress on a napkin and garnish with 
fried parsley. 

Note. — Instead of being dipped into frying batter, 
these fritters may be breaded like croquettes. 

Beignets d'Anchovy — Anchovy Fritters. 

Dip the anchovies (filleted and well trimmed) in fry- 
ing batter and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin with 
fine parsley. 

Beignets a la Yarmouth — ^Yarmouth Fritters. 

Remove the fillets from 4 bloaters, take off the skin 
and pound in the mortar ; add a tablespoonf ul of Bech- 
amel, 2 ounces of butter and the same amount of 
grated Parmesan cheese. Season highly and put in a 
cool place. 

With this preparation, shape either long or round 
(though small) croquettes, egg and bread-crumb them 
and fry in hot lard. 

Serve on a folded napkin. 

Canapes de Ris de Veau a iJ Italienne — Sweet- 
bread Canapes, Italian Style. 

Chop fine 2 or 3 shallots, cook them in butter without 
browning and then add 12 fresh mushrooms cut in 
small squares; cook until dry, then moisten with half 
Madeira and half Tomato Sauce (about i gill of each). 

Allow to reduce to good consistency, then add 2 
sweetbreads (previously cooked in broth and cut in 
small squares) . When boiling, bind with 2 egg yolks, 
season to taste and put away on a dish to become cold. 

From a sandwich loaf, cut oval slices of bread J4- 
inch thick, put a layer of the sweetbread preparation on 
top, smooth over, dip in beaten eggs and roll in bread 
crumbs and fry in hot lard to a nice color. 

Canapes de Ris de Veau a l' Allemande — Sweet- 
bread Canapes, German Style. 

Proceed as explabied in previous receipt, but instead 
of Madeira and tomato sauce, use only Veloute sauce. 

15 



Crepes au Caviar — Pancakes with Caviare, 

Prepare some smdl, light, unsweetened pancakes, 
spread ovef them some caviare blended with soft butter, 
roll them up, and serve hot. 

CjiEPES AU Jambon — Pancakes with Ham. 

: Have ready some pancakes (as for preceding re- 
ceipt) . ' 

Chop fine some lean ham, blend with a little Becha- 
mel, incorporate a good size piece of butter and season 
highly. Spread this preparation over the pancakes, 
roll them up, trim them and serve hot. 

Crepes a la Romaine — ^Roman Pancakes. 

Prepare some light, small pancakes; fill them with 
d'Uxelle preparation, roll them as French pancakes, 
range them on a buttered dish, cover with Mornay 
sauce, and besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese and 
some melted butter; bake in a hot oven, and serve 
immediately. 

Cretes de Coq farcis a la Villeroi^Stuffed Cocks^^ 

Combs, Villeroi Style 

Pick out some large cocks' combs (they are generally 
iijiported ready for use), wash in lukewarm water and 
make an opening where they were attached to the head ; 
then fill them with some sort of puree (either of foie 
gras, truffles, chicken or d'Uxelle stuffing) . 

Dip the combs in Villeroi sauce, egg and bread-crumb 
twice, and fry in hot lard. 

Serve separate some sauce (either tomato or truffle). 

Cretes de Coq Farcis a la Pompadour — Stuffed 
Cocks' Combs, Pompadour Style. 

Same as the preceding receipt, except that instead of 
dipping the combs in Villeroi sauce, dip them in puree 

of mushrooms. 

* 
Croutes de Jambon a l'Anglaise — Ham on Toast, 

English Fashion. 

CHop fine some cooked lean ham, blend with a little 
Bechamel to give it consistency and season with salt, 

3« 



red pepper and English mustard. Spread oyer some 
nicely trimmed pieces of toast, dredge over some bread 
crumbs and grated Chester cheese, and bake in a, brisk 
oven. Serve hot. 



Croutes de Langue de Boeuf fume a l'Anglaise — 
Smoked Beef Tongue on Toast^ English Fashion. 

Follow directions of preceding receipt, using smoked 
beef tongue instead of ham. 

Fritto Misto a l^Italienne — Mixed Fritters, 

Italian Style. 

The usual ingredients for this dish are sweetbread, 
calf's brain and head, chicken livers, cock's combs and 
kidneys, small chicken croquettes, lamb fries, cauli- 
flower, artichokes, mushrooms and egg plant. 

These different ingredients are cut into rather small 
pieces, dipped in frying batter or tgg and bread- 
crumbed and fried in hot lard or oil. \ 

They should be crisp and of a nice golden color^ 

Serve tomato sauce separate. 






KuLiBiAc ou Pates a la Russe — Kuliblac or Rus- 
sian Patties. 

4 

Cut in very small dice one part each of onion, carrot, 
turnip, celery, mushroom and cabbage; put the vege- 
tables in a pan with a piece of butter, set on the fire and 
stir until they have, rendered their moisture. Then 
moisten with chicken broth and allow to reduce com- 
pletely—by which time the vegetables should be cooked. 

Add some well reduced Bechamel or Veloute sauce 
(just enough to give the vegetables consistency) ; sea- 
son highly, and set in a cool place. 

Roll out scMne puflF paste rather thin, cut out some 
round pieces 2yi inches in diameter, place a dessert- 
spoonful of the preparation on each, wet the edges and 
fold over. 

Next place on a baking sheet, brush over with beaten 

17 



eggs smd bftke in a moderate oven. Serve hot on a 
«iapkin. 

iVole.— These patties may be made vnOi fish or force- 
meat of different sorts. Keeping Uiis initial receipt in 
mind, the others are easily prepared. 

Ris twfc Veact a la Monte Carlo— Sweetbread, 

Monte Carlo Style. 

Cook some sweetbreads in white broth and allow 
them to get cold ; then cut them in small squares and 
adM them to some thickly reduced Bechamel flavored 
with onion puree. Season to taste and put away to get 
cold. 

Fill some large sized artichoke bottoms with the 
sweetbread preparation and cover with chicken cream 
forcemeat; :smooth the surfoce and besprinkle with 
finely chopped truffles, smoked beef tongue and pista- 
chio nuts. 

Set in buttered sattte pan, cover and cook in a 
medimn oven for 15 minutes. 

Rissoles a la Royale — ^Rissoles, Royal Fashion. 

Cut into small cubes 6 cocks' combs, 6 cocks' kidneys, 
6 large fresh mushrooms previously cooked, and 3 
truffles. Reduce 2 gills of Veloute sauce with yi gill 
of thick cream, add the above ingredients, and bind 
with 3 egg yolks. Season to taste, and put away to 
get cold. 

Roll out some puff paste trimmings to yi inch in 
thickness;- then, with a rotmd channeled pastry cutter, 
stamp out i^eces 3 inches in diameter, place one tea- 
spoonfol of stuffing on each piece, brush the borders of 
the paste bialf way around with cold water, and turn 
over the paste, pressing tl^ borders lightly together. 

Dip the edges in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and 
fry the rissoles in hot lard. 

To obtain a <£fferent effect, the rissoles may be 
brushed over with beaten eggs, and crushed vermicelli 
strewn over. 

They may also be dipped whole into beaten eggs and 
rolled in bread crumbs ; but tiiis procedure is not so 

18 



much favored, a^ the paste is a compact mass in itself 
and needs no further wrapping of eggs and bread 
crumbs. 

Bissokft may aiso be prepared with the following 
inf^edieots : 

Rissoles oe Foce Gra^— Poie Gras Rissoles. 

Same as above ; but prepare a salpicon of foie gras, 
truffles and mushrooms, and bind with thickly reduced 
brown sauce. 

RlSS0I.ES A LA MOELLE — ^RlSSOLES WITH MaRROW. 

Same as above, using beef marrow in squares, par- 
boiled and with well reduced brown sauce added. 

Rissoles AtJx Huitres — Rissoles with Oysters. 

Parboil some oysters, drain, remove the beards, and 
cut the belly part in squares ; add one-third part mush- 
rooms, also cut in squares ; reduce some of the oyster 
liquid with German sauce, and add the oysters. 

Finish as for Royal Fashion. 

Tartelettes de Foie Gras a la Regence — Tartlets 
OF Fat Goose Liver, Regency Style. 

Cut some fat goose liver in squares, add half the 
amount of mushrooms, truffles and smoked beef tongue 
(also cut in squares), and blend with Veloute sauce to 
which has been added one-third part of thickly reduced 
tomato sauce. 

Fill some baked tartlet crusts with this preparation 
and cover the top with chicken cream forcemeat. Deco- 
rate with truffles, butter lightly and bake in a mild oven 
for lo minutes. 

Tartelettes de Foie Gras a la Reine — Tartlets 
OF Fat Goose Liver, Queen Style. 

Same as preceding receipt ; but omit the smoked beef 
tongue and blend with Velotrte cream sauce only. 

19 



TaSTELETTES DE JaMBON a la HoNGROISE— fHUNGA- 

RiAM Ham Tartlets. 

Pound in the mortar 8 ounces of lean codced ham, 
add to it gradually 2 ounces of butter and 2 gills of cold 
B6chamel sauce^ rub through a fine sieve, season liber- 
ally with paprika and incorporate with the puree the 
yolks and whipped whites of 4 eg^s. 

Have some, half baked paste crusts ready, and fill 
these with the above mixture. J?ake in a slow oven for 
10 to 12 minutes, and>s<efve hot; 

Tartelettes de Volaille a la Pompadour — 
„ Chicken Tartlets/ Pompadour Style. 

Fill some baked tartlet crusts with puree of mush- 
rooms and cover with chicken cream forcemeat, deed- 
rate with truffles, butter the top lightly, and bake in a 
mild oven for 10 minutes. 

Tartelettes de Volaille a la Viennoise — Chicken 

Tartlets, Viennese Style. 

Fill flie tartlets (about one-third of the cavity) with 
puree of onions mixed with finely chopped ham, and 
finish as in other receipts. 



FISH AND SHELLFISH. 



Canapes db Crabs d'Huitres a la Savoy — Oyster 
Crab Canapes^ Savoy Style. 

From a sandwich loaf cut slices of bread j4 inch 
thick, then with a round pastry cutter (2 inches in di- 
ameter) cut out some crusts, scoop them out on one 
side (so as to form a cavity) and fry in butter to a 
light color. 

Chop fine 12 fresh mushrooms (the tails will answer 
for this purpose), cook them in butter until all their 
moisture has been rendered, add i pint of picked and 
well washed oyster crabs, moisten with a dash 
of sherry, and cook for a few minutes; then 
add I gill of thick cream sauce, bind with 2 or 3 eg^ 
yolks, season and put away to get cold. 

Fill the crusts with the oyster crab preparation. 
Choose some fresh mushrooms of the same size as the 
crusts, cook them in butter, fill also with the oyster 
crabs and set one mushroom on each crust, the mush- 
room top uppermost. 

Place the canapes in a buttered pan and bake them 
in a medium oven for about 10 minutes. 

Canapes a la Dewey — Canapes Dewey Style. 

Prepare some Oyster Crabs a la Newburg and add 
some finely chopped sweet peppers. 

Place some fresh mushrooms (previously cooked in 
butter) on round slices of bread fried in butter, fill (the 

21 



mushrooms) with the oyster crabs, place a smaller 
mushroom on top, heat well and serve. 

Canapes a la Manhattan — Manhattan Canapes. 

Chop together equal quantities of braised celery and 
raw oysters, mix well and spread on slices of buttered 
toast, sprinkle over with paprika, place a small piece 
of butter on each, and set in a hot oven for 6 or 8 min- 
utes. Serve very hot. 

Canapes de Homard a la Belasco— Lobster Can- 
apes, Belasco Style. 

Chop finely one onion and fry in butter without 
coloring, then add 6 fresh mushrooms chopped fine 
and trook with the onion until all moisture has been re- 
duced, next add the meat of a 2-pound lobster chopped 
fine, incorporate one gill of Bechamel and (when it 
boils) thicken with 2 egg yolks. Season highly and 
then put away to get cold. 

Have ready some split toasted English Muffins, put 
some of the lobster preparation on top, brush over with 
beaten eggs, and bestrew with bread crumbs mixed 
with grated Parmesan cheese. Place a small piece 
of butter on each canape and bake for lo minutes in a 
medium hot oven. 

Canapes de Homard a la Marthe-— Lobster Can- 
apes, Martha Style. 

Proceed as explained for Lobster Canapes, Belasco 
Style. Place the lobster preparation on a slice of but- 
tered toast tod cover with a very thin slice of Swiss 
cheese itht s^me size as the toast) and bake in a 
medium hot oven. 

Croutes de Haddock a l'Indienne — Crusts of Had- 
dock, Indian Fashion. 

Pound fine 8 ounces of smoked haddock, add a table- 
spoonful of Bechamel, 2 egg yolks and 2 tablespoon- 
f uls . of cream ; season with salt and curry, and rub 

22 



through a fine sieve. Spread some ol this preparattop 
on small round toasts, sprinkle over some chopped hard 
eggs, place them on a buttered dish, a&d CQok in a 
moderate oven from 6 to 8 minutes. I>res8v oQ a nap* 
kin and serve hot. 

Souffle de Haddock Fume — Souffle of Smoked 

Finnan Haddock. 

Pound fine in the mortar 8 ounces of haddock, add 
2 tablespoonfuls of cold Bechamel, i ounce of butter 
and 2 egg yolks and then rub through a fine sieve. 

Put die forcemeat into a bowl, incorporate yi gilt of 
whipped cream^ season to taste with salt, cayenne and 
grated nutmeg and add the 2 egg whites whipped to a 
stiflF froth. 

Have ready some small baked tartlet crusts, fill them 
^ of dieir height with the haddock preparation, butter 
the top lightly with melted butter and bake in a me- 
dium oven for lo minutes. 

Creme de Haddock Fume a la Meadowbrook — 
Cream of Smoked Haddock, Meadow- 
brook Style. 

Prepare a forcemeat of haddock, as explained for 
SouMe of Smoked Haddock, adding 4 otmces of fresh 
whitefish and omitting the whipped whites of egg. 

Try the forcemeat by dumping a teaspoonf ul of it in 
boiling water — ^if too solid, Jidd more cream. 

Butter and decorate some small timbale molds and 
fill them with the haddock forcemeat; next make a 
hollow in the center by putting the index finger (pre- 
viously dipped in lukewarm water) into the center of 
the forcemeat, place in this hollow part the belly part 
of two parboiled oysters, close up with forcemeat and 
cook the timbals in the bain-marie in a mild oven for 
12 to 15 minutes. Serve with cream sauce. 

Souffle de Hareng Fume a l'Irlandaise — Souf- 
fle OF Bloater, Irish Fashion. 

Free 4 bloaters from skin and bones and chop the 
fillets rather fine. 
Cook 4 good-sized peeled potatoes in lightly salted 

28 



water and mash them fine ; add 4 ounces of butter, the 
yolks of 6 eggs and the chopped bloaters. Season to 
taste, then whip the 6 egg whites to a stiff froth and 
gently ihcorpbrate to the potatoes. 

^ill some, small entree cases with this preparation, 
smooth and lightly butter the surface and bake in a 
mild oven for 12 or 15 minutes. 

Souffle de Homard a l'Americaine — ^Lobster Souf- 
fle A l'Americaine. 

Pound fine in the mortar the shell of a good-sized 
lobster. 

Heat in a saucepan 3 ounces of butter, add i small 
carrot and i onion cut fine, smother lightly and then 
add the pounded lobster shell ; stir for a few minutes, 
moisten with i gill of white wine and i pint of Tomato 
sauce, cook for 10 minutes, remove the scum, add i 
pint of Veloute, cook for 15 minutes longer and then 
strain and press through the etamine cloth. Reduce 
this sauce rather thickly, season highly and bind with 
4 ^Sg yolks. 

Cut the lobster meat in small squares and add it to 
the sauce. Whip 6 egg whites to a stiff froth, incor- 
porate them gently with the lobster preparation, fill 
into small entree cases and cook in a mild oven. 

Souffle d'Ecrevisses a la Nantua — Crayfish 
Souffle^ Nantua Style. 

Proceed as for Lobster SoufHe, but instead of lobster 
shell use crayfish shells and all Bechamel instead of To- 
mato sauce. Cut the cra3rfish tails in small pieces and 
add some truffles cut in small squares. 

Petits Souffles aux Huitres — ^Small Souffles 

OF Oysters. 

Cook in their own juice 3 doz. oysters and then drain. 
Reduce the juice with i pint of Bechamel, bind with 4 
egg yolks and season to taste. 

Remove the belly part from the oysters, cut them in 
3 or 4 pieces, according to size, and add to the sauce. 
: Whip the whites of the 4 eggs to a stiff froth and 

24 



gently blend the latter with the above preparation. 
Then fill with it some small entree cases and cook in a 
medium oven from 8 to lo minutes. 

EcREVissEs Farcis — ^Stuffed Chayfish. 

Cook 3 doz. crayfish and remove the meat from the 
shells. Keep the heads and clean them well. 

Cut the meat into small pieces and add half the 
amount each of trufHes and mushrooms, both cut in 
squares. 

Heat I pint of thickly reduced Bechamel, incorporate 
with it I ounce of lobster or cra)rfish butter, and add 
the cra)rfish meat mixture. Season highly and ptit 
away to get cold. 

Stuff the crayfish heads with the preparation, egg 
and bread crumb them and fry in hot lard. Serve on a 
folded napkin. 

HUITRES A LA SCHENK — OySTERS, ScHENCK StYLE. 

Chop fine some Blue Point oysters, cook them with a 
piece of butter and, when boiling, add a little thick 
cream — ^just enough to whiten the juice ; thicken lightly 
with kneaded butter, season with salt and red pepper 
and serve on square pieces of buttered toast. 

HuiTREs Frites a LA Flynn — Fried Oysters, Flynn 

Style. 

Take the belly part of some large sized oysters and 
parboil them in their own juice ; allow to cool and then 
drain and dry on a towel. 

Dilute some English mustard with Worcestershire 
Sauce and olive oil so as to obtain a smooth batter and 
dip the oysters in this preparation. Then roll them in 
bread crumbs, next egg and bread crumb them, and 
lastly^ fry in very hot lard. 

Serv^ on a folded napkin. 

Huitres a la Waldorf — Oysters, Waldorf Style. 

Heat 3 ounces of butter in a saucepan and add 3 
dozen oysters, i gill of well-picked oyster crabs and i 
dozen fresh mushrooms cut in squares; cook for a 

25 



while and then add i stalk of braised celery cut in 
5(|uares; heat well, season to taste with sail and cay- 
enne, and finish with 4 ounces of sweet butter. Serve 
in chafing dish. 

[This receipt #as kindly fiirirnished to me by Mr. 
Rene Anjard, chef of the Waldorf-Astoria.) 

HurritEs a la Parmbntier — Oysters, Parmentier 

Style. 

Bake in the oven 12 medium-sized potatoes^ When 
cooked^ cut the potatoes on the flat side (so 
as to make a cover), and remove the inter- 
ior. With one-third part of the potato removed, 
prepare a rich puree. 

Cook 5 dozen oysters in their own juice, take off the 
scum and drain, add as much cream sauce as is neces- 
sary, bind with 4 tgg yolks, 2 ounces of butter and a 
good dash of sherry, and season to taste with salt and 
peroer. 

rut some of the potato puree in each potato, lay on 
top 5 pieces of oysters, put the cover in its place, and 
heat well in the oven. 

Serve on a folded napkin. 

LuciNEs Oranges a la South Side Club — Hard 
Clams, South Side Club Style. 

Remove the hard part from 4 dozen small clams, put 
them in a saucepan with their own juice, and at the first 
boil remove from the fire and take off the scum. Then 
add a half-pint of cream and thicken lightly with a 
piece of butter kneaded with an equal amount of flour. 
Season to taste and serve with dry toast separate. 

m 

Clams Farcis — Stuffed Clams. 

Cut the belly part from 4 dozen large clams and 
chop vip fine. Also chcq) fme 4 large shallots and 
fry them (colorless) in butter, then add the clams and 
cook them in their own juice; when boiling, add an 
equal amount of chopped mushrooms and i pint of 
thick B^hamel ; reduce to good consistency and then 

26 



bind with two or three egg yolks. Season to taste 
and put away to get cold. 

Fill some large well cleaned clam shells with the 
above prepatation* Strew > over some bread crumbs, 
by a small piece of butter on each clam and brown in 
the oven. 

> 

Clams Farcis Diables — Stuffed Clams Deviled. 

Follow directions as given in previous receipt, 
spreading some deviled preparation over the clams be- 
fore finishiag. 

Clams a la Schenk — Clam3 Scsenk Style. 

Prepare as for Oysters, Schenk Style, using the belly 
part of clams. 

LuciNES Papillons a la Boniface— ^Soft Clams, 

Boniface Style. 

Chop fine 2 green peppers and 2 shallots, fry in but- 
ter without Iwowning, add 4 dozen soft clams (belly 
part) and moisten with a gill of sherry. Simmer gen- 
tly for 10 minutes, add i pint of cream or Becha- 
mel sauce and cook 5 minutes longer. Season with 
salt and red pepper, and incorporate 3 ounces of butter 
just before serving. 

LuciNEs Papillons a la G<»ard— Soft Clams, 

G<H>ARD Style. 

Chop fine 3 shaUdts and 12 medium-sized fresh 
mushrooms and fry lightly in butter, then add 36 soft 
clams and moisten with 2 gills of sherry. AUow to 
reduce to half, then add 2 gills of Brown sauce, season 
to taste, add some chopped fine herbs, incorporate 3 
ounces of butter, and finish with the juice of half a 
lemcm. 

Crabs FARas — Stuffed Crabs. 

Chop fine 2 onions, fry them in butter without brown- 
ing and add i quart of Bechamel (which should be 

27 



rather thick); when boiling:, add i pound of picked 
crab meat, blend well (without bruising the crab 
fladkes), season highly and put away to get cold. 

Then stuff the well cleaned crab shells with the prep- 
aration, roll tiie surface in bread crumbs, besprinkle 
with melted butter and bake in the oven. 

. Crabs Farcis Diables— Stuffed Crabs, Deviled. 

Proceed as in the foregoing receipt, but when the 
shells are stuffed, and before fmishing, spread over the 
top a mixture of English mustard diluted with Wor- 
cestershire sauce and sweet oil. 

Canapes de Crabs Durs a la Lorenzo— Canapes of. 
Hard Crabs, Lorenzo Style. 

Prepare the crabmeat as for Stuffed Crabs, lay it on 
oval shaped pieces of toast and cover with a layer of 
preparation — ^made by putting into a saucepan 2 gills of 
Bechamel, incorporating with it 3 ounces of grated 
Parmesan cheese, binding with 2 or 3 egg yolks and 
seasoning highly. 

Brush the canapes with melted butter, place them on 
a buttered pan and bake in a moderately hot oven. 

Chair de Crabes a la Maryland — Crab Meat, 

Maryland Style. 

Reduce to half i gill of sherry, add i pint of cream 
sauce and 2 gills of cream ; season with salt and red 
pepper, and incorporate 3 ounces of butter. 

Add the crab meat, which should be nicely picked 
and in flakes ; heat well without allowing to boil and 
serve immediately. 

Chair de Crabes et Crabes d^Huitres a la Mary- 
land — Crab Meat and Oyster Crabs, 
Maryland Style. 

Prepare the crab meat as explained for Maryland 
Style. Have ready picked some oyster crabs, plunge 

28 



them in boiling water for i minute, drain and add to* 
the crab meat. 

Ghair de Crabes a la Victoria — Crab Meat, Vic* 

TORiA Style. 

Prepare as for Maryland Style. Finish the sauce 
with lobster butter, chopped eggs and sliced truffles. 

Chair de Crabes a la Dewey — Crab Meat, Dewey 

Style. 

Prepare as for Maryland Style. Add some coarsely 
shredded green peppers and mushrooms sauted in- 
butter. 

Note. — The skin of the green peppers should be re- 
moved before shredding. 

Chair de Crabes a la Creole — Crab Meat, Creole- 
Style. 

Heat i pint of Creole sauce, add 2 gills of Creami 
sauce, season to taste, and finish with 3 ounces of but- 
ter ; add the crab meat, heat without boiling, and serve. 

Brochettes de Homard a la Duchesse — ^Lobster 

Skewers, Duchess Style. 

Put on a skewer alternate slices of cooked lobster, 
mushrooms and truffles, egg and bread crumb, and fry 
in clarified butter to a nice golden color. Serve with 
Beamaise sauce. 

Brochettes de Homard a la Mexicaine — ^Lobster 

Skewers, Mexican Style. 

Place alternate slices of lobster and sweet red peppers 
on a skewer, dip in melted butter and bread crumbs and* 
broil over a. dear fire. Serve separate some highly sea* 
soned Tomato sauce. 

Croquettes de Homard a l^Indienne — ^Lobster Cro- 
quettes, Indian Fashion. 

Have ready cooked (with chicken broth) 2 quarts of 
rice, add 2 pounds of cooked lobster meat (cut in smalf. 
squares) and i pint of Cream sauce, season highly withv 

29 



salt, curry powder and chutney, and set in a tin pan to 
get cold. Then shape into small croquettes (any de- 
sired shape), dip in beaten eggs and bread crumbs and 
fry in hot lard. Serve on a folded napkin, and give 
separate a sauceboatf ul of Curry Cream sauce. 

HOMAKD AU GrATIN A LA VICTORIA — ^^BaKED LoBSTER, 

Victoria Style. 

Pound to a fine pulp the shells of 4 lobsters. Fry in 
4 ounces of butter, i carrot and 2 onions cut fine ; add i 
small sprig of thyme and 2 bay leaves. When the 
vegetables begin to brown, add the lobster pulp, stir 
continuously for 5 minutes, and then moisten with i 
pint of white wine. After 5 minutes more, add 
quart of Tomato and i quart of Veloute sauce ; cook to- 
gether for 15 minutes, and then rub through a very 
fine sieve. 

Put this sauce into a clean saucepan, reduce with i 
gill of cream until of good consistency, and season to 
taste with salt and paprika. 

Cut some small, cooked lobsters in halves; take out 
the meat and cut into slices the size of a 2S-cent piece. 
Put some of the sauce in the lobster shells and range 
the meat on top with alternate layers of mushrooms and 
truffles ; cover with the sauce, sprinkle over some grated 
Parmesan cheese and melted butter, and bake in a hot 
oven for 12 to 15 minutes. Serve on a napkin. 

HoMARD Saute a la Knapp — Lobster Sauted, 

Knapp Style. 

Cut the meat of a cooked k>bster into half-inch 
squares. Heat 2 ounces of butter in a saute pan, 
throw in the lobster, season with salt and pepper and 
cook over a brisk fire for 5 minutes. 

In the meanwhile, rub the creamy part (which is 
found in the head part of the lobster) through a fine 
sieve and add i ounce of butter and the juice of a small 
lemon. 

Dress the lobster on a split, toasted and buttered 
English muffin. Put the lobster cream in the pan, add 

so 



a gcMid pinch of chopped parsley dn4, vifhen thoroiigh^ 
melted, pour over the k)bster. 

Croustades de Cabillaud a la Bragance — Crusts 

OF CbD, Braganza Style. 

Have ready some cooked codfish, dear it frcnn skin 
and bones, break up into flakes, mix with Hungariaa 
satKe, add a few chopped mu^rooms and truffles, and 
fill into small crusts. Strew over bread crumbs and 
melted butter and gratinate under the salamander. 

Croustades de Cabillaud a la Diaz — Crusts of 

CoDj Diaz Style. 

Same as above ; using chq)ped sweet peppers instead 
of the truffles. 

COQUILLE DE CaBILLAUD A LA CREME AU GRATIN — 

Codfish with Cream^ Baked in Shells. 

Free some cooked cod from skin and bones and 
break it up into nice flakes. 

With Duchess potato puree, make a neat border on 
medium-sized shells. Lay on the bottom of the shells 
a tablespoonf ul of Cream sauce, place the flakes on top 
and cover with more Cream sauce. Besprinkle witfi 
grated Parmesan cheese and melted butter and bake in 
a medium oven to a nice color. 

COQUILLE DE CaBILLAUD A l'ItALIENNE AU GrATIN — 

CoDFtSK IN Shells, Baked, Italian Fashion. 

Follow directions as given in the preceding receipt, 
using Italian instead of Cream sauce. 

Coquille oe Poisson a la Cardinal — ^Fish in 
Shells, Cardinal Style. 

Proceed as for Codfish with Cream in Shells (or any 
other boiled fish left over may be used), blend the 

31 



Cream sauce witb one-third the amount of Tomato 
sauce and incorporate some Lobster butter. 

COQUILLE DE PoiSSON A LA JoiNVILLE— FiSH IN 

Shells, Joinville Style. 

The same as the preceding receipt, adding sliced 
mushrooms and truffles. 

Crevettes a la Bresilienne — Shrimps^ Brazilian 

Style. 

Slice (fine) one large Spanish onion and fry it 
lightly in butter with 3 dozen peeled shrimps. Moisten 
with a good dash of White Wine and add 4 fresh to- 
matoes (peeled, freed from skin, and cut up in rather 
small pieces). 

Cover the pan and stew gently for 10 minutes, then 
add I gill of Veloute sauce and 2 sliced sweet red pep- 
pers; let simmer for 5 minutes longer, then season 
highly and finish with a half gill of thick cream and a 
pat of butter. 

Pilau de Crevettes a la Louisianne — Shrimp 
Pilau, Louisiana Style. 

Heat 3 ounces of butter in a saucepan and fry in it 
I finely chopped onion and i green pepper (freed from 
skin and seeds) ; next add 6 ounces of rice, moisten 
with good stock to twice the height of the rice, and 
add a small faggot of herbs and 4 tomatoes (peeled, 
freed from skin and seeds and cut in good sized 
pieces). 

Cover the pan and put to cook in a moderately hot 
oven for 15 minutes, then add 3 or 4 doz. peeled 
shrimps, stir the rice with a kitchen fork, season and 
cook for 5 minutes longer. 

Remove the faggot of herbs and serve in a vegetable 
dish. 

Note. — ^^Saff rem may be added if so desired. 

■ .' \ ... 

Pilau a la Mariniere — Pilau, Mariner's Fashion. 

Proceed as for Shrimp Pilau, Louisiana Style, add- 
ing to the rice different sorts of shellfish in season, 

32 



such as mussels, clams, shrimps, oysters, scallops, etc* 
The rice may be moistened with fish stock or with clam 
juice, mixed with chicken broth. 

Scallops a la Mills— Scallops, Mills Fashion. 

Cook some scallops in their own juice and then 
drain. Incorporate some thick Bechamel to half of the 
juice and reduce to good consistency; then add the 
scallops and half as much braised celery (cut in pieces 
about one inch long), season highly and, when boiling, 
bind with cream, a few egg yolks and a good lump of 
butter. 

Filets de Sole Souffles — 'Souffled Fillets of> 

Sole. 

Lift, fold and cook the fillets of sole. Reduce the 
fish stock in which they were cooked, and add to it 
some Mornay sauce ; thicken with egg yolks and then 
incorporate the white of eggs whipped to a stiff froth. 
Place the cooked fillets in an oblong case, cover with 
the above sauce and bake in a brisk oven for 5 or 6 
minutes. 

Filet de Sole en Whitebait ou Whitebait a la 
Parisienne — Fillets of Sole as White- ': 
BAiT^ or Parisian Whitebait. :; / 

Remove the fillets from the soles (or flounders), cut 
(the fillets) in thin strips the size of whitebaits (about 
2 inches long and }i inch thick), dip in milk and then 
in a good quantity of flour, place in a coarse sieve, 
shake well to free from all superfluous flour, and fry in 
very hot lard 3 or 4 minutes. 

Some cold sauce may be served separate. 

BOUDIN DE BrOCHETON A LA ThERMIDOR — BOUDIN OF 

Pickerel, Thermidor Style. 

Prepare a forcemeat with i pound of pickerel (freed 
from skin and bones), 8 ounces of panada, 6 ounces of 
butter, I whole egg, and 2 egg yolks. Pound the fish 
to a fine pulp, add the panada, then the butter (which 
should be firm), and last the eggs, one after the other; 

33 



then season with salt, red pepper and nutmeg, rub 
•through a fine sieve, put into a bowl and place on ice 
for I hour. Try the consistency of the forcemeat by 
plunging a little into boiling water, and rectify it if 
necessary. 

Chop fine J4 pound of cooked lobster meat, 3 ounces 
of mushrooms and 2 ounces of truffles ; mix these with 
the forcemeat, and then with a tablespoon divide into 
small heaps on the table (besprinkled with flour). 
Shape each heap to a nice flat oval, place in a saute 
pan, cover with boiling safted water and set on the fire. 
Remove after the first boil and drain on a towel. 
When cold, dip in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and 
fry in hot clarified butter. 

Serve on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley and 
give American sauce separate. 

BORDURE DE SaUMON AUX LuCINES PaPILLONS A LA 

Barlow — Border of Salmon with Soft Clams, 

Barlow Style. 

Pound to a fine pulp 2 pounds of salmon (freed from 
bones and skin) ; add i ounce of butter and 2 gills of 
thick Bechamel, season with salt, pepper and nutmeg; 
add the white of 2 eggs, rub through a fine sieve, put 
into a bowl and set on ice. Then, after some time, in- 
corporate gently 2 gills of whipped cream. 

Butter and decorate to your fancy a large border 
mould ; fill it with the forcemeat, and cook in the bain- 
marie for 35 to 40 minutes. Dish up and fill the center 
with Soft Clams, Newburg style, 

TiMBALS DE SaUMON A LA MaLTAISE — SALMON 

TiMBALS, Maltese Style. 

Prepare a salmon forcemeat as explained in the pre- 
vious receipt. 

Decorate some small timbal moulds ; line them with 
the forcemeat (so as to leave a cavity) ; fill the cavity 
with a salpicon of truffles, mushrooms and parboiled 
oysters (all cut in small squares, mixed with Veloute 
sauce and thickened with egg yolks). Cover with 

84 



forcemeat and cook in the bain-marie for 15 to 20 min- 
utes. Unmould, dish up and serve with Maltese sauce. 

Sardines Sur Toast a la Diable — ^Deviled 

Sardines on Toast. 

Remove the skin from some boneless sardines and 
place two together on oblong pieces of buttered toast. 
Sprinkle over some cayenne pepper and place for a few 
minutes in a hot oven, so as to heat thoroughly. . Serve 
on a folded napkin with small pieces of lemon. 

Sardines a l'Epicurienne — ^Sardines^ Epicurean 

Style. 

Proceed first as in the foregoing receipt, but omit 
the cayenne pepper and put only one sardine on each 
piece of toast. Cover with Cheese SoufHe preparation 
(but with only half the amount of whipped egg whites 
usually taken). Besprinkle with grated cheese and 
bake in a mild oven for about 8 or 10 minutes. 

Serve hot. 

Sardines a la Orly — Sardines, Orly Style. 

Dip skinned boneless sardines in frying batter and 
fry in hot lard to a nice golden color. Serve on a nap- 
kin with pieces of lemon and Tomato sauce separate. 

Sardines a la Quirinal — Sardines, Quirinal 

Style. 

Roll out some puff paste trimmings and cut out 
strips somewhat longer and wider than the sardines. 
Spread a little thickly reduced Italian sauce on the 
strips of paste, lay a sardine (previously boned and 
skinned) on top of each and on the sardine itself put 
some more of the sauce; then wet the edges of the 
paste and lay another strip over the whole ; brush over 
with beaten egg yolks and put to bake in a medium 
oven for 15 minutes. 

Serve hot. 



35 



COLD ENTREES. 



Petits Aspics a la Montglas — ^^Small Aspics, 

Montglas Style. 

Set some small timbal moulds on ice and when very 
cold coat them with aspic jelly (melted but cold). Let 
the coating be aboiit J4 ii^ch in thickness. Next dec- 
orate nicely with truffles, smoked beeftong^e and the 
white of hard boiled eggs cut into fanciful shapes. 

Cut into J4 inch squares equal parts of cooked fowl 
or capon, truffles, smoked beeftongue and foie gras; 
add a little Mayonnaise sauce (just enough to bind it), 
and some melted aspic jelly to give it consistency. 
Season to taste. 

Fill up the moulds and set them in a cold place for 
2 hours. Before serving, unmould (by dipping the 
moulds quickly into warm water), arrange on a dish 
and surround with chopped jelly. 

Petits Aspics a la Reine — Small Aspics, Queen 

Fashion. 

Coat and decorate some timbal moulds as described 
in the preceding receipt. 

Prepare a Puree of Chicken by pounding the meat 
of a boiled fowl (say 8 ounces) with 2 ounces of 
Bechamel and 3 ounces of butter, rubbing through a 
fine sieve and adding 2 gills of whipped cream. Sea- 
son to taste and with it fill up the jelly coated moulds. 

'Set in a cold place for 2 hours, unmould and serve 
with chopped jelly. 

36 



Petits Aspics a la Duchesse — Small Aspics, 

Duchess Style. 

Proceed first as directed for Queen Fashion. When 
the moulds are coated, cut out some round slices of 
smoked beeftongue and place them in the moulds with 
alternate layers of puree of fowl. Set in a cool place 
for 2 hours and serve as explained in the preceding 
receipt. 

Petits Aspics de Homard a la Grimaldi — Small 
Aspics of Lobster, Grimaldi Style. 

Coat some small timba) moulds with jelly as ex- 
plained for Small Aspics, Montglas Style. Cut some 
cooked lobster in small squares, add J4 P^irt each of 
gherkins and hard boiled eggs, season highly, and 
add a little Mayonnaise sauce and a little melted aspic 
jelly. Then fill up the jelly coated moulds with the 
preparation and put them in a cool place for 2 hours. 

Chaudfroid de Mousse de Volaille a l'Ecarlate — 
Chaudfroid of Chicken Mousse, Ecarlate 

Style. 

Cut some slices of smoked beeftongue J4 inch thick 
and trim them to a round shape ; cover (thickly) one 
side of the tongue with Puree of Chidcen (as ex- 
plained for Sfftall Aspics, Queen Fashion), smooth 
over the top and coat with white Chaudfroid Sauce, 
decorate nicely and coat with melted jelly. 

Serve on a jelly border, filling the center with Rus- 
sian Salad. 

Medallions de Foie Gras a l'Aiglon — Fat Goose ^ 

Liver Medallions, Aiglon Style. 

Cut some slices of smoked beeftongue }i inch thick, 
trim them all to the same size and shape (preferably 
an oblong or oval). 

Cover one side with Puree of Foie Gras, smooth over 
the surface and cover with white Chaudfroid sauce. 
Decorate the medallions with truffles, etc., brush over 

* 37 



with partly set jelly, and. dress on a border of aspic 
jelly. 

Chaudfroid de Dinde a la Re«nce — Turkey 
Chaudfroid, Regency Style. 

From the breast of a cooked turkey, cut slices J4 
inch thick, and trim them all to the same shape and 
size. 

With the trimmings and half the amount each of 
pate de foie gras and butter, prepare a puree by pound- 
ing them together in the mortar and rubbing them 
through a fine sieve. Put this puree into a bowl, sea- 
son to taste and add to it a little whipped cream to 
make it smooth. 

Cover the slices of turkey with the puree, smooth 
over the surface and then coat with red Chaudfroid 
sauce. When set, decorate to your fancy and brush 
over with melted jelly. 

Zephirs de Jambon a l'Italienne — Ham Zephirs, 

Italian Style. 

Pound (in the mortar) i pound of lean ham with 
I ounce of butter and J4 gill each of Becharhel and 
thickly reduced Tomato sauce, season with salt and 
paprika and rub through a fine sieve. 

Put this puree in a bowl and add i gill of whipped 
cream. 

Coat some egg-shaped moulds with jelly, decorate 
neatly and fill with the ham puree. 

Set in a cool place for 2 hours, unmould and serve 
with chopped jelly around. 

Chaudfroid de Cotelletes de Faisan a la Beau- 
lieu — Chaudfroid of Pheasant Cutlets, 

Beaulieu Style. 

Remove the breast of a cooked pheasant (or quail or 
partridge) and pound it in the mortar with about a 
one-fifth part each of foie gras and butter and a little 
melted white Chaudfroid sauce. Then rub through a 
fine sieve, put the puree in a pan and warm just a 
little in the bain marie. 

Lightly oil a few small cutlet moulds and fill them 

88 



with the puree. When firm, unmould and coat them 
with brown Chaudfroid sauce, decorate nicely and 
brush over with partly melted jelly. Serve with Rus- 
sian salad in the center. 

Chaudfroid de Caneton a l'Orange — Chaudfroid 
OF Duckling, Orange Flavor. 

Carefully roast three ducklings, and when cold, lift 
the breasts and legs, remove the skin and trim nicely. 

Prepare an orange Chaudfroid sauce as follows: — 
Pour into a saucepan i pint of Brown sauce, reduce 
with I gill of veal stock and i gill of meat jelly until 
there is but i pint left, add i pony of brown Curacao, 
the juice of i orange and tiie finely shredded and 
parboiled outer rind of i orange. Before using put a 
little on ice, and if not firm enough add a little soaked 
and melted gelatine. 

Coat the pieces of duckling with the sauce. When 
stiffened, decorate with fanciful pieces of truffles and 
hard-boiled white of egg ; brush over with melted jelly ; 
arrange on a dish and serve with chopped jelly. 

Mayonnaise de Volaille en Coquillb — Chicken 

Mayonnaise in Shell. 

Cut some breast of cooked chicken, turkey or capon 
in neat little pieces and season with salt and pepper 
and a dash of vinegar. 

Place some of this coUoped chicken in a small shell 
and surround with finely shredded lettuce. Pour a 
little Mayonnaise dressing over the chicken, decorate 
with chopped white and yolk of egg, beets, gherkins 
and capers. 

Serve the shells on folded napkins. 

FoNDs d'Artichauts a la St. George — Artichoke 
Bottoms, St. George Style. 

Chop (fine) equal parts of cooked breast of chicken 
and celery and season with salt, red pepper and a dash 
of vinegar. Add some Mayonnaise dressing and some 
melted aspic jelly — ^but do not moisten too much. 

39 



Whep this preparation is half set, fill with it some Arti- 
choke bottoms, giving it the shape of a pyramid. 

Sprinkle over some chopped trulBSes, coat with partly 
set jelly and set away in a cool place to get thoroughly 
cold. Serve on a dish with chopped jelly. 

FoNDS d'Artichauts a la Duchesse — ^Artichoke 

Bottoms, Duchess Style. 

Cut (rather small) some cooked green asparagus 
and some shrimps ; season with salt, paprika and a dash 
of vinegar and bind with Mayonnaise sauce and a little 
melted jelly. 

Fill some cooked Artichoke bottoms with this salad 
and, when set, cover with green Chaudfroid sauce. 
Decorate with truffles and brush over with melted jelly. 

Set in a cool place until ready to serve. 



49 



MISCELLANEOUS ENTREES AND DAINTY 

DISHES. 



Attereaux a la Villeroi — Skewers/ ViLX-EROi 

Style. 

Cut some j4-inch thick slices of foie gras, truffles, 
mushrooms and smoked beef tongue; scoop them out 
round and all of the same size ; stick them alternately 
on to a skewer; spread over some Villeroi sauce, and 
lay on an oiled dish to get firm ; egg an3 bread-crumb, 
and fry them in hot lard. Serve on a napkin and garn- 
ish with fried parsley. 

Attereaux de Dinde a la Villeroi — ^Turkey 

Skewers^ Villeroi Style. 

Place on a skewer slices of cold cooked turkey with 
alternate slices of bacon (previously sauted). The 
slices should be about the size of a 25-cent piece. 

Coat the turkey and bacon with Villeroi sauce; egg 
and bread-crumb when thoroughly cold and then fry 
in hot lard. 

Attereaux de Dinde a la Dreux — Turkey Skew- 
ers^ Dreux Style. 

Follow the directions of the preceding receipt, using 
slices of cooked ham and truffles instead of bacon. 

Attereaux de Foie Gras a la Villeroi — Skewers 
OF Fat Goose Liver, Villeroi Style. 

Follow the directions of the preceding receipt, but 
use only foie gras and truffles. 

Note. — Skewers of sweetbread, beef palate, cocks' 
kidneys, etc., can also be prepared as above. 

41 



y 



Attereaux de Foie Gras a la Lucullus — Fat 
Goose Liver Skewers, Lucullus Fashion. 

Prepare the skewers with slices of cooked fat goose 
liver and truffles and finish as for Turkey Skewers^ 
Serve Truffle sauce separate. 

Attereaux a la Pompadour — Pompadour Skewers. 

Place on a skewer alternate slices of breast of 
chicken, truffles, smoked beef tongue and fresh mush- 
rooms (all these cooked and cut to the same size). 
Coat the meats with cream chicken forcemeat, then 
tgg and bread-crumb, fry in clarified butter and serve 
with Bearnaise sauce, separate. 

Bouchees a la Mogador — Small Patties, Mogador 

Style. 

Remove the marrow from 6 marrow bones and cut 
it in ^-inch squares, then plunge into boiling salted 
water for 2 or 3 minutes, and next put into J4 pint of 
well "reduced and well seasoned Madeira sauce. Add 3 
good-sized truffles (cut into j4-ii^ch cubes), fill the 
patties, and serve on a folded napkin. 

Petites Bouchees a la Chasseur — Small Patties^ 

Hunter's Fashion. 

Cut I dozen chicken livers in J^-inch cubes, and 
saute them over a bright fire ; drain and add to i gill of 
Chasseur sauce; heat well (but do not allow to boil), 
fill the patties, and serve. 

Bouchees a -la Volontaire— Small Patties, VoL- 

UNTEER Style. 

Cut into j4-inch squares, i part each of cooked tur- 
key (or chicken breast) and smoked beef tongue, truf- 
fles, mushrooms, Lucca olives and sweet red peppers. 
Heat these ingredients in some well reduced Madeira 
sauce, and (just before serving) fill up the heated 
small patties. 

Bouchees a la Comtesse — Small Patties, Coun- 
tess Style. 

Cut some shrimps and green asparagus tips in small 

42 



pieces (of the same size), heat them in Cream sauce 
aiid fill up the patties. 

BOUCHEES A LA PrINCESSE — SmALL PaTTIES, PRIN- 
CESS Style. 

The same as the preceding receipt, using breast of 
chicken instead of shrimps. 

Bressoles de Volaille a la Reine — Chicken Bres- 

soLEs^ Queen's Fashion. 

Xine some shallow, oval, buttered moulds with chick- 
en cream force meat (the lining to be about ^ of an 
inch thick), fill with a salpkxn of cocdced breast of 
chicken, truffles and mushrooms, blended with thickly 
reduced Veloute sauce. Coyer with more chicken force 
meat and put to cook in boiling salted water. Then 
unmould and allow to get cold. Egg and bread crumb 
the bressoles and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin 
with fried parsley. 

Bressoles de Gibier a la Chasseur — Game Bres- 
soles, Hunter's Fashion. 

The same as the preceding receipt, using game in- 
stead of chicken. 

Bressoles de Foie Gras a la Strassbourgeoise — 
Goose Liver Bressoles, Strassburg Style. 

The same as Chicken Bressoles, Queen's Fashion, 
adding some foie gras to the forcemeat and using foie 
gras in the salpicon instead of chicken. 

Bressoles a la Montglas — Bressoles, Montglas 

Style. 

The san)e as for Chicken Bressoles, Queen's Fashion, 
adding some smoked beef tongue to the salpicon and 
blending it with Madeira instead of Veloute sauce. 

Celestines de Foie Gras a la Pompadour — Celes- 
tines of Fat Goose Liver, Pompadour Style. 

Have some evenly cut slices of fat goose liver, dip 
them into a thickly reduced Mushroom puree and set 

43 



them on an oiled dish to get cold. When thoroughly 
cold, roll in eggs and bread crumbs and fry in hot 
lard. Serve on a folded napkin, 

Celestine de Fqie Gras a la Perigord — Celestine 
OF FoiE Gras^ Perigord Style. 

The same as the preceding receipt, but instead of 
mushroom puree prepare a puree with the trimmings 
of the gooseliver and the peelings of truffles pounded 
together in the mortar, rubbed through a fine sieve and 
blended with thickly reduced Madeira sauce. 

COLOMBINES A LA TeSSINOISE — COLOMBINES, TeSSINO 

Style. 

Prepare a salpicon of foie gras, truffles and mush- 
rooms, add it to thickly reduced Madeira sauce and 
set aside to get cold. Cook some farina in broth, al- 
low it to become rather thick, and when cooked incor- 
porate a good sized piece of butter, some grated Par- 
mesan cheese and a little Bechamel (so as to give it 
some substance). Line some buttered tartlet moulds 
with the farina, garnish the center with the salpicon 
mentioned above, cover with more farina, and then put 
away tcJ get cold. Unmould, egg and bread crumb 
the colombines and fry in hot lard. 

Note: Chicken livers may be used instead of foie 
gras. 

Colombines a la Piemontaise — Colombines, Pied- 
mont Fashion. 

Follow the directions of the preceding receipt, but 
instead o^ cooking farina, prepare a good Rissoto and 
add some cooked ham to the salpicon. 

Medaillons de Foie Gras a la MIetternich — Me- 
dallions OF Fat Goose Liver, Metter- 

NicH Style. 

Cut some cooked fat goose liver into slices about >4 
inch thick and trim them nicely. With the trimmings 
and some truffles, prepare a Salpicon (blended with 
thickly reduced Madeira sauce). When the latter is 

44 



cold, lay a teaspoonful of it on each slice and cover with 
Ham Mousse preparation; smooth over and decorate 
nicely with truffles, place (the slices) on a buttered 
pan, cover and cook in a mild oven for lo or 12 min- 
utes. Serve with Truffle sauce. 

MOUSSELINE DE FoiE GrAS A LA BOHEMIENNE — 

Muslin of Fat Goose Liver, Bohemian Fashion. 

Pound fine 8 ounces of breast of fowl (or turkey), 
add first an equal amount of foie gras and 4 ounces of 
panada, and then by degrees 3 egg yolks, and season 
with salt, pepper and nutmeg ; rub through a fine sieve 
and set in a cool place. 

Work the forcemeat well (in a bowl) to make it 
smooth, and incorporate gently i pint of whipped 
cream. Try the consistency, and if too solid, add some 
more cream. 

Butter some small timbal moulds, fill them with the 
mousselifie preparation, and cook in the bain-marie for 
15 minutes. Then unmould, dish up and pour over 
some cream paprika sauce. 

Souffle de Foie Gras — Souffle of Fat Goose Liver. 

Rub through a fine sieve i pound of fat goose liver 
(foie gras au nature!), add to it i pint of thickly re- 
duced Cream sauce, a teaspoonful of beef extract, a 
good dash of sherry and 8 egg yolks, season with salt, 
a pinch of allspice and paprika pepper. 

Whip the 8 egg whites to a stiff froth and incorporate 
gently to the above preparation. Then put into some 
small entree cases (to about }i full) and cook in a me- 
dium oven from 8 to 10 minutes. 

Petites Caisses de Foie de Volaille a la Finan- 

ciERE — ^Small Cases of Chicken Livers, 

Financier's Style. 

Line some small buttered entree cases with chicken 
forcemeat blended with J4 the amount of cooked force- 
meat and fill the center with chicken livers, previously 
cut in J4 inch squares, sauted in butter and added to 

45 



Madeira sauce. Garnish with mushrooms, truffles and 
olives (all cut in squares) and allow to get cdd. 

Cover the cases with forcemeat, smooth over nicely, 
decorate to your fancy and butter the top lightly. 

Cook in a mild oven for 12 to 15 minutes. 

Petites Caisses de Foie Gras a la Financiere — 

Small Cases of FAt GoosE Liver, 

Financier's Style. 

Follow the same directions as in the preceding re- 
ceipt, but use fat goose liver instead of chicken livers. 

Petites Caisses de Foie Gras a la Toulousaine — 

Small Cases of Fat Goose Liver, 

TouLOusiAN Style. 

Line ^mall entree cases with the same forcemeat as 
used for SmM Cases of Chicken Livers and fill the 
centre with fat goose liver, cocks' combs, cocks' kid- 
neys, truffles and mushrooms, cut in small squares and 
blended with German sauce. Of fat goose liver there 
should be twice as much as of the other ingredients. 
Finish as for Cases of Chicken Livers. 

Cotelettes de Volaille a la Du Barry — Chicken 

Cutlets^ Du Barry Style. 

Butter some cutlet-shaped moulds, and fill them with 
cream chicken forcemeat; put to cook in a moderate 
oven, but take them out while still rather underdone; 
allow to get cold, then egg and bread crumb them, and 
fry in hot lard. Dress on a dish, garnish with puree 
of cauliflower, and serve separate some Valois sauce. 

Cotelettes de Volaille a la Montglas — Chicken 

Cutlets^ Montglas Style. 

The same as the preceding receipt, serving though 
with Montglas garnishing. 

Cotelettes de Volaille a la Luculi.us — Chicken 

Cutlets^ Lucullus Style. 

Prepare as directed for Chicken Cutlets, Du Barry 
Style, but add to the forcemeat some foie gras and 

46 



truffles, cut in very small squares. Serve Truffle sauce 
separate. 



RoGNONs Grilles a la Melba — Broiled Kidneys^ 

Melba Style. 

Remove the skin from as many kidneys as required, 
split them lengthwise from the round side, and run a 
skewer through them ; baste with sweet oil, besprinkle 
with salt, and broil over a brisk charcoal fire. 

When done, remove the skewer and set each kidney 
on a broiled fresh mushroom ; fill the cavity of the kid- 
ney with freshly g^ted horseradish, and surround the 
whole with pepper sauce. 



Brochettes de Rognons a la MIeyerbeer — Broch- 
ETTES OF Kidneys, Meyerbeer Style. 

Cut the kidneys in ^ inch thick slices, and saute 
them in very hot butter (leaving them underdone). 
Have ready an equal ntmiber of small slices of bacon 
and small heads of fresh mushrooms (both cocked in 
butter). 

Arrange the kidneys, mushrooms and bacon on skew- 
ers ; dip in melted butter and bread crumbs, and broil 
over a brisk fire. Serve with Colbert sauce separate. 

Rognons d'Agneau Sautes au Madeira — Lamb 
Kidneys Sauted, Madeira Sauce. 

Remove the skin from the kidneys and cut them 
lengthwise in two ; remove the hard part and slice each 
half in 3 or 4 (holding the knife somewhat slanting). 
Heat some clarified butter in a frying pan, throw in 9ie 
kidneys when burning hot, and toss until they are done ; 
then drain and put them in a vegetable dish with a few 
small pieces of butter over them. 

Reduce the necessary amount of Madeira sauce in a 
saucepan, add the kidneys, season to taste, and serve 
immediately. 

47 



RoGNONs Sautes a la Venitienne — Kidneys 
Sauted, Venetian Style, 

Cook the kidneys as stated in the preceding receipt^ 
add some mushrooms, and finish the sauce with andiovy 
butter. 

RoGNONs Sautes a la Portugaise — Kidneys 
Sauted, Portuguese Fashion; 

Slice the kidneys and cook them in burning hot but* 
ter, drain and add to a sauce made as follows : 

Chop fine 3 or 4 shallots, and fry in butter without 
coloring ; moisten with a gill of white wine and allow 
them to reduce ; add 2 fresh tomatoes (peeled and freed 
from seeds) cut in small pieces, cook for a while and 
then add J4 pint of Brown sauce and a teaspoonful of 
beef extract. Finish with salt, red pepper, 2 ounces of 
butter and the juice of half a lemon. 



Crepinettes Truffees — Truffled Crepinettes. 

Chop fine 8 ounces each of lean and of fat pork, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and allspice, and add 2 chopped 
truffles. 

Have ready soaked some pig's caul. Divide the 
forcemeat into heaps the size of an egg, give each a 
flat, oblong shape, and then wrap tjiem up in the caul. 
Baste them with olive oil and broil over a clear fire for 
about 15 minutes. Serve with Mladeira sauce. 



Crepinettes de Volaille aux Truffes — Chicken 
Crepinettes with Truffles. 

Chop very fine 8 ounces each of chicken breast, lean 
pork and fat pork; season to taste with salt, pepper 
and a pinch of allspice and add a good dash each of 
sherry and brandy. 

Soak some pig's caul in water, drain and dry. 

Take a good tablespoonful of the forcemeat and roll 
it. Place a few slices of truffles on lop and then wrap 

48 



I , 



it in the pig's caul (using as little as possible of the 
caul). 

Dip the crepinettes in melted butter and roll in bread 
crumbs and broil over a clear charcoal fire. Serve 
with TrufHe sauce. 

Note. — ^The breast of chicken itself may be wrapped 
up in the crepinette. If this is done it should, though, 
be stiffened in hot butter and allowed to get cold. 

See also Crepinettes of Quail, 

I 

Crepinettes a la Strasbourgeoise — Crepinettes, 

Strassburg Style. 

Prepare the Crepinettes as indicated in the previous 
receipt, adding to the forcemeat some foie-gras (cut in 
small squares). 

Crepinettes de Cailles — Crepinettes of Q,uail. 

Prepare in the same manner as for Chicken Crepi- 
nettes. 

Lift the breasts of 6 quail and saute them lightly in 
butter over a brisk fire (leaving them underdone)^ 
Allow them to get cool, then wrap them around first 
with forcemeat and next with pig's caul. Finish in the 
same manner as in the other receipt. 

A little cooked forcemeat may be added to these 
crepinettes. 

Crepinettes de Pigeon — Crepinettes of Squab. 

Follow the directions as given for Crepinettes of 
Quail, using squabs instead of quail. 

Note. — ^Any of these crepinettes may be garnished! 
with puree of chestnuts, potatoes, sweet potatoes, len-^ 
tils, peas, beans, etc. 

Pieds de Porc Farcis Truffes — Stuffed Truffled 

Pigs' Feet. 

Have ready cooked some pigs' feet. Cut them 
lengfthwise in halves, bone them and wrap them up 
with forcemeat (as explained in a previous receipt) ; 
finish and cook exactly as crepinettes, laying in addi- 

49 



tiqa a few slices of truffles on each side of the pigfs 
feet (the truffles to lie right under the caul). 
Serve with Perigueux sauce. 

Jambon a la Casino— Ham, Casino Style. 

Put into a bowl 3 tablespoonfuls of Chutney and 2 
of German mustard, and dilute with 3 tablespoonfuls of 
sweet oil. 

Cut some cooked ham in slices, spread over it the 
above mixture, roll in bread crumbs, broil over a brisk 
fire, and serve on a hot dish. 

Note. — ^This dish is an excellent relish for the hot 
season. 

MoELLE suR Toast a la Diable — ^Deviled Marrow 

ON Toast. 

Cut some marrow into slices ^ inch thick, and par- 
boil them in salted water; arrange nicely on trimmed 
toasts, besprinkle with Parmesan cheese (mixed with a 
liberal amount of cayenne), place on a baking sheet, 
and put in a hot oven for 8 or 10 minutes (or until the 
marrow becomes thoroughly hot and slightly colored). 
Serve without delay. 

Croquettes de Volaille — Chicken Croquettes. 

Cut the flesh of a cooked chicken (or fowl) into 
small squares and add one-third the amount of chopped 
mushrooms. 

Reduce the same amount of Bechamel as there is 
chicken meat, thicken with a few egg yolks and add 
the chicken and mushrooms. Season to taste with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg; put on a dish and set in a cool 
place to get cold. 

When thoroughly firm, shape the preparation in any 
desired form, dip in beaten eggs, roll in bread crumbs 
and fry in hot lard. 

Serve separate, Cream, Truffle, Tomato, Colbert or 
Beamaise sauce. 

Chicken croquettes may be garnished with peas, 

50 



asparagus tips, carrots or turnips in cream, etc. They 
may also be flavored with truffles, etc. 

Croquettes de Volaille a la Marigny — Chicken 
Croquettes, Marigny Style. 

Cut into very small dice, i pound of cooked chicken 
breast, J4 pound of mushrooms, 4 ounces of truffles 
and 4 ounces of artichoke bottoms. 

Heat in a sautoire, i quart of Veloute sauce, and 
when it boils, bind it with 4 egg yolks and a little 
cream ; add to it the above ingredients, season to taste, 
and put aside to cool. When cold, form into round 
balls (2 inches in diameter), dip in beaten eggs and 
bread crumbs, stick a small branch of parsley in the 
center of each, and fry in hot lard. 

Dress each croquette on a half tomato (previously 
baked) and surround with a light Cream sauce. 

Croquettes de Jambon a la Zingara — Ham 
Croquettes, Zingara Style. 

Chop finely and fry in butter (without browning), 
I white onion; when the butter turns clear, add 2 
chopped sweet peppers ; fry for a few minutes longer, 
then add 8 ounces of lean cooked ham (cut in }i inch 
squares), and 8 ounces of boiled rice; season with salt, 
pepper and nutmeg, and moisten with a pint of thick 
Cream sauce; when boiling, incorporate 4 egg yolks 
and 2 ounces of butter. Put this mixture away until 
cold, then shape some croquettes (either in balls or 
cork shape), dip in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and 
fry in hot lard. Serve with highly seasoned Tomato 
sauce separate. 

Croquettes a la Lucullus — Croquettes^ Lucullus 

Fashion. 

Cut 4 ounces of fat goose liver and 2 ounces of truf- 
fles into small cubes. Reduce 2 gills of Brown sauce to 
I gill, then add the liver and the truffles, season to 
taste, and put away to get cold. 

Prepare some Duchess Potatoes, 

Make small balls from the salpicon above; then 
shape some round potato croquettes, and in the middle 

51 



put the balls (so that they are entirely enveloped by 
the potato). Dip the croquettes in beaten eggs and 
bread crumbs and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin 
and give Perigueux sauce separate in a sauce-boat. 

Croquettes EN Surprise a la Neptune — Surprise 
Croquettes, Neptune Style. 

Have ready some Lobster Croquette preparation; 
make small round balls with it, and surround these with 
Potato Croquette preparation (so that the lobster is 
completely enveloped by the potato). Egg and bread- 
crumb, and fry in hot lard. 

Serve with Tomato-paprika sauce separate. 

Croquettes a l'Imperatrice — Empress 

Croquettes. 

Prepare some Chicken Croquettes, adding one-third 
part of oysters (parboiled, bearded and the belly part 
cut in small squares).. Finish as for other croquettes 
and fry in hot lard. Serve separate some Cream sauce 
with chopped truffles. 

Cromesquis — Cromesquis. 

The Cromesquis is of Polish or Russian origin, and 
signifies croquette. Modern cooks, however, make s 
distinction between the style, the Cromesquis being 
wrapped in a very thin slice of larding pork, veal udder 
or pancake, dipped in frying batter and fried, whereas 
the croquette is dipped in eggs, breaded and fried 

To prepare Cromesquis, follow the same directions 
as are given for croquettes. If of meat, they may be 
wrapped in larding pork or veal udder (if any on 
hand) ; if of oysters, lobster, etc., pancakes or oblate 
(dampened with a wet towel) may be used. 

COTELETTES DE GrENOUILLE A LA GiSMONDA — FrOG 

Cutlets^ Gismonda Fashion. 

Free 2 pounds of frog legs from bones, and cut the 
meat in j4-inch pieces. Heat 4 ounces of butter in a 
saute pan, throw in the frog legs, season with salt and 
pepper, add 6 chopped shallots and 8 ounces of fresh 
mushrooms (cut in squares), moisten with a gill of 

52 



white wine, and allow to reduce nearly dry ; add suffi- 
cient Veloute or Bechamel sauce to bind, and season to 
taste with salt and red pepper. 

Fill some cutlet-shaped croustades with this prep- 
aration, dust over some grated Parmesan cheese and 
melted butter, and bake in the oven to a nice golden 
hue. Serve on a folded napkin. 

Grenouelles Desossees en Croutes a la Theodore- 
Crusts OF Boneless Frogs' Legs^ Theodore Style. 

Chop fine i onion and i small green pepper, and 
partially fry in butter ; add 6 heads of sliced fresh mush- 
rooms, cook together for a few minutes and then add i 
pound of boneless frogs' legs and 2 large %ripe tomatoes 
(peeled, squeezed and cut up fine) ; season with pepper 
and a pinch of paprika, cover the pan and cook for 15 
minutes in the oven. 

Before serving, add i tablespoonful of beef extract, 
2 ounces of butter, i teaspoonful of chopped parsley, 
an atom of garlic, and a little lemon juice. Fill the 
crusts with the frogs' legs, and serve on a napkin. 

Grenouilles a la South Side Club — Frog Legs, 

South Side Club Style. 

Cut 18 fresh frog legs at their joints and then free 
them from all bones. 

Heat 2 ounces of butter in a sautoire; season the 
frogs and throw them into the hot butter, move them 
frequently, and after 5 minutes moisten with i gill 
each of clam juice and thick cream; boil for a few 
minutes, and thicken with butter kneaded with flour. 
Dish up and serve dry toast separate. 

EmINCE DE VoLAILLE a la NeWBURG — COLLOPED 

FowL^. Newburg Style. 

Wash well some white fresh mushrooms. If l^rge, 
cut them in halves. 

Cook the mushrooms in butter, and when done, add 
the breast of a tender cooked fowl (cut in neat col- 
lops), moisten with a dash of Sherry, allow to reduce, 
add I pint of Veloute cream sauce, and a half gill of 
cream, cook for five minutes, and then bind with 3 

53 



tgg yolks, I ounce of butter and 5^ gill of cream — 
ducken, but do not allow to boil. BefcM^ serving, add 
another dash of Sherry and seascHi to taste. 

Emince de Volailub a la Geisha — Colloped Fowl, 

Geisha Style, 

Chop fine i onion and fry it lightly in butter ; add i 
teaspoonful of curry powder, stir for i minute and 
then add i teaspoonful of red currant jelly and a half 
gill each of Tomato and Veloute sauce ; allow to cook 
for 5 minutes and then add a teaspoonful of Chutney. 

Cut the breast of a cooked fowl into neat coUops, add 
it to the sauce and heat well. Before serving, add a 
tablespoonful of grated cocoanut. Serve separately' 
some plain boiled rice. 

Emince de Chapon aux Concombres — Colloped 

Capon with Cucumbers. 

Cut the remainder of a cooked capon (or fowl) into 
neat slices, put them into a pan with a little chicken 
broth and heat well. Then add some Cream sauce and 
some cucumbers, cut in suitable pieces (not too large), 
peeled and cooked in salted water, heat well, season to 
# taste and serve in a vegetable dish. 

Emince de Chapon a la Creole — Colloped Capon, 

Creole Style. 

Follow the same directions as for the preceding re- 
ceipt, using Creole sauce instead of Cream sauce. 
Serve plain boiled rice separate. 

Hachi de Volaille a la Sanford — Chicken Hash, 

Sanford Style. 

Cut the soft part from 36 medium sized hard clams 
and chop them up rather coarsely. 

Chop fine i green pepper and fry lightly in butter; 
add the clams with a little of their juice (removing the 
scum at the first boil). Next add 8 ounces of cooked 
breast of chicken, 4 ounces of cocked potatoes (both 
cut in very small squares) and i gill of cream ; allow 

54 



to cook for 5 minutes, season to taste and thicken with 
a little butter kneaded with the same amount of flour. 

TiMBALES A LA PaRMENTIER — PaRMENTIER 

TiMBALES. 

Prepare a puree of potatoes as for Duchess potatoes, 
adding 2 whole eggs, well beaten, to each quart of 
potatoes. 

Butter some small timbal moulds and besprinkle 
with bread crumbs ; line with the potato puree and fill 
tfie center with a salpicon of mushrooms, truffles, and 
ham. (blended with Brown sauce) ; cover with more 
puree and put to cook in the oven for about 15 min- 
utes. 

Serve with Madeira sauce. 

Note.— These timbales are not cooked in the bain- 
marie. When cooked they should be of a light golden 
hue. 

TiMBALES DE JaMBON A LA NaPOLITAINB — ^HaM 

TiMBALES^ Neapolitan Style. 

Butter well some small oval timbal moulds, lay on 
the bottom of each a slice of beef tongue of the same 
size and shape as the mould and then mount the sides 
of the mould with small pieces of macaroni, cut }i 
inch thick (previously well drained and dried on a 
cloth). Line the layer of macaroni with chicken force 
meat, fill the remaining cavity with Ham Croquette 
preparation, cover the top with more chicken force- 
meat and cook for 15 minutes in a medium oven. 

When ready to serve unmould and serve with To- 
mato sauce, blended with rich veal gravy. 

Petits Timbales a la Rothschild— Small Tim- 
bales, Rothschild Style. 

Decorate some small buttered timbal moulds with 
truffles, line them with chicken cream force-meat and 
fill the center with a salpicon of fat goose liver and 
truffles (blended with Madeira sauce). 

Place the timbales in a saute pan, fill with boiling 
water to about half the height of the moulds, set in a 

55 



mild oven to cook for 15 minutes and then unmould 
and serve with TrufHe sauce. 

TiMBALES A LA PaLERMITAINE — ^TlMBALES, , 

Palermitan Style. 

Follow the same directions as for Ham Timbales, 
Neapolitan Style, but instead of ham use a Salpicon of 
Chicken livers, sauted with mushrooms. Finish in 
the same manner. Serve with Madeira sauce. 

Petits Timbales a la Montglas — Small Timbales, 

MoNTGLAs Style. 

The same as a la Rothschild, except that the salpi- 
con is of chicken, truffles, mushrooms and smoked 
tongue. 

Petits Timbales a la Reine — Small Timbales, 

Queen Style. 

The same as a la Rothschild, except that you pre- 
pare the salpicon of fat goose liver, mushrooms and 
truffles blended with Veloute Cream sauce and serve 
the timbales with cream sauce. 

Timbale de Jambon a la Souvarofp — Ham Tim- 
bales, SouvAROFF Fashion. 

Rid I pound of lean raw ham of all sinews and 
pound it with 4 ounces of breast of chicken or turkey. 
When pounded fine, add J4 pint of cold Bechamel 
sauce, I whole egg and 2 whites ; season with salt and 
paprika and rub through a fine sieve. Put into an 
earthen bowl and place on ice. 

Work the force-meat with a wooden spoon and in- 
corporate by degrees ij^ pints of whipped cream. 

Butter and decorate some timbal moulds and fill 
them to about two-thirds of their height with the ham 
preparation ; dip the index finger in hike warm water 
and then in the force-meat, making a hollow (thus 
lining the sides of the mould) ; fill the hollow with a 
salpicon made of foie gras and truffles (cut in small 
squares and mixed with thickly reduced Madeira 

56 



sauce) ; cover with some of the force-meat and cook 
in the bain-marie in a medium oven. When done, 
unmould and serve with Madeira sauce. 

Ris DE Veau en Bordure a la Chasseur — Sweet- 
bread IN Border, Hunter's Fash ton. 

Cut a parboiled sweetbread into thick slices and 
throw it into a saute pan with hot butter. Stir the 
sweetbread occasionally while cooking and after 5 
minutes add 6 sliced, fresh mushrooms and 2 chopped 
shallots ; cook for 5 minutes longer, then moisten with 
a half glass of dry White Wine and allow to reduce 
nearly dry ; next add a half gill each of Tomato and 
Brown sauce, reduce to good consistency and dish up 
on a dish with a border of mashed potatoes. 

COQUILLES DE RiS DE VeAU A. LA CARDINAL — ShELLS 

OF Sweetbreads, Cardinal Fashion. 

Cook some sweetbreads in white stock, and when 
done, cut them in ^-inch slices ; add one-third of the 
amount of sliced lobster and also some sliced mush- 
rooms. 

Have ready some Veloute Cream sauce, add one- 
sixth part of thickly reduced Tomato sauce, season to 
taste and finish with lobster butter. Then add the sweet- 
breads, etc., fill some shells with the mixture, be- 
sprinkle with bread crumbs and melted butter, and 
bake in a brisk oven to a nice color. 

Beignets de Ris de Veau a la Dino — Sweetbread 

Fritters, Dino Style. 

Cut slices of cooked sweetbreads and dip them in 
well reduced Madeira sauce, to which cooked fine 
herbs have been added; place the dipped slices of 
sweetbread on a lightly oiled dish, and set on ice. Ten 
minutes before serving dip the sweetbread in frying 
batter and plunge in hot lard without delay. When of 
a nice brown color, take out and serve on a napkin, 
garnished with fried parsley. 

Ris de Veau en Bordure a la Nesselrode — Sweet- 
bread IN Border, Nesselrode Style. 

Follow the same directions as for Hunter's Fashion, 

57 



but use Veloute Cream sauce instead of Brown and 
Tomato sauce, and finish the sauce with a few drops 
of lemon juice. Dress the sweetbread in a border of 
Puree of Chestnuts. 

Brochettes de Ris de Veau a la Lamartine — 
Skewers of Sweetbread, Lamartine Style. 

Cut some parboiled sweetbreads into slices >i inch 
thick and about as large as a 25-cent piece, saute them 
in butter, and when done, arrange alternately with 
some cooked fresh mushrooms (the same size as the 
sweetbreads) on a skewer. Season with pepper and 
salt, dip the skewer first in melted butter and then in 
fresh bread crtunbs; broil over a brisk fire and serve 
with Truffle sauce separate. 

Ris de Veau a la Junot — Sweetbread^ Junot 

Style. 

Cut some parboiled sweetbreads horizontally in 
halves, and saute them in clarified butter (without 
browning) until they are cooked; put under a light 
press and (when cold) trim to a nice oval shape. 

Place on each half of sweetbread a salpicon of foie 
gras and truffles, and cover with chicken cream force- 
meat. Smooth the surface and decorate nicely, then 
place in a buttered saute pan and cook in a slow oven 
for 15 minutes. Serve with puree of mushrooms. 

Escalope de Ris de Veau a la Doria — ^^Slices of 

Sweetbread, Doria Style. 

Cut 6 sweetbreads horizontally in halves, trim them 
all the same size and shape, and cook in a saute pan 
over a moderate fire, with clarified butter. When 
nearly done, pour off the butter, moisten with r cup of 
thick cream, cook for 5 minutes, and then add suffi- 
cient Veloute sauce to give the cream good consistency. 

Have 3 small cucumbers peeled and split in quar- 
ters, remove the seeds and cut each quarter in three, 
trim off the edges, put into boiling water and salt; 
cook until tender and drain. 

Add the cucumbers to the sweetbreads, season to 

58 



taste, lay each slice of sweetbread on a toast (fried in 
butter), and pour over the sauce and cucumbers. 

Ailerons de Dinde Frits a la Cariguan — ^Turkey 
Wings Fried, Cariguan Style. 

Singe, clean and bone the turkey wings, stuflF them 
with chicken force-meat (mixed with J4 the amount 
of cooked fine herbs) and set to braise in good stock. 
Then let them get cold and next egg and bread crumb 
tfiem and fry in hot lard. 

If the wings are too large they may be cut in two 
or three. 

Serve somfe good sauce separately. 

Ailerons de Dinde a la Villeroi — ^Turkey Wings, 

ViLLEROi Style. 

Proceed as for Cariguan Style, but when the wings 
are cooked and cold, coat them with Villeroi sauce, 
place them on a lightly oiled dish and (when thor- 
oughly set) egg and bread crumb them and fry in hot 
lard. 

cotelettes de dinde a la southerland — turkey 
Cutlets, Southerland Style. 

Proceed as for Banker's Style, but add to the force- 
meat I tablespoonful each of chopped truffles, mush- 
rooms and ham. 

Dress cm a dish, garnish with asparagus tips and 
serve Beamaise sauce separate. 

COTELETTES DE DiNDE A LA BaNQUIERE — ^TURKEY 

Cutlets, Banker's Style. 

Chop fine and pound in the mortar i pound of breast 
of turkey ; add 4 ounces of beef marrow and 4 ounces 
of soft white bread, soaked in milk; season to taste 
with salt, pepper and nutmeg, and set on ice to get 
firm. 

Roll the above in flour to give it the shape of small 
cutlets, dip in beaten eggs and roll in bread crumbs^ 
and fry in clarified butter; drain and dress on a nap- 
so 



Icin. Stick a favor in each cutlet, and serve Bankers* 
sauce separate. 

COTELETTES DE PiGEONNEAUX A LA SyLVIA SQUAB 

Cutlets, Sylvia Style. 

Split 6 squabs in halves and remove all bones ex- 
cept the drumsticks. 

Saute the squabs lightly on the inner side only, 
and put them under a light press. When cold, trim 
them nicely and lay on the inner side a salpicon of 
truffles, mushrooms and foie gras, cut in small 
squares and mixed with well reduced German sauce. 
Cover with chicken forcemeat and decorate with 
truffles and smoked beef tongue to your fancy. 

Lay the cutlets in a buttered saute pan. Fifteen 
minutes before serving, put it on top of the range, 
and when the butter hisses cover the pan and finish 
to cook in a moderate oven. Dress on a dish, put 
a favor on each drumstick and serve Truffle sauce 
separate. 

Cotelettes de Pigeonneaux a la Valois — Squab 

Cutlets, Valois Style. 

Cut the squabs in halves and free from bone, leav- 
ing only the drumstick. Season with salt and pep- 
per; egg and bread-crumb and fry in clarified but- 
ter. Dish up, put a favor on each drumstick, gar- 
nish with asparagus or some other vegetable, and 
serve Valois sauce separate. 

Poitrine de Tetras a l^Occidentale — Breast of 
Grouse, Occidental Style. 

Lift the breasts of grouse and trim and saute them 
over a brisk fire. 

Have ready i pint of pepper sauce, and add to it 
a tablespoonful of red currant jelly. 

Shred fine i part each of red sweet peppers, truf- 
fles, gherkins, and the white of a hard-boiled egg; 

60 




add these ingredients to the sauce, and pour over 
the breasts. 

PORTRINE DE TeTRAS A LA ROMANOFF — BrEAST OF' 

Grouse, Romanoff StyleI 

Prepare and cook the breasts as for Londonderry. 
Have ready some port wine sauce, add to it shredded 
gherkins and truffles, and pour over the breasts. 

Petits Pates de BecassineS a l'Epicurien — Small- 
Snipe Patties, Epicurean Style. 

Bone 8 or lo snipe, and stuff them with chicken 
forcemeat, to which has been added one-eighth part 
of cooked forcemeat. Then lay a piece each of 
truffle and foie gras on each bird, and shape them in^ 
round balls. 

Line some deep tartlet or patty moulds with short 
paste, place the snipe in them and cover with a 
layer of paste, being careful to close the borders 
well. Make a small opening at the top and decorate 
the cover; then brush over with beaten egg, and. 
bake in a moderate oven for 30 to 40 minutes. 

With the bones of the birds, prepare a rich stock,, 
strain it and reduce with Madeira sauce. 

When the birds are done lift the cover, pour over 
some of the gravy, and serve on a napkin. 

Note. — ^This dish may be served cold by adding 
some gelatine to the stock before filling up the 
patties. 

Caisses de Becassines a la Financiere — Snipe in 

Cases^ Financier's Style. 

Lift the breasts of snipe and saute them over a 
brisk fire. Fill some small cases with Financier gar- 
nishing, glaze over the breasts and set one on top of 
each case. 

COQUILLES DE DiNDE A LA DrEUX— TURKEY IN 

Shells, Dreux Style. 

Cut some breast of cooked, turkey into neat collops, 
add some sliced ham, truffles and mushrooms, blend 
with Veloute cream sauce, season highly and fill into- 

91 



silver shells. Besprinkle with bread crumbs and melted 
butter, and bake in a medium oven. 

COQUILLES DE DiNDES A l'AuRORE — TuRKEY IN 

Shells, Aurora Style. 

The same as for Dreux style, but leave out the 
truffles and blend the sauce with one-third part of To- 
mato sauce. 

Coquilles a la Chevreuse — Shells, Chevreuse 

Style. 

Cut some breast of cooked turkey, capon or fowl 
into neat coUops, add an equal amount of cooked and 
colloped sweetbread and some sliced truffles and mush- 
rooms, and blend with German sauce. Season to taste, 
fill up some silver shells and finish as explained for 
Turkey in Shells, Dreux Style, 

Coquilles a la Toulousaine — Shells, Toulouse 

Style. 

Use the same ingredients as for the preceding re- 
ceipt, but add fat goose liver, cocks' combs and kid- 
neys. Heat well in the sauce, season to taste and fill 
up the shells (but do not bake them in the oven) . 

Supreme de Becassines a l'Alsacienne — Supreme 

OF Snipes, Alsatian Style. 

Prepare some heart-shaped crusts (cut from a sand- 
wich loaf) ; hollow the crusts in the center, fry them 
lightly in clarified butter and fill the cavities with 
puree of Foie Gras. 

Take as many snipes' breasts as necessary, remove 
the skin, season well and saute in butter over a brisk 
fire. Glaze over each breast and place it on top of a 
crust. 

Serve separate, Madeira sauce, flavored with the 
bones of the birds. 

POITRINES DE PoULETS A l'OpERA — BrEASTS OF 

Chicken, Opera Style. 

Prepare the breasts of chicken as for a la Florian, 
but instead of dipping them in melted butter, dip them 

62 



in beaten eggs and bread crumbs, and fry in clarified 
butter. 

Serve the following sauce separate • 

Opera Sauce, — Pound 2 ounces of fat goose liver 
(foie gras) in the mortar, with 2 ounces of sweet but- 
ter and rub through a fine sieve. Heat i pint of Cream 
sauce, add to it 2 tablespoonfuls of beef extract and 
finish with the goose liver butter ; season with salt and 
paprika. 

POITRINE DE POULET A LA FlORIAN — BrEAST OF 

Chicken, Florian Fashion. 

Lift the breasts from as many chickens as are 
needed, leaving the wingbone on. Remove the sur- 
rounding meat from the wingbone, and the epidermis 
from the breast. Season, dip in melted butter, and 
then in bread crumbs (mixed with one-third of finely 
chopped ham), broil over a clear fire and serve with 
pepper sauce. 

POITRINE DE PoULET A LA PrINCESSE — ^BrEAST OF 

Chicken, Princess Fashion. 

Remove the breasts from as many chickens as are 
required (2-pound chickens are the best for this pur- 
pose) ; separate the small fillets which are near the 
breast bone, and lay aside. 

Take off the skin and epidermis of the breasts, trim 
to a uniform shape, and place in a well-buttered saute 
pan. 

Remove the sinews of the small fillets, make 5 or 6 
bias incisions half through them, and put in each in- 
cision a round slice of truffle (J^ inch in diameter and 
previously dipped in the beaten white of an egg). 
Moisten the breasts also with the egg, and place the 
small fillet lengthwise on them, cover with a buttered 
paper and cook in a slow oven from 10 to 12 minutes. 

Serve with a Veloute Cream sauce, and artichoke 
bottoms filled with asparagus tips tossed in butter. 

POITRINE DE PoULET A L'AmIRAL — BrEAST OF 

Chicken, Admiral Fashion. 

Prepare the breasts of chickens as for Princess 
Fashion, but use half truffle and half smoked beef 
tongue to fill the incisions of the small fillets. 

68 



When cooked dress the breasts on a bed of rice 
cooked in chicken broth, and serve with Veloute Cream 
sauce, blended with well reduced Tomato sauce. 

boudin de volaille a la lucullus— boudin of 

Chicken, Lucullus Style. 

. Prepare some chicken forcemeat and keep it rather 
firm. Chop fine i onion, fry it (colorless) in butter^ 
drain and add it to the forcemeat. Also add to the 
forcemeat to the extent of a quarter of its amount 
equal parts each of truffles, mushrooms and foie gras 
cut in very small squares. 

Take this preparation and lay it (a tablespoonful at 
a time) on a floured marble or table. Shape these 
spoonfuls into flat oval rounds, lay them on a buttered 
pan and cover with boiling salted water ; set on the fire 
and remove at first boil ; allow to stand on the comer 
of the range for lo minutes, then withdraw and allow 
to get cold. 

Drain and dry the boudins, egg and bread-crumb 
them, and fry in hot lard. Serve on a napkin with 
Perigueu^ sauce separate. 

Petits Souffles de Volaille a la Financiere — 
Small Chicken Souffles, Financier's Fashion. 

Prepare a garnishing of equal parts of truffles, mush- 
rooms, olives and goose liver, aind bind with thickly re- 
duced Madeira sauce. Put a teaspoonful of this prep- 
aration into small cases (either edible, paper or china), 
and cover with the following preparation : 

Pound 8 ounces of breast of chicken or turkey with 
I pint of Bechamel sauce, rub through a fine sieve, sea- 
son with salt, pepper arid nutmeg, and add 2 egg yolks. 
Whip the whites to a stiff froth, and add by degrees. 

When the cases are filled, smooth over the top and 
brush with melted butter to prevent a crust forming. 
Cook in a moderate oven for 12 to 15 minutes, and 
serve on a napkin. 

Brochettes de Foies de Volaille a la Reine — Bro- 

CHETTES OF ChICKEN LiVERS, QuEEN FaSHION. 

Cut the livers into suitable pieces and saute them in 
butter over a brisk fire. Have ready some small pieces 

64 



of bacon and some cocks' kidneys (from which the 
skin has been removed). Arrange the liver, bacon and 
kidneys alternately on a skewer ; season, dip in melted 
butter and bread crumbs, and broil over a clear fire. 
Serve with Bearnaise sauce separate. 

POITRINES DE PeRDREAUX A LA DaRTOIS — BrEASTS OF 

Partridges^ Dartois Style. 

Remove the breasts from 4 partridges, trim them 
neatly, season with salt and pepper, and saute over a 
brisk fire. 

When done, dress the breasts on a dish. Remove 
the butter from the pan, moisten with 2 tablespoonfuls 
of white wine, allow to reduce, and then add 2 table- 
spoonfuls of beef extract ; next add 3 ounces of sweet 
butter, the juice of a half lemon, and a teaspoonful of 
chopped parsley. Pour this sauce over the breasts, and 
garnish them with artichoke bottoms filled with pota- 
toes and truffles (cut in j4-inch squares, sauted in but- 
ter and rolled in meat extract) , 

POITRINE DE PeRDREAUX A LA COMTESSE — BrEAST OF 

Partridges, Countess Style. 

Lift the breasts of partridges, trim them nicely, sea- 
son, egg and bread-crumb Siem, and fry in clarified: 
butter. 

Dish up and garnish with a^aragus tips. 'Serye- 
' Bearnaise sauce separate. 

Bruants en Surprise — ^Reed Birds in Surprise, 

Potatoes. ^ j 

Prepare and cook some reedbirds as instructed for 
Vol au Vent a la Bcmquier. 

Prepare also some good-sized baked potatoes by 
cutting a piece oflf one end and standing the tubers up- 
right to cook and then, when baked, cutting oflf the tops 
also and scooping them out with a vegetable spoon. 

Place a bird in each potato, and pour oyer it some 
Truffle sauce. Set the covers on the potatoes, and put 
in the oven for 15 minutes. Serve on folded napkins. 

65 



Bruants a la Lucullus — Reed Birds, Lucullus 

Fashion. 

Prepare the reedbirds as explained for Vol cm Vent 
41 la Banquier. 

Have some large truffles scooped out with a vege- 
table spoon, and place a stuffed bird in each truffle; 
put them in a saucepan, moisten with Madeira and 
cook for 25 to 30 minutes in a slow oven. 

Dress the reedbirds on a dish ; reduce the remaining 
Madeira with Brown sauce to a good consistency, strain 
and pour over the birds. 

Croquettes de Nouilles au Jambon — Noodle Cro- 
quettes WITH Ham. 

Follow the directions for Noodle Crusts, and then 
add some cooked lean ham, cut in small squares (or 
thin strips). When cold, shape into croquettes, dip in 
beaten eggs and roll in bread crumbs ; fry in hot lard, 
and serve on folded napkin with fried parsley. 

Tomato sauce may be served separate. 

Croustades a la Reine — Crusts, Queen Fashion. 

Have ready some tartelette crusts, fill them with cold 
Queen garnishing, and cover the top with chicken 
cream forcemeat ; smooth the surface and decorate with 
fancifully cut truffles. 

Bake in a moderate oven, brushing the forcemeat 
with melted butter to prevent the forming of a crust. 

Croustades de Nouilles — Noodle Crusts. 

After the noodles have been cooked and drained, put 
them in a saucepan with i pint of Bechamel sauce ; heat 
well; add 4 ounces of butter and 6 ounces of grated 
Parmesan dieese ; season to taste and bind with 6 egg 
yolks. Then put in a tin pan under light press and 
finish them exactly as rice crusts. 

Serve, if desired, with the same garnishing as rice 
crusts. 

66 



Croustades de Farina a la Dauphine-^^arina 

Crusts, Dauphin Style. 

Stir }i pound of farina into 2 quarts of boiling stock ; 
continue to stir continuously until it sets, and then place 
on the side of the range to cook for 25 minutes. Finish 
with 6 ounces of butter and 8 ounces of grated Par- 
mesan cheese, and add salt to taste. 

Butter some small round charlotte moulds, and fill 
them with the cooked farina; smooth the tops, cover 
with a well-buttered paper and set aside to get cold. 
After 2 hours, remove the paper and unmould the 
farina ; roll the latter in bread crumbs and beaten eggs, 
and again in bread crumbs; repeat this operation, and 
then with a round pastry cutter make a light incision on 
the top of each crust (to be) ; fry to a nice color in hot 
lard, and drain ; then take off the covers and scoop out 
the insides (being careful not to break the crust). 

Cut into y^'inch pieces equal parts of cocks' combs 
and kidneys, truffles, mushrooms and cooked sweet- 
bread; heat in a little Madeira, and bind with half 
Veloute and half Hollandaise sauce. 

Fill this mixture into the crusts, put on their covers, 
and serve on a napkin. 

Croutes de Foxes de Volaille a la Murillo — 
Crusts of Chicken Livers, Murillo Style. 

Cut the chicken livers into J4 inch squares, saute 
them in butter over a brisk fire and add them to a 
thickly reduced Tomato sauce (blended with rich veal 
gravy) ; add some mushrooms and cooked ham (cut 
in squares) and some cooked macaroni of the same size ; 
season highly, heat well (without boiling), and work in 
a piece of butter. 

Dish up in well heated crusts (made of puff paste 
trimmings). 

Croutes de Foies de Volaille a la Balzac — Crusts 
OF Chicken Livers, Balzac Style. 

The same as the preceding receipt, but instead of ham 

67 



and macaroni add very small glazed onions and stuffed 
French olives. 

Croutes aux Rognons de Veau a la Bordelaise — 
Crusts of Veal Kidneys, Bordeaux Style. 

Slice (fine) some veal kidneys, saute them in butter 
over a brisk fire, drain and add them to some Bordeaux 
sauce with mushrooms. Fill up the crusts and serve. 

Croutes aux Rognons de Veau a iJ Italienne — 
Crusts of Veal Kidneys, Italian Style. 

Proceed as for a la Bordelaise, but instead of 
Bordeaux sauce, use Italian sauce, and before serving 
add some chopped fine herbs and a few drops of lemon 
juice. 



68 



VEGETABLES, ETC. 



FoNDS d^Artichauts a la Bayard— Artichoke 

Bottoms, Bayard Style. 

Fill the tops of some artichoke bottoms with puree 
of foie gras, cover with cream chicken forcemeat; 
smooth the surface with a table knife (dipped in luke 
warm water) and decorate with truffles cut in fanciful 
shapes. 

Place the artichokes in a buttered pan and moisten 
with a little chicken broth ; cover the pan and cook in 
a mild oven for 12 to 15 minutes. 

Serve with Madeira sauce, to which halve been added 
equal parts of shredded truffles, chicken breast, smoked 
beef tongue and mushrooms. 

FoNDS d'Artichauts a la Ristori — ^Artichoke 

Bottoms, Ristori Style. 

Prepare a rich risotto and add fat goose livers and 
truffles (cut in small squares). 

With this preparation fill some small artichoke bot- 
tCMiis; allow to get cold, then egg and bread crumb 
them and fry in hot lard. 

Serve on a folded napkin with rich Tomato sauce 
(blended with veal gravy) served separate. 

Gnocchi a lTtalienne — GifoccHi, Italian Style. 

Put in a pan 2 gills of water and i ounce of butter ; 
when boiling, add 4 ounces of sifted flour ; stir with a 
wooden spoon until the paste detaches from the sides 
of the pan, then put into a basin; add the pulp of 3 

69 



large baked potatoes (rubbed through a fine sieve), 
3 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and 3 or 4 eggs 
(one after the other). Season with salt, pepper and 
grated nutmeg and then put away to get cold. 

Next, roll the paste out into small balls, ^ of an 
inch in diameter, and cook in lightly salted water for 
ID or 12 minutes, then drain and arrange them on a 
dish, layer by layer, besprinkling with grated Par- 
mesan cheese. Pour over some butter, heated to the 
nut degree, set the dish in the oven for a few minutes 
and serve without delay. 

COQUILLES DE GnOCCHI A LA RoMAINE GnOCCHI IN 

Shells^ Roman Style. 

Prepare and cook the Gnocchi as explained in the 
preceding receipt. 

Prepare a light Cream sauce, incorporate some 
grated Parmesan cheese, add the drained gnocchis 
and season to taste. Then fill up some shells and 
bake in the oven to a nice color. 

Crepes de Mais et Lucines Oranges — Corn and 

Clam Fritters. 

Dilute 2 tablespoonfuls of flour with sufficient cold 
milk to make a liquid batter, add 2 whole eggs, the 
yolks of 2 more, the grated corn from 6 cobs, and 36 
finely chopped Little Neck clams. Season with salt, 
nutmeg and a pinch of sugar. 

Heat some lard in a large omelet pan, drop in spoon- 
fuls of the batter (so as to form small cakes) and fry 
on both sides to a nice golden color. Drain and serve 
on a napkin. 

Macaroni aux Huitres a la Sefton — Macaroni 
AND Oysters, Sefton Style. 

Take off the belly part of 3 dozen oysters, cook them 
in their own juice and add 2 gills of Cream sauce. 

Cook (in salted water) 4 ounces of macaroni. When 
cooked, cut in J4 inch pieces and throw them in with 
the oysters. - Heat well, season with salt and pepper 
and incorporate 3 ounces of butter and 4 ounces of 

70 



grated Parmesan cheese. Serve in baked tartlet crusts^ 
very hot. 

COQUILLES DE SPAGHETTI AUX JaMBON ET TrUFFES — 

Shells of Spaghetti with Ham and Truffles. 

Cook the Spaghetti and drain, when done. 

Heat some butter ; when at the nut degree, add the 
spaghetti; stir for a while, then moisten with a little 
thin Cream sauce, season ' highly, incorporate the 
necessary quantity of grated Parmesan cheese and a 
good deal of finely shredded ham and truffles. 

Fill some shells with the spaghetti, strew over some 
grated Parmesan cheese, place a small piece of butter 
on each and bake in a brisk oven to a light golden 
color. 

Spaghetti a la Boieldieu — Spaghetti, Boieldieu 

Style. 

Boil I pound of spaghetti in salted water. When 
cooked, drain and put back in the saucepan and add 4 
ounces of butter and the same quantity of grated Par- 
mesan cheese (in small parts at a time). 

When serving, make a hollow in the center and fill 
with the following garnishing : 

Reduce i pint of Tomatto sauce to good consistency 
and add 2 tablespoonfuls of beef extract and 12 heads 
of mushrooms (cut in slices). Remove the skin of a 
veal kidney, slice very fine, saute in butter over a brisk 
fire, drain and add to the sauce with 2 ounces of but- 
ter. Season well with salt and paprika. 

Spaghetti a la Royale — Spaghetti, Royal 

Fashion. 

Cook the spaghetti and finish with butter and grated 
Parmesan cheese. 

Garnish the center with fresh mushrooms and 
truffles (sliced, sauted in butter and stewed in Ma- 
deira sauce). 

Croquettes de Spaghetti — Spaghetti Croquettes. 

Break some spaghetti into J^-inch pieces; cook in 
boiling, lightly salted water; drain and toss in butter, 

71 



add a little Bechamel sauce, season with salt and jp^ 
per, add scMne grated Parmesan cheese and put away 
to ^t cold. 

Shape into croquettes, breadcrumb ^em and fry in 
hot lard. Serve on a napkin, with Tomato sauce sep- 
arate. 

Croquettes de Spaghetti a la Milanaise — ^Spa- 
OHBTTi Croquettes, Milan Fashion. 

Prepare as explained in the preceding receipt, but, 
instead of Bechamel, use Tomato sauce reduced with 
veal gravy, and add a garnishing of shredded mush- 
robms, truffles and ham or smoked beef tongue. 

Petits Souffles aux Epinards — Small Spinach 

Souffles. 

Reduce to good consistency i pint of Bechamel, add 
2 gills of plain boiled spinach (pressed in the hands, 
to free it as much as possible from all moisture and 
then rubbed through a fine sieve) ; heat well, season 
with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg and bind with 4 
tgg yolks. 

Beat 6 egg whites to a stiff froth and blend with 
the spinach preparation. Fill into entree cases and 
bake in a mild oven for 12 to 15 minutes. 

Petits Souffles aux Epinards et Jambon — Small 
Spinach and Ham Souffles. 

Proceed as in the foregoing receipt, adding some 
finely chopped ham. 

Petits Souffles de Celeri — Small Celery 

Souffles. 

Cut up (fine) some outside stalks of celery and put 
to stew with a piece of butter and some white stock. 
When cooked rub through a fine sieve. 

To I pint of this puree of celery add i pint of Be- 
chamel and reduce to good consistency, bind with 4 
egg yolks and finish as explained for Small Spinach 
SouMSs. 

Mousse de Chouxfleur a la du Barry — Mousse 
of Cauliflower, du Barry Style. 

Cook a head of cauliflower (weighing about I 

72 



pound) in salted water and allow to get cpid; ^then 
jprftss in a n^pkui .(to fr^e ^firpm ,wnt^r), an^ rub 
througb a .hair .sieve. 

Reduce to good consistency 3 gills of Bechamel 
sauce and add the puree of cauliflower and 2 ounces of 
butter; season to taste with salt and nutmeg, and re- 
move from the fire. After 10 minutes, add 4 egg 
yolks and the whites whipped to a stiff froth. 

pill some small entree caksos tbreerfourths of their 
•height and cook in a mild oven from S to 10 minutes. 

Souffle de Champignon en Tartelette — Mush- 
room Souffle in Tartelettes. 

Incorporate 3 ^gg yolks with a pint of mushroom 
(puree; whip the whites to a stiff froth, and add th«m 
.also, blending gently. 

Fill up some baked tartelette crusts with this prepa- 
ration and bake in a moderate oven from 8 to 10 
minutes. 

Tartelettes a la Palmerston — ^Tartelettes, Pal- 

MERSTON Style. 

Prepare as in the preceding receipt but place on the 
bottom of each crust a tablespoonful of chicken hash 
in cream. 

Tartelettes a la Jardiniere — ^Jardiniere Tarte- 
lettes. 

Cut some young carrots into small squares, cook in 
lightly salted water and drain; add an equal amount 
of cooked green peas and green asparagus tips (cut 
small), toss in butter, and season with salt and a pinch 
of sugar. Fill some heated tartelette crusts with these 
vegetables and place in the center a floweret of cauli- 
flower (heated in salted water and dipped in Dutch 
sauce) or, the cauliflower may be placed on the vege- 
tables and the whole covered with Dutch sauce. 

Tartelette de Macaroni a la Beaufremont — 
Macaroni Tartlets, Beaufremont Style. 

Cut some cooked macaroni in pieces of J4 inch in 
length, toss in butter and add a little cream and Be- 
chamel (just enough to bind it) ; season to taste, add 

73 



some grated Parmesan cheese and fill into baked tar- 
tclette crusts. 

Sprinkle over some chopped truffles and a few drops 
of liquid beef extract ; heat well in the oven and serve 
on a napkin. 

PiMENTS Verts Farcis a la Bostonienne — ^^Stuffed 
Green Peppers, Boston Style: 

Dip some equal sized green peppers in hot fat for a 
few seconds, drain, dredge with salt and remove the 
skins with a towel. 

Cut oflf the end where the seeds are attached, re- 
move the seeds, and fill the peppers with crab meat 
(as prepared for stuffed crabs). Dip the crab meat 
in bread crumbs and stand the stuffed peppers on a 
buttered pan. Heat well in a medium oven and serve 
with Cream sauce. 

PiMENTs Verts Farcis a la New Yorkaise — 
Stuffed Green Peppers, New York Style. 

Proceed as for Boston style, but fill the peppers 
with "chicken croquette" preparation and serve with 
Madeira sauce. 

PiMENTs Verts Farcis a la St. James — Stuffed 
Green Peppers, St. James Style. 

Prepare a lamb hash with green peppers and one- 
third part of clams and add some hashed potatoes. 
Have the hash of good consistency. 

Have some peppers ready (as for Boston style) and 
stuff with the lamb hash. Serve with Madeira sauce. 

PiMENTs Verts Farcis aux Crevettes a l'Indienne 
— Green Peppers Stuffed with Shrimps, 

Indian Fashion. 

Remove the skin from the peppers, and prepare the 
followijig stuffing: 

Chop fine, 2 onions and i green pepper; fry in but- 
ter, without browning; add i quart of boiled rice; sea- 
son with salt and i teaspoonful of curry powder; 

74 



moisten with i gill of broth, add 24 peeled shrimps/ 
cut in small pieces, and fill the peppers with this prepa- 
ration. 
Finish as for other stuffed peppers. 

TOMATES A LA Du BaRRY — TOMATOES, Du BaRRY 

Style. 

Choose 12 large ripe tomatoes ; scald and peel them, 
cut a small slice off the top of each, scoop out with 
the vegetable spoon, season with salt and lay upside 
down on a wire sieve. When ready to serve, fill with 
cold cooked cauliflower, and serve on a folded napkin. 

TOMATES FaRCIS A LA MADRAS — ^StUFFED TOMA- 
TOES, Madras Fashion. 

Cho§e some ripe but firm tomatoes, make a circular 
incision the size of a 25-cent piece on the side of the 
stem, scoop out the interior of the tomato and fill with 
the following stuffing: 

Chop one onion fine and fry lightly in butter, add 
3 ounces of chopped cooked ham and i quart of boiled 
rice and season with salt and a heaping teaspoonful 
of curry powder. 

When the tomatoes are filled, strew bread crumbs 
over the stuffing; place a small lump of butter on each 
and bake in a moderate oven for 15 to 20 minutes. 



76 



EGG DISHES. 



Chaudfroid d'Oeufs a la Strassbourgeoise — 
Chaudfroid of Eggs^ Strassburg Style. 

Cut some hard boiled eggs lengthwise in halves and 
take out the yolks. Make a puree of the yolks, adding 
the same amount each of pate de foie gras and butter, 
then season to taste, and fill up the eggs, giving them 
their original shape and making them stand on the 
thicker part. 

Coat the eggs with brown Chaudfroid sauce, decor- 
ate nicely and brush over with partly melted jelly. 
Serve on a border of jelly. 

Chaudfroid d'Oeufs a la Ravigote — Chaudfroid 

OF Eggs^ Ravigote Style. 

Prepare some poached eggs (have them rather hard 
so as to be able to handle them without fear of break- 
ing them), place them (when cooked) in cold water 
and, when thoroughly cold, drain and trim them. Cut 
slices of cold beef tongue the same shape as the eggs. 
Then lay the eggs on top of the tongue and coat with 
green Chaudfroid sauce. When set, brush over with 
jelly and allow to get very cold before serving. 

Aspic d'Oeufs a la Lucullus — Aspic of Eggs, 

LucuLLus Style. 

Coat some small timbal molds with jelly; fill them 
up with alternate slices of truffle, fat goose liver and 
hard boiled egg and fill with partly melted jelly; allow 

76 



to get thoroughly stiff and serve with chopped jelly 
around. 

Aspic d'Oeufs a l^Ecarlate — Aspic of Eggs, Ecar- 

LATE Style. 

Proceed as for "a la LucuUus," but instead of sliced 
goose liver and truffles, use sliced beef tongue. 

Oeufs durs a la Marius — ^Hard Eggs, Marius 

Style. 

Have ready some hard boiled eggs, cut off both end^ 
so as to give the eggs the shape of a barrel and re- 
move the yolks. Qiop the yolk coarsely, add an equal 
amount of finely cut lobster, season to taste and bind 
with Mayonnaise sauce with chopped fine herbs and 
some partly melted jelly. Fill the eggs with this pre- 
paration and besprinkle the top with chopped parsley, 
truffles and lobster coral. 

Oeufs froids a la Normande — Cold Eggs, Norman 

Style. 

Remove the skin from i doz. sardines, break them up 
in small pieces, lay in shells and place a cold poached 
egg on the top of each shell. Garnish the borders of 
the shells with finely shredded lettuce leaves and over 
the eggs pour some Ravigote sauce and sprinkle 
chopped fine herbs. Lay a few fresh shrimps around 
the egg and serve cold. 

Oeufs Deux Freres — "Two Brother^' Eggs. 

Prepare some scrambled eggs with Parmesan 
cheese and serve in tartlet crusts. On top of each, lay 
one poached egg, pour over rich veal gravy and serve. 

Oeufs en Robe de Chambre — ^Eggs Cooked in 

Potatoes. 

Cut off one end of some raw potatoes, stand them 
upright and bake in the oven. When cooked, cut off^ 
the other end, scoop out the potato and pour in some 
Cream or Italian sauce, break a raw egg into each^ 

77 



place the covers on top and cook in a medium oven. 
When done serve on a folded napkin. 

Croquettes d'Oeufs a l'Italienne — Egg 
Croquettes, Italian Style. 

Cut 8 hard boiled eggs in small squares and mix 
into I pint of thickly reduced Cream sauce, season to 
faste with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg, add a good 
handful of grated Parmesan cheese and then put away 
to get cold. When cold, shape some croquettes', egg 
and bread crumb them and fry in hot lard. Serve 
on a napkin with Tomato sauce separate. 

Cromesquis d^Oeufs a la Colbert — Egg Cromes- 

Quis, Colbert Sauce. 

Prepare a mixture as for Egg Croquettes and spread 
it on strips of pancakes about 2 inches wide by 3 long, 
roll up, dip in frying batter and fry in hot lard. Serve 
on a napkin with Colbert sauce separate. 

Rissoles d'Oeufs — Egg Rissoles. 

Roll out some puff paste tf immings very thin and 
cut out pieces with a round channeled pastry cutter, 3 
inches in diameter. Lay some Egg Croquette prepar- 
ation in the center, moisten the border of the paste and 
then fold it in two so as to obtain a half round. Dip 
the edge in beaten eggs and bread crumbs and fry in 
hot lard. 

Oeufs Souffles a la Parmesanne — Eggs Souf- 

FLED, Parmesan Style. 

Put into a bowl 5 egg yolks, add two tablesponfuls 
of thick cream, i ounce of butter, 5 tablespoonfuls of 
grated Parmesan cheese, salt and a pinch each of 
grated nutmeg and cayenne pepper ; blend all these 
ingredients thoroughly, then whip the 5 egg whites and 
mix into the yolks, etc. 

Fill up some small entree cases }i of their height 
with the souffle preparation, strew over some grated 

78 



cheese and cook in a slow oven from 5 to 8 minutes. 
Serve on a folded napkin. 

Becasse Ecossaise — Scotch Woodcock. 

Many cooks when serving this dish simply serve 
scrambled eggs on anchovy toast. This is an error 
for only the egg yolks should be used and they should 
be mixed with cream. Proceed as follows : 

Beat 4 egg yolks with i gill of cream, season with 
salt and pepper, put in a saucepan over the fire and 
stir continuously until thick (but not boiling), add at 
last a small pat of butter and pour over hot anchovy 
toasts. 

Tartelettes a la Nicoise — ^Tartlets, Nice Style. 

Prepare some small tartlet crusts and have them 
baked about three-quarters only. 

Whip the whites of eight eggs to a stiflf froth, mix 
in a handful of grated Parmesan cheese and season 
with salt and cayenne pepper. Fill this into the crusts, 
make a hollow in the centre and place in it the raw 
yolk of an egg (in each crust), cover with some of the 
froth and bake in a slow oven for about eight minutes. 
Serve on a folded napkin. 



79 



CHEESE DISHES. 



Batonets au Parmesan — Small Parmesan Sticks. 

Roll out some puff paste trimmings, sprinkle over 
with gyrated Parmesan cheese, and fold in three. After 
i6 minutes roll out to J^ inch thick, brush over with 
egg and besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese^ 
mijced with a good pittch of cayenne. Cut the paste 
sticks 4 inches long ahd }4 inch wide, range on a bak- 
ing feheet and bafae in a btisk Oven. Serve on folded 
napkin. 

Bavarois au PARiitesAN — Parmesan Bavarios. 

Put 6 tgg yolks into a saucepan and dilute with i 
pint of milk; set on the range over a slow fire, whip- 
ping continuously until it thickens and being careful 
not to let it boil ; add j/i ounce of leaf gelatine (pre- 
viously soaked in cold water), and ij4 ounces of 
grated Parmesan cheese. 

Allow this preparation to cool. Then add i pint of 
whipped cream; season to taste with salt and red pep- 
per ; fill into some small moulds or cases ; set in a cool 
place for 2 hours, and serve on a folded napkin. 

Note. — ^The moulds should be lightly oiled. This 
can be done by placing the oil on a towel and then rub- 
bing the insides. 

Beignets de Gruyere — Gruyere Fritters. 

Prepare some rich Bechamel sauce (half milk and 
half cream) ; add one third part grated Gruyere 

80 



(Swiss) cheese and season with salt and cayenne pep- 
per. Lightly oil a square tin pan, pour in the above 
preparation and place on ice. 

When very cold turn onto the table, cut into lozenges 
or with the round paste cutter ; egg and bread-crumb 
them and fry in hot lard. 

Nate, — If the fritters should prove too light, it will- 
be necessary to egg and crumb them twice. 

Beignets de Camembert — Camembert Fritters. 

Clean a whole camembert and rub it through a fine 
sieve ; add the same amount of well reduced Bechamel, 
and thicken with 3 egg yolks ; season with salt and red 
pepper, and put away to get cold. 

When very cold and hard, shape into small, round, 
flat croquettes, dip in beaten eggs, roll in bread crumbs, 
and fry in hot lard. 

Serve on a napkin with fried parsley. 

Beignets Souffles a la Parmesanne — Parmesan 

Cheese Fritters. 

Put into a saucepan i pint of water with 2 ounces 
of butter. When boiling, add 5 ounces of sifted flour, 
and stir over the fire until the paste detaches from the 
pan; add 2 ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, take 
from the fire and 5 minutes later add 3 eggs (one after 
the other) ; season with salt, cayenne and nutmeg. 

Drop I dessertspoonful of this paste into hot lard^ 
and move it gently with the skimmer until of a nice 
color. Serve hot on a napkin. 

Ramequins au Fromage — ^Cheese Ramekins. 

Prepare a paste (as for Parmesan cheese fritters) 
with the following ingredients: 2 gills of water, 2 
ounces of butter, 4 ounces of flour, 3 eggs and 4 ounces 
of Parmesan cheese. 

When the paste is cold, put lumps on a buttered 
baking dish (using a tablespoon) ; brush over with 
beaten egg; besprinkle with finely diced Gruyere- 
cheese; bake in a medium oven and serve hot. 

81 



Beignets Souffles au Parmesan et Jambon — Par- 
mesan Cheese and Ham Fritters. 

Add to the Parmesan cheese fritter preparation i 
ounce of lean, cooked ham and cut in very smaU 
squares. 

Beignets de Fromage — Cheese Fritters. 

Cut from a sandwich loaf, slices J4 inch thick. With 
the pastry cutter cut out round pieces i J^ inch in diam- 
eter and dip them in milk. Cover one side of the bread 
thickly with cheese cream; and lay another slice of 
bread on top. Egg and bread-crumb these sandwiches 
and fry them in hot lard. Serve hot on a napkin. 

Beignets a la Napolitaine — Neapolitan Fritters. 

Pour into 3 pints of boiling chicken broth, 4 ounces 
of farina and boil for i hour over a slow fire ; season 
and before putting it away to cool incorporate 2 ounces 
of butter and an equal amount of grated Parmesan 
cheese. 

When thoroughly cold, cut out round pieces ij4 
inch in diameter and J4 inch in thickness. Put some 
Cheese Croquette preparation on half of the slices and 
cover with the other hstlf of the slices. Dip in beaten 
eggs, roll in bread crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 

Beignets de Fromage a la Suisse — Cheese Frit- 
ters, Swiss Fashion. 

Mix (in a bowl) 8 ounces of freshly made bread 
crumbs with 6 ounces of grated Swiss cheese; add 4 
ounces of butter and 4 egg yolks; season with red 
pepper and a pinch of grated nutmeg and allow to get 
thoroughly cold. 

Shape from this preparation small round flat pieces; 
egg and bread-crumb them and fry in hot lard. Serve 
hot. 

Canapes a la Bernoise — Canapes, Bernese 

Fashion. 

Have ready some small square pieces of buttered 
toast; cover them with finely chopped ham (mixed 

S2 



v. 



with a little cream sauce), and lay on top a thin ^lice 
of Swiss cheese. Bake in a brisk oven and serve 
very hot. 

Canapes a la Baloise — Canapes, Bale Fashion. 

Proceed as directed in the previous receipt, but cover 
the toast with a thick puree of onions (Soubise) instead 
of ham, and lay the cheese on top of this. 

Creme Frite au Fromage — Cheese Cream Fritters. 

Put lo ounces of rice flour into a pan ; dilute with 
I quart of milk and add 5 ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese, 8 egg yolks and 2 ounces of butter. Set on the 
fire and stir vigorously until it boils, season with salt 
and red pepper and add 5 ounces of Swiss cheese. 

Put away in a lightly oiled flat vessel and when very 
cold cut in small suitable pieces — either square, round 
or lozenge shaped; egg and bread-crumb these and 
fry in hot lard. 

Note, — To facilitate proceedings, the cheese prepa- 
ration may be put to cool in small, round, flat and 
lightly oiled moulds. 

Croquettes de Fromage — Cheese Croquettes. 

Reduce i pint of Cream sauce to good consistency 
and bind with 2 egg yolks. When lukewarm, add 4 
ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and the same 
amount of Gruyere cheese cut in small squares, season 
with paprika and put in a cool place. When cold, 
shape into small croquettes, egg and bread-crumb them 
and fry in hot lard. 

Cromesquis de Fromage — Cheese Cromesquis. 

Prepare some unsweetened French pancakes, cut in 
strips 2 inches wide and 3 inches long and fill them 
with the same preparation as for Cheese Croquettes. 
Dip in frying batter and fry in very hot lard. 

GiMBLETTES AU FrOMAGE — ChEESE GiMBLETS. 

Put on the pastry board 4 ounces es^ch of flour and 
grated Parmesan or Swiss cheese. Season with salt, 

83 



nutmeg and red peper and incorporate 3 ounces of 
butter and a half gill of cream. Allow to stand for 15 
minutes, then roll out the paste to J4 inch in thickness. 
Cut out round pieies with the channeled pastry cutter, 
lay them on a baking sheet, brush over with beaten 
eggs and bake in a moderate oven. Serve hot. 

GiMBLETTES AU FrOMAGE A LA CrEME — ChEESE 

Cream Gimblets. 

Proceed as in previous receipt, except to roll the 
paste thinner. 

Cover ona side of the cakes with cheese cream and 
lay another cake on top. 

Failles au Fromage — Cheese Straws. 

Prepare the same paste as for Cheese Gimblets, roll 
out to }i inch in thickness; cut bands 3 to 4 inches 
wide and these again into fine straw-like strips. 

Place the strips on a baking sheet and bake in a 
brisk oven. 

Paillettes au Diable — Small Straws^ Deviled. 

Put on the pastry board 4 ounces, each, of flour and 

grated Parmesan cheese ; add 2 ounces of butter, 3 egg 

yolks, 2 tablespoonfuls of thick cream, some salt and 

V plenty of cayenne pepper. Work all this to a paste 

and allow to rest for 15 minutes. 

Then roll out the paste to % of an inch in thickness, 
cut into bands 2 inches wide and then into fine strips 
and allow to dry well. 

A few minutes before serving, place in a frying 
basket and plunge into smoking hot lard and fry to a 
golden color. Serve on a folded napkin. 

Biscuit au Fromage — ^Cheese Fingers. 

Cream 5 ounces of butter with 10 egg yolks, season 
with salt, nutmeg and red pepper; add 5 ounces of 
Parmesan cheese, the froth of 10 egg-whites and (last) 
8 ounces of flour. 

Butter a baking sheet lightly, strew over some flour 
and with the pastry bag (fitted with a round tube) 

84 



lay the above preparation on the baking sheet in the 
shape of small lady fingers. Cook in a brisk oven and 
serve hot. 



BisQuiTs Au Fromage^ Pralines — Cheese Biscuits 

WITH Almonds. 

Proceed as in the previous receipt but lay a buttered 
paper over the baking sheet and pour the prepar;aition 
over it. Besprinkle with chopped almonds and bake in 
a hot oven. 

When baked, allow to get cold; then remove the 
paper and cut the biscuits into suitable shapes and 
pieces. 



Souffles au Parmesan — Parmesan Cheese 

Souffles. 

Dilute 2 ounces of flour with i pint of milk and I 
gill of cream, season with salt,, nutmeg and cayenne, 
set on the fire and stir continuously until boiling (be- 
ing careful not to have any lumps). Add 2 ounces of 
butter, 4 egg yolks and 6 ounces of grated Parmesan 
cheese. Whip the whites of 6'%ggs very firm and add 
gently to the mixture. 

Fill some small cases with this, and bake in a hot 
oven for about 8 minutes or more (according to the 
size of the cases). 



Souffle au Parmesan et Jambon — Parmesan 

Cheese and Ham Souffle. 

Proceed as for Parmesan Cheese Souffle ; adding to 
the cheese preparation some cooked ham, cut in small 
squares. 

Souffles a la Helder — Souffles Helder Fashion. 

Proceed as for Parmesan Cheese Souffle; adding 
some shredded truffles and ham. 

85 



Fondue de Fromage a la Galloise — Welsh 

Rarebit. 

Cut 8 ounces of rich American cheese in small pieces 
and put into a pan with J4 g^ll of ale. Set on the fire 
to melt, stirring all the time until thoroughly melted. 
If too thick, add more ale. Then pour the cheese 
over some dry toast on a very hot china dish. 

Notes, — The rarebit may be seasoned with red pep- 
per or Worcestershire sauce. 

Care has to be taken in selecting the cheese. If too 
old it will curdle and if too new it is liable to become 
stringy. To remedy either accident, add a little Cream 
sauce. 

Fondue de Fromage dit: Golden Buck — Golden 

Buck. 

Proceed as for Welsh Rarebit, but serve one poached 
egg on top of each piece of toast. 

Fondue de Fromage dit : Yorkshire Buck — York- 
shire Buck. 

Proceed as for Golden Buck, adding 2 slices of 
broiled bacon to each egg. 

Fondue de Fromage dit : Long Island Buck — ^Long 

Island Buck. 

Prepare a Welsh rarebit, keeping it rather thin, and 
before serving add the yolks of 2 raw eggs. 

Creme au Fromage — Cheese Cream. 

Place in a bowl 5 ounces of grated Parmesan or 
Swiss cheese, i ounce of cornstarch and 6 tgg yolks 
and dilute with i pint of boiling cream. 

Season with salt, red pepper and grated nutmeg ; add 
2 ounces of butter and place on the fire. Stir con- 
tinuously. At the first boil remove from the fire and 
place on ice, stirring until somewhat cool. 

Note. — This cream is mentioned in various receipts. 

86 



Detailed Index of Dishes 



«4 



COLD HORS D'OEUVRE AND 
SAVOURIES. 

Almonds, Salted 5 

Canapes, Alsatian 6 

" , Beef Tongue, Hungarian Style. 6 

, Deviled Ham 6 

, Lorraine 6 

" , Reform 6 

Caviare Eclairs lo 

Served in Eggs 7 

Sticks d 

Cheese Cream Puffs 9 

Crabs (Hard)^ Dressed, English Fashion. lo 

Eclairs, Rossini Style lo 

German Salt Sticks 5 

Hazel Nuts, Deviled 5 

Lettuce Leaves. Genoese Fashion 7 

" , Indian Style 7 

Medallions of Lobster, Russian Style ... 8 

Medallions, Strasburg Style 7 

, Westphalia Style 8 

Olives, Stuffed, with Anchovies 5 

" , Stuffed, with Anchovy Butter. . . s 

Patties (Small), Lobster, with Jelly 8 

" " , Massarena, with Jelly.. 9 

" " . Montglas, with Jelly... 8 

Pistachio Nuts, Salted 5 

Puffs (Small), Swedish Fashion 9 

Russian Chicken Salad 10 

Fish Salad 10 

Tomatoes, American Style i 

with Shrimps, Ravigote Sauce 1 

, Swedish Style z 

, Venetian Style 1 

Truffles, Imitation z 

HOT HORS D'OEUVRE. 

Allumettes with Puree of Chicken Livers 12 

Anchovy Allumettes 12 

Beef Tongue (Smoked) on Toast, En- 
glish Fashion 17 

Chicken Tartlets, Pompadour Style 20 

" '* , Viennese Style 20 

Cccks' Combs, Stuffed, Pompadour Style 16 

•• , Villeroi Style... 16 

Fritters, Anchovy z 5 

** , Calf's Brain Z4 

, " " . d'Uxelle Style... Z4 

,-Frou-Frou Z3 

, Marrow, d'Uxelle Fashion Z4 

, Mixed, Italian Style 17 

, Marie Louise Z3 



« 

« 



« 

<l 
41 
<4 
<( 



Fritters, Mushroom, Nemours Style.... Z4 

** , Sarah Bernhardt Style Z3 

" , Yarmouth z 5 

Game Allumettes Z2 

Goose Liver, Tartlets of Fat. Regency 

Style 19 

Goose Liver, Tartlets of Fat, Queen 

Style 19 

Ham on Toast, English Fashion 16 

" Tartlets, Hungarian 20 

Kulibjac (or Russian Patties) 17 

Pancakes with Caviare z6 

with Ham '. z6 

** , Roman z6 

Rissoles, Foie Gras 19 

" with Marrow Z9 

" with Oysters 19 

" , Royal Fashion z8 

Skewers, Swiss Fashion Z3 

Sweetbread, Monte Carlo Style 18 

Sweetbread Canapes, (merman Stvle 15 

" , Italian Style zs 

FISH AND SHELLFISH. 

Bloater, Souffles of, Irish Fashion 23 

Canapes, Dewey Style 21 

" of Hard Crabs, Lorenzo Style.. 28 

" , Lobster, Belasco Style 22 

** , Lobster, Martha Style 22 

" , Manhattan 22 

" .Oyster Crab, Savoy Style 21 

Dams, Hard, South Side Club Style . . . ?6 

*' , Schenck Style ,. 27 

" , Soft, Boniface Style 27 

" , Soft, Godard Style 27 

" , Stuffed 26 

" , Stuffed, Deviled 27 

Codfish with Cream, Baked in Shells.... 31 

'* in Shells, Baked, Italian Style.. 3Z 

" , Crusts of, Braganza Style 31 

" , Crusts of, Diaz 'Style. . ." 3Z 

Crabs, Stuffed 27 

" , Stuffed,. Deviled 28 

Crab Meat, Creole Style 29 

" , Dewey Style 29 

" , Maryland Style 28 

" " and Oyster Crabs, Maryland 

Style 28 

" , Victoria Style 29 

Crawfish, Stuffed 24 

" Souffle, Nantua Style 24 

Fish in Shells, Cardinal Style 3z 

" " •* , Joinville Style 32 



87 



DETAILED INDEX OF DISHES— Continued. 



Haddock, Cream of Smoked, Meadow- 
brook Style 23 

" , Crusts of, Indian Fashion 22 

" (Finnan), Souffle of Smoked.. 23 

Lobster, Baked, Victoria Style 30 

" Croquettes, Indian F'ashion .... 29 

" Sauted, Knapp Style 30 

** Souffle, American Style 24 

" Skewers, Duchesse Style 29 

** Skewers, Mexican Style 2ft 

Oysters, Fried, Flynn Style 25 

" , Parmentier Style 26 

** , Schenck Style 25 

" , Small Souffles of 25 

" , Waldorf Style 25 

Pickerel, Boudin of, Thermidor Style... 33 

Pilau, Mariner's Fashion 32 

Salmon, Border of^ with Soft Clams, 

Barlow Style 34 

" Timbales, Maltese S.tyle 34 

Sardines, Deviled, on Toast 35 

" , Epicurean Style 3S 

" , Orly Style 35 

. , Quirinal Style 35 

Scallops. Mills Fashion 33 

Shrimps, Brazilian Style 32 

" , Pilau, Louisiana Style 32 

Sole, Souffled Fillets of 33 

Whitebait, Parisian (or Fillets of Sole 

as Whitebait) 33 



MISCELLANEOUS ENTREES AND 
DAINTY DISHES. 

Bressoles, Chicken, Queen's Fashion.... 43 

" , (^me. Hunter's Fashion 43 

" , Goose Liver, Strassburg Style 43 

" , Montglas Style 43 

Ca^on, Colloped, Creole Style 54 

" . ' , with Cucumbers 54 

Colombines, Piedmont Fashion 44 

** , Tessino Style 44 

Chicken, Boudin of, Lucullus Style 64 

" , Breast of. Admiral Fashion... 63 

*' , Breast of, Florian Fashion. ... 63 

*' , Breast of. Opera Style 62 

, Breast of. Princess Fashion... 63 

" Crepinettes with Truffles 48 

" Croquettes So 

" , Marigny Style 51 

Cutlets, Du Barry Style 46 

, Lucullus,Style 46 

*' ** , Montglas Style 46 

Hash, San ford Style 54 

" Livers, Brochettes of, Queen 

Fashion 64 

" Livers, Crusts of, Balzac Style. 67 
" " , Crusts of, Murillo Style 67 
" , Small Cases of. Finan- 
cier's Style 45 

Souffles (Small), Financier's 

^ . Style 64 

Crepmettes, Truffled 48 

" , Strassburg Style 49 



Cromesquis 52 

Croquettes, Ejnpress 52 

" , Lucullus Fashion 51 

" , Surprise^ Neptune Style.... 52 

Crusts, Queen Fashion 66 

Farina (Jrusts, Dauphin Style 67 

Frog Cutlets, Gismonda Fashion 52 

Frogs' Legs, Crusts of Boneless, Theo- 
dore Style S3 

" , South Side Club Style.... S3 

Fowl, Colloped, Geisha Style S4 

" " , Newburg Style S3 

(jk)ose Liver (Small), Cases of Fat, Fi- 
nancier's Style 46 

" (Small), Cases of Fat, Tou- 

lousian Style 46 

" , Celestines of Fat, Perigord 

Style 44 

" " , Celestines of Fat. Pompa- 
dour Style 43 

" , Medallions of Fat, Metter- 

nich Style 44 

" .Muslin of Fat, Bohemian 

Fashion 45 

" (Fat) Skewers, Lucullus 

Fashion 42 

" .Skewers of Fat, Villeroi 

Style 41 

" , Souffle of Fat 45 

Grouse, Breast of, Occidental Style 60 

" ", Romanoff Style 61 

Ham, Casino Style 50 

" Croquettes, Zingara Style si 

" Timbales, Neapolitan Style S5 

" " , Souvaroff Fashion 56 

Kidneys, Brochettes of, Meyerbeer Style 47 

" , Broiled, Melba Style 47 

" , Crusts of Veal, Bordeaux Style 68 
(Veal), Crusts of, Italian Style 68 
(Lamb), Sauted, Madeira Sauce* 47 

I* , Sauted, Venetian Style 48 

,, " " , Portuguese Fashion... 48 

Marrow, Deviled, on Toast 50 

Noodle Crusts 66 

" Croquettes with Ham 66 

Partridges, Breasts of, Dartois Style ... 65 
^ . .„♦ . " "» Countess Style.. 65 

Patties (Small), C^ountess Style 4a 

" " , Hunter's Fashion 42 

" " , Mogador Style 42 

" , Princess Style 43 

" , Volunteer Style A 

Pigeon, Crepinettes of 4« 

Pigs' Feet, Stuffed, Truffled , 49 

Pompadour Skewers 42 

Quail, Crepinettes of \ 49 

Reed Birds in Surprise Potatoes 6«; 

" " , Lucullus Fashion 66 

Shells, Clievreuse Style 62 

** , Toulouse Style ] 62 

Skewers, Villeroi Style " 41 

Snipe (Small) Patties, Epicurean Style.' 61 

in Cases, Financier's Style 6r 

, Supreme of, Alsatian Style 62 

Squab Cutlets, Sylvia Style 60 

, Valois Style 60 



88 



f 



DETAILED INDEX OF DISHES— Continued. 



<« 






« 



Sweetbread in Border, Hunter's Fashion 57 

" in Border, Nesselrode Style. 57 

Fritters, Dino Style 57 

, Junot Style 58 

, Shells of, Cardinal Fashion. 57 

f Skewers of. Lamartine Style 58 

, Slices of, Doria Style 58 

Timbales (Small), Montglas Style 56 

" , Palermitan Style 56 

" , Parmentier 55 

" • (Small), Queen Style 56 

(Small), Rothschild Style 55 

Turkey Cutlets, Banker's Style 59 

" •• , Southerland Stvle 59 

in Shells, Dreux Style.' 61 

" , Aurora Style 62 

Skewers, Villeroi Style 41 

.Dreux Style 41 

Wings, Fried, Cariguan Style. . . 59 

, Villeroi Style 59 



<< 



ti 



It ^ 



*t 



COLD ENTREES. 

Artichoke Bottoms, Duchess Style 40 

" ** , St. (jeorge Style.... 39 

Aspics, Small, Duchess Style 37 

" , " , of Lobsters, Grimaldi Style 37 

" , " , Montglas Style 36 

" , " , Queen Fashion 36 

CHiaudfroid of Chicken Mousse, Ecarlate 

Style 37 

" of Duckling, Orange Flavor. 39 
" of Pheasant Cutlets, Beau- 
lieu Style 38 

, Turkey, Regency Style 38 

Cliicken Mayonnaise in Shells 39 

Goose Liver (Fat) Medallions, Aiglon 

Style 27 

Ham Zephirs. Italian Style 38 

VEGETABLES, ETC. 

Artichoke Bottoms, Bayard Style 69 

" , Ristori Style .: 69 

Cauliflower, Mousse of, Du Barry Style. 72 

Celery Souffles (Small) 72 

Corn and Clam Fritters 70 

Gnocchi, Italian Style 69 

** in Shells. Roman Style 70 

Jardiniere Tartlets 73 

Macaroni and Oysters, Sefton Style 70 

*' Tartlets, Beaufremont Style... 73 

Mushroom Souffle in Tartlets 73 

Peppers, Stuffed Green, Boston Stvle... 74 
^' " " . New York'Style 74 

, , bt. Tames 

,^ Style .... 74 

(Green), StuflFed with Shrimps, 

Indian Style 74 



tt 



€* 



Spaghetti, Boieldieu 6tyle 71 

^ " Croquettes 71 

** ** f Milan Fashion . . 72 

" , Royal Fashion 71 

^ , Shells of, with Ham and 

Truffles 71 

Spinach (Small) Souffles 72 

" and Ham Souffles (Small) 72 

Tartlets, Palmerston Style 73 

Tomatoes, Du Barry Style 75 

" . Stuffed, Madras Fashion..... 75 

E(5GS. 

Eggs, Aspic of, Ecarlate Style 77 

'^ ^ ", LucuUus Style 76 

Chaudfroid of Eggs, Ravigote Style 76 

" ^* , Strassburg Style... 76 

Eggs Cooked in Potatoes 77 

Egg Cromesquis, Colbert Sauce 78 

Egg Croquettes, Italian Style 78 

Eggs, Hard, Marius Style 77 

Eggs. Cold, Norman Style 77 

Egg Rissoles 78 

Eggs Scuffled, Parmesan Style 78 

Eggs, "Two Brother" 77 

Scotch Woodcock 79 

Tartlets, Nice Style 79 

CHEESE DISHES. 

Biscuits, Cheese, with Almonds 85 

Canapes, Bale Fashion 83 

" , Bernese Fashion 82 

Cheese Cream 86 

Cheese Ramekins 81 

Cromesquis, Clieese 83 

Croquettes, (Theese 83 

Fingers, Cheese 84 

Fritters, Cheese 82 

" , Camembert 81 

" , Cheese Cream 83 

" , Gruyere 80 

" , Neapolitan 82 

" , Parmesan Cheese 81 

, Parmesan Cheese and Ham. ... 82 

" , Swiss Fashion j, . . . 82 

Gimblets, Cheese , 83 

. Qieese Cream 84 

Golden Buck 86 

Long Island Buck 86 

Parmesan Bavarois 80 

Parmesan Sticks, Small 80 

Souffles, Helder Fashion 85 

" , Parmesan Cheese 85 

" , Parmesan Cheese and Ham 85 

Straws, Cheese 84 

" , Small, Deviled 84 

Welsh Rarebit 86 

Vorkshire Buck * 86 



89 



Some Special Selections from flie Book D^artment of 
"The Caterer" 



Thl» book is enHrelj different froni any other work on the hotel baslnesi. 
The main "atorj" takes up the matter o( location, InveBtment, equipment, etc, 
the "floanclng" of the buBlaeea after Btarting. and man; points toucblns m 
policy. organlzBtloa. etc., and the management of the bark iiart of the house. 
Following this la a aerlee of papers on the restaurant bualnesi. 

The "Suppiementarj aectloo" is of eniml lnfpr»st. It aarrm with n dlH. 
cuaalon of the Queetlon of ProQt Sharing 

PoHltlon." Then follows a very talnable __ __ .. 

tegular ^nd q^eclal blUa of fare (full a la carte, with pricea. etc.). of 4G of t 
tiegt-lcnouyit hoteta aad reitauranti in Hein Forit— from the moat eipenalve down 
to the "pcvDlat price" establish men t. Next cornea a collection of Notable Ban- 
quet Menu* of Recent Date and In conclusloa are a number of eiamplea (la 
aeries and In Illustrations) of Modern Hotel Advertising. 

Secherche Side Dishes Price only ti 

Wew (mporfoWon. 
By the purchase of the largest ablpment ever made from London to New 
York of any professional hotel book, we are able to otter the work entitled 
"Recherche Side EMsbes" lor cnlj' tl.OO. ittttaid of 
-, (l.Tfl, the price bitherto asked In this country. 

"Recherche Side EMsbes" Is a book only recently 
__sned by Cbaries Herman Senn, editor of Ltaidoo 
Food and Cookery, author of The TAcenUeth Contury 
'^ookory Book, Practical Qattroiwmy, etc., and Hw). 
?cretBry of the London Cookery and Food AsaooUt- 
on. It is printed on heavy paper and handsomely 
>UQd in red and gilt cloth, size T/. i 5 inches, by 1 
Inch thick. Its contents Include more than 5S0 re- 
ceipts for preparing side or second course dlabea for 
" era, suppers and light repasts — 40 savory sand- 
es; 70 cold hora ff'teuvre of fish, etc.; 86 hot 
ry flsh preparations: 40 hot savory meat dlahei; 

I.„ Jlsbes of dressed saTOry vegetablea : TO distinct 
ways of preparing eggs and savory omelettes : 40 farl- 
JnaeeouB dishes and cheese savories; 80 salads and 

C. H. Sinn. salad dressings : 36 receipts for Oriental dishes, cur- 

ries, etc., and 80 miscellaneous receipts. 
It Is the biggest dollar's worth eyer offered to the hotel business In this 
country. 

How to Hake Money in a Country Hotel Price t» 

By "J. Elliott Lane" (Charles Martyn). 

(200 pagei, lumdiomelv printed and bound.) Third edition. 

The reason for the great success of this work Is probably to be found in the 
fact that the author does not content himself with merely advising "greater 
economy," or "better business metbods"^ — Instead be gets right down to a prac- 
tical hold of the subject and shows hmo to economise and how to Increase one'* 
trade. Going further Into the matter, be presents an easy method of analyala 
that will show Just where any leaks eiist and where any loss is being sustained; 
tells '"how to serve three good meals at a one-dollar per day rate, and yet make 



Some Special SeUrtioni from the Book Department of "The Caterer" 

k good proflt." pre: 

proatsbfj Mrrea ». — _- — 

many ■nreftrtlwiH tor the Improvement of the _, — . . 

of wbat ilied portiona should be sereed. the most effective, satlBtBCtorT 
econtHiilcB] metbodB of service, the matter of banquet bualneas. the proper i:uii- 
trol <^ BoppllcB, etc. One of the moat iuterestlDg parts Ib perhaps where Mr. 
Uine tafcea up la detail the caaee of three couDtr; botel proprietors who have 
Tailed to make ■ Batlsfactorf profit, and shows where the faults lie and how. 
nnder even the same condltlona. It la possible to make a ver; fair amount of 

The main work la supplemented by a 
receipts selected tor their practical valu 
doing buBlneaa on a comparatively low ra>ci. 

Gennan Cookerr Price $1.25 

By H. Davldla. 

(G3e popei, printed In ioth Oerman ami EngHgh.) 

A new American edition of the most famous of all German cook books. 

TMrtii-ftvt editions of this book have been sold Id Germany. It Is addressed 
primarily to the household, but It la equally valuable to the steward or chef who 
„... ,-^_,,. .. „_.., gn cookery. 



InalRht^^of eenu 



Cltlea that a knowledge of the typical German dlahea 1l _. _^ „ 

Often a Decesslty ; and In this book you have them all from "suppen" to "kuchen." 

Tbe receipts are clasBlfled by courses — soupa, flab, meat dishes. BBladB. cakes 
and pastry, etc. —carefully Indexed both In German and English |wi[h full tltlea 
In both languages) so as to make reference very easy. 

(If you order this book, be sure to stale whether you wish It in German or 
finoHsA— same Drlce for either.) 

The Post-Giaduate Cookery Book Price (cloth bound) $1 

Bv AdoJphe never, for 11 years chef of the eamtaaive Onion Club, Seiv York. 



Otljer cook booka are, of necessity, to a great el- 
tent compilations, but the "FttstGradiiats' is dif- 
ferent. 

It haa a special Intrloslc value to tbe purchaser, 
for it contains a large number of receipts for special 
dishes which have never appeared In print elsewhere. 
Some of these receipts are eotirely new. others are 
' r special dishes which have helped to enhance the 
reputation of famous es [ah llsb meats both Id Europe 
and tbiB country. 

"Tbe Post-Graduate Cookery Book" Is addressed 

principally to cbefs, stewards. maQagers and pro- 

prietora who have "graduated" In the hotel huslneaa, 

but everything In It Is eiplalned so clearlv (hat It Is 

Adotph. M.,,r. °^ "'""''* ^1""' ™'"' *° '*<"* '"' experienced. 

The Wine Steward's Manual Price only $1 

The OHiv vOTlt of the kind piMiahed. 110 pages of reading matter, iiluatra- 

iiont, etc. Handtoynety bound In cloth. 
Hon to taste and judge wine. Tbe arrangement, etc.. of the wine cellar. 
The care of champagne. Some diseases of wines. The proper fining of wlaea 
Tbe botlling of wines. Cellarage of bottled wines. Uncorking wine, Tbe de- 
canting and serving of wines. The correct winea tor different Courses (with 
eiamples of different styles. The correct glasses for different wines and liquors 
(Illustrated). The art of drinking wines. Controlling the Issue of wines, etc. 
Bl 



Some Special Selections from the Book Department of "The Caterer*' 

Notes on champagne. The production of champagne. A special chapter on port 
wine. How to handle wines. A table of vintages, showing good and bad years. 
Clarets. Buainesss suggestions for the restaurant, cafe and bar. Advice to the 
bartender. The mineral water question, etc., etc., etc. 

Mixed Drinks Up-to-Date Price 50 cents 

By J. H. Sohell. 

"Mixed Drinks Up-to-I>ate" is a pocket volume (6 x 41^ inches) of 54 pages, 
i>ound in light colored cards. It does not attempt to give the formula for every 
drink made, but it offers the receipts for all standard and many new mixtures as 
served to-ilay in the leading clubs and hotels of New York. It is divided into 
"whiskey drinks." "gins." "brandies," "rums," "Scotches." "clarets," "Rhine 
wines" (cups, etc.), "sherries," "soft drinks," "fancy drinks" and "drinks for 
large parties." 

Fables of the Hotel Profession and Poems of Good Cheer. 

A ddintp little rnlume of 88 pages. Price in gUt lettered cloth, 50 cents; 
in heavy paper covers, 35 cents. 

The "Fables" (by Charles Martyn) are little stories of the hotel business, 
which "hit off." in semi-humorous manner, many typical characters and condi- 
tions. 

"Poems of Good Cheer" (by Frank W. Doolittle) is a title made generously 
t)road to cover a number of verses on the hotel business, those engaged in it and 
the good things dispensed. 

The Gastronomic Guide to Paris Price 35 cents. 

^By Francis Bourne Newton, editor of the London Caterer. 

An entertaining little book which introduces the reader to all the typical 
restaurants, brasseries and cafes of Paris, and chats interestingly on their dis- 
tinguishing characteristics and peculiarities. From, a professicmal standpoint it 
is instructive also, for it presents extracts from representative menus and notes 
on the special dishes which have made various establishments famous. 



THE ENLARGED FAaLITIES OF OUR NEW BOOK DEPARTHENT. 

In addition to the special selections described in these three pages, we are 
prepared to fill orders for any other hotel or restaurant books published. 

We have a finely equipped book department, so systematized as to insure 
prompt shipment and the utmost care in wrapping, etc., in order that every book 
may be received by the purchaser In perfect condition. 

All books are sent with delivery charges prepaid. There is no expense to 
the purchaser beyond the price listed. 



THE CATERER PUBLISHING 00., New York. 

Established 1893. 



92 




The ''nonthly Text 5ook" of 
the hotel, club and high.class 
restaurant business ^ ^ 



FRANK W, DOOLITTLE and CHARLES MARTYN, Editors 

WILUAM RQMER, Anociate Editor 

The Purposes of 
'The Caterer ^^ arc J 

1. To keep its readers informed on everything that is new in 
hotel, club and restaurant business. 

2. . To show them what other establishments are doing 
throughout the country. 

3. To give them the benefit of the experience and knowledge 
of the men most prominent and successful in business — to present 
advice, money-making information and money-saving systems, 
that will enable the proprietor, manager, steward and chef — 
whether in a city or country hotel — to show a better profit on the 
business done. 

In addition to the technical information, every number contains good 
reading matter of more general character — reviews of special occasions 
(such as notable banquets, etc.), the month's doings in New York and 
elsewhere, "What's happening among our subscribers," etc., all written in 
entertaining and interesting style. 

ONLY S2.00 A YEAR or 
$125 FOR SIX MONTHS 

THE CATERER PUBLISHING CO. 

CSTABLISHCD 1893 NEW YORK CITY 

93 






■«;»*• 



( 




-eo 



YSTEM 



Hade in Italy 



8 




03291 9*l99007'5i 



( 



