








* . 1 



LA CUISINE CREOLE ALUSAGC 
DES PET1TS MLNAGES 

BY 




ife 



ILLOSTRATEO BY HARPER PENNINOTON. 




ALBERT R. MANN 
LIBRARY 



New York State Colleges 

OF 

Agriculture and Home Economics 




Cornell University 




Cornell University 
Library 



The original of tiiis book is in 
tine Cornell University Library. 

There are no known copyright restrictions in 
the United States on the use of the text. 



http://www.archive.org/details/cu31924001669005 




o 

o 

OS 

z 

o 

< 



z 

o 

< 
H 
Z 

< 



< 

o 

o 



3 

a 
I 



> 

a 

o 
o 
a: 
u. 

O 

z 

< 
a 

o 
z 

o 



'5WKS** 



LA CHANSON DE TOBIE LE FOQUE 



l^iH 



^ u r^ ^ 



La vie y'ien car-osse pas - s6 Les cra-paux bien at - te ■ 



f 



:^=F= 



-t'^l^ 



les, quatre wa wa-rons fris-s^s pou-dr6s 6-taitdaiis ce car- 



f 



^i 



^ 



S'6tait la' v6 - ri - t6 II s'efi al-lait au nord. 




(do o^tn^ 

m old 

Greole ^aj^. 

Xa (§tmtne (Sreole 







21.4525 



Copyright igo-j 
By CEX^ESTINE EUSTIS 



THE STRENGTH OF THE 
NATION IS IN THE 
HANDS OF THE COOK. 
FEED A MAN WELL, HE 
WILL WORK WELL, HE 
WILL FIGHT WELL 



DEDICACE 

Si ce petit ouvrage pent etre utile a mes chers 
neveux et cheres nieces, j'aurais la satisfaction de 
savoir que man temps n'a pas He perdu, en recla- 
mant toute I'indulgence du public pour avoir abuse 
de sa patience. 



INDEX 



COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS 



Art and Science of Salad 




Carrots, 


44 


Making, 


69 


Chicken Broth, 


12 


Asparagus in the Oven, 


46 


Chicken Casserole, 


30 


Asparagus Soup, 


47 


Chicken Croquettes, 


32 


A Todd Ham, 


20 


Chicken Panade, 


12 


Aunt Anne's Corn Bread, 




Chicken Pie, 


32 


without powder. 


52 


Chinese Rice, 


14 


Aunt Anne's delicious Corn- 




Chocolate Icing, 


68 


Bread, 


5- 


Chowder for eight Persons, 


II 


Aunt Anne's Hoecake, 


53 


Claret Punch, 


83 


Baltimore style of making 




Codfish a la I'Espagnole, 


26 


Terrapin Stew without 




Codfish Balls, 


25 


Terrapin, 


24 


Codfish Cakes, 


25 


Barley Soup with Celery, 


6 


Cold Tea, 


49 


Beef Tea, 


12 


Common Cake, 


65 


Biscuits made over night. 


51 


Corn Bread, 


54 


Black Bean Soup, 


10 


Corn Cake, 


54 


Blanquette of Veal, 


34 


Corn Meal Bread, 


55 


Bonne Femme Soup, 


8 


Corn Oysters, 


48 


Bouillon k la James Madison, 


4 


Corn Pone, 


54 


Bread, 


78 


Corn Pudding, 


60 


Brisket of Beef, 


19 


Couche Couche, 


55 


Buckner Punch, 


83 


Courtbouillon of Fish, 


27 


Caf6 Parfait, 


84 


Crab Gumbo, 


3 


Calf's Head Soup, 


10 


Crawfish Bisque, 


4 


Calf's Liver k la Celeste 




Cream k la C^lestine, 


56 


Smith, 


35 


CrSme d'Orge, 


I 


Candied Orange, 


61 


Cucumber Catsup, 


37 


Canvasback Duck, 


30 


Custard Bread, 


61 


Caramel Pudding, 


S8 
VI 


Daube Glac^e, 

i 


17 



Index 



Delicate Cake, 

Delicious Breakfast Dish, 

Delicious Fish Balls, 

Delicious Stew, 

Devilled Crabs, 

Devilled Crabs — New Orleans 

Style, 
Drop Puffs, 
Dutch Sauce, 

"Edge Hill" Cooked Apples, 
"Eggnogg," 
Egg Plant, 

Eggs h. la Morelle, 48, 

Eggs, Portuguese style. 
Filet Marine, 
Flat Cookies, 
Floating Island, 
Foods that Steal Flavors, 
For Broiling Chicken, 
Fried Carrots, 
Fruit in Its Own Juice, 
Gingerbread , 63, 

Ginger Cake, 
Globe Artichokes, 
Gofio, 

Graham Wheatlets, 
Gumbo File, 1, 

Ham fried with Sugar, 
Hard Custard, 
Herb Gumbo, 
Hints for Housekeepers, 
Hominy Bread and WafHes, 
Hopping John, 14, 

How to cook Mushrooms in 
a Chafing Dish half an hour 
before serving, 
How to destroy Flies, 
How to make a Caramel, 
How to make a good Soup 
with what remains from 
Breakfast, 



6S 


How to make Drip Coffee, 


49 


14 


How to make Tea, 


49 


2S 


How to roast Ducks, 


30 


21 


How to serve Chicken, 


31 


26 


Indian Sponge Cake, 


66 




Jerusalem Artichokes, 43 


, 46 


27 


Jumballaya, 


15 


64 


Jurtiballaya k la Creole, 


13 


34 


Jumballaya (A Spanish Creole 




58 


dish). 


14 


83 


Kidney Stew, 


21 


43 


Leg of Mutton, 


20 


51 


Leonie Penin's Dry Cake, 


6S 


48 


Leonie's Cake, 


66 


19 


Loaf Bread, 


SI 


66 


Loaf of Gingerbread, 


63 


57 


Lobster Sauce, 


35 


79 


Lucchetti, Fried, 


45 


31 


Macaroni Pie, 


48 


43 


Manchester Ice-Cream, 


57 


62 


Meringue Pudding, 


59 


66 


Mince-Meat, 


61 


64 


Molasses Cake, 


67 


43 


Molasses Gingerbread, 


63 


79 


" Monica's " way to cook Fish, 


28 


55 


Monkey Pudding, 


59 


78 


Mrs. Kelly's delicious Mutton 




20 


Stew, 


21 


57 


Muffins, 


5° 


3 


New England Chowder, 


10 


76 


New Orleans Oyster Soup, 


9 


iz 


New Orleans Veal Balls, 


36 


16 


New Orleans Veal with 






Oysters, 


33 




New Orleans way to cook 




47 


Snipe, 


32 


79 


Nice cold Dish for Lunch, to 




61 


be eaten with Salad, 


22 




Okra Gumbo, 


2 




Okra Hibiscus, 


78 


82 


Okra Soup, 


6 



Vlll 



Index 



LA CUISINE CREOLE 



A rUsage des Petits Manages, 8$ 



Bananes, 


106 


Becassines de la Nouvelle 




Orleans, 


100 


Blanquette de Veau, 


99 


Brandade de Monie, 


lOI 


Calas, 


108 


Cervelles de Mouton Pand^es, 


106 


Cervelles de Veau ou Mouton 




au Beurre Noir, 


100 


Cornbread, 


108 


C6tes de Homard, 


lOI 


Crabes Farcis, 


lOI 


Creme 4 la Glace ^ la C^lestine, 


III 


Daube de Gazway, 


96 


Daube Glac^e S, la Creole de 




Madame Rouzan, nee Olivier 94 


Daube Glac^e de Madame 




Eustis, M6re, 


97 


Farce pour P4ti§s ou pour 




des Dindes ou pour des 




Volailles, 


99 


Flan aux Cerises, 


III 


Foie de Veau a la Celeste, 1 


98 


Fromage k la Creme, 


no 


Gateau de Mousseline, 


III 


Gateau Praline ou He Flot- 




tante. 


112 


Gateau Sec de L6onie Penin, 


109 


Gombo de Crabes, 


92 


Gombo Fevis, 


91 


Gombo File, 


91 


Gombo Zherbes, 


92 


Gratin aux Pommes de Terre, 


i°5 


Grillades de Veau, de Ma- 




dame Josephine Micaud, 


98 



Haricots Verts, 


104 


Haricots Verts, Maitre d'H6- 




tel. 


104 


Jambalaya, / 3 


94 


La Saccamit6, 


106 


Maryland Biscuits, 


109 


Muffins, 


108 


Oseille, 


i°S 


Pain Blanc, 


108 


Pain Noir, 


109 


Patates Douces au Four, 


104 


Perdrix aux Choux, 


99 


Petit Avis aux Menag^res, 


112 


Pommes Cuites 4 la Thomas 




Jefferson, 


III 


Pommes de Terre Soufifl^es, 


105 


Potage Marini^re, 


93 


Pour Fond de Cuisine, 


102 


Pour Faire du Bon Cafe, 


129 


Recette de la Genoise, 


126 


Riz k I'Anglaise, 


III 


Riz &. la Valenciennes, 


94 


Rognons de Mouton Sautes, 


100 


Salade 4 la Due de Morny, 


106 


Sauce B^arnaise, 


103 


Sauce Blanche, 


103 


Sauce Bordelaise, 


103 


Sauce Hubert, 


i°3 


Sauce Tartare, 


102 


Sauce Tomate, 


102 


Soupe k la Julienne, 


93 


Soupes 4 rOseille, 


92 


Un Pudding de Mais, 


no 


Z'Affaire Cabri c'est pas 




Z'Affaire Mouton, 


112 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

A YOUNG DARING FROG DRIVER ON THE DU BROCA PLAN- 
TATION, WEST BATON ROUGE, LA. Frontispiece 

BAMBOULA . . . . Facing p. lo 

TURKEY WITH THE WOODEN LEGS . " 22 
NURSE MERANCE OF THE DESTREHAN PLANTATION, JUST 

ABOVE NEW ORLEANS " 32 
THE ONE-EYED BOY AND HIS ONION STEAL . . " 48 
SAVANNB . . "64 
THE CALLAS GIRL . . . "94 
THE OLD FRENCH CHEF SELLING MUSTARD IN NEW OR- 
LEANS . " 108 



INTRODUCTION 

A friend of mine, in the South, once said to me, that 
the surrender at Appomatox had brought about two serious 
calamities — an end to duelHng and the disappearance of the 
colored cook. We may at least agree with him that the latter 
result is a matter deeply to be deplored by all who, like 
myself, remember the marvellous skill of the Southern 
cooks. I used to be of opinion that the frying-pan should 
be our national emblem, so complete was its culinary des- 
potism in New England and the West; indeed, when once 
I was at Marquette and Duluth, buying a camp outfit, there 
was not a gridiron for sale in either town. But in the 
hands of a colored cook even the frying-pan ceased to be an 
instrument for producing dyspepsia; and what other black 
art there was in the kitchens where the dark mammys 
reigned, who now can say? It was a rule-of-thumb busi- 
ness which was never written, save in some old-time receipt 
book, and was literally handed down from one generation to 
another. 

The well-mannered colored folk, with aristocratic tastes, 
still existed in my native city when I was young. One of 
them, who was formerly my nurse, was always sent for to 
cook the terrapin when there was a dinner party. She 
turned the other servants out of the kitchen, and performed 
her kindly incantations alone! North of us, no one has 
ever been able to cook terrapin, which accounts for many 
things. As a race, we are certainly not gifted with culi- 

xiii 



Introduction 

nary talent, nor have I ever heard of an attempt to patent 
a receipt or a new salad. It was therefore a great pleasure 
to see the little book in which my friend has preserved 
some of the famous receipts of the Creole kitchen. When, 
too, I saw, and indeed heard, the gay songs which were con- 
sidered needful to be sung in the making of a Gumbo or of a 
Jumballaya, I felt that this was an addition to the business 
of the cook which must have lifted it to the level of the 
Arts we call Fine; for surely the mingling of music with 
a sauce or a salad dressing is a refinement of which no 
cordon bleu has ever dreamed! I have heard of but one 
other use of song in the preparation of food. A certain 
bishop, staying in a modest farmhouse, was struck with 
the fact that, just before breakfast, he heard the cook sing- 
ing a well-known hymn. On expressing his satisfaction at 
this act of early devotion, he was told she had discovered 
that exactly the time needed to sing two verses was that 
which was required to boil an egg. I am sure there are 
many who will be charmed by the pretty little songs in the 
Creole patois of the far Southern kitchen, and will in a 
double sense appreciate the taste of the receipts, and the 
effort to preserve the folk-lore of the Southern cook. As 
I recall her, in Virginia, she was usually a fat woman of 
middle age, with a gay bandana kerchief about her head — 
proud of her art, somewhat despotic, and usually known 

as Aunty. 

"A creature not too bright or good 

For human nature's daily food." 

S. WEIR MITCHELL 
xiv 



LA CUISINE CREOLE A L'USAGE DES 
PETITS MENAGES 

De tous les cotes mes amis me demandent des recettes 
de la cuisine creole. On se souvient encore des delicieuses 
dindes truffees de la "Riviere Rouge" a moitie sauvages, 
engraissees aux pacannes et mangees, rue de la Victoire, 
chez ma sainte et bonne mere. — Un Anglais demande la 
recette d'un plat d'epinards, qui lui a valu son cceur. Un 
frangais celebre se souvient d'un delicieux roti de veau, qui 
est devenu presqu' historique. Un Russe, quoique habitant 
Paris, ne peut oublier des perdrix etouffees aux tomates. . . 
Une elegante de New York a des souvenirs inoubliables 
d'un riz a la Valenciennes, goute a Biarritz sur la cote des 
Basques, en vue des belles Montagnes d'Espagne ! Une 

autre elegante, m'a avoue qu'elle se mourait d'envie de 
manger du riz sec, comme les Creoles seules savent le cuire. 
C'eut ete facheux de la laisser mourir de faim dans son 
beau Palais. — Un musicien celebre soupire apres des ceufs 
a la Portugaise, capable le lui faire manquer une inspiration 
musicale. Une jeune fille reclame a grands cris des oeufs 
a la morelle, une autre ne peut se consoler de ne plus manger 
du couchcouche ou couscousse. 

Brillat Savarin dit: "Qu'il n'y a que les gens d' esprit 
qui savent manger," "qu'on nait rotisseur." Alors a moins 
d'etre spirituel ou inspire des Dieux, on ne saurait goiiter 
ce modeste petit ouvrage, qui resterait une enigme pour bien 
des lecteurs; mais I'art de savoir manger et de rotir, ainsi 

XV 



La Cuisine Creole 

que de faire la cuisine peut s'acquerir avec un peu de pa- 
tience, beaucoup d'observation et passablement de soin. — 
Je ne me propose pas d'ecrire un ouvrage culinaire — que 
Dieu m'en preserve! — mais de griffonner seulement a la 
hate et au hasard la recette de quelques bons plats Creoles et 
bourgeois, que j'ai en la bonne chance d'apprendre a faire en 
furetant dans de vieilles recettes et en causant avec les 
vieilles commeres d'autrefois. 

Sou vent ou demande ce que c'est qu'un gombo Creole? 
c'est un mets indien dont ils se regalaient generalement un 
jour de noce et dont nous jouissions, avant la guerre, dans 
les reunions intimes apres une danse. II peut se faire avec 
du gibier, de la volaille, de la dinde, du veau, des rogatons, 
a la rigueur meme un hibou. 

II decoule de ce mets national parmi les Creoles, qui 
leur est si familier que, ce terme "gombo" est devenu une 
expression generique tres-importante au figure, par la va- 
riete meme de sa composition et par consequent son im- 
penetrabilite une fois fait, exemple : en litterature un "gom- 
bomele" est une grosse affaire tres-compliquee, relevant 
souvent de differends dans les families nombreuses ou parmi 
un grand cercle d'amis, et rendue tres-confuse. 

Ne soyez pas etonnes de ces quelques notes de musique, 
c'est le piment de la sauce. Quand les negres travaillent 
bien, ils sont contents et fiers de leur ouvrage et expriment 
leur contentement en chantant, c'est I'eloquence de leurs sen- 
timents. 

Les fines herbes sont le parfum de la cuisine, mais il 
faut en user avec la meme discretion que les parfums — ils 

xvi 



A I' Usage des Petit s Menages 

sont: oignons, persil, cerfeuil, civette, estragon, feuilles de 
laurier — afin de laisser a chaque mets son gout particulier 
ou son individualite. — Le secret de la bonne cuisine est : la 
plus exquise proprete, avoir les meilleurs ingredients, un 
beurre frais, la meilleure huile d'olive, les oeufs tres-frais — 
et beaucoup de temps pour tout preparer avec soin; un bon 
feu egal, des braises, pas de flammes — le triomphe des gar- 
gotiers! La bouillotte est aussi une ennemie fatale de la 
bonne cuisine; il faut s'en mefier. Un general russe disait 
que I'eau etait si desagreable dans les bottes, qu'est-ce que 
qa devait etre dans I'estomac ! Je n'ai qu'a regarder le feu 
d'une cuisiniere pour savoir quelle espece de cordon bleu elle 
est. J'ai entendu a un homme d'esprit dire: que si Ton 
pendait un gargotier une fois par mois, peut-etre qu'an bout 
de I'annee on parviendrait a avoir de bons cuisiniers. La 
cuisine est une grave affaire; la sante de I'humanite en 
depend ; le bonheur de I'interieur y est interesse, et la justice 
pourrait s'en meler. 

La base de la cuisine creole est le roux. II faut s'ap- 
pliquer particulierement a bien le faire; autrement vos plats 
seraient fadasses et trop gras. En voici a peu pres la recette ; 
mais la pratique seule en donnera I'experience. Le gotit en 
est le guide pour I'assaisonnement c'est la qu'est le talent de 
I'artiste, comme le sentiment de la poesie, de la musique, de 
la peinture, autrement dit, le genie. 



COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS 



COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS 



GUMBO FILE 

Put into a casserole (saucepan) a spoonful of pure 
lard and one of flour, stir it well until it is of a light brown. 
Chop an onion into small pieces and throw them in. Cut up 
a fat capon or chicken into small pieces and put these 
in the casserole with the flour and lard. Stir it all 
the while until the chicken is nearly done. When the 
whole is well browned, add a slice of ham, cut up small. 
Throw in two or three pods of red pepper, and salt to your 
taste. Now add a quart of boiling water, and leave it on 
the fire for two hours and a half. A quarter of an hour 
before dinner is served add three dozen oysters with their 
liquor. Just before taking the soup off the fire, put in a 
tablespoonful of filet, stirring it all the while. Let it boil 
one minute and then serve. Do not put in too much filet ; 
the spoon should not be full. Indeed, half a tablespoonful 
IS enougn. — Louise Livingston Hunt, New Orleans. 

CREME D'ORGE 

One pound of lean veal, one pound of lean beef, and two 
ounces of pearl barley. Put them into a quart of cold water 
and let it boil down to a pint. Rub all through a sieve. 
Melt a spoonful of this strengthening jelly when required. 

GUMBO FILE 

Disjoint and cut up a fowl. Fry in pan with onion cut 
up. Put in a soup pot knuckle of veal, fried fowl covered in 

I 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

31-2 quarts of cold water, let it simmer on back of range 
about six hours, strain soup and skim off all grease, cut up 
white meat of chicken and put in stock with a quart or 
more of oysters, add salt, cayenne pepper, white pepper. 
When at boiling point sprinkle in, or sift in, powdered 
filet enough to thicken it. _mrs. Eugenia Phillips. 

For very many years Mrs. Phillips had the most ele- 
gant table and the most delicious dishes in Washington, 
D. C. No one could rival her in taste and daintiness; her 
hospitality was boundless. 

Leek and potato soup is another of the same French- 
woman's dishes. Cut several leeks, or, if they cannot be 
had, an onion or two, into pieces, and fry them without 
browning in butter. Add potatoes cut into dice and a 
seasoning of salt and pepper, and boil. When they are 
soft push them through a colander, and thicken with a 
tablespoonful of flour and a tablespoonful of butter. For 
two small onions four potatoes and a quart of water will 
be wanted. Instead of using the water in which the pota- 
toes have boiled, milk may be used. 

OKRA GUMBO 

Put into a saucepan a spoonful of pure lard and one of 
flour. Stir it well until it is of a light brown. Chop an 
onion into small pieces and throw them in. Cut up a fat 
capon or chicken into small pieces and put it into the sauce- 
pan with the flour and lard. Stir it all the while until the 
chicken is nearly done. When the whole is well browned, 
add a slice of ham cut up small. Throw in two or three 
pods of red pepper, and salt to your taste. Then add a 
quart of boiling water, and leave it on the fire for two 
hours and a half. During that time you take either a 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

can of okra or the fresh okra, and chop it up a bit. Put 
it in a saucepan with a little water and let it simmer a 
quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time. Then add to 
it either six fresh tomatoes, or half a can of tomatoes, and 
let it cook on a slow fire for an hour, uncovered. When 
your gumbo has been on the fire the two hours and a half, 
you take it off to cool, and skim all the grease off. Then 
you put it back in the saucepan and add your okra and 
tomatoes and let it simmer slowly for an hour or until the 
okra is thoroughly cooked. Serve hot, and eat it with dry 
rice served in a separate dish. _j^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^ 

CRAB GUMBO 

Take half a pound of nice veal, cut it in slices; or take 
half a chicken, which you cut in small pieces. Brown it 
well, as you do for the gumbo filet. Let it simmer on the 
fire an hour and a half. Pick very carefully twelve or 
fifteen crabs, keeping the flesh only. Warm them up in a 
separate saucepan with a spoonful of butter for a few 
minutes. Pour it then in your pot over your veal. Add a 
few small pieces of fried ham. Season with salt and pepper 
to taste. Before you mix the veal and crabs take out all 
the large pieces of veal, so that the crabs may predominate. 
It should be of a thick consistency. Serve hot, with dry 
nee m a separate dish. _josephine Nicaud, New Orleans 

HERB GUMBO 

Clean and prepare a good handful of fresh spinach 
leaves, a handful of beetroot leaves, a handful of radish 
leaves, a handful of mustard leaves, a handful of patience 
leaves, one head of lettuce. Throw them in hot water 
and let them boil like spinach, then let them drip in a 

3 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

colander, chop them all together on a nice clean board, 
as you do spinach. Fry a dozen small pieces of ham 
cut in pieces an inch long and half an inch wide, 
and also half a chicken cut in pieces, or a piece of 
veal, say half a pound. Add a cup of water and let it 
simmer three quarters of an hour or until all are soft. Then 
add your herbs. Let them simmer together for a quarter 
of an hour. If it looks too thick add a few tablespoonfuls 
of water. It must have the consistency of a thick puree. 
To be served hot, and eaten with dry rice. 

— Josephine Nicaud. 

CRAWFISH BISQUE 

Take two or three dozen crawfish, throw them in boiling 
water for a minute or two, clean them thoroughly. Take 
off the heads, empty them, and clean them and wash them, 
keeping the fat part of the tails. Put them on a chopping 
board with the fat, a little chicken or veal, a little stale 
bread, chop it all fine together, flavor with pepper, red or 
black, a laurel leaf, or put in a bouquet of aromatic herbs 
for a few minutes, having tied it with a thread so as to 
pull it out. Brown all this in a saucepan with a spoonful 
of lard. Stuff the crawfish heads tight with this. Put 
them in a saucepan to simmer with a quart of bouillon for 
an hour or more, until you have a good soup. Serve hot. 

— Mme. Josephine Nicaud, 
Who has been for over forty years in Ambassador Eitstis' family. 

BOUILLON A LA JAMES MADISON 

Two gallons of water, throw in every bone you have 
(ham bones are excellent), with three good sized carrots, 
three onions, celery, a can of tomatoes. Salt and pepper 
pod to taste. Simmer, closely covered, all day and all night. 

4 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

The next morning strain into a large bowl. If in a hurry 
set bowl in cold water, otherwise put in cellar or on ice. 
Remove the grease very carefully. Cut up fine, size of dice, 
three pounds of rump of beef, take two eggs and break 
them over the cut meat, yolk and white. Stir freely. 
Add celery, salt and pepper, pour the bouillon ,on it, settle 
it on the fire, stir until the froth rises. Skim off very care- 
fully, strain off through a nice clean cloth or flannel. Set 
aside for use. When ready to serve, warm the quantity 
desired, throw in small pieces of celery, cover closely, throw 
a bunch of chervil and a glass of good sherry in the soup 

according to taste. 

— Cook, born in James Madison's family, 

POT AU FEU 

THE POT AO FEU IS SERVED DAILY IN FRENCH FAMILIES 

Take two pounds of round of beef, cutting off all the 
fat very carefully, put it in a good sized saucepan, add cold 
water enough to cover the meat well, put the lid on half 
way to allow the steam to evaporate, let it simmer by a fire 
of live coals an hour, and skim carefully as the scum arises. 
While your broth is cooking, prepare your vegetables, have 
them nice and fresh, wash and scrape carefully (requisite 
care must be taken), throw them into a pan of cold water 
until the time to use them. Cut three carrots in half, too 
leeks the same way, or half an onion, a small piece of cab- 
bage and a bit of garlic, a piece of celery, parsley and pepper 
pod. Put all these vegetables in your broth, adding two 
or three tomatoes, or two spoonfuls of tomatoes; let it 
simmer for two hours, skimming it carefully. It can be 
served with or without vegetables. Without vegetables 
it can be served as bouillon, to which you add rice, vermicelli, 
macaroni, or any other Italian paste, or bread dried in the 

5 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

oven, or drop in a poached egg, one for every person, if 
your dinner is a little short. 

These receipts were given to me by an old colored cook 
who was brought up in James Madison's family, and she 
said they were served on Mr. Madison's table when he en- 
tertained the distinguished guests of his day. 

SORREL SOUP 

Take a handful of sorrel, cook it ten minutes in a spoon- 
ful of fresh butter, add a quart of water, salt and pepper, 
and let it simmer half an hour over a slow fire. Stir in 
white of an egg, and then let it cook two minutes only, 
stirring it all the time. Rub in a cup the yolk of an egg 
with a small piece of butter. Add a cup of cream. Put 
some pieces of stale bread cut in slices in the bottom of 
your soup tureen. Chop fine some chervil and sprinkle on 
top just as you serve it very hot. _^^^^^^ p^^^^ 

BARLEY SOUP WITH CELERY 

Melt a heaping spoonful of fresh butter in a frying-pan ; 
put to it a cupful of barley; let it brown a few moments; 
add to it two quarts of good broth, and salt to taste. Let 
it simmer two hours or more on a slow fire; chop into it 
small pieces of celery — let it simmer half an hour. Dis- 
solve in a glassful of sweet cream the yolks of six eggs, 
a spoonful of fresh butter added in small pieces, and add 
all to the soup. 

OKRA SOUP 

Soak in a little cold water for an hour or two one pint 
of the dried okra, add this with the water to one gallon 
of good strong beef stock. Also one quart of tomatoes, 
(strained through a colander), a half cupful of rice, and one 

6 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

pint of chopped Irish potatoes. Season with salt, green 
pepper, or cayenne, chopped celery and onion. Boil in a 
porcelain kettle at least five hours, stirring frequently 
with a silver spoon, or new wooden spoon, or the soup 
will become dark. The gallon must be maintained by add- 
ing boiling water at intervals as required. This should 
result in a rich, thick soup, such as is liked in the South. 
Some cooks prefer to boil meat and vegetables together, 
removing the meat when tender, cutting it into pieces, and 
returning it to the soup a few minutes before serving. 

— Mrs. William C. Hill. 

SIMPLE, CLEAR, TOMATO SOUP 

Boil your tomatoes with onion and butter thoroughly. 
Add to clear stock, or broth, half of white of egg to clear. 
Let it stand, then pass through cheesecloth that has been 
washed. 

TOMATO SOUP 

Cut one ounce of ham, a little carrot and onion into 
thin slices, place these in a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, one bay leaf and a few peppercorns. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, stir together on the fire until it 
becomes a light brown color. Moisten with a quart of 
good broth, or stock, stirring it on a slow fire. Add one 
quart of canned tomatoes, and season with salt, pepper and 
two ounces of brown sugar. Let it boil together for one 
hour, after being thoroughly strained. 

SOUTHERN TOMATO SOUP 

Southern tomato soup is a meal in itself. Wash two 
quarts of tomatoes, and set over the fire in three pints of 
water; cook ten minutes, and drain, saving the water for 

7 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

the soup; press the tomatoes through a sieve, add to them 
one cucumber, peeled and cut small, one large onion sliced, 
one dozen okras (also sliced), a five cent marrowbone and 
the water drained from the tomatoes. Simmer for three 
hours, and just before sending to table thicken with a 
tablespoonful of, flour wet with cold water. Season with 
salt, cayenne and three pats of butter. 

BONNE FEMME SOUP 

Shred fine a cucumber (already soaked) and four let- 
tuce, one onion and a handful of chervil. Put these into 
a soup pot, with two pats of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, 
and salt. Simmer over a slow fire about ten minutes, then 
add a good spoonful of flour, and three pints of veal broth. 
Boil for a quarter of an hour. Stir into it a seasoning 
of six yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream and a dessert- 
spoonful of sugar. Do not let it boil after the egg and 
cream are added. 

SOUP WITHOUT MEAT 

Take four or five cucumbers, according to their size, 
pare and cut them in small square pieces; three cupfuls of 
lettuce cut in shreds, two sprigs of mint, a little parsley, 
two or three small onions (all shredded), with a pint of 
young peas. Put all these herbs into a stewpan, with 
nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, some salt, and a little 
cayenne pepper. They must stew gently for an hour. Boil 
a pint of old peas in a full quart of water. When quite 
soft run them through a sieve, with a wooden spoon, then 
add them, together with the water they have been boiled in, 
to your stewed herbs, and let them all stew together a full 
half hour. This soup is all the better if it does not stand 
long before it is served up. 

8 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

OYSTER AND PEANUT SOUP 

Take half a pound of shelled and roasted peanuts, well 
pounded. Add two spoonfuls of flour, mix well, boil a 
pint of oyster water and mix with the peanuts and flour, 
let it thicken slowly for fifteen minutes, stirring all the 
time. Add a pint of oysters and let them cook five minutes. 
Flavor with salt, red and black pepper. 

— ^Josephine Nicaud. 

OYSTER SOUP 

Wash and drain two quarts of oysters, put them on the 
fire with three quarts of water, three onions chopped up, 
two or three slices of lean ham, pepper and salt. Boil 
until it is reduced one half, strain through a sieve. Return 
the liquid into the pot. Put in one quart of fresh oysters. 
Boil until they are sufficiently done and thicken the soup 
with four spoonfuls of flour, two gills of rich cream, and 
the yolks of two nice fresh eggs, well beaten. Boil it a 
few minutes after the thickening is put in. Take care 
that it does not curdle, and that the flour is not in lumps. 
Serve it up with the last oysters that were put in. If the 
flavor of thyme is agreeable you may put in a little, but 
take care that it does not boil in it long enough to discolor 
the soup. —Mary Randolph. 

NEW ORLEANS OYSTER SOUP 

Make "a brown." A brown is made by putting a lump 
of butter or lard into a saucepan, adding flour, and stirring 
until it becomes a rich brown, but is not burned. Add to 
your brown, salt and pepper. Take a quart of oysters, 
separate them from their water. Add a pint of fresh water 
to your brown, then put in the oyster water, let it simmer 

9 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

slowly for half an hour. Then put in a little parsley. Add 
your oysters a quarter of an hour before serving, and small 
pieces of fried bread or biscuits. A few minutes before 
serving cayenne pepper can be added to taste, also vermi- 
celli instead of crackers, or small green onions. 

— Josephine Nicaud. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

One pint of black Mexican beans, put them in five pints 
of water (without soaking), boil about five hours. Pass 
beans and liquid through a sieve, half an hour before serv- 
ing; do it thoroughly, that it may be thick enough. Put 
it back into the pot with salt, pepper, bunch of thyme, 
onions, a quarter of lemon cut in thin slices, and a table- 
spoonful of butter. Have two eggs, boiled hard, cut up in 
your tureen, and a wineglass of good wine. Pour soup 
on it and give it a stir. __^^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^^_ 

CALF'S HEAD SOUP 

First cut the head in half, take out the brains, crack 
up the head, wash it, put it in the pot, boil half an hour. 
Take out, wash, clean and scrape it, put back in the pot, 
boil until soft, take out, pick out all the bones. Part the 
lean meat from the jelly meat. Cut up the jelly meat fine. 
Put back in the pot, thicken with flour, season with cloves, 
black pepper, onions and wine. 

— "Uncle John " — the best chef in South Carolina, 
Mr. Le Garee's and Mrs. Phoenix's cook. 

NEW ENGLAND CHOWDER 

Have a fresh, firm cod or haddock, a fish about five 
pounds is the best size. Take saucepan large enough to 
hold a little more than you wish to make. Cut salt pork in 

lO 



BAMBOULA 



Allegro. 



Quand pat-tat la cuit n'aman-ge li, n'aman-ge li, 



Wa 



;?=^ 



s?^ 



^ 



■S-- 



Quand pat-tat la cuit n'aman-ge li, n'aman-ge 



li. 



-«-- 




BAMBOULA 

Gottschalk's famous 'Bamboule" was written on this theme 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

small squares about the size of dice, and fry quite brown. 
Lay in the same pan alternate layers of thin sliced potatoes 
first, then slices of fish, then broken water crackers, small 
fried pork, shreds of raw onion, black pepper and salt to 
suit the taste. Continue the layers until you have used up 
your material. Pour over it the pork fat from the scraps 
and half a pint of water, to keep from burning at the bot- 
tom. Close the saucepan tight and set on the fire. Cook 
slowly, without stirring, for forty-five minutes, when it is 
ready for the table. As some fish cook drier than others, if 
you do not find the chowder thin enough to serve well in 
tureen, add some fresh milk just before taking up, and let 
It come to a boil. —Parker House, Boston, Sept. 23, 1873. 

CHOWDER FOR EIGHT PERSONS 

Boil, mash and pass through a colander six potatoes. 
Slice and fry brown six onions. Soak quite soft two ship 
biscuits. Fry four slices of salt pork, the fat cut in small 
dice. Cut in pieces about an inch thick three or four 
pounds of fish, either cod or sea bass, or blackfish, which 
are the best; then proceed as follows: Put in your pot 
four tablespoonfuls of butter, and two of salt, scatter a 
portion of the fried onion in it, then a layer of fish, free 
from bones, season with a teaspoonful of black pepper, half 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, half of cloves, add a bouquet 
of thyme, then put in a layer of potatoes. Repeat the same 
operation, leaving out the spice and thyme. Then pour in 
stock enough to cover the whole about four inches, place 
on the fire, add the biscuit and pork, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of chopped parsley, and cook slowly for an hour. Then 
add the juice of a lemon, and five lumps of sugar. Color 
the soup a dark brown. When ready to serve add a tumbler 
of sherry. —Compliments of Mr. Peter Marie. 

II 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CHICKEN PANADE 

Boil a large fowl in a quart and a half of water, and 
boil down to a quart. Skim the fowl and pound it, bones 
and all, in a mortar. Spread this paste in a sieve and rub 
it through. Then pour over it the liquor in which the 
fowl was boiled, and pour the mixture hot over a stale 
French roll, well grated. Take a little frequently through- 
out the day. 

RAW BEEF SOUP 

One pound of chipped beef. Put into a preserve jar 
with four ounces of water and four drops of muriatic acid 
poured over it. Put the top down tight, shake, and put 
on the ice for twelve hours, then put the jar into a pan of 
cold water (bain-Marie) and put it on the fire for an hour 
until the water is hot, then strain the contents of the jar 
off with pressure through a cloth, and put it on the ice 
until it is cold. Take it off the ice and let it stand ten min- 
utes before serving. Salt to taste. 

CHICKEN BROTH 

Take a chicken or fowl (small pieces of the former 

make the broth very good) and break the bones. Clean 

it carefully. Put it into a saucepan with two quarts of 

water, a very small onion, a little salt, and two tablespoon- 

fuls of rice. When it boils skim and cover closely, and let 

it simmer slowly for six hours, if a fowl ; if a chicken, for 

five hours. tit t o 

— Mrs. Jefferson Coolidge. 

BEEF TEA 

Three pounds of lean beef. Cut out all the fat and 
gristle, put it in a covered saucepan, with one clove, and a 

12 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

lump of ice, the size of your fist, in the centre of the beef, 
and the remainder of the beef laid over it. Let it stand 
back on the range and simmer until all the juice is extracted, 
then let it have one boil up. Only season as much as you 
intend using at once. The remainder can be kept on ice 
and seasoned as required with salt, pepper, celery salt, or 
to suit the taste of the patient. 

JUMBALLAYA A LA CREOLE 

Add to a cupful of rice, which has boiled five minutes, 
a rich brown chicken fricassee, put it in a saucepan, not 
closely covered, let it dry slowly, turn with a fork. The 
Carolinians make different perlous prepared in the same 
way by adding cooked tomatoes and butter. Green peas 
with a little butter is delicious. Okra and tomatoes fried 
together and added to rice. Oysters a little fried in butter. 
Hopping John is made in the same way with small pieces of 
fried ham, fried sausages, to which you add some cow peas 
that have been partially boiled. Season highly. The St. 
Domingo Congris is like the Hopping John. 

PLAIN BOILED RICE 

Take a cup of the best South Carolina rice (whole). 
Wash it three times in cold water until the water is clear. 
The fourth time wash it in hot water, put it in a saucepan 
with enough hot water to cover it, salt it, and cover closely. 
Let it boil from five to ten minutes. Test it with your 
fingers. If cooked, pour off the water, add to it a quarter 
cupful of cold water, cover closely, and set awhile on the 
stove to soak. If you fear its clinging to the saucepan 
stir it with a fork, not a spoon. Your rice will soak and 
dry beautifully. 

13 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CHINESE RICE 
Take equal parts of rice and cold water. Wash your 
rice in several waters, put it in a saucepan, salt, and let 
it boil. When cooked put aside to soak until dry. Be 
careful, it burns easily. Every grain of rice will be 
separate and dry. 

"Mon Repos," Aiken, S. C. — Miss Eustis. 

HOPPING JOHN 
Cup of cow peas, boil with piece of bacon. When peas 
are thoroughly done, not till mushy, drain water off, three 
hours boiling. Boil separately a well washed cupful and a 
half of rice. Mix together after it is done. Skim off grease 
from top of pot peas are boiled in, add salt and cayenne 
pepper, put in oven to dry out. Serve with sliced bacon in 
centre or fried sausages. 

—Mrs. Eugenia Phillips, Washington, D. C. 

JUMBALLAYA 

A SPANISH CREOLE DISH 

Wash one pound of rice and soak it an hour. Cut up 
a cold roast chicken, or the remnants of a turkey, and a 
slice of ham, and fry them in a tablespoonful of lard. Stir 
in the rice, and add slowly while stirring in, a pint of hot 
water. Cover your pot, and set where it can cook slowly, 
until the rice is nearly dry. One or two spoonfuls of 
cooked tomatoes give it a very good taste. Jumballaya is 
very nice made with oysters, shrimps or sausages. 

— Mme. Eustis, Mere. 

DELICIOUS BREAKFAST DISH 
Take some hog meat prepared for sausages. Chop up 
some well boiled pig's feet, mix with it, and wrap up in a 
lace. Fry it, and serve hot. 

— Mme. Alzire Dubroca, Baton Rouge. 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

JUMBALLAYA 

Take a good sized chickea. Cut it as for fried chicken, 
season it with salt and pepper, and fry in a spoonful of 
lard. Cut up half a pound of ham in pieces an inch long, 
and fry in the same pan. When that is fried, take out and 
in the same lard fry a spoonful of onions cut very fine. 
Slice up three large tomatoes, or two spoonfuls of canned 
tomatoes, and fry them in the same pan. Cut up a little 
parsley and add when everything is fried. Put back your 
ham and chicken and add two and a half cupfuls of water. 
Let it come to a boil, and then add a cupful of well washed 
rice. Put it again on a quick fire. When the rice is 
cooked, and the steam begins to rise, put it on a slow fire 
and add a teaspoonful of butter. If you fear it may burn 
at the bottom of the pot, use a fork, not a spoon, as the 
latter makes the rice soggy. Let it soak or dry thoroughly. 
If it does not dry fast enough, put for a moment in the 

°^^"- — Lydia Eustis. 

RIZ A LA VALENCIENNE 

Make a nice brown fricassee, with a good sized fowl 
highly flavored; let it simmer for two hours. Make about 
a pint of tomato sauce, adding to it red and green peppers. 
It must have cooked two hours. Mix it with the chicken 
fricassee, let it simmer together. Take a cup of best Caro- 
lina rice, prepare it as for boiling in hot water for five 
minutes. Use a tureen or dish that will go to the fire, 
put in it your chicken, then the rice on top, add two or 
three spoonfuls of the best olive oil, put it in a moderately 
hot oven, watching it closely; if it gets dry baste it with 
a few spoonfuls of broth on top but do not stir it. Arti- 
chokes may be added to it. Serve at table in the tureen. 
Warmed over the next day it is even better. 

15 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

HOPPING JOHN 
Take a cupful of cow peas (small black peas) that have 
been soaked over night, one onion, parsley and a laurel 
leaf. Let them boil in a quart and a pint of water for an 
hour, or until soft. Add two cupfuls well washed raw rice. 
The rice must cook about fifteen or twenty minutes. Then 
add a quarter of a pound of well-fried sausages, a slice of 
ham and a small piece of bacon, both cut in small pieces 
and fried. Put your saucepan aside to soak, or dry. Cover 
closely. Be careful it does not burn at the bottom. If 
the rice has to be stirred use a fork, as it turns easily, and 
still can not be stirred too much, or it becomes soggy. 
Those old-fashioned black pots are the best to use. 

—"Uncle John/' S. C. 

DAUBE GLACEE OR BCEUF A LA DAUBE 
Take a round of beef, clean and dry it carefully with 
a towel, rub it in with salt, pepper and cloves, laid with 
smoked tongue or beef suet or forcemeat and a little garlic. 
Put it in a cool place and let it remain for three or four 
days in winter. The night before it is to be cooked, squeeze 
the juice of a lemon over the beef, on the sides. After 
breakfast put the beef in a Dutch oven with some drip- 
pings — let it be boiling hot before you put the beef in. 
Brown well on both sides, then draw the oven from the fire 
and let it simmer for three hours, then pare and halve six 
large onions, stew them over the beef — let it continue to 
simmer for three hours longer, add forcemeat balls, or a 
calf's foot — serve it with gravy in the dish and sauce boat. 
— Mrs. Eugenia Phillips, Washington, D. C. 

MACARONI 

Macaroni must be thrown into plenty of boiling water 
to cook it well. Then drain it off and put it in a dish with 

i6 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

butter, salt and a little powdered mustard and put it in 
the oven until there is a nice crust on top. Grated cheese 
of any kind may be added, or a few tablespoonfuls of well 
cooked tomatoes, or a few tablespoonfuls of Italian mush- 
rooms stirred up with chicken livers, or the remnants of 
pate de foie gras, or chopped ham or salt tongue, in fact 
almost anything that will give it a nice relish. 

DAUBE GLACEE 

Take five or six pounds of the round of beef, two inches 
thick. Two days before cooking it, lard it with strips of 
lard half an inch thick and three inches long. Tie it in a 
round with a string, not too tight. Season with salt, and 
black and red pepper, and put in a good pinch of saltpetre. 
Let your larding be almost an inch and a half apart. Rub 
up your daube with an onion and whatever falls from the 
seasoning. Put it away in a china tureen in a cool place 
for twenty-four hours. Early the next day take one of 
these thick, black saucepans and put in the bottom of it a 
piece of pig skin the size of the saucepan. Put in a 
bouquet of thyme, parsley, two laurel leaves, one onion, 
and a small piece of garlic. Take three calf's feet that 
have been cut in halves by the butcher, lay them on top of 
the bouquet, and add half a cupful of meat juice. Let it 
simmer on a slow fire for half an hour, then add enough 
water to allow the calf's feet to simmer very slowly for 
five or six hours, until the bones detach themselves from the 
meat, the gravy to be tested with the fingers until it has 
a gelatinous consistency. The pot must be closely covered, 
and a weight put on the cover so that it touches the meat. 
The calf's feet must be boiled before they are put in the 
daube, and that gelatinous water used when your daube is 
cooked. Put it in a clean tureen to take a round form. 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Take out the calf's feet, skim the grease off the sauce and 
pass it warm through a flannel bag. Put in two egg shells 
before straining it, and let it cook a while to clear the jelly. 
Cut two well cooked carrots in halves. Put them in the 
bottom of your tureen and place your daube on top. Pour 
your jelly on the sides of the daube, so that it runs on the 
bottom of the tureen and on the sides, remembering that 
when you turn it out in a dish the bottom part will be on 
top. Put in a cool place, or near the ice. You will have 
to try several times before you succeed in making this very 
choice and delicious dish, which is meant for cold weather 

^'^ y* — Mme. Eustis, Mere. 

ROAST BEEF 

Take a roast of beef, as many pounds as you need ac- 
cording to the number of persons. Wipe well with a clean 
cloth, salt and pepper it, and flour it. Before you put it 
in a roast pan, put in that pan a small piece of bacon, a small 
piece of onion, and a carrot cut in two, with two table- 
spoonfuls of meat juice or bouillon, not hot water. Water 
is very good to wash with, but not to flavor meats with! 
Put your meat in the roast pan in a moderate oven, and 
cook it by a good fire a quarter of an hour for every pound 
of meat. Baste it with the drippings, and watch it care- 
fully. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING TO SERVE WITH 
HOT ROAST BEEF 

One and a half pints of milk, six large tablespoonfuls 
of flour, three eggs, one small spoonful of salt. Put the flour 
into a basin with the salt, and stir into it gradually enough 
milk to make a stiff batter. When perfectly smooth, add 

i8 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

the rest of the milk, and the eggs well beaten. Beat the 
mixture for a few moments and pour it into a shallow tin, 
which has previously been well rubbed with beef drippings. 
Put the pudding into the oven and bake for one hour, then 
for half an hour place it under the beef, to catch a little of 
the gravy. Cut the pudding into small square pieces. Put 
them on a hot dish and serve. If the meat is baked, the 
pudding may at once be placed under it, resting the meat 
on a small three-cornered stand. 

— Katie Seabrook, Pres. McKinley's Cook. 

FILET MARINE 

When you have a good roast beef, after using the sir- 
loin for your dinner, cut out the filet and put it on a dish. 
Salt and pepper it, rub a little onion over it, pour a table- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar and two spoonfuls of best 
sweet oil over it. From time to time baste it with the 
drippings. Warm it up for another meal, basting it while 
it is cooking over a slow fire. Serve with fried potatoes. 
When you have a remnant of pate de foie gras, use it with 
boiled macaroni. It can be put back in the paste and 
warmed over in the oven. 

TO BROIL A STEAK 
Have your gridiron hot. Wipe the steak clean. Put it 
in a dish with melted butter, and then put on the hot grid- 
iron and broil ten minutes. Turn it twice, and season with 
salt, pepper and butter. -"Uncle John," 5. C. 

BRISKET OF BEEF 

Take one pound bag salt, two of saltpetre, a little sugar, 
and a few cloves. Rub this mixture well into the beef 

19 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

every day for a week. Then it is fit for use. According to 
the size of the piece of beef, the mixture must be propor- 
tionally stronger. 

LEG OF MUTTON 

Mutton should be kept and hung several days, rub it 
all over with an onion, or a small piece of garlic, baste from 
time to time, with tarragon vinegar and black pepper. Make 
a mop with a nice clean rag and mop it all over several times. 
Roast it and serve hot, do not let it stand. 

TO BOIL A WESTPHALIA HAM 

Let the ham soak over night. Boil it three hours in the 
same water, and let it cool off in the same. Skin it, put a 
layer of brown sugar on it moistened with sherry wine; let 
it brown, put in the oven a few moments. A Smithfield 
ham may be prepared the same way. 

A TODD HAM 

Soak forty-eight hours, changing water once or twice. 
Then put in cold water and let it come to a simmer (don't 
boil), and simmer slowly for four hours. Then skin and 
dress with sugar and cracker crumbs, and bake half an 
hour until well browned. _-^^^ ^^^^^ 

HAM FRIED WITH SUGAR 

Take a few slices of boiled ham. Sprinkle some brown 
sugar and a little dry mustard over it. Fry in butter until 
it browns. Serve hot, to be eaten with salad. 

20 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

KIDNEY STEW 

Take a medium sized beef kidney, put on fire in cold water 
with an onion, let it simmer, not boil, until tender. Cut in 
thin slices as large as a ten-cent piece. Put a piece of 
butter in frying-pan, shake some flour, let it brown, then add 
some of the liquor it was cooked in. Serve on toast. Veal 
kidney does not require' so long cooking; prepare same way. 

TO STEW LAMB AND PEAS 

Put the lamb into a stewpan with about a quart of water, 
when half done add the peas with pepper and salt to taste. 
Let them stew slowly and have ready some mint and parsley 
chopped fine, put it in and let all simmer slowly until ready 
to serve. 

MRS. KELLY'S DELICIOUS MUTTON STEW 

Cut in large slices some cold mutton. Take the gravy 
left from the day before and warm it. Take a separate 
saucepan, put in it a spoonful of butter, a little onion, cut 
fine, sprinkle a little corn farina, stirring all the time, until 
warm, then add the gravy. Put all in a double saucepan. 
Then put in the cold mutton and leave until it gets nice 
and hot. —Whitchurch. 

DELICIOUS STEW 

Cut some cold meat into small pieces. Brown golden, 
add small piece of butter, with a suspicion of onion, add a 
sprinkling of flour, and a little chopped parsley, half a cup- 
ful of stock or mutton broth. Let it simmer slowly for 
half an hour, adding your meat. Set it way back on your 
stove to get the heat. Keep it tightly covered until called 
*or- —Katie Seabrook, Pres. McKinley's Colored Cook. 

21 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

TOMATO CURRY 

A tomato curry is an excellent accompaniment to baked 
veal. Mix a tablespoonful of curry powder with a quart of 
cooked and seasoned tomatoes ; put this in a dish, with alter- 
nate layers of uncooked rice, using a cupful of the latter in 
all; let the top layer be of bread crumbs; dot with butter, 
and bake an hour or until the rice is done. 



VEAL CROQUETTES 

Mince your veal fine. Mix one half cupful milk with 
one teaspoonful of flour, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, cook until it thickens. Stir into it the meat. Roll 
into balls. Dip in egg with a little milk stirred in. Roll 
in browned bread crumbs. Fry in hot lard. 

NICE COLD DISH FOR LUNCH, TO BE 
EATEN WITH SALAD 

Boil a good sized chicken with onion, salt and parsley, 
(cover closely) for two hours. Add a knuckle of veal. 
Put enough water to cover your meat, and let it simmer 
an hour more. Take out your chicken when you put in 
your veal, and cut it up in half inch squares. When your 
stock is ready, season well with salt and pepper. Put 
your chicken in a mold with three hard boiled eggs, cut 
in halves, small pieces of ham or tongue, chicken livers, 
etc. Arrange it as directed in the mold. Pour the stock 
over it, and place to cool in the ice box, remembering that 
when you turn the mold out to serve, the bottom will be 
on top. This dish can be made very attractive by coloring 
the jelly with tomato juice. _^^^ ^^^^^^^ ^^ 

22 



BELLE DINDI DE JAMBE DE BOIS 



Cha-cun son gout moi i'ai fais choix d'une belle dindi, 

A —i A , i A 



de jambe de bois, de jambe de bois, de jambe de bois. 




TURKEY WITH THE WOODEN LEGS 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

POTTED VEAL 

The livers to be well larded. Put in stewpan with 
lard, onion, carrots, pepper, salt, a few aromatic herbs, a 
glass of white wine, let them simmer for three hours. Add 
a calf's foot, cut in half, and well boiled for several hours. 
Take out the bones of the calf's foot, put in a bowl to get 
cold. Will form a nice jelly to be eaten with salad. 

TERRAPIN STEW 

Boil your terrapin soft. Put in a small piece of bacon, 
one or two onions, pepper and butter. Chop fine two or 
three hard boiled eggs. Put all together. Add a little 

wi"^- -"Uncle John." 

TERRAPIN 

Put them in tub of cold water for about one hour, after 
which throw them into boiling water and boil until dead. 
Then take out and with a rough cloth wipe thoroughly all 
in and around shell and legs and feet, to get off any black 
skin or dirt. Then throw again into boiling water and 
cook until the shell comes off easily, and the claws pull off 
in the same way. Each terrapin has to be tried separately 
to see if the legs are soft and pliant and the shell and 
claws come off easily (age tells), and no amount of cooking 
in a chafing dish later will make tender if not cooked 
enough before being picked. Hold your terrapin over a 
dish so that any of the water that runs from it can be saved, 
and then take off the lower shell and take out the liver 
which has the gall bladder in, and, holding that over another 
dish, cut out the gall bladder as you may break it, and if 
you do, don't want it to spoil your terrapin. Pick your 

23 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

terrapin, leaving the small bones in it, and when picked, to 
a pint of the meat and liquor add half pound best butter, 
saltspoonful of dry mustard, wineglass of good sherry or 
madeira, and salt to taste. Heat when ready to serve, 
but do not cook, and be sure and have hot plates. If you 
like it you can add about a cup of cream, but we do not 
do it at the club. 

— James H. Barney, President Maryland Club, 1870. 

VEAL TERRAPIN 

One pound lean veal, quarter pound veal liver, teaspoon- 
ful onion juice and four cloves. Cover with water and boil 
until tender. When cold cut meat and liver into small 
pieces. Thicken the water they were boiled in with a 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in about the same quantity 
of browned flour (or a little less of the latter). Pour this 
gravy over the meat and add two hard boiled eggs, cut fine, 
and a wineglassful of sherry with red pepper, and salt to 
taste. Heat and serve in chafing dish. 

BALTIMORE STYLE OF MAKING TERRAPIN 
STEW WITHOUT TERRAPIN 

Cut up a rabbit in pieces one inch square, and do the 
same thing with a calf's head which has been thoroughly 
cleaned and prepared. Add to it whatever you may have 
left over of chicken livers, gizzards, and small pieces of 
fried bacon or ham. Flavor with salt, pepper and a laurel 
leaf. Let it simmer for two hours a day for two days, 
(four hours in all). Skim ofif all grease and add to it two 
or three hard boiled eggs, cut fine, and a wineglassful of 
white wme. _marshall Thomas, Deer Park, Md., July, 1889. 

24 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

DELICIOUS FISH BALLS 

Take a quart of hot potatoes, freshly boiled, a cup of 
warmed fish picked very fine, one egg, the white and yellow 
beaten lightly separately, a teaspoonful of nice butter, a 
tablespoon ful of fresh cream, add salt, red pepper, a little 
onion juice, and parsley chopped fine. Beat the whole to 
a light cream. Roll in balls and drop into plenty of very 
hot lard, like doughnuts, stirring them all the time. 

CODFISH BALLS 

One cupful raw salt fish, one pint potatoes, one egg well 
beaten, quarter saltspoonful pepper, and more salt if needed, 
one teaspoonful of butter. Wash the fish, pick in half inch 
pieces, and free from bones. Pare potatoes and cut in 
quarters. Put fish and potatoes in stewpan, cover with 
boiling water. Boil twenty-five minutes, or until potatoes 
are soft. Do not allow potatoes to get soggy. Drain off 
all water, mash and beat until very light. Add butter and 
salt, and when slightly cooled the eggs, and more salt if 
needed. Shape them without smoothing much. Slip off 
into frying hot lard one minute. Fry only five at a time. 

CODFISH CAKES 

Take six good sized potatoes, pare and boil ; one pound 
codfish, put it over in cold water, do not let it boil. Mash 
fish and potatoes together. When hot season with salt and 
pepper to taste. Add a piece of butter, two eggs beat light 
with a fork, fry in boiling lard five minutes, put on 
sheets of brown paper. Serve hot with some crisp fried 
bacon. 

25 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CODFISH A L'ESPAGNOLE 

Take a salt codfish, let it soak, simmer it on a slow fire, 
let it drip, and cut it in pieces. Put in the oven three or 
four large sweet peppers, skin them, slice them lengthwise, 
salt and pepper them. 

Put two spoonfuls of sweet oil in a frying-pan. Chop 
up fine two onions, a piece of garlic, some parsley, cut up 
four fresh tomatoes, salt and pepper. Let it all cook for 
half an hour, add a half cupful of bouillon in which you 
dissolve a teaspoonful of flour, let it cook ten minutes, take 
out your parsley. 

Boil a dozen Irish potatoes in their jackets, peel and 
slice them, line the bottom of a dish with them, then put 
some pieces of codfish, then some slices of sweet pepper, 
then tomato sauce, and a sprinkling of bread crumbs. Put 
in the oven thirty-five minutes. — Canned tomatoes and 
peppers can be used instead of fresh. 

POTOMAC HERRINGS WITH ROE 

When very fresh simply broil them over a slow fire. 
Baste them with butter, for quarter of an hour. If a few 
months old and a little dry, soak them before cooking three 
or four hours. The roe mixed at table with boiled hominy 
is most delicious for breakfast. 

DEVILLED CRABS 

Twelve crabs, half pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one tablespoonful of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to 
taste, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley. Put the milk 
on to boil, rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, 
stir and cook two minutes. Take from the fire and add the 
crab meat. The yolks of three hard boiled eggs mashed 

26 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

fine, then parsley, salt and pepper. Fill the shells, brush 
over with the white of an egg, cover with bread crumbs 
and put in a quick oven, or cook in a frying basket. 

DEVILLED CRABS— NEW ORLEANS STYLE 

Scald your crabs only in boiling water. Pick and clean 
them carefully. Take out the firm white flesh, and throw 
out the yellow. Moisten the flesh with a little sweet cream. 
Taste to see that it is not bitter. Put with it stale bread- 
crumbs, salt and pepper it, and put this back into the shells ; 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, and put in the oven to brown. 
Serve hot. _Mme. Josephine Nicaud. 

SAUCE A LA NEWBURG, FOR LOBSTER 

Take a quarter of a pound of melted butter, and a 
whiskey glass of sherry wine, two yolks of eggs, a little 
salt and pepper to taste, a little lemon juice and half cup- 
ful of sweet cream, mixed well with half teaspoonful of corn- 
starch. Stir all together well on the fire without allowing 
it to burn or turn. —Compliments of Marshall Thomas. 

COURTBOUILLON OF FISH 

Make a good brown with a spoonful of lard and a little 
flour. Add a piece of garlic and half an onion, cut fine — 
let them brown well. Add two tablespoonfuls of well 
cooked tomatoes, salt, black coarse pepper, red pepper, 
two laurel leaves, and a coffeespoonful of saffron. Add 
enough bouillon to cover your fish, and to make a good 
sauce. Add half a cupful of good white wine. Take two 
pounds of very fresh, fine fish, take out the bones, and cut 
it up in pieces from two to three inches long and wide, 
salt well, and fry it in a little lard. Add the fried fish to 

27 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

your sauce and let the whole simmer together for half an 
hour. Do not turn your fish, so you may not break the 
pieces. Cover your pot half way, as you do for a soup, 
and serve hot. —Josephine Nicaud, New Orleans. 

"MONICA'S" WAY TO COOK FISH 
There are stock fish sometimes called tautog, Monica 
cooks them thus : Put the fish into a pan with a little butter. 
Let them fry until pretty nearly cooked, then put in a little 
wine, pepper and salt, and let them stew. Use no water 
A little more wine, pepper and salt to make a good gravy — 
so says "Monica." 

POTATO BALLS 

Pare and boil dry some potatoes. Then put them into 
a hot pan and mash with a lump of butter, salt and pepper. 
Beat this well, and make into small flat cakes. Dip them 
into egg and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Fry a nice brown. 

PARTRIDGE A LA "UNCLE JOHN" 

Take six or eight partridges, or small quails, brown 
them in a small pan with lard and a light sprinkling of 
flour. Add three tablespoonfuls of raw tomatoes, half a 
cupful of meat juice, onion, salt and pepper. Let them simmer 
an hour, covered. Baste them from time to time with 
the gravy. Serve with hot rice. 

"Uncle John," 
Chef for Mr. Le Garee, of South Carolina. 

STUFFINGS FOR TURKEYS AND DUCKS 

Wild turkeys should be stuffed with corn bread, pecan 
nuts and truflles. Take a piece of corn bread left over 

28 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

from breakfast, moisten with a teaspoonful of sauce. 
Add about a dozen peeled pecan nuts, three or four cut 
truffles, mix well. Cook in saucepan. Stuff your turkey 
the day before. Always let your fowls hang by the legs. 
A wild turkey should cook an hour, perhaps a little more or 
less. Be careful it does not dry, as the flesh is rather dry. 
Carve it as you would a wild duck, in thick slices. Put a 
buttered paper on the breast of the wild turkey, to prevent 
its drying. Tame turkeys can be cooked and stuffed in the 
same way. Sausages well fried, with mashed potatoes, salt, 
and red pepper, make delicious stuffing for fowls. 

TURKEY STUFFING 

Equal parts of stale baker's bread and nice corn bread 
left over from breakfast, a hard boiled egg. Chop up a few 
raw oysters, mix well together with butter, salt, pepper, 
red and white. Put in the oven to bake. Add to it a rem- 
nant of pate de foie gras and stuff the turkey. Turkey 
should not cook more than an hour or an hour and a quarter. 
Do not let it dry, the juice should run from it when it is 
carved, baste it with soup or stock. 

STUFFING FOR FOWLS 

Oysters, stale bread, onions, parsley, salt and pepper 
put in the frying-pan with a little butter make delicious 
stuffing. Truffles with stale bread and butter, warmed up 
together in a frying-pan, and flavored with salt, pepper, etc. 

Spanish chestnuts and bits of ham are delicious stuffing. 

Stuff your fowls the day before, and hang them up by 
the legs four hours before cooking. 

Chop fine a pound of young calf. Season with salt, 
pepper, and onion juice. Let it fry in a saucepan with a 

29 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

little butter and a sprinkling of flour. Add enough oyster 
water to soften it, and half a pint of oysters. Let all fry 
together to the consistency of a paste. This may be used 
for small pates also, and pigeons may be stuflfed in the 
same way, and allowed to simmer in a saucepan, with a 
little gravy, closely covered. 

CHICKEN CASSEROLE 

Take a medium sized chicken, singe and draw and 
prepare it, put in casserole whole, add a good lump of but- 
ter, onion, salt and pepper. Steam gently on top of range 
two hours, then add mushrooms and vegetables to taste; 
brown and serve hot. —Lizzie Tomney. 

CANVASBACK DUCK 

Lose as little of the juice or blood as possible. Split 
it down the back. After singeing it very cai'efully, lay it 
on a gridiron with the split side toward the fire, which must 
be very hot. Keep flat on the gridiron by pressing the 
other half, but do not bruise the flesh by pressing too much. 
Allow the duck to remain over the fire twelve or fifteen min- 
utes, then take off, and expose the breasts to the heat just 
long enough to brown the skin nicely. It is then cooked, 
and must immediately be served. A salad of celery may- 
onnaise is the proper thing to eat with it. 

— Mrs. Wilcox, Aiken, S. C. 

HOW TO ROAST DUCKS 

Don't wash your ducks, but wipe them thoroughly with 
a clean cloth, inside and outside. Rub the back (inside and 
outside) with a small piece of onion. Salt and pepper them 
the same way. Tie them up tightly so the juice does not 
escape. Rub the breast of each duck with a spoonful of 

30 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

olive oil. Lay in your dripping-pan a slice or two of bacon, 
one carrot, one leek, two bay leaves, a piece of celery. Place 
the ducks on this, and let them cook in a moderate oven 
twenty-five minutes. Put in any dressing you would make 
for a roast chicken. With all your roast meats put in the 
bottom of your roast-pan a carrot cut in half, a piece of 
onion, celery and parsley. The same with boiled meats 
or fish, to give a foundation taste to your food. 

— Katie Seabrook, President McKinley's Colored Cook. 

HOW TO SERVE CHICKEN 

Wash your chicken, dry with a nice clean cloth, put it 
in a tray of salt and water to cover ten minutes, dry it 
and salt and pepper and flour it well, throw it in a pan of 
hot lard, hot enough to make it a golden brown, when done 
lay it on a piece of very clean paper to absorb the grease. 
Throw off the top grease, put a handful of flour, stir to a 
brown, add to it a pint of stock, stir and strain, then put 
your chicken in and let it simmer slowly until the chicken 
gets soft; make a nice pot of mush, let it get cold, cut it 
and fry and serve with the chicken. Fry Jerusalem arti- 
chokes and let them simmer with the fricassee; this is also 
delicious. —Ellen White, Mrs. Madison's Cook. 

FOR BROILING CHICKEN 

To prepare chickens to roast and broil, when once you 
have washed your chickens, wipe them carefully with a 
dry cloth. Salt and pepper them two or three hours before 
cooking, put them in the refrigerator. Put a little sweet oil 
over them before broiling them on a slow fire ; while cooking 
baste them with a little water. For roasting chickens do 
the same as for broiling. Stuff them, put three or four 

31 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

large spoonfuls of butter inside the chicken. Bake one 
hour, slow fire. 

NEW ORLEANS WAY TO COOK SNIPE 

Take some jelly made of calf's feet and madeira wine. 
A small piece of salt pork and a piece of liver. Chop the 
meat up fine, with seasoning of salt, red and black pepper. 
Put a few soda crackers in the oven and toast and pulverize 
them. Mix them with your chopped meat. Add chopped 
truffles and mushrooms, and just enough meat juice to 
soften it. Cut your snipe in two. Put them in a china 
tureen and fill in the empty places with this hash. Put it 
on a very slow fire for several hours, basting it with the 

J^ y- — Mrs. Cuthbert Slocum. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Make a rich brown chicken fricassee. Tie a bouquet 
of aromatic herbs with a thread and let it stand in the 
fricassee five minutes, then take it out. Cut up two hard 
boiled eggs and put them in the fricassee. Cook thoroughly 
over a slow fire. Have your pie crust ready, and put the 
fricassee in it, not forgetting to prick the top crust with 
an iron fork in several places to allow evaporation. Other- 
wise it will ferrrjent and the result will prove disastrous. 

— Aunt Rachel Coffin. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Pair of fowls weighing six pounds. Choose those with 
most breasts. Boil in sufficient water to cover them, with 
two onions, two carrots, small bunch of thyme and parsley, 
a few cloves and half a grated nutmeg. After they have 
become cold and very tender, divest them of skin, fat 

32 



CHANSON DE MERANCE 



Largketto. 



Que f ais-tu dans ce monde que tu n' 6tais pas au pres des pretres ras 



l irTr^^^^^ ^^^^^^^^ 



t' en mau-dite en-f ant vas t' en dans les en-f ers vas t'en dans les en-f ers. 




NURSE MERANCE OF THE DESTREHAN PLANTATION, JUST ABOVE NEW 

ORLEANS 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

gristle and tendons, and chop the meat as fine as possible. 
A half pound of best butter to each chicken should be put 
into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of flour, and cook 
together, stirring constantly to prevent burning. Add a 
gill or so of the stock in which the chickens are boiled, and 
a tumbler of rich cream. Boil eight or ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. Remove from the fire and season with salt, 
pepper and grated nutmeg. Mix well. Stir in milk rapidly, 
add the yolks of four eggs. Put all on the fire and stew the 
mixture for a moment, stirring briskly, after which pour 
the mass out in a flat dish, and let it remain until perfectly 
cool. Then make it up into pear shaped rolls with the 
assistance of a little flour to prevent the mixture from stick- 
ing to the fingers. When all are ready, dip each one 
separately into the yolk of eggs beaten with a little cream, 
and roll them as fast as dipped into fresh bread crumbs 
made from day old bread. Let them stand for an hour or 
so to dry. Now fry them a delicate brown in plenty of 
clear frying hot lard. Lay them in a colander to drain. 
Serve on a napkin in a warm dish. 

NEW ORLEANS VEAL WITH OYSTERS 

Make a brown with a spoonful of nice fresh butter, or 
lard. Chop a pound of nice, tender young veal. Flavor 
with salt and pepper. Put it in the frying-pan. Add a 
little flour. Let it come to a good color. Add a cupful of 
oyster water, and some well chopped parsley. Let it cook 
for half an hour over a slow fire. Add your oysters and 
let them cook five minutes. Never allow your parsley to 
fry. This makes a delicious stuffing for chickens and 
ducks by adding a little stale bread. It may be used also 
for small pates, or simply serve on pieces of toast. 

— Josephine Nicaud. 

33 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

BLANQUETTE OF VEAL 
Cut some very tender pieces of veal into square pieces. 
Let them brown in a saucepan with lard until they are a 
golden color. Add just enough cold water to cover them, 
with salt, pepper, onion, one carrot, parsley and laurel leaf, 
and let them simmer on a slow fire for two hours. Put in 
a fresh saucepan a tablespoonful of fresh butter and two 
of flour. Stir it well over the fire until it takes a good 
color. Moisten with a little meat juice and let it simmer. 
Dissolve in a cup the yolk of an &gg with a little lemon 
juice, or a small spoonful of vinegar, and a large spoonful 
of cream. Stir it a bit and then add to your simmering 
sauce. Simply mix, and do not let them boil. Pour it 
over your meat which has been simmering in its juice. You 
can add mushrooms or chopped truffles to this dish for a 
dinner party. -LEomz Penin. 

SAUCE BEARNAISE 
To make this admirable sauce — a souvenir of the moun- 
tain home of Henri de Navarre — put in a saucepan two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped shallots (small green onions), 
and four of white wine vinegar. Reduce to one half. Add 
six; yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of beef extract and 
stir on the fire with a wooden spoon, until it thickens. Put 
a little to the side, and add, a bit at a time, a half pound of 
good table butter, dropping a little water in when the sauce 
becomes too thick. Press through a napkin. Finish with 
finely chopped tarragon, chervil, parsley, and a pinch of red 
pepper. 

DUTCH SAUCE 
Yolks of two eggs, quarter pint of cream, two and a 
quarter spoonfuls of elder vinegar, a little fresh butter, 
flour enough to render the same the consistency of custard. 

34 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

SAUCE BORDELAISE 

Put a tablespoonful of finely chopped shallots (small 
green onions), two tablespoonfuls of bruised cloves, and 
two pieces of garlic into a saucepan with a little butter. 
Fry a little. Add two glasses of claret wine, a pint of 
Spanish sauce, and a pinch of red pepper. Reduce to the 
consistency of a sauce. Finish off with lemon juice, 
chopped parsley and four ounces of beef marrow cut in 
rounds, and hardly heated in salted boiling water. Use 
immediately. -Delmonico. 

SAUCE FOR WILD DUCK 

One tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of to- 
mato catsup, lemon juice, salt, cayenne pepper. 



LOBSTER SAUCE 

One pound of lobster, three tablespoonfuls of cream, 
one of butter, salt, cayenne pepper. Beat the coral of the 
lobster with the cream and butter. 



CALF'S LIVER A LA CELESTE SMITH 

Cut a few slices of very tender veal into pieces three 
inches long and half an, inch thick. Fry them in lard with a 
little onion chopped very fine. Add half a cupful of bouil- 
lon or sauce. Let them simmer half or three quarters of 
an hour. Add parsley well chopped. Boil a handful of 
best Italian macaroni. Put it in the bottom of a long 
dish. Pour your livers and sauce on top. Trim with 
slices of lemon. Old Celeste would say "it was a very vul- 
gar dish, but a delicious one." 

— Celeste Smith, Mme. Eustis Mere's Cook. 

35 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

NEW ORLEANS VEAL BALLS 

Chop fine a pound of young veal. Season with salt, 
pepper, thyme and onion juice. Roll this in balls. Let 
them brown in a saucepan with butter an hour before 
you have prepared the sauce. -Josephine Nicaud. 

SAUCE FOR VEAL BALLS 

Make a brown with a nice piece of tender young veal, 
say one pound. Cut in pieces about half an inch thick, 
to which you add small pieces of fresh ham, well browned, 
a few slices of tomatoes well fried, and a little onion. Add 
to this half a cupful of soup or stock. Let it simmer slowly 
for half an hour. Then add your veal balls, freshly fried. 
Let them all simmer together until ready to serve. To be 
eaten with very hot rice. Sweetbreads can be put in this 
same sauce. When they have been thoroughly prepared, 
cook them, and baste in this sauce over a slow fire, and 
they come out a golden color. They are delicious when 
so cooked. Cold, eaten with lettuce salad, with French 
dressing. -Josephine Nicaud. 

SPICED BEEF 

Take round of beef and put in a porcelain pot. Over 
this pour one can of tomatoes, and put one bunch of carrots, 
and one onion, sliced fine. Put this on the back of the 
stove at three o'clock for an eight o'clock dinner, and let 
it cooked slowly all the time. A short time before dinner 
add a heaping tablespoonful of cloves and one of allspice, 
ground. Then take a cup of flour and brown it and make 
into gravy and add this to the rest. 

36 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

STEWED TONGUE FOR LUNCH 

Boil a fresh tongue until it is tender and dress it ready 
for the table. Take a little more than a pint of the water 
it was boiled in and add to it half a pint of port wine, a 
small tumbler of currant jelly, a small pinch of mace, and 
salt to taste. Stew the tongue in this gravy for an hour, 
and serve in the graA^. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP 

Take three dozen full grown cucumbers, pare and slice 
thin. Pare and slice two quarts of white onions very thin. 
Mix through them one pint of salt. Spread to drain for 
six or eight hours, and then squeeze perfectly dry. Put 
in a large bowl and add quarter pound brown sugar, half 
pint olive oil, half pound mustard seed, quarter pound 
ground black pepper, two quarts boiling vinegar. Mix well 
together. Then put in small jars and cover, if necessary, 
with cold vinegar and on top of each jar pour a little olive 
oil. Put in jars with tight tops. 



VEGETABLES 

SWEET POTATOES 

Take six sweet potatoes, not too large, scrape them on 
a scraper. Add two spoonfuls of water, salt, pepper, sugar 
to taste, and a spoonful of butter. Mix all together to the 
consistency of a good paste. Put in a dish that goes to the 
fire, and place in the oven. Before doing so, take a straw 
and stick it on top to allow evaporation. 

37 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

SWEET POTATO PUDDING 

The same receipt as above. Add two eggs, half a 
cupful of milk and a little nutmeg. 



SWEET POTATOES 

Take the quantity of potatoes you wish to have, accord- 
ing to your family. Boil them until they are almost cooked, 
then peel and slice them. Sprinkle them with brown sugar, 
and fry in hot butter. 

Peel and slice raw sweet potatoes. Let them soak a 
bit in very cold water, and fry them in plenty of hot lard. 
The more lard there is, and the hotter, the dryer your pota- 
toes will be. 

Take a few sweet potatoes, boil and peel them, and mash 
them with butter. Put them in a dish. Cover with brown 
sugar, and bake in the oven. 

Sweet potatoes which are almost without taste are much 
improved if the tough outside skin is removed, and they are 
put under a roast of beef to cook. They will brown over 
nicely, and receive an agreeable flavor. 

TO COOK AND SERVE TOMATOES 

No product of the vegetable garden in the whole circuit 
of the year is more amenable to skill in cookery than the 
tomato. Perhaps no other is capable of appearing in so 
great a variety of palatable and satisfying dishes. It com- 
bines admirably with other ingredients in a wide range, 
making it one of the best subjects for experiment and 
practice in high grade cooking that we possess. No single 
vegetable can be made of more use in furnishing a liberal 
and elegant table. Let us now consider some of these 

38 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

uses, both of the usual and the more uncommon forms of 
serving it. 

In the important matter of the family table, that true 
economy which consists of the best use of material to gain 
the desired end is greatly furthered by ingenuity in provid- 
ing variety without extra expense. Here the skill of the 
cook has its actual money value; and no good housekeeper 
forgets that "money saved is money earned." 

Tomato Soups. — Either with or without meat stock, 
an excellent soup is easily made from tomatoes. A 
savory bisque requires only the quart or more of sliced 
tomatoes, stewed until tender with a little water, then 
pressed through a sieve and mixed with a pint of 
rich milk (an added cupful of cream improves it) 
slightly thickened by rubbing together two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour with two of butter and cooking smoothly with 
the milk. Season to taste; a little cayenne is desirable, 
some will like a spoonful of onion juice, or celery salt may 
be preferred. Serve very hot, with crackers or croutons. 
For this and for most tomato soups, canned tomato may be 
substituted for the fresh fruit. 

A soup stock of beef, mutton, lamb, veal or chicken 
makes a basis for a somewhat richer soup, and this is a con- 
venient way of using remnants not otherwise available. 
Simmer the tomato slowly in the stock, coming in propor- 
tions to suit according to its richness. A weak stock may 
be re-enforced by a quart of tomato to a quart of stock, and 
a carrot or two added, with half a mild onion, two or three 
stalks of celery and a little bag of sweet herbs. When the 
vegetables are very tender, press through a fine sieve and 
thicken very slightly as before with flour and butter rubbed 
together. 

Another good combination is with rice cooked very 
thoroughly and put through a strainer. In this case no 

39 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

flour is needed. Especially good with chicken, and the 
bones of a pair of roast fowls will make a delicious toma- 
to soup. 

With Various Meats. — Tomatoes may be roasted, 
broiled, baked, fried or stewed to accompany any kind of 
meat, or served in an almost infinite variety of combina- 
tions. They may be fried in deep fat or sauted — why 
have we no good English word to express that crisp, sur- 
face frying with a little butter or fat in a very hot pan? 
For baking, they may be carefully skinned and baked plain, 
set side by side in a baking dish, and serve hot with a little 
butter, salt and pepper in the centre of each. Or the centre 
may be taken out carefully with a spoon, so as to leave a 
cup-like shell of the firm pulp, and a rich stuffing put in its 
place. A little ham or veal, finely minced and mixed with 
cracker dust, seasoned and bound together with a well- 
beaten egg, makes a good filling. Or the straight pulp 
of the tomatoes may be highly seasoned and mixed with 
grated onion, bread crumbs, melted butter, salt and pepper. 
Add a lump of butter to each on taking up. 

EscALLOPED Tomato is another savory preparation 
which may be varied with different seasonings. Arrange 
in layers, alternating with the peeled and sliced tomato, 
bread crumbs dotted with butter and well seasoned, or a 
light sprinkling of sausage or very thin chips of bacon. Put 
a good layer of crumbs oil the top and bake slowly for a 
full hour, then brown to a rich color. 

Mushrooms and macaroni are two very unlike materials, 
either of which combines perfectly with tomatoes. Maca- 
roni may be used for an alternate layer, as in the escallop 
given above. An Italian method is to first fry a little 
minced onion in butter and add to it a pint of tomatoes cut 
small, with salt and black pepper, simmering gently until 
guite soft; then press through a strainer. The macaroni 

.40 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

is cooked in another saucepan and carefully drained, then 
tossed with a liberal lump of good butter, until well cooled. 
Stir in the tomato and serve as soon as thoroughly heated. 

With Beans. — A "left-over" of baked beans goes well 
combined with tomato. They may be used together, either 
in the form of soup or sufficiently solid for a nice hot supper 
or side dish. To a pint of cold baked beans add a pint of 
boiling water and a pint of tomatoes cut small; also a slice 
or two of onion and two or three stalks of celery. Stew for 
twenty minutes, or longer if not in haste, and put through 
a strainer. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan 
and blend with two of flour; add by degrees the beans and 
serve very hot. Use only water enough to prevent burn- 
ing, if a solid dish is wanted. 

Salads. — The tomato serves perfectly in a salad, 
either with lettuce or celery ; whole, filled or sliced ; with a 
rich mayonnaise, or with the simplest French dressing. 

With a can of salmon a very handsome and rich salad is 
prepared. Take out the salmon in neat, firm bits and lay 
them in a dish of cold spiced vinegar while the tomatoes are 
prepared. Cut off the stem end and hollow out with a 
pointed spoon to make a neat, firm cup. Medium-sized 
tomatoes of even form and well ripened should be chosen. 
Mix a little salt, cayenne and vinegar, with or without oil, 
as preferred, and sprinkle the tomatoes well, then fill with 
the salmon. Cucumbers in paper-thin slices may be mixed 
with the fish. Serve on lettuce leaves with a cupful of 
mayonnaise. 

Jellied or Frozen. — Both cucumbers and tomatoes are 
frequently served now in the form of jelly, using the pulp 
pressed through a steamer, with gelatine, as in other gela- 
tine jellies. Cubes of this jelly are especially popular with 
chicken salad. Frozen tomato is offered in the same way 
with meat salads or cold luncheons. The pulp is highly 

41 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

seasoned and frozen like a water ice. It is then either chilled 
again in small cups, tp make an individual mold, or served 
by the spoonful upon the plates. 

Tomatoes cannot be stewed under two to three hours 
to get rid of that raw, watery taste. Take five or six 
tomatoes or a can of tomatoes, throwing out the water, put 
in a saucepan with a small piece of onion, a bit of parsley, 
salt, pepper, teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of sugar; let 
it simmer from two to three hours uncovered. Serve for 
dinner or set aside to add to a poor soup, or to re-enforce a 
gravy, or if your dinner is short, put about half of it in 
a warm dish, poach six eggs, set them a few moments 
on a nice, dry, warm napkin to dry, then put them on the 
tomatoes and serve des ceufs a la portogais. Sliced fresh 
tomatoes, salt and pepper and powdered with crumbs of 
toasted bread, fried in hot butter and served hot immediately, 
are very delicious for breakfast. 

Tomato Timbale. — To be served with lettuce and may- 
onnaise sauce : Take six fresh tomatoes or a can of tomatoes, 
of which you throw off the liquor, stew them down suffi- 
ciently with a spoonful of Cox's gelatine, put enough to 
keep the tomatoes together, season to taste with salt and 
cayenne pepper, pour into small timbales to shape them, 
place on ice to get cold and serve with lettuce and mayon- 
naise sauce. 

TOMATOES 

Tomatoes must be cooked several hours, otherwise they 
taste sour and watery. 

Slice them, salt and pepper them, add a few bread 
crumbs, broil them on the gridiron, serve very hot for 
breakfast. 

Stuffed with mince meat, or sliced, with French dress- 
ing or mayonnaise sauce, they are delicious. 

42 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Scald, peel, and slice them. Put in the refrigerator, 
with French dressing. Put a slice of onion in the dish with 
them, and remove it before serving. 

A Nice Way to Cook Tomatoes for Breakfast. — 
A nice way to cook tomatoes for breakfast is to slice them, 
salt and pepper them, sprinkle with bread crumbs, a little 
butter on them, and broiled. Serve very hot immediately, 
without letting them stand. 

EGG PLANT 

Parboil them, cut them in half and scrape out the soft 
part, which you put in a bowl. Add to it some chopped 
meat and a little stale bread. Season with salt, pepper, 
onions, parsley, and a little bit of ham or tongue. Put all 
in the frying-pan for a few moments, then put back in the 
egg-plant shells, with sprinkled bread crumbs on top, and 
brown in the oven. 

FRIED CARROTS 

Take a few tender young carrots. Slice them (round- 
wise) very thin, roll them in brown sugar, and fry them 
brown in butter. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

Scrape and boil them, not too soft, with salt. They 
are delicious as a salad with French dressing. They can be 
used in a brown chicken fricassee, or with roast chicken 
or duck, or dressed with a white sauce. 

GLOBE ARTICHOKES 

They should be boiled with the leaves downward in salt 
water. Serve hot or cold, with sauce vinaigrette or white 

43 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

sauce. Also with the inside leaves taken out and filled up 
with stuffing of veal and chicken, and a little bit of ham, all 
well chopped up together. Let them simmer together for 
half an hour, adding a spoonful or two of soup to make a 
gravy. 

SQUASH 

Take a squash or cymling. Parboil it. Cut it in half 
(round wise), and with a spoon scrape out the inside part 
and put that in a bowl. Add to it some stale bread crumbs, 
a little milk or cream, a spoonful of sugar, salt, pepper and 
butter. Beat all well together, then put for a few moments 
into a frying-pan on the fire. Then put all back into the 
squash shell, sprinkle bread crumbs on top, and put them in 
the oven to brown a bit. They are most delicious cooked 
in this way. 

CARROTS 

Slice five or six carrots roundwise. Put them into a 
saucepan. Add two or three tablespoonfuls of water, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of very fresK but- 
ter. Cover closely. Let it simmer on a slow fire for two or 
three hours, and they will come out soft and tender. If you 
have a dish of carrots every day on your table you will save 
your doctor's bill. 

Carrots are very nice boiled sliced, and cooked with 
a white sauce ; or, sliced in round, thin slices, put in a sauce- 
pan with butter, salt, pepper and a little sugar. Eet them 
simmer on the side of the stove two or three hours, add a 
little chopped parsley. Perfectly delicious. 

Take these same carrots, crush them, and pass them 
through a sieve. Add some bouillon, and let them cook 
slowly half an hour together. Such a delicious soupe 
creme. 

44 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Boil a few carrots, not too soft. Slice and fry them in 
butter, after having sprinkled them with brown sugar. 
Serve hot. 

LUCCHETTI— FRIED 

ITALIAN VEGETABLE 

Cut in strips, rather flat, like potatoes, for frying crisply 
a la frangaise. Leave them two or three hours, after sprink- 
ling salt on them, to expel the moisture. Lay them a little 
while on a napkin. Dip them in flour, and fry quickly 
until brown. Sprinkle powdered sugar on them before 
serving. 

Or they may be served farcis, in pieces cut like fond 
d'artichauts. 

SPINACH 

Spinach must be thrown into boiling water, and when 
sufficiently cooked drained in a colander or cheesecloth, 
and chopped fine on a very clean board with a perfectly 
clean knife, then warmed in a saucepan ; add salt, butter and 
sugar to taste, and serve very hot and quickly. 

It should be trimmed with small pieces of fried bread 
around the dish. 

STRING BEANS 

Make a bouquet of a small green onion, some parsley, 
a laurel leaf, a very small bit of thyme. Tie all together 
with a long string, add your string beans, and when the 
bouquet has boiled fifteen minutes, take it out, leaving the 
string beans to boil fifteen minutes longer. Let them, like 
spinach, dance around in plenty of hot water. When 
cooked, strain them in a colander at once. Do not let them 
get cold. Let them drip in a clean piece of cheesecloth 

45 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

that has been well washed: never use it new. Then put 
the beans in a frying-pan with a little butter, pepper and 
salt. Serve hot. Do not let them stand. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

Artichokes may be boiled in hot water, salted, and served 
as a vegetable, with a white sauce, or as a salad, with a 
French dressing, or as a stuffing for fowls, or as a vegetable 
fried in roast-beef gravy, as they do the Irish potatoes. 
They are delicious in any form and should be boiled with 
the leaves down. 

They are very nice with chicken fricassee or smothered 
with chicken, or with inside taken out and filled with the 
veal and oyster stuffing. 

Jerusalem artichokes may be used in various ways and 
make an exquisite dish when well prepared, being delicious 
as a puree for a soup with cream. Steamed and allowed to 
get cold and prepared with French dressing they make a 
very good salad. In a brown chicken fricassee they im- 
prove the flavor very much. They can also be used in 
a beef a la mode of veal, cutting the veal about four inches 
square; parboiled and browned in butter and served with a 
white sauce, this is a great delicacy. 

— ^Broad Hollow Farm, Westherry, L. I. 

ASPARAGUS IN THE OVEN 

Take four bundles of asparagus. Boil them. Cut off 
the soft tips about an inch long. Add to them a pint of 
sweet milk. Mix two or three eggs, a teaspoonful of flour 
(into which a teaspoonful of butter is mixed), salt, pepper, 
butter, onion juice, parsley. Add all together with a 
soupQon of grated cheese on top, and put in the oven to 
bake for fifteen minutes. 

46 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

This can be made next day from the same water in 
which the asparagus was boiled by adding whatever cold 
meat you have on hand, with salt, pepper and parsley. If 
you wish to thicken it, small pieces of potatoes, cut up and 
passed through a sieve, may be added, also a handful of 
sorrel, a small lettuce, two small green onions, and chervil. 

HOW TO COOK MUSHROOMS IN A CHAFING- 
DISH HALF AN HOUR BEFORE SERVING 

Take a heaping plateful of nicely peeled mushrooms, put 
a tablespoonful of fresh butter into a chafing-dish, and pour 
the mushrooms on top of it. Salt and pepper them, cover 
them closely and let them cook twenty-five or thirty minutes. 
Put some nice pieces of dry toast on each plate, and serve 
yourself from the chafing-dish. Hail Columbia, it's good! 

THE WAY TO TELL GOOD MUSHROOMS FROM POISONOUS 

ONES 

Only gather mushrooms in open fields where cows or 
sheep have pastured, and those that are pink underneath, 
and as they grow old and large dark brown underneath. 
They are all rather fat and stocky. Alongside of them 
grow cream-colored or white poisonous ones which smell 
rank. Do not touch them. Confine yourself to the pink 
and brown only and you are safe. If you have any doubts, 
throw them away. There are many other species of mush- 
rooms, but if you keep to those described you are safe, 
and they are the best. 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

MACARONI PIE 

Put the macaroni on to boil in plenty of cold water with 
an onion. Let it boil gently until the macaroni is quite 
tender, then throw it on a sieve to drain; but first wash it 
in cold water. Then put on half a pint of cream to boil 
with about four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a table- 
spoonful of mustard, a little cayenne pepper, salt and butter. 
Thin it in some macaroni, and let it stew gently a few min- 
utes. Have some grated cheese mixed with a few bread 
crumbs. Put the macaroni in a deep dish, sprinkle the 
crumbs of cheese over the top and bake it. 

—Mrs. Phillips iDr. Arnold's Receipt). 

CORN OYSTERS 

Grate one pint of young corn, add one egg, well beaten, 
one small teacupful of flour, one-half cupful of butter, salt 
and pepper, mix well. Fry a spoonful at a time, butter them. 

EGGS, PORTUGUESE STYLE 
Slice some nice fresh tomatoes, salt and pepper, put 
crumbs of bread on them, fry them well, put them in a 
hot dish and put on top several poached eggs. The same can 
be served on a good tomato sauce that has cooked three 
hours. 

EGGS A LA MORELLE 

Boil six or eight eggs hard twenty minutes. Make a 
nice white sauce in a double saucepan with a pint of cream, 
mix a tablespoonful of butter with flour, add gently and 
carefully to cream, salt, red pepper, and a little onion juice. 

48 



MARCHAND D'OINONS 

Allegretto, f\ 



Des oi - nons sont k bons mar - che c'est li 



c'est li 




9a La commere t«mr-ne-ra le dos c'est li 9i c'est li ga. 



■^ 




i^ .%>,p 



THE ONE-EYED BOY AND HIS ONION STEAL 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

When the sauce is made, cut the eggs in half and add the 
sauce. 

HOW TO MAKE TEA 

Scald your teapot with boiling water. Put in it a spoon- 
ful of tea with a large spoonful of hot water. Let it stand 
one moment. Add a cupful of boiling water. Let it 
stand. Add another cupful to suit the taste. By this 
system you extract the best aroma out of tea. Of course 
your water must be boiling. Put a little hot water in 
your cups to warm them. 

COLD TEA 

Make your tea early in the afternoon, and pour it from 
one vessel to another, shaking violently until it pains your 
arm. Then pour it into the pitcher from which you wish 
to serve it, and let it stand on the ice, or in the refrigerator, 
until you want it. Crack your ice fine, and put a small 
quantity in each tumbler. Then pour in the tea, already 
sweetened, and add slices of lemon to taste. 

— Mrs. Phillips, of Washington, D. C. 

HOW TO MAKE DRIP COFFEE 

Take a French dripper, or French coflfee-pot. Wash 
it in hot water. It must be perfectly pure and clean. Put 
in it two or three tablespoonfuls of Java and Mocha mixed. 
Pour over it a quarter of a cupful of tepid water, just to 
soak the cofiFee. Let it stand a few moments, then pour 
on it a cupful of boiling water, and let it drip five minutes 
more. Then add another cupful of hot water. Test the 
coflfee. If it is too weak, pour the whole thing over the top 
again. If it is too strong, add more hot water. Rinse your 
cups in hot water before using them. 

4 49 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

WAFFLES 

Beat two eggs thoroughly, separately. Add a heaping 
cupful of flour. Thin it with sweet cold milk to a soft 
consistency. Add pinch of sugar, pinch of salt, and a little 
baking powder on the end of a spoon. Beat well with an 
egg beater. Double the amount if necessary, beating 
whites and yolks separately. 

SODA BISCUITS 

One quart of flour, teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Mix together in a bowl, then 
add a tablespoonful of very fresh lard, and one cupful of 
milk. Mix with the hand quickly. Cut in small round 
pieces, and put in a pan and bake. 

ROLLS 

Take a quart of flour, a spoonful of lard, a pinch of 
salt, and water enough to soften the paste. Mix well over 
night. Put in buttered pans next morning and bake. 

WAFFLES 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of hom- 
iny, one egg, one teaspoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
lard, one half-pint of milk, and a little salt, beat up very 
•ightly. —Julia Parkman. 

MUFFINS 

A cupful of hominy with a little salt, a teaspoonful of 
butter, a cupful of wheat flour, a tablespoonful of sugar, 
a half-teaspoonful of salt, one egg, a teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Mix well with sweet milk until a smooth paste. 
Put a spoonful in a buttered mold. 

50 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

EGGS A LA MORELLE 

Cut six hard boiled eggs in half. Take the yolks of 
three eggs. Put them in a small saucepan with a pint of 
cream and a good spoonful of butter. Stir all the time, the 
pan being in another pan of hot water. Be careful to put 
the cream in before the butter. Before serving put in a 
few drops of vinegar or a little lemon juice. Pour this 
sauce over your hard boiled eggs. It can also be used with 
vegetables. 

BISCUITS MADE OVER NIGHT 

One quart of flour, pinch of salt, two tablespoonfuls of 
lard. Break over it a raw egg. One yeast cake in cupful of 
cold water. Knead it with the hand for twenty minutes. Let 
it rise over night. Cut out in round form with large cutter. 
Butter lightly with melted butter. Turn it over and let 
it rise for two hours, and bake in quick oven. 

LOAF BREAD 

Three quarts of flour (for four loaves), one teaspoonful 
salt, one tablespoonful sugar and one fablespoonful of lard, 
dissolved in hot water, three-fourths cupful of milk and small 
yeast cake soaked half hour in tablespoonful of tepid water. 
Stir all together with knife until knife stands up in the 
sponge. Let rise over night. Knead out and put in pans 
not quite half full, that it may rise to the edge in about an 
hour. Bake in oven of moderate heat about an hour and 
a half. 

THIN WATER BISCUITS 

One-half pound of flour, two ounces butter well rubbed 
into the flour, a pinch of salt. Mix into a stiff paste with 

51 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

milk, then roll out very thin. Prick the paste well with 
the biscuit pricker. Cut in diamonds, and bake them in 
a quick oven. 

THICK WATER BISCUITS 

Three pounds of flour, two and a half ounces of butter, 
pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix all 
well together into a stiff paste with milk. Roll out one-half 
an inch thick. Prick them well. Cut them with a round 
cutter and bake as quickly as possible, but not in so hot an 
oven as the thin biscuits. 

SOUFFLE BISCUITS 

Rub four ounces of butter into a quart of flour. Make 
it into paste with milk. Knead it well. Roll it as thin as 
paper. Bake it to look white. 

AUNT ANNE'S CORN-BREAD— WITHOUT 
POWDER 

Take a quart of corn meal, one quart of milk (you scald 
the milk and add it to the corn meal), tablespoonful of fresh 
butter. Let it stand until it cools off a little; then you 
add five well beaten eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Mix half 
quantity with three eggs if you wish a smaller corn-bread. 

— Baltimore. 

AUNT ANNE'S DELICIOUS CORN-BREAD 

One cupful of white corn meal, one cupful of boiled 
hominy, knead two eggs in the hominy, put in a piece of 
butter, melted the size of a hickory nut, one pinch of salt, 
one good pinch of sugar, whip all that together, add corn 

52 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

meal and cold milk alternately to a thick consistency until 
it drops off the spoon in a thick batter, like a thick mush. 
Sometimes put in a pinch of yeast powder, just as you are 
going to put it to bake. Mix it well, bake it and serve. 
Don't let it stand. -Baltimore. 



AUNT ANNE'S HOECAKE 

Take a large cupful of corn meal, sift it in a bowl, one 
pinch of salt, mix it with a little boiling water. Let it get 
cold. Make some small round cakes, pinch them on top. 
Put in a pan to bake in the oven. 



HOMINY BREAD AND WAFFLES 

One egg, four tablespoonfuls of hominy, four table- 
spoonfuls of plain flour (sifted), two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, and two cupfuls of sweet milk. Put the butter 
in the hominy and add the other ingredients, putting in the 
flour last, with a small pinch of baking powder. 

SALLY LUNN 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful of lard and 
butter mixed with one-third of a yeast cake; three eggs 
well beaten. Make the dough with warm water in winter 
and with cold water in summer. It should be the consist- 
ency of light bread dough, or rather, softer. Let it rise for 
four or five hours. Touch lightly, and turn into a buttered 
cake mold, and bake without a second kneading. It will 
take nearly forty minutes to bake, and should then soak well. 

— Lauderdale, Virginia. 

53 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CORN PONE 

Corn pone is highly recommended as a breakfast dish. 
Take a heaping coffeecupful of boiled hominy, heat it, and 
thin in a tablespoonful of butter, three eggs, and nearly one 
pint of sweet milk. As much corn meal may be added as 
will serve to thicken this till it is like the batter for "Johnny- 
cakes." Bake in a quick oven and serve. 

— "Legs," one of Thomas Jefferson's Plantations. 

POP-OVERS 

Two cupfuls of flour, three eggs, two cupfuls of milk, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt. Beat eggs, without separating, 
very light. Pour mixture slowly over flour to prevent lump- 
ing. Grease cups with butter. Put in oven to get hot. 
Cook in moderate oven at bottom about three-quarters of 

an hour. „ 

— Sarah Johnston. 

SALLY LUNN 

Five eggs, one and a half pints of flour, full spoonful of 
butter, put in the yolks (whites are not used), and two 
spoonfuls of sugar, one glass of sour milk, with teaspoonful 
of baking powder. 

CORN BREAD 

A handful of hominy, two spoonfuls of butter and lard 
mixed, three eggs, one cupful of corn meal, and one cupful 
of milk. 

CORN CAKE 

With one quart of corn meal, scalded, mix one-half 
quart of milk and one-half quart of water, small quantities 
of soda, salt and brown sugar. 

54 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CORN MEAL BREAD 

Rub a piece of butter the size of an egg into a pint of 
corn meal. Make it a batter with two eggs and some new 
milk. Add a spoonful of yeast. Set it by the fire an hour 
to rise. Butter little pans, fill them, and bake. 

SWEET POTATO BUNS 

Boil and mash a sweet potato. Rub into it as much 
flour as will make it like bread. Add spice and sugar to 
your taste, with a spoonful of yeast. When it has risen 
well work in a piece of butter. Bake it in small rolls, to be 
eaten hot with butter. 

COUCHE COUCHE 

Make a paste as you make for corn bread by the above 
receipt. Sweeten it with sugar. Instead of putting it in 
a pan, you grease a pot with lard, and as the paste cooks to 
the side of the pot, you scrape it off with a spoon. Do that 
five or six times, until all your paste is cooked. It is de- 
licious for breakfast with coffee. The Southern children 
are very fond of it with milk. 

GRAHAM WHEATLETS 

One pint of Graham flour, nearly one quart of boiling 
water or milk, and one teaspoonful of salt. Scald the flour, 
when you have salted it, into as soft dough as you can 
handle. Roll it ne&rly an inch thick, cut in round cakes, 
lay upon a buttered tin or pan, and bake them in the hottest 
oven you can get ready. The lightness of the wheatlets de- 
pends upon the degree of heat. Some cooks spread them on 
a hot tin, and set this upon a red-hot stove. Properly 

55 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

scalded and cooked they are light as puffs, and very good, 
otherwise they are flat and tough. Split and butter while 
hot. 

PANCAKES 

Ingredients : eggs, flour, milk and salt. Beat the eggs 
well in a basin. To every egg add one dessertspoonful of 
flour, one teacupful of milk and salt to taste. Mix these 
to a fine batter, then let stand for four hours in a cool 
place. Have frying-pan very hot. Put in a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut. Put in half a teacupful of the 
batter, and fry to a light, nice brown. Roll and serve while 
hot with sugar and lemon. —"Aunt Sue," S. C. 

PANCAKES 

Three eggs, a half pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Mix eggs and flour; add milk, salt and nutmeg. 
Fry a tablespoonful at a time in hot lard. 



DESSERTS 

CREAM A LA CELESTINE 

Six yolks of eggs, one white of egg, one pound Menier 
chocolate, two cupfuls of sugar, one quart of cream, one pint 
of milk. Flavor with vanilla. Beat the yolks of eggs, add 
the white of one, and sugar,- and beat all firm. Then add 
the cream, stirring slowly until well mixed. Let the milk 
come to a boil and add the chocolate. When well mixed, 
add it to the eggs, sugar, etc. Stir gently, strain. Allow 
it to cool and then freeze. 

56 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

MANCHESTER ICE-CREAM 

Four eggs, whites and yolks, one pint of cream, one-half 
pint of milk, two cupfuls of sugar. Mix the sugar, cream and 
milk together, and stir in the well-beaten eggs. Put all in 
the freezer and turn for twenty minutes without stopping. 
Then put in a mold, and pack in ice until wanted. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

One quart of milk. Sugar to taste. Flavor with va- 
nilla. Yolks of seven eggs, well beaten, and two whites, 
all beaten together; add to milk. Stir gently over a slow 
fire. Beat well the whites of five eggs ; add very little pow- 
dered sugar. Take the beaten eggs by spoonfuls and put on 
top of your boiling milk (before you make your cream). 
Turn over every spoonful of egg on the milk for two or 
three minutes. Put them on a sieve to drip on a very 
clean cloth in the ice box. 

HARD CUSTARD 

One quart of milk. Sugar to taste. A piece of vanilla 
bean. Let your milk come to a boil ; take it off the fire for 
three or four minutes. Add five well-beaten eggs. Add 
them gradually to the milk. Pour it in a mold in which 
you have put caramel, and place that in a bain-Marie 
(double saucepan) in the oven for twenty minutes. Let it 
get cold in the ice box, and turn out when wanted. 

— Leonie Penin. 

SOFT CUSTARD 

Same proportions. Seven yolks of eggs and two whites. 
Add to warm milk, and put it on a slow fire, stirring it all 
the time for five or ten minutes. Do not burn it. 

—Leonie Penin. 

57 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

SWEDISH CREAM 

Take six eggs, beat the whites and yolks thoroughly. 
Add one and a half spoonfuls of sugar. Boil a quart of 
milk and cream. Let it get cold, and flavor with vanilla 
bean. Add two spoonfuls of burned sugar. Strain. Put 
in a mold. Then put that mold in a double saucepan (with 
water) in the oven. When solid turn it over in a dish of 
light brandy around it. 

"EDGE HILL" COOKED APPLES 

Take six or eight good-sized fresh apples. Peel and 
core them, taking out the heart. Fill each up with brown 
sugar. Put them in a pan or dish. Sprinkle brown sugar 
freely over them and put slices of lemon around the dish, 
with small pieces of cinnamon. Add a spoonful or two of 
water. Put in the oven, and bake a golden color. It jellies 
beautifully. Serve with fresh cream. _sarah Randolph. 

CARAMEL PUDDING 

Five eggs, the four yolks and one whole one, one gill of 
cream, one half-pint of milk, one ounce of sifted sugar, one 
quarter of a pound of lump sugar, just moistened with cold 
water, then boiled to a light golden color, poured into a 
mold. When the caramel is set, then pour in custard, tie 
down with foolscap paper and steam very gently for an 
hour and a half. When cooked it should be buried in ice 
until required for use. The eggs, cream, sugar and milk 
should all be well beaten together. _Leonie Penin. 

PLUM PUDDING 

One and a half pounds of raisins (stoned) , one and a half 
pounds of currants, one and a half pounds of suet, one and 

58 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

a half pounds of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of flour, 
three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs (soaked in one- 
half pint of milk), ten eggs, one apple (chopped), a quarter 
of a pound of candied peel, one ounce of bitter almonds, 
one ounce of sweet almonds. Boil gently for ten hours, 
and serve with brandy sauce. _e. s. Willis. 

PORCUPINE PUDDING 

Take six good apples. Peel and core them. Make a 
little syrup with sugar and water. Let your apples cook 
in that syrup, roasting them. When the apples are soft, 
take them out, put them in a flat dish. Let your syrup 
thicken a bit, pour it over the apples, and let them get cool. 
Beat the whites of two or three eggs stiff. Put it over the 
apples, shaping it in the form of a pudding. Stick in it all 
over bleached almonds. Let it brown in the oven. 

— Miss Banks, 5. C. 

MERINGUE PUDDING 

One pint of stale bread crumbs, one quart of milk, 
nearly one teacupful of sugar, three eggs, leaving out the 
white of one for the meringue. Season the pudding with 
the grated rind of one lemon. Mix all together and bake 
until you can put the handle of a teaspoon in and it comes 
out clean. Then cover the pudding with some preserves. 
Make your meringue of the one white of egg and teacupful 
of sugar. Spread in on top of the preserves, and put in the 
stove until it is lightly browned. You may double the re- 
ceipt if more is wanted. 

MONKEY PUDDING 

Take about half a loaf of stale bread. Let it soak in 
nice milk (as much as you would put for a bread pudding) 

59 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

several hours. Add a little cream to it. Put in three 
heaping spoonfuls of brown sugar, two heaping spoonfuls 
of powdered cinnamon, a few stoned raisins. Cook in the 
oven with a slow fire until it looks like an old monkey. 
Serve with a stiff sugar and butter sauce, flavored with a 
little wine.' — Celestine Eustis. 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING 

One and a half quarts of milk, one-half cupful of 
rice, three-fourths of a cupful of sugar; dessertspoonful of 
butter. Wash your rice well. Put as much milk as the dish 
you wish to bake your pudding in will hold, together with 
the rice. Allow it to boil, and as the milk cooks away, keep 
adding more until all is used; then add sugar and butter, 
and bake until brown. When your pudding is baking and 
the crust forms, skim it off each time for five or six times 
before allowing it to finally form and remain. This is 
important. 

CORN PUDDING 

Take six ears of corn. Boil and grate them; add a 
spoonful of sugar, pinch of salt, a spoonful of cream, four 
yolks of eggs and the four whites, well whipped up. Mix 
well. Put in a buttered dish, and bake for half an hour 
in rather warm oven, as you would for a souffle. 

CORN PUDDING 

Cut six ears of soft corn from the cob, making several 
cuts in each grain, and scrape the milk from the^ob. To 
this add one egg, well beaten, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one of butter and one teaspoonful of salt. Mix all well 
together and bake for half an hour. 

— "Lauderdale," Virginia. 
60 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CUSTARD BREAD 

Take three pie plates. In the first one put some sweet 
milk with a spoonful of powdered cinnamon; in the second 
one beat up four eggs, whites and yolks ; in the third one put 
some brown sugar. Cut some slices of stale bread, dip 
them first in the milk, then in the eggs, and roll them in the 
brown sugar and fry them in some butter until brown. 
Put those that are cooked in a hot plate. You can only 
cook three at a time in a saucepan. Keep them hot. 
Sprinkle a little powdered sugar and serve with a wine 
sauce for dessert. —"Uncle John," S. C. 

MINCE-MEAT 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound 
of sugar, one pound of suet, all chopped; two pounds of 
apples, raw, and chopped; two ounces of candied orange 
and lemon peel ; the juice of one lemon ; one pint of brandy 
or rum. _E. S. Willis. 

CANDIED ORANGE 

Peel and quarter the oranges. Make a syrup in the pro- 
portion of one pound of sugar to one pint of water. Then 
take it from the fire and dip the quarters of orange in the 
syrup. Let them drain on a fine sieve placed over a platter, 
so that the syrup will not be wasted. Let them drain until 
cool, when the sugar will crystallize. 

HOW TO MAKE A CARAMEL 

Four tablespoonfuls of any kind of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of cold water. Let it cook until it candies, more 
or less according to color. If you wish it to color a pud- 
ding, put it in the mold first, and then pour in your pud- 

6i 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

ding. Another way is to add it drop by drop to a cream 
or custard. Or, if you like better, pour it over your pud- 
ding or cake. 

FRUIT IN ITS OWN JUICE 

Prepare your fruit for eating by removing the stones 
and paring if necessary ; put it in a closed vessel and expose 
it to a scalding heat, either in a dry oven or one filled with 
water, taking care not to let it burn. Fill up jars and seal 
them carefully. Keep them in a cool place. Stone jars 
are the best. The fruit spoils if exposed to the air. 

PRALINE COCOANUT 

Take a fresh cocoanut, break it open and grate it care- 
fully. Take a cupful to two cupfuls and a half of the best 
white sugar. Put the sugar in a nice clean saucepan to 
cook until it candies. Add the cocoanut. Let it cook a 
moment, turning it all the time. Put it in pats on a large 
china dish or a piece of marble. Do the same with brown 
sugar. 

PRALINE PECANS 

Take a cupful of well and carefully peeled pecan nuts. 
Take two cupfuls of brown sugar and half a cupful of water. 
Let simmer on the fire until it candies. Put in the nuts. 
Stir them all the time until the sugar adheres to the nuts. 
Be careful it does not burn. Put in a plate to cool and 
serve. Do the same thing, but do not turn it. Put them 
a spoonful at a time in small paper boxes or in pats on a 
dish. The same thing can be done with peanuts. Pea- 
nuts powdered and added to ice cream is delicious. 

(Sold on the street corners in New Orleans.) 

62 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



CAKES 

GINGERBREAD 

One quart of flour, one-half pound of butter, one- 
quarter pound of sugar, five eggs, one-half pint of mo- 
lasses, one-half cupful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda. 

LOAF OF GINGERBREAD 

A loaf of gingerbread is good enough to make one 
quite indifferent to the fact that it is by no means an 
economy. To make one: work a cupful of butter until 
creamy, then mix with it a cupful of brown sugar. Sepa- 
rate the whites and yolks of four eggs, and beat both until 
light, frothing the whites. Stir the eggs with the butter 
and sugar and add a cupful of sour cream mixed with a 
cupful of molasses. Before putting the molasses and cream 
together, add to the cream two teaspoonfuls of soda, dis- 
solved in a little warm water. Measure four cupfuls of 
flour and mix with it a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of yellow ginger. Add this to the batter. Do all the mix- 
ing as quickly and lightly as possible. Bake thirty minutes 
with moderate heat. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD 

The molasses must be the unrefined black New Orleans 
molasses and the sugar must be the coarse, dark, unrefined 
brown sugar. One cupful of butter (melted), one cupful of 
molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, two eggs well beaten, 
two cupfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of ginger, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful baking soda. Beat 
this mixture well and drop it in spoonfuls on a baking sheet 

63 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

or roasting pan. Spread it with a wooden spoon very thin 
and evenly over the pan and bake ten or twelve minutes in 
a moderate oven. Let it cool a little after it is drawn from 
the oven, and then cut it up into any desired shapes. 

— Mrs. Bridgham. 

DROP PUFFS 

Delicious for dessert. Served with powdered sugar or 
wine sauce. Four ounces of flour, two eggs, dessertspoon- 
ful of white sugar, pinch of salt, sherry glass of brandy, a 
good tumbler of sweet milk, a teaspoonful of orange flower 
water. Beat it all up thoroughly. Drop a spoonful in 
plenty of very hot lard. Turn them over until they are a 
golden color. Sprinkle a little powdered sugar over them 
and serve very hot. 

GINGER CAKE 

One teacupful of molasses, one teacupful of brown sugar, 
one teacupful of butter, three teacupfuls of flour (sifted), 
three eggs, one tablespoonful of powdered ginger, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. Rub sugar and butter well together. Beat 
eggs well and add. Then stir in molasses, ginger, flour, and 
last, the soda, dissolved in a little milk or water. Bake 
•quickly. —Alison. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Two cupfuls of flour (sifted), two eggs, one cupful of 
sugar, a good half cupful of sour milk or cream ; the latter is 
best. Mix half a teaspoonful of baking soda in the cream. 
Use a steel fork. Beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar 
first, then eggs, one at a time, and milk, and flour alter- 
nately. Cook in buttered pie plates in the oven like corn 
bread. Put confection between. 

64 



MAMZELLE ZIZI 







Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi - zi pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi zi 



^^^k 



-3=E 



Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi - zi li-j'ain dou - ler dans ker - a li 



# 



^. 



^ 



Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi zi Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi zi 



i 



1 



-a= 



zit=sz 



3t=S= 



Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi zi li-j'ain dou-ler dans ker-a - li. 




l..3-°^ 



^.> 






SAVANNE 
Goitschalk's lamous ' Savanne " was written on this theme 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

LEONIE PENIN'S DRY CAKE 

One cupful sugar, one cupful flour, dried in the oven and 
sifted, one cupful butter, three eggs. Beat all together in 
a bowl very thoroughly. Butter two pie plates, and put a 
little flour in the plates, then put in your cake and bake in 
the oven. 

The same receipt can be used for chocolate cake, put- 
ting all the dough in one pie plate, and when once it is 
cooked and cooled off, you slice in half and butter with 
apricot jam, and put the slices together again with a nice 
chocolate icing on top. 

DELICATE CAKE 

One teacupful of melted butter, two teacupfuls of pul- 
verized sugar. Stir butter and sugar to a cream; add one 
teacupful of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of vanilla, and 
the whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Lastly 
add three teacupfuls of sifted flour (measured before sift- 
ing) and two even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, thor- 
oughly mixed with the flour. This makes two cakes. Do 
not move the pans while baking until the cake is nearly done, 
unless it should bake too much on one side, when it must 
be carefully done to avoid its falling. The eight yolks 
make a nice cake by adding two whole eggs and beating 
all together. Then take the same ingredients as above, and 
when poured in the pan stick full of nicely shred citron. 

COMMON CAKE 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four 
eggs, a little milk, soda and nutmeg. Beat the sugar and 
butter together. Beat the eggs separately, and mix with 
sugar and butter and add the flour. 

65 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

SMALL SPONGE CAKE 

Five eggs, one-half pound of sugar, one-half pound 
of flour. 

INDIAN SPONGE CAKE 

One cupful of Indian meal, one-half cupful of flour, two 
cupfuls of milk, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus. 

GINGERBREAD 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of brown sugar, four 
eggs, one cupful of sour cream, one cupful of molasses, 
one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in warm water, four 
cupfuls of flour, teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
yellow ginger. 

FLAT COOKIES 

One quart of flour, one pint of sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one-half cupful of sugar. 
Rub butter thoroughly with hands; add sugar, milk and 
flour. Mix well with fork. Roll, cut out with tumbler on 
flat board. Handle very lightly. Bake twenty minutes. 

LEONIE'S CAKE 

One cupful sugar, one cupful flour dried in the oven and 
sifted, one cupful nice fresh milk, three eggs, whites and 
yolks. Put everything together in a bowl and beat it 
thoroughly. Put it in one or two well-buttered pie plates, 
according to the thickness you wish to make your cakes. 
Sprinkle a little flour over your buttered pie plates before 
putting in your cake. Bake in the oven. If you wish to 
make a chocolate cake, make your cake (by the above re- 

66 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

ceipt) an inch and a half thick, sHce it in half, butter it 
with apricot paste or jam, then put on top a nice layer of 
chocolate cream, as follows: Take three tablets of Mail- 
lard's best chocolate. Boil a cupful of milk and let the 
chocolate dissolve in it, stirring it over a slow fire for a 
quarter of an hour. Then spread on top of your cake while 
hot. 

SWEET WAFERS 

Six eggs, one pint of flour, two ounces of melted butter, 
one and a half cupfuls of powdered sugar, one cupful of 
milk, one teaspoonful of nutmeg. Beat whites and yolks 
separately and very stiff. Rub the sugar and butter together, 
and work in first the yolks, then the milk, then the flour 
and whites. Bake in well-buttered wafer or waffle irons 
very quickly, browning as little as possible. Roll them 
while hot upon a smooth, round stick not larger than your 
little finger, slipping it out carefully when the wafer takes 
the right shape. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

A cupful of sugar and a cupful of butter stirred to a 
cream, then a cupful of molasses and a cupful of milk with 
a teaspoonful of baking powder, five eggs beaten very light ; 
then stir in the other ingredients alternately with a cupful of 
flour. Stir the batter well and bake it quickly. 

SWEET WAFERS 

One pint of flour, one teacupful of sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, three eggs, separated and well beaten, one- 
half cupful of milk. Mix the batter the same as for cake and 
bake in wafer-irons. 

67 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Take three tablets, or one-quarter of a pound of Me- 
nier's best chocolate, one cupful of milk, which you boil. 
Put in the chocolate to dissolve, stirring it gently for a 
quarter of an hour. Let it cool off and then apply to the 
cake. 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



ART AND SCIENCE OF SALAD MAKING 

No careless hand can make a perfect salad. To be 
sure, Nanette, the cook, who tosses in this, adds a sprink- 
ling of that and pours in oil and vinegar with seeming 
abandon, sends to the table preparations fit for the gods. 
But Nanette, in her line, is an artist who has acquired 
the simple stroke that produces the masterpiece. Occasion- 
ally there arises a genius in lay ranks who snaps her finger 
at experience and arrives at Nanette's degree of skill by 
inspiration. But geniuses are few. 

In. no other dish is there so wide range for individu- 
ality of treatment as in the salad. No single process in its 
preparation is unimportant. The meats and vegetables 
must not be too coarse nor too fine. In making them 
ready the chopping knife and meat grinder must have no 
part. Only the crispest, freshest vegetables should enter 
into its composition. Much depends upon the quality of 
the vinegar and oil. Sharp vinegar is to be avoided. If 
that on hand is too sour weaken it with a little water. A 
little lemon juice may be used if greater acidity is wanted. 
A ready supply of herb vinegars, such as tarragon, nas- 
turtium, chervil, celery and mint, add greatly to the possi- 
bilities in flavoring. The wise salad maker has at her 
finger tips a knowledge' of the adaptability of the different 
vinegars, flavors and foundation materials. The tarragon 
flavor, for instance, is delicious with meats and fish. The 
nasturtium, most persons think, lends itself best to vege- 
tables. Mint vinegar has its votaries, but many people ob- 
ject to its flavor, excepting with lamb, chicken and certain 
green salads. Celery vinegar combines well with nearly 
all salads. 

Chopped parsley, chervil, sheep sorrel, nasturtiums 

69 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

(leaves, flowers and stems), and other herbs chopped fine 
and sprinkled over the salad or incorporated with the dress- 
ing, ring delightful changes. At a certain farmhouse this 
summer tender wintergreen leaves from the woods, used 
moderately in various salads, puzzled the ^ests with their 
delicate fragrance. 

Garlic, at which too many persons shudder, because of 
malodorous memories, lacks the respect in this country that 
its character merits. Used properly, garlic is more deli- 
cate and delicious in flavor than onion. It is the misuse of 
the vegetable that has gained for it its undeserved notoriety. 
The French know to a T its worth. A single clove of 
garlic, or two at the most, are enough for a large mixture. 
It is a good idea to rub the bowl in which the salad is 
dressed or the dish in which the dressing is made with a 
halved clove of garlic. It is still better, some think, to 
saturate a piece of bread with its odor and in turn to use 
the bread, transfixed with a fork, to wipe the dish. An- 
other way of obtaining the flavor is to chop a clove or two 
of garlic to infinitesimal fineness and mix it with the other 
ingredients. 

If onion is used, it is always preferable to employ the 
juice and not the pulp. By some cooks the onion is grated, 
but even this method leaves tangible evidences of the most 
odorous of vegetables to catch in the teeth and retain the 
flavor in the mouth. To some persons, onions are hurtful, 
but they are seldom injured by the juice. To obtain the 
juice, cut the onion in two, hold it on a fork over the mix- 
ture, and, with the back of a silver knife or spoon, press 
the cut side until the juice drops. 

With such materials as lobsters, crabs, shrimps, Jeru- 
salem artichokes, etc., which are liked for their individual 
flavors, it is a mistake to use flavored vinegars, onions or 
garlic. Such pungent additions are for accompaniments 

70 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

of neutral hue, which need embellishment. With all salad 
preparations, except with the sweet kind, of course, capers 
and chopped olives and pickles in right proportion may al- 
ways be used. 

To blend the various flavors so that no one will be over- 
shadowed by another is the acme of the salad maker's ef- 
fort. Cold cooked vegetables, such as potatoes, beets, car- 
rots, string beans, celery knobs, etc., will not absorb the 
dressing and its flavors. To obtain the best results most 
cooked vegetables should be covered with a French dress- 
ing while they are hot and should be left to cool in it. 
When they are cold they should be thoroughly drained. 
Then they may be dressed with mayonnaise, French or 
boiled dressing, as preferred. German cooks marinate hot 
cabbage in this way for a cabbage salad. With the mari- 
nate may be placed an onion or two, sliced; some celery, 
parsley, chervil or other herb. The French dressing may 
be made with any preferred vinegar. 

Utensils, ingredients and everything pertaining to the 
work should be chilled at the start. The lettuce, cress or 
other green, as well as any raw vegetable, such as celery 
or radishes, should stand in ice-water for an hour before 
they are wanted. Great care should be taken, however, 
when they come from the bath to dry them thoroughly. 
Drops of water will carry with them to the bottom of the 
dish an oily liquid that will detract greatly from the dainty 
appearance of the salad. In order to dry the vegetables 
drain and shake them in a colander, and then toss them 
about in a large, dry towel. 

Stirring the ingredients together is the unpardonable 
sin of the art. By that means are produced the strange con- 
coctions which are miscalled "salads." A light tossing 
with a fork in each hand will properly distribute the ele- 
ments and seasonings and leave a light, crisp mixture. 

71 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Salads are practically of two classes — light and heavy 
— the former suited to dinners, and both to luncheons and 
suppers. No one would think, of course, of introducing 
lobster or chicken salad among the courses of a heavy 
dinner. Such a dish is calculated to appear as the piece 
de resistance of a meal. 

The appearance of the salad is not the least important 
factor in its preparation. Vegetables that clash in color, 
like beets, carrots and tomatoes, should never be mingled. 
The hue of the mayonnaise, or cooked dressing, may be 
varied by different devices. For green, spinach juice can 
be used, or a mixture of herbs, such as lettuce, cress, chives, 
chervil and parsley, may be crushed together until their 
juices are expressed. The addition of this liquid to mayon- 
naise converts it into Ravigote sauce. The powdered coral 
of the lobster, softened with lemon juice, produces an at- 
tractive red. For other shades of red, tomato puree or 
beet juice may be employed. Yolk of egg will serve for 
yellow. 

Vegetable and fruit cups afford no end of variations. 
Celery knobs boiled until they are tender, cut in two and 
scooped into cups are delicious filled with a macedoine of 
vegetables. A slice is usually taken from the bottom of 
each to enable it to stand. The vegetables are first mari- 
nated, then drained, filled into the cups and topped off with 
a spoonful of mayonnaise. The white cups arranged on 
a bed of green cress or lettuce produce a charming effect. 
For meat, fish or other mixtures the work of the server 
will be greatly enhanced if the lettuce is first arranged in 
little nests in the dish and they are filled with the prepara- 
tion. These nests may be easily lifted with the fork and 
spoon from the dish to the individual plate. To arrange 
them put the stem ends of three or four tender, curled 
leaves together, lapping them over each other enough to 

72 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

make a substantial receptacle. Hollowed out cucumbers, 
beets, tomatoes, green and red peppers and apples may all 
do duty as cups. 

A solid, prettily shaped cabbage with the centre cut 
out makes an ornamental bowl for cabbage salad. The 
cabbage should stand on a bed of curly parsley or other 
green. Ribbons of red peppers may edge the platter. The 
salad should be heaped in the cabbage. It may be gar- 
nished simply with stuffed olives and tiny gherkins. 

Sweet peppers are too little known, although they are 
gaining in popularity with Americans. With many vege- 
tables they are very delicious. The seeds and white inner 
pulp should be thoroughly removed (these are the parts 
that bite). Then cut the peppers into small strips or dice. 
The peppers may be used in salads of cabbage, mixed vege- 
tables of potatoes, beets, beans, etc. ; tomatoes and various 
other mixtures. 

Salad dressings are practically three — mayonnaise, 
French and cooked dressing. Whipped cream is an im- 
provement in most cases to the mayonnaise and boiled 
kinds. It should be added just before the dressing is used. 

In the summer the bowl in which mayonnaise is made 
should stand in ice while the process is going on. The old 
time-devouring way by dropping the oil with one hand and 
stirring with the other has happily been obviated by va- 
rious oil dropping inventions which have reduced the work 
to a minimum. The housekeeper is often puzzled to know 
what to do if the quantity of mayonnaise needed is too 
much for one raw yolk and not sufficient for two. By 
mashing a hard cooked yolk with the raw yolk the problem 
will be settled. The process of making is the same as if 
both yolks had been uncooked. They are first seasoned with 
salt and white pepper and mustard if it is wanted. Then the 
oil is dropped slowly while the beating continues rapidly. 

73 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

As the eggs begin to thicken drops of vinegar or lemon 
juice are added from time to time. 

For French dressing four spoonfuls of oil to one of 
vinegar instead of the usual three to one formula is liked 
best by most persons. 

In the making of French dressing the old saying, "A 
spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar and a madman to 
stir," is an infallible guide. If this dressing is made at 
the table the oil, vinegar, seasonings and salad should be 
placed before the one upon whom that office falls. After 
the dressing is made a layer of the salad should be re- 
moved from the plate and placed on a cold salad plate 
ready at hand. Dressing should be sprinkled over this and 
thoroughly incorporated with it. Then another layer should 
be added, and so on until all the salad is dressed. 

Cooked dressing may be made and kept for such emer- 
gencies as the cook's day out, unexpected company, etc. 
To make such a dressing put the yolks of four eggs into 
the upper part of a double boiler and beat them thoroughly. 
Add four tablespoonfuls of oil, stirring constantly. Then 
incorporate four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Set the dish 
into hot water over the fire and cook. When the mixr 
ture begins to thicken remove it at once from the fire and 
beat until it is cold. Then add slowly four more table- 
spoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful 
of salt and one or two tablespoonfuls of French mustard. 
Just before using it add one cupful of whipped cream. 

Tomato and aspic jelly botih make delightful accom- 
paniment for salads. The jelly may be molded in a ring 
and the salad served in the centre; it may be molded in 
a solid form and the salad arranged around it, or it may 
be broken into sparkling cubes and heaped about the salad. 

To make aspic jelly soak two ounces of jelly in a cup- 
ful of cold water for fifteen minutes. Then add it to one 

74 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

quart of clear meat stock or one quart of water tinctured 
with beef extract. Flavor with white vinegar and lemon 
juice until it is properly tart. Put in a couple of blades of 
mace, some cloves and a bay leaf and stir over the fire 
until the gelatine is dissolved. To the beaten whites of 
two eggs add a little cold water and the juice of a lemon. 
Stir them into the jelly and stir and boil for a minute or 
two. An egg beater is convenient to use in beating the 
eggs into the jelly. Draw the saucepan to a cool part of 
the stove and let it stand five or ten minutes. Then strain 
the jelly through a jelly bag. To color the jelly, the de- 
vices mentioned for mayonnaise may be employed. 

Tomato jelly requires a can of tomatoes, an ounce of 
gelatine and seasonings. Soak the gelatine in one-half cup- 
ful of cold water for half an hour. Meanwhile cook the to- 
matoes with three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a teaspoonful 
of salt, a tablespoonf ul of sugar and a dash of paprika. 
Then add the gelatine to the tomatoes and stir until it is 
dissolved. Strain the jelly through a jelly bag and mold. 

The tomato jelly may be served on a bed of lettuce with 
a mayonnaise, as has already been suggested. 

Apple cups may be filled with a salad of mushrooms 
(cooked), stuffed olives (sliced), nuts and a few delicate 
tips of celery. Moisten the mixture with French dressing 
and top off with mayonnaise and whipped cream. This 
salad may be served with lettuce instead of in apples. 

Shredded red pepper, stoned olives and cabbage make 
a delicious combination. 

SALAD SAUCE. 

Rub with a fork the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard, 
and cold, with fresh mustard and a little sauce; four table- 
spoonfuls of oil to one and a half of vinegar, mixing into 
a cream. Chop fine chervil, tarragon, and use with lettuce. 
The sauce should be kept separate until needed. 

75 ' 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



HINTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS 

Keep the cover on for all dry vegetables, and off for all 
green vegetables. 

Cook all green vegetables quickly over good fire. 

Do not let them stand, but serve at once, or they will 
lose their color and taste watery. 

Let the spinach and string beans frolic in plenty of 
boiling water. 

Waters in which vegetables have been boiled can be 
used in cooking, except potato water and cucumber water. 
They have been known to poison a dog. 

Good soups can be made with rice water by adding well- 
cooked tomatoes, an onion, parsley, salt and pepper. The 
same is true of string bean water, and a delicious soup can 
be made of spinach water by adding spinach, onion, pars- 
ley and a mashed potato. 

An excellent soup can be made by boiling a can of corn 
in one quart of milk and water, equal proportions. Season 
with salt, pepper and butter. After it has boiled ten min- 
utes, stir in three well-beaten eggs. Serve hot with a 
little toasted cracker added just before sending to table. 

Cooking is like gardening — always something to learn. 
The proper quantity of salt for rice is a teaspoonful to every 
large cupful of rice. 

You can get much nutrition from cracked bones, but be 
careful to strain them, and get all the small bones out of 
your juice, which can then be added to gravies. 

Always hang your fowls by the legs, it makes them more 
tender. 

Green vegetables must be cooked in boiling water (by 
"green" vegetables are meant all those growing above 

76 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

ground), throwing the vegetables in it, salted, and not 
covered. Dry vegetables, or those under ground, are cooked 
in cold water, and not salted at first, but when half cooked. 
If you salt your vegetables too soon they become hard, and 
are difficult to cook. 

The flesh of fowls should be wiped with a dry or moist 
cloth, as need be, and never washed under a spigot, as that 
destroys the individual taste of the fowl. 

Wash your green vegetables quickly in plenty of water. 
Do not let them soak. 

The great secret of a good cuisine is to leave to every 
dish its own particular taste, and not to put indiscreetly 
mace, cloves and aromatic herbs in everything, or they will 
all taste alike. 

Salting draws out the nutritive part of fish, as it does 
of meats, and salt fish should be used as a relish only. 
The juices of fish, especially shellfish, are of an alkaline 
nature, and this renders lemon juice or vinegar desirable as 
a neutralizing agency. 

Only use the best of sweet oil, and the sweetest, freshest 
butter and lard, and the very best of everything. If you 
have any doubts about any article of food throw it away, 
and do not risk making any one ill ! That is poor economy ! 

Do not throw away the bones of turkey or chicken. 
Crack them and let them boil for two or three hours in 
a little water. Put in also any nice bits of fowl that are 
left, particularly the wings. To this add any soup stock 
you have, and with a little barley or rice or sago you have 
a nourishing soup. Season with salt, pepper and any aro- 
matic herbs — any vegetable you have on hand. 

With a remnant of cold chicken, cut it up with celery 
and cold potatoes, season with French dressing, ornament 
with lettuce leaves. 

Botanically, potatoes belong to the same poisonous order 

77 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

as tomatoes and contain an acid juice which is unpleasant to 
the taste and renders them indigestible. This lies in and 
near the skin of the potato. It is drawn out by heat. When 
potatoes are baked, it escapes in the steam, if they are 
opened at once, and when they are boiled it is absorbed in 
the water. It is best to peel the potatoes before using them, 
and to let them soak in cold water, covered by the water. 
New potatoes are watery, as the starch is not fully devel- 
oped. They have a very thin skin, which may be rubbed 
off or brushed off. 

Put in a flat dish what remains of hominy from break- 
fast, smooth it flat with the back of a spoon an inch thick; 
cut it up in diamond shape when cold two or three inches 
square. Salt and fry in hot lard. Do not let it stand. 
Serve hot. 

To any rice left over add sweet milk to soften it. 
Let it stand. Add enough flour to keep it together. Salt. 
Let it stand half an hour. Roll a spoonful of it in your 
hands, flatten it down and fry in hot lard. Some persons 
add eggs. 

OKRA HIBISCUS 
De Brazza, the great explorer, told me that in his expe- 
ditions into Africa whenever they stopped for a few months 
the first thing they planted was Okra Hibiscus, because 
they considered that vegetable to be so wholesome and 
nutritious. 

BREAD 
Eat your bread stale and not fresh. Have it sliced, 
dried in the oven and then toasted. 

GUMBO FILE 

Gumbo File is a powder prepared by the Indians. 
When the leaves of the sassafras trees are very tender and 

78 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

green, they gather them, dry them, pound them and put 
them in bags. This powder may be found at Park & 
Tilford's, N. Y., or at Solari's Grocery Store, Chartres St., 
New Orleans. 

GOFIO 
Gofio is some corn meal dried in the oven and salted. 
It is an Indian preparation. They put it in a bag and eat 
it on their tramps, or when they go out hunting. 

HOW TO DESTROY FLIES 
To one pint of milk add a quarter of a pound of raw 
sugar and two ounces of ground pepper. Simmer them to- 
gether for eight or ten minutes and place it about in shal- 
low dishes. The flies attack it greedily and in a few mo- 
ments are suffocated. By this method kitchens may be 
kept clear of flies all summer without the danger of poison. 

FOODS THAT STEAL FLAVORS 

It is generally understood that butter and milk can be 
tainted by proximity to decided flavors or odors, but not 
that all foods absorb and give out more or less of their 
individual aroma. 

Vegetables of the plainest varieties are the worst of- 
fenders, not only onion and leek and the more pronounced 
ones, but the tame little beet and the saucy radish. 

The subtle ways of these demure ones is something that 
households should guard against, but do not. 

"We do get so tired of boarding," exclaims a woman 
who has gone back and forth from hotels to private board- 
ing houses, but she does not realize the underlying reason. 

The real reason is that the foods are all kept in the 
same place and all cooked in the same atmosphere, double 
occasion for the flavor exchange that takes place. 

79 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Fruits of the handsomest varieties are prone to make 
this exchange, and cheeses, wines and even nuts will do the 
same thing. 

You leave celery in the ice chest with cream cheese, 
and if you have a discriminating taste you won't know 
which is which by nightfall. 

Cream is so sensitive to influences that shut up in the 
cold box with a peach it will taste like peach ice cream be- 
fore two hours. 

It is difficult to keep these items apart always, but care 
can be exercised by placing the more delicate articles in 
covered jars and the vegetables in paper wrappers or even 
paraffin. Keep the ones most likely to exchange confidences 
in upper and lower partitions of the ice box, remembering 
that flavor crossing is an epicurean annoyance. 

MRS. PHILLIPS' CELEBRATED PICKLE PEACHES 
Take a peck of half ripe peaches, put them into a strong 
pickle of salt and water that will bear an egg. Let them 
remain in it three days, then take them out. Drain them. 
Put them into a stone jar and stew them over one ounce 
mace, one ounce cloves, one ounce grated nutmeg, a handful 
of sliced green ginger and garlic, two bottles of mustard and 
cover with best vinegar, cold. They will not be fit for use 
for three months. 

HOW TO MAKE A LUNCH WITH NOTHING, AND A GOOD 
SOUP WITH WHAT REMAINS FROM BREAKFAST 

Some years ago we were at the Beverly House in Massa- 
chusetts. We were invited to lunch with friends at Hamil- 
ton, twelve miles off. When we arrived our host met 
us at the door in his shirt-sleeves, very red in the face 
with excitement. He threw up his arms in despair and 
exclaimed : "Didn't you get my despatch telling you not to 

80 



Cooking in Old Creole Dayi 

come ? My wife is ill in bed ; the cook left us yesterday, and 
there isn't a thing to eat in the house!" Having Yankee 
blood and French blood in my veins, I was not to be downed 
by such trifling obstacles, but accepted the situation at once 
and answered: "If you will allow me to go into your 
kitchen and get some one to help me I will see what can 
be done." The answer was, "We'll all help you, for we are 
very hungry and it is past two o'clock." I looked into the 
larder, and there I found a desperate looking bone, the rem- 
nant of a leg of mutton, with two cold potatoes. I cut into 
small pieces what I could find of meat ; I did the same with 
the potatoes, and put them to simmer with a little cold 
water, salt and pepper. I sent the boys to the garden to see 
what they could find. They soon came back with fresh 
tomatoes, lettuce, parsley and onions. I added a little par- 
sley and onion to my Irish stew ; then I boiled six eggs for 
twenty minutes ; made a nice white sauce with cream, butter 
and a little flour, flav6ring it with a piece of onion, parsley, 
cayenne pepper ; cut the eggs in half, put them in the cream 
sauce in a double saucepan until ready to serve, des ceufs 
a la Morelle. A fisherwoman in Deauville, France, taught 
me how to make this dish. Then I sliced some tomatoes, 
salted and peppered and powdered them with crumbs of 
toasted bread, fried them in hot butter, put them in a hot 
dish, poached six eggs and put them on the fried tomatoes, 
made some dip toast, a nice French dressing for the lettuce 
and some good hot coffee, and in an hour and a half we all 
sat down to lunch in jolly spirits. The lady of the house 
paid me the compliment to say it was the best tasting break- 
fast ever had in her house. 

The English butler recognized me later in life as the 
lady who always cooked her own lunch when she went out. 

A lady once said to my dear mother: "I wish you 
would lend me your cookery book, I want to ask you 
6 8j 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

to dinner and treat you to something good." The answer 
was, "You had better dine with me, as I know my book 
by heart." 

HOW TO MAKE A GOOD SOUP WITH WHAT REMAINS FROM BREAKFAST 

Take the remnants of a beefsteak, cut away all fat, cut 
the meat in small pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover 
your meat with cold water, put the lid half way on, let it 
simmer and draw half an hour, add to it two or three 
spoonfuls of cooked tomatoes; cut a cooked potato, a 
carrot sliced in two, half an onion, a small piece of cab- 
bage, parsley, salt and pepper. Let it simmer two hours. 
If you find it short add a little cold water with your vege- 
tables and you will have a delicious soup. ' 

— "MoN Repos." 



If this modest work can be of use to young house- 
keepers, I shall feel rewarded for the pains I have taken in 
putting it together. 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

PUNCH 

Put ill the rind of three lemons, pour one wineglassful 
of Jamaica rum, two wineglassfuls of brandy, three table- 
spoonfuls of loaf sugar, a tumblerful and a half of water 
ice. Pour on one bottle of champagne. 

— Mrs. Eugenia Phillips. 

CLARET PUNCH 

Slice three lemons, pour over one wineglassful of Ja- 
maica rum, one glassful of strong green tea, sugar to taste, 
one bottle of claret. Put in two or three cupfuls of well- 
pounded ice. -Celestine Eustis. 

BUCKNER PUNCH 

For each quart bottle of champagne mix and add one 
wineglassful of good brandy, one wineglassful of good 
rum, one wineglassful of good arrack, one wineglassful 
of good kirsh, one wineglassful of good anisette, one wine- 
glassful of good Maraschino, one wineglassful of good Cu- 
ragoa, two slices of ripe pineapple, two slices of sweet 
orange, one toddy glassful of pulverized sugar. At first 
put in a small quantity of ice, and later fill the bowl with 
large lumps of ice. It should stand three hours before 
using. 

N.B. — The foregoing concoction would, I think, be the 

death or destruction of any one who sipped it. I should 

advise two quarts of water to each quart of punch! 

— E. E. 

"EGGNOGG" 

Yolks of thirty-two eggs and thirty-two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, beaten to a froth. Add to 
this one and a half pints of brandy and one-half pint of 

83 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Madeira or sherry wine. To this add two and a half 
quarts of whipped cream ; then beat the whites of the thirty- 
two eggs to a stiff froth, and stir all thoroughly together, 

the whites of the eggs being added last of all. 

— Mrs. Tanier. 

CAFE PARFAIT 

Take two quarts of sweet fresh cream and put it in a 
bowl. Pound in a clean cloth one pound of ice and add to 
the cream. Add a pint and a half of essence of coffee, and 
sugar to taste. 

Take two glass pitchers and pour the mixture from one 
pitcher into the other until thoroughly mixed. Keep on 
ice fifteen minutes until ready to serve. This is very suitable 
for an afternoon tea in summer. -Celestine Eustis. 



LA CUISINE CREOLE 

A L'USAGE DES PETITS MENACES 



UN PITI DINE CREOLE 

AUX DELEGUES 

DE NEW ORLEANS PRESS CLOB, LA LEAGUE 
INTERNATIONAL DE PRESSE CLOB, 

Dans rAtheneum, cote I'encoignure Clio et St. Charles, 

SaMIDIj 19 FeVRIER, CI LA LA 1 898, 

Dans la Villa Nouvelle Orleans, Louisiane, 
Cote neuf heurs du Soir. 



Haillons casses vaut 
Mieux passe tout nu. 

Absinthe et 'nisette. 

Dans la Louisiane ye trouve bon calas, 
Des Huitres, Choupique et bamboula. 

Huitres Bayou Maringouin. 

Avec un bon gombo prepare par Silvie, 
Sans jamais babille mo passe mo la vie. 

Gombo file, Bisque 'crebiches. 

Piti Legumes avec di' Sel. 

Quand mo te gamin 
Mo mama di moin, 
Co'bullion poisson, 

Mo gargon, 
C'est qui' chose qui bon. 

CourtbouUion Patassa. 
HAUT SAUTERNES 1878— Calvet et Cie. 
Ravet jamais gagnin raison devont poule. 
Pate Poule. 

"Crebiches c'est fouti betail." 
Crebiches Bouilli. 

Chaqu'n connain ga qua pe bouilli dans so chaudiere. 

Haricots Rouge — Riz. 

ST. JULIEN 1876— Calvet et Cie. 

87 



Ye vante ye Terapin, 

Mais goute un fois Caoene, 

Et vous mange qui chose qui fin. 

Fricasse Caoene. 

'Fo pas marre chien avec saucisses. 

Jambalaya Tchourisses. 

Dinner Creole li pas complet 
Sans piti cochon di lait. 

Cochon maron farci roti, 
Salade doucet et chicore. 

Un zozo dans mo la main, yaut 
Mieux que plein zozo qua pe 
Voltige dans bois. 

Cailles laurier en baguette 

Cresson Bayou des Herbes. 

CHAMPAGNE de G. H. MUMM et Cie. 

Lagniappe c'est bitin qui bon. 

Mais tac tac. Pralines Pacanes, 

Pain Patates, La Cuite. 

Quarti la Glace. Quarti Gateau. 

Biscuit, Nestomac milatte, 

Pom' cak Tante Zizine. 

Yen a pas Soco ni Plaquemines, 
Mais na donne vous ?a qui na. 

Banans, Z'Orange, Canne sucre. Mandarine. 
Cafe Creole noire ("Morning Joy"). 

Chatte Grille pair di feu. 

Brulo. 

Cigarettes perique — papier mais. 

Cigarettes Creole — papier jaune. 

Quand na pas choual, monte bourique; 
Quand na pas bourique, monte cabri; 
Quand na pas cabri, monte jambe. 

Designe et execute par Geo. G. Voitier, Steward N. O. P. C. 

88 



A SMALL CREOLE DINNER 

TO THE DELEGATES OF 

THE NEW ORLEANS PRESS CLUB, INTERNA- 
TIONAL LEAGUE OF THE PRESS CLUB, 

In the Atheneum, corner of Clio and St. Charles Streets, 

Saturday, iqth February, 1898, 

In the City of New Orleans, Louisiana, 

Any time near nine o'clock. 



Tattered rags are better than to go naked. 
Absinthe and Anisette. 

In Louisiana they find good calas, (cake eaten with coffee). 
Oysters, Choupique and batnboula (national dance). 

Oysters from Mosquito Bayou. 

With a good gombo prepared by Silvie, 
Without ever scolding I would pass my life. 

(jombo file, Bisque 'crebiches. 

Small vegetables with salt. 

When I was a little boy 
My mother would say 
This stewed fish, my son. 
Is mighty good. 

Courtboullion Patassa from Bayou Patassa. 
HAUT SAUTERNE 1878— Calvet & Co. 

A cockroach never holds its own before a hen. 
Chicken Pate. 

A crawfish is a darned beast! 
Boiled crawfish. 

Every one knows what boils in his own pot. 

Red beans with rice ("Hopping John"). 

SAINT JULIEN 1876-Calvet & Co. 

89 



They boast of their terrapin, 

But once taste Caoene, 

And you taste something which is fine. 

Fricassee Caoene (Pig-skin). 

Don't tie your dogs with sausages. 

Jambalaya Tchourisses (Rice and blood-puddings). 

A Creole dinner is not complete 
Without a little suckling pig. 

A runaway pig, stuffed and roasted. 

Sweet salad with chickory. 

A bird in the hand 

Is better than all the birds flying in the woods. 

Snipes with laurel leaves en baguette. 

Watercresses from Bayou des Herbes. 

CHAMPAGNE— G. H. Mumm & Co. 

Lagniappe is something very good (a corruption of a 
Spanish word which means thrown in a market bas- 
ket over and above). 

Popcorn, Sugared pecans, 

Sweet potato bread. Thick molasses. 

The last drawn from the pots in the sugar-house before it turns to sugar. 

A fourth of an ice cream. A fourth of a piece of cake. 

Ice cream biscuit. Mulatto stomach (gingerbread). 

Tante Zizine's poundcake. 

There are no Skipenon grapes and no persimmons. 
But we'll give you what there is. 

Bananas, Oranges, Sugar cane, Mandarins. 

Black Creole coffee ("Morning Joy"). 

A singed cat fears the fire. 

Brulo. 

Cigarettes perique — corn paper. 

Creole cigarettes — yellow paper. 

When you have no horse, you ride a donkey; 
When you have no donkey, you ride a goat; 
When you have no goat, you go on foot. 

Designed and executed by George G. Voitier, Steward 
New Orleans Press Club. 

90 



LA CUISINE CREOLE A L'USAGE DES 
PETITS MENACES 



I.— GOMBO FILE 
Mettez dans une casserole une cuilleree de saindoux bien 
frais et une de farine laissez-le roussir un brun dore, puis 
tournez toujours jusqu'a ce que votre roux devienne un brun 
dore. Coupez un oignon en petits morceaux et laissez-le 
frire. Coupez un chapon ou une poule en petits morceaux 
et mettez-les dans la casserole, remuez toujours jusqu'a ce 
que le poulet brunisse. Quand le tout est d'une jolie couleur, 
coupez une demi tranche de jambon en petits morceaux et 
faites frire en ajoutant un piment vert et un rouge, sel et 
poivre en gout. Ajoutez un demi litre d'eau bouillante 
et laissez le cuire pendant deux heures et demie. Un quart 
d'heure avant de servir, ajoutez deux douzaines d'huitres 
avec leur jus. Juste ou moment de servir, ajoutez une 
cuilleree a soupe de filet en tournant tout le temps, mettez- 
le sur le feu un instant toujours en le travaillant. Ne mettez 
pas trop de filet, la cuillere ne doit pas etre trop pleine. 
Servez tres chaud avec du riz sec. Ou pent mettre des 
crevettes aulieu d'huitres pour changer. 

II.— GOMBO FEVIS 
Repetez la meme preparation de volaille que pour le 
Gombo fil6, coupez quatre tomates crues dans une poele, 
ajoutez y un canne de fevis — ou une livre de fevis frais 
coupes en petites tranches — faites tout revenir dans la poele 
avec une demi cuilleree de saindoux pendant une demi-heure 
en tournant tout le temps que vous ajoutez au poulet et vous 
laissez le tout mijoter sur un petit feu une heure et demie 
ou deux heures. Servez chaud avec du riz sec dans un plat 
separement. 

91 



La Cuisine Creole 

GOMBO ZHERBES 
Prenez une bonne poignee de feuilles de moutarde, de 
betteraves, de radis, d'epinards, de patience, et une salade 
de laitue; faites bouillir a gros bouillons, comme des epi- 
nards, egouttez, hachez le tout. Ensuite, faites frire 
quelques petits morceux de jambon, volaille coupee, ou 
poitrine de veau ; ajoutez un peu de farine et faites roussir, 
mettez les herbes dans la poele, faites mijoter avec quelques 
cuillerees d'eau et servez avec du riz sec. II faut que cela 
ait la consistence d'une puree un peu ferme. 

GOMBO DE CRABES 
Prenez une demi livre de veau ou une demi volaille, 
coupez en tranches, faites un bon roux, ajoutez un demi 
I'tre d'eau, faites mitonner sur le feu ; epluchez douze ou 
quinze crabes avec les mains, conservant la chair seulement ; 
faites revenir dans une poele, avec du beurre, les crabes, 
pendant quelques minutes, puis versez-les dans la casserole 
sur le jus de veau et n'oubliez pas d'ajouter quelques petits 
morceaux de jambon frit, assaisonnez bien au gout et 
servez avec du riz sec. Avant de meler les crabes a la 
sauce, il faut avoir soin de retirer tous les gros morceaux 
de viande, afin que le gout de crabe domine. 

SOUPES A L'OSEILLE 

Faites cuire dans un peu de beurre frais de I'oseille, 
ajoutez de I'eau, un peu de sel, laissez mijoter 1-2 heure, 
mettez un blanc d'oeuf dans une tasse, delayez un jaune 
d'oeuf avec un morceau de beurre et une cuilleree de creme 
si vous aimez, ajoutez a la soupe et versez-le sur des 
tranches de pain, servez un peu de cerfeuil hache dessus. 

Apres avoir cuit I'oseille, ajoutez trois cuillerees de 
tomate bien cuite, ajoutez de I'eau, sel, faites bouillir, mettez 
vermicelle, laissez mijoter longtemps. 

Faites cuire de I'oseille comme ci-dessus, mettez de 
I'eau, coupez quelques pommes de terre laissez cuire une 

92 



A r Usage des Pettis Menages 

heure a feu pas trop vif, passez les pommes de terre au 
tamis, si vous preferez, liez avec quelques cuillerees de 
creme et versez sur des tranches de pain coupees tres-fin. 

POTAGE MARINIERE 

Pour six personnes, prenez un litre d'eau faites bouillir. 
Dans I'eau bouillante jetez un oignon coupe en morceaux 
que vous avez fait cuire a la poele, sans prendre couleur, 
laissez bouillir cinq minutes, ajoutez deux livres de poisson 
de differentes sortes, bien propre et tres frais, venant d'etre 
peche si possible, salez et laissez bouillir mode-rement pen- 
dant quinze minutes, liez avec deux cuillerees de ayoli, 
laissez cuire deux minutes, liez de nouveau avec un jaune 
d'oeufs, filet de vinaigre ou citron et un morceau de beurre 
tres frais, passez sur de simples tranches de pain coupees tres 
fin, servez tres-chaud. 

Ayoli. — Dans un mortier en marbre ou en bois pilez une 
gousse d'ail quand elle est bouillie ajoutez de I'huile d'olive 
en tournant toujours procedez comme pour la mayon- 
naise, dont elle doit avoir la consistance, faites-en deux 
ou trois cuillerees et versez dans le potage en remnant et 
tenir seulement au chaud. Le potage doit etre fait tres 
minutieusement pas trop riche et n'avoir pas le gout d'ail 
il est delicieux. 

SOUPE A LA JULIENNE 

Pour la julienne il faut couper des carottes, navets, 
poireaux, celeri blanc en petits filets. A j outer des petits 
morceaux de choux-fleurs, des pois verts un peu de persil 
hachez-les faire frire dans du beurre sans les brunir — 
ajouter du bouillon de boeuf laisser mijoter a un petit feu 
deux heures, par assiettee de soupe, il faut calculer deux 
cuillerees de legumes coupes. Ou peut le faire au maigre, 
a I'eau aulieu de bouillon, on y ajoute une cuilleree de sucre 
si Ton veut, ce qui est delicieux c'est du celeri cuit avec un 
peu de bon bouillon comme legume et mange avec le poulet. 

93 



La Cuisine Creole 

Notre cuisiniere coupait un peu de choux dans la ju- 
lienne et y mettait un peu de sucre, c'est tres-bon. 

RIZ A LA VALENCIENNES 

Mettre dans une casserole tres grande, quatre cuillerees 

d'huile d'olive, deux gousses d'ail coupes en petits des, un 

gros oignon coupe en petits des, 1-2 livre de jambon coupe 

en petits des, un poulet gras, que vous depecez. 

Faites revenir le tout ensemble, dix minutes sufSsent. 

Une fois le tout revenu, mettez immediatement une livre de 

riz Caroline premiere qualite, donnez un tour de fourchette 

sur le feu, mettez ensuite I'infusion d'une pincee de safran, 

puis six tomates coupees en des. Mouillez a point avecdu 

bon bouillon, assaisonnez, sel, poivre, que vous avez aupa- 

ravant en soin de bien faire frire dans un peu de saindoux. 

Mettez immediatement au four tres-chaud, pour que le riz 

gratine autour de la casserole. Cette casserole doit etre 

en faience munie de son couvercle. Une heure et quart 

suffit pour la confection de ce mets, lorsqu'on en comprend 

la cuisson. tah^t^at aa^a 

JAMBALAYA 

Prendre une volaille, bien I'assaisonner avec sel, poivre 
et piments, couper en petits morceaux et faire frire dans du 
saindoux (lard). Prendre du jambon coupe et faire frire 
dans la meme poele. Lorsque la volaille est frite, ajouter de 
I'oignon coupe tres-fin et les faire bien roussir. Puis ajouter 
des tomates coupees et faire frire. Du persil hache. 
Lorsque tout est bien frit, ajouter de I'eau J^ tasse, 
pour une tasse de riz) et laisser mettre sur un feu tres-vif ; 
lorsque le riz commence a gonfler le mettre sur un petit feu 
et ajouter une petite cuilleree de beurre. Si vous tournez 
le riz dans la poele, le tourner avec une fourchette. 

DAUBE GLACEE A LA CREOLE DE MADAME 
ROUZAN, NEE OLIVIER 
Prenez un morceau bien epais de tranche de boeuf (bas 
de la cuisse, morceau rond avec un os au milieu). Apres 

94 



MARCHAND DE CALLAS 




tout chauds ! 




THE CALLAS GIRL 



A rUsage des Petits Menages 

I'avoir bien nettoye, lardez-le liberalement avec du lard 
frais; salez et poivrez a votre gout et placez le tout dans 
une terrine; mettez autour et sur votre viande des fines 
herbes hachees, un oignon coupe en morceaux, sur I'un 
desquels vous piquerez un clou de girofle et une ou deux 
feuilles de laurier. Couvrez bien la terrine et mettez-la 
dans un endroit frais et laissez mariner la viande dans son 
jus pendant un, deux ou trois jours, selon la temperature 
et votre convenance, mais ayez soin, une fois ou deux le 
jour, de retourner votre viande, afin qu'elle ne seche pas 
a sa partie superieure. 

N.B. — Si vous voulez que votre daube soit plus epicee, 
vous pouvez ajouter a I'assaisonnement, ci-dessus, un 
petit morceau d'ail et une pointe de piment. Quelques 
personnes ont coutume aussi d'aj outer a la marinade 
ci-dessus, une ou deux cuillerees d'huile d'olive et un 
filet de vinaigre. Cela ne fait qu'ajouter a la succulence du 
plat, mais I'experience demontre que, dans ce cas, la daube, 
une fois cuite et froide, devient cassante et difficile a couper 
en morceaux reguliers et partant, moins appetissante a la vue. 
Le jour ou vous devrez cuire votre daube, prenez plusieurs 
pieds de veau ou de pore frais (ces dernier s sont peut-etre 
preferables) lavez-les et nettoyez les parfaitement et faites 
les bouillir, en ayant soin qu'ils soient toujours bien 
reconverts d'eau, jusqu'a ce qu'ils soient cuits et bien ra- 
mollis. Mettez le tout de cote pour vous en servir comme 
ci-apres. (Ne laissez pas refroidir.) 

Otez votre viande de sa marinade, mettez la dans une 
grande casserole avec un morceau de beurre ou de graisse 
(ou pent omettre le beurre ou la graisse, si la viande est 
abondamment lardee). Faites revenir votre daube, c'est- 
a-dire, faites la cuire pendant vingt minutes ou un peu 
plus, jusqu'a ce qu'elle ait pris couleur. Versez alors dessus, 
ce que la terrine pent avoir de la marinade, mettez quelques 
carottes dans la casserole, et versez-y ensuite, les pieds 
que vous avez cuits a part, avec leurs os, ainsi que 

95 



La Cuisine Creole 

toute I'eau dans laquelle ils ont ete cuits. Couvrez la casse- 
role et mettez a cuire a petit feu; de temps en temps, a 
mesure gue le liquide baisse dans la casserole, remplacez 
par du bouillon (ou du beef tea) ou faute de bouillon, par 
de I'eau chaude. La cuisson devra continuer pendant plu- 
sieurs heures (selon la grasseur de la viande) et jusqu'a 
ce que la viande soit parfaitement cuite. Enlevez la viande 
de la casserole, enlevez et jetez tons les os des pieds, placez la 
viande dans un moule ou un plat ou il pourra prendre forme 
en refroidissant. 

Battez un ceuf et le mettez dans le liquide de la casse- 
role, remuez bien le tout et passez dans une serviette et 
mettez a refroidir dans un plat creux. Le liquide deviendra 
de la gelee quand il sera refroidi et se servira a part. 

DAUBE DE GAZWAY 

Prendre une piece de viande ronde; s'il y a un os, il 
faut I'enlever. La viande doit etre assaisonnee de sel et de 
poivre de chaque cote ; bien lardee de chaque cote et laissez 
depasser un morceau du lard lequel derra etre tranche de 
I'epaisseur du petit doigt et de la longueur d'un bon doigt. 
Assaisonnez le lard de sel et de poivre un moment avant de 
s'en servir. 

Mettez la viande dans un vase, ajoutez un morceau de 
piment, un morceau d'ail, trois clous de girofles, deux 
feuilles de laurier, tres-peu de thym, pas d'oignon. La 
daube doit etre laissee vingt-quatre heures dans son assai- 
sonnement et doit etre retournee deux ou trois fois pendant 
ce temps-la. 

Apres les vingt-quatre heures, placez la daube dans une 
chaudiere, ajoutez trois pieds de veau coupes en morceaux 
et deux carottes fendues en longueur et mettez la chau- 
diere sur un feu modere. Elle devra etre bien recouverte 
pour empecher I'evaporation et pour cela il faut placer sur 
le couvercle un poids cornme deux fers a repasser. 

La cuisson faite vous retirez les carottes et les placez 

96 



A r Usage des Petits Menage s 

comme un petit carre au fond du vase qui doit contenir la 
daube. Le vase doit laisser un peu d'espace autour de la 
daube pour la gelee. Coulez dans un linge tout le jus, 
versez-le dans le vase qui contient la daube et laissez re- 
froidir jusqu'au lendemain. _Chef de Mr. Valerien Allain. 

DAUBE GLACEE DE MADAME EUSTIS, MERE 

Prendre dans la tranche (ou round of beef) a peu pres 
cinq a six livres de I'epaisseur de deux pouces un jour avant 
de cuire, coupez des bandes de lard frais, en morceaux 
d'un doigt de long et gros comme un doigt, assaisonnez le 
lard avec le sel le poivre, une bonne pincee de salpetre, 
lardez la daube assez pres a pres, ensuite frottez la daube 
de chaque cote avec le reste de I'assaisonnement. Apres 
avoir larde le boeuf, il faut I'attacher avec une ficelle, ne pas 
trop serrer pour qu'elle garde la forme ronde et plate et en 
cuisant mettre un petit couvercle sur la casserole qui touche 
la viande et mettre un poids dessus. Faites bouillir les pieds 
de veau separement et ajoutez cette eau gelatineuse a la 
daube. — II faut mettre la daube dans une tcrrine jusqu'au 
lendemain. — De bonne heure mettre dans le fond d'une cas- 
serole, la couane du lard, faire un bouquet de persil, thym, 
un oignon entier, un petit morceau d'ail — mettre autour et 
dessous des pieds de veau coupes un deux, bien fendus par le 
boucher — on met le jus que la viande a rendu dedans. On 
laisse cuire une demi-heure sur un feu tres-doux. Apres 
ou met assez d'eau pour que les pieds cuisent jusqu'a ce que 
les OS soient detaches. II faut que tout cuise a petit feu 
doux pendant cinq a six heures jusqu'a ce qu'en touchant la 
sauce, que les doigts sentent que c'est collant. II faut couvrir 
la casserole et quand c'est cuit mettre le boeuf dans une 
terrine pour qu'elle prenne une bonne forme. Retirez les 
pieds et degraissez un peu la sauce et passez-la bien chaude 
dans un morceau de flanelle, mettez aussi deux coquilles 
d'oeufs pour eclaircir la gelee quand elle cuit. Apres qu'elle 
est passee on la vide des cotes, au fond de la terrine, sans 

97 



La Cuisine Creole 

lever la daube en ayant eu soin de mettre quatre deml 
tranches de carottes dans le fond de la terrine, afin que la 
gelee se forme sur le bas qui va etre le haut de la daube. 
On la met dans un endroit froid et quand on la sert, on la 
retourne sur un plat rond. II faut essayer souvent avant 
de reussir. 

GRILLADES DE VEAU DE MADAME JOSEPHINE 

NICAUD 

Demandez la petite tranche de veau, c'est plus tendre. 
Coupez une livre et demie de veau en petits carres de trois 
centimetres, un centimetres d'epaisseur, mettez une grande 
cuilleree de lard dans la poele, faites chauffer tres-chaud, 
faites frire votre veau jusqu'a ce qu'il soit bien roussi, 
ajoutez des oignons coupes tres-fins, laissez colorer, ajoutez 
un quart de canne de tomates ; sel, poivre, persil, laissez 
cuire, ajoutez un peu de farine, laissez roussir, mettez un 
peu de beurre, un peu d'eau, laissez cuire au petit feu a 
peu pres une demi-heure, couvrez a demi pour laisser 
echapper la vapeur. On pent aussi ajouter des piments 
verts avec I'eau, car le piment ne permet pas la friture. 

On pent aussi cuire du riz de veau dans cette meme 
sauce en retirant quelques morceaux de veau pour faire 
place et en les bassinant avec cette sauce qui les rend dores. 

Les perdrix cuites de cette maniere — c'est delicieux. — 
Faites revenir dans un roux quelques perdrix, ajoutez deux 
ou trois cuillerees de tomates, laissez tout mijoter une heure 
au petit feu. Assaisonnez au gout avec, sel, poivre, persil. 

FOIE DE VEAU A LA CELESTE 

AUTREMENT DIT UN PLAT CANAILLE 

Coupez quelques tranches de foie de veau tres-tendre a 
peu pres trois centimetres carres, faites Un roux, ajoutez 
si vous voulez tres-peu d'oignon hache fin, faites revenir ou 
frire vos tranches de foie de veau, ajoutez un peu de jus 
de viande ou bouillon, un peu de persil, laissez mijoter une 

98 



A I' Usage des Petits Menage s 

demi-heure, faites bouillir du macaroni Italien, mettez dans 
un grand plat, avec des morceaux de citron. C'est un plat 
canaille, comme disait la vieille Celeste, mais delicieux. 

PERDRIX AUX CHOUX 

Faire blanchir les choux, presser pour faire sortir I'eau 
ficelez et faites revenir dans le meme beurre que les per- 
dreaux, faites un roux, ajoutez quelques morceaux de ca- 
rotte, faire cuire pendant trois heures. 

Faire revenir les perdreaux, ajouter les choux blanchis, 
carottes, oignons, persil, vin blanc, bouillon et un peu de 
rhum, faire cuire trois heures. 

Faire revenir quelques morceaux de lard, ensuite les 
perdreaux, ajouter choux blanchis, bouillon, saucisson, jam- 
bon, chipolata, faire cuire trois heures. 

BLANQUETTE DE VEAU 
Coupez des morceaux de veau en carres faites les revenir 
d'une belle couleur doree ajoutez de I'eau froide, juste au 
niveau de la viande, mettez sel, poivre, un oignon, une ca- 
rotte, persil, feuille de laurier, faites cuire deux heures a petit 
feu. Dans une autre casserole, mettez un morceau de 
beurre bien frais, deux cuillerees de farine, tournez toujours 
et faites bien cuire sans prendre couleur, mouillez avec le 
jus de la viande, laissez mijoter, dans une tasse delayez un 
jaune d'ceuf avec jus de citron ou filet de vinaigre et une 
cuilleree de creme, ajoutez a la sauce, tournez un instant, 
mais ne pas laisser bouillir et versez sur la viande que Ton 
a gardee au chaud avec un peu de jus. On peut y ajouter 
quelques champignons si Ton veut. — Leonie Penin. 

FARCE POUR PATES OU POUR DES DINDES OU 

POUR DES VOLAILLES 

Hachez tres-fin une demi-livre de jeune veau bien assai- 

sonne, faites revenir avec un peu de graisse et farine, ajoutez 

un peu d'eau des huitres, faites frire les huitres la-dedans. 

99 



La Cuisine Creole 

Meme farce pour les volailles et les dindes en ajoutant 
un peu de pain seche au four mettez-y du piment rouge. 

On peut aussi cuire des pigeons dans cette meme sauce 
et du riz de veau. 

CERVELLES DE VEAU OU MOUTON AU 
BEURRE NOIR 

Prenez un litre d'eau, un oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, 
sel et poivre, faites bouillir quinze minutes, ajoutez deux 
cervelles de veau tres-fraiches, laissez bouillir vingt minutes, 
retirez et egouttez, mettez dans un plat, salez et poivrez, 
ajoutez un filet de vinaigre ou du jus de citron, versez 
dessus du beurre noir (sans etre briile) saupoudrez de 
persil frais hache tres-fin ou si vous preferez quelques 
branches de persil frit, servez tres-chaud. 

ROGNONS DE MOUTON SAUTES 

Prenez gros comme une noisette de beurre et deux cuil- 
lerees de farine, faites un roux mouillez avec du bouillon, 
ajoutez, un petit oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, sel et 
poivre, faites mijoter une demi-heure, ajoutez quelques 
cuillerees de madere ou sherry, dix minutes apres mettez 
quatre rognons de mouton (tres-frais) coupes en tranches 
minces, laissez mijoter cinq ou six minutes, servez garni 
de croutons. 

Si cela vous plait, vous pouvez y ajouter quelques cham- 
pignons coupes et quelques petits morceaux de lard frit. 

Prendre de la viande de cochon preparee pour saucisse, 
melez a des pieds de cochon bien bouillis, enveloppez dans 
une toillette c'est la dentelle de graisse qui provient du mou- 
ton; faire frire. Delicieux pour le dejeuner. 

EEC AS SINES DE LA NOUVELLE ORLEANS 

Faites une gelee madere et pieds de veau, prenez du 
veau, un petit morceau de pore sale et de foie de veau; 

lOO 



A I' Usage des Petits Menages 

hachez le tout tres-fin, avec assaisonnement, laissez mijoter 
a un feu doux, pulverisez, melez le tout faites una bonne pate, 
hachez trufifes et champignons, ajoutez I'eau des deux. 
Mettez vos becassines coupees en deux, remplissez les avec 
le hachis mettez au feu dix minutes, arrosez avec la gelee. 

CRABES FARCIS 

Seulement echauder vos crabes avec de I'eau bouillante, 
nettoyez bien, otez seulement la chair qui est ferme et le 
jaune, jetez-le humectez avec de la creme, goutez si c'est 
amer, ajoutez une petite cuilleree de beurre, mie de pain, 
sel, poivre, remettez dans les coquilles, saupoudrez de chape- 
lure, mettez au four. 

COTES DE HOMARD 

Prenez six pommes de terre cuites pour un homard. 
Faites revenir le homard a I'huile, ajoutez-y un verre de 
cognac allumez-le, tout en le laissant sur le feu et le tour- 
nant, quand la flamme est eteinte, le cognac fini, on ajoute 
du vin blanc, poivre, sel, cayenne et versez par-dessus une 
sauce tomate bien assaisonnee. 

BRANDADE DE MORUE 

Dessalez la morue pendant vingt-quatre heures au 
moins, blanchissez-la au feu, otez la peau, les arretes, pilez- 
la bien au mortier, ayez de I'huile, de Tail, du persil, un peu 
de vinaigre bouillant, melez votre morue en tournant tou- 
jours du meme cote et en y ajoutant toujours de I'huile 
et de la creme (ou du lait) a mesure que cela devient epais, 
tournez bien jusqu'a ce qu'elle soit blanche, servez dans 
un plat ou dans une croute de vol au vent. 

J'ai compris que c'est sur un feu doux qu'on tourne 
toujours, c'est comme la mayonnaise a peu pres. Cela se 
garde et se mange froid pendant un ou deux jours — c'est 
tres-riche. 

lOI 



La Cuisine Creole 
POUR FOND DE CUISINE 

SAUCE AU VEAU 

Pour qu'une cuisine soit bonne, il faut tou jours qu'elle 
ait une base ou fond de cuisine. — Ayez une bonne gelee, f aite 
avec une tranche de jeune veau, un pied de veau, faites 
revenir dans la poele, comme pour faire du boeuf a la 
mode — ajoutez-y un petit morceau d'oignon, deux carottes 
tranchees en deux, une feuille de laurier, persil, sel et poivre, 
ajoutez deux tasses d'eau, laissez mijoter trois ou 
quatre heures, passez dans une passoire, laissez refroidir, 
enlevez la graisse et servez-vous de cela pour bassiner 
vos rotis, beefsteak, cotelettes — coupez en petits morceaux 
et servez avec viandes froides et salade. — La meme sauce 
peut se faire avec des rogatons, pour un menage economique. 

SAUCE TOMATE 

Prenez une canne de tomates ou dix ou douze tomates 
bien fraiches, un petit oignon, sel, poivre persil — mettez 
dans une casserole un petit morceau de beurre — laissez mi- 
joter deux ou trois heures — mettez dans un bol. Vous 
pourrez vous servir de cette sauce pour la soupe, pour 
epaissir des ragouts, avec des oeufs poches, ce qui fait des 
oeufs Portugais ou avec du riz ainsi qu'avec du macaroni, 
tout de suite vous avez un plat delicieux — tres-utile et 
economique pour les petits menages. 

SAUCE TARTARE 

Dans un bol mettez deux jaunes d'ceuf une cuilleree 
a the de moutarde, tournez et ajoutez de I'huile d'olive goutte 
a goutte et tournant toujours et du meme cote; sans quitter 
la sauce, quand celle-ci est bien prise ajoutez sel et poivre, 
et un filet de vinaigre, juste au moment de la finir mettez 
du persil, cerfeuil, ciboulette, un soupgon d'echalotte ou 
oignon, le tout hache tres-fin, melange delicatement a la 
sauce, pour ne pas la faire tourner. 

1 02 



A I' Usage des Petits Menage s 

Servez avec du poisson frit ou cuit au court-bouillon 
ou avec de la viande froide. 

SAUCE HUBERT 
Apres cuisson d'echalottes dans du vinaigre passez-les 
dans un tamis, dans le meme tamis passez, foie de poulet 
qui aura cuit sur le gril, delayez peu a peu avec un peu 
d'echalotte passee; au moment de servir terminez le me- 
lange, ajoutez le jus du roti. 

SAUCE BORDELAISE 

Versez dans une casserole, 1-2 bouteille de vin de Bor- 
deaux, ajoutez sel, piment, persil, echalotte hachee. Faites 
reduire le liquide de moitie ajoutez-y un peu de sauce brune 
et sauce tomate, passez le tout a I'etamine ou a passoire, 
coupez en des 1-4 de livre de Moelle de bceuf et servez bien 
chaud. 

SAUCE BLANCHE 

Prenez trois jaunes d'ceuf, mettez-les dans une petite 
casserole, ajoutez de la creme, une cuilleree de beurre, 
faites cuire au bain-Marie, tournez la sauce tout le temps 
pour qu'elle prenne bien. II faut faire la sauce une demi- 
heure avant d'en avoir besoin et au moment de la servir y 
ajouter un jus de citron ou quelques gouttes de vinaigre. 

Pour des oeufs a la Morelle vous faites bouillir vingt 
minutes des oeufs tres-durs que vous coupez et ajoutez a 
cette sauce avec un peu de jus d'oignon en ajoutant un peu 
de poivre rouge. 

Cette meme sauce pent servir pour des huitres, ce qui 
fait des huitres a la poulette. 

SAUCE BEARNAISE 

Hachez six echalottes, mettez-les dans une casserole avec 
le quart d'un verre de vinaigre, faites reduire et passez a 
la passoire. Dans une autre casserole mettez trois jaunes 

103 



La Cuisine Creole 

d'oeuf, 150 grammes de beurre et faites au bain-Marie, 
apres vous y additionnez de I'essence d'echalotte, un peu de 
gelee de viande et un jus de citron, cela ne doit pas bouillir. 

HARICOTS VERTS 

Mettez un petit oignon et un bouquet de persil, feuille 
de laurier, un rien de thym, attachez avec un fil, laissez 
bouillir quinze minutes — les haricots verts une demi heure 
a peu pres a gros bouillons, comme les epinards, bien 
egoutter tout de suite afin qu'ils ne se refroidissent pas — 
pour les secher plus vite, les secher dans une cuvette bien 
propre ou un morceau de "cheesecloth" qui a ete bien 
lave auparavent, pas dans son neuf. 

HARICOTS VERTS, MAITRE-D'HOTEL 

Apres avoir lave et epluche les haricots jetez-les dans 
Teau bouillante, ajoutez-y une bonne poignee de sel, les faire 
cuire vivement, vingt a vingt-cinq minutes suffisent, au mo- 
ment de les servir il faut bien les egoutter dans une pressoire, 
les mettre dans un legumier avec un peu de sel et du beurre 
a volonte; remuez tres-legerement, la chaleur des haricots 
doit faire fondre le beurre, saupoudrez d'un peu de persil 
hache et servez, il faut surtout ne pas les laisser tremper 
dans I'eau avant de les faire cuire et ne pas les preparer a 
I'avance dans le legumier et les egoutter vivement pour qu'ils 
ne refroidissent pas. 

Pour la cuisson environ quatre litres d'eau pour 500 
grammes d'haricots. 

PATATES DOUCES AU FOUR 

Faites bouillir six patates pas trop grosses, on les 
epluche et les ecrase, ajoutez un peu d'eau, sel, poivre, sucre 
a volonte, une cuilleree de beurre, delayez bien jusqu'a ce que 
cela soit d'une consistance de pate. — Mettez dans un plat au 
four, piquez avec une paille pour voir si c'est cuit. Meme 

104 



A I' Usage des Petits Menage s 

recette pour pudding patate, en ajoutant deux ceufs, une 
demi-tasse de lait et un peu de muscade. 

Faites cuire au four des patates douces, tranchees et 
rissolees dans du beurre et du sucre ; c'est delicieux avec du 
rosbeef. 

OSEILLE 

L'oseille doit etre bien epluchee et lavee. Mettez-la 
cuire a I'eau bouillante a grande eau et salee, cinq minutes 
de cuisson, retirez-la avec precaution et mettez-la dans une 
bassine d'eau froide si l'oseille est tres-acide, faites cette 
operation deux fois, retirez-la aussitot et egouttez-la bien. 
Dans une casserole, mettez un bon morceau de beurre, 
l'oseille et du sel, mettez sur le feu et remuez toujours afin 
que en fondant le beurre se lie bien a l'oseille, ajoutez un 
peu de lait, encore un morceau de beurre et liez toujours, 
servez garni de croutons frits. 

POMMES DE TERRE SOUFFLEES 
Coupez en lames de belles pommes de terre pas trop 
epaisses, mettez-les a la friture pas trop chaude, faites-les 
frire tout doucement, aussitot que vos pommes montent sur 
la friture, retirez-les, faites chauffer de nouveau votre fri- 
ture bien chaude, plonges-les dedans jusqu'a ce qu'elles 
soient bien gonflees et seches, retirez-les et servez. 

Le Chef— a. Christi. 

GRATIN AUX POMMES DE TERRE 
Coupez les pommes de terre crues de la forme et de 
I'epaisseur d'une piece de cinq francs. Beurrez un plat de 
faience qui va au four; placez une couche de pommes de 
terre saupoudrees de poivre, sel, d'un peu de fromage de 
Gruyere rape; ajoutez un peu de beurre. Superposez les 
couches de pommes de terre ainsi saupoudrees jusqu'a ce 
que le plat soit plein. Recouvrez le tout d'une autre couche 
de fromage de Gruyere, poivre, sel, un peu de beurre. Met- 
tez dans un four bien chaud; arrosez deux ou trois fois 

105 



La Cuisine Creole 

d'un peu de bouillon ou de kit. Servez chaud. — Dans les 
campagnes frangaises on ne fait ce plat que les jours de 
grande lessive afin que le four soit tres chaud ; car si ce n'est 
pas saisi, au lieu d'etre excellent, ce mets est insipide. II ne 
faut pas non plus employer d'autre fromage que celui de 
Gruyere, fraichement rape. Une Savoisienne. 

LA SACCAMITE 

La saccamite se mange avec des canards sauvages. 
Laissez tremper une tasse de saccamite dans deux litres 
d'eau froide toute la nuit, le lendemain laissez-le bouillir 
quatre heures sur un petit feu dans deux litres d'eau . . . 
il doit absorber toute I'eau — mettez-le dans un plat a re- 
froidir, coupez en tranches et faites frire dans du saindoux 
et servez chaud avec canards sauvages. 

Les enfants I'aiment bien simplement bouilli en ajou- 
tant du Sucre et un peu de lait ou creme. 

Les restes de hominy peuvent s'utiliser de la meme 
maniere. 

SALADE A LA DUG DE MORNY 

Goupez en tres-petites tranches des pommes de terre qui 
ont ete bouillirs et salees ne les laissez pas trop refroidir, 
assaisonnez-les avec poivre, sel, huile et vinaigre — coupez 
quelques truffes en tranches meme grandeur que les pommes 
de terre, melez-les ensemble et versez par-dessus une jolie 
sauce mayonnaise. 

BANANES 

Epluchez et tranchez des bananes, roulez-les dans du 
Sucre et faites frire dans du beurre frais. 

Ou cuites entieres dans du sirop de batrie, comme une 
confiture ou bien dans leur peau au four. 

GERVELLES DE MOUTON PANEES 
Faites bouillir quinze minutes dans un litre d'eau, un 
oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, sel et poivre; mettez trois 

1 06 



A rUsage des Petits Menages 

cervelles de mouton, tres-fraiches et bien degorgees, laissez 
bouillir dix minutes, retirez et laissez egoutter dans un linge. 
Apres qu'elles sont refroidies, coupez-les en petits morceaux 
Carres, embrochez-les avec petites brochettes en argent, rou- 
lez-les dans trois blancs d'ceuf battus en neige, puis dans de 
la chapelure blanche, faites frire a grande et bonne friture 
tres-chaude, servez avec les brochettes, dressez et garnissez 
avec persil frit ou frais et tranches de citron, ne faire frire 
que juste au moment de servir, ce mets ne pouvant attendre, 
quelques minutes suffisent, faire vite et servir tres-chaud et 
bien egoutte. 



La Cuisine Creole 



CALAS 

Bel Calas tout chauds! est le cri de la negresse qui les 
vend dans la rue dans des bols en bois qu'elle porte sur la 
tete enveloppes d'une serviette bien propre. Les calas se 
mangent avec du cafe au marche le matin; c'est delicieux! 

Une tasse de riz bien bouilli a I'eau laissez refroidir, 
ajoutez une grande cuilleree de yeast et une demi-tasse 
d'eau on bat le tout ensemble le soir lendemain matin, 
ajoutez un ceuf, un peu de sel, une petite cuilleree de 
sucre, une grande cuilleree de farine ordinaire, la farine de 
riz est preferable, mais difficile a se procurer, battez le tout 
bien ensemble puis laissez tomber dans beaucoup de sain- 
doux tres-chaud, une cuilleree de ce melange, retournez-les 
jusqu'a ce qu'ils soient bien brtines . . . et posez-les sur une 
serviette bien chaude, posee sur une assiette pres du feu. 
Cela se mange avec le cafe au lait. 

CORNBREAD 
Une tasse de corn meal, deux cuillerees de farine, une 
cuilleree a cafe de sucre, un peu de sel, un ceuf, une cuil- 
leree de beurre, une demi cuilleree a cafe de baking powder 
bien battre le tout et faire cuire dans des moules beurres. 

MUFFINS 
Une tasse de riz, et une cuilleree de beurre, i tasse de 
farine, i cuilleree a soupe de sucre, i demi cuilleree a cafe 
de sel, I ceuf, i cuilleree a cafe de baking powder delaye 
au lait doux, battre, faire pate lisse, cuire dans des moules 
beurres. 

PAIN BLANC 

Deux quarts 1-2 ou 3 quarts de farine. Mettre dans la 

farine, a sec une grande cuilleree de sel, et une de sucre. 

Puis faire tremper et dissoudre dans une tasse d'eau, un 

petit paquet de yeast, puis le meler a la farine. Fondre 

108 



MARCHAND DE MOUTARDE 



^^,= ^iJL^XJ^i ..^i ^.^^^^djL_x^ 



Tout le mou - de me re-gard - e mais per-son - ne n'achete rien 



achetez de la mou - tar- de ge - la vous fer - a du bi - en 




THE OLD i-RENCH CHEF SELLING MUSTARD IN NEW ORLEANS 



A V Usage des Petits Menages 

dans un fer blanc, une cuilleree de beurre et une de saindoux 
(lard). Ajouter a ce melange fondu, 2 tassees de lait et 
une d'eau, jeter ce liquide en 2 ou 3 fois dans la farine, et 
bien tourner avec une cuilleree ou un couteau, jusqu'a ce 
que le fond du plat soit net ainsi que la cuillere. Laisser 
lever toute la nuit dans un endroit tempere et le lendemain 
matin retourner la pate 2 ou 3 fois, et la diviser en pains. 

PAIN NOIR 
Pour le pain noir faire de la meme maniere, excepte, 
avoir 2 quarts de farine au lieu de trois et ajouter une demi 
tasse de sirop. 

MARYLAND BISCUITS 

Pour le the de cinq heures. Mettez dans un bol une 
tasse de farine, ajoutez-y deux cuillerees a the de baking 
powder, un quart de cuilleree a the de sel, travaillez le tout 
avec un couteau ajoutez une demi-pinte de creme. Travail- 
lez le tout jusqu'a ce que cela forme une bonne pate; sur 
une planche, roulez-le a I'epaisseur d'un pouce. Mettez au 
four assez chaud 10 minutes. Coupez-les en deux et trem- 
pez-les dans du beurre fondu ; remettez-les ensemble au four 
pendant 3 minutes. Legers et delicieux. 

GATEAU SEC DE LEONIE RENIN 
Prenez i tasse de sucre, i tasse de lait, i tasse de farine, 
mettez 3 oeufs tout ensemble blanc et jaune dans un bol; 
melangez le tout ensemble, bien travaille, faites cuire dans 
des assiettes en fer blanc beurrees et saupoudrez d'un peu de 
farine. 

Faites plus epais pour un gateau chocolat, que.vous tran- 
chez et y mettez une confiture d'abricots. — 3 tablettes de cho- 
colat Menier ou un quart, une tasse de lait, faites bouillir le 
lait, mettez le chocolat dedans, faites dissoudre le chocolat en 
le tournant, laissez cuire un quart d'heure. — Laissez refroidir 
et appliquez sur le gateau. 

109 



La Cuisine Creole 

UN PUDDING DE MAIS 

Prenez 5 epis mais que vous faites bouillir, rapez mettez- 
les dans un bol, ajoutez une cuilleree de sucre, une pincee de 
sel, une grande cuilleree de creme, 4 jaunes d'oeuf, battez 4 
blancs d'oeuf en neige, melangez le tout bien ensemble et 
versez dans un plat beurre, mettez au four une demi-heure 
assez chaud comme pour faire du soufflet. 

RECETTE DE LA GENOISE 

Mettez deux ceufs dans une balance, pesez de I'autre cote 
autant de sucre en poudre que ce poids, autant de beurre, 
meme quantite de farine. Faites fondre un peu de beurre 
cassez les oeufs, sans battre, ni blanc, ni jaune melangez bien 
le tout ensemble, ajoutez-y une petite pincee de sel, beurrez 
un peu un plat en fer blanc et faites cuire. On peut ajouter 
quelques amandes pilees, si on les aime. On peut aussi 
rouler cette pate et en faire des petits gateaux sees pour le 
the, c'est tres-bon, ou les decoupe avec un verre ou autre 
moule. 

FROMAGE A LA CREME 

Dans un endroit frais, sans etre a la glaciere, laissez 
tourner un litre ou deux de bon lait ; quand il est tres-ferme, 
mettez egoutter dans un linge en le tenant suspendu pen- 
dant une nuit; le lendemain detachez et mettez dans une 
terrine avec un grain de sel et une pincee de sucre, 
bien battre jusqu'a que ce soit une pate legere et 
lisse, mettez dans des petits monies troues ou petits pan- 
iers, garnis d'un linge propre et sec. Mettez-les pendant 
deux heures sur la glace, renverez-les dans un compotier et 
versez dessus de la creme douce, servez. On peut se servir 
plusieurs fois des memes linges en ayant soin de les laver 
aussitot, mais ne jamais user de savon, faites bouillir avec 
"washing soda," rincez et laissez tromper longtemps a 

I'eau fraiche et faites-les bien secher au grand air. 

— Leonie Penin. 

no 



A I' Usage des Petits Menages 

CREME A LA GLACE A LA CELESTINE 
Prenez 6 jaunes d'oeuf, i blanc, une demi livre de cho- 
colat extra fin, 2 tasses de sucre, un quart de litre de creme 
bien fraiche, un morceau de vanille. Battez les jaunes 
d'ceuf dans un bol, ajoutez les blancs, puis le sucre (battez 
ferme), et ajoutez la creme. Faites dissoudre le chocolat 
dans du lait chaud, puis laissez-le epaissir dans un Bain- 
Marie, en ajoutant de la vanille, versez le dans un bol, puis 
passez dans un tamis, faites glacer, puis mettez dans un 
moule sur la glace. 

RIZ A L'ANGLAISE 
1-2 kilogramme de riz cuit dans, 2 litres de lait — pour la 
creme anglaise; 1-2 kilogramme de sucre, 3-4 litre de lait, 
7 CEuf s entiers ; 45 grammes de gelatine, 3-4 litre de creme 
fouettee. Quelques fruits coupes. 

GATEAU DE MOUSSELINE 
Sept CEufs, une demi-livre de sucre un quart de fecule 
de pomme de terre. Battez le jaune avec le sucre, ajoutez 
la fecule, et apres le blanc bien battu. Passez le sucre et 
la fecule au soleil. 

POMMES CUITES A LA THOMAS JEFFERSON 
Prenez 6 ou 8 belles pommes, epluchez-les en ayant soin 
d'enlever le coeur, que vous remplissez de sucre brut, 
mettez-les dans un fer blanc, saupoudrez-les du meme 
sucre, posez par dessus quelques tranches de citron et un 
morceau de canelle, arrosez avec quelques cuillerees d'eau 
et mettez-les au four; les pommes seront dorees et auront 
une belle gelee. Cela se mange avec de la creme. 

— Edgehill, Virginia. 

FLAN AUX CERISES 
Garnissez le moule a flan avec de la pate brisee, abaissee 
a un demi-centimetre. Saupoudrez d'une bonne couche de 

III 



La Cuisine Creole 

Sucre en poudre. Retirez les noyaux de vos cerises, et 
rangez celles-ci sur le flan. Mettez au four une demi-heure, 
laissez refroidir, et si vous possedez de la confiture de 
cerises, mettez en une couche legere sur les cerises. 

— M. Melvy. 

GATEAU PRALINE OU ILK FLOTTANTE 
Pulverisez un quart de livre de pralines grises. Battez 
en neige 4 blancs d'oeufs, ajoutez les pralines en poudre, 
sucre a volonte faites ce melange vivement et sans battre 
de nouveau, mettez dans un moule, que vous avez enduit 
de caramel, mettez au bain-marie et au four pas trop chaud, 
laissez 20 minutes, faites refroidir et demoulez au moment 
de servir, garnissez avec une creme a la vanille. 

— Leonie Penin. 

PETIT AVIS AUX MENAGERES 

Les pieds de veau que Ton retire d'une daube peuvent 
se rechauffer. On peut aussi faire cuire des riz de veau 
avec un petit morceau de veau, un oignon, et persil chily 
sauce. Un moment avant de les retirer du feu, ajouter 
dans la sauce cette sauce tomate que Ton vend en bouteille. 
II faut passer les riz de veau- quelques minutes dans I'eau 
chaude, pas bouillante, les laisser egoutter, faire cuire le 
veau un peu avant de le mettre avec et que la sauce soit un 
peu brune. 

Lavez vite a grande eau vos legumes verts ne les laissez 
jamais tremper dans I'eau. 

Z' AFFAIRE CABRI C'EST PAS Z' AFFAIRE 
MOUTON 

Ti mouton la queu coupe train train du ballet 
Sapoti ! bombi ! sapoti bombi coffer to te pas hele 
Comment vos tu que je hele ! 
Petit moso papier pous suyer nez tetes — 
Cote tape courri? yape golloper! 

112 



A I' Usage des Petits Menage s 

La cuisine est comme la jardinage il y a toujours quelque 
chose a apprendre. 

POUR FAIRE DU BON CAFE 
Faire du bon cafe ! Le conseil a I'air debonnaire ; mais, 
dans la pratique, les difficultes abondent. Voici ce que 
conseille, a ce sujet, aux menageres meticuleuses et prevoy- 
antes le "Revue universelle." 

Prendre un filtre en f er-blanc tout simplement ; les filtres 
en fer-blanc sont les meilleurs. Cet outillage modeste etant 
organise comme il convient, placez votre cafe moulu sur le 
filtre, ID grammes par tasse suffisent; quand I'eau est a 
moitie chaude, arrosez pour le preparer a recevoir les in- 
fusions et faciliter le filtrage. Quand I'eau bout, jetez-la 
en quatre fois sur le cafe: la premiere infusion entraine la 
force dudit cafe, la deuxieme une partie du cafe, la troi- 
sieme et quatrieme le depouillent de tout ce qui aurait pu 
resister aux autres infusions. Sous aucun pretexte ne 
mettre le cafe sur le feu, il n'y a pas de moyeri plus sur 
pour en detruire toutes ses qualites. Tenez I'appareil ser- 
vant au cafe avec la plus grande proprete. Souvent, le mau- 
vais goiit qu'on trouve provient d'un manque de lavage a 
I'eau froide. II faut trois ou quatre melanges pour faire du 
bon cafe, et bien grille clair : moka, bourbon, martinique. 



THE END 



THE COOK BOOK OF THE CENTURY 



HARPER'S COOK BOOK ENCYCLOPEDIA. 
Edited by the Editor of Harper's Bazar. Con- 
tributions and Recipes by all the famous living 
authorities. Bound in Washable Pigskin-Colored 
Specially Prepared Leather Cloth. Illustrated. 
$1.50 net (postage extra). 

This is the cook book of the 20th century. There is no 
other cook book which is made like a dictionary, with 
complete cross references and alphabetical finger guides, 
so that you can turn instantly to what you want. It con- 
tains a, comprehensive number of approved recipes, which 
represent the most famous cooking authorities of the world. 
The book is indispensable to every household, experienced 
or otherwise. 

The King of Cook Books. — St. Louis Globe-Democrat . 

About the last word in cooking, it is so complete, — 
Public Opinion, New York. 

Never before has there been such a cook book as is this 
one. — Louisville Courier-Journal. 

The cook book of the century; it is an easy matter to 
turn instantly to whatever one may require in way of a 
receipt. — Boston Gazette. 

More methods of assembling food and ingredients than 
were ever before gathered between the covers of a single 
volume. — Baltimore Morning Herald. 

It is a wonder that nobody ever before thought of the 
happy device of preparing a cookery book on the principle 
which underlies the Cook Book Encyclopcedia. — Literary 
World. 

A distinct boon to the housekeeper who is in a hurry. Its 
arrangement of recipes resembles that of a dictionary, and 
one may find on the instant the particular recipe which 
she is in search of, without turning page after page or 
referring again and again to the index. — New York Tribune. 



HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 



By MRS. M. E. W. SHERWOOD 



MANNERS AND SOCIAL USAGES in Amer- 
ica. A Book of Etiquette. New Edition, 
attractively bound and Illustrated. Cloth, 

$1.25. 

This is the standard book of etiquette for 
America. Mrs. Sherwood knows what our man- 
ners ought to be, and what our correct social 
usages are, better than any other writer upon 
these subjects. Besides the advantages of a 
vast social experience, both in Europe and 
America, she has also the gift of writing clearly 
and to the point. There is no difficulty in 
understanding her. In this admirable book she 
has touched upon all those points, no matter 
how trifling, which puzzle the young or the 
inexperienced. And she has so enlivened her 
explanations and instructions with the wit and 
wisdom of a cultured and gently bred woman 
of the world, that it is interesting reading from 
first to last. 



HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 



' The above work will be sent by mail, postage 
prepaid, to any part of the United States, Canada, 
or Mexico, on receipt of the price. 



By ANNE FRANCES SPRINGSTEED 



THE EXPERT WAITRESS: A Manual for 
Pantry, Kitchen, and Dining-room. 131 pages, 
$1.00. 

This little volume gives admirably clear and 
precise directions as to the whole ducy of a 
waitress at breakfast, luncheon, afternoon tea, 
dinner, and supper, together with instructions 
in regard to the household work pertaining to 
the dining-room and pantry. 

The author in her preface says, ' ' These papers 
are intended rather as a working model than as 
a set of rules from which there is no appeal. It 
is recognized that tastes and opinions vary as 
much as do the various dining-rooms in which 
they are expressed. In writing these papers, 
one idea has been kept in mind: No rule has 
been laid down that has not a good reason for 
its existence. Some things, desirable in them- 
selves, have been omitted because they are not 
possible to one pair of hands and feet, even when 
guided by a well-regulated brain." 



HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 



'The above work will be sent by mail, postage 
prepaid, to any part of the United States, Canada, 
or Mexico, on receipt of the price. 



By MARIANNA WHEELER 



THE BABY: HIS CARE AND TRAINING. Il- 
lustrated. 189 pages, $1.00 net (postage extra). 

Miss Wheeler has been for ten years the head nurse and 
general director of the Babies' Hospital of New York. 

The teachings of the author of this volume abound in 
genuine good .sense and are comxnended to all mothers. — 
Chicago Inter-Ocean. 

What the author of this book does not know about the 
care of the baby cannot be worth knowing. — Literary 
World. 

A practical Httle volume, well written and of wise counsel. 
All the wisdom of the trained nurse seems to be compressed 
into its pages. — Kansas City Star. 

It covers every subject bearing upon the baby's first few 
years of life and will be a decided help to mothers. — Chicago 
Daily News. 

The author begins with the first minutes of the baby's 
life, and with a careful attention to detail for which many 
a young mother will be grateful. — Phrenological Journal. 

Miss Wheeler's book is eminently sensible. It contains a 
host of timely hints and rules. It will be valuable to every 
young mother, and particularly so as the modifications of 
time and circumstances and motherhood will give to the 
directions laid down a human practicability. — Baltimore Sun. 

A model book of its kind and filled with sensible sugges- 
tions regarding the care of the infant in all minor matters 
pertammg to its health and comfort. The young mother 
who may take upon herself the responsibihties of the 
nurse will find in this small volume an abundance of useful 
hints to guide her in all the Httle emergencies which may 
arise m the discharge of her multitudinous functions.— 
Medical Record, N. Y. 



HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 




This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at http : //books . google . com/| 



y^. 










Cooking in old Creole days 



Celestine Eustis 



..V 



A/ 

X 




The Arthur and Elizabeth 
SCHLESINGER LIBRARY 

on the History of Women 
in America 



From the Collection of 
Wilma Lord Perkins 



-'■> " 



-^ 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 




^^/^^/--t-t-^i^ia^ t?C^^,j^ ^ 



/ 



e 




^<^ /fe 



- V^5. 



Digitized by Vj.OOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



i 

O 

O 

z 
o 

H 
< 
CQ 



tt) 
Z 

o 

H 

-< 
H 
Z 



o 

D 

a 



z 
o 

UJ 

> 

a 

o 

o 



O 
z 

-< 
a 

o 

z 

O 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



LA CHANSON DE TOBIE LE FOQUE 

Moderato. 



La vie y'ien car-osse pas's6 Les cra-paux bien at - te • 



2^=:ip= 



les, quatre wa wa-rons fris-s^s pou-dr6s 6 - tait dans - ce car ■ 



osse 5*6tait la v6 - ri - t6 II s'en al-lait au nord. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 




Digitized by LjOOQIC 



i -\ \ > '^ 



Copyright 1903 
Bv CELESTINE EUSTIS 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE STRENGTH OF THE 
NATION IS IN THE 
HANDS OF THE COOK. 
FEED A MAN WELL, H E 
WILL WORK WELL. HE 
WILL FIGHT WELL 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



DEDICAGE 

Si ce petit ouvrage pent etre utile a mes chers 
neveux et cheres nieces, j'aurais la satisfaction de 
savoir que mon temps n'a pas He perdu, en recla- 
mant toute I'indulgence du public pour avoir abuse 
de sa patience. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



INDEX 



COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS 



Art and Science of Salad 




Carrots, 


44 


Making, 


69 


Chicken Broth, 


12 


Asparagus in the Oven, 


46 


Chicken Casserole, 


30 


Asparagus Soup, 


47 


Chicken Croquettes, 


32 


A Todd Ham, 


20 


Chicken Panade, 


12 


Aunt Anne's Corn - Bread, 




Chicken Pie, 


32 


without powder. 


52 


Chinese Rice, 


14 


Aunt Anne's delicious Corn- 




Chocolate Icing, 


68 


Bread, 


52 


Chowder for eight Persons, 


II 


Aunt Anne's Hoecake, 


53 


Claret Punch, 


83 


Baltimore style of making 




Codfish k la I'Espagnole, 


26 


Terrapin Stew without 




Codfish Balls, 


25 


Terrapin, 


24 


Codfish Cakes. 


25 


Barley Soup with Celery, 


6 


Cold Tea, 


49 


Beef Tea, 


12 


Common Cake, 


65 


Biscuits made over night, 


51 


Com Bread, 


54 


Black Bean Soup, 


10 


Com Cake, 


54 


Blanquette of Veal, 


34 


Corn Meal Bread, 


55 


Bonne Femme Soup, 


8 


Com Oysters, 


48 


Bouillon k la James Madison, 


4 


Corn Pone, 


54 


Bread, 


78 


Com Pudding, 


60 


Brisket of Beef, 


19 


Couche Couche, 


55 


Buckner Punch, 


83 


Courtbouillon of Fish, 


27 


Caf6 Parfait, 


84 


Crab Gumbo, 


3 


Calf's Head Soup, 


10 


Crawfish Bisque, 


4 


Calf's Liver k la Celeste 




Cream k la C^lestine, 


56 


Smith, 


35 


Crdme d'Orge, 


I 


Candied Orange, 


61 


Cucumber Catsup, 


37 


Canvasback Duck, 


30 


Custard Bread, 


61 


Caramel Pudding, 


58 


Daube Glac6e, 


17 



Vll 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Index 



Delicate Cake, 

Delicious Breakfast Dish, 

Delicious Fish Balls, 

Delicious Stew, 

Devilled Crabs, 

Devilled Crabs — New Orleans 

Style, 
Drop Puffs, 
Dutch Sauce, 

"Edge Hill" Cooked Apples, 
"Eggnogg," 
Egg Plant, 

Eggs ^ la Morelle, 48, 

Eggs, Portuguese style. 
Filet Marine, 
Flat Cookies, 
Floating Island, 
Foods that Steal Flavors, 
For Broiling Chicken, 
Fried Carrots, 
Fruit in Its Own Juice, 
Gingerbread, 63, 

Ginger Cake, 
Globe Artichokes, 
Gofio, 

Graham Wheatlets, 
Gumbo Fil6, i, 

Ham fried with Sugar, 
Hard Custard, 
Herb Gumbo, 
Hints for Housekeepers, 
Hominy Bread and Waffles, 
Hopping John, 14, 

How to cook Mushrooms in 

a Chafing Dish half an hour 

before serving, 
How to destroy Flies, 
How to make a Caramel, 
How to make a good Soup 

with what remains from 

Breakfast, 



82 



How to make Drip Coffee, 
How to make Tea, 
How to roast Ducks, 
How to serve Chicken, 
Indian Sponge Cake, 
Jerusalem Artichokes, 43, 

Jumballaya, 

Jumballaya ^ la Creole, 
Jumballaya (A Spanish Creole 

dish) , 
Kidney Stew, 
Leg of Mutton, 
Leonie Penin's Dry Cake, 
Leonie's Cake, 
Loaf Bread, 
Loaf of Gingerbread, 
Lobster Sauce, 
Lucchetti, Fried, 
Macaroni Pie, 
Manchester Ice-Cream, 
Meringue Pudding, 
Mince-Meat, 
Molasses Cake, 
Molasses Gingerbread, 
" Monica's " way to cook Fish, 
Monkey Pudding, 
Mrs. Kelly's delicious Mutton 

Stew, 
Muffins, 

New England Chowder, 
New Orleans Oyster Soup, 
New Orleans Veal Balls, 
New Orleans Veal with 

Oysters, 
New Orleans way to cook 

Snipe, 
Nice cold Dish for Lunch, to 

be eaten with Salad, 
Okra Gumbo, 
Okra Hibiscus, 
Okra Soup, 



49 
49 
30 
31 
66 
46 
15 
13 

14 
21 
20 

65 
66 

51 
63 
35 
45 
48 
57 
59 
61 
67 

63 
28 

59 

21 

50 
10 

9 
36 

33 
32 



2 

78 
6 



Via 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Index 



Oyster and Peanut Soup, 


9 


Spiced Beef, 


36 


Oyster Soup, 


9 


Spinach, 


45 


Pancakes, 


56 


Squash, 


44 


Partridge ^ la "Uncle John," 


28 


Stewed Tongue for Lunch, 


37 


Plain Boiled Rice, 


13 


Strawberry Shortcake, 


64 


Plain Rice Pudding, 


60 


String Beans, 


45 


Plum Pudding, 


58 


Stuffing for Fowls, 


29 


Pop-Overs, 


54 


Stuffings for Turkeys and 




Porcupine Pudding, 


59 


Ducks, 


28 


Potato Balls, 


28 


Swedish Cream, 


58 


Pot au Feu, 


5 


Sweet Potato Buns, 


55 


Potomac Herrings with Roe, 


26 


Sweet Potatoes, 37, 


38 


Potted Veal, 


23 


Sweet Potato Pudding, 


38 


Praline Cocoanut, 


62 


Sweet Wafers, 


67 


Praline Pecans, 


62 


Terrapin, 


23 


Raw Beef Soup, 


12 


Terrapin Stew, 


23 


Riz k la Valencienne, 


IS 


The way to tell good Mush- 




Roast Beef, 


18 


rooms from poisonous ones, 


47 


RoUs, 


SO 


Thick Water Biscuits, 


52 


Sally Lunn, 53, 


54 


Thin Water Biscuits, 


SI 


Sauce, k la Newburg, for 




To boil a Westphalia Ham, 


20 


Lobster, 


27 


To broil a Steak, 


19 


Sauce B6arnaise, 


34 


To cook and serve Toma- 




Sauce Bordelaise, 


35 


toes, 


38 


Sauce for Wild Duck, 


35 


Tomato Curry, 


22 


Sauce for Veal Balls, 


36 


Tomatoes, 


57 


Simple, clear Tomato Soup, 


7 


Tomato Soup, 


7 


Small Sponge Cake, 


66 


To stew Lamb and Peas, 


21 


Soda Biscuits, 


50 


Turkey Stuffing, 


29 


Soft Custard, 


57 


Veal Croquettes, 


22 


Sorrel Soup, 


6 


Veal Terrapin, 


24 


Souffle Biscuits, 


52 


Waffles, 


50 


Soup without Meat, 


8 


Yorkshire Pudding, to serve 




Southern Tomato Soup, 


7 


with Hot Roast Beef, 


18 


Un Piti Dine Creole aux Delegues de New Orleans Press 




Clob 




87 


A Small Creole Dinner to the Delegates op The New 


Orleans Press Club . . . 


^ 


80 



IX 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Index 



LA CUISINE CREOLE 



A r Usage des Petits Manages, 


85 


Haricots Verts, 


104 


Bananes, 


106 


Haricots Verts, Maltre d*H6- 




B^cassines de la Nouvelle 




tel. 


104 


Orleans, 


100 


Jambalaya, 


94 


Blanquette de Veau, 


99 


La Saccamit6, 


106 


Brandade de Morue, 


lOI 


Maryland Biscuits, 


109 


Galas. 


108 


Muffins, 


108 


Cervelles de Mouton Pand6es, 


106 


Oseille, 


105 


Cervelles de Veau ou Mouton 




Pain Blanc, 


108 


au Beurre Noir, 


100 


Pain Noir, 


109 


Combread, 


108 


Patates Douces au Four, 


104 


C6tes de Homard, 


lOI 


Perdrix aux Choux, 


99 


Crabes Farcis, 


lOI 


Petit Avis aux M^nagdres, 


112 


Cr^me ^ la Glace ^ la C61estine, 


III 


Pommes Cuites It la Thomas 




Daube de Gazway, 


96 


Jefferson, 


III 


Daube Glac6e ^ la Creole de 




Ponmies de Terre Souffi^es, 


105 


Madame Rouzan, n6e Olivier 94 


Potage Marini^re, 


93 


Daube Glac6e de Madame 




Pour Fond de Cuisine, 


102 


Eustis, M^re, 


97 


Pour Faire du Bon Caf6, 


129 


Farce pour PAt^s ou pour 




Recette de la Genoise, 


126 


des Dindes ou pour des 




Riz ^ TAnglaise, 


III 


Volailles, 


99 


Riz ^ la Valenciennes, 


94 


Flan aux Cerises, 


III 


Rognons de Mouton Sautes, 


100 


Foie de Veau ^ la Celeste, 


98 


Salade ^ la Due de Morny, 


106 


Fromage It la Cr^me, 


no 


Sauce B6arnaise, 


103 


Gateau de Mousseline-, 


III 


Sauce Blanche, 


103 


Gateau Praline ou He Flot- 




Sauce Bordelaise, 


103 


tante, 


112 


Sauce Hubert, 


103 


Gateau Sec de L^onie Penin, 


109 


Sauce Tartare, 


102 


Gombo de Crabes, 


92 


Sauce Tomate, 


102 


Gombo F6vis, 


91 


Soupe ^ la Julienne, 


93 


Gombo Fil6, 


91 


Soupes ^ rOseille, 


92 


Gombo Zherbes, 


92 


Un Pudding de Mais, 


no 


Gratin aux Pommes de Terre, 


105 


Z'Affaire Cabri c'est pas 




Grillades de Veau, de Ma- 




Z* Affaire Mouton, 


112 


dame Josephine Micaud, 


98 







Digitized by LjOOQIC 



ILLUSTRATIONS 

A YOUNG DARING FROG DRIVER ON THE DU BROCA PLAN- 
TATION, WEST BATON ROUGE, LA. . Frontispiece 

BAMBOULA Facing p. lO 

TURKEY WITH THE WOODEN LEGS ** 2 2 

NURSE MBRANCE OF THE DESTREHAN PLANTATION, JUST 

ABOVE NEW ORLEANS " 32 

THE ONE-EYED BOY AND HIS ONION STEAL ** 48 

SAVANNE *' 64 

THE CALLAS GIRL " 94 

THE OLD FRENCH CHEF SELLING MUSTARD IN NEW OR- 
LEANS ** 108 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



INTRODUCTION 

A friend of mine, in the South, once said to me, that 
the surrender at Appomatox had brought about two serious 
calamities — ^an end to duelHng and the disappearance of the 
colored cook. We may at least agree with him that the latter 
result is a matter deeply to be deplored by all who, like 
myself, remember the marvellous skill of the Southern 
cooks. I used to be of opinion that the frying-pan should 
be our national emblem, so complete was its culinary des- 
potism in New England and the West; indeed, when once 
I was at Marquette and Duluth, buying a camp outfit, there 
was not a gridiron for sale in either town. But in the 
hands of a colored cook even the frying-pan ceased to be an 
instrument for producing dyspepsia; and what other black 
art there was in the kitchens where the dark mammys 
reigned, who now can say? It was a rule-of-thumb busi- 
ness which was never written, save in some old-time receipt 
book, and was literally handed down from one generation to 
another. 

The well-mannered colored folk, with aristocratic tastes, 
still existed in my native city when I was young. One of 
them, who was formerly my nurse, was always sent for to 
cook the terrapin when there was a dinner party. She 
turned the other servants out of the kitchen, and performed 
her kindly incantations alone! North of us, no one has 
ever been able to cook terrapin, which accounts for many 
things. As a race, we are certainly not gifted with culi- 

xiii 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Introduction 

nary talent, nor have I ever heard of an attempt to patent 
a receipt or a new salad. It was therefore a great pleasure 
to see the little book in which my friend has preserved 
some of the famous receipts of the Creole kitchen. When, 
too, I saw, and indeed heard, the gay songs which were con- 
sidered needful to be sung in the making of a Gumbo or of a 
Jumballaya, I felt that this was an addition to the business 
of the cook which must have lifted it to the level of the 
Arts we call Fine; for surely the mingling of music with 
a sauce or a salad dressing is a refinement of which no 
cordon bleu has ever dreamed! I have heard of but one 
other use of song in the preparation of food. A certain 
bishop, staying in a modest farmhouse, was struck with 
the fact that, just before breakfast, he heard the cook sing- 
ing a well-known hymn. On expressing his satisfaction at 
this act of early devotion, he was told she had discovered 
that exactly the time needed to sing two verses was that 
which was required to boil an egg. I am sure there are 
many who will be charmed by the pretty little songs in the 
Creole patois of the far Southern kitchen, and will in a 
double sense appreciate the taste of the receipts, and the 
effort to preserve the folk-lore of the Southern cook. As 
I recall her, in Virginia, she was usually a fat woman of 
middle age, with a gay bandana kerchief about her head — 
proud of her art, somewhat despotic, and usually known 

as Aunty. „^ ... 

' "A creature not too bnght or good 

For human nature's daily food.'' 

S. WEIR MITCHELL 
xiv 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



LA CUISINE CREOLE A UUSAGE DES 
PETITS MENACES 

De tous les cotes mes amis me demandent des recettes 
de la cuisine Creole. On se souvient encore des delicieuses 
dindes truffees de la "Riviere Rouge" a moitie sauvages, 
engraissees aux pacannes et mangees, rue de la Victoire, 
chez ma sainte et bonne mere. — ^Un Anglais demande la 
recette d'un plat d'epinards, qui lui a valu son coeur. Un 
fran^ais celebre se souvient d'un delicieux roti de veau, qui 
est devenu presqu' historique. Un Russe, quoique habitant 
Paris, ne peut oublier des perdrix etouffees aux tomates. . . 
Une elegante de New York a des souvenirs inoubliables 
d'un riz a la Valenciennes, goute a Biarritz sur la cote des 
Basques, en vuedes belles Montagnes d'Espagne! Une 
autre elegante, m'a avoue qu'elle se mourait d'envie de 
manger du riz sec, comme les Creoles seules savent le cuire. 
C'eut ete facheux de la laisser mourir de faim dans son 
beau Palais. — Un musicien celebre soupire apres des oeufs 
a la Portugaise, capable le lui faire manquer une inspiration 
musicale. Une jeune fiUe reclame a grands cris des oeufs 
a la morelle, une autre ne peut se consoler de ne plus manger 
du couchcouche ou couscousse^ 

Brillat Savarin dit: "Qu'il n'y a que les gens d'esprit 
qui savent manger," "qu'on nait rotisseur." Alors a moins 
d'etre spirituel ou inspire des Dieux, on ne saurait gouter 
ce modeste petit ouvrage, qui resterait une enigme pour bien 
des lecteurs; mais Tart de savoir manger et de rotir, ainsi 

XV 



Digitized by^LjOOQlC 



La Cuisine Creole 

que de faire la cuisine peut s'acquerir avec un peu de pa- 
tience, beaucoup d'observation et passablement de soin. — 
Je ne me propose pas d'ecrire un ouvrage culinaire — que 
Dieu m'en preserve! — mais de griffonner seulement a la 
hate et au hasard la recette de quelques bons plats Creoles et 
bourgeois, que j'ai en la bonne chance d'apprendre a faire en 
furetant dans de vieilles recettes et en causant avec les 
vieilles commeres d'autrefois. 

Sou vent ou demande ce que c'est qu'un gombo Creole? 
c'est un mets indien dont ils se regalaient generalement un 
jour de noce et dont nous jouissions, avant la guerre, dans 
les reunions intimes apres une danse. II peut se faire avec 
du gibier, de la volaille, de la dinde, du veau, des rogatons, 
a la rigueur meme un hibou. 

II decoule de ce mets national parmi les Creoles, qui 
leur est si familier que, ce terme "gombo" est devenu une 
expression generique tres-importante au figure, par la va- 
riete meme de sa composition et par consequent son im- 
penetrabilite une fois fait, exemple : en litterature un "gom- 
bomele" est une grosse affaire tres-compliquee, relevant 
souvent de differends dans les families nombreuses ou parmi 
un grand cercle d'amis, et rendue tres-confuse. 

Ne soyez pas etonnes de ces quelques notes de musique, 
c'est le piment de la sauce. Quand les negres travaillent 
bien, ils sont contents et fiers de leur ouvrage et expriment 
leur contentement en chantant, c'est Teloquence de leurs sen- 
timents. 

Le6 fines herbes sont le parfum de la cuisine, mais il 
faut en user avec la meme discretion que les parfums — ils 

xvi 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A rUsage des Petits Menages 

sont : oignons, persil, cerfeuil, civette, estragon, feuilles dc 
laurier — ^afin de laisser a chaque mets son gout particulier 
ou son individnalite. — Le secret de la bonne cuisine est : la 
plus exquise proprete, avoir les meilleurs ingredients, un 
beurre frais, la meilleure huile d'olive, les ceufs tres-frais — 
et beaucoup de temps pour tout preparer avec soin ; un bon 
feu egal, des braises, pas de flammes — le triomphe des gar- 
gotiers! La bouillotte est aussi une ennemie fatale de la 
bonne cuisine; il faut s'en mefier. Un general russe disait 
que Teau etait si desagreable dans les bottes, qu'est-ce que 
Qa devait etre dans Testomac! Je n'ai qu'a regarder le feu 
d^une cuisiniere pour savoir quelle espece de cordon bleu elle 
est. J'ai entendu a un homme d'esprit dire: que si Ton 
pendait un gargotier une fois par mois, peut-etre qu'an bout 
de Tannee on parviendrait a avoir de bons cuisiniers. La 
cuisine est une grave affaire; la sante de Thumanite en 
depend ; le bonheur de Tinterieur y est interesse, et la justice 
pourrait s'en meler. 

La base de la cuisine creole est le roux. II faut s'ap- 
pliquer particulierement a bien le f aire ; autrement vos plats 
seraient f adasses et trop gras. En voici a peu pres la recette ; 
mais la pratique seule en donnera Texperience. Le gout en 
est le guide pour Tassaisonnement c'est la qu'est le talent de 
Tartiste, comme le sentiment de la poesie, de la musique, de 
la peinture, autrement dit, le genie. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



COOKING IN OLD CREOLE DAYS 



GUMBO FILE 

Put into a casserole (saucepan) a spoonful of pure 
lard and one of flour, stir it well until it is of a light brown. 
Chop an onion into small pieces and throw them in. Cut up 
a fat capon or chicken into small pieces and put these 
in the casserole with the flour and lard. Stir it all 
the while until the chicken is nearly done. When the 
whole is well browned, add a slice of ham, cut up small. 
Throw in two or three pods of red pepper, and salt to your 
taste. Now add a quart of boiling water, and leave it on 
the fire for two hours and a half. A quarter of an hour 
before dinner is served add three dozen oysters with their 
liquor. Just before taking the soup off the fire, put in a 
tablespoonful of filet, stirring it all the while. Let it boil 
one minute and then serve. Do not put in too much filet ; 
the spoon should not be full. Indeed, half a tablespoonful 
IS enough. —Louise Livingston Hunt, New Orleans. 

CREME D'ORGE 

One pound of lean veal, one pound of lean beef, and two 
ounces of pearl barley. Put them into a quart of cold water 
and let it boil down to a pint. Rub all through a sieve. 
Melt a spoonful of this strengthening jelly when required. 

GUMBO FILE 

Disjoint and cut up a fowl. Fry in pan with onion cut 
up. Put in a soup pot knuckle of veal, fried fowl covered in 

I 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

3 1-2 quarts of cold water, let it simmer on back of range 
about six hours, strain soup and skim off all grease, cut up 
white meat of chicken and put in stock with a quart or 
more of oysters, add salt, cayenne pepper, white pepper. 
When at boiling point sprinkle in, or sift in, powdered 
filet enough to thicken it. _^^ ^^^^ Philups. 

For very many years Mrs. Phillips had the most ele- 
gant table and the most delicious dishes in Washington, 
D. C. No one could rival her in taste and daintiness; her 
hospitality was boundless. 

Leek and potato soup is another of the same French- 
woman's dishes. Cut several leeks, or, if they cannot be 
had, an onion or two, into pieces, and fry them without 
browning in butter. Add potatoes cut into dice and a 
seasoning of salt and pepper, and boil. When they are 
soft push them through a colander, and thicken with a 
tablespoonful of flour and a tablespoonful of butter. For 
two small onions four potatoes and a quart of water will 
be wanted. Instead of using the water in which the pota- 
toes have boiled, milk may be used. 

OKRA GUMBO 

Put into a saucepan a spoonful of pure lard and one of 
flour. Stir it well until it is of a light brown. Chop an 
onion into small pieces and throw them in. Cut up a fat 
capon or chicken into small pieces and put it into the sauce- 
pan with the flour and lard. Stir it all the while until the 
chicken is nearly done. When the whole is well browned, 
add a slice of ham cut up small. Throw in two or three 
pods of red pepper, and salt to your taste. Then add a 
quart of boiling water, and leave it on the fire for two 
hours and a half. During that time you take either a 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

can of okra or the fresh okra, and chop it up a bit. Put 
it in a saucepan with a little water and let it simmer a 
quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time. Then add to 
it either six fresh tomatoes, or half a can of tomatoes, and 
let it cook on a slow fire for an hour, uncovered. When 
your gumbo has been on the fire the two hours and a half, 
you take it off to cool, and skim all the grease off. Then 
you put it back in the saucepan and add your okra and 
tomatoes and let it simmer slowly for an hour or until the 
okra is thoroughly cooked. Serve hot, and eat it with dry 
rice served in a separate dish. _j^^^ £^3^3 j^^^ 

CRAB GUMBO 

Take half a pound of nice veal, cut it in slices; or take 
half a chicken, which you cut in small pieces. Brown it 
well, as you do for the gumbo filet. Let it simmer on the 
fire an hour and a half. Pick very carefully twelve or 
fifteen crabs, keeping the flesh only. Warm them up in a 
separate saucepan with a spoonful of butter for a few 
minutes. Pour it then in your pot over your veal. Add a 
few small pieces of fried ham. Season with salt and pepper 
to taste. Before you mix the veal and crabs take out all 
the large pieces of veal, so that the crabs may predominate. 
It should be of a thick consistency. Serve hot, with dry 
rice in a separate dish. ^Josephine Nicaud, New Orleans 

HERB GUMBO 

Clean and prepare a good handful of fresh spinach 
leaves, a handful of beetroot leaves, a handful of radish 
leaves, a handful of mustard leaves, a handful of patience 
leaves, one head of lettuce. Throw them in hot water 
and let them boil like spinach, then let them drip in a 

3 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

colander, chop them all together on a nice clean board, 
as you do spinach. Fry a dozen small pieces of ham 
cut in pieces an inch long and half an inch wide, 
and also half a chicken cut in pieces, or a piece of 
veal, say half a pound. Add a cup of water and let it 
simmer three quarters of an hour or until all are soft. Then 
add your herbs. Let them simmer together for a quarter 
of an hour. If it looks too thick add a few tablespoonfuls 
of water. It must have the consistency of a thick puree. 
To be served hot, and eaten with dry rice. 

—Josephine Nicaud. 

CRAWFISH BISQUE 

Take two or three dozen crawfish, throw them in boiling 
water for a minute or two, clean them thoroughly. Take 
off the heads, empty them, and clean them and wash them, 
keeping the fat part of the tails. Put them on a chopping 
board with the fat, a little chicken or veal, a little stale 
bread, chop it all fine together, flavor with pepper, red or 
black, a laurel leaf, or put in a bouquet of aromatic herbs 
for a few minutes, having tied it with a thread so as to 
pull it out. Brown all this in a saucepan with a spoonful 
of lard. Stuff the crawfish heads tight with this. Put 
them in a saucepan to simmer with a quart of bouillon for 
an hour or more, until you have a good soup. Serve hot. 

— Mme. Josephine Nicaud, 
Who has been for over forty years in Ambassador EusHs' family, 

BOUILLON A LA JAMES MADISON 

Two gallons of water, throw in every bone you have 
(ham bones are excellent), with three good sized carrots, 
three onions, celery, a can of tomatoes. Salt and pepper 
pod to taste. Simmer, closely covered, all day and all night. 

4 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

The next morning strain into a large bowl. If in a hurry 
set bowl in cold water, otherwise put in cellar or on ice. 
Remove the grease very carefully. Cut up fine, size of dice, 
three pounds of rump of beef, take two eggs and break 
them over the cut meat, yolk and white. Stir freely. 
Add celery, salt and pepper, pour the bouillon on it, settle 
it on the fire, stir until the froth rises. Skim off very care- 
fully, strain off through a nice clean cloth or flannel. Set 
aside for use. When ready to serve, warm the quantity 
desired, throw in small pieces of celery, cover closely, throw 
a bunch of chervil and a glass of good sherry in the soup 

according to taste. ^ , . . , w .. , . .. 

— Cook, born tn James Madtsons family, 

POT AU FEU 

THE POT AU FEU IS SERVED DAILY IN FRENCH FAMILIES 

Take two pounds of round of beef, cutting off all the 
fat very carefully, put it in a good sized saucepan, add cold 
water enough to cover the meat well, put the lid on half 
way to allow the steam to evaporate, let it simmer by a fire 
of live coals an hour, and skim carefully as the scum arises. 
While your broth is cooking, prepare your vegetables, have 
them nice and fresh, wash and scrape carefully (requisite 
care must be taken), throw them into a pan of cold water 
until the time to use them. Cut three carrots in half, too 
leeks the same way, or half an onion, a small piece of cab- 
bage and a bit of garlic, a piece of celery, parsley and pepper 
pod. Put all these vegetables in your broth, adding two 
or three tomatoes, or two spoonfuls of tomatoes; let it 
simmer for two hours, skimming it carefully. It can be 
served with or without vegetables. Without vegetables 
it can be served as bouillon, to which you add rice, vermicelli, 
macaroni, or any other Italian paste, or bread dried in the 

5 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

oven, or drop in a poached tgg, one for every person, if 
your dinner is a little short. 

These receipts were given to me by an old colored cook 
who was brought up in James Madison's family, and she 
said they were served on Mr. Madison's table when he en- 
tertained the distinguished guests of his day. 

SORREL SOUP 

Take a handful of sorrel, cook it ten minutes in a spoon- 
ful of fresh butter, add a quart of water, salt and pepper, 
and let it simmer half an hour over a slow fire. Stir in 
white of an egg, and then let it cook two minutes only, 
stirring it all the time. Rub in a cup the yolk of an egg 
with a small piece of butter. Add a cup of cream. Put 
some pieces of stale bread cut in slices in the bottom of 
your soup tureen. Chop fine some chervil and sprinkle on 
top just as you serve it very hot. ^leonie Penin. 

BARLEY SOUP WITH CELERY 

Melt a heaping spoonful of fresh butter in a frying-pan ; 
put to it a cupful of barley; let it brown a few moments; 
add to it two quarts of good broth, and salt to taste. Let 
it simmer two hours or more on a slow fire; chop into it 
small pieces of celery — ^let it simmer half an hour. Dis- 
solve in a glassful of sweet cream the yolks of six eggs, 
a spoonful of fresh butter added in small pieces, and add 
all to the soup. 

OKRA SOUP 

Soak in a little cold water for an hour or two one pint 
of the dried okra, add this with the water to one gallon 
of good strong beef stock. Also one quart of tomatoes, 
(strained through a colander), a half cupful of rice, and one 

6 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

pint of chopped Irish potatoes. Season with salt, green 
pepper, or cayenne, chopped celery and onion. Boil in a 
porcelain kettle at least five hours, stirring frequently 
with a silver spoon, or new wooden spoon, or the soup 
will become dark. The gallon must be maintained by add- 
ing boiling water at intervals as required. This should 
result in a rich, thick soup, such as is liked in the South. 
Some cooks prefer to boil meat and vegetables together, 
removing the meat when tender, cutting it into pieces, and 
returning it to the soup a few minutes before serving. 

—Mrs. William C. Hill. 

SIMPLE, CLEAR, TOMATO SOUP 

Boil your tomatoes with onion and butter thoroughly. 
Add to clear stock, or broth, half of white of egg to clear. 
Let it stand, then pass through cheesecloth that has been 
washed. 

TOMATO SOUP 

Cut one ounce of ham, a little carrot and onion into 
thin slices, place these in. a stewpan with two ounces of 
butter, one bay leaf and a few peppercorns. Add two 
tablespoonfuls of flour, stir together on the fire until it 
becomes a light brown color. Moisten with a quart of 
good broth, or stock, stirring it on a slow fire. Add one 
quart of canned tomatoes, and season with salt, pepper and 
two ounces of brown sugar. Let it boil together for one 
hour, after being thoroughly strained. 

SOUTHERN TOMATO SOUP 

Southern tomato soup is a meal in itself. Wash two 
quarts of tomatoes, and set over the fire in three pints of 
water; cook ten minutes, and drain, saving the water for 

7 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

the soup; press the tomatoes through a sieve, add to them 
one cucimiber, peeled and cut small, one large onion sliced, 
one dozen okras (also sliced), a five cent marrowbone and 
the water drained from the tomatoes. Simmer for three 
hours, and just before sending to table thicken with a 
tablespoonful of flour wet with cold water. Season with 
salt, cayenne and three pats of butter. 

BONNE FEMME SOUP 

Shred fine a cucumber (already soaked) and four let- 
tuce, one onion and a handful of chervil. Put these into 
a soup pot, with two pats of butter, a little nutmeg, pepper, 
and salt. Simmer over a slow fire about ten minutes, then 
add a good spoonful of flour, and three pints of veal broth. 
Boil for a quarter of an hour. Stir into it a seasoning 
of six yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream and a dessert- 
spoonful of sugar. Do not let it boil after the egg and 
cream are added. 

SOUP WITHOUT MEAT 

Take four or five cucumbers, according to their size, 
pare and cut them in small square pieces; three cupfuls of 
lettuce cut in shreds, two sprigs of mint, a little parsley, 
two or three small onions (all shredded), with a pint of 
young peas. Put all these herbs into a stewpan, with 
nearly a quarter of a pound of butter, some salt, and a little 
cayenne pepper. They must stew gently for an hour. Boil 
a pint of old peas in a full quart of water. When quite 
soft run them through a sieve, with a wooden spoon, then 
add them, together with the water they have been boiled in, 
to your stewed herbs, and let them all stew together a full 
half hour. This soup is all the better if it does not stand 
long before it is served up. 

8 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

OYSTER AND PEANUT SOUP 

Take half a pound of shelled and roasted peanuts, well 
pounded. Add two spoonfuls of flour, mix well, boil a 
pint of oyster water and mix with the peanuts and flour, 
let it thicken slowly for fifteen minutes, stirring all the 
time. Add a pint of oysters and let them cook five minutes. 
Flavor with salt, red and black pepper. 

—Josephine Nicaud. 

OYSTER SOUP 

Wash and drain two quarts of oysters, put them on the 
fire with three quarts of water, three onions chopped up, 
two or three slices of lean ham, pepper and salt. Boil 
until it is reduced one half, strain through a sieve. Return 
the liquid into the pot. Put in one quart of fresh oysters. 
Boil until they are sufficiently done and thicken the soup 
with four spoonfuls of flour, two gills of rich cream, and 
the yolks of two nice fresh eggs, well beaten. Boil it a 
few minutes after the thickening is put in. 'Take care 
that it does not curdle, and that the flour is not in lumps. 
Serve it up with the last oysters that were put in. If the 
flavor of thyme is agreeable you may put in a little, but 
take care that it does not boil in it long enough to discolor 

*^ S^"P- -Mary Randolph. 

NEW ORLEANS OYSTER SOUP 

Make "a brown." A brown is made by putting a lump 
of butter or lard into a saucepan, adding flour, and stirring 
until it becomes a rich brown, but is not burned. Add to 
your brown, salt and pepper. Take a quart of oysters, 
separate them from their water. Add a pint of fresh water 
to your brown, then put in the oyster water, let it simmer 

9 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

slowly for half an hour. Then put in a little parsley. Add 
your oysters a quarter of an hour before serving, and small 
pieces of fried bread or biscuits. A few minutes before 
serving cayenne pepper can be added to taste, also vermi- 
celli instead of crackers, or small green onions. 

—Josephine Nicaud. 

BLACK BEAN SOUP 

One pint of black Mexican beans, put them in five pints 
of water (without soaking), boil about five hours. Pass 
beans and liquid through a sieve, half an hour before serv- 
ing; do it thoroughly, that it may be thick enough. Put 
it back into the pot with salt, pepper, bunch of thyme, 
onions, a quarter of lemon cut in thin slices, and a table- 
spoonful of butter. Have two eggs, boiled hard, cut up in 
your tureen, and a wineglass of good wine. Pour soup 
on it and give it a stir. _^^ ^^^^^ ^^^^^ 

CALFS HEAD SOUP 

First cut the head in half, take out the brains, crack 
up the head, wash it, put it in the pot, boil half an hour. 
Take out, wash, clean and scrape it, put back in the pot, 
boil until soft, take out, pick out all the bones. Part the 
lean meat from the jelly meat. Cut up the jelly meat fine. 
Put back in the pot, thicken with flour, season with cloves, 
black pepper, onions and wine. 

—"Uncle John "—the best chef in South Carolina, 
Mr. Le Garee's and Mrs, Phoenixes cook, 

NEW ENGLAND CHOWDER 

Have a fresh, firm cod or haddock, a fish about five 
pounds is the best size. Take saucepan large enough to 
hold a little more than you wish to make. Cut salt pork in 

lO 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BAMBOULA 



Allegro. 



Quand pat-tat la cuit n'a man-ge li, n'a man-ge li. 



Quand pat-tat la cuit n'a man-ge li, n'a man-ge 11. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



• i/: / ^ 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BAMBOULA 

Gottschalk's famous ^^Bamboule" was written on this theme 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

small squares about the size of dice, and fry quite brown. 
Lay in the same pan alternate layers of thin sliced potatoes 
first, then slices of fish, then broken water crackers, small 
fried pork, shreds of raw onion, black pepper and salt to 
suit the taste. Continue the layers until you have used up 
your material. Pour over it the pork fat from the scraps 
and half a pint of water, to keep from burning at the bot- 
tom. Close the saucepan tight and set on the fire. Cook 
slowly, without stirring, for forty-five minutes, when it is 
ready for the table. As some fish cook drier than others, if 
you do not find the chowder thin enough to serve well in 
tureen, add some fresh milk just before taking up, and let 
it come to a boil. —Parker House, Boston, Sept. 23, 1873. 

CHOWDER FOR EIGHT PERSONS 

Boil, mash and pass through a colander six potatoes. 
Slice and fry brown six onions. Soak quite soft two ship 
biscuits. Fry four slices of salt pork, the fat cut in small 
dice. Cut in pieces about an inch thick three or four 
pounds of fish, either cod or sea bass, or blackfish, which 
are the best; then proceed as follows: Put in your pot 
four tablespoonfuls of butter, and two of salt, scatter a 
portion of the fried onion in it, then a layer of fish, free 
from bones, season with a teaspoonful of black pepper, half 
teaspoonful of grated nutmeg, half of cloves, add a bouquet 
of thyme, then put in a layer of potatoes. Repeat the same 
operation, leaving out the spice and thyme. Then pour in 
stock enough to cover the whole about four inches, place 
on the fire, add the biscuit and pork, and three tablespoon- 
fuls of chopped parsley, and cook slowly for an hour. Then 
add the juice of a lemon, and five lumps of sugar. Color 
the soup a dark brown. When ready to serve add a tumbler 
of sherry. -^Compliments of Mr. Peter Marie. 

II 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CHICKEN PANADE 

Boil a large fowl in a quart and a half of water, and 
boil down to a quart. Skim the fowl and pound it, bones 
and all, in a mortar. Spread this paste in a sieve and rub 
it through. Then pour oyer it the liquor in which the 
fowl was boiled, and pour the mixture hot over a stale 
French roll, well grated. Take a little frequently through- 
out the day. 

RAW BEEF SOUP 

One pound of chipped beef. Put into a preserve jar 
with four ounces of water and four drops of muriatic acid 
poured over it. Put the top down tight, shake, and put 
on the ice for twelve hours, then put the jar into a pan of 
cold water (bain-Marie) and put it on the fire for an hour 
until the water is hot, then strain the contents of the jar 
off with pressure through a cloth, and put it on the ice 
until it is cold. Take it off the ice and let it stand ten min- 
utes before serving. Salt to taste. 

CHICKEN BROTH 

Take a chicken or fowl (small pieces of the former 
make the broth very good) and break the bones. Clean 
it carefully. Put it into a saucepan with two quarts of 
water, a very small onion, a little salt, and two tablespoon- 
fuls of rice. When it boils skim and cover closely, and let 
it simmer slowly for six hours, if a fowl ; if a chicken, for 
five hours. —Mrs. Jefferson Coolidge. 

BEEF TEA 

Three pounds of lean beef. Cut out all the fat and 
gristle, put it in a covered saucepan, with one clove, and a 

12 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

lump of ice, the size of your fist, in the centre of the beef, 
and the remainder of the beef laid over it. Let it stand 
back on the range and simmer until all the juice is extracted, 
then let it have one boil up. Only season as much as you 
intend using at once. The remainder can be kept on ice 
and seasoned as required with salt, pepper, celery salt, or 
to suit the taste of the patient. 

JUMBALLAYA A LA CRECHLE 

Add to a cupful of rice, which has boiled five minutes, 
a rich brown chicken fricassee, put it in a saucepan, not 
closely covered, let it dry slowly, turn with a fork. The 
Carolinians make different perlous prepared in the same 
way by adding cooked tomatoes and butter. Green peas 
with a little butter is delicious. Okra and tomatoes fried 
together and added to rice. Oysters a little fried in butter. 
Hopping John is made in the same way with small pieces of 
fried ham, fried sausages, to which you add some cow peas 
that have been partially boiled. Season highly. The St. 
Domingo Congris is like the Hopping John. 

PLAIN BOILED RICE 

Take a cup of the best South Carolina rice (whole). 
Wash it three times in cold water until the water is clear. 
The fourth time wash it in hot water, put it in a saucepan 
with enough hot water to cover it, salt it, and cover closely. 
Let it boil from five to ten minutes. Test it with your 
fingers. If cooked, pour off the water, add to it a quarter 
cupful of cold water, cover closely, and set awhile on the 
stove to soak. If you fear its clinging to the saucepan 
stir it with a fork, not a spoon. Your rice will soak and 
dry beautifully. 

13 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CHINESE RICE 

Take equal parts of rice and cold water. Wash your 
rice in several waters, put it in a saucepan, salt, and let 
it boil. When cooked put aside to soak until dry. Be 
careful, it bums easily. Every grain of rice will be 
separate and dry. 

**Mon Repos," Aiketi, S. C. —Miss Eustis. 

HOPPING JOHN 
Cup of cow peas, boil with piece of bacon. When peas 
are thoroughly done, not till mushy, drain water oflf, three 
hours boiling. Boil separately a well washed cupful and a 
half of rice. Mix together after it is done. Skim oflf grease 
from top of pot peas are boiled in, add salt and cayenne 
pepper, put in oven to dry out. Serve with sliced bacon in 
centre or fried sausages. 

— Mrs. Eugenia Philups, Washington, D. C. 

JUMBALLAYA 

A SPANISH CREOLE DISH 

Wash one pound of rice and soak it an hour. Cut up 
a cold roast chicken, or the remnants of a turkey, and a 
slice of ham, and fry them in a tablespoonful of lard. Stir 
in the rice, and add slowly while stirring in, a pint of hot 
water. Cover your pot, and set where it can cook slowly, 
until the rice is nearly dry. One or two spoonfuls of 
cooked tomatoes give it a very good taste. Jumballaya is 
very nice made with oysters, shrimps or sausages. 

— Mme. Eustis^ Mere. 

DELICIOUS BREAKFAST DISH 
Take some hog meat prepared for sausages. Chop up 
some well boiled pig's feet, mix with it, and wrap up in a 
lace. Fry it, and serve hot. 

— Mme. Alzire Dubroca^ Baton Rouge, 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

JUMBALLAYA 

Take a good sized chicken. Cut it as for fried chicken, 
season it with salt and pepper, and fry in a spoonful of 
lard. Cut up half a pound of ham in pieces an inch long, 
and fry in the same pan. When that is fried, take out and 
in the same lard fry a spoonful of onions cut very fine. 
Slice up three large tomatoes, or two spoonfuls of canned 
tomatoes, and fry them in the same pan. Cut up a little 
parsley and add when everything is fried. Put back your 
ham and chicken and add two and a half cupfuls of water. 
Let it come to a boil, and then add a cupful of well washed 
rice. Put it again on a quick fire. When the rice is 
cooked, and the steam begins to rise, put it on a slow fire 
and add a teaspoonful of butter. If you fear it may bum 
at the bottom of the pot, use a fork, not a spoon, as the 
latter makes the rice soggy. Let it soak or dry thoroughly. 
If it does not dry fast enough, put for a moment in the 

^^^"- — Lydia Eusns. 

RIZ A LA VALENCIENNE 

Make a nice brown fricassee, with a good sized fowl 
highly flavored ; let it simmer for two hours. Make about 
a pint of tomato sauce, adding to it red and green peppers. 
It must have cooked two hours. Mix it with the chicken 
fricassee, let it simmer together. Take a cup of best Caro- 
lina rice, prepare it as for boiling in hot water for five 
minutes. Use a tureen or dish that will go to the fire, 
put in it your chicken, then the rice on top, add two or 
three spoonfuls of the best olive oil, put it in a moderately 
hot oven, watching it closely; if it gets dry baste it with 
a few spoonfuls of broth on top but do not stir it. Arti- 
chokes may be added to it. Serve at table in the tureen. 
Warmed over the next day it is even better. 

15 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

HOPPING JOHN 
Take a cupful of cow peas (small black peas) that have 
been soaked over night, one onion, parsley and a laurel 
leaf. Let them boil in a quart and a pint of water for an 
hour, or until soft. Add two cupfuls well washed raw rice. 
The rice must cook about fifteen or twenty minutes. Then 
add a quarter of a pound of well-fried sausages, a slice of 
ham and a small piece of bacon, both cut in small pieces 
and fried. Put your saucepan aside to soak, or dry. Cover 
closely. Be careful it does not bum at the bottom. If 
the rice has to be stirred use a fork, as it turns easily, and 
still can not be stirred too much, or it becomes soggy. 
Those old-fashioned black pots are the best to use. 

—••Uncle John/' S. C. 

DAUBE GLACEE OR BCEUF A LA DAUBE 
Take a round of beef, clean and dry it carefully with 
a towel, rub it in with salt, pepper and cloves, laid with 
smoked tongue or beef suet or forcemeat and a little garlic. 
Put it in a cool place and let it remain for three or four 
days in winter. The night before it is to be cooked, squeeze 
the juice of a lemon over the beef, on the sides. After 
breakfast put the beef in a Dutch oven with some drip- 
pings — ^let it be boiling hot before you put the beef in. 
Brown well on both sides, then draw the oven from the fire 
and let it simmer for three hours, then pare and halve six 
large onions, stew them over the beef — let it continue to 
simmer for three hours longer, add forcemeat balls, or a 
calf's foot — serve it with gravy in the dish and sauce boat. 
— Mrs. Eugenia Phillips, Washington, D, C 

MACARONI 

Macaroni must be thrown into plenty of boiling water 
to cook it well. Then drain it oflf and put it in a dish with 

i6 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

butter, salt and a little powdered mustard and put it in 
the oven until there is a nice crust on top. Grated cheese 
of any kind may be added, or a few tablespoonfuls of well 
cooked tomatoes, or a few tablespoonfuls of Italian mush- 
rooms stirred up with chicken livers, or the remnants of 
pate de foie gras, or chopped ham or salt tongue, in fact 
almost anything that will give it a nice relish. 

DAUBE GLACEE 

Take five or six pounds of the round of beef, two inches 
thick. Two days before cooking it, lard it with strips of 
lard half an inch thick and three inches long. Tie it in a 
round with a string, not too tight. Season with salt, and 
black and red pepper, and put in a good pinch of saltpetre. 
Let your larding be almost an inch and a half apart. Rub 
up your daube with an onion and whatever falls from the 
seasoning. Put it away in a china tureen in a cool place 
for twenty-four hours. Early the next day take one of 
these thick, black saucepans and put in the bottom of it a 
piece of pig skin the size of the saucepan. Put in a 
bouquet of thyme, parsley, two laurel leaves, one onion, 
and a small piece of garlic. Take three calf's feet that 
have been cut in halves by the butcher, lay them on top of 
the bouquet, ana add half a cupful of meat juice. Let it 
simmer on a slow fire for half an hour, then add enough 
water to allow the calf's feet to simmer very slowly for 
five or six hours, until the bones detach themselves from the 
meat, the gravy to be tested with the fingers until it has 
a gelatinous consistency. The pot must be closely covered, 
and a weight put on the cover so that it touches the meat. 
The calf's feet must be boiled before they are put in the 
daube, and that gelatinous water used when your daube is 
cooked Put it in a clean tureen to take a round form. 

17 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Take out the calf's feet, skim the grease oflf the sauce and 
pass it warm through a flannel bag. Put in two egg shells 
before straining it, and let it cook a while to clear the jelly. 
Cut two well cooked carrots in halves. Put them in the 
bottom of your tureen and place your daube on top. Pour 
your jelly on the sides of the daube, so that it runs on the 
bottom of the tureen and on the sides, remembering that 
when you turn it out in a dish the bottom part will be on 
top. Put in a cool place, or near the ice. You will have 
to try several times before you succeed in making this very 
choice and delicious dish, which is meant for cold weather 

^"^y- -Mill. EusTis, Mere. 

ROAST BEEF 

Take a roast of beef, as many pounds as you need ac- 
cording to the number of persons. Wipe well with a clean 
cloth, salt and pepper it, and flour it. Before you put it 
in a roast pan, put in that pan a small piece of bacon, a small 
piece of onion, and a carrot cut in two, with two table- 
spoonfuls of meat juice or bouillon, not hot water. Water 
is very good to wash with, but not to flavor meats with I 
Put your meat in the roast pan in a moderate oven, and 
cook it by a good fire a quarter of an hour for every pound 
of meat. Baste it with the drippings, and watch it care- 
fully. 

YORKSHIRE PUDDING TO SERVE WITH 
HOT ROAST BEEF 

One and a half pints of milk, six large tablespoonfuls 
of flour, three eggs, one small spoonful of salt. Put the flour 
into a basin with the salt, and stir into it gradually enough 
milk to make a stiff batter. When perfectly smooth, add 

i8 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

the rest of the milk, and the eggs well beaten. Beat the 
mixture for a few moments and pour it into a shallow tin, 
which has previously been well rubbed with beef drippings. 
Put the pudding into the oven and bake for one hour, then 
for half an hour place it under the beef, to catch a little of 
the gravy. Cut the pudding into small square pieces. Put 
them on a hot dish and serve. If the meat is baked, the 
pudding may at once be placed under it, resting the meat 
on a small three-cornered stand. 

— Katie Seabkook^ Pres, McKinle^s Cook. 

FILET MARINE 

When you have a good roast beef, after using the sir- 
loin for your dinner, cut out the filet and put it on a dish. 
Salt and pepper it, rub a little onion over it, pour a table- 
spoonful of tarragon vinegar and two spoonfuls of best 
sweet oil over it. From time to time baste it with the 
drippings. Warm it up for another meal, basting it while 
it is cooking over a slow fire. Serve with fried potatoes. 
When you have a remnant of pate de foie gras, use it with 
boiled macaroni. It can be put back in the paste and 
warmed over in the oven. 

TO BROIL A STEAK 

Have your gridiron hot. Wipe the steak clean. Put it 
in a dish with melted butter, and then put on the hot grid- 
iron and broil ten minutes. Turn it twice, and season with 
salt, pepper and butter. -"Uncle John," 5. C. 

BRISKET OF BEEF 

Take one pound bag salt, two of saltpetre, a little sugar, 
and a few cloves. Rub this mixture well into the beef 

19 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

every day for a week. Then it is fit for use. According to 
the size of the piece of beef, the mixture must be propor- 
tionally^ stronger. 

LEG OF MUTTON 

Mutton should be kept and hung several days, rub it 
all over with an onion, or a small piece of garlic, baste from 
time to time, with tarragon vinegar and black pepper. Make 
a mop with a nice clean rag and mop it all over several times. 
Roast it and serve hot, do not let it stand. 

TO BOIL A WESTPHALIA HAM 

Let the ham soak over night. Boil it three hours in the 
same water, and let it cool oflf in the same. Skin it, put a 
layer of brown sugar on it moistened with sherry wine; let 
it brown, put in the oven a few moments. A Smithfield 
ham may be prepared the same way. 

A TODD HAM 

Soak forty-eight hours, changing water once or twice. 
Then put in cold water and let it come to a simmer (don't 
boil), and simmer slowly for four hours. Then skin and 
dress with sugar and cracker crumbs, and bake half an 
hour until well browned. _^^^ ^^^^ 



HAM FRIED WITH SUGAR 

Take a few slices of boiled ham. Sprinkle some brown 
sugar and a little dry mustard over it. Fry in butter until 
it browns. Serve hot, to be eaten with salad. 

20 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

KIDNEY STEW 

Take a medium sized beef kidney, put on fire in cold water 
with an onion, let it simmer, tiot boil, until tender. Cut in 
thin slices as large as a ten-cent piece. Put a piece of 
butter in frying-pan, shake some flour, let it brown, then add 
some of the liquor it was cooked in. Serve on toast. Veal 
kidney does not require* so long cooking ; prepare same way. 

TO STEW LAMB AND PEAS 

Put the lamb into a stewpan with about a quart of water, 
when half done add the peas with pepper and salt to taste. 
Let them stew slowly and have ready some mint and parsley 
chopped fine, put it in and let all simmer slowly until ready 
to serve. 

MRS. KELLY^S DELICIOUS MUTTON STEW 

Cut in large slices some cold mutton. Take the gravy 
left from the day before and warm it. Take a separate 
saucepan, put in it a spoonful of butter, a little onion, cut 
fine, sprinkle a little corn farina, stirring all the time, until 
warm, then add the gravy. Put all in a double saucepan. 
Then put in the cold mutton and leave until it gets nice 

^^d ^^*- -Whitchurch. 

DELICIOUS STEW 

Cut some cold meat into small pieces. Brown golden, 
add small piece of butter, with a suspicion of onion, add a 
sprinkling of flour, and a little chopped parsley, half a cup- 
ful of stock or mutton broth. Let it simmer slowly for 
half an hour, adding your meat. Set it way back on your 
stove to get the heat. Keep it tightly covered until called 

"for 

—Katie Seabrook, Pres, McKinley's Colored Cook, 

21 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

TOMATO CURRY 

A tomato curry is an excellent accompaniment to baked 
veal. Mix a tablespoonful of curry powder with a quart of 
cooked and seasoned tomatoes ; put this in a dish, with alter- 
nate layers of uncooked rice, using a cupful of the latter in 
all; let the top layer be of bread crumbs; dot with butter, 
and bake an hour or until the rice is done. 

VEAL CROQUETTES 

Mince your veal fine. Mix one half cupful milk with 
one teaspoonful of flour, a piece of butter the size of an 
egg, cook until it thickens. Stir into it the meat. Roll 
into balls. Dip in egg with a little milk stirred in. Roll 
in browned bread crumbs. Fry in hot lard. 

NICE COLD DISH FOR LUNCH, TO BE 
EATEN WITH SALAD 

Boil a good sized chicken with onion, salt and parsley, 
(cover closely) for two hours. Add a knuckle of veal. 
Put enough water to cover your meat, and let it simmer 
an hour more. Take out your chicken when you put in 
your veal, and cut it up in half inch squares. When your 
stock is ready, season well with salt and pepper. Put 
your chicken in a mold with three hard boiled eggs, cut 
in halves, small pieces of ham or tongue, chicken livers, 
etc. Arrange it as directed in the mold. Pour the stock 
over it, and place to cool in the ice box, remembering that 
when you turn the mold out to serve, the bottom will be 
on top. This dish can be made very attractive by coloring 
the jelly with tomato juice. ^^me. Eustis, Mere. 

22 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



BELLE DINDIDE JAMBE DE BOIS 

Vivace. 



Cha-cun son gout moi j'ai fais choix d'une belle - dindi, 

A , " A \ A 



de jambe de bois, de jambe de bois, de jambe de bois. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



TURKEY WITH THE WOODEN LEGS 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

POTTED VEAL 

The livers to be well larded. Put in stewpan with 
lard, onion, carrots, pepper, salt, a few aromatic herbs, a 
glass of white wine, let them simmer for three hours. Add 
a calf's foot, cut in half, and well boiled for several hours. 
Take out the bones of the calf s foot, put in a bowl to get 
cold. Will form a nice jelly to be eaten with salad. 

TERRAPIN STEW 

Boil your terrapin soft. Put in a small piece of bacon, 
one or two onions, pepper and butter. Chop fine two or 
three hard boiled eggs. Put all together. Add a little 

^^"^- —"Uncle John." 

TERRAPIN 

Put them in tub of cold water for about one hour, after 
which throw them into boiling water and boil until dead. 
Then take out and with a rough cloth wipe thoroughly all 
in and around shell and legs and feet, to get off any black 
skin or dirt. Then throw again into boiling water and 
cook until the shell comes off easily, and the claws pull off 
in the same way. Each terrapin has to be tried separately 
to see if the legs are soft and pliant and the shell and 
claws come off easily (age tells), and no amount of cooking 
in a chafing dish later will make tender if not cooked 
enough before being picked. Hold your terrapin over a 
dish so that any of the water that runs from it can be saved, 
and then take off the lower shell and take out the liver 
which has the gall bladder in, and, holding that over another 
dish, cut out the gall bladder as you may break it, and if 
you do, don't want it to spoil your terrapin. Pick your 

23 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

terrapin, leaving the small bones in it, and when picked, to 
a pint of the meat and liquor add half pound best butter, 
saltspoonful of dry mustard, wineglass of good sherry or 
madeira, and salt to taste. Heat when ready to serve, 
but do not cook, and be sure and have hot plates. If you 
like it you can add about a cup of cream, but we do not 
do it at the club. 

—James H. Barney, President Maryland Club, 1870. 

VEAL TERRAPIN 

One pound lean veal, quarter pound veal liver, teaspoon- 
ful onion juice and four cloves. Cover with water and boil 
until tender. When cold cut meat and liver into small 
pieces. Thicken the water they were boiled in with a 
tablespoonful of butter rolled in about the same quantity 
of browned flour (or a little less of the latter). Pour this 
gravy over the meat and add two hard boiled eggs, cut fine, 
and a wineglassful of sherry with red pepper, and salt to 
taste. Heat and serve in chafing dish. 

BALTIMORE STYLE OF MAKING TERRAPIN 
STEW WITHOUT TERRAPIN 

Cut up a rabbit in pieces one inch square, and do the 
same thing with a calf s head which has been thoroughly 
cleaned and prepared. Add to it whatever you may have 
left over of chicken livers, gizzards, and small pieces of 
fried bacon or ham. Flavor with salt, pepper and a laurel 
leaf. Let it simmer for two hours a day for two days, 
(four hours in all). Skim off all grease and add to it two 
or three hard boiled eggs, cut fine, and a wineglassful of 
white wme. ^Marshall Thomas, Deer Park, Md„ July, 1889. 

24 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

DELICIOUS FISH BALLS 

Take a quart of hot potatoes, freshly boiled, a cup of 
warmed fish picked very fine, one tgg, the white and yellow 
beaten lightly separately, a teaspoonful of nice butter, a 
tablespoonful of fresh cream, add salt, red pepper, a little 
onion juice, and parsley chopped fine. Beat the whole to 
a light cream. Roll in balls and drop into plenty of very 
hot lard, like doughnuts, stirring them all the time. 

CODFISH BALLS 

One cupful raw salt fish, one pint potatoes, one egg well 
beaten, quarter saltspoonful pepper, and more salt if needed, 
one teaspoonful of butter. Wash the fish, pick in half inch 
pieces, and free from bones. Pare potatoes and cut in 
quarters. Put fish and potatoes in stewpan, cover with 
boiling water. Boil twenty-five minutes, or until potatoes 
are soft. Do not allow potatoes to get soggy. Drain off 
all water, mash and beat until very light. Add butter and 
salt, and when slightly cooled the eggs, and more salt if 
needed. Shape them without smoothing much. Slip off 
into frying hot lard one minute. Fry only five at a time. 

CODFISH CAKES 

Take six good sized potatoes, pare and boil ; one pound 
codfish, put it over in cold water, do not let it boil. Mash 
fish and potatoes together. When hot season with salt and 
pepper to taste. Add a piece of butter, two eggs beat light 
with a fork, fry in boiling lard five minutes, put on 
sheets of brown paper. Serve hot with some crisp fried 
bacon. 

25 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CODFISH A L'ESPAGNOLE 

Take a salt codfish, let it soak, simmer it on a slow fire, 
let^it drip, and cut it in pieces. Put in the oven three or 
four large sweet peppers, skin them, slice them lengthwise, 
salt and pepper them. 

Put two spoonfuls of sweet oil in a frying-pan. Chop 
up fine two onions, a piece of garlic, some parsley, cut up 
four fresh tomatoes, salt and pepper. Let it all cook for 
half an hour, add a half cupful of bouillon in which you 
dissolve a teaspoonful of flour, let it cook ten minutes, take 
out your parsley. 

Boil a dozen Irish potatoes in their jackets, peel and 
slice them, line the bottom of a dish with them, then put 
some pieces of codfish, then some slices of sweet pepper,- 
then tomato sauce, and a sprinkling of bread crumbs. Put 
in the oven thirty-five minutes. — Canned tomatoes and 
peppers can be used instead oi fresh. 

POTOMAC HERRINGS WITH ROE 

When very fresh simply broil them over a slow fire. 
Baste them with butter, for quarter of an hour. If a few 
months old and a little dry, soak them before cooking three 
or four hours. The roe mixed at table with boiled hominy 
is most delicious for breakfast. 

DEVILLED CRABS 

Twelve crabs, half pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour, one tablespoonful of butter, salt and cayenne pepper to 
taste, one tablespponful of chopped parsley. Put the milk 
on to boil, rub the butter and flour together, add the milk, 
stir and cook two minutes. Take from the fire and add the 
crab meat. The yolks of three hard boiled eggs mashed 

26 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

fine, then parsley, salt and pepper. Fill the shells, brush 
over with the white of an egg, cover with bread crumbs 
and put in a quick oven, or cook in a frying basket. 

DEVILLED CRABS— NEW ORLEANS STYLE 

Scald your crabs only in boiling water. Pick and clean 
them carefully. Take out the firm white flesh, and throw 
out the yellow. Moisten the flesh with a little sweet cream. 
Taste to see that it is not bitter. Put with it stale bread- 
crumbs, salt and pepper it, and put this back into the shells ; 
sprinkle with bread crumbs, and put in the oven to brown. 
Serve hot. — Mme. Josephine Nicaud. 

SAUCE A LA NEWBURG, FOR LOBSTER 

Take a quarter of a pound of melted butter, and a 
whiskey glass of sherry wine, two yolks of eggs, a little 
salt and pepper to taste, a little lemon juice and half cup- 
ful of sweet cream, mixed well with half teaspoonful of corn- 
starch. Stir all together well on the fire without allowing 
it to burn or turn. Compliments of Marshall Thomas. 

COURTBOUILLON OF FISH 

Make a good brown with a spoonful of lard and a little 
flour. Add a piece of garlic and half an onion, cut fine — 
let them brown well. Add two tablespoonfuls of well 
cooked tomatoes, salt, black coarse pepper, red pepper, 
two laurel leaves, and a coffeespoonful of saffron. Add 
enough bouillon to cover your fish, and to make a good 
sauce. Add half a cupful of good white wine. Take two 
pounds of very fresh, fine fish, take out the bones, and cut 
it up in pieces from two to three inches long and wide, 
salt well, and fry it in a little lard. Add the fried fish to 

27 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

your sauce and let the whole simmer together for half an 
hour. Do not turn your fish, so you may not break the 
pieces. Cover your pot half way, as you do for a soup, 
and serve hot. —Josephine Nicaud, New Orleans. 

"MONICA'S" WAY TO COOK FISH 

There are stock fish sometimes called tautog, Monica 
cooks them thus : Put the fish into a pan with a little butter. 
Let them fry until pretty nearly cooked, then put in a little 
wine, pepper and salt, and let them stew. Use no water 
A little more wine, pepper and salt to make a good gravy — 
so says "Monica." 

POTATO BALLS 

Pare and boil dry some potatoes. Then put them into 
a hot pan and mash with a lump of butter, salt and pepper. 
Beat this well, and make into small flat cakes. Dip them 
into egg and sprinkle with bread crumbs. Fry a nice brown. 

PARTRIDGE A LA "UNCLE JOHN" 

Take six or eight partridges, or small quails, brown 
them in a small pan with lard and a light sprinkling of 
flour. Add three tablespoonfuls of raw tomatoes, half a 
cupful of meat juice, onion, salt and pepper. Let them simmer 
an hour, covered. Baste them from time to time with 
the gravy. Serve with hot rice. 

"Uncle John," 
Chef for Mr, Le Garee, of South Carolina, 

STUFFINGS FOR TURKEYS AND DUCKS 

Wild turkeys should be stuflfed with corn bread, pecan 
nuts and truffles. Take a piece of corn bread left over 

28 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

from breakfast, moisten with a teaspoonful of sauce. 
Add about a dozen peeled pecan nuts, three or four cut 
truffles, mix well. Cook in saucepan. Stuff your turkey 
the day before. Always let your fowls hang by the legs. 
A wild turkey should cook an hour, perhaps a little more or 
less. Be careful it does not dry, as the flesh is rather dry. 
Carve it as you would a wild duck, in thick slices. Put a 
buttered paper on the breast of the wild turkey, to prevent 
its drying. Tame turkeys can be cooked and stuffed in the 
same way. Sausages well fried, with mashed potatoes, salt, 
and red pepper, make delicious stuffing for fowls. 

TURKEY STUFFING 

Equal parts of stale baker's bread and nice corn bread 
left over from breakfast, a hard boiled egg. Chop up a few 
raw oysters, mix well together with butter, salt, pepper, 
red and white. Piit in the oven to bake. Add to it a rem- 
nant of pate de foie gras and stuff the turkey. Turkey 
should not cook more than an hour or an hour and a quarter. 
Do not let it dry, the juice should run from it when it is 
carved, baste it with soup or stock. 

STUFFING FOR FOWLS 

Oysters, stale bread, onions, parsley, salt and pepper 
put in the frying-pan with a little butter make delicious 
stuffing. Truffles with stale bread and butter, warmed up 
together in a frying-pan, and flavored with salt, pepper, etc. 

Spanish chestnuts and bits of ham are delicious stuffing. 

Stuff your fowls the day before, and hang them up by 
the legs four hours before cooking. 

Chop fine a pound of young calf. Season with salt, 
pepper, and onion juice. Let it fry in a saucepan with a 

29 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

little butter and a sprinkling of flour. Add enough oyster 
water to soften it, and half a pint of oysters. Let all fry 
together to the consistency of a paste. This may be used 
for small pates also, and pigeons may be stuffed in the 
same way, and allowed to simmer in a saucepan, with a 
little gfravy, closely covered. 

CHICKEN CASSEROLE 

Take a medium sized chicken, singe and draw and 
prepare it, put in casserole whole, add a good lump of but- 
ter, onion, salt and pepper. Steam gently on top of range 
two hours, then add mushrooms and vegetables to taste; 
brown and serve hot. —Lizzie Tomney. 

CANVASBACK DUCK 

Lose as little of the juice or blood as possible. Split 
it down the back. After singeing it very carefully, lay it 
on a gridiron with the split side toward the fire, which must 
be very hot. Keep flat on the gridiron by pressing the 
other half, but do not bruise the flesh by pressing too much. 
Allow the duck to remain over the fire twelve or fifteen min- 
utes, then take off, and expose the breasts to the heat just 
long enough to brown the skin nicely. It is then cooked, 
and must immediately be served. A salad of celery may- 
onnaise is the proper thing to eat with it. 

—Mrs. Wilcox, Aiken, S, C. 

HOW TO ROAST DUCKS 

Don't wash your ducks, but wipe them thoroughly with 
a clean cloth, inside and outside. Rub the back (inside and 
outside) with a small piece of onion. Salt and pepper them 
the same way. Tie them up tightly so the juice does not 
escape. Rub the breast of each duck with a spoonful of 

30 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



^•\^mmSSSi^m!4>*. 



MARCHAND DE MOUTARDE 



Tout le mon - de me - re-gard - e mais per-son - ne n'achete rien 



achetez de la mou - tar- de 96 - la vous f er - a da bi-en 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



.. U ;i. /. i i ' ^/ 



, i '>■ 



;J . f> J. 






*!' 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



}mmmt\A^m0r II n' , 



THE OLD FRENCH CHEF SELLING MUSTARD IN NEW ORLEANS 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



_ Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

olive oil. Lay in your dripping-pan a slice or two of bacon, 
one carrot, one leek, two bay leaves, a piece of celery. Place 
the ducks on this, and let them cook in a moderate oven 
twenty-five minutes. Put in any dressing you would make 
for a roast chicken. With all your roast meats put in the 
bottom of your roast-pan a carrot cut in half, a piece of 
onion, celery and parsley. The same with boiled meats 
or fish, to give a foundation taste to your food. 

— Katie Seabrook, President McKinley's Colored Cook. 

HOW TO SERVE CHICKEN 

Wash your chicken, dry with a nice clean cloth, put it 
in a tray of salt and water to cover ten minutes, dry it 
and salt and pepper and flour it well, throw it in a pan of 
hot lard, hot enough to make it a golden brown, when done 
lay it on a piece of very clean paper to absorb the grease. 
Throw off the top grease, put a handful of flour, stir to a 
brown, add to it a pint of stock, stir and strain, then put 
your chicken in and let it simmer slowly until the chicken 
gets soft; make a nice pot of mush, let it get cold, cut it 
and fry and serve with the chicken. Fry Jerusalem arti- 
chokes and let them simmer with the fricassee; this is also 
delicious. —Ellen White, Mrs. Madison's Cook. 

FOR BROILING CHICKEN 

To prepare chickens to roast and broil, when once you 
have washed your chickens, wipe them carefully with a 
dry cloth. Salt and pepper them two or three hours before 
cooking, put them in the refrigerator. Put a little sweet oil 
over them before broiling them on a slow fire; while cooking 
baste them with a little water. For roasting chickens do 
the same as for broiling. Stuflf them, put three or four 

31 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

large spoonfuls of butter inside the chicken. Bake one 
hour, slow fire. 

NEW ORLEANS WAY TO COOK SNIPE 

Take some jelly made of calf s feet and madeira wine. 
A small piece of salt pork and a piece of liver. Chop the 
meat up fine, with seasoning of salt, red and black pepper. 
Put a few soda crackers in the oven and toast and pulverize 
them. Mix them with your chopped meat. Add chopped 
truffles and mushrooms, and just enough meat juice to 
soften it. Cut your snipe in two. Put them in a china 
tureen and fill in the empty places with this hash. Put it 
on a very slow fire for several hours, basting it with the 

J^ y' — Mrs. Cuthbert Slocuu. 

CHICKEN PIE 

Make a rich brown chicken fricassee. Tie a bouquet 
of aromatic herbs with a thread and let it stand in the 
fricassee five minutes, then take it out. Cut up two hard 
boiled eggs and put them in the fricassee. Cook thoroughly 
over a slow fire. Have your pie crust ready, and put the 
fricassee in it, not forgetting to prick the top crust with 
an iron fork in several places to allow evaporation. Other- 
wise it will ferment and the result will prove disastrous. 

— Aunt Rachel Coffin. 

CHICKEN CROQUETTES 

Pair of fowls weighing six pounds. Choose those with 
most breasts. Boil in sufficient water to cover them, with 
two onions, two carrots, small bunch of thyme and parsley, 
a few cloves and half a grated nutmeg. After they have 
become cold and very tender, divest them of skin, fat 

32 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



CHANSON DE MERANCE 



Larghetio. 



Que f ais-tu dans ce monde quetun*6tais pas au pres des pretres ras 



l^Efe^^^S 



* t'enmau-diteen-fant vast* en dans lesen-fers vast'endanslesen-fers. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



NURSE MERANCE OF THE DESTREHAN PLANTATION. JUST ABOVE NEW 

ORLEANS 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

gristle and tendons, and chop the meat as fine as possible. 
A half pound of best butter to each chicken should be put 
into a saucepan with a tablespoonful of flour, and cook 
together, stirring constantly to prevent burning. Add a 
gill or so of the stock in which the chickens are boiled, and 
a tumbler of rich cream. Boil eight or ten minutes, stirring 
constantly. Remove from the fire and season with salt, 
pepper and grated nutmeg. Mix well. Stir in milk rapidly, 
add the yolks of four eggs. Put all on the fire and stew tfie 
mixture for a moment, stirring briskly, after which pour 
the mass out in a flat dish, and let it remain until perfectly 
cool. Then make it up into pear shaped rolls with the 
assistance of a little flour to prevent the mixture from stick- 
ing to the fingers. When all are ready, dip each one 
separately into the yolk of eggs beaten with a little cream, 
and roll them as fast as dipped into fresh bread crumbs 
made from day old bread. Let them stand for an hour or 
so to dry. Now fry them a delicate brown in plenty of 
clear frying hot lard. Lay them in a colander to drain. 
Serve on a napkin in a warm dish. 

NEW ORLEANS VEAL WITH OYSTERS 

Make a brown with a spoonful of nice fresh butter, or 
lard. Chop a pound of nice, tender young veal. Flavor 
with salt and pepper. Put it in the frying-pan. Add a 
little flour. Let it come to a good color. Add a cupful of 
oyster water, and some well chopped parsley. Let it cook 
for half an hour over a slow fire. Add your oysters and 
let them cook five minutes. Never allow your parsley to 
fry. This makes a delicious stuffing for chickens and 
ducks by adding a little stale bread. It may be used also 
for small pates, or simply serve on pieces of toast. 

— ^Josephine Nicaud. 

a 33 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

BLANQUETTE OF VEAL 
Cut some very tender pieces of veal into square pieces. 
Let them brown in a saucepan with lard until they are a 
golden color. Add just enough cold water to cover them, 
with salt, pepper, onion, one carrot, parsley and laurel leaf, 
and let them simmer on a slow fire for two hours. Put in 
a fresh saucepan a tablespoonful of fresh butter and two 
of flour. Stir it well over the fire until it takes a good 
color. Moisten with a little meat juice and let it simmer. 
Dissolve in a cup the yolk of an egg with a little lemon 
juice, or a small spoonful of vinegar, and a large spoonful 
of cream. Stir it a bit and then add to your simmering 
sauce. Simply mix, and do not let them boil. Pour it 
over your meat which has been simmering in its juice. You 
can add mushrooms or chopped truffles to this dish for a 
dinner party. _Leo^^ p^,^ 

SAUCE BEARNAISE 

To make this admirable sauce — 2l souvenir of the moun- 
tain home of Henri de Navarre — ^put in a saucepan two 
tablespoonfuls of chopped shallots (small green onions), 
and four of white wine vinegar. Reduce to one half. Add 
six yolks of eggs, two tablespoonfuls of beef extract and 
stir on the fire with a wooden spoon, until it thickens. Put 
a little to the side, and add, a bit at a time, a half pound of 
good table butter, dropping a little water in when the sauce 
becomes too thick. Press through a napkin. Finish with 
finely chopped tarragon, chervil, parsley, and a pinch of red 
pepper. 

DUTCH SAUCE 

Yolks of two eggs, quarter pint of cream, two and a 
quarter spoonfuls of elder vinegar, a little fresh butter, 
flour enough to render the same the consistency of custard. 

34 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

SAUCE BORDELAISE 

Put a tablespoonful of finely chopped shallots (small 
green onions), two tablespoonfuls of bruised cloves, and 
two pieces of garlic into a saucepan with a little butter. 
Fry a little. Add two glasses of claret wine, a pint of 
Spanish sauce, and a pinch of red pepper. Reduce to the 
consistency of a sauce. Finish off with lemon juice, 
chopped parsley and four ounces of beef marrow cut in 
rounds, and hardly heated in salted boiling water. Use 
immediately. -DELMONica 

SAUCE FOR WILD DUCK 

One tablespoonful of sugar, one tablespoonful of to- 
mato catsup, lemon juice, salt, cayenne pepper. 



LOBSTER SAUCE 

One pound of lobster, three tablespoonfuls of cream, 
one of butter, salt, cayenne pepper. Beat the coral of the 
lobster with the cream and butter. 



CALFS LIVER A LA CELESTE SMITH 

Cut a few slices of very tender veal into pieces three 
inches long and half an inch thick. Fry them in lard with a 
little onion chopped very fine. Add half a cupful of bouil- 
lon or sauce. Let them simmer half or three quarters of 
an hour. Add parsley well chopped. Boil a handful of 
best Italian macaroni. Put it in the bottom of a long 
dish. Pour your livers and sauce on top. Trim with 
slices of lemon. Old Celeste would say "it was a very vul- 
gar dish, but a delicious one.'* 

— Cblistb Smith, Mme. EusHs Mere's Cook, 

35 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

NEW ORLEANS VEAL BALLS 

Chop fine a pound of young veal. Season with salt, 
pepper, thyme and onion juice. Roll this in balls. Let 
them brown in a saucepan with butter an hour before 
you have prepared the sauce. -Josephine Nicauix 

SAUCE FOR VEAL BALLS 

Make a brown with a nice piece of tender young veal, 
say one pound. Cut in pieces about half an inch thick, 
to which you add small pieces of fresh ham, well browned, 
a few slices of tomatoes well fried, and a little onion. Add 
to this half a cupful of soup or stock. Let it simmer slowly 
for half an hour. Then add your veal balls, freshly fried. 
Let them all simmer together until ready to serve. To be 
eaten with very hot rice. Sweetbreads can be put in this 
same sauce. When they have been thoroughly prepared, 
cook them, and baste in this sauce over a slow fire, and 
they come out a golden color. They are delicious when 
so cooked. Cold, eaten with lettuce salad, with French 
dressing. -Josephine NiCAua 

SPICED BEEF 

Take round of beef and put in a porcelain pot. Over 
this pour one can of tomatoes, and put one bunch of carrots, 
and one onion, sliced fine. Put this on the back of the 
stove at three o'clock for an eight o'clock dinner, and let 
it cooked slowly all the time. A short time before dinner 
add a heaping tablespoonful of cloves and one of allspice, 
ground. Then take a cup of flour and brown it and make 
into gravy and add this to the rest. 

36 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

STEWED TONGUE FOR LUNCH 

Boil a fresh tongue until it is tender and dress it ready 
for the table. Take a little more than a pint of the water 
it was boiled in and add to it half a pint of port wine, a 
small tumbler of currant jelly, a small pinch of mace, and 
salt to taste. Stew the tongue in this gravy for an hour, 
and serve in the gravy. 

CUCUMBER CATSUP 

Take three dozen full grown cucumbers, pare and slice 
thin. Pare and slice two quarts of white onions very thin. 
Mix through them one pint of salt. Spread to drain for 
six or eight hours, and then squeeze perfectly dry. Put 
in a large bowl and add quarter pound brown sugar, half 
pint olive oil, half pound mustard seed, quarter pound 
ground black pepper, two quarts boiling vinegar. Mix well 
together. Then put in small jars and cover, if necessary, 
with cold vinegar and on top of each jar pour a little olive 
oil. Put in jars with tight tops. 



VEGETABLES 

SWEET POTATOES 

Take six sweet potatoes, not too large, scrape them on 
a scraper. Add two spoonfuls of water, salt, pepper, sugar 
to taste, and a spoonful of butter. Mix all together to the 
consistency of a good paste. Put in a dish that goes to the 
fire, and place in the oven. Before doing so, take a straw 
and stick it on top to allow evaporation. 

37 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



SWEET POTATO PUDDING 

The same receipt as above. Add two eggs, half a 
cupful of milk and a little nutmeg. 



SWEET POTATOES 

Take the quantity of potatoes you wish to have, accord- 
ing to your family. Boil them until they are almost cooked, 
then peel and slice them. Sprinkle them with brown sugar, 
and fry in hot butter. 

Peel and slice raw sweet potatoes. Let them soak a 
bit in very cold water, and fry them in plenty of hot lard. 
The more lard there is, and the hotter, the dryer your pota- 
toes will be. 

Take a few sweet potatoes, boil and peel them, and mash 
them with butter. Put them in a dish. Cover with brown 
sugar, and bake in the oven. 

Sweet potatoes which are almost without taste are much 
improved if the tough outside skin is removed, and they are 
put under a roast of beef to cook. They will brown over 
nicely, and receive an agreeable flavor. 

TO COOK AND SERVE TOMATOES 

No product of the vegetable garden in the whole circuit 
of thre year is more amenable to skill in cookery than the 
tomato. Perhaps no other is capable of appearing in so 
great a variety of palatable and satisfying dishes. It com- 
bines admirably with other ingredients in a wide range, 
making it one of the best subjects for experiment and 
practice in high grade cooking that we possess. No single 
vegetable can be made of more use in furnishing a liberal 
and elegant table. Let us now consider some of these 

38 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

uses, both of the usual and the more uncommon forms of 
serving it. 

In the important matter of the family table, that true 
economy which consists of the best use of material to gain 
the desired end is greatly furthered by ingenuity in provid- 
ing variety without extra expense. Here the skill of the 
cook has its actual money value; and no good housekeeper 
forgets that "money saved is money earned." 

Tomato Soups. — Either with or without meat stock, 
an excellent soup is easily made from tomatoes. A 
savory bisque requires only the quart or more of sliced 
tomatoes, stewed until tender with a little water, then 
pressed through a sieve and mixed with a pint of 
rich milk (an added cupful of cream improves it) 
slightly thickened by rubbing together two tablespoon- 
fuls of flour with two of butter and cooking smoothly with 
the milk. Season to taste; a little cayenne is desirable, 
some will like a spoonful of onion juice, or celery salt may 
be preferred. Serve very hot, with crackers or croutons. 
For this and for most tomato soups, canned tomato may be 
substituted for the fresh fruit. 

A soup stock of beef, mutton, lamb, veal or chicken 
makes a basis for a somewhat richer soup, and this is a con- 
venient way of using remnants not otherwise available. 
Simmer the tomato slowly in the stock, coming in propor- 
tions to suit according to its richness. A weak stock may 
be re-enforced by a quart of tomato to a quart of stock, and 
a carrot or two added, with half a mild onion, two or three 
stalks of celery and a little bag of sweet herbs. When the 
vegetables are very tender, press through a fine sieve and 
thicken very slightly as before with flour and butter rubbed 
together. 

Another good combination is with rice cooked very 
thoroughly and put through a strainer. In this case no 

39 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

flour is needed. Especially good with chicken, and the 
bones of a pair of roast fowls will make a delicious toma- 
to soup. 

With Various Meats. — ^Tomatoes may be roasted, 
broiled, baked, fried or stewed to accompany any kind of 
meat, or served in an almost infinite variety of combina- 
tions. They may be fried in deep fat or sauted — why 
have we no good English word to express that crisp, sur- 
face frying with a little butter or fat in a very hot pan? 
For baking, they may be carefully skinned and baked plain, 
set side by side in a baking dish, and serve hot with a little 
butter, salt and pepper in the centre of each. Or the centre 
may be taken out carefully with a spoon, so as to leave a 
cup-like shell of the firm pulp, and a rich stuffing put in its 
place. A little ham or veal, finely minced and mixed with 
cracker dust, seasoned and bound together with a well- 
beaten egg, makes a good filling. Or the straight pulp 
of the tomatoes may be highly seasoned and mixed with 
grated onion, bread crumbs, melted butter, salt and pepper. 
Add a lump of butter to each on taking up. 

EscALLOPED Tomato is another savory preparation 
which may be varied with different seasonings. Arrange 
in layers, alternating with the peeled and sliced tomato, 
bread crumbs dotted with butter and well seasoned, or a 
light sprinkling of sausage or very thin chips of bacon. Put 
a good layer of crumbs on the top and bake slowly for a 
full hour, then brown to a rich color. 

Mushrooms and macaroni are two very unlike materials, 
either of which combines perfectly with tomatoes. Maca- 
roni may be used for an alternate layer, as in the escallop 
given above. An Italian method is to first fry a little 
minced onion in butter and add to it a pint of tomatoes cut 
small, with salt and black pepper, simmering gently until 
quite soft; then press through a strainer. The macaroni 

40 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

is cooked in another saucepan and carefully drained, then 
tossed with a liberal lump of good butter, until well cooled, 
Stir in the tomato and serve as soon as thoroughly heated. 

With Beans. — ^A "left-over" of baked beans goes well 
combined with tomato. They may be used together, either 
in the form of soup or sufficiently solid for a nice hot supper 
or side dish. To a pint of cold baked beans add a pint of 
boiling water and a pint of tomatoes cut small ; also a slice 
or two of onion and two or three stalks of celery. Stew for 
twenty minutes, or longer if not in haste, and put through 
a strainer. Melt two tablespoonfuls of butter in a saucepan 
and blend with two of flour ; add by degrees the beans and 
serve very hot. Use only water enough to prevent burn- 
ing, if a solid dish is wanted. 

Salads. — ^The tomato serves perfectly in a salad, 
either with lettuce or celery; whole, filled or sliced; with a 
rich mayonnaise, or with the simplest French dressing. 

With a can of salmon a very handsome and rich salad is 
prepared. Take out the salmon in neat, firm bits and lay 
them in a dish of cold spiced vinegar while the tomatoes are 
prepared. Cut off the stem end and hollow out with a 
pointed spoon to make a neat, firm cup. Medium-sized 
tomatoes of even form and well ripened should be chosen. 
Mix a little salt, cayenne and vinegar, with or without oil, 
as preferred, and sprinkle the tomatoes well, then fill with 
the salmon. Cucumbers in paper-thin slices may be mixed 
with the fish. Serve on lettuce leaves with a cupful of 
mayonnaise. 

Jellied or Frozen. — ^Both cucumbers and tomatoes are 
frequently served now in the form of jelly, using the pulp 
pressed through a steamer, with gelatine, as in other gela- 
tine jellies. Cubes of this jelly are especially popular with 
chicken salad. Frozen tomato is offered in the same way 
with meat salads or cold luncheons. The pulp is highly 

41 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

seasoned and frozen like a water ice. It is then either chilled 
again in small cups, to make an individual mold, or served 
by the spoonful upon the plates. 

Tomatoes cannot be stewed under two to three hours 
to get rid of that raw, watery taste. Take five or six 
tomatoes or a can of tomatoes, throwing out the water, put 
in a saucepan with a small piece of onion, a bit of parsley, 
salt, pepper, teaspoonful of butter, a pinch of sugar; let 
it simmer from two to three Hours uncovered. Serve for 
dinner or set aside to add to a poor soup, or to re-enforce a 
gravy, or if your dinner is short, put about half of it in 
a warm dish, poach six eggs, set them a few moments 
on a nice, dry, warm napkin to dry, then put them on the 
tomatoes and serve des oeufs a la portogais. Sliced fresh 
tomatoes, salt and pepper and powdered with crumbs of 
toasted bread, fried in hot- butter and served hot immediately, 
are very delicious for breakfast. 

Tomato Timbale. — ^To be served with lettuce and may- 
onnaise sauce : Take six fresh tomatoes or a can of tomatoes, 
of which you throw off the liquor, stew them down suffi- 
ciently with a spoonful .of Cox's gelatine, put enough to 
keep the tomatoes together, season to taste with salt and 
cayenne pepper, pour into small timbales to shape them, 
place on ice to get cold and serve with lettuce and mayon- 
naise sauce. 

TOMATOES 

Tomatoes must be cooked several hours, otherwise they 
taste sour and watery. 

Slice them, salt and pepper them, add a few bread 
crumbs, broil them on the gridiron, serve very hot for 
breakfast. 

Stuffed with mince meat, or sliced, with French dress- 
ing or mayonnaise sauce, they are delicious. 

42 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Scald, peel, and slice them. Put in the refrigerator, 
with French dressing. Put a slice of onion in the dish with 
them, and remove it before serving. 

A Nice Way to Cook Tomatoes for Breakfast. — 
A nice way to cook tomatoes for breakfast is to slice them, 
salt and pepper them, sprinkle with bread crumbs, a little 
butter on them, and broiled. Serve very hot immediately, 
without letting them stand. 

EGG PLANT 

Parboil them, cut them in half and scrape out the soft 
part, which you put in a bowl. Add to it some chopped 
meat and a little stale bread. Season with salt, pepper, 
onions, parsley, and a little bit of ham or tongue. Put all 
in the frying-pan for a few moments, then put back in the 
egg-plant shells, with sprinkled bread crumbs on top, and 
brown in the oven. 

FRIED CARROTS 

Take a few tender young carrots. Slice them (round- 
wise) very thin, roll them in brown sugar, and fry them 
brown in butter. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

Scrape and boil them, not too soft, with salt. They 
are delicious as a salad with French dressing. They can be 
used in a brown chicken fricassee, or with roast chicken 
or duck, or dressed with a white sauce. 

GLOBE ARTICHOKES 

They should be boiled with the leaves downward in salt 
water. Serve hot or cold, with sauce vinaigrette or white 

43 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

sauce. Also with the inside leaves taken out and filled up 
with stuffing of veal and chicken, and a little bit of ham, all 
well chopped up together. Let them simmer together for 
half an hour, adding a spoonful or two of soup to make a 
gravy. 

SQUASH 

Take a squash or cymling. Parboil it. Cut it in half 
(roundwise), and with a spoon scrape out the inside part 
and put that in a bowl. Add to it some stale bread crumbs, 
a little milk or cream, a spoonful of sugar, salt, pepper and 
butter. Beat all well together, then put for a few moments 
into a frying-pan on the fire. Then put all back into the 
squash shell, sprinkle bread crumbs on top, and put them in 
the oven to brown a bit. They are most delicious cooked 
in this way. 

CARROTS 

Slice five or six carrots roundwise. Put them into a 
saucepan. Add two or three tablespoonfuls of water, a 
tablespoonful of sugar, and a teaspoonful of very fresfi but- 
ter. Cover closely. Let it simmer on a slow fire for two or 
three hours, and they will come out soft and tender. If you 
have a dish of carrots every day on your table you will save 
your doctor's bill. 

Carrots are very nice boiled sliced, and cooked with 
a white sauce; or, sliced in round, tfiin slices, put in a sauce- 
pan with butter, salt, pepper and a little sugar. Eet them 
simmer on the side of the stove two or tfiree Hours, add a 
little chopped parsley. Perfectly delicious. 

Take these same carrots, crush them, and pass them 
through a sieve. Add some bouillon, and let them cook 
slowly half an hour together. Such a delicious soupe 
creme. 

44 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Boil a few carrots, not too soft. Slice and fry them in 
butter, after having sprinkled them with brown sugar. 
Serve hot. 

LUCCHETTI— FRIED 

rrAUAN VEGETABLE 

Cut in strips, rather flat, like potatoes, for frying crisply 
a la frangaise. Leave them two or three hours, after sprink- 
ling salt on them, to expel the moisture. Lay them a little 
while on a napkin. Dip them in flour, and fry quickly 
until brown. Sprinkle powdered sugar on them before 
serving. 

Or they may be served fards, in pieces cut like fond 
d'artichauts. 

SPINACH 

Spinach must be thrown into boiling water, and when 
sufficiently cooked drained in a colander or cheesecloth, 
and chopped fine on a very clean board with a perfectly 
clean knife, then warmed in a saucepan ; add salt, butter and 
sugar to taste, and serve very hot and quickly. 

It should be trimmed with small pieces of fried bread 
around the dish. 

STRING BEANS 

Make a bouquet of a small green onion, some parsley, 
a laurel leaf, a very small bit of thyme. Tie all together 
with a long string, add your string beans, and when the 
bouquet has boiled fifteen minutes, take it out, leaving the 
string beans to boil fifteen minutes longer. Let them, like 
spinach, dance around in plenty of hot water. When 
cooked, strain them in a colander at once. Do not let them 
get cold. Let them drip in a clean piece of cheesecloth 

45 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

that has been well washed: never use it new. Then put 
the beans in a frying-pan with a little butter, pepper and 
salt. Serve hot. Do not let them stand. 

JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES 

Artichokes may be boiled in hot water, salted, and served 
as a vegetable, with a white sauce, or as a salad, with a 
French dressing, or as a stuffing for fowls, or as a vegetable 
fried in roast-beef gravy, as they do the Irish potatoes. 
They are delicious in any form and should be boiled with 
the leaves down. 

They are very nice with chicken fricassee or smothered 
with chicken, or with inside taken out and filled with the 
veal and oyster stuffing. 

Jerusalem artichokes may be used in various ways and 
make an exquisite dish when well prepared, being delicious 
as a puree for a soup with cream. Steamed and allowed to 
get cold and prepared with French dressing they make a 
very good salad. In a brown chicken fricassee they im- 
prove the flavor very much. They can also be used in 
a beef a la mode of veal, cutting the veal about four inches 
square ; parboiled and browned in butter and served with a 
white sauce, this is a great delicacy. 

^Broad Hollow Farm, Westberry, L. /. 

ASPARAGUS IN THE OVEN 

Take four bundles of asparagus. Boil them. Cut off 
the soft tips about an inch long. Add to them a pint of 
sweet milk. Mix two or three eggs, a teaspoonful of flour 
(into which a teaspoonful of butter is mixed), salt, pepper, 
butter, onion juice, parsley. Add all together with a 
soupgon of grated cheese on top, and put in the oven to 
bake for fifteen minutes. 

46 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

ASPARAGUS SOUP 

This can be made next day from the same water in 
which the asparagus was boiled by adding whatever cold 
meat you have on hand, with salt, pepper and parsley. If 
you wish to thicken it, small pieces of potatoes, cut up and 
passed through a sieve, may be added, also a handful of 
sorrel, a small lettuce, two small green onions, and chervil. 

HOW TO COOK MUSHROOMS IN A CHAFING- 
DISH HALF AN HOUR BEFORE SERVING 

Take a heaping plateful of nicely peeled mushrooms, put 
a tablespoonful of fresh butter into a chafing-dish, and pour 
the mushrooms on top of it. Salt and pepper them, cover 
them closely and let them cook twenty-five or thirty minutes. 
Put some nice pieces of dry toast on each plate, and serve 
yourself from the chafing-dish. Hail Columbia, it's good! 

THE WAY TO TELL GOOD MUSHROOMS FROM POISONOUS 

ONES 

Only gather mushrooms in open fields where cows or 
sheep have pastured, and those that are pink underneath, 
and as they grow old and large dark brown underneath. 
They are all rather fat and stocky. Alongside of them 
grow cream-colored or white poisonous ones which smell 
rank. Do not touch them. Confine yourself to the pink 
and brown only and you are safe. If you have any doubts, 
throw them away. There are many other species of mush- 
rooms, but if you keep to those described you are safe, 
and they are the best. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



MISCELLANEOUS DISHES 

MACARONI PIE 

Put the macaroni on to boil in plenty of cold water with 
an onion. Let it boil gently until the macaroni is quite 
tender, then throw it on a sieve to drain; but first wash it 
in cold water. Then put on half a pint of cream to boil 
with about four ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, a table- 
spoonful of mustard, a little cayenne pepper, salt and butter. 
Thin it in some macaroni, and let it stew gently a few min- 
utes. Have some grated cheese mixed with a few bread 
crumbs. Put the macaroni in a deep dish, sprinkle the 
crumbs of cheese over the top and bake it. 

—Mrs. Philups {Dr. Arnold's Receipt). 

CORN OYSTERS 

Grate one pint of young com, add one egg, well beaten, 
one small teacupful of flour, one-half cupful of butter, salt 
and pepper, mix well. Fry a spoonful at a time, butter them. 

EGGS, PORTUGUESE STYLE 

Slice some nice fresh tomatoes, salt and pepper, put 
crumbs of bread on them, fry them well, put them in a 
hot dish and put on top several poached eggs. The same can 
be served on a good tomato sauce that has cooked three 
hours. 

EGGS A LA MORELLE 

Boil six or eight eggs hard twenty minutes. Make a 
nice white sauce in a double saucepan with a pint of cream, 
mix a tablespoonful of butter with flour, add gently and 
carefully to cream, salt, red pepper, and a little onion juice. 

48 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



MARCHAND D'OINONS 

Alle^eU o* A 



Des oi-nonssont ^ bons mar - ch6 c'est li 9! c'est li 




9a La comm^re tour-ne-ra le dos c'est li 9! c'est li 9a. 



Digitized by VjOOQIC 



[ I. 



'Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE ONE-EYED BOY AND HIS ONION STEAL 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

When the sauce is made, cut the eggs in half and add the 
sauce. 

HOW TO MAKE TEA 

Scald your teapot with boiling water. Put in it a spoon- 
ful of tea with a large spoonful of hot water. Let it stand 
one moment. Add a cupful of boiling water. Let it 
stand. Add another cupful to suit the taste. By this 
system you extract the best aroma out of tea. Of course 
your water must be boiling. Put a little hot water in 
your cups to warm them. 

COLD TEA 

Make your tea early in the afternoon, and pour it from 
one vessel to another, shaking violently until it pains your 
arm. Then pour it into the pitcher from which you wish 
to serve it, and let it stand on the ice, or in the refrigerator, 
until you want it. Crack your ice fine, and put a small 
quantity in each tumbler. Then pour in the tea, already 
sweetened, and add slices of lemon to taste. 

—Mrs. Phillips, of Washington, D. C. 

HOW TO MAKE DRIP COFFEE 

Take a French dripper, or French coffee-pot. Wash 
it in hot water. It must be perfectly pure and clean. Put 
in it two or three tablespoonfuls of Java and Mocha mixed. 
Pour over it a quarter of a cupful of tepid water, just to 
soak the coffee. Let it stand a few moments, then pour 
on it a cupful of boiling water, and let it drip five minutes 
more. Then add another cupful of hot water. Test the 
coffee. If it is too weak, pour the whole thing over the top 
again. If it is too strong, add more hot water. Rinse your 
cups in hot water before u^ing them. 

4 49 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

WAFFLES 

Beat two eggs thoroughly, separately. Add a heaping 
cupful of flour. Thin it with sweet cold milk to a soft 
consistency. Add pinch of sugar, pinch of salt, and a little 
baking powder on the end of a spoon. Beat well with an 
tgg beater. Double the amount if necessary, beating 
whites and yolks separately. 

SODA BISCUITS 

One quart of flour, teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoon- 
fuls of baking powder. Mix together in a bowl, then 
add a tablespoonful of very fresh lard, and one cupful of 
milk. Mix with the hand quickly. Cut in small round 
pieces, and put in a pan and bake. 

ROLLS 

Take a quart of flour, a spoonful of lard, a pinch of 
salt, and water enough to soften the paste. Mix well over 
night. Put in buttered pans next morning and bake. 

WAFFLES 

Two tablespoonfuls of flour, two tablespoonfuls of hom- 
iny, one egg, one teaspoonful of butter, one teaspoonful of 
lard, one half-pint of milk, and a little salt, beat up very 
lightly. — juuA Parkman. 

MUFFINS 

A cupful of hominy with a little salt, a teaspoonful of 
butter, a cupful of wheat flour, a tablespoonful of sugar, 
a half-teaspoonful of salt, one tgg, a teaspoonful of baking 
powder. Mix well with sweet milk until a smooth paste. 
Put a spoonful in a buttered mold. 

50 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

EGGS A LA MORELLE 

Cut six hard boiled eggs in half. Take the yolks of 
three eggs. Put them in a small saucepan with a pint of 
cream and a good spoonful of butter. Stir all the time, the 
pan being in another pan of hot water. Be careful to put 
the cream in before the butter. Before serving put in a 
few drops of vinegar or a little lemon juice. Pour this 
sauce over your hard boiled eggs. It can also be used with 
vegetables. 

BISCUITS MADE OVER NIGHT 

One quart of flour, pinch of salt, two tablespoonfuls of 
lard. Break over it a raw egg. One yeast cake in cupful of 
cold water. Knead it with the hand for twenty minutes. Let 
it rise over night. Cut out in round form with large cutter. 
Butter lightly with melted butter. Turn it over and let 
it rise for two hours, and bake in quick oven. 

LOAF BREAD 

Three quarts of flour (for four loaves), one teaspoonful 
salt, one tablespoonful sugar and one tablespoonful of lard, 
dissolved in hot water, three-fourths cupful of milk and small 
yeast cake soaked half hour in tablespoonful of tepid water. 
Stir all together with knife until knife stands up in the 
sponge. Let rise over night. Knead out and put in pans 
not quite half full, that it may rise to the edge in about an 
hour. Bake in oven of moderate heat about an hour and 
a half. 

THIN WATER BISCUITS 

One-half pound of flour, two ounces butter well rubbed 
into the flour, a pinch of salt. Mix into a stiff paste with 

51 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

milk, then roll out very thin. Prick the paste well with 
the biscuit pricker. Cut in diamonds, and bake them in 
a quick oven. 

THICK WATER BISCUITS 

Three pounds of flour, two and a half ounces of butter, 
pinch of salt, one teaspoonful of baking powder. Mix all 
well together into a stiff paste with milk. Roll out one-half 
an inch thick. Prick them well. Cut them with a round 
cutter and bake as quickly as possible, but not in so hot an 
oven as the thin biscuits. 

SOUFFLE BISCUITS 

Rub four ounces of butter into a quart of flour. Make 
it into paste with milk. Knead it well. Roll it as thin as 
paper. Bake it to look white. 

AUNT ANNE'S CORN-BREAD— WITHOUT 
POWDER 

Take a quart of com meal, one quart of milk (you scald 
the milk and add it to the com meal), tablespoonful of fresh 
butter. Let it stand until it cools off a little; then you 
add five well beaten eggs. Bake in a quick oven. Mix half 
quantity with three eggs if you wish a smaller corn-bread. 

— Baltimore. 

AUNT ANNE'S DELICIOUS CORN-BREAD 

One cupful of white com meal, one cupful of boiled 
hominy, knead two eggs in the hominy, put in a piece of 
butter, melted the size of a hickory nut, one pinch of salt, 
one good pinch of sugar, whip all that together, add com 

52 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

meal and cold milk alternately to a thick consistency until 
it drops off the spoon in a thick batter, like a thick mush. 
Sometimes put in a pinch of yeast powder, just as you are 
going to put it to bake. Mix it well, bake it and serve. 
Don't let it stand. -Baltimore. 



AUNT ANNE'S HOECAKE 

Take a large cupful of corn meal, sift it in a bowl, one 
pinch of salt, mix it with a little boiling water. Let it get 
cold. Make some small round cakes, pinch them on top. 
Put in a pan to bake in the oven. 



HOMINY BREAD AND WAFFLES 

One egg, four tablespoonfuls of hominy, four table- 
spoonfuls of plain flour (sifted), two tablespoonfuls of 
melted butter, and two cupfuls of sweet milk. Put the butter 
in the hominy and add the other ingredients, putting in the 
flour last, with a small pinch of baking powder. 

SALLY LUNN 

One quart of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one table- 
spoonful of sugar, one heaping tablespoonful of lard and 
butter mixed with one-third of a yeast cake; three eggs 
well beaten. Make the dough with warm water in winter 
and with cold water in summer. It should be the consist- 
ency of light bread dough, or rather, softer. Let it rise for 
four or five hours. Touch lightly, and turn into a buttered 
cake mold, and bake without a second kneading. It will 
take nearly forty minutes to bake, and should then soak well. 

—Lauderdale, Virginia, 

53 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CORN PONE 

Com pone is highly recommended as a breakfast dish. 
Take a heaping coflfeecupful of boiled hominy, heat it, and 
thin in a tablespoonful of butter, three eggs, and nearly one 
pint of sweet milk. As mxith com meal may be added as 
will serve to thicken this till it is like the batter for "Johnny- 
cakes." Bake in a quick oven and serve. 

—"Legs/* one of Thomas Jefferson's Plantations. 

POP-OVERS 

Two cupfuls of flour, three eggs, two cupfuls of milk, 
one-half teaspoonful of salt. Beat eggs, without separating, 
very light. Pour mixture slowly over flour to prevent lump- 
ing. Grease cups with butter. Put in oven to get hot. 
Cook in moderate oven at bottom about three-quarters of 
an hour. —Sarah Johnston. 

SALLY LUNN 

Five eggs, one and a half pints of flour, full spoonful of 
butter, put in the yolks (whites are not used), and two 
spoonfuls of sugar, one glass of sour milk, with teaspoonful 
of baking powder. 

CORN BREAD 

A handful of hominy, two spoonfuls of butter and lard 
mixed, three eggs, one cupful of corn meal, and one cupful 
of milk. 

CORN CAKE 

With one quart of com meal, scalded, mix one-half 
quart of milk and one-half quart of water, small quantities 
of soda, salt and brown sugar. 

54 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CORN MEAL BREAD 

Rub a piece of butter the size of an egg into a pint of 
corn meal. Make it a batter with two eggs and some new 
milk. Add a spoonful of yeast. Set it by the fire an hour 
to rise. Butter little pans, fill them, and bake. 

SWEET POTATO BUNS 

Boil and mash a sweet potato. Rub into it as much 
flour as will make it like bread. Add spice and sugar to 
your taste, with a spoonful of yeast. When it has risen 
well work in a piece of butter. Bake it in small rolls, to be 
eaten hot with butter. 

COUCHE COUCHE 

Make a paste as you make for corn bread by the above 
receipt. Sweeten it with sugar. Instead of putting it in 
a pan, you grease a pot with lard, and as the paste cooks to 
the side of the pot, you scrape it off with a spoon. Do that 
five or six times, until all your paste is cooked. It is de- 
licious for breakfast with coffee. The Southern children 
are very fond of it with milk. 

GRAHAM WHEATLETS 

One pint of Graham flour, nearly one quart of boiling 
water or milk, and one teaspoonful of salt. Scald the flour, 
when you have salted it, into as soft dough as you can 
handle. Roll it nearly an inch thick, cut in round cakes, 
lay upon a buttered tin or pan, and bake them in the hottest 
oven you can get ready. The lightness of the wheatlets de- 
pends upon the degree of heat. Some cooks spread them on 
a hot tin, and set this upon a red-hot stove. Properly 

55 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

scalded and cooked they are light as puffs, and very good, 
otherwise they are flat and tough. Split and butter while 
hot. 

PANCAKES 

Ingredients : eggs, flour, milk and salt. Beat the eggs 
well in a basin. To every egg add one dessertspoonful of 
flour, one teacupfiil of milk and salt to taste. Mix these 
to a fine batter, then let stand for four hours in a cool 
place. Have frying-pan very hot. Put in a piece of but- 
ter the size of a walnut. Put in half a teacupful of the 
batter, and fry to a light, nice brown. Roll and serve while 
hot with sugar and lemon. —"Aunt Sue" 5*. C. 

PANCAKES 

Three eggs, a half pint of milk, two tablespoonfuls of 
flour. Mix eggs and flour; add milk, salt and nutmeg. 
Fry a tablespoonful at a time in hot lard. 



DESSERTS 

CREAM A LA CELESTINE 

Six yolks of eggs, one white of egg, one pound Menier 
chocolate, two cupfuls of sugar, one quart of cream, one pint 
of milk. Flavor with vanilla. Beat the yolks of eggs, add 
the white of one, and sugar, and beat all firm. Then add 
the cream, stirring slowly until well mixed. Let the milk 
come to a boil and add the chocolate. When well mixed, 
add it to the eggs, sugar, etc. Stir gently, strain. Allow 
it to cool and then freeze. 

56 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

MANCHESTER ICE-CREAM 

Four eggs, whites and yolks, one pint of cream, one-half 
pint of milk, two cupf uls of sugar. Mix the sugar, cream and 
milk together, and stir in the well-beaten eggs. Put all in 
the freezer and turn for twenty minutes without stopping. 
Then put in a mold, and pack in ice until wanted. 

FLOATING ISLAND 

One quart of milk. Sugar to taste. Flavor with va- 
nilla. Yolks of seven eggs, well beaten, and two whites, 
all beaten together; add to milk. Stir gently over a slow 
fire. Beat well the whites of five eggs ; add very little pow- 
dered sugar. Take the beaten eggs by spoonfuls and put on 
top of your boiling milk (before you make your cream). 
Turn over every spoonful of egg on the milk for two or 
three minutes. Put them on a sieve to drip on a very 
clean cloth in the ice box. 

HARD CUSTARD 

One quart of milk. Sugar to taste. A piece of vanilla 
bean. Let your milk come to a boil ; take it off the fire for 
three or four minutes. Add five well-beaten eggs. Add 
them gradually to the milk. Pour it in a mold in which 
you have put caramel, and place that in a bain-Marie 
(double saucepan) in the oven for twenty minutes. Let it 
get cold in the ice box, and turn out when wanted. 

^ — Leonie Penin. 

SOFT CUSTARD 

Same proportions. Seven yolks of eggs and two whites. 
Add to warm milk, and put it on a slow fire, stirring it all 
the time for five or ten minutes. Do not bum it. 

— Lbonie Penin. 
57 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

SWEDISH CREAM 

Take six eggs, beat the whites and yolks thoroughly. 
Add one and a half spoonfuls of sugar. Boil a quart of 
milk and cream. Let it get cold, and flavor with vanilla 
bean. Add two spoonfuls of burned sugar. Strain. Put 
in a mold. Then put that mold in a double saucepan (with 
water) in the oven. When solid turn it over in a dish of 
light brandy around it. 

"EDGE HILL" COOKED APPLES 

Take six or eight good-sized fresh apples. Peel and 
core them, taking out the heart. Fill each up with brown 
sugar. Put them in a pan or dish. Sprinkle brown sugar 
freely over them and put slices of lemon around the dish, 
with small pieces of cinnamon. Add a spoonful or two of 
water. Put in the oven, and bake a golden color. It jellies 
beautifully. Serve with fresh cream. _sarah Randolph. 

CARAMEL PUDDING 

Five eggs, the four yolks and one whole one, one gill of 
cream, one half-pint of milk, one ounce of sifted sugar, one 
quarter of a pound of lump sugar, just moistened with cold 
water, then boiled to a light golden color, poured into a 
mold. When the caramel is set, then pour in custard, tie 
down with foolscap paper and steam very gently for an 
hour and a half. When cooked it should be buried in ice 
until required for use. The eggs, cream, sugar and milk 
should all be well beaten together. ^Leonie Penin. 

PLUM PUDDING 

One and a half pounds of raisins (stoned), one and a half 
pounds of currants, one and a half potmds of suet, one and 

58 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

a half pounds of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of flour, 
three-quarters of a pound of bread crumbs (soaked in one- 
half pint of milk), ten eggs, one apple (chopped), a quarter 
of a pound of candied peel, one ounce of bitter almonds, 
one ounce of sweet almonds. Boil gently for ten hours, 
and serve with brandy sauce. ..£. S. Wnxis. 

PORCUPINE PUDDING 

Take six good apples. Peel and core them. Make a 
little syrup with sugar and water. Let your apples cook 
in that syrup, roasting them. When the apples are soft, 
take them out, put them in a flat dish. Let your syrup 
thicken a bit, pour it over the apples, and let them get cool. 
Beat the whites of two or three eggs stiff. Put it over the 
apples, shaping it in the form of a pudding. Stick in it all 
over bleached almonds. Let it brown in the oven. 

—Miss Banks, S. C. 

MERINGUE PUDDING 

One pint of stale bread crumbs, one quart of milk, 
nearly one teacupful of sugar, three eggs, leaving out the 
white of one for the meringue. Season the pudding with 
the grated rind of one lemon. Mix all together and bake 
until you can put the handle of a teaspoon in and it comes 
out clean. Then cover the pudding with some preserves. 
Make your meringue of the one white of egg and teacupful 
of sugar. Spread in on top of the preserves, and put in the 
stove until it is lightly browned. You may double the re- 
ceipt if more is wanted. 

MONKEY PUDDING 

Take about half a loaf of stale bread. Let it soak in 
nice milk (as much as you would put for a bread pudding) 

59 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

several hours. Add a little cream to it. Put in three 
heaping spoonfuls of brown sugar, two heaping spoonfuls 
of powdered cinnamon, a few stoned raisins. Cook in the 
oven with a slow fire until it looks like an old. monkey. 
Serve with a stiff sugar and butter sauce, flavored with a 
little wine. — Celestine Eustis. . 

PLAIN RICE PUDDING 

One and a half quarts of milk, one-half cupful of 
rice, three-fourths of a cupful of sugar; dessertspoonful of 
butter. Wash your rice well. Put as much milk as the dish 
you wish to bake your pudding in will hold, together with 
the rice. Allow it to boil, and as the milk cooks away, keep 
adding more until all is used; then add sugar and butter, 
and bake until brown. When your pudding is baking and 
the crust forms, skim it off each time for five or six times 
before allowing it to finally form and remain. This is 
important. 

CORN PUDDING 

Take six ears of corn. Boil and grate them; add a 
spoonful of sugar, pinch of salt, a spoonful of cream, four 
yolks of eggs and the four whites, well whipped up. Mix 
well. Put in a buttered dish, and bake for half an hour 
in rather warm oven, as you would for a souffle. 

CORN PUDDING 

Cut six ears of soft corn from the cob, making several 
cuts in each grain, and scrape the milk from the cob. To 
this add one egg, well beaten, one tablespoonful of sugar, 
one of butter and one teaspoonful of salt. Mix all well 
together and bake for half an hour. 

—"Lauderdale/' Virginia, 
60 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CUSTARD BREAD 

Take three pie plates. In the first one put some sweet 
milk with a spoonful of powdered cinnamon ; in the second 
one beat up four eggs, whites and yolks ; in the third one put 
some brown sugar. Cut some slices of stale bread, dip 
them first in the milk, then in the eggs, and roll them in the 
brown sugar and fry them in some butter until brown. 
Put those that are cooked in a hot plate. You can only 
cook three at a time in a saucepan. Keep them hot. 
Sprinkle a little powdered sugar and serve with a wine 
sauce for dessert. —"Uncle John/' S. C. 

MINCE-MEAT 

One pound of raisins, one pound of currants, one pound 
of sugar, one pound of suet, all chopped; two pounds of 
apples, raw, and chopped; two ounces of candied orange 
and lemon peel ; the juice of one lemon ; one pint of brandy 
or rum. _E. S. Wilus. 

CANDIED ORANGE 

Peel and quarter the oranges. Make a syrup in the pro- 
portion of one pound of sugar to one pint of water. Then 
take it from the fire and dip the quarters of orange in the 
syrup. Let them drain on a fine sieve placed over a platter, 
so that the syrup will not be wasted. Let them drain until 
cool, when the sugar will crystallize. 

HOW TO MAKE A CARAMEL 

Four tablespoonfuls of any kind of sugar, one table- 
spoonful of cold water. Let it cook until it candies, more 
or less according to color. If you wish it to color a pud- 
ding, put it in the mold first, and then pour in your pud- 

6i 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

ding. Another way is to add it drop by drop to a cream 
or custard. Or, if you like better, pour it over your pud- 
ding or cake. 

FRUIT IN ITS OWN JUICE 

Prepare your fruit for eating by removing the stones 
and paring if necessary ; put it in a closed vessel and expose 
it to a scalding heat, either in a dry oven or one filled with 
water, taking care not to let it burn. Fill up jars and seal 
them carefully. Keep them in a cool place. Stone jars 
are the best. The fruit spoils if exposed to the air. 

PRALINE COCOANUT 

Take a fresh cocoanut, break it open and grate it care- 
fully. Take a cupful to two cupfuls and a half of the best 
white sugar. Put the sugar in a nice clean saucepan to 
cook until it candies. Add the cocoanut. Let it cook a 
moment, turning it all the time. Put it in pats on a large 
china dish or a piece of marble. Do the same with brown 
sugar. 

PRALINE PECANS 

Take a cupful of well and carefully peeled pecan nuts. 
Take two cupfuls of brown sugar and half a cupful of water. 
Let simmer on the fire until it candies. Put in the nuts. 
Stir them all the time until the sugar adheres to the nuts. 
Be careful it does not bum. Put in a plate to cool and 
serve. Do the same thing, but do not turn it. Put them 
a spoonful at a time in small paper boxes or in pats on a 
dish. The same thing can be done with peanuts. Pea- 
nuts powdered and added to ice cream is delicious. 

(Sold on the street corners in New Orleans.) 

62 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



CAKES 

GINGERBREAD 

One quart of flour, one-half pound of butter, one- 
quarter pound of sugar, five eggs, one-half pint of mo- 
lasses, one-half cupful of ginger, one teaspoonful of soda. 

LOAF OF GINGERBREAD 

A loaf of gingerbread is good enough to make one 
quite indifferent to the fact that it is by no means an 
economy. To make one: work a cupful of butter until 
creamy, then mix with it a cupful of brown sugar. Sepa- 
rate the whites and yolks of four eggs, and beat both until 
light, frothing the whites. Stir the eggs with the butter 
and sugar and add a cupful of sour cream mixed with a 
cupful of molasses. Before putting the molasses and cream 
together, add to the cream two teaspoonfuls of soda, dis- 
solved in a little warm water. Measure four cupfuls of 
flour and mix with it a teaspoonful of salt and a teaspoonful 
of yellow ginger. Add this to the batter. Do all the mix- 
ing as quickly and lightly as possible. Bake thirty minutes 
with moderate heat. 

MOLASSES GINGERBREAD 

The molasses must be the unrefined black New Orleans 
molasses and the sugar must be the coarse, dark, unrefined 
brown sugar. One cupful of butter (melted), one cupful of 
molasses, one cupful of brown sugar, two eggs well beaten, 
two cupfuls of flour, one tablespoonful of ginger, one tea- 
spoonful cinnamon, one-half teaspoonful baking soda. Beat 
this mixture well and drop it in spoonfuls on a baking sheet 

63 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole t)dys 

or roasting pan. Spread it with a wooden spoon very thin 
and evenly over the pan and bake ten or twelve minutes in 
a moderate oven. Let it cool a little after it is drawn from 
the oven, and then cut it up into any desired shapes. 

—Mrs. Bridgham. 

DROP PUFFS 

Delicious for dessert. Served with powdered sugar or 
wine sauce. Four ounces of flour, two eggs, dessertspoon- 
ful of white sug^r, pinch of salt, sherry glass of brandy, a 
good tumbler of sweet milk, a teaspoonful of orange flower 
water. Beat it all up thoroughly. Drop a spoonful in 
plenty of very hot lard. Turn them over until they are a 
golden color. Sprinkle a little powdered sugar over them 
and serve very hot. 

GINGER CAKE 

One teacupful of molasses, one teacupful of brown sugar, 
one teacupful of butter, three teacupfuls of flour (sifted), 
three eggs, one tablespoonful of powdered ginger, one tea- 
spoonful of soda. Rub sugar and butter well together. Beat 
eggs well and add. Then stir in molasses, ginjgfer, flour, and 
last, the soda, dissolved in a little milk or water. Bake 
quickly. — AusoN. 

STRAWBERRY SHORTCAKE 

Two cupfuls of flour (sifted), two eggs, one cupful of 
sugar, a good half cupful of sour milk or cream ; the latter is 
best. Mix half a teaspoonful of baking soda in the cream. 
Use a steel fork. Beat the butter to a cream ; add the sugar 
first, then eggs, one at a time, and milk, and flour alter- 
nately. Cook in buttered pie plates in the oven like corn 
bread. Put confection between. 

64 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



MAMZELLE ZIZI 



Andanig, 



Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi - zi pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi - zi 
Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi - zi li-j'ain dou-ler dans ker - a - li 



i 



^ 






Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi - zi Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi - zi 



Pauvre pet-tit mamzelle zi - zi li-j'ain dou-ler dans ker -a - li. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A I \ :■! J .. J •*' 



« « * *» 

rl - K 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



SAVANNE 
Gottschalk's famous * Savaooe " was written on this theme 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

LEONIE PENIN'S DRY CAKE 

One cupful sugar, one cupful flour, dried in the oven and 
sifted, one cupful butter, three eggs. Beat all together in 
a bowl very thoroughly. Butter two pie plates, and put a 
little flour in the plates, then put in your cake and bake in 
the oven. 

The same receipt can be used for chocolate cake, put- 
ting all the dough in one pie plate, and when once it is 
cooked and cooled oflf, you slice in half and butter with 
apricot jam, and put the slices together again with a nice 
chocolate icing on top. 

DELICATE CAKE 

One teacupful of melted butter, two teacupfuls of pul- 
verized sugar. Stir butter and sugar to a cream ; add one 
teacupful of sweet milk, one tablespoonful of vanilla, and 
the whites of eight eggs beaten to a stiff froth. Lastly 
add three teacupfuls of sifted flour (measured before sift- 
ing) and two even teaspoonfuls of baking powder, thor- 
oughly mixed with the flour. This makes two cakes. Do 
not move the pans while baking until the cake is nearly done, 
unless it should bake too much on one side, when it must 
be carefully done to avoid its falling. The eight yolks 
make a nice cake by adding two whole eggs and beating 
all together. Then take the same ingredients as above, and 
when poured in the pan stick full of nicely shred citron. 

COMMON CAKE 

One cupful of butter, two of sugar, three of flour, four 
€ggs, a little milk, soda and nutmeg. Beat the sugar and 
butter together. Beat the eggs separately, and mix with 
sugar and butter and add the flour. 

65 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

SMALL SPONGE CAKE 

Five eggs, one-half pound of sugar, one-half pound 
of flour. 

INDIAN SPONGE CAKE 

One cupful of Indian meal, one-half cupful of flour, two 
cupfuls of milk, two tablespoonfuls of molasses, one tea- 
spoonful of saleratus. 

GINGERBREAD 

One cupful of butter, one cupful of brown sugar, four 
eggs, one cupful of sour cream, one cupful of molasses, 
one teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in warm water, four 
cupfuls of flour, teaspoonful of salt, two teaspoonfuls of 
yellow ginger. 

FLAT COOKIES 

One quart of flour, one pint of sweet milk, one table- 
spoonful of butter, one-half teaspoonful of salt, one-half 
teaspoonful of baking powder, one-half cupful of sugar. 
Rub butter thoroughly with hands; add sugar, milk and 
flour. Mix well with fork. Roll, cut out with tumbler on 
flat board. Handle very lightly. Bake twenty minutes. 

LEONIE'S CAKE 

One cupful sugar, one cupful flour dried in the oven and 
sifted, one cupful nice fresh milk, three eggs, whites and 
yolks. Put everything together in a bowl and beat it 
thoroughly. Put it in one or two well-buttered pie plates, 
according to the thickness you wish to make your cakes. 
Sprinkle a little flour over your buttered pie plates before 
putting in your cake. Bake in the oven. If you wish to 
make a chocolate cake, make your cake (by the above re- 

66 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

ceipt) an inch and a half thick, slice it in half, butter it 
with apricot paste or jam, then put on top a nice layer of 
chocolate cream, as follows: Take three tablets of Mail- 
lard's best ^ocolate. Boil a cupful of milk and let the 
chocolate dissolve in it, stirring it over a slow fire for a 
quarter of an hour. Then spread on top of your cake while 
hot. 

SWEET WAFERS 

Six eggs, one pint of flour, two ounces of melted butter, 
one and a half cupfuls of powdered sugar, one cupful of 
milk, one teaspoonful of nutmeg. Beat whites and yolks 
separately and very stiff. Rub the sugar and butter together, 
and work in first the yolks, then the milk, then the flour 
and whites. Bake in well-buttered wafer or waffle irons 
very quickly, browning as little as possible. Roll them 
while hot upon a smooth, round stick not larger than your 
little finger, slipping it out carefully when the wafer takes 
the right shape. 

MOLASSES CAKE 

A cupful of sugar and a cupful of butter stirred to a 
cream, then a cupful of molasses and a cupful of milk with 
a teaspoonful of baking powder, five eggs beaten very light ; 
then stir in the other ingredients alternately with a cupful of 
flour. Stir the batter well and bake it quickly. 

SWEET WAFERS 

One pint of flour, one teacupful pi sugar, one tablespoon- 
ful of butter, three eggs, separated and well beaten, one- 
half cupful of milk. Mix the batter the same as for cake and 
bake in wafer-irons. 

67 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

CHOCOLATE ICING 

Take three tablets, or one-quarter of a pound of Me- 
nier's best chocolate, one cupful of milk, which you boil. 
Put in the chocolate to dissolve, stirring it gently for a 
quarter of an hour. Let it cool off and then apply to the 
cake. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



ART AND SCIENCE OF SALAD MAKING 

No careless hand can make a perfect salad. To be 
sure, Nanette, the cook, who tosses in this, adds a sprink- 
ling of that and pours in oil and vinegar with seeming 
abandon, sends to the table preparations fit for the gods,^ 
But Nanette, in her line, is an artist who has acquired 
the simple stroke that produces the masterpiece. Occasion- 
ally there arises a genius in lay ranks who snaps her finger 
at experience and arrives at Nanette's degree of skill by 
inspiration. But geniuses are few. 

la no other dish is there so wide range for individu- 
ality of treatment as in the salad. No single process in its 
preparation is unimportant. The meats and vegetables 
must not be too coarse nor too fine. In making them 
ready the chopping knife and meat grinder must have no 
part. Only the crispest, freshest vegetables should enter 
into its composition. Much depends upon the quality of 
the vinegar and oil. Sharp vinegar is to be avoided. If 
that on hand is too sour weaken it with a little water. A 
little lemon juice may be used if greater acidity is wanted. 
A ready supply of herb vinegars, such as tarragon, nas- 
turtium, chervil, celery and mint, add greatly to the possi- 
bilities in flavoring. The wise salad maker has at her 
finger tips a knowledge of the adaptability of the different 
vinegars, flavors and foundation materials. The tarragon 
flavor, for instance, is delicious with meats and fish. The 
nasturtium, most persons think, lends itself best to vege- 
tables. Mint vinegar has its votaries, but many people ob- 
ject to its flavor, excepting with lamb, chicken and certain 
green salads. Celery vinegar combines well with nearly 
all salads. 

Chopped parsley, chervil, sheep sorrel, nasturtiums 

69 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

(leaves, flowers and stems), and other herbs chopped fine 
and sprinkled over the salad or incorporated with the dress- 
ing, ring delightful changes! At a certain farmhouse this 
summer tender wintergreen leaves from the woods, used 
moderately in various salads, puzzled the ^ests with their 
delicate fragrance. 

Garlic, at which too many persons shudder, because of 
malodorous memories, lacks the respect in this country that 
its character merits. Used properly, garlic is more deli- 
cate and delicious in flavor than onion. It is the misuse of 
the vegetable that has gained for it its undeserved notoriety. 
The French know to a T its worth. A single dove of 
garlic, or two at the most, are enough for a large mixture. 
It is a good idea to rub the bowl in which the salad is 
dressed or the dish in which the dressing is made with a 
halved clove of garlic. It is still better, some think, to 
saturate a piece of bread with its odor and in turn to use 
the bread, transfixed with a fork, to wipe the dish. An- 
other way of obtaining the flavor is to chop a clove or two 
of garlic to infinitesimal fineness and mix it with the other 
ingredients. 

If onion is used, it is always preferable to employ the 
juice and not the pulp. By some cooks the onion is grated, 
but even this method leaves tangible evidences of the most 
odorous of vegetables to catch in the teeth and retain the 
flavor in the mouth. To some persons, onions are hurtful, 
but they are seldom injured by the juice. To obtain the 
juice, cut the onion in two, hold it on a fork over the mix- 
ture, and, with the back of a silver knife or spoon, press 
the cut side until the juice drops. 

With such materials as lobsters, crabs, shrimps, Jeru- 
salem artichokes, etc., which are liked for their individual 
flavors, it is a mistake to use flavored vinegars, onions or 
garlic. Such pungent additions are for accompaniments 

70 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

of neutral hue, which need embellishment. With all salad 
preparations, except with the sweet kind, of course, capers 
and chopped olives and pickles in right proportion may al- 
ways be used. 

To blend the various flavors so that no one will be over- 
shadowed by another is the acme of the salad maker's ef- 
fort. Cold cooked vegetables, such as potatoes, beets, car- 
rots, string beans, celery knobs, etc., will not absorb the 
dressing and its flavors. To obtain the best results most 
cooked vegetables should be covered with a French dress- 
ing while they are hot and should be left to cool in it. 
When they are cold they should be thoroughly drained. 
Then they may be dressed with mayonnaise, French or 
boiled dressing, as preferred. German cooks marinate hot 
cabbage in this way for a cabbage salad. With the mari- 
nate may be placed an onion or two, sliced; some celery, 
parsley, chervil or other herb. The French dressing may 
be made with any preferred vinegar. 

Utensils, ingredients and everything pertaining to the 
work should be chilled at the start. The lettuce, cress or 
other green, as well as any raw vegetable, such as celery 
or radishes, should stand m ice-water for an hour before 
they are wanted. Great care should be taken, however, 
when they come from the bath to dry them thoroughly. 
Drops of water will carry with them to the bottom of the 
dish an oily liquid that will detract greatly from the dainty 
appearance of the salad. In order to dry the vegetables 
drain and shake them in a colander, and then toss them 
about in a large, dry towel. 

Stirring the ingredients together is the unpardonable 
sin of the art. By that means are produced the strange con- 
coctions which are miscalled "salads." A light tossing 
with a fork in each hand will properly distribute the ele- 
ments and seasonings and leave a light, crisp mixture. 

71 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Salads are practically of two classes — light and heavy 
— ^the former suited to dinners, and both to luncheons and 
suppers. No one would think, of course, of introducing 
lobster or chicken salad among the courses of a heavy 
dinner. Such a dish is calculated to appear as the piece 
de resistance of a meal. 

The appearance of the salad is not the least important 
factor in its preparation. Vegetables that clash in color, 
like beets, carrots and tomatoes, should never be mingled. 
The hue of the mayonnaise, or cooked dressing, may be 
varied by different devices. For green, spinach juice can 
be used, or a mixture of herbs, such as lettuce, cress, chives, 
chervil and parsley, may be crushed together until their 
juices are expressed. The addition of this liquid to mayon- 
naise converts it into Ravigote sauce. The powdered coral 
of the lobster, softened with lemon juice, produces an at- 
tractive red. For other shades of red, tomato puree or 
beet juice may be employed. Yolk of egg will serve for 
yellow. 

Vegetable and fruit cups afford no end of variations. 
Celery knobs boiled until they are tender, cut in two and 
scooped into cups are delicious filled with a macedoine of 
vegetables. A slice is usually taken from the bottom of 
each to enable it to stand. The vegetables are first mari- 
nated, then drained, filled into the cups and topped off with 
a spoonful of mayonnaise The white cups arranged on 
a bed of green cress or lettuce produce a charming effect. 
For meat, fish or other mixtures the work of the server 
will be greatly enhanced if the lettuce is first arranged in 
little nests in the dish and they are filled with the prepara- 
tion. These nests may be easily lifted with the fork and 
spoon from the dish to the individual plate. To arrange 
them put the stem ends of three or four tender, curled 
leaves together, lapping them over each other enough to 

72 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

make a substantial receptacle. Hollowed out cucumbers, 
beets, tomatoes, green and red peppers and apples may all 
do duty as cups. 

A solid, prettily shaped cabbage with the centre cut 
out makes an ornamental bowl for cabbage salad. The 
cabbage should stand on a bed of curly parsley or other 
green. Ribbons of red peppers may edge the platter. The 
salad should be heaped in the cabbage. It may be gar- 
nished simply with stuffed olives and tiny gherkins. 

Sweet peppers are too little known, although they are 
gaining in popularity with Americans. With many vege- 
tables they are very delicious. The seeds and white inner 
pulp should be thoroughly removed (these are the parts 
that bite). Then cut the peppers into small strips or dice. 
The peppers may be used in salads of cabbage, mixed vege- 
tables of potatoes, beets, beans, etc. ; tomatoes and various 
other mixtures. 

Salad dressings are practically three — ^mayonnaise, 
French and cooked dressing. Whipped cream is an im- 
provement in most cases to the mayonnaise and boiled 
kinds. It should be added just before the dressing is used. 

In the summer the bowl in which mayonnaise is made 
should stand in ice while the process is going on. The old 
time-devouring way by dropping the oil with one hand and 
stirring with the other has happily been obviated by va- 
rious oil dropping inventions which have reduced the work 
to a minimum. The housekeeper is often puzzled to know 
what to do if the quantity of mayonnaise needed is too 
much for one raw yolk and not sufficient for two. By 
mashing^a hard cooked yolk with the raw yolk the problem 
will be settled. The process of making is the same as if 
both yolks had been uncooked. They are first seasoned with 
salt and white pepper and mustard if it is wanted. Then the 
oil is dropped slowly while the beating continues rapidly. 

73 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

As the eggs beg^n to thicken drops of vinegar or lemon 
juice are added from time to time. 

For French dressing four spoonfuls of oil to one of 
vinegar instead of the usual three to one formula is liked 
best by most persons. 

In the making of French dressing the old saying, "A 
spendthrift for oil, a miser for vinegar and a madman to 
stir," is an infallible guide. If this dressing is made at 
the table the oil, vinegar, seasonings and salad should be 
placed before the one upon whom that office falls. After 
the dressing is made a layer of the salad should be re- 
moved from the plate and placed on a cold salad plate 
ready at hand. Dressing should be sprinkled over this and 
thoroughly incorporated with it. Then another layer should 
be added, and so on until all the salad is dressed. 

Cooked dressing may be made and kept for such emer- 
gencies as the cook's day out, unexpected company, etc. 
To make such a dressing put the yolks of four eggs into 
the upper part of a double boiler and beat them thoroughly. 
Add four tablespoonfuls of oil, stirring constantly. Then 
incorporate four tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Set the dish 
into hot water over the fire and cook. When the mixr 
ture begins to thicken remove it at once from the fire and 
beat until it is cold. Then add slowly four more table- 
spoonfuls of oil, one tablespoonful of sugar, a teaspoonful 
of salt and one or two tablespoonfuls of French mustard. 
Just before using it add one cupful of whipped cream. 

Tomato and aspic jelly botfi make delightful accom- 
paniment for satads. The jelly may be molded in a ring 
and the salad sei'ved in the centre; it may be molded in 
a solid form and the salad arranged around it, or it may 
be broken into sparkling cubes and heaped about the salad. 

To make aspic jelly soak two ounces of jelly in a cup- 
ful of cold water for fifteen minutes. Then add it to one 

74 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

quart of clear meat stock or one quart of water tinctured 
with beef extract. Flavor with white vinegar and lemon 
juice until it is properly tart. Put in a couple of blades of 
mace, some cloves and a bay leaf and stir over the fire 
until the gelatine is dissolved. To the beaten whites of 
two eggs add a little cold water and the juice of a lemon. 
Stir them into the jelly and stir and boil for a minute or 
two. An egg beater is convenient to use in beating the 
eggs into the jelly. Draw the saucepan to a cool part of 
the stove and let it stand five or ten minutes. Then strain 
the jelly through a jelly bag. To color the jelly, the de- 
vices mentioned for mayonnaise may be employed. 

Tomato jelly requires a can of tomatoes, an ounce of 
gelatine and seasonings. Soak the gelatine in one-half cup- 
ful of cold water for half an hour. Meanwhile cook the to- 
matoes with three tablespoonfuls of vinegar, a teaspoonful 
of salt, a tablespoonful of sugar and a dash of paprika. 
Then add the gelatine to the tomatoes and stir until it is 
dissolved. Strain the jelly through a jelly bag and mold. 

The tomato jelly may be served on a bed of lettuce with 
a mayonnaise, as has already been suggested. 

Apple cups may be filled with a salad of mushrooms 
(cooked), stuffed olives (sliced), nuts and a few delicate 
tips of celery. Moisten the mixture with French dressing 
and top off with mayonnaise and whipped cream. This 
salad may be served with lettuce instead of in apples. 

Shredded red pepper, stoned olives and cabbage make 
a delicious combination. 

SALAD SAUCE 
Rub with a fork the yolks of two eggs, boiled hard, 
and cold, with fresh mustard and a little sauce ; four table- 
spoonfuls of oil to one and a half of vinegar, mixing into 
a cream. Chop fine chervil, tarragon, and use with lettuce. 
The sauce should be kept separate until needed. 

75 



■ Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 



HINTS FOR HOUSEKEEPERS 

Keep the cover on for all dry vegetables, and off for all 
green vegetables. 

Cook all green vegetables quickly over good fire. 

Do not let them stand, but serve at once, or they will 
lose their color and taste watery. 

Let the spinach and string beans frolic in plenty of 
boiling water. 

Waters in which vegetables have been boiled can be 
used in cooking, except potato water and cucumber water. 
They have been known to poison a dog. 

Good soups can be made with rice water by adding well- 
cooked tomatoes, an onion, parsley, salt and pepper. The 
same is true of string bean water, and a delicious soup can 
be made of spinach water by adding spinach, onion, pars- 
ley and a mashed potato. 

An excellent soup can be made by boiling a can of corn 
in one quart of milk and water, equal proportions. Season 
with salt, pepper and butter. After it has boiled ten min- 
utes, stir in three well-beaten eggs. Serve hot with a 
little toasted cracker added just before sending to table. 

Cooking is like gardening — always something to learn. 
The proper quantity of salt for rice is a teaspoonful to every 
large cupful of rice. 

You can get much nutrition from cracked bones, but be 
careful to strain them, and get all the small bones out of 
your juice, which can then be added to gravies. 

Always hang your fowls by the legs, it makes them more 
tender. 

Green vegetables must be cooked in boiling water (by 
"green" vegetables are meant all those growing above 

76 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

ground), throwing the vegetables in it, salted, and not 
covered. Dry vegetables, or those under ground, are cooked 
in cold water, and not salted at first, but when half cooked. 
If you salt your vegetables too soon they become hard, and 
are difficult to cook. 

The flesh of fowls should be wiped with a dry or moist 
cloth, as need be, and never washed under a spigot, as that 
destroys the individual taste of the fowl. 

Wash your green vegetables quickly in plenty of water. 
Do not let them soak. 

The great secret of a good cuisine is to leave to every 
dish its own particular taste, and not to put indiscreetly 
mace, cloves and aromatic herbs in everything, or they will 
all taste alike. 

Salting draws out the nutritive part of fish, as it does 
of meats, and salt fish should be used as a relish only. 
The juices of fish, especially shellfish, are of an alkaline 
nature, and this renders lemon juice or vinegar desirable as 
a neutralizing agency. 

Only use the best of sweet oil, and the sweetest, freshest 
butter and lard, and the very best of everjrthing. If you 
have any doubts about any article of food throw it away, 
and do not risk making any one ill ! That is poor economy ! 

Do not throw away the bones of turkey or chicken. 
Crack them and let them boil for two or three hours in 
a little water. Put in also any nice bits of fowl that are 
left, particularly the wings. To this add any soup stock 
you have, and with a little barley or rice or sago you have 
a nourishing soup. Season with salt, pepper and any aro- 
matic herbs — ^any vegetable you have on hand. 

With a remnant of cold chicken, cut it up with celery 
and cold potatoes, season with French dressing, ornament 
with lettuce leaves. 

Botanically, potatoes belong to the same poisonous order 

77 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

as tomatofes and contain an acid juice which is unpleasant to 
the taste and renders them indigestible. This lies in and 
near the skin of the potato. It is drawn out by heat. When 
potatoes are baked, it escapes in the steam, if they are 
opened at once, and when they are boiled it is absorbed in 
the water. It is best to peel the potatoes before using them, 
and to let them soak in cold water, covered by the water. 
New potatoes are watery, as the starch is not fully devel- 
oped. They have a very thin skin, which may be rubbed 
off or brushed off. 

Put in a flat dish what remains of hominy from break- 
fast, smooth it flat with the back of a spoon an inch thick; 
cut it up in diamond shape when cold two or three inches 
square. Salt and fry in hot lard. Do not let it stand. 
Serve hot. 

To any rice left over add sweet milk to soften it. 
Let it stand. Add enough flour to keep it together. Salt. 
Let it stand half an hour. Roll a spoonful of it in your 
hands, flatten it down and fry in hot lard. Some persons 
add eggs. 

OKRA HIBISCUS 
De Brazza, the great explorer, told me that in his expe- 
ditions into Africa whenever they stopped for a few months 
the first thing they planted was Okra Hibiscus, because 
they considered that vegetable to be so wholesome and 
nutritious. 

BREAD 
Eat your bread stale and not fresh. Have it sliced, 
dried in the oven and then toasted. 

GUMBO FILE 

Gumbo File is a powder prepared by the Indians. 
When the leaves of the sassafras trees are very tender and 

78 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

green, they gather them, dry them, pound them and put 
them in bags. This powder may be found at Park & 
Tilford's, N. Y., or at Solari's Grocery Store, Chartres St., 
New Orleans. 

GOFIO 
Gofio is some corn meal dried in the oven and salted. 
It is an Indian preparation. They put it in a bag and eat 
it on their tramps, or when they go out hunting. 

HOW TO DESTROY FLIES 
To one pint of milk add a quarter of a pound of raw 
sugar and two ounces of ground pepper. Simmer them to- 
gether for eight or ten minutes and place it about in shal- 
low dishes. The flies attack it greedily and in a few mo- 
ments are suffocated. By this method kitchens may be 
kept clear of flies all summer without the danger of poison. 

FOODS THAT STEAL FLAVORS 

It is generally understood that butter and milk can be 
tainted by proximity to decided flavors or odors, but not 
that all foods absorb and give out more or less of their 
individual aroma. 

Vegetables of the plainest varieties are the worst of- 
fenders, not only onion and leek and the more pronounced 
ones, but the tame little beet and the saucy radish. 

The subtle ways of these demure ones is something that 
households should guard against, but do not. 

"We do get so tired of boarding," exclaims a woman 
who has gone back and forth from hotels to private board- 
ing houses, but she does not realize the underlying reason. 

The real reason is that the foods are all kept in the 
same place and all cooked in the same atmosphere, double 
occasion for the flavor exchange that takes place. 

79 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Fruits of the handsomest varieties are prone to make 
this exchange, and cheeses, wines and even nuts will do the 
same thing. 

You leave celery in the ice chest with cream cheese, 
and if you have a discriminating taste you won't know 
which is which by nightfall. 

Cream is so sensitive to influences that shut up in the 
cold box with a peach it will taste like peach ice cream be- 
fore two hours. 

It is difficult to keep these items apart always, but care 
can be exercised by placing the more delicate articles in 
covered jars and the vegetables in paper wrappers or even 
paraffin. Keep the ones most likely to exchange confidences 
in upper and lower partitions of tfie ice box, remembering 
that flavor crossing is an epicurean annoyance. 

MRS. PHILLIPS' CELEBRATED PICKLE PEACHES 
Take a peck of half ripe peaches, put them into a strong 
pickle of salt and water that will bear an egg. Let them 
remain in it three days, then take them out. Drain them. 
Put them into a stone jar and stew them over one ounce 
mace, one ounce cloves, one ounce grated nutmeg, a handful 
of sliced green ginger and garlic, two bottles of mustard and 
cover with best vinegar, cold. They will not be fit for use 
for three months. 

HOW TO MAKE A LUNCH WITH NOTHING, AND A GOOD 
SOUP WITH WHAT REMAINS FROM BREAKFAST 

Some years ago we were at the Beverly House in Massa- 
chusetts. We were invited to lunch with friends at Hamil- 
ton, twelve miles off. When we arrived our host met 
us at the door in his shirt-sleeves, very red in the face 
with excitement. He threw up his arms in despair and 
exclaimed : "Didn't you get my despatch telling you not to 

80 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

come? My wife is ill in bed; the cook left us yesterday, and 
there isn't a thing to eat in the house!" Having Yankee 
blood and French blood in my veins, I was not to be downed 
by such trifling obstacles, but accepted the situation at once 
and answered: "If you will allow me to go into your 
kitchen and get some one to help me I will see what can 
be done." The answer was, "We'll all help you, for we are 
very hungry and it is past two o'clock." I looked into the 
larder, and there I found a desperate looking bone, the rem- 
nant of a 1^ of mutton, with two cold potatoes. I cut into 
small pieces what I could find of meat ; I did the same with 
the potatoes, and put them to simmer with a little cold 
water, salt and pepper. I sent the boys to the garden to see 
what they could find. They soon came back with fresh 
tomatoes, lettuce, parsley and onions. I added a little par- 
sley and onion to my Irish stew ; then I boiled six eggs for 
twenty minutes ; made a nice white sauce with cream, butter 
and a little flour, flavoring it with a piece of onion, parsley, 
cayenne pepper ; cut the eggs in half, put them in the cream 
sauce in a double saucepan until ready to serve, des oeufs 
a la Morelle. A fisherwoman in Deauville, France, taught 
me how to make this dish. Then I sliced some tomatoes, 
salted and peppered and powdered them with crumbs of 
toasted bread, fried them in hot butter, put them in a hot 
dish, poached six eggs and put them on the fried tomatoes, 
made some dip toast, a nice French dressing for the lettuce 
and some good hot coffee, and in an hour and a half we all 
sat down to lunch in jolly spirits. The lady of the house 
paid me the compliment to say it was the best tasting break- 
fast ever had in her house. 

The English butler recognized me later in life as the 
lady who always cooked her own lunch when she went out. 

A lady once said to my dear mother: "I wish you 
would lend me your cookery book, I want to ask you 
^ 8i 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

to dinner and treat you to something good." The answer 
was, "You had better dine with me, as I know my book 
by heart." 

HOW TO MAKE A GOOD SOUP WITH WHAT KEM AIKS FROM BREAKFAST 

Take the remnants of a beefsteak, cut away all fat, cut 
the meat in small pieces, put them in a saucepan, cover 
your meat with cold water, put the lid half way on, let it 
simmer and draw half an hour, add to it two or three 
spoonfuls of cooked tomatoes; cut a cooked potato, a 
carrot sliced in two, half an onion, a small piece of cab- 
bage, parsley, salt and pepper. Let it simmer two hours. 
If you find it short add a little cold water with your vege- 
tables and you will have a delicious soup. 

—"MoN Repos." 



If this modest work can be of use to young house- 
keepers, I shall feel rewarded for the pains I have taken in 
putting it together. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

PUNCH 

Put in the rind of three lemons, pour one wineglassful 
of Jamaica rum, two wineglassfuls of brandy, three table- 
spoonfuls of loaf sugar, a tumblerful and a half of water 
ice. Pour on one bottle of champagne. 

—Mrs. Eugenia Philups. 

CLARET PUNCH 

Slice three lemons, pour over one wineglassful of Ja- 
maica rum, one glassful of strong green tea, sugar to taste, 
one bottle of claret. Put in two or three cupfuls of well- 
pounded ice. -Celestine Eustis. 

BUCKNER PUNCH 

For each quart bottle of champagne mix and add one 
wineglassful of good brandy, one wineglassful of good 
rum, one wineglassful of good arrack, one wineglassful 
of good kirsh, one wineglassful of good anisette, one wine- 
glassful of good Maraschino, one wineglassful of good Cu- 
ragoa, two slices of ripe pineapple, two slices of sweet 
orange, one toddy glassful of pulverized sugar. At first 
put in a small quantity of ice, and later fill the bowl with 
large lumps of ice. It should stand three hours before 
using. 

N.B. — ^The foregoing concoction would, I think, be the 

death or destruction of any one who sipped it. I should 

advise two quarts of water to each quart of punch ! 

-E. E. 

"EGGNOGG" 

Yolks of thirty-two eggs and thirty-two heaping table- 
spoonfuls of powdered sugar, beaten to a froth. Add to 
this one and a half pints of brandy and one-half pint of 

83 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Cooking in Old Creole Days 

Madeira or sherry wine. To this add two and a half 
quarts of whipped cream ; then beat the whites of the thirty- 
two eggs to a stiff froth, and stir all thoroughly together, 
the whites of the eggs being added last of all. 

—Mrs. TANnsR. 

CAFE PARFAIT 

Take two quarts of sweet fresh cream and put it in a 
bowl. Pound in a clean cloth one pound of ice and add to 
the cream. Add a pint and a half of essence of coffee, and 
sugar to taste. 

Take two glass pitchers and pour the mixture from one 
pitcher into the other until thoroughly mixed. Keep on 
ice fifteen minutes until ready to serve. This is very suitable 
for an afternoon tea in summer. -Celestine Eustis. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



LA CUISINE CREOLE 

A L' USAGE DES PETITS MANAGES 



( i 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



UN PITI DINE CREOLE 

AUX DELEGUES 

DE NEW ORLEANS PRESS CLOB, LA LEAGUE 
INTERNATIONAL DE PRESSE CLOB, 

Dans rAtheneum, cote Tencoignure Clio et St. Charles, 

SaMIDI^ 19 FeVRIER, CI LA LA 1898, 

Dans la Ville Nouvelle Orleans, Louisiane, 
Cote neuf heurs du Soir. 



Haillons casses vaut 
Mieux passe tout nu. 

Absinthe et 'nisette. 

Dans la Louisiane ye trouve bon calas, 
Des Huitres, Choupique et bamboula. 

Huitres Bayou Maringouin. 

Avec un bon gombo prepare par Silvie, 
Sans jamais babille mo passe mo la vie. 

Gombo file, Bisque 'crebiches. 

Piti Legumes avec di' Sel. 

Quand mo te gamin 
Mo mama di moin, 
G>1)ullion poisson. 

Mo gar^on, 
Cest qui' chose qui boa 

CourtbouUion Patassa. 

HAUT SAUTERNES 1878-Calvet et Cie. 

Ravet jamais gagnin raison devont poule. 

Pate Poule. 

"Crebiches c'est fouti betaiL" 
Crebiches Bouilli. 

Chaqu'n connain ga qua pe bouilli dans so chaudi^re. 

Haricots Rouge — Riz. 

ST. JULIEN 1S76— Calvet et Cie. 

87 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Ye vante ye Terapin, 

Mais goute un fois Caoene, 

£t vous mange qui chose qui fin. 

Fricasse Caoene. 

To pas marre chien avcc saucisses. 
Jambalaya Tchourisses. 

Dinner Creole li pas complet 
Sans piti cochon di lait 

Cochon maronfarci roti, 
Salade doucet et chicore. 

Un zozo dans mo la main, vaut 
Mieux que plein zozo qua p^ 
Voltige dans bois. 

Cailles laurier en baguette 

Cresson Bayou des Herbes. 

CHAMPAGNE de G. H. MUMM et Cn. 

Lagniappe c'est bitin qui bon. 

Mais tac tac. Pralines Pacanes, 

Pain Patates, La Cuite. 

Quarti la Glace. Quarti Gateau. 

Biscuit, Nestomac milatt^ 

Pom' cak Xante Zizine. 

Yen a pas Soco ni Plaquemines, 
Mais na donne vous ga qui na. 

Banans, Z'Orange, Canne sucre, Mandarine. 
Cafe Creole noire ("Morning Joy"). 

Chatte Grille pair di feu. 

Brulo. 

Cigarettes perique — ^papier mais. 

Cigarettes Creole — ^papier jaune. 

Quand na pas choual, mont^ bourique ; 
Quand na pas bourique, mont^ cabri; 
Quand na pas cabri, mont^ jambe. 

Designe et execute par Geo. G. Voider, Steward N. O. P. C. 

88 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A SMALL CREOLE DINNER 

TO THE DELEGATES OF 

THE NEW ORLEANS PRESS CLUB, INTERNA- 
TIONAL LEAGUE OF THE PRESS CLUB, 

In the Atheneum, corner of Clio and St. Charles Streets, 

Saturday, 19TH February, 1898, 

In the City of New Orleans, Louisiana, 

Any time near nine o'clock. 



Tattered rags are better than to go naked. 
Absinthe and Anisette. 

In Louisiana they find good calas, (cake eaten with coffee). 
Oysters, Choupique and bamboula (national dance). 

Oysters from Mosquito Bayou. 

With a good gombo pr^ared by Silvie, 
Without ever scolding I would pass my life. 

(k)mbo file. Bisque 'crebiches. 

Small vegetables with salt. 

When I was a little boy 
My mother would say 
This stewed fish, my son, 
Is mighty good. 

Courtboullion Patassa from Bayou Patassa. 
HAUT SAUTERNE 1878-Calvet & Co. 

A cockroach never holds its own t>efore a hen. 
Chicken Pate. 

A crawfish is a darned beast! 
Boiled crawfish. 

Every one knows what boils in his own pot 

Red beans with rice ("Hopping John"). 

SAINT JULIEN i876-C:alvct & (>). 

89 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



They boast of their terrapin. 

But once taste Caoene, 

And you taste something which is fine 

Fricassee Caoene (Pig-skin). 

Don't tie your dogs with sausages. 

Jambalaya Tchourisses (Rice and blood-puddings). 

A Creole dinner is not complete 
Without a little suckling pig. 

A runaway pig, stuffed and roasted. 

Sweet salad with chickory. 

A bird in the hand 

Is better than all the birds flying in the woods. 

Snipes with laurel leaves en baguette. 

Watercresses from Bayou des Herbes. 

CHAMPAGNE-G. H. Mumm & Co. 

Lagniappe is something very good (a corruption of a 
Spanish word which means thrown in a market bas- 
ket over and above). 

Popcorn, Sugared pecans, 

Sweet potato bread, Thick molasses. 

The last drawn from the pots in the sugar-house before it turns to sugar, 

A fourth of an ice cream. A fourth of a piece of cake. 

Ice cream biscuit. Mulatto stomach (gingerbread), 

Tante Zizine's poundcake. 

There are no Skipenon grapes and no persimmons. 
But we'll give you what there is. 

Bananas, Oranges, Sugar cane, Mandarins. 

Black Creole coffee ("Morning Joy"). 

A singed cat fears the fire. 

Brulo. 

Cigarettes perique — corn paper. 

Creole cigarettes — ^yellow paper. 

When you have no horse, you ride a donkey; 
When you have no donkey, you ride a goat; 
When you have no goat, you go on foot 

Designed and executed by George G. Voitier, Steward 
New Orleans Press Club. 

90 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



LA CUISINE CREOLE A L'USAGE DES 
PETITS MENACES 



I.— GOMBO FILE 

Mettez dans une casserole une cuilleree de saindoux bien 
frais et une de farine laissez-le roussir un brun dore, puis 
tournez toujours jusqu'a ce que votre roux devienne un brun 
dore. Qoupez un oignon en petits morceaux et laissez-le 
frire. Coupez un chapon ou une poule en petits morceaux 
et mettez-les dans la casserole, remuez toujours jusqu'a ce 
que le poulet brunisse. Quand le tout est d'une jolie couleur, 
coupez une demi tranche de jambon en petits morceaux et 
faites frire en ajoutant un piment vert et un rouge, sel et 
poivre en gout. Ajoutez un demi litre d'eau bouillante 
et laissez le cuire pendant deux heures et demie. Un quart 
d'heure avant de servir, ajoutez deux douzaines d'huitres 
avec leur jus. Juste ou moment de servir, ajoutez une 
cuilleree a soupe de filet en toumant tout le temps, mettez- 
le sur le feu un instant toujours en le travaillant. Ne mettez 
pas trop de filet, la cuillere ne doit pas etre trop pleine. 
Servez tres chaud avec du riz sec. Ou pent mettre des 
crevettes aulieu d'huitres pour changer. 

II.— GOMBO FEVIS 
Repetez la meme preparation de volaille que pour le 
Gombo fil^, coupez quatre tomates crues dans une poele, 
ajoutez y un canne de fevis— ou une livre de fevis frais 
coupes en petites tranches — faites tout revenir dans la poele 
avec une demi cuilleree de saindoux pendant une demi-heure 
en tournant tout le temps que vous ajoutez au poulet et vous 
laissez le tout mijoter sur un petit feu une heure et demie 
ou deux heures. Servez chaud avec du riz sec dans un plat 
separement. 

91 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

GOMBO ZHERBES 
Prenez une bonne poignee de feuilles de moutarde, de 
betteraves, de radis, d'epinards, de patience, et une salade 
de laitue; faites bouillir a gros bouillons, comme des epi- 
nards, egouttez, hachez le tout. Ensuite, faites frire 
quelques petits morceux de jambon, volaille coupee, ou 
poitrine de veau ; ajoutez un peu de farine et faites roussir, 
mettez les herbes dans la poele, faites mijoter avec quelques 
cuillerees d'eau et servez avec du riz sec. II faut que cela 
ait la consistence d'une puree un peu ferme. 

GOMBO DE CRABES 
Prenez une demi livre de veau ou une demi volaille, 
coupez en tranches, faites un bon roux, ajoutez un demi 
IHre d'eau, faites mitonner surle feu; epluchez douze ou 
quinze crabes avec les mains, conservant la chair seulement ; 
faites revenir dans une poele, avec du beurre, les crabes, 
pendant quelques minutes, puis versez-les dans la casserole 
sur le jus de veau et n'oubliez pas d'ajouter quelques petits 
morceaux de jambon frit, assaisonnez bien au gout et 
servez avec du riz sec. Avant de meler les crabes a la 
sauce, il faut avoir soin de retirer tous les gros morceaux 
de viande, afin que le gout de crabe domine. 

SOUPES A UOSEILLE 

Faites cuire dans un peu de beurre frais de Toseille, 
ajoutez de Teau, un peu de sel, laissez mijoter 1-2 heure, 
mettez un blanc d'oeuf dans une tasse, delayez un jaune 
d'oeuf avec un morceau de beurre et une cuilleree de creme 
si vous aimez, ajoutez a la soupe et versez-le sur des 
tranches de pain, servez un peu de cerfeuil hache dessus. 

Apres avoir cuit Toseille, ajoutez trois cuillerees de 
tomate bien cuite, ajoutez de Teau, sel, faites bouillir, mettez 
vermicelle, laissez mijoter longtemps. 

Faites cuire de Toseille comme ci-dessus, mettez de 
Teau, coupez quelques pommes de terre laissez cuire une 

92 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A r Usage des Petits Menage s 

heure a feu pas trop vif, passez les pommes de terre au 
tamis, si vous preferez, liez avec quelques cuillerees de 
creme et versez sur des tranches de pain coupees tres-fin. 

POTAGE MARINIERE 

Pour six personnes, prenez tin litre d'eau faites bouillir. 
Dans Teau bouillante jetez un oignon coupe en morceaux 
que vous avez fait cuire a la poele, sans prendre couleur, 
laissez bouillir cinq minutes, ajoutez deux livres de poisson 
de differentes sortes, bien propre et tres frais, venant d'etre 
peche si possible, salez et laissez bouillir mode-rement pen- 
dant quinze minutes, liez avec deux cuillerees de ayoli, 
laissez cuire deux minutes, liez de nouveau avec un jaune 
d'oeufs, filet de vinaigre oil citron et un morceau de beurre 
tres frais, passez sur de simples tranches de pain coupees tres 
fin, servez tres-chaud. 

Ayoli. — Dans un mortier en marbre ou en bois pilez une 
gousse d'ail quand elle est bouillie ajoutez de Thuile d'olive 
en tournant toujours procedez comme pour la mayon- 
naise, dont elle doit avoir la consistance, faites-en deux 
ou trois cuillerees et versez dans le potage en remnant et 
tenir seulement au chaud. Le potage doit etre fait tres 
minutieusement pas trop riche et n'avoir pas le gout d'ail 
il est delicieux. 

SOUPE A LA JULIENNE 

Pour la julienne il faut couper des carottes, navets, 
poireaux, celeri blanc en petits filets. Ajouter des petits 
morceaux de choux-fleurs, des pois verts un peu de persil 
hachez-les faire frire dans du beurre sans les brunir — 
ajouter du bouillon de boeuf laisser mijoter a un petit feu 
deux heures, par assiettee de soupe, il faut calculer deux 
cuillerees de legumes coupes. Ou pent le faire au maigre. 
a Teau aulieu de bouillon, on y ajoute une cuilleree de sucre 
si Ton veut, ce qui est delicieux c'est du celeri cuit avec un 
peu de bon bouillon comme legume et mange avec le poulet. 

93 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

Notre cuisiniere coupait un peu de choux dans la ju- 
lienne et y mettait un peu de sucre, c'est tres-bon. 

RIZ A LA VALENCIENNES 

Mettre dans une casserole tres grande, quatre cuillerees 

d'huile d'olive, deux gousses d'ail coupes en petits des, un 

gros oignon coupe en petits des, 1-2 livre de jambon coupe 

en petits des, un poulet gras, que vous depecez. 

Faites revenir le tout ensemble, dix minutes suffisent. 

Une fois le tout revenu, mettez immediatement une livre de 

riz Caroline premiere qualite, donnez un tour de fourchette 

sur le feu, mettez ensuite Tinfusion d'une pincee de safran, 

puis six tomates coupees en des. Mouillez a point avec du 

bon bouillon, assaisonnez, sel, poivre, que vous avez aupa- 

ravant en soin de bien faire frire dans un peu de saindoux. 

Mettez immediatement au four tres-chaud, pour que le riz 

gratine autour de la casserole. Cette casserole doit etre 

en faience munie de son couvercle. Une heure et quart 

suffit pour la confection de ce mets, lorsqu'on en comprend 

la cuisson. ^A-.-'-r^A-r a^^* 

JAMBALAYA 

Prendre une volaille, bien Tassaisonner avec sel, poivre 
et piments, couper en petits morceaux et faire frire dans du 
saindoux (lard). Prendre du jambon coupe et faire frire 
dans la meme poele. Lorsque la volaille est frite, ajouter de 
Toignon coupe tres-fin et les faire bien roussir. Puis ajouter 
des tomates coupees et faire frire. Du persil hache. 
Lorsque tout est bien frit, ajouter de Teau J^ tasse, 
pour une tasse de riz) et laisser mettre sur un feu tres-vif ; 
lorsque le riz commence a gonfler le mettre sur un petit feu 
et ajouter une petite cuilleree de beurre. Si vous tournez 
le riz dans la poele, le toumer avec une fourchette. 

DAUBE GLACEE A LA CREOLE DE MADAME 
ROUZAN, NEE OLIVIER 
Prenez un morceau bien epais de tranche de boeuf (bas 
de la cuisse, morceau rond avec un os au milieu). Apres 

94 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



MARCHAND DE CALLAS 



Bel cal - las tout - chauds ! 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE CALLAS GIRL 



-r 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A V Usage des Petits Menages 

I'avoir bien nettoye, lardez-le liberalement avec du lard 
frais; salez et poivrez a votre gout et placez le tout dans 
une terrine; mettez autour et sur votre viande des fines 
herbes hachees, un oignon coupe en morceaux, sur Tun 
desquels vous piquerez un clou de girofle et une ou deux 
feuilles de laurier. Couvrez bien la terrine et mettez-la 
dans un endroit frais et laissez mariner la viande dans son 
jus pendant un, deux ou trois jours, selon la temperature 
et votre convenance, mais ayez soin, une fois ou deux le 
jour, de retoumer votre viande, afin qu'elle ne seche pas 
a sa partie superieure. 

N.B. — Si vous voulez que votre daube soit plus epicee, 
vous pouvez ajouter a I'assaisonnement, ci-dessus, un 
petit morceau d'ail et une pointe de piment. Quelques 
personnes ont coutume aussi d'ajouter a ta marinade 
ci-dessus, une ou deux cuillerees d'huile d'olive et un 
filet de vinaigre. Cela ne fait qu'ajouter a la succulence du 
plat, mais Texperience demontre que, dans ce cas, la daube, 
une fois cuite et froide, devient cassante et difficile a couper 
en morceaux reguliers et partant, moins appetissante a la vue. 
Le jour ou vous devrez cuire votre daube, prenez plusieurs 
pieds de veau ou de pore frais (ces derniers sont peut-etre 
preferables) lavez-les et nettoyez les parfaitement et faites 
les bouillir, en ayant soin qu'ils soient toujours bien 
reconverts d'eau, jusqu'a ce qu'ils soient cuits et bien ra- 
mollis. Mettez le tout de cote pour vous en servir comme 
ci-apres. (Ne laissez pas refroidir.) 

Otez votre viande de sa marinade, mettez la dans une 
grande casserole avec un morceau de beurre ou de graisse 
(ou pent omettre le beurre ou la graisse, si la viande est 
abondamment lardee). Faites revenir votre daube, c'est- 
a-dire, faites la cuire pendant vingt minutes ou un peu 
plus, jusqu'a ce qu'elle ait pris couleur. Versez alors dessus, 
ce que la terrine pent avoir de la marinade, mettez quelques 
carottes dans la casserole, et versez-y ensuite, les pieds 
que vous avez cuits a part, avec leurs os, ainsi que 

95 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

toute Teau dans laquelle ils ont ete cuits. Couvrez la casse- 
role et mettez a cuire a petit feu; de temps en temps, a 
mesure que le liquide baisse dans la casserole, remplacez 
par du bouillon (ou du beef tea) ou faute de bouillon, par 
de Teau chaude. La cuisson devra continuer pendant plu- 
sieurs heures (selon la grasseur de la viande) et jusqu'a 
ce que la Viande soit parfaitement cuite. Enlevez la viande 
de la casserole, enlevez et jetez tons les os des pieds, placez la 
viande dans \m moule ou un plat ou il pourra prendre forme 
en refroidissant. 

Battez un oeuf et le mettez dans le liquide de la casse- 
role, remuez bien le tout et passez dans une serviette et 
mettez a ref roidir dans un plat creux. Le liquide deviendra 
de la gelee quand il sera refroidi et se servira a part. 

DAUBE DE GAZWAY 

Prendre une piece de viande ronde; s'il y a un os, il 
faut Tenlever. La viande doit etre assaisonnee de sel et de 
poivre de chaque cote ; bien lardee de chaque cote et laissez 
depasser un morceau du lard lequel derra etre tranche de 
Tepaisseur du petit doigt et de la longueur d'un bon doigt. 
Assaisonnez le lard de sel et de poivre un moment avant de 
s'en servir. 

Mettez la viande dans un vase, ajoutez un morceau de 
piment, un morceau d'ail, trois clous de girofles, deux 
feuilles de laurier, tres-peu de thym, pas d'oignon. La 
daube doit etre laissee vingt-quatre heures dans son assai- 
sonnement et doit etre retoumee deux ou trois fois pendant 
ce temps-la. 

Apres les vingt-quatre heures, placez la daube dans une 
chaudiere, ajoutez trois pieds de veau coupes en morceaux 
et deux carottes fendues en longueur et mettez la chau- 
diere sur un feu modere. EUe devra etre bien recouverte 
pour empecher Tevaporation et pour cela il faut placer sur 
le couvercle un poids comme deux fers a repasser. 

La cuisson faite vous retirez les carottes et les placez 

96 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A V Usage des Petits Menage s 

comme un petit carre au fond du vase qui doit contenir la 
daube. Le vase doit laisser un peu d'espace autour de la 
daube pour la gelee. Coulez dans un linge tout le jus, 
versez-le dans le vase qui contient la daube et laissez re- 
froidir jusqu'au lendemain. _ Chep de Mr. Valerien Allain. 

DAUBE GLACI^E DE MADAME EUSTIS, MERE 
Prendre dans la tranche (ou round of beef) a peu pres 
cinq a six livres de Tepaisseur de deux pouces un jour avant 
de cuire, coupez des bandes de lard frais, en morceaux 
d'un doigt de long et gros comme un doigt, assaisonnez le 
lard avec le sel le poivre, une bonne pincee de salpetre, 
lardez la daube assez pres a pres, ensuite frottez la daube 
de chaque cote avec le reste de Tassaisonnement. Apres 
avoir larde le boeuf, il faut Tattacher avec une ficelle, ne pas 
trop serrer pour qu'elle garde la forme ronde et plate et en 
cuisant mettre un petit couvercle sur la casserole qui touche 
la viande et mettre un poids dessus. Faites bouillir les pieds 
de veau separement et ajoutez cette eau gelatineuse a la 
daube. — II faut mettre la daube dans une terrine jusqu'au 
lendemain. — De bonne heure mettre dans le fond d'une cas- 
serole, la couane du lard, faire un bouquet de persil, thym, 
un oignon entier, un petit morceau d'ail — mettre autour et 
dessous des pieds de veau coupes un deux, bien fendus par le 
boucher — on met le jus que la viande a rendu dedans. On 
laisse cuire une demi-heure sur un feu tres-doux. Apres 
ou met assez d'eau pour que les pieds cuisent jusqu'a ce que 
les OS soient detaches. II faut que tout cuise a petit feu 
doux pendant cinq a six heures jusqu'a ce qu'en touchant la 
sauce, que les doigts sentent que c'est coUant. II faut couvrir 
la casserole et quand c'est cuit mettre le boeuf dans une 
terrine pour qu'elle prenne une bonne forme. Retirez les 
pieds et degraissez un peu la sauce et passez-la bien chaude 
dans un morceau de flanelle, mettez aussi deux coquilles 
d'oeuf s pour eclaircir la gelee quand elle cuit. Apres qu'elle 
est passee on la vide des cotes, au fond de la terrine, sans 

97 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

lever la daube en ayant eu soin de mettre quatre demi 
tranches de carottes dans le fond de la terrine, afin que la 
gelee se forme sur le bas qui va etre le haut de la daube. 
On la met dans un endroit froid et quand on la sert, on la 
retoume sur un plat rond. II faut essayer souvent avant 
de reussir. 

GRILLADES DE VEAU DE MADAME JOSEPHINE 

NICAUD 

Demandez la petite tranche de veau, c'est plus tendre. 
Coupez une livre et demie de veau en petits carres de trois 
centimetres, un centimetres d'epaisseur, mettez une grande 
cuilleree de lard dans la poele, faites chauffer tres-chaud, 
faites frire votre veau jusqu'a ce qu'il soit bien roussi, 
ajoutez des oignons coupes tres-fins, laissez colorer, ajoutez 
un quart de canne de tomates; sel, poivre, persil, laissez 
cuire, ajoutez un peu de farine, laissez roussir, mettez un 
peu de beurre, un peu d'eau, laissez cuire au petit feu a 
peu pres une demi-heure, couvrez a demi pour laisser 
echapper la vapeur. On pent aussi ajouter des piments 
verts avec Teau, car le piment ne permet pas la f riture. 

On peut aussi cuire du riz de veau dans cette meme 
sauce en retirant quelques morceaux de veau pour faire 
place et en les bassinant avec cette sauce qui les rend dores. 

Les perdrix cuites de cette maniere — c'est delicieux. — 
Faites revenir dans un roux quelques perdrix, ajoutez deux 
ou trois cuillerees de tomates, laissez tout mijoter une heure 
au petit feu. Assaisonnez au gout avec, sel, poivre, persil. 

FOIE DE VEAU A LA CELESTE 

AUTBEMENT DIT UN PLAT CANAILLE 

Coupez quelques tranches de foie de veau tres-tendre a 
peu pres trois centimetres carres, faites un roux, ajoutez 
si vous voulez tres-peu d'oignon hache fin, faites revenir ou 
frire vos tranches de foie de veau, ajoutez un peu de jus 
de viande ou bouillon, un peu de persil, laissez mijoter une 

98 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A rUsage des Petits Menages 

demi-heure, faites bouilHr du macaroni Italien, mettez dans 
un grand plat, avec des morceaux de citron. C'est un plat 
canaille, comme disait la vieille Celeste, mais delicieux. 

PERDRIX AUX CHOUX 

Faire blanchir les choux, presser pour faire sortir Teau 
ficelez et faites revenir dans le meme beurre que les per- 
dreaux, faites un roux, ajoutez quelques morceaux de ca- 
rotte, faire cuire pendant trois heures. 

Faire revenir les perdreaux, ajouter les choux blanchis, 
carottes, oignons, persil, vin blanc, bouillon et un peu de 
rhum, faire cuire trois heures. 

Faire revenir quelques morceaux de lard, ensuite les 
perdreaux, ajouter choux blanchis, bouillon, saucisscn, jam- 
bon, chipolata, faire cuire trois heures. 

BLANQUETTE DE VEAU 
G)upez des morceaux de veau en carres faites les revenir 
d'une belle couleur doree ajoutez de Teau froide, juste au 
niveau de la viande, mettez sel, poivre, un oignon, une ca- 
rotte, persil, feuille de laurier, faites cuire deux heures a petit 
feu. Dans une autre casserole, mettez un morceau de 
beurre bien frais, deux cuillerees de farine, toumez toujours 
et faites bien cuire sans prendre couleur, mouillez avec le 
jus de la viande, laissez mijoter, dans une tasse delayez un 
jaune d'oeuf avec jus de citron ou filet de vinaigre et une 
cuilleree de creme, ajoutez a la sauce, toumez un instant, 
mais ne pas laisser bouillir et versez sur la viande que Ton 
a gardee au chaud avec un peu de jus. On pent y ajouter 
quelques champignons si Ton veut — leonie Penin. 

FARCE POUR PATES OU POUR DES DINDES OU 

POUR DES VOLAILLES 

Hachez tres-fin une demi-livre de jeune veau bien assai- 

sonne, faites revenir avec un peu de graisse et farine, ajoutez 

un peu d'eau des huitres, faites frire les huitres la-dedans. 

99 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

Meme farce pour les volailles et les dindes en ajoutant 
un peu de pain seche au four mettez-y du piment rouge. 

On peut aussi cuire des pigeons dans cette meme sauce 
et du riz de veau. 

CERVELLES DE VEAU OU MOUTON AU 
BEURRE NOIR 

Prenez un litre d'eau, un oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, 
sel et poivre, faites bouillir quinze minutes, ajoutez deux 
cervelles de veau tres-f raiches, laissez bouillir vingt minutes, 
retirez et egouttez, mettez dans un plat, salez et poivrez, 
ajoutez un filet de vinaigre ou du jus de citron, versez 
dessus du beurre noir (sans etre briile) saupoudrez de 
persil frais hache tres-fin ou si vous preferez quelques 
branches de persil frit, servez tres-chaud. 

ROGNONS DE MOUTON SAUTES 

Prenez gros comme une noisette de beurre et deux cuil- 
lerees de farine, faites un roux mouillez avec du bouillon, 
ajoutez, un petit oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, sel et 
poivre, faites mijoter une demi-heure, ajoutez quelques 
cuillerees de madere ou sherry, dix minutes apres mettez 
quatre rognons de mouton ( tres-f rais) coupes en tranches 
minces, laissez mijoter cinq ou six minutes, servez garni 
de croutons. 

Si cela vous plait, vous pouvez y ajouter quelques cham- 
pignons coupes et quelques petits morceaux de lard frit. 

Prendre de la viande de cochon preparee pour saucisse, 
melez a des pieds de cochon bien bouillis, enveloppez; dans 
une toillette c'est la dentelle de graisse qui provient du mou- 
ton; faire frire. Delicieux pour le dejeuner. 

BECASSINES DE LA NOUVELLE ORLEANS 

Faites une gelee madere et pieds de veau, prenez du 
veau, un petit morceau de pore sale et de foie de veau; 

lOO 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A V Usage des Petits Menage s 

hachez le tout tres-fin, avec assaisonnement, laissez mijoter 
a un feu doux, pulverisez, melez le tout faites une bonne pate, 
hachez truffes et champignons, ajoutez I'eau des deux. 
Mettez vos becassines coupees en deux, remplissez les avec 
le hachis mettez au feu dix minutes, arrosez avec la gelee. 

CRABES FARCIS 

Seulement echauder vos crabes avec de Teau bouillante, 
nettoyez bien, otez seulement la chair qui est ferme et le 
jaune, jetez-le humectez avec de la creme, goutez si c'est 
amer, ajoutez une petite cuilleree de beurre, mie de pain, 
sel, poivre, remettez dans les coquilles, saupoudrez de chape- 
lure, mettez au four. 

COTES DE HOMARD 

Prenez six pommes de terre cuites pour un homard. 
Faites revenir le homard a Thuile, ajoutez-y un verre de 
cognac allumez-le, tout en le laissant sur le feu et le tour- 
nant, quand la flamme est eteinte, le cognac fini, on ajoute 
du vin blanc, poivre, sel, cayenne et versez par-dessus une 
sauce tomate bien assaisonnee. 

BRANDADE DE MORUE 

Dessalez la morue pendant vingt-quatre heures au 
moins, blanchissez-la au feu, otez la peau, les arretes, pilez- 
la bien au mortier, ayez de Thuile, de Tail, du persil, un peu 
de vinaigre bouillant, melez votre morue en tournant tou- 
jours du meme cote et en y ajoutant toujours de Thuile 
et de la creme (ou du lait) a mesure que cela devient epais, 
tournez bien jusqu'a ce qu'elle soit blanche, servez dans 
un plat ou dans une croute de vol au vent. 

J'ai compris que c'est sur un feu doux qu'on toume 
toujours, c'est comme la mayonnaise a peu pres. Cela se 
garde et se mange froid pendant un ou deux jours — c'est 
tres-riche. 

lOI 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Criole 
POUR FOND DE CUISINE 

SAUCE AU VEAU 

Pour qu'une cuisine soit bonne, il faut toujours qu'elle 
ait une base ou fond de cuisine. — Ayez une bonne gelee, faite 
avec une tranche de jeune veau, un pied de veau, faites 
revenir dans la poele, comme pour faire du boeuf a la 
mode — ^ajoutez-y un petit morceau d'oignon, deux carottes 
tranchees en deux, une feuille de laurier, persil, sel et poivre, 
ajoutez deux tasses d'eau, laissez mijoter trois ou 
quatre heures, passez dans une passoire, laissez refroidir, 
enlevez la graisse et servez-vous de cela pour bassiner 
vos rotis, beefsteak, cotelettes— coupez en petits morceaux 
et servez avec viandes froides et salade. — La meme sauce 
pent se faire avec des rogatons, pour un menage economique. 

SAUCE TOMATE 

Prenez une canne de tomates ou dix ou douze tomates 
bien fraiches, un petit oignon, sel, poivre persil — ^mettez 
dans une casserole un petit morceau de beurre — laissez mi- 
joter deux ou trois heures — ^mettez dans un bol. Vous 
pourrez vous servir de cette sauce pour la soupe, pour 
epaissir des ragouts, avec des oeufs poches, ce qui fait des 
oeufs Portugais ou avec du riz ainsi qu'avec du macaroni, 
tout de suite vous avez un plat delicieux — tres-utile et 
economique pour les petits menages. 

SAUCE TARTARE 

Dans un bol mettez deux jaunes d'oeuf une cuilleree 
a the de moutarde, tournez et ajoutez de Thuile d'olive goutte 
a goutte et tournant toujours et du meme cote ; sans quitter 
la sauce, quand celle-ci est bien prise ajoutez sel et poivre, 
et un filet de vinaigre, juste au moment de la finir mettez 
du persil, cerfeuil, ciboulette, un soup<;on d'echalotte ou 
oignon, le tout hache tres-fin, melange delicatement a la 
sauce, pour ne pas la faire toumer. 

1 02 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A V Usage des Petits Menage s 

Servez avec du poisson frit ou cuit au court-bouillon 
ou avec de la viande froide. 

^ SAUCE HUBERT 

Apres cuisson d'echalottes dans du vinaigre passez-les 
dans un tamis, dans le meme tamis passez, foie de poulet 
qui aura cuit sur le gril, delayez peu a peu avec un peu 
d'echalotte passee; au moment de servir terminez le me- 
lange, ajoutez le jus du roti. 

SAUCE BORDELAISE 

Versez dans une casserole, 1-2 bouteille de vin de Bor- 
deaux, ajoutez sel, piment, persil, echalotte hachee. Faites 
reduire le liquide de moitie ajoutez-y un peu de sauce brune 
et sauce tomate, passez le tout a Tetamine ou a passoire, 
coupez en des 1-4 de livre de Moelle de boeuf et servez bien 
chaud. 

SAUCE BLANCHE 

Prenez trois jaunes d'oeuf, mettez-les dans une petite 
casserole, ajoutez de la creme, une cuilleree de beurre, 
faites cuire au bain-Marie, tournez la sauce tout le temps 
pour qu'elle prenne bien. II faut faire la sauce une demi- 
heure avant d'en avoir besoin et au moment de la servir y 
ajouter un jus de citron ou quelques gouttes de vinaigre. 

Pour des oeufs a la Morelle vous faites bouillir vingt 
minutes des oeufs tres-durs que vous coupez et ajoutez a 
cette sauce avec un peu de jus d'oignon en ajoutant un peu 
de poivre rouge. 

Cette meme sauce pent servir pour des huitres, ce qui 
fait des huitres a la poulette. 

SAUCE BEARNAISE 

Hachez six echalottes, mettez-les dans une casserole avec 
le quart d'un verre de vinaigre, faites reduire et passez a 
la passoire. Dans une autre casserole mettez trois jaunes 

103 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

d'oeuf, 150 grammes de beurre et faites au bain-Marie, 
apres vous y additionnez de Tessence d'echalotte, un peu de 
gelee de viande et un jus de citron, cela ne doit pas bouillir. 

HARICOTS VERTS 

Mettez un petit oignon et un bouquet de persil, feuille 
de laurier, un rien de thym, attachez avec un fil, laissez 
bouillir quinze minutes — les haricots verts une demi heure 
a peu pres a gros bouillons, comme les epinards, bien 
egoutter tout de suite afin qu'ils ne se refroidissent pas — 
pour les secher plus vite, les secher dans une cuvette bien 
propre ou un morceau de "cheesecloth*' qui a ete bien 
lave auparavent, pas dans son neuf . 

HARICOTS VERTS, MAITRE-D'HOTEL 

Apres avoir lave et epluche les haricots jetez-les dans 
Teau bouillante, ajoutez-y une bonne poignee de sel, les faire 
cuire vivement, vingt a vingt-cinq minutes suffisent, au mo- 
ment de les servir il faut bien les egoutter dans une pressoire, 
les mettre dans un legumier avec un peu de sel et du beurre 
a volonte ; remuez tres-legerement, la chaleur des haricots 
doit faire fondre le beurre, saupoudrez d'un peu de persil 
hache et servez, il faut surtout ne pas les laisser tremper 
dans Teau avant de l^s faire cuire et ne pas les preparer a 
Tavance dans le legumier et les egoutter vivement pour qu'ils 
ne refroidissent pas. 

Pour la cuisson environ quatre litres d'eau pour 500 
grammes d'haricots. 

PATATES DOUCES AU FOUR 

Faites bouillir six patates pas trop grosses, on les 
epluche et les ecrase, ajoutez un peu d'eau, sel, poivre, sucre 
a volonte, une cuilleree de beurre, delayez bien jusqu'a ce que 
cela soit d'une consistance de pate. — Mettez dans un plat au 
four, piquez avec une paille pour voir si c'est cuit. Meme 

104 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A rUsage des Petits Menages 

recette pour pudding patate, en ajoutant deux oeufs, une 
demi-tasse de lait et un peu de muscade. 

Faites cuire au four des patates douces, tranchees et 
rissolees dans du beurre et du sucre; c'est delicieux avec du 
rosbeef. 

OSEILLE 

Uoseille doit etre bien epluchee et lavee. Mettez-la 
cuire a Teau bouillante a grande eau et salee, cinq minutes 
de cuisson, retirez-la avec precaution et mettez-la dans une 
bassine d'eau froide si Toseille est tres-acide, faites cette 
operation deux fois, retirez-la aussitot et egouttez-la bien. 
Dans une casserole, mettez un bon morceau de beurre, 
Toseille et du sel, mettez sur le feu et remuez toujours afin 
que en fondant le beurre se lie bien a Toseille, ajoutez un 
peu de lait, encore un morceau de beurre et liez toujours, 
servez garni de croutons frits. 

POMMES DE TERRE SOUFFLEES 
Coupez en lames de belles pommes de terre pas trop 
epaisses, mettez-les a la friture pas trop chaude, faites-les 
f rire tout doucement, aussitot que vos pommes montent sur 
la friture, retirez-les, faites chauffer de nouveau votre fri- 
ture bien chaude, plonges-les dedans jusqu'a ce qu'elles 
soient bien gonflees et seches, retirez-les et servez. 

Le Chef— a. Christi. 

GRATIN AUX POMMES DE TERRE 
Coupez les pommes de terre crues de la forme et de 
I'epaisseur d'une piece de cinq francs. Beurrez un plat de 
faience qui va au four; placez une couche de pommes de 
terre saupoudrees de poivre, sel, d'un peu de fromage de 
Gruyere rape; ajoutez un peu de beurre. Superposez les 
couches de pommes de terre ainsi saupoudrees jusqu'a ce 
que le plat soit plein. Recouvrez le tout d'une autre couche 
de fromage de Gruyere, poivre, sel, un peu de beurre. Met- 
tez dans un four bien chaud; arrosez deux ou trois fois 

105 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

d'un peu de bouillon ou de lait. Servez chaud. — Dans les 
campagnes franqaises on ne fait ce plat que les jours de 
grande lessive afin que le four soit tres chaud ; car si ce n'est 
pas saisi, au lieu d'etre excellent, ce mets est insipide. II ne 
faut pas non plus employer d'autre fromage que celui de 
Gruyere, fraichement rape. une Savoisienne. 

LA SACCAMITE 

La saccamite se mange avec des canards sauvages. 
Laissez tremper une tasse de saccamite dans deux litres 
d'eau froide toute la nuit, le lendemain laissez-le bouillir 
quatre heures sur un petit feu dans deux litres d'eau . . . 
il doit absorber toute Teau — mettez-le dans un plat a re- 
froidir, coupez en tranches et faites frire dans du saindoux 
et servez chaud avec canards sauvages. 

Les enfants I'aiment bien simplement bouilli en ajou- 
tant du Sucre et un peu de lait ou creme. 

Les restes de hominy peuvent s'utiliser de la meme 
maniere. 

SALADE A LA DUG DE MORNY 

Goupez en tres-petites tranches des pommes de terre qui 
ont ete bouillirs et salees ne les laissez pas trop refroidir, 
assaisonnez-les avec poivre, sel, huile et vinaigre — coupez 
quelques truff es en tranches meme grandeur que les pommes 
de terre, melez-les ensemble et versez par-dessus une jolie 
sauce mayonnaise. 

BANANES 

Epluchez et tranchez des bananes, roulez-les dans du 
Sucre et faites frire dans du beurre frais. 

Ou cuites entieres dans du sirop de batrie, comme une 
confiture ou bien dans leur peau au four. 

GERVELLES DE MOUTON PANEES 

Faites bouillir quinze minutes dans un litre d'eau, un 
oignon, persil, feuille de laurier, sel et poivre; mettez trois 

io6 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A rUsage des Petits Menages 

cervelles de mouton, tres-fraiches et bien degorgees, laissez 
bouillir dix minutes, retirez et laissez egoutter dans un linge. 
Apres qu'elles sont refroidies, coupez-les en petits morceaux 
carres, embrochez-les avec petites brochettes en argent, rou- 
lez-les dans trois blancs d'oeuf battus en neige, puis dans de 
la chapelure blanche, faites frire a grande et bonne friture 
tres-chaude, servez avec les brochettes, dressez et garnissez 
avec persil frit ou frais et tranches de citron, ne faire frire 
que juste au moment de servir, ce mets ne pouvant attendre, 
quelques minutes suffisent, faire vite et servir tres-chaud et 
bien egoutte. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 



CALAS 

Bel Calas tout chauds! est le cri de la negresse qui les 
vend dans la rue dans des bols en bois qu'elle porte sur la 
tete enveloppes d'une serviette bien propre. Les calas se 
mangent avec du cafe au marche le matin; c'est delicieux! 

Une tasse de riz bien bouilli a Teau laissez refroidir, 
ajoutez une grande cuilleree de yeast et une demi-tasse 
d'eau on bat le tout ensemble le soir lendemain matin, 
ajoutez un oeuf, un peu de sel, une petite cuilleree de 
Sucre, une grande cuilleree de farine ordinaire, la farine de 
riz est preferable, mais difficile a se procurer, battez le tout 
bien ensemble puis laissez tomber dans beaucoup de sain- 
doux tres-chaud, ime cuilleree de ce melange, retournez-les 
jusqu'a ce qu'ils soient bien brunes . . . et posez-les sur une 
serviette bien chaude, posee sur une assiette pres du feu. 
Cela se mange avec le cafe au lait. 

CORNBREAD 
Une tasse de com meal, deux cuillerees de farine, une 
cuilleree a cafe de sucre, un peu de sel, un oeuf, une cuil- 
leree de beurre, une demi curlleree a cafe de baking powder 
bien battre le tout et faire cuire dans des monies beurres. 

MUFFINS 
Une tasse de riz, et une cuilleree de beurre, i tasse de 
farine, i cuilleree a soupe de sucre, i demi cuilleree a cafe 
de sel, I oeuf, i cuilleree a cafe de baking powder delaye 
au lait doux, battre, faire pate lisse, cuire dans des monies 
beurres. 

PAIN BLANC 

Deux quarts 1-2 ou 3 quarts de farine. Mettre dans la 

farine, a sec une grande cuilleree de sel, et une de sucre. 

Puis faire tremper et dissoudre dans une tasse d'eau, un 

petit paquet de yeast, puis le meler a la farine. Fondre 

108 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A rUsage des Petits Menages 

dans un f er blanc, une cuilleree de beurre et une de saindoux 
(lard). Ajouter a ce melange fondu, 2 tassees de lait et 
une d'eau, jeter ce liquide en 2 ou 3 fois dans la farine, et 
bien tourner avec une cuilleree ou un couteau, jusqu'a ce 
que le fond du plat soit net ainsi que la cuillere. Laisser 
lever toute la nuit dans un endroit tempere et le lendemain 
matin retoumer la pate 2 ou 3 fois, et la diviser en pains. 

PAIN NOIR 
Pour le pain noir faire de la meme maniere, excepte, 
avoir 2 quarts de farine au lieu de trois et ajouter une demi 
tasse de sirop. 

MARYLAND BISCUITS 
Pour le the de cinq heures. Mettez dans un bol une 
tasse de farine, ajoutez-y deux cuillerees a the de baking 
powder, un quart de cuilleree a the de sel, travaillez le tout 
avec un couteau ajoutez une demi-pinte de creme. Travail- 
lez le tout jusqu'a ce que cela forme une bonne pate; sur 
une planche, roulez-le a Tepaisseur d'un pouce. Mettez au 
four assez chaud 10 minutes. Coupez-les en deux et trem- 
pez-les dans du beurre fondu ; remettez-les ensemble au four 
pendant 3 minutes. Legers et delicieux. 

GATEAU SEC DE LEONIE PENIN 

Prenez i tasse de sucre, i tasse de lait, i tasse de farine, 
mettez 3 oeufs tout ensemble blanc et jaune dans un bol; 
melangez le tout ensemble, bien travaille, faites cuire dans 
des assiettes en f er blanc beurrees et saupoudrez d'un peu de 
farine. 

Faites plus epais pour un gateau chocolat, que vous tran- 
chez et y mettez une confiture d'abricots. — 3 tablettes de cho- 
colat Menier ou un quart, une tasse de lait, faites bouillir le 
lait, mettez le chocolat dedans, faites dissoudre le chocolat en 
le tournant, laissez cuire un quart d'heure. — Laissez ref roidir 
et appliquez sur le gateau. 

109 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

UN PUDDING DE MAIS 

Prenez 5 epis mais que vous faites bouillir, rapez mettez- 
les dans un bol, ajoutez une cuilleree de sucre, une pincee de 
sel, une grande cuilleree de creme, 4 jaunes d'oeuf , battez 4 
blancs d'oeuf en neige, melangez le tout bien ensemble et 
versez dans un plat beurre, mettez au four une demi-heure 
assez chaud comme pour faire du soufflet. 

RECETTE DE LA GENOISE 

Mettez deux oeuf s dans une balance, pesez de I'autre cote 
autant de sucre en poudre que ce poids, autant de beurre, 
meme quantite de farine. Faites fondre un peu de beurre 
cassez les oeufs, sans battre, ni blanc, ni jaune melangez bien 
le tout ensemble, ajoutez-y une petite pincee de sel, beurrez 
un peu un plat en fer blanc et faites cuire. On pent ajouter 
quelques amandes pilees, si on les aime. On peut aussi 
rouler cette pate et en faire des petits gateaux sees pour le 
the, c'est tres-bon, ou les decoupe avec un verre ou autre 
moule. 

FROMAGE A LA CREME 

Dans un endroit frais, sans etre a la glaciere, laissez 
tourner un litre ou deux de bon lait ; quand il est tres-f erme, 
mettez egoutter dans un linge en le tenant suspendu pen- 
dant une nuit; le lendemain detachez et mettez dans une 
terrine avec un grain de sel et une pincee de sucre, 
bien battre jusqu'a que ce soit une pate legere et 
lisse, mettez dans des petits moules troues ou petits pan- 
iers, garnis d'un linge propre et sec. Mettez-les pendant 
deux heures sur la glace, renverez-les dans un compotier et 
versez dessus de la creme douce, servez. On peut se servir 
plusieurs fois des memes linges en ayant soin de les laver 
aussitot, mais ne jamais user de savon, faites bouillir avec 
"washing soda," rincez et laissez tromper longtemps a 
I'eau fraiche et faites-les bien secher au grand air. 

— Lbonib Penin. 

110 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A I' Usage des Petits Menage s 

CREME A LA GLACE A LA CELESTINE 
Prenez 6 jaunes d'oeuf, i blanc, une demi livre de cho- 
colat extra fin, 2 tasses de sucre, un quart de litre de creme 
bien fraiche, un morceau de vanille. Battez les jaunes 
d'oeuf dans un bol, ajoutez les blancs, puis le sucre (battez 
ferme), et ajoutez la creme. Faites dissoudre le chocolat 
dans du lait chaud, puis laissez-le epaissir dans un Bain- 
Marie, en ajoutant de la vanille, versez le dans un bol, puis 
passez dans un tamis, faites glacer, puis mettez dans un 
moule sur la glace. 

RIZ A UANGLAISE 
1-2 kilogramme de riz cuit dans, 2 litres de lait — ^pour la 
creme anglaise; 1-2 kilogramme de sucre, 3-4 litre de lait, 
7 ceuf s entiers ; 45 grammes de gelatine, 3-4 litre de creme 
fouettee. Quelques fruits coupes. 

GATEAU DE MOUSSELINE 
Sept ceufs, une demi-livre de sucre un quart de fecule 
de pomme de terre. Battez le jaune avec le sucre, ajoutez 
la fecule, et apres le blanc bien battu. Passez le sucre et 
la fecule au soleil. 

POMMES CUITES A LA THOMAS JEFFERSON 
Prenez 6 ou 8 belles pommes, epluchez-les en ayant soin 
d'enlever le coeur, que vous remplissez de sucre brut, 
mettez-les dans un fer blanc, saupoudrez-les du meme 
sucre, posez par dessus quelques tranches de citron et un 
morceau de canelle, arrosez avec quelques cuillerees d'eau 
et mettez-les au four; les pommes seront dorees et auront 
une belle gelee. Cela se mange avec de la creme. 

— Edgbhill, Virginia, 

FLAN AUX CERISES 
Garnissez le moule a flan avec de la pate brisee, abaissee 
a un demi-centimetre. Saupoudrez d'une bonne couche de 

III 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



La Cuisine Creole 

Sucre en poudre. Retirez les noyaux de vos cerises, et 
rangez celles-ci sur le flan. Mettez au four une demi-heure, 
laissez refroidir, et si vous possedez de la confiture de 
cerises, mettez en une couche legere sur les cerises. 

— M. Mblvy. 

GATEAU PRALINE OU ILE FLOTTANTE 
Pulverisez un quart de livre de pralines grises. Battez 
en neige 4 blancs d'ceufs, ajoutez les pralines en poudre, 
Sucre a volonte faites ce melange vivement et sans battre 
de nouveau, mettez dans un moule, que vous avez enduit 
de caramel, mettez au bain-marie et au four pas trop chaud, 
laissez 20 minutes, faites refroidir et demoulez au moment 
de servir, gamissez avec une creme a la vanille. 

^Lbonib Penin. 

PETIT AVIS AUX MENAGERES 

Les pieds de veau que Ton retire d'une daube peuvent 
se rechauffer. On peut aussi faire cuire des riz de veau 
avec un petit morceau de veau, un oignon, et persil chily 
sauce. Un moment avant de les retirer du feu, ajouter 
dans la sauce cette sauce tomate que Ton vend en bouteille. 
II faut passer les riz de veau quelques minutes dans Teau 
chaude, pas bouillante, les laisser egoutter, faire cuire le 
veau un peu avant de le mettre avec et que la sauce soit un 
peu brune. 

Lavez vite a grande eau vos legumes verts ne les laissez 
jamais tremper dans Teau. 

Z' AFFAIRE CABRI C'EST PAS Z' AFFAIRE 
MOUTON 

Ti mouton la queu coupe train train du ballet 
Sapoti ! bombi ! sapoti bombi coffer to te pas hele 
Comment vos tu que je hele ! 
Petit moso papier pous suyer nez tetes — 
Cote tape courri? yape golloper! 
112 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



A V Usage des Petits Menage s 

La cuisine est comme la jardinage il y a toujours quelque 
chose a apprendre. 

POUR FAIRE DU BON CAFE 

Faire du bon cafe ! Le conseil a Tair debonnaire ; mais, 
dans la pratique, les difficultes abondent. Voici ce que 
conseille, a ce sujet, aux menageres meticuleuses et prevoy- 
antes le "Revue universelle." 

Prendre un filtre en f er-blanc tout simplement ; les filtres 
en fer-blanc sont les meilleurs. Cet outillage modeste etant 
organise comme il convient, placez votre cafe moulu sur le 
filtre, ID grammes par tasse suffisent; quand I'eau est a 
moitie chaude, arrosez pour le preparer a recevoir les in- 
fusions et faciliter le filtrage. Quand Teau bout, jetez-la 
en quatre fois sur le cafe: la premiere infusion entraine la 
force dudit cafe, la deuxieme une partie du cafe, la troi- 
sieme et quatrieme le depouillent de tout ce qui aurait pu 
resister aux autres infusions. Sous aucun pretexte ne 
mettre le cafe sur le feu, il n'y a pas de moyen plus sur 
pour en detruire toutes ses qualites. Tenez Tappareil ser- 
vant au cafe avec la plus grande proprete. Souvent, le mau- 
vais gout qu'on trouve provient d'un manque de lavage a 
Teau froide. II faut trois ou quatre melanges pour faire du 
bon cafe, et bien grille clair : moka, bourbon, martinique. 



THE END 



Digitized by VjOO^IC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



THE COOK BOOK OF THE CENTURY 



HARPER'S COOK BOOK ENCYCLOPAEDIA. 
Edited by the Editor of Harper's Bazar. Con- 
tributions and Recipes by all the famous living 
authorities. Bound in Washable Pigskin-Colored 
Specially Prepared Leather Cloth. Illustrated. 
$1.50 net (postage extra). 

This is the cook book of the 20th centtiry. There is no 
other cook book which is made like a dictionary, with 
complete cross references and alphabetical finger guides, 
so that you can turn instantly to what you want. It con- 
tains a comprehensive number of approved recipes, which 
represent the most famous cooking authorities of the world. 
The book is indispensable to every household, experienced 
or otherwise. 

The King of Cook Books. — St. Louis Globe-Detnocrat. 

About the last word in cooking, it is so complete. — 
Public Opinion, New York. 

Never before has there been such a cook book as is this 
one. — Louisville Courier-Journal. 

The cook book of the century; it is an easy matter to 
turn instantly to whatever one may require in way of a 
receipt. — Boston Gazette. 

More methods of assembling food and ingredients than 
were ever before gathered between the covers of a single 
volume. — Baltimore Morning Herald. 

It is a wonder that nobody ever before thought of the 
happy device of preparing a cookery book on the principle 
which underlies the Cook Book Encyclopaedia. — Literary 
World. 

A distinct boon to the housekeeper who is in a hurry. Its 
arrangement of recipes resembles that of a dictionary, and 
one may find on tne instant the particular recipe which 
she is in search of, without turning page after page or 
referring again and again to the index. — New York frtimne. 



HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



By MRS. M. E. W. SHERWOOD 



MANNERS AND SOCIAL USAGES in Amer- 
ica. A Book of Etiquette. New Edition, 
attractively bound and Illustrated. Cloth, 

$1.25. 

This is the standard book of etiquette for 
America. Mrs. Sherwood knows what our man- 
ners ought to be, and what our correct social 
usages are, better than any other writer upon 
these subjects. Besides the advantages of a 
vast social experience, both in Europe and 
America, she has also the gift of writing clearly 
and to the point. There is no difficulty in 
understanding her. In this admirable book she 
has touched upon all those points, no matter 
how trifling, which puzzle the young or the 
inexperienced. And she has so enlivened her 
explanations and instructions with the wit and 
wisdom of a cultured and gently bred woman 
of the world, that it is interesting reading from 
first to last. 



HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 



The above work will be sent by mail, postage 
prepaid, to any part of the United States, Canada, 
or Mexico, on receipt of the price. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



By ANNE FRANCES SPRINGSTEED 



THE EXPERT WAITRESS: A Manual for 
Pantry, Kitchen, and Dining-room. 131 pages, 
$1.00. 

This little volume gives admirably clear and 
precise directions as to the whole ducy of a 
waitress at breakfast, luncheon, afternoon tea, 
dinner, and supper, together with instructions 
in regard to the household work pertaining to 
the dining-room and pantry. 

The author in her preface says, *' These papers 
are intended rather as a working model than as 
a set of rules from which there is no appeal. It 
is recognized that tastes and opinions vary as 
much as do the various dining-rooms in which 
they are expressed. In writing these papers, 
one idea has been kept in mind: No rule has 
been laid down that has not a good reason for 
its existence. Some things, desirable in them- 
selves, have been omitted because they are not 
possible to one pair of hands and feet, even when 
guided by a well-regulated brain.'' 



HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 

i^^The above work will be sent by mail, postage 
prepaid, to any part of the United States, Canada, 
or Mexico, on receipt of the price. 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



By MARIANNA WHEELER 



THE BABY: HIS CARE AND TRAINING. Il- 
lustrated. 189 pages, $1.00 net (postage extra). 

Miss Wheeler has been for ten years the head nurse and 
general director of the Babies' Hospital of New York. 

The teachings of the author of this volume abound in 
genuine good sense and are commended to all mothers. — 
Chicago Inter-Ocean. 

What the author of this book does not know about the 
care of the baby cannot be worth knowing. — Literary 
World. 

A practical little volume, well written and of wise counsel. 
All the wisdom of the trained nurse seems to be compressed 
into its pages. — Kansas City Star. 

It covers every subject bearing upon the baby's first few 
years of life and will be a decided help to mothers. — Chicago 
Daily News. 

The author begins with the first minutes of the baby's 
life, and with a careful attention to detail for which many 
a young mother will be grateful. — Phrenological Journal. 

Miss Wheeler's book is eminently sensible. It contains a 
host of timely hints and rules. It will be valuable to every 
young mother, and particularly so as the modifications of 
time and circumstances and motherhood will give to the 
directions laid down a human practicability. — Baltimore Sun. 

A model book of its kind and filled with sensible sugges- 
tions regarding the care of the infant in all minor matters 
pertaining to its health and comfort. The young mother 
who may take upon herself the responsibilities of the 
nurse will find in this small volume an abundance of useful 
hints to guide her in all the little emergencies which may 
arise in the discharge of her mtdtitudinous ftmctions. — 
Medical Record, N. Y. 



HARPER & BROTHERS, Publishers 

NEW YORK AND LONDON 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



^., 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



Digitized by LjOOQIC 



