Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for general ions on library shelves before il was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

Il has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often diflicult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parlies, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the plus We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a b<x>k is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 

countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means il can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's hooks while helping authors ami publishers reach new audiences. You can search through I lie lull text of this book on I lie web 
at |http : //books . qooqle . com/| 



I 



gLNMjoyr 



t>arvart> tnnivereitf 

Xlbrarg or 

ttbe flOeaical Scbool 



Cbe ®ltt of 
Hr.E.P. Tos\\->\. 



The Old Comer Book 



THE A. B.-Z. 

or 

OUR OWN NUTRITION 



horace Fletcher's works 



THE A.B.-Z. OF OUR OWN NUTRITION. 
Thirty-fourth thousand. 462 pp. 

THE NEW MENTICULTURE; or, The 
A-B-C of Trub Living. Fifty-third 
thousand. 310 pp. 

THE NEW GLUTTON OR EPICURE; 
or, Economic Nutrition. Eighteenth 
thousand. 344 pp. 

HAPPINESS as found in Forethought 
if inu8 Fearthought. Fifteenth thousand. 
251 pp. 

THAT LAST WAIF; or, Social 
Quarantine. Sixth thousand. 270 pp. 



*m 



The A. B. - Z. 

{/•OUR OWN 

Nutrition 



By HORACE £LETCHER, A.M. 

Jtutkor 9/ " Meuttcultnre," "Happiness," " That Lmst 
Wmf," " Glutton or Epicure," Etc., Etc. Fellow 
American Association for tJke Advancement ef Science 



Including Italian Translation 
Thutt-ioueth Thousand * 



NEfF YORK . FREDERICK A. 
STOKES COMPANY . PUBLISHERS 



k 




r. M.ll03.r 



Copyright, 1903 
By Horace Fletcher 



THE • PLIMPTON 'PRESS 

[WD-O] 
NORWOOD «MAS8* U «S«A 



CONTENTS 

Page 

Introduction ix 

POSTINTRODUCTORY XXvii 

THE A. B.-Z. PRIMER 

Explanation 3 

Some Pertinent Questions 4 

A.-The Psychology of Nutrition 6 

B.-The Mechanical and Chemical Physiology of 

Nutrition 8 

Method 9 

Z«-The True Chemical End-Point of Digestion . . 10 

A. B.-Z. Figure 12 

Preface to 1906 Edition 13 

HISTORY OF DEVELOPMENT AND SUPPORTING 

EVIDENCE 

Summary of the Foregoing Pages by an Experi- 
menter of One Month's Experience .... 19 
First Scientific Recognition of the Principles of 
Economic Nutrition Outlined in "Glutton or 

Epicure." H. F 26 

,Was Luigi Cornaro Right ? by Ernest Van Someren 27 

The Cambridge Tests. H. F 47 

Experiments upon Human Nutrition, by Sir Michael 

Foster, K. C. B., M. P., F. R. S 48 

[iii] 



Contents 

Page 
Report of a Plan for the Institution of an Inter- 
national Inquiry into the Subject of Human 

Nutrition. H. F S3 

Proposal to Found an International Laboratory of 
Research for the Study of Nutrition in all Its 
Aspects. Recommended by the following • . 55 
Professors of Physiology, etc. : 
Sir Michael Foster, Cambridge, England. 
Angelo Mosso, Turin, Italy. 
Hugo Kronecker, Bern, Switzerland. 
N. Zuntz, Berlin, Germany. 
Paul Heger, Brussels, Belgium. 
A. Dastre, Paris, France. 
Henry P. Bowditch, Harvard Medical School. 
Russell H. Chittenden, Yale University. 
William H. Welch, Johns Hopkins University. 
J. P. Pawlow, Saint Petersburg, Russia. 
Nationality and Scientific Titles of the above Board 

of Scientific Assessors 68 

Persistent Scientific Doubts. H. F 69 

Physiological Economy in Nutrition, by Professor 

Russell H. Chittenden 72 

Introduction to Dr. Harry Campbell's Contribution 

on the Importance of Mastication. H. F. . . 92 
Observations on Mastication, by Harry Campbell, 

M.D., F.R.C.P 96 

Introduction to Professor Pawlow's Demonstra- 
tions of Psychic Influence in Digestion. H. F. 180 

[iv] 



Contents 

Page 
Selected Lectures by Professor J. P. Pawlow (Dr. 

W. H. Thompson's translation) 182 

Lecture IV. : General Scheme of an Innervation 
Mechanism — The Work of the Nervous Appa- 
ratus of the Salivary Glands —Appetite, the First 
and Most Potent Exciter of the Gastric Secre- 
tion 182 

Lecture V. : Period of Occurrence and Importance 
of the Psychic or Appetite Juice in the Secre- 
tory Work of the Stomach — The Inefficiency of 
Mechanical Stimulation of the Nervous Appa- 
ratus of the Gastric Glands 212 

Lecture VIII.: Physiological Action and the Teach- 
ing of Instinct : Experiences of the Physician . 247 
Introduction to Dr. Cannon's Papers on Move- 
ments in the Alimentary Canal studied by Means 

of the Rdntgen Rays. H. F 284 

Swallowing and Movements of the Stomach and 

Intestines, by W. B. Cannon, M.D.  - . . • 285 
The Movements of the Food in the (Esophagus, 

by W. B. Cannon and A. Moser 285 

The Movements of the Stomach, by W. B. Cannon 301 
The Movements of the Intestines, by W. B. Cannon 342 

The Battle Creek Laboratories. H. F 389 

Experimental Investigation of the Influence of 
Mastication and Cooking of Food, etc., in the 
Laboratories of the Battle Creek, Michigan, Sani- 
tarium, under the direction of Dr. J. H. Kellogg. 391 



Contents 

Page 
Dr. Edward Hooker Dewey and the " No Breakfast 

Plan." H. F 396 

Professor Jaffa and the Fruitarians. H. F. . . . 397 

Dr. H. P. Armsby. H. F 397 

Explanation of the A. B. C. Series. H. F. . . . 399 

Index 409 



rvi] 



INTRODUCTION 



DO WE EAT TOO MUCH? 
CAN WE LEARN TO EAT RIGHT? 
WITHOUT LOSS OF ENJOYMENT? 
WITHOUT CARE BEING A NUISANCE? 
WITHOUT SOCIAL INTERFERENCE? 
WITH ASSURANCE OF HEALTH? 
WITH INCREASE OF ENERGY? 
WITH INCREASE OF ENDURANCE? 



TO ALL THESE VITAL QUESTIONS, 
THI8 BOOK ANSWERS ONLY "YES/ 



VERIFY THIS BY PERSONAL EXPERIMENT. 
IRRESISTIBLE DESIRE FOR PHYSICAL EXERCISE 
WILL FOLLOW, AS A MATTER OF COURSE, 
PROBABLY FRUITING IN USEFUL ACCOMPLISHMENT 
BY THE SAME INVITATION OF HEALTHY IMPULSE 
WHICH CAUSES CHILDREN TO PLAY TIRELESSLY. 
DO RIGHT YOUR FEEDING OF THE BODY. 
NATURE WILL DO ALL THE REST FOR YOU ARIGHT 



Introduction 

DO WE EAT TOO MUCH? 

(A propcs of the Scientific-Military Experiments at Yale 

University) 

Do we eat too much ? 

Nine out of every ten physicians tell us 
"Yes," and tell us true! 
How much too much? 

Luigi Cornaro suggested that all persons in 
his time ate more than was necessary; most 
persons ate twice as much as was good for 
them ; and some, who were extravagantly glut- 
tonous, ate ten times as much as was their most 
economic need ; and Cornaro, who was a dissi- 
pated wreck at forty, reformed his manner of 
eating and lived to be a hundred to prove his 
declaration. 

Experiments carried on in this country and 
in Europe during the past five years confirm 
this estimate of habitual excess ; but fortunately 
they have also revealed a natural protection. 



Introduction 

heretofore unappreciated, available to all, which 
can regulate the appetite to suit the real needs 
of nutrition and thus avoid the dangerous ex- 
cess which predisposes to discomfort and disease. 

Luigi Cornaro lived more than three hundred 
years ago. His charmingly frank and interest- 
ing autobiography has been published in Eng- 
lish upwards of forty times in different new 
editions, and no one has disproved the possi- 
bility or probability of his claim. We all know 
that Cornaro was right. We know, in a general 
way, that the great Italian dietitian and phil- 
osopher was wise and uttered wisdom, and we 
are told that most, if not all, of the diseases 
which pain, worry, and afflict us are caused 
by indigestion or mal-assimilation of food, the 
result of some indiscretions of eating. The ques- 
tions then are "What are our indiscretions?" 
" How can we avoid them ? " and " What is the 
new discovery that will protect us and, at the 
same time, add to the pleasures of the palate 
and of living?" 

The answers to all these queries will be 
found herein, as will also an explanation of the 
very active interest which is being taken just 
now in the problem of human nutrition by 
scientific and military authorities, as evidenced 
by the Yale investigation. 



Introduction 

The author has, in collaboration with several 

* 

others, found a way how not to eat too much 
while eating all that the appetite desires, and in 
a way that leads to a maximum of good taste 
and at a minimum of cost and waste, but it is 
necessary to test many persons of different phy- 
siques and varying temperaments, and also to 
test other methods of attainment of economy, 
to learn what is best for general application, 
and that is what is being done at Yale. 

The cost to the pocket that is saved by 
economic nutrition is of little matter as com- 
pared with the saving of the waste of energy 
and the menace of disease. 

Nature certainly never intended that we 
should weaken, depress, and distress ourselves 
in the way that is common to present-day liv- 
ing, as is made evident by the prevalence of dis- 
comfort and disease relative to our daily food. 
Nature's plan of evolution does not work that 
way in general, does not retrograde in the 
progress of the improvement of plants and 
dumb animals, and certainly does not intend 
that Man, the First Assistant of Nature in the 
cultivation of things and in the domestication 
of the powerful natural forces, should suffer and 
become degenerate contrary to her general law. 

[xi] 



Introduction 

If we are agreed upon the foregoing, let us 
ask ourselves a few questions. 

Without any undue egotism, may it not 
be possible for a generation of human beings, 
who have progressed so far in intelligence as 
to be able to move things by steam, to commu- 
nicate across the ocean even without wires to 
guide our messages, and to see clearly through 
objects that are as dark as night to the unas- 
sisted human eye with the aid of an artificial 
light, to learn the secret of right self-nutrition 
and practise it in a manner that will not deprive 
us of the maximum of pleasure which Nature 
invariably gives as a reward for conformity with 
her beneficent requirements? May we not as- 
sume that beings who have learned to breed and 
train horses to race with human intelligence, 
and to run, trot, or pace a mile in less than 
two minutes, may also train themselves to have 
the proportional relative speed, endurance, 
and longevity that has been attained by race 
horses through man's care, and to enjoy the 
pleasure of living that is evident in these fa- 
voured animals, mere servitors of man though 
they be? 

If this disparity of man is due to ignorance 
arising in self-neglect, which is the usual accom- 
paniment of genius, may we not now, at the 

[xii] 



Introduction 

beginning of the pregnant twentieth century, 
rest for a moment from discovering, developing, 
and improving the world outside our personal 
selves and concentrate our attention for a while 
on learning to know and care for ourselves? 
May we not, at least, give " horse sense " atten- 
tion to such a vital interest ? 

In the midst of the present confusion which 
exists among opinions as to the right conduct 
of life and activity, and the best manner and 
system of diet to be used to secure health 
and efficiency, it seems almost a vain appeal to 
call for concert of action in a matter of com- 
mon and persistent neglect. Each person, as 
his own keeper, is careless, and in matters of 
bodily management no one feels called upon 
to be his brother's keeper; but this is merely 
the lethargy of oversight and consequent igno- 
rance, and this book is published to call atten- 
tion to the oversight and to attempt to dispel 
the ignorance. 

At the present moment of writing (October, 
1903) there are quartered at New Haven, Con- 
necticut, twenty privates of the Hospital Corps 
of the United States Army and three non-com- 
missioned officers, under the command of As- 
sistant Surgeon, Lieutenant Wallace DeWitt 



Introduction 

These men and officers, while they are under 
regular army discipline and are performing duty 
in conformity with their oath of enlistment, are 
yet volunteers. They are from the same corps, 
if they are not the same men, which furnished 
volunteers to investigate the causes of yellow 
fever in Cuba, whose heroism resulted in stamp- 
ing the fever out of the islands and in that more 
effectually protecting our coast states from its 
yearly incursions. These are the same men 
who generously refused to accept the offered 
bounty. This latter expression of exalted man- 
hood is evidence of what humanity is whenever 
there is real need for heroes to serve the gen- 
eral good. They refused to sell themselves as 
risks for money, but they freely offered them- 
selves as subjects of scientific investigation for 
the benefit of their fellows and of mankind at 
large. 

The duty that the soldiers are engaged in at 
Yale has no element of risk, and need not have 
any feature of monotony or tediousness in it, 
much less has it the romance of sacrifice, for it 
deals with an attempt to restore normality and 
does not consort with disease. But the service 
being rendered by these guardians of our health, 
these soldiers of hygiene, is even more impor- 
tant than was the service rendered in stamping 

[xiv] 



Introduction 

out yellow fever, for it deals with an enemy much 
more subtle, treacherous, common, and deadly 
than Yellow Jack. Yellow fever calls for a halt 
and an immediate attempt at cure, and further, 
for stringent defence to extermination ; but in- 
digestion and the American plague, dyspepsia, 
work their evils slowly but surely to cut off our 
best men and loveliest women in their prime and 
to rob us of their richest product and of their 
maturest wisdom. 

The investigation at Yale is a link in a chain 
of effort that has developed in logical sequence 
and has been planned to effect a cure of the 
common ignorance and practice relative to right 
human nutrition in its relation to profitable 
thinking and doing ; and to discourage the per- 
sonal neglect which has been responsible for 
the existing ignorance, this book is issued to 
show what may easily be done and what has 
been done, so far, in this direction. It is a 
compilation of important knowledge which has 
been born of recent scientific research but which 
is hidden away from common comprehension in 
scientific publications; and it relates the story 
of the development of which this book is an 
exponent Herein are given the reasons why 
the government and the most eminent scien- 
tists in the line of researches in nutrition are 

[XV] 



Introduction 

cooperating so earnestly and so unusually in a 
commonweal inquiry. 

About ten years ago, at the critical age of 
forty-four, the author was fast becoming a physi- 
cal wreck in the midst of a business, club, and 
social tempest. Although he was trained as an 
athlete in his youth and had lived an active and 
most agreeable life, he had contracted a degree 
of physical disorder that made him ineligible as 
an insurance risk. This unexpected disability, 
with such unmistakable warning, was so much a 
shock to his hopes of a long life that it led to 
his making a strong personal effort to save him- 
self. The study was taken up in systematic 
manner, account of which is too long to relate 
here ; but the eager auto-reformer soon learned 
that his troubles came from too muck of many 
things, among them too much food and too 
much needless worry ; and realising the danger 
ahead, he sought a way to cure himself of his 
disabilities by the help of an economic food 
supply, as did Luigi Cornaro ; but what is even 
more important, he found a way to enjoy the 
smaller quantity of food much more than any 
plethoric luxury can give, and arrived at the 
method by a route that showed a means of 
conserving a healthy economy and an increased 
pleasure of eating, at the same time, in quite a 

[xvi] 



Introduction 

simple and scientific manner, that any one may 
learn and practise without any ascetic depriva- 
tion whatever. Cornaro buried the real clew to 
his economic and pleasurable success with his 
body, owing to his vague generality of descrip- 
tion of his method. The author is determined 
not to make the same mistake, and thereby bury 
his key to a happy and easy life. 

The secret of the method is all told in this 
book and is confirmed herein by both theoreti- 
cally scientific and scientifically practical au- 
thority; but the experiments which are being 
conducted at Yale by Professor Chittenden, in 
cooperation with Surgeon-General O'Reilly of 
the army, of which the Daily Prejs has given 
notice, together with experiments which are in 
progress in many university laboratories in this 
country and in Europe, are for the purpose of 
explaining the "reasons for things" by com- 
plete scientific reasoning, so that none may 
doubt the disadvantage and sin of dietic igno- 
rance and carelessness. 

The acceptance of the theory and method of 
the author at the great Battle Creek Sanitarium, 
after more than a year's trial, and elsewhere 
among curative agencies, and their adoption 
and use as the first requisite of treatment, of 
which the public have not so generally heard, 

[ xvii ] 



Introduction 

are Indorsements coming from practical, intel- 
ligent, and expert sources of experience and 
judgment, and hence they are of the utmost 
value and significance. 

This introductory chapter is being written 
after the " clippings " of newspaper comment 
relative to the presence of the soldiers at Yale 
have begun to come in. The majority of com- 
ments are generous in spirit, but indicate a lack 
of complete understanding which this " Intro- 
duction" is intended to correct. 

Some of the comments are couched in ridi- 
cule, and express pity for the poor soldiers who 
are being "misused" as subjects of starvation 
in an investigation which promises to make 
starvation a rule in the army. To the writers 
of such trifling and unfair paragraphs let me, 
one of the fraternity in an amateurish way, beg 
consideration of the following. 

The campaign that has been started is against 
a common enemy of mankind, and of the Amer- 
ican and English nations in particular. In our 
successes in agriculture, manufacture, and com- 
merce we have cultivated insidious, luxurious 
temptations which bring all of us some ill and 
many of us, or our loved ones, fatal disease 
and premature death. The advance agent of 

[ xviii ] 



Introduction 

these enemies of ours is Eating-and-drinking- 
too-much. 

The officers and men of the army and the 
eminent scientists of our country and those of 
all nationalities who have entered into the cam- 
paign with us, and the great power of the sani- 
taria joining as practical nurses, demonstrators, 
and exponents of the reform, are all working 
for you and for everybody. It is voluntary 
service and has already cost some of the vol- 
unteers much time and patience and also a con- 
siderable sum in money. 

You, gentlemen of the Press, wielders of 
the helpful or careless pen, have a conspicu- 
ous pulpit and a far-reaching influence. No 
one can escape you. In the search for the 
news of the day you are encountered at every 
turn in your editorials or your paragraphs. In 
this campaign we need your assistance to make 
the cooperation between the army and science 
easy and effective. They are too busy work- 
ing for you and your best interest to stop to 
argue to correct your misunderstanding, but 
the cause will feel the benefit of your assistance. 

Encouragement has powerful influence in 
stimulating effort and also in creating and con- 
serving conditions in which men may " do their 

[xix] 



Introduction 

best" What we are trying to learn is, what 
man may do, under favourable conditions of 
knowledge and confidence, to relieve his body 
of the strain of energy-taxing labour in dispos- 
ing of the waste which any excess of food 
imposes. It is a constructive experiment and 
not a mere statistical measurement. Appreci- 
ation and applause assist; doubt and ridicule 
obstruct. 

The soldiers and physiologists are too busy 
studying indigestion and possible proteid poison- 
ing and what-not-other causes of intemperance, 
disease, and suffering to ask you to assist in 
spreading only serious report and right sug- 
gestion relative to the importance and purport 
of the investigation, but it is my privilege to 
ask it for the general good. 

Just another word of introduction and then 
will follow some postintroductory coincidences 
relative to the work in hand, and then an 
attempt to lay out a ten-page chart of the 
personal responsibility in the care of the body 
and the nourishment of the mind by aid of an 
economic and most satisfactory nutrition, so as 
to make conservation of energy as easy as pos- 
sible and life well worth the living. The sci- 
entific support from the pens of professional 
observers is, however, the real meat of the 

[XX] 



Introduction 

book, for which compiler and reader alike are 
and should be grateful. 

In serving in the humanitarian ranks in a 
commonweal campaign one should not need to 
use the concealment of modesty, nor should he 
fail to speak with all frankness. What are the 
motives behind all this energy to reform the 
eating habits of the people? The question has 
been so often asked that it is better thus pub- 
licly answered. 

No one concerned in the campaign has any 
personal monetary interest in any kind of food, 
prepared or otherwise. The movement began 
in a suggestion carried by an accidental word 
given to the author by a friend, an old-time 
friend in Japan, and a friendship never to be for- 
gotten, as related in the author's book " Menti- 
culture." Pursuit of menticulture led further to 
the discovery that the best mental results could 
not be accomplished in a body weakened by 
any indigestion, any mal-assimilation of nutri- 
ment, any excess of the waste of indigestion. 
Then came the quest for the causes of mal- 
nutrition, which were soon found, by study of 
the natural sequences and by going behind the 
hypotheses of text-book authority, to arise in 
the careless ingestion of food, its neglect, in 
the mouth, and the consequent glut of unas* 

[xxi] 



Introduction 

similable excess within the body, necessitating 
enormous expense of brain and body energy 
to get rid of the excess. 

When the secret of the potency for good of a 
rationally economic alimentation was revealed to 
the author, was confirmed by several colleagues 
of different ages and both sexes, and was tested 
by work and endurance measurement, and also 
by the test time, it became necessary to have 
given to it the indorsement of highest authority 
in order to have the information credited. The 
new rediscovery was a simple matter, something 
everybody thought they knew all about because 
it had been under their nose all their life and 
was one of the commonplaces of every-day liv- 
ing, but for that very reason it failed to receive 
credence, and the backbone of the doubt was 
habit — lifelong habit — and this was hard to 
break even in those who accepted the theory 
of economic nutrition as a logical conviction. 
It was also necessary to prove that it was not 
personal idiosyncrasy that favoured us, its 
advocates* 

It is in pursuit of the latter desideratum that 
the officers of the army, the scientists, and the 
great humanitarian health-restoring institutions 
have entered upon conclusive investigations, 
each in their own way, to chart out a law of 
economy that will be generally applicable and 

[ xxii ] 



Introduction 

which, it is hoped, can be understood by kinder- 
gartners and mothers for the benefit of the 
present and of coming generations. 

It was just stated that no one concerned 
in the inquiry was interested in any food 
product or in any personally profitable busi- 
ness concern, and mention of the Battle Creek 
Sanitarium, so widely known as the pioneer 
in fostering the pure food and prepared-cereal 
manufacture, may cast a doubt upon the matter 
in the minds of those who do not know that 
the Sanitarium organisation,, in its every de- 
partment, is a philanthropic, humanitarian 
institution. It is the parent and feeder of the 
American Medical Missionary Cause, which 
already has established branches in something 
over sixty localities situated in or near large 
cities in different parts of the world, chiefly 
America. By perpetual charter all the profits 
revert to the spread of the work and the em- 
ployees serve for a mere pittance, deriving 
their major compensation from enjoyment of 
the altruistic work. 

The old prejudice against the human race 
which declared that " everybody had an axe to 
grind, " that there was " a nigger in every wood- 
pile," and such like slanders, must be modified 

[ xxiii ] 



Introduction 

in the light of recent altruistic development 
Altruism has always been existent and had a 
great new birth with the beginning of our era, 
but it was never before so frankly put upon a 
business basis as it is now, and this is fast being 
applied to every department of business activ- 
ity. It is now done, not in the name of any 
particular creed or cult, or for future reward, 
but because it pays — first, last, and all the time. 

In the study and pursuit of menticulture the 
author has found that working for the common 
good is as necessary to happiness as working for 
self, and that the retroactivity and reciprocity of 
the idea multiplies the profits indefinitely. 

The sequence of profitable, altruistic inter- 
relation is stated in the " Explanation " of the 
chain of the A. B. C. Life Series, of which this 
book is one of the links. 

Aside from those actively engaged in the 
several investigations to whom reference is often 
made, the author wishes to express special grati- 
tude to Sir Michael Foster and to Professor 
Henry Pickering Bowditch of the Board of Sci- 
entific Assessors. Unselfish and unremitting in 
their assistance and encouragement, the author's 
work has been made easy since their interest 
was enlisted 

[ xxiv ] 



Introduction 

Sir Michael, as Member of Parliament in 
England, and as a physiological savant, knows 
that economic nutrition is the key to England's 
welfare, as well as the basic necessity of tem- 
perance, morality, health, and efficiency, as is 
expressed in the two documents from him 
reproduced in the " Report of a Plan for an 
International Investigation into the Subject of 
Human Nutrition " and in his " Note " on the 
Cambridge examination of the author and Dr. 
Van Someren at Cambridge University labora- 
tories, given herein. 

Professor Bowditch, as a distinguished physi- 
ologist, publicist, and especially as the Presi- 
dent of the Children's Aid Society, of Boston, 
Massachusetts, often mentioned as the model 
institution of its kind in the world, realises that 
the effort of the author to secure basic knowl- 
edge relative to right nutrition, adaptable to 
kindergarten teaching and home training dur- 
ing the impressionable period of youth, is of 
the greatest importance in social reform. 

A trial suggestion relative to ways and means 
of beginning right with all the children and thus 
insuring a regeneration of the classes most in 
need of reform, in not longer than two decades, 
is outlined in the author's appeal for the waifs 
of society, entitled " That Last Waif; or Social 
Quarantine." 

[ xxv | 



Introduction 

Whenever there is any disposition to slack 
up in patience or enthusiasm to accomplish the 
ultimate end aimed at, the picture of the waif in 
that story is flashed back by memory, and there 
can be neither forgetfulness, indifference, nor 
repose until " that last waif" has been given at 
least a chance of choosing between the right and 
the wrong, the good and the bad. 



f xxvi J 



POSTINTRODUCTORY 

[Just before " going to press " the author has 
received a letter from his esteemed colleague, 
Dr. Hubert Higgins, giving the gist of inter- 
views with an eminent European physiologist 
and with a famous American chemist and dieti- 
tian, which so well describes the attitude of the 
scientific mind towards the problem of human 
nutrition that the scientific mentor of the writer 
advises its addition to the book. 

By the same post there arrived a letter from 
Dr. J. H. Kellogg, the life and director of the 
Battle Creek Sanitarium, expressing practical 
appreciation, the result of demonstration, of 
what is being done to solve the problem. 

Eliminating the personal element and keep- 
ing the ultimate object in view, these communi- 
cations are coincidentally apropos and intimate 
to our " Introduction " ; hence their reproduc- 
tion here. 

Numerous other letters and extracts from 
communications received by the writer, bearing 
upon this subject, from the above and other 
sympathetic friends are reproduced in "The 

[ xxvii ] 



Introduction 

New Glutton or Epicure/' a free and easy com- 
panion of this book, intended to appeal to a 
variety of readers. 

When it is known that the proceeds of all 
the publications of the author are dedicated to 
the promotion of the objects they advocate, 
reference to them or advertisement of them 
cannot be considered inappropriate. — Horace 
Fletcher.] 

Extracts from Dr. Higgins* Letter 

Palazzina Tasso, 

Campo S. Polo, 
Venezia. 
October 3, 1903. 

Dear Mr. Fletcher, — A. appears to me 
to have an exceedingly broad and philosophic 
grasp of the problem of nutrition. 

He recognises that all present data are sub- 
ject to criticism, and that there are no scien- 
tifically accurate data available because 

(a) Observations are taken over too short a 

period. 
(Jb) They have mainly dealt with one side 

of the problem, — the output of 

muscular work. 
(V) The observations are not sufficiently 

complete. 

[xzviii ] 



Introduction 

He acknowledges that cleavage products 
from food broken down in the intestines by 
bacteria are the cause of 

(a) Inefficiency 
(&) Diseases 

(/) Mental derangements. 
(See Mott's work.) 

He recognises that the majority of people 
eat far too much. He puts this in the following 
way. If a "mediaeval devil" had wished to 
discover the most subtle and most effective way 
to destroy mankind mentally, morally, and 
physically, he would have arranged for them 
to be supplied with tasty, well-cooked foods, 
wines, etc. ; in short, he would have used every 
means to tempt, confuse, and pervert their ap- 
petite. He would also have arranged every 
possible means to prevent their being in the 
fresh air and taking exercise. He thinks one 
has here the picture of modern civilisation. 

He talked in a very interesting and instruc- 
tive manner about the necessity and value of 
exercise and a muscular body for the mainte- 
nance of good health. He has evidently worked 
at and thought a good deal about this side of 
the subject 

He regrets that there are not more people 
who realise the huge importance of under- 

[ xxix ] 



Introduction 

standing the nutrition problem for the sake 
of the progress of humanity. He would like 
to join all those who are interested in forming 
an international society, as far as I understood 
him. 

He is most keen on getting subjects, such 
as myself, for study over a very long period of 
time, — two to three years, — as he very justly 
observed " Muscular output is a very small 
part of the measure of a man's efficiency. 
Mental efficiency, manual dexterity, and other 
psychological tests are necessary." He seemed 
very much interested in my idea of making a 
large number of curves of daily observations. 
He said that it appeared to him to offer the 
best means of ultimately measuring the degree 
of deviation from the subject's optimum state 
of health. 

He argues the necessity of getting some 
scientific definition of health. 

The phrase that reduces all these people to 
contemplative silence is this. 

" You acknowledge that the state of knowl- 
edge is insufficient to prescribe a diet for any 
individual that he should take daily; or in 
other words, that there is very little accurate 
knowledge of the nutrition problem." 

Reply. "Yes. I do not feel I could pre- 

[xxx] 



Introduction 

scribe a diet for any»one with any degree of 
confidence." 

"Very well, then. Why should not the 
body have or acquire the quality that all ani- 
mals have, in a free, natural state, of knowing 
what their body wants by appetite and taste?" 

This is more or less how you put it to me 
when I first met you at Cambridge. Its full 
significance did not dawn on me till much later ; 
till, in short, I commenced the study of my 
desires at Cambridge. 

Now this point of view is the rock on which 
we stand, and is the cause of H.'s and A.'s in- 
terest, and as H. said, is the " most fascinating 
idea" he ever heard. 

It had very much the same effect on A. He 
was reduced to silence. The more you think 
of it the more you see there is no answer that 
could contradict it 

He thin admits that 

(<*) The food should be finely divided. 

(£) That it should be thoroughly insalivated. 

(f) That in all probability most diseases are 

caused by dietetic error. 
(d) That we have still to find the optimum 

health and the optimum diet. 

He only kicks at the low proteid. Now I 
don't care a "kuss" for the low proteid, as 

[xxzi] 



Introduction 

such) or high proteid. Proteid like everything 
else will be demanded by the appetite when it 
is wanted. 

Our great danger, to my mind, is the ten* 
dency so strongly exemplified by some of pre- 
scribing diets and quantities and the length 
the time food should be chewed. 1 Now the very 
errors we are fighting against are the prescrip- 
tion of methods on insufficient information or 
knowledge. You have gone straight back to 
Nature. There is your strength in convincing 
the scientific world, and we must study the 
problem from that point of view if we are to get 
any great degree of success. 

A. had nothing to say when I told him that 
I did not hold by either high or low proteid but 
only by my appetite and taste, developed by 
ample mouth opportunity to discriminate, which 
I hoped, in time, to understand more thor- 
oughly than I do now. He told me that he 
feared that there would be great physical de- 
terioration after a long period of low proteid. 
I said that I did not believe it would be the 
case by your method. For instance, right in 
the midst of a long period di most satisfactory 
low-proteid supply, I once ate nearly a whole 

1 Appetite alone can judge accurately of the former, and 
the true Swallowing Impulse is the limitation of the latter. If 
we study the natural instincts, the rest will take care of itself. 

[ xxxii ] 



Introduction 

chicken with some ham at Penegal. I could not 
get saliva for anything else. 1 In short, then, I 
insisted only on thorough mastication to protect 
taste and appetite, and had no other theories. 
I was only concerned in observing the factors 
determining my taste and appetite. I would be 
more than contented to leave the question of 
minimum and maximum quantity of proteid to 
be settled in the future after normality had been 
established by practical demonstration. 

Yours faithfully, 

Hubert Higgins. 
Extracts from Dr. Kellogg's Letter 

Battle Creek, Mich. 

October 7, 1903. 
Me. Hoeace Fletcher. 

Dear Friend, — Yours of September 30th 
just reached my hands and I hasten to reply. 

I saw a newspaper note in reference to the 
soldiers which the government has selected for 
the dietetic experiments, and also read an inter- 
esting article in the Popular Science Monthly. 
You have accomplished a great good thing in 
enlisting these scientific and military men and 
interesting them in the investigation of this 

1 This is very strong evidence that appetite knows what 
to do and when to do it, if you study and consult it and give 
it a chance to prescribe. 

[ xxxiii ] 



Introduction 

wonderful reform. The marvellous thing about 
it is that these busy men of science should have 
so readily undertaken an investigation which 
involves so much surrender and self-denial, at 
least, at the start. I know you are absolutely 
right. My personal experiences and observa- 
tions confirm me. In the experiments you 
mention, which I made in reference to the daily 
ration for ordinary persons, I simply sought to 
ascertain, as have others, how much and what 
kinds of food people are in the habit of using, 
taking no account of the possible excess or the 
careless manner in which they eat The figures 
I got were sixteen ounces of starch ; 1.2 ounces 
fat, and three ounces proteids, — approximately 
2,500 calories. In observation of patients I have 
seldom found one able to eat this amount. 
Personally, I habitually eat scarcely half as 
much. My breakfast to-day was the yolks of 
two eggs, two or three tablespoonfuls of corn 
flakes, a moderate-sized potato, and a couple of 
peaches. At dinner I shall take a little more. 

I have been so busy with my patients and 
the new building, getting things organised, that 
I have not done as much as I ought to in the 
way of promoting your splendid reform ; but I 
am going at it now in good earnest I feel it is 
one of the greatest things in sight, and it fits 
right in to all the other things I am trying to 

[xxxiv] 



Introduction 

do. I feel that I owe you continually a great 
debt for the efforts you have made and the 
splendid work you are doing, which will accom- 
plish more for the uplifting of humanity than 
all that Carnegie and Rockefeller are doing with 
their millions* What they are doing is mainly 
to perpetuate old errors, while you are bringing 
out new truth of basic importance, and a kind 
Providence has certainly inspired you to do this 
grand work. 

I thank you for all your good thoughts 
towards us, and assure you the loving encour- 
agement your letters always contain is very 
much appreciated, and sometimes it gives us a 
mental uplift just when we need it The road 
we are travelling over is not altogether free from 
thorns. All your suggestions are gratefully 
received. I remain, 

Faithfully yours, 

J. H. Kellogg. 



[xxxv] 



A. B.-Z. PRIMER 



EXPLANATION 

THIS is a condensed presentment of a sub- 
ject of basic importance to everyone, 
supported by numerous appendices of great 
scientific weight. 

The special object of such brevity and ele- 
mentary treatment of the subject is : 

| To accentuate the facts showing how little 
'• we really have to know and do in con- 
nection with our sustenance in order to have the 

Natural Automatic Processes done rightly 

and healthfully. 

2 To permit busy persons who will take our 
^* dictum as gospel and our advice as sound 
to learn their necessary share in their own nutri- 
tion in the least possible time, leaving the less 
credulous and more curious to study the appen- 
dices at leisure and at will. 

<* For some ten years it has been the ambition 
**• and the aim of the older and non-professional 
author to embody the fundamental essentials of 
human responsibility in self-understanding and 
self-management in not mord than ten pages of 
coarse print that a child could understand and 
that mothers and teachers might commit to 
memory and never forget. 

This is only a first trial-attempt to fulfil the 
ambition and die aim ; but the appendices show 
the assembling and concentration of scientific 
and militant forces which will not allow this sub- 
ject of primal human interest to remain longer 
the most neglected of educational departments. 

[3] 



SOME PERTI N ENT 
QUESTIONS 



ILL the reader not ask himself the follow- 
ing questions ? 

nutri- 



w 

1 How much do I know about my own 
1# tion? 

<2 Do I know the particular need and purpose 
" % of my last meal and what it is likely to 
accomplish ? 

2 Considering my body as an engine, would 
•*• I accept myself as a competent engineer on 
my own examination and confession? 

a Were I an iron and steel automobile, instead 
^* of a flesh and blood automobile, which I 
really am, could I get a license for myself, as a 
chauffeur, to run myself with safety, based upon 
my knowledge of my own mechanism and the 
theory and development of my power? 

c Were I an owner of valuable live-stock, 
•*• would I employ a farm-hand or a stable 
man, even at so low a wage as fifteen dollars a 
month, who knew as little about the proper 
feeding of my animals as I know about the 
proper feeding of myself and my children? 

ac Should I employ such an ignorant attend- 
w# ant for my live-stock, and catch him worrying 
them during their feeding, and hurrying them 
away from their fpdder to hitch them up for work, 
would I not have the man arrested for cruelty 
to animals? And yet this is what is habitually 
done to children ! 

[4] 



/ 

/ 



SOME PERTINENT QUESTIONS— Continued 

mm Do I appreciate how important it is to learn 
'• sufficient of the requirements of economic 
and healthy nutrition to enable me to escape 
the depressing and debilitating effects of a 
faulty nutrition. 

o How can I religiously "ask a blessing" 
°* upon food and then immediately sin by 
treating it in a manner abhorrent to the natural 
requirements? 

q If " cleanliness is next to godliness " is it 
^* respectable for me to slight my proper 
feeding in a manner that I know may induce 
putridity of excreta through indigestion and 
that may produce fatal disease? 

| r\ With All Eternity ahead of me, cannot I 
* "• afford at least *4g* of my time for careful 
feeding of my body in a manner known to 
favour physical health ; mental keenness ; firm- 
ness of character ; enjoyable temperance ; sex- 
ual vigour without morbidity. In fact, general 
respectability and efficiency? 

Having duly reasoned out logical answers to 
the questions, may they not seem sufficiently 
important to be remembered and respected as 
a Dietary Ten Commandments ? 

* The Yale test reported herein by Professor Chittenden 
showed the possibility of full alimentation according to the 
requirements of Economic Nutrition in from 24 to 26 minutes 
daily, which is less than %• of a day. Beginners of the prac- 
tice of careful mouth-treatment of their food may require 
more time, but, whatever it may be, it is worth it. A little 
care for a short period will establish a right habit, and then 
no further tedious attention nor unusual time will be neces- 
sary to accomplish a perfectly healthy nutrition. 

[s] 



A The Psychology of 
APPETITE ATTENTION 
APPRECIATION 

Appetite is the most important factor in 
digestion (vide Pawlow). 

Normal Appetite is indicated by a desire 
for some particular simple food accompanied 
by a " watering of the mouth." 

False Appetite is a general discontent of 
the body, indefinite of description. It is often 
expressed by " all gone-ness," or stomach crav- 
ing, and calls for something, ANYTHING I to 
smother the discomfort of present or recent in- 
digestion. It is like the thirst which follows a 
debauch. 

Ignore False Appetite, and Wait for 
a Return of Normal Appetite. It will come 
as soon as body repairs have been effected by 
natural agencies and more material is required. 
No one was ever injured by intelligently and 
calmly waiting for an appetite. No one ever 
starved to death for lack of appetite. Most 
human ills come from forcing appetite, antici- 
pating appetite, abuse of appetite in some form. 

Appetite is the most important factor in 
nutrition. This estimation is based upon evi- 
dence given more fully in the various appen- 
dices, but the measure of its importance may be 
briefly stated, as follows : — 

J5iV*£ ' n * te nonna ^ state, Appetite is a per- 
feet indicator of the bodily need of 
nutriment and moisture, both as to quantity and 
as to the chemical elements required at the 
moment 

[6] 



APPETITE, ATTENTION, be. — Continued 

Second, Appetite is a creature of the mind 
oeuuni* an( j j oes not attac j 1 to a t j ssue# j t 

can be as easily changed, from abnormal to 
normal, by suggestion, as can the mind itself, 
and is not like a solid, the form or habit of 
which has been set in a mould. Whoever has 
once experienced a bad oyster and has abhorred 
oysters ever after will substantiate this claim 
regarding the caprices of appetite. 

Third. APPETITE can be easily comprehended 
and read and the degrees of its sat- 
isfaction understood by simple attention and 
study for a brief period (vide Van Someren). 

Tfrnurth Attention is necessary to create 
fourzn appreciation, and appreciation is 
absolutely necessary to stimulate the secretion 
and flow of gastric and other digestive juices 
(vide Pawlow). 

JPLfkh ANGER, or shock of any kind, and 
^ * WORRY, or any of the pessimistic de- 
pressants, stop digestive activity and cause indi- 
gestion (vide Cannon). 

Si^rtK MENTICULTURE should begin with its 
olJCTn a ppii ca tion to selection (through a 
normalised appetite) of nutriment for the body, 
and continue to aid digestion by right thinking. 
It is very easy to cultivate calm and fortify 
against surprise, shock, and anger if the nutri- 
tion of the body is carefully attended to. The 
physical and the mental equipments are beauti- 
fully reciprocal and necessary to each other in 
promoting Menticulture. 

[7] 




The Mechanical and Chemical 
Physiology of Nutrition 

BUCCAL DIGESTION 

THROUGH 

MOUTH THOROUGHNESS 

Mouth treatment of food, which permits, aids, 
and includes insalivation (mixing with saliva), 
and which is both actively digestive in its func- 
tions and preparatory to final digestion, is the 
only actual mechanical responsibility we have in 
our nutrition; and, in connection with favour- 
able A conditions, insures perfect digestion. It 
has been so fully and clearly explained in some 
recent articles, " Observations on Mastication/ 9 
by Dr. Harry Campbell, F.R.C.P., physician to 
the Northwest London Hospital, printed in the 
"Lancet" of July nth, 18th, 25th, and August 
8th, 1903, that reference to the articles, reprinted 
herewith, is all that is necessary here. 

In giving attention to careful mouth-treatment 
of soft or liquid foods until they are absorbed 
by the Swallowing Impulse the best health and 
economic results are obtained. It should, at 
least, be tried. 

This will not be found to be a tedious opera- 
tion after a little practice, when the habit of 
attention and care has been formed. On the 
contrary, a new appreciation and enjoyment of 
taste will be acquired, the delight of which has 
to be experienced to be understood. 

Some hints on learning how to read the appe- 
tite, command the attention, and masticate and 
swallow food material properly follow. 

[8] 



METHOD 



FtYSt; Last; Be sure that you are really 
a/nd hungry and are not pam- 

AU the Time P er5n S False Appetite. 

If true appetite that >vill 
relish plain bread alone is not present, wait for 
it Especially beware of the early-morning 
habit-craving. Wait for an earned appetite, if 
you have to wait till noon. Then: "Chew," 
"Masticate," " Munch," "Bite," " Taste" every- 
thing you take in your mouth (except water, 
which has no taste), until it is not only thor- 
oughly liquefied and made neutral or alkaline 
by saliva, but until the reduced substance all 
settles back in the (glosso-epiglottidean) folds 
at the back of the mouth and excites the 
Swallowing Impulse into a strong inclination 
to swallow. Then swallow what has collected 
and has excited the impulse, and continue to 
chew at the remainder, liquid though it be, 
until the last morsel disappears in response to 
the Swallowing Impulse. Never forcibly swal- 
low anything that the instincts connected with 
the mouth show any disposition to reject. It 
is safer to get rid of it beforehand than to risk 
putting it into the stomach. 

Sip and taste milk and all liquids that have 
taste as the wine-tasters do. They never drink 
wine and yet they get all the enjoyment there 
is in it and waste none. In a very short time 
sipping and tasting liquids and masticating and 
tasting solid food for " all they are worth " will 
become an agreeable and profitable fixed habit. 

Whether AVe " Eat to Live or Live to 
Eat," why- not do as Above? 

[9] 




The True Chemical End-Point 

of Digestion 



THE DIGESTION-ASH WHAT IT 

SHOULD BE LIKE WHEN 

IT IS NORMAL 

•-y m In adults; or, in children after the 
eruption of teeth and the ingestion of 
solid food: The non-liquid and non-gaseous 
waste of the human body, which, in its normal 
state, is not offensive, should be very small, 
in quantity, should be pillular in form, either 
separate or massed together; should have no 
odour when released, should take on no odour 
on standing, should be entirely aseptic (non- 
poisonous) ; should drop freely from the exit, 
leaving nothing behind to wash or wipe away. 
It may not be collected in the intestines of full- 
grown and elderly persons, when normal, as 
above, in sufficient quantity to require or neces- 
sitate emptying oftener than from twice a week 
to once in two weeks ; according to age, activ- 
ity, etc. ; and should neither invite nor justify 
the description " it is not that which goeth into 
a man that defileth him but that which cometh 
out." 

Sernvtd. Economic Digestion-Ash (solid ex- 
oecorui cre f a ^ % as a daily average for an 

adult of 140 lbs. (10 stone; 63.5 kilos), includ- 
ing moisture, when released, should not weigh 
more than two ounces (56.70 grams). An aver- 
age of less than one half this amount of waste 
has been secured in test experiments. 

[10] 



THE DIGESTION-ASH, &c. — Continued 

Third. ^ e * rue test °^ k^thy Z is absence 
-/ MTd f oc j our jmj completeness, ease and 

cleanliness of delivery. Frequency or other- 
wise, does not so much matter. Quantity too, 
is not so important ; but with foul odour there 
is disturbance, strain and danger. 

The normal man is a cleanly being with all 
excreta inoffensive; and by these tokens he 
may be his own private judge. 

Why is it that barn-yards are tolerable to 
the human senses while open depdts of human 
excreta are fever-breeding nuisances and intol- 
erable to beasts and humans alike ? 

This curse of putrid excreta caused more 
deaths from enteric fever during the Boer War 
in South Africa than all other causes. It is 
equally a menace to health and even to life 
while being formed and carried in the body. 

'RnuurtH Offensive excreta are quite certain 
i*au,Tin, eyy^^ f neglect of the self-con- 
trollable parts of our own nutrition. They are 
the tell-tale condemnation of ignorance or care- 
lessness. Each person should learn to read the 
true bulletins of his health conditions in his 
waste-products of digestion. 

Zis the form the body must assume to render 
emptying of the digestion-ash natural and 
easy. Man was built to squat on his heels in 
defecating, and sitting erect on a modern seat 
is like trying to force a semi-solid through a 
kinked hose. Healthy Human Excreta are 
no more Offensive than Moist Clay and 
have no more Odour than a Hot Biscuit. 



A. B.-Z. FIGURE 

TO ILLUSTRATE THE "DIVISION OF 

LABOUR" 



a Psychic Environment j This 
Mental State J involves : 

Appetite (to select for) ") 
Attention (to prepare for) V DIGESTION 
Appreciation (to assist in) j 
(Absolutely necessary to secure secretion and 
flow of the digestive juices : Vide Pawlow and 
Cannon.) 

&/vm/£ B BUCCAL- DIGESTION | This 

oecona. a MOUT h-treatment j involves : 

cEESEfcS*' \ THOROUGHNESS 

(Absolutely necessary to secure complete diges- 
tion and avoid the putridity incident to bacterial 
decomposition : Vide Campbell and Van Some- 
ren.) 

INTERMEDIATE ^^%^ d ^ 

represent but an inadequate proportion for the 
spelling of the enormous share Nature assumes 
in our welfare, marvellously performing her 
forty-seven forty-eighths share in the secret 
laboratory of the alimentary canal. 

Third Z ^ e * rue comical end-point of 

digestion, by which each self- 
respecter may know how well he has respected 
his " A " and his " B," and how faithfully he 
has performed his one forty-eighth share in 
the promotion of his own most fundamental 
interest. 



PREFACE 
TO 1906 EDITIONS 



SINCE the former introductions were written 
much success has been attained in further ad- 
vancing the reforms advocated in the A. B.C. 
Life Series. Professor Chittenden has pub- 
lished his report on the Yale experiments in 
book form in both America 1 and England, 3 
and his results have been accepted in scientific 
circles the world over as authoritatively con- 
clusive. 

At the present writing the most important 
Health Boards of Europe 8 are planning to put the 
new standards of dietary economy into practical 
use among public charges in a manner that can 
only result in benefit to the wards of the nations 
as well as make an important saving to the tax- 
payers. In the most important of these foreign 
public health departments the Health Officer of 
the Board has himself practised the newly es- 
tablished economy for two years, and his plans 

1 Physiological Economy in Nutrition : The Frederick A. 
Stokes Company, New York. 

* William Heinemann : London. 

* The author is not yet permitted to publish the particulars 
of these reforms in process, but he has official information 
regarding them and is in full sympathy with thern. 

[■3] 



PREFACE TO 1906 EDITIONS — Continued 

are formulated on personal experience which 
fully confirms Professor Chittenden's report and 
that of the author as herein related. 

At a missionary agricultural college, situated 
near Nashville, Tenn., where the students earn 
their tuition and their board while pursuing 
their studies, a six months' test of what is termed 
" Fletcherism " resulted in a saving of about one 
half of the drafts on the commissary, immunity 
from illness, increased energy, strength and en- 
durance, and general adoption of the suggestions 
published in the several books of the author in- 
cluded in the A. B. C. Life Series. 

In the various departments and branches of 
the Battle Creek Sanitarium in America, and 
widely scattered over the world, some eight 
hundred employees and thousands of patients 
have been accumulating evidence of the efficacy 
of " Fletcherism " for more than three years, and 
scarce a month passes without a letter from Dr. 
Kellogg to the author containing new testimony 
confirming the A. B. C* selections and sug- 
gestions. 

The author has received within the past two 
years more than a thousand letters bearing the 
approval of the writers with report of benefits 
received which seem almost miraculous, and 
these include N the leaders in many branches 
of human occupation — physiologists, surgeons, 

[>4] 



PREFACE TO 1906 EDITIONS— Continued 

medical practitioners, artists, business men, lit- 
erary workers, athletes, working men and women, 
and almost every degree of mental and physical 
activity. 

One of the medical advisers of King Edward, 
of whom the King once said : " He is a splendid 
doctor but a poor courtier," follows the sugges- 
tions of these books in prescribing to his 
sumptuous clients. 



C»5] 



HISTORY OF DEVELOPMENT 



AND 



SUPPORTING EVIDENCE 



SUMMARY OF THE FOREGOING PAGES 

BY AN EXPERIMENTER OF ONE 

MONTH'S EXPERIENCE 

{Requested and given as a test of effectiveness) 

The entire principle of economic nutrition 
is simple and practical. It does not prescribe 
that we shall follow any special diet nor do away 
with any of our meals. It simply requires you 
to throw present habits and conventions to the 
winds, and for a little time try the experiment 
of giving the matter of your every-day living 
honest, intelligent thought. 

Eat all you crave, but do not eat more than 
this simply because you have been in the habit 
of doing so. See to it that each morsel put 
into your mouth is thoroughly masticated and 
mixed with the saliva before going down into 
the stomach, which is not equipped to perform 
the work which the teeth and salivary glands 
were given you for. The stomach will struggle 
bravely to overcome the abuse which you heap 
upon it, but in spite of all it can do to manage 
hastily chewed food, undigested portions remain 

[19] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

which clog the intestines and interfere with the 
healthy conditions which Nature intended. 

The appetite is given as an indicator of what 
the body requires. If you crave potato, the sys- 
tem needs starch, which the saliva makes diges- 
tible, but which the acids of the stomach cannot 
dissolve. Other needs of the system are simi- 
larly indicated. Take the trouble of asking 
your appetite the question, instead of accept- 
ing the conventional number of courses simply 
because they are set before you. The appetite 
will close the valve when you have eaten enough, 
if you will give it a chance. 

Suppose your time for eating is limited ; in 
twenty minutes you could not eat slowly the 
luncheon which you usually select. Then eat 
that much less. The amount of food which you 
can eat and thoroughly masticate in twenty min- 
utes will give you more nourishment and will 
sustain you better than twice the amount thrown 
into the stomach in the same manner in which 
a man usually packs a trunk. 

Why is it that so many men require a 
" bracer " at eleven o'clock? Because they have 
loaded their stomachs with a heavy breakfast, 
and instead of gaining nourishment from it, the 
smothered organ is doing its best to tear the 
undigested morsels to pieces, that they may 
pass into the intestines and prevent sickness, or 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

even death. The time finally arrives when it 
finds itself unable to do this, and then comes 
acute indigestion, or something worse, and the 
system becomes run down, ready to receive 
typhoid, or any other germs which happen to 
come along. 

Do you know why griddle-cakes hurt you ? 
Because the syrup, which is cane-sugar, — and 
as such is indigestible, — is allowed to pass 
through the mouth and down into the stomach, 
without being properly mixed with the saliva, 
which makes it digestible. As soon as it enters 
the stomach it becomes acid and interferes with 
everything it meets. Had the cakes been prop- 
erly masticated and mixed with the saliva, the 
cane-sugar would have become grape-sugar, and 
in this form it is easily digested. 

Why is it that stout people are advised to 
avoid starchy foods? Economic nutrition does 
not advise this. Potatoes, eaten too hastily, 
when not craved by the appetite, supply the 
system with a superabundance of starch, and 
this is fat-inducing. Potatoes are supposed 
to produce fat; but if your appetite craves 
potato, and you properly masticate it, eating 
only as much of it as satisfies your appetite, the 
system absorbs it all, leaving nothing to pro- 
duce fat. On this same principle economic 
nutrition assures that the same food, taken in 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

accordance with its requirements, will add to one 
man's weight and decrease another's, simply 
because proper care of the stomach supplies the 
vital organs with the necessary materials to form 
each individual person after the model which Na- 
ture intended for him. If Nature intended him 
to be slight, economic nutrition will not make 
him heavy ; if Nature intended him to be muscu- 
larly strong and heavy, economic nutrition will 
not reduce his weight. In each case he will en- 
joy that perfect condition which Nature intended 
him to possess without fat encumbrance. 

Did you ever try to reason out why it is 
necessary for athletes to go into training? Sim- 
ply because, in order to get the best use of their 
strength, they are obliged to spend some num- 
ber of weeks or months in overcoming false 
conditions which they have brought upon them- 
selves. Any person who lives in accordance 
with the simple requirements of economic nutri- 
tion has nothing of this kind to overcome, but 
is in perfect condition all the time. 

The requirements of economic nutrition are 
not hardships but pleasures. Proper mastica- 
tion and insalivation (mixing with saliva), give 
your sense of taste far greater gastronomic enjoy- 
ment than you have ever before had. If you are 
a wine drinker, try insalivating a little port wine ; 
but it must be good wine, for this is a severe 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

test A sip will quench your immediate desire 
and give you more pleasure than a whole glass 
gulped down. The professional tea-taster does 
this in tasting tea ; he never allows himself to 
drink any tea at all, for drinking anything that 
has taste destroys the delicacy of the sense 
of taste. But he will tell you that he gets more 
real enjoyment out of the little he takes than 
he previously gained from drinking a larger 
amount The same thing applies to the profes- 
sional wine-tasters ; they never drink any wine, 
and yet they enjoy the taste of wine as drinkers 
never can do. These men adopt this method as 
a business; is their commercial advantage of 
greater importance than your health and happi- 
ness, and even life itself? 

Is it not ridiculous that the average man is 
so ignorant of the engine which supplies him 
with all his activity and upon which depends 
every action of his life ? Could you tell, were 
you asked, the particular need and purpose of 
your last meal and what it is likely to accom- 
plish? Consider your body as an engine: 
would you accept yourself as a competent en- 
gineer on your own examination and confes- 
sion? Would you employ a chauffeur to run 
your automobile who knew as little about its 
mechanism and requirements as you do about 
your own stomach? Yet which is of greater 

[»3l 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

importance? Were you the owner of valuable 
live-stock, would you dare entrust their care 
to a farm-hand or stableman who knew as lit- 
tle about their proper feeding as you know 
about your own proper feeding or that of your 
children? 

Have you ever stopped to think why the 
excrements are foul and odorous? Simply be- 
cause undigested food, which should have been 
so masticated as to give the body nourishment, 
is thrown off by the stomach into the intestines, 
there to decay and produce this unclean condi- 
tion. If the dead carcass of a cow is lying in 
the road, it is removed before it has an oppor- 
tunity to decay and thus become filthy and 
dangerous. Yet how much more safe it would 
be for the carcass to lie where it was than for 
you to take portions of it into your intestines 
and allow it to decay there instead of in the 
road? In other words, food is intended to be 
eaten that nourishment may be gained from it, 
and when you only gain a part of the nourish- 
ment, you prostitute your stomach and take tre- 
mendous risks of germ diseases in your body. 

These facts are set forward thus simply in 
the hope that they may impress the reader as 
they have impressed the writer. Economic 
nutrition is not a joke, is not a fad; it is 
solely an appeal to self-examination and self- 

[»4] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

instruction in the most vital question of all the 
world, since upon perfect nutrition depends not 
only health, but strength, mental acuteness, 
moral tendencies, attractability to others, hap- 
piness, and, in fact, life itself. 



I'S] 



FIRST SCIENTIFIC RECOGNITION OF THE 
PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMIC NUTRITION 
OUTLINED IN "GLUTTON OR EPICURE " 

[With the exception of a brief review of Glutton or Epicure, 
by Dr. Joseph Blumfield, of London, published in The Lancet, 
no scientific or professional recognition of the principles of an 
economic nutrition attained by means of thorough buccal 
digestion was gained until issue of the following paper by 
Dr. Ernest Van Someren, of Venice, Italy. 

The previous autumn and winter had been devoted to ex- 
periments by Dr. Van Someren and the writer, in co-operation 
with Dr. Professor Leonardi, for twelve years Professor of 
Chemistry in the University of Pavia, Italy. In the spring 
and summer of 1901 the field of experiments was changed to 
Mendel Pass, bet Bozen, Slid Tirol, Austria, and related to 
endurance work in climbing mountains and bicycle runs among 
the Dolomites. 

Dr. Van Someren's paper attracted the attention of Sir 
Michael Foster, Professor of Physiology at the University of 
Cambridge, England, and Permanent Honorary President of 
the International Congress of Physiologists. 

Professor Foster entered into correspondence with Dr. Van 
Someren, and this was followed by an invitation to Dr. 
Van Someren and the writer to attend the Congress which 
was to convene in Turin, Italy, during the month of Septem- 
ber following. At the Congress Dr. van Someren presented 
a technical thesis on the probable causes of the economy at- 
tained, and gave a demonstration of the movement of his 
Swallowing Reflex in relation to food in the process of lique- 
faction and preliminary digestion in the mouth. 

Following the Congress we received an invitation to visit 
Cambridge, England, and submit to tests of nitrogenous meas- 
urements in the Physiological Laboratory of the University, 
under the direction of Dr. F. Gowland Hopkins ; and also to an 
examination of the bacterial flora incident to the nitrogenous 
estimations, under the direction of Dr. George H. F. NuttaU. 

The report of the experiments in the Chemical-Physiological 
Department is given in the " Note " of Sir Michael Foster, 
which follows Dr. Van Someren's paper, but the bacterial 
examination was not carried far enough to warrant a scientific 
report, owing to difficulty of obtaining, at the time, sufficient 
data. — Horace Fletcher.] 



WAS LUIGI CORNARO RIGHT? 

A Paper read before the Physiological Section 

of the British Medical Association, August, 

1901, by Ernest Van Someren 

Mr. President and Gentlemen: 

Being a general practitioner, it is with some 
trepidation and an apology that I present myself 
before this section. The reasons for my doing 
so are: First, that I believe that a hitherto 
unsuspected reflex in deglutition has come to 
light which has an important bearing on health, 
the prevention of disease and on metabolism. 
Second, that any theory whatever, based on a 
possible physiological function, claiming to 
diminish, as this does, the amount of sickness 
and suffering now existent, should have serious 
investigation. Third, that I desire to enlist 
your skilled help in the consideration of the 
theories I have doubtless crudely erected on 
my premise. . 

According to the " Encyclopaedia Britan- 
nica," " Luigi Cornaro (1467- 1566) was a 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Venetian nobleman, famous for his treatises on a 
temperate life. From some dishonesty on the part 
of his relatives, he was deprived of his rank and 
induced to retire to Padua, where he acquired the 
experience in regard to food and regimen which 
he has detailed in his work. In his youth he lived 
freely, but after a severe illness at the age of 
forty, he began under medical advice gradually 
to reduce his diet. For some time he restricted 
himself to a daily allowance of 12 ozs. of solid 
food and 14 ozs. of wine. Later in life he still 
farther reduced his bill of fare, and he found 
that he could support his life and strength 
with no more solid meat than an egg a day. So 
much habituated did he become to this simple 
diet that when he was about seventy years of 
age the addition, by way of experiment, of 
2 ozs. a day had nearly proved fatal. At the 
age of eighty-three he wrote his treatise on the 
' Sure and Certain Method of Attaining a Long 
and Healthful Life/ And this work was followed 
by three others on the same subject, composed 
at the ages of eighty-six, ninety-one, and ninety- 
five, respectively. ' They are written,' says Addi- 
son (' Spectator,' No. 195), ' with such a spirit 
of cheerfulness, religion, and good sense, as are 
the natural concomitants of temperance and 
sobriety.' He died at the age of ninety-eight." 
Some say of 103 ! 

[t8] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Now, was Luigi Cornaro right? Did he 
make use of a physiological process unknown to 
us of the value of which he was not cognisant? 
To live to an advanced age, must we be as tem- 
perate as he, reducing the quantity of our food 
to a minimum required by Nature? 

That we all eat more than we can assimilate 
is unquestionable. How can we determine the 
right quantity? Instinct should guide us, but 
an abnormal appetite often leads us astray. 
Nature's plans are perfect if her laws are obeyed. 
Disease follows disobedience. Wherein do we 
disobey? 

We live not upon what we eat, but upon what 
we digest; then why should undigested food, 
recognisable as such, be deemed a normal 
constituent of our solid egesta? 

Something like the following must be a com- 
mon experience to general practitioners, espe- 
cially to those practising on the Continent. The 
patient comes to see us and volunteers the in- 
formation that he or she has the "gout/' 
" rheumatic gout," or " dyspepsia." Symptoms 
are asked for. The case is gone into carefully 
for causation. An appropriate diet and an 
appropriate bottle of medicine prescribed. As 
the patient leaves the room, we may, or may 
not, call attention to the fact that both teeth 
and saliva are meant to be used. The patient 

[*9l 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

returns, better, in statu quo, or worse. If better, 
he remains so while under treatment, and re- 
lapses when he returns to ordinary habits. If 
unaffected, or worse, We try again and again, 
until we despair, then take or send him to a 
consultant Temporary benefit, possibly owing 
to renewed hope, results; but finally the un- 
fortunate gets used to his sufferings and, if he 
can afford it, is sent to join the innumerable 
hosts that wander from one Bad to another, 
all Europe over, trying, praising, and damning 
each in turn. Their manner of living is, of 
course, at fault Nature never intended that 
man should be perpetually on a special diet and 
hugging a bottle of medicine, nor did she ordain 
that he should go wandering over the map of 
Europe drinking purgative and other waters. 

Though early yet to speak with certain voice, 
it would seem that we are provided with a Guard, 
reliance on which protects us from the results of 
mal-nutrition. There seems to be placed in the 
fauces and the back of the mouth a Monitor to 
warn us what we ought to swallow and when we 
ought to swallow it. The good offices of this 
Monitor we have suppressed by habits of too 
rapid eating, acquired in infancy or youth. 

Last November my attention was called by 
Mr. Horace Fletcher, an American author living 
in Venice, to the discovery in himself of a 

• [30] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

curious inability to swallow, and a closing of the 
throat against food, unless it had been com- 
pletely masticated. My informant stated that 
he noticed this peculiarity after he had begun to 
excessively insalivate his food, both liquid and 
solid, until all its original taste had been re- 
moved from it. Any tasteless residue in the 
mouth, being refused by the fauces, required a 
farced muscular effort to swallow. He further 
told me that since adopting this method of eat- 
ing he had been cured of two maladies, adjudged 
chronic, the suffering from which rendered him 
ineligible for Life Insurance. His weight now 
became reduced from 205 lbs. to 165 lbs. He 
had practised no abstemiousness, had indulged 
his appetite, both as to selection and to quan- 
tity, without restraint, and for the last three 
years had enjoyed perfect health. 

After his cure, he was accepted without dif- 
ficulty for insurance, the last examination find- 
ing him an unusually healthy subject for his age. 
Having leisure, he had spent three years in 
investigating the cause of his cure, had pursued 
experiments upon others, and had extended his 
inquiries, both in America and Europe, until our 
meeting in Venice. He had also published a 
statement and inquiry in book form, entitled 
" Glutton or Epicure," which had been reviewed 
by the "Lancet." 

[3i] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

For nearly a year I also had been experi- 
menting on myself and others with various diets, 
and was ready to believe that in the manner of 
taking food and not altogether in its varying 
matter lay perhaps its protean effects on our 
system. I at once adopted the same method of 
eating. At the end of six weeks, I noticed that 
not only did the fauces refuse to allow of the 
passage of imperfectly prepared food, but that 
such food was returned from the back to the 
front of the mouth by an involuntary, though 
eventually controllable, muscular effort taking 
place in the reverse direction to that occurringtat 
the inception of deglutition. 

What actually happens is this : Food, as it is 
masticated, slowly passes to the back of the 
mouth, and collects in the glosso-epiglottidean 
folds, where it remains in contact with the 
mucous membrane containing the sensory end- 
organs of taste. If it be properly reduced by the 
saliva it is allowed to pass the fauces, — a truly 
involuntary act of deglutition occurring. Let 
the food, however, be too rapidly passed back 
to these folds, i.e. 9 before complete reduction takes 
place, and the reflex muscular movement above 
referred to occurs. The process of this reflex 
is as follows : The tip of the tongue is involun- 
tarily fixed at the backs and bases of the lower 
central incisor teeth by the anterior fibres of 

[3«] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the geniohyoglossi muscles. With this fixed 
point as fulcrum, the lower and middle fibres of 
these muscles, aided by those of the stylohyoid 
and styloglossi muscles raise the hyoid bone, 
straighten out the glosso-epiglottidean folds, 
passing their contents forward, by the fauces, 
the opening of which is closed by approxi- 
mation of its pillars and contraction of the 
superior constrictor. The tongue, arched pos- 
tero-anteriorly by the geniohyoglossi, palato, 
and styloglossi muscles, laterally, by its own 
intrinsic muscles, is approximated to the fauces, 
soft and hard palates in turn, and thus, the 
late contents of the glosso-epiglottidean folds 
are returned to the front of the mouth for 
further reduction by the saliva preparatory to 
deglutition. 

The word reduction is used for the reason 
that all foods tested, without exception, give an 
acid reaction to litmus, when served at table. 
The reflex muscular movement occurs in the 
writer's case from five to ten times during the 
mastication of each mouthful of food, accord- 
ing to its quantity and its degree of sapidity. 
As often as it recurs, the returned food con- 
tinues to give an acid reaction, while food 
allowed to pass the fauces is alkaline. 

Saliva, flowing in response to the stimulation 
of taste, seems more alkaline than that secreted 
3 [33] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

in answer to mechanical tasteless stimulation. 
It is found that the removal of original taste 
from any given bolus of food coincides with 
cessation of salivary flow and complete alkaline 
reduction. The fibre of meat, gristle, con- 
nective tissue, the husk of coarse bread and 
cellulose of vegetables are carefully separated 
by the tongue and buccal muscles and rejected 
by the fauces. To swallow any of these ne- 
cessitates a forced muscular effort, which is 
abnormal. 

Adult man was not originally intended to 
take his nourishment in a liquid form, conse- 
quently all liquids having taste, such as soup, 
milk, tea, coffee, cocoa, and the various forms 
of alcohol, must be treated as sapid solids and 
insalivated by holding them in the mouth, 
moving the tongue gently, with straight up and 
down masticatory movements, until their taste 
be removed. Water, not having taste, needs 
no insalivation and is readily accepted by the 
fauces. 

In explanation of the phenomenon described, 
the following theory is advanced : The fauces 
back of the tongue, epiglottis, in short, those 
mucous surfaces in which are placed the sensory 
end-organs of taste and " taste-buds " (the dis- 
tribution of which, by the way, has yet to be ex- 
plained), that these surfaces, readily becoming 

[34] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

accustomed to an alkaline contact by ex- 
cessive insalivation and consequent complete 
alkaline reduction of the food, afterwards resent 
an acid contact and express their resentment 
by throwing off the cause of offence by the 
muscles underlying them. 

This phenomenon must not be confused with 
the cases of rumination and regurgitation, which 
from time to time are recorded. The food in 
this case is not swallowed, nor does it pass any 
point from which it can be regurgitated. Eighty- 
one individuals of different nationalities and from 
several classes of society whom we have studied 
are now in conscious possession of their reflexes. 
These seem readily educated back to normal 
functions by all who seriously and patiently 
adopt the habit of what seems only at first to 
be excessive insalivation. 

The dictum " bite your food well " that we 
so often use, has no meaning to those suffer- 
ing from the results of mal-assimilation and 
mal-nutrition, especially should they have few 
or no teeth of their own. I make so bold as to 
state that dyspepsia et tnorbi hujus generis omnis 
will cease to exist if patients be persuaded to 
bite their food until its original taste disappears, 
and it is carried away by involuntary deglutition. 
The important point of the whole question 
seems to be this alkaline reduction of acid food 

[35] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

before it passes on to meet subsequent digestive 
processes elsewhere, which then become alter- 
nately acid and alkaline. 

In the first few months of infant life, when 
saliva is not secreted, Nature ordains that 
mammary secretion be alkaline. With the 
eruption of teeth come an abundant flow of 
saliva and a synchronous infantile capacity for 
managing other foods. This flow of saliva 
depends on a thorough demand and use to 
maintain its generous supply. It is just at this 
time that children learn to bolt their food, — 
the demand fails, with a consequent detriment to 
the salivary glands, digestive processes, and the 
system generally. 

A, B, C, and D were placed on an absolute 
milk diet A drank his milk in the ordinary 
way, and at the end of three days begged to 
discontinue the experiment owing to disgust 
at the monotony of the diet. B, C, and D 
continued the experiment for seventeen days, 
insalivating the milk, but to a varying extent, B 
the least and D the most. Though D took 
most milk, he excreted least solid egesta, C 
excreting less than B. Can one infer that in- 
creased insalivation of a non-starchy food insured 
its better digestion and assimilation ? Each sub- 
ject took as much milk only as his appetite 
demanded, D taking the most, which never 

[36] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

exceeded two litres daily. The weights of the 
subjects after the usual sudden drop of the first 
three days remained remarkably even until the 
end of the experiment. B, C, and D all relished 
the diet, and it satisfied the requirements of their 
appetites, but they experienced an increasing 
monotony. 

As long ago as the seventeenth century, 
before the transformation of matter into energy 
by the animal organism, known as Metabolism, 
was understood, the fact was recognised that by 
the lungs, kidneys, skin, and intestines, sub- 
stances no longer useful to the organism were 
eliminated, the retention of which proved 
harmful The nature of these substances 
was unknown, but it was noted that how- 
ever much the food was increased the weight 
of the body remained the same. In other words, 
a state of complete nutritive equilibrium was 
maintained. 

The following table contains the r/sumS of two 
experiments in which a state of complete nutri- 
tive equilibrium was maintained by individuals 
of about the same weight, on widely different 
quantities of food similar in quality. The sub- 
jects of the experiments were a laboratory assist- 
ant of Dr. Snyder, of the U. S. Department of 
Agriculture, and the writer. The experiment 
of the former was made primarily to show the 

[37 J 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

relative digestibility of the several articles of 
diet, potatoes, eggs, milk, and cream: 



Age of subject .... 
Duration of experiment 
Number of meals . . 
Weight at beginning 
Weight at end . . . 
Potatoes (daily average) 
Eggs (daily average) 
Milk (daily average) 
Cream (dairy average) 
Daily urine .... 
Daily faeces . . . 



Dr. Snyder's 
Experiment. 

Published Id Bolleti* 43 



22 years 
4t days 

62.5 kilos. 
62.0 kilos. 
1587.6 grammes 
41 1.00 grammes 
710 c.c. 
237 cc 
1 108 grammes 
204 grammes 



Writer*! Experiment. 



30 years 
5 days 

10 

57.3 kilos. 

57.5 kilos. 
1594 grammes 
124.7 grammes 
710 cc 
237 cc 
1098 grammes 

18.9 grammes 



The daily diet of Dr. Snyder's subject con- 
sisted of three and one-half pounds of potatoes, 
eight eggs, a pint and a half of milk, and half 
a pint of cream. The writer's diet of twelve 
ounces of solid food (like Luigi Cornaro) con- 
sisted of three eggs, the remainder of the twelve 
ounces in potatoes, and an equal quantity of 
similar liquid food to that taken by Dr. Snyder's 
subject. The exercise of the laboratory assist- 
ant comprised his daily routine of laboratory 
work, while that of the writer consisted of six 
sets of tennis, or an hour and a half on horse- 
back, with an hour to an hour and a half's walk 
or climb daily, in addition to much reading and 
writing. 

In each case complete nutritive equilibrium 
was maintained, although the author subsisted 

[38]' 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

on three-seventeenths of the solid food taken 
by the other subject. 

Again, cannot one infer that better assimi- 
lation and less waste resulted from the better 
preparation of the smaller quantity of food by 
insalivation? Surely, too, there must be less 
daily strain on the intestinal canal, and body 
generally, in getting rid of 18.9 grammes of 
inoffensive dry waste, than in getting rid of 204 
grammes of humid, decomposing, and offensive 
matter. 

" Considerable importance has been attached 
to the normal action of the bacteria in the 
intestines ; and it has even been supposed that 
the presence of bacteria is essential to life. 
Such a view has recently been shown to be 
erroneous by an elaborate and painstaking re- 
search carried out by Nuttall and Thierfelder, 
who obtained ripe foetal guinea-pigs by means 
of Caesarean section carried out under strict 
antiseptic precautions. They introduced the 
animals immediately into an aseptic chamber 
through which a current of filtered air was 
aspirated, and fed them hourly on sterilis~J 
milk day and night for over eight days. 

"The animals lived, and throve, and :--■* 
creased as much in weight as healthy normcl 
animals subjected to a similar diet for the pur- 
pose of controlling the results. Microscopic 

'[39] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

examination at the end of the experiment 
showed that the alimentary canal contained no 
bacteria of any kind, nor could cultures of any 
kind be obtained from it. 

" The. same authors, in a subsequent paper, 
described the extension of their research to 
vegetable food. This was also digested in the 
absence of bacteria. Under such conditions cel- 
lulose was not attacked. Hence they consider 
that the chief function of this material is to give 
bulk and proper consistency to the food so as 
to suit the conditions of herbiverous digestion." 
(Schafer's " Text-Book of Physiology," vol i. 
p. 465.) 

Now, inasmuch as bacterial digestion has no 
place in the animal economy, surely it can only 
occur at the expense of the organism ? 

Can micro-organic action take place in the 
intestines without the production of toxins and 
the consequent absorption of these toxins into 
the blood? 

We know that the metabolism of a cell is 
determined by the general physical environ- 
ment of the whole organism, by supplies of 
oxygen and water, on nervous impulses, and, 
what chiefly concerns this argument, on the na- 
ture and amount of the pabulum supplied to it. 
This pabulum is derived from the alimentary 
canal. 

[40]' 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Are not even those of us who may be enjoy- 
ing seemingly the best of health supplying to 
our tissues pabulum containing mild toxins, thus 
causing an increased katabolic action to occur in 
each individual cell of our bodies? 

Are not the blood elements, floating in 
a plasma containing such toxins, rendered 
resistent, weaker, less capable of fulfilling 
their functions as carriers and combatants of 
disease? 

Are not their and our lives, in consequence, 
more painful and shorter than they need be? 

Would not the elimination of these toxins 
render us less liable to disease? And is not 
their presence an important element in predis- 
position to disease? 

When this reflex is restored micro-organisms 
get no further than the stomach. They are de- 
stroyed there by the acid gastric juices, then 
only stimulated to their full and normal secre- 
tion by the presence of a sufficiency of alkaline 
substance. Undigested matter having been 
eliminated, micro-organisms, still existing in the 
intestines, deprived of their means of subsis- 
tence, decrease, and, in time, may cease to 
exist. The body no longer absorbs the toxins 
these produced. To this fact may be ascribed 
the increase of mental energy, the general physi- 
cal betterment, the cessation of morbid cravings 

[41] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

for food and drink and of those of a sexual 
nature, which are noticed and experienced. 

What has just been stated is based not en- 
tirely on experimental evidence but somewhat 
upon inference. The inference seems justified 
because the excreta, more especially of the 
intestines, but also of the kidneys and skin, 
become almost odourless and entirely inoffen- 
sive. The solid egesta are voided thickly cov- 
ered with mucus, leaving the end of the bowel 
dry and clean. The. sense of cleanliness can 
only then be appreciated to the full, for it is 
internal as well external. Flatus is no longer 
produced. The urine is inoffensive and seems 
to be materially changed in quality, as shown 
by chemical analysis. Uric acid, the chlorides, 
and, more markedly, aromatic sulphates are re- 
duced in quantity. 

Owing to deliberation in eating, necessitated 
by this new habit, satiety occurs on the ingestion 
of considerably less food. By carefully studying 
one's self I believe it possible to cultivate an in- 
stinct which will regulate not only the quantity 
but the quality of food that the body may need, 
and that in the normal health of a full-grown 
body, no more food either in quantity or quality 
should be supplied than suffices to supply diur- 
nal waste. Any excess must result in patho- 
logical processes. 

[4«] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Although there results enhanced pleasure in 
the taking of all foods, rich and simple, and es- 
pecially in the appreciation of good wines, the 
quantities of these foods and beverages that suf- 
fice to fully satisfy the appetite are much smaller 
than before, while there is a marked preference 
for the simpler kinds of food. The writer now 
can imagine no more pleasurable meal than 
one consisting of good brown bread, eggs, but- 
ter, cheese, and cream. These, with fresh vege- 
tables and a very little fruit, form his staple 
diet. This tendency and preference for simple 
foods is the general experience among those who 
have recovered their reflexes of deglutition. 

Following on the ingestion of a lessened 
quantity of food and on its better assimilation, 
there is less waste, the egesta are voided less 
frequently, sometimes only once in five to eight 
days. 

The lower bowel is npt the reservoir it for- 
merly was. So haemorrhoids cease from trou- 
bling and constipation cannot exist. For this 
same reason the body, at the beginning of the 
practice, commences to approximate to its nor- 
mal weight, increasing or decreasing as the 
individual's environment demands. 

A few more words only need be said. It has 
been easy to state the results of experiments and 
observations: but the acquiring of this new 

[43] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

reflex, while pursuing daily occupations, is not 
easy, and needs more than a little patience and 
much serious thought The habits of a lifetime 
cannot be changed in a few days or weeks. The 
shortest time in which the reflex has been re- 
established is four weeks, and this only by avoid- 
ing conversation at meal-time and concentrating 
the attention on keeping the food in the mouth 
until complete alkaline reduction has taken place 
and sapidity has disappeared. 

In closing I wish to maintain as a fact, gen- 
tlemen, of the truth of which you will only be 
convinced by actual experience, that by the 
restoration of this reflex and in complete de- 
pendence on its use, there lies true health, the 
establishment of a condition of stable nutrition 
and the possible abrogation of two great predis- 
posing factors of disease, mal -assimilation and 
mal-nutrition. Unless there be among you, as 
in the " Cities of the Plain," a parlous minority 
who possess this reflex and take your food as 
you ought, none of you are in the enjoyment 
of such health as you might have. A like pun- 
ishment will be meted out to you as was visited 
on those cities, for you will all be consumed 
long before your day by the unnecessary com- 
bustion in your bodies caused by the circulation 
in them of toxins, the product of undigested and 
decomposing food. 

[44] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

The writer, bearing in mind the warning sug- 
gested by the Frenchman whose donkey died as 
soon as he had reduced his food to a single wisp 
of straw, finds that he is taking less and less 
food. While his mind is open as to his arriv- 
ing at the final diet of Luigi Cornaro, yet it is 
easily conceivable that living a similar life of 
retirement in a placid environment, it would be 
quite possible to do as he did. Hence the 
title of this paper and the queries at the 
commencement. 

The objects in publishing and distributing 
this paper are twofold: to make the subject 
as widely known as possible, and to solicit the 
aid of colleagues in investigating it more fully. 

There is ready at the service of the general 
practitioner an important and potential thera- 
peutic agent in the saliva of his patients and in 
the use adfinem of their salivary digestions. 

By any chance should readers of this paper 
wish to ask any questions, the writer will be 
happy to communicate with them. 

185, Calli del Capello Nero, 

Piazza San Marco, 

Venice, Italy. 

Editor* s notes. (1) Confirmatory evidence of 
the correctness of the deductions made in this 
paper has begun to come in from many profes- 
sional sources and notably from a famous child 

[45] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

specialist who avers that children would follow 
the natural requirements in eating were it not for 
artificial food, bad example, and bad teaching. 

(2) In a report of a paper read before the 
Sociiti de Biologie, Paris, France, March 15th, 
1902, by M. Max Marckwald, of Kreuznach, 

"On Digestion of Milk in the Stomach 
of Full-grown Dogs," the following appears : 
" Hence these experiments confirm those of 
Horace Fletcher and Ernest H. Van Someren 
on the importance of prolonged mastication' 1 
(translation). Referring, as the latter statement 
does, to mastication (insalivation) of liquid, it 
gives an important suggestion relative to some 
probable causes of uncertain or defective diges- 
tion in human nutrition. 



f46] 



THE CAMBRIDGE TESTS 

[In connection with a report of the Cambridge Examination 
the writer wishes to acknowledge the interest and assistance of 
Dr. Francis Gowland Hopkins, head of the Physiological- 
Chemical Department of the Physiological Laboratory of the 
University ; Dr. George H. F. Nuttall, in charge of the Bac- 
teriological Section of the Pathological Laboratory ; Mr. Sid- 
ney W. Cole, Mr. Robert Barrett, and Dr. Hubert Higgins, 
both for practical work in the laboratory and in servingas test- 
subjects. To Dr. Higgins so much is due that it is difficult to 
measure. Since our first meeting in Cambridge, Dr. Higgins 
has been unremitting in his study of the subject and in con- 
sideration of its application to numan betterment. Having 
the altruistic temperament inborn and not yet smothered by 
disappointment, the good doctor has consecrated himself to 
the service of poorer numanity, and his inspiration in so good 
a cause is wonderful motive power behind the native desire to 
do good. The statement of Dr. Higgins* experiences in pur- 
suit of an Economic Nutrition is given in his own manner in 
the new edition of Glutton or Epicure, which is being published 
coincidently with this volume in the A. B. C. Life Series. 

At the time we were in Cambridge, Dr. Hopkins and Mr. 
Cole had just published their paper in the Journal of Physiology 
(English), describing their isolation of the tryptophane element 
of the proteid molecule which had eluded chemists from the 
beginning. In tryptophane they found embodied the odour- 
ous indol and skatol which appear so offensively in the putrid 
decomposition of proteid.' In the excreta of the test-subjects 
in our Economic-Nutrition-Inquiry these malodorous sub- 
stances did not appear, and hence another question is opened 
up to investigation relative to the putridity of human excre- 
ment under ordinary conditions of carelessness, and the 
absence of putridity in the case of nutrition accomplished 
by aid of thorough buccal treatment of food preparatory to 
digestion. 

It is a matter of interest, relative to the patience required in 
science, to state that Dr. Hopkins and Mr. Cole were fourteen 
month* searching for the fugitive tryptophane element after 
they received their first clew to its whereabouts. When 
isolated, tryptophane masses in a substance having the ap- 
pearance of silver, but not the solidity of that metal — 
Horace Fletcher.] 

[47] 



EXPERIMENTS UPON HUMAN 
NUTRITION 

Note by Sir Michael Foster, K.C.B., M.P., F.R.S. 

In 1 901 Dr. Ernest Van Someren submitted 
to the British Medical Association, and after- 
wards to the Congress of Physiologists at Turin, 
an account of some experiments initiated by 
Mr. Horace Fletcher. These experiments went 
to show that the processes of bodily nutrition 
are very profoundly affected by the preliminary 
treatment of the foodstuffs in the mouth, and 
indicated that great advantages follow from the 
adoption of certain methods in eating. The 
essentials of these special methods, stated briefly 
and without regard to certain important theo- 
retical considerations discussed by Dr. Van 
Someren, consist of a specially prolonged mas- 
tication which is necessarily associated with an 
insalivation of the foodstuffs much more thorough 
than is obtained with ordinary habits. 

The results brought to light by the prelim- 
inary experimental trials went to show that 
such treatment of the food has a most important 

[48] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

effect upon the economy of the body, involving, 
in the first place, a very notable reduction in the 
amount of food — and especially of proteid food 
— necessary to maintain complete efficiency. 

In the second place this treatment produced, 
in the experience of its originators, an increase 
in the subjective and objective well-being of 
those who practise it, and, as they believe, in 
their power of resistance to the inroads of 
disease. These secondary effects may indeed 
be almost assumed as a corollary of the first 
mentioned; because there can be little doubt 
that the ingestion of food — and perhaps espe- 
cially of proteid food — in excess of what is, 
under the best conditions, sufficient for main- 
tenance and activity, can only be deleterious to 
the organism, clogging it with waste products 
which may at times be of a directly toxic 
nature. 

In the autumn of 1901 Mr. Fletcher and Dr. 
Van Someren came to Cambridge with the 
intention of having the matter more closely in- 
quired into, with the assistance of physiological 
experts. The matter evoked considerable in- 
terest in Cambridge, and observations were 
made not only upon those more immediately 
interested, but upon other individuals, some 
of whom were themselves medical men and 
trained observers. 

4 [49] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Certain facts were established by these ob- 
servations, which, however, are to be looked 
upon as still of a preliminary nature. The 
adoption of the habit of thorough insalivation 
of the food was found in a consensus of opinion 
to have an immediate and very striking effect 
upon appetite, making this more discriminating, 
and leading to the choice of a simple dietary, 
and in particular reducing the craving for flesh 
food. The appetite, too, is beyond all question 
fully satisfied with a dietary considerably less in 
amount than with ordinary habits is demanded. 

Numerical data were obtained in several 
cases, but it is not proposed to deal with these 
in detail here, as they need the supplementary 
study which will be shortly referred to. 

In two individuals who pushed the method to 
its limits it was found that complete bodily 
efficiency was maintained for some weeks upon 
a dietary which had a total energy value of less 
than one-half of that usually taken, and com- 
prised little more than one-third of the proteid 
consumed by the average man. 

It may be doubted if continued efficiency 
could be maintained with such low values as 
these, and very prolonged observations would 
be necessary to establish the facts. But all 
subjects of the experiments who applied the 
principles intelligently agreed in finding a very 

[So] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

marked reduction in their needs, and experi- 
enced an increase in their sense of well-being 
and an increase in their working powers. 

One fact, fully confirmed by the Cambridge 
observations, consists in the effect of the special 
habits described upon the waste products of the 
bowel. These are greatly reduced in amount, 
as might be expected ; but they are also markedly 
changed in character, becoming odourless and 
inoffensive, and assuming a condition which 
suggests that the intestine is in a healthier and 
more aseptic condition than is the case under 
ordinary circumstances. 

Although the experiments hitherto made are, 
as already stated, only preliminary in nature 
and limited in scope, they establish beyond all 
question that a full and careful study of the 
matter is urgently called for. 

For this fuller study the Cambridge labora- 
tories do not possess at present either the 
necessary equipment or the funds to provide it. 
For the detailed study of the physical efficiency 
of a man under varying conditions, elaborate 
and expensive apparatus is required; and the 
advantages claimed for the special treatment of 
the food just discussed can only be fully tested 
by prolonged and laborious experiments calling 
for a considerable staff of workers. 

It is of great importance that the mind of the 

[5«] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

lay public should be disabused of the idea that 
medical science is possessed of final information 
concerning questions of nutrition. This is very 
far indeed from being the case. Human nutri- 
tion involves highly complex factors, and the 
scientific basis for our knowledge of the sub- 
ject is but small ; where questions of diet are 
concerned, medical teaching, no less than 
popular practice, is to a great extent based 
upon empiricism. 

But the scientific and social importance of the 
question is clearly immense, and it is greatly to 
be desired that its study should be encouraged. 

M. Foster. 

April 26th, 1902. 



[s»] 



REPORT OF A PLAN FOR THE INSTITUTION 
OF AN INTERNATIONAL INQUIRY INTO 
THE SUBJECT OF HUMAN NUTRITION 

[Sir Michael Foster's " Note " (preceding) and Professor 
Chittenden's article in the Popular Science Monthly (follow- 
ing), which form a part of this book, show a common want of 
exact knowledge relative to human nutrition not at all credit- 
able to human intelligence at the beginning of the twentieth 
century ; but they both offer hope of relief from this discredit- 
able stigma in systematic study of the question. For this 
purpose an international inquiry was proposed, a plan was 
drawn up under advice of Sir Michael Foster, and the matter 
was given to the writer to promote by the best means 
available. 

The Carnegie Institution seemed, at the time, the most 
likely supporter of such a scheme ; but owing to an embarrass- 
ment of applications for support of American science needs, it 
was considered best not to attempt any foreign or even inter- 
national benefaction, for the present at least, and hence other 
means of furthering the inquiry were sought. 

The invitation of Professor Chittenden to repeat the dem- 
onstration of food-economy made by the author and Dr. Van 
Someren at Cambridge, England, of which Sir Michael Foster's 
" Note " treats, at the laboratories of the Sheffield Scientific 
School of Yale University, led to the discovery that New 
Haven already possessed an equipment suitable for the in- 
quiry much more complete than the plan Professor Foster had 
outlined as being desirable. 

At Yale were found not only a very well-adapted chemico- 
physiological laboratory with some of the most active and 
scientifically respected research talent of the world in charge, 
but the laboratory stood only three minutes away from one of 
the best furnished gymnasiums in the world, under a director 
who is an M. D. of twenty years' experience, as well as a 
famous athlete and author of an athletic manual. It so hap- 

[53] 



The A.B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

pened that this gymnasium was especially suited for assisting 
in a research into the very causes of human efficiency, or lack 
of it, which nutrition is supposed to affect 

Only forty minutes from New Haven by rail,— a distance 
not greater, as measured by time separation, than from one 
side of London to the other, — at Middletown, Conn., stood 
also the recently completed calorimeter of Professors Atwater 
and Benedict ready for making a calorimetric trial-balance 
measurement of metabolism attained and chemically estimated 
in the tests at New Haven. 

After the Yale demonstration, of which Professor Chitten* 
den's article, previously mentioned, treats, the author responded 
to an invitation from Professor Atwater and submitted himself 
to a 3a-hour confinement in the calorimeter for confirmation 
of the results obtained at New Haven. 

This experience in the calorimeter at Middletown was very 
significant and instructive. The author was the first test-sub- 
ject used in the newly completed calorimeter. The oxygen- 
measuring attachment of Dr. Benedict that completed the 
apparatus and gave a complete trial balance of the metabolism 
of the subject nnder examination was as yet untried, but it 
proved its integrity within the fraction of one per cent and 
registered as accurately as necessary for all practical purposes. 
So much for the machine ; but it measured a result which is 
of the greatest importance to the human race. The author 
had just demonstrated the possibility of running the human 
machine on half the heat, on one-third of the fuel, and with 
only one-tenth of the waste, as represented by the waste, or 
ashes of digestion. Not only was this done while in pursuit 
of the ordinary activity of present-day life, but under stress of 
'Varsity-Crew exercise, as reported by Professor Chittenden 
and Dr. Anderson. Had this demonstration been made rela- 
tive to steam engines or electrical motors, the information 
would have been revolutionary in establishing new values for 
things industrial and commercial. 

Its significance relative to human profitable possibilities 
is even more important than if related to steam or electrical 
power. The possibility of economy in the human machine 
gives also a hope of immunity from the common diseases 
which now afflict mankind. 

The trial of the calorimeter as a measuring machine and 

[54] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the trial balance of the economic metabolism which the author 
had attained by five years of careful attention to the natural 
requirements of nutrition were epoch-making events eoinci- 
dently related, and for them the author here makes this dis- 
tinguished claim — not on account of any accomplishment of 
himself, but as a promise of great possibilities for human 
betterment. 

Here follows a reproduction of the plan just referred to, 
with facsimile of the signatures of the distinguished physiolo- 
gists who approved the plan and consented to serve as " As- 
sessors/' To this list should have been added the name of 
Professor Osawa, professor of physiology at the University of 
Tokio, Japan ; but time and distance did not permit gaining 
the required understanding and assent Professor Ozawa's 
connection with the inquiry would make it not only inter- 
national but interhemispherical and interracial as well, and 
this possibility of scientific coordination and cooperation is 
typical of the harmonising wave that is fast enveloping the 
earth for the benefit of mankind. 

I give a copy of the document entire, with estimates of 
cost, etc., just as it was originally drawn and intended only as 
a trial suggestion, to be modified by circumstances. — Horace 
Fletcher.] 

PROPOSAL TO FOUND AN INTER- 
NATIONAL LABORATORY OF 
RESEARCH FOR THE STUDY OF 
NUTRITION IN ALL ITS ASPECTS 

Notwithstanding the enormous development 
which the study of Experimental Physiology has 
undergone during the last half-century, and the 
constant multiplication of physiological labora- 
tories fitted in a manner which enables them to 
be used as places of research as well as of 
instruction in the methods of physiological in- 

[55] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

quiry, it has appeared to many physiologists 
that a great need remains to be supplied by the 
establishment of an International Laboratory of 
Research, devoted primarily, if not exclusively, 
to the investigation of problems connected with 
the Nutrition of the Animal, and particularly of 
Human Organisms, — studies particularly, and 
in the first instance, from the point of view of the 
relation of the food consumed by the animal 
body to its output of energy, either in the form 
of heat or mechanical work. 

The reason for establishing such a labora- 
tory, available for the use of investigations of all 
nations, is to be found in the fact that the re- 
searches which are now called for, in order to 
place upon a firm foundation our knowledge of 
food and its relations to the activity of the organ- 
ism, necessitates an assemblage of apparatus and 
machinery so specialised and so costly that they 
are not to be found collected together even in the 
best equipped of the physiological laboratories 
of Europe or America, which all subserve in the 
first instance the purposes of systematic instruc- 
tion. Undoubtedly, unquestionably, certain of 
the great and costly appliances of research are 
to be found in particular laboratories, as, for in- 
stance, in those of Berlin, Munich, Paris, and 
Turin, but there certainly exists no laboratory 
in which the investigator can find assembled 

[56] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

under one roof all the specially fitted chemical, 
physical, and even bacteriological appliances 
which he may need to employ in the investiga- 
tion of the Phenomena of Nutrition. 

A more precise conception of the nature of 
the proposed laboratory may be formed if refer- 
ence is made to certain groups of appliances 
which such a laboratory should possess and be 
able to place at the disposal of the scientific 
men coming to it for facilities which may be 
denied them at home. It should possess a 
complete set of respiration chambers of various 
types, and especially should be provided with 
the " Atwater Respiration Apparatus ; " the 
most perfect appliances for the analyses of gases 
should be available ; it should be provided with 
the most perfect calorimeters of various types, 
both for the investigation of the calorimetric 
value of the foods experimented on, and for the 
determination of the heat produced by man or 
by the lower animals, — the subjects of observa- 
tion. The laboratory should possess, besides, 
the most perfect appliances for th^ measure- 
ment of work done by man and by animals 
(" ergostat," "ergograph"), and a set of bal- 
ances of the highest perfection capable of weigh- 
ing with accuracy very heavy loads. These 
characteristic appliances of a laboratory spe- 
cially designed for placing our knowledge of 

[57] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Animal Nutrition on a thoroughly sound basis 
must be superadded to the ordinary means for 
pursuing with success researches in Pure Or- 
ganic, Physiological, and Physical Chemistry, as 
well as in Bacteriology. 

Outline of the Proposed Subjects of 

Research to be Undertaken in the 

Proposed International 

Laboratory 

i. To determine with greater precision than 
has yet been possible the efficiency of the ani- 
mal organism considered as a machine in which 
potential energy of the organic constituents of 
food is converted into mechanical work. The 
knowledge that we already possess has shown 
that in the animal we have an engine infinitely 
more efficient as a utiliser of the potential en- 
ergy supplied to it than any appliance yet con- 
structed, or which we can, in the present state 
of physical science, construct. A still more pre- 
cise study of the actual efficiency of the animal 
as a whole, as well as of certain of the vital or- 
gans which are mainly concerned in mechanical 
work, and a more thorough investigation of the 
processes whereby — for instance, in the muscles 
— the potential energy of stored-up chemical 
compounds is, as appears certain, directly con- 
verted into mechanical work, is not only desira- 

[58] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

ble in the interest of the ultimate object of the 
work of the Laboratory, but possesses a high 
degree of theoretical interest, even from the 
point of view of Pure Physics. To sum up: 
One of the first objects of the investigations to 
be carried out in the projected Laboratory 
should be " the more precise determination of 
the minimum transformation of energy which 
corresponds to mean and accurately determined 
conditions of the animal body, and of that of 
man in particular." 

2. We are acquainted with the fact that the 
potential energy which is utilised by the animal 
is supplied to it with the least wear and tear to, 
or strain upon, its mechanism by non-nitrog- 
enous organic constituents of food which must 
belong to the groups of starches and sugars or 
fats, but that the continued existence of the 
organism demands, as an essential condition, 
the introduction of a certain proportion of albu- 
minous matter. In spite of numerous very fine 
investigations on this subject, the yet more 
precise determination of the minimum quantity 
of the albuminous constituents which are abso- 
lutely necessary or desirable, under the most 
varying conditions, is eminently desirable, espe- 
cially in the light of recently recorded facts, 
amongst which are those to be referred to 
under 3 (following): — 

[59] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

3. Certain very noteworthy observations 
made by Messrs. Horace Fletcher and Ernest 
H. Van Someren have shown that an excessively 
prolonged mastication and insahvation of food 
leads to remarkable results in respect to the 
diminution of the total quantity of food neces- 
sary to keep the body in a state of health, and 
to, as is alleged, a remarkable improvement in 
the digestive functions as well as of the general 
health of the individual. It appears highly im- 
portant thoroughly to investigate the remarkable 
phenomena discovered by Messrs. Fletcher and 
Van Someren, and to determine how far they 
may lead to a modification of or improvement 
in the dietary of healthy individuals and of per- 
sons in a state of disease. 

4. Indeed, it may truly be said that the aver- 
age diet of man, that is to say, the absolute and 
relative amount of certain food-stuffs on which 
an average man should live, is at present, to a 
large extent, determined in an empirical manner. 
It is most necessary that this should be deter- 
mined in an exact manner, since it is at least 
possible that a more complete knowledge may 
reveal that the good results thus obtained em- 
pirically are only reached by means of an excess 
of one element being counterbalanced by excess 
of another element, and thus open up a way to 
considerable economy. The changes needed 

[60] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

for variations from the average, to meet certain 
conditions, are also at present, to a very large 
extent, determined empirically, and these also 
most certainly ought to be determined in an ab- 
solutely exact manner. 

5. The researches of Pawlow on the condi- 
tions which influence the activity of the secret- 
ing glands of the organs of digestion, upon the 
relation of their activity to the nature of the food 
ingested, upon the influence exerted by the se- 
cretion of the glands situated in one part of the 
alimentary canal, upon the activity of glands 
situated lower down, indicate lines of research 
only recently opened out, but the importance 
of which in reference to the problems of nutri- 
tion is probably great. 

6. Similarly, the facts which have in recent 
times been ascertained in reference to the re- 
markable influence exerted by the so-called 
" internal secretion " of certain ductless glands 
on the general metabolism, the part played by 
the pancreas in reference to the transformations 
of sugar in the body indicate yet other lines of 
research to be carried out in connection with 
the main inquiry. 

In conclusion: The final problem of the 
work of the proposed Laboratory will be to as- 
certain the conditions which will " render it pos- 
sible to obtain from the human machine, under 

[61] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

varying conditions, the highest efficiency at the 
least cost." 

The value of results which may be thus 
obtained, considered from the point of view of 
social, political, and administrative economy, is 
hardly to be exaggerated. 

Suggestions as to Staff and Personnel 
of the Proposed International 

Laboratory 

For the coordination and general direction 
of the several investigations, the services of an 
eminent physiological chemist (preferably one 
having the principal European languages at his 
command) is essential. 

Such a director would need at least two effi- 
cient permanent technical assistants, as for in- 
stance, one to deal with the problems of Organic 
Chemistry, and another competent to deal with 
the problems of Physical Chemistry. Other 
assistants might be necessary, but it would 
probably be desirable that the Institute should 
have the power of subsidising, for a longer or 
shorter period, men who would undertake special 
investigations in coordination with the general 
work, and who would thus be, as it were, tem- 
porary assistants. This would be quite apart 
from the general hospitality of the Laboratory 
offered by the Institute to other investigators. 

[6a] 



"The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 
Estimates for the Proposed Laboratory 

INITIAL OUTLAY 

Director *5,ooo 1 5,000 

Permanent and Temporary Assistants 7,500 to 10,000 
Other General Maintenance .... 5,000 to 7,500 

|i7,5°° $22,500 

With regard to the second item, the per- 
manent assistants would be required at the out- 
set, but the temporary assistants would be taken 
on as opportunity offered. Less than even the 
lower estimate might suffice at first. 

Regarding the third item, also, the maximum 
might not be required in the beginning. 

Suggestions as to Desirability of Loca- 
tion 

The place fitted for the establishment of an 
International Institute should be one which can 
be reached with comparative facility by investi- 
gators of the different nationalities. It must be 
one free from the objections due to national sus- 
ceptibilities. It should also be, if possible, a 
place agreeable to live in ; a place where work 
can be carried on through the year ; and a place 
where expenses, both the personal expenses of 
the investigators, and the general expenses of the 
Institute, are not excessive. Venice has been 
suggested as a place fulfilling the above require- 

[63] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

ments. It can be reached readily from all parts 
of Europe, and is as accessible to Americans as 
any other European city. Living is very cheap, 
and, indeed, all expenses are very moderate. 

On sea level itself, Venice is within near dis- 
tance of very high altitude, and hence offers 
facilities for the study of the effects of climatic 
influence on nutrition. It is also sufficiently 
near the Regina Margherita Laboratory, on 
Monte Rosa, to enable the observations made 
at the two places to be coordinated. Venice is, 
moreover, a cosmopolitan centre ; and persons 
of many different nations and races might read- 
ily be obtained as subjects for observation and 
experiment. 

On the other hand, it may be regarded as 
essential to the complete success of the pro- 
posed Institute that both the director and those 
engaged in investigation should have ample op- 
portunities of ready and frequent intercourse 
with eminent men engaged in investigation in 
Physics, Chemistry, and the allied sciences. The 
help which is thus gained by intercourse with 
men at the very head of various scientific inquiry 
cannot be supplied in any other way. There is 
also an urgent reason for ready access to a most 
thoroughly equipped scientific library. It is 
also essential that the Institute should have 
facility of obtaining, or of getting constructed, 

[64] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

with the least possible delay such apparatus as 
it might need. These essentials cannot be sup- 
plied otherwhere than in great centres of scien- 
tific activity. A small university cannot supply 
them. If they are insisted on, the Institute 
must be located in a place which has metro- 
politan distinction and holds not only a large 
but an active university. The choice of a situa- 
tion, from this point of view, in Europe, is thus 
almost limited to such places as Paris, Berlin, 
Vienna, or London. Of these London prob- 
ably best recommends itself for international 
purposes. 

But, on the other hand, London is distinctly 
an expensive place to live in. Indeed, all ex- 
penses there are great, and the same may be 
said of any great metropolitan centre. More- 
over, London cannot be reached from the coun- 
tries of Europe without sea transit. 

The choice between such a place as London 
and such a place as Venice must depend upon 
the relative weight attached, on the one hand, to 
the scientific advantages dwelt on above, and, 
on the other hand, to the advantages other than 
scientific. 



[«S] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Suggestions as to Management of the 
Proposed International Institute 

It is proposed that : First, there should be a 
small body of trustees who should undertake the 
financial responsibility; and, Second, a board 
of scientific assessors, representing several na- 
tions, who, in conjunction with the director, 
should exercise general supervision of the work 
of the Institute. Such a board need meet only 
at rare intervals, much being done by way of 
correspondence. The expenses which the mem- 
bers incur in the exercise of their functions ought 
to be met out of the funds of the Institute. 



[66] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

The following have expressed willingness to 
act as scientific assessors : — 



A4&& 




ctfy^ 




to*. 



^.Wilj., 



<A.y j/9>*^<z 



[«?] 



NATIONALITY AND SCIENTIFIC TITLES OF OUR 
BOARD OF SCIENTIFIC ASSESSORS 

Sir Michael Foster, M. D., K. C. B., F. R. S., M. P., etc 
Late Professor of Physiology, University of Cambridge, 
England; Secretary of the Royal Society; Permanent 
Honorary President of the International Congress of 
Physiologists, etc. 

Dr. Professor Angelo Mosso. Professor of Physiology, 
University of Turin, Italy; Director of the Regina Mar- 
gherita Biological Station on the summit of Monte Rosa, 
etc. 

Dr. Professor Hugo Kronecker. Professor of Physiol- 
ogy, University of Berne, Berne, Switzerland, etc. 

Dr. Professor N. Zuntz. Professor of Physiology, Berlin, 
Germany, etc. 

Dr. Professor Paul Heger. Professor of Physiology, 
Brussels, Belgium; Director of the Solvay Sociological 
Institute, Brussels. 

Dr. Professor A. Dastre. Professor of Physiology, Uni- 
versitie de la Sorbonne, Paris, France, etc. 

Dr. Professor Henry Pickering Bowditch, Professor 
of Physiology, Harvard Medical School ; Second Presi- 
dent American Physiological Society; President of the 
Children's Aid Society, Boston, Mass., etc. 

Professor Russell H. Chittenden. Director Sheffield 
Scientific School of Yale University ; Professor of Physi- 
ological Chemistry in Yale ; Present President of the 
American Physiological Society, etc. 

Dr. Professor William H. Welch. Professor of Pathol- 
ogy in Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland ; 
President of the Rockefeller Institute of Preventive Medi- 
cine, etc. 

Dr. Professor J. P. Pawlow. Director of the Depart- 
ment of Experimental Physiology in the Russian Imperial 
Military School of Medicine, etc. 

[68] 



PERSISTENT SCIENTIFIC DOUBTS 

[Notwithstanding the report of the Cambridge examina- 
tion of the claims for an economic nutrition advanced by the 
authors, American physiologists were still doubtful if a nitrog- 
enous economy like that reported could be maintained, and 
the writer was invited to submit to further tests at the Physi- 
ological Laboratory of Yale University, under direction of 
Professor Russell H. Chittenden, Director of the Sheffield 
Scientific School, and President of the American Physiologi- 
cal Society, and Dr. Lafayette B. Mendel. 

The following article, first published in the Popular 
Science Monthly, June, 1903, is a report of that test, and in- 
dicates a desire to carry the investigation further to include 
a variety of test-subjects. 

In response to Professor Chittenden's request, the Trus- 
tees of the Bache Fund of the National Academy of Sciences 
appropriated $1000 towards a more extended inquiry; and 
other means having been assured, a project of experiments 
was taken under consideration. 

One of the difficulties encountered was the control of 
test-subjects for a sufficiently long time to make conclusive 
estimates relative to the minimum needs of nitrogenous food 
in relation to the common occupations of life. Few if any 
volunteers, with the leisure and interest fortunately possessed 
by the writer, were available outside the laboratory force 
itself, and there were serious objections to using for test-sub- 
jects the same persons who did the chemical analyses and 
estimated the results. 

In this dilemma the good fortune of a meeting with Sur- 
geon-General O'Reilly of the United States Army and with 
General Leonard Wood — the former on his way to Madrid to 
attend a medical congress, and the latter en route to the 
Philippines to take command there — happened to the writer 
on the S. S. Commoftwealth, on a voyage to Italy in April, 

1903. 

[69] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Both these officers are medical men and research enthusi- 
asts. They had fought yellow fever together, in cooperation 
with martyr Dr. Major Walter Reed, in Cuba, and the fame 
of their success was being talked of as one of the great 
triumphs of pathologic, or hygienic, science at the time of 
the meeting. 

There was ample time on the steamer to discuss a sub- 
ject of such mutual and general interest, and both officers had 
had, in service, experiences that led them to believe that the 
results obtained by the writer and his colleagues were the 
common possibilities of all persons under right conditions of 
alimentation. 

General O'Reilly was of the opinion that the corps he com- 
manded could furnish intelligent and earnest teat-subjects for 
nutrition investigation, as it did in the yellow fever case. In 
the yellow fever investigation privates and officers alike had 
volunteered to act as test-subjects, even though their lives 
were at stake and many had already been sacrificed. It is 
to their great honour, also, that they refused to receive the 
bounty that was offered for test-subjects, preferring to serve 
science and humanity freely as volunteers rather than sell 
themselves as experimental risks. From such material Gen- 
eral O'Reilly was sure that capable assistants could be secured 
to test the not at all dangerous or disagreeable economies of 
nutrition that the projected inquiry wished to solve. 

Armed with letters of recommendation to the President 
and to the Secretary of War from General Wood, and an 
invitation from Surgeon-General O'Reilly to call on him if 
cooperation on his part were desired, the writer returned to 
the United States and consulted with Professors Chittenden 
and Bowditch relative to the desirability of army cooperation. 
It was believed to be just the thing wanted to facilitate the 
inquiry, and the writer proceeded to Washington to effect the 
combination. 

General O'Reilly had already had the matter under con- 
sideration and was quite ready to draw up a project for pres- 
entation to the Secretary of War when Mr. Root should 
return to Washington from his summer vacation. 

Twenty privates and three non-commissioned officers of 
the Hospital Corps of the United States Army under com- 
mand of Dr. Lieutenant Wallace De Witt are now quartered at 

[70] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

New Haven in cooperation with the staff of the Sheffield 
Scientific School. It is the intention to learn, if possible, how 
little nitrogen is necessary to secure the best human efficiency; 
and also, if possible, to ascertain some measure of the evil 
effects of an excess of nitrogenous food as well as excess of 
food in general upon human efficiency. 

The writer is grateful for the good fortune of being able to 
be of service in a development of interest in a subject which 
is of vital importance to the human race. He has enjoyed 
the benefits of an economic nutrition and knows its value. 

The practical proof of a subject of personal application must 
come from such personal application. Each person must be 
his own doctor and his own scientist in the matter of his ali- 
mentation or he runs the risk of running amuck in his health 
economy. There is not so much to learn, neither is there very 
much to do to insure right alimentation, perfect digestion, 
and continuous good health; but the little required of us 
must be attended to with no lapses of attention. — Horace 
Fletcher.] 



[71] 



PHYSIOLOGICAL ECONOMY IN 

NUTRITION 

By Russell H. Chittenden 

Director of tht Sheffield Scientific School of Yale University 

Among the many problems awaiting solu- 
tion, none is of greater importance for the 
welfare of the individual and of the race than 
that which relates to the proper nutrition of the 
body. Man eats to live and to gain strength 
for his daily work, and without sufficient nutri- 
ment the machinery of the body cannot be run 
smoothly or with proper efficiency. The taking 
of an excess of food, on the other hand, is just 
as harmful as insufficient nourishment, involving, 
as it does, not only wasteful expenditure but, 
what is even of greater moment, an expenditure 
of energy on the part of the body, which may in 
the long run prove disastrous. While it is the 
function of food to supply the material from 
which the body can derive the necessary energy 
for its varied activities, any excess of food over 
and above what is needed to make good the 
loss incidental to life and daily activity is just so 

[7«] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

much of an incubus, which is bound to detract 
from the smooth running of the machinery and 
to diminish the fitness of the body for perform- 
ing its normal functions. 

A proper physiological condition begets a 
moral, mental, and physical fitness which cannot 
be attained in any other way. Further, it must 
be remembered that lack of a proper physi- 
ological condition of the body is more broadly 
responsible for moral, social, mental, and phys- 
ical ills than any other factor that can be named. 
Poverty and vice on ultimate analysis may often 
be traced to a perversion of nutrition. A 
healthy state of the body is a necessary con- 
comitant of mental and moral vigour, as well as 
of physical strength. Abnormal methods of 
living are often the accompaniment or fore- 
runner of vicious tastes that might never have 
been developed under more strictly physiologi- 
cal conditions. Health, strength (mental and 
physical), and moral tone alike depend upon 
the proper fulfilment of the laws of nature, and 
it is the manifest duty of a people hoping for 
the fullest development of physical, mental, and 
moral strength to ascertain the character of 
these laws with a view to their proper observ- 
ance. Poverty, crime, physical ills, and a blunted 
or perverted moral sense are the penalties we 
may be called upon to pay for the disobedience 

[73] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

to Nature's laws ; penalties which not only we 
may have to pay, but which may be passed 
down to succeeding generations, thereby influ- 
encing the lives of those yet unborn. 

There is to-day great need for a thorough 
physiological study of those laws of nutrition 
which constitute the foundation of good living. 
It is a subject full of interest and promise for 
the sociologist and economist, as well as for the 
physiologist. We need a far more complete 
knowledge than we possess at present of the 
laws governing nutrition ; we need fuller knowl- 
edge of the methods by which the most com- 
plete satisfactory, and economical utilisation of 
the diet can be obtained; we need to know 
more concerning the minimum diet and the 
minimum amount of proteid or albuminous foods 
on which health, mental and physical vigour can 
be permanently maintained; we need to know 
more fully concerning the influence of various 
forms of food on growth and recuperative 
power ; we need more complete knowledge re- 
garding the rdle of various dietetic and digestive 
habits, fixed or acquired; the effects of thor- 
ough mastication, insalivation, and the influ- 
ence of two versus three meals a day upon the 
utilisation of food and hence upon the bodily 
health. Further, we need more concise infor- 
mation as to the effect of the mental state upon 

[74] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

digestion and nutrition. These and many other 
problems of a like nature confront us when we 
attempt to trace the influence of a proper nutri- 
tion upon the condition of the body. These 
problems, however, all admit of solution, and 
in their solution undoubtedly lies the remedy 
for many of the personal ills of mankind. 

The foregoing thoughts have been suggested 
by observations recently made in the writer's 
laboratory on the amount and character of the 
food actually required by a healthy man in the 
maintenance of bodily equilibrium in periods 
of rest and physical work. Our ideas at pres- 
ent are based primarily upon observations as to 
what civilised peoples are accustomed to do, 
and not upon what they need to do in order to 
meet the demands made upon the body. Sir 
William Roberts has well said that the palate is 
the dietetic conscience, but he adds that there 
are many misfit palates, and we may well query 
whether our dietetic consciences have not be- 
come generally perverted through a false mode 
of living. The well-nigh universal habit of 
catering to our appetite on all occasions, of bow- 
ing to the fancied dictates of our palates even 
to the extent of satiety, and without regard to 
the physiological needs of the body, may quite 
naturally have resulted in a false standard of 
living, in which we have departed widely from 

[IS] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the proper laws of nutrition. Statistical studies 
carried out on large groups of individuals by 
various physiologists have led to the general 
acceptance of dietary standards, such as those 
proposed by Voit, of Munich, and Atwater in 
this country. Thus the Voit diet for a man 
doing moderate work is 118 grams of proteid or 
albuminous food, 56 grams of fat, and 500 grams 
of carbohydrates, such as sugar and starch, with 
a total fuel value of 3,055 large calories or heat 
units per day. With hard work, Voit increases 
the daily requirement to 145 grams of proteid, 
160 grams of fat, and 450 grams of carbohy- 
drates, with a total fuel value of 3,370 large 
calories. Atwater, on the other hand, from his 
large number of observations, is inclined to 
place the daily proteid requirement at 125 
grams, with sufficient fat and carbohydrate to 
equal a total fuel value of 3,500 large calories 
for a man doing a moderate amount of work ; 
while for a man at hard work the daily diet is 
increased to 150 grams of proteid, and with fats 
and carbohydrates to yield a total fuel value of 
4,500 large calories. These standards are very 
generally accepted as being the requirement for 
the average individual under the given condi- 
tions of work, and it may be that these figures 
actually represent the daily needs of the body. 
Suppose, on the other hand, that we have in 

[76] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

these figures false standards, or, in other words, 
that the quantities of foodstuffs called for are 
altogether larger than the actual demands of 
the body require. In this case there is a posi- 
tive waste of valuable food material which we 
may calculate in dollars and cents ; a loss of in- 
come incurred daily which might be expended 
more profitably in other directions. To the 
wage-earner with a large family, who must of 
necessity husband his resources, there is in our 
hypothesis a suggestion of material gain not to 
be disregarded. The money thus saved might 
be expended for the education of the children, 
for the purchase of household treasures tending 
to elevate the moral and mental state of the 
occupants, or in many other ways that the imag- 
ination can easily supply. This kind of saving, 
however, is purely a question of economy, and 
in some strata of society would be objected to 
as indicative of a condition of sordidness. It 
has come to be a part of our personal pride to 
have a well-supplied table, and to eat largely 
and freely of the good things provided. The 
poorer man takes pride in furnishing his family 
with a diet rich in expensive articles of food, and 
imagines that by so doing he is inciting them to 
heartier consumption and to increased health and 
strength. He would be ashamed to save in this 
way, under the honest belief that by so doing he 

[77] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

might endanger the health of his dear ones. But 
let us suppose that this hypothetical waste of food 
is not merely uneconomical, that it is undesirable 
for other and weightier reasons. Indeed, let us 
suppose that this unnecessary consumption of 
food is distinctly harmful to the body, that it is 
physiologically uneconomical, and that in our 
efforts to maintain a high degree of efficiency 
we are in reality putting upon the machinery of 
the body a heavy and entirely uncalled-for strain, 
which is bound to prove more or less detrimen- 
tal. If there is truth in this assumption, our hy- 
pothesis takes on a deeper significance, and we 
may well inquire whether there are any reason- 
able grounds for doubting the accuracy of our 
present dietary standards. 

In this connection it is to be remembered 
that the food of mankind may be classified under 
three heads, viz., proteid or albuminous, such as 
meat, eggs, casein of milk, gluten of bread, and 
various vegetable proteids; carbohydrates, as 
sugar and the starches of our cereals, and fats, 
including those of both animal and vegetable 
origin. The proteids are characterised by con- 
taining nitrogen (about 16 per cent), while the 
fats and carbohydrates contain only carbon, hy- 
drogen, and oxygen. The two latter classes of 
foodstuffs are burned up in the body, when 
completely utilised, to carbonic acid (a gas) and 

[78] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

water, while the proteid foods, beside yielding 
carbonic acid and water, give off practically all 
of their nitrogen in the form of crystalline ni- 
trogenous products in the excreta of the body. 
Proteid foods have a particular function to 
perform, viz., to supply the waste of proteid 
matter from the active tissues of the body, and 
this function can be performed only by the 
proteid foods; hence the latter are essential 
foodstuffs without which the body cannot long 
survive. Fats and carbohydrates, on the other 
hand, are mainly of value for the energy they 
yield on oxidation, and in this connection it is 
to be remembered that the fuel value of fats per 
gram is much larger than that of carbohydrates, 
viz., 9.3 : 4.1, or more than twice as great. Fur- 
ther, it is to be noted that the various foodstuffs 
cannot be utilised directly by the body, but they 
must first be digested, then absorbed and as- 
similated, after which they gradually, in their 
changed form, undergo decomposition with lib- 
eration of their contained energy, which may 
manifest itself in the form of heat or of mechani- 
cal work. The thoroughness with which foods are 
digested and utilised in the body must therefore 
count for a great deal in determining their die* 
tetic or nutritive value. Moreover, it is easy to see 
how an excess of proteid food will give rise to 
a large proportion of nitrogenous waste matter, 

[79] 



"The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

which, floating through the system prior to 
excretion, may, by acting on the nervous system 
and other parts of the body, produce disagree- 
able results. A mere excess of food, even of 
the non-nitrogenous variety, must entail a large 
amount of unnecessary work, thereby using up 
a proportional amount of energy for its own dis- 
posal, since once introduced into the body it must 
be digested and absorbed, otherwise it under- 
goes fermentation and putrefaction in the stom- 
ach and intestines, causing countless troubles. 
When absorbed in quantities beyond the real 
needs of the body, it may be temporarily de- 
posited as fat; but why load up the system with 
unnecessary material, thereby interfering with 
the free running of the machinery? In other 
words, it is very evident that the taking in of 
food in quantities beyond the physiological re- 
quirements is undesirable, and may prove ex- 
ceedingly injurious. It is truly uneconomical, 
and defeats the very ends we aim to attain. 
Instead of adding to the bodily vigour and 
increasing the fitness of the organism to do its 
daily work, we are really hampering the delicate 
mechanism, upon the smooth running of which 
so much depends. 

Why, now, should we assume that a daily 
diet of over ioo grams of proteid, with fats and 
carbohydrates sufficient to make up a fuel value 

[so] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

of over 3,000 large calories, is a necessary req- 
uisite for bodily vigour and physical and mental 
fitness ? Mainly because of the supposition that 
true dietary standards may be learned by ob- 
serving the relative amounts of nutrients actually 
consumed by a large number of individuals so 
situated that the choice of food is unrestricted. 
But this does not constitute very sound evidence. 
It certainly is not above criticism. We may 
well ask ourselves whether man has yet learned 
wisdom with regard to himself, and whether his 
instincts or appetites are to be entirely trusted 
as safe guides to follow in the matter of his 
own nutrition. The experiments of Kumagawa, 
Siv6n, and other physiologists, have certainly 
shown that men may live and thrive, for a time 
at least, on amounts of proteid per day equal 
to only one-half and one-quarter the amount 
called for in the Voit standard. Siv^n's experi- 
ments, in particular, certainly indicate that the 
human organism can maintain itself in nitroge- 
nous equilibrium with far smaller amounts of 
proteid in the diet than is ordinarily taught, and, 
further, that this condition can be attained with- 
out unduly increasing the total calories of the 
food intake. Such investigations, however, have 
always called forth critical comment from writers 
on nutrition, indicating a reluctance to depart 
from the current doctrines of the Voit or Munich 
6 [81] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

school; and, indeed, it may justly be claimed 
that the ordinary nutrition experiments, extend- 
ing over short periods of time, are not entirely 
adequate to prove the effect of a given set of 
conditions when the latter are continued for 
months or years. Thus, Schafer writes: "It 
may be doubted whether a diet which includes 
considerably less proteid than ioo grams for the 
twenty-four hours could maintain a man of 
average size and weight for an indefinite time. 
It has frequently been asserted that many Asi- 
atics consume a very much smaller proportion 
of proteid than is the case with Europeans. 
The inhabitants of India, Japan, and China 
chiefly consume rice as the normal constituent 
of their diet, which contains relatively little pro- 
teid; and this has been advanced as an argu- 
ment in favour of the view that the minimal 
amount of proteid is much less than that ordi- 
narily given as essential to the maintenance of 
nutritive equilibrium. It must, however, be 
stated that we have no definite statistics to 
show that, in proportion to their body-weight, 
Asiatics doing the same amount of work as 
Europeans require a less amount of proteids; 
indeed such evidence as is forthcoming is rather 
in favor of the opposite view." This statement 
is typical of the attitude of physiologists in 
general on this important subject. Why not 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

candidly admit that the matter is in doubt, and, 
with a due recognition of the importance of the 
subject, attempt to ascertain the real truth of 
the matter? 

The writer has had in his laboratory for 
several months past a gentleman (H. F.) who 
has for some five years, in pursuit of a study of 
the subject of human nutrition, practised a cer- 
tain degree of abstinence in the taking of food 
and attained important economy with, as he be- 
lieves, great gain in bodily and mental vigour, 
and with marked improvement in his general 
health. Under his new method of living he finds 
himself possessed of a peculiar fitness for work 
of all kinds, and with freedom from the ordinary 
fatigue incidental to extra physical exertion. 
In using the word abstinence possibly a wrong 
impression is given, for the habits of life now 
followed have resulted in the disappearance of 
the ordinary craving for food. In other words, 
the gentleman in question fully satisfies his ap- 
petite, but no longer desires the amount of food 
consumed by most individuals. 

For a period of thirteen days, in January, 
he was under observation in the writer's labora- 
tory, his excretions being analysed daily with a 
view to ascertaining the exact amount of proteid 
consumed. The results showed that the average 
daily amount of proteid metabolised was 41.25 

[83] 



"The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

grams, the body-weight (165 pounds) remaining 
practically constant. Especially noteworthy, 
also, was the very complete utilisation of the 
proteid food during this period of observation. 
It will be observed here that the daily amount 
of proteid food taken was less than one half that 
of the minimum Voit standard, and it should also 
be mentioned that this apparent deficiency in 
proteid food was not made good by any large 
consumption of fats or carbohydrates. Further, 
there was no restriction in diet. On the con- 
trary, there was perfect freedom of choice, and 
the instructions given were to follow his usual 
dietetic habits. Analysis of the excretions 
showed an output of nitrogen equal to the 
breaking down of 41.25 grams of proteid per 
day as an average, the extremes being 33.06 
grams and 47.05 grams of proteid. 

In February a more thorough series of ob- 
servations was made, involving a careful analy- 
sis of the daily diet, together with analysis of 
the excreta, so that not alone the proteid con- 
sumption might be ascertained, but likewise the 
total intake of fats and carbohydrates. The 
diet consumed was quite simple, and consisted 
merely of a prepared cereal food, milk, and 
maple sugar. This diet was taken twice a day 
for seven days, and was selected by the subject 
as giving sufficient variety for his needs and 

[84] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

quite in accord with his taste. No attempt was 
made to conform to any given standard of quan- 
tity, but the subject took each day such amounts 
of the above foods as his appetite craved. Each 
portion taken, however, was carefully weighed 
in the laboratory, the chemical composition of 
the food determined, and the fuel value calcu- 
lated by the usual methods. 

The following table gives the daily intake of 
proteids, fats, and carbohydrates for six days, 
together with the calculated fuel value, and also 
the nitrogen intake, together with the nitrogen 
output through the excreta. Many other data 
were obtained showing diminished excretion of 
uric acid, ethereal sulphates, phosphoric acid, 
etc., but they need not be discussed here. 







Intake 


Output of Nitrogen 




Protdds 


Fats 


Carbohy 


Calories 


Nitrogen 


Urine 
Grams 

S27 
6.24 

553 
6.44 

6*3 

7.50 


Feces 


Total 


Feb 


. 2 

3 

4 

I 

7 


Grama 

48.0 
50.0 
47.0 

465 


Grams 

«5-3 
40.4 

38.x 

40.6 

39.8 


Grams 

I2C.4 

266.2 

283.O 

269.O 

267.O 

307-3 


1690 

X747 
17x1 

X737 
1852 


Grama 

5.02 

7.5O 

770 

8.00 

749 
7-44 


Grams 

0.l8 

0.8I* 

0.8l* 

0.81* 

0.8l* 

0.17 


Grams 

5-45 
7.05 
6.34 

7.25 
7.64 
7.67 


Daily 


Av. 


44-9 


38.0 


253° 


1606 


7.19 


6.30 


0.6b 


6.90 



•Average of the four days. 

The main things to be noted in these results 
are, first, that the total daily consumption of 
proteid amounted on an average to only 45 

[8S] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

grams, and that the fat and carbohydrate were 
taken in quantities only sufficient to bring the 
total fuel value of the daily food up to a little 
more than 1,600 large calories. If, however, we 
eliminate the first day, when for some reason 
the subject took an unusually small amount of 
food, these figures are increased somewhat, but 
they are ridiculously low compared with the 
ordinarily accepted dietary standards. When 
we recall that the Voit standard demands at 
least 1 1 8 grams of proteid and a total fuel value 
of 3,000 large calbries daily, we appreciate at 
once the full significance of the above figures. 
But it may be asked, was this diet at all adequate 
for the needs of the body — sufficient for a man 
weighing 165 pounds? In reply, it may be said 
that the appetite was satisfied, and that the sub- 
ject had full freedom to take more food if he so 
desired. To give a physiological answer, it 
may be said that the body-weight remained 
practically constant throughout the seven days' 
period, and further, it will be observed by com- 
paring the figures of the table that the nitrogen 
of the intake and the total nitrogen of the out- 
put were not far apart. In other words, there 
was a close approach to what the physiologist 
calls nitrogenous equilibrium. In fact, it will be 
noted that on several days the nitrogen output 
was slightly less than the nitrogen taken in. We 

[86] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

are, therefore, apparently justified in saying 
that the above diet, simple though it was in 
variety, and in quantity far below the usually 
accepted requirement, was quite adequate for 
the needs of the body. In this connection it 
may be asked, what were the needs of the body 
during this seven days' period? This is obvi- 
ously a very important point. Can a man on 
such a diet, even though it suffices to keep up 
body-weight and apparently also physiological 
equilibrium, do work to any extent? Will there 
be under such condition a proper degree of fit- 
ness for physical work of any kind ? In order 
to ascertain this point, the subject was invited 
to do physical work at the Yale University 
Gymnasium, and placed under the guidance of 
the director of the gymnasium, Dr. William G. 
Anderson. The results of the observations 
there made are here given, taken verbatim from 
Dr. Anderson's report to the writer. 

On the 4th, 5th, 6th, and 7th of February, 1903, 1 gave 
to Mr. Horace Fletcher the same kind of exercises we 
give to the Varsity Crew. They are drastic and fatiguing 
and cannot be done by beginners without soreness and 
pain resulting. The exercises he was asked to take were 
of a character to tax the heart and lungs, as well as to 
try the muscles of the limbs and trunk. I should not 
give these exercises to Freshmen on account of their 
severity. 

Mr. Fletcher has taken these movements with an ease 
that is unlooked for. He gives evidence of no soreness 

[87] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

or lameness, and the large groups of muscles respond 
the second day without evidence of being poisoned by 
Carbon dioxide. There is no evidence of distress after 
or during the endurance test, i. *., the long run. The 
heart is fast but regular. It comes back to its normal 
beat quicker than does the heart of other men of his 
weight and age. 

The case is unusual, and I am surprised that Mr. 
Fletcher can do the work of trained athletes and not give 
marked evidences of over-exertion. As I am in almost 
constant training I have gone over the same exercises, 
and in about the same way, and have given the results 
for a standard of comparison. [The figures are not 
given here.] 

My conclusion, given in condensed form, is this: 
Mr. Fletcher performs this work with greater ease and 
with fewer noticeable bad results than any man of his 
age and condition I have ever worked with. 

To appreciate the full significance of this 
report, it must be remembered that Mr. Fletcher 
had for several months past taken practically no 
exercise other than that involved in daily walks 
about town. 

In view of the strenuous work imposed dur- 
ing the above four days, it is quite evident that 
the body had need of a certain amount of nutri- 
tive material. Yet the work was done without 
apparently drawing upon any reserve the body 
may have possessed. The diet, small though it 
was, and with only half the accepted require- 
ment in fuel value, still sufficed to furnish the 
requisite energy. The work was accomplished 
with perfect ease, without strain, without the 

[88] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

usual resultant lameness, without taxing the 
heart or lungs, and without loss of body- 
weight. In other words, in Mr. Fletcher's case 
at least, the body machinery was kept in perfect 
fitness without the consumption of any such 
quantities of fuel as has generally been consid- 
ered necessary. 

Just here it may be instructive to observe 
that the food consumed by Mr. Fletcher during 
this seven days' period — and which has been 
shown to be entirely adequate for his bodily 
needs during strenuous activity — cost eleven 
cents daily, thus making the total cost for the 
seven days seventy-seven cents ! If we contrast 
this figure with the amounts generally paid for 
average nourishment for a like period of time, 
there is certainly food for serious thought. Mr. 
Fletcher avers that he has followed his present 
plan of living for nearly five years ; he usually 
takes two meals a day ; has been led to a strong 
liking for sugar and carbohydrates in general 
and away from a meat diet ; is always in perfect 
health, and is constantly in a condition of fit- 
ness for work. He practises thorough mastica- 
tion, with more complete insalivation of the food 
(liquid as well as solid) than is usual, thereby 
insuring more complete and ready digestion and 
a more thorough utilisation of the nutritive por- 
tions of the food. 

[«9] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

In view of these results, are we not justified 
in asking ourselves whether we have yet attained 
a clear comprehension of the real require- 
ments of the body in the matter of daily nutri- 
ment? Whether we fully comprehend the best 
and most economical method of maintaining the 
body in a state of physiological fitness? The 
case of Mr. Fletcher, just described ; the results 
noted in connection with certain Asiatic peoples ; 
the fruitarians and ««/arians in our own country 
recently studied by Professor Jaffa, of the Uni- 
versity of California ; all suggest the possibility 
of much greater physiological economy than we 
as a race are wont to practise. If these are 
merely exceptional cases, we need to know it ; 
but if, on the other hand, it is possible for man- 
kind in general to maintain proper nutritive 
conditions on dietary standards far below those 
now accepted as necessary, it is time for us to 
ascertain that fact. For, if our standards are 
now unnecessarily high, then surely we are not 
only practising an uneconomical method of sus- 
taining life, but we are subjecting ourselves to 
conditions the reverse of physiological, and 
which must of necessity be inimical to our well- 
being. The possibility of more scientific knowl- 
edge of the natural requirements of a healthy 
nutrition is made brighter by the fact that the 
economic results noted in connection with our 

L90] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

metabolism examination of Mr. Fletcher is con- 
firmatory of similar results obtained under the 
direction and scrutiny of Sir Michael Foster at 
the University of Cambridge, England, during 
the autumn and winter of last year ; and by Dr. 
Ernest Van Someren, Mr. Fletcher's collabora- 
tes, in Venice, on subjects of various ages and 
of both sexes, some account of which has already 
been presented to the British Medical Associa- 
tion and to the International Congress of Phys- 
iologists at its last meeting at Turin, Italy. At 
the same time emphasis must be laid upon the 
fact that no definite and positive conclusions 
can be arrived at, except as the result of careful 
experiments and observations on many individ- 
uals covering long periods of time. This, how- 
ever, the writer hopes to do in the very near 
future, with the cooperation of a corps of inter- 
ested observers. 

The problem is far-reaching. It involves not 
alone the individual, but society as a whole, for 
beyond the individual lies the broader field of 
the community, and what proves helpful for the 
one will eventually react for the betterment of 
society, and for the improvement of mankind in 
general. 



[91] 



INTRODUCTION TO DR. HARRY CAMPBELL'S 

CONTRIBUTION ON THE IMPORTANCE 

OF MASTICATION 

[Since the publication of Van Someren's paper, " Was Loigi 
Cornaro Right?", read before the British Medical Associa- 
tion, and reprinted elsewhere in this volume, much more 
attention has been given to the study of mastication than had 
been previously reported. Mr. Gladstone's advice to his chil- 
dren, which was commonly current and was repeated when- 
ever mastication was mentioned, was usually accompanied and 
met by an amused smile that showed that the full importance 
of better mouth-treatment of food was not appreciated. Glut- 
ton or Epicure, a little book by the present writer, published 
in 1898, insisted on thorough use of the functions of the mouth 
in alimentation but did not go into the anatomical, physiologi- 
cal and dental details. 

Dr. Harry Campbell of Northwest London Hospital has per- 
formed this latter service to science and humanity, with splen- 
did carefulness, and must have devoted much time and study 
to the collection of evidence and suggestion which is given 
here following in full, reprinted from the London Lancet. 

The authors acknowledge with much gratitude, the court- 
eous permission of both Dr. Campbell and of the editor of the 
Lancet, to reprint all four articles which composed the series. 

In our own study of the subject of mouth-treatment of food 
we have been led to give more credit to the chemical feature 
of preparation than Dr. Campbell yet attributes to the chemi- 
cal side of the problem. Comminution of hard food is of 
first importance, undoubtedly, but insalivation and neutralisa- 
tion or alkalinisation are, seemingly, much more easily and 
quickly accomplished in the mouth than farther on in the 
alimentary canal. The intestines can do all in the way of 
digestion, even if the mouth and stomach are passed and their 
assistance in the digestive process is entirely neglected, but it 
is done at tremendous disadvantage in the supplementary 
digestive tract of the intestines. We have proven the econ- 

[9»] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

omy of letting the mouth do all it can, by the insalivation 
(sipping and tasting) of liquids that have taste up to the point 
of compulsory swallowing (a sucking-up by the Swallowing 
Impulse which naturally occurs in the course of treatment 
in the mouth if not fought against too strongly). If Dr. 
Campbell will extend his observations to liquids, say milk, 
and for a sufficiently long time to measure results by con- 
tinued economy of assimilation and saving of solid excreta, he 
will find that it pays to let the mouth do all it can do, and that 
while it cannot do too much it may do too little. The natural 
instincts of the mouth, or those that attach to the mouth, 
become much more discriminating also if exercised on liquids 
as well as on solids. This they do not learn to do so well 
if sapid liquids are habitually rushed past their field of 
discrimination. 

Taste enjoyed in the mouth is good, and a good part of the 
pleasure of living comes from taste gratification, but taste that 
returns from the stomach and is belched by eructation or is 
lingeringly reminiscent in the mouth or nose is indicative of 
indigestion. 

• Hence it is better to dissipate taste in the mouth, which is 
the sole region of taste. Spirits tasted into absorption in this 
way leave no odour upon the breath, and asparagus munched 
and tasted to the limit in the mouth, carries no odour to the 
urine. Even the stale and disagreeable odour of onion or 
garlic can be neutralised by saliva and killed in the mouth. 

It is extremely difficult to get observers to practise tasting 
taste out of liquids as the wine tasters do, and as the tea 
tasters have to do or die; or, at least, become useless in their 
profession. Once the efficacy of the liquid-tasting precaution 
in digestion is understood, however, to swallow anything but 
pure water without tasting it into absorption produces a shock. 
This care becomes instinctive quite easily and regulates itself 
automatically. It is also a distinct gain to the gustatory pos- 
sibilities, which are very limited at best. 

When the body will tolerate spirits tasted into it — not 
poured into it — at all, which is not often when the nutrition 
is normal (only in damp or cold weather, as a general thing, 
and then in the case of the writer only at rare intervals, say 
two or three times a year), the spirit will mix quickly with the 
saliva and become neutralised sufficiently to excite the Swat 

[93] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

lowing Impulse. Continue tipping the spirit for a time and 
you will note that there comes a point where the saliva and 
the spirit do not mix, do not neutralise ; the mouth becomes 
unduely full of liquid without any relaxation or invitation of 
the Swallowing Impulse; and the really instinctive inclina- 
tion will be to spit it out. It is a clear indication that the 
body-teUratum has been fully taxed; there is no longer any 
bodily need for alcohol — in fact, there is no longer natural 
toleration — and the secretion sent down into the mouth is 
evidently mucous for a washing-out process, and is not alka- 
line saliva for assisting in a utilisation function. 

It is quite uncanny to observe the nicety of mouth-discrimi- 
nation and the consistency of it as related to similar substances 
under similar conditions, if one learn to read it with precision 
and intelligence. 

With increased ease of digestion, which comes with more 
thorough attention to solid foods alone, the ordinary observer 
will think that he has accomplished the whole of the possible 
benefit It is only when he gives sufficient time to liquids 
also, to get the added delight and relief that salivary respect 
of them brings, that the whole of the beneficence of mouth- 
service is realised. Follow this discrimination and care to a 
comparative measurement of the waste of digestion, the solid 
excreta, and note the increased proportionate gain in assimi- 
lation and the value of the economy will be appreciated. Try 
the different treatments on milk for a month; fifteen days 
with drinking and fifteen days insalivating (sipping and tasting) 
the milk to the limit, and keep account of quantity of intake 
required to satisfy appetite and maintain body-weight; and 
also note carefully the condition and quantity of the faces. 
In the one case you will find the waste to he facts indeed, and 
unmistakably worthy of the name ; but in the case of sipping, 
tasting and insalivating the milk to the full satisfaction of the 
appetite, the digestion-ash will assume quite a different amount 
and character and deserve a change of name. The propor- 
tions of the saving in our own experiments have approximated 
the difference between three and ten ; that is, on a reduction 
of only one-third the quantity of food commonly Ingested, 
but fully satisfying the sipping and tasting appetite, the quan- 
tity of solid excreta was only one-tenth of the other and of 
quite a different character, aesthetically considered. 

[94] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

While these suggestions do not discredit or affect the value 
of the purely mechanical side of the treatment as given by Dr. 
Campbell, and are not intended to be controversial, they are 
ventured as an amendment to be worked out in regard to 
liquids, which are, in fact, only an extreme of the pultaceous 
foods against which Dr. Campbell warns us as being subtly 
dangerous. 

There is another point in our experiences and observations 
of the largest importance that may appropriately be intro- 
duced here : The treatment of all liquids in the manner sug- 
gested prevents intemperance of drinking as effectively as it 
does intemperance of eating. . 

When food is filtered into the body after having become 
liquified and made alkaline, or, at least neutral, by saliva, the 
appetite is given a chance to measure the needs of the body 
and to discriminate against excess. As soon as the point of 
complete saturation of any one deficiency is reached, the 
appetite is cut off, as short as possible to imagine, with no 
indication of stomach fullness. It will welcome a little of 
proteid in beans, cheese, eggs, or in some other of its richer 
forms, and then turn to sugar or fat in some of their numer- 
ous forms. Thirst for water will assert itself for a moment, 
sometimes asking but for a drop and again for a full glass, 
and afterwards, when near the point of complete saturation, 
appetite will hesitate for a moment, as if searching around 
for some rare substance, and may find its final satisfaction in 
a single spoonful of a sweet or a sip of something in sight. 

The appetite satisfied by the infiltering process is a sweetly 
appeased appetite, calm, rested, contented, normal. There 
is no danger from the flooding of intemperance, for there is 
not even toleration of excess either of more food or of more 
drink, and this contented appetite will remain in the condition 
of contentment until another need has really been earned by 
evaporation or destructive katabolism. 

In the teaching of this physiology and psychology of ali- 
mentation to the children of England, lies the only true solu- 
tion of the drink question, which is now the curse of the 
nation. 

Dr. Campbell has made such a splendid case for the mechan- 
ical side of mouth work, that it is the hope of the writer that 
he will give equally careful consideration to the chemical and 

[95] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

psychological sides, and in a completeness of observation 
render inestimable service to his country, to science, and 
humanity. A decade of trial on the inmates of an infant 
orphan asylum will show the possibilities for the nation in a 
single generation, if broadly applied. It might lead to an 
effective intemperance, inhibition, or quarantine, and that is 
all any nation needs of advantage to make it independent of 
the world and truly great. — Horace Fletcher.] 



OBSERVATIONS ON MASTICATION 

By Harry Campbell, M.D., F.R.C.P. (Lond.) 

Physician to the Northwest London Hospital 
[Loudon Lancet, July u, i8, 15, and August 8, 1909] 

Section I. From London. Lancet, July 11, 190s 

The Effects of Mastication 

The primary object of mastication is to 
break up the food so as (i) to facilitate the 
swallowing of it, and (2), still more important, 
to insure its intimate admixture with the diges- 
tive juices, not only within the mouth, but 
throughout the entire digestive tract. Masti- 
cation has, however, other important and far- 
reaching effects. Thus it promotes the flow of 
saliva and, when properly performed, secures a 
due insalivation of the food; it increases the 
quantity of alkaline saliva passing into the stom- 
ach; it stimulates the heart and circulation; 
and it finally influences the nutrition of the jaws 
and their appendages by stimulating the local 

[96] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

blood and lymph circulation. Now to consider 
these various objects and effects of mastication. 

Mastication facilitates swallowing. — Many 
foods cannot be swallowed without first going 
through some preparation in the mouth. Soft, 
moist, pultaceous foods, such as milk pudding 
and porridge, can be and often, indeed, are swal- 
lowed with little or no preliminary chewing. On 
the other hand, it is a mechanical impossibility 
to swallow large lumps of tough food, or very 
dry food, even though, like flour, it be in a finely 
divided state. Dry food needs first to be well 
moistened ; and it is not surprising that it pro- 
motes a more abundant flow of saliva than moist 
food, though the secretion thus excited may be 
poor in ferment. Hence it follows that if we 
desire to give foods which compel mastication, 
they should be tough or dry. On the whole, 
vegetable foods necessitate more thorough masti- 
cation than animal. The carnivora can scarcely 
be said to masticate at all the flesh which they 
consume; they simply tear off portions, and 
forthwith swallow them whole. Cooked flesh, 
however, does require mastication, owing to the 
coagulation of its proteids. The herbivora, on 
the other hand, unlike the carnivora, have to 
subject their food to considerable mastication 
before it can be swallowed ; but they generally 
masticate it far more than is needful to render 

7 [97] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

swallowing mechanically possible, as is exempli- 
fied in the act of rumination, the object here 
being to facilitate the admixture of the digestive 
juices with the food. 

According to Van Someren, if the habit of 
masticating efficiently is once acquired, the food 
is not swallowed before it is converted into the 
liquid state, the swallowing of unmasticated 
lumps being effectually prevented by a pharyn- 
geal reflex. 

Mastication, by breaking the food up into small 
particles, enables it to be brought into intimate con- 
tact with the digestive juices. — Such comminu- 
tion is especially needful in the case of raw 
vegetable foods of the tougher kind, in order to 
break up their cellulose framework, and to set 
free the contained starch, proteids, and fats. 
Foods of this kind, unless masticated, yield prac- 
tically no nutriment to the organism. I cannot 
too strongly emphasise the fact that before man 
learned to break up the cellulose framework of 
his vegetable food by cooking he was compelled 
to subject it to laborious mastication. But, while 
thorough comminution is especially needed for 
vegetable food when raw, it is also needed for 
many cooked forms of it also, — as, for exam- 
ple, solid batter pudding and new underbaked 
bread, heavy lumps of which, passing into the 
stomach, may seriously hamper the work of that 

[98] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

organ. Such substances are indigestible essen- 
tially by virtue of their impermeability to the 
digestive juices, and they gain in digestibility in 
proportion as they are comminuted. The indi- 
gestibility of new bread would appear to be 
wholly due, not to any peculiarity of chemical 
composition, but to its tendency to elude the 
teeth and form a sodden mass impermeable to 
the digestive juices, while the more powdery 
stale bread is more easily broken up both in 
the mouth and within the stomach. Cabbage, 
again, owes its indigestibility to the fact that it 
is allowed to pass into the stomach in large 
masses, while the well-known digestibility of 
cauliflower and minced spinach is due to the fine- 
ness of their division; were cabbage as finely 
minced as spinach usually is it would be equally 
digestible. 

Turning now to animal food it has to be re- 
marked that while in the raw state it may be 
readily digestible with little or no previous mas- 
tication, since massive pieces of it are readily 
attacked by the digestive juices, the like is 
much less true of animal food the proteids of 
which have been coagulated and rendered less 
permeable by cooking. Large lumps of hard- 
boiled egg or overdone meat, for instance, may 
obstinately resist gastric digestion; indeed, as 
with vegetable so with animal foods, their rela- 

[99] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

tive digestibility depends more upon physical 
consistence than chemical composition ; beef is 
generally more indigestible than mutton and 
pork or veal than either, not so much by virtue 
of chemical composition as of physical consist- 
ence; the indigestibility of cheese illustrates 
the same truth; the individual nutritive ingre- 
dients of this substance — the proteids and fats 
— are not in themselves indigestible ; casein in 
the form of protein or plasmon is known to be 
easy of digestion, and butter is one of the most 
digestible of fats; but in cheese the two are 
welded together into a comparatively imperme- 
able mass, which is apt to escape comminution 
by the teeth and to pass down into the stomach 
in the form of solid lumps. A plain, wholesome 
cheese well masticated or intimately mixed with 
other foods, as in macaroni cheese, is quite 
easily digested by the majority. 

I do not, of course, deny the influence of 
the chemical factor. Undoubtedly food may 
disturb digestion by virtue of its chemical com- 
position, apart altogether from its physical char- 
acters; thus, while cooked goose-fat sets up 
violent irritation in some, others cannot tolerate 
eggs in any shape or form, and innumerable 
idiosyncrasies in respect of special articles of 
diet are met with which are essentially referable 
to chemical composition; but making due al- 

[ioo] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

lowance for this chemical influence there can, I 
think, be little doubt that the digestibility of the 
more common articles of diet, both animal and 
vegetable, depends in the main upon their phy- 
sical constitution, all of them tending to be 
equally digestible when reduced to the same de- 
gree of comminution. This, if true, is, I need 
scarcely say, a fact of the greatest practical im- 
portance, for it amounts to this: that we may 
often allow to those with very weak digestions 
foods which are generally considered indigestible, 
provided that they be thoroughly comminuted, 
whether by mastication or artificial means. 

Mastication promotes the flow of saliva and the 
insalivation of the food — The more efficiently 
food is masticated the greater is the salivary flow, 
and the more intimately is it mixed with the 
saliva, or, as we say, insalivated. The saliva 
has apparently no effect on fats ; whether it acts 
on proteids seems more doubtful, though by 
some authorities the penetration of these by the 
alkali of this fluid is said to aid in their subse- 
quent digestion ; on starch, however, the saliva 
acts very potently, and hence mastication plays 
a special part in promoting the digestion of 
starchy foods. Indeed, if only mastication be 
persisted in long enough, starch may be wholly 
converted into maltose within the mouth, and it 
need scarcely be said that it is better for the 

[101] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

individual himself to manufacture his maltose in 
this way than that he should take it ready made 
for him in the form of one of the many " malt 
extracts" on the market. Patients are often 
forbidden starchy food, while they are allowed 
the maltose which they can quite well manufac- 
ture in their own mouths. Provided they be 
sufficiently insalivated, there are few starchy 
foods which are indigestible, not even excepting 
the proverbially indigestible new potato. These 
remarks are especially applicable to children, as 
will be more particularly insisted on later. 

Mastication increases the amount of alkaline 
saliva passing into the stomachy and this not only 
prolongs the period of starch digestion within 
this organ but, by its influence upon the reaction 
of the gastric contents, influences all the diges- 
tive processes taking place there. I shall have 
occasion to point out later that a deficient supply 
of alkaline saliva in the stomach predisposes to 
certain forms of indigestion. 

Mastication acts reflexly upon the stomach. — 
It is now known that the act of mastication 
influences the stomach reflexly, promoting the 
flow of gastric juice and thus preparing the stom- 
ach for the entrance of food into it. If the 
oesophagus of a dog is cut so as to allow the 
swallowed food to escape instead of passing into 
the stomach, it is found that the mastication of 

[102] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

food causes a considerable flow of gastric juice. 
Food introduced into the stomach unaccom- 
panied by mastication is less effective in promot- 
ing the gastric flow. It is probable that the 
influence of mastication on the flow of gastric 
juice is largely produced through the medium 
of psychic influences, for the more efficient 
the mastication the more is the sense of taste 
affected. 

Mastication stimulates the heart and so pro- 
motes the general circulation. — This stimulating 
action may be partly due to its local action on 
the flow of blood and lymph in the jaws and 
accessory parts, and partly to a reflex influence, 
but whatever the explanation there can be no 
doubt of the fact. Hence the mere chewing of 
a non-nutritive substance, such as gum arabic, 
is stimulating, and, doubtless, the stimulating 
effects induced by the chewing of such articles 
as tobacco and betel are largely to be explained 
in this way. 

The Influence of Mastication on the 
Jaws and Adjacent Structures 

This subject is of such importance that it 
needs to be dealt with in some detail. By 
" adjacent structures" I mean the masticatory 
muscles, tongue, teeth, salivary glands, the nasal 

[103] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

passages and sinuses pertaining thereto, the 
naso-pharynx, soft palate, and tonsils. 

The muscles of mastication. — Let me at 
the outset draw attention to certain anatomical 
points, in connection with the muscles of masti- 
cation. These are (a) their massi veness ; (£) 
the very close relation of the pterygoids to the 
naso-pharynx ; and (c) the outward direction of 
the pterygoids. 

(a) It is not until one studies the muscles 
of mastication closely that one comes to realise 
their massiveness. Their large size, in relation 
to the bony structures in connection with them, 
is well shown in a vertical transverse section of 
the head carried through the ascending ramus 
of the mandible 1 (see Fig. i). It is evident 
that the functional activity of so large a mass 
of muscle tissue cannot but exercise consider- 
able influence on the nutrition of the neighbour- 
ing parts. 

(d) The pterygoid muscles, springing as 
they do from the internal pterygoid plates, must 
necessarily be in close relation with the naso- 
pharynx, especially the internal pair, which 
take their origin from the internal aspect of the 
internal plates. I would further point out that 
the external pair, although they diverge from 

i Dental surgeons now speak of the upper jaw as the max- 
illa, and of the lower jaw as the mandible. 

[ IQ 4 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 






Int. 
pterygoid. 



Epiglottis. 



PiOVU i. — Vertical tnoarme (slightly obBqme) section through 
the head on * lerel with the epiglottis. The massiTensss of the 
■jstem of masticatory muscles is apparent. 



[«5l 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the nasopharynx on their way to the mandib- 
ular condyles, yet remain on a level with that 
cavity. This close relation of the pterygoids 
to the naso-pharynx is, if I mistake not, of 
great importance in relation to the etiology 
of " adenoids." 

(c) Of the two pairs of pterygoids the ex- 
ternal pair pass in the more outward direction, 
forming with the sagittal plane of the head 
an angle of 45° (see Figs. 1 and 2). In con- 
sequence of this direction they tend by their 
contraction to pull the pterygoid plates and 
posterior parts of the maxilla away from the 
sagittal plane of the head, and thus to secure 
the normal width of the posterior nares. It 
is these muscles which bring about the lateral 
movements of the mandible, causing the lower 
teeth to move laterally and sagitally across the 
upper, the food being in this way far more ef- 
fectually ground than by a mere vertical pres- 
sure of the teeth against one another. These 
lateral movements are, as we shall see, less 
pronounced among the moderns than among 
primitive peoples. 

The influence of the contraction of the masti- 
catory muscles on the local circulation of blood and 

lymph. — When a muscle is at rest the blood 

[106] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 



palali. palati. pterygoid. 

FiOUM a. — Portion of horizontal section of heitl ahout in inch 
below the condyles of the lower Jaw. The outward direction of 
the external pterygoid! is well shown ; also the doae relation of 
the IcTatcra and teutons palati with Ihe internal pterygoids. 



t«7] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

flows sluggishly through it, while there is a com- 
plete, or all but complete, stagnation of the lymph 
current ; if a lymphatic trunk of a limb at rest 
be cut no lymph escapes from it. Rhythmic 
muscle contractions, however, stimulate the flow 
both of blood and lymph (a), in the contracting 
muscles themselves and (b) in the neighbouring 
parts, (a) Not only are the muscle arteries 
dilated during rhythmic contractions, but the 
blood is vigorously squirted out of the muscle 
veins, so that much more blood flows through 
a muscle during its rhythmic contraction than 
during rest The flow of lymph is even more 
markedly stimulated, — this fluid, which, while the 
muscle is at rest, is stagnant or all but so, being 
during contraction driven actively along the 
lymphatic trunks. (£) How greatly rhythmic 
muscle contractions influence the circulation of 
fluids in the neighbouring parts is shown by the 
flushing of the skin and the swelling of the soft 
parts generally of a limb which is being exer- 
cised. We thus see how profoundly the exer- 
cise of the masticatory muscles — and among 
these we must not forget to include the tongue 
— influences not only their own nutrition but 
that of the important structures adjacent to 
them — that is to say, of the jaw-bones, salivary 
glands, buccal mucous membrane, soft palate, 
faucial tonsils, pharynx, and naso-pharynx, as 

[108] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

well as of the nasal cavities and their accessory 
sinuses. All these parts are during mastication 
copiously flushed with blood and lymph, from 
which it is evident that efficient mastication 
must stimulate their nutrition and favour their 
proper development. Hence, in one who has 
from childhood upwards been accustomed to 
masticate efficiently, we generally find these parts 
well developed, the jaws large and shapely, the 
teeth regular and straight, the tongue and sali- 
vary glands large, the nasal and naso-pharyngeal 
passages spacious, and the mucous membrane 
of the buccal and adjoining cavities healthy. 

Influence of mastication on the jaw-bones. — 
It is well known that the size of a bone is largely 
determined by the degree to which the muscles 
attached to it are exercised. That the jaws do 
not grow to their normal size, if not adequately 
exercised during their period of growth, is strik- 
ingly shown by the overcrowding of the teeth, 
which takes place in those brought up on soft 
foods, and this even though there be no contrac- 
tion of the jaws resulting from mouth-breathing. 
The dependence of the size of the jaws upon 
the degree to which they are exercised is also 
shown by the smallness of the modern jaw, as 
compared with that of primitive peoples, a dif- 
ference which, as we shall see, is in part con- 
genital and in part due to the comparative 

[109] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

disuse of the former. Mastication influences not 
only the size but also the shape of the jaws (a), 
through its influence on the size of the tongue, 
which by pressing against the teeth tends, as 
Sim Wallace has shown, to expand the jaws; 
(£) by the pressure of opposing teeth against 
one another, which has a similar effect; and 
(f) by the outward pull of the pterygoids, which 
tends to widen the maxilla posteriorly and to 
broaden the posterior nares. 

Influence of mastication on the teeth. — The 
teeth being developed within the jaw-bones and 
remaining, even after eruption, in close anatom- 
ical and physiological association with them, 
must necessarily share in their nutritive ten- 
dencies. If these bones are efficiently exercised 
during the formation of the teeth — and my re- 
marks apply especially to the permanent set — 
the tooth-germs will be abundantly flushed with 
blood, while the ample growth of the jaws them- 
selves will provide the germs with plenty of room 
in which to grow and to develop, and the more 
perfect their growth and development the more 
resistant should we expect them to be to the 
ravages of caries. Who can contemplate the 
jaw-bones of a six-years-old child, dissected so 
as to display all the imbedded teeth, without 
being assured of the effect of mastication upon 
dental development? Fifty-two teeth meet the 

[no] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

view : the whole region from the orbital rims to 
the inferior border of the mandible is literally 
paved with them, and I can hardly doubt that 
they collectively weigh more than the bone in 
which they are imbedded. Surely no one can 
examine such a dissection without being con- 
vinced of the urgent necessity, if the teeth are 
to grow and to develop normally, of giving the 
child's jaws from infancy onwards plenty of 
work to do. 

The ample development of the jaws, which 
efficient mastication brings about, has a further 
beneficial effect as regards the teeth, in that it 
enables them to take up their proper places in 
the alveolar ridges, thus securing all the advan- 
tages of a good " bite." These I now proceed 
to consider. The teeth during mastication, and 
especially when the bite is good and the food 
of a kind necessitating vigorous and sustained 
mastication, are made to move in their sockets 
both vertically and horizontally; the effect of 
this is to stimulate the circulation in the tooth- 
pulp, the alveolar periosteum (and hence also 
in the cementum and alveolar walls which are 
supplied by it), and the circumjacent mucous 
membrane of the gum. All this makes for the 
health of the teeth; not only does it promote 
the nutrition of the tooth itself and of its bony 
socket, thus maintaining a firm dental setting, 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

but it also tends to secure a healthy environ- 
ment for the exposed part of the tooth — that 
part, namely, wherein caries begins — by main- 
taining a healthy state of the surrounding and, 
indeed, of the entire buccal mucous membrane, 
as well as of the various secretions which bathe 
the mouth. Wherefore it is not surprising to 
find that those who masticate efficiently suffer 
much less from dental caries and its complica- 
tions (such as abscess at the root) and disease 
of the periodontal membrane (e.g-> pyorrhoea 
alveolaris and loosening of the teeth) than those 
who are accustomed to bolt their food. 

A few words as to the influence of mastica- 
tion in wearing down the teeth. In those races 
which masticate vigorously the teeth in quite 
early adult life show signs of wearing away, 
while in later life it is quite common for the 
biting surfaces to be worn flat; sometimes the 
crown of the molars is worn away so that its 
surface shelves downwards and inwards and not 
infrequently it is concave, having a scooped-out 
appearance; often the dentine is exposed in 
this way; and yet among many hundreds of 
skulls examined I do not remember to have 
seen one single case where caries has started 
on the biting surface thus worn down. 

I had always attributed this wearing down of 
the teeth to the friction of coarse food against 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

them. Primitive races eat coarse vegetable food, 
which frequently contains grit, and this doubt- 
less helps to grind the teeth down, but they 
may be markedly ground down even in those 
living on soft food, and in such cases the grind- 
ing away can obviously only be due to the fric- 
tion of opposing teeth against one another. I, 
indeed, believe this to be the essential cause of 
the phenomenon, both in civilised races living 
on soft food and in primitive races whose coarse 
food necessitates prolonged and vigorous masti- 
cation and a corresponding amount of attrition 
between the biting surfaces of opposing teeth. 
In order that this attrition may occur two things 
are requisite : the upper and lower teeth must 
be well opposed — there must be a good bite — 
and mastication must be vigorous and of the 
right kind. Mere vertical pressure of the teeth 
against one another will not wear away the op- 
posing surfaces ; there must be friction of these 
surfaces against one another — a transverse and 
sagittal movement of the lower teeth against the 
upper by means of the pterygoids. Mainly to 
this do I attribute the marked wearing down of 
the teeth observed in primitive peoples, and I 
am gratified to know that so competent an 
authority on dental pathology as Sim Wallace 
is a convert to this view. 

That all the teeth may be worn down just as 

8 [»3] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

we observe in primitive people, even in those 
who have lived all their lives on the ordinary 
fare of the moderns, is proved by a case I have 
under observation. It is that of a man in his 
fiftieth year, who was brought up in Belgium 
but who has resided in London for the last 
thirty years. When he came to my out-patient 
room I was not a little surprised to find that all 
his teeth were sound — a very unusual occur- 
rence, I need hardly say, among the London 
poor at his age. In seeking for an explanation 
I elicited the fact that he was unable to swallow 
his food without chewing it very thoroughly, 
and on giving him a moderate-sized piece of 
bread, with the request that he should chew it 
in the ordinary way, I found that he subjected 
it to one hundred and twenty separate bites be- 
fore swallowing it, and in the steady, deliberate 
way he went to work and in his extensive lateral 
movements of the mandible he reminded one 
for all the world of a cow chewing its cud. The 
temporals and masseters of this man are enor- 
mous, and the like is no doubt true of the ptery- 
goids ; he has well-developed nasal passages, has 
never suffered from nasal obstruction, while his 
buccal mucous membrane is unusually healthy 
for one of his years and circumstances. May 
we not attribute this healthy state of the mouth, 
teeth, and nose to the good effects upon them 

[»4] 



k 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

of efficient chewing? Here is a man who has 
lived for thirty years in London on the same 
kind of food as the average poor Londoner, but 
instead of finding his mouth full of carious, tar- 
tar-coated teeth, and spongy, receding, pus- 
exuding gums, we find thirty-two sound teeth 
firmly set in healthy gums and all but devoid 
of tartar. 

A word as to the wearing down of the teeth 
in the anthropoid apes. In this respect the 
gorilla differs markedly from the orang and the 
chimpanzee. In all the skulls of these latter 
which I have examined the teeth show signs of 
wearing away, while I have found the teeth of 
the gorilla, with the exception of the tusk-like 
canines, but little worn. From this we should 
expect the latter animal to be mainly carnivo- 
rous, and the orang and chimpanzee to be largely 
herbivorous. 



Section II. From Ltndon Lancet, July 18, 1903 

Changes which the Jaws and Teeth of 
Man have undergone during Man's 
Evolution from his Anthro- 
poid Ancestors 

During man's progress upwards from the 
anthropoid his diet has undergone a progressive 
change, and a parallel adaptation has taken place 

[»5] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

in his jaws and teeth. Dietetically considered, 
we may divide his evolutionary career into the 
following epochs 1 : (i) the anthropoid stage; 
(2) the pre-cooking human stage; (3) the cook- 
ing pre-agricultural stage; (4) the early agri- 
cultural stage; and (5) the late agricultural 
stage. 

1 . The anthropoid stage. — The diet of man's 
anthropoid ancestors was probably much the 
same as is that of existing anthropoid apes ; it 
consisted, namely, of raw vegetable and animal 
food, necessitating a vigorous use of the max- 
illary apparatus. This latter, we may assume, 
was of the type belonging to the anthropoids — 
i. *., the jaws were massive and markedly prog- 
nathic ; the denture was the same as it is in ex- 
isting man, but the teeth were larger, especially 
the upper canines, which served as weapons of 
offence and defence ; the third molars (the wis- 
dom teeth) were as large as the other molars 
and were provided with three fangs, and there 
was an ample portion of alveolar ridge behind 
them ; there was no chin. No doubt the mas- 
siveness and the marked prognathism, which 
characterised the jaws at this stage, served other 
ends than that of mastication ; it is obvious that 
projecting jaws and teeth are much more effec- 

1 This subject I am obliged to deal with very briefly, and 
am compelled to omit the reasons for my conclusions. 

[n6] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

tual for seizing and lacerating prey than are the 
orthognathic jaws of modern man. 

2. The pre-cooking human stage extends from 
the time man's ancestors first assumed the hu- 
man form till they learned to apply fire in the 
preparation of their food. During all this period 
the jaws and teeth were probably used as much, 
or almost as much, for mastication as during the 
anthropoid stage ; raw animal food had to be torn 
from the bones, the latter had to be crunched, 
while the bulk of the raw vegetable food needed 
then no less than it needs now prolonged and 
vigorous mastication in order to liberate the 
starch and other nutritive ingredients from their 
undigestible cellulose envelopes. 1 Nevertheless, 
the jaws and teeth underwent considerable 
change during this period, for not only were 
they with every advance in intelligence called 
less and less into requisition for purposes of 
offence and defence, but the jaws, at least, 
became materially modified in correlation with 
the expanding cranial cavity and in connection 
with the assumption of the erect posture. It is, 
I think, rather for these reasons than in conse- 
quence of alterations in the nature of the food 
that the masticatory apparatus now gradually 

1 Recent observations go to show that man possesses no 
power of digesting cellulose, though this substance is to a 
limited extent capable of solution by the agency of bacteria 
in the lower portions of his alimentary canaL 

[»7.1 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

lost its more bestial aspect and assumed an 
essentially human type, becoming towards the 
close of the period much the same as may 
be observed among the most primitive peoples 
now living. 

3. The pre-agricultural cooking period. — The 
characters of the maxillary apparatus belonging 
to this period are still available for study, the 
aboriginal Australians, the Bushmen, Negritos, 
and many Esquimaux not having yet emerged 
from it. So far as mastication is concerned, 
cooking influences vegetable far more than 
animal food, for it not only softens it but by 
rupturing the undigestible cellulose chambers 
and liberating their contents relieves mastication 
of one of its essential functions. Wherefore, 
with the advent of cooking, man's jaws and teeth 
began to get smaller, and they have continued 
to diminish in size up to the present time. No 
great diminution, however, took place at first, 
inasmuch as the diet still continued to be largely 
animal (and prior to the use of knives and forks 
such food had to be torn by the teeth), while 
the coarse vegetable food of this date, even 
when cooked, still needed laborious mastication. 
The chief differences between the maxillary ap- 
paratus of this early cooking age as compared 
with that of the present day are as follows : the 
jaws of the earlier period — e. g., in the abo- 

[118] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

riginal Australian — are more massive, and their 
sagittal diameter is greater, giving rise to de- 
cided prognathism, the teeth for the most part 
are larger and stronger, the third molars being 
nearly, if not quite, as big as the other molars, 
and provided with three fangs, while there is 
a considerable portion of alveolar ridge behind 
them. The third molars, however, show a de- 
cided tendency to be smaller than the rest, and 
the alveolar ridge behind them is less marked 
than in the previous period, features, I doubt 
not, attributable to the influence of cooking in 
diminishing mastication. Dental caries is rare 
and is chiefly met with in the third molars. 

4. The early agricultural age. — All the exist- 
ing primitive races which have attained to the 
cultivation of the soil may be regarded as be- 
longing to this period. Previously to it man 
was mainly carnivorous, owing to the compar- 
atively limited quantity of vegetable food avail- 
able, so long as the supply was left to nature 
alone ; but when by cultivation this supply was 
increased and, at the same time, rendered more 
constant and certain, he gradually became less 
carnivorous and more vegetarian in his diet. 
The result of agriculture, however, is not only 
to increase the supply of vegetable food, but to 
diminish its fibrous, cellulosic ingredients, and 
thus to render it more easily masticated. Hence 

["9] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

at this stage we find the maxillary apparatus 
becoming smaller than in the previous period, 
although the difference as shown — e.g., by the 
examinations of the skulls of the African negroes 
and the Melanesians — is less pronounced than 
we might perhaps have anticipated ; prognathism 
is not so decided, the jaws are smaller, also the 
teeth, especially the third molars, which now 
for the first time show a tendency to be fur- 
nished with two instead of three fangs, while 
the alveolar ridge behind them is distinctly 
shorter than in the preceding period. Dental ca- 
ries, hitherto rare, now becomes more frequent. 
5 . The late agricultural period. — A mid-agri- 
cultural period might be described, but I shall 
take no account of it here, but pass on to a con- 
sideration of the late agricultural period — that, 
namely, in which we ourselves live. The chief 
characteristic of the food of this period is its 
softness. Cooked animal food requires, indeed, 
more mastication than raw, but the vegetable 
food of to-day, owing to the combined effects of 
improved agriculture, and skilful milling and 
cooking, is so soft as to excite comparatively 
little mastication. The present may, in fact, be 
described as the age of pap. Hence the jaws 
and teeth are now called upon to perform far 
less work than in any earlier stage of our evo- 
lution, and there has taken place in consequence 

[120] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

a great diminution in their size, more especially 
in the size of the jaws, so that there is now often 
no room for the teeth to take up their normal 
positions, and there is generally a complete ab- 
sence of alveolar ridge behind the last molars. 
The latter are, moreover, apt to be very small 
or even absent, while dental caries is alarmingly 
frequent. 

It will thus be seen that from the period of 
the anthropoids to the present time, a progres- 
sive change in the size and shape of the jaws and 
teeth has been taking place, a change which is 
to be explained by ( i) the cessation of the need 
for using them for offensive and defensive pur- 
poses ; (2) the growing capacity of the cranium 
and the assumption of the erect position ; (3) 
the progressive alteration in man's diet; and 
probably also (4) considerations of beauty. 
The first three factors have operated through 
natural selection, the last through sexual selec- 
tion, which has come into play, I would sug- 
gest, chiefly within recent times. Probably the 
most pronounced change which has taken place 
in the jaws during the agricultural periods has 
been the suppression of prognathism which, in 
the woman especially, is very unsightly, and 
tends to diminish the likelihood of marriage. 



[«ti] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Instances of the Vigorous Use to which 

the Jaws and Teeth are put among 

Existing Primitive Peoples 

A study of existing primitive peoples brings 
forcibly home to the mind how laboriously the 
jaws and teeth of our primitive ancestors were 
used. I have already shown how in pre-agri- 
cultural and early agricultural times the nature 
of the food compelled a sustained and vigorous 
exercise of these structures, and I wish here 
only to refer to a few specific and peculiar in- 
stances of laborious mastication exercised by 
primitive races now or recently living. 1 Among 
some of these mastication has been promoted 
almost to the position of an industrial art. 

The chewing of very tough substances in order 
to extract therefrom liquid or nourishment. — The 
recently extinct Tasmanians included among 
their articles of diet a species of sea-weed which, 
even when cooked, was so tough as to require 
long-sustained mastication in order to extract 
its nutrient elements. The Indians of North 
California chew kelp, which is "as tough as 
white leather " (i. e. 9 leather dressed with alum). 
" A young fellow with good teeth will masticate 

1 I am under great obligation to Miss Eva Dunn, who has 
collected valuable information for me on this and kindred 
subjects. 

[12a] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

a piece of it a whole day." Again Featherman 1 
tells how when the Bushmen are short of food 
in the winter they steep an old dried gnu-skin in 
water and, having rubbed off the hair, boil it, 
and proceed to gnaw the tough morsel until 
their very jaws ache. The Modoc Indians are 
said to munch the raw kais root all day long. 8 
Among the Esquimaux it is a universal custom 
to chew the raw skin of the whale, the porpoise, 
and the seal for the blubber it contains, and the 
skin being as tough as india-rubber, it requires, 
as may be imagined, a good deal of chewing. 
The Lower Californians also chew deer-skin and 
ox-skin (Bayert). The more southern Esqui- 
maux, according to Nansen, preserve the stalks of 
angelica by steeping them in a mixture of chewed 
blubber and saliva. Finally, I may refer to the 
habit of chewing the sugar-cane, a practice 
which is prevalent among the natives in all 
countries where the cane grows, and affords, it 
need scarcely be said, abundant exercise for 
the jaws and teeth. 

Mastication in the preparation ofbeveragesi — 
I find that among widely separated aboriginal 
peoples chewing is resorted to in the preparation 
of beverages, both intoxicating and non-intoxi- 
cating. The Gran Chaco Indians make an in- 

1 Social History of the Races of Mankind, 1881. 
9 S. Powers : Tribes of California, 1877. 

["3] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

toxicating drink by chewing the algarroba bean 
and then spitting into a receptacle. In other 
parts of South America berries are chewed with 
the same object In some of the Pacific Islands 
boys and girls with good teeth are selected to 
chew a root (kava), from which they then pre- 
pare a drink. In New Guinea drinks are sim- 
ilarly prepared from roots. Boiled cassava root 
is chewed by the Indians of Nicaragua for the 
same purpose. In British Guiana the natives 
make a drink by adding chewed maize and 
saliva to sweet potato, maize, and sugar-cane. 
The Indians in Honduras, after steeping cassava 
cake or carbonised bread in hot water, chew a 
portion and mix it with the rest. 

Mastication in the industries. — Even among 
moderns teeth are used for many purposes 
other than mastication — e. g., for holding pins 
and needles and for severing cotton ; also in some 
industries — e. g., among diamond workers — 
where it is the custom for girls to hold the 
diamond between their front teeth, which in 
consequence get much worn away, as I have 
myself seen. It is only among primitive peoples, 
however, that the jaws and teeth actually play 
the part of implements for use in the arts. The 
Australian women make lines, nets, and bags 
by chewing various kinds of fibre, a process 
which wears down their teeth considerably and 

[»4] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

may cause them to be tender. 1 The Esqui- 
maux are still more dependent upon the use of 
their teeth as implements, especially in the 
preparation of skins for their clothing, boats, 
and lines. The teeth are used to hold the skins, 
while the latter are being scraped, the mouth 
constituting, in fact, " a third hand ; " and the 
front teeth of Esquimaux women are often by 
this means worn away to the merest stumps. 3 
The garments of the Esquimaux, even to the 
boots, are made up of skins which have been 
laboriously chewed for this purpose by the 
women " inch by inch," till they acquire a beau- 
tiful softness and flexibility, and are often, in- 
deed, chewed again after having been dried. 
And we are told that the women have no objec- 
tion to the task, while the children are eager to 
help in it on account of the blubber the skin 
contains ; also, that in bad times the men do not 
object to join in the work. The lines for har- 
pooning are prepared in a similar way from 
the skin of the bearded seal, and in very large 
quantities. 8 When we think of the quantity of 
skins needed for these lines, for their dress, 
including boots and gloves, and for their boats 

1 E. M. Curr : The Australian Races, 1886-7. Taplin : The 
Narrinyeri ; an account of Tribes of South Australian Abo- 
rigines, 1879. 

* J. F. Nansen : Eskimo Life, 1893. 

* Dr. Kane : Arctic Exploration, 1854. 

[»s] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

(although for the latter some skins are used 
without having first undergone chewing), it is 
clear that enormous quantities must be chewed. 
The Esquimaux men also use their teeth con- 
siderably in other work — e.g., in lashing the 
sledges together. 1 The Indians of North Cal- 
ifornia use their teeth for stripping the bark 
from the fresh shoots employed in making their 
wickerwork utensils, and they also employ their 
teeth in making strings, cords, and nets. 

The Instinct to Masticate 

Seeing that the maxillary apparatus of man 
has for long ages past been put to vigorous use, 
it is not surprising that the need to exercise it 
should express itself as a powerful instinct. 
This instinct manifests itself in many and curious 
ways, some of which I will now consider. Dur- 
ing the early months of life the natural function 
of feeding at the breast provides the infant's 
jaws, tongue, and lips with all the needful exer- 
cise. This bottle-feeding fails to do, and we 
frequently find bottle-fed children seeking to 
satisfy the natural instinct by sucking their 
thumb, fingers, or any convenient object to 
hand. The teeth are a provision for biting hard 
foods, but even before they actually appear we 
find the child seeking to exercise his toothless 

1 E. Aatmp : With Peary near the Pole, 1898. 

[126] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

gums on any hard substance he can lay hold of, 
and there can be no doubt that exercise of this 
kind tends to facilitate the eruption of the teeth, 
a truth, indeed, recognised universally, whether 
by the primitive mother who strings the tooth 
of some wild animal round the neck of her in- 
fant, or the up-to-date parent who provides her 
child with a bejewelled ivory or coral bauble. 
When the teeth have erupted, the masticatory 
instinct finds among primitive peoples abundant 
satisfaction in the chewing of the coarse, hard 
foods which constitute their dietary ; but among 
us moderns, subsisting as we do mainly on soft 
foods, affording but little exercise for the mas- 
ticatory apparatus, it does not find its proper 
expression, and thus tends to die out. Never- 
theless, it dies a hard death, and long continues 
to assert itself; witness the tendency of chil- 
dren to bite their pencils and pen-holders ; I 
have known a child to gnaw through a bone 
pen-holder, much in the same way as a carniv- 
orous animal gnaws at a bone. 

This instinct to chew for chewing's sake man- 
ifests itself all over the world. In our own 
country not only do children bite pencils and 
pen-holders, but they will chew small pieces of 
india-rubber for hours together. The practice 
of gum-chewing, so common among our Amer- 
ican cousins, evidently comes down from far-off 

[127] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

times, for the primitive Australians chew several 
kinds of gum, attributing to them nutrient qual- 
ities, 1 and the Patagonians are said to keep 
their teeth white and clean by chewing matri, a 
gum which exudes from the incense bush, and 
is carefully collected by the women and chil- 
dren. 1 

A widespread custom in the East is betel- 
chewing, which is met with in India, Malay, 
Melanesia, and Polynesia, and even among the 
primitive Veddahs of Ceylon. This article is 
composed of the pungent leaf of the betel plant, 
the areca nut and lime rolled together, and 
when chewed yields a reddish juice which stains 
the mouth and teeth. The Veddahs, failing 
to get the genuine article, manufacture a quid 
from the leaves of an aromatic plant, the barks 
of one or two kinds of tree, and calcined small 
shells. 3 The compound must possess some 
strange attraction, for otherwise such pains would 
not be taken to secure it. What is the attrac- 
tion ? Doubtless betel has stimulating proper- 
ties, and it must, moreover, be remembered 
that the mere mechanical act of mastication 
stimulates the circulation, a fact which helps to 

1 Sir George Grey : Journal of Two Expeditions in North- 
West and Western Australia, 184 1. 

* Muster: With the Patagonians, 1869. 

• Bailey * Transactions of the Ethnological Society, 1862. 

[128] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

explain the tendency for man, all the world over, 
to chew non-nutrient substances. Tobacco- 
chewing is common in many parts of the world, 
and here, again, the effect for the time is stimu- 
lating. Pitcherie is extensively chewed among 
the aboriginal Australians ; it consists of twigs 
of about the thickness of rye-grass stems, which 
are first chewed into a mass, then mixed with 
the ash of gum trees, and made into a paste, 
which is chewed for its stimulating and narcotic 
effects. 1 

I may allude in passing to the grinding of the 
teeth, which takes place during sleep in dis- 
turbed states of the nervous system. It is a 
true masticatory act, in which the normal lateral 
movement of the mandible is well marked, and 
it may thus be regarded as a perverted mani- 
festation of the masticatbry instinct 

The Causation of Inefficient Mastication 

The effects for good upon the organism of 
efficient mastication being profound and far- 
reaching, it follows that inefficient mastication 
must lead to many evils. What these are we 
have now to consider ; but first it will be well 
to inquire into the causes of the defective mas- 
tication which prevails among moderns. 

I. Softness of food. — By far the most impor- 

1 E. M. Curr: The Australian Race, 1886-87. 
9 [ 129 ] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

tant of these lies in the nature of the food taken. 
The food of to-day — of the late agricultural 
age period, as I have termed it — is for the 
most part soft and pappy, of a kind which does 
not compel thorough mastication ; so much so, 
indeed, that, as I have already said, we may 
speak of this as the age of pap. This feature is 
especially noticeable in the case of children's 
diet : under the modern system children are kept 
on a liquid, or semi-liquid, diet, not merely dur- 
ing the first months, but during the first years 
of life, and at the seventh or eighth month all 
kinds of artificial saccharide foods in liquid or 
semi-liquid form are poured into the child's 
stomach ; thereafter he is fed on such viands as 
mashed potatoes and gravy, rusks soaked in 
milk, milk puddings, bread dipped in bacon fat, 
pounded mutton, thin bread-and-butter, and the 
like ; and we are told that this is the kind of 
diet best suited to the young human, from the 
time of weaning to the end of the second year ! 
The same pernicious methods are adopted sub- 
sequently. " Perhaps the great majority of chil- 
dren after they have got their complete set of 
temporary teeth have," writes Dr. Sim Wal- 
lace, 1 " a dietary such as the following. Break- 
fast: bread-and-milk or porridge, milk, tea, 

1 The Causes and Prevention of Decay in Teeth, pp. 88, 
89. London, 1903. 

[ x 3°] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

coffee, or cocoa, bread-and-butter, perhaps an 
egg. Dinner: potatoes and gravy, or meat, 
milk pudding. Tea: milk or tea with bread- 
and-butter, jam, cakes. Supper : bread or bis- 
cuit and milk." Now food of this kind does not 
invite mastication, and it finds its way into the 
stomach all too readily. Hence the instinct to 
masticate has little opportunity of exercise and, 
not being properly exercised, tends, as I have 
said, to die out. Small wonder that the child 
nourished on such pappy food acquires the habit 
of bolting it, and learns to reject hard, coarse 
foods in favour of the softer kinds ; everything 
nowadays must be tender, pultaceous, or " short" 
Given a choice between a food compelling little or 
no mastication and one necessitating prolonged 
mastication — as between, say, fresh Vienna 
bread and an Abernethy biscuit — and in nine- 
teen cases out of twenty the one which gives 
the least trouble in eating will be chosen. To 
such absurd lengths has this harmful custom 
been pushed that even bread crust is avoided 
by many. Witness the fashion of eating bread- 
and-butter with a minimum of crust; order 
bread-and-butter at any place of refreshment, 
and the last thing you will be served with is a 
plateful of crusts of bread. Many establish- 
ments, indeed, make a regular practice of giv- 
ing away their crusts as unsaleable. Thus, the 

[131] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

rectangular loaves used for bread-and-butter in 
the " Aerated bread-shops " are cut transversely 
into slices, each loaf thus yielding two end 
crusts which are put into baskets for the poor, 
only the soft crumby pieces being reserved for 
the customers, to be, in due course, no doubt 
washed down by copious libations of tea and 
coffee. 

When we trace the diet of the modern from 
childhood upwards we find the same story: 
it tends to remain soft and pappy to the end. 
Animal food, especially as it comes to the tables 
of the well-to-do, necessitates very little mas- 
tication. It is the coarser varieties of vegetable 
food alone which call out the full functional ac- 
tivity of the masticatory apparatus, but the veg- 
etable food of to-day is rarely of a kind to do 
this; cooked vegetables, such as potatoes, 
greens, peas, and beans, can be, and generally 
are, swallowed after little or no preliminary 
mastication, and our flour is so carefully de- 
prived of its fibrous portions and so cunningly 
dealt with in the bakehouse and kitchen in the 
making of bread, cakes, and pastry which shall 
eat light and short that these articles get very 
little chewing; while such vegetable products 
as rice, vermicelli, tapioca, and macaroni are, as 
served at table, so soft that they slip down into 
the stomach almost as readily as simple milk. 

[132] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Let any one run through his dietary of any one 
day, and he will realise how very little work his 
masticatory apparatus is called upon to perform. 
It will read something like the following. 
Breakfast: porridge and milk, eggs, bacon, 
bread, and marmalade. Lunch: fish, tender 
meat, boiled vegetables, bread, some " sweet," 
and cheese. Tea: bread, butter, and cake. 
Dinner: much the same as lunch. What op- 
portunity, I ask, does such a bill-of-fare afford 
for the development of teeth and jaws, and for 
the proper functional activity of the salivary 
glands? 

2. Defective masticatory apparatus. — Another 
potent cause of inefficient mastication is some 
defect in the masticatory apparatus, and defects 
of this kind are very common in those who 
have not been accustomed to masticate thor- 
oughly in early life. Foremost among these are 
irregularities of the teeth leading to faulty 
"bite" and caries of the teeth which causes 
them to be tender or to break away, if it does 
not lead to their actual extraction. Mastication 
cannot be thorough where the bite is defective, 
for this not only leads to imperfect opposition 
of the upper and lower teeth, but renders the 
lower ones incapable of that ample lateral 
movement against the upper which is needful 
to normal mastication. 

I>33] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

3 . Idiosyncrasy. — Some are temperamentally 
more disposed to hurry over their meals than 
others. The katabolic, restless, nervous indi- 
vidual is more apt to swallow his food hastily 
than is his more deliberate and phlegmatic 
brother. Individual differences in this re- 
spect are even observed among the lower an- 
imals. Thus, one of a pair of horses of about 
the same age and build is nervous and excitable 
and inclined to bolt its food, while its companion 
of more stolid temperament is a thorough and 
efficient masticator. The former shows com- 
paratively little wearing down of the teeth, and 
often suffers from indigestion, a large portion of 
corn grains passing through his digestive canal 
intact; in the latter the teeth are well worn, 
indigestion never occurs, and but very few 
grains pass through the digestive tract un- 
changed. It may be objected here that we can- 
not help temperament, and to a large extent 
this is true; but much can be done towards 
modifying it, and it is something to know where 
dangers, temperamental dangers, among others, 
lie. 

4. Circumstances of life. — Again, in this 
hurrying, strenuous age people are much less 
deliberate than in the easy, slow-going days of 
long ago. A meal is too often regarded as 
something to be got through quickly, as taking 

[u4] 



"The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

up time which might be devoted to something 
more profitable. Especially is this true of 
breakfast and lunch ; it is no uncommon thing 
for a business man to hurry through his break- 
fast in a few minutes, preparatory to rushing off 
to his train, and his lunch as likely as not is 
as hastily swallowed in his office or at a bar. 
Tradesmen are apt to take their meals in mere 
snatches; apprentices, shop girls, and other 
" hands " are often not allowed sufficient time 
for their meals; while, to come to the pro- 
fessions, we all know how the busy medical 
man, for instance, is often obliged to take a 
hurried snack in the short intervals between 
seeing his patients. No wonder that thus cir- 
cumstanced people acquire the habit of bolting 
their food. A meal should be regarded as an 
end, and an important end, in itself. It should 
be taken at leisure, body and mind being, for 
the time being, given up to it, and to agreeable 
social intercourse. If this rule were always ob- 
served a most important source of inefficient 
mastication would be removed. 

Sbction III. From London LanctU July 35, 1903 

Evils resulting from Inefficient 

Mastication 

Too much food is eaten. — Inefficient masti- 
cation conduces to excessive eating. Now it is 

[>35] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

obvious that soft foods, and these constitute the 
bulk of our modern dietary, pass much more 
readily into the stomach than coarse, hard foods 
which compel a certain amount of preliminary 
mastication, and for this reason the former pre- 
dispose to excessive eating : hence a danger at 
all periods of life, not only in grown-ups but in 
children, even infants ; brought up as the latter 
are, mainly on liquid and pappy foods, many of 
them consume not only far more than is needful, 
but far more than is healthful, their stomachs 
being literally deluged with nutriment. 

When the food is of a kind necessitating 
abundant mastication it is much less likely to be 
taken in excess, for the longer the time spent in 
mastication the less will the individual be tempted 
to consume ; even in the case of soft food, less 
will probably be eaten if it be thoroughly mas- 
ticated and insalivated than if it be bolted. 
Thorough mastication, however, not only tends 
to diminish the amount of food consumed on 
account of the time and labour which it entails ; 
it actually reduces the amount needful to con- 
stitute a sufficiency, for the more perfectly the 
food is chewed the more perfectly is it digested 
and the more economically is it disposed of 
in the system; the less, moreover, is the ten- 
dency to that morbid craving for food which 
is so frequent an accompaniment of defective 

[136] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

digestion. It is certain that appetite and the 
needs of the system are sooner satisfied when 
food is well masticated and digested than when 
it is swallowed whole. 

A mass of unmasticated food may lodge in the 
throat and cause fatal suffocation. — This may 
seem to be a very exceptional kind of evil, but 
I am informed by one whose experience makes 
him an authority on the ways of the British 
soldier that it is by no means uncommon for 
soldiers in barracks to die from this cause. 
Usually it is when they are under the influence 
of alcohol that fatal results occur, post-mortem 
examination disclosing large undigested masses 
of food in the stomach. A like experience is 
also frequently met with in the case of men 
killed by accident. 

The presence of masses of imperfectly masti- 
cated food in the stomach may cause disturbance 
either mechanically or by reason of their impervi- 
ousness to the gastric juices. — We have already 
seen that the digestibility of a food is largely 
determined by its consistence, and that many 
articles of diet, such as cheese, hard-boiled egg, 
cocoa-nut, lobster, and new bread, which have 
the reputation of being very indigestible, can, if 
finely comminuted by chewing or otherwise, be 
rendered quite digestible. Such articles are in- 
digestible essentially by reason of their compact- 
ly ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

ness ; the compact lumps, but little pervious to 
the gastric juice, tend to undergo abnormal chemi- 
cal change in the stomach, and may in this way 
cause violent local irritation, even to the extent of 
setting up acute gastritis ; or they may paralyse 
the nerves of the stomach and check gastric 
secretion and movement, and thus remain in loco 
wholly undigested for hours or even days ; or, 
again, more distant nervous effects may be pro- 
duced, such as frontal headache, which may be 
felt almost immediately after ingestion of the 
peccant substance, being of reflex rather than 
toxic origin, and presumably in some cases, at 
least, due to the mere mechanical irritation of 
the stomach. The passage of imperfectly 
digested food into the bowel may still further 
aggravate matters. It does not seem improb- 
able that the habitual bolting of food, by the 
prolonged local irritation to which it gives rise, 
may predispose to cancer of the stomach: 
Napoleon was a notorious fast eater and it is 
well known that he died from this disease. 

While, however, the bolting of food readily 
sets up disturbance in some, it must be con- 
ceded that in many it seems to cause little or no 
inconvenience ; especially is this the case in the 
young with vigorous muscular stomachs capable 
of triturating the food, and thus doing duty for 
the teeth. The human stomach is, indeed, a 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

long-suffering organ, and wonderfully tolerant of 
ill-treatment, sometimes almost rivalling in its 
hardiness the gizzard of the bird. Nor is this 
surprising when we reflect that it is, in the 
ordinary course of nature, constantly exposed 
to the entrance of noxious substances. In this 
respect it stands in marked contrast to the 
intestines, for not only are highly irritant sub- 
stances often vomited rather than passed on- 
wards, but in ordinary circumstances the gastric 
contents are not allowed to pass the pylorus, until 
they have been duly prepared by the stomach ; 
the pylorus, in fact, stands guard over the 
entrance to the bowel and is jealous of anything 
passing it which is likely to injure that canal. 

And just as the pylorus protects the bowel so, 
in exceptional cases, may the oesophagus protect 
the stomach, regurgitating, after the fashion of 
the ruminants, insufficiently masticated bits of 
food, in order that they may be re-masticated. 
I have myself met with cases in point. Some- 
times, in cases of this kind, the oesophagus 
may be dilated into a sort of proventriculus, 
which is capable of temporarily lodging a large 
quantity of food. Such a proventriculus is said 
to have developed in an apprentice who, not 
being allowed sufficient time for his dinner, 
rapidly bolted it, to regurgitate it after working 
hours and to chew the cud at leisure. Whether 

[*39] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

in these cases the food is ever returned from 
the stomach itself I am unable to say. 

While the stomach is the organ especially 
liable to be injured by the swallowing of lumps 
of unmasticated food, the bowel may also suffer, 
especially the caecum and vermiform appendix. 
And here we come to one of the most serious 
indictments against the bolting of food ; though 
man has doubtless always suffered from appen- 
dicitis, there can be little doubt that this malady 
is more common now than it used to be; and 
there is equally little doubt, in my own mind at 
least, that the cause of its greater frequency is 
related to his food. I do not propose to discuss 
here in detail how food is capable of causing 
appendicitis, but will merely refer to one of the 
ways in which it may do so. I had already come 
to the conclusion that the habit of bolting food 
is a potent cause, when I read Sir Frederick 
Treves's Cavendish Lecture in which he makes 
that contention. Sir Frederick Treves points 
out that in this rushing age people, especially 
business men, are apt to hurry over their meals 
and to take them at irregular times and often 
while standing at a bar; even when there is 
more leisure, food is rarely masticated nowadays 
in the same thorough way that it was in the old 
time, when it was of a coarser nature : hence 
solid lumps, especially in the case of such articles 

l>4o] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

as pine-apple, preserved ginger, nuts, tough 
meat, and lobster, are apt to pass beyond the 
pylorus and, escaping intestinal digestion, to 
lodge in the caecum and precipitate an attack 
of appendicitis, the most common predisposing 
cause of which is a loaded caecum, often pre- 
ceded by constipation. Sir Frederick Treves 
contends that this distended state of the caecum 
encourages catarrh of the appendix by dragging 
upon it and blocking its orifice, as well as by 
twisting it and thus interfering with its blood- 
supply. 1 

An excess of starch is apt to pass into the 
stomach. — We have just seen that inefficient 
mastication tends to promote over-eating, and 
what has been said on this head applies to all 
kinds of food, starchy foods among others. It 
leads, however, to a further evil as regards these 
latter ; not only does it tend unduly to increase 
the quantity of them consumed, but it too often 
causes the stomach and intestines to become 
flooded with starch in a wholly undigested form. 
I cannot too frequently repeat that in ancient 
times, especially in the pre-cooking age, laborious 

1 Gilbert Barling also traces the relationship between ap- 
pendicitis and diet. M In a considerable number of cases/' he 
writes, " the attack of appendicitis can be directly attributed 
to unsuitable food — pork, mackerel, over-ripe or under-ripe 
fruit, uncooked vegetables" (Brit. Med. Jour., vol. i., 1903, 
p. 61). 

[hi] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

mastication was needed in the case of all starchy 
foods, partly because they were coarse and 
fibrous, but chiefly because the starch and other 
nutritive ingredients had, in order to become 
available for nutrition, to be liberated from their 
undigestible cellulose envelopes. In these days 
of prepared^ soft, starchy foods, however, masti- 
cation is very little required for these purposes, 
but in other respects it is as needful as ever, 
indeed more needful, if the large quantities of 
starch which are now consumed are to be insali- 
vated effectually. The laborious and sustained 
mastication to which primitive man was com- 
pelled to subject Azi limited supplies of uncooked 
starchy food, went far to effect complete digestion 
of the starch within the mouth, for raw starch is 
freely digested by the saliva, 1 and hence in his 
case very little passed into the stomach in a wholly 
undigested form. How different is the case with 
us moderns. Since the opening of the era of 
agriculture and cooking, man has enormously 
multiplied his supplies of saccharide, and he now 
consumes large quantities of starch which has 
been freed from its cellulose framework by cook- 
ing, milling, grinding, and the like, and reduced 

1 My friend, Dr. Thompson, undertook, at my suggestion, 
some experiments to test the digestibility of raw starch within 
the mouth ; he found that raw potato yields abundant sugar 
when subjected to long-continued mastication. 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

to a soft or pappy form, such as milk puddings, 
porridge, boiled potatoes, and new bread, all of 
which can be swallowed with little or no pre- 
liminary chewing; and when food can be 
swallowed easily, without mastication, few will 
take the trouble to masticate it. In these cir- 
cumstances the starch does not undergo adequate 
salivary digestion, and a large quantity passes 
wholly undigested into, and out of, the stomach, 
not beginning to be digested until it reaches the 
bowel. Small wonder that the latter should 
rebel again this invasion and that flatulence, 
pain, and other dyspeptic evils should result. 

It is especially in young children that these 
evils are observed. Too often the stomach of 
the child, semi-carnivorous, remember, by its 
ancestry, is literally deluged with pure starch. 
At the seventh or eighth month, or even earlier, 
for many of the patent infant foods contain it, 
this substance is poured into the stomach without 
being afforded any opportunity of undergoing 
salivary digestion; and for a long time after 
infancy large quantities are given in the liquid or 
pultaceous form, such as rusks soaked in milk, 
puddings, and mashed potatoes. This practice 
of deluging the digestive organs with starch, 
besides leading to the more immediate troubles 
connected with flatulent dyspepsia, gives rise to 
abundant formation of toxins which, by irritating 

[143] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the alimentary mucous membrane, set up gastro- 
intestinal catarrh; this, again, intensifies the 
dyspepsia already existing and causes a still 
further production of toxins, so that the motions 
become intensely foetid. These poisons being 
absorbed into the blood the tissues become 
saturated with them and the nutrition of the 
entire organism is disturbed, the faulty meta- 
bolism manifesting itself by a diminished resist- 
ance to pathogenic agencies, by a tendency on 
the part of the tissues to inflame (as shown by a 
liability in children thus fed to bronchitis, rhinitis, 
naso-pharyngitis, and tonsillitis), by their prone- 
ness to tuberculosis, and finally by a disposition 
to rickets, which I little doubt is essentially of 
toxaemic origin. 

Besides the above-mentioned troubles an 
excess of starch in the stomach may set up 
hyperchlorhydria — **.*., that form of dyspepsia 
in which there is excessive secretion of hydro- 
chloric acid. This affection occurs during the 
most vigorous years of life and is apparently 
due to excessive activity on the part of the 
gastric glands. The excess of acid does not 
give rise to any symptoms so long as there is 
any unsatisfied proteid in the stomach to unite 
with it, but directly all the proteid is satisfied 
and free acid is present in the stomach, pain, 
heartburn, and distention are apt to be felt ; hence 

t I 44] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

these symptoms are generally removed tempo- 
rarily by a meal, the food ingested seizing upon 
the free acid, and tend to recur in the course of 
an hour or two. Other symptoms are mental 
and bodily lassitude and great mental depression, 
while, if the condition is long-continued, gastric 
catarrh and dilatation ensue. Eructation of the 
acrid mass, its removal with a tube, or its dilution 
or neutralisation by an alkali, causes relief of the 
symptoms. Now Dr. William Russell, who has 
recently studied this form of dyspepsia, has 
shown, and the fact is most significant from our 
present point of view, that in it starch is the last 
constituent to leave the stomach ; that when this 
organ has so far emptied itself as to contain but 
one or two ounces of very acrid material the 
residue consists chiefly of finely divided undi- 
gested starch, which continues to stimulate the 
gastric secretion; "and, there being no more 
proteid with which to combine, the secretion 
accumulates and leads to hyperacidity." 1 Inas- 
much, then, as inefficient mastication leads to an 
excess of starch in the stomach, we see how it 
may predispose to hyperchlorhydria and we 
shall presently see that there is yet another 
reason why it should do so. 

It will be gathered from the foregoing that 
thorough mastication is the most effective way 

1 The Lancet, March 21st, 1905, p. 806. 
IO [ H5 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

of securing efficient starch digestion. This 
simple fact has been most strangely overlooked. 
Thus " van Valzah considers that not a little of 
the difficulty of the digestion of starches and 
cereals can be overcome by more thorough cook- 
ing. Patients who cannot eat potatoes after ordi- 
nary cooking are [he urges] often able to digest 
them very readily if they are doubly cooked 
before being served. Cereals, as a rule, should 
[he contends] be allowed to simmer all night 
and then be thoroughly cooked for a half hour 
in the morning before being eaten." l This is an 
admirable illustration of the modern tendency to 
cheat the mouth of its proper work. A much 
more rational way of facilitating starch digestion 
in those who experience a difficulty in this 
respect is by efficient mastication. 

Evils resulting' from an insufficient quantity 
of alkali in the stomach. — I doubt if it is ade- 
quately realised what a large amount of alkaline 
saliva passes into the stomach as the result of 
prolonged mastication. Its presence there serves 
the useful purpose of prolonging the period of 
starch digestion within the stomach, while it 
further aids gastric digestion not only by excit- 
ing the secretion of gastric juice, but also by its 
influence on the reaction of the gastric contents; 
it can scarcely be doubted that the effect is on 

1 Brit Med. Jour., Epitome, vol. L, 1903, p. 45. 

[146] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the whole one favourable to digestion in general. 
We have just seen that defective mastication 
may predispose to hyperchlorhydria by allowing 
an excess of pure starch to pass into the stomach, 
and I suggest that it may further operate in the 
same direction by cheating the stomach of its 
due supply of alkaline saliva. Now the saliva in 
this affection is apt, as was pointed out by Sir 
William Roberts, to be superalkaline, and for 
this reason he recommended his acid-dyspeptics 
to excite the flow of it by chewing gum-mastic 
with the object of neutralising the gastric hyper- 
acidity. That relief can thus be obtained there 
can be no doubt ; but it is surely more rational 
to get the patient to stimulate his salivary glands 
by masticating actual food, by which we secure 
the additional advantages accruing from its com- 
plete insalivation and comminution as well as 
from the reflex gastric effects. Actuated by 
these considerations, I have long been in the 
habit of recommending hyperchlorhydriacs to 
subject their food to prolonged mastication, this 
being, in my belief, the most rational and effective 
way of breaking the stomach of its vicious habit 
In extreme cases we must insist that each morsel 
of food should be chewed at least one hundred 
times and not permit any relaxation of this 
severe discipline, until the stomach has been 
schooled into healthier ways. 

[147] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Evils in connection with the jaws and their 
appendages and the adjacent structures : the nasal 
passages, nasopharynx \ and faucial tonsils. — In 
those who do not masticate properly in early life 
these parts fail to develop as they should, and 
they are on this account alone predisposed to 
disease ; their resistance to disease is still further 
lowered by the fact of their blood and lymph 
flow not being adequately stimulated by the vig- 
orous exercise of the masticatory muscles. Now 
we have seen that the great cause of defective 
mastication in children is the softness of the food 
given them and that the feeding of them upon an 
excess of soft food, especially the starchy kind, 
disturbs digestion, induces toxaemia, and in this 
way evokes a catarrhal tendency. In children 
thus fed we have therefore several conditions 
which make for disease in the parts under con- 
sideration — defective development, sluggish cir- 
culation, and toxic saturation. Is it any wonder 
that the modern child should be liable to disease 
in these regions, that he should so frequently 
suffer from rhinitis, naso-pharyngitis, tonsillitis, 
and from hypertrophy of the pharyngeal tonsil 
(" adenoids ") and of the faucial tonsils? 

It is in this way that I would explain the 
frequency of adenoids among the children of 
civilised communities. I claim, in fact, that this 
disease is largely dietetic in origin. I submit 

[148] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

that a child whose nasal apparatus and naso- 
pharynx are well-grown and habitually bathed 
by a stream of pure blood and lymph, periodi- 
cally accelerated by an ample and vigorous use 
of the masticatory muscles, is unlikely to con- 
tract adenoids. On the other hand, I contend 
that a child in whom these parts are ill-developed 
and bathed by an habitually sluggish stream of 
tainted blood and lymph — one, ie. t that is not 
only poisoned, but rarely, if ever, hurried along 
its lazy course by due exercise of the muscles of 
mastication — I submit that such a child runs 
great risk of contracting the disease. The 
influence in setting up adenoids of toxic satu- 
ration with its resulting catarrhal tendency is 
shown by the frequency with which this affection 
follows upon the rhinitis and naso-pharyngitis 
of measles and diphtheria, and in order to realise 
how greatly the circulation of blood and lymph in 
the walls of the naso-pharynx must be influenced 
by mastication, one has but to remember how 
very closely the pterygoids are related to this 
region ; in exploring it for adenoids they can, 
indeed, often be felt to stand out prominently. 1 

x A further aid to the circulation in the naso-pharynx is 
afforded by the lusty use of the voice. It is natural for the 
young human to cry and to shout, and unless this instinct is 
allowed full play the child is apt to suffer in health. I cannot 
but think that the modern child is too much repressed in this 
respect, and that he is not afforded, especially in towns, proper 

[M9] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

This, then, is my explanation of the truly 
fearful prevalence of adenoids among the mod- 
erns. It is essentially a disease of pap-fed 
peoples. A child may, with the one exception 
that he is fed on a pappy, super-saccharide diet, 
be brought up under ideal health conditions. 
He may live in the heart of a dry, open coun- 
try, far from the darkness, dust, and tainted 
atmosphere of the town, sleep with the win- 
dows open all night, live out of doors all day, 
be fed on the most nourishing (too nourishing, 
it may be) food, be clothed after the most ap- 
proved methods, and yet, in spite of all this, 
we may find his nasopharynx packed with 
adenoids. This disease is, in fact, scarcely less 
prevalent in the country than in the towns, 
scarcely less common among the rich than 
among the poor. Yet in primitive communities 
it is practically unknown. And what, I would 
ask, is the one condition in the material environ- 
ment of my supposititious child differing from 
that of the primitive child? What but the factor 
of diet ? Therefore, I say, the prevalence of ade- 
noids among moderns must be the result of the 
modern system of feeding children, and the de- 
fective mastication which goes along with it. 

That the foregoing is a grave indictment 

opportunity of venting his vocal energy in out-door play. May 
we not have here a contributory factor in the causation of 
adenoids ? 

['So] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

against that system, it need scarcely be said. 
For adenoid disease is fraught with many evils, 
among them mental hebetude, blocking of the 
Eustachian tubes, and manifold other auditory 
troubles, gastrointestinal disturbances from the 
passage into the stomach of unhealthy dis- 
charges, and, most serious of all, nasal ob- 
struction and consequent mouth-breathing. So 
serious are the evils connected with this latter 
habit that they demand more than a passing 
reference. Pronounced adenoid disease is al- 
ways associated with mouth-breathing, and 
there can be no doubt that in the majority of 
these cases, the nasal obstruction is not in the 
nasal passages primarily, but is due to a block- 
age of the posterior nares by the adenoid 
growths, for it generally happens that nasal 
breathing is rapidly re-established after their 
removal, though in a certain proportion of 
cases the obstruction still persists, and has to be 
dealt with by treatment directed to the nasal 
passages themselves. Some have, indeed, con- 
tended that a primary nasal obstruction is one 
important factor in the induction of adenoids, 
leading as it does to a dry-cupping of the naso- 
pharynx during inspiration and to a conse- 
quent congestion of its lining membrane. I am 
quite ready to allow that this mechanism may 
play some part in causation, and such an assump- 

[is*] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

tion is in entire harmony with my main content 
tion that adenoid disease is of dietetic origin, for 
nasal obstruction in children, other than that 
caused by adenoids, is mainly due to defective 
development of the nasal passages coupled with 
inflammation of their lining membrane, both of 
which conditions may, as we have seen, be es- 
sentially the outcome of defective diet 

Coming now to the evils resulting from mouth- 
breathing, we have first to remember that nor- 
mally the air is inhaled through the nose, and is 
thus warmed, moistened, and filtered before 
being allowed to pass into the lungs ; but in the 
mouth-breather the air, which may be dry, 
cold, and dust-laden, passes at once unpre- 
pared through the mouth into the lungs, im- 
pinging in its passage against the pharynx, 
thus drying and mechanically irritating the 
mouth, pharynx, larynx, and bronchial tubes, 
all of which are thereby predisposed to disease. 
In this way laryngitis and bronchitis, nay, even 
phthisis, may be induced. Dental caries is also 
predisposed to by the habit of breathing through 
the mouth. Mouth-breathing further interferes 
with the proper development of the cranial 
bones, but especially of the maxilla, giving rise 
to what may be termed the " mouth-breather's 
jaw," so characteristic is it I do not propose 
to discuss here the mechanism by which this 

[15*] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

deformity is produced, interesting though the 
question is ; suffice it to say that nasal breathing 
is essential to the normal development of the 
jaws. The deformity in question, though it in- 
volves the maxilla chiefly, affects also the man- 
dible from the fact of its being, to a large extent, 
moulded on the maxilla ; in typical cases the 
maxilla is small and its alveolar ridge does 
not attain its normal length, but is compressed 
laterally towards the sagittal plane, giving rise 
to the false appearance of a " high arch " and 
often thrusting the anterior portion of the ridge 
forwards ; the teeth, the growth of which is not 
so much interfered with as that of the imbedding 
bone, are thus prevented from taking up their 
proper positions and show irregularity, some- 
times extreme. Dental irregularity may also, as 
we shall see, result from inadequate use of the 
jaws in mastication, but not to the extent which 
is frequently observed in the mouth-breather's 
jaws, and therefore pronounced dental irregular- 
ity always shows that there has been protracted 
nasal obstruction, and this in the vast majority 
of cases implies the existence of adenoids, past 
or present ; I say in the " vast majority," for in 
a few rare cases long-continued nasal obstruc- 
tion in children originates primarily in the nose 
and may lead to the typical mouth-breather's 
jaw, with the resulting dental irregularity. 

[«53] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

The tongue. — If the tongue is not properly 
exercised in childhood and youth, we find it 
imperfectly developed ; hence in inefficient mas- 
ticators it is generally small. It must not be 
forgotten in this connection that this organ is 
considerably exercised when the infant is at the 
breast, from which the milk is obtained, not by 
suction, but by a vigorous tugging and squeez- 
ing of the nipple (in which the tongue takes 
considerable part), whereby the gland is reflexly 
excited to secrete. When, on the other hand, 
the child feeds at the bottle he obtains his milk 
by actual suction, and generally through an 
orifice of such ample dimensions as to allow 
the bottle to be rapidly emptied with compar- 
atively little exercise of the lips and tongue. 
In short, the breast-fed infant has to do some 
work for his living, and that of a sort calculated 
to promote the health of the jaws and their ap- 
pendages, while the bottle-fed child can glut 
himself by doing very little more than opening 
his mouth ; wherefore we find the tongue and 
adjacent parts less developed in the latter than 
in the former. It may be thought to be a mat- 
ter of indifference whether the tongue develops 
to its normal proportions or remains small, but 
such is by no means the case, for, as Dr. J. Sim 
Wallace has shown, the pressure of this struc- 
ture against the teeth promotes the normal 

[*54] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

development of the jaws, especially of the man* 
dible, and when it is small they are apt to be 
so too. 

The salivary glands. — Just as mastication 
increases the functional activity of the salivary 
glands and buccal glands and favours their nor- 
mal development, so, contrariwise, inefficient 
mastication during early life fails to call forth 
their normal functional activity and to secure 
their adequate development. Thus we find 
that a child who has been brought up on hard, 
starchy foods, necessitating abundant mastica- 
tion has much larger and more active salivary 
glands than one who has been fed on soft foods 
which slip down into the stomach before they 
have had the chance of being properly masti- 
cated, and it is needless to say that the more 
efficient these glands are the more likely is 
digestion to be carried out satisfactorily. 

The jaw-bones. — If the jaws are not ade- 
quately exercised in youth by mastication they 
fail to grow to their normal size and shape, and 
there is apt in consequence to be overcrowding 
of the teeth. The main defect of the jaws in 
such cases is their smallness ; they do not pre- 
sent that pronounced lateral compression and 
anterior protrusion which characterise the 
mouth-breather's jaw, nor such extreme dental 
irregularity, the most common being overlap- 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

ping of the incisors, displacement of the canines, 
and difficulties in regard to the eruption of the 
wisdom teeth from shortness of the alveolar 
ridge. I have already referred to the progres- 
sive shortening in the post-molar ridge, which 
has been taking place during man's evolution 
from the anthropoid in correspondence with the 
alteration in his diet. 

We thus see that defective use of the jaws 
leads to irregularity of the teeth (i) directly 
and (2) indirectly through the induction of 
adenoids. This irregularity is not only un- 
sightly but leads to certain evils which thus pri- 
marily owe their origin, in large measure at 
least, to defective mastication. What, then, are 
these evils? In the first place, dental irregular- 
ity predisposes to dental caries by favouring the 
lodgement of food between the teeth; in the 
next place, it leads to defective " bite." Now 
when the bite is defective adequate mastication 
is impossible, for not only is it impossible in 
these circumstances to oppose the teeth prop- 
erly, but also, owing to their interlocking, to 
accomplish that free lateral movement of the 
lower teeth against the upper, which belongs to 
normal mastication. I do not say that defective 
bite is the sole cause of this imperfect lateral 
movement; it may, indeed, be observed in 
most moderns brought up on soft pappy food, 

[»5«] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

whether the bite be good or not. Normal mas- 
tication is, in fact, becoming a lost art; the 
average modern masticates mainly by a verti- 
cal compression of the lower teeth against the 
upper, and in only a small degree by a lateral 
frictional movement which, it is needless to say, 
is the more effective method for grinding pur- 
poses; and it is, I doubt not, chiefly for this 
reason that the teeth of modern man are so 
much less worn down than those of primitive 
peoples. 

The teeth. — Imperfect use of the teeth leads 
to many ills. When adequately exercised and 
made to execute for one or two hours every 
day a lively dance in their sockets, during 
which the circulation of blood and lymph in 
the tooth-pulp, periodontal membrane, and sur- 
rounding tissue of the gum is vigorously stimu- 
lated, and the cavity of the mouth is bathed 
in a copious flow of salivary and other buccal 
secretions, we have conditions which make alike 
for the health of the buccal mucous membrane, 
of the teeth, and of the periodontal membrane 
and alveoli ; but when the circulation is not duly 
stimulated in this way the teeth do not develop 
properly, while the secretions of the mouth are 
apt to be scanty and unhealthy, both of which 
conditions predispose to caries. How far dental 
caries is due to inherent dental weakness and 

[157] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

how far to faulty conditions outside the teeth 
we need not stop to inquire ; Dr. Wallace attri- 
butes little influence to the former factor, con- 
tending that caries depends essentially upon 
faulty dental environment ; and one can scarcely 
doubt that the state of the gums and of the oral 
secretions profoundly influences the growth of 
bacteria in the mouth, upon the acid yielded by 
which organisms the corrosion of the dental 
enamel essentially depends. Faulty conditions 
of the o'ral secretions likewise favour the deposit 
of tartar. 

Another result of imperfect use of the teeth 
is undue thinness of the alveolar walls and perio- 
dontal membrane, in consequence of which the 
teeth are not so firmly held in their sockets as 
they should be. This is, I believe, one of the 
reasons why they are prone to fall out prema- 
turely among the moderns: we know that the 
teeth tend to drop out in old people owing to a 
senile atrophy of the alveolar walls ; the Haver- 
sian canals get smaller and may, indeed, disap- 
pear entirely, and it stands to reason that this 
atrophy must be hastened by inefficient exer- 
cise of the teeth. So far as I am able to gather 
from an examination of skulls in museums, the 
teeth are rarely shed among primitive peoples 
before extreme old age, while among moderns 
they frequently fall out long ere this is attained. 



TAe A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

A still worse evil attaching to insufficient 
use of the teeth is pyorrhoea alveolaris or 
Riggs's disease, which, in conjunction with the 
deposit of tartar, is the great cause of the pre- 
mature loosening and shedding of the teeth 
observed among latter-day civilised peoples. 
This affection consists of a purulent inflamma- 
tion of the periodontal membrane, owing to the 
invasion of it by pyogenic cocci, so that pus 
wells up on pressing the gum against the teeth. 
Now, when by a vigorous use of the teeth the 
buccal cavity is kept well flushed with healthy 
secretions, the growth of micro-organisms within 
this chamber is kept down, and when, by the 
same means, the vitality of the periodontal 
membrane and adjacent tissues of the gum is 
periodically stimulated, these tissues offer stout 
resistance to the invasion of pathogenic organ- 
isms ; but when, contrariwise, the teeth are little 
used, the secretions of the mouth are in conse- 
quence defective both as to quality and quan- 
tity, and the growth of organisms in the buccal 
cavity is promoted ; and when, further, the cir- 
culation in the periodontal membrane and adja- 
cent soft tissues is not adequately stimulated by 
vigorous mastication, their vitality is poor and 
they offer but a feeble resistance to parasitic 
invasion. We can thus, I think, safely infer that 
inefficient mastication is a potent cause of pyor- 

['59] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

rhcea alveolaris ; and the chief cause of ineffi- 
cient mastication being the eating of soft foods, 
we must also conclude that the latter practice 
is chiefly responsible for the disease in ques- 
tion ; such foods further predispose to this affec- 
tion in that they are apt to lodge between the 
teeth and by undergoing decomposition there 
to favour the growth of micro-organisms within 
the mouth. The condition of the teeth and 
gums among the civilised poor is, alas, little cal- 
culated to make us proud of our boasted civili- 
sation — the spongy 'pus-exuding gums, the 
lengthening, loose, tartar-covered, carious teeth, 
and the putrescent breath constitute a damning 
indictment against our modern system of living 
on a soft, pappy diet, and not giving the teeth 
the work for which they are designed. I never 
examine such a mouth without being impressed 
with, and I may add oppressed by, this fact. 

I am not, of course, contending that pyor- 
rhoea alveolaris only occurs in those who masti- 
cate inefficiently ; whatever causes an unhealthy 
condition of the gums and saliva predisposes to 
it, but it is surely much less common in those 
who masticate well than in those who masticate 
ill. Confirmatory of this statement is the fact 
that it is more frequent in those with irregu- 
lar teeth than in those with a good bite, who 
are thus able to put their teeth to more 

[160] 



The A.B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

effective use. This affection is very common 
among the carnivora of menageries as well 
as among dogs and cats; indeed, one seldom 
fails to find it in dogs over four years of age, 
and in old dogs it is generally rampant. Doubt- 
less in all these cases the general conditions of 
life play some part in the causation of the dis- 
ease, but I do not think that we can eliminate 
from it the factor of defective use of the jaws 
and teeth, for it is certain that dogs and cats 
are fed largely on pappy foods and are often 
insufficiently supplied with bones. 

The causation of dental caries. — Dr. Wallace, 
in his philosophical work on "The Cause and 
Prevention of Decay in Teeth," contends that 
the cause of the prevalence of dental caries is 
that the natural food-stuffs are, to a large extent, 
ridded of their accompanying fibrous parts and 
consumed in a form which renders them liable 
to lodge and to undergo acid fermentation in 
the mouth ; while from the same cause and the 
induced conditions the micro-organisms of the 
mouth lodge and multiply and augment the ra- 
pidity and intensity of the acid fermentation. 
I am perfectly at one with Dr. Wallace in be- 
lieving that the removal of the fibrous portions 
of food is the main cause of the prevalence of 
caries among moderns, and I can hardly doubt 
that foods so prepared tend to promote caries 

ii [ 161 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

in the way indicated, but I venture to think that 
they do this even more by failing to call forth 
the normal degree of mastication. I cannot but 
think that if these same soft foods were as labo- 
riously masticated as they would need to be if 
they retained their fibrous ingredients, dental 
caries would be much less common than it actu- 
ally is. I have endeavoured to show how very 
different the local conditions are in the efficient 
from what they are in the inefficient masticator 
— how in the former the jaws and teeth are 
wont to be well developed, the bite to be good, 
and the secretions which bathe the teeth to be of 
a kind calculated to promote their health ; and 
how in the latter an entirely opposite set of con- 
ditions is wont to prevail. That it is possible 
to maintain a fine set of healthy teeth till past 
middle life on ordinary civilised diet, provided 
the food be habitually subjected to efficient 
mastication, is shown in the case of the man 
already referred to, and by numerous other cases 
which I have observed. 

Since the application of cooking to food 
there has been a progressive lessening in the 
work of the jaws and teeth and, parallel with this, 
a diminution in their size and an incursion of 
dental caries. Among the anthropoids in their 
natural state caries is practically unknown, and 
I think we may conclude that the same was true 

[i6a] 



"The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

of man before he learnt to cook. In the pre- 
agricultural races, such as the aboriginal Aus- 
tralians, the effect of cooking the food is shown 
in the lessening in the size of the wisdom teeth 
and of the post-wisdom alveolar ridge; dental 
caries, though rare among these people, does 
occur, and especially in the wisdom teeth. 1 
In the early agricultural period, owing to the 
increasing softness of the vegetable food, the 
jaws and teeth show a tendency to be smaller 
than in the previous periods ; the wisdom teeth 
sure decidedly smaller and more prone to caries, 
while caries of the other teeth is by no means 
rare. In the late agricultural period the jaws 
and teeth often show very decided defects of 
development, while dental caries is, as we know 
but too well, rampant 

What has been said concerning the relative 
prevalence of caries in different diet epochs ap- 
plies to many other diseases of the teeth ; thus, 
along with the increase of caries, there has been 
a parallel increase in the prevalence of pyor- 
rhoea alveolaris. 

1 Among the Australian skulls I have examined in mu- 
seums caries of the wisdom teeth — /./,, in those very teeth 
which, as shown by their atrophy, are least used — is by no 
means uncommon (though it is possible that some of the skulls 
belong to natives who have embraced the dietetic customs of 
the white man). I submit that this fact may fairly be used as 
an argument in favour of the view that inefficient use of the 
teeth predisposes them to caries by interfering with their re- 

[163] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 
Concluding Remarks 

I have now set forth some of the evils result- 
ing from inefficient mastication. They are many 
and serious. The immediate evils, such as 
over-eating, indigestion, adenoids, dental caries, 
And pyorrhoea alveolaris, are bad enough, but 
when we consider the secondary evils to which 
these primary ones give rise, — and I havetmly 
mentioned a few of them, — we must come to the 
conclusion that an appalling amount of misery 
and suffering may be saved by the simple expe- 
dient of inculcating the habit of efficient masti- 
cation. How this end can best be accomplished 
vvill be considered in the next section. 

Sbctiok IV. From London Lanett* August 8, 1903 

Means of Insuring Adequate 
Mastication 

In order to secure the full advantages accru- 
ng from the use of the jaws and their append- 
ages, it is, above all, necessary for them to 
be adequately exercised during the period of 
development. If this is done, not only will 
the tendency to dental caries, adenoids, indiges- 

gisting power, though it must be acknowledged that the posi- 
tion of the wisdom teeth places them at a disadvantage, owing 
to the tendency of food to accumulate about them, especially 
n undeveloped jaws in which they have not adequate room* 

[164] 



The A.B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

tion, and other evils be greatly diminished, but 
the masticatory instinct will establish itself as a 
permanent force, so that the individual will tend 
for the rest of his life to subject even soft foods 
to thorough mastication. The tongue, the lips, 
and the jaws of the newly born child find their 
natural exercise at the mother's breast, and we 
should, therefore, do our utmost to get the 
mother to suckle her child, the bottle affording 
neither the same kind nor the same amount of 
exercise. If, unhappily, we fail in this, we must 
see that the teat of the feeding-bottle is so con- 
structed as to compel the child to earn his meal 
by, at any rate, some exercise. This kind of 
exercise promotes the growth of the tongue and 
thus of the jaws, especially of the mandible. 
Directly the infant shows a disposition to bite 
hard things the instinct should be gratified. We 
may observe a tendency in this direction as 
early as the third or fourth month, and it 
becomes more and more pronounced when, the 
time for the eruption of the teeth approaching, 
the gums begin to swell up and to get tender, 
and saliva begins to flow from the mouth ; it is 
now, more than ever, necessary to provide the 
child with hard substances on which to exercise 
the jaws and the gums, and a great deal of the 
trouble of teething is due to the failure to recog- 
nise this fact What, then, are we to employ 

[i«5] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

for this purpose? I am convinced that it is a 
mistake to rely solely, or even mainly, upon 
baubles of ivory, coral, and the like, useful 
though these may be in their way; it is far 
better to give the child something which is not 
only hard but nutrient and pleasant to the taste, 
something which will at one and the same time 
exercise the maxillary apparatus, excite the 
gustatory organs, and provide a certain amount 
of nutriment. To this end we may, as the teeth- 
ing time approaches, give a chop or chicken 
bone, from which most of the meat has been 
removed; by powdering the bone with white 
sugar or salt we may increase its attractiveness. 
From .such bones a good deal of nutriment can 
be extracted, and this of a kind which is most 
acceptable to the infant stomach, for it must be 
remembered that the young human is in the 
main carnivorous. Indeed, since milk is a purely 
animal diet, all the mammals must be regarded 
as essentially carnivorous during the period of 
suckling, while man, as already observed, from 
the time he emerged from the anthropoid until 
he learned to cook his food, was throughout life 
mainly an animal feeder. Therefore we should 
not hesitate to allow the teething infant animal 
food in the form suggested. Chicken and chop 
bones, yielding as they do before the pressure 
on the gums, are, moreover, just of the right 

[166] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

degree of consistence for the purpose in view, 
while they afford abundant exercise for the 
tongue; ivory, coral, and the like are, on the 
other hand, too hard and unyielding, and lack, 
moreover, the attractiveness belonging to sa- 
pidity. 

By thus providing the maxillary apparatus 
with suitable exercise we shall do much to facil- 
itate the eruption of the teeth and to favour the 
growth of the jaws and their appendages, in- 
cluding the salivary glands, and so to prepare 
the mouth for the reception of vegetable food. 
This should, of course, not be given till the 
teeth appear. The order in which these make 
their appearance gives some indication as to the 
order in which.vegetable food should be admin- 
istered to the child. The first teeth to penetrate 
the gums are the lower incisors which appear 
from the seventh to the eighth month; then 
follow the upper incisors from the seventh to the 
tenth month. These teeth enable the child to 
bite, but not, be it observed, to masticate, for 
which function the molars are necessary. Now 
the first molars do not appear till the twelfth or 
fourteenth month; the second molars not till 
between the fourteenth and the twentieth month ; 
and it seems to me tertain that our primitive 
ancestors could not have obtained starch in any 
quantity until they reached this age; at the 

[167] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

best, pre-cooking man was but scantily supplied 
with starch, and such slender supply as he had 
could only be rendered accessible to the diges- 
tive juices by vigorous mastication, which broke 
up the indigestible cellulose framework in which 
all vegetable starch is contained; hence, until 
the young human cut his molars, he had little 
opportunity of securing any starch. These con- 
siderations strongly suggest the desirability of 
giving but small quantities of starch before the 
twelfth month, and though the facts, that ptyaline 
appears in the saliva about the time the first 
incisors are cut, and that pancreatic juice de- 
velops its amylolytic ferment at the same time, 
show that the digestive organs are ready for the 
reception of some starch at the seventh or 
eighth month, yet I believe the quantity should 
be strictly limited. I am ready to admit that 
the modern child may have, indeed probably 
has, a greater power of digesting starch than 
his remote pre-agricultural ancestor; but even 
so, I am convinced that we should be on our 
guard not to over-gorge infants with this sub- 
stance. Only a small quantity should be given 
before the twelfth month, and it should be grad- 
ually increased up to the twentieth month. 

I have said that the pre-agricultural infant 
was unable to secure starch in any quantity by 
means of his incisors. These teeth enabled him, 

[168] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

however, to obtain some soluble nutriment from 
fruits, and Dr. Sim Wallace has suggested that 
the early eruption of the lower incisors is for the 
purpose of enabling the infant to pierce the 
outer covering of fruits so as to permit him to 
extract the soluble contents by suction; and, 
accordingly, when these teeth are cut we may 
allow the child to bite at such vegetable 
substances as apples, oranges, and sugar-cane. 
The latter is a useful article of diet for children, 
for it provides soluble saccharide in a diluted 
form, and it is advisable that the child should 
receive his cane sugar well diluted, for it must 
be remembered that before the agricultural 
period man's supply of pure sugar was limited 
to wild honey which, consisting as it does almost 
entirely of mono-saccharide (grape sugar and 
fruit sugar), is very easily disposed of by the 
digestive organs. Nowadays, the less digestible 
cane sugar (which is a di-saccharide) is very 
largely consumed in the undiluted state, in which 
it is apt to set up disturbance. When, how- 
ever, it is obtained by chewing the sugar-cane, 
it is diluted both by the water in the cane and 
by the saliva, and I should like to see children 
obtain most of their cane sugar in this way. 

The consideration of the conditions obtaining 
for pre-agricultural man not only strongly sug- 
gests that the young human of to-day should 

[169] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

be given starch in very moderate quantities up 
to the twelfth month, but it points an even more 
important lesson — viz., that this substance 
should be given not, as is the custom, as liquid 
or pap, but in a form compelling vigorous mas- 
tication, for it is certain that early man, from 
the time he emerged from the ape till he dis- 
covered how to cook his vegetable food, obtained 
practically all his starch in such a form ; it can- 
not too often be repeated that uncooked starch 
in the natural state, locked up as it is in cham- 
bers of indigestible cellulose, has no nutritive 
value ; these chambers need first to be broken 
up by prolonged and energetic chewing, and 
in this way much or most of the starch is con- 
verted in the mouth into dextrines and maltose, 
very little passing into the stomach in the crude 
state to set up disturbance in that organ and 
later in the bowel. If it is given as liquid or 
pap it will pass down as starch into the stomach, 
while if it is administered in a form which 
obliges the child to chew it properly, not only 
will the jaws, the teeth, and the gums obtain the 
exercise which they crave, and without which 
they cannot develop normally, but the starch 
will be so thoroughly insalivated that much of 
it will be converted within the mouth into mal- 
tose. How foolish to upset the child's digestive 
system by deluging it with liquid starch, and 

[170] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

then to endeavour to correct matters by giving 
the malt extract which the child can and should 
himself manufacture within the laboratory of 
his buccal cavity. 

Clearly, then, the child should make his first 
acquaintance with starch, not in the form of a 
liquid or pappy patent food, but in a solid and 
somewhat tough form. The best means of 
achieving this end is occupying my attention, 
and I hope soon to publish the results of my 
investigation. Meanwhile, I would point out 
that hard, well-baked crusts constitute a con- 
venient form in which to administer starch to 
children. A piece of crust may be put in the 
oven and re-baked ; this not only hardens it but 
helps to convert the starch into dextrine, which 
is a stage on the road to maltose. If the crust 
be then cut into a suitable shape and spread 
with bacon fat or fresh butter, it constitutes a 
most agreeable morsel. Later, we may give hard 
plain biscuits. The same principle should be 
acted upon during later childhood and youth : 
we should always give, as far as possible, the 
starch in a form compelling abundant mastica- 
tion. Loaves should be shaped so as to give a 
maximum of crust and a minimum of crumb, 
and should be baked hard. Such loaves are 
quite as nutritious as the ordinary ones, and 
much more digestible, containing as they do an 

[no 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

abundance of dextrine and not a little maltose, 
and compelling efficient mastication, especially 
if eaten, as they should be, without any fluid. 
A lady who has the catering for a large number 
of girls gives the bread in this way, and she 
tells me that there is keen competition for the 
most crusty portions. 

I do not say that starch in the liquid and 
pappy form should find no place whatever in 
man's dietary at the present day, for this would 
imply the prohibition of porridge, boiled pota- 
toes, milk puddings, and the like. We cannot 
put back the hand of time and return to the 
food of our primitive ancestors, nor is it desir- 
able that we should ; but we can, at least, arrange 
matters so that a large proportion of the starch 
we consume shall be in a form inviting masti- 
cation, such as crusts, stale bread, stale cake, 
biscuits, and so forth. The less children eat of 
pastry, or, indeed, of any luxurious foods, the 
better ; if brought up on a healthy dietary and 
under healthy conditions generally, they will 
relish their simple fare more than the choicest 
dishes of the epicure. I do not, I say, object 
to the child consuming a certain proportion of 
starch in the liquid or pultaceous form, for if, 
by bringing him up on a rational dietary, his 
instinct to masticate be afforded due oppor- 
tunity to develop he will be likely to subject 

[17a ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

even soft vegetable food to something like 
adequate mastication ; this will tend to mitigate 
the evils associated with such food, not only by 
facilitating the digestion of starch, but by flush- 
ing the mouth and promoting the health of the 
teeth and buccal mucous membrane. 

The question how far children should be 
allowed to crack nuts may here be considered. 
If the child has been brought up on pappy food, 
and has in consequence brittle and ill-developed 
teeth, the cracking of hard nuts will be likely to 
injure them, and this is a fortiori true if any of 
the teeth are carious or "filled." And not 
only nuts but hard food of any kind, such as 
ship's biscuits, may in these circumstances in- 
jure the teeth, as many of those who went 
through the recent South African campaign can 
testify. But if, on the other hand, the child has 
from the beginning been fed on coarse, hard 
foods, so that the teeth have been allowed to 
grow dense and strong, no harm is likely to 
ensue from cracking such nuts as filberts and 
Spanish nuts. If a squirrel or a monkey weigh- 
ing a few pounds can do so with impunity, 
surely the young human should be able to 
also. The cracking should, however, be done 
by the molars, while such hard nuts as Brazils 
had best not be tackled at all. 

Animal food does not need the same amount 

[173] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

of mastication as vegetable food, since it 
is not digested in the mouth, though some 
contend that the mixture of proteid with alka- 
line saliva facilitates its subsequent peptoni- 
sation. Cooked animal food is, however, all 
the better for some mastication, owing to the 
coagulation of the proteids, and, in order to 
insure the efficient mastication of meat, fish, and 
poultry, Dr. Sim Wallace recommends that they 
should be given in large pieces cut thin. " Flat 
pieces about one inch square generally necessi- 
tate a certain amount of mastication. It is 
difficult to swallow large flat pieces of meat 
without mastication, but when finely minced 
little or no mastication is called forth." The 
younger the child the more underdone should 
the meat be. 

Examination of the Mouth and Adjacent 

Parts 

If a child be brought up on the lines indi- 
cated and under healthy conditions generally, it 
is tolerably certain that the maxillary apparatus 
will develop normally, that the teeth will be 
strong and well opposed, and show little ten- 
dency to disease ; but, inasmuch as the methods 
advocated are but seldom put into practice, dis- 
orders of the teeth, more especially caries and 
irregularities, are common, and hence with a 

[174] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

view to promote more efficient mastication it is 
always advisable to examine our patient's teeth. 

Each individual tooth should be inspected in 
a good light for the presence of caries, and care- 
ful note should be taken of the " bite," a normal 
bite implying not only a proper opposition of 
the two rows of teeth but the capacity of the 
lower ones to move freely across the upper; 
mere vertical movement of the mandible does 
not constitute efficient mastication. In this 
connection it must not be forgotten that an 
unopposed molar is useless for purposes of 
mastication, and it is by no means rare to find 
in a mouth several sound unopposed molars 
which are for this reason absolutely function- 
less. Nay, more than this, it may happen 
that teeth, perfectly sound ones, too, far from 
helping, may actually interfere with mastica- 
tion ; thus, among the poor, we sometimes find 
all the teeth gone save the upper canines and 
the lower incisors, and the teeth and gums being 
alike unable to come into contact, nothing worthy 
of the name of mastication is possible ; it would 
be far better to be without any teeth whatever, 
for the toothless gums would then be permitted 
to come into contact along their entire extent, 
under which condition they gradually harden 
and come to be quite efficient grinding agents. 

Next the gums, the alveoli, and the roots of 

[ 175 ] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

the teeth must be examined, especially for the 
presence of erosion, tartar, and pyorrhoea areo- 
laris, this latter condition being evidenced by 
the welling-up of pus upon pressing the gums 
against the sides of the teeth. 

If our examination of the mouth discloses 
anything likely to interfere with mastication the 
aid of the dentist should at once be sought, but 
every physician should be so far acquainted with 
disorders of the teeth as to be able to say, in the 
majority of cases, at all events, when this is 
necessary. I am convinced that far more illness 
than is generally supposed is attributable to 
dental defects, and this even among the more 
leisured classes. With regard to pyorrhoea 
alveolaris, it has to be remembered that it not 
only does harm by causing loosening, lengthen- 
ing, and shedding of the teeth, and thus interfer- 
ing with mastication, but also by contaminating 
the stomach and the blood and thus upsetting 
the digestion and causing constitutional diseases, 
such as anaemia and arthritis ; and inasmuch as 
poisonous discharges from the nose, the naso- 
pharynx, the pharynx, and the tonsils may act 
in a similar way, these parts also should be 
inspected in connection with the examination of 
the teeth. In the dust-laden atmosphere of 
towns they are very liable to disease, and even 
when healthy are necessarily dirtied ; some go 

[, 7 6] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

so far as to advise all town dwellers daily to 
wash out the nasal passages and to gargle the 
throat ; but, whatever may be thought of this, it 
is certain that under existing dietetic conditions 
special means are needed in order to keep the 
mouth and teeth clean. When man fed on raw 
food this was not necessary, the food itself and 
the copious flow of saliva, induced by prolonged 
mastication, effectually cleansing these parts; 
but, under present conditions, food tends to 
remain within the mouth, especially between 
the teeth and in their crevices, and therefore 
special means are needed to remove it. This is 
done by " cleaning the teeth " and by rinsing the 
mouth. 

The tooth-brush. — Probably the ideal method 
of cleaning the teeth is that adopted by many 
primitive and not a few semi-civilised peoples — 
viz., rubbing them with a twig of wood which 
has been teased out at one end so as to form a 
sort of brush by means of which the teeth can 
be burnished and food dislodged from them. 
The modern tooth-brush requires to be used 
with great caution, as it is capable of doing much 
harm, not only by removing the mucoid film, 
which, according to Dr. Wallace, protects the 
teeth from corroding agencies, 1 but probably 

1 This film can be felt by the tongue as a somewhat rough 
covering, which gives place to a smooth surface after the use 
of the tooth-brush. 

,a [ 177 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

also by injuring the edge of the gum and the 
neck of the teeth, and thus setting up the condi- 
tion known as "erosion." Certain it is that 
some of the best sets of teeth I have encountered 
have been wholly unacquainted with the tooth- 
brush. In any case the brush should be em- 
ployed with great care ; it should be soft, and 
should always be drawn away from the gums 
both on the inner and outer aspect of the teeth 
towards the biting surface, as well as across the 
latter, never transversely across the outer sur- 
faces, as so frequently is done. The object of 
these procedures is to dislodge any particles of 
food that may have collected between the teeth 
or in their crevices. For this purpose the tooth- 
pick may also be employed judiciously. In 
order to render the enamel of the teeth white it 
is better to rub each tooth carefully with some 
soft material, such as chamois leather, rather 
than to scrub them with a brush. Tooth-pow- 
ders should not be used as a matter of routine, 
but only occasionally and for appearance rather 
than for cleanliness, and should consist of some 
simple non-irritant material. Antiseptic pow- 
ders and washes are to be scrupulously avoided, 
for it is neither desirable nor possible to render 
the buccal cavity aseptic; myriads of bacteria 
flourish within it, many of which play a useful 
part as scavengers. The time of all others for 

[178] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

cleaning the teeth is just before going to bed, 
so that the food shall not be allowed to decom- 
pose in the mouth during the night. There will 
then be no need to use the tooth-brush in the 
morning. 

Rinsing the mouth. — The mouth should be 
rinsed out as a matter of routine after each 
meal and on rising, and care should be taken to 
do this before the early cup of tea, so as not to 
contaminate the stomach with the buccal secre- 
tions which have accumulated during the night. 
Inasmuch as raw vegetable food has a cleansing 
effect on the teeth, it is often a wise plan, espe- 
cially in the case of children, to finish a meal 
with some kind of fruit, such as an apple or an 
orange. It hardly seems necessary to insist 
upon the necessity for keeping all artificial 
dentures thoroughly clean. 



["79] 



PROFESSOR PAWLOWS DEMONSTRA- 
TIONS OF PSYCHIC INFLUENCE IN 
DIGESTION 

[In presenting a theory of human alimentation involving 
mental or nervous as well as mechanical and chemical factors 
which influence it for good, it is not often that an author is 
able to enlist the assistance of a complete battery of scientific 
confirmation to fortify his own crude observations taken direct 
from personal experience in the study of natural requirements. 

Professor Pawlow, with his marvellously skilful investi- 
gation of the workings of the digestive secretions, and Dr. 
Cannon of the Harvard Medical School, by aid of persistent 
and patient X-ray studies, explain how it is that earned 
appetite and thorough mouth-treatment of food are prelimi- 
nary necessities of easy digestion, and that disturbance or 
shock of any sort during the process stop digestive proceed- 
ings and endanger health. They show also that when the 
mouth is used to do all that it can do in the work of digestion 
all the rest is easily accomplished by the Natural Auto- 
matic Processes within the body. 

They both show that we have, each of us, a certain respon- 
sibility in the matter of right digestion and healthy nutrition, 
and that all this personal responsibility is located in the head, 
in the mind, and in the mouth, and that while the alimentation 
is proceeding it is a sacred duty to do our part right, accord- 
ing to the intelligence that these most valuable demonstrations 
teach. 

Professor Pawlow has allowed publication of his lectures in 
Russian and German, and recently Professor W. H. Thomp- 
son of the Physiological Department of Trinity College, 
Dublin, has made an English translation which is issued by 
Charles Griffin & Company of London and J. B. Lippincott of 
Philadelphia. 

[180] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own "Nutrition 

The author has to express special gratitude to Professor 
Pawlow, Professor Thompson, Messrs Griffin and Ltppincott 
for permission to reprint herein some entire lectures and ex- 
tracts that bear especially on the practical understanding of 
our subject 

Professor Pawlow is one of the Board of Scientific Assessors 
mentioned in the report of a plan for an International 
Inquiry into the subject of Human Nutrition. 

In one of the lectures, not here reprinted, Professor Paw- 
low gives merited recognition of the early statements of the 
French physiologist Blondlot relative to psychic influence on 
the digestive secretions made some half century ago, but dis- 
credited by physiologists since that time, owing to insufficiency 
of evidence brought forward in support of the statements. 

Professor Pawlow*s acknowledgment is so gracefully ren- 
dered that it is here given as a model of scientific courtesy. 

" I have depicted the work of the gastric glands as we have 
seen it in our experiments, and as it has developed under our 
hands. Is the picture a new one ? In its details, yes ; but not 
in its fundamental features. However singular it may appear, 
the sketch of this picture was more than fifty years ago out- 
lined by physiology. May this constitute another reason for 
our science relinquishing its characteristic shyness of new 
things and for its conversion to our interpretation of the 
phenomena under consideration ! 

" The talented author of the Traiti Analytiqw de la Diges- 
tion — Blondlot — spoke in plain words of the importance of 
taking food, and of the specific excitability of the gastric 
mucous membrane. The facts adduced in the working up of 
his theory were naturally insufficient, but we must not forget 
that the first experiments on dogs with artificial gastric 
fistula had only just been performed. It is truly incompre- 
hensible that the researches of Blondlot and his views upon 
the secretion of gastric juice have experienced during the past 
fifty years no completion, no additions, but, on the contrary, 
have passed out of sight, thanks to the faulty experiments and 
erroneous representations of later authors. Only in the 
works of a few writers — and those mostly French — has 
Blondlot's theory survived. Of other investigators we must 
give mention to Heidenhain, who has enriched the physiology 
of absorption in general, but more especially, in connection 

[181] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

with the secretory work of the stomach, has discovered many 
important facts and has given birth to many fruitful ideas. 
From him proceed the subdivision of the secretory process 
according to periods and exciting agendas, as well as the sug- 
gestion that it would be important to investigate the individ- 
ual food-stuffs in relation to the work of the stomach. Hei- 
denhain's results are contained in his well-known article on 
the secretion of the cardiac glands of the stomach, published 
in the year 1879 in PplUgek's Archives. The work of 
Blondlot and the additions of Heidenhain comprise almost 
everything of importance which was accomplished by physiol- 
ogy in fifty years concerning the conditions and mechanism of 
the secretory work of the stomach during digestion. Full of 
moment, however, for our subject was the obvious error that 
mechanical stimulation constituted an effective excitant of the 
gastric glands, and this error was in its turn a result of faulty 
methods." — Horace Fletcher.] 

LECTURE IV 

GENERAL SCHEME OF AN INNERVATION 
MECHANISM — THE WORK OF THE NER- 
VOUS APPARATUS OF THE SALIVARY 
GLANDS — APPETITE, THE FIRST AND 
MOST POTENT EXCITER OF THE GAS- 
TRIC SECRETION 

Constituent parts of a complete innervation mechanism— 
The special duty of the peripheral terminations of 
afferent nerves— The specific qualities of nerve cells— 
Analogy between the innervation mechanism of the 
salivary glands and that of the deeper-lying glands 
of digestion — The exciting agencies of the nervous 
mechanism of the salivary glands; their particular 
properties— Differences between the exciting agencies 
of the different salivary glands — Discussion of the 
sham feeding experiment— Mechanical and chemical 
stimulation of the cavity of the mouth has no effect 
on the gastric glands — The experiment of Bidder and 

[ *8* ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Schmidt relative to psychic excitation of the gastric 
secretion — Conditions for success in this experiment 
— The passionate longing for food — the appetite — 
alone brings on the secretory effect in die sham 
feeding experiment. 

Gentlemen, — As you have learned in the 
last lecture, and also in part have seen by direct 
experiment, the nervous system can influence 
the work of our glands in the most diverse 
ways. The vagus nerve, already burdened with 
many duties, has, in addition, proved itself to 
be an undoubted exciter of the gastric glands 
and of the pancreas. But we must also assign 
to the sympathetic nerve a similar rdU. This is 
a matter which cannot be doubted, so far as the 
pancreas is concerned, and is highly probable 
as regards the stomach. We also saw good 
reason for believing that these two nerves con- 
tained two different classes of fibres, secretory 
and trophic, a condition which had already been 
proved to exist by Heidenhain for the nerves of 
the salivary glands. As a hypothesis we might 
even have proceeded a step farther and have 
divided Heidenhain's trophic nerves into sepa- 
rate classes of secretory fibres. Lastly, we ad- 
vanced important experimental evidence to 
show the existence of special inhibitory fibres 
to the glands, and these fibres also run in the 
vagus, the list of whose functions seems almost 
interminable. 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

We obtained these results by division and arti- 
ficial excitation of the nerves which run to the 
glands. But when, how, and by what means these 
nerves are thrown into activity during the normal 
course of physiological events remains a question. 

In order to avoid repetition, and at the same 
time impart the utmost clearness to our repre- 
sentation, it may be useful to bring before your 
minds at once the plan of innervation of a given 
organ, all the more since this scheme is seldom 
completely followed out or adequately described 
in physiological text-books. Consequently, it 
is not borne in mind with sufficient precision by 
the majority of medical men. 

A complete innervation mechanism consists 
of the peripheral endings of the centripetal 
(afferent) nerves, the centripetal nerves them- 
selves, the nerve cells (a group of nerve cells 
connected with each other is termed a "nerve 
centre " ), the centrifugal (efferent) nerves, and, 
lastly, their peripheral terminations. Physiol- 
ogy now* accepts it as a settled fact, that nerve 
fibres serve only as conductors of nervous im- 
pulses, which come in from contiguous links of 
the nervous chain. Only the peripheral endings 
of nerves and the nerve cells themselves have 
the power of transforming the external stimulus l 

1 By the term " external stimulus " I mean here without 
distinction every outward agency of nature, as well as every 

[i8 4 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

into a nervous impulse. In other words, in the 
intact organism these alone constitute the nor- 
mal receiving apparatus of the nervous system. 
Whether the peripheral ends of centrifugal 
(efferent) nerves are likewise able to function 
as normal sites for the application of external 
stimuli has still to be answered. Consequently, 
when any external agency excites the peripheral 
terminations — the receiving stations — of cen- 
tripetal nerves in this or that organ, the effect 
of- the stimulus will be conveyed through the 
centripetal nerves, as through a receiving wire, 
to the central station — the nerve cells. Here 
it becomes changed into a definite impulse and 
now comes back along the centrifugal nerves — 
the outgoing wires. 

The utmost importance is to be attached to 
the fact that only the peripheral endings of cen- 
tripetal (afferent) nerves, in contrast to nerve 
fibres themselves, respond to specific stimuli; 
that is to say, are able to transform definite 
kinds of external stimuli into nervous impulses. 
The function of the end organs with which they 
are connected is therefore of a purposive nature ; 
in other words, these organs are only called into 
play by certain definite conditions, and impart 

agency which has its seat within the organism. The word 
" external " applies here to everything with the single excep- 
tion of the nervous system itself. 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the idea of being aware of their purpose, of 
being conscious of their duty. We have long 
known that the peripheral endings of sensory 
nerves are possessed of a high degree of special- 
ity, and cannot therefore have any doubt regard- 
ing the specific nature of the end organs of 
other centripetal nerves* This is a sore point 
in present-day physiology. But, notwithstanding 
our knowledge of the separate parts of the ani- 
mal body, we shall only be able to form a true 
conception of the motive agencies of the whole 
complicated machine, when we have established 
the specific excitability of the end apparatus 
of every centripetal nerve, and have discovered 
all the mechanical, chemical, and other factors 
which throw this or that end apparatus into an 
active condition. I always look upon it as a 
period of scientific inadequacy so long as the 
effects of the most diverse external agencies 
upon any normal physiological process are 
admitted to be indistinguishable. As the work 
of the digestive canal is now represented in the 
majority of text-books, and consequently pre- 
sented to the mind of the physician, it bears the 
impress of this period. To impart to the physi- 
cian a more correct conception of this matter 
was my chief object in giving these lectures. 
I hope, indeed, to furnish you with evidence 
sufficiently convincing, that the alimentary canal 

[186] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

is endowed not with mere general excitability ; 
that is to say, does not respond to every con- 
ceivable form of agency, but only to special 
conditions which are different for the different 
portions of its length. Just as men and animals 
in the world are only able to maintain their 
existence and constantly adapt themselves to 
changing circumstances by aid of the peripheral 
endings of their sensory nerves, so every organ, 
indeed every cell of every organ, can only main- 
tain its place in the animal microcosm, and 
adapt itself to the activity of innumerable asso- 
ciates, as well as to the general life of the whole, 
by virtue of the fact that the peripheral end 
apparatus of its centripetal nerves possesses a 
specific excitability. 

The same applies to the nerve cells: obvi- 
ously they are endowed with specific sensibility. 
Irrespective of the excitations which are com- 
municated to them from centripetal nerves, they 
respond, as originators of nervous impulses, 
only or at least mainly to definite forms of 
mechanical, chemical, or other stimuli arising 
in the organism. This follows not alone from a 
number of physiological facts but also from 
various pharmacological data. Thus we learn 
that various drugs excite or annul the activity 
of definite portions of the nervous system, at 
least in the earlier phases of their effects. This 

[187] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

specific excitability of nerve cells, just as much 
as the same property of peripheral end organs, 
lies at the bottom of the purposive action of 
these organs. 

Hence, our next duty is to endeavour to 
discover the normal exciting conditions of the 
centripetal nerves belonging to the glands which 
we had under consideration in our last lecture, 
or, more correctly, to find out the conditions 
which excite the centres, as well as the pe- 
ripheral endings of the different nerves, which 
form parts of the nervous apparatus of these 
glands. We have, therefore, for each phase of 
the work of secretion, to find out that portion 
of the nervous mechanism which is for the time 
being under excitation, and to discover the 
primary agency by which this condition is 
elicited. This would include an exact analysis 
of the stimulating influence which mastication 
and food exert upon the nervous mechanism of 
these glands. We shall also be able more fully 
to comprehend the inner mechanism underlying 
the facts which formed the subject of the second 
lecture. This, of course, is an ideal programme 
which we can only follow out as far as the pres- 
ent state of physiology permits. It may now 
be instructive, and, for our further conclusions, 
advantageous, to glance shortly at the nervous 
control of the salivary glands. 

[188] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

< 

The salivary glands, whose innervation has 
long ago been investigated, have generally been 
accepted as types of the deeper-lying digestive 
glands, and when it became necessary to form a 
conception of the mode of activity of the latter, 
medical science resorted to a bold analogy and 
thought of the nervous apparatus of the salivary 
glands. But the attempts of investigators to 
apply rigidly to others the scheme of innervation 
which holds good for the salivary glands, have 
done considerable harm to the usefulness of the 
analogy and have prevented our arriving at a 
correct idea of the plan of innervation of the 
abdominal glands. We have already had an ex- 
ample of this nature before us. In the salivary 
glands we have no clearly marked indications of 
nervous inhibition, and this circumstance has 
decidely retarded the due development of our 
knowledge of the nervous control of the abdom- 
inal glands. Authors naturally expected to 
see a simple and prompt stimulation-effect 
from the same conditions of experiment which 
sufficed for the salivary glands, and the failure 
of this gave them, as they thought, the right 
to deny the existence of any extrinsic nervous 
influence upon the abdominal glands. The 
error is now obvious; the abdominal glands 
behave in some ways different from the salivary 
glands, and for their successful investigation, 

[189] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

other conditions of experiment are necessary 
than those which held good for the former. In 
the working of the abdominal glands nervous 
inhibitory processes play a large part, but they 
are almost wholly absent in the case of the 
salivary glands. This is an additional warning 
that one must never push the conclusions drawn 
from analogy too far, but must constantly bear 
in mind that the life-functions of all organs are 
extremely complicated, and that the work of 
even the most apparently similar organs should 
be submitted to separate and careful observation. 
To me it appears that the unjustified analogy 
drawn between the abdominal and salivary 
glands has to be credited with another impor- 
tant misapprehension. And precisely for this 
reason I think it desirable to bring under con- 
sideration, if only in brief fashion, the conditions 
of work of the salivary glands, especially since 
Dr. Glinski has instituted in the laboratory some 
easily performed experiments which bear upon 
the matter. 

The experiences of daily life teach us from 
the outset, that the activity of the salivary glands 
begins even before the introduction of food into 
the mouth. With an empty stomach, the sight 
of food or even the thought of it is sufficient to 
set the salivary glands at once into activity; 
indeed, the well-known expression, "to make 

[190] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

one's mouth water/' is based upon this fact. 
Hence a psychic event, the eager longing for 
food, must be accepted as an undoubted excitant 
of the nervous centre for the salivary glands. 
On the other hand, the same every-day experi- 
ence, as well as numerous experiments upon 
animals, teach us that a number of substances, 
when brought into contact with the mucous 
membrane of the mouth, are likewise able to 
call forth a secretion of saliva. One even 
acquires the impression that everything brought 
into the mouth may reflexly influence these 
glands, the only difference being a gradual shad- 
ing off in the effect, dependent upon the strength 
of the stimulation which the substance introduced 
is able to exert, and it appears to me that it is 
precisely this impression which has driven the 
idea into the background, that the peripheral 
end apparatus of the centripetal nerves of the 
digestive canal are specifically excitable. The 
facts were here correctly observed, but their 
indications erroneously interpreted. 

The great multiplicity of excitants of salivary 
secretion, has without doubt, some connection 
with the complicated physiological functions of 
the saliva. This is the first fluid encountered 
by everything which enters the alimentary canal. 
It must, therefore, in a sense play the part of 
host to every substance taken in — moisten the 

[ '9* ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

dry, dissolve the soluble, envelop the hard and 
bulky with mucus in order to facilitate its pas- 
sage down the narrow oesophagus ; and submit 
certain forms of food material, such as starch, to 
a process of chemical elaboration. Nor is its 
duty by any means ended here. The saliva is 
secreted in the first compartment of the alimen- 
tary canal, which is at the same time the sorting- 
room of the organism. Much of what enters 
the mouth may prove in the testing process to 
be useless, or even noxious, and must either 
have its deleterious properties neutralised or be 
completely rejected. The saliva is secreted in 
the first instance to obviate injurious effects in 
some way; thus, for example, a strong acid is to 
a certain degree neutralised, while other corrod- 
ing substances may be simply diluted, and by 
mere reduction of concentration have their 
harmfulness diminished. 

In the second place, when the injurious sub- 
stances have to be wholly removed, the saliva 
plays the rble of a washing-out fluid ; otherwise 
the material, by clinging to the mucous mem- 
brane of the mouth, might in longer or shorter 
time gain entry into the blood and there develop 
its noxious influence. This last function of the 
fluid is hardly taken into account at all in 
physiology, and yet it is evident that the saliva, 
as a cleansing fluid, must have a wide importance. 

[192] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

If you only think of how often we are impelled 
to expectorate, that is, to wash out the mouth 
with saliva after something unpleasant, this will 
be clear. Such a view finds additional support 
when we reflect that a feeling of disgust pro- 
duces almost as strong a flow of saliva as the 
sight of a tasty meal. In both cases the secre- 
tion performs the office of forerunner: in the 
first it prepares for the washing out of the 
mouth, in the second for the requisite elabora- 
tion of the food. Think how often, when some- 
thing disagreeable enters the mouth, with what 
rapidity the saliva is poured out, even after the 
unpleasant substance has been for a considerable 
time removed, and not a trace more is apparent 
to the sense of taste. Indeed, long afterwards 
one has only to recall the circumstances to 
mind in order to bring on anew the secretion of 
saliva. Apparently the psychic excitation of the 
nerves of salivary secretion also ushers in the 
act of vomiting, which, as is well known, can be 
called forth by mental influence. Further, the 
function of the saliva just mentioned is probably 
the true physiological explanation of the feeling 
of disgust which many persons experience at 
the sight of the secretion itself. 

Hence I hold that substances which obtain 
entry to the mouth set up a secretion of saliva 
only because we have here the seat of a defi- 
f 3 [ 193 ] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

nite physiological sense, and not because the 
peripheral terminations of the buccal nerves 
are devoid of specific excitability, and capable 
of being thrown into action by every desired 
form of stimulus. In other words, the specific 
excitability of the peripheral endings of the 
salivary nerves is very comprehensive and 
widely extended. This is no picture of the 
imagination, for it can be supported by facts. 
To say nothing of the testimony of earlier au- 
thors, that the salivary glands have each partic- 
ular exciting agencies to which they specially 
respond, we can demonstrate the following facts 
from the material collected in our laboratory. 

Dr. Glinski isolated the orifices of the salivary 
glands in dogs with portions of the adjoining 
mucous membrane, brought them out of the oral 
cavity, and caused them to heal into the edges of 
the skin wounds. In his first animal the ducts of 
the submaxillary gland were thus led outwards. 
By means of a MendeljefTs clip, the wide end 
of a conical funnel of waterproof material was 
attached to the skin surrounding the orifice. 
To the narrow end a small test-tube, which 
served to collect the saliva, was attached by a 
wire. I now offer such an animal a piece of 
flesh, and, as you see, the tube fills up at once 
with saliva. I stop tempting the dog, hang on 
a new test-tube, and give it a few pieces of flesh 

[194] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

to eat; once more a strong secretion of saliva 
results. A new tube is now attached to the 
funnel, the dog's mouth is opened, and a pinch 
of fine sand thrown in ; again there is a flow of 
saliva. Once more a new test-tube; and now 
I apply to the buccal mucous membrane, the 
plume of a feather dipped in acid solution, with 
the result that I obtain a strong flow of saliva. 
One may employ a number of substances in this 
way, when a similar effect is always produced. 
You see, in this, such a comprehensive excita- 
bility of the innervation apparatus of the salivary 
glands that you might readily interpret it as 
meaning the power of response to all and sundry 
forms of stimulation. We now proceed, how- 
ever, to another dog, whose parotid duct has in 
a similar manner been diverted outwards. The 
saliva is collected in the same way. We tempt 
the dog with a piece of flesh, but to our 
astonishment no saliva flows, and yet the animal 
is most eager for the savoury meal offered. Now 
we give it some raw flesh to eat; again the 
secretion of saliva is as good as absent ; only 
when I come near can I detect one or two drops 
of saliva running down the sides of the tube. 
Probably you will say there is something wrong, 
either with the method or with the glands of the 
animal. But wait a little. I now give the dog 
finely powdered dry flesh, and obtain at once an 

[-95] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

abundant secretion. Should any one happen to 
Slink that the variation in the result is depend- 
ent, not on a different specific activity of the 
glands, but on individual differences in the dogs, 
I respond that Dr. Glinski has had an animal 
with double parotid and submaxillary fistulae, 
and was able to observe on one and the same 
dog, a like behaviour on the part of the glands 
to that which we have just seen in two different 
individuals. An analogous experiment with 
bread was also carried out by Dr. Glinski. 
The eating of fresh moist bread produced no 
secretion worth mentioning, while dry bread, on 
the other hand, caused the saliva to flow in 
large quantities. The results of this experiment 
permit us to draw extremely instructive con- 
clusions. In the first place, the several salivary 
glands are, as a matter of fact, very sharply 
differentiated in the conditions necessary for 
their activity — that is to say, in respect to the 
agencies which excite their nervous mechanisms. 
Secondly, the innervation apparatus of the pa- 
rotid manifests a very sharp selective power in 
the choice, so to speak, of an adequate stimulus. 
The mechanical effect of large pieces of flesh is 
naturally much greater than that of the finely 
powdered material, and yet it was precisely to the 
latter that the glands responded. The stimulus 
is, therefore, not due to the mechanical, but to 

[ '9<5 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

some other property of the food. This other 
property is obviously the dryness of the 
material. Our example illustrates how that 
which we may term " purposiveness " comes 
into play in the working of our glands and also 
how erroneous is the opinion that the mechani- 
cal stimulus is all potent. Indeed, previous 
authors have already pointed out that dry sub- 
stances cause a specially free secretion of saliva, 
and yet physiological opinion throughout the 
length and breadth of the land, as expressed in 
text-books, has chosen to recognise a universal 
instead of a specific excitability. Dr. Wulfson, 
who is at present carrying on the investigation 
of salivary secretion in our laboratory, has added 
a very interesting observation to the results of 
Dr. Glinski already related. The parotid gland, 
which is hardly, if at all, excited when one offers 
fresh meat to the animal, responds with a very 
active secretion, when dry food (bread or pow- 
dered meat) is offered. This phenomenon is 
all the more surprising since the desire of the 
animal for eating is much more strongly excited 
by flesh than by dry bread. I am quite con- 
vinced that an exact study of the exciting 
agencies of the three salivary glands will furnish 
a number of new data bearing upon the question 
in hand. 

The second reagent which is poured out on 

[ *97 ] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

the raw material in the digestive canal is the 
gastric juice. How, in the normal course of 
events, is the work of the gastric glands, which 
prepare this juice, called into play? With the 
first, and manifestly important factor, which has 
a relation thereto, you are already acquainted, 
and, indeed, have already seen. I refer to the 
production of gastric juice in the empty stomach, 
as a result merely of the swallowing of food in 
the so-called sham feeding of an oesophagoto- 
miseddog. When one takes into consideration, 
the absolute independence of this factor, and' 
the intensity of the effect, which makes itself' 
evident in the secretion of a large quantity of 
juice of high digestive power, the exciting agency 
which brings about such secretion must be rec- 
ognised as one of the most important and effective 
processes in gastric digestion. But in what does 
it consist? At first sight it appears — and when 
I previously drew your attention to the fact I 
expressed the opinion — that there is here a 
simple reflex effect from the cavity of the mouth 
upon the secretory nerves of the stomach, similar 
to the reflex excitation, e.g., of the parotid gland, 
by finely powdered flesh thrown into the mouth. 
Now, however, I assert quite emphatically that 
this is not the case. We have, it is true, in the 
activity of the salivary glands an analogous 
phenomenon to indicate — not, however, that 

[198] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

of which we have just spoken. We might ap- 
ply every conceivable form of stimulus which 
could possibly come into play in the act of eat- 
ing, and yet would not obtain the slightest indi- 
cation of secretory activity in the stomach. In 
this dog with a gastric fistula, and with also 
a divided oesophagus, I will try such an experi- 
ment, using the most effective chemical stimu- 
lus to the buccal mucous membrane, viz., acid 
solution. 

The secretion of saliva begins at once, as you 
see ; the acid is, therefore, effective. From the 
stomach, however, in spite of continued exci- 
tation, no secretion results, although the acid, 
mixed with the saliva, is swallowed and flows out 
again from the upper segment of the oesophagus 
— that is to say, passes along precisely the same 
path that the food takes in sham feeding. 

We could experiment in the same way with 
a number of other substances: saline, bitters, 
pepper (strong local excitation), mustard, and 
so on, and always with the same results; a- free 
secretion of saliva, but perfect quiescence of the 
gastric glands. We may even, with the same 
object, employ the soluble constituents of flesh 
in the form of a decoction, and likewise observe, 
in most cases at least, no sign of activity on the 
part of the gastric glands. 

With the chemical we may also combine a 

[ *99 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

mechanical stimulus. We can, for example, 
wipe out the mouth with a sponge soaked in 
the solution to be experimented with, but always 
with the same negative result. We may finally 
give such pieces of sponge, or even smooth 
stones of considerable size, to the dog to swal- 
low, passing them back behind the anterior 
pillars of the fauces and allowing them to fall 
out again, from the upper portion of oesophagus. 
It may be added that a well-taught dog puts up 
with all these procedures without the slightest 
protest. You see that all the manipulations in 
this case are carried out with bare hands and with- 
out instrumental aid. One can easily train a dog 
to swallow stones which are placed in the anterior 
part of the buccal cavity. It simply makes a 
few chewing movements and swallows them 
down. The dog on which the acid experiment 
has just been made serves also for the swallow- 
ing of the stones. The attendant now places 
some pebbles in the front part of the mouth, 
when the animal rolls them round, as if chewing 
and gnawing them, and then swallows them. 
The stones fall out, as you see, from the oesoph- 
agus, and drop with an audible sound upon the 
table. This play with the stones has now lasted 
fifteen or twenty minutes (in the laboratory we 
have often kept it up for hours), and yet not a 
drop of gastric juice is to be seen. 

[200] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

In order to prove that the dog is perfectly 
healthy and normal, we lay aside the stones and 
proceed to our old experiment of sham feeding. 
As you see, the first drop of gastric juice makes 
its appearance precisely at the end of five min- 
utes, and after a further five minutes we have 
collected more than 15 c.c. of the fluid; conse- 
quently there can be no doubt that in this dog 
both gastric glands and nerves are uninjured 
and function in normal manner. At one time 
we even had a dog which voluntarily took the 
stones out of one's hand and swallowed them ; 
the sagacious creature had seen our object in 
previous experiments and learned to perform it 
of its own accord ! But in this case also the 
result was negative. 

Clearly, therefore, neither chemical nor me- 
chanical stimulation of the buccal mucous mem- 
brane is capable of reflexly exciting the nerves 
of the stomach. Further, it is obvious that the 
excitation of these nerves in sham feeding is 
not the result of a stimulation coincidently pro- 
duced; that is to say, the excitement of the 
chewing and swallowing centres does not imply 
simultaneous action of the secretory centre of 
the gastric glands. In what, then, does this 
influence consist which is intrinsic to the sham 
feeding, but which we have not been able to re- 
produce in our analytical investigation ? There 

[201] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

is only one thing to think of, namely, the eager 
desire for food, and the feeling of satisfaction 
and contentment derived from its enjoyment. 

It has, indeed, been known for forty years, 
thanks to the experiments of Bidder and 
Schmidt, that at times, the offering of food to 
a hungry dog, in other words, the excitement 
of a keen desire for it, is sufficient to cause a 
flow of gastric juice from the empty stomach. 
We shall presently have occasion to observe 
the force of this physiological factor. Here I 
bring before you another dog, likewise having 
a gastric fistula with divided oesophagus. The 
stomach has been washed out half an hour ago, 
and since then not a drop of gastric juice has 
escaped. We begin to get ready a meal of flesh 
and sausage before the animal as if we meant to 
feed it. We take the pieces of flesh from one 
place, chop them up, and lay them in another, 
passing them in front of the dog's nose, and so 
on. The animal, as you see, manifests the live- 
liest interest in our proceedings, stretches and 
distends itself, endeavours to get out of its cage 
and come to the food, chatters its teeth together, 
swallows saliva, and so on. Precisely five min- 
utes after we began to tease the animal in this 
way the first drops of gastric juice appear in 
the fistula. The secretion grows ever stronger 
and stronger, till it flows \n a considerable 

[ 202 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

stream. After the lapse of a few minutes we 
can count the number of cubic centimetres by 
tens. The meaning of this experiment is so 
clear as to require no explanation ; the passion- 
ate longing for food, and this alone, has called 
forth under our eyes a most intense activity of 
the gastric glands. If the experiment be fre- 
quently repeated, one can easily observe that 
the keener and more eager the desire on the 
part of the dog for the food, the more certain 
and intense is the secretory effect. In extreme 
cases there is even a quantitative relationship 
between this effect and that of the sham feeding. 
Here is an experiment of Professor Ssanozki, 
in which the secretory effect of the mere tempt- 
ing of the animal with the sight of food is com- 
pared with that of sham feeding. A few threads 
of alkaline mucus had just escaped from the 
stomach, and then the excitation of the dog 
with flesh was begun. After six minutes the 
secretion commenced and continued as follows : 

Dotation of the flow. Quantity of tb« joke. 

8 minutes 10 cc 

4 « 10 u 

4 " io " 

io « io « 

io u io « 

8 " io « 

8 « io " 

19 " 10 M 

19 M 3 u 

[*°3] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Then followed a sham feeding for six minutes. 

Dotation of tho flow. Quantity of the jmot. 

17 minutes 10 c.c 

9 " 10 « 

8 " 10 " 

It is clear that in this case the tempting, 
instead of being less effective than the sham 
feeding, on the contrary excelled it. 

Consequently, the observation of Bidder and 
Schmidt was perfectly correct. It cannot, how- 
ever, be said that it received general recognition 
in physiology, or that it was sufficiently appre- 
ciated. There are authors who could never 
convince themselves of its reality, and in many 
physiological text-books it is not once men- 
tioned. By way of explanation, we shall now 
consider how this matter must be dealt with by 
those who wish to observe the effect. It is only 
under certain conditions that it can be seen. 
Firstly, the animal must be healthy and vigor- 
ous ; it must have a perfectly uninjured gastric 
mucous membrane ; and this, from the descrip- 
tion in the case of many authors who obtained 
a negative result, was not the case. Secondly, 
the success of the experiment, as stated above, 
is dependent upon the intensity of the desire 
for eating, and this, again, is dependent upon 
how freely and how long beforehand the dog 
had eaten, and also upon what it is tempted 

[204] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

with, whether with a dish that excites its desire 
or leaves its interest unawakened. It is known 
that dogs' have very different tastes, just as men 
have. Thirdly, one may find among the dogs 
positively careless, indifferent creatures, incap- 
able of being perturbed in this way by anything 
which has not actually reached their mouths, 
and patiently waiting till the food is given them. 
Hence for success in the experiment, eager, 
impressionable, and excitable animals are neces- 
sary. Fourthly, one has to reckon with the 
sense and cunning of the dog, a factor which is 
not lightly to be disregarded. Often the ani- 
mals perceive at once that they are only being 
teased with the food, become annoyed thereat, 
and turn away offended at what is being done 
before them. We must, therefore, so arrange 
matters as if the animals were not going to be 
disappointed but fed in reality. If attention 
be paid to these conditions the experiment of 
" psychic excitation of the gastric secretion," as 
we usually term it, will be found to be as reliable 
as the experiment of sham feeding. When one 
is occupied for a length of time with the study 
of the gastric secretion under different con- 
ditions, one becomes convinced of what a dan- 
gerous source of error this psychic excitability 
may become in the different experiments. We 
must constantly fight, so to speak, against this 

[205] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

factor, keep it ever in view, and guard against it 
If the dog has not eaten for a long time, every 
movement, — the going out of the room, the ap- 
pearance of the attendant who ordinarily feeds the 
animal — in a word, every little triviality may give 
rise to excitation of the gastric glands. The mi- 
nutest attention is necessary in order to avoid such 
sources of error, and we should not be far wrong 
if we said that much which has been ascribed in 
former investigations to the effect of this or that 
agency was in reality a result of unobserved 
psychic influence. Consequently, in order to 
verify our own conclusions concerning the effects 
of this or that condition, we have performed many 
of our experiments on sleeping animals, having 
beforehand convinced ourselves by frequent repe- 
tition that sleep exercises no restraining influence 
on the working of the gastric glands. 

When we recall to mind the failure of our 
attempts to obtain a secretion of gastric juice 
by any stimulation whatever of the buccal mu- 
cous membrane, and at the same time see how 
constant and intense the action of this psychic 
impression is, we are forced to the inevitable 
conclusion that in our sham feeding experiment 
the whole secretory effect is due to the psychic 
stimulus, that is to say, to the keen desire on 
the part of the animal for food and the satis- 
faction of enjoying it. 

[206] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

In view of the importance of the act of eat- 
ing, which even now is apparent, but which will 
become still more obvious when the succeeding 
periods of secretion are investigated, we have 
spared neither time nor trouble to arrive at a 
correct explanation of the mechanism of this 
factor. We have, therefore, taken in hand a 
number of modifications of the sham feeding 
experiment, and these investigations have con- 
firmed the opinion at which we had arrived. 
If, for instance, the dog has been prepared by 
a long fast of two to three days, a very intense 
secretion of gastric juice will always be obtained 
by the sham feeding experiment, no matter 
what may be given it to eat, whether boiled or 
raw flesh, bread or coagulated egg-white, etc. 
The dog, however, which has not fasted, that is 
to say has been fed fifteen to twenty hours be- 
fore, will pick and choose amongst the different 
foods, eating one with great greed, tolerating an- 
other, and refusing altogether a third, and, cor- 
responding therewith, the amount and quality 
of the gastric juice will manifest wide variations. 
The more eagerly the dog eats the more juice 
will be secreted and the greater the digestive 
power which it possesses. The majority of dogs 
prefer flesh to bread, and correspondingly less 
juice will be produced by sham feeding with 
bread than with flesh. Sometimes, however, 

[107] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

we find dogs which will devour bread with 
greater appetite than flesh. In these cases one 
obtains more and stronger juice in sham feeding 
with bread than with flesh. Here is a case in 
point: a dog is given boiled meat which has 
been cut into pieces of definite size, and the 
pieces follow each other at regular intervals of 
time. The animal eats, but soon, from its be- 
haviour, you see that it develops no particular 
greed for the meal, and this observation is con- 
firmed by the fact that after fifteen to twenty 
minutes it ceases taking the flesh. The secre- 
tion of juice has meanwhile either not begun at 
all, or only after a longer interval than five 
minutes, and remains scanty to the end. Now 
wait till the secretion has stopped and give the 
same dog raw flesh, either forthwith or next 
day, in pieces of the same size and at the same 
rate as before. The raw meat tastes excellently 
to the dog ; it eats for hours at a time ; the se- 
cretion of gastric juice begins precisely after five 
minutes and is very active. With another dog 
which prefers boiled to raw meat exactly the 
reverse occurs. Broth, soup, milk — towards 
which dogs are usually more indifferent than 
towards solid food — often produce in sham 
feeding either no secretion at all or only very 
little, although broth, for instance has essen- 
tially the same taste as flesh. 

[208] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

It is therefore clear that in sham feeding the 
psychic effect may readily become an absolute 
and independent factor. All the conditions 
which we enumerated above, and which are 
necessary for the successful production of the 
psychic effect, hold good in combined form for 
the sham feeding experiment The dog eats 
with greed before one's eyes ; the food which it 
receives is pleasant ; it not only imagines food 
but actually eats it, and has therefore no reason 
to feel offended, for naturally the idea does not 
occur to any of the dogs that all their trouble is 
in vain. 

Consequently, in the sham feeding experi- 
ment, by the act of eating, the excitation of 
the nerves of the gastric glands depends upon 
a psychical factor which has here grown into a 
physiological one, that is to say, is just as much 
a matter of course, and appears quite as regularly 
under given conditions as any other physiologi- 
cal result. Regarded from the purely physio- 
logical side, the process may be said to be a 
complicated reflex act. Its complexity arises 
from this, that the ultimate object is attained by 
the joint working of many separate organic 
functions. The material to be digested — the 
food — is only found outside the organism in 
the surrounding world. It is acquired not alone 
by the exercise of muscular force, but also 

H [ 209 ] 



The A.B. -Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

by the intervention of higher functions, such as 
judgment, will, desire. Hence the simultaneous 
excitation of the different sense organs, of sight, 
of hearing, of smell and taste, is the first and 
strongest impulse towards the activity of the 
gastric glands. This especially applies to the 
two latter senses, since they are only excited 
when the food has already entered the organism, 
or at least has arrived very near it It is by the 
establishment of this passionate desire for eating 
that unerring and untiring nature has linked the 
seeking and finding of food with the commence- 
ment of the work of digestion. That this fac- 
tor, which we have now carefully analysed, 
stands in closest connection with an every-day 
phenomenon of human life, namely, appetite, 
may easily be predicated. This agency, which 
is so important to life and so full of mystery to 
science, becomes here at length incorporated 
into flesh and blood, transformed from a subjec- 
tive sensation into a concrete factor of the 
physiological laboratory. 

We are therefore justified in saying that the 
appetite is the first and mightiest exciter of the 
secretory nerves of the stomach, a factor which 
embodies in itself a something capable of impel- 
ling the empty stomach of the dog in the sham 
feeding experiment to secrete large quantities 
of the strongest juice. A good appetite in eat* 

[aio] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

ing is equivalent from the outset to a vigorous 
secretion of the strongest juice ; where there is 
no appetite this juice is also absent. To restore 
appetite to a man means to secure him a large 
stock of gastric juice wherewith to begin the 
digestion of the meal. 



(•»] 



LECTURE V 

PERIOD OF OCCURRENCE AND IMPOR- 
TANCE OF THE PSYCHIC OR APPETITE 
JUICE IN THE SECRETORY WORK OF 
THE STOMACH — THE INEFFICIENCY OF 
. MECHANICAL STIMULATION OF THE 
NERVOUS APPARATUS OF THE GASTRIC 
GLANDS 

The psychic secretion is the normal commencement, in the 
majority of cases, of secretory activity on the part of the 
gastric glands. If the meal be subdivided and adminis- 
tered at intervals, the psychic juice appears each time — 
Demonstration of " appetite juice " in a dog with an iso- 
lated gastric cul-de-sac. The work of the gastric glands 
if appetite juice be avoided by introducing food through 
a gastric fistula unperceived by the animal — Digestion of 
flesh by the stomach with and without sham feeding — 
Duration of the secretory influence of sham feeding — 
After the cessation of the psychic effect, how is the se- 
cretory work of the stomach maintained ? — Experiments 
to prove the ineffectiveness of mechanical stimulation : 
excitation of the mucous membrane by means of a glass 
rod, a feather, a puff of sand, and by rhythmic dilatation 
of an india-rubber ball — Contact between the food and 
the stomach-wall may indirectly call the activity of the 
glands into play by awakening or increasing the desire 
for food. 

Gentlemen, — On the last occasion we made 
ourselves acquainted with the first normal im- 
pulse which, in the natural course of events, 
calls into activity the innervation apparatus of 

[212] 



» . 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

the gastric glands. This impulse is a mental 
one, and consists in a passionate longing for 
food, that which in every-day life, and in the 
practice of the physician, is called " appetite," 
and which everybody, both medical and lay, 
endeavours carefully to promote. We may 
now venture to say explicitly, APPETITE IS 
JUICE, a fact which at once displays the pre- 
eminent importance of the sensation. Medi- 
cal science endeavours to assist the debilitated 
stomach by introducing the active constituent 
of gastric juice — pepsin — from without, or by 
prescribing other remedies believed to promote 
its secretion. It is, however, of interest to fol- 
low our experimental investigation still farther. 
What position is to be assigned to the "psychic" 
or " appetite-juice " l in the course of normal 
gastric digestion? Is any definite rdle to be 
attributed to it? What course does gastric 
digestion take when it is absent? Fortunately 
to all these important questions satisfactory 
answers are forthcoming by experiment We 
have only to regret that these answers come 
so late. 

Let us recall to memory how the secretion 
of gastric juice proceeded after feeding with 
flesh or bread in the case of our dog with the 

1 One may be permitted to use this expression for the 
take of brevity. 

[213] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

isolated miniature stomach. The following are 
the quantities and digestive capabilities of the 
first two hourly portions of juice after the ad- 
ministration of 200 grams of flesh or bread 
(experiments by Dr. Chigin): 



»» _ 


Fle*h. 


Bread. 


nolir> 


Quantity 
of juice. 


Digestive 
power. 


Quantity 
of juice. 


Digestive 
power. 


lat 
2nd 


12.4 C.C. 

13.5 " 


5.43 mm. 
3-63 " 


13.4 C.C 

74 u 


5.37 mm. 
S.50 " 



You see at once that the secretion of the 
first hour is identical in the two cases both as 
regards quantity and digestive power, and only 
in the second is the secretory work differentiated 
according to the nature of the food. How are 
we to explain the secretion which takes place 
at the commencement? Is it not the same 
which we have already seen in the sham feeding 
experiments? Is not this first onrush of the 
stream of secretion the preliminary psychic 
juice? Unquestionably, gentlemen, this is the 
case, and we may convince ourselves of the fact 
in the most diverse ways. Above all, the fol- 
lowing is clear : whatever occurs in the so-called 
sham feeding cannot wholly be absent in the 
case of normal feeding, since the former is 
nothing else than the isolated commencement 

[«4] 



tfhe A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

of normal digestion. This justifiable inference 
is fully confirmed, if the secretion of the first 
hours after the administration of flesh and bread 
be compared with that after simple sham feed- 
ing. In the case of feeding with flesh and bread, 
the identically similar and high digestive power 
of the first hourly portions is striking, and this 
power coincides with what we have met in sham 
feeding. Further, if the quantity of juice from 
the miniature stomach during the first hour 
be compared with that produced by the non- 
resected part of the organ, — to do which we 
must multiply it by ten, since the resected cul- 
de-sac is approximately one-tenth of the whole 
organ, — it is here again found that the quantity 
approximately corresponds to the mean values 
obtained by sham feeding, finally, the depres- 
sion in digestive power or quantity of juice 
(with flesh, decrease of digestive power; with 
bread, decline in the quantity of juice), which 
sets in soon after the taking of food, indicates 
that the two conditions are connected with the 
ingestion of food — i. *., with a transitory factor 
which soon passes away and gives place to other 
conditions. Our explanation becomes still more 
convincing when we take into consideration the 
effects of other foods. If you give the dog, for 
example, something else to eat which does not 
interest it to the same degree as flesh or bread, 

[»S] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

you will find the initial increase in quantity and 
strength of juice does not appear. Offer the 
animal milk, for example, which in sham feed- 
ing, especially if it does not last long, calls 
forth, as a rule, no secretion, or at all events 
only very little, and the rapid flow of the com- 
mencement — the already-mentioned initial rise 
— absolutely fails to appear. You have already 
seen the figures which deal with this matter; 
I think it necessary, however, to bring them 
forward again in order that you may be better 
able to compare them with the secretion after 
flesh and bread. 

The dog was given 600 c.c. of milk (ex- 
periment by Dr. Chigin). 

Hoar. Quantity of juice. Digestive power. 

1st ... 4.2 cc. .... 3.57 mm. 
2nd ... 12.4 "... . 2.63 " 

We have now begun the analytical examina- 
tion of the variations of our secretory curve. 
But owing to the importance of the matter we 
did not confine ourselves to conclusions which 
might be drawn from earlier investigations. 
We turned to new forms of experiment for 
further proof. 

Thus we divided the ordinary ration of flesh 
given to our dogs — 400 grams — into four equal 
parts, which were administered at intervals of 
an hour and a half. (Experiments by Privat 

[si6] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

docent Kotljar and Dr. Lobassoff.) Each time 
after the dog received its 100 grams of flesh we 
were able to detect a rise both in the quantity 
and in the digestive power of the juice. The 
following table shows the figures in question : 



Halfhoor 
periods 


Quantity 
of juice. 


Digestive 
power. 


Remarks. 


I8t 


3.1 ex. 


5.13 mm. 


100 grins, flesh giTen. 


and 


5.0 " 


463 " 




3rd 


47 " 


4.SO - 




4 th 


54 " 


4.88 " 


100 grms. " " 


I th 


5-5 " 


338 " 




6th 


4-7 " 


2.75 " 




7th 


6.0 " 


375 " 


100 grms. " w 


8th 


54 " 


2.50 « 




9th 


5.9 " 


2.50 " 




10th 


54 " 


388 « 


100 grms. " " 


nth 


5-3 " 


30 " 




1 2th 


4.2 " 


25 " 





In the curve which follows, only the varia- 
tions of digestive power are represented. 

It is clear that the increase, both of digestive 
power and of juice volume, is connected with 
the act of taking in food. 

It appeared of interest definitely to determine 
the volume and properties of the secretion 
called forth by the act of eating in the dog with 
the isolated stomach. We endeavoured, there- 
fore, at the beginning, to imitate the conditions 
of sham feeding as they occurred in the case of 
the dog with divided oesophagus. In addition 
to the fistular orifice leading into the isolated 

[**7] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

miniature stomach, another was opened into the 
main portion of the organ. If we now fed the 
dog in the ordinary way with small pieces of 
flesh, these were received back again at the 
orifice of the latter fistula, covered with saliva. 
Precisely as in 



 I 6 } 8 9 10 11 ii 



sham feeding, 
after five min- 
utes the juice 
began to flow 
simultaneously, § 
from both the "§ 
large and small | 
stomachs. The & 
secretion ran a j 
corresponding " 
course in the 
two cavities and 
ceased at the ''M"i.-cw»ttj | rinDiwia» 

, , , MTOCtad from the f onfoinr able 

same length of 

time in both after the administration of food was 
stopped. Here is an instance taken from such 
an experiment performed by Dr. Lobassoff. 

In five minutes the dog had eaten eighty 
pieces of flesh (weighing 172 grams), all of 
which soon afterwards dropped out at the fistula. 
The secretion began in both stomachs after the 
lapse of seven minutes from the commencement 
of the feeding, and proceeded as follows : 

[»■«] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 



Hoar. 


Miniature stomach. 


Main stomach. 


Quantity 
of juice. 


Digestire 
power. 


Quantity of 
juice. 


Digestire power. 


I 

2 


7.7 C.C. 

4.5 * 

0.6 " 


> 6.25 mm. 


83.2 C.C. 

S8.I " 
8.5 " 


5.35 mm. 

\ In consequence of 
I a mixture with 
(bile (10-15 c.c.) 
[the digestive 
1 power was greatly 
/ reduced. 



The secretion from both cavities also came to 
an end at the same time. 

This experiment proves to us, first, that the 
main and miniature stomachs work in perfectly 
parallel manner with each other. The begin- 
ning, the end, and the intermediate variations of 
the secretion correspond in both cases. Sec- 
ondly, the digestive power of the secretion 
coincides in both, and is the same which was 
observed in the so-called sham feeding. It has 
here remained at the same height till the ces- 
sation of the secretion, without falling to the 
lower value which we observed from the begin- 
ning of the second hour onwards, after normal 
flesh feeding. 

This was also confirmed later, when we 
performed an oesophagotomy on the dog, and 
carried out sham feeding in typical form. Here 

[219] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

follows one of these experiments taken from 
Dr. LobassofFs article. 

The first drop of juice appeared from both 
cavities during the sixth minute after commenc- 
ing the feeding, which was kept up for half an 
hour. The further course of the secretion was 
as follows : 



Hoar. 


Miniature stomach. 


Main stomach. 


Quantity 
of juice. 


Digestive 
power. 


Quantity 
of juice. 


Digestive 

power. 


1st 
2nd 
3rd 


7.6 C.C 

47 " 
I.I " 

13.5 (total) 


5.88 mm. 

575 ;; 

5-5 " 
5.75 (mean) 


68.25 C.C. 

4I.5 " 
14.0 " 


5.5 mm. 




123.75 (total) 


5.5 (mean) 



The secretion came to an end in both 
stomachs at the same time. 

The above is represented in curves in Figs. 
2 and 3, the scale on which that for the main 
stomach is drawn being ten times less than that 
for the small. As you see, the progress of 
secretion is identical in both. 

The existence of a fistula leading into the 
large stomach affords us also the possibility of 
performing an experiment upon our dog which 
is exactly the converse of the sham feeding 
experiment, and which constitutes a real expert- 
mentutn cruets. While in sham feeding, we had 

[ 220 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

only, so to speak, the beginning of digestion 
before us, we are now able in our cross experi- 
ment to start at the continuation of this begin- 
ning. For this purpose it is only necessary to 
bring the food into the stomach through the 
fistula, without attracting the dog's attention. 
Since in this experiment it is above all necessary 

i H in i n in 



M 6 - 

i,' 





Figuki a. - Curvt of secretion FlGUKI 3. — The nme from 



not to excite the dog's appetite, it is best to 
carry out the procedure on the sleeping animal. 
I may add at once, however, that the same 
result can be obtained on the waking animal, 
only the process must be performed unnoticed, 
and the animal's attention must be diverted from 
thoughts of food. 

The results of this experiment are striking, 

and do not in any way resemble the secretion 

after normal feeding. Some kinds of food, for 

instance bread and coagulated white of the hen's 

[ 2 «] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

egg, when directly introduced into the stomach, 
do not yield a single drop of juice during the 
first hour or more afterwards. This holds good 
both for the small and large stomachs. When 
a glass rod is introduced into the food contained 
in the organ it remains dry. Flesh, if introduced 
at this stage, is able to excite a secretion, but 
the appearance of the juice is considerably 
retarded. It begins from fifteen to forty-five 
minutes after the feeding, instead of from six 
to ten, is under normal circumstances extremely 
scanty during the first hour (3 c.c. to 5 c.c. in- 
stead of 12 c.c. to 15 c.c), and possesses a 
very low digestive power. 

Here is an experiment by Dr. Lobassoff : 

400 grms. of flesh were brought into the stomach. 



Hoar. 
ISt 

2nd 
3rd 
4 th 
5 th 
6th 
7th 
8th 
9th 
10th 



Quantity of juice 

37 ex. 
10.6 « 
9.2 
7.0 
56 

6.6 

75 

5-3 

3-0 
0.2 



a 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



H 



Digestive 

2.0 mm. 

. I.63 

. 1.5 

. 1.88 

. 2.25 

. 2.63 

. 1.88 
. 2.0 
. 5.0 



« 

M 

tt 

a 
*t 
a 
tt 
tt 
u 



The secretion began twenty-five minutes after 
introducing the food. I now ask you to compare 
the following tables : 

[ 222 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 



om) m aomf jo 
ilpinrab f»ibx 



(3 

» 

o 



M 



o 

• 



O 



il 

CO*-' 



'•6 



IL 



6 

a 



co 






u 

-.2. 



(3 
o 






If 

8* 



-a § 

gf 



6 ^ 



M 



CI 



«0 

CO 



CO 



u 
o 



eo *• 



o 

• 



4- 







11 

■si 



ft 



s 

6 



CO CO 
in co 



CO CO 



u 
6 



co 






ci 

+ 



~ "2 

tt c 



*2 •* 



[223] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

The progress of juice secretion in the above 
is also represented in the following curves : 



Figdrm 4-7. — A. Ordinary curve of gutrlc tecretSoD (100 gran*. 
Boh). B. Curve from direct introduction of food (tjo gnu. 
Be»h). C. Shun feeding with sum. D. Summation of B ud C. 

As you see, the curve which represents the 
results of the direct introduction of flesh ascends 
much more slowly and does not attain anything 
like the height of that caused by normal feed- 
ing with the same food. But if the quantities 
obtained by direct introduction of the flesh be 
added to those of sham feeding, the resulting 
curve is almost identical with the normal. 

In like manner the digestive power of the 
secretion in the foregoing experiments can be 
dealt with, and with the same result. It is a 
good instance of how a secretion curve can be 
synthetically constructed from its constituent 
factors. 

["4] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Finally, I am able to demonstrate to you 
the following instructive experiment. In the 
presence of some of my listeners, whom I had 
invited to attend an hour before the lecture, I 
carried out the following procedures on two dogs, 
both of which had ordinary gastric fistulas and 
were, besides, oesophagotomised. Into the stom- 
ach of one, while its attention was distracted by 
patting and speaking kindly to it in order to 
avoid arousing any thoughts of feeding, a defi- 
nite number of pieces of flesh were introduced 
through the fistula. The morsels were threaded 
on a string, the free end of which was fastened 
to the fistular cannula by inserting a cork. The 
dog was then brought into a separate room and 
left to itself. A like number of pieces was intro- 
duced into the stomach of the other dog in the 
same way, but during the process a vigorous 
sham feeding was kept up, the animal being 
afterwards left alone. Each dog received ioo 
grams of flesh. Since then an hour and a half 
have elapsed, and now we may draw the pieces 
of flesh out by means of the thread and weigh 
them. The loss of weight, and consequently the 
amount of flesh digested, is very different in the 
two cases. In that of the dog without sham 
feeding the loss of weight amounts to merely 6 
grams, while the flesh withdrawn from the stom- 
ach of the other dog weighs only 70 grams, that 
15 [ 225 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

is to say, was reduced by 30 grams. This, there* 
fore, represents the digestive value of the pas- 
sage of food through the mouth, the value of an 
eager desire for food, the value of an appetite. 

I give also a series of figures obtained by 
Dr. Lobassoff in analogous experiments. Into 
the dog's stomach 25 pieces of flesh (100 grams) 
were brought. The flesh remained two hours 
in the cavity. Without sham feeding 6.5 per 
cent, with eight minutes' sham feeding 31.6 per 
cent, of the quantity was digested. 

Again: the flesh remained an hour and a 
half in the stomach ; without sham feeding 5.6 
per cent, with five minutes' sham feeding 15 
per cent, was digested. 

Once more: the flesh remained five hours 
in the stomach; without sham feeding 58 per 
cent, with sham feeding 85 per cent, was di- 
gested, the balance of undigested food being 42 
per cent in the one case and 15 per cent in the 
other. 

I must, however, add that from the nature 
of this experiment it is not well adapted for 
class demonstration, and may often fail. On the 
one hand, it is not at all easy to conceal the 
introduction of the flesh from the dog; on 
the other, the unusual and distracting surround- 
ings of the animal often causes a short period 
of sham feeding to have less effect than would 

. [226] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

otherwise pertain. In order to avoid such fail- 
ures it is better before an audience to carry 
out this experiment only on dogs accustomed 
to appear in the lecture theatre, and of whose 
temperament the experimenter is well assured. 

I hope you have now been convinced of the 
great importance which is to be attached to the 
passage of food through the mouth and oesopha- 
gus, or, in other words — and this, according to 
our former experiences, means the same thing 
— to the eager desire for food. Without this 
longing, without the assistance of appetite, 
many forms of food-stuffs which gain entry to 
the stomach remain wholly devoid of gastric 
juice. Others, it is true, excite a secretion, but 
the juice poured out is scanty and weak. 

It is only later, when we have still more 
fully recognised the conditions upon which the 
secretory work of the gastric glands depends, 
that we shall be able to grasp the meaning of 
these facts in a more comprehensive manner. 
For instance, why does bread brought unnoticed 
into the stomach of the dog cause no secre- 
tion for hours, while flesh tolerably soon (after 
twenty to forty minutes) provokes this act? 
This will be explained in the next lecture ; now, 
however, we must consider other questions. 

How long does the after-effect, the echo of 
the first impulse to the secretory nerves of the 

[227] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

stomach, continue to last? How long does appe- 
tite juice continue to flow after the normal act 
of eating, which, especially in the case of ani- 
mals, is not of long duration? We have already 
determined many times, not only on our dog 
with the isolated stomach, but also on other ani- 
mals, how long the after-effect of sham feeding 
is continued. 

Here, for example, is an experiment from 
the article of Professor Ssanozki which deals 
with the point. The dog had a gastric fistula 
and also an opening leading into the oesopha- 
gus. After a sham feeding of five minutes the 
secretion began, and was continued as follows : 

Quantity. 

25.5 c.C. 
20.0 " 

13-5 
II.O 

8-5 

6-5 

13-5 
1 1.0 

7.0 

11.5 

1 1.0 

6-5 
5-5 



Tune in minutes. 

IO . 

XO . 

IO . 

XO . 

IO . 

IO . 

20 . 

20 . 

20 . 

20 . 

20 . 

30 • 

20 . 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 



tt 
tt 



tt 



u 



M 



tt 



CI 



gosttre power* 


8.1 


mm. 


8.0 


w 


6.8 


tt 


75 


*t 


8.1 


tt 


9.0 


tt 


74 


M 


7-2 


u 


7-2 


u 


6.8 


u 


6-5 


u 


7.6 


u 


7.2 


u 



The effect, therefore, even after a short 
period of sham feeding, stretches over a length 
of time. Naturally the same holds good for the 
taking of food in the normal way. One must, 

[228] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

however, bear in mind that in sham feeding, 
with all the force and reality of a hunger sen- 
sation not satisfied, the eager desire for food, 
the effective agency, becomes more and more 
accentuated, and therefore the secretory in- 
fluence is prolonged and more powerful. In 
normal feeding, however, the quelling of the 
longing, the feeling of satisfaction which, as is 
well known, sets in long before the termination 
of the digestive period from the mere filling and 
distension of the stomach, must diminish the 
desire for food, and, consequently, bring the 
secretory effect to an end. 

It is, therefore, improbable that the whole 
secretory process in the stomach, which, in the 
case of certain kinds and quantities of food, 
lasts from ten to twelve hours, is dependent on 
the factors which we have up to the present 
investigated. This is all the more obvious since 
a sham feeding of five minutes, even under the 
most favourable circumstances, does not call 
forth a secretion for longer than three to four 
hours. We must, therefore, seek for other ex- 
citing agencies of the innervation apparatus of 
the gastric glands. 

Why and wherefore is the secretion insti- 
tuted by psychic influence maintained? What 
would first occur to all your minds is naturally 
the immediate influence which the food exerts 

[ 229 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

upon the walls of the stomach. And this is 
true, but it does not happen in the simple, direct 
fashion current in the minds of many physiolo- 
gists and physicians. When I said that bread 
or boiled white of egg, introduced directly into 
the stomach, may not for hours produce a trace 
of secretion, probably many of my hearers may 
have asked themselves with natural astonish- 
ment, " How, then, is the effect of the forced 
feeding of phthisical and insane patients, and 
the artificial feeding of those with gastric fistulas 
(performed on account of stricture of the 
cesophagus) to be explained ? " I will introduce 
my answer by a very unexpected pronounce- 
ment relative to the assertion that mechanical 
stimulation of the stomach wall by food consti- 
tutes a reliable and effective means of calling 
forth the secretory work of the glands. This 
assertion, which is so categorically set forth in 
many text-books of physiology, and which conse- 
quently has gained hold of the mind of the phy- 
sician, is nothing else than a sad misconception 
degenerated into a stubborn prejudice. My 
own statement, repeated in many published arti- 
cles, and at the meetings of various medical so- 
cieties, that this dictum is only a picture of the 
imagination, has met, for the most part, either 
with an unbelieving shake of the head or else 
with a direct avowal that " it cannot be so." I 

[ 230 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

regret exceedingly that these steadfast unbeliev- 
ers are not here, so that we might together 
bring the matter before the tribunal of fact, to 
the demonstration of which we will now proceed. 
To this matter I attribute very great importance. 
It is on this ground, according to my opinion, 
that the whole battle must be fought out be- 
tween the generally accepted view that every 
agency is capable of exciting the gastric mu- 
cous membrane and the theory that it is only 
excitable by specific and selected stimuli. If 
once the defenders of the old opinion are driven 
from their position and obliged to admit the 
inefficiency of mechanical stimulation, there 
would be nothing further left for them than to 
build up new theories and search out old facts 
concerning gland work which have hitherto been 
rigidly kept in the shade. We may take it that 
it is mainly because people were so seized with 
the belief in the direct and simple mechanical 
explanation that Bidder and Schmidt's experi- 
ment of the excitation of gastric secretion by 
mental effect has been so little taken into con- 
sideration, notwithstanding that it appeared so 
thoroughly reliable and convincing. 

I will now repeat the experiment of mechani- 
cal stimulation of the gastric mucous membrane 
before you in the well-known, traditional, and 
classic manner. Here is a dog with a gastric 

[231] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

fistula on which a cervical cesophagotomy had 
in addition been performed. I open the fistula ; 
as you see, nothing flows out of the stomach ; 
it was washed out clean with water an hour ago. 
We take the celebrated feather and also a toler- 
ably strong glass rod. Folds of blotting-paper 
saturated with red and blue tincture of litmus 
are placed at hand. I now ask my assistant to 
continuously move the feather and glass rod, 
alternately, in all possible directions in the 
stomach, changing from one to the other every 
five minutes. On removal from the stomach 
each is carefully dried with red and blue blot- 
ting-paper. You have all seen, gentlemen, that 
this procedure has now been kept up for half an 
hour. From the fistular orifice not even a sin- 
gle drop has escaped, and, moreover, the drops 
of moisture on all the pieces of red blotting- 
paper I have been able to hand to you have 
assumed a distinct blue tinge, caused by the 
moisture of the alkaline mucous membrane. 
The blue pieces, however, have merely been 
made wet without altering their colour. Conse- 
quently, with the most thorough mechanical 
stimulation of the whole cavity of the stomach, 
we have not been able to find a single spot 
possessing a noticeable acid reaction. Where, 
then, are the streams of pure gastric juice of 
which we read in text-books ! What objection 

[232] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

can be raised against the conclusiveness of this 
experiment? In my opinion only one : that we 
are dealing with a dog out of health, whose gas- 
tric glands from some possible cause are unable 
to react normally. This single objection can 
be set aside before your eyes. After failing 
with the mechanical stimulation, we proceed 
forthwith to the sham feeding of the same ani- 
mal. The dog takes the food offered it with 
keen appetite, and you see that, exactly five 
minutes after beginning the feeding, the first 
drops of juice appear from the stomach, followed 
by others faster and faster. I catch a couple 
of drops on the blue litmus paper, and you see 
that they produce bright red specks on the blue 
sheet. After thirty minutes' sham feeding we 
have collected 150 c.c. of juice, which, without 
filtering, looks as clear and transparent as 
water. 

We cannot, therefore, possibly doubt that, 
when the proper stimulus is used, the gastric 
glands react to it in a perfectly normal fashion, 
furnishing a healthy gastric juice. From this it 
irrefutably follows that only one explanation is 
to be found for the negative result in the first 
half of our experiment, viz., that the mucous 
membrane of the stomach, so far as secretory 
activity goes, is perfectly indifferent to mechani- 
cal excitation. And yet this mechanical stimu- 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

lus is demonstrated as an exciting agency in 
the physiological lecture theatre. I venture to 
think that this lecture experiment from now on- 
wards will quit the field, and give place to the 
one I have just shown you. This apparently 
simple experiment of mechanical stimulation 
can, however, only be successfully performed 
when certain very obvious rules are followed. 
These, however, physiologists have not observed, 
probably on account of a preconceived belief 
in the effectiveness of the mechanical stimulus. 
These rules are two. First, it is necessary that 
the stomach should be clean, and that nothing 
shall gain entry to it from without. Such con- 
ditions were not formerly fulfilled. It is true 
the stomach was emptied by removing the 
stopper from the fistular cannula, but it was not 
washed out till an acid reaction was no longer 
given, and consequently preformed gastric juice 
was left behind between the folds of the mucous 
membrane. At the same time saliva from the 
cavity of the mouth could gain entry, which 
quickly became acidified in the incompletely 
emptied and imperfectly washed-out organ. It 
is, therefore, not surprising that the glass tube, 
by setting up contractions of the stomach, was 
the means of expressing small quantities of 
acid fluid from the fistula-tube. (The relation- 
ship between mechanical stimulation and the 

[234] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

motor functions of the stomach is not to be con* 
founded with what we are here speaking of.) 
That matters are as I state, and that the facts 
correspond to the explanation is proved by 
this ; namely, that nobody till now has obtained 
genuinely pure gastric juice of an acidity 
amounting to 0.5 or 0.6 per cent It is only 
necessary to call to mind that Heidenhain, when 
determining the acidity of the juice first ob- 
tained from the resected stomach, was placed in 
no little doubt as to whether his results (0.5 to 
0.6) were correct, and his assistant at the time 
(Gscheidlen) was set to verify the correctness 
of his standard solutions. The acidify of the 
" purest " juice known at that time was scarcely 
0.3 per cent. As a further proof that none of 
the older observers ever really obtained a secre- 
tion from mechanical stimulation pure and sim- 
ple, we may adduce the fact that none of them 
made mention of the constant and precise period 
of five minutes' latency. To overlook this was 
not possible if a genuine excitation of the 
glands had been obtained. 

Of no less importance is the second con- 
dition when we wish to perform the experiment 
of mechanical stimulation in the correct way. 
It is very necessary that the gastric glands be 
not already in activity at the beginning of the 
experiment, and also that during the experi- 

t 2 3S] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

ment no impulse comes into play, which of 
itself, apart from mechanical excitation, could 
excite the glands to secretion. Nor have we 
any proof that observers formerly waited for 
hours before commencing the experiment and 
convinced themselves that the gastric glands 
had ceased working. On the contrary, we have 
not the slightest evidence to indicate that the 
authors had attempted to guard against acci- 
dental psychical stimulation of the glands — a 
matter which we have seen is of considerable 
difficulty. And some dogs are so easily excited 
in this way that it is almost impossible to bring* 
their glands to rest, or at least it is necessary to 
wait for hours. The experimenter must strain 
his whole attention to preserve such an experi- 
ment free from objection. It is only necessary 
that some food be near the dog, or that the 
hands of the attendant who has prepared the 
food should smell of it, or that some other 
similar circumstance should come into play, 
and the glass tube, quite undeservedly, will be 
made answerable for the excitation of the gastric 
glands. As you have just seen, both of our 
conditions have been fulfilled on the dog before 
you, and the result of the experiment stands 
in irreconcilable contradiction to those of the 
laboratory, and lecture experiment of former 

times. 

[236] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

The importance of the experiment, which I 
have already dwelt upon, justifies me in making 
still further demands upon your attention in 
order to show you two modifications of it. 
Nobody has as yet said, with regard to mechan- 
ical stimulation, that in order to obtain results 
the mechanical agency must simultaneously come 
into contact with numerous points of the inner 
surface of the stomach. But in order to meet 
this possible objection I will now show you two 
new modifications. Again a similar dog is 
used, that is to say, one on which both gastrot- 
omy and oesophagotomy have been performed. 
The stomach has been washed out clean and is 
at present in a state of complete rest. Into the 
fistula I bring a thick glass tube containing a 
number of small openings (2 to 3 mm. diameter) 
at its rounded end. The other end of the tube 
is connected with a glass ball containing toler- 
ably coarse sand. Leading into the ball is a 
second tube, with which an india-rubber pump 
can be connected and a blast of sand blown 
through. By rhythmic compression of the india- 
rubber ball I inject sand with considerable force 
into the stomach, and this play is kept up for 
ten to fifteen minutes ; nevertheless, we see no 
trace of gastric juice. The sand falls out again 
between the side of the cannula and the glass 
tube, and it is either dry or scarcely moistened, 

[»37] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

but in no case is it able to turn blue litmus red. 
And yet we are here dealing with a strong and 
widely diffused stimulus. Look for a moment 
at the performance of the bellows outside the 
stomach. From every opening of the tube — - 
numbering considerably more than ten — a 
strong stream of sand is ejected. If you hold 
your hand against it, you feel quite distinctly 
that the grains of sand strike with considerable 
force. And now, when our experiment is ended, 
we may convince ourselves by sham feeding, in 
easy and unquestionable fashion, that the inner- 
vation of the dog's stomach is perfectly normal. 
Yet another experiment on a similar dog. 
Into its empty and resting stomach an india- 
rubber ball is introduced. This is distended with 
air by means of a syringe till it is as large as a 
child's head and maintained in this condition for 
a time, afterwards being allowed to collapse. 
The procedure is kept up for ten to fifteen 
minutes. During this time not a single drop of 
juice has appeared from the stomach. The sur- 
face of the ball taken out of the organ is every- 
where alkaline. And here also subsequent sham 
feeding shows that the dog is in a suitable con- 
dition for the experiment I must add that in 
making this observation the dog must not be 
too hungry, that is to say, must have been fed 
within ten to twelve hours before, otherwise a 

[a 3 8] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

psychic excitation of the secretion can readily 
be induced. 

If one dispassionately regards this question, 
and if any of our methods for the study of gas- 
tric secretion are reliable, one must be con- 
vinced step by step in the laboratory of the 
uselessness of mechanical stimulation. In the 
case of dogs with an ordinary gastric fistula, 
and failing some special reason, not a drop of 
gastric juice ever escapes from the stomach 
other than during the digestive period. How 
could this be the case if the mechanical stimu- 
lus were effective, since the inner rim of the 
fistula-tube is continuously in contact with the 
gastric mucous membrane? The same holds 
good for the dog with resected stomach. Dur- 
ing the experiment a glass or india-rubber tube 
is brought sufficiently far into the cul-de-sac to 
catch the juice, and yet not a drop flows through 
the tube, nor does its inner surface ever become 
acid, so long as true secretory conditions are 
absent. Moreover, the tube has tolerably often 
to be taken out and set right 

In the ordinary gastric fistula in dogs, when 
the operation has lasted a long time — over a 
year — folds of mucous membrane are often 
formed in the neighbourhood of its inner orifice 
which completely close the tube. In these cases 
a long, thick, perforated metal tube has to be 

[239] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

passed in deeply, and yet the manipulation of 
itself never calls forth a secretion. Further, it 
is a daily occurrence to find in the stomach of 
the dog thick rolls of hair, and yet their pres- 
ence in no way hinders the arrest of the se- 
cretion, which occurs when digestion has ceased. 
Such an occurrence would have been specially 
obvious in our dog with the isolated stomach, 
since it was bedded with sawdust in order to 
guard against maceration of the wound by juice 
trickling out. Very often we found enormous 
quantities of sawdust in the stomach, as much 
as half a pound weight ; obviously the dog had 
licked the wound from adherent sawdust, which 
it then swallowed, together with that sticking 
to its nose. And yet these particles of sawdust 
of themselves, which certainly acted as mechani- 
cal stimuli, never caused a secretion. It appears 
to me that this long series of facts ought to 
suffice to carry the supposition to its grave 
that by direct mechanical stimulation one is 
able to set the n euro-secretory apparatus of the 
stomach into activity. 

And yet the feather and the glass tube 
continue the even tenor of their ways to this 
moment and function in some text-books, yea, 
even in articles which specially treat of gastric 
secretion as exciters of the gastric glands. 
There are, it is true, a few physiologists who 

[240] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

hold mechanical stimulation, in relation to gas- 
tric secretion, not to be very effective, and give 
it a subordinate position in the series of exciting 
agencies, but as yet I know of no other physi- 
ologist who has wholly denied its influence, and 
who has not held it possible to obtain at least 
some juice by it. 

To conclude this lecture, we will take into 
consideration a question connected with the 
matter we have just discussed. Since the con- 
tact of food with the gastric mucous membrane 
has no direct influence on the secretion, is its 
entry into the stomach devoid of all connection 
with the secretory process? 

It can hardly be doubted that, under normal 
conditions, the stomach is the seat of certain 
definite sensations, that is to say, its surface has 
a certain degree of tactile sensibility. This sen- 
sation is, as a rule, very weak, and the majority 
of people become accustomed to pay no heed 
to it in the normal course of digestion. They 
obtain their sensations of general well-being, 
and especially of satisfaction from the enjoy- 
ment of food, without taking cognisance of the 
factors contributing to them. The feeling of 
general hunger, however, is referred solely to 
the stomach. 

On the other hand, all of us have met with 
men who could describe exactly, and with gusto, 

16 [ 241 ] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

how they were able to follow a special tit-bit, 
or a mouthful of a favourite wine, the whole 
way through the (esophagus down to the 
stomach, especially when the latter happened 
to be empty. Naturally the gourmand, who 
directs his attention continuously to the act of 
eating, can in the end distinctly perceive sen- 
sations, and even call them up to the conscious- 
ness, which in other people are normally 
masked by other sensations and impressions. 
We may therefore take it that the satisfaction 
derived from eating is caused not only by 
stimulation of the mouth and throat, but also 
by impulses awakened by the passage of the 
food along the deeper portions of the oesopha- 
gus and by its entry into the stomach. In other 
words, food which merely passes through the 
mouth and throat produces less enjoyment and 
excites, therefore, a less feeling of appetite than 
the food which passes the whole way into the 
stomach. The appetite, the eager craving after 
food, is, indeed, a very complex sensation, and 
often not merely the need of the organism for 
food material is necessary for its excitement, 
but also a condition of thorough well-being, 
together with a normal healthy feeling in all 
parts of the digestive tract. For this reason 
it is easy to understand how patients who have 
diseased sensations in these organs, and who 

[242] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

have no feeling of appetite, no desire for food, 
remember the sensations, whether consciously 
or unconsciously, even when they are no longer 
present. Cases are known to neuropatholo- 
gists where people with gastric anaesthesia 
suffered from this loss of appetite. Such 
patients are no longer conscious of having 
stomachs, and dislike the idea of eating because 
the food, as they express it, appears to fall into 
a strange empty sack. In this way one can also 
conceive how the appetite becomes lost in cases 
of long-continued obstruction of the alimentary 
tube. The patients forget their stomachs, and 
in such instances direct introduction of food into 
the organ, after an operation, may suddenly 
bring back the appetite. 

As a further illustration, I may be permitted 
to give an instance from my own personal ex- 
perience. After an illness with which a tran- 
sient but high fever was associated, although 
otherwise fully recovered, I had lost all desire 
for food. There was something curious in this 
complete indifference towards eating. Perfectly 
well, I only differed from others in that I could 
with ease abstain from all food. Fearing that 
I should collapse, I resolved on the second or 
third day to endeavour to create an appetite by 
swallowing a mouthful of wine. I felt it quite 
distinctly pass along the oesophagus into the 

[*43] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

stomach, and literally at that moment perceived 
the onset of a strong appetite. This observation 
teaches that the tactile sensation of the stomach 
at the moment of entry of food is capable of 
awakening or increasing the appetite. It is 
known that withholding food from the organ- 
ism, or in other words the creation of a neces- 
sity for food, does not lead immediately, nor in 
all cases, to the production of an appetite, to a 
passionate craving for food. How often does 
it happen that the ordinary hour for a meal has 
struck, and yet, owing to some keenly interesting 
occupation, not the least desire for food is felt? 
It is known to everybody, indeed it has become 
a proverb, that real appetite first sets in with 
eating* If this be true, the initial impulse towards 
awakening an appetite may originate in the 
stomach and not in the buccal cavity. When 
we spoke above of the desire for food being the 
excitant of the secretory nerves of the stomach, 
we naturally meant the passionate and conscious 
longing for food, that which is called "appetite," 
and not the latent need of the organism for 
nourishment, the lack of nutrition, which has 
not yet been transformed into a concrete pas- 
sionate desire. A good example which enables 
us to differentiate between these two factors is 
furnished by our dogs with sham feeding. The 
necessity for food exists in such cases even 

[*44] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

before the experiment ; the juice, however, only 
begins to flow as soon as this need has taken 
the form of a passionate longing. It is there- 
fore quite possible that in the case of some 
dogs, and at a certain stage of hunger, the 
touching of the gastric mucous membrane with 
any object at hand, its mechanical excitation, 
its distension by the food mass, may give the 
impulse which excites the appetite, and when 
the appetite is awakened the juice flows. This 
is possibly a third reason why, in the old ex- 
periment, the mechanical stimulus came to be 
considered effective. Viewed from this point 
it may, to a certain degree, lead to a reconcilia- 
tion between my assertion concerning the in- 
efficiency of the mechanical stimulus and the 
generally prevailing belief. I further also admit 
that mechanical excitation will at times call into 
play the work of the gastric glands, not how- 
ever directly by means of a simple physiological 
reflex, but indirectly, after it has first awakened 
and enlivened the idea of food in the dog's con- 
sciousness, and thereby called forth the passion- 
ate desire. I hope that the foregoing will in no 
way lead to a confusion of ideas in your minds, 
but will assist you to an exact and concrete 
analysis of the previous simple explanation of 
the facts. This representation, which bears 
more or less of a hypothetical character, could, 

f»45l 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

of course, be submitted to experimental proof. 
For such it is only necessary to compare the 
influence which sham feeding exercises in an 
oesophagotomised dog with that in one having 
a simple gastric fistula. 



[»46] 



LECTURE VIII 

PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION AND THE TEACH- 
ING OF INSTINCT : EXPERIENCES OF 
THE PHYSICIAN 

It would be desirable, in the interests of medicine, that 
the methods described in these lectures should be 
employed in experimental investigations into the pa- 
thology and therapeutics of the digestive canal on the 
lines laid down — The fact that the beginning of the 
secretory work in the stomach depends upon a psychic 
effect harmonises with the experiences of every-day 
life, namely, that food should be eaten with attention 
and relish — To restore the appetite has from all ages 
been the endeavour of the physician — The indifference 
of the present-day physician towards appetite — Probable 
causes of this — Curative remedies based upon a restora- 
tion of appetite — The therapeutic effects of bitters 
depend upon the excitation of appetite — The usages 
of the mid-day meal are in agreement with physiological 
requirements — Physiological reasons for certain in- 
stinctive customs and empirical regulations — Importance 
of an acid reaction of the food — Dietetics of fat and 
its therapeutic application — The peculiar position of 
milk among food-stuffs is based on physiological reasons 
— Explanation of the curative effects of sodium bicar- 
bonate and sodium chloride — The causes of individual 
differences in the work of the digestive glands — Partici- 
pation of the inhibitory nerves of secretion in the 
production of pathological effects. 

Gentlemen, — To-day we shall endeavour to 
Wring the previously communicated results of 

[*47] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

our laboratory investigations into reconciliation 
with the customs observed in the ingestion of 
food, and with the regulations prescribed by the 
physician in disorders of the digestive apparatus. 
To bring our knowledge to full fruition, and so 
secure for it the most useful application, the 
same methods should be applied from the same 
standpoint to the experimental investigation of 
the pathology and therapeutics of the alimen- 
tary canal. Nor should we be likely to encounter 
insuperable difficulties. Thanks to the advances 
of bacteriology, many of the pathological proc- 
esses can now be experimentally produced in 
the laboratory. Moreover, we would, in a sense, 
have to deal with external ailments, since our 
present methods enable us to obtain access to 
any desired part of the inner surface of the 
digestive canal. In such pathological animals 
the functional diseases of the apparatus could 
be studied in a precise and detailed manner; 
that is to say, the alterations of secretory 
activity, the properties of the fluids, and the 
conditions under which they appear could be 
examined. On such animals therapeutic reme- 
dies could also be tested, the whole process of 
healing and the final result experimentally 
observed, while the conditions of secretory 
activity during every phase of the healing 
process could be investigated. It can hardly 

[*48] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

be doubted that scientific, that is to say ideal, 
medicine, can only take its proper position as 
a science when, in addition to an Experimental 
Physiology and Pathology, there has also been 
built up an Experimental Therapeutics. A 
proof that this is possible is furnished by the 
recent vigorous strides made by the science of 
bacteriology. 

I have already described one of such patho- 
logical therapeutic experiments ; namely, on the 
dog whose vagi nerves were divided in the neck. 
Other similar cases I can also call to mind. 
Our dog with the two stomachs suffered at one 
time from a slight and transitory gastric catarrh. 
It was then very interesting to observe that the 
pathological process (which we were usually 
able to wholly guard against) spread from the 
large to the small stomach. It manifested itself 
here in an almost continuous slimy secretion 
of very slight acidity, but of strong digestive 
power. At the beginning of the ailment, indeed 
before it became fully established, the psychic 
stimulation was remarkably effective (that is to 
say, still furnished juice in appropriate quantity), 
while local excitants almost completely failed. 
One may conceive that the deeper layers of the 
mucous membrane with the gastric glands were 
still healthy, and thus easily thrown into activity 
by central impulses, whilst the surface of the 

[»49] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

membrane with the end apparatus of the cen- 
tripetal nerves was already distinctly damaged. 
I mention these, which I may call impressions 
rather than precise observations, because I 
wish to point out what a fruitful field awaits the 
investigator who wishes to study, with the aid 
of our present methods, the pathological condi- 
tions of the digestive organs and their treatment. 
Such an investigation is all the more desirable 
because clinical study of the same subject 
(notwithstanding the zeal devoted to it during 
the last ten years and the results derived there- 
from) has to contend with serious difficulties. 
We must not forget that the sound or stomach- 
tube, the chief clinical instrument, is more 
uncomfortable than the ordinary form of gastric 
fistula which was previously practised on ani- 
mals, and yet the physiology of the stomach, 
even with the aid of the latter, made no material 
progress for many long years. Nor is this 
difficult to understand. The investigator ob- 
tained through the fistula a mixture of sub- 
stances from which it was difficult, or even at 
times impossible, to decide anything. 

Hence the exact scientific study of therapeu- 
tic questions in this region still belongs to the 
future. But this does not exclude the prob- 
ability that the newer acquirements of physi- 
ology may fruitfully influence tke work of the 

[250] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

physician. But physiology naturally can make 
no pretence to guide the field of medicine, 
since the knowledge at its disposal is incomplete 
and is much more restricted than that of the 
broad world of clinical reality. As a recom- 
pense for this, however, physiological knowledge 
is often able to explain the causation of an 
illness and the meaning of empirical curative 
methods. To employ a remedy the mode of 
action of which is not clear is quite a differ- 
ent thing from knowing precisely what we are 
doing. In the latter case the treatment of the 
diseased organ will be more effective because 
it will be better adapted to the special needs of 
the case. It is thus that medicine, being daily 
enriched by new physiological facts, will at 
length grow into what it ideally must become ; 
namely, the art of repairing the damaged 
machinery of the human body, based upon 
exact knowledge, or, in other words, applied 
physiology. 

We may now return to our subject. If it 
be at all admitted that human instinct is the 
outcome of an every-day experience, which has 
led to the unconscious adoption of the most 
favourable conditions for life, it is particularly 
so with regard to the phenomena of digestion. 
The expression that physiology merely confirms 
the precepts of instinct is justified here more 

[»5i] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

than anywhere else. It appears to me also 
that, in relation to the foregoing facts, instinct 
has often made out a brilliant case when brought 
before the tribunal of physiology. Perhaps the 
old and empirical requirement, that food should 
be eaten with interest and enjoyment, is the 
most imperatively emphasised and strengthened 
of all. In every land the act of eating is con- 
nected with certain customs designed to dis- 
tract from the business of daily life. A suitable 
time of day is chosen, a company of relatives, 
acquaintances, or comrades assemble. Certain 
preparations are carried out (in England a 
change of raiment is usually effected, and often 
a blessing is asked upon the meal by the oldest 
of the family). In the case of the well-to-do a 
special room for* meals is set apart, musical and 
other guests are invited to while away the time 
at meals — in a word, everything is directed to 
take away the thoughts from the cares of daily 
life, and to concentrate them on the repast. 
From this point of view it is also plain why 
heated discussions and serious readings are held 
to be unsuitable during meal-times. Probably 
this also explains the use of alcoholic beverages 
at meals, for alcohol, even in the lighter phases 
of its action, induces a mild narcosis, which con- 
tributes towards distraction from the pressing 
burden of the daily work. Naturally this highly 



The A.B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

developed hygiene of eating is only found in the 
intelligent and well-to-do classes, first, because 
here the mental activity is more strained and 
the various questions of life more burning ; and 
secondly, because here also the food is served in 
greater quantity than is required for the wants 
of the organism. In the case of the poorer 
classes, where mental activity is less highly 
developed, the greater amount of muscular 
activity and the constant lack of more than 
sufficient nourishment insure a strong and lively 
desire for food in a normal manner, without re- 
course to any special regulations or customs. 
The same conditions explain why the prepara- 
tion of food is so choice in the case of the upper 
classes and so simple in that of the lower. 
Further, all the accessories of the meal, which 
are foretastes of the actual repast, are obviously 
designed to awaken the curiosity and interest, 
and to augment the desire for food. How often 
do we see that a person who begins his custom- 
ary meal with indifference afterwards enjoys it 
with obvious pleasure when his taste has been 
awakened by something piquant or, as we say, 
appetising. It was here only necessary to give 
an impulse to the organs of taste, that is, to 
excite them, in order that their activity might 
be later maintained by less powerful excitants. 
For a person who feels hungry such extra ia- 

[*53] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

ducements are, of course, not necessary. The 
quelling of hunger in his case affords of Itself 
sufficient enjoyment. It is not, therefore, with- 
out reason that it is often said that " Hunger is 
the best sauce." This dictum, however, is only 
right up to a certain point, for some degree of 
appetising taste is desired by everybody, even 
by animals. Thus, a dog which has not fasted 
for more than some hours will not eat every- 
thing with equal pleasure which dogs usually 
eat, but will seek out the food which it relishes 
best Hence the presence of a certain kind of 
spice is a general requirement, although natu- 
rally individual tastes differ. 

This short discussion as to how different 
people behave with regard to the act of eating 
is of itself testimony that care should ever be 
taken to keep alive the attention and interest 
for food and to promote enjoyment of the 
repast — that is to say, that care should be 
taken of the appetite. Every one knows that a 
normal, useful food is a food eaten with appe- 
tite, with perceptible enjoyment. Every other 
form of eating, eating to order or from convic- 
tion, soon becomes worse than useless, and the 
instinct strives against it. One of the most 
frequent requests addressed to the physician is 
to restore the appetite. Medical men of all 
times and of every land have held it to be a 

[*54] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

pressing duty, after overcoming the fundamental 
illnesses of their patients, to pay special atten- 
tion to the restoration of the appetite. I believe 
that in this they are not only animated by an 
endeavour to free their patients from trouble- 
some symptoms, but also by the conviction that 
the return of appetite of itself will favour the 
restitution of normal digestive conditions. It 
may be said that to the same extent to which 
the patient wishes back his appetite the physi- 
cian has effectively employed measures to re- 
store it Hence we have not a few remedies 
which are specially named " gastric tonics," 
and whose action is to promote appetite. Un- 
fortunately medical science has latterly deviated 
from this, the correct treatment of the appetite, 
and that which corresponds to the real condi- 
tions. If one reads current text-books on dis- 
orders of digestion, it is remarkable how little 
attention is paid to appetite as a symptom or to 
its special therapy. Only in a few of them is 
its importance indicated, and then merely in 
short, parenthetic phrases. On the other hand, 
one may meet statements in which the physician 
is recommended to adopt no special means for 
counteracting so unimportant a subjective symp- 
tom as a bad appetite ! After what I have said 
and demonstrated to you in these lectures, one 
can only designate such views as gross miscon- 

[»55] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

ceptions. If anywhere, it is precisely here that 
symptomatic treatment is essential. When the 
physician finds it necessary, in disorders of 
digestion, to promote secretory activity by 
different remedies, this object can most certainly 
and completely be achieved by endeavouring to 
restore the appetite. We have already seen 
that no other excitant of gastric secretion, so far 
as quantity and quality of the juice are con- 
cerned, can compare with the passionate craving 
for food. 

To a certain degree we can understand — 
and this contributes to an explanation of mat- 
ters — how medical science of our time has 
come to regard so lightly the loss of appetite 
as a special object for treatment. Now, how- 
ever, the experimental method has penetrated 
more and more into medical science, with the 
result that many pathological factors and thera- 
peutic agents are judged of according to whether 
they hold good in the laboratory or not — that 
is to say, they are valued only in so far as they 
can be verified by laboratory experiments. 
Naturally we do not doubt that a movement in 
this direction indicates a great advance, but 
even here, as with every undertaking of man- 
kind, things do not proceed without mistakes 
and exaggerations. We must not consider an 
event to be a mere picture of the imagination 

[256] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

because it is not realisable under given experi- 
mental conditions. We often do not know all 
the essential conditions for the production of 
the phenomenon in question, nor are we yet 
able to grasp the connection between all the 
separate functions of life as fully as may be 
desired. Thus in the clinical treatment and 
pathology of digestion assistance was sought 
for in the laboratory, but nothing was there met 
with which had a relation to appetite, and con- 
sequently this factor was overlooked in medical 
practice. As stated above, the psychic gastric 
juice obtained only cursory mention in physi- 
ology, and this not even by all authors; and 
when it was noticed it was related more as a 
curiosity. Great importance was, on the other 
hand, assigned to the mechanical stimulus, the 
efficiency of which, now that our knowledge is 
more complete, has been shown to be purely 
imaginary. Each of the contending factors has 
at length been assigned its proper place, and 
if clinical medicine maintains her worthy desire 
of following out the experimental investigation 
of her problems, she must in actual practice 
accord to appetite its old claim for consideration 
and treatment. 

But notwithstanding the indifference of 
physicians to appetite in itself, many therapeutic 
measures are based on the promotion of it 

■* [*57l 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

And in this the truth of empiricism makes itself 
irresistibly felt. When the patient is enjoined 
to eat sparingly, or when he is restrained from 
eating at all till the physician expressly permits, 
or again, when he is (for instance, during con- 
valescence) removed from his ordinary sur- 
roundings and sent to an establishment where 
the whole life, and particularly the eating, is 
regulated according to physiological needs — 
in all these cases the physician seeks to awaken 
appetite, and relies upon it as a factor in the 
cure. In the first case, where the food is pre- 
scribed in small portions, in addition to prevent- 
ing the overfilling of a weak stomach, the 
oft-recurrence of appetite juice, which is so rich 
in quantity and so strong in digestive power, 
is of great importance. I ask you here to call 
to mind one of our experiments in which food 
was given in small portions to a dog, and thus 
led to a secretion of much stronger juice than 
if the whole ration had been eaten at once. 
This was an exact experimental reproduction 
of the customary treatment of a weak stomach. 
And such a regulation of diet is all the more 
necessary, since, in the commonest disorders 
of the stomach, only the surface layers of the 
mucous membrane are affected. It may, con- 
sequently, happen that the sensory surface of 
the stomach, which should take up the stimulus 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

of the chemical excitant, is not able to fulfil its 
duty, and the period of chemical secretion, 
which ordinarily lasts for a long time, is for the 
most part disturbed, or even wholly absent A 
strong psychic excitation, a keen feeling of 
appetite, may evoke the secretory impulse 
in the central nervous system and send it 
unhindered to the glands which lie in the 
deeper as yet unaffected layers of the mucous 
membrane. 

An instance of this, taken from the patho- 
logical material of the laboratory, I have already 
related at the beginning of this lecture. It is 
obvious in these cases that the indication is to 
promote digestion by exciting a flow of appetite 
juice, and not to rely upon that excited by 
chemical stimuli. From this point of view the 
meaning of removing a patient, the subject of 
chronic weakness of the stomach, from his 
customary surroundings is also plain. Take, 
for instance, a mentally overstrained individual, 
or a responsible official; how often does it 
happen that he cannot for a moment distract 
his thoughts from his daily work. He eats 
without noticing it, or eats and carries on his 
work at the same time. This often happens, 
particularly in the case of people who live in 
the midst of the incessant turmoil of great cities. 
The systematic inattention to the act of eating 

[«S9] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

prepares the way for digestive disturbances in 
the near future, with all their consequences. 
There is no appetite juice, no " igniting juice," 
or, at most, very little. The secretory activity 
comes slowly into play ; the food remains much 
longer in the digestive canal than is necessary, 
or passes, for want of sufficient digestive juices, 
into a state of decomposition which irritates the 
mucous membrane of the alimentary canal and 
brings it into a condition of disease. No 
medicinal treatment can help such a patient 
while he remains surrounded by his old con- 
ditions. The fundamental cause of his illness 
still continues in progress. There is only one 
course to pursue; namely, to take him com- 
pletely away, to free him from his occupation, 
to interrupt the interminable train of thought, 
and to substitute for a time, as his only object 
in life, the care of his health, and a regard for 
what he eats. This is attained by sending the 
patient to travel, or by placing him in a hydro- 
pathic establishment. It is the duty of the 
physician to regulate not only the life of in- 
dividual patients according to such rules, but 
also to have a care that in wider circles of the 
community a due conception of the importance 
of eating should be disseminated. This is 
particularly so with the Russian physician. It 

is precisely in the so-called intelligent classes 

[260] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

of Russians that a proper conception of life 
generally is often found wanting, and where an 
absolutely unphysiological indifference towards 
eating often exists. More methodical nations, 
like the English, have made a species of cult 
of the art of eating. It is, of course, degrading 
to indulge excessively and exclusively in culinary 
enjoyments, but, on the other hand, a lofty con- 
tempt for eating is also reprehensible. As so 
often is the case, the best course here also lies 
between the two extremes. 

With the establishment of mental effect upon 
the secretion of juice the influence of condiments 
enters upon a new phase. The conclusion had 
already been empirically arrived at that it was 
not alone sufficient for the food to be composed 
exclusively of nutrient substances, but that it 
should also be tasty. Now, however, we know 
why this is so. For this reason the physician, 
who has often to express an opinion upon the 
suitability of the dietaries of different persons, 
or even of whole communities, should constantly 
bear in mind the question of psychic secretion ; 
that is to say, he should inquire after and learn 
how the food has been eaten, whether with or 
without enjoyment But how often do the 
people who have charge of the commissariat 
pay attention solely to the nutritive value of the 
food, or place a higher value on everything else 

[261] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

than taste? We must, further, in the interest 
of the public weal, direct attention especially 
to the feeding of children. If this or that in- 
clination of the taste ultimately determines the 
relation of grown-up individuals towards food, 
a matter with which the commencing phase of 
digestion is closely linked, it would seem un- 
desirable to habituate children solely to a nicety 
and uniformity of gustatory sensations. Such 
might effect their capabilities of adapting them- 
selves to other conditions in after life. 

The question of the therapeutic influence of 
the so-called bitters, it appears to me, bears the 
closest connection with that of appetite. After 
a long period of high repute these substances 
have been almost expelled from the list of 
pharmaceutic remedies. When tested in the 
laboratory, they were unable to justify their old 
and valued reputation ; when directly introduced 
into the stomach, many of them were unable to 
produce a flow of gastric juice. Consequently, 
in the eyes of the clinician, they became greatly 
discredited, so that many were quite ready to 
discard their use altogether. Obviously, the 
simple conclusion was drawn that a weak diges- 
tion could only be assisted by a remedy which 
directly excites secretory activity. In this, how- 
ever, it was forgotten that the conditions of the 
experiment possibly had not corresponded with 

[262] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the actual state of affairs. The whole question 
of the therapeutic importance of the bitters, 
however, acquires a different significance when 
we link it with another question, such, for 
instance, as how do bitters affect the appetite? 
It is the universal opinion of the earlier and 
later physicians that bitters increase the appe- 
tite, and if this be so everything is said. They 
are, in consequence, real secretory stimulants, 
since the appetite, as has many times been 
repeated in these lectures, is the strongest of 
all stimuli to the digestive glands. It is, how- 
ever, not by any means strange that this had 
not previously been observed in the laboratory. 
The substances were either introduced directly 
into the stomachs of normal dogs or else in- 
jected into the circulation. But their action is 
chiefly bound up with their effect upon the gus- 
tatory nerves, and it was not, therefore, without 
some reason that this large group of remedies, 
consisting of substances of the most varied chem- 
ical composition, were grouped together mainly 
on account of a certain bitter taste common to 
them all. A person who suffers from digestive 
disturbance has, moreover, a blunted taste, a 
certain degree of gustatory indifference. The 
ordinary foods, which are agreeable to other 
people, and also to himself when in health, now 
appear tasteless. They not only arouse no desire 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

for eating, but may even cause a feeling of dis- 
like; there is no sense of taste* or at best a 
perverse one. It is necessary, therefore, that 
the gustatory apparatus should receive a strong 
stimulus in order to restore a normal sensa- 
tion. As experience teaches, this object is 
most quickly attained by exciting sharp, un- 
pleasant, gustatory impressions, which by con- 
trast awaken the idea of pleasant ones. In either 
case there is no longer indifference, and this 
is the foundation upon which an appetite for 
this or that kind of food may be awakened, and 
here a general physiological law is illustrated. 
The light appears brighter after darkness, a 
sound louder after silence, the enjoyment of 
blithesome health more intense after illness, 
and so on. This explanation of the appetising 
effects of bitters proceeding from the mouth 
does not exclude the possibility of some such 
similar influence coming also from the stomach. 
As has been already stated in the fifth lecture, 
there is some reason for believing that certain 
impulses from the cavity of the stomach are 
likewise necessary for the excitation of appetite. 
It is possible that bitters not only act directly 
on the gustatory nerves in the mouth, but that 
they also act on the mucous membrane of the 
stomacjf in such a way that sensations are gen- 
erated which contribute to the passionate crav- 

[a6 4 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

ing for food. As a matter of fact, it has been 
confirmed by many clinicians that after the 
administration of bitters some such special sen- 
sations do arise in the stomach. The effect of 
these remedies consists, therefore, not merely 
in the generation of a simple reflex, but in the 
production of a certain psychic effect, which 
indirectly excites a physiological secretory ac- 
tivity. The same probably applies to other 
substances, such as condiments. In any case, 
whether our explanation corresponds to the 
actuality or not, the question of the therapeutic 
effect of bitters is settled in the affirmative the 
moment we acknowledge that these substances 
awaken appetite. The problem, therefore, of 
an experimental investigation of bitters consists 
in establishing the fact that they have an effect 
upon the appetite. The question is a difficult 
one, and has not hitherto been attempted in 
the laboratory. It is not sufficient to hand over 
clinical observations to the laboratory as experi- 
mental proofs. One must have, in addition, the 
assurance that the investigation has been cor- 
rectly carried out ; that is to say, that it dealt 
exactly with the point under consideration. It 
is interesting to observe that the connection 
between appetite and gastric juice is by many 
physicians, and in many text-books of medicine, 
exactly reversed. Thus it is represented that 

[*6 S ] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

some medicinal remedy calls forth a secretion 
of gastric juice, and this, by its presence in the 
stomach, awakens an appetite. Here we have 
to deal with a false explanation of a true fact, 
and that because it was not recognised that a 
psychic effect could by any possibility be a 
powerful excitant of secretory nerves. The 
customs of the chief meal of the day also cor- 
respond with our physiological results. After 
this or that hors <T<zuvre> perhaps also with a 
liqueur of brandy (especially customary in 
Russia), both of which are designed to awaken 
the appetite, the repast proper begins, and, in 
the majority of cases, with something hot, con- 
sisting mostly of meat broth (bouillon* different 
soups, and so on). After this comes the really 
nourishing food — meat of different kinds served 
in various ways, or, in the case of poorer people, 
stews made with vegetables, and therefore rich 
in carbohydrate material. This sequence of 
foods, from the standpoint of physiology, is 
quite rational. Meat broth, as we have already 
seen, is an important chemical excitant of gastric 
secretion. An attempt is therefore made in two 
ways to secure a free secretion of gastric juice 
to act on the chief food ; first, in the excitement 
of the appetite juice by the hors <Tauvre, and 
secondly, in the promotion of the flow by the 
action of the meat broth. It is in this way that 

[266] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

human instinct has made provisions for the 
digestion of the chief meal. A good meat 
broth can only be afforded by well-to-do people, 
and consequently with the poorer classes a less 
expensive, and, indeed, also a less effective, 
chemical excitant is used for awakening the 
early secretion. For example, kwas 1 serves 
in this way with the Russian population, while 
in Germany, where the price of meat is high, 
different kinds of soups are used, consisting of 
water mixed with flour, bread, etc. It is further 
to be borne in mind that the quantity of the 
digestive juices in general stands in close con- 
nection with the content of water in the organ- 
ism. This has been shown by the experiments 
of Dr. Walther for the pancreatic juice, and by 
my own for the gastric juice. If this sequence 
of foods, therefore, holds good for healthy 
people, it must be even more strictly adhered 
to in pathological conditions* Thus, when a 
person has no appetite, or only a weak one, 
he has no psychic juice or only very little ; con- 
sequently, the meal must in every case be begun 
with a strong chemical excitant — for example, 
with a solution of the extractives of flesh. 

1 Kwas is a favourite Russian drink, prepared from water, 
bread or meal, with malt and yeast. It contains a considerable 
quantity of lactic acid, some acetic acid, and other products 
of fermentation. 

[»6 7 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

Otherwise solid foods, particularly if they do 
not consist of meat, would remain long in the 
stomach without any digestion whatever. It is, 
therefore, in every way desirable to prescribe 
meat juice, strong broth, or meat extract to 
people who have no appetite. The same ap- 
plies also to forced feeding, for instance, of the 
insane. It is true that the method of introduc- 
tion in this case necessarily secures the presence 
of a chemical excitant, since the food can only 
be introduced in a fluid form. In any case the 
addition of meat extract would be very useful. 
If one arranged the ordinary fluid foods in de- 
scending order, according to the influence of 
the chemical excitants, the following would be 
the series: first, the preparations of the flesh, 
such as meat juice and the like ; secondly, milk ; 
thirdly, water. 

The usual termination of the repast is also, 
from the physiological standpoint, easy to be 
understood. The chief meal is generally ended 
with something sweet, and everybody knows 
that sweets are pleasant. The meaning of this 
is easy to guess. The repast, begun with pleas- 
ure, consequent on the pressing need for food, 
must also, notwithstanding the stilling of hunger, 
be terminated with an agreeable sensation. At 
the same time the digestive canal must not be 
burdened with work at this stage ; it is only the 

[268] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

gustatory nerves which should be agreeably 
excited. After thus dealing in general with the 
usual arrangement of our meals, we may now 
speak of some special points. 

Above all comes the acid reaction of the 
food. It is apparent that acidity enjoys a 
special preference in the human taste. We 
use quite a number of acid substances. Thus, 
for example, one of the commonest seasoning 
substances is vinegar, which figures in a num- 
ber of sauces and such like. Further, many 
kinds of wine have a somewhat acid taste. In 
Russia, kwas, especially in the acid form, is 
consumed in great quantities. Moreover, acid 
fruits and green vegetables are used as food, and 
they are either of themselves acid, or made so 
in the preparation. In medicine this instinct 
is likewise often made use of, and acid solu- 
tions, especially of hydrochloric and phosphoric 
acids, are prescribed in digestive disturbances. 
Finally, Nature itself constantly endeavours to 
prepare lactic acid in the stomach in addition 
to the hydrochloric acid. The former arises 
from the food introduced, and is consequently 
always present. These facts are all physiolog- 
ically comprehensible when we know that an 
acid reaction is not only necessary for an effi- 
cient action of the peptic ferment, but is at the 
same time the strongest excitant of the pan- 

[269] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

creatic gland. It is even conceivable that in 
certain cases the whole digestion may depend 
upon the stimulating properties of acids, since 
the pancreatic juice exerts a ferment action 
upon all the constituents of the food. In this 
way acids may either assist digestion in the 
stomach where too little gastric juice is pres- 
ent, or bring about vicarious digestion by the 
pancreas where it is wholly absent It is 
easy, therefore, to understand why the Russian 
peasant enjoys his kwas with bread. The 
enormous quantity of starch which he con- 
sumes, either as bread or porridge, demands 
a greater activity upon the part of the pan- 
creatic gland, and this is directly brought about 
by the acid. Further, in certain affections of 
the stomach, associated with loss of appetite, 
we make use of acids, both from instinct as 
well as medical direction, the explanation be- 
ing that they excite an increased activity of 
the pancreatic gland, and thus supplement the 
weak action of the stomach. It appears to 
me that a knowledge of the special relations 
of acids to the pancreas ought to be very use- 
ful in medicine, since it brings the gland— a 
digestive organ at once so powerful and so 
difficult of access — under the control of the 
physician. We could, for instance, intention- 
ally discard digestion in the stomach, and thus 

[270] 



The A.B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

transfer it to the bowel, by prescribing sub- 
stances which do not excite the gastric glands. 
On the other hand, by lessening the acidity of 
the gastric juice we could reduce the activity 
of the pancreas, and these are matters which 
might be made use of in various special dis- 
eases, or even in some general disturbances 
of the digestive apparatus. 

No less instructive is a comparison of the 
results of our experiments upon fat, with the 
demands of instinct and also with the precepts 
of dietetics and therapeutics. Everybody knows 
that fatty foods are heavy, that is, difficult of di- 
gestion, and in the case of weak stomachs they 
are usually avoided. We are now in a position 
to understand this physiologically. The exist- 
ence of fat in large quantities in the chyme 
restrains in its own interest the further secre- 
tion of gastric juice, and thus impedes the di- 
gestion of proteid substances; consequently, a 
combination of fat and proteid-holding foods 
is particularly difficult to digest, and can only 
be borne by those who have good stomachs 
and keen appetites. The combination of bread 
and butter is less difficult, as might a priori be 
inferred from its wide employment. Bread re- 
quires for itself, especially when calculated per 
unit, but little gastric juice and but little acid, 
while the fat which excites the pancreatic gland 

[271] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

insures a rich production of ferment both for 
itself and also for the starch and proteid of 
bread. Fat alone does not count by any means 
as a heavy food, as may be seen from the fact 
that large quantities of lard are consumed in 
certain districts of Russia with impunity. This 
also is comprehensible, since the inhibitory in- 
fluence of the fat in this case does not prevent 
the digestion of any other food-stuff, and is 
conducive to the assimilation of the fat itself. 
There is no struggle in this case between the 
several food constituents, and therefore no one 
of them suffers. In harmony also with daily 
experience the physician, in cases of weakness 
of the stomach, totally excludes fatty food and 
recommends meat of a fat-free kind ; for exam- 
ple, game, etc. In pathological cases, however, 
where an excessive activity of the gastric glands 
is manifested, fatty food, or fat as emulsion, is 
prescribed. And here medicine has empiri- 
cally brought to its aid the restraining action 
of fat, which we have so strikingly seen in our 
experiments. 

Amongst all the articles of human food, milk 
takes a special position, and this is unanimously 
recognised, both in daily experience and in the 
practice of medicine. By everybody milk is con- 
sidered a light food, and is given in cases of weak 
digestion as well as in a whole series of severe 

[272] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

illnesses ; for example, in heart and kidney affec- 
tions. The extreme importance of this substance, 
a food prepared by Nature itself, we can now 
well understand. There are three properties of 
milk which secure it an exceptional position. 
As we already know, in comparison with nitrog- 
enous equivalents of other foods, the weakest 
gastric juice and the smallest quantity of pan- 
creatic fluid are poured out on milk; con- 
sequently, the secretory activity requisite for 
its assimilation is much less than with any other 
food-stuff. In addition, milk possesses a further 
important property. Thus, when it is intro- 
duced unobserved into the stomach of an animal 
it causes a secretion both in the stomach and 
also one from the pancreas; consequently, it 
appears to be an independent chemical excitant 
of the digestive canal; and in this action it is 
remarkable that we perceive no essential dif- 
ference in the effect when the milk is brought 
unnoticed into the stomach from that which 
occurs when it is given to the animal to lap. 
Although flesh is a better chemical excitant, 
it is by no means a matter of indifference how 
it gets into the stomach. It must, therefore, be 
accepted that milk excites not only a really 
effective, but at the same time a very economic, 
secretion, and also that the appetite is unable 
to stimulate this secretion into a more active 
is [273] 



"The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

or abundant flow. The secret of the relation 
of milk to the secretion of the digestive juices 
can, unfortunately, at present be submitted to 
no further analysis or investigation. We are at 
liberty, however, to suppose that the fat on the 
one hand is of importance for the inhibition 
of the gastric glands, and the alkalinity on the 
other for the restraint of the pancreas. Thus 
the gastric glands and the pancreas, notwith- 
standing the presence of excitants, are main- 
tained by milk at a certain but not too high 
degree of activity, a matter which is in every 
way desirable in consideration of the easy 
digestibility of its constituents. Finally, the 
third characteristic which is observed to belong 
to milk, and which is probably only an expres- 
sion of the first, consists in the following. When 
one administers to an animal equivalent quanti- 
ties of nitrogen, in the one case as milk, in the 
other as bread, and afterwards estimates the 
hourly output of nitrogen in the urine, it results 
that the. increase during the first seven to ten 
hours after the milk (compared with the excre- 
tion beforehand) amounts only to from 12 per 
cent to 15 per cent of the nitrogen taken in, 
while after bread it amounts to 50 per cent. 
If the hourly rate of absorption and the extent 
to which milk and bread are respectively used 
up be taken into consideration, it has to be 

[ 2 74]' 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

admitted that these augmentations of urinary 
nitrogen which appear soon after feeding must 
be expressions of the functional activity of the 
digestive canal itself, and that this activity in 
the case of bread is three or four times greater 
than in the case of milk (Experiments of Prof, 
Rjasanzew) ; consequently, in the case of milk 
a much larger fraction of its nitrogen is free to 
be used up by the organism at large (irrespective 
of the organs of digestion) than in that of any 
other kind of food. In other words, the price 
which the organism pays for the nitrogen of 
milk, in the form of work on the part of its 
digestive apparatus, is much less than that for 
other foods. How admirably, therefore, the 
food prepared by Nature distinguishes itself 
when compared with all others! 

The facts just related bring forward a new 
aspect from which the relative nutritive values 
of different foods may be judged. The older 
criteria must frankly make room for the new or 
else be displaced by them. Experiments upon 
the utilisation of food-stuffs, in which what re- 
mains undigested' is determined as well as what 
is absorbed into the body fluids, cannot alone 
be trusted to solve the question in a satisfactory 
manner. Suppose, for instance, that in the 
digestion of a given food the alimentary canal 
has been given a certain work to perform ; if it 

l>75] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

be in health the work will be accomplished in 
the best possible manner — that is to say, with 
complete abstraction of everything nutrient. 
You will thus learn how much nutrient material 
was contained in the food, but the question of 
its digestibility remains as obscure as before. 
In your experiment you do not know how great 
an effort it has cost the alimentary canal to 
extract all the nourishment from the food. Nor 
can artificial digestion experiments settle the 
question of digestibility, for experiments in 
which food is normally partaken of are quite 
different from those in the test-tube, where we 
have to deal with only one juice, and not with 
the interaction of different juices and different 
food constituents. That one must here, as a 
matter of fact, make a distinction is clear from 
the observation of Dr. Walther in our laboratory. 
Fibrin, which is regarded by all as the most 
easily digested proteid, proved, when compared 
with a nitrogen equivalent of milk, to be a much 
stronger excitant of the pancreas, although milk 
contains, in addition to nitrogenous substances, 
a good deal of other non-nitrogenous material. 
The digestibility and nutritive value of foods 
must obviously be decided by an estimation 
of the real work which they entail upon the 
digestive apparatus, both in regard to the quan- 
tity and quality of the juices poured out on a 

[276] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

given amount of nutrient material. The energy 
used up in gland metabolism must be deducted 
from that of food taken in. The remainder will 
then indicate the value of the food to the organ- 
ism ; that is to say, will give the amount available 
for use by all the other organs exclusive of the 
digestive apparatus. From this point of view 
those materials must be taken as less nourishing 
and less digestible which are in large part used 
up to make good the expenditure entailed by 
their digestion on the part of the alimentary 
canal ; that is to say, those food-stuffs are less 
useful whose nutritive value little more than cov- 
ers the cost of their digestion; consequently, 
it is of great practical importance to compare 
from this aspect the same foods differently 
prepared — for example, boiled and roast meat, 
hard and soft boiled eggs, boiled and unboiled 
milk, etc. 

A discussion of some further medical ques- 
tions may here be taken up. The first concerns 
the therapeutic use of the neutral and alkaline 
salts of sodium. In clinical, pharmacological, 
and physiological text-books it is stated now, as 
ever, that these salts promote a flow of gastric 
juice. We may look in vain, however, for any 
experimental foundation to support this doctrine. 
The experiments brought forward cannot be re- 
garded as conclusive. When Blondlot sprinkled 

t a 77] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

sodium bicarbonate upon flesh, or Braun and 
Griitzner introduced sodium chloride solutions 
directly into the blood, they began with methods 
either false in themselves or far removed from 
normal conditions. In this case, however, the 
gaps in the experiment were happily made good 
by the clinician, for the experiment appeared to 
be confirmatory of clinical experience. That 
sodium salts (the chloride and bicarbonate) are 
useful in disorders of the digestive apparatus 
there can be no doubt How do they act, how- 
ever? It appears to me that here, as in some 
other cases, medical science has fallen into error. 
When we know that an effect takes place it does 
not by any means imply that we know the mech- 
anism by which it occurs ; and although medi- 
cine is broad enough and comprehensive enough 
to make free use of empiricism in practice, yet 
it often thinks in narrow grooves when it turns to 
the explanation of facts. It frequently tries to 
explain complicated healing processes in the 
simplest way, on supposed physiological data. 
And this is true in the present case, which 
affords an example of prevalent medical reason- 
ing; the alkalies work favourably in digestive 
disturbances — therefore they are succagogues. 
Naturally the stomach, under the influence of 
alkalies, sometimes begins to secrete a greater 
quantity of juice. This means, however, that it 

[»7«] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

has recovered from a disordered state and has 
returned to normal conditions. Consequently, 
the effect is due to the fact of recovery, and 
not to a direct influence of the alkalies. This 
latter, however, must be specially proved. The 
assistance afforded by the alkalies to the organ- 
ism might be capable of another explanation ; 
for example, that which is ordinarily given. In 
this case, however, I venture to offer a reason 
for the effects of sodium chloride, and of the 
alkaline salts of sodium, which is exactly the 
opposite of that generally accepted. We were 
unable to convince ourselves of any succagogue 
influence on the part of these salts. Indeed, 
both on the stomach and pancreas they proved 
in our hands to have an inhibitory effect. In 
addition to the experiments which I previously 
brought forward concerning the relation of al- 
kalies to gastric and pancreatic juice, I may 
relate the following observation. A dog which 
fortunately had survived the performance, one 
after the other, of a gastric fistula, a pancreatic 
fistula, and an oesophagotomy, received daily 
during the course of several weeks an addition 
of soda to its food. The animal enjoyed good 
health and had an excellent appetite. When 
the first sham feeding experiment was carried 
out, the relatively small effect of this otherwise 
very active juice-exciting procedure at once 

[*79] 



"The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrttion 

struck us. At the same time we observed that 
the pieces of flesh which fell from the upper end 
of the oesophagus, contrary to the ordinary rule, 
were hardly at all insalivated. In this dog, there- 
fore, a greatly lowered activity of several diges- 
tive glands — viz., of the gastric, pancreatic, and 
salivary glands — simultaneously existed. With 
regard to the salivary glands the circumstance 
was naturally submitted to closer investigation. 
I believe that the inhibitory influence of the al- 
kalies on the digestive glands, which was here 
proved experimentally, may furnish a basis for 
the following representation of their mode of 
action in producing healing effects. Catarrhal 
affections of the stomach are characterised by an 
incessant or very protracted secretion of slimy, 
weakly acid gastric juice. Further, in many 
cases the affection begins with a hypersecretion, 
that is an abnormal excitability, of the secretory 
apparatus which makes itself evident in a super- 
fluous and useless flow. The same must be 
conceived to happen in disorders of the pancre- 
atic gland ; at least such a condition sets in after 
operations performed for physiological purposes. 
It is, further, justifiable to suppose that, when 
an affection is once set up by this or that cause, 
it may later maintain itself independently ; for 
continuous activity has undoubtedly a harmful 
influence on the glands. The due nourishment, 

[280] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

and the restoration of organs after activity, pro- 
ceeds best during rest. In the normal course 
of events, after a period of active work follows a 
pause, during which the latent work of restora- 
tion is accomplished. When, therefore, a remedy 
effectively restrains the excessive work of a dis- 
eased organ, it may in this way contribute to the 
removal of the pathological condition, and thus 
to a restoration of the normal state. In this con- 
sists, in my opinion, the healing effects of the 
alkalies. One might draw a parallel between 
the action of these substances in digestive dis- 
turbances and that of digitalis in compensatory 
disturbances of the heart. An uncompensated 
heart beats rapidly, and thereby only aggra- 
vates its condition. Its time of rest, that is of 
recovery, of restitution of the organ, is shortened. 
A vicious cycl.e is set up. The weak action of 
the heart lowers blood pressure ; the lowering of 
this leads (from known physiological causes) to 
an increase in the number of beats ; the quick- 
ening leads to weakening of the organ. With- 
out doubt the digitalis aids by breaking through 
this vicious cycle, in that it greatly slows the 
pulse, and thereby gives new power to the heart. 
With our explanation of the action of the alkalies 
harmonises the further circumstance that, with 
the use of the salts in question, a strict diet is 
generally prescribed, which means that a certain 

[*8i] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

amount of rest is secured for the digestive glands. 
It is interesting that in clinical investigations 
with the stomach-tube, after a period when the 
alkalies were looked upon as succagogues, a new 
phase has also set in, mention being now more 
frequently made of a restraining effect 

The cause of the erroneous belief that alka- 
lies promote a flow of juice obviously lies in this, 
that people omitted to compare the effects of 
the saline solutions with those of like quantities 
of water (Dr. Chigin). 

The second point which we may consider is 
the following. The chief difficulty of the physi- 
cian who wishes to regulate the diet of patients 
when they suffer from digestive disturbances 
consists in the fact that idiosyncrasy plays a 
very important rdU. In one and the same ill- 
ness, different patients react to the same diet 
in wholly different ways. That which is agree- 
able to one, and is well borne and useful, may 
be rank poison to another. Consequently, the 
golden rule in dietetics is to give no directions 
with regard to food till one has made inquiries 
concerning the inclinations and habits of the 
patient. What does all this indicate ? Till now 
physiology had no experimental answer to the 
question. But our facts, it appears to me, con- 
tribute to a clearing up of the situation. Every 
food determines a certain amount of digestive 

[282] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

work, and when a given dietary is long contin- 
ued, definite and fixed types of glands are set up 
which can only slowly and with difficulty be 
altered. In consequence, digestive disturbances 
are often instituted if a change be suddenly 
made from one dietetic rigitne to another, espe- 
cially from a sparse to a rich diet ; such, for in- 
stance, as happens after the long Russian fasts. 
These disturbances are expresssions of the tem- 
porary insufficiency of the digestive glands to 
meet the new demands made upon them. 

Finally, it may be of some use to relate the 
following here. There are often cases of sud- 
den and unaccountable digestive disturbances. 
From the standpoint of modern physiology they 
might be explained by an activity of the secreto- 
inhibitory nervous system, which from some 
cause or other has been excessively and abnor- 
mally stimulated. In any case this system is 
now a factor of which the physician has to take 
due account. 



[a8 3 ] 



SWALLOWING AND MOVEMENTS OF 
THE STOMACH AND INTESTINES 

By W. B. Cannon, M.D. 

Of the Physiological Laboratory of the Harvard Medical School 

Boston, Mass., 17. S. A. 

[Note. — la the beginning of 1896 Dr. Professor Henry 
Pickering Bowditch, one of our Board of Scientific Assessors 
in the Nutrition Case suggested the use of the Rdntgen raj 
as a means of learning more than was then known about the 
mechanism of swallowing. There was much difference of 
opinion among research physiologists about this important 
function, and the question was far from settled. Magendie 
published a theory of deglutition, in Paris, in 1836, which was 
practically accepted until 1876, when Dr. Professor Angelo 
Mosso, of the University of Turin, Turin, Italy, established 
the theory of sole peristaltic assistance in swallowing. Again 
in 1880 Dr. Professor Kronecker, of Berne, Switzerland, in 
connection with Dr. Falk, and later in connection with Dr. 
Meltzer, of New York, produced evidence to prove a more 
complicated process in deglutition than that of peristalsis 
alone. But even Kronecker and Meltzer found, as they went 
on, evidence to modify their earlier beliefs, and hence the sub- 
ject was not cleared up to a point of general agreement. 

The suggestion made by Dr. Bowditch was taken up in 
the Harvard Physiological Laboratory and formed the begin- 
ning of a series of studies of the mechanical factors in diges- 
tion. The reports of these studies, presented by Dr. W. B. 
Cannon and collaborators, in the American Journal of Physi- 
ology, in the volumes of 1898 and 1903, are so understandable, 
even to the layman ignorant of physiological nomenclature, 
that we are prompted to give them, almost entire, leaving out 
only the technical description of the methods employed, which 
are only interesting to research students who have access to 
the Journal* 

[284] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

It will be noted that three of the professors of physiol- 
ogy mentioned in connection with this preliminary study of 
the nutrition problem— Bowditch, Mosso, and Kronecker — 
are members of our presently organised Board. — Hoeack 
Flktchml] 

THE MOVEMENTS OF THE FOOD 
IN THE OESOPHAGUS 

By W. B. Cannon and A. Moss* 

From tko Laboratory ofPkytUlory in, tfu Harvard Mtdicul Sekm I 
Extracts from America* Journal of Pkysiolofy, 1898 

The movements of deglutition, in common 
with many other physiological processes, were 
explained by the older physiologists on ana- 
tomical grounds. Thus, Magendie divided the 
act into three parts, corresponding to the ana- 
tomical regions of the mouth, pharynx, and 
oesophagus. The muscles of each of these 
divisions were considered the active agents in 
propelling the food onward. The function of 
moving the mass to the pharynx was variously 
ascribed to the tongue itself, to the mylohyoid 
muscles, and to gravity. For the second part, 
the movement through the pharynx, there was 
more unanimity of opinion, since the constric- 
tors, especially the middle and lower, were 
evidently concerned. 

Direct observations on the movement of 
swallowed masses in the oesophagus were first 
made by Mosso. The oesophagus of a dog 

[285] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

was laid bare, and a transverse incision made 
through it, or a piece of it excised. A small 
wooden ball was placed in the canal below the 
excised part, and the animal was then stimu- 
lated to swallow. One or two seconds after the 
contraction of the pharyngeal muscles a peri- 
staltic wave began to traverse the oesophagus. 
This wave did not stop at the point of excision, 
but in due time reappeared below, and carried 
the ball to the stomach. Thus the act was 
shown to be controlled by the central nervous 
system. Peristalsis was so plainly the motive 
power that the action was never doubted. Yet 
this belief was soon to be questioned. 

In 1880 Falk and Kronecker studied the 
movements in the mouth and pharynx, and ad- 
vanced the theory that deglutition was accom- 
plished by the rapid contraction of the muscles 
of the mouth. During the act of swallowing the 
air-tight buccal cavity shows a manometric press- 
ure of twenty centimetres of water. The same 
pressure was demonstrated to be present also in 
the oesophagus, but not in the stomach. This 
pressure was considered sufficient to force food 
through the oesophagus before the peristaltic 
wave traversed it. Another argument for rapid 
descent was found in the fact that cold water 
can be felt in the epigastric region almost im- 
mediately after being swallowed. Further, when 

[ 2 86] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

strong acids pass through the gullet, they cor- 
rode but small parts of it, and not the entire 
mucous membrane, as would be the case were 
the acid carried to the stomach by peristalsis. 

Over a year and a half ago it was suggested 
by Prof. H. P. Bowditch that if some substance 
opaque to the Rontgen rays were swallowed, it 
could be seen in its passage to the stomach, and 
the nature of its movement thus determined. 
Anaesthesia could be dispensed with, — a' desir- 
able condition, since observers had found that 
it interfered greatly with the deglutition reflex. 
It would be unnecessary to open either the 
abdominal or the pleural cavity. The reflex 
stimulus of food, moreover, would be better 
than electrical stimulation of the superior laryn- 
geal nerve. In short, the animal would swallow 
normal food under practically normal condi- 
tions. At Dr. Bowditch's suggestion and with 
his valuable assistance — which we gratefully 
acknowledge — we made the following series of 
experiments. 

- To render the swallowed mass opaque, sub- 
nitrate of bismuth was used. The salt is tasteless, 
practically inert, and can be fed in large quan- 
tities without harm. In order that observations 
could be made by more than one person, all 
experiments were conducted in a dark room. 
On the side of the animal opposite the Crookes 

[287] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

tube was placed an open fluorescent screen, on 
which the different tissues of the animal were 
outlined with varying degrees of light and shade. 
Among these shadows the swallowed mass ap- 
peared as a darker object, and thus its motion 
could be studied. 

For the first experiments the goose was 
selected. The head and neck were held station- 
ary by a tall pasteboard collar, which allowed 
free movement of the head without constriction 
of the neck. The fluorescent screen was placed 
against this collar at a uniform distance of thirty 
centimetres from the tube. When a bolus of 
corn-meal mush mixed with bismuth was placed 
in the pharynx, it descended slowly and regu- 
larly, and occupied about twelve seconds in 
passing over a distance of fifteen centimetres. 
The screen was marked at intervals of two centi- 
metres with cross lines, by means of which the 
relative rate in different parts of the oesophagus 
could be studied. A vibrator marking tenths 
of a second was interrupted whenever the bolus 
crossed a line. An average of over one hun- 
dred such observations showed that the rate 
became slightly slower as the bolus proceeded. 

In order to test liquids, molasses was mixed 
with bismuth to such a consistency as to drop 
easily from a glass rod. When this was fed with 
a pipette, it passed slowly and regularly down 

[288] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the oesophagus, clearly by peristalsis. The rate 
was about the same as for solid food. In both 
these experiments the addition of water would 
sometimes cause irregularities in the descent. 
Microscopic sections from four different parts 
of the oesophagus of the goose showed no histo- 
logical difference. 

In the experiments on the cat, the animal 
was placed on its back and left side on a holder. 
The extremities were secured by straps. The 
head was held between two upright rods, con- 
nected above by a thong; this allowed free 
movement of the head, without resistance to the 
passage of food. Shreds of meat dipped in bis- 
muth were ordinarily masticated and swallowed 
without difficulty. For soft solids, bread and 
milk were used, so fluid as to be easily drawn 
up into a pipette. The insolubility of the bis- 
muth salt rendered the study of liquids more 
difficult Strong solutions of potassic iodide 
and other salts, and suspension of bismuth, in 
acacia and molasses were tried; but a simple 
mixture of milk and bismuth, shaken in a test 
tube and immediately drawn up into a pipette, 
was found most practicable. 

Inasmuch as the movement of these different 

foods varied in different parts of the oesophagus, 

it will be convenient to divide the latter into 

three sections. The first or cervical portion 

19 [ 389 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

extends from the pharynx to the thorax; the 
second or thoracic, from here to the lower half 
of the heart ; and the third comprises the rest 
of the canal. The relative length of these three 
parts is about in the ratio of 9 : 8 : 6. 

The beginning of deglutition was noted by 
one observer by a finger on the larynx; the 
same observer called out when the bolus arrived 
at the thorax, heart, and stomach respectively, 
while the other observer noted the time. The 
movement of solids will first be considered. 
The descent the entire way was by peristalsis, 
but the rapidity varied. The duration of the 
movement in the cervical portion was two and a 
half seconds, and in the thoracic region a little 
less than two seconds. At the lower end of the 
heart there was sometimes a slight pause. In 
the lower section, from the heart to the stom- 
ach, the movement was decidedly different; the 
rate was always very slow. The distance was 
less than one-third of the entire canal, yet the 
time consumed in this part ranged from six to 
seven seconds, or three-fifths of the entire time 
of descent The character of the movement 
here was also peculiar. Whereas in the upper 
sections the passage was uniform and regular, 
with a slight acceleration in the thoracic region, 
here it was apparently irregular, for the bolus 
descended about one centimetre with each in- 

[290] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

spiratory movement of the diaphragm, and 
remained stationary or descended very slightly 
during expiration. Thus a series of hitches 
seemed to carry the bolus to the cardia. A 
probable explanation of this peculiar movement 
is that the stomach and lower oesophagus were 
pulled down with each descent of the diaphragm. 
This would make the movement appear irregu- 
lar, although it was really a slow peristalsis. 
It may be well to remark here that this move- 
ment was invariably observed in the cat with 
every kind of food. 

Semi-solids, namely, a mush of bread and 
milk, descended in the same way as solids ; but 
the rate was slightly faster in the upper oesopha- 
gus, for the bolus took about a second less to 
reach the cardiac level. From here the rate 
was the same as with solids. 

For liquids, one and a half to two seconds 
sufficed for the descent to the midheart region. 
Here there often occurred a long pause, from 
a few seconds to a minute or more. Then the 
oesophagus apparently contracted above the 
liquid, which slowly passed on to the stomach, 
as already described. Sometimes it seemed 
as if a swallowing movement, evidenced by a 
rise of the larynx, started the peristaltic wave. 
Again, several swallows would succeed one an- 
other before the liquid passed on. A few times 

[291] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

the bismuth and milk seemed strung out along 
the oesophagus; some more liquid descending 
would gather this up, and the whole mass, 
assuming an ovoid form, would move into the 
stomach. 

Thus in the cat the total time for degluti- 
tion varies from nine to twelve seconds. The 
lowest section presents no change ascribable to 
a difference in consistency, while in the upper 
sections the rate does slightly increase with the 
more liquid character of the food. 

In experiments on the dog, bismuth en- 
closed in capsules or wrapped in shreds of meat 
was fed as the solid. The general phenomena 
were as follows: With the rise of the larynx 
there was a quick, propulsive movement of the 
bolus, which descended rapidly for a few centi- 
metres, sometimes as far as the clavicle. From 
this point the rapidity, was diminished, yet no 
pause was observed; the bolus simply moved 
more slowly. This rate was then continued to 
the stomach without a slackening of speed in the 
diaphragmatic region, as was observed in the 
cat. Semi-solids moved in the same way as 
solids. The total time of descent from larynx 
to stomach was from four to five seconds. 

Liquids gave even a more decided squirt in 
the beginning of the movement. To render the 
oesophagus as lax and free as possible, the head 

[292] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

of the dog was released from the upright rods 
and held by the hands after the food was placed 
in the mouth. Sometimes the liquid descended 
rather rapidly as far as the heart, at other times 
no further than the clavicle; then without a 
pause it passed on slowly and regularly, reach- 
ing the stomach in about the same time as solids 
and semi-solids. 

Thus in the dog and cat but little variation 
was seen in the swallowing of liquids and solids. 
The liquids pass somewhat faster in the upper 
oesophagus. But in some animals the difference 
of rate with foods of varying consistency is much 
more marked. In the horse, for instance, mere 
observation shows a decided variation in the rate 
of movement in the oesophagus. Liquids shoot 
along the gullet, while solids move clearly by 
peristalsis. To determine the rate of solids, one 
hand was placed on the larynx of a horse to 
note the beginning of swallowing, and the other 
hand near the shoulders, where the bolus could 
be easily felt in its passage. The time con- 
sumed by the bolus in passing over a certain 
distance was measured by a stop watch. The 
rate obtained for solids, such as hay or grain, 
was from thirty-five to forty centimetres a 
second. 

For semi-solids, a mixture of bran and water 
was made, thin enough to run easily between 

[293] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the fingers. Each bolus was watched by a 
separate observer with a separate watch. The 
average rate obtained was the same as for 
solids. 

Liquids in the horse pass with a rapidity too 
great to be affected by peristalsis. Another 
force must be sought. Among the various 
muscles supposed to be effectual in moving food 
into the pharynx, the mylohyoids were shown 
by Meltzer to be essential. The styloglossi 
were cut by him without much interference with 
deglutition, but section of the mylohyoid nerves 
rendered the act impossible. The activity of 
these muscles in the horse during swallowing is 
easily perceived by the hand. Their energetic 
contraction is a sufficient explanation of the 
rapid passage of water through the oesophagus. 
The motion here is more than five times as rapid 
as that of solids and semi-solids. 

Meltzer's experiment to measure the rate of 
liquids in man by passing a stomach tube con- 
taining litmus paper was repeated by us with 
some modifications. Congo red paper was used, 
since it is more sensitive than litmus; it also 
furnishes a means of differentiating between 
mineral and organic acids, as the discolouration 
produced on Congo red by mineral acids is 
removed by ether. It was thus possible to dis- 
tinguish between the discolouration produced by 

[294] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

gastric regurgitation and that produced by the 
swallowed liquid. For the swallowed liquid, 
one-half per cent lactic acid was found most 
satisfactory, as the colour produced by it on 
Congo red test paper is almost instantly dis- 
charged in ether. By this method the paper 
was found discoloured within half a second after 
the rise of the larynx, certainly too short a 
period for a peristaltic wave to carry the liquid 
to the neighbourhood of the cardia. 

The X-ray method lends itself less success- 
fully to the study of deglutition in man than in 
the other animals we have studied. The thick- 
ness of the thorax, the distance of the oesopha- 
gus from the surface, and the relation to dense 
tissues render the observation of a swallowed 
mass difficult, especially when the mass is in 
rather rapid motion. The few observations 
which we have to report were made on a 
seven-year-old girl, placed in the sitting posture. 
Gelatine capsules containing bismuth were used 
for solids, and were traced to a point below the 
heart. The motion was very regular, and appar- 
ently due to peristalsis, for the bolus descended 
without a hitch or irregularity of any kind. 
Sometimes the capsule became fixed in the 
upper oesophagus, at about the level of the 
second rib. Repeated swallows of water would 
fail to dislodge it. An interesting point was 

[*95] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

noted here. With each attempt at swallowing, 
the capsule would rise slightly, as if the oesopha- 
gus was pulled up with the rise of the larynx ; 
then the capsule would descend to its former 
position. 

Semi-solids — a mush of bread and milk — 
could be seen about as far as solids ; that is, to 
just below the heart. The motion of the mushy 
bolus was the same as with solids, except that 
the rapidity was perhaps slightly greater. 

It should be noted here that with the human 
subject, as well as with the horse, our results 
for semi-solids differ from those derived by 
Meltzer's method; for according to his state- 
ments semi-solids, like liquids, are squirted down 
the oesophagus, and are not propelled by peri- 
stalsis, as has been the case in our observations. 

Liquids — bismuth and water — were seen 
only in the neck and upper thorax. Here there 
was a decided squirt. With the rise of the lar- 
ynx the liquid was seen to pass rapidly through 
the pharynx and well down into the thoracic 
oesophagus before it was lost to observation. 
The rate, however, by estimation was less than 
that of liquids in the horse. 

There remains to be considered Meltzer's 
latest investigation, in which he endeavoured 
to ascertain whether liquids remain above the 
cardia till the arrival of the peristalsis, or ooze 

[396] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

down before. An experimental answer was se- 
cured by Meltzer by the following method. The 
abdominal and gastric walls of an anaesthetised 
dog were incised, and a tube (vaginal speculum) 
introduced. Through this the entrance of food 
into the stomach could be observed directly. In 
repeated experiments no liquid was seen to pass 
through the cardia before the arrival of the 
peristaltic wave. An incision through the dia- 
phragm near its anterior origin showed that the 
swallowed liquid was not squirted as far as a 
point an inch above the diaphragm. To observe 
the oesophagus nearer its beginning, the upper 
three ribs were resected on the left side. Thus 
the swallowed liquid was seen to shoot along 
the oesophagus before any peristalsis reached 
this point. The resection of the fifth rib ex- 
posed the oesophagus half-way between the 
bifurcation of the trachea and the diaphragm. 
Here a bulging was sometimes observed imme- 
diately after the beginning of tjie act, and the 
swallowed mass remained there until a peri- 
staltic wave carried it down. If the mass swal- 
lowed was small, or was projected with moderate 
force, it might not even reach as far as the 
bifurcation. From these experiments Meltzer 
concluded that in animals, as in man, liquid food 
is not carried down the oesophagus by peristal- 
sis, but is thrown rapidly into a deep part of 

[*97] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the canal. The depth reached depends on the 
quantity swallowed, the force used, and the 
tonicity of the lower part of the oesophagus. 

The difference between these methods of 
Meltzer and those employed in our experiments 
has already been mentioned; and merely his 
results, which were obtained with liquids alone, 
need be considered here. According to our 
observations on the dog, there was no distinct 
pause at any part of the canal. . The movement 
simply became slower, and continued at this 
rate until the stomach was reached. Neither 
was the rate through the diaphragmatic part of 
the oesophagus slower than through the thoracic. 
The quick propulsive movement noticed in the 
dog was observed with solids and semi-solids as 
well as with liquids, but the liquids descended 
further down the canal before the movement 
changed to the slower peristalsis. While this 
difference was evident to the eye, the total time 
consumed by liquids in passing from pharynx 
to stomach was not enough shorter than the 
time for solids and semi-solids to be determined 
by our measurements. 

Summary. 

The phenomena of oesophageal deglutition 
as determined by our experiments may then be 
described as follows : — 

[298] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

There is a difference in swallowing according 
to the animal and the food which is used. 

In fowls the rate is slow and the movement 
always peristaltic, without regard to consistency. 
A squirt-movement with liquids is manifestly 
impossible, as the parts forming the mouth are 
too hard and rigid. With this diminution of pro- 
pulsive power in the mouth there is observed a 
greater reliance on the force of gravity. The 
head is raised each time after the mouth is 
filled, and the fluid by its own weight trickles 
into the oesophagus, through which it is carried 
by peristalsis. 

In the cat the movement is always peristaltic, 
and slightly faster than in fowls. A bolus takes 
from nine to twelve seconds in reaching the 
stomach. Liquids move somewhat more rapidly 
than semi-solids in the upper oesophagus. In 
the lower or diaphragmatic part the rate is very 
much slower than above, and is the same for 
liquids as for solids. 

In the dog the total time for the descent of 
a bolus is from four to five seconds. The food 
is always propelled rapidly in the upper oesopha- 
gus, and moves more slowly below. This rapid 
movement is frequently continued further with 
liquid food. No distinct pause was observed 
when the movement of the bolus changed from 
the rapid to the slower rate. 

[*99j 



'The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

In man and the horse liquids are propelled 
deep into the oesophagus at a rate of several 
feet a second by the rapid contraction of the 
mylohyoid muscles. Solids and semi-solids are 
slowly carried through the entire oesophagus 
by peristalsis alone. 



[100] 



THE MOVEMENTS OF THE STOMACH 

STUDIED BY MEANS OF THE 

RONTGEN RAYS 

By W. B. Cannon, M.D. 

From tk* Lm+a r m tm y •fPkytbUgj At the Harvard Mtdieal School 
Extract* from American Journal of Pkyti*Uey % 1898 

Since the stomach gives no obvious external 
sign of its workings, investigators of gastric move- 
ments have hitherto been obliged to confine their 
studies to pathological subjects or to animals 
subjected to serious operative interference. 
Observations made under these necessarily 
abnormal conditions have yielded a literature 
which is full of conflicting statements and uncer- 
tain results. The only sure conclusion to be 
drawn from this material is that when the 
stomach receives food obscure peristaltic con- 
tractions are set going, which in some way 
churn the food to a liquid chyme and force it 
into the intestines. How imperfectly this de- 
scribes the real workings of the stomach will 
appear from the following account of the actions 
of the organ studied by a new method. The mix- 
ing of a small quantity of subnitrate of bismuth 
with the food allows not only the contractions of 

[301] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the gastric wall, but also the movements of the 
gastric contents to be seen with the Rontgen 
rays in the uninjured animal during normal 
digestion. An unsuspected nicety of mechanical 
action and a surprising sensitiveness to nervous 
conditions have thereby been disclosed. 

Introductory Literature 

The early writings on the subject of gastric 
movements are characterised by general infer- 
ences from physical laws and from the anatom- 
ical structure of the stomach. According to 
Galen the stomach had four functions : to draw 
the food from the mouth (facultas attractrix), 
to retain the food (facultas retentrix) during 
the process of chemical digestion (facultas 
alter atrix), and, finally, to pass the changed 
material onward (facultas expultrix). In later 
writings the facultas attractrix failed to appear 
as one of the functions of the stomach. Fallo- 
pius, in the sixteenth century, changed the notion 
of the facultas retentrix by suggesting that the 
pylorus alone performed this office, and that the 
muscles of the gastric wall could help only by 
remaining quiet Thus the facultas alteratrix 
and the facultas expultrix are left as true gastric 
functions. It is with the latter activity and its 
effects that this paper is concerned. 

The ideas of the early writers concerning the 

[30*] 



The A.B. -Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

pylorus and cardia are of interest. The cardia, 
they were agreed, is closed during normal di- 
gestion in order to keep the food from re-enter- 
ing the oesophagus. The pylorus they looked 
upon as the ruler of the actions of the stomach. 
Such names as pylorus (keeper of the gate), 
janitor Justus, and rector, which the first investi- 
gators gave to the sphincter, indicate their 
theories of its functions. The passage of chyme 
into the duodenum, the keeping of undigested 
food in the stomach, the act of vomiting, were 
all dependent, they believed, on the "will" of 
the pylorus. 

No substantial advance was made beyond 
these hypotheses until the beginning of the 
eighteenth century, when Wepfer.and Schwartz 
applied the experimental method to the study 
of the gastric movements and laid the foundation 
of a more accurate knowledge. Wepfer vivi- 
sected wolves, dogs, and cats, and observed con- 
strictions following stimulation of the stomach. 
He remarked a general contraction of the pyloric 
part in vomiting and noted peristaltic and anti- 
peristaltic movements passing over the organ. 
About the middle of the stomach he frequently 
saw a deep constriction. The investigations of 
Schwartz are more valuable in that his search 
was for the normal action of the muscular coats. 
The movements, as he observed them, were gen- 

[303] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

erally only slight They began either at the 
pylorus and passed to the left, half-way to the 
cardia, or started at the fundus and went to 
the pylorus. The contractions and relaxations, 
following one another, formed larger or smaller 
depressions and elevations, i. *., more or less 
definite waves. 

Near the middle of the last century Haller, 
after confirming the results obtained by Schwartz 
and Wepfer, summarised his knowledge of the 
motor functions of the stomach as follows. In 
general, contraction alternates with relaxation, 
so that the stomach is, now here, now there, 
made narrower by longitudinal or transverse 
depressions ; then in these same places relaxa- 
tion and bulging occur. So long as both aper- 
tures are closed the food is driven hither and 
thither by the shifting movements. It first ta^ces 
a definite direction when the cardia or the pylo- 
rus opens. If the cardia opens, there is an 
antiperistalsis followed by regurgitation and 
vomiting. If, on the contrary, the pylorus 
relaxes, a contraction, starting at the oesopha- 
gus, pushes the contents of the stomach into 
the duodenum. The pylorus allows the pas- 
sage of fluids, but if it be stimulated by over 
distention or by hard pieces of food, it closes 
tightly. 

Such was the knowledge of gastric move- 

[3<>4] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

ments in Haller's time. A comparison of his 
descriptions with those in any standard work on 
physiology published ten or fifteen years ago 
will show that, despite very many researches, 
little advance had been made. Examinations 
of animals and men with gastric fistulas, studies 
of the stomach through the atrophied abdominal 
wall, and vivisection have yielded numerous re- 
sults ; but these have not been harmonious, and 
have led to much controversy. Prominent in 
this mass of material as a valuable contribution 
are Beaumont's careful observations through the 
gastric fistula of Alexis St. Martin. Beaumont's 
work has recently been confirmed by Hofmeister 
and Schiitz, who, with Rossbach, Hirsch, Open- 
chowski, and others, have presented during the 
last twelve years much new and interesting in- 
formation. Since, however, it will conduce to 
clearness to set forth the results of these investi- 
gations in connection with my own work, their 
consideration will be deferred until later. 

It will then appear that these later investi- 
gations, like the earlier researches, disagree as 
to the details of the stomach movements. Such 
differences in results are the proper outcome of 
the abnormal conditions under which the studies 
have been conducted. Obviously, in order to see 
the natural movements of the stomach, the 
organ should be observed in its natural state, 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

and not after it has been disturbed by removal 
from the abdomen, 6r by the adhesions and 
losses of substance incident to gastric fistulas. 

As a means of watching the gastric motor 
activities Under normal circumstances, Dr. H. P. 
Bowditch, in the autumn of 1896, suggested the 
use of the Rontgen rays. The present paper is 
the result of the work thus far completed. The 
kind assistance and stimulating counsel of Dr. 
Bowditch throughout the investigation are 
gratefully acknowledged. 



The Anatomy of the Stomach and its 
Relations to the Shadow 

It must be constantly borne in mind that the 
shadows described in this research are cast by 
the gastric contents, not by the stomach itself. 
Therefore the movements of the organ are not 
seen directly, but are indicated by their effect on 
the contained food. Variations in the length 
and breadth of the stomach can be inferred from 
changes in the outline of the shadow, but vari- 
ations in the front-to-back diameter of the organ 
must be judged from changes in the intensity of 
the shadow. 

The form of the active stomach soon after 
food has been taken is shown in outline in 
Figure 1. Since the several parts of the stomach 

[306] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

are to be mentioned frequently, it will be well to 
recall them here in their relations to the outline. 
The larger, cardiac part of the organ lies to the 
left of a line through w x. Into it the oesoph- 
agus opens through the cardiac sphincter, or 
cardia, at c. The pyloric part, which includes 
all of the stomach situated at the right of a line 
w x f is closed by the pylorus at p. This part 
has two divisions : the antrum at the right of the 
line y s, and the preantral part of the pyloric 




Figure i. 

portion, or middle region of the stomach, be- 
tween the lines w x and y z. The lesser curva- 
ture corresponds approximately to the anterior 
border of the shadow c w p ; the greater curva- 
ture to the more extensive sweep, c /, along the 
posterior border. 

The wall of the cat's stomach consists of 
three coats, but as this paper deals only with the 
functions of the muscular coat, that alone will 
be described. The gastric muscular fibres are 

[ 3o7 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

disposed in three sets: an outer longitudinal 
layer, a middle circular layer, and a set of inner 
oblique fibres. The longitudinal fibres continue 
those of the oesophagus, and, radiating over the 
cardiac end, become more marked along the 
curvatures than on the front and back surfaces. 
Over the antrum they lie in a thick, uniform 
layer. The circular fibres form a complete 
investment, and are arranged in rings at 
right angles to the curved axis of the stomach. 
Towards the pyloric end they become denser and 
stronger, and at the pylorus form a thick bundle, 
the pyloric sphincter. Separating the antrum 
from the rest of the stomach, aXy s, is a special 
thickening of the circular fibres, called by the 
early writers the "transverse band/' and described 
by Hofmeister and Schiitz as the " sphincter antri 
pylorici." The oblique fibres start from the left 
of the cardiac orifice and pass as two strong 
bands along the anterior part of the dorsal and 
ventral surfaces, giving off fine fasciculi to the 
circular musculature ; towards the antrum they 
gradually disappear. 

The musculature of the stomach consists of 
smooth muscle fibres, the chief physiological 
characteristics of which are slowness of con* 
traction, rhythmic alternation of contraction 
and relaxation, and a very great tonicity, or 
power of prolonged contraction. The action of 

[308] 



"The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

these muscles in the process of gastric digestion 
is now to be considered. 



The Normal Movements of the 

Stomach 

Since the time of Haller the chief con- 
tributors to the knowledge of the mechanics of 
the stomach have been Beaumont, Hofmeister 
and Schiitz, and Rossbach. 

Beaumont's famous investigations on Alexis 
St. Martin are recorded in almost all general 
works on physiology. Through a gastric fistula 
he introduced a thermometer-tube and observed 
how it was affected by the motions of the 
stomach. His conclusions are as follows : " The 
circular or transverse muscles contract progres- 
sively from left to right. When the impulse 
arrives at the transverse band, this is excited 
to a more forcible contraction, and closing 
upon the alimentary matter and fluids contained 
in the pyloric end, prevents their regurgitation. 
The muscles of the pyloric end, now contracting 
upon the contents detained there, separate and 
expel some portion of the chyme. . . . After 
the contractile impulse is carried to the pyloric 
extremity, the circular band and all the transverse 
muscles become relaxed, and a contraction com- 
mences in a reversed direction, from right to 

[309] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

left, and carries the contents again to the splenic 
extremity to undergo similar revolutions." 

In close accord with Beaumont's description 
of the activitives of the human stomach are the 
records of the investigations on the stomach of 
dogs by Hofmeister and Schiitz. They re- 
moved the stomach from the body and placed it 
in a moist chamber, kept at body-heat and 
covered with glass. Under such conditions 
the organ remained active for from sixty to 
ninety minutes. A typical movement is described 
by these observers as composed of two phases. 
In the first phase a constriction of the circular 
fibres, deeper on the greater curvature, starts a few 
centimetres from the cardia and passes towards 
the pylorus. As the constriction proceeds it 
increases in strength until a maximum is reached 
about two centimetres in front of the antrum. 
This annular contraction, called by Hofmeister 
and Schiitz the " preantral constriction," closes 
the first phase. Immediately thereafter the 
strong sphincter antri pylorici, or transverse 
band, contracts. Now, while the preantral con- 
striction is relaxing, the sphincter antri pylorici 
tightens still more, and the antrum is shut off 
from the rest of the stomach. As soon as this 
has occurred a general contraction of the muscles 
of the antrum follows. Relaxation begins at the 
sphincter antri pylorici and progresses slowly 

[3">] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

towards the pylorus; it is sometimes accom- 
panied by an antiperistaltic movement. 

Although Rossbach also used dogs, his re- 
sults vary considerably from those of Hofmeister 
and Schiitz. This discrepancy is possibly ac- 
counted for by a difference in method, for 
Rossbach left the stomach in the body. The 
dogs were treated with morphia and curare, and 
the abdomen was then widely opened, so that the 
movements could be clearly seen. When the 
stomach was full Rossbach saw deep constric- 
tions begin near the middle and pass in waves 
to the pylorus. At first these movements were 
weak ; later, however, they became more vigor- 
ous. The fundus remained in tonic contrac- 
tion about its contents and took no part in the 
peristalsis. 

Before attempting to explain the difference 
in the records of these observers I shall give an 
account of what may be seen in a cat by use of 
bismuth subnitrate and the Rontgen rays. 

i. Movements of the pyloric part. — Within 
five minutes after a cat has finished a meal of 
bread, there is visible near the duodenal end of 
the antrum a slight annular contraction which 
moves peristaltically to the pylorus ; this is fol- 
lowed by several waves recurring at regular in- 
tervals. Two or three minutes after the first 
movement is seen very slight constrictions ap- 

[3»] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

pear near the middle of the stomach, and pressing 
deeper into the greater curvature, course slowly 
towards the pyloric end. As new regions enter 
into constriction, the fibres just previously con- 
tracted become relaxed, so that there is a true 
moving wave, with a trough between two crests. 
When a wave swings round the bend in the py- 
loric part the indentation made by it deepens ; 
and as digestion goes on the antrum elongates and 
the constrictions running over it grow stronger, 
but until the stomach is nearly empty they do 
not entirely divide the cavity. After the antrum 
has lengthened, a wave takes about thirty-six 
seconds to move from the middle of the stomach 
to the pylorus. At all periods of digestion the 
waves recur at intervals of almost exactly ten 
seconds. So regular is this rhythm that many 
times I have been able to determine within two 
or three seconds when a minute had elapsed 
simply by counting six similar phases of the 
undulations as they passed a given point It 
results from this rhythm that when one wave is 
just beginning several others are already running 
in order before it. Between the rings of con- 
striction the stomach is bulged out, as shown 
in the various outlines in Figures 2, 3, 4, and 5. 
The number of waves during a single period of 
digestion is larger than might possibly at first 
be supposed. In a cat that finished eating 

[3"] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

fifteen grams of bread at 10.52 A.M., the waves 
were running regularly at 11.00 o'clock. The 
stomach was not free from food until 6.12 P.M. 
During that time the cat was fastened to the 
holder at intervals of half an hour, and the waves 
were always observed following one another in 
slow and monotonous succession. At the rate 
of three hundred and sixty an hour, approxi- 
mately two thousand six hundred waves passed 
over the antrum during that single digestive 
period. 

From the above review it will be manifest 
that my observations of the movements of the 
pyloric part agree closely with those of Ross- 
bach, but differ considerably from the harmonious 
results of the work of Beaumont, and Hofmeister 
and Schiitz. Beaumont's methods, however, 
may be justly criticised on the ground that the 
thermometer-tube which he held in the stomach 
was wholly unlike food and very liable to bring 
about unwonted contractions in so sensitive an 
organ as the stomach. Further, the movements 
observed by Hofmeister and Schiitz, as Ewald 
has pointed out, may easily have resulted from 
the abnormal stimulus due to lack of blood — 
a potent cause of peristalsis. And it will be 
shown later that the accounts given by these 
investigators describe very well the actions of 
the stomach when stimulated by an unusual 

[3'3] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

irritant. In this connection it may be added 
that since the publication of the preliminary 
notice of my work, Roux and Balthazard, using 
the Rontgen rays, have published the results of 
observations on the stomachs of the dog and 
man similar to those thus far described in this 
paper. 

The fact that my observations and those of 
Roux and Balthazard were conducted under 
normal conditions, and that the conditions of 
Rossbach's experiments were more nearly normal 
than those of the other observers mentioned, 
warrants the conclusion that the pyloric part 
has a more important function than that of 
merely expelling the contents of the stomach 
into the intestines. After summarising the 
description given by Hofmeister and Schiitz, 
Ewald, for a priori reasons, declares : " I cannot 
accept this view. The plain fact that the pyloric 
portion secretes a strongly digesting fluid con- 
taining pepsin and hydrochloric acid proves it 
to be an important part for the peptonising 
function of the stomach." The account of the 
remarkable manner in which the pyloric portion 
performs this function must be deferred until 
the movements of other parts of the stomach 
have been considered. 

2. Movemetits of the pyloric sphincter. — Ross- 
bach mars his otherwise careful work by de- 

[314] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

claring that the pylorus is tightly closed during 
the whole digestive period of from four to eight 
hours, and that then the sphincter relaxes and 
the peristaltic waves empty the stomach. That 
this is not the normal action of the sphincter 
has been shown by several observers. Hirsch 
watched dogs with duodenal fistulas and saw 
food come from the stomach at intervals of one- 
fourth of a minute to several minutes. Roux 
and Balthazard maintain that in dogs food en- 
ters the duodenum at the completion of each 
wave of constriction. Observations on the cat, 
however, do not support their view, but agree 
rather with the statement of Hirsch. 

In cats fed with bread mixed with subnitrate 
of bismuth, ten or fifteen minutes elapse after the 
first constriction in the antrum before any food 
can be seen in the duodenum. When food does 
appear it is spurted through the pylorus and 
shoots along the intestine for two or three 
centimetres. Not every constriction-wave forces 
food from the antrum. On one occasion, about 
an hour after the movements began, three con- 
secutive waves were seen, each of which squirted 
food into the duodenum. The pylorus remained 
closed against the next eight waves, opened for 
the ninth, but closed once more against the 
tenth and eleventh. For each of the four 
succeeding waves the sphincter relaxed, but 

[315] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

blocked the food brought by three constrictions 
that followed; and in this irregular way the 
food continued passing from the stomach. Near 
the end of gastric digestion, when the con- 
strictions are very deep, it may be that the 
pylorus opens for every wave. 

When a hard bit of food reaches the pylorus, 
the sphincter closes tightly and remains closed 
longer than when the food is soft. This action 
of the sphincter was shown by giving with the 
regular food of the cat a dry, hard pellet of 
equal parts of starch paste and bismuth sub- 
nitrate about the size of a pea. The food itself 
contained merely enough bismuth to throw a 
dim shadow, near the centre of which the pellet 
could be clearly seen as a dark object. The 
continual passing of the contraction-waves 
finally brought the little ball to the pylorus. 
When it arrived there, five grams of bismuth 
subnitrate were introduced into the stomach 
through a tube in the oesophagus. This was 
done in order that the food passing into the 
intestines after the ball came to the pylorus 
might be distinguished from that which had 
gone on before. By kneading the stomach the 
bismuth was distributed, as shown by the uni- 
formly black shadow. The pellet could still 
be seen near the end of the antrum when the 
constrictions passed over it. Now, although the 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

waves continued to run regularly, the very black 
food did not gather in the intestines in sufficient 
amount to be recognised until forty-two minutes 
after it had been introduced. And when, finally, 
the food did show itself in the intestines, its 
shadow contrasted strongly with that of the food 
which had already passed on. The slowness of 
the expulsion is not to be regarded as wholly 
due to the hard mass. No doubt the kneading 
of the stomach mixed the contents of different 
parts of the organ and brought to the pylorus 
food not yet sufficiently digested to be passed 
by that selective sphincter. But this does not 
explain the whole delay. Food similar to that 
given here, except that it contained no hard 
particles, has usually been seen as small masses 
in the intestines within fifteen minutes after being 
swallowed. A part of the delay was evidently, 
therefore, caused by the hard pellet. Further 
evidence on this point was secured when, on 
one occasion, the sphincter was seen to open 
only seven times in twenty minutes following the 
arrival of a hard particle of food at the pylorus. 
The conclusion may therefore be drawn that 
hard morsels keep the pylorus closed and hinder 
the passage of the food into the duodenum. 

3. Activity of tlie cardiac portion. — The 
part played by the fundus apparently has not 
hitherto been properly appreciated. It has been 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

regarded as the place for peptic digestion, of 
as a passive reservoir for food ; but it is in fact 
a most interestingly active reservoir. 






FIGURE 2. 



[3«8] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

The action of the cardiac portion will be best 

forQ+fwv4 \\\r rnmnarino tVi*» onnparonrM the 



X 1IC dtUUtl Ul 111C tdlUldU JiUIUUU Will LVC 

understood by comparing the appearances 





FlGUftE 3. 

stomach presents at various stages in a digestive 
period In order to show these stages I care- 

[319] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

fully made a set of three tracings of the out- 
lines of the stomach as soon as possible after a 
cat had finished eating, and another set of three 




Figure 4. 

every half hour thereafter, until the contents had 
disappeared (Figs. 2, 3, 4, and 5). These trac- 
ings were made by placing white tissue paper over 

[320] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

the fluorescent screen, and drawing with a thick 
lead pencil, easily seen, as much of the boundary 




Figure 5. — Figures 2, 3, 4, and 5 present outlines of the shadow 
of the contents of the stomach cast on a fluorescent screen by the 
Rontgen rays. The drawings were made by tracing the outline of 
the shadow on tissue paper laid upon the fluorescent surface, and 
are about one-half the actual size. They show the change in the 
appearance of the stomach at intervals for half an hour, from the 
time of eating until the stomach is nearly empty. 

« [ 3" ] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

of the stomach as I could at the end of each 
expiration. Between the times for making the 
drawings the cat was allowed to rest quietly on 
a mat, but care was taken to lay her in the same 
position on the holder for every drawing. The 
drawings of each set were afterwards fastened 
over one another, so that the lines coincided as 
closely as possible. Another piece of tissue 
paper was then put over these, and all four 
sheets were laid on an illuminated pane of glass. 
It was thus easy to get a composite tracing 
which, considering the movement imparted to 
the stomach by respiration, and the dimness of 
the shadows in the later stages of digestion, 
probably represents more exactly than any 
single drawing the outline of the stomach for 
each successive period. 

A comparison of these drawings shows that 
as digestion proceeds the antrum appears gradu- 
ally to elongate and acquire a greater capacity, 
and that the constrictions make deeper inden- 
tations in it. But when the fundus has lost most 
of its contents, the longitudinal and circular 
fibres of the antrum contract to make it again 
shorter and smaller. Its change of form, how- 
ever, compared with the rest of the stomach, 
is slight 

The first region to decrease markedly in size 
is the preantral part of the pyloric portion. The 

[3"] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

peristaltic undulations, caused by the circular 
fibres, start at the beginning of this portion, and 
gradually, by their rhythmic recurrence, press 
some of the contents into the antrum. As the 
process continues, the smooth muscle fibres with 
their remarkable tonicity contract closely about 
the food that remains, so that the middle region 
comes to have the shape of a tube (Figs. 3 and 4 
— 1 .30 P.M. to 2.30 P.M.), with the rounded fundus 
at one end and the active antrum at the other. 
Along the tube very shallow constrictions may 
be seen following one another to the pylorus. 

At this juncture the longitudinal fibres which 
cover the fundus like radiating fingers, and the 
circular and oblique fibres reaching in all di- 
rections about this spherical region, begin to 
contract. Thus the contents of the fundus are 
squeezed into the tubular portion. This proc- 
ess, accompanied by a slight shortening of the 
tube, goes on until the shadow cast by the 
fundus is almost wholly obliterated (Fig. 5 — 
5.30 P.M.). 

The waves of constriction moving along the 
tubular portion press the food onward as fast as 
they receive it from the contracting fundus, and 
when the fundus is at last emptied they sweep 
the contents of the tube into the antrum (Fig. 5 
— 5.00 p.m. to 6.00 p.m.). Here the operation 
is continued by the deeper constrictions till, 

[323] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

finally (in this instance at 6.12 P.M.), with the 
exception of a slight trace of food in the fundus, 
nothing is to be seen in the stomach at all. 

The food in the fundus may possibly be 
slightly affected by the to-and-fro movements 
of the diaphragm in respiration. With normal 
breathing the upper border of the cardiac portion 
swings through about one centimetre; with 
dyspnoea, or deep breathing, through one and a 
half or two centimetres. Since the lower border 
does not move so much, the contents are gently 
pressed, and then released from pressure, at 
each respiration. The pyloric portion is moved 
very little by the diaphragm, the oscillation 
being less than a half centimetre. 

Moritz has pointed out the value of an organ 
like the stomach for holding the bulk of the food 
and serving it out a little at a time, so that the 
intestines may not become congested during 
their digestive and absorptive processes. All 
of the advantages supposed to be thus secured 
to the intestines may be claimed also for the 
stomach itself. For the preceding description 
indicates, and experiments to be described later 
prove, that the stomach is composed of two 
physiologically distinct portions : the busy an- 
trum, over which during digestion constriction- 
waves are running in continuous rhythm; and 
the cardiac part, which is an active reservoir, 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

pressing out its contents a little at a time as the 
antral mechanism is ready to receive them. 

The Movements of the Stomach in 

Vomiting 

The appearance of the stomach during vomit- 
ing has been studied particularly by Open- 
chowski. He says that when an emetic is given 
there follows a quivering of the stomach-wall, 
which, beginning near the pylorus, shows itself 
later in the antral and middle regions of the 
stomach. The quivering afterwards passes into 
a contraction, most strongly marked in the 
antral part, since the peristaltic waves running 
down to the antrum from above are continually 
growing deeper. At the same time the fundus 
expands spherically. The increased contraction 
in the pyloric part drives the contents towards 
the more dilated portion, and thence they 
are forced into the oesophagus by abdominal 
pressure. 

The same phenomena occur when a cat is 
given apomorphine hypodermatically. First the 
upper circular muscles relax and become so 
flaccid that the slightest movement of the 
abdomen changes the form of the fundus. Then 
there are apparently irregular twitchings of the 
fundus wall. Soon a deep constriction starts 
about three centimetres below the cardia and, 

[325] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

growing in strength, moves towards the pylorus. 
When it reaches the transverse band the con- 
striction tightens and holds fast, while a wave 
of contraction sweeps over the antrum. Another 
similar constriction follows. In the interval the 
transverse band relaxes slightly, but tightens 
again when the second wave reaches it. Per- 
haps a dozen such waves pass; then a firm 
contraction at the beginning of the antrum com- 
pletely divides the gastric cavity into two parts. 
This same division of the stomach into two parts 
at the transverse band is to be seen when 
mustard is given. Now, although the waves are 
still running over the antrum, the whole preantral 
part of the stomach is fully relaxed. A flatten- 
ing of the diaphragm and a quick jerk of the 
abdominal muscles, accompanied by the open- 
ing of the cardia, now force the contents of the 
fundus into the oesophagus. As the spasmodic 
contractions of the abdominal muscles are re- 
peated, the gastric wall again tightens around 
the contained food. Antiperistalsis I have seen 
only once ; then, while the cat was retching, a 
constriction started at the pylorus and ran back, 
over the antrum, completely obliterating the 
antral cavity. 

It will be recalled that the principal differ- 
ence between the movements of the stomach and 
their effects as described by Beaumont, and Hof- 

[3*6] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

meister and Schutz on the one hand, and Ross- 
bach, Roux and Balthazard, and myself on the 
other hand, is that the former observed con- 
strictions completely dividing the stomach at the 
transverse band, and the antrum then squeezing 
its contents into the intestines ; whereas the latter 
have seen the constrictions moving forward as 
narrowing rings, but not separating the gastric 
cavity into two parts. 

With the exception of peristalsis in the 
antrum, the gastric movements at the beginning 
of emesis are almost exactly the same as those 
Beaumont, and Hofmeister and Schutz, declare 
to be the normal contractions of the stomach. 
Their observations were made, however, when 
the organ was subjected to unnatural stimulation. 
In the excised stomach, observed by Hofmeister 
and Schutz, not only were all nervous con- 
nections severed, but likewise all flow of blood 
to the organ was entirely stopped, and the cutting 
off of the blood supply is regarded as one of the 
most powerful predisposing causes of peristaltic 
action. The thermometer-tube used by Beau- 
mont was an irritant to the stomach, as he him- 
self admits. " If the bulb of the thermometer/' 
he writes, " be suffered to be drawn down to the 
pyloric extremity, and retained there for a short 
time, or if the experiments be repeated too 
frequently, it causes severe distress and a sen* 

[3*7] 



The A. B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

sation like cramp, or spasm, which ceases on 
withdrawing the tube, but leaves a sense of 
soreness and tenderness at the pit of the 
stomach." Moritz also noticed that a rubber 
sound introduced into the human stomach 
proved to be a source of irritation. It seems 
reasonable to suppose, therefore, that these ob- 
servers did not see the normal movements, but 
the actions resulting from abnormal irritation. 

The Effect of the Movements of the 
Stomach on the Food 

In my first observations on the active 
stomach a bulging of the stomach-wall was to 
be seen in front of the passing waves. But as 
food did not immediately appear in the intestine, 
and as, after the pylorus relaxed, the gastric 
contents did not diminish rapidly enough to 
allow the supposition that all of the food 
squeezed forward by the waves was immediately 
forced through the pylorus, it was assumed that 
a part, at least, of the food under pressure was 
forced back towards the cardia through the 
constriction-ring. This inference was stated in 
the preliminary notice of my work. Roux and 
Balthazard also observed the passage of the un- 
dulations over the pyloric part, but state merely 
that the function of the constrictions is the 
propulsion of food into the intestine, without 

[3«8] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

mentioning what must be regarded as a very 
important function; namely, the mixing effect 
of the waves. 

Most writers have agreed that the result of 
the active and passive movements of the stomach 
is to force the contents hither and thither, thus 
mixing them and the gastric juice together. 
Two observers, Beaumont and Brinton, have at- 
tempted to explain the manner of the mixing. 
Beaumont, after noting how the thermometer- 
tube, used by him to indicate the gastric motions, 
was affected, describes the circulation of the food 
as follows : " The bolus as it enters the cardia 
turns to the left, passes the aperture, descends 
into the splenic extremity, and follows the 
great curvature towards the pyloric end. It 
then returns, in the course of the small curva- 
ture, makes its appearance again at the aperture, 
in its descent into the great curvature, to per- 
form similar revolutions." Brinton bases his 
theory of the circulation of the food on an 
analogy between the movement of a constriction 
over the stomach and the passage of a septum 
with a central perforation along the interior of a 
cylinder full of liquid. The result in both cases, 
he declares, must be a peripheral current of 
advance, and a central current of return. Thus 
in the stomach there would be peripheral cur- 
rents from the cardia along the walls of the 

[ 3*9 ] 



• 



** 



• t 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

stomach to the pylorus, where they would unite 
and tun as an axial current back to the cardia. 

Certain a priori objections may be urged 
against each of these conclusions. In the first* 
place Beaumont's observations were made on a 
subject having a gastric fistula, and the adhesions 
between the stomach and the abdominal wall 
Would prevent the fundus from . acting quite 
normally in relation to its contents. Beaumont's 
conclusions, furthermore, are based on the 
movements of a thermometer-tube introduced 
through the fistula, and on the recognition of 
particles of food which he had seen before as 
they passed the fistulous opening: the first 
method, as has been shown, made the con- 
ditions in the stomach more abnormal than they 
were previously; the second gave uncertain 
knowledge of the course of the food when out 
of the observer's sight. Brinton's hypothesis 
states the probable movements of fluid contents 
acted on by a passing constriction. But it may 
be objected that the conditions assumed by him 
do not exist in all parts of the stomach. For 
not only is. there no peristalsis visible in the 
fundus, but 'with the usual food the fundus 
contents are not liquid. Moreover, the con- 
strictions at the beginning of the pyloric portion 
are very slight and move slowly. The food in 
front of them h, accordingly, not under much 

[ 33o ] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

greater pressure than the food behind them. 
The axial current which might result, therefore, 
could not be strong enough to go far into the 
cardiac portion. 

It is easily possible to test experimentally 
the validity of these two theories by watching 
the action of pieces of food which throw a black 
shadow in a dimly outlined stomach. For this 
purpose little paste pellets of bismuth subnitrate, 
with starch enough to keep the form, were 
given with the customary meal. These pellets, 
it was found, did not break up in the stomach 
during the gastric digestion of soft bread. Sev- 
eral times I have been fortunate in getting two 
of the little balls in the axis of the stomach and 
about a centimetre apart. As the constriction- 
wave approached them, both moved forward, 
but not so rapidly as the wave. Now when the 
constriction overtook the first ball, the ball 
moved backward through the constricted ring, 
in the direction of least resistance. The wave 
then overtook the second ball, and it also passed 
backward to join its fellow. At the approach 
of the next wave they were both pushed forward 
once more, only to be again forced backward, 
one at a time, through the narrow orifice. As 
the waves recurred in their persistent rhythm, 
the balls were seen to be making progress — 
an oscillating progress — towards the pylorus; 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

for they went forward each time a little farther 
than they retreated. This to-and-fro movement 
of the pellets was much more marked in the 
antrum, where the waves were deep, than in the 
middle region. On different occasions from 
nine to twelve minutes have elapsed while the 
balls were passing from where the waves first 
affected them to the pylorus ; which means that 
on the way they were moved back and forth by 
more than a half hundred constrictions. 

If the pylorus does not relax, it is evident 
that a wave approaching it pushes the food into 
a blind, elastic pouch, the only exit from which 
is through the advancing constricted ring. The 
constrictions are deeper near the end of the 
antrum, and the rings are small ; consequently, 
the food is squirted back through them with 
considerable violence. As has been noted, the 
pylorus opens less frequently for a while after a 
solid piece of food comes to it. In such a case 
the slow driving waves squeeze the hard morsel 
and the soft food about it up to the sphincter, 
only to have the whole mass shoot back, some- 
times half-way along the antrum. Over and 
over again the process is repeated till the 
sphincter at last opens and allows the more fluid 
parts to pass. Hofmeister and Schiitz, and 
Moritz have disclaimed any selective action of the 
pylorus, and declare that solids are driven from 

[332] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

the pylorus to the fundus by antiperistalsis. 
The action of the pylorus which I have seen, 
however, is more like that described by the 
earlier investigators ; for during digestion there 
was no antiperistalsis, and the sphincter, separat- 
ing the fluids from the solids, caused the solids 
to remain and undergo a tireless rubbing. 
Frequently, when several of these balls have 
been given at the same time, they have all been 
seen in the antrum after the stomach was other- 
wise empty. Here they remain to be softened 
in time by the juices, or to be forced through the 
pylorus later, for solids do pass into the intes- 
tine. Thus when the teeth neglect their work 
the stomach attempts to perform their function ; 
the relative inefficiency of the gastric method of 
grinding and its interference with the normal 
gastric activities point an obvious hygienic 
moral. 

During the process of digestion the food in 
the cardiac portion gives no sign of currents. 
Balls which lie in the fundus immediately after 
the food is ingested keep their relative positions 
until the cardiac portion begins to contract, and 
then move very slowly towards the antrum. 
Moreover, the food in the fundus of a cat has 
the same mushy appearance when examined 
after gastric peristalsis had been active for an 
hour and a half that it had when ingested. The 

[333] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

contents of the antrum, on the other hand, look 
quite different and have the consistency of thick 
soup. The inactivity of the food in the fundus 
can also be proved by feeding first five grams 
of bread and bismuth, then five grams with- 
out bismuth, and finally five grams again with 
bismuth in it. The stomach contents are thus 
arranged in two dark layers along the curva- 
tures, with a light layer between. Tracings 
made on tissue paper show that ten minutes 
after peristalsis commenced the stratification 
had entirely disappeared in the pyloric part, but 
that an hour and twenty minutes thereafter the 
layers were still clearly visible in the cardiac 
region. 

The value of the circulation of the food, as 
described by Beaumont and Brinton, lay in the 
supposition that the contents of the stomach 
were thus brought near to the secreting gastric 
wall, and that the gastric juice could thus more 
readily exert its action. Although my obser- 
vations do not support their theories of mixing 
currents running throughout the stomach, they 
still show that the pyloric portion is an admi- 
rable device for bringing all of the food under 
the influence of the glandular secretions of that 
region. For, when a constriction occurs, the 
secreting surface enclosed by the ring is brought 
close around the food lying within the ring in 

[334] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

the axis of the stomach. As this constriction 
passes on, fresh areas of glandular tissue are 
continuously pressed in around the narrow ori- 
fice. And also, as the constriction passes on, 
a thin stream of gastric contents is continuously 
forced back through the orifice, and thus past the 
mouths of the glands. The result of this ingen- 
ious mechanism is that every part of the secret- 
ing surface of the pyloric portion is brought 
near to every bit of food, before the latter leaves 
the stomach, a half hundred times or more, as 
evidence by the moving ball. 

Salivary Digestion in the Stomach 

The absence of movement in the fundus 
would seem to give the food during its stay there 
little opportunity to become mixed with the 
gastric juices, and thus to undergo peptic diges- 
tion. The truth of this supposition can easily 
be proved experimentally by feeding a slightly 
alkaline meal, and later testing the chemical 
reaction of the contents of various parts of the 
stomach. A cat which had been without food 
for fifteen hours was given eighteen grams of 
mushy bread made slightly alkaline with sodium 
carbonate. One hour and a half after the cat 
had finished eating she was killed, and the 
stomach laid bare by opening the abdomen. A 
very small hole was then made through the wall 

[335] 



The A.B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

in the fundus region, and another similar hole 
was made into the antrum. By means of a 
glass pipette food was extracted first from the 
periphery of the fundus ; this food was slightly 
acid. The cleaned pipette was then introduced 
two and a half centimetres into the fundus con- 
tents, and the food thus extracted gave the 
original alkaline reaction. Specimens of the 
liquid contents of the antral and middle regions, 
taken from various depths, were all strongly 
acid. A dog killed an hour and three-quarters 
after eating showed similiar differences between 
the reactions of the food in the fundus and the 
food in the pyloric portion. So, as a matter of 
fact, the food does not become acid at a uni- 
form rate in all parts of the stomach, as would 
be the case if Beaumont's and Brinton's theories 
of mixing currents were true. Moreover, if the 
facts accorded with their notions, the saliva, 
which ceases to act in the presence of more than 
0.003 per cent free hydrochloric acid, and is 
destroyed when the percentage of acid proteids 
is large, would manifestly have its service as a 
ferment limited to the relatively short time dur- 
ing which the stomach contents, in the process 
of thorough mixing, were reaching that degree 
of acidity. There is, however, no movement of 
food in the fundus, and the alkaline food received 
from the oesophagus remains alkaline in this 

[ 336 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

region for a considerable period. The nutri- 
ment, therefore, if well chewed and thus mixed 
with saliva, can undergo salivary digestion in 
the fundus for a considerable period without 
interference by the acid gastric juice. 1 

From all these observations the conclusion 
must be that the fundus acts as a reservoir for 
the food, in which the digestion of sugars and 
starches may take place ; and that the pyloric 
portion with its simple but marvellous peristaltic 
mechanism, by a single process, triturates the 
food, brings it near to the active glands, stirs it 
thoroughly with their secretions, and expels the 
products into the intestines. 

The Inhibition of Stomach Movements 

during Emotion 

Early in the research a marked unlikeness 
was noticed in the action of the stomachs of male 
and female cats. The peristalsis seen with only 
a few exceptions in female cats failed to appear 
in most of the males, although both had received 
exactly the same treatment. Along with this dif- 
ference was a very striking difference in behaviour 

1 An investigation by Cannon and Day (American Journal 
of Physiology, 1903) has confirmed this conclusion. An hour 
after starchy food mixed with saliva was ingested a unit vol- 
ume of the food in the cardiac end of the stomach contained 
almost twice the amount of sugar found in a unit volume of 
the food in the pyloric end. 

* a [ 337 ] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

when Jxmnd to the holder ; the females would 
lie quiet, mewing occasionally, but purring as 
soon as they were gently stroked. The males, 
on the contrary, would fly into a violent rage, 
struggle to be loose from their fastenings, bite 
at everything near their heads, cry loudly, and 
resist all attempts to quiet them. On account 
of this difference only female cats were used for 
some time, and the significance at first attrib- 
uted to the action of the males was almost for- 
gotten when the following incident recalled it 
and suggested that the excitement caused the 
suspension of the stomach movements. On 
October 23, 1897, a ma ^ e cat WAS fed at 12.00, 
but was not placed on the holder till ninety 
minutes later. The waves were passing at the 
rate of six a minute. The cat fell into a rage 
and the waves suddenly stopped. 

A few days later an observation on a female 
with kittens explained the absence of gastric 
movements in the males. While the peristaltic 
undulations were coursing regularly over the cat's 
stomach, she suddenly changed from her peace- 
ful sleepiness, began to breathe quickly, and 
struggled to get loose. As soon as the change 
took place, the movements in the stomach 
entirely disappeared; the pyloric portion re- 
laxed and presented a smooth, rounded outline. 
I continued observing, and stroked the cat reas- 

[338] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

suringly. In a moment she became quiet and 
began to purr. As soon as this happened the 
movements commenced again in the stomach ; 
first a few constrictions were visible near the end 
of the antrum, then a few near the sharp bend 
in the lesser curvature, and finally the waves 
were running normally from their habitual start- 
ing-place. By holding the cat's mouth closed 
between the thumb and last three fingers, and 
covering her nostrils with the index finger, she 
could be kept from breathing. At the first sign 
of discomfort the fingers were removed. This 
experiment was repeated a great many times on 
different cats, and invariably the evidence of 
distress was accompanied by a total suspension 
of the motor activities of the stomach and a 
relaxation of the antral fibres. 

No amount of kneading or compression of 
the abdomen with the fingers, short of making 
the cat angry, would cause the waves to stop ; 
so that the cat's movements, in themselves, 
were not the source of the inhibition. And 
since expressions of strong feeling on the part 
of the animal always accompanied cessation of 
the constriction-waves, the inhibition was prob- 
ably due to nervous influence. It has long 
been common knowledge that violent emotions 
interfere with the digestive process, but that the 
gastric motor activities should manifest such 

[339] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

extreme sensitiveness to nervous conditions is 
surprising. 

Summary 

i. By mixing a harmless powder, subnitrate 
of bismuth, with the food, the movements of the 
stomach can be seen by means of the Rontgen 
rays. 

2. The stomach consists of two physiolog- 
ically distinct parts: the pyloric part and the 
fundus. Over the pyloric part, while food is 
present, constriction-waves are seen continually 
coursing towards the pylorus ; the fundus is an 
active reservoir for the food and squeezes out 
its contents gradually into the pyloric part. 

3. The stomach is emptied by the formation, 
between the fundus and the antrum, of a tube 
along which constrictions pass. The contents 
of the fundus are pressed into the tube and the 
tube and antrum slowly cleared of food by the 
waves of constriction. 

4. The food in the pyloric portion is first 
pushed forward by the running wave, and then 
by pressure of the stomach-wall is returned 
through the ring of constriction ; thus the food 
is thoroughly mixed with gastric juice, and is 
forced by an oscillating progress to the pylorus. 

5. The food in the fundus is not moved by 
peristalsis, and consequently it is not mixed with 

[34o] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the gastric juice; salivary digestion can there- 
fore be carried on in this region for a consider- 
able period without being stopped by the acid 
gastric juice. 

6. The pylorus does not open at the approach 
of every wave, but only at irregular intervals. 
The arrival of a hard morsel causes the sphinc- 
ter to open less frequently than normally, thus 
materially interfering with the passage of the 
already liquefied food. 

7. Solid food remains in the antrum to be 
rubbed by the constrictions until triturated, or 
to be softened by the gastric juice, or later 
it may be forced into the intestine in the solid 
state. 

8. The constriction-waves have, therefore, 
three functions : the mixing, trituration, and 
expulsion of the food. 

9. At the beginning of vomiting, the gastric 
cavity is separated into two parts by a constric- 
tion at the entrance to the antrum ; the cardiac 
portion is relaxed, and the spasmodic contrac- 
tions of the abdominal muscles force the food 
through the opened cardia into the oesophagus. 

10. The stomach movements are inhibited 
whenever the cat shows signs of anxiety, rage, 
or distress. 



[34!] 



THE MOVEMENTS OF THE INTES- 
TINES STUDIED BY MEANS OF 
THE RONTGEN RAYS 1 

By W. B. Cannon 



Fr*m** LmUr mU fy tf Pky&Ugy imtk* Hmrvmrd Mkdkml Sdk-l 
Extracts from A t m r i c u n jt mmmi 0/ Pkf ti t i ogy, 190a 

Introduction 

The investigation of intestinal movements 
has been beset by the same difficulties that 
characterised the investigation of the gastric 
mechanism. Pathological subjects or animals 
subjected to the disturbing action of drugs and 
anaesthetics and of serious operations have been 
the only sources of our knowledge. A consid- 
erable difference of opinion as to the nature of 
the normal movements in the intestines has 
resulted from observations made under these 
necessary abnormal conditions. The slowly 
advancing peristaltic wave and the Pmdelbe- 
wegungy or swaying movement, described by 
Ludwig, have been regarded as true physiolog- 
ical processes. Concerning antiperistalsis and 

1 The results of this investigation were reported to the 
Boston Society of Medical Sciences, November 19, 1901. 

[342] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

the swiftly running vermicular contraction, ob- 
servers are not so nearly in agreement. The 
activity of the large intestine has been described 
as simply peristalsis of a slower rate than that 
seen in the small intestine. 

The best known of the intestinal movements 
is the normal peristaltic wave. This wave is 
slow, having a rate of about two centimetres 
per minute, is regular, and by most observers 
is said to move always in one direction. The 
progress of the contraction, as suggested by 
Nothnagel's experiments, and as clearly stated 
by Mall and by Bayliss and Starling, is dependent 
upon a local reflex. According to Mall, when 
an object stimulates the mucosa there occurs 
above the point of stimulation a constriction 
which forces the object downward; and as 
it moves downward new regions immediately 
above the mass are by this reflex brought into 
constriction, and thus the wave and its stimulus 
advance together. "At the same time," Mall 
states, " a sucking force, due to active dilatation 
below the body, may have a tendency to drag 
it down." In what manner an active dilatation 
of the intestinal wall may occur so as to pro- 
duce a " sucking force " he does not make 
wholly clear. Bayliss and Starling, in describ- 
ing normal peristalsis in the intestine, state that 
the contractions above the bolus increase until 

[343] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

there is a strong tonic constriction. This passes 
the bolus onward, and as it advances the ring 
of constriction follows it. While the bolus is 
passing down, the gut above it is traversed by 
waves running as far as the constricted ring. 
These observers state the law of intestinal peris- 
talsis thus : " Local stimulation of the gut pro- 
duces excitation above and inhibition below the 
excited spot" 

The pendulum movements are characterised 
by a gentle swaying motion of the coils, and are 
accompanied by rhythmical contractions of the 
intestinal wall. They continue with undimin- 
ished force after paralysis of the local nervous 
mechanism by nicotine or cocaine; they have 
been called, therefore, myogenic or myodromic 
contractions. Observers have described them 
variously as shortenings and narrowings of the 
gut, rhythmically repeated at nearly the same 
intestinal circumference; as alternating to-and- 
fro movements of the long axis without changes 
in the lumen; as local or extensive periodic 
contractions and relaxations mainly of the circu- 
lar musculature; and as waves involving both 
mtiscular coats of the intestine, and travelling 
normally from above downward at a rapid rate 
(2 to 5 cm. per second). They have been seen 
in the dog, and in the rabbit and cat In the 
cat Bayliss and Starling noticed that when the 

[344] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

lumen of the gut was distended by a rubber 
balloon, there appeared rhythmical contractions, 
which nearly always were most marked at about 
the middle of the balloon ; i. e. f the region of 
greatest tension. This form of constriction, 
which, as my observation shows, is an indication 
of the manner in which the rhythmical contrac- 
tion acts in the cat's intestine, Bayliss and Star- 
ling seem to have regarded with slight attention, 
since it did not accord with the law of peristalsis. 

The swift vermicular wave may pass the 
whole length of the intestine in about a minute. 
It is often seen just after death, as well as in 
pathological states such as intestinal anaemia or 
hyperemia, and when the bowel contains gases 
and organic acids from decomposing food. 
Starling is inclined to regard this type of intes- 
tinal activity as an exaggeration of the rhyth- 
mic type ; Mall, on the other hand, places it in 
a class by itself, and declares that its service 
is to rid the intestine rapidly of irritating sub- 
stances. Nothnagel, who designates this form 
of movement with the term Rollbewegung, thinks 
it is transitional between a physiological and a 
pathological activity. 

The existence of antiperistalsis has been so 
much questioned that it will be considered in a 
special section of this paper, where my observa- 
tions may be conveniently introduced. 

[345 ] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

The common understanding of the manner 
in which food passes through the intestinal 
canal is that the chyme ejected from the stom- 
ach is pressed downward by a peristalsis, which 
passes slowly over a part or all of the small in- 
testine. The peristaltic waves of the colon are 
supposed to constitute an independent group, 
similar to those of the small intestine, but 
weaker and slower. Movements of the food 
other than the uninterrupted advance have been 
mentioned by some observers. Starling states 
that the effect of the pendulum movement is 
to mix the contents of the intestine and bring 
them into intimate contact with the mucous 
membrane. Griitzner writes that he has been 
brought " by strange and peculiar observa- 
tions " to believe that the fluid contents of the 
small intestine move irregularly forward, then 
forward and back, then perhaps remain quiet 
for some time, only to pass backward for a long 
distance, and finally to move forward steadily to 
the end. In this manner the food is mixed and 
brought into contact with the absorbing walls. 
The to-and-fro shiftings of the food Griitzner 
ascribed to advancing and retrograde contrac- 
tions of the intestinal musculature, and he 
argued that even circular constrictions must 
force the liquid contents away in both direc- 
tions. To support his contention, Griitzner 

[346] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

introduced mercury into the intestine and ob- 
served it with the Rontgen rays. After noting 
a backward and forward movement of the mer- 
cury he dismissed the method, saying, " Many 
a flash must come from the Rontgen tube be- 
fore the normal movement of the intestinal con- 
tents is made entirely clear by this method." 

The following account is a summary of many 
repeated observations on different animals, and 
is a contribution to a clear understanding of the 
normal movements of the intestines and their 
contents. 

The Movements of the Small Intestine 

When the food has been distributed through 
the intestine so as to present the appearance 
shown in Figure I, a noticeable feature in most 
or all of the loops is the total absence of move- 
ment. If the animal remains quiet, however, 
only a few moments elapse before peculiar 
motions appear in one or another of the loops, 
or perhaps in several, and last for some time. 
These motions consist in a sudden division of 
one of the long, narrow masses of food into 
many little segments of nearly equal size ; then 
these segments are again suddenly divided and 
the neighbouring halves unite to make new seg- 
ments, and so on, in a manner to be more fully 
described. I have called this process the rhyth- 

[ 347 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

mic segmentation of the intestinal contents. 

Further observation reveals peristalsis here and 

there, and under certain circumstances the 

typical swaying movements may be seen. AH 

these phenomena are 

now to be considered 

in detail. 

Rhythmic segmen- 
tation of the intestinal 
contents. — This is by 
far the most common 
and the most interest- 
ing mechanical process 
to be seen in the small 
intestine. The nature 
of the process may 
best be understood by 
f. od «,. -Aw**™*.* food referring to the dia- 

in the intestines 5K hours after gram in Figure 2. A 
eating. This and other radio- . . ,., ,, , 

graphs reduced Iwo-third.. String-like maSSoffood 

is seen lying quietly in 
one of the intestinal loops (line I, Fig. 2). Sud 
denly an undefined activity appears in the mass 
and a moment later constrictions at regular in 
tervals along its length cut it into little ovoid 
pieces. The solid string is thus quickly trans- 
formed, by a simultaneous sectioning, into a 
series of uniform segments. A moment later 
each of these segments is divided into two par- 

[348] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

tides, and immediately after the division neigh- 
bouring particles (as a and b, line 2, Fig. 2) rush 
together, often with the rapidity of flying shut- 
tles, and merge to form new segments (as c t line 
3, Fig. 2). The next moment these new seg- 
ments are divided, and neighbouring particles 
unite to make a third series, and so on. At 
the time of the second segmentation (line 3, 



1 v_— —  ^J 

Figure 2. — Diagram representing the process of rhythmic seg- 
mentation. Lines i, 2, 3, 4 indicate the sequence of appearances 
in the loop. The dotted lines mark the regions of division. The 
arrows show the relation of the particles to the segments they 
subsequently form. 

Fig. 2) the end particles are left small. Obser- 
vation shows that these small pieces are not re- 
divided. The end piece at A simply varies in 
size with each division ; at one moment it is left 
small, at the next moment it is full size from the 
addition of a part of the nearest segment, and a 
moment later is the small bit left after another 
division. The end piece at B (probably the rear 
of the mass) shoots away when the end mass is 
divided, and is swept back at each reunion to 

[349] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

make the large end mass again, only to be shot 
away and swept onward with each recurrence of 
the constrictions. Thus the process of repeated 
segmentation continues, with the little particles 
flitting towards each other and the larger seg- 
ments shifting to and fro, commonly for more 
than half an hour without cessation. From the 
beginning to the end of a period of segmenta- 
tion the food is seen to have changed its posi- 
tion in the abdomen to only a slight extent; 
whether this change is a passing of the food 
along the loop, or a movement of the loop 
itself, it is impossible to tell from the shadows 
on the screen. The change of position, how- 
ever, is much less conspicuous than the lively 
division and redivision which the mass suffers so 
many times from the busy, shifting constrictions. 
From this typical form of rhythmic segmen- 
tation there are several variations. Sometimes, 
and especially when the mass of food is thick, 
the constrictions do not make complete divisions 
and are so far apart that the intermediate 
portions are relatively large. Moreover, the 
constrictions do not take place in the middle of 
each portion, but near one end ; thus each 
portion is constricted, not into halves, but into 
thirds. If a little pointer is placed at the middle 
of a segment, when the segments are completely 
divided into halves, in a few seconds the pointer 

[3So] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

will be in the middle of the clear space between 
two segments ; but in a few seconds more the 
first phase will return and the pointer will again 
be indicating a segment, — two operations inter- 
vene between similar phases. When, however, 
the portions are constricted into thirds, the indi- 
cator shows it, since three operations intervene 
between similar phases. The manner of these 
changes is made clearer by reference to the 
diagram in Figure 3. That each portion is con- 
stricted into three pieces is proved also by 
watching the gradual reduction of the portion 
at the left end of line 1 through lines 2 and 3, 
and also in the gradual formation of a full-sized 
portion at the right end of lines 2, 3, and 4. 
When food undergoing this process is watched, 
it appears to be affected by a series of con- 
strictions, each of which starts at one end of the 
mass and marches through to the other end, 
leaving its impress at short intervals along the 
length. The progression of the dotted lines 
from right to left in a, b, c, and d, etc., Fig. 3, 
gives a notion of these advancing constrictions. 
Another variation of the segmentation is 
shown in Figure 4. In this type there are evi- 
dently divisions and subdivisions, i. e., one more 
operation between the appearance and the re- 
appearance of the same phase than is present in 
the simple division of the small segments in a 

[3so 



The A. b.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

long string of food (Fig. 2 ). This form of 
segmentation is fairly typical for the constrictions 
seen in food advancing through the intestine. 
Sometimes the divisions occur in the middle of 
a long string of food and leave the ends wholly 
unaffected. 

A remarkable feature in the segmentation of 
the food is the rapidity with which the changes 

take place. 
The simplest 
way of estimat- 
ing the rate of 
division is to 
count, not the 
number of 
times the parti- 
tion of the food 
recurs in the 
same place, 
but the num- 
ber of differ- 
ent sets of segments observed in a given period. 
Thus in Figure 4 the appearances of lines 1, 2, 
3, 4, etc., would be counted, and not merely lines 
1, 4, etc. Repeated observations on different 
animals have shown that the most common 
rate of division in long, thin chains of food 
varies between twenty-eight and thirty times in 
a minute ; 1. e., there is a change from one set of 

[35*] 




Figure 3. — Diagram showing the relations 
of the portions when they are constricted 
into three pieces. The dotted lines indi- 
cate regions of constriction ; the arrows in- 
dicate the relationship of the pieces to the 
portions they subsequently form. 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

segments to another set every two seconds, and 
a return of the same phase every four seconds. 
In some cases the rate is as low as twenty-three 
times per minute. The larger masses seem to 
be associated with a slower segmentation; the 
operations indicated in Figure 3, for example, 
occurred from eighteen to twenty-one times in a 
minute, so that the same phase reappeared only 
once in eight or nine seconds. The segmen- 
tation frequently continues for more than half 
an hour ; in one instance it was seen to persist 
with only three short periods of inactivity for 
two hours and twenty-two minutes. At the 
rate of thirty segmentations per minute it is 
clear that a slender string of food may com- 
monly undergo division into small particles 
more than a thousand times while scarcely 
changing its position in the intestine. 

I have seen once, in a cat only lightly ether- 
ised, the exterior of an intestine which was 
dividing the food as above described. An hour 
and a half after a meal of salmon the anaesthetic 
was given, the abdomen opened, and the flaps 
raised so as to form walls. Warm salt solution 
was then poured into the abdominal cavity, and 
the floating coils left covered with the trans- 
parent omentum. The gastric peristaltic waves 
were running regularly; on the intestine there 
were visible at various places during the period 
* [ 353 ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

of observation regions of constriction which had 
the appearance shown in Figure 3, except that 
the rings were relatively nearer together. New 
rings of constriction took place on the same side 
of all the bulging parts at the margin of the 
constricted portion (^.dotted lines, Fig. 3). As 
new rings occurred the old relaxed, but appar- 
ently with tardiness, for the contents gurgled as 
if forced through the narrowed lumen. The 
constrictions recurred irregularly and at much 
longer intervals than in the normal animal. The 
contracted rings were pale and bloodless. 

The effect of the process of rhythmic seg- 
mentation proves it an admirable mechanism. 
The food over and over again is brought into 
closest contact with the intestinal walls by the 
swift kneading movement of the muscles. 
Thereby not only is the undigested food inti- 
mately mixed with the digestive juices, but the 
digested food is thoroughly exposed to the or- 
gans of absorption. Mall has shown that con- 
traction of the intestinal wall has the effect of 
pumping the blood from the submucous venous 
plexus into the radicles of the superior mese- 
teric vein, and thus materially aids the intestinal 
circulation. Moreover, lacteals loaded with fat 
will in a few moments become empty unless 
the intestine is slit lengthwise, so that the mus- 
cles cannot exert compression. The rhythmic 

[354] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

constrictions, therefore, both propel the blood in 
the portal circulation and act like a heart in pro- 
moting the flow of lymph in the lacteals. This 
single movement with its several results is an ex- 
cellent example of bodily economy ; the repeated 
constrictions, as already shown, thoroughly churn 
the food and digestive fluids together, and also 
plunge the absorbing mucosa into the very 
midst of the food masses : but not only are the 
processes of digestion and absorption favoured 
by these movements; they also, by compres- 
sion of the veins and lacteals of the intestinal 
wall, serve to deport through blood and lymph 
channels the digested and absorbed material. 

Peristalsis} — The phenomena of peristalsis 
and segmentation are usually combined in some 
manner while the food passes through the small 
intestine. Peristalsis is observed normally in 
two forms : as a slow advancing of the food for 
a short distance in a coil, and as a rapid move- 
ment sweeping the food without pause through 
several turns of the gut The latter form is 

1 Without the possibility of seeing the relations of a move- 
ment to the ends of the intestine, it cannot be stated absolutely 
whether the movement is peristaltic or antiperistaltic. Such 
relations can be seen on the fluorescent screen only near the 
stomach and near the ileocecal valve. The evidence that 
advancing peristalsis is the normal movement is so over- 
whelming that I have assumed that when food is moving 
in loops not visibly related to fixed points it is moving 
forward. 

[355] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

frequently seen when the food is carried on from 
the duodenum ; and it may readily be produced 
in other parts of the small intestine by giving an 
enema of soapsuds. 

When a mass of food has been subjected for 
some time to the segmenting activity of the 
intestine, the separate segments, instead of 
being again divided, may suddenly begin to 
move slowly along the loop in which they lie. 
_^ That this movement is not a 

^-\ l swinging of the coil as a whole, 
a but a peristaltic advance of sepa- 
ft rate rings of its circular muscula- 
ture, is made probable by the Tact 
~* ^-^ * that the succeeding segments folr 
Figure 4.— Dia- low along the same path their 
l^n* °£eri* predecessors have taken. The 
stabu and teg- advance of the little pieces may 
mentation. continue for seven or eight centi- 

metres, when finally the front piece stops or meets 
other food. Then all the succeeding pieces are 
swept one by one into the accumulating mass, 
which at last lies stretched along the intestine, a 
solid string manifesting no sign of commotion. 

Another form of slow peristalsis is frequently 
observed when the food is pushed forward, not 
in small divisions, but as a large lump. The 
relatively long string of food is first crowded into 
an ovoid form as the forward movement begins, 

[356] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

and as it is collecting thus, it seems at the last 
to be suddenly formed into a more rounded 
ball 9 as if the mass were pulled or pushed to- 
gether at the two ends. The next moment it is 
indented in the middle by a circular constriction 
(as shown in Fig. 4, line 2), which spreads it in 
both directions along the loop. The trailing 
portion (a) is next cut in two, and the severed 
part sometimes flies back over its course about 
a centimetre. Now the whole mass is swept 
together again and slightly forward as shown in 
line 4, Fig. 4, and the segmenting process is 
repeated. At stage 3, Fig. 4, a constriction 
sometimes appears around the middle of the 
advanced portion (£). Thus, with many halts 
and interruptions, the food slowly advances. 

A slight variation of the movement just de- 
scribed is observed when the amount of food is 
greater and extends farther along the intestine. 
Under such circumstances, as the mass moves for- 
ward, constrictions appear just in front of the rear 
end, which separate it from the main body, and 
cause it to shoot backward sometimes through 
the distance of a centimetre. The main body 
meanwhile is not disturbed. No sooner has the 
rear section been shot away than it is swept for- 
ward again into union with the rest of the food, 
and the whole mass then advances until another 
interfering constriction repeats the process, 

[357] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

Rhythmic segmentation and the pendulum 
movement. — There is little doubt that the seg- 
mentation of the food which I have seen is due 
to an activity of the intestinal musculature simi- 
lar to that which causes the so-called pendulum 
movement. This activity, as already noted, is 
rhythmic, and, although accounts differ, ana- 
lytical methods prove that it involves both the 
longitudinal and the circular layers of muscle. 
Observations of the effect of the rhythmic con- 
tractions upon the food show that the action of 
the circular fibres is most prominent. It is 
probable, however, that the longitudinal fibres 
also play an important part in the process of 
segmentation. Examination of Figure 2 makes 
clear that in line 2 the regions of constriction 
appear between the regions of constriction in 
line 3; before c can be formed, therefore, the 
constriction between a and b must relax. Con- 
traction of the longitudinal fibres between two 
segments would help to enlarge the constricted 
lumen of the gut. It seems probable that, as 
the constrictions on either side of c occur, the 
longitudinal fibres between them contract; al- 
most simultaneously the constriction between 
a and b relaxes, and the two particles are thus 
brought swiftly together. A similar process 
naturally would take place for each of the shift- 
ing segments. Thus the function of the longi- 

[358] 




The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

tudinal muscles would be to contract between 
new rings of constriction and thereby aid in 
relaxing the former ring between them. During 
my one observation of the segmenting process, 
as seen on the surface of the intestine, I could 
not be sure that the distance between neighbour- 
ing segments was shortened as the constriction 
relaxed; that activity of the 
longitudinal fibres is present, 
however, is indicated by obser- / 
vations of Raiser on the intes- ° 
tines of the rabbit and the cat 9 
Raiser observed the outer sur- • 
face of the coils, and describes ^gAoirfeg^ 
the normal movement as an mentationof 

i. . « * chyme in the duo- 

alternate contraction and relaxa- denuBi -n^ 

tion of single divisions of the f° d othcr trac - 

i •. i» i /•« i ings reduced two- 

longitudmal fibres; he notes t^b. 
that these short divisions shift 
But whether they shift in alternation with the 
shifting circular constrictions, as seems prob- 
able, is an interesting point not yet determined. 
Bayliss and Starling state that the swaying 
pendulum movements are essentially due to 
peristaltic waves recurring in the same place 
and running rapidly downward. This form of 
the movements I have seen only once. At this 
time about 90 c.c. of soapy water had been in- 
jected. This procedure has the effect of exag- 

[359] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

gerating in every particular the movements of 
the small intestine. In this instance a broad 
constriction appeared about the middle of a 
long string of food and persisted there while 
it spread down the gut As the contraction 
spread, the gut swayed slowly to and fro before it 
Then there was a relaxation, followed by a re- 
currence of the constriction in the same place, 
a spreading of the contraction, and a swinging 
of the loop just as before. This phenomenon 
was repeated again and again, till finally the 
string was divided and the forward piece pushed 
through a tortuous course to the colon. 

The course of the food in the small intestine, 
— Chyme is not forced from the stomach by 
every wave that passes over the antrum, but 
only at intervals. When the pylorus relaxes, the 
food, moved towards the pylorus under consider- 
able pressure, is squirted along the duodenum for 
two centimetres or more. Careful watching of 
this food shows that usually it lies for some time 
in the curve of the duodenum until additions have 
been made to it from the stomach, and a long, 
thin string of food is formed. While it is rest- 
ing in this place it is exposed to the outpouring 
of the bile and pancreatic juices. All at once 
the string becomes segmented (see Fig. 5) and 
the process of rhythmic segmentation continues 
several minutes, thoroughly mixing the intes- 

[360] 



"The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

tinal digestive juices with the chyme. In this 
region the alternate positions of the segments 
are sometimes far apart, and the to-and-fro 
movements of the particles may be a relatively 
extensive and very energetic swinging. Finally 
the little segments unite into a single mass, or 
form in groups, and begin to move forward. 
The peristalsis here, as already mentioned, is 
much more rapid than the normal peristalsis 
elsewhere in the small intestine. The masses, 
once started, go flying along, turning curves, 
whisking hither and thither in the loops, moving 
swiftly and continuously forward. After pass- 
ing on in this rapid manner for some distance 
the food is collected in thicker and longer strings, 
resembling the strings seen characteristically in 
the other loops. Towards the end of digestion 
the small masses shot out from the stomach, 
after a few segmentations, may move on in the 
rapid course without being accumulated in a 
larger mass until the swift movement ceases. 

During the first stages of digestion in the 
cat's small intestine the food usually lies chiefly 
on the right side of the abdomen ; during the 
last stages the loops on the left side contain 
the greater amount of food. In these loops 
the food remains sometimes for an hour or more 
with no sign of movement All at once a mass 
begins to show irregular depressions and eleva- 

[ 3 6i] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

tions along its length, and then suddenly it is 
divided, at first partially, later completely, into 
many little equal parts, and these repeatedly 
undergo division and reunion, division and re- 
union, over and over again, in the manner 
described above as rhythmic segmentation. 
After a varying length of time the activity 
wanes and the little segments are carried for- 
ward individually and later brought together, 
or join and move on as a single body, or they 
may reunite and lie quietly for some time with- 
out further change. Thus by a combined 
process of kneading and peristaltic advance the 
food is brought to the ileocecal valve to enter 
the large intestine. Records from ten different 
animals show that salmon does not appear in 
the small intestine until an hour or an hour and 
a half after the food is eaten. Inasmuch as five 
or six hours elapse after eating before this food 
begins to be seen in the colon, it is evident that 
the chyme takes four to five hours to pass the 
length of the small intestine. It is interesting 
to note that the operations are considerably 
shortened if the meal has consisted of bread and 
milk. 

The Competence of the Ileocecal Valve 

The ileocecal valve in the cat is situated 
three or four centimetres from the blind end of 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

the caecum. Its position is usually marked in 
shadows of the food in the colon by a slight 
indentation, towards which masses about to enter 
the colon are ordinarily directed from a point 
somewhat distant in the small intestine (see 
Fig. 6). 

* Regarding the competence of the ileocecal 
valve many observations have been made. 
Griitzner has reviewed the evidence bearing on 
the question and concludes that the valve is not 
competent, least of all for liquids. He declares 
that as soon as liquids or thin fluid masses ap- 
pear in the upper part of the colon they pass 
in many instances into the small intestine the 
moment that the pressure 6n the colon side 
rises slightly. If the colon contains a solid or 
a thick, mushy mass, the passage towards the 
small intestine is scarcely possible, because 
every increase of pressure in the large intestine 
must force the two lips of the valve together 
and close it. 

The importance of the competence of the 
ileocecal valve under normal conditions cannot 
be appreciated until the function of the first 
part of the colon is considered. In order that 
this part of the intestinal mechanism may per- 
form its service, the competence of the valve 
for the food which enters the colon from the 
ileum should be perfect. As a matter of fact, 

[363] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

such is the case. Not only does the activity of 
the colon prove this statement, but the failure 
of every attempt to drive the food in the colon 
back through the valve into the ileum confirms 
the proof. Again and again I have tried, by 
manipulation through the abdominal wall, to 
press the normal contents of the colon down- 
ward with sufficient force to cause them to re- 
turn to the small intestine, but without success. 
The valve held perfectly. 

The Movements of the Large Intestine 

When the large intestine is full, palpation 
through the abdominal wall demonstrates that 
the material in the lower descending colon and 
in the sigmoid flexure is usually composed of 
hard, incompressible lumps, while that in the 
ascending and transverse colon and the caecum 
is soft, permitting the walls of the gut to be 
easily pushed together. The condition of the 
contents in these two regions seems to indicate 
a rough division of the large intestine into two 
parts, and the mechanical activities of these two 
parts verify the differentiation. In the descend- 
ing colon the material is very slowly advanced 
by rings of tonic constrictions (see Fig. 7) ; in 
the ascending and transverse colon and in the 
caecum by far the most common movement is 
an antiperistalsis. 

[364] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

Antiperistalsis in the colon. — The colon of 
cats which have been without food for a day 
usually contains enough gas to make the posi- 
tion of the gut distinguishable with the fluores- 
cent screen (see Fig. i). The first food to 
enter the colon from the small intestine is car- 
ried by antiperistaltic waves into the caecum 
(Fig. i), and all new food as it enters is also 
affected by these waves. Thus the contents of 
the colon, instead of being driven immediately 
toward the rectum by slow peristalsis, as is the 
general opinion, are first repeatedly pushed 
toward the caecum by an antiperistaltic action. 

These antiperistaltic waves follow one after 
another like the peristaltic waves of the stomach 
(see Figs. 5, 6, and 10). They begin either on 
the more advanced portion of the food in the 
colon (when only a small amount is present), or 
at the nearest tonic constriction, which is usually 
at the turn between the transverse and descend- 
ing colon (Figs. 7 and 8.) The waves rarely 
run continuously for a long time. When the 
colon is full, it is usually quiet. The first sign 
of activity is an irregular undulation of the 
walls, then very faint constrictions passing along 
the gut towards the caecum. These constrictions 
may first appear only on the ascending colon. 
As they continue coursing over the intestine 
they become deeper and deeper, until there is 

[36s] 



The A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

a marked bulging between successive constric- 
tions. When the waves have thus become 
more prominent, they are seen to start near the 
end of the transverse colon and pass without 
interruption to the end of the caecum. After 
these deepest waves have been running for a 
few minutes the indentations grow gradually 
less marked, until at last they are so faint as to 
be hardly discernible. The final waves are 
sometimes to be observed only at the end of 
the transverse colon. 

Such a period of antiperistalsis lasts from 
two to eight minutes, with an average duration 
of four or five minutes. The periods recur at 
varying lengths of time ; in one instance a period 
began at 1.38 P.M. and was repeated at 2.06, 
2.34, 2.55, 3.15, and at 3.36, when the obser- 
vation ceased; in another instance a period 
began at 2.43 p.m., and was repeated at 2.$? 
and at intervals of from ten to fifteen minutes 
thereafter while the animal was being watched. 
The waves have nearly the same rate of recur- 
rence as those in the stomach ; about five and 
a half waves pass a given point in a minute, t. *., 
eleven waves in two minutes. This rate has 
proved fairly constant in different cats and at 
different stages in the process of digestion ; in 
one case, however, the waves passed at the rate 
of nine in two minutes. 

[366] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

The stimulating effect of rectal injections on 
the movements of the small intestine has already 
been noted. Enemata have also pronounced 
stimulating action on the antiperistalsis of the 
colon. Usually the almost immediate result of 
a rectal injection of warm water is the appear- 
ance of deep antiperistaltic waves, which often 
continue running for a long period. In one 
case, after an injection of 50 c.c. of warm water, 
the waves followed one another with monoto- 
nous regularity during an observation lasting 
an hour and twenty minutes. The manner in 
which this antiperistaltic mechanism affects 
nutrient enemata introduced into the bowel will 
be discussed in the section devoted to the 
question of antiperistalsis. 

These constrictions passing backward over 
the colon do not force the normal contents 
back through the valve into the small intestine 
again. I have seen hundreds of such constric- 
tions, and only twice have there been exceptions 
to this rule, — once under normal conditions, 
when a small mass slipped back into the ileum, 
and at another time when a large amount of 
water had been introduced into the colon. The 
importance of the competence of the ileocecal 
valve is now apparent; indeed, antiperistalsis 
in the colon gives new meaning and value to the 
location of a valve at the opening of the ileum. 

[367] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

For, inasmuch as the valve is normally com- 
petent, the constrictions repeatedly coursing 
towards it force the food before them into a blind 
sac. The effect on the food must be the same 
as the effect seen in the stomach when the 
pylorus remains closed before the advancing 
waves. The food is pressed forward by the 
approach of each constriction ; but since it can- 
not go onward in the blind sac, and is, more- 
over, subjected to increasing pressure as the 
constriction comes nearer, it is forced into the 
only way of escape, u e., away from the caecum 
through the advancing constricted ring. About 
twenty-five waves affect every particle of food 
in the colon in this manner during each normal 
period of antiperistalsis. The result must be 
again a thorough mixing of the contents and a 
bringing of these contents into close contact 
with the absorbing wall — a process which has 
already been variously repeated many times in 
the stomach and in the small intestine. 

Two other movements have been observed 
in the ascending colon, but they are rare ap- 
pearances. The first of these was a serial sec- 
tioning of the contents noticed in an animal 
given castor oil with the food. A constriction 
separated a small segment in the caecum; an- 
other constriction then cut off a segment just 
above the first, and with the disappearance of 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

the first constriction the two separated seg- 
ments united. A third segmentation took place 
above the second, and the changes occurred 
again. Thus the whole mass was sectioned 
from one end to the other ; and no sooner was 
that finished than the process began again and 
was repeated several times. A slight modifica- 
tion of this movement was observed in a colon 
containing very little food. The mass was 
pressed and partially segmented in the manner 
characteristic of the small intestine, and was 
thus again and again spread along the ascend- 
ing colon, and each time swept back into a 
rounded form by antiperistalsis. The second 
of the two movements mentioned above con- 
sisted in a gentle kneading of the contents. 
This was caused by broad constrictions appear- 
ing, relaxing, appearing, relaxing, over and 
over again, in the same place. When several of 
these regions were active at the same time, 
they gave the food in the colon the appearance 
of a restless undulatory mass. Once a constric- 
tion occurred and remained permanently in one 
place, while the bulging parts on either side of 
it pulsated alternately, at the rate of about 
eighteen times in a minute, with the regularity 
of the heart-beat. Although these phenomena 
are somewhat striking, they are not usual, and 
are in no way so important as the antiperistalsii. 

* [369] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

The changes when food enters the colon. — 
The passage of food through the ileocecal 
valve seems to stimulate the colon to activity. 
As food is nearing the ileocecal valve the large 
intestine is usually quiet and relaxed (Fig. 6, 
4.00), though occasionally indefinite movements 
are to be observed ; and sometimes just before 
the food reaches the end of the ileum the cir- 
cular fibres of the colon in the region of the 
valve contract strongly, so that a deep inden- 
tation is present there. The indentation may 
persist several minutes; it disappears as the 
muscles relax just previous to the entrance of 
the food. The food is moved slowly along the 
ileum and is pushed through the valve into the 
colon. The moment it has entered a strong 
contraction takes place all along the cecum and 
the beginning of the ascending colon, pressing 
some of the food onward, and a moment later 
deep antiperistaltic waves (Fig. 6, 4.03) sweep 
down from the transverse colon and continue 
running until the caecum is again normally full, 
i. e. 9 for two or three minutes. 

The appearance of tonic constrictions. — It has 
already been noted. that as the food accumulates 
in the ascending colon it is at first confined to 
this region by antiperistaltic waves. With fur- 
ther accessions, however, the contents naturally 
must be pressed more and more into the trans- 

[37o] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 



verse and descending colon. In the early stages 
of this accumulation, while the food lies chiefly 
in the ascending colon, the only activity of the 
muscular walls is the antiperistalsis. As the 
contents extend along the intestine a deep con- 
striction appears near the advancing end and 
nearly separates a globular mass from the main 
body of the food (Fig. 6). The contents of the 
large intestine pro- 
gress farther and 
farther from the 
caecum ; meanwhile 
new tonic constric- 
tions appear which 
separate the con- 
tents into a series 
of globular masses. 
And as the number 
of these divisions in- 
creases they take a 
position farther from the caecum, so that they are 
present chiefly in the descending colon (Fig. 7 ). 
Raiser has recorded a similar appearance in the 
terminal portion of the rabbit's colon, in which 
deep circular constrictions separate the scyba- 
lous masses. He maintains that these masses are 
pushed onward by the constrictions. Compar- 
ing tracings made at rather long intervals (forty- 
five minutes), I found that the rings disappear 

[37i ] 






Figure 6. — Tracings showing 
changes when food enters the colon 
and also the first tonic constriction. 
4.00, the colon relaxed as food ap- 
proaches in the ileum. 4.03, the 
colon contracted and traversed by 
antiperistaltic waves after the food 
has entered. 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

from the transverse colon, and then are present 
with the waste material in the descending colon. 
Thus in the cat also these rings, which seem with 
short observation to be remaining in one posi- 
tion, are in reality moving slowly away from the 
cascum, pushing the hard- 
ening contents before 
them. The contents at 
this stage are no longer 
fluid, and consequently 
they must offer consider- 
able resistance to a force 
pushing them through the 
colon. It is an advantage 
to have this pultaceous 
substance propelled in 
divisions rather than in 
a uniformly cylindrical 
Figure 7.— Radiograph mass, since the fibre 

»rirkV O T a ™ R ('r s c e f ndln C alon g the length of til.. 

colon) and the region of mass are thereby ren- 

and'^ng coCr™ dered effeCtive " Such "» 

the functions of the per- 
sistent rings ; they form the waste matter into 
globular masses at the end of the transverse 
colon and slowly push these masses onward. 

In the transverse colon, which is free from 
the slowly moving rings, the antiperistaltic 
waves have full sway. In the region of the 

[3;-] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

tonic rings an infrequent or even a slowly peri- 
odic relaxation and contraction are often to be 
observed. These changes seem to take place 
in all the rings at about the same time. Once 
I saw antiperistaltic waves running over the 
uppermost of four segments, but since the 
rings on either side of the segment held tightly, 
the waves had merely the effect of churning the 
material of the segment and did not move it 
onward. Inasmuch as the material in these 
segments at first is soft, so that the segments 
are easily compressible, while the faecal masses 
which are the final result are relatively hard and 
dry, it follows that even within the confines of 
these persistent rings some absorption is taking 

place. 

Defecation 

The process of clearing the colon is a proc- 
ess of repeated reduction of the amount of 
material present. Figure 8 (3.1 1) is a radio- 
graph showing the food in the colon at 3.1 1 P.M. 
About 3.25, with a slow, sweeping movement, 
the gut swung around so that the ascending 
colon was lying in the position of the last half 
of the transverse colon, and the transverse colon 
had taken the position of the descending part 
(Fig. 8, 3.25). At the same time the tonic con- 
strictions disappeared and were replaced by a 
strong, broad contraction of the circular mus- 

[373] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

cle, tapering the contents off on either side in 
two cones. The region of strongest contraction 
was apparently drawn downward with the rest 
of the gut by a shortening of the descending 
colon. As the intestine swung around, more 
material was forced into the rectum, and when 
the swinging of the intestine stopped, the con- 
striction which divided the lumen passed slowly 
downward, and with the aid of the muscles sur- 
rounding the abdominal cavity, pushed the sepa- 
rated mass out of the canal. 1 After the terminal 
mass had thus been pushed out, the colon with 
the remainder of its contents returned to nearly 
its former position (Fig. 8, 3.46). About two 
hours afterward this remnant had been spread 
throughout the length of the large intestine by- 
means of the slowly moving rings. Figure 7 is a 
radiograph of the same colon pictured in Figure 
8; the radiograph was taken at 11.50 A.M., and 
at 12.15 P.M. the material in the lower descend- 
ing colon was forced out in the manner above 
described. Within three hours the remaining 
portion had been spread into the evacuated re- 
gion, as shown in Figure 8, 3.1 1. The manner 
in which the material is spread from the region 
of the antiperistaltic waves into the region of 
the slowly advancing rings presents a problem. 
During normal living new food constantly ar- 

1 In this case the faeces were soft. 

[374] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

riving in the colon must force the old contents 
forward just as the later parts of a meal force 
forward the earlier parts: there is no doubt, 






however, that most of the contents of the 

cKcum and the ascending colon may be passed 

onward even during starvation. The emptying 

[375] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

of these regions, according to my observations, 
is never complete; for after considerable time 
has elapsed and the large intestine is cleared 
and dilated with gas, some substance is still 
to be detected in the caecum and clinging to 
the walls of the ascending colon. The only 
activities manifested here are the antiperistaltic 
waves and the strong tonic contraction of the 
whole circular musculature shown in Figure 6. 
It is clear that the latter activity would serve to 
press into the transverse colon a considerable 
portion of the contents of the ascending colon, 
and the remnant seen clinging to the walls would 
be the part not thus pressed forward. 

Twice I have seen appearances which might 
account for the emptying of the first portion of 
the large intestine in a more thorough manner 
than that above described. At one time, with- 
out apparent stimulation, strong tonic contrac- 
tion occurred along the entire length of the 
ascending colon, which forced the contents al- 
most wholly into the transverse portion. This 
action seemed merely an exaggerated form of 
that observable after food passes the ileocecal 
valve (see Fig. 6). At another time, after a 
mass of food had passed through the ileocecal 
valve, after the ascending colon had contracted 
generally and the antiperistaltic waves had 
coursed over it in the usual manner, a deep 

[376] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

constriction appeared at the valve and ran up- 
ward without relaxation nearly the length of the 
ascending colon, pushing the content^ before it. 
For an instant the wave paused ; then the con- 
striction relaxed and the food returned towards 
the caecum. These observations indicate that 
either a general contraction of the wall of the 
large intestine or a true peristalsis may be effec- 
tive in pressing waste matter from the region 
where antiperistalsis is the usual activity into the 
region where the slowly advancing rings may 
carry it on to evacuation (see Fig. 7). 

The Question of Antiperistalsis 

In 1894 Griitzner published an observation 
and made an assumption about which there has 
since been much controversy. He maintained 
that when normal salt solution, holding in sus- 
pension hair, powdered charcoal, or starch 
grains, is injected into the rectum, it is carried 
upward into the small intestine and may even 
enter the stomach. These experiments have 
been repeated by several observers. Some 
have confirmed Griitzner's results ; others have 
failed, after using most careful methods, to find 
any evidence of the passage of the injected 
material back to the stomach, and they have 
declared that the apparent success was due to 
carelessly allowing the food of the animal to 

[377] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

become contaminated with the test materials, so 
that these were introduced into the stomach 
by way of the mouth. That antiperistalsis does 
not occur in the small intestine seems to be 
proved by Mall's experiment of reversing a 
portion, sewing it in place, and then finding that 
the food does not pass the reversed region, but 
collects at the upper end. Sabbatani and Fasola 
reversed stretches of small intestine of varying 
length, and found that the reversed portions 
allowed fluids to pass, but that the persistence 
of the physiological direction of movement 
caused an accumulation of undigested food in 
the region of the upper suture. However a 
portion of the intestine lay in relation to the 
rest, it always manifested the normal peristal- 
sis. Many other observers working directly on 
the intestine confirm this testimony and state 
that the progress of the constriction-rings is 
always downward, and that antiperistalsis is not 
physiological. In 1898, however, Griitzner took 
his stand again in favour of a backward move- 
ment in the intestines, and in a somewhat meta- 
physical manner argued that peristalsis and 
antiperistalsis belong to each other just as re- 
laxation of muscle is related to contraction. He 
assumed that as the contents are advanced by- 
slow peristalsis, so are they returned by a simi- 
lar movement in the opposite direction, and he 

[378] 



The A. B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

mentions several pathological cases (fistula of 
intestine) to substantiate the assumption. 

By means of the X-rays it is possible to see 
just what takes place when a fluid is injected 
into the rectum. For the purpose of determin- 
ing how nutrient enemata are received and acted 
upon in the intestines, I have introduced thin, 
fluid masses in large and small amounts, and 
thick, mushy masses in large and small amounts, 
in different animals. The enemata consisted of 
ioo c.c. of milk, one egg, ten to fifteen grams 
of bismuth subnitrate, and two grams of starch 
to hold the bismuth powder in suspension. To 
make the thick enema all these were stirred 
together and boiled to a soft mush ; to make the 
thin enema all the parts were boiled together 
except the egg t which was added after the boiled 
portion was cooled. The small amount injected 
was 25 c.c. ; the large amount almost 90 c.c, 
about the capacity of the large intestine when 
removed from the body. The animals were 
given first a cleansing injection, and after this 
was effective the nutrient material was intro- 
duced. In order to make sure of the observa- 
tion, a control radiograph was first taken to 
show no bismuth food present, and other radio- 
graphs taken at varying intervals after the injec- 
tion to record the course the food was following. 

These experiments show that when small 

[379] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

If 

11 

8 \\ 

" i.f 

si 



ill 

i|i 

IS- 8 



111 
ill 



[380] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

amounts of nutrient fluid are introduced they 
lie first in the descending colon. In every in- 
stance antiperistaltic waves are set going by the 
injection, and the material is thereby carried to 
the caecum. When large amounts are injected 
they stop for a moment in the region between 
the transverse and descending colon, as if a 
constriction existed there. Then a considerable 
amount of the fluid passes the point, and anti- 
peristaltic waves carry it to the caecum. In any 
case the repeated passing of the waves seems to 
have the effect of promoting absorption, for in 
the region where these waves continue running, 
the shadows become gradually more dim, and 
finally the bismuth appears to be only on the in- 
testinal walls; in other regions, e.g. in the de- 
scending colon, the shadows retain their original 
intensity. Small injections have never in my 
experience been forced even in part into the 
small intestine; but with the larger amounts, 
whether fluid or mushy, the radiographs show 
many coils of the small intestine containing the 
bismuth food. 

The passage of the injected material beyond 
the ileocaecal valve is probably due entirely to 
antiperistalsis in the colon, — a factor unknown 
to both Griitzner and his opponents. The valve, 
which is thoroughly competent for food coming 
normally from the small intestine into the large, 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

is curiously incompetent for a substance, even 
of the consistency of thick cream, introduced 
in large amount by rectum. When the valve 
first permits the food to enter the ileum, the 
fluid pours through and appears suddenly as 
a winding mass occupying several loops of the 
intestine (Fig. 9, 1.50, about ten minutes after 
the injection). The mass is continuous from 
the valve to the other end ; antiperistalsis is 
therefore not visible in the small intestine under 
the circumstances of this experiment. The 
antiperistaltic waves of the colon, however, con- 
tinue running; the transverse and ascending 
colon are thus almost emptied, and the small in- 
testine more and more filled with food (Fig. 9, 
2.15 and 3.00). After a short time the typical 
segmenting movements can be seen in the loops, 
busily separating the food into small masses, 
and over and over again dividing and redividing 
them. 

I have never seen food material pass, back 
from the colon so far as the stomach ; but once, 
about ten minutes after an injection of 100 c.c. 
of warm water, the cat retched and vomited a 
clear fluid resembling mixed water and mucus. 
In the fluid were two intestinal worms still alive. 

The importance of the mechanism by which 
nutrient enemata are passed backward in the 
intestine is evident In the colon the nutrient 

[382] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

material is worked over by the antiperistaltic 
waves, intimately mixed with whatever digestive 
juices may be present, and exposed to the 
organs of absorption in that region. If the ene- 
mata are large, the digestive and absorptive 
processes are by no means confined to the 
colon, but may take place along extensive sur- 
faces of the small intestine. I have repeatedly 
seen rhythmic segmentation active throughout 
many loops of the small intestine, thus expos- 
ing the injected food to the same mixing and ab- 
sorbing processes as affect the nutriment which 
has come through the stomach in a normal 
manner. 

The Effect of Emotions and Sleep 

Observations on the stomach of the cat 
showed that the peristalsis is inhibited when- 
ever the animal manifests signs of anxiety, rage, 
or distress. Since the extrinsic innervation of a 
large part of the intestinal tract is the same as 
that of the stomach, it is of interest to note the 
effect of emotional states on the movements of 
the intestines. Esselmont, in a study of the 
dog's intestine, noted constantly after signs of 
emotion a marked increase of activity lasting for 
only a few moments. Fubini also observed that 
fear occasioned more rapid peristalsis. There 
is no doubt that many emotional states are a 

[383] 



"The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 




strong stimulus to peristalsis, but it is equally 
true that other emotional states inhibit peristalsis. 
In the cat the same conditions which stop the 
movements of the stomach stop also the move- 
ments of the intestines. 

The female cats used in these observations 
ordinarily lie quietly on the holder and make 
no demonstration. Sometimes, however, with 

only a little premonitory 
restlessness, the cat sud- 
denly flies into a rage, 
lashing her tail from side 
to side, pulling and jerk- 
ing with every limb, and 
biting at everything near 
her head. During such 
excitement, and for some 
moments after the animal 
becomes pacified again, 
the movements, both of the large and small in- 
testine, entirely cease. Such violence of excite- 
ment is not necessary to cause the movements 
to stop; a cat which was restless and contin- 
ually whining while confined to the holder 
showed no signs of intestinal movements dur- 
ing any period of observation (one period 
lasted more than an hour), although the changes' 
in the distribution of the food observable from 
one period to the next proved that movements 

[3«4] 



NJft M» 

Figure io. — Tracings show- 
ing the effect of excite- 
ment on anttperistalsis in 
the colon. 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

were going on during the quiet intermissions. 
In another cat, uneasy and fretful for fifty min- 
utes, no activity was seen ; then she became quite 
for several minutes, and peristalsis of the small 
intestine appeared. 

When the segmentation process in the small 
intestine is stopped by excitement the segments 
unite and the series of parts returns to the form 
of a solid string, The change occurring in the 
large intestine when the antiperistalsis is inhibited 
by excitement is shown in Figure 10. The tonic 
constrictions in the descending colon are appar- 
ently not affected by emotional states, for they 
do not seem to relax in the excitement which 
causes the movements to cease. 

By holding the mouth and nostrils closed, or 
by pressing between the rami of the jaw, the 
breathing may be stopped. As soon as the cat 
shows distress from lack of breath every form 
of intestinal movement stops. 

The statement is sometimes made in text- 
books of physiology that the gastric and intestinal 
mechanisms cease to act during sleep. It is 
worthy of note that nearly all the animals curled 
up and slept during the time between obser- 
vations ; nevertheless, the progress of the food 
through the intestines continued. The state- 
ment is also made that at night, even without 
sleep, the intestines are almost entirely at rest; 

' *5 [ 3*S ] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

that this is their normal time for repose. I have 
seen both large and small intestines actively at 
work, however, from half past nine until half 
past ten o'clock at night. 

Summary 

i. Bismuth subnitrate, 10 to 33 per cent, 
mixed with the food renders the movement of 
the intestinal contents, and thereby the move- 
ments of the intestinal walls, visible on the 
fluorescent screen. 

2. The activity most commonly seen in the 
small intestine is the simultaneous division of 
the food in a coil into small segments, and a 
rhythmic repetition of the segmentation each 
time applied to the new segments formed from 
parts of those just divided. In the cat this 
rhythmic segmentation may proceed at the rate 
of thirty divisions per minute. The effects of the 
constrictions causing the segmentation are the 
mixing of the food and the digestive juices, 
the bringing of the digested food into contact 
with the absorbing mechanisms, and the empty- 
ing of the venous and lymphatic radicles of their 
contents by compression of the intestinal wall. 

3. Peristalsis is usually combined with seg- 
mentation. As the food is advancing, interfering 
constrictions often separate the rear end of the 
mass from the main body. The separation is 

[386] 



The A. B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

momentary, however ; the rear end is swept into 
union with the main body again, and the whole 
mass is pushed onward until another constriction 
repeats the changes. 

4. The ileocecal valve is thoroughly com- 
petent for food entering the colon from the 
ileum. 

5. The usual movement of the transverse 
and ascending colon and the caecum is an 
antiperistalsis. This recurs in periods about 
every fifteen minutes, and each period lasts com- 
monly about five minutes ; the waves recur dur- 
ing a period at the rate usually of eleven waves 
in two minutes. This antiperistalsis gives new 
significance to the ileocecal valve ; for the food, 
now in a closed sac, is thoroughly churned and 
mixed by the constrictions running towards the 
caecum, and again exposed to absorbing walls 
without any interference with the processes in 
the small intestine. 

6. As soon as new food enters the large 
intestine a strong general contraction takes place 
along the caecum and ascending colon, forcing 
some of the food onward; a moment later 
antiperistaltic waves begin to pass. 

7. With the accumulation of material in the 
transverse colon, deep tonic constrictions ap- 
pear one after another and carry the material 
into the descending colon, leaving the trans- 

[387] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

verse and ascending portions free for the and* 
peristaltic waves. 

8. In emptying the large intestine the 
material in the lower descending colon is first 
carried out by combined peristalsis and pressure 
of abdominal muscles; the remainder of the 
material is then spread into the evacuated region, 
and this region is again cleared ; the second re- 
mainder may be similarly affected. In normal 
life the new food arriving in the colon must 
force forward the old contents of the ascending 
and transverse colon. 

9. The observations have revealed no evi- 
dence of antiperistalsis in the small intestine, 
but since the ileocecal valve will allow nutrient 
material under pressure to pass backward, the 
antiperistalsis of the large intestine may force 
into the small intestine a considerable portion 
of a large nutrient enema. Segmentation in 
the small intestine affects such an enema pre- 
cisely as it affects food which has passed nor- 
mally through the stomach. 

10. Signs of emotion, such as fear, distress, 
or rage, are accompanied by a total cessation of 
the movements of both large and small intes- 
tines. The movements continue in the cat both 
during sleep and at night. 



[388] 



THE BATTLE CREEK LABORATORIES 

THE MAMMOTH SANITARIUM AND THE 

LARGE ADOPTED FAMILY 

OF DR. AND MRS. J. H. KELLOGG 

[A report of one experiment has been selected from 
Modem Medicine relative to the work of the laboratories con- 
nected with the Battle Creek Sanitarium because it relates to 
the effect of cooking and mastication upon food in illustration 
of the statement of Dr. Campbell pertaining to these aids to 
digestion. Much more evidence could be had from the Sani- 
tarium reports, but sufficient has already been given herewith 
from various authoritative sources to justify our claims of the 
great importance of mouth-treatment in human nutrition. 

It may be said here, however, that the trial of thorough 
mouth-work as an aid to digestion, which has been in progress 
at the Sanitarium for more than a year, and which has finally 
been accepted and prescribed as the first requirement of the 
treatment of patients, is of the utmost significance. This is, 
by far, the largest sanitarium in the world, having some hun- 
dreds of physicians, nurses, and other attache's, and treating 
many thousands of patients annually. The " cure " is based 
upon natural methods of recuperation, and while all of the 
staff, both medical and surgical, are fully equipped diploma- 
tists, and whereas the organisation has a legally and profession- 
ally accepted medical school of its own, so-called medicines 
are rarely used, and never except as antidotes to specific 
poisons. Nature is assisted by scientific means to do the 
curing, and now that an economic nutrition to relieve the 
exhausted system of the patient from all possible strain 
through ample mouth-treatment of food, as intended by the 
anatomical, dental, and chemical plan on which man is con- 
structed, has been tried and accepted as a fundamental prin- 
ciple of the institution, it gives a practical indorsement of the 
claims set forth in " Glutton or Epicure," and in this present 

-[ 389 ] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

book, and declares that they are of greatest importance in 
securing health and efficiency. 

The Battle Creek Sanitarium is a philanthropic and 
humanitarian institution operating under a perpetual charter 
which compels the use of all the profits gained to foster the 
spread of the humanitarian work. More than sixty branches 
of the parent institution have been established in or near large 
cities in different parts of the world, under the title of The 
American Medical Missionary Association, and each of these 
branches conducts a life-saving business on Good Samaritan 
principles. The organisation started its medical missionary 
work some thirty-seven years ago, with almost no capital and 
only one patient, in a small two-storey frame house, in the 
then small village of Battle Creek, Michigan. The incorpo- 
rators were religious enthusiasts who believed that Chris- 
tianity should be expressed in works as much as in faith, in 
curing the sick and healing the wounded, and thus prepar- 
ing the unfortunate for the reception of moral and spiritual 
inspiration. 

The best evidence that this scheme of procedure to attain 
the ultimate end was a good one is shown by the success 
of the institution in its growth from such small beginning to 
the immense proportions of the present time, with one of its 
buildings nearly a thousand feet in length and five storeys 
in height and numerous other buildings radiating from the 
main one and scattered about it in a finely wooded park. 
Fire came and destroyed the old building and all its contents, 
but yet it was soon rebuilt, and the concern goes on growing 
and growing, because the foundation principle of the institu- 
tion is the beautiful Golden Rule, and the method of treat- 
ment employed is taken from the open book of Nature. 

While the organisation was primarily based upon a special 
religious creedal enthusiasm, it has become so broadly altru- 
istic as to suggest a return to original Christianity as defined 
in the Sermon on the Mount In such Christian expression 
honest agnostics, born Buddhists, and the tolerant of all the 
different Christian creeds may join and say amen 1 

One of the splendid results of an economic nutrition, 
attained by following the natural requirements and impulses, 
is the curing of many diseases, among them several forms of 
constipation. The writer has a genuine admiration for the 

[39°] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

spirit that is the motive power of the Battle Creek Sanitarium 
and firm belief in the Christianity demonstrated in the work, 
especially in the private experiment of Dr. and Mrs. Kellogg, 
with their family of adopted waifs. Twenty-four children of 
unfortunate parents, waifs so unfortunate in their attractability 
as to be hopelessly neglected, have been gathered under this 
sheltering roof and are showing their mettle and gratitude by 
splendid behaviour and brilliant accomplishment in a manner 
that any proud parent might approve. To miss any oppor- 
tunity to express gratitude to Dr. and Mrs. Kellogg for giving 
us such a splendid example of the true meaning of practical 
Christianity would be showing symptoms of the worst form of 
constipation ; viz., constipation of appreciation and affection. 
— Horace Fletcher,] 



EXPERIMENTAL INVESTIGATION OF 
THE INFLUENCE OF MASTICATION 
AND COOKING OF FOOD, ETC., IN 
THE LABORATORIES OF THE BAT- 
TLE CREEK, MICHIGAN, SANITA- 
RIUM, UNDER THE DIRECTION OF 
DR. J. H- KELLOGG 

From M*Um Mtdicvu 

The table clearly shows the effect of cooking 
And the effect of mastication upon the salivary 
digestion of food. Column I shows the results 
obtained after an ordinary test meal consisting 
of \\ ounces of water biscuit to 8 ounces of 
water; column 2, \\ ounces of water biscuit 
ground fine, mixed with water and swallowed 
without chewing ; column 3, test meal consist* 

[39*] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

ing of \\ s ounces of raw wheat flour and 8 
ounces of water ; column 4, test meal consist- 
ing of 1} ounces of unground pearled wheat 
with 8 ounces of water. 



Total acidity (A) . . 
Calculated acidity (AO 
Total chlorine (T) 
FreeHCl(H) . . . 
Combined chlorine (C) 
Fixed chlorides (F) . 
Maltoae(M) . . . 
Dextrine and soluble starch 

P) 



COEFFICIENTS 



Digestion of albumin (a) 
Digestion of starch (b) . 
Salivary activity (c) . . 
Fermentation (x) . . . 
Chlorine liberation (01) . 



Water 

biacoit, 

well 
chewed. 



O.142 
O.156 
O.296 
O.050 
O.I06 
0.1 14 
I.088 



O.812 



O.82 
O.71 
I.I7 

080 



Water 

biscuit, 

not 
chewed. 




O.140 

O.I: 

O. 

0. 

O.I04 

O.152 

O.272 

0.548 



0.97 
O.42 

I. II 

II.OO 

O.70 



Raw 
floor. 



O.204 
O.186 

O.056 
O.130 

a 146 
0.000 

0.300 



1.00 
0.00 
1.14 
6.00 
0.85 



Rai 



ai36 
0.128 

a272 
0052 
0076 

0.144 
0.000 

OAdS 



1.00 

0.00 

6joo 
a7i 



Several points of interest are to be noted 
in the above table, the first and most conspicu- 
ous of which is the fact that the saliva did not 
act at all upon the raw flour and raw wheat, as 
shown by the total absence of maltose in the 
cases represented in columns 3 and 4. The 
small amount of dextrine and soluble starch 
shown was, perhaps, already present in the raw 

[392] 



The A.B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

grain, but this point I have not investigated. It 
is clear, however, that no sugar was produced 
when raw starch was taken, whereas the amount 
of sugar produced after the ordinary test meal 
was more than I gram in each ioo c.c. of stom- 
ach fluid; in other words, the stomach fluid 
contained more than one per cent of sugar with- 
out taking into account the amount which had 
been absorbed. 

The figures for maltose in column 2 repre- 
sent a test meal in which little or no saliva was 
mixed with the test meal, the food being swal- 
lowed without chewing, indicating very slight 
action of the saliva, the amount of maltose 
found in the stomach fluid being but a trifle 
more than one-fourth the amount obtained after 
an ordinary test meal. The amount of soluble 
starch and dextrine was less than half the nor- 
mal amount in the case of the raw flour, and 
but little more in the case of the raw wheat. 

Another point of interest is the increased 
amount of lactic acid found in the test meal 
taken without chewing, represented in column 2. 
The coefficient of fermentation which represents 
the number of milligrams of lactic acid (as ex- 
pressed in terms of HC1) found in ioo c.c. of 
stomach fluid was more than double that found 
after the same kind of test breakfast properly mas- 
ticated, represented in column I. The results 

[393] 



The A. B.-Z.of Our Own Nutrition 

of this experiment distinctly associate acid fer- 
mentation with imperfect mastication and im- 
perfect salivary digestion. 

Another fact noted in a comparative study 
of the results of the analysis of over 5000 stom- 
ach fluids, which very strongly confirms this 
idea, is that starch conversion is usually com- 
plete in cases of apepsia, while lactic acid is 
conspicuous by its absence. In nearly all cases 
of apepsia which I have encountered, number- 
ing about forty cases in all, the most delicate 
tests for lactic acid have failed to show its pres- 
ence except in the most minute quantities; in 
most cases it was entirely absent. 

There are a number of other points of in- 
terest in the above table in addition to those 
which relate particularly to starch digestion. 
One of the most noteworthy of these is the fact 
that the digestion of albumen was not unfavoura- 
bly influenced by the neglect to masticate the 
food, the coefficient of digestion, in fact, being 
raised from .82 to .97. This coefficient is a 
qualitative and not a quantitative index. The 
higher coefficient indicates a more perfect elabo- 
ration of proteids and a close approach to an 
absolutely perfect proteid digestion. 

Another fact of perhaps even greater in- 
terest has relation to the digestion of albumen 
when the wheat was eaten raw, in the form of 

[394] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

either flour or wheat The coefficient of proteid 
digestion in both cases, as shown in columns 
3 and 4, was 1.00, indicating perfect elaboration 
of the albuminoids. From this it appears that 
raw gluten, or the proteids of wheat, is digested 
more perfectly when taken in a raw state than 
when cooked, the very opposite of which we 
have seen to be true of starch. The digestion 
of raw starch may take place in the intestines, 
by the action of the pancreatic juice, but can- 
not take place in the stomach, for the reason 
that the saliva has not the power to penetrate 
the cellulose envelope of the starch granule, 
and hence cannot digest raw starch. 

This fact coincides in a most interesting 
manner with the biological fact that man is 
by nature a frugivorous animal. In the proc- 
ess of ripening, the starch of fruits undergoes 
a hydration similar to that which takes place in 
cooking and in pancreatic digestion, whereby 
the insoluble starch is converted into soluble 
starch, dextrine, and sugar. This explains, also, 
why well-ripened fruit may be eaten raw with 
impunity, while unripe fruit and farinaceous 
food of all sorts require cooking. In his diet, 
man, like his nearest relative, the monkey, be- 
ing naturally a frugivorous animal, may eat fruits 
in the state in which Nature has provided them; 
but when he Introduces other natural products 

[395] 



The A.B.- Z. of Our Own Nutrition 

into his bill of fare, he must adopt artificial 
means for securing the preparation for diges- 
tion which Nature makes in the ripening process 
of fruits. 

The coefficient of chlorine liberation (*») is 
very nearly uniform, indicating that the masti- 
cation of food and the cooking of food have little 
influence upon this digestive function. 

The coefficient of salivary activity (V) was 
determined independently for each test break- 
fast. Its practical uniformity indicates that there 
was no essential change in the character or qual- 
ity of the saliva to account for the differences 
shown by the totals in relation to the stomach 
digestion of starch. 



DR. EDWARD HOOKER DEWEY AND THE 
"NO BREAKFAST PLAN" 

The " No Breakfast Plan/* evolved from the long experi- 
mental experience of Dr. Dewey, to secure much needed rest 
for the stomach and intestines, is described in a book bearing 
that title which can be had direct from the author by address- 
ing him at his home, Meadville, Perm., U. S. A. 

" No Breakfast " is, evidently, a misnomer, but means, in 
the present application, an appetite earned after arising from 
sleep. The writer, for instance, often begins work so early in 
the morning that by the time the ordinary breakfast is ready 
he has already done a fair day's work. 

The writer has no reported details of the work of Dr. 
Dewey to add to this volume. In "Glutton or Epicure" 
full appreciation of this Esculapian Luther is expressed and 
extracts of his writings are reprinted. In fighting for more 
than forty years for the principle of less abuse of the tired 

[396] 



T/ie A.B.-Z.ofOur Own Nutrition 

body of man, Dr. Dewey has rendered a service that some 
time will be reckoned very great; and while there is no 
scientific report of the good doctor's work to call for intro- 
ductory comment, it would be equally unhealthy to miss an 
opportunity to express gratitude for what he has done for us 
all. 

PROFESSOR JAFFA AND THE FRUITARIANS 

Professor Jaffa, too, of the University of California, has 
been doing most valuable service in testing the usefulness of 
fruits and nuts as human foods. He generously furnished the 
author with elaborate tables of his results, covering several 
years of observation, showing low nitrogen possibilities similar 
to those demonstrated by the writer and his colleagues at 
Cambridge and Yale. These have since been published, and 
relating to special kinds of foods, as they do, suggest a wide 
range of choice among the fruits of earth ; but the collected 
evidence of this book shows that human nutrition is best 
served when the appetite, being kept at normal, is allowed to 
make selection from the whole range of nutritious products 
furnished by good Mother Nature. 

DR. H. P. ARMSBY 

In the Oct. 16th, 1903, number of Science, also, is an inter- 
esting article by Dr. H. P. Armsby on the heat values and 
muscular energy values of different food elements and their iso 
dynamic replacement of each other under various conditions. 
— Horace Fletcher.] 



t 397 ] 



Explanation of The A. B. C. 

Life Series 

THE ESSENTIALS AND SEQUENCE IN LIFE 

It would seem a considerable departure 
from the study of menticulture as advised 
in the author's book, "Menticulture," to 
jump at once to an investigation of the 
physiology and psychology of nutrition of 
the body and then over to the department 
of infant and child care and education as 
pursued in the crecfu and in the kinder- 
garden ; but as a matter of fact, if study 
of the causation of human disabilities and 
misfortunes is attempted at all, the quest 
leads naturally into all the departments of 
human interest, and first into these primary 
departments. 

The object of this statement is to 
link up the different publications of the 
writer into a chain of consistent sugges- 
tions intended to make life a more simple 

[399] 



1 



Explanation of The A. B. C. Life Series 

and agreeable problem than many of us 
too indifferent or otherwise inefficient and 
bad fellow-citizens make of it. 

It is not an altogether unselfish effort 
on the part of the author of the A. B. C. 
Life Series to publish his findings. In the 
consideration of his own mental and physi- 
cal happiness it is impossible to leave out 
environment, and all the units of humanity 
who inhabit the world are part of his and 
of each other's environment 

It would be rank presumption for any 
person, even though gifted with the means 
to circulate his suggestions as widely as 
possible, and armed with the power to 
compel the reading of his publications, 
to think that any suggestions of his could 
influence any considerable number of his 
fellow-citizens of the world, or even of his 
own immediate neighbourhood, to accept 
or follow his advice relative to the man- 
agement of their lives and of their com- 
munal and national affairs ; but while the 
general and complete good of humanity 
should be aimed at in all publications, 
one's immediate neighbours and friends 

[400] 



Explanation of The A. B. C. Life Series 

come first, and the wave of influence 
spreads according to the effectiveness of 
the ideas suggested in doing good; that 
is, in altering the point of view and con- 
duct of people so as to make them a better 
sympathetic environment. 

For instance, the children of your 
neighbours are likely to be the playmates 
of your own children, and the children of 
degenerate parents in the slum district 
of your city will possibly be the fellow- 
citizen partners of your own family. Again, 
when it is known that right or wrong nu- 
trition of the body is the most important 
agent in forming character, in establish- 
ing predisposition to temperance or intem- 
perance of living, including the desire for 
intoxicating stimulants, it is revealed to 
one that right nutrition of the community 
as a whole is an important factor in his 
own environment, as is self-care in the 
case of his own nourishment 

The moment a student of every-day 

philosophy starts the study of problems 

from the A. B. C beginning of things, 

and to shape his study according to an 

26 [ 401 ] 



Explanation of The A. B. C. Life Series 

A. B. C. sequence, each cause of inhar- 
mony is at once traced back to its first ex- 
pression in himself and then to causes 
influenced by his environments. 

If we find that the largest influences 
for good or bad originate with the right 
or wrong instruction of children during 
the home training or kindergarden period 
of their development, and that a dollar 
expended for education at that time is 
worth more for good than whole bancs 
of courts and whole armies of police to 
correct the effect of bad training and bad 
character later in life, it is quite logical 
to help promote the spread of the kinder- 
garden or the kindergarden idea to include 
all of the children born into the world, 
and to furnish mothers and kindergarden 
teachers with knowledge relative to the 
right nutrition of their wards which they 
can themselves understand and can teach 
effectively to children. 

If we also find that the influence of the 
kindergarden upon the parents of the in- 
fants is more potent than any other which 
can be brought to bear upon them, we see 

[ 4« ] 



Explanation of The A. B. C. Life Series 

clearly that the way to secure the widest 
reform in the most thorough manner is 
to concentrate attention upon the kinder- 
garden phase of education, advocate its 
extension to include even the last one of 
the children, beginning with the most 
needy first, and extending the care out- 
ward from the centre of worst neglect to 
finally reach the whole. 

Experience in child saving so-called, 
and in child education on the kinder- 
garden principle, has taught the cheapest 
and the most profitable way to insure 
an environment of good neighbours and 
profit-earning citizens ; and investigation 
into the problem of human alimentation 
shows that a knowledge of the elements of 
an economic nutrition is the first essential 
of a family or school training; and also 
that this is most impressive when taught 
during the first ten years of life. 

One cannot completely succeed in the 
study of menticulture from its A. B. C. 
beginning and in A. B. C. sequence with- 
out appreciation of the interrelation of 
the physical and the mental, the personal 

[403] 



Explanation of The A. B. C. Life Series 

and the social, in attaining a complete 
mastery of the subject 

The author of the A. B. C. Life 
Series has pursued his study of the 
philosophy of life in experiences which 
have covered a great variety of occupa- 
tions in many different parts of the world 
and among peoples of many different 
nations and races. His first book, u Men- 
ticulture," dealt with purging the mind 
and habits of sundry weaknesses and de- 
terrents which have possession of people 
in general in some degree. He recog- 
nised the depressing effect of anger and 
worry and other phases of fearthought 
In the book " Happiness," which followed 
next in order, feat thought was shown to be 
the unprofitable element of forethought 
The influence of environment on each 
individual was revealed as an important 
factor of happiness, or the reverse, by 
means of an accidental encounter with a 
neglected waif in the busy streets of 
Chicago during a period of intense 
national excitement incident to the war 
with Spain, and this led to the publication 

[404I 



Explanation of The A. B. C. Life Series 

of " That Last Waif ; or, Social Quaran- 
tine." During* the time that this last 
book was being written, attention to the 
importance of right nutrition was invited 
by personal disabilities, and the experi- 
ments described in " Glutton or Epicure ; 
or, Economic Nutrition " were begun and 
have continued until now. 

In the study of the latter, but most 
important factor in profitable living, cir- 
cumstances have greatly favoured the 
author, as related in his latest book, 
" The A. B.-Z. of Our Own Nutrition." 

The almost phenomenal circulation of 
" Menticulture " for a book of its kind, 
and a somewhat smaller interest in the 
books on nutrition and the appeal for 
better care of the waifs of society, showed 
that most persons wished, like the au- 
thor, to find a short cut to happiness by 
means of indifference to environment, 
both internal and external, while habitu- 
ally sinning against the physiological 
dietetic requirements of Nature. In smoth- 
ering worry and guarding against anger the 
psychic assistance of digestion was stimu- 

[405] 



Explanation of The A. B. C. Life Series 

lated and some better results were thereby 
obtained, but not the best attainable 
results. 

Living is easy and life may be made 
constantly happy by beginning right; and 
the right beginning is none other than 
the careful feeding of the body. This 
done there is an enormous reserve of 
energy, a naturally optimistic train of 
thought, a charitable attitude towards 
everybody, and a loving appreciation of 
everything that God has made. Morbid- 
ity of temperament will disappear from an 
organism that is economically and rightly 
nourished, and death will cease to have 
any terrors for such ; and as fear of death 
is the worst depressant known, many of 
the worries of existence take their ever- 
lasting flight from the atmosphere of the 
rightly nourished. 

The wide interest now prevalent in 
the subjects treated in The A. B.C. Life 
Series is evidenced by the scientific, mili- 
tary, and lay activity in connection with 
the experiments at the Sheffield Scientific 
School of Yale University and elsewhere, 

[406] 



Explanation of The A. B. C. Life Series 

as related in the " A. B.-Z. of Our Own 
Nutrition " and in " The New Glutton or 
Epicure" of the series. 

The general application is more fully 
shown, however, by the indorsement of 
the great Battle Creek Sanitarium, which 
practically studies all phases of the sub- 
ject, from health conservation and child 
saving to general missionary work in 
social reform. 

HORACE FLETCHER. 



Index 



K. B. C. Life Sbjubs, the, xxlv, 15, 

47 : explanation of, 399-407 
Abdominal glands, the, 189, 190 

— muscles, the, 326, 388 

— wall, the, 364 
Abernethy biscuit, 131 
Acid reaction, of food, 269 

Adds, stimulating properties of, 970 ; 

supplement weak action in the 

stomach, 370; special relation to 

the pancreas o£ 970 
Addison, Joseph, upon the work of 

Loigi Cornaro, a8 
Adenoids, larger/ dietetic in origin, 

X48-15S, 156 
Afferent nerves, special duty of the 

peripheral terminations of, 184-185 
Agriculture, U. S. Department ot, 37 
Albumen, digestion of, 394 
Albuminoids, the, 395 
Albuminous foods, minimum amount 

of, 74, 78 

Alcoholic beverages, explanation of 
the use of, ass 

Algarroba bean, the, 124 

Alimentary canal, the, 13, 14, 15, 40; 
pabulum derived from, 40, 9a, 117; 
Professor Pawlow's conclusions 
concerning, 186; experimental in- 
vestigation of the pathology and 
therapeutics of, 348, aoo, S73, 275, 
376,377 



Alimentation, human, study ct, 13 ; 

theory of, 180 
Alkalies, the, 278, 379, 980, s8i, s8e 
Alkaline reduction, 33, 34* 35> 3*» 

44 
— — saliva, 33 ; its quantity ii 

by mastication, 96, 10a, 146 

Alkalinisation, 93 

Altruism, placed upon a 
basis, xxiv 

American Medical Missionary Asso- 
ciation, the, 390 

Medical Missionary Cause, the, 

xxm 

Physiological Society, the, 68 

Anderson, Dr. William G., 54, 87, 88 

Anger, causes indigestion, 7 

Animal economy, 40 

— - food, necessitates lees thorough 
mastication than vegetable, 67, 99- 
100, 173 ; influenced less than vege- 
table by cooking, 118 

orrmnism, the efficiency of, 58 

Anthropoid apes, 115, 116 

Antiperistalsie, 336, 333, 343, 345t 
364; in the colon, 365-370; the 
question of, 377-383* 3*4. 385* 3*7» 
388 

Antiperistaltic waves, 365* 3*7> 373t 

374, 376, 381 1 383t 387. 388 
Antrum, the, 307, 308, 311, 315, Jia, 

3*3, 3*6, 3'7» S33i 334, 3S*> 34% 
341, 360 
Apepsia, 394 



[409] 



Index 



Appendicitis, relationship between 

diet and, 141 
Appendix, the, cause of catarrh of, 

Hi 

Appetite, demands proteid when 
wanted, xxxii; knows what to do 
and when to do it, xxxiii ; most 
important factor in digestion, 6; a 
perfect indicator, 6; a creature of 
the mind, 7; the caprices of, 7; 
easily comprehended, how to read, 
8, 9, is ; an indicator of what the 
body requires, so; will dose the 
valve when enough is eaten, ao; 
striking effect of insafivation upon, 
50; fully understood, prevents in- 
temperance in eating or drinking, 
95 ; sooner satisfied with thorough 
mastication, 137; the first and 
mightiest exciter of the secretory 
nerves of the stomach, aio; is 
juice, 113 ; Dr. Pa wloVs experiment 
showing value of, sa6; its initial 
impulse may originate in the stom- 
ach, S44; in the rich and in the 
poor, 352-153 ; care should be taken 
oft 354 ; physicians most often called 
on to restore, 354; remarkable how 
little attention is paid to, 255 ; bitters 
increase, 363, 365 ; the strongest of 
all stimuli to the digestive glands, 
363 J connection between gastric 
juke and, 365. 

earned, a preliminary n eces s i ty 

of easy digestion, 180 

, false, 6, 9, 39, 75 

 ', normal, 6 

Appetite juke," the, 313, aa8, 358, 

359,360 

Apples, 169 

Appreciation, attention necessary to 
create, 7; necessary to stimulate 
flow of digestive juices, 7, xa 



•• 



Armsby, Dr. H. P., on the 
values and muscular energy 
of different food elements, 397 

Asiatics, the, consume smaller pro- 
portion of proteids, 83 

Asparagus, 93 

Aatrop, E., ia6 

Athletes, reason for framing, aa 

Attention, necessary to create appre- 
ciation, 7; bow to command, 8, e» 

13 

Atwater, Prof. W. O., 54; on the 
dairy proteid requirement, 76 

Respiration Apparatus, the, 57 

Australians, the, 118, 139, t6j 



B 

Bachb Fund, the, 69 
Bacteria, the action in the 

of, 39. "7 
Bacterial digestion, 40 

flora, the, examination of, a6 

Bacteriology, advances of, 348, 349 

Bailey, 128 

Balthaxard, experiments oi, 314, 315, 

337, ja8 
Baltimore, Md., 68 
Barling, Gilbert, 141 
Barrett, Robert, 47 
Baylies, experiments of, 343. J44t US, 

359 

Batter pudding, 98 

Battle Creek, Michigan, 390 

Laboratories, the, 389-391 ; ex- 
perimental investigation of the in- 
fluence of mastication and cooking 
of food, etc., in, 391-396 

Sanitarium, the, xvii, xxiii, xxvii ; 

described, 389-391 

Bayert, 133 

Beans, 95» I3» 



[4IO] 



Index 



Beaumont, eip c tini cnts of, 305* 309* 
310, 313, $a6, 337, 339, 330^ 334, 

336 

Beef, 100 

Benedict, Prof. Francis G., 54 

Berlin, 56, 65 

Berne, Switzerland, 384 

Betel, chewing, 103, is8 

Beverages, mastication in the prepara- 
tion of, 133 

Bidder and Schmidt, experiments of, 
aos, S04, 331 ; conditions for suc- 
cess, 204-306 

Bile, the, 360 

Bitters, therapeutic influence of, 363, 
365 ; increase the appetite, 363, 364, 

Bkmdlot, experiments of, 181, 18a, 
377 

Blood, the, toxins absorbed into, 40; 
influence of the contraction of the 
masticatory muscles on local circu- 
lation of, 107, 148, 149, 378, 355 

— elements, the, 41 

Blumfield, Dr. Joseph, 36 

Body, the, considered as an engine, 
4, 33; derives its necessary energy 
from food, 73 ; burdened by excess 
of food, 73 

Boer War, the, 11 

Bolting food, 35* 36, i34> »35» 138, 
140 

Bolus, the, 329, 343, 344 

Boston Society of Medical Sciences, 
the, 343 

Bouillon, 366 

Bowditch, Dr. ProC Henry Picker- 
ing, xxiv, xxv, 67, 68, 70, 384, 385, 
387, 306 

Bowel, the, liable to sutler, 140, 345 

" Bracer," a, why required, ao 

Braun and Grfltsaer, experiments of, 

•7* 

[4 



Bread, 78, 98, 99, 133, 137, 143, 171, 

370, 371, 374, 375 
Brinton, experiments of, 339, 330, 334, 

336 
British Guiana, 134 
Medical Association, the, 37, 48, 

91,93 
" British Medical Journal," the, 141 
Bronchitis, 144, 146' 
Broth, strong, 368 
Brown bread, 43 
Brussels, 68 
Buccal digestion, 8 
— — nerves, the, 194 
Bushmen, the, 118, 133 
Butter, 43, 100 



Cabbagb, why indigestible, 99 
Cecum, the, 140, 141, 363, 364, 365, 
366, 368, 370, 371, 373, 375, 376, 

377. 3**fS87 
Cake, 13a 

California, University of, 00, 397 
Calm, easy to cultivate, 7 
Cambridge, England, xxxi, 36, 47, 

49 

tests, the, 47, 69 

— - University, England, xxv, 36, 53, 

68,91 
Campbell, Dr. Harry, 8, is ; on the 

importance of mastication, 93-179, 

389 

Cancer, produced by inefficient mas- 
tication, 138 

Cane-sugar, changed to grape-sugar, 
si, 169 ^ 

Cannon, Dr. W. B., 7, is; on 
"Swallowing and Movements o 
the Stomach and Intestines," 384- 
300 ; on the " Movements of the 
Stomach Studied by means 1 of 



4 

Index 



the Roatgen Rays," 101-341; on 
the " Movements of the Intestines 
Studied by Means of the Rtatgea 
Rays," 34*-3*8 
Carbohydrate foods, 78, 79, So, 85, 86, 

89 

Cardie, the, ideas of early writers con- 
cerning, 309, 304, 395, 336, 328, 399 

Cardiac sphincter, the, 307 

Carelessness, the sin of , xrtt 

Carnegie, Andrew, xaxv 

— Institntion, the, 53 

Carnivore, the, do not masticate, 07, 
161 

Cassava root, 1*4 

Cat, the, eKpeiimsnts upon, s8o-s9J, 
*99» 3°3» 307* 3". 3"» 3iSi 3*©» 3", 
3*5. 333. 333. 337-339. 34», 344* 353, 
359. 36*. 3*5, 3*6» 37»i 3«», 383-386, 
3S8 

Catarrh of the appendix, caused by 
inefficient mastication, 141 

Cauliflower, 99 

" Cause and Prevention of Decay in 
Teeth, the," Wallace's, 161 

Cavendish lecture, Sir Frederick 
Treves*s, 140 

Cell, a, determination of the metabo- 
lism of, 40 

Cellulose, 117, 170 

Cereals, 78, 84, 146 

Ceylon, xa8 

Cheese, 43, 95; when indigestible, 
100, 137 

Chemical excitants, the, a68 

— — secretion, 2)9 

Chemistry, organic, 6a 

— — , physical, 6a 

Chewing, length of time necessary 
for, xxxii 

Chicken bone, 166 

Chigin, Dr., experiments by, a 14, 
ai6, aSa 

[41 



i4«; 



early feeding 
143 ; defective 
feeding of, 26a 

Children's Aid 
68 

Chimpanzee, the, 115 

China, 8a 

Chittenden, Prof. R. H-, 
the experiments at Yale, 
emphasises the want of eacM 
edge of nutrition, 53 ; 67, 66 ; the 
Yale teat, 69-91. 

Chop bone, 166 

Chyme, the, 346, 360, 36a 

Circulation, the, stimulated by/ mas- 
tication, 96, X03, 157 

Cocoa-nut, 137 

Coffee, 139 

Cole, Sidney W., 47 ; his 
the isolation of die 
element of the proteid molecule., 

47 
Colon, the, 363, 364; antiperiataJeis 
• n » 365-370; changes when food 
enters, 370, 371, 37a; process of 
clearing, 37J-377t J*». 3«a, 384, 
387,388 
Comminution, 98, 100, 101 
C*mmnnwm*ftk, the S. S., 69 
Condiments, influence of, 161, 365 
Constipation, cannot exist, 43 
Constriction, waves of, 313, 340, 

34i 
Cooked flesh, requires 

97»*74 
Cooking, influences vegetable 
than mineral food, 118; effect of, 

3891 39«-39* 
Cornaro, Luigi, r e fo rme d manner of 
living of, he; his autobiography, x, 
xvi, xvii ; Dr. Van Someren's 
paper upon his theory of living, 26- 
46 ; his treatise on the M Sure and 



Index 



Certain Method of Attaining a 

Long and Healthful Life," a8; 

Addison's comments upon his work, 

s8, 93 
Oaring for food, 356 
Cream, experiments with, 38-39, 43 
Cuba, xir, 70 
Curr, E. M., 125, 139 



Dastkb, Dr. Pro! A., 67, 68 

Day, experiments oi, 337 

Defecation, 373-377 

Deglutition, MagencuVs theory of, 
384, 385 ; movements of, 385 ; di- 
vided into three parts, 385 ; Falk's 
and Kronecker*s theory of, 386; 
the X-ray method in the study of, 
387-395 ; phenomena of oesophag- 
eal, 398-300 

— reflex, the, 387 

Dental caries, causation of, 161 

Dewey, Dr. Edward Hooker, and 
the "No Breakfast Plan," 396, 

397 

De Witt, Assistant Surgeon, Lieut 
Wallace, in command of soldiers in 
the Yale investigation, xiii, 70 

Dextrine, 170, 171, 393, 393, 395 

Diaphragm, the, 334, 336 

Diet, best manner and system of, xiii ; 
the optimum, xxxi ; minimum, 74 ; 
the anthropoid stage, 116; the pre- 
cooking human stage, 117 ; the pre- 
agricultural cooking period, 118; 
the early agricultural age, 219; the 
late agricultural period, iao; for 
children, 130-133; relationship be- 
tween appendicitis and, 141 

Dietary Ten Commandments, 5 

Dietetics, precepts of, 373 



Digestion, appetite the moat impor- 
tant factor in, 6; the true chemical 
end-point of, 10- 11 ; effect of the 
mental state upon, 74, 145 ; psychic 
influence in, 180; the phenomena 
in, 351; thorough mouth-work as 
an aid to, 389 

Digestion-ash, the, what it should be 
like, 10-11, 14; should not be un- 
clean, 34; in experiments, 38-39, 
43, 43. 47* 5*i 79. 83. 84, 85, 94 

Digestive activity, stopped by anger 
and worry, 7 

— canal, the. St* Alimentary 
canal, the 

glands, the, analogy between the 

innervation mechanism of the sali- 
vary glands and, 188-190; appetite 
the strongest of all stimuli to, 363, 
380, 383 

— - juices, the, 7 ; appreciation 
necessary to stimulate flow of, 
7, 13, 96; mastication brings the 
food into intimate contact with, 98 ; 
quantity of, 367 ; relation of milk to 
the secretion of, 374, 383, 386 

Digitalis, 381 

Diphtheria, 149 

Disease, caused by indiscretions In 
eating, x, xxxi; follows disobedi- 
ence, 39 

Disobedience, disease follows, 39 

Distention, 144 

Distress, effect of, 388 

Dog, the experiments upon, 181, 194- 
311, 313-346, 349, 354, 358, 363, 379, 
380, 385, 393, 393, 397, 398, 399, 
303, 3>o» 3"» 3«3» 3«4. 3*5. 336, 

344 
Dolomites, the, 26 
Drinking, too much, six, 95 
Dry food, 97 
Dunn, Miss Eva, taa 



[413] 



Index 



Duodenum, the, 303, 315, 356, 360 
Dyspepsia, dangers of, xv; might 
to exist, 35 



Eat, how to, 19 

Eating, too much, ix; indiscretions 
of, x, xix, xxix, so, 95, 135 ; too 
fast, ao; systematic inattention to, 
259, 260; English hare made a colt 
of, 261 

Economic nutrition. Set Nutrition, 
economic 

Efferent nerves, 184, 185 

Efficiency, human, the measure of, 
xxx; research into causes for, 54 

Eggs, experiments with, 38, 43, 78, 
95, 100, 137, 277 

" Encyclopedia Britannica," the, 97 

Enemata, the, 367, 379, 380, 388 

Energy, the minimum transforma- 
tion of, 59 

— — , potential, 59 

Engine, an, the body considered as, 

4**3 

English, the, have made a cult of the 
art of eating, 261 

Emetic, an, 325 

Emotion, inhibition of stomach move- 
ments during, 337; effect of, 383- 

384,388 
Empiricism, medical practice largely 

based upon, 52 
Esquimaux, the, 118, 123, 125, 126 
Esselmont, experiments o£ 383 
Evolution, Nature's plan o^ xi 
Ewald, experiments of, 313, 314 
Excess, habitual, confirmed by ex- 
periments, ix 
Excrements. Set Digestion-ash, the 
Excretla. Set Digestion-ash, the 
Exercise, necessity of, xxix 



functions of the 



Fmcss, the, 374. 
tion-ash 

Falk, Dr., 284 ; theory of 
of, 286 

Fallopius, on the 
stomach, 302 

Farinaceous food, 395 

Fasola, experiments o£, 378 

Fat, potatoes need not produce, 21 ; 
78, 79, 80, 85, 86, 95, 98, 100; ex- 
periments upon, 271, 273, 274 

Faucial tonsil*, the, influence of masti- 
cation upon, 148 

Fear, effect of, 388 

Fearthought, 404 

Featherman, 123 

Fibrin, 276 

Flesh food, reduction of craving for, 

50 

Fletcher, Horace, Dr. Van Someren's 
comments upon the case of, 30- 
31 ; his experiments confirmed by 
Marckwald, 46; Sir Michael Fos- 
ter's comments, 48 ; the Cambridge 
tests, 49"5a; the Middletown test, 
54-55, 60; the Yale test, 75-91 

Flour, 132, 39*1 393t 395 

Food, mal-assimilation of, x; length 
of time for chewing, xxxii; t)r. 
Kellogg 1 * estimate of amount habit- 
ually used, xxxhr ; mouth-treatment 
of, 5 ; how to mattiratt and swal- 
low, 8, 9, 31, 3a ; actual process of 
mastication described, 32-34; im- 
portant bearing upon the economy 
of the body of its treatment in the 
mouth, 48-49 ; its function to supply 
material from which die body de- 
rives necessary energy, 72 ; any ex- 
cess an incubus, 72-73; classified 
under three heads, 78; in 



[414] 



Index 



p ro d u ce s a burgs amount of unnec- 
essary work, 80 ; its nutritive value 
determined by the thoroughness of 
hs digestion, 79; softness of, 139; 
mastication tends to reduce amount 
of, 136 ; should be eaten with inter- 
est and enjoyment, sj* ; passionate 
craving for, 956 ; its nutritive value 
should be considered rather than 
taste, 361 ; the add reaction of, 269 ; 
relative nutritive values of different, 
*7St a 7°» experiments upon the 
utilisation of, 37$; effect of the 
movements of the stomach upon, 
3*8; circulation of, 339; experi- 
mental investigation of the influ- 
ence of mastication and cooking of, 

Foster, Sir Michael, xxiv, xxv, 26; 
his note upon Dr. Van Someren's 
paper, 48-51 ; emphasises the want 
of exact knowledge of nutrition, 5a, 
53, 67, 68, 91 

Fowls, experiments upon, 399 

Fruitarians, the, 90, 397 

Fruit sugar, 169 

Fruits, 43 ; under-ripe and over-ripe, 
«4«t 395. 3o6l usefulness of, 397 

Fubini, experiments of, 383 

Fundus, the, 317, 3**, 333, 334, 335, 
330, 333i 334* 335* 336, 337, 340 



Gaum, on the functions of the 
stomach, 30a 

Gastric catarrh, 349 

— digestion, 309, 316 

— — glands, the, 183 ; the vagus and 
the sympathetic nerves exciters of, 
183, 198; mechanical and chem- 
ical stim u la t ion of the cavity of the 
month has no effect on, >oi; psychic 



[41s] 



excitation of, 105; sleep 
no restraining influence upon, 306 ; 
the simultaneous excitation of the 
different sense organs the first and 
s tron g es t impulse toward activ- 
ity oC, 310; psychic secretion the 
normal commencement of secretory 
activity on the part of, 314; con- 
ditions upon which depends the 
secretory work of, 337 ; mechanical 
stimulation of, 337, 345, 349, 371, 
373, 374, 380 
Gastric juice, the, appreciation neces- 
sary to stimulate flow at, 7; 
destroys micro-organisms, 41; its 
flow increased by mastication, 103, 
146; secretion of, 181, 306, 308, 311, 
313, 263; connection between the 
appetite and, 365, 366 ; experiments 
for, 367; too little, 370, 373, 373; 
salts of sodium promote a flow of, 

*77» »79» »•©> 3*9. 334f 335» 337. 
340>34i 

mechanism, the, 385 

— - movements, the, 301 ; early writ- 
ings on subject of, 30a; later ex- 
periments upon, 303, 337, 339, 338 

— — mucous membrane, the, excita- 
bility o£ 181, 331, 341, 349» 358, 
359,364 

muscular fibres, the, 307 

Gastric tonics," 355 

Gastritis, inefficient mastication may 
produce, 138 

Gastro-intestinal catarrh, 144 

Gaetronomic enjoyment, increased by 
proper mastication and insalivation, 

33 

Germany, food in, 367 
Ginger, preserved, 141 
Gladstone, William E., his theory of 

mastication, 93 
Gland metabolism, 377 



•t 



Index 



j 



Gsmski, Dr., see, 1941 19*1 «97 

Gluten, raw, 395 

"Glutton or Epicure/* 26, 31, 9a, 

389, 396. .SW ml$0 " New Glutton 

or Epicure, The " 
Goose, the, experiments upon, att 
C ook fa t, 100 
Gorilla, the, 115 
Gran Cbaeo Indiana, the, 123 
Grape-sugar, chemically made from 

cane-eugar, ai, 169 
Greens, 13a 
Grey, Sir George, 128 
Griddle-cakes, need not be hurtful, 21 
Griffin, Charles ft Company, 180, 181 
Grfltsner, experiments of, 378, 346, 

3»3f S77t S7*i 3*i 
Gscheidlen, 235 

Guinea-pifs, experiments upon, 39 
Gum erabic, chewing, 103 
Gustatory uMfiJfarence, 263 
— — nerves, the, 963, 169 
Gut, the, 344i 345. 355. 360, 364, 365, 

374 

H 

Hemorrhoids, cannot exist, 43 

Haller, experiments of, 304; his sum- 
mary of the motor functions of the 
stomach, 304-305, 309 

Harvard Medical School, 68 

Physiological Laboratory , the, 284 

Haste, danger of, 134-13$ 

Headache, produced by inefficient 
mastication, 138 

Health, the optimum, xxri 

Hearing, the sense of, aio 

Heart, the, stimulated by mastication, 
96, 103, 281 

Heartburn, 144 

Heat values, 397 

Heger, Dr. Prof. Paul, 67, 68 

Haidenhain, 181, 18a, 183, 235 



iMrbivore, the, 



't 97 
Dr. Hubert, 

uivu^iTxni, 47 
Hirach, experiments of, 305, 315 
Hofinsister, experiments of, 305, 

309, 310, 3". 3X3* 3i4» 3*6, 

33> 
Hopkins, Dr. F. GowUnd, a*>; 

paper upon the isolation of 

tryptophane element of die 

molecule, 47 
Ht* d'mmrrt, 266 
Horse, the, experiments upon, 

»94» 300 
Hospital Corps, the, at N 

xiii, 70 
Hunger, 241; "the 
Hyperacidity, 145 
Hyperemia, 345 
Hyperchlorhydria, 144, 147 



Hai 



beat eaoce," 254 



" ICNITIKC JUICE," 

Ignoraoce, dietic, sin of, xvii 
Ileocaxal valve, the, 355, 36a; the 

competence of, 362-364, 307^ 370, 

376, 3«». 3*7. 3» 
Ileum, the, 3631 364* 3*7. 37*. 3*3, 

387 
India, 82, 128 

Indians of Honduras, the, 134 
— - of Nicaragua, the, 124 

of North California, the, iaa, ta6 

Indigestion, x; dangers of, arr; 

caused by anger and worry, 7; 

"bunching hits" to oppose, 13-16 
Indol, the odourous, 47 
Industries, the, mastication in, 124 
Infant life, action of saliva in, 36 
Innervation mechanism, an, 

ent parts o£ 184 



[416] 



Index 



Insalivation, defined, 8, 32 ; iocreases 
gastronomic enjoyment, as, 46, 48 : 
its striking effect upon appetite, 50, 
60; effects of, 74« 89, 92, 93» 96; 
mastication promotes, 101 

Insane, the, forced feeding of, 368 

Instinct, human, the outcome of every- 
day experience, 251; physiology 
merely confirms the precepts of, 
251 ; provisions for digestion made 
by, 267 ; demands of, 272 

Intemperance, 95 

International Congress of Physiolo- 
gists, the, 36, 48, 56, 68, 91 

— — Laboratory of Research, the, 
proposal to found, 55-69; sugges- 
tions as to staff and personnel, 63 ; 
estimate of initial outlay, 63 ; sug- 
gestions as to location, 63 ; sugges- 
tions as to management, 66 

Intestinal anaemia, 345 

canal, the, 391 34* 

contents, the, rhythmic segmen- 
tation of, 347-355* 386 

digestive juices, the, 361 

mechanism, the, 385 

movements, difficulties of investi- 
gating, 342 ; the best known of, 343 

— — secretion, 61 

wall, the, 344, 381, 386 

Intestine, the large, activity of, 343 ; 
movements of, 364-377, 379, 386, 

387. 388 

, the small, 343, 346 ; the move- 
ments of, 347-362, 366; course of 
food in, 360-363, 365, 367, 369, 378? 
381,3831385.386,3871388 

, the, action of the bacteria in, 

39 ; micro-organic action in, 40, 80, 
92 ; much more sensitive than the 



Jafva, Professor, 90 ; and the fruit- 
arians, 397 

Japan, 82 

Jaws, the, mastication stimulates the 
nutrition of, 96, 103, 155 : influence 
of mastication upon, 109, 148 ; 
changes during man's evolution in, 
1 15-131; instances of vigorous use, 

133 

Johns Hopkins University, 68 
" Journal of Physiology, The" (Amer- 
ican), 284, 3©»i 34* 
(English), 47 

K 

Rais Root, 133 

Kane, Dr., 135 

Kara, 134 

Katabolic action, 41 

KataboUsm, 95 

Kellogg, Dr. J. H., xxvii; letter 
from, xxxiu-xxxv ; his estimate of 
amount of food habitually used, 
xxxiv ; tribute to, 391 ; his experi- 
mental investigation of the influ- 
ence of mastication and cooking of 
food, 391-396 

Mrs. J. H., 389 ; tribute to, 391 

Kelp, 133 

Kotljar, experiment by, 217 

Kreuznach, 46 

Kronecker, Dr. Pro! Hugo, 67, 6S, 
384, 385 ; theory of deglutition o:, 
386 

Kumagawa, e xp er im ents of, 81 

Kwas, 367, 269, 370 



stomach, 139* 3<»» 3>7t 3*8, 337. 

341; studied by means of the Lactic acid, prepared in the stomach, 

Rftntgen rays, 34*-388, 395 I a6 9. 393. 394 

*7 [417] 



Inde: 



M Lancet, The," 8, 26, 31 ; Dr. Camp- 
bell's articles from, 91-1791 US 

Lard, 97a 

Laws of Nature, health, strength, and 
moral tone dependent npon proper 
fulfilment of, 73 

Leonardi, Dr. Profeeeor, a6 

Life, right conduct of, xiii ; the eesen- 
tiala and eeqnenoe in, 399 

Lippincott, J. B. ft Company, 180, 
181 

Liqueurs, 266 

Liquids, how to treat, 9, 34, 93, 94, 95 

Lobaseoff, Dr., experiments by, a 17, 
a 18, 220, 222, 226 

Lobster, 137, 141 

London, 65 

Lower Californians, the, 113 

Ludwig, experiments of, 34a 

Lumen, the, 374 

Lymph, influence of the contraction 
of the masticatory muscles on local 
circulation of, 107, 148, 1491 355 

M 

Macaboni, 13a 

— — cheese, 100 

Mackerel, 141 

Madrid, 69 

Magendie, theory of deglutition of, 

a84 
Maize, chewed, 124 
Mai-assimilation , of nutriment, x, zxi ; 

" bunching hits " to oppose, 13-16 ; 

dangers of, 24, 35 
Malay, ss8 
Mall, experiments of, 343, 345. 354, 

378 
Malnutrition, causes of, xxi, 35 
w Malt extracts," ioa 
Maltose, starch turned into, iot, 170, 

39*. 393 



[418] 



Man, the First Assistant of Nature, 
si ; his disparity due to ignorance* 
xii ; absurdity of hiai gn oi anc e, 4.«3; 
experiments upon, 300 \ by 
a frugivorous animal, 395 

Maple sugar, 84 

MarckwaM, Max, paper u On 
tion of Milk in the Stomach of Fall- 
grown Dogs," 46 

Masticate, how to, 19 

Mastication, inefficient, "n- tr if Lm o£ 
129; must lead to many evils, 139; 
erOs resulting from, 135 ; con d nrem 
to fTcemive eating, 13s l aaay cause 
aufibcaUon, 137 ; may 
tritia, 138; excess of 
pass into stomach because of, 141 ; 
prevents a sufficient amount of 
alkali to pasa into die stomach, 
146; causes evils with the jaws and 
their appendages and die adjacent 
structures, 148 ; rca p n n eihfc? for ade» 
noids, 148-152 ; a potent cause of 
Rigg's disease, 159; secondary erOs 
of, 164, 394 

 " , proper, increase! 
enjoyment, as, 46, 48, 60; 
of, 74. 89 ; Dr. Campbell's 
tions upon, 96-173 ; the effects e£ 
96 j primary object of^ 96 1 pro* 
motes flow of saliva, 96, 01; stimu- 
lates the heart and circulation, 96, 
103; influences the nutrition of the 
jaws, 96, 103 ; facilitates swallowing, 
97; brings the food into intimate 
contact with the digestive juices, 
98; increases amount of alkaline 
saliva passing into the stomach, 96, 
102; acts reflexlyupon the stomach, 
102 ; the muscles of, 104; its influ- 
ence upon the jaw-bones, 109; its 
influence upon the teeth* 110; m 
the preparation of beverages, 1x3; 



Index 



in the industries, 134 ; the instinct 
of, ia6; the causation of inefficient, 
119 ; less opportunity than formerly 
for, 130-133; defective apparatus 
for, 133 ; affected by individual dif- 
ferences, 134; tends to diminish 
amount of food consumed, 136; 
most effective way to secure starch 
digestion, 145 ; effect upon the nasal 
passages, naao-pharynx, and feudal 
tonsils, 148; fast becoming a lost 
art, 157 ; means of insuring ade- 
quate, 164, 389; experimental in- 
vestigation of the influence of, 
39* 
Masticatory instinct, the, 126-119 

— muscles, the, 104; influence of 
their contraction on local circulation 
of blood and lymph, 107, 148 

Matri, 128 

Meadville, Penn., 396 
Measles, 149 
Meat, 78 

— broth, 366 ; an important chem- 
ical exdtant of gastric secretion, 
a66, 367 

extract, a68 

— juice, 368 

Mechanical stimulus, great impor- 
tance assigned to, 357 

Medical practice, largely based upon 
empiricism, 5a 

science, not possessed of final 

information concerning questions of 
nutrition, 53 

Medicine, ideal only when it can take 
its proper position, 249 ; physiology 
can make no pretence to guide the 
field of, 351 ; to what it will at length 
grow, 351; treats too lightly the 
loss of appetite, 356 

Melanesia, 138 

Mslanesians, the, iao 



Meltzer, Dr., 384; experiments of, 
394t >o6, 397, 398 

Mendel, Dr. Lafayette B.,69 

Mendel Pass, M Boxen, Stid Tirol, 
Austria, experiments at, 36 

Mental energy, 41 

state, is ; its effect upon diges- 
tion and nutrition, 74 

Menticulture, physical and mental 
equipments necessary to promote, 7 

" Menticulture," xxi, xxiv 

Metabolism, 37; determination of, 
40 ; calorimetric trial-balance 
measurement of, 54 

Micro-organisms, 40; destroyed by 
add gastric juices, 41 

Middletown, Conn., experiments at, 
54 

Milk, how to drink, 9; experiments 
in drinking, 36, 38-39, 78, 84, 93, 
94, 268; takes a special position 
among foods, 373 ; the three prop- 
erties of, 373; its relation to the 
secretion of the digestive juices, 

*74» »7S» »76» 277 

pudding, 97, 143, 173 

" Modern Medicine," 389, 391 

Modoc Indians, the, 133 

Moist foods, 97 

Moritz, experiments of, 334, 338, 333 

Mosso, Dr. Prof. Angelo, 67, 68 
»84, a»5 

Mouth, the, should do all it can, 93, 
180; examination of, 174-179; rins- 
ing, 179; mechanical and chemical 
stimulation of the cavity of, aoi, 
385, 386 

— - breathing, evils of, 151-153 

— — discrimination, 94 

— — thoroughness, 8 

— treatment, of food, 5, ia, 93 ; a 
preliminary necessity of easy diges- 
tion, 180, 389 



[419] 



Index 



Mucosa, the, 343, S55 
Mocom — m bian e , tht, 346 
Munich, 56, 76, 81 
r, is8 



N 



Mutton, too 



Nanism, J. F., i»3 

• Napoleon, died from mat earing, 138 

Nasal passages, the, ©fleet of 
cation upon, 148 

Naao-pharyagiria, 144, 148, M9 

Naao-pharynx, the, influence of 
ticarton upon, 148 

National Academy of Sdences, the, 
oootribute to mod for reeeerch, 69 

Natural Automatic Processes, 3, 180 

Nature, plan of evolution of, xi; 
Man die First Aaaietant of, xi ; her 
reward for conformity with her 
requirements, xii; her generous 
assumption of forty letcu forty- 
eighths of labour, 5, 12 ; given an 
opportunity by ec on o m ic nutrition, 
as; her plana perfect if her laws 
are obeyed, so; never intended a 
special diet or bottle of medicine, 
30; endeavours to prepare lactic 
add in the stomach, 369 

Negritos, the, 118 

Negroes, the African, iao 

Nerve cells, the, specific qualities of, 

i«7 
— fibres, 184 



* While Napoleon was building his 
power and fame be waa very careful 
and abstemious, but in later life suc- 
cumbed to luxury and gluttony ; Bis- 
marck's rise and decline were simi- 
larly related to dietary influences. 
— H. F. 



Nervous system, the, i 

the glands of, 183 
Neutralisation, 9a 
"New Glutton or 

47- &» ahw 



*e, 



New Guinea, 124 

New Haven <Conn.X 
imenta at, xiii 54, 71. Sm Tale 
investigation, the, and Yale test, 
the 

Nitrogen, 85, 86 

Nitrogenous equilibrium, 86 

" No Breakfast Plan," the, 396 
Nothnagel, experiments e£, 343, 345 
Northwest London Hospital, the, 8, 

Notarians,oo 

Nutrient encmata, 367, 379, 380, 38a, 
3*8 

— • fluid, 381 

Nutriment, selection ct, 7 

Nutrition, economic, experiments upon 
problem of, ix, x, 48-53 ; active in- 
terest now taken in, x ; the *«— *»*» 1 
saving the least of the profits in, xi ; 
the key to England's welfare, xxv; 
attitude of the adentinc mind to- 
wards, xxvii; little accurate knowl- 



of, 6-7 ; appetite the moat impor- 
tant lector in, 6 ; mechanical and 
chemical physiology of, 8; its entire 
prindple simple and practical, 19; 
does not advise avoiding starchy 
foods for stout people, ai ; assures 
that the same food will add or 
decrease weight, ai ; keeps one m 
perfect condition, aa; its require- 
ments not hardships but pleasures, 
aa; not a joke or fad, 34; an appeal 
to self-examination and eelfinstruc- 



[420] 



Index 



tjon, 14, as 5 »»*t ecientmc rceogni- 
tioa of principles of, 96; medical 
science not possessed of final infor- 
matkm concerning qoestiona of, 53; 
plan for institution of an interna* 
tional inquiry into the ■object of, 
53-55 ; proposed to found an inter- 
national laboratory of re wren for 
the study of, 55-68 ; no question of 
greater importance, 79 ; poverty and 
▼ice Traosa to perwersion oi, 73, 
great need of thorough physiological 
study of, 74; effect of the mental 
state upon, 74 

Nutrition, animal, 56, 57, 58 

Nutritive equilibrium, 37; experi- 
ments in, 37-30 

Nuts, 141, 173 ; usefulness of, 397 

Nut tall, Dr. George H. F., so, 39, 47 



CEsorHAOtn, the, may protect the 
stomach, 139; 19s, a8s, 986, 989, 
291, 99a, 997, 999, 300, 3031 304* 3°7» 
316, 3»5» 3*6, 336, 341 

Opcnehowaki, experiments of, 305* 

3*5 
Orang, the, 115 
Oranges, 169 
O'Reilly, Surgeon-General, xvii, 69, 

7° 
Osawa, Professor, 55 



Pabulum, the, derivation of, 40, 41 

Pacific Islands, the, 1*4 

Padua, Italy, 98 

Palate, the, " the dietetk conscience," 

75 
Pancreas, the, excited by the vagus 
and the sympathetic nerves, 183, 

[42 



, special ft hH ww of acids to, 
370, 971, 973, 974. «79 
Pancreatic digestion, 395 
— gland, the, 969, 170, syi, s8o 
juice, the, experiments for, 967, 

»7°» »73» *79» I60, 395 
Paris, 56, 65 

Pastry, 13*. i7« 
Patagomans, the, iaS 
Pathology, 349 
Paris, University of, a© 
Pawlow, Dr. Proi J. P., 6, 7, n; 
0461,67,68; his 
of psychic influence 
digestion, 180-983 
Peas, 139 

P*uUIbtw*cmtg> the, 349 
Pendulum movement, the, 358-360 



in 



Peptic digestion, 318, 335 

Peristalsis, 397, 330, 333» 337* 34*, 
343* 344, 346, 348, 355-357* 361, 
3*5.377. 378* 3*3. 384. 386, 388 

Peristaltic wave, the, 343t 353t 365 

Pfluger's Archives, 18s 

Pharynx, the, 985, 986, 990, 99B 

Phatpptnes, the, 69 

Physicians, most of them called on to 
restore appetite, 254 » their mdif* 
forence to appetite, 957 ; in Russia, 
960; should bear in mind the 
tion of psychic secretion, 961 

Physiology, ap plied, 951 

Pine-apple, 141 

Pitcherie, chewing, 199 

Polynesia, 138 



Poorer dames, the, a ppeti te 
among, 953; food of, 966, 967 

"Popular Science Monthly, The," 
xxxin, 53; Pr o fes sor Ch i tten d en 's 
article in, 69-91 

Pork, too, 141 

Porridge, 97, 143* 17a, ayo 



Index 



Potato, made digestible by saliva, so; 
if masticated, need not produce 
fat, ai ; experiments with, 38, ica ; 
yields abundant sugar by long* 
continued mastication, 143, 146 

Potatoes, boiled, 143, 17a 

Poverty, traced to perversion of nu- 
trition, 73 

Proteid, demanded by the appetite, 
xxxii ; the putrid decomposition of, 
47; minimum amount o£ 74; 78, 
79. Asiatics consume smaller pro- 
portion of, 8a, 83, 85, 98, 100, 37a, 

394 
, the high, xxxii, xxxiii 

— — , the low,xxxi, xxxii, xxxiii 

digestion, perfect, 304, 395 

— — molecule, the, isolation of the 

tryptophane element of, 47 

Physiology, experimental, 349; can 

make no pretence to guide the field 

of medicine, 351 ; merely confirms 

the precepts of instinct, 351 

Psychic environment, 13 

— excitation, 259 

— influence, in digestion, 180-383 
— — juice, the, 313, 357, 367 
——secretion, 361 
——stimulation, 349 
Pultaceoos foods, 95, 97 

Pyloric sphincter, the, movements of, 

3M 

Pylorus, the, stands guard over the 
intestines, 139, 141; observations 
of Failoptue upon, 30a ; ideas of 
early writers concerning, 303 ; later 
experiments, 304, 307, 308, siSt 3io» 
3»7i 3*5* 3*6, 32*» 330, 331, 333, 
333i 340, 34i» 360 



Rabbit, the, experiments upon, 344, 
3S9» 37' 

[4* 



Rage, effect of, 38S 

Raiser, experiments of, 390, 371 

Rectal injections, stxnralatisMr. 

on movements of small intcstim of, 

367 
Rectum, the, 374, 379* 3** 
Reed, Dr. Major Walter (martyr to 

science), 70 
Regina Maigherita Laboratory, tike, 

summit Monte Rosa, 64, 68 
Regurgitation, 35 
Rhinitis, 144, 148, 149 
Rhythmic segmentation, of the 

tinal contents, 347-355, 

36*. 3*3i 3» 
Rice, 8a, 133 
Rickets, 144 
Rigg*s disease, r 59, 163 
Rjasansew, Professor, 

Roberts, Sir William, 75, 147 
Rockefeller, John D., 
— — Institute of 

due, the, 68 ' 
RtUUwtgumzt 345 
RSntgen rays, the, Dr. Cannon's 

studies with, 180, 384, 387-300, 30*- 

34«. 34»-3*8 
Roosevelt, President Theodore, 70 
Root, Secretary of War, Elihv, 70 
Rosa, Monte, 64, 68 
Rossbach, experiments o£ 305, 309, 

3". 3i3, 3>4 
Roux, experiments of, 314, 315, 337, 

Royal Society, the, 68 
Rumination, 35, 98 
Russell, Dr. William, 145 
Russia, physicians in, 360; food in, 

367,373 
Russian Imperial Military School of 

Medicine, the, 68 
— peasant, the, 370 



Index 



8abbatani, experiment! of, 378 

St. Martin, Alexia, investigations on, 

3<>S»309 
Saliva, its chemical efibct opon potato, 

30; upon syrup, ai, 33, 34, 35; its 
action in infant Ufa, 36; an im- 
portant therapeutic agent, 45, 93, 
94, 95 ; mastication promotes flow 
o( 96, 101 ; dry food produces 
greater flow than moist, 97, 147; 
complicated physiological functions 

Of, X9i->9», 337. 39«. 393. 395. 39* 
Salivary digestion, in the stomach, 
335. 34> * effect of mastication and 
cooking of food upon, 391 ; imper- 
fect, 394 
— —  glands, the, 155; analogy be- 
tween the innervation mechanism 
and the glands of digestion, 188- 
190; the exciting agencies of the 
nervous mechanism of, 191 ; their 
particular properties, 191-194 ; dif- 
ferences between the exciting 
agencies of the different, 194-198 ; 
Profes s or Pawlow's sham feeding 
experiment, 198-211, 380 

— secretion, excitants at, 191 
Sapidity, 44 
Sauces, 269 
Schlfer, 40,8a 
Schmidt, experiments of, see, S04, 

331 ; conditions for success, 304-306 
Schutx, experiments of, 305, 308, 309, 

310, 3x1, 3x3. 3M» 337. 33^ 
Schwartz, experiments of, 303, 304 
Scientific Assessors, Board of, 67, 68, 

181 
Secretions, digestive, 180 
Secretory fibres, 183 

— nerves, 366 
Segmentation, 386, 388 



Selection, of nutriment, 7 

Self-nutrition, secret of, xfl 

Sensory nerves, 187 

Sham feeding, experiments in, 108- 
311, 314-346; psychic effect may 
become an absolute and independ- 
ent factor in, 309, 379 

Sheffield Scientific School, the, ex- 
periments at, 53, 68 



Sight, the sense of, a 10 

Siven, experiments of, 81 

Skatol, the odourous, 47 

Sleep, exercises no restraining influ- 
ence upon the gastric glands, 306; 
effect of, 383-386 

Smell, the sense of, sio 

Snyder, Dr., experiment in nutritive 
equilibrium, 37-38 

Sode'te' de Biologie, the, 46 

Sodium, salts of, 377; promote a flow 
of gastric juice, 377, 378, 379, 381, 
382 

Soft foods, 97, 139, '3°* M*. IO °. ,oa 

Solid foods, 94, 368 

Solray Sociological Institute, the, 68 

Sorbonne, Universitie de la, 68 

Soups, a66, 367 

South Africa, 11 

——America, 134 

" Spectator," the, 38 

Sphincter, the, 3*5. 3*6, 3«7» 33*. 331. 

34* 

Spinach, 99 

Spirits, 93, 94 

Ssanoxki, Professor, experiments d, 
303, aa8 

Starch, needed by body, so, sx, 78, 98 ; 
changed into maltose, xoi, 10a; 
danger to the stomach in receiving 
an excess of, 141-146 ; the last con- 
stituent to leave the stomach, 145, 
170, 171, 173, 370, 337, 393, 395, 
639 

[ 4*3 ] 



Index 



Surfing, experiments ot» $4h U4f 

US, 346, JS9 
Stews, 960 
Stomach, the, straggles bravely to 



19; MB'I 
iiBot concerning requirements of, 
93 ; mastication sets reflexly upon, 
10s; a lotig-enJkring ot^an, 138; 
its danger of receiving an excess of 
starch, 141; starch the last con- 
stituent to leave, 14s 5 necessity of 
alkali in, 146; s o ci e to i y work of, 
18a, 183, »»o ; se creto ry nerree oC, 
310,337; the seat of certain definite 
sensations, 341 ; the initial impulse 
towards awakening an appetite may 
originate in, 344, 346 ; no material 
pi ogr es s in the physiology o£ 350; 
Nature endeavours to prepare lactic 
add in, 369; adds supplement 
weak acdoa in, 370, 379; catarrhal 
affections o£ 380 ; gives no obvious 
external sign of its workings, 301 ; 
studied by means of the Rontgen 
rays, 301-341; Galen's obeerva- 
tions on the functions of, 303 ; Fal- 
kpius's views upon, 303 ; the motor 
functions ot, 304 ; the anatomy of, 
306; its relations to the shadow, 
306; the musculature of, 308; 
normal movements of, 309* the 
peptonistng function of, 314; its 
appearance at various stages of 
digestion, 319; c o m posed of two 
physiologically distinct portions, 
334, 340 ; its movements in vomit- 
ing, 3*5 I effect of its movements 
upon the food, 338; attempts to 
perform function of teeth, 333; 
saHvary digestion in, 335 ; inhibi- 
tion of its movements during emo- 
tion, 337 
— fluids, 393, 394 



[424] 



ounwcauon, cskumjo; uy inrnx uau aa> 

tloition, ijy 
Sugar, 31, 78, 80, 95, 109, 337t MS. 

395 

Sugar-cane, 133, 134, 169 

"Sure and Certain Method of At- 
taining a Long and Heskhaj) 
Life," Luigi Cornaro's twams 
upon, s8 

Swallowing, facilitated bymasticaooB, 
97; mechanism of, 384. S*e *1m 
Swallowing Impulse, the 

Impulse, the, xxxfi, 8, 9, «, 

94 
reflex, Dr. Van Someren% *, 

44 
Sweet potato, 134 

Sweets, why pleasant, 368, 369 
Sympathetic nerve, the, an undoubted 

exdter of the gastric glands asd of 

the pancreas, 183 
Syrup, chemical effect of saHva apse, 

31 

T 

Tapioca, 13a 

Taphn, 135 

Tasmanians, the, is* 

Taste, delicacy of the sense of, 1*, 
33; should be dissipated in tbfl 
mouth, 93, sio; necessary to grrs 
an impulse to the organs of, *S3*» 
the nutritive value of feed should 
be considered rather than, 361 

— gratification, 93 

Tea, 133 

Tea-taster, the profit ssionsl, methods 

of, *3i 93 
Teeth, the, influence of mastication 

upon, no; changes during ■**'» 

evolution, 115-131; instance! of 

vigorous use, isa-iao ; irregularity 

in, 156; evils of imperfect use of, 

157* examination of, 174-179! **• 



index 



stomach attempts to perform func- 
tion of, 333 

" Text-Book of Physiology/ 1 Schft- 
fer's, 40 

"That Last Waif; or Social Quaran- 
tine," xxr 

Therapeuticexperiments, pathological, 

S49 
Therapeutics, precepts at, 273 
Thierfelder, 39 
Thirst, 95 
Thompson, Dr., 141 

Prof. W. H. f 180, 181 

Thorax, the, 290 
Tobacco-chewing, 103, 129 
Tokio, University of, 55 
Tongue, the, needs exerdse, 154 
Tonic constrictions, the, 344; the 

appearance of, 370-373, 385, 387 

rings, the, 373 

Tonsillitis, 144, 148 

Tooth-brush, the, 177 

Tooth-powder, 178 

Toxins, absorbed into the blood, 40, 

4< t 44t 143 

Training, for athletes, why necessary, 
aa 

u Train! Analytique de la Digestion," 
Blondlot's, 181 

Treves, Sir Frederick, 00 bolting of 
food, 140, 141 

Trinity College, Dublin, 180 

Trophic fibres, 183 

Tryptophane, 47 

Tuberculosis, 144 

Turin, Italy, Congress of Physiolo- 
gists at, so, 48, 56, 91 

- — , University o£ 68, S84 



u 

Uftira, should be i 
«74 



4», 93 



Vagus imvs, the, an undoubted 
titer of the gastric glands and of 
the pancreas, 183 ; its functions al- 
most interminable, 183, 349 

Van Someren, Dr. Ernest, xxv, 7, is ; 
his paper "Was Luigi Comaro 
Right?" 96-46; his swallowing re- 
flex, 26, 44; his experiments con- 
firmed by Marckwald, 46; Sir 
Michael Foster's Note upon his 
paper, 48-51 ; the Cambridge tests, 
49-5ai53»6o, 91,9a, 98 

Van Valsah, 146 

Veal, 100 

Veddahs, the, 128 

Vegetable food, experiments with, 40 ; 
necessitates more thorough masti- 
cation than animal, 97, 98, 173; 
influenced more by rooking than 
animal, 118, 13a, 170 

Vegetables, 43, 78 

Venice, Italy, 30, 63, 64, 91 

Vermicelli, 132 

Vermicular contraction, 343 

wave, the, 345 

Vermiform appendix, the,*i40 

Vice, traced to perversion of nutrition* 

73 

Vienna, 65 

— — bread, 131 

Vinegar, 269 

Vivisection, 303, 305 

Voice, the, requires lusty exerdse in 
youth, 149 

Volt diet, the, 76, 81, 84, 86 

Vomiting, the act of, 193, 303 ; move- 
ments of the stomach in, 325, 341 

W 



Wallace, Dr. G. Sim, no, 113, 130, 
»54t «58t 161, 169, 174, 177 

[4*5] 



Inde* 



Waltber, Dr. , experiment* of, 167, 376 

Washington, D. G, 70 

Water, how to drink, 9, 34a 95, a68, 

J9»» I9> 
— — biscuit, 391 

Weight, moat become normal, 43 
Welch, Dr. Prat William H., 67, 68 
Wepfer, experiment* of, 303, 304 
Wheat, ungrooad pearl, 39a, 393, 394 
——flour, 39a 
Wine, how to take, 9, aa, as 
Wine-taatara, the pro feea i onal , meth- 
od* of, 23, 93 
Wolves, expeiimenta upon, 303 
Wood, Ifaj. Gen, Leonard, 691 70 
Worry, causae indigestion, 7 
Walton, Dr., 197 



X-kay. St* ROotgen ray 



Yale investigation, the, x, xi, 

xv, xni, xTiii, xnc, xxxtn 
— Gymnasium, the, 87 

teat, the, 5, 69, 75-91 

University, 68 



Z, In the nutrition alphabet* an, is 
Znntx, Dr. Prot N., 67, 68 



[4«6] 



■y^/^ 



mm:) 

HC 3SXM fi 



