ji^l^i%.C^TICJ Afcl^ 



f 








The ordinary yellow laundry soap may do well 
enough for scrubbing and for the coarser work in the 
laundry, but to get a clear snow-white in the linens and 
muslins, to save the costly embroideries and the sheer 
and delicate fabrics, to avoid the unpleasant odor that is 
often too perceptible in the towels and bed linen, use 
Ivory Soap, a pure soap made of only the cleanest, best 
materials. 

Ivory Soap— 99^3-100 Per Cent. Pure. 




J)o not write in this book or mark it 
pen or pencil. Penalties are imposed by the 
Revised Laws of the Commonwealth of Mas- 
sachusetts, Chapter 208, Section 83. 



A SEP 36 

JAN 31 a 

JAIV 30 W 



Mi 3, 



J^ 



JAN ~t; 1950 



B.P.L. FORM NO. 609; 3.8.30; 500H. 



i 



MRS. SNOW'S 

Practical Cook Book 



FOR ^^ 

HOME AND SCHOOLS 



DENVER, COLORADO. 

1903. 



COPYRIGHT, 1903, BY 
MRS. MARY B. SNOW. 






A. J. LuDDiTT Press, Denver, colo. 



¥T IS WITH PLEASURE THAT I COMPLY WITH 
THE URGENT REQUEST OF MANY OF MY PU- 
PILS TO ARRANGE OUR COURSE OF COOKING 
LESSONS INTO BOOK FORM, AND I THANK THE 
FRIENDS WHO HAVE SO KINDLY CONTRIBUTED 
EACH THEIR CHOICEST RECIPE. SHOULD ITS 
PAGES PROVE ACCEPTABLE TO YOUNG HOUSE- 
KEEPERS, AND MAKE SOME HOMES HAPPIER, I 
SHALL FEEL THAT MY EFFORT HAS NOT BEEN 
IN VAIN. 

To MY DEAR FRIEND MrS. J. MARSHALL 
ChATTERSON, THROUGH WHOSE UNTIRING PER- 
SEVERANCE, THE REAL SCIENCE OF LIVING HAS 
BEEN CARRIED INTO MANY HOMES, AND TO MY 
PUPILS, THIS BOOK IS JOYFULLY DEDICATED. 



PREFACE. 

In the economy of nature nothing is lost. All waste, by the aid 
of heat is converted into fuel for cooking food for plants, then into 
food for man and animals — and animals, as condensed vegetable, furn- 
ishes food for man; all containing some chemical properties, depend- 
ant one upon the other, all for the use of man. To prepare food so as 
to get the most nutrition and not impose too much labor upon the 
digestive system, should be understood by every housekeeper. What 
the physician does after we are sick, the cook should do before hand, 
then there would be no need of a physician. 

This book is not intended as an inexhaustless treatise upon 
cooking, but a selection of recipes such as is needed in any well regu- 
lated family. They have been repeatedly tried, with success, in school, 
at home or, by the kind friends who have contributed their favorite. 
With instruction given at the heading of each chapter it is hoped that 
failures will be unknown. Requests for information gladly granted. 

Small rules have been given for individual trial, or for classes in 
cooking. 

Different nations have their special food, and different people 
have hobbies regarding uncooked, vegetable, meat or fruit diet, but a 
mixed diet has been proven best, and care should be exercised, espe- 
cially for growing children. 

A knowledge of heat and digestion should be understood as well 
as pure water. 

Make the dining room the brightest place in the home; make 
food attractive; give time to eat slowly; rest a little, and this will prove 
a good world after all. 



Table of Contents. 



ELEVEN ILLUSTRATIONS. 



CHAPTER. 

1 The Home 9 

Establishing 9 

Fnrnishing 10 

Selection of range 10 

Cooking utensils 11 

Table setting and serving. . 12 

Waitress 13 

Dinner giving 14 

Order of menu 15 

Dinner a la Russe 15 

Flame 16 

Making a fire 16 

Ways of cooking meat 17 

Some ways to save 17 

Cooking 17 

Soda, baking powder 18 

Flour 19 

Test 19 

Measurements 19 

Thin batters 20 

Stififer batters 22 

Soft doughs 23 

Bread making 26 

CHAPTER 

3 Soups 84 

4 Cereals 41 

5 Vegetables ^ 47 

6 Meats 55 

7 Sauces, meat and pudding 66 

8 Oysters 71 



CHAPTER. 

9 Fish 73 

10 Poultry and game 79 

11 Eggs 85 

12 Beverages 89 

13 Cookies, etc 92 

14 To try out shortening.. . 96 

15 Pastry and pies 98 

16 Custards 104 

17 Fritters 108 

18 Timbales no 

19 Croquettes 112 

20 Jellies with gelatine 116 

21 Puddings 120 

22 Cake 127 

23 Salads 137 

24 Sandwiches 144 

25 Frozen dessert 146 

26 How to serve fruits 152 

27 Compotes and canning. . 153 

28 Pickles, catsup 158 

29 Aspic jelly 161 

30 Candy 163 

31 Entries 167 

32 Chafing dish 171 

33 Food in sickness 177 

34 Fruit juices 181 

35 Menus 184 

36 Important 187 

Memoranda 

Firms to patronize 



Derrioristratioris in CooKing- 

Lectures upon Clnerriistry of 

Food ar\d CooKing- 

SANITATION. 

THE HOME. 

HOME DRESSMAKING. 

INVALID COOKING. 

EMERGENCIES. 



Mrs. Mary B. Sqow, 

1280 Logan Avenue. Denver. 
Teacher of Domestic Science School, Denver, 
and Domestic Science School, Louisville, Ky. 



CHAPTER I. 



THe Home. 

Woman is ruler of the Home Kingdom and even with 
others to perform the menial duties, she should under- 
stand the complete regime in order that the mechanism 
may run in a methodical and economical manner, and as 
the health and comfort of the family depends upon the food 
they eat, the knowledge should be considered as a science 
and an art. 

When establishing a home consider your income, 
don't mind the opinion of Dame Gossip, but what you can 
afford. A cottage is far more blissful than a mansion with 
rent unpaid. A good rule is to allow one-fifth of income 
for rent; one-third for table expenses, lights and fuel; one- 
fifth for dress; one-fifth for help, insurance and incidentals, 
the remainder for bank account. 

In selecting a house the chief essentials are pure air, 
sunlight and dryness. Are the cellar windows on op- 
posite sides? Is the plumbing work open and exposed to 
view? Are the fixtures on the different floors placed over 
each other, so as to avoid horizontal soil or waste pipe? 
Is the house drain outside the house to the sewer or cess- 
pool properly laid? Is there a trap on the house drain? 
Is there a pipe for the admission of out door air on the 
house side of this trap? Examine the heating apparatus, 
notice the cold air box. 

The present prevalence of consumption is largely due 
to a lack of sanitary precautions in the past. 



10 THE KITCHEN. 

In furnishings seek adaptability and simplicity, noth- 
ing which can destroy comfort or injure health can be 
recognized as truly beautiful. 

The beginners in housekeeping should first decide the 
amount of money they can afPord to spend in furnishing, 
then make a list of essentials; then another list of desir- 
able accessories should be made out, leaving the bric-a-brac 
to come by degrees. Floors covered entirely with carpet 
can not be kept free from dust. 

Sleeping rooms are best on second floor and require 
very little furniture. 

The dining room should be bright and attractive. A 
round table sets off a dinner. Chairs should be generous 
and firm. A side board table, covered with a pretty cloth, 
will serve to hold table ware one always wants in the din- 
ing room. 

The linen should be fine and well laundered; the 
china and silver bright. 

THe KitcHen. 

So much of the health and comfort of the family de- 
pend upon the kitchen, that careful thought should be 
given to its furnishing. If floor is covered with linoleum, 
see that it fits the edges close. Let the range be one of 
the best. The draft should be perfect. The checks and 
dampers should be so arranged that the heat may be in- 
creased or decreased at will. 

If a gas range is to be used, see that the oven accom- 
modations are ample; that there is a good place for broil- 
ing, and that there is one small burner for simmering, 
The gas range should have a pipe entering the chimney to 
carry off the products of combustion. 

Ample table room in the kitchen simplifies the work, 
A clock, a slate and pencil for writing orders, and a rack 
for hanging dish towels. 



UTENSILS. 



11 



Utensils. 

It is a mistake for a beginner to fill the kitchen with 

all the utensils she will be apt to need in the future. Get 

the necessary articles first and have them of the best 
quality and simplest construction. Granite and enameled 

ware are recommended. Stone and earthenware. For 
baking, the French fire-proof ware. 



Flour box, 

steamer, 

Muffin pan, 

2 cake pans, 

2 layer-cake tins, 

Melon mold, 

2 measuring cups, 

( One divided into thirds, 
/ One divided into fourths, 

2 dish pans, 

Long handled dipper. 

Coffee pot. 

Puree sieve, 

Fine sieve, 

Colander, 

Coarse grater. 

Nutmeg grater, 

Egg beater, 

Wire dish-cloth, 

2 tea spoons, 

2 knives, 

2 forks. 

Wooden spoon, 

2 wooden cake paddles, 

Chopping bowl and knife, 

Rolling pin. 

Potato masher, 

2 boards for cutting bread, etc. 

4 bowls of various sizes, 

2 cups and saucers, 

3 pitchers, 
6 plates, 

2 platters, 

Dishes for putting away food. 

Tin-ware. 
Skimmer, 
Flour scoop, 
Sugar scoop. 
Tea canister. 
Frying basket. 
Potato ricer. 
Spice box, 
Bread box, 
Cake box. 



Pails for sugar, rice, meal, fat, 

drippings for frying, 
Biscuit cutter. 
Cookie cutter. 
Jelly mold. 
Flour dredge and sifter, 

Iroix-ware. 

Scotch bowl, 
Roasting pan with rack, 
2 bread pans. 
Large pan for cookies, 
Omelet pan, 

Frying pan, short handle. 
Waffle iron, 
2 wire broilers, 
Soup pot. 
Griddle. 

Porcelain-lined kettle, 
Graxiite-wstre. 

2 sauce pans, 
Double boiler, 

3 milk pans, 

Bread pan and cover, 
2 spoons. 

Miscellaneous. 
Vegetable slicer, 
Palette knife, 
Bread knife. 
Large fork. 
Steel dish-cloth, 
Soap dish and shaker, 
Lemon squeezer. 
Funnel, 
2 iron spoons. 
Cake turner, 
Can opener. 
Tea kettle. 
Pastry brush. 
Flat iron stand, 
2 asbestos covers, 
2 tin covers, 
Dust pan, 
Whisk broom. 

Cheese cloth for straining and 
draining. 



12 TABLE SETTING AND SERVING. 

A shelf should be arranged or a warming oven for 
warming dishes. Method and order are indispensable fac- 
tors in the kitchen. A place for everything and every- 
thing in place. A covering of white enameled cloth on 
pantry shelves and tables is recommended. 

Strong soaps or alkali should not be used on paint, 
it removes dirt and softens paint, also. Use Ivory soap. 
Squares of linen or cotton, or even of gunny sack, hemmed, 
hung near kitchen stove to remove things from oven saves 
dish towels and aprons. 

Table Setting and Serving. 

There is a wide range for individual taste and artistic 
arrangement in table decoration. Pleasing effects of 
color are considered and is often carried through the menu, 
the dishes served corresponding in color to the table deco* 
rations. If only for a family meal, the table should always 
be in order for an unexpected guest, however simple the 
menu. 

In laying the table for an informal dinner, a napkin 
to protect the table cloth is spread at the carver's place. 
This is not removed until the dessert is to be served. The 
goup and dessert are usually served by the lady of the 
house. Salad is dressed at the table, then passed. The 
vegetable dishes are not placed on the table. When the 
meat is put on the table, warm plates in a pile are set in 
front of the carver, and when a portion is served, the plate 
is lifted by the servant and placed at right side before the 
person for whom it is intended without the use of a tray. 
The plates placed when table is laid are used for holding 
the soup plates, and are not removed until the ones hold^ 
ing the next course are exchanged for them. Avoid sharp- 
ening carving knife at table. One vegetable besides pota- 
toes is served with the roast. Serve the eldest or honored 
guest first. Fill glasses only three parts full. Set plates, 




A. Plates, Napkin with slice of bread folded in. 

B. Plant, Flowers, Fruit. 

C. Cakes or Fruits. 

D. Candle Sticks. 

E. Salt and Peppers. 

F. Water and Wine glasses. 

G. Candies and Nuts. 

Forks at left of plate; knives with soup-spoon at right; tea- 
spoons in front of plate. 



TABLE SETTING AND SERVING. 13 

cups and saucers and small dishes, at the right. Present 
on the left, hold tray low, remove from the left with left 
hand. Let service be noiseless. Where there is but one 
maid of all work, she can leave the room after serving the 
food. Extra passing can be done by those at the table, 
thus allowing more freedom in conversation and the maid 
time to wash up cooking utensils. 

Let the time at table be the happiest of the day — 
leave cares and business outside; encourage no fault find- 
ing nor ill temper. Laugh and grow fat. 

For a formal dinner, no special difference in laying 
table is necessary, except additional silver and more elabo- 
rate menu. 

A menu of six or eight courses, and time at table no 
longer than one and a half hours is quite the limit. In 
place of wines, Manitou mineral waters are used. 

In getting dishes ready for washing, lay silver 
together on tray with the glasses, pile saucers together and 
cups, remove scraps from plates and pile together, food 
removed from platters and vegetable dishes and placed in 
ice box. If there is a butler's closet, china, silver and glass 
will not go to the kitchen. Wash dishes first in pan with 
hot water containing soap suds, then rinse in hot water, 
dry quickly. In order: first the glasses, then the silver, 
then the cups and saucers, then the pitchers, then the 
plates and other dishes. Wash towels and dish cloth, and 
hang on the line in the sun, after every meal. Use a little 
washing soda to cleanse the sink, occasionally a little cop- 
peras dissolved in water, or Gray's antiseptic. 

A waitress should be in clean print or black dress, 
white collar and cuffs, apron and cap. Hair smooth and 
hands very clean. She should so thoroughly understand 
her duties that no words need be exchanged during the 
meal. She should be attentive to the wants of those at 
table and move with no effort. 



14 DINNER GIVING. 

Dinner Giving. 

la arranging a dinner party the first thing is to select 
guests who will be congenial, and invitations are sent out 
two weeks in advance, and those who have entertained 
know the importance of a prompt reply. If one of a 
couple is unable to accept, both usually decline, that the 
hostess may invite others in their stead. An invitation 
should be precise in expression, reply the same. There is 
a precise rule of assigning each guest at the table, a precise 
manner of serving the dinner, and when carried out there 
need be no embarrassment. 

The menu arranged, and time at hand, the dishes for 
the different courses should be in convenient place, the ones 
for warm food in oven, cold plates on sideboard or conven- 
ient for dishing. Arrange table in center of room. 
Spread silence cloth and table cloth smoothly, with crease 
lengthwise of table, iron out other folds, arrange a flower 
or fruit piece in center. Then lay plates at equal spaces 
around the table according to number of guests. Place 
two knives, with sharp edge towards plate, half an inch 
from edge of table; place forks, two or three, at left of 
plate; soup spoon by side of knife; two teaspoons in front 
of plate; a bread and butter plafce at tip of fork; glasses 
at tip of knife. On four sides salt and pepper. Opposite 
each other, nearer center, place small dishes containing 
nuts, bonbons and celery, which can be eaten between 
courses. Napkin on each plate, with one corner folded 
over a slice of bread cut thick, long and narrow, which is 
placed on bread plate when napkin is lifted. Cards with 
name are sometimes placed by side of plate, to which a 
flower may be attached. Perishable things can not be 
arranged until just before the dinner. Candles, in candle 
sticks at four corners, with shades to soften the light. 



DINNER GIVING. 15 

Order of menu (have order of menu bung in kitchen): 

Ist course— a relish, caviar, fruit, or raw oysters. 

2d " a thin soup with cracker or bread stick. 

3d " fish with potato. 

4th " a joint or fillet of beef, one vegetable. 

5th " punch. 

(jth " game with a salad. 

7th " dessert. 

8th " coflfee. 

At appointed hour the butler announces "Dinner 
is served." The host, with guest of honor, proceeds to 
dining room, followed by rest, in pairs, hostess last to leave 
drawing room with escort, unless he be a very distin- 
guished guest, when they would go first, all sit. First 
course is in place and water poured. When wines are 
served waiter should name the wine offered, which can be 
declined if not desired. 

Dinner is served a la Russe, not carved at table. First 
course is served first to lady at right of host, following in 
order, to the right, around the table. The following course 
started at some distance away. Set plates down at right, 
special dishes are passed on a tray. Plates should be re- 
moved with the left hand and replaced with the right. 
Where the courses are arranged with sauces on plate a 
waitress can serve rapidly, one course after the other. 

Dishes removed from table should be carefully piled 
out of the way. 

Before dessert is served all the things except center- 
piece and bonbons are removed, dessert is served, then 
black coffee and finger bowls, which should be filled one- 
third with water, with a geranium leaf, a flower or a piece 
of lemon. In arranging the menu, each course should be 
in a pleasing contrast to the preceding one. Dinner 
ended, hostess rises and all return to drawing room, guests 
soon take their departure. 



16 MAKITSIG A FIRE, 

A formal breakfast or luncheon is similar to a dinner, 
but less formal. Entrees taking jjlace of joints or roasts. 
Grape fruit or fruit salad taking place of first course. 
Where table has a fine surface a square with small doilies 
takes place of cloth. Manitou mineral water can be used 
in place of wines for dinner or luncheon. 

MaKing a. ^ire. 

The heat generated for household purposes is produced 
by the action of oxygen of the air upon the hydrogen and 
carbon which are found in the various kinds of coal and 
wood. The oxygen first combines with the carbon, decom- 
poses it, producing carbonic acid gas, which escapes into 
the air, absorbed by plants or the human lungs, if poor 
ventilation. The oxygen combines with the hydrogen gas 
in the fuel producing a flame. Some of the products of 
combustion are not consumed and pass off as smoke, the 
incombustible part is ashes. There should be just enough 
air for perfect combustion and should be confined in a 
limited space. 

There are two kinds of coal, Bituminous and Anthra- 
cite, mineral charcoal derived from ancient vegetation 
and so thoroughly pressed that nothing is left but carbon, 
sulphur and incombustible ash. Anthracite is older, 
buried deep in the ground, burns with a steady heat and 
very little smoke. 

Bituminous lights quickly, makes a hot fire, but burns 
out quickly, much smoke. Coke is the residue of coal 
from which illuminating and fuel gas is made. 

In kindling a fire in a coal stove, remove ashes and 
brush soot from toj) of oven. Open oven damper and 
check draft. Crumple pieces of paper, put in fire box, 
laying fine pieces of kindling on top, then larger ones. 
Put on covers, light fire from below, when burning well 
put on shovels of coal, after a little, add more. When 
the flame becomes white close oven damper. When 



COOKING. 17 

coal is burning freely shut front draft, only allow air 
enough to keep it burning. Never fill up to covers, nor 
allow stove to get red. Brush up the hearth and keep 
stove and floor clean. To keep a steady fire add coal fre- 
quently (much food spoiled by too much heat). 

To light a gas stove allow the air to. escape for a few 
seconds before the light is applied. If the lighting back 
occurs, you will know by the flame burning white and a 
hissing sound in burner. Turn tap off and relight. The 
gas stove is like an obedient child, never fails. 

CooKing. 

Among the Arab tribes, bad cooking is sufficient cause 
for divorce. 

There are certain principles underlying the rules for 
cooking which should be understood in order to perfectly 
nourish the human body and extract from food the best 
therein contained. Comparatively little attention has been 
paid to the chemical alterations produced in food by the 
process of cooking. 

Laws govern the chemical changes which take place, 
and can always be relied upon. Pure water will boil at 
212°, and can not be made hotter by violent boiling, in an 
open vessel. 

"Starchy foods require more time and long cooking to 
rupture the starch cells. Albuminous foods — meats, eggs, 
milk — are hardened by long rapid cooking. Gentle cook- 
ing. 

For soup, all juice should be extracted from meat. 
Simmering. 

For stew, part of juice in meat, part in gravy. First 
boil then simmer. 

Roasts and steaks. Juice in meat. After rapid cook- 
ing to sear outside, then cook slowly that albumen is not 
hardened. 



18 BAKING POWDER. 

Baking is hardening and searing in hot oven. If 
water is in pan, meat is steamed. Even fruits have diflPer- 
ent flavor from those cooked in water. 

Large joints can have water added to pan after out- 
side is seared. 

Sauteing is cooking in a pan with little fat. Not as 
healthful. 

Frying is cooking in fat sufficient to cover and hot 
enough to brown in a minute. 

Broiling is cooking over or under hot fire, frequent 
turning. 

Pan broiling, cooking in very hot pan, just rubbed 
with piece of suet. 

By stirring we mix ingredients together; beating to 
incorporate air into mixture. 

Cutting or folding, combining by stirring slowly from 
bottom up, and down on other side, occasionally cutting 
down through center in order not to break air cells formed 
by beating eggs. 

Soda and Cfeam of Tartar, BaKing Po^vder. 

Soda used in cooking is bi-carbonate of soda made 
from sea plants or sea salt — alkali. When properly com- 
bined with acids it forms a neutral salt. When not prop- 
erly combined, if the acid be stronger than the alkali, the 
salt is acid; if the alkali be in excess, the salt is alkaline. 
Sour milk serves as the acid. 

Soda, alone, mixed with wet dough will give off gas to 
raise the dough, but it leaves an alkali taste and greenish 
yellow color; poisonous. Must be neutralized by an acid. 
Cream of tartar, which is tartaric acid combined with 
potash, and is obtained from crystals or argols which col- 
lect in wine casks, are preferred by chemists. Combined 
with soda in the proportion of 2 rounding teaspoonsful of 
cream of tartar to one level of soda, makes the reaction. 
Never buy cheap baking powder. Test with litmus paper. 



FLOUR. 19 

Flour. 

There are one hundred and fifty varieties of wheat, 
classified as red and white; as winter and summer. Win- 
ter wheat sown in the autumn; summer wheat in the 
spring; as soft or hard, soft wheat being tender and 
starchy; hard wheat, tough, firm, more gluten. 

Wheat is the only grain which contains gluten in the 
proper proportion for light, spongy bread. It contains all 
the elements necessary for the growth of the body, but to 
meet the requirements, the whole of the grain except the 
outer husk should be used. Underneath this husk lies 
the gluten, the phosphates and other mineral matters 
which help to make up the bony parts of the body. The 
oil and the heart with cells containing starch, of little food 
value except as a heat producer. 

Good fiour should not be pure white in color. If it 
feels damp or sticky it is not the best. Good flour holds 
together in a mass when squeezed by the hand. When 
made into dough it is elastic; poor flour is sticky and flat- 
tens out. Pastry flour is more starchy; suitable for cake 
rolls and pies. Hungarian Patent. 

Measuringi 

Measurements, level in this book, except specified. 
Standard measuring cup ^ pint. 

2 cups even full=:l pint of sugar, milk or butter, or 1 
pound. 

4 cups of sifted flour ==1 pound. 
Salt spoon =^ teaspoonful. 
Teaspoon ==60 drops. 
4 teaspoons = 1 tablespoon. 
16 tablespoons = l cup. 

Eounding teaspoon = as much above as below edge of 
spoon. 

Heaping spoonful = all it will hold. 
Sift flour and sugar before measuring* 



20 THIN BATTERS. 

Use Dover egg beater for yolks of eggs, Daisy beater 
for whites. Raise high to beat light. 

Some flour stiffens more than other. Gluten flour, 
more muscle builder. Pastry flour, light, flne, less nutri- 
tious. 

TKin Batters. 

For griddle cakes, waffles, pop overs. Flour and 
sugar sifted before measuring. 

Proportion: 1 cup of flour to 1 cup milk, 1 rounding 
teaspoon of baking powder. ^ teaspoon of soda to one 
cup liquid, if sour milk is used. Sift baking powder or 
soda with flour. Mix dry things by themselves. Air en- 
tangled in batter by beating. If put in very hot oven 
bubbles will burst, put in increasing oven, they have 
chance to expand three times. 

Carbo-hydrates are heat producers — sugar, starch. 

Griddle CaKes. 

Small Rule. 
One pint flour. 14 cup flour. 

One-half teaspoon of salt. Speck salt. 

One teaspoon soda. 14, salt-spoon. 

One scant pint of sour milk. I4 cup milk. 

Two eggs, well beaten. i tablespoonful. 

Crush, measure and sift salt and soda, with flour; add 
the milk gradually, beat well, add beaten yolks, lastly the 
whites. For variety use whole wheat flour or \ corn meal 
or Graham. Can use sweet milk with two teaspoons bak- 
ing powder instead of soda (soap stone griddle good). 

Rice Griddle CaKes. 

One cup sweet milk. 

One cup of warm boiled rice or hominy. 

One-half teaspoon salt. 

Two eggs (separate). 

One tablespoon butter. 

Flour to make thin batter. 

FrencK PancaKes (JLarg'er tKan Griddle Cakes). 

3 eggs separated. 

1 cup milk. 

}/2, teaspoon salt. 

1 teaspoon sugar. 

}/2 cup floxir. 

3^ teaspoon salad oil or butter. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 21 

Beat yolks, to which add sugar and milk; pour | this 
on flour, stir to smooth paste, add remainder of milk and 
beat well, add oil, fold in whites. Heat and grease griddle, 
cover with batter, brown on both sides, spread with 
butter and sugar or jelly, roll up, sprinkle with powdered 
sugar, arrange side by side on napkin. Serve hot. Nice 
dessert. 

BticK-wKeat CaKes. 

Pour 1 pint of boiling water on ^ cup corn meal, ^ 
teaspoon salt. Mix well, add ^ cup white flour, 1 cup 
buckwheat, | yeast cake, soaked, 1 teaspoon molasses. 
Beat vigorously, rise over night, stir down with 1 salt- 
spoon soda. Fry as cakes and serve hot, right side up. 

^pple PariicaKes. 

To French pancake batter add three apples, chopped 
fine. Fried as griddle cakes. 

Pop Overs (Mary Draper). 

1 cup milk. 
1 cup flour. 
1 egg. 

1 salt-spoon salt. 

This will make seven. Moderate oven, bake 25 min- 
utes. In bowl sift flour and salt, break egg in center and 
one-half the milk, stir until smooth, add rest of milk, beat 
thoroughly until batter is full of bubbles. Turn into warm 
buttered cups or irons. Bake till good brown all over. 

Cfolman's Stai\«iard HealtK Flour Griddle CaKes* 

2 cups whole wheat flour. 

2 rounding teaspoons baking powder, 

1 egg. 

1 tablespoon sugar. 

1 teaspoon salt. 

1 pint of milk. 

'UTafifles. 

1 pint of flour. 

2 teaspoons baking powder. 

3 eggs (separate). 
1^ cups milk. 

1 tablespoon butter, 
y/z teaspoon salt. 



22 CAKES, MUFFINS, GEMS. 

Mix in order given: yolks of tlie eggs with milk, then 

the melted butter, whites last. 

Serve with butter, sugar and cinnamon or with lemon 

syrup. 

R.ye and Indian CaKes. 

2 cups corn meal, 2 cups rye, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sour 

milk, ^ teaspoonful salt, 1 egg, 1 teaspoonful soda. 



Stiffer Batters. 

1 rounding teaspoon of baking powder to 1 cup flour, 
I cup milk to 1 cup flour. 

Muffins. 

Small rule. 

Two cnps of flour. ^4 eup of flour. 

Two rounding teaspoons baking powder. % teaspoon. 

One-half teaspoon salt. Speck of salt. 

Two eggs (separate) 2 teaspoons egg. 

One cup milk. 2 tablespoons milk. 

One-third cup shortening, softened. 1 teaspoon shortening. 

One tablespoon sugar (optional). % teaspoon sugar. 

Sift, flour, baking powder and salt together, mix 
beaten yolks, milk and shortening. Stir into flour, fold in 
whites, beaten stiff. Put in hot greased muffin tins, bake 
15 minutes. 8 muffins. 

'WHole WHeat Flour Gems. 

One pint of whole-wheat flour. 

Two rounding teaspoons baking powder. 

Two eggs beaten lightly. 

One-third cup butter. 

One tablespoon sugar. 

One-half teaspoon salt. 

GraHatn or "WYt-ole "W^heat Puffs. 

Two cups of whole-wheat or Graham flour. 

One-half teaspoon salt. 

One tablespoon sugar. 

Two eggs (separate). 

One cup milk. 

One cup water. 

Sift flour, salt and sugar, add beaten yolks and milk, 
beat very thoroughly, fold in whites. Bake in hot gem 
pans 30 minutes. 



CAKES, FRITTERS, ETC. 23 

• iSpon^e Com CaKes. 

Small Rule. 
Three-fourths cup of flour. 1 rounding tablespoon flour. 

Three-fourths cup of corn meal. 1 tablespoon corn meal. 
One-half teaspoon of salt. Speck salt. 

One-half teaspoon soda. One-half salt spoon. 

One-fourth cup sugar. 1 teaspoonful. 

Two eggs, well beaten. 1 tablespoonful. 

One tablespoon butter. ^ teaspoonful (melted). 

One cup sour milk. 2 tablespoonsful. 

Green Com Fritters* 

Two cups of grated sweet corn or pulp. 

One-half cup sweet milk. 

Two eggs, well beatens 

One teaspoon salt. 

Speck of pepper. 

Tablespoon flour. 

Drop by tablespoonsful on buttered griddle and 
brown on both sides. 

DutcK Apple Cake. 

Small Rule. 

One pint flour. ^ cup. 

One-half teaspoon salt. Speck. 

Two teaspoons baking powder. % teaspoonful. 

One-third cup of butter (creamed). 2 teaspoonsful (creamed). 

One egg. 1 teaspoonful. 

One scant cup of milk. 2 tablespoonsful. 

Two tablespoons of sugar. 1 teaspoonful. 

Three sour apples. ^ of an apple. 

Mix dry things together, add beaten egg to milk, add 
gradually to dry mixture, add butter. Spread dough on 
shallow pan, ^ inch thick. Pare and cut apple into eighths, 
lay in rows on dough, sharp edge pushed down, sprinkle 
with sugar and cinnamon. Bake 30 minutes. 

To the same batter can add a pint of huckleberries. 
Spread and bake. 



Soft DougKSk 

iBaKin^ Pow^der Biscuit. 

Small Rule. 
One pint of flour. ^ cup. 

One rounding teaspoon baking powder. X teaspoonful. 
One-half teaspoon salt. Speck. 

One tablespoon butter, lard or oil. ^ teaspoonful. 

Three-fourths cup of milk. l)^ tablespoonfuK 



24 SHORT CAKES. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt. With caseknife 
chop shortening into flour until well mixed, add milk 
gradually, until dough forms soft ball on knife. Turn out 
on floured board, roll out ^ inch thick, cut with small 
cutter and make them one size and shape; brush top with 
butter and bake in oven with increasing heat about 
twenty minutes. 

[Oven test: White paper a golden brown, after being 
in four minutes.] 

Make whole wheat biscuit same, with a little more 
milk. 

If using sour milk use 1 teaspoon soda, instead of 
baking powder. Amount of soda depends somewhat upon 
sourness of milk. Very sour milk, more soda. 

Scotchk. SHort CaKe. 

One pint flour. 
One teaspoon soda. 
One-fourth cup of shortening. 
White of one egg. 
One cup sour milk. 
One-half teaspoon salt. 

Sift flour and soda, cut shortening into flour, add salt. 
Stir in milk gradually, then beaten white of egg. Spread 
in a sheet pan, cut across dough with knife in diamonds, 3 
inches square. Bake and serve hot. If sour cream is 
used omit shortening. 

ScotcH BannocKs. 

Two eggs. 

Two tablespoons sugar. 

One cup sour milk. 

One-half teaspoon soda. 

One and one-half cups corn meal. 

Stiff batter. Shape rounding on tablespoon, shove 
off into hot fat until brown. Breakfast dish. 

Stra.-%vberry SHortca.Re. 

Follow rule for biscuit, doubling amount of shorten- 
ing; divide, roll ^ thin, place in round shallow pan, 
brush top with butter. Place layer on top. Bake same as 



BEATEN BISCUIT. 25 

biscuit. Must be served hot and spread with fruit just 
before going to table. 

Filling — Wash and pick over three cups of berries 
reserving one cup of best for top. Mix others in bowl with 
^ cup of sugar, chop a little with knife, remove upper 
layer of shortcake, spread chopped berries, add top crust, 
place best berries on top. Sift powdered sugar on top 
and serve. Raspberries and peaches are good served in 
same way. 

Beaten Biscuit. 

One pint flour. 

One rounding tablespoon lard. 
One-half teaspoon salt. 
One cup cold water or milk. 

Rub lard and salt into flour, mix cold water to a very 
stiflP dough. Knead 10 minutes, beat with mallet or roll- 
ing pin, turning over and over until it begins to blister or 
until pulling ofF a piece quickly, it gives a snap, beat out | 
inch thick, cut, press with the thumb, leaving hollow in 
center. Place a little distance apart in pan, prick with 
fork, bake twenty minutes. Oven same as for biscuit. 

MThole ^VKeat Crisps. 

One cup rich cream, sweet or sour. 

One-fourth cup sugar. 

One salt-spoon salt. 

Two cups fine granulated or wheat flour. 

Knead fifteen minutes or until you can roll out thin 
as a wafer. Cut with a biscuit cutter, bake on ungreased 
tins in hot oven. 

GraHam Biscuit. 

One pint sweet milk. 
One-half cup butter. 
One-half teaspoon salt. 
One-half cup sugar. 
Two eggs. 

Two cups Graham flour. 
Beat very thoroughly. 



26 BREAD MAKING. 

Co>>i\ Bread. 

One cup fine corn meal, sifted. 

One teaspoon baking powder. 

Two eggs. 

One-half teaspoon salt. 

One teaspoon sugar. 

One and one-half cup milk. 

One tablespoon butter. 

Scald milk and pour it on the sifted meal. Let it 
cool, add melted butter, salt, sugar, baking powder and 
yolks of eggs. Stir it thoroughly together, fold in well 
beaten whites. Bake on flat pan 30 minutes. 



Bread Ma.King. 

It is said that the bread used by the inhabitants of 
any country is a fair measure of their civilization. Wheat 
is the only grain which makes light, spongy, moist bread. 
In olden times unleavened bread was used and a story is 
told of a servant of an Archon of Athens, who having for- 
gotten his dough and seeing his master coming, threw it 
into some he was then preparing and the result was light, 
wholesome bread. 

Wheat is crushed and sifted many times, dividing it 
into different grades. Winter wheat contains more gluten, 
which is nitroginous or flesh forming, and makes the 
most nutritious bread. 

Fleischman's compressed yeast, if fresh, is recom- 
mended; dry yeast cakes give satisfaction. If they can 
not be procured one can make their own yeast with 
potatoes, hops and yeast to make it ferment, also salt ris- 
ing bread. When using dry yeast cakes, it is well to soak 
^ cake in 1 cap of warm water | hour; add a cup of 
flour, beat well together and let stand before making 
sponge. 



BOILED POTATO YEAST. 27 

Boiled Potato Yeast. 

Three large old potatoes, well boiled with a half cup 
of hops, tied in a bag. Press potato through a ricer, add 
hop water and enough more to make two quarts. Boil 
and stir in three-fourths cup of flour, wet in cold water, 
and three-fourths cup of sugar. Boil five minutes, stir- 
ring, cool, add three-fourths cup of yeast and when light 
add one-fourth cup of salt. Keep in covered stone jar in 
cool cellar. 

Salt Rising Bread. 

Take a pint of warm water — about 90° — in a perfectly 
clean bowl, stir in coarse flour till a thick batter, a tea- 
spoon of salt, beat very thoroughly, stand in pan of warm 
water, keep at even temperature, and in two to four hours 
it will begin to rise. When rising is nearly light, mix 
pint of milk and a pint of boiling water, stir it in a pint 
of flour, in bread bowl, cool, then add rising, stir v;ell, let 
rise four hours, add flour, knead less than for yeast bread. 

Yeast is a plant of the fungus tribe, consists of oval 
bodies which are true vegetable cells. They increase with 
aid of moisture, heat and sweet. Flour is moistened with 
milk or water, yeast and salt is added and then exposed 
for some hours to a temperature of about 70°. The 
yeast changes some of the starch of the flour into 
sugar and the sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid gas. 
This gas expands the dough into two or three times its 
bulk, before the alcohol ferment is changed to acetic. The 
ferment is killed by baking. The alcohol escapes into 
the oven; some of the starch is changed into gum, making 
the crust which the heat browns. 

Milk or water can be used, or milk and water. Sugar 
and shortening can be omitted if desired. 
Potatoes make bread more moist. 



28 MILK BREAD. 

MilK Bread. 

Small Rule. 
One pint milk, scalded and cooled. 2 tablespoons. 

One-half pint water in which potato is boiled. 1 tablespoon. 

One potato, boiled and riced. 1 teaspoon. 

One tablespoon lard or butter. 1 salt-spoon. 

One tablespoon sugar. 1 salt-spoon. 

One tablespoon salt. 1 salt-spoon. 

Six or seven cups of flour. ^ cup flour. 
Three-fourths cake (compressed yeast) or one 

cup yeast. % cake or 2 table sps. 

Soak yeast in one-half cup of tepid water till soft, add 
it to milk, sugar, potato and water, salt and shortening. 
In bowl put 3 cups of flour, make hollow in center, add 
liquid and stir until a nice batter, then beat with wooden 
spoon 15 minutes. Should be a stiff batter. Can cover 
and set in warm place to rise double, or can add more 
flour until stiff enough to handle. Turn out on floured 
board and knead for 15 minutes, using as little flour as 
possible, keeping it on the outside. 

The kneading is a process of pulling forward and 
pushing back with ball of hand, keeping hands and fingers 
well floured. 

Return dough to pan, cover, let rise double, about two 
hours. Return to board, work it towards the center with 
fingers a very little. Cub into halves for loaves, shape into 
loaves, put into greased pans, brush over top with a little 
oil or lard, cover, let rise, and bake. Cut two openings on 
top for steam to escape. 

If sponge was left to rise for two hours, it will be full 
of large bubbles. Stir down with spoon, add flour gradu- 
ally around the outside until it is stiff enough to make a 
ball of dough. Then turn out on floured board and pro- 
ceed as before. 

Can make sponge at night and make and knead dough 
in the morning early. In the winter it must be well cov- 
ered to protect from cold. Dough must not be too stiff. 



QUICK PROCESS OF RAISING DOUGH. 29 

QuicK Process of R.aising Dot&g'H. 

Stand covered pan or dish containing dough in a pan 
of warm water, 70°, to bear hand, keeping at that tempera- 
ture until dough is light. When dough is in baking pan 
ready to rise, set in bread pan in some hotter water than 
for first rising. Keep covered. 

Oven Test — White paper brown after four minutes. 

Gas Stove — Light both oven burners five minutes 
before bread is ready to bake. Turn oflp back burner, re- 
duce front a little, place paper on rack for test. If oven 
is too hot open oven door for three minutes. 

The first 15 minutes that bread is in the oven it must 
rise and just begin to brown; the next 15 minutes it must 
brown gradually the last 15 minutes, it must bake to the 
center, sometimes an hour is necessary, according to size 
of loaf. Remove from oven, rap on bottom, if it sounds 
hollow it is done. Remove from pans stand on end, un- 
covered, until cold. 

Water bread is made in same way, omitting milk, 

"WHole 'WKeat Flour Bread, 

(COLMAN'9.) 

For five ordinary sized loaves. At night pare and boil 
four medium sized potatoes in 1 quart water. Mash or 
press potatoes through ricer. Soak yeast cake and add to 
potato water and potato; add three cups white flour, stir 
and beat ten minutes, cover and place to rise until morn- 
ing. In the morning sift into bread pan G cups whole 
wheat flour, If tablespoons of salt, stir into it If pints of 
luke warm water. Pour in sponge, mix well and knead, 
having the dough very soft, cover until light, when shape 
into loaves, let rise and bake in a slow oven. When done 
brush with batter. 



30 BREADS. 

Bro'wn Bread. 

MES. M. P. MOOKE. 

Two cups yellow Indian meal. 
One cup Graham or white flour. 
Two-third cup molasses. 
One teaspoon each of salt and soda. 
One cup warm water. 

Make consistency of griddle cakes, not two thick, 
steam in 3 pound lard pail 3 hours. Very nice. 

Gra.Ka.xn Bread. 

Sponge as for white bread, add sifted Graham flour 

until a very stiff batter; rise but once; bake in a slow 

oven. 

R.ye Bread. 

Sponge as for white bread; mix with rye flour, very 

soft dough, let rise and bake. 

Gluten Bread. 

Pour a pint of boiling water into a pint of milk, add a 
teaspoon of butter and a teaspoon of salt. When cool add 
^ yeast cake, dissolved, 1 well beaten egg and enough 
gluten to make soft batter. Cover and let rise, add gluten 
to make soft dough and knead well. It will make four 
thin loaves. Let rise, bake 1 hour. 

Brioche. 

Brioche is a light bun mixture, used in France. 

One cake compressed yeast. 

One-fourth cup luke warm water. 

Six cups flour. 

Seven eggs. 

Three-fourths pound butter. 

One-half teaspoon salt. 

Two teaspoons sugar. 

Soak yeast in | cup of luke warm water, stir well and 
mix with flour to make a ball of dough. Drop in a pan 
of warm water. It will sink at first, then rise to the top 
full of bubbles. Put the rest of the flour in large bowl, 
make well in center. Into this put the butter creamed, 
salt, sugar and four eggs. Work them together with the 



BUNS AND ROLLS. 31 

hand, gradually mixing in flour, adding two more eggs, 
one at a time. Work and beat with the hand until it loses 
its stickiness, which will be some time. When the leaven 
is light, lift it out of the water with a skimmer and mix 
with the dough, break in last egg and beat a long time. 
Cover and let rise to double the size, about 4 hours. Beat 
down again, and put on ice for twelve hours or more. 
After taking from ice it will be soft — must be handled 
quickly. 

BriocHe Cro^vn or R.ing. 
Mould the paste into a ball, roll it to one-half inch in 
thickness, keeping form. Cut it several times through the 
middle and twist the paste into a rope-like ring. Let rise, 
brush with egg and bake about one-half hour. 

Buns. 

Roll paste into small balls, glaze the top after rising. 
Bake about twenty minutes. 

Cabinet Pudding. 

Mix floured raisins with brioche, put into buttered 
mould, half full, let rise, bake 30 minutes. 

R.olls. 

When making bread, can use some of dough for rolls 
by adding another tablespoon of shortening, mixing it 
into the dough. Rolls should be stiflPer than bread, and 
well raised when put in oven. 

Oven Test — White paper, golden brown after 1 
minute. Time to bake, 20 minutes. 

MaKin^ R.olls. 

One pint of milk, scalded and cooled. 

One-half cake compressed yeast. 

One-half cup warm water. 

One teaspoon salt. 

One tablespoon sugar. 

Two tablespoons of lard or butter. 

Six or seven cups of flour. 



32 ROLLS. 

Soak yeast in one-half cup of warm water until soft, 
add salt and sugar and mix with milk. In large bowl put 
3 cups flour, make well in center, add liquid, stir till 
smooth, beat, add flour until it is a drop batter. Cover 
and let rise until full of bubbles. Add lard and beat it in 
with spoon, then add flour until a stiff dough. Turn out 
on floured board, knead 5 minutes, cover, let rise double. 
Tarn out on board, work it a little, and cut into even 
pieces to shape — half the size of an egg, roll them into balls 
and place in a greased pan a little distance apart. Let 
rise double, brush over the top with butter; bake 20 
minutes. 

ParKer House R>olls. 

OAEEIE SPINNEY. 

Roll dough one-third inch in thickness. Cut with 
biscuit cutter, take in left hand and pull out lengthwise, 
brush over with soft batter, fold double, pressing down a 
little that they will not lose shape, place in rows length- 
wise in long tin a little distance apart, rise, and bake 20 
minutes. Remove from oven, brush over with butter and 
cover until used. To be eaten warm. 

Cleft Rolls. 

Make dough into balls, lengthen a little. After the 
rolls have risen, cut each roll across top with sharp knife, 
one-half inch thick. Brush top with milk and sugar. 
Bake. 

Crescents. 

CENTURY COOK BOOK. 

Roll dough one-eighth inch thick, cut into squares sis 
inches wide, then into triangles. Roll them up, beginning 
at the base, the point of triangle will come in middle of roll. 
Bring points around into shape of crescents. Place on tin 
to rise, brush over with butter, bake twenty minutes. 



BREAD STICKS AND COFFEE CAKE. 33 

S'^vedisK R.olls. 

Roll dough one-eight inch thick, oblong square six 
inches wide. Brush over with softened butter, sift over 
granulated sugar, cinnamon, then a layer of cleaned cur- 
rants or chopped raisins, roll up like a jelly roll, cut 
across in one-inch rolls, stand on end in pan some distance 
apart. Sift cinnamon over top. Rise and bake. 

Bread SticRs. 

Roll dough long and about thickness of a pencil, cut 
six inches in length, lay very straight in pan, a little 
apart, brush over with milk and sifting of salt. Rise, 
and bake ten minutes. 

Brades and twists made of same coil of dough, 

EnglisK MuAins and Crumpets. 

Use sponge for rolls; add flour to make drop batter; 
let rise over night, in the morning stir down, grease 
some muffin rings, set them on a soap stone or hot greased 
griddle; fill the rings half full of batter. It will rise to 
the top. Turn the muffins with pancake turner, bake on 
both sides till light brown, or, do not brown, let get cold, 
pull them apart and toast. 

Coffee CaKe. 

Two cups of bread sponge, to which add 2 eggs, well 
beaten, ^ cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter, a cup of tepid 
water. Mix well together, add flour to make stiff batter. 
Let rise until double. Spread in a baking tin, let rise 
again. Brush top with egg beaten with a teaspoon of 
sugar, over this a sifting of granulated sugar and a dash of 
cinnamon or a few blanched almonds, split. Nice for 
breakfast with coffee. 



34 SOUPS. 



CHAPTER III. 



tSoups. 

It is well for every housekeeper to lay in a small 
stock of spices, ground and whole, herbs and flavorings 
for soups and sauces. 

GrotExkd iSpices. 'W^Hole Spices. 



Pepper. 


Pepper corns. 




Paprika. 


Cloves. 


Corn starch. 


Sage. 


Celery seed. 


Arrow root. 


Snmmer savory. 


Mustard seed. 


Curry powder. 


Celery salt. 




Bread crumbs, 


Cinnamon. 


Herbs. 


Lemon. 


Cloves. 


Thyme. 




Mace. 


Marjoram. 
Bay leaves. 





Vegetables for Soufs: Onions, celery, carrots, tur- 
nips, parsley, tomatoes. 

Extract of Beef: Caramel, anchovy paste, catsup. 

Stock is the extract produced from drawing out the 
juices from meat, fat and bone, whether raw or cooked, by 
soaking in cold water then simmering for hours, to which, 
after straining, vegetables are added and cooked just long 
enough to soften, seasoned, and served as soups of differ- 
ent name, according to the meat or material used, color, or 
name of the makers. 

Two divisions of soup — those made with stock and 
those made with milk and vegetables or fruits. 

Stock is more or less solid, according to the gelatin- 
ous nature of the ingredients, as veal. It can be made of 
one kind of meat, or two or three different kinds together, 
bones and scraps, good for no other purpose, then scraps 
of bread, vegetables, cereals, can all be useful in the "pot- 
au-few." 

Cheaper parts of meat are used, shank, shoulder, neck, 
head or tail; bones containing marrow give fine flavor. 



SOUPS. 35 

Beef, veal aud chicken with a small piece of ham are a 
good combination. Mutton, on account of its flavor, is 
more used for broth. For a very clear soup, bone is not 
desirable. The object in making stock is to extract all the 
nutriment, juices, alkali and acid salts from the meat. 

If meat is bought specially for stock, cut it in small 
pieces, chopping bones. Can fry with a little butter in 
hot frying pan just to color outside, or wipe with damp 
cloth and put into kettle of cold water with teaspoon of 
salt, and stand covered for an hour, then heat gradually 
and simmer, not boil, for three or four hours. 

One quart of cold water to each pound of meat. A 
granite kettle with tight fitting cover. After the long 
simmering the meat is nothing but refuse, without nour- 
ishment. Strain, put in jar until next day, remove fat, 
set away in a cool place. It will keep for a week, and a 
variety of soups can be made from same stock. 

If vegetables are cooked with stock for a long time 
they absorb the nourishment and flavor, and if strained it 
is lost. 

Take amount of stock needed, cut vegetables fine, add 
to stock, cooking only long enough to soften them, or cook 
the vegetables in water until tender, add to stock. Seas- 
oning can be added with vegetables. 

To color stock: Put into frying pan with a teaspoon 
of butter, a chopped onion, stir until a deep color, then 
boil in water or stock, strain and use liquor. 

Stock flavored with vegetables and seasoned make fine 
sauces. Boiled down it makes a glaze. If you boil the soup 
meat, the scum which rises is the albumen and juices of 
the meat, hence, in straining is lost. Clearj soups are 
more stimulating than nourishing. 

Beef tea for invalids must be made in such a way that 
albumen is not lost. 

Bread crumbs cooked in stock thickens without cloud- 
ing soup. 



36 SOUPS. 

Tomato Soup '^vitK StocR. 

Cook 1 pint of tomatoes, cut, 1 oniou, 3 cloves, a piece 
of bay leaf, dash of paprika. Rub through sieve all but 
seeds and skin, add to 1 quart of stock, scald and serve. 
Season to taste. Serve with croutons. 

Croutons, small squares of bread browned in hot fat. 

Julienne Soup. 

Vegietables in. Sotip. 

Small Rule. 

One quart of stock. f cup. 
One cup turnip and carrot cut 

in fine strips. 4 strips of each. 

Small onion. | slice. 

One teaspoon salt. ^ salt-spoon. 

One-half salt-spoon paprika. Dash. 

Boil the vegetables in water; vegetables can be 
chopped, any kind, and if boiled with stock, more water 
may be added. If carrots are old use only outside, center 
is woody fiber. 

Tops of celery useless for table can be boiled in 
water, strained, and used to flavor stock. 

Soup served for dinner stimulates the stomach and 
prepares it for the more substantial food that follows. 

The water in which a tongue or piece of meat, or 
in which vegetables have been cooked can be used in soup. 
Much depeads upon seasoning. Avoid greasy soups. 

The French have a little bunch of herbs tied together, 
called a bouquet, easily removed. 

If crackers are served with soup they should be crisp. 
Triscuit are recommended. 

The feet of chickens and turkeys, scalded, skin 
scraped off and nails removed, make fine soup stock, gel- 
atinous, well flavored — French economy. 

To jelly consomme throw in two calve's feet while 
stock is cooking. Never use gelatine. 



SOUPS. 37 

Frtxit iSoup. 

Apples, prunes or any dried or fresh fruits boiled in 
four times their measure^with a little sugar and lemon 
juice, rubbed through a seive. Served. 

Ox Tail Soup. 

Two ox tails 

One large onion 

One tablespoon beef drippings 

4 quarts of cold water 

One tablespoon salt 

One tablespoon herbs 

Four cloves 

Four pepper corns 

Wash and separate the ox tails at joints. Chop onion 
and fry in hot drippings. When browned move to one 
side and brown half the ox tails. Put in soup kettle with 
4 quarts of cold water. Add salt and spices, simmer 4 
hours. Select finest joints to serve with soup. Strain, 
skim off fat, season well. Serve. 

Can add 1 pint of vegetables, celery, turnip, carrot 
and patatoes, cut into fancy shapes, after sonp is strained, 
boil until tender and serve. 

Mutton BrotK. 

One and one-half pounds neck of mutton 
One quart cold water 
One teaspoon salt 
One salt-spoon pepper 

Wipe meat and cut up, add to cold water, soak, sim- 
mer three hours, strain. When cold add a slice of onion, 
two tablespoons of rice or pearl barley, simmer until ten- 
der, add a dash of paprika, a leaf of parsley or mint. 
Serve at once. 

If fat remains on top, thin paper laid on absorbs fat 
or cloth wrunir out of ice water. 



38 SOUPS. 

Ctirry Soup. 

Stock made from chicken or turkey bones, skin, dress- 
ing, an onion and piece of celery, 1 teaspoon of salt, 1 Sdlt- 
spoons of curry powder, boil, strain, to which add ^ cup of 
soft boiled rice. Much depends upon seasoning. 

CKicKen Gumbo. 

MISS GEOBGIA HUGHES. 

1 grown chicken. 

1 quart of okra. 

1 pint of tomatoes. 

1 fourth of a pint of onion. 

1 pint of green corn, in season. 

1 tablespoon of mixed herbs. 

6 quarts of boiling water. 

Season with small pod red peper. Salt to taste when 
ready to serve. 

Joint the chicken, fry brown, place in soup kettle, 
add all the ingredients, cover with the boiling water, cook 
for three hours slowly, carefully remove the bones, cut 
giblets finely, then salt, serve the meat and vegetable with 
soup. The okra and tomatoes, onions must be cut in 
small pieces, add the corn the last forty minutes. When 
fresh corn is not used, rice may be substituted. Mold, 
cut in cubes, serve with each plate. 

Split Pea or Bea.z\ Soup. 

Soak a pint of split peas or navy beans over night. 
Put over fire with three quarts of water, a small piece of 
pork, a carrot, three onions, a potato, a salt-spoon of pa- 
prika, teaspoon of salt. Boil slowly five hours, rub 
through colander. Can add a dash of mustard. Serve 
with crouton. 

A vegetable soup thick with vegetables and thickened 
with a tablespoon of flour or cracker, is a puree. 



SOUPS. 39 

To Serve in Sotip. 

Force»Meat Balls. « 

Any kind of meat, as chicken, chopped fine, season 
with celery salt, paprika, salt and chopped parsley or 
onion juice. Break in a raw egg, sprinkle over some flour, 
mix and roll in balls like marbles. They may be cooked 
in hot water, fried in a little butter, or rolled in egg and 
crumbs and fried in hot lard. 

CKeese Timbers. 

Beat white of egg very stiff, adding saltspoon of salt 
and speck of paprika, fold in two tablespoons of grated 
cheese, roll in flour, brown in hot fat. 

Boiled maccaroni, cut in rings and served in soup, a 
slice of lemon or hard boiled yolk of egg, form a variety; 
also, rice and vermicelli. 

J&gg Balls for Clear Soup. 

Yolks of 4 hard boiled eggs. 
One tablespoon salt. 
One saltspoon paprika. 
One teaspoon melted butter. 
Raw egg to moisten. 

Work yolks to a powder, add seasoning and butter, 
with just enough beaten raw egg to form a stiff paste. 
Roll in white of eggs and flour, and fry in a teaspoon of 
butter. Shape like marbles. 

Noodles. 

To one egg, slightly beaten, add two full teaspoons 
of water, a salt-spoon of salt and flour enough to make a 
stiff dough, work well ten minutes. Roll it thin as a 
wafer, sift over flour, and roll it into a rather tight roll. 
With sharp knife cut it into very thin slices, let dry for an 
hour, drop in soup, cook ten minutes. Can be dried and 
used at any time in soup. 



40 SOUPS. 

Marro-«v Balls. 

Melt a table spoon of marrow, strain through cloth 
into a bowl, beat it till creamy, then add an egg, beat to- 
gether. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg. Add as 
much soft bread crumbs as it will moisten. Roll into 
balls and poach. Drop into soup just before serving. 

Make sweet potato balls in same way. 

Bouillon. 
TKree Pints. 

Three pounds of lean beef, chopped 

Three quarts of cold water 

One onion 

One carrot 

One sprig of parsley 

Two sticks of celery 

One bay leaf 

Two cloves 

Six peppercorns 

One rounding teaspoon salt. 

Put meat in soup kettle with cold water, covered. 
Stand 1 hour, simmer 4 hours, add seasoning, chopped 
vegetables, and simmer 1 hour. Strain and cool, then re- 
move fat. Onions should be chopped and browned in 
butter. Can brown meat also, for flavor and color. 

If color is not dark enough, can add caramel, which 
is made by placing ^ cup of sugar in small saucepan. As 
edges brown draw sugar towards center with point of 
spoon, when it is quite brown pour over ^ cup of hot 
water and keep stirring until it is quite a thick syrup. 
This can be bottled and used to color sauces and soups. 

Clarifying StocK. 

After stock is right color and flavor and while cold, 
set it on stove, break into it the white of an egg, with shell 
crushed. Stir while it is heating, when it begins to boil 
remove spoon, let boil 5 minutes, strain through cheese 
cloth and serve. It can be made the day before needed. 
Served cold or reheated. 



SOUPS. 41 

In making consomme can use veal instead of beef. 
Grated carrot will give amber color. 

Serve with egg balls, croutons, slice of lemon or sprig 
of parsley. 

Soups without stock. Milk foundation. Nourishing, 
good for invalids, quickly made. 

Foundation for MilR Soups. 

Small Rule. 

One rounding tablespoon butter 1 teaspoon 

One rounding tablespoon flour 1 teaspoon 

One quart of hot milk ^ cup 

One teaspoon salt Speck 

One-half salt-spoon paprika Dash 

Put butter in saucepan, and when it begins to bub- 
ble add flour, stir for three minutes, must not brown, add 
seasoning, then the milk, gradually stirring all the time. 

To this foundation any cooked meat, fish or vegetable 
can be added and give name to soup. 

Part cream or part water can be used. Whipped 
cream, a spoonful on each portion. 

Potato Soup. 

One good sized potato, boiled and finely mashed or 
riced, added to foundation, with 1 tablespoon of chopped 
parsley, makes the potato soup. A spoonful of whipped 
cream added just before serving improves it. 

Tomato Bisque <Soup. 

To the foundation add the juice and pulp of ^ can of 
tomatoes boiled with 1 onion and rubbed through sieve. 
Before adding tomatoe to foundation stir in one salt- 
spoon of soda. 

Small Rule — 2 tablespoons of tomatoe, speck of 
soda. Garnish with parsley leaf. 

Green Corn Soup. 

Cut down through the kernels, and scrape out the 
pulp of six ears of corn. Break cobs off long, put in to 



42 SOUPS. 

boil with just enough water to cover. Boil 30 minutes and 
strain. There should be 2 cups of water, boil with corn 
pulp 10 minutes, add 1 teaspoon of sugar with salt and pap- 
rika. Make foundation, using 1 pint of milk. Serve 
with croutons. (Get Fritter corn if using canned corn.) 

Celery, carrot, pea, bean, apple soup can be made 
by adding cooked pulp to foundation, also clam juice. 

Lobster and salmon cooked, cut into small pieces and 
added to foundation, give name to soup. 

Oyster Soup. 

1 quart of oysters strained, rinsed in one cup of cold 
water and cooked in their own liquor just long enough to 
plump, added to the milk foundation, seasoned to taste 
and served with crackers 

Shredded cabbage with salt, pepper and vinegar is 
served with oyster soup. 

Oyster stew same as soup without thickening. 

Purees are same as cream soups with addition of more 
pulp. For asparagus, boil stalks in water, rub through 
seive, add to foundation. Serve tips one inch long in soup. 

FisK CKoivder. 

A chowder is really a stew of fish. 

Small rule. 

Two pounds of fish, cod or halibut 2 two-inch squares 

Two large potatoes 2 slices (quartered) 

One-fourth pound of salt pork 2 small squares 

Two onions Slice of onion 

Two teaspoon salt | salt-spoon 

One-half teaspoon white pepper Speck 

One pint of milk ^ cup 

Two Boston crackers, split ^ cracker 

One tablespoon butter ^ teaspoon 

Remove skin, bones and fins from fish which cover 
with cold water and simmer ^ hour. Strain water into 
kettle. Slice potatoes thin, divide slices, slice onions, 
cut pork into |-inch dice and fry with onions in pan until 



SOUPS. 43 

a golden color. Cut fish in 2-inch squares. In kettle 
with strained liquor in which bones were cooked, add 
potatoes, cover with water, when partly boiled add fish, 
onions and pork, simmer for 15 minutes, season, add 
scalded milk. In tureen, place crackers and butter, pour 
chowder over and serve. 

One cup of tomato sauce can be added. 

Clam chowder is made in same way substituting clams 
for fish. Clams should be cut fine. 

To C^xtract Clams from 5Kell. 

Wash in cold water, put them into a large pot over 
the fire with ^ cup hot water, cover, the steam will cause 
clam shell to open, turn into colander over a pan and ex- 
tract meat from shell, cut off the black end. 



44 CEREALS. 



CHAPTER IV. 



Cereals. 

The name ^iven to all plants of the germinaceous 
family. Also name given in honor of the goddess Ceres, 
to a feast instituted at Rome, and celebrated every year on 
the 7th of April. The nitrogenous matter resembles cae- 
sine more than gluten. 

Oatmeal is rich in food for muscle and brain. Use- 
ful for children and laboring men, Irritating to many 
whose digestive organs are weak. Like "bean porridge 
hot," it is best after very long cooking, owing to the soft- 
ening of fibre and a sweetening due to the formation of 
sugar. It is ground in different grades of coarseness. 
Some brands are partly cooked before they are put up for 
sale, and time for cooking varies. (Observe directions 
given on packages.) 

In cooking have salted boiling water, into which sift 
cereal with hand, stirring with fork that the grains may not 
be broken. After absorbing much water let steam in 
double boiler, occasionally stirring until creamy and grains 
unbroken. Turned into fancy molds or cups, it is good 
cold, with cream. 

Rice is nearly all starch. Requires fat or milk. 

Barley, rich in phosphates, contains starch and mucilage. 

Good in fever. 

Composition of Oa.t Mea.!. 

■ Proteid (muscle) 12.6 percent. 

Carbo-hydrate (starch) 63.8 

Fatty matter 5.6 " " 

Minei-al aiatter 3. 

Water 15. '• " 

100.00 " " 



MUSH, MACARONI AND CHEESE. 45 

Some cereals absorb more water in cooking. Length 
of time for cooking varies. 

Hominy requires 3 times as much water; cook 3 
hours. Farina, 3 times; cook 1 hour. Scotch oat meal. 
4 times; cook 3 hours. Rolled oats, 4 times; cook 1 
hour. Yellow corn meal, 6 times: cook ^ hour. Kal- 
stons, 6 times; cook 10 minutes, Eice, 8 times; steam 

2 hours. 

Com Meal MusH. 

Put three pints of boiling water in heavy kettle, 1 
teaspoon salt. Mix 1 tablespoon of flour with water to 
thin paste, add to boiling water, stirring with wooden 
spoon. Then sift in meal with left hand while stirring 
with right until all is added. Stir for | hour. Serve hot 
with salt and milk. 

Fried MusH. 

Turn mush while hot into narrow, oblong bread pan 
previously wet with cold water. Next day cut into half- 
inch slices and brown in hot fat. Breakfast dish. 

Macaroni and CHeese. 

One-third of a pound of Italian macaroni. Break 
into 3-inch pieces, boil in salted water until tender, drain. 
In baking dish put a layer of macaroni, then a layer of 
cheese, then the second layer. Season with salt and pa- 
prika. Pour over a cup of white sauce, sprinkle cheese 
over top, and bake until sauce bubbles up through. Can 
pour over tomato sauce. 

Spaghetti can be used same; served with fish. Good 
food. 

Mix boiled macaroni with minced chicken or veal. 
Pour brown or white sauce over. Macaroni boiled and 
basted with beef drippings from roast, can be served 
instead of potato. 

Farina and hominy pi'epared the same 



46 TO BOIL AND STEAM RICE. 

To Boil Rice. 

Have two quarts of boiling water in heavy kettle; 1 
tablespoon of salt. 

Put 1 cup rice in strainer and let water run on it to 
remove floury coating. Drop it gradually into rapidly 
boiling water, occasionally stir bottom with fork. At end 
of fifteen minutes try if grains are soft. Drain off water, 
cover with cheese cloth to dry out or put in colander, 
cover, and set in oven. Every grain will be separate. 
Used in place of potato. 

To rice add a cup of strained tomato as a vegetable. 

To Steam Rice. 

Wash one-half cup rice thoroughly, put it in double 
boiler with one cup of cold water and ^ teaspoon salt, 
steam until water is absorbed, add 1 cup milk, stir a little 
from bottom, steam until milk is absorbed, add 1 table- 
spoon of butter, serve with milk or make a rice pudding. 

In baking dish put quart of milk, | teaspoon of salt, 
1 teaspoon of sugar, 2 tablespoons of washed rice; occa- 
sionally stir, leaving in very slow oven five or six hours. 
Good for invalid. 

Rice can be served with a curry sauce or with grated 
cheese. 

Use as stuffing for fowl. 



VEGETABLES. 47 

CHAPTER V. 

Vegetables. 

Vegetable food includes some part of every form of 

plant life; roots, potatoes, carrot, turnip, parsnip, beets, 

radish, artichoke. 

Stem, asparagus 

Scaly bulb, onion 

Flower, cauliflower 

Juices, sugar, acids, honey, oil, gum, wine 

Bark, cinnamon 

Unexpanded flower buds, as capers, or dried as cloves 

Fungi, mushrooms, truffles 

We need a large amount of vegetable food to promote 
perfect food. They are rich in salts, which counteracts 
the effects of too much animal food. Ail vegetables need 
salt and some kind of fat. Peas, beans, squash, turnip, 
which contain sugar, should be slightly sweetened as in 
cooking some of their natural sweetness is lost. 

Green vegetables should be freshly gathered, washed 
thoroughly in cold water, and cooked in salted boiling 
water only long enough to soften them. Cover should be 
partially removed in order to preserve color and flavor. 
When done, remove water. 

Uncooked or badly cooked vegetables impose labor 
upon the digestive system, are not digested, no food value, 

Potatoes increase flesh. 

Potatoes. 

Potatoes are 3 parts water, contains starch, acid and 
phosphates. Not a good food alone. 

A brush is useful for cleaning vegetables. 

Boiled Potatoes. 

Pare, thinly, six potatoes and keep in cold water until 
ready to use. Put in boiling water for about thirty 



48 POTATOES. 

minutes, add 1 teaspoon of salt; drain, cover with one 
thickness of cloth until ready to serve. Stand kettle on 
asbestos mat. 

Ma.shed Potatoes. 

For six boiled potatoes, 1 tablespoon butter, ^ cup hot 
milk, salt to tast. Mash potatoes, then beat with fork, 
add the butter, beat, then add milk, beat until light; serve 
at once, heaped in a vegetable dish, very hot. 

Mashed potatoes left over can be shaped into cylin- 
ders or balls, rolled in egg and crambs and fried. Be 
served for breakfast or luncheon. Also sweet potatoes, 
Mashed potatoes made into mound-shape on cooking plate, 
brushed over with egg or butter and browned for dinner, 
Gai'nish with parsley. 

Baked potatoes moat digestible; old potatoes more 
starchy. Bake in hot oven until soft, and serve at once. 

Stuffed BaKed Potatoes. 

Select potatoes of even size, cut in halves lengthwise, 
remove thin slice from bottom so they will stand. Bake, 
cut around ^ inch in, remove skin formed — then with 
spoon scrape out potato, leaving shell. Mash, having 
about same amount of boiled potato with it. Mash, using 
a little more butter and milk than for mashed potatoes, 
can add beaten eg^ — ^fiU shells heaping, leaving top 
rough, over which sprinkle a few buttered crumbs — brown 
in oven and serve. 

Creamed Potatoes. 

Cut cold boiled potatoes into | inch cubes. Make a 

white sauce into which put potatoes. Heat thoroughly. 

Serve hot. 

SKoo-Fly Potatoes. 

Cut potatoes lengthwise into v«ery thin slices, then cut 

into finest strips. Soak in a bowl of water containing a 

teaspoon of salt, stand, to remove starch, 30 minutes. 



ONIONS AND SCALLOPED CORN. 49 

Drain and dry in cheese cloth. Fry a golden brown, 
drain on paper or cheese cloth. Sprinkle with salt and 
serve as a pretty garnish for a meat dish. 

Potatoes sliced, soaked in salt water, drained and 
fried are good. (Saratoga.) 

Potatoes riced and seasoned with butter and salt is 
served. 

Sweet potatoes are baked or boiled, skinned and 
served. Cut in half lengthwise, brushed with butter and 
browned are very appetizing. 

Raw potatoes pared, cut into little balls with scoop 
for garnish. 

All vegetables grown above ground require rapidly 
boiling salted water, partly uncovered. 

All vegetables grown below ground, salt added after 
cooking (except onions) which, with, cabbage, should be 
boiled in two waters. 

Onions. 

Skin, cook in boiling salted water 10 minutes, drain, 
change water, boil until tender, drain, partly cover with 
milk, cook 10 minutes. Season with salt, pepper and but- 
ter, or serve with white sauce. 

Scalloped Onions. 

MES. H. T. MILLER. 

Slice six good-sized onions, parboil in salted boiling 
water until tender (about 10 minutes). In baker spread 
a layer of bread crumbs, then a layer of onions. Season 
with salt, pepper and a little butter, then another layer of 
crumbs and onions. Pour over a cup of white sauce, soft 
buttered crumbs over top. Bake in oven until sauce bub- 
bles up and crumbs brown. Serve in same dish. 

E^scalloped Corn. 

ELIZA C. AUSTIN. 

Put alternate layers of cracker crumbs and corn until 
a quart of corn has been used. Season each layer with 



60 VEGETABLES. 

bits of butter, salt and pepper. Let the last layer be of 
cracker crumbs with seasoning on top. Pour in plenty of 
sweet milk and bake until the top is a light brown. 

Catiliflo^ver. 

Leaves should be green, heads firm and white. Trim, 
soak in cold water, top down, 1 hour; cook in salted boil- 
ing water 30 minutes. Serve whole in hot shallow dish; 
or flowers separated, serve with white or Hollandaise 
sauce. 

Turnips a.ncl Carrots. 

No starch — gelatinous. Good in soup. Peel turnips, 
quarter, cook until tender, mash, draining any water. 
Season with salt and butter or cut into dice. Cook and 
mix with white sauce. Scrape carrots. If old do not use 
center. Cut into halves, strips or cubes, cook until ten- 
der. Serve with butter, salt and pepper or white sauce. 
Carrots and turnips can be served on same dish, alternate 
groups with peas in center, or served together, with salt, 
pepper and butter. 

Beets. 

Clean, not cut, cooked until tender in boiling water, 
skinned, cut in half, quarter aud smaller sections. Served 
with salt, pepper and butter or sliced with vinegar poured 
over. Can serve with white sauce. 

Tomatoes. 

Served raw or cooked. 

6 ripe, scald for 1 moment, remove skin, stew in 
saucepan twenty minutes. Season with 1 tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 salt-spoou paprika, bread, 1 teaspoon 
sugar. Serve. 



TOMATOES. 51 

Scalloped Tomatoes. 

One can tomatoes or a quart of stewed, one coflPeecup 
of bread crumbs or grape nuts, 1 tablespoon sugar. But- 
ter an earthen dish, put in a layer of crumbs or grape nuts, 
sprinkle with pepper, salt and sugar, then a layer of toma- 
toes and a very little batter. Alternate until the dish is 
full, the last being crumbs or grape nuts, dotted with bits 
of butter. Bake one-half hour. This is nice without 
sugar. 

BotK Feel 

"W^Hat Proper Food Does for Both Mind and Body. 



Physical health, mental healthy indeed almost everything 
good on this earth depend in great measure upon proper food. 

Without health nothing is worth while and health can be 
won almost every time by proper feeding on the scientific food 
Grape-Nuts. 

A California trained nurse proved this: "Three years ago I 
was taken very sick, my work as a trained nurse having worn 
me out in body and mind, and medicine failed to relieve me at 
all. After seeing a number of physicians and specialists and 
getting no relief I was very much discouraged and felt that I 
would die of general nervous and physical collapse. 

"My condition was so bad I never imagined food would help 
me but on the advice of a friend I tried Grape-Nuts. The first 
package brought me so much relief that I quit the medicines and 
used Grape-Nuts steadily three times a day. The result was that 
within 6 months I had so completely regained my strength and 
health that I was back nursing again and I feel the improvement 
in my brain power just as plainly as I do in physical strength. 

"After my own wonderful experience with Grape-Nuts I 
have recommended it to my patients with splendid success and it 
has worked wonders in the cases of many invalids whom I have 
attended professionally.'' Name given by Postum Co., Battle 
Creek, Mich. 

Look in each package for a copy of the famous little book 
"The Road to Wellville." 



52 VEGETABLES, 

BaKed Tomatoes 'witH Grape Nuts. 

Slice off the tops of large tomatoes, take out the in- 
side with a spoon and stuff with a filling of grape nut 
tomato pulp, onion juice, salt and pepper, sage and a hard 
boiled yolk of egg into which an equal amount of butter 
has been worked. Bake in a deep buttered pan for half 
an hour. Garnish with sections of hard boiled egg and 
sprays of cress. 

BaRed Apples and Orape Ntits. 

Core six large apples (Greenings preferred) filled with 
grape nuts, sugar and a few drops of lemon juice. Bake 
in slow oven, basting frequently with syrup from the 
apples. When done, sprinkle with powdered sugar. 

Asparagus. 

Asparagus stalks are tender only so far as they will 
snap when bent, cut off tough ends, wash, tie in bunches, 
tips all together, boil in salted water until tender. Place 
on buttered toast, remove string. Serve with white sauce. 

Asparagus Tips. 

Cut one inch long, boil ten minutes and serve in 

white sauce. Can serve in bread cruets or tontage cups as 

entree. 

Boiled Cabbage. 

Cut cabbage is good sized pieces, remove outer leaves. 
Pui cabbage in large kettle of boiling water, salted, 1 salt- 
spoon of soda, boil 10 minutes, ch-ange water, boil 30 min- 
utes, drain in colander, place in dish and serve. Can add 
butter, salt and pepper or white sauce. 

Brussels sprouts cooked in same way. 

Hot iSla-w-. 

Cabbage in fine shreds, 3 cups. Boil until tender in 
salted boiling water; drain, pour over it a hot sauce made 
of 1 tablespoon of butter, 1 teaspoon of sugar, ^ teaspoon 



VEGETABLES. 53 

salt, ^ salt-spoon paprika, ^ cup vinegar. Cover saucepan 
and let it stand back on range five minutes. Serve. 

Cold Slafw. 

Three cups fine shredded cabbage; pour over it 
vinegar, salt and pepper; or dress it with sour cream or 
French salad dressing. 

Egg Plant. 

Cut egg plant into slices after removing skin; sprinkle 
with salt, pile one upon another on back of plate. Place 
plate on them to press out the juice. Lay them in egg 
and crumbs; fry in hot fat. 

•Stuffed Peppers. 

Use green sweet peppers; cut them in two, length- 
wise, removing seeds and partition. Parboil 5 minutes; 
fill each with stuffing made of equal parts of crumbs and 
minced meat, seasoned with salt, pepper, onion juice, 
catsup and butter. Place them over a dish with water ^ 
inch deep, bake in moderate oven ^ hour. Serve in same 

dish. 

Peas. 

Shell peas, boil in salted water until tender; if old add 
1 salt-spoon soda and little sugar; serve with butter, salt 
and pepper or white sauce. 

Celery. 

Cut celery into one-inch pieces, boil until tender and 
serve with white sauce, or dip in milk, flour and fry. 

ArticHoRe Bottoms. 

Remove all the leaves and choke. Trim the bottom into 
good shape, boil in salted water; serve with Bechamel or 
Hollandaise sauce. 

S-vireet Com. 

Have large kettle of boiling water; remove husks 
from corn, put into water and boil 5 minutes. No salt. 



54 VEGETABLES. 

SpinacH. 

Soak in water, wash and pick over very carefully, put 
in a kettle without water, adding teaspoon of salt to each 
2 pounds. Moisture in it will be sufficient to cook. Stir 
well, when well wilted drain, season with salt, pepper and 
butter, serve or chop fine; serve on slices of toast, gar- 
nished with hard boiled eggs. 

Parsnips. 

Scrape, cut in slices lengthwise, boil in salted water 
until tender, saute in hot fat, or cut in cubes, boil until 
tender, mix with same amount of white sauce and serve. 




Location of bones in the different cuts of Meat. Study the Anatomy 
of Fowl and Animals. 

a to a* neck; a*, six chuck ribs; a* to a*, seven prime ribs; a* to a°, 
loin or porterhouse; a^ to a**, sirloin; a* to a*, rump piece: a^, where 
rump is divided; c d, shoulder blade; e e e e, cross ribs; f g, bones in 
shoulder; h, sternum; i, head of thigh bone; k, socket; 1, ball. 



MEATS. 55 



CHAPTER VI. 



Meats. 

Flesh and muscle-forming. Meat consists of fibrine, 
albumen, gelatine, fat and juices, and should be cooked in 
such a way as to retain the largest proportion of its juice, 
unless we wish the juice in the liquid, as in soups or stews. 
Long, slow cooking, breaks down the fibre, and so makes 
it more tender. Tough pieces can, by slow cooking, be 
made as acceptable as the more expensive ones. 

In order to shut in the juices meat should at first be 
subjected to a high degree of heat for a short time. A 
crust will be formed on outside by coagulating of albu- 
men, after which heat should be lowered and the cooking 
be done slowly. Same for boiling. 

Dark meats should be underdone or red; the white 
meat thoroughly cooked. 

Dry meats are improved by being larded. 

Salt and pepper draws juices out of meat while cook- 
ing. Do not wash meat but wipe with wet cloth. Do not 
pierce meat with fork while cooking. 

Pork is good only in the fall and winter unless salted. 

Veal in the spring. 

Venison in the winter. 

Fowl in autumn and winter. 

Lamb in the spring and summer. 

Mature animals more nutritious than young. 

In broiled meat juice all in the meat. 

Beef. 

Beef is most nutritious. Most expensive part — hind- 
quarter between the rump and ribs. 



56 MEATS. 

Best parts for roast— sirloin, prime ribs, shoulder 
rump and round. 

Best parts for steaks — sirloin, porterhouse, shoulder, 
flank, round. 

Stews— cheaper parts. 

There are nine sirloins, fourteen porterhouse, eight 
shoulder or chuck, flank, hamburger. 

Time for broiling — one-inch thick, six to eight min- 
utes; one and one-half-inch thick, eight to ten minutes. 

Rib roast — eight pounds, twelve minutes per pound. 
Wipe with damp cloth, dredge with flour, sift over salt 
and pepper, put it into a pan on a rack and in a very hot 
oven. After twenty minutes, reduce the heat, bake slowly 
until done. Water pnt in pan prevents browning. Press 
with fork on the meat. If juice is red, meat is done; if 
purple, not done. Bones can be removed and meat rolled, 
but much flavor is lost. Iron skewers are needed. First 
two ribs for small family, second and third prime. 

Gravy. 

When meat is done, put it in dish in oven, drain off 

fat from pan, set pan on top of stove without rack, put in 

pan a tablespoon of flour, stir well until smooth, add hot 

water till right consistency, strain in gravy dish and serve. 

Season. 

YorKsKire Pudding. 

One-half hour before dinner is served, place in bowl 
1 cup of sifted flour, 1 cup of milk, 1 eg^, 1 salt-spoon of 
salt. Have pop-over irons or cups hot and greased. 
Some prefer an iron pan that meat rack can rest on. 
Make well in middle of flour, into which break egg, one- 
half of the milk and salt, stir with wooden spoon until 
smooth, add rest of milk, stir and beat with Dover egg- 
beater until full of bubbles. Fill irons one-half full, put 
in oven, and, after twenty minutes, baste with some fat 



MEATS. 57 

from roasting-pan. If large pan is used, the meat rests 
on pan and fat drips over. Serve around roast as garnish. 

Braised Beef. 

Five or six pounds of round or flank- steak. If flank 
remove skin, score and dredge with flour, salt and pepper 
and roll or dredge round of meat. In heavy kettle put 
one-fourth pound of salt pork, cut fine one-half a carrot, 
one onion, stick of celery, three cloves, three peppercorns 
and place meat upon them. Cook twenty minutes, turn- 
ing, then add a cup of stock or water. Cover. Cook very 
slowly four or five hours, turning, often adding more water 
if necessary. When serving strain the sauce and season. 
Pour a little over the meat. Serve the rest in a sauce- 
boat. 

Meait Pie. 

Slice thin pieces of left-over meat, beefsteak, veal, or 
both, cover with stock or water, left-over gravy, an onion 
sliced, two small potatoes. Stew until tender. Make a 
biscuit dough. Roll out one-third inch in thickness, cut 
round one-half inch larger than top of dish in which it is 
to be baked. What remains put around the sides of dish 
over edges. Put meat in, dredging top with flour, lay 
over top crust, press edges together, glaze top, bake till 
crust is brown. Set dish on cold plate. 

Corned Beef HasK. 

Small Rule. 

One cup corned beef, lean and fat ^ cup 

One cup of potato ^ cup 

One-fourth cup water 2 tablespoons 

One teaspoon butter ^ teaspoon 

One salt-spoon salt Speck 

One-half salt-spoon paprika Dash 

Chop meat very fine, chop potato coarse — mix lightly, 
In frying pan put butter, add hash, pour the water over, 
season. When brown on bottom, fold like omelet, loosen 



58 MEATS. 

from bottom of pan, turn out on platter. Garnish with 
parsley. Can serve with tomato sauce. 

Fillet of Beef. 

About 3 or 4 pounds, trim and lard with little strips 
of pork cut lengthwise. In baking pan lay strips of salt 
pork over which lay slices of onion and carrot. Place ten- 
derloin on top. Put in hot oven, baste frequently with a 
tablespoon of butter in ^ cup water on stove, after 10 min- 
utes reduce heat, bake gently for 20 minutes. It needs 
to be better done than roast beef. Remove to platter, 
turn the thin end under. Garnish with potato balls or 
shoe fly potatoes. In carving, cut in a slanting line. 
Prepare gravy as for I'oast beef — can add a glass of 

wine. 

Broiled SteaK. 

Steak should not be thin. Have bed of hot coals 
and hot broiler, double wire broiler. Trim steak, cut 
through skin several times that it will not curl. Grease 
broiler with suet, place steak on broiler, hold very close to 
fire for two minutes, turn over, sear, then turn every min- 
ute until steak is heated to center, red not purple, sprinkle 
with salt and pepper. Press meat to see if done. Re- 
move to hot platter, put on it 1 tablespoon of butter, set 
m oven 1 minute and serve very hot. 

If broiling on gas stove, light both oven burners 4 
minutes before using, having broiler near flame. Proceed 
as with coal stove, after 4 minutes turn flame down one- 
half. In broiling give entire attention. 

Any vegetable served with beef. 

Left over beef makes nice salad. 

Beef SteaK and Onions. 

Round Steak — In iron frying pan put a tablespoon 
of butter and six sliced onions. Stir until a golden brown. 
Remove and put in the beef steak, searing, then turning 



MEATS. 59 

every minute. Season with salt, pepper and but- 
ter. Serve on platter spreading onions over, with the 
gravy from frying pan — serve very hot. 

Houg'K Jelly. 

MES. C. E. K. 

Put a shin of beef into a pot with 2 quarts cold 
water, and simmer four or five hours, till liquor is reduced 
to about a quart. Take out the meat, cut fine; put it into 
the liquor with salt, pepper, teaspoon of thyme, summer 
savory, parsley, a cup of vinegar, a teaspoon mixed spices. 
Turn into a square mold. When cold it will be a stiflF 
jelly and is a good relish. 

Cold B.oast Beef. 

Cold beef can be made into a pie, croquettes, hash 
without potatoes with a nice butter gravy, served on toast, 
or chopped very fine, seasoned, stirred into fritter batter 
and fried in hot fat. Nice for breakfast, can use with 
mushrooms. 

>f utton. 

Mutton next to beef in nutrition. Good mutton — 
three years old. Lamb — one year. Cut up from loin. 
If two hindquarters are used together, it is called a saddle. 
If split down the back and then divided it is called hind 
and f orequarter. 

The fat of mutton should be white, the meat bright 
red. The flavor, disliked by many, comes from the oil of 
the wool. Remove the pink skin to avoid it. 

Turnips, carrots, asparagus, are vegetables with mut- 
ton, tomatoes and peas. 

Peas with lamb. 

Caper sauce with boiled mutton. 

Mint sauce with roast lamb. 

Tomato sauce with chops. 



60 MEATS. 

Roast Leg of Mutton or Forecfviarter. 

Remove pink skin, cut bone short, place in hot oven 
for twenty minutes, add a cup of hot water and baste fre- 
quently. Allow fifteen minutes to each pound. When 
served garnish with parsley. Use lemon juice in sauce. 
Carve through center. Can remove shoulder bone and 

stuflF. 

Cro^vn R.oast. 

Have a full loin, split between bones, trim bones like 
French chops and chop off even, wrap slice of larding pork 
around each bone, so it will not burn, roll the loin back- 
ward to form a circle and tie, baste while roasting. Allow 
thirty minutes to a three-pound crown Serve with potato 
balls or peas. Put a ruffle of paper on each bone. 

Boiled Mutton (^Underdone). 

Place leg of mutton in kettle with just enough water 
to cover, boil rapidly for fifteen minutes, then simmer till 
done, keeping covered; add one teaspoon of salt to water; 
can add an onion and carrot. Use stock in which it is 
boiled to make caper sauce. 

Mutton CKops. 

E^ng^lisH CKops-'Loin CHods. 

One-inch thick, made round and skewered. 

FrencK CHops. 

Rib meat scraped from bone and trimmed. 

Germsin CKops. 

Meat scraped from bone, which is cut shorter, a slit 
in thin end of meat and slipped over bone. 
Broiled CKops. 

Broiled over or under hot fire or in an iron frying- 
pan for five minutes, turning often. Disli up on warm 
platter, sprinkle with salt, pepper and butter or maitre d' 
hotel sauce. French chops over-lapping each other with 
peas massed in center, garnished with parsley. 



MEATS. 61 

Mutton Ste'w. 

ELIZA SPINNEY. 

Two pounds of shoulder cut in two-inch pieces, or thin 
slices of cold cooked mutton, cover with cold water, stand 
30 minutes, then let come to a boil quickly, then simmer, 
add 1 teaspoon salt, 1 salt-spoon pepper, 1 sliced onion, 1 
turnip, 1 carrot, 2 potatoes sliced — can use 1 salt-spoon of 
curry powder or ^ cup of tomato sauce. Thicken gravy 
with 1 teaspoon of flour mixed to a paste with water. 

In making a stew part of juice is left in meat, part in 
water. 

Stew usually has vegetables, dumpling. 

Ragout, stew highly flavored with wine. 

Salmi, stew of game. 

Chowder, stew of fish. 

Dumpling. 

Small Rule, 

One pint flour. | cup. 

2 rounding teaspoons baking powder. ^ teaspoon. 

1 teaspoon salt. 1 salt-spoon. 

Milk to make stiff batter, 2 tablespoons. 

Make resting place and shove from tablespoon like 
balls, cover, boil 10 minutes, uncover to dry out. Serve 
around platter. 

CKoT>s en Paisilote. ' 

Wipe, trim and dip in salad oil, wrap in paper, fold- 
ing edges, broil 5 minutes, season and serve. 

Veal (Young Beef). 

Veal is not very nutritious, has not much flavor and 
needs to be highly seasoned. It should be thoroughly 
cooked, should be eaten with potato or rice, or bacon and 
jelly which furnishes the fat and sugar wanting in the 
meat. The lower part or knuckle used for soup or jelly; 
cutlets from thickest part of leg; loin for chops or roast, 
breast for roast, neck for stew or soup. 



62 MEATS. 

The shoulder and breast of veai with shoulder bone 
removed and stuffed makes a good roast. 

Vegetables — Cucumbers, tomatoes, beans, cauliflower, 

Fricaz^deati. of Veal. 

Thick part of leg — larded — roasted on a bed of pork 
fat, herbs, onion and celery, basted frequently wnth stock 
in pan. Served with horseradish sauce. 

Breaded Veal. 

Cutlets from leg cut thin, trim in pieces for serving. 
Dip in fine sifted bread crumbs, egg slightly beaten with 
one tablespoon of water, then in crumbs. Cook slowly in 
hot drippings until a golden brown. Serve with tomato 
sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

Veal L'Oaf. 

Two pounds of veal, ^ pound fresh pork ^ pound salt 
pork, all chopped fine. Mix with 4 butter crackers rolled, 
2 eggs beaten, 1 teaspoon salt, L salt-spoon paprika, 1 tea 
spoon of mixed spices, ^ onion chopped. Shape into a 
roll. Roll in egg and crumbs, bake an hour basting fre- 
quently with butter and water. Luncheon dish; best cold. 

Calves* Lrive-r. 

Cut thin, dip in boiling water for 1 minute, dip in 
flour and saute in bacon fat. After removing can add I 
tablespoon of dry flour to pan, stir three minutes then 
add hot water until right consistency. Serve in dish with 
liver garnish with strips of crisp bacon. 

Siveetbreads. 

Sweetbreads are part of the digestive system' of the 
young animal. Thymus is throat sweet bread and the 
pancreas. The thymus is long and narrow and sometimes 
separated and sold for two. The thymus is tender and 
good for an invalid. The delicate flavor is brought out 
when sauted. 



MEATS. 63 

To Prepare >S^veetl>reads« 

Put ill cold water, remove pipes and membranes, cook 
them in salted boiling water, containing a teaspoon of 
lemon juice, 20 minutes, then in cold water to harden. 

They may be larded, baked until brown, basted with 
brown stock served with peas. 

They may be rolled in crumbs and fried in hot fat, 
can be cut into small pieces mixed with equal parts of 
mushroom and covered with cream sauce. In this way 
they can be served in individual cups sprinkled over with 
buttered crumbs and browned in oven. 

Svt'eetbread I^oaf. 

Two sweetbreads, f cup whole wheat shred, 2 eggs, 1 
slice onion, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, ^ tea- 
spoon mixed spices, 1 slice chopped pork; mix together, 
roll in egg and crumbs. Bake in quick oven thirty min- 
utes. Serve in dish with peas, brown sauce. Brains can 
be prepared same as sweetbreads. Kidneys not wholesome 
food. 

Heart can be stuffed and baked, larded with bacon, 

PorK. 

Pork makes a delicious flavoring for cooking other 
meats, and salted pork and bacon should be kept in the 
house. Roasting pieces are the spare rib, the leg, the 
loin, the tenderloin and the shoulder. Sage is used for 
seasoning with salt. Cabbage, squash, apples, beans, par- 
snips, are the vegetables to serve. Roasting brings out the 
flavor. Allow twenty minutes to each pound. The skin 
is tough, and must be cut in strips or it shrinks up. Baste 
often. Chops can be broiled or sauted, seasoned with but- 
ter, salt and pfepper. 

Pork tenderloin must be wiped, split, oiled and 
broiled, seasoned with salt, pepper and butter. 



64 MEATS. 

BreaKfast Bacoi\< 

Cutoff the rind, slice very thin, cook in a hot frying- 
pan till fat has fried out and bacon dry and crisp. 

To Fry Ham. 

Cut in very thin slices, broil or saute just long 

enough for edges to brown and ham heated through or it 

will grow hard. 

Boiled Ham. 

Put in a kettle of warm water and let come to a boil. 

Boil rapidly ten minutes, then simmer until nearly tender. 

Bemove from fire, ham remaining in water two hours. 

Peel off the skin, sprinkle over with a little sugar and 

bread crumbs, put in oven to brown. Baste with vinegar. 

Serve with a jelly or mustard sauce. Cut in very thin 

slices. 

Sausage. 

Two pounds of fresh pork — one-third fat — 1 teaspoon 

salt, 1 salt-spoon each of paprika, sage, clove and cinnamon. 

Chop or grind very fine. Shape into balls, roll in flour, 

fry in hot pan. Use in winter. 

Crumpy PorK. 

MAEY GRIDLET. 

Thin slices of fat salt pork, soak in water thirty min- 
utes, dry in flour, brown quickly in hot oven. Serve on 
toast with baked potatoes. 

PorK and Beazls. 

Pea bean more delicate than larger ones. One pint 
of beans will soak to one quart. 

S-oak 1 pint of beans over night after picking out poor 
ones. In the morning put in kettle of cold water and par 
boil 10 minutes bringing slowly to a boil. Drain water, 
add more with a slice of onion, a salt-spoon of mustard. 
When beans are nearly tender add ^ pound of pork, skin, 
cut in fine lines, cook a little. 



BROWN BREA.D AND MEAL PUDDING. 65 

In bean pot put a teaspoon each of salt and molasses, 
put beans in, make a resting jjlace for pork, cover with 
bean water. Put cover on and bake 5 to 8 hours adding 
more water as it is absorbed. Remove cover and brown 
half hour before serving. Left-over beans good for salad 
or soup. 

Boston Bro-«vn Bread. 

Small Rule. 

One cup corn meal. 1 tablespoon. 

One cup Rye flour. 1 tablespoon. 

One cup Graham. 1 tablespoon. 

One teaspoon salt. 1 salt-spoon. 

One teaspoon soda. 1 salt-spoon. 

One-half cup molasses. | tablespoon. 

Two cups sour milk. 2 tablespoons. 

Can add 1 cup of raisins. 

Mix in order given, sifting soda in flour. Put in 

mold, lard pail or baking powder cans, steam 3 hours. 

Indian Meal Pudding. 

Small Rule. 

One cup yellow corn meal. 1 tablespoon. 

One cup molasses. ' 1 tablespoon. 

One teaspoon salt. Speck. 

One quart boiling milk. ^ cup. 

One tablespoon butter. Salt-spoon. 

Three pints cold milk. 3 tablespoons. 

One cup cold water. 1 tablespoon. 

Two eggs. 1 tablespoon. 

Pour scalding milk over meal, stir, beat eggs, mix all 

ingredients together, stir in meal, put in well-buttered 

pudding-dish, bake slowly six hours. Can add one cup 

currants. 



66 SAUCES. 



CHAPTER VII. 



•Sauces. 

The success of French cooking is due largely to their 
sauces, to which much care is given. The basis of most 
meat sauces is butter and flour, cooked together, which 
make a roux or thickening. If for a white sauce, the flour 
is not colored; browned for brown sauce, to this is added 
seasonings to suit the dish. For meats, it is the flavor of 
vegetables or herbs; for entrees, the flavor of meat or cream 
and eggs. The flavor of vegetables can be had by frying 
them in a little butter used in making the roux. The 
French prepare it and keep it on hand ready for use. For 
preparing it they use a shortening made of suet, lard and 
pork. 

The French say Americans use too much flavor, sea- 
soning and wine. 

IVhite Satice. 

SmaU Rule. 

One tablespoon butter. ^ teaspoon. 

One tablespoon flour. ^ teaspoon. 

One cup warm milk. 2 tablespoons. 

One-half teaspoon salt. Speck. 

One-fourth teaspoon white pepper. Dash. 

Into saucepan put butter; when it bubbles add flour, 
stir with wooden spoon until smooth, season and add milk 
a little at a time, stirring all the time, gentle fire under. 
Use double boiler. 

Bechamel sauce is same as white except using stock 
instead of milk and onion first fried in the butter. , 

To make perfect sauces a veal stock is desirable; the 
roux, with stock, carrot, bouquet of herbs, mace, bay leaf, 
cooked until butter comes to the top, strained and beaten 
with whisk. Whole herbs much better than broken up. 



SAUCES. 67 

£i^^ Satic«. 

Same as white sauce, with a raw eg^ beaten in or a 
hard boiled egg chopped and stirred in. For fish. 

Curry <Sauce. 

Same as white sauce, adding a salt-spoon of curry 
powder. For eggs, chicken, mutton or rice. 

Soubise Satice>-CHops. 

Fry four onions, until soft, in a tablespoon of butter, 
press through a strainer and mix with a cup of brown 
sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. Meats, ]&ntrees. 

Same as white sauce, except substituting a cup of 
strained tomato in which an onion has been cooked, for 
milk or stock add 1 salt-spoon of paprika and three cloves. 

Allemai^de Sauce. FisK and Veg>etables. 

Make white sauce, using chicken stock. Remove from 
fire, adding two yolks beaten with half cup of cream, a 
tablespoon of parsley or truffles and a dash of nutmeg. 
Put on fire to thicken but not boil, beat after removing 
from fire. Fine to mix with meat for croquettes. 

Caper <Sauce. Boiled Mutton. 

To one cup of Bechamel sauce add two tablespoons 
capers. 

MusHroom Sauce. BeefsteaK, Meats. 

Bechamel sauce, using brown stock, | cup stock, ^ 
cup of liquor from mushrooms, add a cup of button mush- 
rooms previously fried in a teaspoon of butter; add a tea- 
spoon of lemon juice, a teaspoon of chopped parsley. 
Sauce served on dish with meat, mushrooms served around 
as garnish. 

Mint Sauce. I^amb. 

One bunch of mint leaves chopped, ^ cup sugar, ^ 
cup vinegar; scald vinegar and sugar, add mint just be- 
fore serving:. 



68 SAUCES. 

Jelly iSatice. Game and Mutton* 

Melt in a saucepan a cup of currant jelly, add one 
tablespoon of butter, boil a minute before serving, add a 
tablespoon of sherry wine. 

Horseradish Satxce. 

MRS. A. C. PHELPS. 

Add grated horseradish to some soup stock, add a 
spoonfull of fat from the stock, ^ cup vinegar, salt-spoon 
salt, sugar and cinnamon and a half a lemon. Let come 
to a boil then stir in enough horseradish to make quite 
thick. If too thin add some bread crumbs. 

Hollandaise Sauce. FisH, Vegetables. 

In a bowl rub to a cream ^ cup butter; add yolks of 4 
eggs, beat well; juice of half lemon, ^ teaspoon salt, half 
salt-spoon paprika, then add slowly ^ cup hot water, mix 
well, set bowl in pan of hot water, stir constantly until 
like thick cream. Do not boil; remove, stir for a few 
minutes. It should be creamy. Good cold. 

Bread Sauce. Game. 

Put in saucepan a pint of milk with a small onion 
sliced; when scalded add enough fine bread crumbs to 
thicken, season with a tablespoon butter, half teaspoon 
salt, a dash of paprika. Brown coarse crumbs in a pan 
with a tablespoon of butter and a dash of paprika, which 
serve on a dish with game; serve sauce in boat. 

Craxkberry iSauce. 

Wash and pick over a quart of cranberries. Put in 
a porcelain kettle, cover with water, cook until tender, add 
2 cups of sugar, heat 5 minutes without stirring much. 
Serve with berries or strain, boil 5 minutes more, pour 
in mold to cool. 

A.pple Sauce. (Goose, Pork). 

Peel and quarter six tart apples. Put in porcelain 
dish with water enough to cook, when tender season with 
nutmeg and serve hot. 



SAUCES. 69 

Sauce Tartar. 

Mayonnaise, in which is chopped pickles. 

Sour iS^veet. (Vexxison, SAveet breads.) 

Mix together 2 tablespoons brown sugar, 1 tablespoon 
each of chocolate, candied orange and lemon peel, 10 
blanched almonds, ^ cup currants a cup of vinegar, a bay 
leaf, soak together 2 hours. Pour over cooked meat, sim- 
mer ten minutes. 

Pudding Sauces. 

Pudding Sauces Easily Made. 

Serving same pudding with different sauce makee it 
a different dish. 

Hot puddings can be served with cold sauces, jellies. 
Creams and blanc manges served with whipped creams or 
fruit sauces 

Plain Pudding Sauce. 

Small Rule. 

Three-fourths cup sugar. 1^ tablespoon. 

Two cups boiling water. ^ cup. 

One teaspoon butter. salt-spoon. 

Zest of lemon. speck. 

One tablespoon of corn-starch or flour, i teaspoon. 
Teaspoon flavoring vanilla or wine. 8 drops. 

Dilute corn-starch with a little water, stir into it the 
boiling water, add the sugar and stir until the starch be- 
comes clear, add butter and flavoring. 

Foamy Sauce^ 

Small Rule. 

One-half cup butter. 1 teaspoon. 

One cup powdered sugar. 2 teaspoons. 

One teaspoon vanilla. 6 drops. 

One- fourth cup boiling water. | teaspoon. 

One egg white. I teaspoon. 
Two tablespoons sherry. 

Cream the butter, add sifted sugar gradually, flavor, 
beat well. Just before serving, add the boiling water 
then the stiffly beaten white. Sauce should be foamy. 



70 SAUCES. 

Creamy Sauce. 

A white sauce, sweetened, flavored and beaten white 
of egg folded in. 

Brandy Sauce. Plum Pudding. 

Two cups water, 1 cup sugar. When sugar is dis- 
solved and v^ater boils add heaping tablespoon corn- 
starch or arrowroot diluted in cold water. Stir until corn- 
stai-ch is clear; remove from fire. Add two tablespoons 
liquor, salt-spoon mace. 

Fruit Sauces. 

Fruit pulp and juices thickened with arrowroot and 
sweetened. 

CHocolate Sauce. 

Boil for 5 minutes a half cup each of sugar and water, 
add one-fourth cup Baker's chocolate grated; ^ teaspoon 
vanilla. Stand in pan of hot water until ready to use. 
Add half cup cream. 

Cold Jelly .Sauce. 

Stir half glass currant jelly until smooth; beat into 
it the stiffly beaten whites of two eggs. Serve with any 
light pudding or jelly. 

Hard Sauce. 

Small Rule 

One half cup butter. 1 teaspoon. 

One cup sifted powdered sugar. 2 teaspoons. 

One teaspoon flavoring. 6 drops, 

One salt-spoon nutmeg. speck. 

Cream butter, add sugar gradually until white and 

very light, flavor. Mass lightly on dish, grate nutmeg 

and serve. 

Stra^vberry Sauce. 

MISS FALLIS. 

Make hard sauce, add stifly beaten white of egg. Stir 
in half cup of fruit. Sauce for shortcake. 



OYSTERS. 71 



CHAPTER VIII. 



Oysters. 

Better on Atlantic Coast than Pacific. Blue Points 
best raw. Good for invalids raw or slightly cooked. 
When overcooked, very indigestible. Served raw they 
need salt, pepper and an acid, vinegar, lemon or Wor- 
cestershire sauce. 

0>'Sters ox\ Half SHell. (First Cotirse for Dinner.) 

Open, lay deep half of shell on plate, five on each 
plate, narrow point towards center, rinse each oyster and 
lay on, sprinkle with salt and pepper, with section of 
lemon in center. Garnish with watercress. Serve very 
cold with Boston Brown Bread. 

Oyster CocKtail. (First Cotxrse.) 

Six oysters in each glass, very cold. Serve over them, 
very cold, tomato sauce mixed vnth lemon juice, pepper 
sauce or chili, onion juice, and salt to taste. 

Always rinse oysters in a half cup water and take out 
with hand that no shell will adhere. Strain liquor. 

Panned Oysters. 

Put in a saucepan without water. As soon as heated 
edges curl, oysters plump, and they are done. Season 
with salt, pepper and butter. Serve on toast. 

.Scalloped Oysters. „ „ , 

Small Kule, 

One pint of oysters. 4 cup. 

One pint bread and cracker crumbs. | cup. 

One-third cup butter. 2 teaspoons. 

One teaspoon salt. salt-spoon. 

-^ One salt-spoon paprika. speck. 

One teaspoon Worcestershire sauce, (i drops. 

Or one-fourth cup tomato sauce. teaspoon. 



72 OYSTERS. 

Strain and rinse oysters. In baker sprinkle a layer 
of bread crumbs, then a layer of oysters, season with salt, 
pepper and pieces of butter, another layer of cracker 
crumbs, then oysters, season as before, adding Worcester- 
shire or tomato sauce, add more crumbs, add oyster liquor 
enough to moisten, but not have very wet. Spread but- 
tered crumbs over top. Bake until crumbs brown and 
liquor bubbles up through crumbs — twenty minutes. 
Serve with cold slaw or cucumbers and celery. 

Fried Oysters. 

Large oysters. Wash, dry on cheese-cloth, sprinkle 
with salt, pepper and a little lemon juice, dry, then roll in 
fine crumbs — egg and crumbs, and fry in hot fat just 
to brown. Serve at once. Garnish with slices of lemon 
and water-cress. 

Broiled Oysters. 

Dip in melted butter and fine crumbs, broil on fine 
double- wire broiler; broil just until plumped. Serve on 
toast seasoned with butter, salt and pepper, or maitre 
d'hotel butter. 

Huitre atx L>it. 

Large oysters. Season, roll in thin piece of bacon, 
skewer with toothpick, cook in hot pan just long enough 
to brown bacon. 



FISH. 73 



CHAPTER IX. 



FisK. 

"Salmon heads the list of whatever hath scales and 
fins," richer than meat, not good for invalids. Fish is rich 
in phosphorus and is good brain food. The juice of fish 
is alkaline and therefore needs lemon juice. 

Test for freshness: Eyes bright, gills red and flesh 
firm. 

To clean a fish : Hold fish in left hand and holding 
knife in a slanting position, scrape the scales from tail to 
head, rinse the knife often to remove scales. Cut fish 
down the front, remove fins and clean away intestines. 
To remove bone, begin at tail, run the knife under the 
bone and scrape meat away from bone, holding flakes care- 
fully not to break fish. When flesh on one side is re- 
moved, slip the knife under the bone on the other side, 
raise the bone leaving fish on board. Remove small bones. 
Shad is is not boned. Whitetish needs larding. Broil 
fresh mackerel. 

To Broil. 

Double broiler Grease broiler. Brush fish with oil, 
hold fish over hot coals and when seared on one side, 
turn over and continue the turning until fish is white and 
done, 10 minutes. Slip off on hot platter, spread pieces 
of butter over, sprinkle with salt and pepper. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley and serve with potato, macaroni 
and cheese and bread. 

PlanKed FisH. (CooKed Under Oas). 

A shad or thick whitefish. Prepare fish as for broil- 
ing, placed with skin down on greased broiler, brush 
over with butter. Have near enough to flame to sear fish 



74 FISH. 

quickly, then reduce flame by half, baste often and let fish 
cook until done. Remove to hot dish, season with salt, 
pepper and maitre d' hotel butter. Garnish with pars- 
ley. 

Maitre d' Hotel Butter, 

Cream, J cup butter, add gradually one teaspoon 
lemon juice, 1 salt-spoon salt, one half salt-spoon paprika 
and one tablespoon of chopped parsley. Make into balls 
and serve just as fish goes to table. 

If fish is to be baked do not remove head or tail. 

Baked FisH. 

Wipe and clean fish, leave on head and tail; brush 
over with bacon fat, dredge with flour, lay on rack in pan 
and bake in quick oven. Worcestershire sauce. 

.stuffing' For Baked FisK. 

One cup bread crumbs, 1 salt-spoon each of pepper, 
salt, onion juice, teaspoon each of parsley, capers and 
chopped pickle, 1 egg, f cup melted butter, | cuj) hot 
water. Mix together and lay roll in fish. Sew up. 
Cover head and tail with thick oiled paper. Stand fish up 
in pan supported by two potatoes or, bread. Do not put 
water in pan. 

To bake fish in form of letter S, shape and hold in 
place by running trussing needle and cord through fish 
near tail, then through body and head, going back and 
tying. Cord removed when served. Cut two gashes on 
side. Garnish with parsley, slice of lemon in fish's 
mouth, and shoofly potatoes around dish. 

To Boil FisH. 

Tie in cheese-cloth, plunge in boiling water in which 
is a tablespoon of vinegar, then simmer, allowing 8 min- 
utes to each pound, salt. Serve on napkin. Sauce in a 
boat, mashed potatoes, egg or Hollandaise sauce. 

Small fish can be cleaned, opened and dipped in corn 



FISH. 75 

meal, fried in bacon fat. Served with bacon. Smelts 
can be drawn, wiped, dipped in milk and flour, skewered 
into rings and fried in deep fat. Garnish or entree. 

FisH R.oes, Fried. 

Wash. Cook for ten minutes in boiliug, salted water 
containing a tablespoon vinegar, an onion and stick of 
celery, then plunge in cold water, dry, roll in crumbs, 
egg and seasoned crnmbs and brown in hot fat. 

(Scalloped FisK. 

Flaked fish. In baking'dish, a layer of crumbs, then 
a layer of fish, season with lemon juice, salt and pepper, 
then another layer of each. Pour white sauce over, a 
layer of crumbs and cheese. Bake until brown on top 
and sauce bubbles up. 

Salt fish should soak in cold water, skin side up to 
soak salt out. 

Mackerel should be broiled and seasoned with salt, 
pepper and butter. 

Salt codfish should be picked apart, not chopped. 

Creamed CodfisK. 

Soak and flake one cup of fish, careful to remove 
bones, simmer (not boil) until tender, drain and add to 
1 cup of rich white sauce. Can add 1 egg. 

FisK HasH. 

MES. SPINNET. 

One cup each of codfish, potato and boiled beets, 
fine, mix and cook with ^ cup of salt pork chopped and 
^ cup hot water. 

Fish Pudding^. 

One pint boiled halibut. ^ teaspoon paprika. 

One-half cup cream. ^ teaspoon onion. 

One and | tablespoons butter. 2 eggs. 

One-fourth cup fine crumbs. 1 tablespoon lemon juice. 

One and f teaspoons salt. 1 tablespoon flour. 

Mash fish very fine, season with salt, paprika, onion, 

mace. Put butter in saucepan, when it bubbles, stir in 



76 SHELL FISH. 

flour, cook 3 minutes, add milk gradually until smooth, 
stir in fish, add crumbs and egg, mix. Butter, very well, a 
mold or bowl, press mixture against the sides to remove 
air bubbles. Cover with oiled paper, set in pan contain- 
ing hot water covering half the mould, leave in oven half- 
hour. Place the form of fish on hot dish. Garnish with 
potato balls sprinkled with chopped parsley. Serve over, 
a cream sauce. Garnish with parsley. 

Slices of salmon may be broiled, seasoned with salt, 
pepper, lemon juice and garnished with parsley or water- 
cress. 

Left over fish is good pickled with scalded vinegar 
containing 2 cloves, 2 peppercorns, salt or Agra Dolce 
sauce. 

SHell FisK. 

Clams are served raw or on the half-shell during the 
months that oysters are out of season. Littleneck clams 
are best, smaller the better. Serve same as for oysters. 

Creamed Clams. 

Heat clams in their own liquor, chop fine and to each 
cup of clam, add a cup of white sauce. 

Claxn Fritters. 

Chop and add to fritter batter, dropped from spoon 
into hot fat. Drain and serve. (Have batter stiff). 

Crabs. 

Good, months without R's. Like lobsters, bought 
while alive. Put head first in boiling water for five min- 
utes, then add tablespoon of salt and boil 30 minutes. 
When cold, remove the shells, the stomach, which is just 
under the head, the gills, and the intestines. Take out 
meat carefully. 



SHELL FISH. 77 

Deviled Crabs. 

Twelve crabs to fill 10 shells. 1 teaspoon salt. 
One cup cream or milk. ^ salt-spoon paprika. 

One and ^ tablespoon butter. ^ teaspoon lemon juice. 
One tablespoon flour. Yolks of 4 hard boiled eggs. 

One " chopped parsley. 6 crackers crumbed. 
One-half salt-spoon mustard. 

Make a white sauce, to which add the crab meat, yolks 
of egg rubbed to a paste, seasoning and crumbs. Fill 
the carefully cleaned shells with mixture, fill close to 
edges and smooth on top, let get cold, brush over with 
slightly beaten egg in which is a tablespoon of water, 
sprinkle bread crumbs over, immerse in hot fat, in fry- 
ing basket, just for a minute, or brush with butter and 
brown in oven. 

Soft SHell Crabs. 

Wash carefully, lift flap and remove stomach, gills 
and intestines, dry and dredge with salt and pepper, roll 
in flour and saute in butter on both sides. Serve on toast 
with maitre d'hotel butter aiid chopped parsley. 

Lobster. 

A small heavy lobster better. After boiled, a lobster 
is good if tail is curled and springy. 

It may be killed just before being boiled by running 
a sharp pointed knife between joint between tail and 
body. 

To Boil a Ivobster. 

A kettle of warm water, take lobster by back and put 
head in first, this smothers instead of scalding, add a 
spoonful of salt, cover pot and boil 30 minutes. 

To open after lobster is cold, break apart tail and 
lady, twist claws, remove body from shell, remove green 
and coral, save to mix with meat. Remove stomach or 
body in head, also woolly gills, break claws, remove meat 



78 SHELL FISH. 

with scissors, remove membrane from tail, remove meat 
in one piece, then open to remove intestine which runs 
entire length. 

To Broil a I^obster. 

Prepare as directed, lay the two pieces on the broiler, 
shell part down, broil with moderate fire thirty or more 
minutes. Spread over a little butter when part done to 
keep moist, when done add more butter, salt and paprika. 
Crack claws with hammer and serve hot. 

LfObster Ne^vbtir^. 

One and one-half cup boiled lobster meat. Yolks 2 eggs. 
One tablespoon butter. 1 truffle chopped (optional) 
Three-fourths cup sherry wine. ^ teaspoon salt. 
One cup cream. ^ salt-spoon paprika. 

Put butter in chafing dish, or saucepan, then add 
lobster, cut into inch pieces, the chopped truffle, salt and 
pepper, simmer 5 minutes, add wine, cook three minutes, 
then add cream and egg beaten together, stir with wooden 
spoon until heated through, serve at once with finger of 
toast, crackers or biscuit. 

Lobster, crab or shrimps mixed with cream sauce 
used for patties or croquettes. The shell can be used to 
serve lobster instead of a dish. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 79 



CHAPTER X. 



Potiltry and Game. 

Flesh of poultry and game contains more phosphate 
than animals, therefore valuable as food especially for in- 
valids. All game has a peculiar flavor and odors should 
be kept until tender. 

White fleshed game should be cooked until well done; 
dark fleshed, rare. 

The crop should be empty and poultry drawn before 
going to market, should be dry picked, chilled but not 
good packed in ice water. 

Tests for young poultry, pin feathers not hairs; legs 
and feet smooth; breast bone bend readily; plump breast. 
Young tender poultry for roasting and broiling; older for 
boiling and stewing. 

For ducks and geese, wind-pipe should break when 
pressed with thumb and finger. Wild ducks have reddish 
feet, tame ducks thick yellow feet. 

Grouse, partridge and quail should have full heavy 
breasts, dark bill and yellowish legs. 

Squabs or young tame pigeons have pin feathers. 

Venison should be dark red, some white fat. 

Poultry should be picked as soon as killed, feathers 
come off towards the head, if flesh is tender pull in op- 
posite direction. Remove pin feathers, singe hair by 
holding over gas jet or a roll of paper held over the fire. 
Cut off the head, cut slit in skin at back of neck, and if 
fowl to be roasted turn skin of neck away and cut off neck 
leaving skin to fold over back rather than cutting through 
skin in front. Remove wind-pipe and crop, cut thi'ough 
skin an inch below big joint, twist joint and pull out 
tendons, the drumstick is improved without tendons. Cut 



80 POULTRY AND GAME. 

out oil bag. If fowl is to be whole, make an incision near 
vent, cut around intestine, loosen parts near, then work 
fingers further in until all parts can be drawn out to- 
gether, removing lungs afterwards. Hold under faucet 
wash out quickly and wipe with clean cloth. Out outer 
coat of gizzard, peel off, use care when cutting gall bag 
from liver. 

To fry, cut chicken in 11 pieces: 2 drum sticks, 2 sec- 
ond joints, 2 wings, with some breast, 2 breasts, 3 back 
pieces; sprinkle with salt and pepper, roll in flour, saute 
in pork fat or drippings for 20 minutes, turning often. 
Remove to warm dish, add to pan L tablespoon flour, stir 
1 minute, then add a cup of milk or cream, stir until it 
thickens. Strain, add a tablespoon chopped parsley. 
Place sauce on platter, arrange chicken on it. Serve with 
spinach and currant jelly. 

CKicKen Fricassee.— >Fowl Best. 

Wipe chicken, cut at joints in pieces for serving; 
cover with boiling water, 1 teaspoon salt, 1 teaspoon 
pepper; simmer 1 hour, or until meat is tender. Remove 
large bones, dredge rest with flour, and saute in hot 
butter. Put chicken on hot toast; make white sauce, to 
which add chicken liquor; add a salt-spoon celery salt, tea- 
spoon lemon juice, and one beaten egg, which must not 
boil. Pour over chicken, which is arranged on dish, body 
in center, wings at top, thighs below and legs crossed at 
tail. 

Chicken can be sauted before cooking. 

If chicken be not fried it is a stew. Can make dump- 
lings. If put in a deep dish with plenty of gravy, covered 
with pastry, baked, it is a chicken pie. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 81 

Casserole. 

Have large bowl well buttered and sprinkled with soft 
bread crumbs. 1 pint lightly mashed potatoes, seasoned 
with salt, ^ cup milk, 1 level tablespoon butter, 2 rounding 
tablespoons grated cheese, 1 egg, well beaten. Make a 
lining in bowl with potatoes f inch thick, even around 
edges. Put in oven to brown, remove, scoop out, leaving 
wall dry out in oven, then fill with salpicon. Salpicon is 
cubes of meat or fruit mixed with sauce. 

One cup chicken cut into cubes (or any cold meat), | 
cup mushrooms, cut and fried in a little butter; mix these 
with 1 cup white sauce (or sauce sapreme), 1 teaspoon 
lemon juice, seasoned with pepper and salt. Put this in 
potato lining, cover top with potato, place dish on which 
it is to be served on top of bowl, turn both over together, 
remove bowl. Potatoes should be a rich brown. 

Sauce to Serve Around. — 8 mushrooms, cut, 1 cup 
brown sauce, using stock and liquor from mushrooms and 
^ cup cream. 

Can use rice or fine hominy for wall, and any kind of 
meat for filling. Good supper dish. 

Roast CKicRen. 

Prepare whole as directed, stuffed, sewed and tied in 
shape, dredged with salt and flour, put in hot oven, basted 
often, when brown reduce heat, bake until tender. 

Giblets, heart liver and gizzard trimmed, cleaned and 
put in boiling water simmered three hours, chopped fine 
added to gravy. 

Stvi-fRn^ for Fo-wl. 

One cup bread crumbs, ^ cup butter seasoned with • 
salt, pepper, summer savory, moistened with ^ cup water 
mixed together and put in chicken, sewing up opening 
with a cross-stitch over and under. Remove strings before 
serving. 



82 POULTRY AND GAME. 

To truss, turn wings back so that they will meet 
under back, tie or skewer in place, draw the thighs up 
close to body so legs cross over tail, tie in place. 

The strong smell in old fowl can be removed by wash- 
ing in soda water. 

To Carve Potxltry. 

Place fowl on platter, head at left, put fork firmly 
across breast bone, cut through skin around leg joint, 
bend leg and cut at joint, cut off wing, separate leg then 
cut slices from breast, take off wish-bone, separate breast 
bone, turn back over, with fork lift up tail end separating 
from body. If all the fowl is not needed only carve one 
side. A fine dinner is often spoiled by poor carving. 

All the scrapings from bones, dressing and gravy can 
be cooked together, served on toast or can be utilized in 
croquettes. Stew bones and skin boiled down for stock, 
with curry and rice. 

TtirRey. 

Turkey prepared same as chicken, if stuffed use same 
dressing, or same mixed with chestnuts chopped, oysters, 
onions or celery, sausage or bacon laid upon breast to fla- 
vor or brown, baste with drippings, cook until tender. 
Covered braising pan good. Cranberry sauce, boiled 
onions, rice. 

To Boil Tukkey. — Truss, cook without stuffing, wrap 
in cloth and cook in boiling water until tender, or steam ; 
serve with celery or oyster sauce, serve with boiled 
rice or macaroni. 

To Beoil Chicken or Young Turkey.— Cut in half 
down the back, breaking joints and breast-bone, season 
with salt, pepper, and brush with butter, place in double 
broiler, broil 20 minutes, turning often, spread with butter, 
serve with sauce tartare. 



POULTRY AND GAME. 83 

Goose. 

Singe and scrub with a brush to open pores that the 
fat will cook out easier, draw and wash, stuff with crumbs, 
sage and onions, or with apples quartered, steam for 30 
minutes, then dredge with flour, salt and pepper, roast 
until tender, garnish with watercress. Serve with olives 
and apple sauce, boiled onions or squash. 

DucRs. 

Prepare as for goose, truss, bake 20 or 30 minutes in 
hot oven. Serve with olives, currant jelly and spinach, 
orange salad. 

Wild Ducks. — The breasts alone are often used baked 
for 10 minutes in hot oven, larded, resting on bed of 
onions, giblet sauce. 

Quail may be roasted, broiled or braized. Served on 
toast, bread sauce, celery. Cut down back. 

Rabbits. 

Cooked same as chicken. Can add wine to sauce. 

Venison. 

Easily digested, cooked as beef or mutton, if not 
tender sprinkle over with vinegar and spices, and stand a 
few hours. 

To Bone a Turkey. 

Select a plump hen fowl, remove head and feet, draw 
tendons, skin not broken, wipe with wet cloth. With 
sharp pointed knife cut skin full length down back, 
do not draw, then beginning at neck carefully scrape meat 
from bones, keeping knife close to bone. When joints at 
wing and leg are met break them back and continue to free 
meat from body, when one side is free turn fowl and free 
other side. Use care when separating skin from breast 
bone. When carcass is free remove from leg and wing, 
turning flesh back like a glove from fingers, do not break 
skin about joints, tips of wings can be cut or left on. 



84 POULTRY AND GAME. 

Galantine. 

After fowl has been boned, lay loose pieces in order, 
dark and light meat together, turn legs inside out, 1 cuf) of 
chopped veal, 2 slices of pork, herbs, onion juice, salt and 
pepper, roll, put in cheese-cloth, tie at each end and shape. 
This can be boiled in just water to cover, containing an 
onion, carrot, bay leaf, celery, 2 cloves, 2 peppercorns, 
simmer until tender, — about an hour, — remove to cool, 
press, when it can be removed from cheese-cloth. Garnish 
with parsley. Serve cold, or molded in jelly. The stock 
in which fowl is boiled is good for jelly, in which gelatine 
can be molded. 

The fowl, after boning, can be stuffed where bones 
have been removed, sewed up, shaped, larded and roasted. 
Serve hot or cold. The stuffing, same as for chicken, or 
can add oysters, chopped veal or chestnuts and two beaten 
eggs (to bind together the filling), giblet sauce. Serve 
with cranberry jelly, celery and peas. Nice for luncheon. 



EGGS. 85 



CHAPTER XL 

Over nine billion produced in the United States an- 
nually, A perfect food, so, if necessary to economize in 
anything, do not let it be in eggs. If properly cooked, 
easily digested. Hard boiled, indigestible, valueless as 
food. Best way to cook them, — poached, or cooked in wa- 
ter 180° until albumen and yolk like cream. 

COMPOSITION. 

Shell, 10 parts. Carbonate. 

/ Proteid, 18.00 per cent. 

^ 11 on i. ) Fat, 30.70 per cent. 

Yolk, 30 parts. ^ g^^^^^ 1 30 ^^^ ^^^^ 

^ Water, 52.00 per cent 



100 



! Proteid, 20.40 per cent, • 
Salts, 1.60 per cent. 

Water. 78.00 per cent. 

100 

To preserve eggs, pack in salt or bran, pointed end 
down; put in salt water; wrap in tin foil, or brush over 
with melted tallow or parafine. Shell is porous. If eggs 
sink in salted water they are fresh, — heavy. 

To Boil C^^s. 

Put into cold water and let come to a boil, or pour 
boiling water into a large bowl, drop in eggs, cover, stand 
ten or fifteen minutes. Yolk will be same consistency as 
white. An egg boiled an hour is more digestible than one 
cooked 5 minutes. 



86 EGGS. 

PoacHed Kg'^s. 

Prepare slices of toast, fill saucepan half full of salted 
boiling water, break each egg in cup, then, holding close 
to water, drop in. When film forms, remove saucepan, 
dip egg out with spoon. Water in spoon will moisten 
toast. Salt, pepper and butter on each egg. Can poach 
in muffin rings. 

iScrambled E,ggs. 

In iron frying pan put a spoonful of bacon fat or but- 
ter, break four eggs in bowl with one-fourth cup milk, 
pour in hot fat, stir with spoon until partly set. Serve on 
toast or with hot minced ham or veal. Season with salt 
and pepper. 

Omelet. 

Give four eggs a beating with a fork, but not light, 
add half-teaspoon salt, a dash of paprika, one-fourth cup 
water, turn out in hot, buttered iron frying pan or omelet 
pan, shake to keep from sticking, cook slowly until partly 
set, then, with knife, fold half over towards handle of 
pan, hold edge of pan and side of platter together, lower 
handle and drop omelet in center. Serve at once. Before 
folding can add chopped ham or any kind of meat or veg- 
etables left over, or fruit, jelly or preserves, then a tea- 
spoon of sugar can be beaten with egg. 

Omelet No. 2. 

When egg begins to set around edge, shove up towards 
center, uncooked will run back; continue until all creamy. 
Fold and serve. 

Omelet SorxfSle. 

Beat yolks and whites separately, very light, adding 

^ teaspoon of salt to whites, fold together, turn into hot 

buttered omelet pan, shake all the time; season with salt 

nd pepper, fold and serve, or stand in oven to brown on 

top. 



EGGS. 87 

Foe Jelly Omelet — Add a teaspoon of sugar and 
beat in a tablespoon of jelly, cut fine. Sift powdered 
sugar over top or serve with jelly sauce. 

Nests on. Toast. 

Beat wbites very stiff with salt-spoon, salt, spread 
over toast on platter. Make place to drop in yolk over 
each slice of toast; season with butter and pepper. Stand 
over pan of water in oven and bake till yolk is set. Can 
cut round slices for toast, set under mutfin rings, which 
fill with whites, yolk in center, and bake in pan over hot 
water. 

Ham and £^^s. 

Fry ham or bacon just enough to brown and curl 
edges, then break the eggs into the hot fat, care not to 
break yolk, baste with fat around edges until egg is set^ 
Serve around platter with ham in center, 

BaKed E^g'g's. 

Individual dishes. Sift crumbs in bottom, break 
eggs in dish, season with salt, pepper and butter, cover 
with buttered crumbs, bake until crumbs brown. Serve 
in same dish. 

E,^^s en Surprise. 

Poach eggs, trim edges, roll in crumbs, egg and 

crumbs, brown in hot fat and serve on toast, garnished 

with parsley. 

Stuifed £,^ifs. 

Boil six eggs thirty minutes, when cold remove shell, 
cut lengthwise, remove yolk, mash, add a tablespoon but- 
ter, a few drops of onion juice, 2 tablespoons minced ham 
or tongue, season, mix, fill whites, press 2 halves together. 

For salad, boil same, add mayonnaise dressing to 
yolks with tablespoon chopped parsley. Fill hollows in 
half with mixture. Serve on lettuce leaf with ball of 
mayonnaise. 



88 EGGS. 

£^^s AvitH Tomatoes. 

Eemove seeds and center from ripe tomato, drop 
whole egg in center, season with butter, salt and pepper. 
Bake till yolk is set. 

Toast. 

For coal stove: Hold rather dry slices bread near 
bright coals, brown quickly a golden brown. 

Gas stove: Light oven flame for three minutes, 
place slices of bread on rack near flame, brown on one 
side, turn and brown other. 

French Xoast. 

Dip slices of dry bread in milk, then beaten egg, 
saute in hot fat on both sides. Serve on napkin. 



BEVERAGES. 89 

CHAPTER XII. 

Beverag^es. 

Tea, coffee, cocoa or chocolate. 

In preparing any beverage, water freshly drawn and 
boiled will produce much better effects. 

Tea is made from the leaves of a hardy evergreen 
shrub called Thea. The manufacture consists in plucking 
the young leaves of the plant and placing them in the 
sun. After they have become withered they are rolled and 
twisted. The distinction between black and green teas is 
due to the difference in their mode of preparation. Green 
tea is steamed before rolled and dried, it contains more 
tannin, therefore, black tea is regarded as more whole- 
some. Half the tea used in United States comes from 
China. India tea stronger, more tannin, stimulating, 
good for elderly people, bad for children. Oolong tea is 
recommended. Teapot should be earthen. 

Xo Prepare Tea. 

Proportion, one teaspoon tea to half pint boiling 
water; pour boiling water over tea and let stand for a few 
moments, but not to boil. Steam and serve. A slice of 
lemon served in cup of tea is Russian tea. 

Coffee. 

The aroma of coffee is escaped volatile oil The fruit 
•of the coffee tree is something like the cherry, contains 
two seeds or beans. The berries must be roasted before 
grinding for use. Mandahling coffee grown on Sumatra 
is considered best. Mocha in Arabia. Good from South 
America and West Indies. A good mixture is equal parts 
of Mocah and Java, one eighth as much Bio for strength, 
-a dash of salt. 



90 BEVERAGES. 

Coffee should be roasted and kept in air tight cans 
for use. Three ways of preparing — filtration, infusion, 
decoction. 

Filtratioxk. 

Coffee ground fine. Double coffee pot, coffee put 
into strainer, freshly boiling water poured over, allowed 
to drip. Pot should stand in hot water. One tablespoon 
of ground coffee to each person. After dinner coffee, three 
tablespoons coffee to each half-pint boiling water. Can 
add dash of salt. 

Infusion. 

Measure one tablespoon of ground coffee to each per- 
son, if family small, add one tablespoon for pot, mix a 
teaspoon of raw egi^ and ^ cup cold water, stir and put 
into clean pot, stand on stove until it steams, then meas- 
ure as many curjs of boiling water as there are persons, 
stand on stove until it boils up, two minutes, add two 
tablespoons of cold water, serve. 

Decoction. 

Prepare as for infusion; boil and stand for 15 or 20 
minutes. Tannin is extracted; indigestible. No aroma. 

After dinner, coffee served without cream, aids diges- 
tion. Coffee with whipped cream (Vienna). 

Hot milk and warm cups improve coffee, which should 
be served hot. Spout or lip should be closed tight to pre- 
vent escape of aroma. 

Cocoa and Chocolate, made from a fruit grown in 
Mexico, Central America and West Indies. Fruit like a 
large cucumber, with from 6 to 30 beans; beans are 
roasted; shells are cocoa shells. Cocoa nibs are beans 
broken instead of ground. 

Chocolate is the kernel ground and mixed with sugar^, 
sometimes flavored with vanilla. Contains a large amount 
fyf fat; when fat is removed it is cocoa; less rich; some- 



BEVERAGES. 91 

times more digestible for invalids. Both contain nutria 
tion, and have not the bad eflPects of tea or coffee. Good 
for children. 

Cocoa SHells. 

One cup shells, 1 quart water, boil 4 hours; serve with 
hot milk and sugar or cream. 

Prepared Cocoa— Directions on cans Walter Baker's 
Company, but by boiling cocoa, sugar and water together 
for 5 minutes, then adding hot milk, a better cocoa is ob- 
tained. 

CHocolate. 

Small Rule. 

One-half cup Baker's chocolate, grated. 1 teaspoon. 

One-half cup sugar. 1 teaspoon. 

Pint water. ^ cup. 

One salt-spoon salt. Speck. 

Pint of hot milk. ^ cup. 

If desired, the yolk of an egg can be added, and milled 
or beaten with Dover egg beater. Mix chocolate, sugar, 
water and salt, boil for ten minutes, add milk. Serve with 
a teaspoon of whipped cream in each cup. 

A substitute for whipped cream is stiffly beaten white 
of egg, with sugar, flavored with a few drops of vanillg,; 
spoonful on each cup of chocolate. 

Cocoa prepared in same way. 



92 COOKIES. 



CHAPTER XIII. 



CooKies. 

Sift flour and su2:ar before measuring; measure every- 
thing before putting together. Mix dry things together, 
and wet things together. Soda and baking powder sifted 
in flour. When molasses is used, mix part of soda in 
molasses. To make richer cookies, use less milk and more 
eggs. In baking cookies, have oven hot, greatest heat on 
top. 

Plain Cookies. _ 

Small Rule. 

One-half cup butter or shortening. 1 tablespoon. 

One cup granulated sugar. 2 tablespoons- 

One-fourth cup milk. 2 teaspoons. 

One egg (beaten). 2 teaspoons. 

One-half teaspoon nutmeg. | salt-spoon. 
One rounding teaspoon baking powder. 1 salt-spoon. 

Two and one-half cups flour. ^ cup. 

Enough more flour to make soft dough. Cream, 
butter or shortening, add sugar gradually; add beaten egg, 
then the milk, and flavoring, if added. Sift flour, baking 
powder and nutmeg. If sour milk is used, sift | teaspoon 
of soda in flour instead of baking powder. 

In large bowl put 2 cups of flour, make well in center, 
pour in ingredients, stirring and adding flour until mixture 
forms soft ball of dough. Use marble slab or bread board, 
sift flour on board, turn part of dough on board, work into 
a ball, then with floured roller roll lightly ^ inch thick, 
sift granulated sugar over, cut with biscuit cutter, lay 
evenly on greased tin, a little distance apart; bake quickly. 
Take out on board or napkin until cool. 

(Much depends upon the appearance of food. Can 
^se caraway seeds or colored sugar. 



COOKIES. 93 

Jumbles. 

Cream, f cup butter, 1| cups granulated sugar, add 
three eggs (separate), | teaspoon vanilla. Stir in lightly 
flour enough'to make soft dough to roll out. Have board 
well floured, roll thin, sift sugar over top; cut into circles, 
then, with top of small pepper box, cut small circle in 
center. Place in floured pan, bake quickly, light color. 
Can roll around a stick if done very quickly after leavin:; 
oven. 

Soft Molasses CooKies. 

One cup Porto Rico molasses. 

One tablespoon ginger. 

One teaspoon soda; ^ in flour, ^ in molasses, 

Two tablespoons hot water or milk. 

One-half cup butter or shortening (soft). 

Three cups flour. 

Ging^er Snai>s. 

One cup molasses. 

One-half cup sugar. 

One tablespoon ginger. 

One teaspoon soda. 

One-half cup shortening (soft). 

Two and one-half to 3 cnps flour. 

Sift soda and flour; heat molasses, add sugar, ginger, 
shortening. In dish put 2 cups of flour, make well, stir in 
ingredients, then add flour till stiff enough to rollout very 
thin. Cut out and bake quickly. 

Ginger Bread* 

Small Rule. 

One cup Porto Rico molasses. 2 tablespoons. 

One teasix>on soda. 1 salt-spoon. 

One tablespoon ginger. ^ teaspoon. 

One-half teaspoon salt. Speck. 
One-half cup shortening (softened). 1 tablespoon. 

One cup milk. 2 tablespoons. 

Three cups flour. ^ rounding cup. 

One teaspoon lemon juice. Salt-spoon. 

Bake in thin sheets. 



94 GINGER BREAD, DOUGHNUTS. 

Ginger Bread. 

CAROLINE PAGE HOLMES. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup shortening, half each lard and 
butter, 1 cup molasses with 1 teaspoon soda, 1 cup sweet 
milk, 3 cups flour, 2 eggs, put in last, small pinch salt, 1 
teaspoon each ginger and cinnamon. 

Fairy Gi>\^erbreacl. 

One-half cup butter, 1 cup sugar, 2 cups flour, f tea- 
spoon soda, 1 teaspoon ginger, | cup sour milk. Cream, 
butter, add sugar gradually, then add flour and milk al- 
ternately, soda and ginger sifted in flour; beat well. Turn 
baking pans upsidedown, grease, aud spread mixture as 
thin as paper; bake in moderate oven until brown. While 
hot, cut into squares, roll around stick. 

Dou^bntxts. 

LUCY W. FEERIS. 

One cup sugar. 

One egg. 

Dash nutmeg. 

One-half salt-spoon salt. 

Four cups flour. 

One heaping teaspoon baking powder. 

One cup milk. 

Lard size of hickory nut. 

Use only enough flour to make soft dough and drop in 
fat only one at a time. 

R.aise<l Dou^Hntits. 

MRS. FALLIS. 

Two-thirds cup butter. 

Two cups sugar. 

Two cups milk, scalded. 

Four eggs. 

Two lemons. 

One cup yeast. 

One quart flour. 



DOUGHNUTS. 95 

Rub butter and sugar through one quart flour, then 
put in the milk and lemon juice, add eggs, beaten sepa- 
rately, then the yeast. Rise over night, mix and knead 
as bread; rise again, make into small balls with raisin in 
center. When light, fry in hot fat, drain on paper, roll 
in grated lemon rind and powdered sugar. 

Two eggs. 

One cup sugar. 

One cup milk. 

Four tablespoons melted butter. 

One salt-spoon each of salt, ginger and cinnamon. 

Two teaspoons baking powder or 1 teaspoon soda 

(if sour milk). 
About 3 cups flour. 

Soft dough, roll on well-floured board | inch thick, 
cut with biscuit cutter; cut out center with small cutter. 
Fry in hot fat, drain on paper, roll in granulated sugar. 



96 TO TRY OUT SHORTENING. 



CHAPTER XIV. 



To Try Out SKortening. 

Butter is the poorest material for frying; burns at 
very low temperature. French recommend lard and 
olive oil. Combination of beef suet and lard best. 

Mean temperature for frying, butter, 239°; suet, 266°; 
clarified drippings, 300°. 

To Try Out. — Cut up equal parts of leaf lard and 
beef suet into one-inch pieces, put in iron kettle, and let 
it fry out very slowly, occasionally stirring and pressing; 
must not brown. Strain into lard pails. For deep frying, 
4 or 5 pounds of fat should be on hand. 

A second pail should be kept for frying fish. 

After using let stand awhile, then strain. 

To Claeify Fat after several usings, slice raw potato 
very thin, let cook together until potato absorbs impuri- 
ties; strain. Add cold water and cook with fat. After 
cooking fat rises to the top, the sediment clings to bottom 
of fat, where it can be scraped ofP. Occasionally add a salt- 
spoon of soda. 

Saute is to cook in a small amount of fat. 

Fey is to cook in deep fat — best way for health. 

Chicken and turkey fat can be used for salad dress^ 
ing and for gingerbread. 

Goose grease, good in case of sore throat or croup. 

Mutton for mutton tallow. 

All fat from meats can be clarified and used for 
shortening. 

Cottolene is a pure vegetable fat — healthful. 



TO TRY OUT SHORTENING. 97 

To CHop Suet. 

Get kidney suet, white, firm. Remove skin and 
membrane, chop fine, adding a little flour to keep it from 
sticking together in a mass. Put in a pail, cover, and;ti8 
ready for use. 



PASTRY AND PIES. 



CHAPTER XV. 



Pastry and Pies. 

Pastry flour, siffced before measuriao; Cold paste and 
a hot oven. Oven test, paper brown after one minute. It 
is not so much tbe amount of fat used in pastry, but the 
kind, that makes it indigestible, and the half-cooked paste. 

(Marble Slab.) Paste for One Pie. 

Small Rule. 

One heaping cup flour. ^ cup flour. 

One salt-spoon of salt. Speck. 

One-third cup of lard and butter (mixed). 2| tablespoons. 

Enough ice water to make stiff dough, 3 tablespoons. 

Put flour in bowl, add salt and the lard, with case 
knife cut into flour, then stir in water gradually until a 
stiff dough is formed. Turn onto a well-floured board, 
pat and roll into form of oblong square. Cut one-half the 
butter into small pieces, spread over dough, sift flour over, 
then fold one side of dough to center, then opposite side, 
then one end one-third to center, then opposite end, then 
fold double. Pat out dough, cut in two uneven parts, 
larger for bottom crust, which roll out round one-half inch 
larger than size of pan, to allow for slope; double paste, 
lift, and. lay across floured pan, fold, across center of pan, 
lift top edge and lay in pan, loosely, press edges, but 
do not cut edges until both crusts are on. Roll upper crust 
square, cut rest of butter in, sift over with flour, fold and 
set in pan with under crust on the ice to chill while pre- 
paring filling. After filling is in, brush edges with cold 
water. Roll out paste shape of pan, fold, cut little holes 
near center to allow steam to escape, place on pie, press 



PASTRY AND PIES. 99 

with floured fingjer a little below edge of pie that the juice 
cannot escape. Trim edges. To glaze, brush over top 
with egg, in which is a tablespoon of water, or brush 
with milk. Chill and bake 30 minutes. 

Paste can be made and kept chilled for a week. Can 
use a salt-spoon of baking powder. 

A mixture of lard and suet good for pastry. 
Puff Paste. 

Four cups pastry flour, 2 cnps butter, about one cup 
ice water. Have three dishpaus, to fit one inside other. 
Ice water in top one; second, dry; bottom, cracked ice. 
Wash butter in ice water until waxy, work out under ice 
water into a square, then lay on napkin or cheese-cloth, 
cover with same and roll out as thin as possible, cut into 
four strips, lay in dry pan between the two pans contain- 
ing ice, to chill. Put flour in bowl with salt, take one strip 
of butter and chop it into flour fine, add ice water, and 
with knife mix into, a stiff dough, turn onto a floured 
marble or board and roll paste in form of oblong square 
very thin, lay second strip of butter, which should be one- 
half as wide as dough, along center, dredge with flour, fold 
one side of dough to middle, then other side to meet, fold 
one end to near middle, then opposite end, and fold 
double, pat out a little, fold in napkin, put in dry pan to 
chill, with butter; stand 10 minutes. A glass rolling-pin 
filled with chopped ice is good for pastry. When chilled, 
pat and roll out paste as before. Do not let stick or blis- 
ters will break, and roll from you, not back and forth. Lay 
another strip of butter along center, fold and chill again; 
also the third time, chilling as before, then roll and fold 
six times. Keep the edges even while rolling and fold 
evenly. With the folding air is enclosed. Roll lightly. 
The more blisters of air the lighter will be the paste. Fold 
in napkin and set on ice to chill,— better a day or two 
after making, if kept very cold and dry. 



100 PASTRY AND PIES. 

This paste is good for vol-au-vents, patty shells, tarts, 
rissoles, Banbury cakes, chicken pie. 

For Patties. — On floured board pat and roll paste 
^ inch thick, cut with round cutter, with small cutter 
stamp out the centers of half the pieces; dip cutter in hot 
water, cut quickly to make sharp cut; brush bottom layer 
with water, lay on second layer with open center. Can put 
wad of paper in center to keep in shape. Bake on shallow 
pans lined with paper; can chill before baking. Brush on 
top with egg. When done, remove soft paste underneath ; 
bake the little rounds and serve on top of patties after fill- 
ing. Hot oven until pufiped, then reduce heat. Bake 30 
minutes. 

Tarts. — Boll paste for tarts very thin, with cutter 
remove center of top layer, which fill with jelly or jam 
after baking. Can make a ring of paper, pinning edges 
together, slip over shells to prevent scorchingand keep in 
shape. • 

Cheese St-ra^ws. 

Use puff paste or ordinary pie paste, when a little is 
left over. Roll into oblong square, sift grated cheese 
over, fold, then roil 6 inches long, ^ inch thick, brush over 
with egg, sift over cheese, cut with pastry jagger in ^-inch 
strips, have all uniform length, lay side by side, bake 
quickly. Can cut rings ]^ inches in diameter, bake, and 
fill with cheese straws. To serve individually, with salads. 

Apple Pie. 

A pint of apples, after pared and cored, cut in sections, 
spread in pan after crust has been added; ^ cup of sugar, 
1 teaspoon of butter, a dash of nutmeg or cinnamon, 2 
tablespoons water, a teaspoon of flour. If apples are not 
sour can add a teaspoon of lemon. Add top crust. 



PASTRY AND PIES. 101 

R.Hti.barb Pie. 

Skin and cut rhubarb into three-fourths inch pieces, 
mix one pint with three-fourths cup sugar and one table- 
spoon flour, lay closely in pan, cut a teasjDoon butter over, 
grate nutmeg over top. After putting on top crust press 
trusts very closely together to prevent escape of juice. 

Cheery Pie. — Same proportion of sugar, flour and 
butter as for rhubarb, with pie cherries pitted. 

SqtiasH or PtimpKin Pie. 

One cup cooked squash or pumpkin. 

One cup milk. 

One-fourth cup cream. 

One-half cup sugar. 

One tablespoon butter. 

Two eggs. 

One teaspoon each ginger and cinnamon. 

One-fourth teaspoon salt. 

One tablespoon molasses. 

Put squash through ricer or colander, add sugar, 

butter, spices, beaten egg and milk. After crust begins to 

brown on edges, bake slowly three-quarters of an hour> 

(Use sweet potatoes in same way.) 

Lreinoi\ Pie. 

Small Rule. 

One cup sugar. ^ cup. 

One cup boiling water. J cup. 

Three eggs (separate). ^ egg. 

One grated lemon rind and juice. 2 teaspoons. 

Two heaping tablespoons flour. 2 teaspoons. 

Beat the yolks, add sugar, flour and lemon, stir well, 
add boiling water. Cook in double boiler until stiff 
enough to drop. Line pie-tin with paste, putting a layer 
■of paste around edge to give firmness. Brush with egg; 
with fork prick holes around inside, so that paste will not 
puff, bake 15 minutes. Fill with mixture, beat whites of 
€ggs dry, add three tablespoons sifted powdered sugar, ^ 
teaspoon lemon extract. Spread over pie. Stand in 
gentle oven until golden brown. 



102 PASTRY AND PIES. 

Ctistard Pie. 

Small Rule. 

One pint milk. ^ cup. 

Three egrgs well beaten. 2 tablespoons. 

One-third cup sugar. 1 tablespoon. 

One-half teaspoon grated nutmeg. Dash. 

Deep pie-tin. Mix all together. Put in hot oven; 
after 5 minutes, reduce heat, bake slowly for 30 minutes. 
If oven is too hot, custard will be watery and tough. Add 
^ cup of dessicated cocoanut to custard pie mixture and 
bake for cocoanut pie. 

DisH Pie. 

(ENGLISH.) 

Line edges of round baking-dish with pastry. Fill 
center with apples quartered and pared, f cup sugar, f 
cup water, 1 tablespoon flour, ^ teaspoon nutmeg. Cover 
with pastry and bake until fruit is soft. Can serve with 
cream. 

Mince Pie. 

MRS. DEAN MONAHAN. (HEE GEANDMOTHEE'S— VERY OLD.) 

Two pounds beef, boiled 15 minutes, 2 pounds of suet, 
4 pounds apples, 2 pounds brown sugar, 2 nutmegs, 2 
pounds currants, f pound citron, ^ ounce each ground 
cloves and cinnamon, one orange, 1 lemon, grated peel 
and juice. Chop all of these ingredients, then add 1 
quart each of cider, wine and brandy, some candied ginger 
and any other candied fruit desired. This recipe needs 
no cooking. Sometimes add a little cider when making 
pies. 

Mince Pie No. 2. 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

Three pounds beef round, chopped very fine. 1}4 
pounds suet, chopped, }i peck tart apples chopped, 1 glass 
currant jelly, 2 oranges, 2 lemons zest and juice, 1 cup mo- 
lasses, 2 pounds of stoned and chopped raisins. 1 pound 
currants, 1 tablespoon salt, 2 teaspoons pepper, cloves, all- 
spice and cinnamon, 3 cups sugar, 2 cups of any juice 



PASTRY AND PIES. 103 

from pickled peaches, 1 quart of boiled cider. Mix all 
together very carefully, scald for twenty miuutes, add 1 
pound shaved citron (can add brandy or wine when 
making pie.) Pack mixture in earthen jar. 

To prevent the loss of juice from fruit pies, take a 
strip of muslin one inch wide, wet in cold water, lay 
around the pie, half on pie, half on tin pressing on either 
side. When baked, remove. 

Cream Pie. 

Pour 1 cup of cream on | cup of sugar, beat whites of 
2 eggs stiff, add to cream, and beat well, grate nutmeg 
over top after mixture is added to crust. Bake slowly 30 
minutes. No upper crust. 

Cream Pie. 

Small Rule. 

Three eggs. ^ egg. 

Three-fourths cup sugar. 1| tablespoons. 

One teaspoon baking powder. 1 salt-spoon. 

One cup flour. 2 tablespoons. 

Sift flour and baking powder, beat yolks and sugar, 
add to flour and fold in stiffly beaten whites. This makes 
two cakes in round jelly cake tins. Split each cake 
and spread with following filling: 

Filling. — Two cups milk, 2 heaping tablespoons flour, 
I cup sugar, 1 egg, ^ teaspoon vanilla. Scald milk, turn 
over beaten egg, put into double boiler, add flour moistened 
with cold milk, add sugar, stirring well until consistency 
of whipped cream, cool and add flavoring, spread between 
layers, sift powdered sugar over top. Serve with jelly 
or jam. 

Banbury Tarts. 

MRS. MYRTA MORRISON. 

One cup raisins chopped, | cup sugar, ^ cup currants, 
1 egg, 1 lemon (juice and rind). Allow to stand over 
n%ht, and put one spoonful of mixture on each tart. 
Use pie crust or puff paste. Out in small oblong pieces 
and put together same as turn-overs. 



104 CUSTARDS. 



CHAPTER XVI. 



Ctistards. 

It is demonstrated that eggs, to be healthful, requires 
low temperature in cooking. Milk and eggs in combination 
must be creamy, and, to obtain that consistency, must never 
boil, otherwise will be watery and tough. Proportion of 
eggs to milk for custard, 3 eggs to a pint of milk. 

In baking custards, they should stand in pan of hot 
water. 

BaRed Custard. 

Small Eale. 

Two cups milk. ^ cup. 

Three eggs. 2 tablespoons. 

Three tablespoons sugar, 2 teasj)oons. 

One-half teaspoon flavoring. 6 drops. 

Salt-spoon nutmeg or mace. Dash. 

Salt-spoon salt. Dash. 

Beat eggs, sugar and salt to a cream, stir scalded milk 
over, flavor, turn into pudding dish or cups, grate nutmeg 
over, stand in pan hot water, bake gently until firm in 
center. 

Boiled Custard««Saine Proportion. 

Separate eggs, whites for meringues, beat yolks and 
sugar together, add milk, cook in double boiler, stir all the 
time until consistency of whipped cream. If not con- 
sistant, add a little corn starch wet with cold milk. If 
egg curdles, chill and beat. Beat whites very stifp, add 1 
tablespoon of sifted powdered sugar to each white. Can 
fold whites into boiled custard before serving, adding fla- 
voring, or spread over pudding in dish, stand in oven until 
light brown, or turn into oiled pudding-mold, poach 20 
minutes; when cold, turn onto boiled custard. Serve in 
glass dish. Dainty dessert, served over dry cake. 



CUSTARDS. 105 

Custard CHocolate (BaKer's.) 

Boiled custard using whole egg. Add ^ cup grated 
chocolate, mix thoroughly. Served in glass cups with 
whipped cream. 

Caramel Custard. 

One cup granulated sugar in small saucepan, 2 table- 
spoons water, stir until it melts, cook until light brown. 
Turn -I of it into a well buttered pan with straight 
sides, flat top, let it cool. Into rest, turn ^ cup hot water, 
stand until caramel dissolves. This is for a sauce. Stir 
4 yolks and 2 whole eggs with 3 tablespoons sugar and | 
salt-spoon salt to a cream, 1 pint scalded milk, | teaspoon 
vanilla. Turn in mold on cold caramel, place mold in 
pan of hot water, bake f hour until firm in center. Un- 
mold custard when ready to serve. It will have a glaze 
of caramel over top, some will run down the sides. Serve 
sauce in another dish. 

Caramel Ctxstard. 

MISS ANNA MONAHAN. 

Put 3 tablespoons of white sugar in pan and brown a 
dark color, scald 1 quart of milk, put sugar in milk, beat 
3 eggs well adding a little sugar to hold together, add to 
milk with caramel, stir well. Put in pudding dish, set 
in hot water while in oven. 

Junket Custards. 

CHE. HANSEN. 

One quart warm milk, 1 junket tablet. Sweeten, 
flavor and color milk if different colored custards are de- 
sired. Soak junket tablet in tablespoon cold milk, when 
dissolved add to warm milk, turn into glass dish, set away 
in cool place till served. Excellent for children and in- 
valids. 

Take 1^ cups of milk to which 2 tablespoons of melted 
chocolate is added, 1 tablespoon sugar, warm, add ^junket 
tablet dissolved in cold milk, stir and turn into glass dish. 
Stand until set. 



106 CUSTARDS. 

Color 1^ cups milk a delicate pink, flavor, warm, add 
^ junket tablet dissolved, stir and turn over chocolate cus- 
tard, stand until set. 

Flavor and sweeten the remainder 1^ cups milk, 
warm, add junket, turn in same dish over pink custard. 
Three layers different color. Serve with whipped cream. 

Souffles. 

ENTREE OB DESSERT. 

Souffles are a combination of milk and eggs and 
require careful cooking and serving as soon as they leave 
the oven. Foundation of many, a thick white sauce, with 
whites of eggs beaten lightly and folded in, made sweet or 
combined w^ith any cooked meat or vegetable. 

Vanilla Sotxftic. 

One cup milk. 2 tablespoons butter. 

Two tablespoons flour. ^ teaspoon salt. 

Three tablespoons sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 
Four eggs. 

Put butter into saucepan, when it bubbles, add flour, 
stir 3 minutes, add gradually warm milk. Stir for ten 
minutes, then add beaten yolks, sugar and salt. Stir well, 
add flavor. Set away to cool. Just before serving time 
fold in stifily beaten whites of eggs. Put in baking-dish 
or individual ramakin cups, bake over hot water 20 or 30 
minutes. Serve with foamy sauce. 

Prune Souffle. 

One-fourth pound prunes. 4 eggs. 

Four tablespoons powdered sugar. 1 teaspoon vanilla. 

Cook prunes cut into small pieces, beat yolks of eggs 
and sugar very light, add vanilla and mix with the prunes. 
When ready to serve, fold in lightly beaten whites, put in 
pudding dish, bake gently 20 minutes. Serve with hard 
or foamy sauce. 



CUSTARDS. 107 

SpinacH iSotxIHe. 

Spinach boiled and chopped fine. 

Two tablespoons batter. 1 cup milk or cream. 

Two tablespoons flour. 3 eggs, se^Darate. 

One-half teaspoon salt. ^ cup spinach (fine). 

One-half salt-spoon paprika. 2 teaspoons vinegar. 

Make white sauce with butter, flour and milk, season, 
stir in well beaten yolks, cool, fold in well beaten whites, 
add spinach. Put in dish or cups, bake over water 20 
minutes. 

CHeese Sotxffle. 

Two tablespoons butter. ^ cup grated cheese. 

Two tablespoons flour. 1 teaspoon salt. 

One cup milk. 1 salt-spoon paprika. 
■4 eggs. 

Make white sauce with butter, flour and milk, add 
seasoning, add beaten yolks and grated cheese, cook 
gently, stirring until cheese is dissolved, cool, fold in 
stiffly beaten whites. Serve in pudding dish or individ- 
ual dishes. Bake over water 20 to 30 minutes. Serve at 
once — last course before dessert. 

Apple '^VKip or SotiiHe. 

Bake 4 apples, remove pulp. Beat whites of 4 eggs 
very stiff, adding 4 tablespoons sifted powdered sugar and 
a dash of nutmeg, beat into apple pulp until very light. 
Can serve in glass dish heaped up or put in baker, sift 
powdered sugar and stand in gentle oven 20 minutes. 



108 FRITTERS. 



CHAPTER XVII. 
Fritters. 

(Eivtree or Dessert.) 

If properly fried are wholesome. Fat at temperature 
350° Fahreubeit. Piece of bread brown while you count 
40. Make batter 2 hours before using. Smoother. 

Fritter Batter. 

Two eggs. 1 salt-spoon salt. 

Two teaspoons salad oil. If for sweet fritters, 1 teaspoon 

f cup cold water. sugar. 

One cup flour. 1 tablespoon brandy. 

If for clam or oysters, use liquor from clams or 
oysters instead of water, tablespoon lemon juice, salt and 
pepper, and make batter rather stiff er. 

Clam Fritters. 

Chop clams fine, stir into batter, drop from spoon, 
fry until golden brown, drain on cloth or paper. Serve 
on napkin. 

A.»ple Fritters. 

Cut firm apples cross-wise, thin slices, after remov- 
ing core and peel, cover and dry in a napkin, grate nut- 
meg over, dip in fritter batter, covering entirely, drop 
two at a time in hot fat, leave until an amber color 
and apples are soft, remove with skimmer, drain on paper 
in warm oven. Dredge with powered sugar. Serve on 
folded napkin. Serve with brandy sauce. 

Peaches — sliced, dipped in macaroon powder, then in 
batter, and fried as apple fritters. 

Apples — chopped fine, stirred into batter and dropped 
from spoon like balls. 

Grated corn or peas — stirred into batter well seasoned 
with salt and pepper, dropped from spoon. 



FRITTERS. 109 

C^^-Plant Fritters. 

MRS. ARISTA M. FEBGUSON. 

Peel and slice egg-plant, cover with boiling water, in 
which cook until tender, drain well and mash fine, salt to 
taste. To each cup of egg-plant add a teaspoon sugar, a 
tablespoon flour and 1 egg, drop by spoonfull into deep, 
smoking fat, brown, drain on coarse cloth or brown paper. 
Sprinkle lightly with sugar and serve. 

Var\ities-»Xea or Dessert. 

Beat two eggs, stir in a piuch of salt and ^ teaspoon 
rosewater, add sifted flour until just thick enough to roll 
out, cut with cake-cutter, fry quickly in hot fat, sift with 
powdered sugar, and, when cool, put teaspoon of jelly in 
center of each. 

Bananas — sliced, cut in halves, dipped in batter and 
fried. 

Creme Krete. 

Scald a cup milk with a stick cinnamon, beat together 
^ cup sugar, 1 tablespoon cornstarch, 2 teaspoons flour, yolks 
2 eggs, 2 tablespoons milk, salt-spoon salt. Pour scalding 
milk in mixture, stir well, add ^ teaspoon butter and 
vanilla, pour into buttered pan f inch thick, when firm cut 
into strips 2| inches long, 1 inch wide, roll in sifted 
crumbs, then in beaten egg with 1 tablespoon water, then 
crumbs, fry brown in hot fat, sprinkle with sugar. Serve 
on napkin. 

Balloons. 

Take stiff sponge for rolls, — light, drop in balls from 
spoon, fry in hot fat, drain and serve for breakfast with 
butter. 



110 TIMBALES. 

CHAPTER XVIII. 

Timbales. 

Forms of pastry or force meat filled with salpicon, 
made in individual, border or cylindrical molds. Truffles 
can be used to decorate, pieces left over used in sauce. 

Small timbale molds are made of tin; large bowl can 
be used for large ones. 

A timbale iron, solid iron, with long handle, plain or 
fluted sides, heated in the deep fat, dipped in fritter bat- 
ter, then in hot fat till brown, forms cup in which can be 
served creamed meats, vegetables or fruit. Entree or 

dessert. 

Fonta^e Cups. 

Make a batter as for fritters, add water or milk until 
a thin batter, can omit oil, and if to serve fruit add a tea- 
spoon sugar to batter. Batter is smoother if made awhile 
before using, and strain if lumpy, as the lumps appear on 
cups. 

Place iron in fat, have pan with cheese-cloth or paper 
for draining, and cheese-cloth for wiping fat from iron, or 
cups slip off and fat drains into batter. Have batter in 
measuring cup three-fourths full, or other narrow vessel; 
stand it on pan close to kettle. Raise iron from kettle, 
turn over to drain, wipe, then dip into batter, leaving 
until batter adheres, place in hot fat until cup is light 
brown, detach from iron with fork. Repeat operation un- 
til batter is used. The fritter butter will make 12 cups; 
stand them apart, will keep, warming a little when used. 
Any creamed vegetables or meat can be served in them ^ 
cup full to each. Garnish with parsley. Mushrooms and 
sweetbreads, a good combination. Sauce rather thick, 
seasoned with lemon juice and herbs. 



TIMBALES. Ill 

Frtxit Timbale. 

Make a sugar syrup using fruit juice, thicken with 
a little arrowroot, add fruits cut into cubes, mix with 
syrup. Fill cups with salpicon. Serve as first course at 
luncheon. Serve in cups. 

Honeycomb Timbale. 

Boil large macaroni 25 minutes, put in cold water to 
harden, put butter ^ inch thick around bowel, cut macaroni 
in ^ inch lengths and line bowl with pieces, on ends. 

Filling. — Meat of one chicken, ground fine incorporat- 
ing with it white of one egg, 4 tablespoons bread crumbs, 
1 cup of cream, | cup butter, ^ teaspoon salt, ^ teaspoon 
paprika, 1 teaspoon lemon juice, yolk of 5 eggs (beaten), 
^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

To make panada, soak the crumbs of bread in milk, 
place in saucepan with cream or milk and cook until it 
leaves sides of pan, add seasoning, eggs, butter, meat 
pulp and lemon juice. Mix well; put on macaroni in 
bowl; press down, cover with oiled paper and steam 40 
minutes. Turn out on serving-dish, garnish and serve. 

Small molds may be lined with macaroni or spaghetti 
coiled round. Filled with force meat poached over hot 
water. Served as an entree. 

Ximbales of iSpinacb. 

Butter small molds, make a daisy in bottom of hard 
boiled egg, using white for petals, yoke for center. Fill 
mold with finely chopped spinach, mixed with cream 
sauce, poach gently and unmold to serve. 

Rice or farina served in the same way, using a tomato 
sauce. 

Make fish timbales same as chicken. 

Quenelles are panada mixed with meat and raw egg, 
seasoned; can make into balls and poach. Serve as a 
garnish. 



112 CROQUETTES. 



CHAPTER XIX. 



CroQuettes. 

A good way to utilize left-overs; any bits of one or 
more kinds of meat, fish or vegetables, with stock gravy 
fruit. Bread crumbs can be rolled and sifted for breading 
or rolling, or made into puddings or griddle cakes. 
Shredded wheat biscuit crumbs are fine for rolling. All 
fats can be clarified, used for deep frying. 

The sauce for croquettes is thick; when cold mixed 
with meat. May be handled easily, yet inside should be 
soft and creamy. 

Cream iSatice for Croauettes. 

Small Rule. 

One pint hot milk or cream. ^ cup. 

One rounding tablespoon butter. 1 teaspoon. 

Four rounding tablespoons flour. | tablespoon. 

One-half teaspoon salt. Speck. 
One-half teaspoon paprika and celery salt. Dash. 

One tablespoon lemon juice. ^ teaspoon. 

Few drops of onion juice. Dash. 

Put butter in saucepan, when bubbles add flour, stir- 
ring all the time; add milk gradually, stirring until thick, 
set back; add seasoning and lemon. Can add a little 
chopped parsley or trufile. Stir in four cups of meat 
pulp, spread out on pan | inch thick, smooth top and 
cover with oiled paper. When cold, cut into strips 1 inch 
wide, 2| inches long; roll on marble or board to make cyl- 
inders or shape like cones. Eoll in bread crumbs then in 
beaten egg, mixed with tablespoon water, salt and pepper, 
then in crumbs, making all uniform; chill. When ready 
to use, put about four in frying basket, brown, drain on 
paper. To serve, lay side by side on napkin or arrange 
is-ith tomato sauce served around, or white sauce. Garnish 



CROQUETTES. 113 

with parsley or water cress. Fat hot when bread browns 
while you count 40. 

To Make Like French Chops. — Shape like chops, roll 
in crumbs, egg and crumbs. In end put piece of macaroni 
two inches long; when fried drain, arrange on platter, over- 
lapping each other with paper ruffle on each end. 

Lobster croquettes have lobster claw in end. Shape 
like a pear with twig inserted for stem. 

Can poach an egg, trim, roll in crumbs, egg and 
crumbs, brown in fat. Serve on toast. 

Botxdin R.otiim^aise. 

Butter and make wall of chicken force meat in indi- 
vidual molds, fill center with chopped ham or a vegetable, 
covering top with chicken, poach, roll in egg and crumbs, 
brown in hot fat. Serve with sauce AJlemande. 

R.ice or Farina Croquettes. 

One cup rice or farina, dry, with yolk of one egg, salt- 
spoon nutmeg or mace, 1 teaspoon butter, tablespoon 
sugar, stir together, shape in balls, in side make place for 
raisin, close, roll in egg and crumbs, fry. Serve with 

jelly sauce. 

Can make croquettes of fruits, oysters, clams, macaroni, 
cereal, potatoes. 

To MaRe SHells for Creamed Meats in Place of Pti.«f 
Paste--Breacl Croutes. 

Thick slice of bread, cut round with biscuit cutter, 
then cut out center with smaller cutter, only cutting half 
way down, brown in hot fat, fill with creamed meat or fish. 
Can shape oblong or square, leaving a wall | inch thick. 
Brush with white of egg. The* crumbs can be removed 
from center of whole loaf, outside crust removed, filled 
with scalloped oysters, baked and served. Brush inside 
with white of egg so as not to soak liquid. 



114 CROQUETTES. 

Roll SHells. 

Out off top of Vienna rolls, remove crumb from in- 
side, butter and put in oven to brown. Fill with any 
creamed meat. Replace top. 

Canapees. 

Bread toasted or fried in hot fat, or dipped in butter 
and browned in oven, spread with some seasoned mixture. 
Serve hot. Cut | inch thick, shaped round, square, or 
long, fingers. 

CHeese Caz^apees. 

Bread 4 inches long, spread with butter, sprinkle 
with salt and paprika, spread grated cheese over, stand in 
oven until cheese melts. Serve hot with French mustard. 

AncHovy or Sardine Canapees. 

Spread fingers of fried bread with anchory paste, ar- 
range white and yellow lines of hard boiled eggs on top, 
garnish with olives. First course at dinner. 

Caviar Canapees. 

Fingers of fried bread spread with chopped onion 
and caviar. First course, appetizer. 

Cream Ptaffs. 

Small Rule. 

One cup hot water. 3 tablespoons. 

One-half teaspoon salt. Speck. 

One-half cup butter. 1 tablespoon. 

One and | cups pastry flour. Generous | cup. 

Five eggs, separate. 1 egg. 

Boil the water, salt and butter, while boiling, add 
dry flour, stir well for 5 minutes, when cool, add eggs one 
at a time, beating hard with wooden spoon. This mix- 
ture must be a stiff batter, if not add a little more flour, 
when well mixed, drop by tablespoonful on greased bak- 
ing tin, a distance apart. Brush over with beaten egg. 
Bake in moderate oven 25 or 30 minutes. They should 
increase three times in size, be brown. 



CROQUETTES. 115 

Open in one of the seams or at side, fill with cream 
or thick boiled custard, sift powdered sugar on top. Fill- 
ing can be pressed in from pastry bag. 

Cream for Puffs. 

Small Rule. 

One pint milk, hot. ^ cup. 

Three tablesjjoons flour. 2 teaspoons. 

Three eggs well beaten. 2 tablespoons. 

Three-fourths cup sugar 1 rounding tablespoon. 

Salt-spoon salt. Speck. 

Teaspoon butter. Salt-spoon. 

Double boiler or saucepan in another pan of water. 
Wet flour in cold milk, cook in scalding milk 10 minutes, 
beat eggs, add sugar and thickened milk, cook 5 minutes, 
flavor with vanilla, lemon or almond. This must be con- 
sistency of whipped cream. 

Can fill with sweetened whipped cream. 

Into filling stir ^ cup grated chocolate for chocolate 
filling. 

E'clairs are made of same paste, 3 inches long pressed 
out from pastry bag. Filling pressed in from pastry bag. 
Brushed over with melted chocolate, sweetened. 



116 JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 



CHAPTER XX. 



Jellies -witK Gelatine. 

Gelatine derived from swim bladder of fishes, from 
bones, aiid ligaments, from some sea plants. Used alone, 
it fails to have much nutritive power; with other food it 
is a useful aliment. It is an albumen sparer. Knox's 
gelatine from veal. With difPerent flavors, colors and com- 
binations a great variety of dishes can be made. Have 
jellies clear and right consistency. If soaked in warm 
water it will have a disagreeable odor. Does not need 
cooking, boiling down, will not stiffen. In summer you 
need more gelatine; granulated gelatine more easily meas- 
ured. Much stirring will cloud jelly. 

I^emon Jelly. 

Small Rule. 

One-half box Knox's gelatine. 1 teaspoon. 

One scant cup cold water. 2 tablespoons. 

One pint boiling water. 4 tablespoons. 

One cup sugar. 2 tablespoons. 

One-half cup leuv^n juice and zest. 1 tablespoon. 

Juice of one orange. 1 teaspoon. 

Soak gelatine in cold water, stirring; add sugar, cin- 
namon and juice to boiling water, scald; add gelatine, stir 
and strain through flannel bag into a mold, wet with 
cold water. Make day before needed. 

Orange jelly same, except using juice of one lemon 
and six large oranges. 

To Mold Frtxit in Jelly. 

Prepare lemon or orange jelly. Pack jelly mold in 
pan of ice, turn in jelly | inch deep, let harden. then lay 
on- candied or fresh fruits, sections of oranges, a bunch of 
grapes or what not, fastening fruit in place with a little 



JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 117 

jelly, before adding enough to cover fruit. Repeat till 
mold is full. When a variety of fruits are used it is called 
a Macedoin of fruit. 

Caa arrange jelly in different colors, first coloring and 
get firm one layer before the second is added, then later 
add a third. 

Orange BasKets. 

Cut handle and make basket of oranges. Remove 
pulp from orange, putting baskets in water until needed 
or they will dry. Make jelly with pulp and juice, fill bas- 
kets, stand on ice to get firm. Serve with whipped cream, 
basket standing on geranium leaf. Can tie sprig of holly 
on handle at Christmas time. Can mix fruits with jelly 
before filling baskets. 

"Wine Jelly. 

Soak y^ box gelatine in Yi cup cold water. To cup of 
boiling water add stick cinnamon and celery, 2 cloves, 
juice of lemon, cup sugar, boil 15 minutes. Add gelatine, 
then a cup of sherry or port wine. Strain into mold. 

Cofifee Jelly. 

Use recipe for wine jelly, omitting wine and lemon, 
add f cup strong coffee. Mold in a ring mold. When un- 
molded, fill center with whipped cream. 

Sr%.Q-w Ptiddin^. 

Make wine or lemon jelly, when set around edges 
beat with Dover egg beater until it is like a mass of snow. 
Serve with a boiled custard sauce. Can add whites of 3 
eggs, well beaten. 

Russian Jellies. — Double mold used. Make outside 
layer of transparent jelly; when set, remove inner mold, 
fill center with some of same jelly, whipped until foamy. 
If one has not double mold can improvise one by taking a 
2-quart pan, setting fruit jar filled with water in center. 
When jelly is set, tarn cold water oat, replace with warm 



118 JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 

^and it will lift out. Can color jellies to harmonize with 
color effect of table. 

iSpanisH Cream. 

Small Rule. 

One-half box gelatine. One rounding teaspoon. 

One-fourth cup cold water. 2 teaspoons. 
Three-fourths cup boiling water. 3 teaspoons. 

Yolks 3 eggs. 2 tablespoons. 

Three tablespoons sugar. 2 teaspoons. 

One-half salt-spoon salt. Speck. 

One pint milk. ^ cup. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 1 tablespoon. 

One teaspoon vanilla. 6 drops. 

Soak gelatine in cold water 15 minutes, dissolve in 

boiling water. Make a custard with the yolks, beaten, 

with sugar and salt; pour over hot milk and cook in 

double boiler till it thickens, then add gelatine water, 

the vanilla, stand in cold water and beat till cool. Add 

whites of eggs, beaten stiff; mix well, turn into mold, wet 

in cold water, place on ice; when ready to serve, turn out 

on glass dish. 

Charlotte Russe. 

Small Rule. 

One tablespoon gelatine. | teaspoon. 

One-fourth cup cold water. 2 teaspoons. 

One-fourth cup boiling water. 2 teaspoons. 

One-third cup sugar. 3 teaspoons. 

One teaspoon vanilla. 6 drops. 

Whites of 3 eggs. 2 tablespoons. 

Pint cream (to whip). | cup (whipped). 

Two dozen lady fingers. 4 lady fingers. 

Put paper in bottom bread tin, split lady fingers, dip 

edges in white of egg, and make a lining in pan, sides and 

bottom. Soak gelatine in cold water, add boiling water 

in which sugar has been dissolved; flavor, cool. When 

firm around edges, beat until light and foamy, add to 

whipped cream, beating with Dover egg beater; fold in 

beaten whites, turn into mold. When served, lay platter 

on pan, turn over and pudding will come out, remove paper, 

sift with powdered sugar. Will serve 8 persons. 



JELLIES WITH GELATINE. 119 

Prune Jelly. 

Make a lemon or orange jelly, stew ^ pound of prunes, 
cut into pieces, grate nutmeg over, stir into jelly, when 
partly set add | cup nuts chopped, when firm unmold. 
Serve with cream. 



120 PUDDINGS. 



OHAPTEE XXI. 



Ptidding^s. 

; Raisin PtifPs. 

CAROLYN PAGE HOLMES. 

Two eggs, ^ cup butter, 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 cups 
flour, 1 cup milk, 1 cup chopped raisins, 3 teaspoons bak- 
ing powder, butter cups, fill ^ full of batter, steam f hour. 

■Steamed Ptxddii^^s. 

One pint sifted flour. 

Two rounding teaspoons baking powder. 

One teaspoon of melted butter. 

One cup water. 

Or if 1 cup milk instead of water omit butter. 

One salt-spoon salt. 

Sift salt and baking powder with flour, add milk or 
water to flour until mixture is a drop batter. In pudding- 
dish have a pint of apple sauce well sweetened a 
teaspoon of butter and a salt-spoon of nutmeg grated over 
top, pour batter over and steam, tightly covered, 20 min- 
utes. Serve with bard sauce. Same batter serves for 
dumpling with stew. 

Sviet Pudding'. 

Small Rule. 

Two cups sifted flour. ^ cup. 

One-half cup fine chopped suet. 1 tablespoon. 

One-half teaspoon salt. Speck. 

Beaten white one egg. Teaspoon. 

Three-fourths cup milk. 1^ tablespoon. 

One salt-spoon nutmeg. Speck. 
Two cups chopped apple or blackberries. ^ cup. 

Eiub suet, salt and nutmeg with flour, add milk until 
soft dough, then beaten white of egg, roll out ^ inch thick, 




CHAKLOTTE EUSSE WITH PECAN NUTS. 




CORN STARCH AND CRANBERRY JELLY PUDDING. GARNISHED WITH CANDIED 
CHERRIES AND NASTURTIUM. 




QBAPES MOLDED IN .JELLY. 



PUDDING. 121 

spread berries or apple over, roll up like jelly roll, wetting 
edges, and press together, put in pan or plate, steam 1 
hour. Serve with hard sauce. 

GraHam Pudding. 

Small Rule. 

Two cups Graham flour. | cup. 

One cup molasses. 2 tablespoons. 

One cup sweet milk. 2 tablespoons. 

One cup raisins, seeded and chopped. 2 tablespoons. 

One rounding teaspoon soda. ^ level teaspoon. 

Sift half soda with flour, Yi with molasses, mix milk 
and molasses, stir into flour, put into buttered mold, 
steam 3 hours. Foamy sauce. 

steamed A.pple Dumplings. 

Dough as for suet pudding. Core and pare small 
apples. Take piece of dough, with hands shape it around 
apple, pressing ends together at top, put in pan, steam 30 
minutes. Serve with hard or foamy sauce. 

iShredded W^Heat Steamed Ptxdding^. 

Three cups shredded wheat crumbs, 1 cup whole 
wheat in which has been added a teaspoon baking powder, 
\ cup butter, 1 cup washed raisins chopped with 2 cups 
apple, f cup molasses, 1 scant teaspoon soda, \ teaspoon 
salt, 'I cups sweet milk. Have water boiling, butter mold. 
Mix butter and rolled shredded wheat together, add flour, 
then salt, cinnamon, nutmeg and chopped fruit, mix well, 
add soda to molasses, stir, add to mixture, mix, add 
milk, pour into mold. Cover and steam for 3 hours. 
Serve with hard sauce. 

£ng^isl\ Plum Pudding. 

MISS LOIS BOBBINS. 

One pound each suet, brown sugar, currants, sultana 
raisins, and mix with candied peel, \ pound of flour, 1 
teaspoon salt, 2 teaspoons mixed spices, 8 eggs, \ pint 
brandy. Mix in following order: Flour, salt, spice, sugar. 



122 PUDDING. 

raisins, peel and currants. Beat eggs, add brandy and 
pour over mass, mix 25 minutes, steam 10 or twelve hours. 
Lard pails and baking powder cans serve as good 
molds, well buttered. Pat oiled paper over tops. Serve 
with hard or brandy sauce. 

Plum Pudclii:\^>«Doinestic Sauce. 

Three-fourths pound of chopped suet and with it, 
while chopping, add ^ cup flour; 1^ cups chopped raisins, 
1^ cups currants, ^ cup citron, 2 cups bread or shredded 
wheat biscuit crumbs, grated zest of lemon, -| cup candied 
orange and figs, ^ teaspoon each cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, 
allspice, ^ cup whole wheat flour. Mix all dry things to- 
gether. Add 6 eggs beaten lightly, | cup brandy. Mix 
thoroughly. Add another egg if too stiff, more crumbs if 
too thin. Put in well-buttered molds, steam 4 hours. 
Serve with hard or brandy sauce. 

CHerry Pudding. 

MRS. F. W. MARCHISI. 

Two and one-half cups flour. 4 eggs, separate. 

One rounding teaspoon baking powder. ^ teaspoon salt. 
Two cups sweet milk. 1 salt-spoon mace. 

One pint cherries, pitted. 

Sift flour, baking powder, mace and salt together. 
Add part of milk and well-beaten yolks. Add remainder 
of milk and stiffly-beaten whites. Stir in cherries, steam, 
covered, 1 hour. Serve with foamy sauce. 

Queen of Puddinffs. 

One pint bread crumbs, 1 quart milk, 1 cup sugar, 
yolks of 4 eggs, white of 1 well beaten, grated rind of 1 
lemon, ^ cup melted butter. Stir all together, bake 30 
minutes. When pudding is done spread with jelly and 
meringue, made with whites of 3 eggs, brown slightly in 
oven. 



PUDDING. 123 

George's Deli^Ht. 

MRS. OLIVE OUEEIEE. 

Two cups chopped bread crumbs. 2 cups chopped suet. 

One-half cup molasses. 1 cup raisins. 

One egg. 1 cup sweet milk. 

One-fourth teaspoon of cloves and ^ teaspoon soda. 

cinnamon. 2 tablespoons flour. 
Little salt and nutmeg. 

Boil 2 hours in tin pudding boiler and eat with foam- 
ing sauce. 

Foaming >Satice. 

Beat ^ cup butter to a cream with 1 cup powdered 
sugar. Stir until white and foaming. Just before serv- 
ing, add 1 cup boiling water, and glass of sherry wine, 

Marlboroti^H Pie. 

MRS. JONES. 

Two heaping cups grated apple. 

One and one-half cup sugar. 

Four eggs. 

One-half cup melted butter. 

One cup milk or cream. 

Juice and grated rind of 1 lemon. 

Little mace or nutmeg. 

Cinnamon and salt. 

strawberry Puddirkg^. 

MISS FALLES. 

Three tablespoons melted butter. 
One-half cup sugar. 
One egg. 
One cup milk. 
Two cups flour. 
One-half teaspoon soda. 
One teaspoon cream tartar. 
One cup crushed strawberries. 

Steam 2 hours. Serve with strawberry sauce. 

Bro'wi\ Betty. 

In pudding dish arrange alternate layers of sliced 
apples and bread crumbs, grape-nut or rolled shredded 



124 PUDDING . 

wheat biscuit; season each layer with butter, sugar, clove, 
cinnamon, mace. When dish is full pour over one cup of 
molasses and water mixed. Cover with buttered crumbs, 
stand dish in pan of water, bake until fruit is soft. Serve 
with cream. 

Apple Dumplings. (BaKed.) 

Core and pare small apples. Pie crust rolled ^ inch 
thick, cut in squares large enough to cover apple, wet 
edges, set apple on square, fill center with sugar, butter 
and mace, fold two opposite corners of paste over center of 
apple, then two opposite corners, press edges together and 
twist corners; brush over with egg beaten with a table- 
spoon water, bake 30 minutes. Serve with plain pudding 
sauce. Peaches and pears prepared same. 

Corn-.S>tarcH an<l Jelly Pudding^. 

Make corn-starch pudding, mold in deep soup 
plate; make cranberry jelly, in same kind of mold. In 
glass dish unmold jelly, placing corn starch pudding on 
top. Candied cherries around. Garnish with whipped 
cream. Can make in individual molds. Very pretty. 

Corz\«StarcH Ptidding^. 

Small Rule. 

One pint milk. One-fourth cup. 

Two heaping tablespoons corn-starch. 1 heaping teaspoons- 
Three tablespoons sugar, 2 teaspoons. 
Whites of 3 eggs. 1 tablespoon after 

beating. 
One-half teaspoon vanilla. 6 drops. 

Dissolve corn -starch in a little cold milk, stir the 
sugar into rest of milk and scald; add corn-starch, stir 
until well thickened; stir in well-beaten whites, beating 
vigorously, add flavor. Turn into mold wet with water. 
Can color if desired and serve with whipped cream, or 
with boiled custard made with yolks of eggs. 

(Chocolate pudding— add Y-i cup melted chocolate. ) 



PUDDING. 125 

Compote of A.pple tvitH TCice. 

Core, with apple corer, and peel six apples. Stew 
until clear in a syrup made of ^ cup sugar, 1 cup water 
and tablespoon lemon. Place apples on a bed of well 
boiled rice. In center of each apple put a teaspoon of 
jelly. Boil syrup and pour over apples as a glaze. Serve 
with whipped cream. 

I^emon Toast. 

MRS. GENEVIEVE DEMENT. 

Slices of baker's bread dipped in half pint ofmilk and 
the yolks of three eggs, sauted in hot fat and served hot. 

Sauce — Two tablespoons butter, 1 cup sugar, whites 
of 3 eggs, well beaten; heat in double boiler, add juice 
and zest of 1 lemon. Serve over toast. 

To use Staile CaKe. 

Spread slices of stale cake with jelly or jam put in 
dish, pour over it boiled custard. Make a meringue of 
whites of two eggs and two tablespoons of powdered 
sugar, ^ teaspoon flavoring. Put in spoonfulls over cus- 
tard. Stand in oven to brown. Serve cold. 



Sponge Pudding. 

Small Rule. 

One-fourth cup sugar. 2 teaspoons. 

One-half cup flour. 1 tablespoon. 

One pint milk, scalded. ^ cup. 

One-fourth cup butter. 2 teaspoons. 

Five yolks of eggs. 2 teaspoons after beating. 

Five whites. 2 tablespoons after beating. 

Mix sugar and flour, wet with cold milk, stir into 
hot milk. Cook until it thickens and is smooth; add but- 
ter, then well beaten yolks, beat well then add well-beaten 
whites. Bake in cups or pudding dish set in hot water. 
Serve with creamy sauce. 



126 PUDDING. 

Bread Pudding. 

Spread 3 slices of bread with butter, make a custard of 
3 cups milk, 3 tablespoons sugar, 3 eggs, pour over bread, 
grate nutmeg over top. Bake in moderate oven until 
nearly firm in center. Can add raisins. 

Tapioca Puddingf. 

1st. Soak tapioca in water four hours, unless you use 
instantaneous tapioca, add one cup to custard for bread 
pudding. Bake gently 30 minutes. 

2nd. Sweeten and flavor with lemon one cup soaked 
tapioca in one pint of water, add six small apples, pared and 
cored. Bake until apples are tender. Serve with sponge 
cake and whipped cream or fruit sauce. 

Cottage Pudding. 

Small Rale. 

One cup flour. ^ cup. 

One teaspoon baking powder. ^ teaspoon. 

One salt-spoon salt. Speck. 

Two-thirds cup sugar. 2 tablespoons. 

One and ^ tablespoon melted butter. 1^ teaspoon. 

One cup milk. ^ cup. 

One egg. ^ egg after beating. 

Sift flour, baking powder and salt together. Beat 
egg, add sugar and milk, stir into flour, add butter, stir. 
Bake in oiled pan. Serve with plain pudding sauce. 



CAKE. 127 



CHAPTER XXII. 



CaKe. 

(hakdesty's flavoring.) 

1st care, oven. Steady fire which will last during 
baking. 

Gas stove — Light both burners four minutes before 
putting cake in oven, then turn out back burner and some- 
times front burner needs to be turned a little; should there 
be too much heat below put asbestos or pan of water at 
bottom. 

Oven Test — White paper a golden brown after 4 
minutes for loaf cake. For layer cake — paper brown in 3 
minutes. 

If cake rises and falls, too much baking powder. If 
cake cracks, too much heat at first. If cake rises to a 
high point in center and cracks, too much flour. 

Sift flour before measuring, then sift with baking 
powder. Sift sugar before measuring. Have pans lined 
and oiled. 

Measure everything before beginning to make cake. 
Pastry flour— more starchy — will make more tender cake. 
More sifting makes flour dryer and lighter. Have good 
baking powder and use very little. Lightness and fine- 
ness depends upon amount of beating given butter, sugar 
and eggs. Exercise of muscle, then care in baking. 

A wire rack is desirable for placing cake upon re- 
moving from oven, that air can circulate all around to pre- 
vent sweating. 

Have a fine knitting needle for testing cake. 

A large loaf cake requires pan with stem in center. 



128 CAKE. 

One division of cake is without butter, many eggs, in 
which air is beaten. 

Second division with butter, much time given to 
creaming. 

An earthen bowl and wooden spoon is essential. 
Dover beater for yolks of eggs. A wire or daisy beater 
for whites, which for sponge or angel food should be 
beaten light and dry with a dash of salt, or a little acid to 
stiffen albumen. Whites should be cut or folded in, that 
the air cells formed by beating shall not be broken. Heat 
of oven if gentle will cause them to expand. Cake is 
baked when it shrinks from the pan, stops singing, or 
when knitting needle is put in and comes out clean. 

Do not hurry to remove cake from oven. 

Eggs must be fresh and cold. 

Sponge CaKe. 

Small Rule. 

Five eggs. [sugar. 1 egg. 

One cup powered or granulated 3 tablespoons. 

One salt-si^oon salt. Speck. 

Two teaspoons lemon juice. 1 scant f teaspoon. 

Two teaspoons water. 1 scant ^ teaspoon. 

One cup flour, sifted 6 times. 3 rounding tablespoons. 

Do not grease pan, line bottom with paper. Sepa- 
rate eggs, beat yolks until very creamy and light, add 
sugar, gradually, beating all the time, add lemon juice, 
water, a little of the stiffly beaten white, just enough to 
make mixture moist enough to stir in flour, add flour, 
fold in whites. Put in pan and sift powdered sugar over 
top to make crust. Oven must be so gentle that cake will 
not begin to brown for twenty minutes, bake 30 minutes. 
When removed from oven stand pan bottom side up on 
rack, or one end raised, cake will loosen after a little. 

1st 15 minutes cake must rise. 

2nd 15 minutes brown around edges. 

3d 15 minutes golden brown all over. 



CAKE. 129 

A.n^el Food. 

Whites 6 eggs. White 1 egg. 

One-half cup pastry flour. 1 tablespoon. 

Three-fourths cup (scant) sifted sugar. 1^ tablespoon. 
One salt-spoon cream tartar. Speck. 

One-half teaspoon flavoring. 6 drops. 

Sift flour before measuring, then sift 10 times. Sift 
sugar before measuring. 

Beat whites in large bowl or on a platter, adding cream 
tartar, when stiff, add sugar and beat until incorporated 
with eggs, sift flour over top and fold in lightly, add 
flavoring. Turn into lined pan, shake pan down twice, 
sift powdered sugar over top, bake 40 minutes. Slow heat. 
Do not look in oven for 20 minutes. When done remove 
from oven, turn pan bottom side up on rack or raise one 
end of pan, cake will drop out. 

Can sift flour aud sugar together and fold into the 
whites all together. 

Can bake one inch thick, spread with icing, cut in 
squares. 

StinsKine CaKe. 

MRS. E. M. BIRDSEY. 

Whites of 6 eggs. 

Yolks of 3 eggs. 

Three-fourths cup sugar. 

One-half cup floul-. 

One teaspoon orange juice. 

Beat yolks of eggs very light (daisy egg beater), add 

sugar, beat well; orange juice, beat well; fold in stifily 

beaten whites; fold in flour. Bake as angel food. 

Lady Fingfers. 

Six eggs, 1| cups powdered sugar, 1 cup flour, 
^ salt-spoon salt, ^ teaspoon flavoring. Combine as for 
sponge cake. Press mixture through pastry bag, have 
opening ^ inch wide, three inches long or bake on 
sheets with lady finger molds; bake 10 minutes, not brown. 



130 CAKE. 

Stick two together with white of egg or jelly. Can drop 
by spoonful, sift sugar over, bake 15 minutes, put two 
together with jam. 

Macaroons. 

One-quarter pound almond paste, ^ cup powdered su- 
gar, whites of 2 eggs, ^ cup sifted cracker crumbs. Mix 
almond paste and sugar smoothly together, add ^ teaspoon 
almond extract, crumbs and the beaten whites; beat thor - 
oughly together. Put in pastry bag and drop in balls a 
distance apart. If they spread, add a teaspoon flour. 
Brush over with egg and bake until brown. 

Cocoanut Balls. 

Beat white of egg stiffly, add to it ^ cup dessicated 
cocoanut and ^ cup powdered sugar. Drop in balls on 
paper. Bake in gentle oven until slightly brown. 

When using fruit in cake, have well floured; it will 
not settle. Shave citron, put in after mixture is in pans. 

Cup CaKe-«(BaKe I^ittle CaKe as Test.) 

A good foundation for several different cakes, taking 
name from ingredients added. 

Small Rule. 

One-half cup butter. 1 tablespoon. 

One and one-half cups sugar. 2^ tablespoons. 

One cup milk. 2 tablespoons. 

Two and one-ha f or 3 cups flour. | cup flour. 

Two teaspcKDus baking powder. ^ teaspoon. 

Four eggs, separate. ^ egg after beating. 

One teaspoon flavoring. 8 drops. 

Cream, butter, add sugar gradually, then flavoring^ 
add well-beaten yolks. Sift baking powder with flour. 
Add, alternately, flour and milk a little at a time until all 
is in. Pour into pan, bottom lined with paper, greased 
and floured, half full. Bake about 45 minutes. 

Can bake in small pans or drop by half teaspoonful 
on shallow pan, a distance apart, in form of wafers. Bake 
quickly, heat at top, until brown, | inch from edge. Nice 



CAKE. 131 

with tea. Can add nuts, chopped, or raisins. When this 
recipe is for layer cake use 2f cups flour. Spread in 2 
deep jelly cake pans, those with separate bottoms advised. 
Spread so that mixture is hij^^her at sides than center. 
Bake in hotter oven about 30 minute. Spread with choco- 
late filling, ice top, or can use any filling given below. 



CHocolate Filling. 

One cup brown sugar, ^ cup chocolate, ^ cup milk, 1 
rounding tablespoon butter, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Mix 
thoroughly and cook as syrup until stiff enough to spread. 
Stirring makes it grain. 

Plain Icing — Three tablespoons milk, ^ teaspoon of 
any flavoring, add sifted powdered sugar until a paste, 
then beat until stiff enough to spread. 

Royal Icing — White of one egg, 2 teaspoons lemon 
juice, 2 teaspoons water, stir; then add sifted powdered 
sugar until quite thick, bea until stiff. If chocolate is to 
be added omit lemon juice, add salt-spoon cream tartar, ^ 
teaspoon vanilla. In cup, over hot water, add ^ cup of 
grated chocolate, stir until melts, stir into royal icing, 
spread on cake. Should icing be too stifiF add a few drops 
of cold water. Too much beating will make it dry. 
(White of 1 egg to 1 cup powdered sugar.) 

For ornamental decoration a few drops of acetic acid 
to Royal icing, it stiflPens, then, with pastry bag and tubes, 
leaves and scrolls can be made on cake. 

Fi^ Filling. 

One pound fresh figs, 1 cup sugar, juice of | lemon, 
wine glass of sherry or water, chop figs fine, soak over 
night in just water to cover, boil till tender, add sugar, 
cook until smooth enough to spread, add lemon juice and 
sherry. Spread between layers, Royal icing on top. 



132 CAKE. 

Lreinoi\ Jelly Fillivk^. 

One cup sugar, ^ cup butter, 2 lemons grated rind and 
juice, yolks 3 eggs, 1 cup boiling water, 1^ tablespoons 
boiling water, cream butter, add sugar, yolks beaten light, 
lemon juice, flour. Put on stove and cook until thick and 
smooth enough to spread. 

Orange filling made in same way, using one orange, 
juice and grated rind. 

Caramel Filling. 

One cup brown sugar, ^ cup cream, hot, 1 tablespoon 
butter. Cook and stir until stiff enough to spread. 

Caramel CaKe. 

Three-quarter cup butter, 1^ cups sugar, whites of 7 
eggs, 1 teaspoon almond flavoring, 2^ to 3 cups flour, 1 
rounding teaspoon baking powder, 1 cup milk. 

Cream butter well, add sugar gradually, flavoring, 
then flour, in which is sifted baking powder and milk 
gradually, last of all fold in stiffly-beaten whites of eggs. 
Bake in loaf or in layers, using caramel filling. Can use 
boiled icing in which is chopped hickory-nut meats. 

CHocolate Notxg^at CaKe. 

One-half cup butter, IJ cups powdered sugar, 2^ cups 
flour, ^ cup milk, | cup grated chocolate, 1 teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, 4 eggs. Cream butter, add gradually 1 cup 
sugar. Add to grated chocolate ^ cup sugar, ^ cup boil- 
ing water, stir until cool, add to butter and sugar, add 
well beaten eggs, then flour and milk alternately. Bake 
in 2 layers. Spread with boiled frosting, in which can 
be placed strips of almond nuts. 

Boiled Icin^. 

One white of egg beaten stiff, 1 cup granulated sugar, 
I cup water, ^ teaspoon flavoring, ^ salt-spoon cream 



CAKE. 133 

tartar. In saucepan place sugar, water and cream tartar, 
stir, place over fire, do not stir again till syrup will form a 
ball between thumb and finger or when dropped in ice water 
forms a ball. Pour over beaten egg, beat rapidly with egg 
beater till stiff enough too spread. Longer beating makes 
it dryer. If syrup is cooked to much, add a very little 
water. If not cooked enough let stand in warm oven, oc- 
casionally beating Make icing before beginning to make 
cake, cover and keep in warm place. 

Double recipe for thick filling. 

For marshmallow filling, add about 8 marshmallows 
to syrup just before pouring over white of egg. Or, dis- 
solve a tablespoon of gum arable in a little water, strain 
into syrup, flavor with orange flower water. 

One ^gg CaKe. 

One-half cup butter, creamed, 1 cup sugar, 1 egg well 
beaten, 2 cups flour, 1 rounding teaspoon baking powder, 
teaspoon flavoring, | teaspoon mace. 

C^g'less CaKe . 

One and one-half cups sugar, 1 cup sour milk, 3 cups 
sifted flour, | cup butter, 1 teaspoon soda, | teaspoon 
each cinnamon and nutmeg, teacup chopped raisins, well 
floured. 

Sour Cream CaKe. 

MRS. THOMAS SKINNER. 

Two eggs (save one white for icing). 

One and one-half cups sugar. 

Two cups sour cream, into which dissolve 1 teaspoon 

soda. 
One teaspoon vanilla. 
Three cups flour. 

Maple Sugar for Cake. One and one-half cups 

maple sugar, boil until it threads, then pour it over the 

beaten white of one egg, and beat until right to spread. 



134 CAKE. 

Two Lrayer Plain CaKe. 

ALVERTA ELLIS. 

3 tablespoons butter, 1 scant cup sugar, 2 eggs, | 
cup milk, 1^ cups flour, 1 teaspoon baking powder, 1 tea- 
spoon vanilla. 

CKocolate CaKe-. 

ELIZABETH BEOWN. 

One-half cup sugar, yolk of 1 egg, 1 large cup grated 
chocolate, | cup milk Cook all together on back of 
stove 15 minutes, stirring all the time 

Light Part. — One-half cup milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 
teaspoon soda dissolved in milk, 2 cups flour, 3 eggs. 

Mix light and dark parts together after dark part 
cools. Bake in jelly tins. For filling use whipped cream. 
Can use Royal icing for top. 

When making white cake can make gold cake from 
same recipe, using yolks with one white. 

Excellent CKocolate CaKe. 

GENE. DEMEUT. 

Seven whites of eggs, 2 cups sugar, | cup butter, 2| 
cups flour, 2 teaspoons baking powder, 1 teaspoon va- 
nilla. Take | of mixture, add to it | cup of melted choco- 
late. Bake in 3 layers, chocolate in center. 

Custard Filling for it.— Seven yolks, | cup sugar^ 
1 cup milk. Cook in double boiler. Spread between 
layers. 

O^ran^e CaKe. 

Two cups flour, 2 cups sugar, ^ cup ice water, yolks 5 
eggs, whites of 2, juice and rind of 1 orange, 1 teaspoon 
baking powder. Three layers in jelly tins. 

Filling for Orange Cake. — Beat stitt', whites of 2 
eggs, add juice and zest of 1 orange and enough sifted 
powdered sugar to spread between layers. Plain icing 
for top. 



CAKE. 135 

Spice Cake. 

Two or 3 eggs, | cup molasses, butter and sugar, 1 cup 
milk, 2^ cups whole wheat flour, 1 rounding teaspoon bak- 
ing powder, 1 tablespoon mixed spices, 1 tablespoon vine- 
gar or lemon juice, 1 salt-spoon soda in molasses, 1 cup 
chopped raisins. Mix in order in which they come. Bake 
in little tins 25 minutes. 

Bread CaKe. 

Three cups light dough, 1 cap butter, 2 cups sugar, 3 
eggs, 2 cups currants, 1 cup flour, 1 cup sweet milk, 2 tea- 
spoons spices, 3 spoons brandy. Let rise 4 hours. Bake 
like bread. 

Pound CaKe. 

One and three-fourths cups butter, 2 cups sugar, 4 
cups flour, after sifting, 10 eggs, separate, ^ nutmeg, 
grated, | glass brandy, 1 teaspoon lemon jaice. 

Cream the butter a long time, add gradually sugar, 
creaming all the time with wooden spoon, add lemon juice. 
Beat yolks stiff, add to butter and sugar, add flour, gradu- 
ally brandy, fold in well-beaten whites. Bake in bread 
tins or pan with funnel for 1 hour, gentle over. Can add 
currants, raisins or citron. Can make in small tins or in 
form of wafers. Use Royal icing. 

White Pound Cake, same, omitting yolks. 

Pound CaKe. 

MRS. MACON. 

One scant pound of butter, 1 pound granulated sugar' 
10 eggs, 1 pound flour, | grated nutmeg (2 tablespoons 
brandy optional). 

Cream, with hand, butter, add sugar gradually, add 
whole eggs, one at a time, beating well. When all are in 
and mixture very light, add flour gradually and nutmeg 
trying sample cake to see if mixture is right. Bake in 
bread -pan, temperature oven, same as bread. 



136 CAKE, 

Fruit Cake. 

Small Kule, 

Three-fourths pound butter. 2 tablespoons. 

One cup granulated sugar. 1| tablespoons. 

One cup brown sugar. 1^ tablespoons. 

One-half pound citron (sliced). 1 tablespoon. 

Three pounds currants. ^ cup. 

Four lbs. raisins (seeded and chopped;. ^ cup. 
One-half lb. candied orange and figs. 1 teaspoon. 
Nine eggs. 3 tablespoons. 

One tablespoon each, cinnamon, cloves, 

allspice, mace. 1 teaspoon. 

Three cups flour (whole wheat). ^ cup. 

One cup very fine crumbs. 1^ tablespoons. 

One and one-half cups brandy. 2 tablespoons. 

Mix fruit together and flour, mix spices and sugar 

Cream butter and sugar, add lightly beaten eggs and the 

brandy, then the flour, lastly the fi-uits. Put the mixture 

in tins lined with several layers of paper, cover with oiled 

paper and steam 1^ hours, then bake in slow oven 2 hours. 

Can add ^ pound blanched and sliced almonds. When 

done, remove from tins, moisten with brandy and cover. 

Will keep for years, steaming for ^ hour before needed. 



Princess Cake. 

MRS. J. T. H. 

One cup brown sugar, ^ cup each molasses, butter and 
strong coffee, 2^ cups flour, yolks 4 eggs, teaspoon each 
cloves, allspice and soda, 1 pound raisins, | each of cur- 
rants and citron. For white part— ^ cup butter, 2 cups 
sugar, 1 cup milk, 1 cup corn-starch, 2 tea spoons baking 
powder, whites 4 eggs. For icing — whites of 4 eggs, 1 
pound sifted powdered sugar, teaspoon almond flavoring. 
Bake in jelly cake tins, dark layer at bottom. 

Can make icing for cake with yolk of egg, teaspoon 
lemon and about | cup powdered sugar. 




WALDORF SALAD. 




CUCTTMBEK AND FISH SALAD GAKNISHED WITH WATEKCEESS AND 
RADISH ROSES. 




CABBAGE AND BEEF SALAD. 



SALADS. 187 



CHAPTER XXIII. 



Salads. 

"A combination and a form indeed, 
A mixture and a mess."— Hamlet, 

It is an accomplishment to know how to dress a salad 
well. Nearly all meats, vegetables and fruits may be served 
as salads. The essential thing is to have the salad fresh 
and cold, and the leaves crisp and dry, or the dressing will 
be poor. Let vegetables stand in cold water to crisp, then 
dry in basket or towel, dressing added just before serving. 

Meats should not be chopped but cut into dice, mari- 
nated or pickled before being mixed with the vegetable. 
Lettuce, capers, hard boiled eggs, nasturtium blossoms — 
all are a good garnish, which should harmonize with what- 
ever is in the salad. 

To Marinate. — Take 1 part oil to 3 parts vinegar, 
with salt and pepper, stir into meat, stand an hour, drain. 
Tarragon or other fine flavored vinegar for dressing. 
Lemon juice makes dressing lighter in color. French 
dressing is used with green vegetables, mayonnaise, French 
or boiled with potato and tomato salads. Olive oil is pre- 
ferred. Cotton seed oil is a pure vegetable oil, very health- 
ful and inexpensive. 

French Dressing. — Three parts oil, 1 part vinegar, 
salt and paprika, dash of garlic or six drops onion juice. 
In shallow bowl, containing a slice of onion and a small 
piece of ice, put 3 tablespoons of oil, | teaspoon salt and ^ 
salt-spoon paprika. Stir with fork until oil thickens, then 
add gradually tablespoon of vinegar until all is quite consist- 
ent. Pour over crisp leaves of lettuce, leaves in salad bowL 



138 SALADS. 

Toss over and over with fork and spoon. Dish up and 
serve. All can be done at table, serving with cheese 
straws, crisp crackers or thin slices of bread. 

For dinner salads, vegetables or fruits, the meat 
salads used where the menu is lighter, luncheon or supper. 
Combinations, lettuce and radishes, water-cress and 
apples, celery, cucumbers, tomatoes, string beans, cauli- 
flower, (macedoiu of turnip, carrot, peas,) hot slaw, celery, 
apples and nuts, oranges, stuffed tomatoes, rice and beets. 

Boiled Dressing. 

Yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, 1 teaspoon mustard, 2 
teaspoons salt, ^ salt-spoon paprika, 2 tablespoons sagar, 
2 tablespoons butter (creamed), 1 cup milk or cream, | 
cup hot vinegar. Stir all together. Cook in double boil- 
er until thick like boiled custard. Beat thoroughly. 
Good for potato, lettuce, asparagus, celery, string beans 
and cauliflower. 

Potato SaIaA. 

Many prefer to mix while hot, will keep longer, needs 
onion. Boil potatoes with skins on. Peel, cut into nice 
cubes, marinate. Can use beets in fancy shapes — pickles, 
capers, cucumbers. Mix and add boiled dressing. Keep 
on ice until ready to serve. Sprinkle over with chopped 
parsley and chopped Bermuda onion. 

Ctxcumber Salad< 

Pare thinly, cut in three slices and sliced onion, stand 
in cold water until ready to serve. Serve with salt, pep- 
per and vinegar or French dressing. 

Cream Dressing* 

MRS. MAEY P. MOOEE. 

Particularly nice for Waldorf salad. 
Yolks of 3 eggs, 3 large tablespoons vinegar, small 
piece butter, little mustard, salt, sugar and pepper. Put 



SALADS. 139 

in double boiler, cook until thick, then thin with cream 
when ready to use. Many prefer this to mayonnaise. 

Cucumber iSala.cl. 

A. K. BIEDSEY. 

Twelve large green cucumbers 

6 onions. 

2 or 3 green peppers. 

1 tablespoon of mustard seed. 

1 tablespoon of celery. 

I cup of salt. 

^ cup of sugar. 

Pare the cucumbers and take out the seeds, chop the 
cucumbers and onions together, add salt and let it stand 
over night in a covered jar, in the morning, squeeze out 
the moisture or brine, then add the other ingredients, put 
in fruit cans and cover with cold white wine vinegar. 

Mayonnaise Dressing. 

MES. MAEY P. MOOEE. 

Take yolks of 4 eggs, a teaspoon of salt, | teaspoon 
mustard and sugar, a little red pepper. Stir together, 
adding oil a drop at a time until it begins to thicken, then 
add oil a little faster until like butter in thickness, then 
add gradually the juice of 1 lemon or vinegar to thin it. 
If still too thick, when ready to use, add sufficient cream 
to thin. 

"Waldorf Salad. 

One cup each of celery and apples, | cup chopped 

nuts. Put lemon juice over apple. Serve on lettuce 

leaves with French, cream or mayonnaise dressing. 

Endive with watercress. French dressing. 

Asparagus tips and cauliflower. French dressing. 

Cooked string beans — white, green. French dressing. 

Carrots, turnips and peas. French dressing. 

Baked pork and beans. Mayonnaise dressing. 

Cabbage, shredded, salt, pepper and sour cream or 

French dressing. Eadish roses and water cress. 



140 SALADS. 

Boiled Salstd Dressing. 

MRS. H. P. ELLIS. 

Yolks of 8 eggs. 2 even teaspoons eacb. 

One-half cup melted butter. Mustard and salt. 

One-half cup vinegar. ^ teaspoon red pepper. 

When cold add a cup of cream and the juice of 1 

lemon. 

FresH R.ipe Tomato iSalacl. 

Skin, cut, slice off top, remove seeds and pulp. Mix 
pulp with chopped celery, cucumber or cabbage. Mix 
with mayonnaise dressing, fill tomato with mixture. Place 
on lettuce leaf, put ball of mayonnaise on top. Serve. 

Tomato Jelly Salad. 

MRS. 8. J. ANTHONY. 

Cook tomatoes with 3 cloves, 1 bay leaf, slice of onion, 
■i teaspoon thyme, 1 teaspoon salt and sugar, 1 salt-spoon 
paprika. Strain and rub through sieve. Soak a rounding 
tablespoon of gelatine in cold water 15 minutes, add to 2 
cups tomato pulp. Stir well. Mold in cups or border 
mold. Serve on shredded lettuce with olives and mayonnaise 
dressing. If border mold used, fill center with celery, 
crisp and curled. Serve portion to each one with ball of 
mayonnaise and stuffed olive. 

Cheese .Salad. 

Balls of cream or neufchatel cheese flecked with red 
and black pepper or a little coloring, served in little nests 
made of hearts of celery, served with French dressing. 
Serve in cups. 

R.tissian Salads. 

Salads served wish aspic jelly, molded in jelly or 
with jelly in cubes, with salad as garnish. Ornament 
bottom of individual mold with a design made of veg- 
etables or hard boiled eggs. Add a little aspic jelly to 
hold in place. Chill till firm, add cooked peas, capers, 



SALADS. 141 

celery. Add more aspic, chill, then add more vegetables 
until full. Serve on lettuce, garnish with capers, parsley or 
watercress. 

£^^ Salad. 

Hard boiled egg cut lengthwise, remove yolks, mix 
to a paste, add mayonnaise and chopped parsley. Put a 
spoonful in center of each half. Serve on lettuce leaf. 

Orai\^e Salad. 

Peel orange, cut in thick slices crosswise, quarter- 
slice, place on lettuce leaf. On each quarter lay ^ walnut 
meat. In space between quarters, a ball of mayonnaise, or 
lay three slices on lettuce with French dressing. Serve 
with game course at dinner. 

S-tveet Satice for Firtiit Salad. 

One-half cup sugar, | cup fruit juice or water, 1 table- 
spoon lemon juice; cook to ball stage, add 2 tablespoons 
of sherry wine. 

MaKe Orange BasKet. 

Cut pulp in cubes, with cubes of either banana, ber- 
ries, cherries, pineapple or apple. Mix with sauce. Fill 
baskets just before serving. Keep baskets in water or 
edges will dry. Pulp can be removed from apples and 
salad can be served in them. Nuts can always be used if 
desired. 

Fruit iSalad. 

In salad dish combine, 1 can shredded pineapple, 4 
oranges and 4 bananas, cut in cubes; 1 cup cherries, 1 cup 
grapes, skinned. Make ^ pint of sauce, pour over salad, 
garnish with purple and white grapes, leave on ice. Serve 
very cold in sherbert cups or in ^ small cantaloupe. 



142 SALADS. 

CHicKen Salad. 

MRS. M. P. MOOEE. 

Boil chicken the day before, use only white meat. Cut 
in dice, prepare celery in same way. Put in dressing just 
before serving. Serve with cream or mayonnaise dressing. 

CHicken iSalacl. 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

Use all white meat; all dark meat or part of each. 
When celery is scarce can use applej white cabbage, po- 
tatoe or shredded lettuce. Equal parts of chicken and 
celery cut into dice, marinate chicken, keep in cold place 
until ready to use. Mix and add lightly a little mayon- 
naise; heap in dish high in center, garnish with hard- 
boiled eggs, pickles, capers, celery tips, lettuce or olives. 
Place mayonnaise over top. 



Mayonnaise Dressing. 

DOMESTIC SCIENCE. 

In dishpan have cracked ice, pint bowl, a tin 
cup of oil with tea teaspoon, Dover egg beater, in 
bowl yolk of one egg, ^ teaspoon salt ^ salt-spoon 
paprika, ^ teaspoon dry mustard; on table, 1^ tablespoons 
lemon juice, beat yolk of egg till it thickens, then 
beat and drop from spoon drop by drop of oil until 
over a teaspoonful has been incorporated, then add in lit- 
tle larger drops, beating well. When mixture is thick add 
a little lemon juice, beat, add more, then more oil, more 
lemon; add oil by spoonful. If necessary, can add 1^ 
tablespoons of choice vinegar. Continue until oil is all in 
and mixture is thick enough to cut. Should it curdle put 
a yolk of egg in another bowl, beat and gradually incor- 
porate first dressing. Thin, by adding equal amount of 
whipped cream. 



SALADS. 143 

iSatace Xartare. 

For fish and cold meats. Mayonnaise mixed with a 
tablespoon each of olives, pickles and capers chopped fine. 
Celery can be used. 

Can make mayonnaise with softened butter instead 
of oil. Oil from chicken or turkey. 

Green mayonnaise, mix juice of spinach with dressing. 

Red mayonnaise, lobster coral or Hansen's coloring. 

Bouilli Salad. 

Boiled beef from soup, cut into | inch cubes, grated 
onion, marinate. Mix with cold boiled potatoes, and chop- 
ped parsley. Garnish with hard-boiled eggs. French or 
boiled dressing. 

Lobster iSalad. 

Lobster in inch pieces, shredded lettuce mixed with 
it, marinate, keep in cool place. Dress with mayonnaise 
in center of dish on bed of lettuce. 

Shrimp salad same. 

Oyster Salad. 

Scald oysters until plumped, cut into pieces, mix 
with tartare sauce. Serve on lettuce with celery. 

Sweetbreads and celery with French or mayonnaise. 

FisH Salad. 

One pint cooked flaked fish on bed of lettuce or 
cucumbers. Mix hard boiled yolk and 3 sardines to a 
paste, mix with boiled or mayonnaise dressing. Pour 
over fish, garnish with slice of lemon. Serve on a boat 
made of ^ cucumber. Seeds remove, with watercress 
around. 



144 SANDWICHES. 



CHAPTER XXIV. 



Sand'Mricties. 

Sandwiches can be made of brown or white bread or 
rolls. Should be one day old, fine and spongy in texture, 
cut thin. Can be made with or without crust, cut square, 
triangle, round, heartshaped or rolled. Rolls should be 
very fresh. 

The butter should be of the best. The meats should 
be chopped fine, seasoned with salt and pepper, French 
mustard or salad dressing. Lettuce leaves can be used 
or watercress. After one side is buttered, spread with 
meat mixture, lay other slice on without butter. Cut very 
uniform and they can be prepared hours before using if 
placed in a large tin pail in bottom of which is first laid a 
damp cloth over which is paraffine paper, lay sandwiches 
in with care, cover with paraffine paper and damp napkin, 
cover and stand in cool place. 

Foe Invalid. — Scrape raw beef, season with salt and 
pepper, spread between buttered bread. Put on double 
wire toaster, toast until well heated. Serve at once. 

School Boy. — Thicker slices of bread buttered, ham 
sliced very thin, or cold beefsteak shaved thin, salt and 
pepper, French mustard and thin slices of pickle. Fold 
in crisp lettuce, wrap in paraffine paper. Shredded wheat 
biscuit, oblong slices of thin bread slightly buttered, 
spread with well chopped nuts, moistened with cream, 
salted. Roll like jelly roll, tie with ribbon. 



SANDWICHES. 145 

Lobster or salmon reduced to a paste, mixed with 
olives or pickles and any salad dressing, spread on but- 
tered bread, sprinkled over with watercress or shredded 
lettuce. 

Spread with a mixture of grated cheese, anchovy 
paste and French mustard or sardines, or spread with 
jelly or jam. 

For Rolls. — Out off top, scrape out crumb, lay let- 
tuce in bottom, fill with any meat mixture, add top and 
serve. Garnish with cress. 

Crackers spread with fondant in which is mixed 
finely chopped nuts. For five o'clock tea. 



146 FROZEN DESSERTS. 



CHAPTEK XXV. 



Frozen Desserts. 

Philadelphia ice creams are cream sweetened, flavored 
and stirred while freezing. 

French ice creams are custards with more or less 
cream, stirred while freezing. 

Parfaits and mousses — whipped cream with eggs, 
frozen without stirring. 

Water ices— fruit juices sweetened with sugar syrup, 
stirred while freezing. 

Punches — ices with 'white of egg or liquors. Can 
keep on hand a syrup made of sugar and water, quite 
thick, which add to fruit juices until sweet enough. 

It is well to have freezer packed in pail before adding 
mixture, and test to see if it turns all right. In packing 
put in quite a little cracked ice, then add one-third as 
much rock salt, then another" layer of ice, then salt. Have 
hole with cork about one-third up in pail to drain off 
water melted. Use care not to get salt in ice cream mix- 
ture. Let mixture stand in freezer a few minutes before 
turning to chill, then turn slowly at first until ice has 
softened a little, then turn faster until dasher turns harder^ 
When firm, remove dasher, pack cream down with spoon, 
cover cork opening, cover with gunny sack, leave for two 
hours to mellow. When serving, if desired, dip spoon in 
warm water, then in ice cream, which comes out in almost 
a ball form. 

To unmold ices, pour cold or warm water over mold, 
let stand a few minutes, and it will come out. Be careful 
not to melt. 



PROZEN DESSERTS. 147 

Pistachio uuts, fruit juices, orange rind, can be used 
to color. 

Stir fruits into ice cream after freezing if you wish 
to add them whole or in pieces, unless preserves, which 
will not freeze. Crush fruits, if frozen with mixture. 

Ice creams molded in forms must be very hard frozen, 
and, if a little gelatine is added to mixture, it molds bet- 
ter. After being molded, the molds are put into a dry pail, 
covered. Pack in ice and salt until ready to serve. 

Raspberry Ptxi^cH. 

MES. J. A. BEXTLEY. 

Two cups raspberries. 1| cups sugar. 

Whites 2 eggs. 
Whip whites stiff, add sugar, whip, add berries and 
whip all together. Freeze. Serve in sherbert cups. 

Heav^enly iSHerbet. 

MISS GRACE CURRIER. 

Juice and grated rind of 2 lemons and 1 orange. 
Two cups sugar. 1 quart milk. 

This mixture often appears curdled, but that is all 
right; freezing it softens and makes it very smooth. 

Orange Ice. 

Small Rule. 

Six oranges or 1 pint juice and zest. 4 tablespoons. 

One lemon. 1 teaspoon, 

8;;re;;rwTe';; |Boiiedto.y.up, | i\f^,:i^z 

Make syrup, add juice, freeze until firm. When 

nearly firm add beaten white of egg; beat until light and 

white, which makes it a punch. Serve with roast at 

■dinner. 

Lemon Ice. 

Juice of six lemons with zest, syrup of 1 pint of sugar 

with enough water added to make one quart, to which add 

lemon juice. Freeze as for orange ice. Can add shredded 

pineapple to syrup and freeze, or any fruit juices. 



148 FROZEN DESSERTS. 

Ice Cream. 

Can use corn meal mush, reduced with water, rice 
pressed through ricer, baked apples, Boston brown bread, 
shredded biscuit, junket, macaroons (ground), cocoanut, 
raisins. 

To make ice cream more light, whip the cream and 
add it after ice cream is partly frozen. Scald cream 
before using unless whipped. 

Can use condensed milk, one can to a pint of milk, 

PKila(leli>Hia Ice Cream. 

Two quarts of cream, 1 pint milk, 2 cups sugar, 2 
tablespoons vanilla extract or piece of bean in cream. 
Scald cream, melt sugar in it, add milk and flavoring. 
Freeze. 

Plain. Ice Cream. 

1 pint milk, 1 cup sugar, 1 rounding tablespoon of 
flour, corn-starch or gelatine (soaked), 1 salt-spoon salt, 
1 pint or 1 quart cream mith | cup sugar, 1 tablespoon 
flavoring. 

Scald milk, add sugar, (flour wet in little cold milk, 
(or gelatine) and salt); then add beaten eggs, beat all to- 
gether; turn milk over, place in double boiler, stir until 
smooth. When cool, add cream with flavoring and sugar 
to make quite sweet. 

A pint of macaroons dried aud pounded improves ice 
cream. 6 bananas mashed with a little lemon, or peaches 
or pulp of baked apples mashed, are fine. Strong coffee 
or melted chocolate added. 

Ttitti Frtxtti. 

Either of the recipes. Flavor with 2 tablespoons of 
Maderia wine or maraschino added when partly frozen 
and a pound of candied fruits or strained preserves. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 149 

PistacKio Ctxrrant Cream. 

Line a melon mold one inch thick with ice cream 
colored with pistachio nuts blanched and pounded. 
Then fill remainder with ice cream, flavored with currant 
juice. Add | pound of seeded raisias, cover, pack until 
ready to use, pour cold water over mold. Unmold on plat- 
ter, with whipped cream around. Can mold chocolate 
ice cream in same way. 

AlasKa BaKe— BaKed Ice Cream. 

A flat round sponge cake for base, a circular mold of 

very hard frozen ice cream, place on base; a meringue of 

3 whites of eggs beaten very dry, flavored and sweetened. 

All set under strong flame in gas oven for two minutes, to 

brown. 

R.ice Ice Cream. 

One cup boiled rice, flavored with a tablespoon of lemon. 

Three-fourths cup sugar. ^ teaspoon nutmeg. 

One-half cup currant jelly. 1 pint cream (whipped). 

Have rice thoroughly cooked, add sugar and lemon 

juice, nutmeg and jelly. Beat together, then add whipped 

cream. Put into covered mold. Pack for 3 hours. Serve 

with sauce. 

<Satice. 

Yolks of two eggs, with 2 tablespoons powdered 

sugar, beaten to a cream, cooked in double boiler until 

smooth and thickened (add tablespoon of rum if desired) 

then mix in lightly 1 cup cream whipped dry. 

Bisctue "V^itK Fruit, Etc. 

MISS LOIS ROBBINS. 

Fill bottom of mold with whipped cream sweetened 
and flavored, cover with a layer of lady fingers, another 
layer of cream. On this put a layer of mixed nuts, can- 
died cherries and crumbed macaroons. Cover with cream. 
Pack in salt and ice 2 hours, using care that edges are 
protected from salt. 



150 FROZEN DESSERTS. 

Use 1 quart cream. 

One-half ounce each lady fingers and macaroons. 

Scant ^ cup sherry wine. 

Ten cents worth each nuts and cherries. 



Froxexk Rice Pu<l<lii\^. 

MISS GEOEGIE HOGHE8. 

One quart of cooked rice. 

One quart custard made with 4 eggs and 1 pint sugar. 

One pint whipping cream. 

One pint Mararchino cherries. Flavor with liquor from 

the cherries. 

Cut cherries in bits, reserve some for decoration. 

Freeze lightly then add cream, whipped, and cherries. 

Remove dasher. Mold, pack for 3 hours. Serve with a 

cream sauce flavored with the cordial from cherries. 

Merirk^txe SHells. 

Very stiffly beaten whites 6 eggs. 
One-half pint whipping cream. 
Heaping cup of sugar. 
Teaspoon flavoring. 
One-half cup blanched almonds. 

Beat whites very stiff, fold in sifted sugar, add flavor- 
ing, put on paper with sifting of sugar, in tablespoons full. 
Sift a little powdered sugar over. Put in a very slow oven 
for I hour or longer. Remove soft center, fill with whip- 
ped cream, put 2 together. Can add nuts to cream. 

Frtxit Puddings. 

Line, mold with ice cream 1| inch thick, fill center 
with berries, peaches or bananas. Cover top. Pack in 
ice and salt for 2 hours. Serve with whipped cream. 

Sauce for Ice Cream. 

One cup caramel syrup, ^ cup of chopped nuts, 1 cup 
of chocolate sauce and cream, mixed with chopped nuts- 
Serve over ice cream. 



FROZEN DESSERTS. 151 

Can make caramel ice cream by using caramel for fla- 
voring and color. A cup of sugar syrup mixed with glass 
of rum. Rum sauce. 

Parfaits. 

Parfaits are made with yolks of eggs cooked with 
syrup, and whipped cream added. Frozen without motion. 

Delicious. 

MRS. H. T. MILLEE, 

Baked pears, cut in two. Sprinkle with powdered 
sugar. Put spoonful of whipped cream over. Garnish 
with candied cherries. 

Mousses. 

Cream with pulp of fruits. 

Vanilla Parfait. 

Beat yolks of 8 eggs until light, add 1 cup syrup, stir 
in double boiler until it coats spoon, then beat until cold 
and very light. Add a pint of cream whipped to a stiff 
froth, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Pack in ice and salt for 
4 hours. Cover joints of freezer with butter, paraffine and 
paper that salt will not soak in. 

Maple or caramel parfait, using maple or caramel 
syrup, or can add to custard ^ cup of grated chocolate, or 
coffee can be used. 

Fruit Mousses. 

One pint cream whipped very stiff, 1 cup fruit pulp 
mixed with powdered sugar to make consistency of cream. 
Mold and pack for 3 hours. 



152 HOW TO SERVE FRUITS. 



CHAPTER XXVI. 



Ho"w to Serve Frtiits. 

Oranges for breakfast can be served whole on plate 
with spoon, or peeled, divided in quarters half way down, 
points curled back. Can be sliced and returned to peel, or 
cut in pieces or sections. Better eaten without sugar. 
Appetizing in the morning before eating. 

Strawberries, if large, can be served without removing 
hulls, dipped in powdered sugar, served on plate, or they 
are rinsed in colander, hulled and massed in dish. Serve 
with powdered sugar and cream. Other berries same. 

Cherries — rinsed, serve whole with stems, or remove 
pits. Prepare a sugar syrup, pour over, pack in ice and 
salt until thoroughly chilled. Serve as a first course or as 
a salad. Serve in sherbet glasses. 

Peaches — served whole, with outside well rubbed. 
Slice and serve with sugar and cream; or slice, sprinkled 
with sugar. Chill and serve. 

Grape fruit —cut in half, loosen pulp from sides and 
separate sections, and, with spoon, eat pulp and juice. 
Breakfast. 

Cantalotipe. 

Keep on ice until needed, cut in halves, remove seeds, 
fill with chopped ice and serve. Can use in place of dish 
for serving ice cream or salad. Garnish with grape leaves. 

l^atermeloxx. 

Chilled and cut in sections; or remove red center, 
then seeds, and break up in small pieces, heap up in glass 
dish with finely cracked ice. Dish up and serve with 
powdered sugar. 

Baked apples good for breakfast. 

Small fruits— dipped in slightly beaten white of egg, 
rolled in sugar and dried. Appetizing. 



COMPOTES AND CANNED GOODS. l-SS 



CHAPTEK XXVII. 



Compotes and Canned Fruits. 

Comp6tes are fresh fruits stewed in syrup. Good 
served, with cake as dessert. In combination with rice or 
other molded cereal they are very wholesome for children. 

The success of canning and preserving depends upon 
heating the fruits until all germs are destroyed, -then seal- 
ing tight while still scalding hot. 

Proportion of sugar to fruit for canning — ^ to ^ pound 
sugar to 1 pound fruit. Unripe fruit not good for canning. 

The longer sugar cooks with fruit, the darker the 
syrup. (Fruit for pies have better flavor if canned with- 
out sugar.) 

In canning tomatoes, be careful to have heat strike 
them through or they will not keep. (A wide-mouthed 
funnel good for filling cans.) 

Cans and covers should be heated in water to kill 
germs. Have new rubbers; then, when filling cans, stand 
them in pan on wet cloth or put spoon in jar while filling. 
Fill even full, remove bubbles of air, put covers on, screw 
tight. If turned bottom-side up and no liquid escapes, 
they are air-tight. Keep fruit in a dark, cool place. 

Canning Berries. — Measure sugar in proportion to 
fruit — 1 pound of sugar to 4 pounds of fruit. Spread fruit 
on platters, sprinkle sugar over, stand 24 hours; then, for 
three days, drain off syrup, scald and pour over fruit; 
third day, scald up together, put in cans and cover tight. 
(Can cherries in same way, removing pits.) 

Another way — Stir sugar and fruit together; put in 
cans, cover, not tight. Stand on pieces of wood in boiler 



154 COMPOTES AND CANNED GOODS. 

with cold water about § height of jars, let come to a boil, 
then stand in water till cool. Seal tight and set away to 
cool. 

Mudge Sterilizer cooks fruit in 15 minutes. 

Rhubarb. — Prepare, cut in two inch pieces, pack 
in cans in good shape, cover cans, stand in boiler 
or steamer, cold water with sticks under jars, let water 
come to a boil, then set back and cool. Add sugar 
when using. 

Pineapple. — Peel, shred with silver fork, leave center. 
Measure ^ weight of sugar, put in porcelain kettle with 
just enough water to dissolve it, add pineapple, heat about 
5 minutes, fill cans ^ full of fruit, the remainder with 
syrup; seal at once. Can grate pineapple. 

Quinces are pared and cored, cut into sections, 
cooked in water before canning, as they are tough. Meas- 
ure I as much sugar as fruit; use water in which quinces 
were boiled to make syrup, then add quinces and cook 
until transparent. Many combine equal parts of sweet 
apples and quinces. 

Stew skins and cores of quinces and apples for jelly. 

Jatxns and Preserves. 

Jams and preserves are made with whole small fruits or 
fruits cut up with f or equal amount of sugar. A syrup is 
first made, just enough fruit is added to cover top of syrup; 
heated through, removed to large bowl with skimmer, 
draining all syrup, then adding more fruit, scalding and 
removing until all the fruit has been cooked. Boil down 
syrup, boiling gently for 15 minutes. Add all of the fruit, 
heat, fill jars with fruit and syrup, cover; jams need not be 
in air-tight cans. Can be covered with paraffine. 

Brandy PeacKes. 

White peaches preferred. Pare but do not remove 
stones. Save some peach stones, crack and add pits to 



COMPOTES AND CANNED GOODS. 165 

syrup, I pound sugar to each pound of fruit. Make syrup 
using I cup water to each pound of sugar. Drop into 
syrup enough peaches to cover ^surface, turn and cook 
until transparent. Remove with strainer to platter, add 
more peaches, cook and remove, continuing until all are 
done. Boil syrup 15 minutes. Place peaches in cans, not 
too many. Set syrup back on stove, add one cup of 
alcohol or California brandy to each quart of syrup; pour 
over peaches, seal at once. 

Xomato Preserves. 

Scald and peel, not too ripe, yellow pear-shaped toma- 
toes, prick with a needle to prevent bursting. Add equal 
amount of sugar and let stand over night. Straia all of 
the syrup into preserving kettle. Add two lemons, sliced, 
and ^ pound ginger root, boil until thick syrup. Add 
tomatoes, boil until they look transparent. 

IVatermelon Preser-ves-^Or Citron. 

Remove green rind and any red, cut in pieces 2 inches 
long, put in cold water, skim out, then add a teaspoon of 
salt and alum to 1 gallon of rind, stand until alum dis- 
solves, cover with cold water, cover with plate and let come 
to boiling point until tender, drain. Boil 2 ounces of 
ginger root in 2^ cups water until water is strongly fla- 
vored, then add to water 2 sliced lemons. Boil. Make 
with this water a syrup with 2 pounds of sugar, to which 
add watermelon rinds. Cook ^ hour. Put in jars. 

Bananas sliced lengthwise, peaches pared and cut in 
halves, cooked in syrup, served on sponge cake, whipped 
cream around, and sprinkled with lemon, makes a dainty 
dessert. 

Jellies. 

Fruits contain pectin, which causes them to jelly 
when cooked with sugar; when over-ripe or stale this is 
changed. Some fruits — as currants, gooseberries, apples, 



156 COMPOTES AND CANNED GOODS. 

quinces and grapes — contain much in their skins and 
seeds. Get fresh fruits for jelly. 

Have three-cornered bags with strings to tie on high 
stool for straining fruit. 

Fruits must first be cooked, partly covered with water, 
mashed and strained, juice measured, boiled, mixed with 
equal amount of sugar, boiled gently for 5 minutes and 
strained into glasses. 

Can make jelly by dissolving sugar in the cooked juice 
and left in a cool oven for some time or stood in the hot 
sun, covered with netting. 

Cooking after sugar is added changes flavor and 
darkens color. (Heat sugar after measuring.) 

Currartt Jelly. 

Remove leaves — not stems — wash, mash, heat not 
much, add 1 cup water to 4 quarts of currants, stir with 
wooden spoon, cook until soft. Strain through flannel 
bag. Do not squeeze very much for very clear jelly. After 
draining, juice may be pressed out for second quality. Put 
juice on stove in porcelain, let boil 20 minutes, then add 
same amount of sugar as juice. Stir. Let simmer 5 min- 
utes. Strain into glasses. Let stand for a day or two, 
then melt paraffine, puttiiig a tablespoon over each glass. 

Crab Apple Jelly. 

Wash fruit, cut into pieces, cover with water. Boil 
and mash; drain and treat as for currant jelly. Use puljj 
for marmalade. 

A combination of apple, cranberry and rhubarb makes 
a fine jelly. 

Crabapple with raspberry or blackberry, fine. 

Green grapes make fine jelly. 



COMPOTES AND CANNED GOODS. 157 

Marmalades or Fruit Butter. 

After removing part of the juice for jelly, rub pulp 
through seive. Measure, using same amount of sugar as 
fruit pulp — mix, cook down for 30 minutes and put in 
cans. Can spice to taste. Good for children, on bread, or 
to serve with meats, if spiced. 

Orange Marmalade. 

Bitter Oranges — Allow the juice and grated rind of 
one lemon to every five oranges, and | pound sugar to 
pound of fruit. Remove peel in quarters, boil in 
plenty of water until tender; drain off water to cool. Re- 
move seeds and white skin. Boil pulp with sugar until 
well cooked. When peel is cool, remove all white part. 
Cut peel into shreds. Add shreds to ©ooked oraage and 
cook until thick. Pack in cups or glasses. 



158 PICKLES. 



CHAPTEE XXVIII. 



PicKles. 

Get choice young vegetables, pure cider vinegar. 

Put pickles into strong brine with one piece of alum, 
24 hours. Take out, wash, cover with § vinegar, ^ water, pep- 
pers, cinnamon and cloves. Put in kettle on back of stove, 
let simmer, not boil, for 2 or three hours. Pour off that 
vinegar and add fresh. To 1 gallon vinegar, 1 pound brown 
sugar, I cup each celery seed and cloves, 3 bay leaves, 12 
small red peppers, 4 sticks cinnamon. Scald all together, 
add 1 piece alum, pour over pickles, 3 pounds tiny white 
onions are nice to 500 pickles, added uncooked. 

PicKle PeacHes. 

Seven pounds peaches, 3| pounds brown sugar, 1 
quart cider vinegar, 1 ounce whole cloves, 4 sticks cinna- 
mon. 

Rub peaches, weigh, put 4 cloves in each peach. 
Make syrup of sugar, vinegar and cinnamon. Boil, add 
peaches, boil until tender enough to prick with a straw. 
Remove, place in jars, add more peaches until all are 
cooked. Boil syrup until quite thick, pour over peaches. 
Cherries and plums in same way. 

CHoiv CHo^r. 

Put 1 quart each of small cucumbers, green tomatoes 
and onions, 1 pint each string beans and radishes, green 
peppers, 1 large head of cauliflower, cut up 1 quart med- 
ium sized cucumbers, add to this cut peppers, seeds re- 



PICKLES. 159 

moved. Put all in salt water for 24 hours, scald in same 
water, drain. 

Mix 6 tablespoons mustard, 1 cup flour, 1 of sugar, 
mix, then mix with cold vinegar. Then add hot vinegar 
to make 3 quarts with 2 tablespoons celery seed, 2 each of 
white and black mustard seed, 2 tablespoons curry powder 
to color. Boil till thickens, turn over the pickles, stir 
well together, put in cans and seal up. 

CHopped PicKle. 

1 peck green tomatoes, 1 cup horseradish, 1 cup 
green peppers, 1 cup chopped onions, 1 cup white must- 
ard seed, 1 tablespoon cloves, L tablespoon cinnamon or 
allspice. Mix well with vinegar, boil together 20 minutes. 

Tomato Butter. 

Seven pounds tomatoes, 3 pounds sugar, 1 pint vine- 
gar, spice to taste. Boil down thick. 

CHili <Sauce. 

Twenty-four large ripe tomatoes, 4 large onions, 6 
green peppers, remove seeds and chop fine. 3 tablespoons 
salt, ^ cup brown sugar, 4 cups vinegar, boil gently 1 hour. 
Bottle and seal. 

Tomato Catsup. 

Boil 1 bushel of tomatoes skins and all; strain through 
sieve, 1 cup salt, 2 pounds brown sugar, 1 tablespoon 
cayenne, | cup each allspice, and mace, ^ cup cinnamon, 
2 quarts best vinegar, boil down ^. Bottle. 

Tomato Catsup, Cold. 

MBS. A. 0. PHELPS. 

One-half peck ripe tomatoes peeled, 2 red peppers, 2 
onions, ^ cup salt, 1 cup brown sugar, | cup white mus- 
tard seed, 1 cup grated horseradish, 2 tablespoons black 



160 PICKLES. 

pepper, 1 quart cider vinegar. Chop tomatoes fine, drain, 
chop onions and peppers fine, mix together, rub through 
colander. Sure to keep. 

^Spiced Citron or Melon R.ind. 

Seven pounds of fruit, 1 pint cider vinegar, 4 pounds 
sugar, tablespoon alum, 1 tablespoon cinnamon, cloves, 
mace, allspice in bag. Boil fruit in evening in water with 
alum until a straw will go through, drain, soak in cold 
water until morning. Make syrup with sugar, vinegar 
and spice. Pour over drained fruit. Put away in jars. 



ASPIC JELLY. 161 



CHAPTER XXIX 



Aspic Jelly. 

A good clear stock. Can color with carrot. 
One fowl, 
One shin of beef, 
One knuckle of veal, 
Four cloves. 
One bay leaf, 
Two onions, 
One carrot, 
One stick celery, 
One turnip, 

One-half package gelatine. 
One cup sherry. 

Cold water, simmer 5 hours, then add vegetables, bay 
leaf, fried in a little butter to color with onion. Cool, 
strain. Add gelatine soaked in cold water, 1 cup sherry, 
stir until gelatine is dissolved and set away until next day. 
2 quarts. If not stiff add more gelatine. Do not boil. 

Remove grease from top. Clarify with white and 
shell of 3 eggs. Strain. 

Can prepare aspic with vegetables and beef extract. 

.Aspic Croutons. 

Pour into shallow pans, 1^ in. deep, when set turn 
onto damp napkin. Dip knife into hot water, wipe, cut 
jelly into strips, then squares crosswise. 

To Mold. 

Have pan of cracked ice. Set mold into it till jelly 
hardens. 

To unmold, dip mold quickly into warm water, dry, 
place dish over top, turn over together. 



162 ASPIC JELLY. 

To CHop. 

Put jelly on cold plate. Chop with knife. Garnish 
to cover or around meats. Keep cold. 

To Ornament. 

On bottom of mold put a thin layer of jelly, and lay 
decoration carefully in place. With a spoon add only 
enough jelly to hold in place. Let set, then add another 
layer. If a bird, make a layer 1| in, thick, let set, then 
add more until covered. Daisy design, hard-boiled eggs, 
parsley. 

Russian .Salads. 

Meats or fruits moulded in jelly or jellies of different 
colors. Double mold, outside clear, inner different flavor 
or color, or whipped cream with macedoin of fruits. 



CANDY. , 163 



CHAPTER XXX. 



Candy. 



Marrons Glace. 

Remove shells from French chestnuts, cover with boil- 
ing water, stand a few minutes until skins can be removed, 
peel again in hot water, simmer until tender. Put 1 cup 
of sugar, 1 cup water in saucepan. Stir until dissolved. 
Add boiled chestnuts. Cook until clear, take out with fork 
or wire. Cook syrup to hard ball stage. Remove from 
fire, stand in pan of hot water. Flavor with lemon or va- 
nilla. Drop chestnuts in one at a time. Remove to an 
oiled slab or paper. (Dates stuffed with fondant dipped 
in and removed.) 

Slice bananas and cut once across. Drop in syrup. 
Remove to oiled slab. Divide oranges into sections. Skin 
must not be broken. Dry and dip into syrup at hard ball 
stage. 

Nuts dipped in syrup, dried on oiled slab. Glace cher- 
ries and grapes can be done in same way. Leave on stems. 

Sptin SvL^Ar. 

Boil sugar and water with a little cream tartar to the 
stage where the little threads fly off and crack. Have a 
couple of broom handles placed across chairs, paper under. 
Have saucepan in hot water. Take two forks in right 
hand, dip tines in syrup, shake back and forth with long 
sweeps across broom handles. Threads will form, gather 
up and wind into little nests. 



164 CANDY. 

FoKkdant Foundation of FrencH Candy. 

One cup granulated sugar, ^ cup water, 1 salt-spoon 
cream tartar, stir, then cook without stirring until it 
balls, which is 236° to 238° 

Have platter or marble slab slightly greased, flavor, 
pour out and cool until finger dents surface, then work 
with wooden spatula until it is a creamy white paste, 
which can be worked with hands like dough. If not 
right, can add 2 tablespoons water and cook a little. If it 
breaks, do same; it need not be wasted. Confectioners 
use 1 part glucose to 10 of sugar and boil to 240° 

Can test with skewer or cup ice water; at 215° small 
thread, 236° small ball, 246° large ball, 310° crack, 345° 
caramel. 

Fondant will keep for weeks. To soften, stand bowl 
in hot water; stir till soft. 

Remove stones from dates, replace by roll of fondant. 
Strips of figs placed on balls of fondant; make balls like 
marbles, flatten, place nut meat on each side. 

Open candied cherries, place ball inside. 

Make cone shaped candies, let harden, roll in melted 
chocolate, remove with fork, dry out on plate. • 

Can color, placing layer of one color on top of another. 

Caramels, Chocolate. 

In saucepan, ^ cup each molasses, white and brown 
sugar, a cup of grated chocolate. Heat, then add 1 cup 
scalded milk or cream. Stir constantly until it reaches 
hard ball stage. Add 1 teaspoon vanilla, turn on flat dish, 
oiled, 1 inch thick, mark into squares, cut before cold. 
Wrap in paraflBne paper. 

Ntit Creams. 

Mix chopped nuts or raisins into flavored fondant, 
spread into layers f inch thick, cut into squares. 



CANDY. 165 

Peppermint Creams. 

Set bowl in hot water. Make fondant, flavor and 
color, and, v/hen it clouds, drop from end of spoon in even 
amounts on oiled slabs. 

Cream Candy. 

Two cups sugar, ^ cup water, ^ cup vinegar, butter 
size small egg, 1 teaspoon flavoring. Boil together. When 
almost stiff pour in buttered pans and pull when cold. 

Molasses Taffy. 

One cup molasses, ^ cup sugar, butter size walnut, J 
cup vinegar, 1 teaspoon vanilla. Boil. Try in ice water 
until hard enough to pull. 

Mexican PinacHe. 

Two cups dark brown sugar, 1| cup pecan nuts, 1 cup 
milk, 1 butter ball (1 rounding teaspoon), pinch of salt. 
Boil milk and sugar together first, then add butter and salt. 
Boil until creamy, take off stove, beat until smooth, then 
put in pecans. 

CHocolate Fudges. 

Three cups sugar, 1 cup milk, | cake Baker's choco- 
late, 1 heaping tablespoon butter. Cook all together, then 

stir till stiff. 

Butter Scotch. 

Three tablespoons molasses, 2 tablespoons sugar, 1 
tablespoon butter, 2 tablespoons water, 1 teaspoon va- 
nilla. Add a pinch of soda before taking from stove. 
Good with chopped peanuts stirred through. 

MarsHmallows. 

Soak ^ cup gum arable in a cup of water until dis- 
solved, strain into double boiler with a cup of powdered 
sugar; stir until mixture becomes thick and white. When 
it will form a ball between finger and thumb, beat into 
it well-beaten whites of three eggs. Flavor with 2 tea- 



166 CANDY. 

spoons orange flower water. Turn into pan containing 
corn-starch. Make layer of paste 1 inch thick. After 
paste stands 12 hours turn out on a slab, cut into squares. 
Dust with confectioner's sugar or corn-starch; pack in 
box. If paste is cooked to much it will be stiff. 

stuffed Dates. 

Remove stones from dates, fill space with nut meats, 
close opening, roll in granulated sugar. 

Candied Fruits. 

Peaches, plums, apricots, cherries, or any fruits. 
Make thick syrup, 1 cup sugar, ^ cup water, boil fruit in 
it until tender, no longer. Let them remain in syrup 2 
days; take them out, drain, and sprinkle sugar over each 
piece separately. Dry them slowly in the sun, or gentle 
oven, or cook syrup to crack stage. Take each piece of 
fruit on skew^er or knitting needle, dip in syrup, drain on 
greased plate or string on thread; hang to dry in sun. 

Candied Orange or Letnon Peel. 

Put peel in salted water for 3 days, drain, boil until 
tender. Remove all white skin. Make sugar syrup, boil 
peel in it until transparent, then boil rapidly until syrup 
is thick and like candy, remove, pack away for use. 




UTENSILS. 

DOVEK AND DAISY EGG BEATEB, POTATO BALL, CUTTEE, PALETTE KNIFE, 
VEGETABLE KNIFE, WOODEN SPOONS, APPLE COVEB, INDIVIDUAL TIMBALE 
MOLDS, KAMAKIN CUPS, MEASUKING CUP, TIMBALE IBON. 




PATTIE shells; BREAD CASES OE BOXES; INDIVIDUAL TIMBALES OF 
MACARONI AND CHICKEN, GARNISHED WITH PAESLEY ; TIMBALE OF 
SPINACH WITH DAISIES MADE OF HAED- BOILED EGG. 




APPLE COMPOTE WITH JELLY AND WHIPPED CEEAM, GARNISHED 
WITH NASTUETIUM. 



ENTR:6eS. 167 



CHAPTER XXXI. 



E^ntrees. 

Dishes served between any of the regular courses. 
Croquettes, timbales, patties, any individual made dishes; 
special dishes. 

CHickerk L^ivers. 

Cut in two or more pieces, place in frying pan with a 
tablespoon butter, dredge with flour, add cup brown sauce, 
^ cup Maderia wine, salt and paprika. If sauce is not 
brown enough, add caramel. Serve in fontage cups. 

Oyster Crabs. 

Put into saucepan 2 tablespoons butter, ^ cup water, 
1 teaspoon lemon juice, salt and pepper. When liquor is 
warm put a few crabs in at a time, cook until white, keep 
hot until ail are heated. Put in bread cases or fontage 
cups, moistened with the liquor. 

Fried Fro^s L>e^s. 

Dip the skinned frogs legs in milk sprinkle with salt 
and pepper, roll in flour, fry until delicate brown. Place 
on napkin. Serve with mushroom sauce. 

Siveetbreads a la Potilette. 

After cooking, break in pieces; serve with peas and 
mushroom sauce. Serve in fontage cups. Garnish with 
mushrooms or truffles. 

Calf's brains served in same way. 



168 ENTR:feES. 

ScotcH Snipe. 

MES. W. H. DIOKSON. 

Cut 4 slices of bread, remove crusts, and butter them, 
mix ^ box of boneless sardines, a few drops onion juice 
and lemon, dash of salt, 1 tablespoon thick cream, spread 
on buttered bread; butter 4 more slices of bread and place 
on top sardines, put in pan, cover, brown in oven. 

Dressing for serving: Beat yolks 2 eggs, 6 table- 
spoons cream, 1 of melted butter, season and add chopped 
parsley. Pour over sandwiches; serve hot. 

Cntrees. 

Shredded wheat biscuit, split, remove center, spread 
lightly with anchovy paste, then a layer of cheese, or ham 
or tongue, chopped fine, seasoned well and moistened with 
stock or white sauce. Cover the top with well whipped 
white of egg, place raw yolk in center. Bake in oven over 
hot water until yolk is partly set. Garnish with parsley. 

Moldea Ham and E^^. 

Mince some boiled ham very fine, moisten with white 
sauce and raw egg to make a convenient paste. Line but- 
tered timbale molds with paste. Break an egg in center 
of each one and poach in oven ten minutes. Place a little 
white sauce in serving dish, turn the egg onto it, put a 
spoonful of sauce on top of each and run down the sides. 
Garnish. 

CHeese Canapes. 

Cut bread into slices ^ inch thick, with biscuit cutter 
cut into crescents or into strips 3 inches long. Saute in 
butter an amber color. Cover with a thick layer of grated 
cheese. Sprinkle with salt and j^aprika. Place in oven 
to soften cheese 15 minutes. Serve very hot. 

CKeese Mtiifs. 

3 level tablespoons butter, -| cup grated cheese, 4 well 
beaten eggs. Put cheese, butter, and a few bread crumbs 



ENTR:6eS. 169 

into a saucepan over fire, when they begin to melt add the 
eggs and seasoning. Stir and cook until the mixture can 
be pushed up into soft mujff-like form. Serve at once. 

Ivobster R.issoles. 

One large lobster boiled, 2 tablespoons butter, yolks 3 
eggs, ^ cup bread crumbs, 1 tablespoon anchovy sauce; pa- 
prika, salt and parsley. Rub to smooth paste, anchovy 
sauce and yolks well beaten. Shape, roll in crumbs, eggs 
and crumbs, fry light brown. 

For Sauce. 

Coral of lobster (part), 1 teaspoon anchovy sauce, 
4 tablespoons melted butter, 1 tablespoon cream. 

Have ready in saucepan 1 tablespoon melted butter, 
remainder of coral pounded fine, 1 tablespoon anchovy 
sauce, add cream, pour over rissoles. 

Garnish with parsley or cress. 

'M.&rrow Bones. 

Have bones three inches long, have very clean. Put 
a dough at each end to keep marrow, tie in cloth, boil 1 
hour. Place bone on slice of toast, sprinkle with salt and 
pepper, serve hot. 

Potato Roses. 

Mash potatoes very lightly, adding two yolks of eggs 
and white of one. Put in pastry bag— tube star shape, 
press through tube, as they come through, guide in circle 
until it comes to a point, brush with egg and butter. Put 
in oven to brown. Serve on same dish. 

Potato Balls. 

With potato scoop cut little balls from pared potatoes, 
drop in cold water. Boil or steam for ten minutes. Serve 
as garnish sprinkled with chopped parsley. Can brown in 
hot fat. 



170 entrI:es. 

FisH au Gratin. 

Around shell or flat dish with star pastry tube, make 
border of potato mashed as for potato roses. Flake fish. 
Put layer of bread crumbs then a layer of fish, crumbs 
over top, season. Pour white sauce over, sprinkle with 
crumbs and grated cheese. Bake until sauce bubbles up. 
Serve in same dish on plate. 

To Blanch Almonds. — Put into boiling water, stand 
a few minutes, drain and the skins will slip ofif. When 
dry, put in pan with a very little salad oil, stir and brown, 
then sift salt over, drain on paper. 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 171 



CHAPTER XXXII. 



Ctiafin^ DisH R,ecipes. 

The chafing dish, although a time-honored utensil, 
has had a renaissance. To-day it is not more valued for 
the convenience than for the fun of it. Amateurs and 
epicures alike find pleasure in brewing and stewing over 
the alcohol lamp in preparing a luncheon dish, a novelty 
for tea, but best of all at the midnight hour the chafing 
dish does its best but most disastrous work. 

The chafing dish with double pan for hot water, is 
preferable. The ones with single pan, called blazer. For 
safety the chafing dish should stand on large metal tray; 
the lamp should not be too full. Russian bowls desirable 
for holding food to be cooked, wooden spoons for stirring, 
small tray for holding condiments. Garnishing has no 
part. 

Toast and croutons can be prepared beforehand. Re- 
heated on asbestos. 

Dishes most suitable to prepare: Stews, eggs and 
cheese. Table can be arranged for display of fine silver 
and china. 

Prepared in Chafing Dish: Sweet breads with 
peas, oyster fritters, chocolate tea, salmi of game. 

Curry of SHrimps. 

Shrimps; \ cup vinegar, \ cup water, \ cup butter 
(melted), teaspoon curry. Heat shrimps in chafing 
dish and serve on fingers of toast with sauce. Garnish 
with lemon and parsley. 

A.i\cHovy and Bread. 

Thin slices of bread spread with anchovy paste is a 
jTood appetizer before luncheon. 



172 CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 

XKacKery's Botiillabisse. 

One-half cup oil or butter into chafing dish, 1 table- 
spoon chopped onion, 2 cloves, 6 pepper corns. Brown, 
then add 1 pound can salmon with its liquid. Now, add ] 
salt-spoon salt, piece of bay leaf, 1 tablespoon lemon juice 
and two or three slices, 1 pint tomato pulp, 1 salt-spoon 
curry powder, 1 glass sherry, and water to cover. Simmer 
20 minutes. Remove any seasoning in sight. Serve on 
toast. 

Fricassee of Oysters. 

Plump and ruffle 1 quart large oysters, drain. To the 
liquor add 2 tablespoons butter, 1 cup cream, 1 tablespoon 
tiour, a little mace, pepper, salt and lemon juice, cook 1 
minute. Place hot water pan under, stir in rapidly the 
yolks of 2 eggs, add the oysters, heat the fricassee, serve. 

Oyster Ne^vbtirg^. 

Yolks 2 hard boiled eggs reduced to paste. 

1 pint strained oysters plumped in their own liquor. 

1 cup milk or cream. 

1 level tablespoon flour. 

1 wine glass sherry. 

1 level teaspoon salt. 

1 salt-spoon pepper or paprika. 

1 level tablespoon butter. 

Breaded Veal. 

Slice from leg, cut thin, cut in pieces for each person. 
Sprinkle with salt and pepper. Dip in bread crumbs, 
egg and crumbs; fry until brown in hot fat. Season. 

Tomato Sauce. 

1 cup strained tomato seasoned with onion, clove, salt, 
paprika. 

1 level tablespoon butter. 
1 level tablespoon flour. 

Serve from chafing dish — sauce served around veaL 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 173 

Bai^az^a Compote. 

Served on fingers of toast or sponge cake. Make 
syrup of 4 cup sugar, ^ fcup water; stir and simmer. 

Slice bananas lengthwise, place in syrup, cook until 
transparent. Remove, place on toast, sprinkle lemon juice 
over. Let syrup cook until quite a thick syrup, pour over 
banana to glaze. Can serve with whipped cream. 

Steived CodfisK. 

A GOOD BEEAKFA8T OK LUNCHEON DISH. 

1 cup codfish soaked and picked up fine, free from 
bones; simmer in chafing dish till soft, drain off water. 
Make 1 cup white sauce, using 1 rounding tablespoon but- 
ter, 1 level tablespoon flour, 1 cup hot milk, salt and pep- 
per to taste. Just before serving, stir in 1 well beaten 
egg. Serve on toast. Use white pepper. 

Bread iSaute. 

8TJPPEB DISH. 

Thick slices bread cut round, 2 tablespoons butter, 4 
tablespoons minced ham, 2 tablespoons grated cheese, ^ 
cup cream. Put butter in chafing dish and when very 
hot, brown the bread on all sides; remove and put in 
the cheese, cream and ham. Season with salt and paprika. 
Mix all well together and when very hot spread on toast. 

FrencH E^^s. 

Two cups strained tomatoes, 1 teaspoon butter, ^ 
teaspoon salt, | teaspoon pepper, 1 salt-spoon paprika. 
Cook slowly for 10 minutes, then add very slowly 2 well 
beaten eggs. Stir until it is of the consistency of boiled 
custard. Serve on thin squares of toast. 

MtisHroox^s a la Creme. 

Two rounding tablespoons butter, 2 level tablespoons 
flour, 1 cup hot milk, or f milk, ^ white stock. Heat the 



174 CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 

milk. Put 1 tablespoon butter in chafing dish when it 
bubbles, do not brown it, add the dry flour, stir till well 
cooked then add the milk gradually. Season with ^ table- 
spoon salt, ^ salt-spoon paprika. Cook mushrooms in 1 
tablespoon butter, remove from chafing dish, add to white 
sauce. 

Sardines, a la Pietnontaise. 

Fry some bread in boilng lard or butter, cut into fin- 
gers; wipe and skin some sardines, heat in chafing dish, 
place one on each finger of toast, then make and pour over 
them the following sauce: Yolks of 4 eggs well whipped, 
2 tablespoons tarragon vinegar, 1 tablespoon common vin- 
egar, 1 salt-spoon made mustard, 1 salt-spoon salt, stir till 
thickens, not boil. Serve over sardines. 

Jelly Omelet. 

Four eggs, separate, beating each part very lightly; 
add 1 tablespoon sherry, 2 level tablespoons powdered sugar, 
1 tablespoon jelly, cut fine, 1 salt-spoon salt. Fold white 
and yolk carefully together with wooden spoon. 1 round- 
ing tablespoon butter in chafing dish; when hot, add egg, 
cook till stiffened, fold and turn out on platter, serve. 

Clatn Bisctue. 

Drain 25 clams, pouring over them 1 cup cold water. 
Put the liquor over the fire, let it boil and skim. Chop 
clams very fine. Add to them the liquor, let boil again 
and skim. Make white sauce of 1 rounding tablespoon 
butter, 2 rounding tablespoons flour and 1 cup clam juice, 
I cup bread crumbs. Stir with clams till smooth, press 
through sieve, add 1 pint hot cream and serve. 

Can use clam bouillon instead of fresh clams. Season 
with salt and paprika. 

.Sr^veetbreads and Mtishrooms. 

One good-sized sweetbread, 1 can mushroom Stand 
sweetbreads in water for an hour, parboil, then place in 



CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 175 

cold water with vinegar or lemon juice to blanch; remove 
membrane and rough edges, keep on ice in water till 
needed. Add 2 tablespoons butter to chafing dish when it 
is hot, split sweetbreads in two, put into melted butter and 
turn often. Add mushrooms, fry a little, then add 1 pint 
scalded cream, 1 teaspoon salt, little pepper or paprika. 
Dissolve 1 level tablespoon flour in little cold milk, add, 
stir until smooth. Serve from chafing dish. 

Pineapple Canapes. 

Split some sponge cakes, brown a little in butter in 
chafing dish. Lay each one on plate and spread with a 
layer of shredded pineapple. Turn the juice from can into 
the chafing dish. For a cup full, moisten 1 teaspoon of 
arrowroot and stir slowly into the hot juice until it be- 
comes thickened and clear, 1 teaspoon lemon juice. Pour 
over pineapple and serve. Any kind of fruit can be used, 
berries and peaches. Can serve with whipped cream 
around. 

Xomato Bisqtie 

One pint hot milk. 

One round tablespoon butter. 

One level tablespoon flour. 

One tablespoon salt. 

One salt-spoon pepper. 

One-half can tomato, strained. 

One large salt-spoon soda added to tomato before 
turning into milk. 

Lrobster Ne^vbtirg'. 

Yolks 2 hard-boiled eggs, mashed and mixed with 1 

cup cream. 
One can lobster. 
One tablespoon butter. 
One wine glass sherry. 

Season with salt and paprika. Can thicken with 1 
tablespoon flour. Serve on fingers of toast. 



176 CHAFING DISH RECIPES. 

'WelsH R.arebit or R.abbit. 

One tablespoon butter in chafing dish (over fire). 
One teaspoon mustard, | level teaspoon salt, 1 salt- 
spoon paprika (mix with little milk). 

As soon as butter melts, add ^ pound soft cheese, 
grated. Stir with two wooden spoons until melted, then 
pour in condiments and add gradually ^ cup milk (warm), 
stir diligently until soft, add 2 eggs lightly beaten, (then 
use hot water pan) stir and add ^ salt-spoon soda. 

Serve on warm salted crackers, hot plates. Can use 
beer or ale instead of milk. 

iVfter-Dinner BlacK Coifee. 

One salt-spoon salt. 

One tablespoon egg, white and shell crushed. 
Four round tablespoons finely ground coffee. 
One pint boiling water, freshly drawn. 

Mix with ^ cup cold water place in pot, scald, add 
boiling water, boil 10 minutes. Settle with 2 tablespoons 
cold water. Serve very hot. 

CKeese Fon<lu«>10tH Century. 

Six eggs, ^ pound New York cheese, 2 tablespoons 
butter, 1 teaspoon salt, salt-spoon paprika. 

In chafing dish put butter. Add cheese— grated — stir 
until melted. Put over hot water pan. Add condiments 
and eggs. Stir rapidly until all consistency of cream. 
Serve on toast or warm crackers. 

iSalmi of DticK. 

Two cups cold duck meat. | teaspoon salt. 

One pint stock. Salt-spoon paprika. 

One cup mushrooms (fried in butter). Tablespoon butter, 
A few olives (cut). Tablespoon flour. 

Glass wine. 

Make sauce with butter, flour, stock. Add chopped 
giblets. Season. Add duck, simmer. Just before serv- 
ing, add wine. Serve with sliced oranges or currant jelly. 



FOOD I» SICKNESS. 177 



CHAPTEE XXXIII. 



Food in SicKness. 

Ill many cases of sudden illness or indigestion, a fast 
for twenty-four hours often proves more beneficial than 
medicine. Nature's cure. 

After protracted illness, and the system demands im- 
mediate nourishment, a liquid diet is best; — milk, warm, 
taken slowly, or light broths. Eggnog or oatmeal gruel, 
good; beef juice, cocoa. 

When solid food is allowed — eggs, oysters, sweet- 
breads, toast, stewed fruits, junket. Soups with milk or 
cream are better for invalids than stock soups. 

Dyspeptics should avoid what they cannot digest. 

The corpulent should not eat starchy food, such as 
fine flour, rice, potatoes, beans, sweets, fats. Lean beef 
good. Not too much water. 

Thin people shonld eat starchy foods, butter, bacon. 
Drink water and milk. 

Rheumatic and gouty — keep system well nourished. 
Lean beef, whole wheat bread, shredded wheat biscuit, 
fish, lettuce. Avoid stimulants, too much water. 

(3onstipation is cured by exercise. Coarse bread, veg- 
etables, fruits. Avoid hot bread, cheese, tea. 

Consumptives — whole wheat bread, fruits, vegetables, 
milk, salads and stimulants. 

Much depends upon the cooking. What the skilled 
physician does after we are sick the skilled cook does be- 
fore, and must so prepare food that it can be reduced to a 
fluid state, and thus repair worn-out tissue of the body. 
Vanilla should not be used for flavoring for the sick. 



178 FOOD IN SICKNESS. 

Rice "Waiter. 

Two tablespoons rice. Salt and sugar to taste. 
One quart cold water. 

Wash rice. Cook in water with stick cinnamon until 

rice is dissolved. Add teaspoon lemon, sugar and salt to 

taste. Serve hot or cold. 

Barley Sotii*. 

One pound neck of mutton, cut fine. Add a pint of 
cold water and salt-sj)oon salt. Stand for an hour, then 
simmer for two hours. Strain. Remove any fat. Add ^ 
cup cold water, 1 tablespoon barley, well washed. Simmer 
until tender. Can add slice of onion with barley. Season 
to taste. Serve with triscuit. 

ChicKen Jelly. 

Clean, disjoint, and cut into inch pieces. Pound 
bones, scald, remove skin and nails from feet. Cover with 
cold water, simmer till tender, season, strain, add lemon 
juice, put into molds with small pieces of meat added. 

Add more water to bones with a little stock, slice of 
onion, celery salt and celery. Simmer, strain, add tea- 
spoon of rice. Cook until tender. Serve. 

Toast "Water. 

Toast bread quite brown, pour over it a glass of boil- 
ing water. Stand until cold, strain and serve. 

Beef E^ssence. 

Tail end of porter-house steak, or round, one inch 
thick, on wire broiler; broil until juice is started, season 
with salt and pepper, cut into pieces and press juice out 
with meat" press or potato ricer. Serve warm. Meat left 
will do for soup kettle. 

Beef Extract. 

One pound of round steak chopped, add cup cold 
water, ^ teaspoon salt. Put in glass jar, cover, stand an 



FOOD IN SICKNESS. 179 

hour. Put iu kettle of cold water, heat gradually over 
simmerer; simmer until meat is white. Press juice from 
meat; remove meat, season. Serve when needed, warm 
or cold. 

Custards, properly cooked, good for invalids, and 
poached eggs on toast, raw beef toast, stewed fruits. 

A.rro'wrroot Blancmange. 

Two tablespoons arrowroot, 1^ cups milk, ^ cujd sugar, 
tablespoon lemon juice, dash mace. Mix arrowroot with 
a little cold milk. Put rest of milk in double boiler, add 
sugar; when heated, add arrowroot. Stir until thickened, 
flavor. Turn into mold, previously wet with water. 

To Keep Ice for a iSicK R-oom. 

Tie a square of coarse white flannel over a wide- 
mouthed pitcher, leaving a cup-shaped depression in the 
flannel. Put broken ice in the flannel and cover tight 
with thick flannel. It will keep all night. 

To CooK Prunes. 

Wash very carefully. Stand in water for 3 hours, 
then simmer until plump and tender. Will require no 
sugar.j 

Koumiss is of service in acute gastric trouble. It is 
fermented milk. 

Strong bottles are needed. Soak corks in water to 
put in bottles more easily. Tie down corks. Absolute 
cleanliness is necessary. Brewers' yeast is best, but com- 
pressed can be used— 1 cake for 5 quarts milk. A cham- 
pagne tap necessary for drawing. 

Mix 5 quarts sweet milk with a cake of yeast soaked 
in milk, or 5 tablespoons brewers' yeast, 5 teaspoons 
honey. Stir very thoroughly together. Bottle f full. 
Cork. Tie down cork. Shake very thoroughly. Stand 
in cool place 2| days^turn on side. Ready for use. 



180 FOOD IN SICKNESS. 

Mulled "Wins. 

Boil some spice, cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon in a 
little water just to flavor wine. Add a wine glass of sherry 
or other wine and sweeten to taste. Bring to boiling 
point. Serve with sippets of toast. Some heat by putting 
clean, red-hot poker in wine. 



FRUIT JUICES. 181 



CHAPTER XXXIV. 



Frtiit Juices. 

Orange, strawberry, currant, or of any fruit juice make 
a delicious, fresh course for luncheon in summer time or 
fruit season. It is served in small glasses with a spoon. 
One quart juice; filter to make clear. Put in double 
boiler. As soon as it steams, stir in 3 teaspoons of arrow- 
root moistened in a little cold water. Cook until clear, 
then add ^ cup sugar, or more if acid fruit. As soon as 
sugar is dissolved, turn into bowl to cool. To serve, put 
piece of ice in each glass. 

Frtxit SyvvLs^s. 

Cook 1 quart fruit, 1 pint water. When soft, squeeze 
out juice through heavy cloth. When cold, sweeten to 
taste. Dilute with water. Serve in glasses filled with 
cracked ice. 

Grape Juice. 

Add 1 quart water to 3 quarts grapes, free from stems. 
Let them come slowly to the boiling point, then strain 
through thick cloth. Return liquid to fire, let it come to 
boiling point, put into bottles and seal immediately. 
Porcelain kettle, wooden spoon. 

R.aspberry Vinegar. 

Three quarts ripe raspberries into earthen bowl, 1 
quart vinegar. After 24 hours, strain out the liquor, turn it 
over another 3 quarts berries, let stand 24 hours, press and 
strain juice, and to each pint add 1 pound sugar. Boil 20 
minutes. Turn into bottles; when cold, cork. When 
used, dilute with three parts water. 



182 FRUIT JUICES. 

BlacKberry Braiidy. 

Two quarts blackberries, 2 pounds sugar, | ounce 
each of cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, | ounce cloves. Boil 
2 hours. Add, while hot, 1 pint best pure French brandy. 
Bottle it. 

Currant 'Wine. 

Two quarts currant juice, 1 quart water, 3| pounds 
sugar. Let it stand in open jar until it stops fermenting, 
then draw it off carefully, bottle and cork securely. 

Mis^t Jtxlip. 

Bruise tender leaves of mint with tablespoon sugar 
or syrup. Fill glass | full of shaven or cracked ice, stir. 
Insert some sprigs of mint, stems downward, pour over a 
tablespoon of rum, brandy or whiskey. Stir and drink 
through a straw. 

Tea Pti.nclii--For T^vei»ty-Five Persons. 

One quart of tea made of Ceylon tea, L tablespoon full 
tea, strain; to it add syrup made of 2 cups sugar, 1 cup 
water, juice and zest 6 lemons, 6 oranges, 1 can shredded 
pineapple, 1 quart Maraschino cherries, 1 pint of grape 
juice with some grapes skinned. Can use strawberries 
fresh, cut or canned. 

In punch bowl place a 5-pound square of ice. Mix all 
ingredients together. Taste to see if sweet enough. Pour 
over ice. Place on ice large bunch each of white and pur- 
ple grapes. Just before serving, add two bottles of Mani- 
tou soda water. Serve in cups. 

In preparing punches with liquor, celery and cucum- 
bers are used as a special flavor, the foundation is a strong 
lemonade to which can be added as much or little wine as 
desired. 

Roman. PuncK. 

A lemon ice, over which is poured a tablespoon of 
rum, sweetened with sugar syrup, to each glass. 



FRUIT JUICES. 183 

Cream Nectar. 

H. B. P. 

Two ounces tartaric acid, 2 quarts water, 1 pound 
sugar. Place over fire and bring to a boiling heat, flavor. 
When nearly cool, add beaten whites 3 eggs. Bottle, and 
when used, add a pinch of soda to each glass. 

Grape Cordial. 

S. D. 

Ten pounds Concord grapes 1 gallon pure spirits. 
Remove stems, pour liquor over grapes. Let stand 6 
weeks. Boil 4 pounds sugar in 1^ quarts water 5 minutes. 
Strain liquor, add syrup and bottle. 

Lemoxkade 

For 1 quart ice water — f cup sugar, 3 lemons. It is 
better to make a syrup with sugar and 1 cup of water, 
boiled 5 minutes. Cool. Can make and keep on hand. 

Grate zest or rub outside of lemon with lumps of loaf 
sugar. Squeeze juice from lemons; add to water to which 
sugar or syrup is added. Taste. Can serve slice of lemon 
to each glass. 

iSHerry Cobbler. 

Put wine glass of sherry into a glass; sweeten to taste; 
fill glass with shaved ice; place shaker over glass and 
shake well. 

Fruit Cobbler. 

Put three tablespoons of fruit juice into a tumbler; 
sweeten; fill glass with shaved ice; place shaker over 
glass; shake well. 

E^^nog*. 

Beat 1 egg very light with tablespoon sugar. Turn 
into a glass with as much cold or hot milk as it will hold. 
Shake very thoroughly. Grate nutmeg over and drink. 
Can use whipped cream instead of milk and add a teaspoon 
of rum or brandy. Good for invalids; very nourishing. 

MilK SHaKe. 

Two-thirds glass milk or cream. Add 2 tablespoons 
of fruit juice, and sweeten. Fill up with cracked ice. 
Shake very thoroughly. 



184 



INEXPENSIVE MENUS. 



CHAPTER XXXV. 
Inexpensive Mentis. 

"A good digestion to you all." 



Breakfast No. 1. 
Baked apples, cream. 
Poached eggs on toast. 
Lamb chops, creamed pota- 
toes. 
Muffins. 
Coffee. 



Breakfast No. 2. 
Cantaloupe. 
Oat meal, cream. 
Breaded veal, tomato sauce. 
French fried potatoes. 
Buttered toast. 
Coffee. 



Breakfast No. 3. 



Oranges, sliced. 
Creamed codfish 
ded biscuit. 
Baked potatoes. 
Soft boiled eggs. 
Hot biscuit. 
Coffee. 



on shred- 



Breakfast No. 4, 
Formal. 
Grape fruit. 
Clam bouillon. 
Broiled fresh mackerel. 
Shoofly potatoes. 
Chicken timbales, cucumbers. 
Breakfast rolls. 
Piaspberry sherbet, cake. 
Coffee. 



Luncheon No. 1, 
Green and white. 
Cream of celery soup, bread 

sticks. 
Fish pudding, white sauce. 
Mashed potatoes, chopped 

parsley. 
Chops, mint sauce. 
Peas. 

Lettuce and cucumber salad. 
Pastachio ice cream, angel 

food. 
Coffee. 



Luncheon No. 2. 
Pink. 

Tomato bisque. 
Creamed salmon in crusts. 
Potato balls. 
Tenderloin steak, beets. 
Currant sherbet. 
Cherry pudding, hard sauce. 
Bed and white mints. 
Chocolate. 



INEXPENSIVE MENUS. 



185 



Luncheon No. 3. 

Yellow. 

Orang:es and peaches served 

ill orauge basket. 
Fish au Lira tin. 
Sandwiches rolled, tied with 

yellow ribbon. 
Boned chicken in jelly. 
Cauliflower, HoUandaise. 
Egg salad, mayonnaise. 
Cheese soufile. 
Lemon ice, pound cake. 
Yellow mints, salted nuts. 
Coffee. 



Luncheon No. 4. 
Oysters on half shell. 
Bouillon, egg balls. 
Oyster crabs in foutage cups. 
Quail on toast, bread sauce. 
Asparagus tips on toast. 
Rice ice cream. 
Small cakes. 
Pitted cherries with nuts and 

syrup, chilled. 
Chocolate. 



MRS. R. A. CULTER. 

1. Fruit. White grapes, bananas and pinea^jple. 

Served in little baskets made of oranges. 

2. Minced clam bouillon. 

3. Tim bale cases, filled with sweetbreads and 

mushrooms. 

4. Sherbert. 

5. Quail, asparagus tips, lettuce salad, biscuits. 

6. Frozen eggnog, served in champagne glasses. 



Dinner No. L 

Oyster cocktail. 

Mutton broth with rice. 

Roast beef, sweet potatoes, 
turnips. 

Lettuce salad, French dress- 
ing. 

Sponge pudding, creamy 
sauce. 

Black coffee, Manitou water. 



Dinner No. 2. 

Fruit in cubes, chilled. 

Clam broth. 

Planked shad. 

Maitre d' hotel butter, po- 
tatoes. 

Salmi of duck, chafing dish. 

Orange and celery salad. 

Chocolate parfait. 

Coffee, ginger Manitou 
champagne. 



186 inexpensive menus. 

Dinner No 3. Dinner No. 4. 

Consomme, crackers. Bouillon. 

Boiled cod, egs^ sauce, Creamed lobster in crusts. 

potatoes. Boast turkey, cranberry sauoe. 

Lamb and peas. Celery, radishes. 

Asparas^us tips, Hollandaise. Tomato jelly, lettuce, mayon- 
Cheese souffle. naise. 

Watermelon, cut up, shaved. Raspberry sherbet. 

ice and sugar. Plum pudding, brandy sauce. 

Mints, olives, radishes. Nuts, candies, raisins. 

CofiPee. Coffee, claret. 



A small dinner cooked to a nicety, served with grace, 
congenial company is most charming. 

In preparing for evening company allow three sand- 
wiches to each guest. 

A pound of ground coffee with white of one egg will 
make five quarts of coffee. Serve 30 people. 

One quart of chicken salad will serve six to eight per- 
sons. 

One quart of ice cream will serve six to eight persons. 

One cup grated chocolate and same amount of sugar 
will make 2 quarts of chocolate; serve twelve persons; | 
pint of whipping cream. 



IMPORTANT HINTS. 187 



CHAPTER XXXVI. 



Important Hints. 

To sift flour and sugar before measariiig. 

When mixing cornstarch, or flour with a liquid, first 
mix it with a little cold liquid and pour slowly into mix- 
ture, stirring all the time. 

When molasses is used part of soda must be added to 
molasses, owing to acid. 

Porto Rico molasses better for ginger bread. 

Milk should never boil. 

A pinch of salt to whites of eggs makes them beat 
well. 

To extract onion juice, press hard on grater, moving 
a little, juice will drop. 

Soak salt fish with skin-side d-owti. i^ 

To have oven ready, when cake is ready to bake. 

If oven is too hot leave oven door open a little while; 
close oven door lightly. 

A little lemon improves warmed-over dishes. 

Many things are spoiled by too much heat. 

Clean up as you go along. 

Many cheap meats more nutritious. 

To understand anatomy of animals and fowl. 

After bruising, heating and straining spinach, part 
left on strainer is the coloring. 

If a cloth wet with vinegar is wrapped around cheese, 
then the whole put in paper bag in cool place, it will not 
mold. 



188 IMPORTANT HINTS. 

Put glasses in hot water, not pour hot water over. 

In preparing beefsteak, have dinner ready, put on 
steak to broil just before announcing dinner. Give atten- 
tion to steak, turning often. After seasoning stand in 
oven for a moment, then put coffee on to scald (two things 
spoiled by too much cooking). 

If fruit stains occur on linen, hold over a bowl, ponr 
kettle of boiling water slowly over. 

Iron rust removed by salt and lemon. Expose to the 
sun's rays. 

Mildew with soap and powdered chalk. 

It is more important to masticate bread well than meat. 

Eakache. — Wet a piece of cotton with chloroform, 
put it into a common clay pipe, stem in ear, blow gently 
in bowl. 

To peel onions without weeping, put small piece of 
potato on end of knife. 

To Make Colors Fast. — 2 tablespoons salt in gallon 
of water. Soak garment in it 20 minutes. Wash in bran 
water for stiffening. 

Mustard Paste. — Mix mustard with white of an egg. 

To Shred Celery. — Put large needles in a cork, 
comb sticks of celery, put in cold water to curl and crisp. 

Ruffles for Chops. — Paper color of table decora- 
tion. Cut paper 2 inches wide, 6 inches long; double and 
crease along center, clip like fringe in fold ^ inch deep, 
raise one edge about ^ inch, paste down, then, on small 
pencil or skewer, wind it around like screw, paste end, put 
on end of bone just before serving. 

Fringed Paper to Set Loaf Cake On. — Cut white 
paper 2 inches wider than size of cake, fringe edge 1| 
inches deep, then draw across edge of knife or scissors to 
curl all around. 



IMPORTANT HINTS. 189 

A Course of Ter» I^essons IVHicK Every Girl 
12 Years of Age SKould Understand. 



Lesson i. Boiling of water. The right way 
to prepare and serve tea, coffee and chocolate. 
Table-setting and serving. 

Lesson 2. Food value of different cereals, 
time for cooking. Rice pudding. 

Lesson 3. Making bread and rolls. 

Lesson 4. Making stock and cream soups 
and things to serve with soups. 

Lesson 5. Different ways of cooking meats, 
nutritive value. Broiling steaks. 

Lesson 6. Cooking eggs in different ways. 

Lesson 7. Cooking potatoes and vegetables. 
Corn-starch pudding. 

Lesson 8. Pastry. Utilizing left-overs. 

Lesson q. Cake-making. 

Lesson 10. Salads. 



190 



GE^NBRAL IND£:X. 



THE HOME 9. 

Establishing 9. 

Furnishing 10. 

Selection of Range 10. 

Cooking Utensils 11. 

Table Setting and Serving 12, 

Waitress 13. 

Dinner Giving 14. 

Order of Menu 15. 

Dinner a la Rasse 15. 

Flame 16. 

Fuel 16. 

Making a Fire 16. 

Cooking Meats 17. 

Some Ways to Serve 17. 
COOKING 17. 

Soda Baking Powder 18. 

Flour 19. 

Test 19. 

Measurements 19. 

Chapter I. 

THIN BATTERS 20. 

Instruction 20. 

Griddle Cakes 20. 

Rice Cakes 20. 

French Pancakes 20. 

Apple Pancakes 21. 

Pop Overs 21. 

Whole Wheat Cakes 21. 

Waffles 21. 

Rye and Indian Cakes 2S. 
STIFFER BATTERS 22. 

Muffins 22. 

Whole Wheat flour gems 22. 

Sponge Corn Cakes 23. 

Green Corn Fritters 23. 

Dutch Apple Cake 23. 
SOFT DOUGHS 23. 

Baking Powder Biscuit 23. 

Oven Test 24. 

Scotch Short Cake 24. 

Bannocks 24. 

Strawberry Short Cake 214. 

Filling 25. 

Beaten Biscuit 25. 

Whole Wheat Crisps 25. 

Graham Biscuit 26. 

Corn Bread 26. 

Chapter II. 

BREAD MAKING 26. 
Instruction 26. 
Potato Yeast 27. 
Salt Rising Bread 27. 
Milk Bread 28. 
Whole Wheat 29. 
Brown Bread 30. 
Graham 30. 
Rye 30. 



Gluten 30. 
Brioche 30. 
Crown or Ring 31. 
Buns 31. 

Cabinet Pudding 31. 
ROLLS 31. 

Parker House 32. 

Cleft 32. 

Crescents 32. 

Sweedish 33. 

Bread Sticks 33. 

English Mviffinsand Crumpets 33. 

Coffee Cake 33. 

Chapter III. 

SOUPS 34. 

Instruction 34. 

Spices, Herbs, Vegetables 35. 

Glaze 35. 

Tomato 36. 

Julienne 36. 

To use with Soup 36. 

Fruit 37. 

To Jelly Consomme 37. 

(^urry 38. 

Chicken Jumbo 38. 

Split pea or bean 38. 

To Serve in Soup 39. 

Force Meat Balls 39. 

Cheese Timbers 39. 

Parsley 39. 

Egg balls 39. 

Noodles 39. 

Marrow balls 40 

Sweet Potato balls 40. 

Bouillon 40. 

Color 40. 

{Clarify 40. 

Consomme 41. 

To serve with 41. 
CREAM SOUPS without stock 41< 

Foundation 41. 

Potato 41. 

Tomato Bisque 41. 

Green Corn 41. 

Other Soups 42. 

Oyster Soup and Stew 42. 

Purees 4i. 

Fish Chowder 42. 

Clam Chowder 43. 

Extract Clam from Shell 43. 

Chapter IV. 

CEREALS 44. 

Composition 44. 

Instruction 44. 

Chemical Combination of Oat 

Meal 44. 
Time and Proportion of water 45, 
Hominy 45. 
Scotch Oat Meal 45. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



19r 



Rolled Oats 45. 

Yellow Corn Meal 45. 

Ralston 45. 

Rice 45. 

Fried Mush 45. 

Macaroni aud Cheese 45. 

Shaghetti and Hominy 45. 

Rice to boil 46. 

Steam 46. 

Bake 46. 

Stufiang 46. 



Chapter V. 



VEGETABLES 47. 
Division 47. 
Composition 47. 
Care 47. 
Potatoes 47. 
Boiled 47. 
Mashed 48. 
Baked 48. 
Staffed 48. 
Creamed 48. 
Shoofly 48. 
Saratoga 49. 
Riced 49. 

Sweet Potatoes 49. 
Potato Halls 49. 
Onions 49. 
Cauliflower 50. 
Turnips and Carrots 50. 
Baked Apples and Grape Nuts 52. 
Asparagus 5a. 
Asparagus Tips 52. 
Cabbage 52. 
Brussels Sprouts 52. 
Hot Slaw 52. 
Cold Slaw 53. 
Stuifed Peppers 53. 
Peas 53. 
Celery 53. 

Artichoke Bottoms 53. 
Sweet corn 54. 
Spinach 54. 
Parsnips 54. 

Chapter VI. 

MEAT 55. 

Composition 55. 

Cooking 55, 

Beef 55. 

Parts 56. 

Rib Boast and Gravy -56. 

Yorkshire Pudding 56. 

Braised 57. 

Meat Pie 57. 

Corned Beef Hash 57. 

Fillet of Beef 58. 

Broiled Steak, Vegetables to 
serve 58. 

Beef Steak and Onions 58. 

Hough Jelly 59. 

Cold Roast 59. 
MUTTON AND LAMB 59. 

Parts 59. 

Fat, Vegetables to serve 59. 

Sauces to serve with 59. 

Roast 66. 

Boiied -60. 

<";hops 60, 

Broiled 60. 

Stew 61. 



Dumpling 61. 
VEAL 61. 

Food value, parts 61. 

Fricandeau 62. 

Breaded 62. 

Loaf 62. 

Liver 62. 

Sweetbreads 62. 

To prepare 63. 

Cook 63. 

Loaf 63. 

Brains 63. 
PORK 63. 

Parts, Vegetables to serve .63 

To Cook 63. 

Tenderloin 63. 

Bacon 64. 

To Fry Ham 64. 

Boiled Ham 64. 

Sausage 64. 

Crumpy Pork 64. 

Pork and Beans 64. 

Boston Brown Bread 65. 

Indian Meal Pudding 65. 

Chapter VII. 

SAUCES 66. 

Value and Composition 66. 
White 66. 
Bechamel 66. 
Egg 67. 
Tomato 67. 
Allemande 69. 
Caper 67. 
Mushroom 67. 
Mint 67. 
Jelly 68. 
Horseradish 68. 
Hollandaise 68. 
Bread 68. 
Cranberry 68. 
Apple 68. 
Sauce Tartare 69. 
Sour Sweet 69. 
PUDDING SAUCE 69. 
Plain 69. 
Foamy 69. 
Creamy 70. 
Brandy 70. 
Fruit 70. 
Chocolate 70. 
■Cold Jelly 70. 
Hard 70. 
Strawberry 70. 

Chapter VIIL 

OYSTERS 71. 

Best, Food value 71. 
Half Shell 75. 
Cocktail 71. 
Washing 71. 
Panned 71. 
Scolloped 71. 
Fried 72. 
Broiled 72. 
Huitre an Lit 72. 

Chapter IX. 

FISH 73. 

Test for freshness 75. 



192 



GENERAL INDEX. 



Preparation 73. 
Broil 73. 

Planiiecl under Gas 73. 
Maitre de Hotel Sauce 74. 
Baked Fish 74. 
To place iu pan 74. 
Boil 74. 
Small Fish 74. 
Fish Roes, Fry 75. 
Scolloped 75. 
Salt Fish 75. 
Codiish 75. 
Fish Hash 75. 
Fish Pudding 75. 
Salmon 76. 
Spiced left over 76. 
SHELL FISH 76. 
Clam 76. 
Creamed 76. 
Fritters 76. 
Broth 76. 
Crabs 76. 
Deviled 77. 
Soft Shell 77. 
Lobster 77. 
Age, to prepare 77. 
Boil 77. 
Broil 78. 
Newburg 78. 

Chapter X. 

POULTRY AND GAME 79. 
Food value 79. 
How to prepare Chicken 79. 
Fry SO. 

Fricassee (or stew) 80. 
Saute 80. 
Casserole 81. 
Roast 81. 
Stuffing 81. 
To truss 82. 
Carve 82. 
Left over 82. 
Turkey 82. 
Roast 82. 
Boil 82. 
Broil 82. 
Goose 83. 

To prepare, Vegetables to serve 83. 
Roast 83. 
Ducks 83. 

To cook. Vegetables to serve 83. 
Rabbits 83. 
Veuison 83. 

Bone turkey, or chicken 83. 
Gelatine in jelly 84. 
Stuffed vegetables 84. 
To serve 84. 

Chapter XI. 
EGGS 85. 

Food value 85. 
Composition 85. 
Preservation 85. 
To boil 85. 
Poach 86. 
Scramble 86. 
Omelet 86. 
Souffle 86. 
Jelly 87. 

Nests on toast 87. 
Ham and Eggs 87. 



Baked 87. 

Eggs en Surprise 87. 

Stuffed 87. 

Salad 87. 

Egg and Tomato 88. 

Toast 88. 

Chapter XII. 

BEVERAGES 89. 

TEA, COFFEE, COCOA, CHOCO- 
LATE 89. 
Preparation, Food value 89. 
Green and Black 89. 
To make Tea 89. 
Coffee 89. 
Berry 89. 
Preparation 89. 
Methods of making 89. 
Fi]teration 90 
Distilling 90. 
Decoction 90. 
Cocoa 91. 
Chocolate 91. 

Chapter XIII. 

COOKIES 92. 
Plain 92. 
Jumbles 93. 
Soft Molasses 93. 
Ginger Snaps 93. 
Ginger Bread 94. 
Fairy Ginger Bread 94. 
Doughnuts 94. 
Doughnuts raised 94. 

Chapter XIV. 

TO TRY OUT SHORTENING 96. 
Temperature of different fats for 

frying 96. 
Suet and Lard 96. 
Uses for different fats 96. 

Chapter XV. 

PASTRY AND PIE 98. 
Pie crust 98 
Puff' paste 99. 
Cheese Straws 100. 
Apple pie 100. 
Rhubarb 101. 
Cherry 101. 

Squash and Pumpkin 101. 
Lemon 101. 
Custard 102. 
Dish 102. 
Min»e 102. 
Cream 103. 
Banbury Tarts 103. 

Chapter XVI. 

CUSTARDS 104. 

Baked 104. 

Boiled H)4. 

Chocolate 105. 

Caramel 105. 

Junket 105. 
SOUFFLES 106. 

Vanilla 106. 

Prune 106. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



193 



Spinach 107. 
( 'heese 107. 
Apple 107. 



Chapter XVII. 

FRITTERS 108. 
Batter 108- 
Clam 108. 
Apple 108. 
Eg? plant 109. 
Vanities 109. 
Creme Frite 109. 
Balloons 109. 

Chapter XVIII. 

TIMBALES 110. 
Instruction 110, 
Fontage Cups 110. 
Filling 110. 
Fruit Timbales 111. 
Honey Comb 111. 
Filling 111. 
To make Panada 111. 
Quenelle 111. 

Chapter XIX 

CROQUETTES 112. 

Preparation, Composition 112. 

Cliicken 112. 

Lobster 113. 

Chops 113. 

Boudin Rouinnaise 113. 

Rice or Farina 113. 
SHELLS OF BREAD for Salpicon 
113. 

Canapes 114. 

Ancliovy 114. 

C'aviar 114. 
CREAM PUFFS 114. 

Filling 115. 

E'clairs 115. 

Chapter XX. 

.JELLIES WITH GEL.\TINE 116. 
Composition 116. 
Lemon 116. 
Orange 116. 
To mold fruit 116. 
Orange baskets 117. 
Wine 117. 
Coffee 117. 
Snow pudding 117. 
Russian 117. 
Spanish Cream 118. 
Charlotte Russe 118. 
Prune Jelly 119. 

Chapter XXI. 

PUDDINGS 120. 

Steamed 120. 

Suet 120. 

Steamed .\pple 121. 

Shredded Wheat 121. 

English Plum 121. 

Cherry 122. 

Queen of Pudding 122, 

George's delight 123. 



Marlborugh Pie 122. 

Strawberry Pudding 123. 

Brown Betty 123. 

Apple Dumplings baked 124. 

Corn Si arch 124. 

Compote of Apple with Rice 125. 

Lemon Toast 125. 

To use Stale Cake 125. 

Sponge Pudding 125. 

Bread 126. 

Tapioca 126. 

Cottage 126. 

Chapter XXII. 

(WKE WITHOUT BUTTER 127. 

Instruction divisions 127. 

Rules for making and baking 127. 

Sponge 128. 

Angel Food 129. 

Sunshine 129. 

Lady fingers 129. 

Macaroons 130. 

Cocoanut Balls 130. 

Fruit in Cake 130. 
CAKE WITH BUTTER 130. 

Cup 130. 

Chocolate Icing 131. 

Plain Icing 131. 

Royal Fancy Decorating 131. 

Fig filling 131. 

Lemon filling 132. 

( )range filling 132. 

Caramel Cake 132 

Chocolate Nougat 132. 

Boiled Icing 132. 

Marsh Mallow filling 133. 

One Egg Cake 133. 

Eggless Cake 133. 

Chocolate 134. 

Excellent Chocolate 134. 

Orange and filling 134. 

Spice 135. 

Bread raised 135. 

Pound 135. 

White pound 135. 

Fruit 136. 

Princess 136, 

Chapter XXIII. 

SALADS 137. 

Instruction 137. 

To Marinite 137. 

French Dressing, when used 137. 
DINNER SALADS 

Boiled Dressing without meat 138. 

Potato 138. 

Cucumber 138. 

Cream Dressing 138. 

Cucumber 139, 

Mayonnaise 139. 

Waldorf 139. 

Endive Watercress 139. 

Radish Roses, Tomato 139. 

Tomato Jelly 140. 

Cheese 140. 

Russian 140. 

Egg 141. 

Orange 141. 

Sweet Sauce for Fruit Salad 141. 

Orange Baskets 141. 

Fruit 141. 



194 



GENERAL INDEX. 



LUNCHEON SALADS With Meat 142 
(Jhicken 142. 
Mayonnaise 142. 
Green and Red Mayonnaise 143. 
Bouilli 143. 
Lobster 143. 
Oyster 143. 

Sweet Breads and Celery 143. 
Fish 143 

Chapter XXIV. 

SANDWICHES 144. 
Invalid 144. 
School Boy 144. 
Rolls 145. 
Crackers 145. 

Chapter XXV. 

FROZEN DESSERTS 146 . 

Different Kinds, how to pack 146, 

Freeze and Unmold 146. 
ICES. 

Orange 147. 

Lemon 147. 

Pineapple 147. 

Raspberry Sherbet 147. 

Heavenly Sherbet 147. 
ICE CREAM 148. 

Philahelphia 148 

Plain 148. 

Adding Fruit 148. 

Tutti Frutti 148. 

Pistachio and Currant 149. 

Alaska Bake 149. 

Bisque with Fruit 149. 

Frozen Rice Pudding-. Meringue) 
150. 

Fruit Pudding 150. 

Sauces for Ice Cream, how made 
150. 

Maple and Caramel 151. 

Bum Sauce 151. 

Chapter XXVI. 

HOW TO SERVE FRUITS 152. 
Oranges 152. 
Strawberries 152. 
Cherries 152. 
Peaches 152. 
Grape Fruit 152, 
Cantaloupe 152. 
Water Melon 152. 

Chapter XXVII. 

COMPOTES AND CANNED f R DITS 
153. 
Instruction and proportion of 
sugar 153. 

CANNING. 

Berries 153. 
Tomatoes 155. 
Rhubarb 154. 
Pineapple 154. 
Quinces 154. 
JAMS AND PRESERVES 154- 
Brandy Peaches 154. 



Butter Scotch 165. 

Dates, Bananas . 

Orange Glace . 

Marsh Mallows 16"). 

Stuffed Dates 166. 

Candied Fruits 166. 

Orange and Lemon Peel 166. 

Chapter XXXI. 

ENTREES 167. 

Made Dishes, When Served 167. 

Croquettes, Timbales, Patties 167 

Chicken Liver 167. 

Oyster Crabs 167. 

Fried Frogs Legs 167. 

Sweeetbieads a la Poulette 167. 

Marrow Bones 169. 

Potato Roses 169. 

Potato Balls 169. 

Molded Ham and Eggs 168. 

Cheese Canapes 168. 

Lobster Rissoles 169. 

Sauce (Scotch Snipe) 168. 

Fish au Gratin 170. 

To Blanch Almonds 170. 

Tomato Preserves 155. 

Water Melon 155. 

Dainty Desserts 155. 

JELLIES. 

Instruction 155. 
(^urrant 156. 
Crab apple 156. 
Marmalade Fruit 157. 
Orange 157. 

Chapter XXVIII. 

PICKLES, CATSUPS 158. 
Cucumbers 158. 
Peaches 158. 
Chow Chow 158. 
Chopped 159. 
Tomato Butter 159. 
Chili Sauce 159. 
Tomato Catsup 159. 
Spiced Citron 160. . 

Chapter XXIX. 

ASPIC JELLY 161. 

Preparing Stock 161. 
Aspic croutons 161. 
to Mold 161. 
Chop 162. 
Ornament 162. 
Russian Salads 162. 

Chapter XXX. 

CANDY 163. 

Marrons Glace 163. 
Spun Sugar 163. 
Instruction, Sugar 163. 
Fondant 164. 
("aramel 164. 
Nut Creams 164. 
Peppermint Creams 165. 
Cream Candy 165. 
Molasses Taffy 165.^ 
Mexican Pinache 165. 
Chocolate Fudge 165. 



GENERAL INDEX. 



195 



Chapter XXXII. 

CHAFING DISH. 

instruction for Using 171. 

Curry of Shrimps 171. 

Ancliovy and Bread 171. 

Tbaclierj's Bouillabisse 172. 

Fricassee of Oysters Hi, 

Oyster Newburg 172. 

Breaded Veal, Tomato Sauce 172. 

Banana Compote 173. 

Stewed (Codfish 173. 

French Eggs 173. 

Mushrooms a la Creme 173. 

Sardines a la Piemoutaise 174. 

Jelly Omelet 174. 

Clam Bisque 174. 

Sweetbreads and Mushrooms 174. 

Pineapple Canapes 175. 

Tomato Bisque 175. 

Lobster Newburg 175. 

After Dinner CoiTee 176. 

Cheese Fonder 176. 

Salmi of Dock 176. 

Chapter XXXIII. 

FOOD IN SICKNESS 177. 
Rice Water 178. 
Barley Water 178. 
Chicken Jelly 178. 
Toast Water 178. 
Beef Essence 178. 
Beef Extract 178. 
Arrowroot 179. 
To Keep Ice in a Sick Room 179, 



To Cook Prunes 179. 
Koumiss 179. 
Mulled Wine 180. 

Chapter XXXIV. 

FRUIT JUICES 181. 
Fruit Juice 181. 
Fruit Syrup 181. 
Grape Juice 181. 
Raspberry Vinegar 181. 
Blackberry Brandy 182. 
Currant Wine 182. 
Mint Jiilip 182. 
Tea Punch 182. 
Roman Punch 182. 
Cream Nectar 183. 
Grape Cordial 183. 
Lemonade 1M3. 
Sherry Cobbler 183. 
Fruit Cobbler 183. 
Ega-nogg 183. 
Milk Shake 183. 

Chapter XXXV. 

MENUS FOP BREAKFAST, 

LUNCHEON, DINNERS 184. 
Some Things about Evening en- 
tertainment 186. 

Chapter XXXVI. 

IMPORTANT 187. 
Ten Lessons 189. 



FIRMS TO PATRONIZE. 



Ryan's Studio. 

Procter and Gamble Company, Ivory Soap. 

Denver Gas and Electric Company. 

A. E. Meek. 

Manitou Mineral Water Company. 

Miller Market Company. 

Gray's Antiseptic Manufacturing Company. 

Hardesty's Flavoring- Extracts. 

Denver Tent and Awning Company. 

Colman's Stuffed Club and Health Flour. 

Hungarian Patent Milling Company. 

Baker's Cocoa and Chocolate. 

Perknis and Smith, Grocers. 

Lindquist Cracker Company. 

Chr. Hansen's Junket Tablets. 

A. T. Lewis and Son Dry Goods. 

'WHen Patronizing TKese Firms Mention This BooK. 



Memoranda. 



Ryan's 



428 Sixteenth Street, 

Corner Glenarm, 

DENVER, COLORADO. 



Studio 



Finest "W^orK and Lo^vest Prices. 

Crayon and Copying ^rorR a 
Specialty. 

KodaK WorK FinisHed. 




E SWIFT'S in 

at our retail marKet 
at wbolesale prices. 



You can't beat tHem. 

Denver's Most 
Poptilar MarKet 

1031-35 15TH STREET 

OPPOSITE MINING EXCHANGE ON FIFTEENTH ST. 





To MaKe It Best 

Use Hungarian Hig'K 
Patent Flour, Hungarian 
Mills. The sponge will tell you 
the story right, if its runny and 
sticky, it is proof of poor wheat qual- 
ity somewhere. It is impossible to 
make good bread from poor wheat. 
With Pure Colorado Wheat, unmixed 
with a cheap eastern quality, you 
can always make the Best Bread 

A.sR For Hungarian 
Hig'H Patent Flour 

Hungarian Mills 





Memoranda. 



When you wish to make some 
of the good things in this book. 

Ring Us Up, 
Oreei\ 515* 

WE'LL GIVE YOU THE BEST 
OF MATERIAL. 

Perkins ^ Smith, 

Grocery and MarKet, 

Corner Alameda and South Pearl. 



TmnK Factory. 




Repairing 
a Specialty. 

Old Trunks 
Taken in 
Exhang-e. 



^he A. E. ME-EK TRUNK 
AND BAG CO. 

MANUFACTURERS AND DEALERS IN 

TRUNKS AND VALISES 

1207 SIXTEENTH. 1605 LAWRENCE. 

COR. SIXTEENTH AND LAWRENCE. 

TELEPHONE 1216. DENVER, COLO. 



Printing i 



n all its 
BrancHes. 



A. J. Lxidditt 

1400 La'wrrence St. 



J^ 



Pbonc 190$. 



Denver, Colo. 



^he DENVER TENT 
AND AW^NING CO. 

ALFRED S. PROCTER, PRESIDENT. 

r\\ IP TENTS ARE TIGHT 
'-^'-'i^ RATES ARE RIGHT 

Oldest and earnest l)0usc. 



i4:$o Larimer Street "^e 

»^»- • I43S 

Telephone 155. 



CooK Witli Gas 

IT SAVKS ANXIETY 
AND TROUBLE. 



TABLE 
"WATER 



<( 



ORIGINAL 

9 



^9 



GINGER 
CHAMPAGNE 



Absolutely pure and natural, being- bottled just as it flows 
from the Spring-, and recharg-ed with none but its own natural gas. 

A most platable Table Water, and also highly recommended by physicians 
for all stomach troubles, kidney or liver complaints. 

Beware of substitutes, and see that each label carries a fac-simile of the 
Company's signature. 

Denver Office, I3I7 I3th St. 

•PHONE 645. 



^1^ 



Memorar^da 




S»s junket 

Easily and quickly made 
of a quart of sweet, new 
milk and one of 

CHr. Hansen's 
JunRet Tablets 

1 f\ Tablets 
IV^ Cents... 



With full 



directions for preparing 
"Junket Dainties" free with 
every package. 



CKr. Hansen's Pure Food 
Colors and Flavors 

Are indispensable for ice cream, con- 
fectionery or junket. Ask your grocer 
for Chr. Hansen's Pure Food Prepara- 
tions or send us lo cents for lo Junket 
Tablets, and write us for discriptive 
circulars. 

Chr. Hansen's Laboratory, 

Little Falls, N. Y. 



$tm Repairs 



«ii« 



Repairs of Every Known 
Make of Stoves, Furnaces 
or Rang"es. 

GEO. E. PULLEN 

1331 LAWRENCE STREET 
Telephone 735 



KEEP YOUR KITCHEN 



CLEAN AND HEALTHY 



^ 4 

«l 



I KREOMULSION 



IS A GERMICIDE 

AND DISINFECTANT. 

ASK US ABOUT IT. 

Antiseptic Mfg. Co., 

722 15th Street, 
Denver, Colorado. 



CALL FOR AND USE 

Colman's Stuffed Club Health 

^ ^ FLOUR ^ ^ 
and Colman's Standard Health 

^ J^ FLOUR J- J- 

Both Whole Wheat Product, 

Pure and 
Gerktiixke. 

At All Leading Grocers. 
SILVER STANDARD MILLS 



R. W. COLMAN. PROPRIETOR. 



BLOOMFIELD. 



COLORADO. 



Denver's Best Store 



PusH ^ .^ 
ersistex\ce 

and Continual Striving, for the Best 
Wins always as it does for 



Drv€ood$eo 



HARDESTY'5 

CKalleng'e Flavoring 

EXTRACTS 

are tHe natural true 
FRUIT FLAVORS. 



Memoranda.. 



For Your StomacH's Sake 

CooK Only AVith Gas. 



To preserve flavor, to economize food, to promote health 
and to insure domestic tranquility, no singfle ag-ency excels 
the 

Gas R.ange. 



The wise, the g^enerous, the prog"ressive, the humane, the 
charitable, recog^nize the beneficence of the modern 

Mettiod of CooKing. 



For your husband's sake learn to cook with g-as. Attend 
the demonstrations at the Gas Office. Free to all. 



S6e Denver Gas ®» Electric Co. 



"NONE BETTER MADE" 

Lindquist's Crackers 

Quality Guaranteed Finest 

ASK YOUR GROCER FOR THEM 

THE LINDQUIST CRACKER CO. 

3512 TO 3530 MARKET STREET, DENVER, COLO. 



BOSTON PUBLIC LIBRARY 



3 9999 05987 740 5 



Boston Public Library- 
Central Library, Copley Square 

Division of 
Reference and Research Services 



The Date Due Card in the pocket indi- 
cates the date on or before which this 
book should be returned to the Library. 

Please do not remove cards from this 
pocket. 



HOW TO MAKE 



-A Great 
Variety of 



CAKES, CREAMS, SAUCES, PUDDINGS, PIES, 
CANDIES, AND OTHER DAINTY DISHES 



FROM THE 



Finest Cocoa and Chocolate in the World 





Walter Baker & Co.'s Choice Recipes 

WILL TELL YOU 

A handsome booklet of 80 pages SENT FREE to any 
address. 

WALTER BAKER (Sh CO. Ltd. 

Established 1780 DORCHESTER. MASS. 

Trade-mark 

40 HIGHEST AWARDS IN EUROPE AND AMERICA 



