






TX 715 
.D744 
Copy 1 



Our Alma Mater 
Cook Book^ 



CONTAINS 



Tried and True Recipes of Fran- 
conia Matrons as collected by the 
Young Ladies of the Dow Acad- 
emy Alumni 



COMPILED BY 



The Science Fund 
Committees 

FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE 

Scientific Department of 
Dow Academy ^ 

"CUith baked and boiled and stecued and toasted, a 

CUith fried and broiled and smoked and roasted, ' 

We treat the toum." 



Copyright, roof, by Dinv Academy Alupiiii, 
Franconidi N. H. » f ■ 



THE LIBRARY OF 
CONGRESS, 

Two Copie« Recoivei' 

JUL 29 '903 

^ Copyright Entry 
CLASS <*~ XXfc No. 
COPY B. 



4* 




^u 



On that primal morn when the world was young 
When the morning stars in their courses sung, 
Fair was his face, like a god's in sooth, 
Aglow with the color and life of youth. 
He saw the first stars that emblazoned the skies ; 
Saw the radiant dawn of the first sunrise ; 
Saw primitive men with their primitive Eves 
Drest in wild skins and bright-hued leaves. 
He saw the dread deluge rise and rise 
Till it hid the world from his horrified eyes ; 
He saw the purged world emerge from the flood, 
The rainbow that sealed the promise of God. 
He saw the earth quickly peopled again 
With teeming cities, and towns, and men ; 
He saw their battles, contentions, and strife, 
Their struggles for fame, and wealth, and life; 
And his face grew stern as he saw men's ways, 
And his sad eyes hardened to a petrified gaze. 



EVERETT K. DEXTER 



Dow Academy : Its Spirit and Needs. 



Webster in one of his letters refers to the fact that he 
was riding up a New Hampshire hill in an old-fashioned 
New England sleigh when his father made known to him 
his purpose of sending him to college. The lad in silence 
wondered how his father, with so large a family, could 
send him to college, and in substance Webster adds, "As 
I thought thereon, I laid my head on my father's shoulder 
and wept." There are many poor boys and girls who are 
ambitious for the higher education, but their finances, like 
Webster's, are very limited. They desire superior train- 
ing at a moderate price. Such is the mission of Dow 
Academy — to provide high scholarship at low cost. It 
prepares the young, not only for college, but for life. 
Every school has its atmosphere, its ideals and public 
spirit. The student of Dow is unconsciously permeated 
with a purpose to make the most of himself and to live for 
the betterment of the world. 

We desire additional facilities for the work of Dow 
Academy. I will specify a few needs : Increased endow- 
ment to meet the general expenses ; steam heat and baths 
in the cottages; a gymnasium; friends. If some donor 
should give $1,000 for the library, $3,000 to maintain the 
scientific laboratory, $5,000 for a new gymnasium, I am 
confident the trustees would name the department thus en- 
riched after its benevolent friend. Money given to such a 
school will go on in perpetuity of use perhaps. 

Ian MacLaren represents the old school master as earn- 
estly asking a rich man to aid a "lad o' pairts" in his 
struggle for an education, and as saying : 



" I tell ye, man, a'm honorin' ye and givin' ye the fair- 
est chance ye'll ever hae o' winning wealth. Gin ye lied 
the heart to spend money on a lad o' pairts like Geordie 
Hoo, ye wud hae twa rewards nae man could take fro ye. 
Ane wud be the honest gratitude o' the laddie whose de- 
sire- for knowledge ye had sateesfied, and the second wud 
be this — anither scholar in the land; and a'm thinking 
with auld John Knox that ilka scholar is something added 
to the riches of the commonwealth." 

He who aids a "lad o' pairts" or a girl of promise in the 
effort -for an education honors himself and is a benefactor 
of mankind. 

G. WOLCOTT BROOKS. 

President of the Board of Trustees. 




IOSES ARNOLD DOW. 



Dow Academy : Its Standing at Dart- 
mouth. 



I regret that the absence of Dean Emerson on a foreign 
trip makes it impossible to gather up the facts in regard to 
the graduates of Dow Academy who have been at Dart- 
mouth. I can only testify in general terms to the work of 
the Academy as I have known of it during the more recent 
years of its history. It has stood for honorable standards 
and methods, and it has trained men to act with self-reli- 
ance and vigor as college students. 

The day of the endowed Academy is not over. The 
characteristics of such a school are permanence and 
breadth. These are characteristics which we need in our 
more advanced schools. A school which lasts from gener- 
ation to generation grows rich in traditions and in the loy- 
alty of its graduates. This continuous power of inspiration 
is a great factor in modern education. All that is good in 
the past survives and enters into the daily training of the 
scholar of to-day. 

The endowed school may stand equally for breadth of 
discipline and culture. Its endowment, though small in 
many cases, still gives it independence. I have a pro- 
found respect for the public school system, but I should 
not wish to see the whole educational work of the country 
left to the State. So long as private beneficence supple- 
ments the educational work of the State we may expect 
increasing freedom, variet}' and breadth in our advanced 
schools. 

I congratulate the graduates and friends of Dow Acad- 
emy upon the recovery of its place in the educational de- 
velopment of New England. May it be endued to enter 
with increasing power and efficiency into the opportunities 
of modern education. 

WILLIAM J. TUCKER. 
Dartmouth College, May 22, 1903. 






o 




0) 




— 




h> 


>> 


0) 


R 




s 





"0 

en 


ID 
Q 


o 


71 


a. 


» 


3 


C 

t 


o 


a 


o a 



7) 


N 


C 


a> 


n 


01 




S3 


n 







o 


LU U 



t o 

a r 



Soups and Chowders. 



Some like it hot, 
Some like it cold, 
Sovie like if in the pot 
Ni?ie clays old. 



VEAL and SAGO SOUP. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Chop fine two and one-half pounds canned veal, and 
cover with three quarts cold water, simmer gently two 
hours, strain and reheat the liquor. Wash one-fourth 
pound pearl sago and soak one-half hour, stir into hot 
soup and cook thirty minutes. Add one pint scalded milk: 
Pour this slowly on to the beaten yolks of four eggs and 
serve. 



OX TAIL SOUP. 

MRS. KERR. 

Two ox tails, one large onion, tablespoonful beef drip- 
pings, four quarts cold water, tablespoonful mixed herbs, 
four cloves and four pepper-corns. Wash and cut up the 
ox tails, separating them at joints. Cut up onion and fry 
in hot beef drippings. When slightly browned draw onion 
to one side of the pan and brown half of the ox tails. Put 
fried onions and ox tails in soup kettle and cover with four 
quarts of cold water. Put the cloves, pepper-corns and 
herbs in a small piece of cheese-cloth; add to soup. Add 
salt; simmer three or four hours, or until meat separates 
from bone and gristly parts are perfectly soft. Select some 
of the nicest joints to serve with the soup. Skim off the 
fat, add more salt and pepper if needed; strain and serve 
very hot. 



io OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

CHICKEN SOUP. 

IDA SPOONKK. 

One quart chicken broth, one cup sweet cream, season 
with pepper and salt, and serve. 



BLACK BEAN SOUP. 

SOPHIA DODGE. 

One pint black beans, two quarts cold water, one small 
onion, one-fourth teaspoon of celery salt, one-half teaspoon 
common salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, one-fourth tea- 
spoon mustard, three tablespoons butter, two hard-boiled 
eggs, one lemon. Soak beans over night, wash well, then 
soak in the morning; put them on to boil until soft. Add 
onion (sliced) and half the butter, cook together, then add 
to beans. Simmer until soft, then sift through a fine- 
sieve. After cooked, add other half of butter with one 
and one-half tablespoon flour cooked together. Just be- 
fore serving add lemon sliced thin and ' the eggs ; season 
to taste. 



MULLAGATAWNY SOUP. 

MRS. KERR. 
Three pounds of chicken or fowl, one pound of veal 
bones, two onions, one tablespoonful beef drippings, four 
cloves, four whole peppers, two sour apples or juice of one 
lemon, four quarts cold water, one tablespoonful curry 
powder, one teaspoonful salt, one teaspoonful sugar. This 
is an Indian soup and the name means "pepper-pot." It 
can be made from veal, calves' head, chicken or rabbit. 
Use one or a mixture of two or more of these varieties of 
meat. Mullagatawny soup should always be very highly 
seasoned with onions, curry powder and apples or lemon, 
or some strong acid fruit. The best portions of the meat 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. n 

are usually removed as soon as tender and served with 
strained soup. Rice should always be served with this 
soup. 



ST. GERMAIN SOUP. 

MRS. ROBERT PECKETT. 

One cup stock, one can marrowfat peas, one cup cold 
water, one-half onion, bit bay leaf, sprig parsley, blade of 
mace, two teaspoons sugar, one of salt, one-eighth of pep- 
per, two tablespoons butter, two of corn starch, one cup of 
milk. Drain and rinse peas, reserving one-third of a cup. 
Put remainder in cold water, with seasoning, and simmer 
one-half hour. Rub through a sieve and add stock. Bind 
with butter and corn starch, cooked together. Boil five 
minutes, add milk and reserved peas. 



POTATO SOUP. 

MRS. KERR. 

Eight or ten potatoes, three quarts good stock, one 
onion. Boil one hour, add seasoning, press through col- 
ander ; serve. 



CREAM OF LIMA BEAN SOUP. 

MRS. ROBERT PECKETT. 

One cup dry lima beans, three pints cold water, two 
slices onion, four slices carrot, one cup cream or milk, four 
tablespoons butter, two of flour, one teaspoon salt, one- 
half teaspoon pepper. Soak beans over night. In morn- 
ing drain and add cold water, cook until soft, (add more 
water as water boils away, retaining the same). Rub 
through sieve. Cut vegetables in small cubes, cook five 
minutes in one-half the butter. Remove vegetables, add 
flour, salt and pepper and stir into soup. Add cream ; re- 
heat, strain, and add remaining butter in small pieces. 



12 SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 

CELERY SOUP. 

MRS. KERR. 

One head celery, one pint water, one pint milk, one 
tablespoonful chopped onion, one tablespoonful butter, 
one tablespoonful flouf, one-half teaspoonful salt, one-half 
teaspoonful pepper. Wash and scrape the celery, cut in- 
to half-inch pieces, put into one pint boiling salted water, 
cook until very soft. Mash in water in which it was boiled, 
cook onion with milk in double boiler ten minutes and add 
to celery. Rub all through strainer and boil again. Cook 
butter and flour together until smooth, but not brown, and 
stir into boiling soup. Season, strain and serve. 



CORN SOUP. 

MRS. ROBERT PECKETT. 

One can corn, one pint boiling water, one pint milk, one 
slice onion, two tablespoons butter, two tablespoons flour, 
one saltspoon of salt, and a grain of pepper. Chop the 
corn, add water, and simmer twenty minutes; rub through 
sieve. Scald milk with onion, remove onion and add milk 
to corn. Bind with butter and flour and add salt and 
pepper. 



FRENCH OYSTER SOUP. 

SOPHIA DODGE. 

One quart oysters, four cups milk, one sliced onion, two 
blades mace, one-third cup butter, one-third cup flour, 
yolks of two eggs, salt and pepper. Add eggs, slightly 
beaten, just before serving. 



MACARONI SOUP. 

MRS. KERK. 

Boil in one quart of veal stock one pound of macaroni 
until it is tender. Remove one-half macaroni and keep 
the other boiling until it is reduced to a pulp. Add suffi- 
cient stock to the whole. Add one-half pint cream. Grate 
eight ounces cheese, and add rest of macaroni. Heat with- 
out boiling. Serve with squares of toast. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 13 

CLEAR CONSOMME. 

SOPHIA DODGE. 

Five pounds clear beef, free from too much fat. Cut fine 
and put in a large sauce pan. Fill with cold water and 
the whites of three eggs, with shells, one-half carrot, small 
piece of turnip, one small onion. When it comes to a boil- 
ing point, skim. Set again on the range and let it just 
simmer. After awhile take out the vegetables, and simmer 
until done. Strain through a flannel. 



CREAM SOUP. 

MRS. BESSIE L. GOODNOW. 

One heaping tablespoon of butter, two heaping table- 
spoons flour, rubbed together. Melt in a sauce pan, and 
add slowly one quart of milk, stirring constantly. When 
it thickens add salt, pepper, a little celery salt, and one 
and one-half cups boiled clams, minced fine. Boil up once 
and serve. Canned clams will do, observing the same 
directions. Delicious cream soups are made of celery, 
peas, asparagus, corn, etc. Vegetables should be cooked 
very tender in salted water and rubbed through a sieve. 
Chestnuts, mushrooms, lobsters, salmon and oysters also 
make delicious cream soups. 



BAKED BEAN SOUP. 

MRS. ROBERT PECKETT. 

Three cups cold baked beans, three pints water, two 
slices onion, two stalks celery, one and one-half cups of 
stewed and strained tomatoes. Two tablespoons of butter, 
two tablespoons flour, one tablespoon Chili sauce, salt and 
pepper. Put first four ingredients in a sauce pan, simmer 
thirty minutes, rub through a sieve, add tomatoes and 
Chili sauce. Season to taste with salt and pepper, com- 
bined with butter and flour cooked together. 



14 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

SCOTCH SOUP. 

MRS. KERR. 

Four pounds of the fore-quarter of lamb, thoroughly 
washed. Put in kettle with four quarts water. Bring to 
a boil and skim well. Take two good-sized turnips and 
two carrots, cut very fine and add to soup. Let that boil 
two hours, then add a large head of lettuce, chopped very 
fine, a cupful of parsley, three-fourths cup of rice. Let 
boil three-fourths hour; serve. 



CORN SOUP. 
MRS. SPOONER. 
Take one pint corn, one or more quarts milk; heat. 
Season with butter and salt ; serve with crackers. 



PEA SOUP. 

MRS. KERR. 

Four teacups split peas, put to soak night before using. 
In morning place three quarts of water in kettle with good- 
sized piece of salt pork. Add peas and one good-sized 
onion. Boil slowly five hours. Strain through colander; 
add pepper and salt ; serve with toasted bread cut in small 
pieces. Add boiling water if too thick. 



LEEK SOUP. 

MRS. KERR. 

Take four quarts liquid in which fowls have been boiled, 
eight or ten large leeks cut in small pieces. Boil together 
three hours; skim carefully, season with pepper and salt; 
serve. Perfectly delicious. 



BEAN SOUP. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 
To three cupfuls cold baked beans add three pints of 
water, two slices onion and two stalks celerv. Simmer 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 15 

thirty minutes; rub through sieve. Add one and one-half 
eupfuls stewed and strained tomatoes, one-half tablespoon- 
ful Chili sauce, salt and pepper to taste. Bind together 
with a tablespoonful each of butter and flour. Serve with 
.squares of toasted bread. 



TOMATO SOUP. 

MRS. MINNIE EDSON PARKER. 

One quart of strong beef or other meat broth, add a can 
of tomatoes and one chopped onion. Salt and pepper to 
taste. Dissolve a teaspoonful of flour and add to the mix- 
ture, then boil an hour. Strain arid serve very hot. 



DELICIOUS SOUP. 

MRS. J. A. BEZANSON. 

One can tomatoes, two small cups baked beans, one large 
onion chopped fine. Boil hard one-half hour; strain 
through a coarse strainer. Season with salt and pepper to 
taste, two heaping tablespoonfuls sugar. 



TOMATO BISQUE. 

MRS. MINNIE E. PARKER. 

One quart peeled tomatoes stewed soft with a pinch of 
soda. Strain it until no seeds remain, set' it over the fire 
and add one quart boiled milk, season with salt and pep- 
per, a piece of butter the size of an egg. 

CORN CHOWDER. 

MRS. SPOONER. 

One quart sliced potatoes, one slice salt pork fried in 

small pieces. Cook together until potatoes are tender. 

Add split crackers. Heat one pint of corn in one pint of 

milk ; add to potatoes. Let all come to a boil, and serve. 



OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 
TOMATO SOUP. 

MRS. JULIA BURT. 

One quart can tomatoes, one quart hot water or stock, 
one tablespoonful sugar, teaspoonful salt, one tablespoon- 
ful butter, one tablespoonful corn starch, four cloves, a 
little pepper, one tablespoonful chopped onion, one table- 
spoonful parsley. Serve with toasted crackers or croutons. 

To Make Croutons. — Remove crust from slices of 
bread and spread with butter, cut in squares and brown in 
oven. 



LOBSTER SOUP WITH MILK. 

ORPHIA KNIGHT. 

Meat of small lobster, chopped fine; three crackers, 
rolled fine; butter size of an egg, salt and pepper to taste, 
and a speck of cayenne. Mix all in the sauce pan and 
add gradually a pint of boiling milk, stirring all the while. 
Boil up, and serve at once. 

Biscuit dough, rolled very thin, cut in small squares and 
baked crisp, is very nice for soups. 

Rice, barley, tapioca, sago, macaroni, celery, chopped 
vegetables and meats, are nice added to soups in small 
quantities. 



RABBIT SOUP. 

MRS. HAINES ALDRICH. 

Cut rabbit as you would a chicken, add one pound of 
pork and boil until tender, then slice potatoes in. Onions 
and dumplings may be added if preferred. Thicken as 
any soup. 



SALT PORK SOUP. 

MRS. BERTHA NELSON. 

Take two or more quarts water, place in kettle, add one 
quart of potatoes, a little onion. Teacupful of salt pork, 
cut in dice, partly fried, then add to the potatoes. Boil 
until potatoes are done. Season with pepper and salt; 
thicken. Serve with dumplings. 



SOUPS AND CHOWDERS. 17 

POTATO CHOWDER. 

MRS. S. C. BROOKS. 

Frj- two or three slices of salt pork crisp in a deep ket- 
tle. Take out pork and lay in sliced potatoes, a little 
flour, pepper, salt and onions, (not as much as potatoes,) 
then repeat alternately until the kettle is full enough. 
Cover with boiling water up as far as potatoes. Cook 
slowly three-fourths hour. Add milk enough to cover it 
well and a few split crackers. See that it is well seasoned 
with salt and does not scorch. 



CLAM CHOWDER. 

MRS. MELZOR WATSON. 

Large slice of pork cut into dice and fried nice and 
brown, three onions cut fine, one quart potatoes cut into 
dice. Boil all together in enough water to cover. When 
all cooked add one can of clams and juice and three pints 
new milk ; salt and pepper. Boil up once and serve. 



FISH CHOWDER. 

MRS. FRANCES A. PARKER. 

Take one-half pound salt pork, slice thin, put in a kettle 
and fry the fat all out ; one quart sliced potatoes, three 
large onions, three pounds fresh fish. Skim the pork from 
the fat and put into the kettle a layer of potatoes, onions 
and fish, alternately. Cover with water; let it boil slowly 
one hour and fifteen minutes ; sprinkle on pepper and salt 
to taste. Just before taking from stove split open eight or 
ten crackers, add with three pints of milk. The same 
recipe will make a good corn chowder by using a can of 
corn instead of fish. 



DUMPLINGS. 

MRS. FRED (".. SAXHORN. 

Mix well with one pint of sifted flour two teaspoonfuls 
baking powder and one teaspoonful sugar, a pinch of salt. 
Wet with sweet milk enough to mould. Cut with biscuit- 
cutter. Drop on top of stew quickly, so as not to stop the 
stew from boiling. If very small, boil five minutes; if 
quite large, boil eight minutes. 



Fish and Oysters. 



Oh, what are the prizes we perish to rein 

To the first little shiners we caught with a pin: 



MRS. FRANCES PARKER. 

In selecting fish, choose only those in which the eye is 
full and prominent, the flesh thick and firm, the scales 
bright and fins stiff. They should be thoroughly cleaned 
before cooking. 

To Boil Fish.— In boiling fish, the fish should be put 
into cold water and cooked very gently, or the outside will 
break before the inside is done. 

Fried Fish. — Season with salt and pepper and dip in 
Indian meal, or half meal and half flour, and fry in plenty 
of hot fat. As soon as the fish is seared and browned, re- 
move the pan to a cooler part of the stove and fry more 
slowly. Use but a very little of the fat in which the fish 
has been fried for the gravy, but put a large piece of but- 
ter in the dish with the fried fish. Fat in which fish has 
been fried can be used again for the same purpose. 



BAKED CODFISH. 
MRS. LESTER SMITH. 
If salt fish is used, soak, boil and pick the bones from 
fish same as for fish balls, add an equal quantity of mashed 
potatoes or cold boiled chopped potatoes, a large piece of 
butter and enough warm milk to make it quite soft. Place 
in buttered dish, put pieces of butter over the top, sprinkle 
a little flour or bread crumbs over it and bake a rich brown. 
Make a milk or butter gravy, two boiled eggs chopped in it. 



20 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

BAKED FISH. 

MRS. GEORGE KERR. 

Put fish in pan, fill half full with milk, sprinkle salt and 
pepper over fish, bake slowly two hours; lift fish to platter. 
Set pan on stove and thicken the milk with flour, adding 
a little butter. This sauce to be served with fish. 



FISH BALLS. 

DR. MARY B. SHERBURNE. 

One pint of mashed potatoes (with milk), one-half pint 
freshened shredded codfish, one beaten egg, butter size of 
walnut, pinch of pepper, salt if necessary. Mix well to- 
gether, roll in egg, then in crumbs, fry in deep fat. 



BAKED BLUEFISH. 

MRS. ROBERT BECKETT. 

Clean a four-pound bluefish, stuff, sew, and bake. Baste 
often with one- third cup butter mixed with two-thirds cup 
boiling water. 

Fish Stuffing. — One-half cup cracker crumbs, one- 
half cup bread crumbs, one-fourth cup melted butter, one- 
fourth teaspoon salt, one-eighth teaspoon pepper, little 
onion juice, one-fourth cup boiling water. 



BAKED FISH. 

MRS. JULIA BURT. 

A fish weighing from four to six pounds is a good size to 
bake. It should be cooked whole to look well. Make a 
dressing of bread crumbs, butter, salt and pepper, with a 
little salt pork chopped fine ; mix this with one egg, fill 
the body, sew it up, and lay in a large pan. Put over the 
fish some slices of salt pork, put a little sait and water in 
the pan. Bake one and one-half hours, basting frequently. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 



FISH BALLS. 

MRS. M. M. RIDEOUT. 

Put one solid cupful flaked salt fish and two heaping 
eupfuls potatoes cut in small pieces into a stew pan. 
Cover with boiling water and cook until the potatoes are 
tender. Drain and mash in the kettle in which they 
cooked. Add one teaspoonful butter, one egg beaten very 
light, and salt and pepper to taste. Drop by spoonfuls in- 
to a frying basket and fry in deep fat. Drain and serve. 



FISH HASH. 

MRS. ANN QUIMBY. 

Chop fine cold boiled potatoes, add finely-chopped fish, 
heat with milk and a small piece of butter. > Season to 
taste and serve. 



OYSTER STEW. 

MRS. W. F. PARKER. 

To one quart of oysters add one pint of cold water, let it 
just come to a boil and skim, add two quarts of milk, sea- 
son with salt, pepper and one-fourth pound butter. Some 
like a cracker rolled and sprinkled in to thicken the milk. 



FRIED OYSTERS. 

MRS. FRED SANBORN. 

Drain oysters dry in a towel and roll in cracker crumbs, 
roll in egg, season with pepper and salt, and fry a deep 
brown in part butter and part lard, or in pork fat. Have 
fat very hot before putting in oysters. 



LOBSTER CROQUETTES. 

MRS. PHILLIPS. 

Two cups finely-chopped lobster, one teaspoonful salt, a 
trifle cayenne. Mix with one cup cream sauce, make into 
croquettes, roll in beaten egg and cracker crumbs, and fry 
in hot lard. 



22 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 
SCALLOPED OYSTERS. 

MRS. LESTER SMITH. 

Take six crackers and roll fine for a quart of oysters. 
In a buttered dish place a layer of cracker, then of oysters, 
sprinkle on salt and pepper and small pieces of butter, and 
repeat until dish is full, having a layer of crackers for the 
top layer. Fill with milk until you can just see it through 
the cracker crumbs. Beat an egg and pour over the top, 
put on some pieces of butter, and bake about fifty minutes 
until a rich brown. 



SALMON CREAM. 

MRS. LINDA JANE JESSEMAN. 

Cook together two tablespoons butter and flour, add one 
cup of milk, salt, pepper, one spoon chopped parsley, one 
can salmon. Cover with buttered crumbs. Brown in hot 
oven. 



FRIED TROUT. 
Clean nicely. Roll in corn meal or flour. Fry in hot 
lard or butter, cooking each side until done. 

SALMON ON LETTUCE. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Take what salmon there is left after dinner, run through 
food cutter, add speck of cayenne. Thin with cream or 
salad dressing. Arrange lettuce leaves on a platter, then 
drop from a spoon upon the lettuce lumps of the salmon. 
Potatoes cut in dice mav also be added. 



SALTED SALMON AND CREAM. 

MRS. BERTHA NELSON. 

Freshen as large a piece of salted salmon as needed. 
Cook in boiling water in frying pan until tender, drain, 
and add as much sweet cream as desired for gravy. Sea- 
son with a little butter, pepper and salt. 



FISH AND OYSTERS. 23 

PANNED OYSTERS. 

WILL BOWLES. 

Clean one pint large oysters. Place in dripping pan 
small oblong pieces of toast, put an oyster on each one, 
sprinkle with pepper and salt. Bake until oysters are 
plump. Serve with lemon butter. 

Lemon Butter. — Cream three tablespoons butter, add 
one-half teaspoon salt, one tablespoon lemon juice, and a 
few grains of cayenne. 



CREAM OYSTERS. 

MRS. ROBERT PECKETT. 

One pint oysters, one and one-half cups white sauce, 
salt ; clean and cook oysters till plump and edges begin to 
curl. Drain and add white sauce. 

White Sauce. — Two tablespoons butter, three table- 
spoons flour, one cup milk, salt, and a few grains pepper. 
Place butter in sauce pan and stir until melting and 
bubbling. Add flour mixed with seasoning and stir until 
thoroughly blended. Pour the milk on gradually, adding 
a third at a time, stirring till well mixed. Beat until 
smooth and glossy. 



OYSTER PATTIES. 

BESSIE L. GOODXOW. 

Shredded wheat biscuit make very good pattie shells, 
cutting out the top a little in from the edge. Place three 
or four oysters in each shell, seasoning with salt, pepper, 
and bits of butter. Lay cover over them and brown in 
the oven. Just heat the oysters through. Make sauce of 
the oyster liquor by adding one pint milk, tablespoon each 
of butter and flour. Season with pepper and salt. Cook 
till it thickens. Dip this over the patties as you serve. 



Meats. 



Some hue meat and canna eat, 
And some would eat that want it, 

But we hue meat and we can eat, 
Sae let the Lord be thankit. 



LAMB SOUFLE. 

MRS. LINDA JANE JESSEMAN. 

Melt two tablespoons butter, add two of flour, two cups 
of hot milk, and one-half cup of bread crumbs. Cook two 
minutes. Add two cups of chopped lamb, three beaten 
eggs, (yolks only,) season, add more juice to taste, fold in 
beaten whites of eggs. Place in buttered dish and bake 
thirty-five minutes. Serve with tomato sauce. 

Tomato Sauce. — Brown one-fourth cup butter and one- 
fourth cup flour together ; pour upon it one cup stock, 
one-half can tomatoes, one slice of onion, three spoons of 
chopped parsley, one tablespoon tomato catsup, a little 
pepper. Cook ten minutes ; strain. 



BRAISED BEEF. 

MRS. M. M. RIDEOUT. 

Cover the bottom of a braising pan with salt pork cut in 
thin slices, add one-fourth cup each of carrot, turnip, onion 
and celery. Place the meat on this, (about three pounds,) 
dredge well with salt, pepper and flour, cover and cook 
without water for half an hour, then add one pint of hot 
water and baste the meat with this. Dredge again and 
cook until tender, uncovering the dish the last half hour. 
Serve hot with horse radish sauce. (See relishes.) 



MEATS. 25 

BAKED LIVER. 

MRS. WILL PHILLIPS. 

Boil a calf's liver one hour and a half, or until cooked. 
Chop fine, with a little salt pork, two onions, season with 
butter, salt and pepper. Make into a loaf, put thin strips 
of pork on top, and bake one hour. 



POT PIE. 

MRS. PHILLIPS. 

Stew a chicken until tender and make a gravy for it as 
for fricassee. Take some fresh baking powder biscuits, 
break them open, spread on a platter crust side down. 
When ready to serve, pour over this the hot chicken and 
gravy. Chicken toast can be prepared the same way. 



VEAL PIE. 

Fill baking dish with nicely-cooked veal, with plenty of 
broth, and season with pepper and salt. Cover with two 
layers of biscuit dough, well buttered between the layers. 

Biscuit Dough. — To one quart of flour add two heap- 
ing teaspoonfuls baking powder. Work into this thorough- 
ly a piece of lard size of an egg. Mix with sweet milk; 
roll. Bake until dough is done. Use veal broth for gravy. 
Chicken pie may be made the same way. 



STUFFED BEEF. 

Take a thin roll of beef, fill with a nice dressing, roll, 
tie with strings securely, and roast in hot oven. 

Dressing. — Take the amount of bread and cracker 
crumbs that you wish for dressing, season with butter, 
pepper, salt and sage ; add a little very finely-chopped 
cooked meat. Moisten with hot water, or beef broth. 



MEAT CROQUETTES. 

DR. MARY SHERBURNE. 

Two cups chopped meat, two cups bread crumbs, two 
cups hot milk, yolk of one egg, one teaspoonful melted 
butter, salt and pepper. Beat the yolk of the egg, add the 
milk, the melted butter, bread crumbs, salt, pepper and 
meat. Form into small, flat cakes and fry in hot butter. 



26 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

ROAST BEEF. 

MRS. ALVIN GRIMES. 

Place a piece suitable for roasting in a deep, open pan ; 
no seasoning. Have a red-hot oven at first so that it will 
sear or brown over at once, (that keeps in all the juice). 
Allow one-fourth hour for heating, one-fourth hour for 
each pound. 



ROAST TURKEY. 

When nicely washed and drained, fill both breast and 
body with dressing thus prepared : To one-fourth pound 
of salt pork, chopped fine, add one quart of bread crumbs, 
season with salt, pepper and sage ; add one egg, one gill 
of milk. Boil the giblets until tender; chop fine and add 
about one-half of the dressing, reserving the remainder for 
the gravy. Add enough water in which the giblets were 
boiled to make the dressing quite moist; sew up the breast 
and body; tie the wings and legs close to the body, and 
rub over well with butter. Bake common-sized turkey 
four hours in slow oven. Baste frequently. 



MEAT CROQUETTES. 

One pint chopped meat, half pint chopped potato, one 
teaspoon Bell's spiced seasoning. Water or gravy enough 
to moisten. Ten croquettes can be made from this amount. 
Fry in hot fat until a light brown. Use a frying basket. 



TO COOK VEAL STEAK. 

MRS. NELLIE HARRIS. 

Take slices of veal and dip in beaten egg and roll in 
cracker crumbs. Have in the frying pan some hot butter, 
or part fat may be used. Put in the pieces of veal and 
cook until well done. 



CHICKEN OR VEAL CROQUETTES. 

MRS. ALVIN GRIMES. 

Chop fine the chicken or veal, add an equal amount of 
mashed potatoes, season with butter, salt, pepper, a little 



MEATS. 27 

mustard and a little cayenne pepper, make into round or 
flat cakes, dip in egg and cracker crumbs, and fry a golden 
brown in hot lard. 



ROAST LAMB. 

MRS. ALVIN GRIMES. 

Take a leg or shoulder, after washing, rub it over with 
pepper, salt and flour, bake in a deep covered pan with 
water, or, if in an open pan, baste often. It should cook 
slowly for three hours. 



MEAT BALLS. 

MRS. MAUDE PEABODY. 

To one bowl of finely-chopped meat add one cup bread 
or cracker crumbs, a little chopped onion, enough of the 
meat gravy to moisten. Season with salt, pepper and sage. 
Shape into balls and fry brown in butter. 



SAUSAGE. 

BESSIE L. GOODNOW. 

Twenty-five pound of meat, (one-third beef, two-thirds 
pork,) eleven ounces salt, three ounces sage, and one 
ounce white pepper, four tablespoons ground clove, three 
teaspoons ginger, two teaspoons sweet marjoram. Mix 
thoroughly and put irr bags. 



SAUSAGE. 

MRS. S. C. BROOKS. 

Twenty pounds of meat, six and one-half ounces salt, 
two and one-half ounces sage, two ounces pepper, one 
ounce ginger. 



SCRAPPEL. 

MRS. HALSKV. 

Boil a hog's head until the meat is tender; take out and 
scrape meat from bones and chop fine. Put the meat back 
in same broth and thicken with buckwheat and Indian 
meal, (about one-third buckwheat and two-thirds Indian 
meal.) It should be thickened enough so that it can be 
cut into slices for frying. Season with salt, pepper and 
herbs according to taste. Pour in pans to cool. 



28 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

HAM PATTIES. 

DR. MARY SHERBURNE. 

One cup of ham, chopped, which has been previously 
cooked, mix with two quarts of bread crumbs, wet with 
milk. Put the batter in gem pans, break one egg over 
each, sprinkle top with cracker crumbs, and bake until 
browned over. A nice breakfast dish. 

To Bake Eggs. — Put butter, salt and pepper in the 
bottom of your tin, and then break in your eggs. Bake 
till the whites are done. Very nice. 



FRIED VEAL STEAK WITH CRUMBS. 

MRS. I. M. BALLARD. 

Cut the steaks quite thick. Put a sufficient quantity of 
fat in the frying pan to keep the meat from sticking. Have 
fat hot when steaks are put in so as to brown quickly. 
Salt and brown one side, turn and so same to the other. 
Have ready finely-pulverized cracker or ' bread crumbs. 
Take the veal out of fat, dip each piece in the crumbs on 
each side. Remove fat to back of stove and let meat cook 
slowly until well done, turning several times. It will be 
nice and tender, gravy a rich brown without thickening. 



SPICED BEEF. 
Chop two pounds fresh beef, enough to fill four cups. 
Soak two slices bread, either toasted or plain, in one and 
one-half cups of milk and add to the raw beef. Cut fine 
two slices of fat salt pork and add to beef, together with 
three even teaspoonfuls salt and three even teaspoonfuls 
Bell's spiced seasoning. Place in a buttered pan. Cut a 
piece of butter the size of an egg in small pieces and dis- 
tribute over the top. Bake from one to one and a half hours. 



MINXE MEAT. 

DR. MARY SHERBURNE. 

Three pints meat, chopped fine, six pints chopped apple, 
four cups molasses, two cups plain cider, one cup boiled 
cider, three cups sugar, four and one-half teaspoonfuls cin- 
namon, one and one-half teaspoonfuls cloves, two nutmegs, 
four teaspoonfuls salt. Measure meat and apples after 
chopping. Raisins, stoned and chopped. Use, if de- 
sired, citron and lemon. Cook slowlv two hours. 



MEATS. 29 

CHOPPED LAMB ON TOAST. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Chop what cooked lamb you may have, add butter, pep- 
per and salt, and enough lamb broth to make quite juicy. 
Serve hot on toast. 



CHICKEN CROQUETTES. 

MRS. BESSIE E. GOODNOW. 
Cooked chicken, chopped fine ; season with salt, pepper, 
and a few drops onion juice ; moisten with a sauce made of 
two heaping tablespoonfuls corn starch, two tablespoonfuls 
butter and one pint of milk, salt, pepper, and one beaten 
egg. Cook till it thickens ; mix with chicken, cool, shape, 
roll in crumbs, dip in egg, and fry in hot fat. 



VEAL LOAF. 

MRS. ORPHIA KNIGHT. 

Three pounds raw veal, one-half pound raw salt pork, 
chopped fine, three common crackers, rolled, three eggs, 
one teaspoonful pepper, one tablespoonful salt. Put into 
breadpan to bake. Baste, while baking, with butter size 
of an egg and water. Bake three hours ; slice cold. 



BONED CHICKEN. 

MRS. MABEE HAINES. 

Boil a chicken in as little water as possible until meat 
will fall from bones ; remove all skin, chop together light 
and dark parts ; season with pepper and salt. Boil down 
liquid in which chicken was boiled, then pour it on meat ; 
place in tin, wrap tightly in cloth, press with heavy weight 
several hours. Serve cold, cut in thin slices. 



NICE WAY TO COOK CHICKEN. 

MRS. BESSIE L. GOODNOW. 

Joint the chicken and fry in pork fat till brown; remove. 
One tablespoonful chopped onion browned in the fat, add 
tablespoonful flour and brown, then add one pint of hot 
water or more to make sufficient gravy, season with salt 
and pepper, and add one-half cup strained tomato. Lay 
chicken in gravy, cover, and cook slowly till tender. 



30 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

LAMB CROQUETTES. 

Prepare five cups of chopped lamb. Take one and one- 
half even teaspoonfuls butter, melt in saucepan and add 
one heaping tablespoonful flour and one cup milk, stirring 
continually until it boils. Add one even teaspoonful Bell's 
spiced seasoning and one even teaspoonful salt. Break 
one egg over the meat. Pour over same the sauce made 
as above, and stir thoroughly. Make into croquettes of 
size desired and put in a cool place to harden. Fry in hot 
lard. Serve with green peas. (Chicken or beef croquettes 
made in the same manner are excellent.) 



BROILED MEAT CAKES. 

WILL BOWLES. 
Chop finely lean, raw beef, season with salt and pepper, 
shape in small, flat cakes, and broil in a greased broiler or 
frying pan. Spread with butter. If cakes are pressed too 
compactly they will be found solid. 



MINCE PIE MEAT. 

MRS. WILL PHILLIPS. 

Four pounds of beef, chopped fine, one peck of apples, 
chopped, two pounds currants, one pound brown sugar, 
two quarts sweet cider, one-half cup salt, one tablespoonful 
mace, one tablespoonful cinnamon, two nutmegs, one 
pound suet, chopped fine, four pounds raisins, stoned, one 
pound citron, one quart molasses, one pound boiled cider, 
one teaspoonful white pepper, teaspooonful each allspice 
and cloves, one-half cup rose water. 



MEAT SHORTCAKE. 

.MRS. J I' LI A A. BURT. 

Make a crust like biscuit, using a little more butter, 
divide in halves, roll about half an inch thick, put in a 
biscuit pan, spread with butter, roll other half and lay over 
it; bake in hot oven. Chop pieces of cold meat coarsely, 
put in stewpan with cold gravy if you have it, if not, use 
hot water, season with butter and salt, and thicken with a 
little flour. Simmer until ready to use. Split the cake, 
when done, and pour in the warm meat and gravy, put on 
top crust and serve immediately. Cold turkey or chicken 
is nice used in this way. 



MEATS. 31 

MEAT PUFF. 

MRS. NELUE HARRIS. 

Chop fine any kind of cooked lean meat, and season with 
salt and pepper. Put it in a baking dish and pour over it 
gravy, if there is any; if not, put in butter and water. 
Cover with mashed potato, well seasoned, and bake to a 
light brown. 



BEEF STEAK PIE. 

MRS. JULIA BURT. 

Take about one pint cold roast beef, put on stove with 
one quart hot water, (add an onion if desired,) let it sim- 
mer two hours, and add more water as it boils away. 
When done, add gravy that has been left and thicken, add 
pepper and salt to taste. Make a crust of one pint of flour, 
two teaspoonfuls baking powder, one teaspoonful salt; sift 
all together; with the hands work in one-half cup lard and 
butter, then wet up with milk. Line a deep dish, have 
seven hot boiled potatoes, place in dish, then add meat 
and gravy, cover top with crust, having small hole in cen- 
ter to allow the gas to escape. Bake one-half hour. 



BOILED MINCE MEAT. 

MRS. FRED G. SANBORN. 

Three bowls of meat, five bowls of apple, one bowl of 
molasses, one bowl cider, one bowl vinegar, two bowls 
raisins, one bowl suet or butter, five bowls sugar, two 
tablespoons cinnamon, cloves and nutmeg, salt, pepper, 
ginger, rind and juice of three lemons. Boil well together. 



BEEF STEAK PIE. 

MRS. MAUDE PEABODY. 

Cut beef into small pieces, have some flour ready, sea- 
soned with salt and pepper, roll pieces of meat in the flour. 
Place the meat in a well-buttered basin, cover with pieces 
of butter and fill with cold water. Put a rich crust on and 
bake an hour. Take from oven, sit on back part of stove, 
and let it simmer slowly for two hours, adding hot water 
if necessary. 



Vegetables. 



" The onion strong, the parsnip sweet, 
The twining bean, the ruddy beet, 
Yea, all the garden brings to light 
Speaks it — a landscape of delight." 



CREAM OF MACARONI. 

SOPHIA DODGE. 

Make a rich cream sauce ; boil macaroni in salted water. 
When done, drain, then put in the sauce and grate cheese 
on top on small lumps of butter. Brown in hot oven. 

Cream Dressing. — One-half teaspoon salt, one-half 
teaspoon mustard, three-fourths tablespoon sugar, one egg 
slightly beaten, two and one-half tablespoons melted but- 
ter, three-fourths cup cream, one-fourth cup vinegar. Mix 
all together, adding vinegar slowly. Cook over hot water 
until it thickens, stirring all the time. Strain and cool. 



HOT SLAW. 

MRS. ROBERT PECKETT. 

Sliced cabbage, using one-half the cabbage. Heat in a 
dressing made of yolks of two eggs, slightly beaten, one- 
fourth cup cold water, one tablespoon butter, one-fourth 
cup hot vinegar, one-half teaspoon salt, stirred over hot 
water until it thickens. 



PARSNIP STEW. 

MRS. BERTHA NEESON. 

Boil until done equal amounts of potato and parsnips, 
either sliced or chopped. Season with a little butter, pep- 
per and salt. Add as much sweet milk as desired. Serve 
very hot. 



VEGETABLES. 33 



FRANCONIA POTATOES. 

MRS. KERR. 

To be baked with roast beef : Wash potatoes of uniform 
size, boil with jackets on in salted water. When three- 
fourths done take from fire and remove jackets, put in 
dripping pan with meat and baste well until thoroughly 
done. 



SOUTHERN WAY OF COOKING RICE. 
Pick over desired quantity of rice carefully. Place in a 
kettle and add enough boiling water to more than cover 
the rice. Boil briskly for half an hour, adding more water 
if necessary. Drain the rice, pour boiling water over it, 
shake, and put in a place where it will keep warm. Shake 
up a few times before serving. This makes the kernels 
separate. 



PARSNIPS. 

SOPHIA DODGE. 

Wash and scrape, boil in salted boiling water, then let 
cool and fry in butter until brown. 



SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Place in a baking dish a layer of potatoes, a thin layer 
of onion, a layer of crackers, and so on until the dish is 
full. Season, cover with milk, and bake. 



A WESTERN DISH. 

MRS. ALVIX GRIMES. 

Take green tomatoes, cook until tender, peel, and sea- 
son with butter, pepper and salt. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 

MRS. KERR. 

Mash potatoes, add butter and beaten whites of two 
eggs, season with salt and pepper, shape in balls the size 
of an egg. Have a tin sheet well buttered and place balls 
on it, brush over with beaten egg, brown in oven. When 
done, slip a knife under them and slide on to a platter, 
sprinkle with brown bread crumbs, garnish with parsley. 



34 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

SHADOW POTATOES. 

MRS. M. M. RIDEOUT. 

Slice four raw potatoes with a vegetable slicer into a 
bowl of ice water. Let stand for two hours, changing the 
water two or three times. Drain, and plunge into a kettle 
of boiling water, and boil one minute. Drain again, cover 
with ice water. Take from water and dry between towels. 
Fry in deep fat until a light brown. 



POTATO PUFF. 

MRS. AIvVIN GRIMES. 

Six good-sized potatoes boiled and mashed, add two 
eggs, one cup sweet cream, one-half teaspoonful salt. 
Beat thoroughly and bake fifteen minutes in a hot oven, 
or until hot and browned on top. 



POTATO PIE. 

MRS. I. M. BALLARD. 

To use the remains of different kinds of meat chop all 
together very fine, carefully removing all gristle. Season 
to taste with salt, pepper, and a dash of onion if the flavor 
is liked. Put in a pudding dish with bits of butter and 
soup stock, or water, to make moist. Spread over the top 
cold mashed potato. Cover this with finely-powdered 
cracker or stale bread crumbs. Moisten with bits of butter 
and a little milk, and bake slowly until a rich brown. 
Fine for tea. Another way to use cold mashed potato is 
to make into small balls, dip in flour, and fry in plenty of 
hot lard. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 

MRS. ALVIN GRIMES. 

One and one-half pints mashed potato mixed lightly 
with the well-beaten whites of two eggs, a little pepper, 
one teaspoonful salt. Make into balls, roll in the yolks of 
the eggs, then in cracker crumbs, and fry in hot lard. 



FRENCH FRIED POTATOES. 

MRS. ALYIN CRIMES. 

One dozen medium-sized potatoes, cooked, but not over- 
done ; cut in quarters and fry in hot lard until brown; salt 
a little before serving. 



VEGETABLES. 35 



EGGS IN A BASKET. 

MRS. ADDIE NOYES. 

Line gem pans with mashed potatoes and drop an egg 
in the center, add a lump of butter, a dash of pepper, salt, 
place in oven and bake a few minutes. 



POTATO IN SHELLS. 

MRS. ADDIE NOYES. 

Bake potatoes, cut open, dig out potato, mash, add but- 
ter, cream, pepper and salt. Place in potato shells, return 
to oven ; brown. 



MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

Beets are very nice cooked until tender, chopped, and 
seasoned with salt, pepper, butter and vinegar. 



MRS. ALVIN GRIMES. 

Beets are very nice baked. Do not cut or mar in any 
way. 

Carrots are nice cooked well, sliced thin, and served 
with cream, pepper and salt. 

Parsnips may be boiled until tender, peeled, sliced, and 
seasoned with butter, pepper and salt. 



SARATOGA CHIPS. 

MRS. C. A. PEABODY. 

Cut raw potatoes in slices as thin as wafers with a thin, 
sharp knife, and lay them in ice water over night. A bit 
of alum will make them more crisp. Next morning rinse 
in cold water and dry with a towel. Have ready a kettle 
of lard hotter than for fried cakes, and drop in the potatoes 
a few at a time. They will brown quickly. Skim out, 
put in a colander and sprinkle with salt. 



CREAMED POTATOES. 

MRS. FRANCES A. PARKER. 

Slice thin half a dozen boiled potatoes, add a pint sweet 
milk, butter size of an egg } a little salt and pepper. Wet 
a teaspoonful of flour and smooth, mix with potatoes and 
bake half an hour. 



36 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

SCALLOPED POTATOES. 

MRS. NELLIE HARRIS. 

Pare and slice thin raw potatoes. Butter a pudding dish 
and put in a layer of potatoes, seasoned with salt and bits 
of butter, then a layer of cracker crumbs and another of 
potato, and so on till the dish is nearly full. Fill the dish 
with milk and a sprinkle of cracker crumbs on top. A 
beaten egg makes it very nice, but it will do without. 
Bake two hours in a slow oven. 



SCALLOPED TOMATOES. 

MRS. FRED SANBORN. 

Put a layer of cracker crumbs in a well-buttered baking 
dish, next a layer of sliced tomatoes, season with pepper 
and salt. Continue this until dish is full, having a layer 
of crumbs on top. 



COLD SLAW. 

MRS. PHILLIPS. 

One-half pint of cream, one-half pint good vinegar, one 
small cup sugar, three eggs beaten very light, lump of 
butter size of an egg, one heaping teaspoonful ground 
mustard, pepper and salt. Cook all together until like a 
custard. When cool pour over cabbage, cut fine. 



CREAMED MACARONI AND CHEESE. 

BESSIE L. GOODNOW. 
One cup broken macaroni cooked in salted water until 
tender. Drain, pour cold water through it, put in shallow 
dish. Take one tablespoon butter, one tablespoon flour, 
one and one-half cups hot milk, one-half cup grated cheese, 
and pour over macaroni. Sprinkle with crumbs, bake till 
brown. 



POTATO CROQUETTES. 

SOPHIA DODGE. 

Two cups of hot riced potatoes, two tablespoons butter, 
yolks of three eggs, one-half teaspoon salt, a few grains 
cayenne. Mix well, roll in egg, then cracker crumbs, then 
fry in deep lard in a basket. 



Salads and Salad Dressing. 

" To make a perfect salad there should be a spendthrift for oil, 
a miser for vinegar, a wise man for salt, and a madcap to stir the 
ingredients up and mix them well together. V — Spanish Proverb. 



POTATO SALAD. 

MRS. AEYIN GRIMES. 

Take six or eight potatoes, not done too much, slice as 
thin as possible and not break, one-fourth of a small onion 
chopped fine sprinkled over the sliced potato, one-half 
teaspoon pepper, one rounding teaspoon salt. Set in ice 
after adding one-half cup good vinegar. Just before serv- 
ing, spread a few leaves of lettuce, take a fork and mix it 
with the potato. To this can be added sliced hard-boiled 
eggs; it is good with or without them. This is a German 
dish and is usually used without dressing. 



SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. MELZOR WATSON. 

Two tablespoons dry mustard, one-half cup red vinegar, 
one teaspoon sugar, one teaspoon salt, small one-half tea- 
spoon red pepper. Put two-thirds cup sweet milk in a 
double boiler and when hot add one-half cup melted butter, 
three eggs, slightly beaten, and stir briskly. As soon as 
it begins to thicken add the vinegar, sugar, salt, pepper 
and mustard. When thoroughly whipped in remove from 
fire. This will keep a long time if put in a glass can and 
kept where it is cold. 



POTATO AND EGG SALAD. 

.MRS. MABEL HAINES. 

Hard boil three eggs thirty minutes ; shell and cut fine 
with silver knife. Boil three or four potatoes ; dice while 
hot. Mix with cut eggs and add French dressing ; let 
stand till cold. Serve on bed of watercress with more 
French dressing, or boiled dressing thinned with vinegar. 



3 8 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. NELLIE PEABODY. 

Two eggs, add one teaspoon mustard, one and one-half 
teaspoon salt, one-half cup butter, and dissolve one spoon- 
ful corn starch in one and one-half cups milk. Put the 
above in a double boiler and cook until smooth. 



POTATO SALAD. 

SOPHIA DODGE. 

Slice cold boiled potatoes in thin slices. Sprinkle four 
cupfuls with one-half tablespoon salt and one-fourth tea- 
spoon pepper. Add four tablespoons of oil, mix well, then 
add two tablespoons vinegar and a few drops onion juice. 
Place on a dish and gariaish with cold hard-boiled eggs, 
boiled beets and parsley. 



CREAM SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. I. M. BALLARD. 

Mix together one teaspoon mustard, one tablespoon 
sugar, one-half teaspoon salt and the yolks of two eggs, 
then drop in slowly one-half cup (scant) butter, melted, 
and one-half cup vinegar — very slowly — then add the 
beaten whites of the eggs. Put in a double boiler and cook 
until thick. When very cool add one cup cream well 
whipped. This will keep a long time in a cool place. 



CUCUMBER AND ONION SALAD. 

MRS. MABEL HAINES. 

Pare cucumbers and lay in ice water one hour; do same 
with onions in another bowl. Then slice them in propor- 
tion of one onion to three large cucumbers ; arrange in a 
salad bowl and season with vinegar, pepper and salt. 



SALAD DRESSING. 

MRS. MINNIE E. BARKER. 

Beat up two eggs with two tablespoons sugar, add a 
piece of butter size of half an egg, one teaspoon mustard, 
a little pepper and salt, lastly a teacup of vinegar. Cook 
all these ingredients in a double boiler like soft custard. 
This is improved by adding one-half cup of either sweet or 
sour cream ; in that case use less vinegar. 



SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING. 39 

TOMATO SALAD. 

MRS. JESSEMAN. 

Soak three-fourths box of gelatine in one-half cup cold 
water. Cook a can of tomatoes, one-half onion, a bay 
leaf, two cloves, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon sugar, 
a dash of pepper and celery salt. Cook ten minutes ; add 
gelatine, stir until dissolved. Strain into a mould or small 
cups, and fill center with chopped celery or cabbage salad. 
Serve with cream dressing:. 



CABBAGE SALAD. 

MRS. L. B. HOWARD. 

Boil one-half cup vinegar with one-half teaspoon each of 
salt and mustard, two teaspoons sugar, a little pepper and 
a dash of cayenne. Rub one level teaspoon flour in one- 
fourth cup butter, pour the boiling vinegar on it 
and cook five minutes. Pour the mixture on a well-beaten 
egg. Mix while hot with one pint chopped cabbage. 



HAM SALAD. 

MRS. JESSEMAX. 

Chop cooked ham, equal amount fat and lean ; chop 
equal amount of celery. Serve on lettuce with dressing. 



LOBSTER SALx\D. 

MRS. GEORGE DEXTER. 

One large lobster, two hard-boiled eggs, mashed fine, 
four tablespoons sweet oil, (or softened butter,) one tea- 
spoon salt, one-half teaspoon mustard, one-fourth teaspoon 
cayenne pepper, one cup vinegar. Mix all well, add cel- 
ery or crisp lettuce, garnish with sliced hard-boiled eggs. 



CELERY SALAD. 

MRS. MABEL HAINES. 

Two bunches celery, one tablespoon salad oil, four 
tablespoons vinegar, one small teaspoon fine sugar, pepper 
and salt to taste. Wash and scrape celery, lay in ice-cold 
water until time to serve, then cut into pieces, add above 
seasoning. Stir well together with fork and serve in 
salad bowl. 



Griddle Calces and Fritters. 



GRIDDLE CAKES. 

.AIRS. W. 1". PARKER. 
One well-beaten egg, one cup milk, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, two cups flour. 



BREAD CRUMB GRIDDLES. 

MRS. GOLDEN. 

Pour one pint of warm, sweet milk over two cups stale 
bread crumbs, add two eggs, let all stand fifteen minutes, 
then add one cup flour, two teaspoons cream tartar and 
one teaspoon soda. Mix and fry in a griddle. 



OLD-FASHIONED FLAPJACKS. 

MRS. W. F. PARKER. 

Make a batter of one pint sour milk with a spoonful of 
cream or a spoonful of butter, one egg, one teaspoon soda, 
flour enough to have it drop readily from spoon. Fry the 
cakes as large as tea plates, half an inch thick, spread with 
melted butter, sprinkle sugar over the butter and a little 
nutmeg (maple sugar is the best), and continue, one on 
top of the other, until the batter is used up. Cut in the 
shape of a pie right down through. Very good. Dried 
apple is nice between flapjacks. 



PEACH FRITTERS. 

MRS. M. M. RIDEOUT. 

Sift together one cupful flour, two tablespoons sugar, 
one teaspoon baking powder and one saltspoon salt. Beat 
one egg until very light, add one-third cup milk and pour 
on the first mixture. Add two peaches cut in small pieces, 
drop by spoonfuls into deep fat and fry. Drain, sprinkle 
with powdered sugar, and serve. 



GRIDDLE CAKES AND FRITTERS. 41 

OYSTER FRITTERS. 

MRS. PHILLIPS. 

Chop one pint of oysters. Take one pint of milk, a lit- 
tle salt and pepper, one teaspoon baking powder, flour 
enough to make a thin batter. Stir in the oysters. Drop 
from a spoon into hot lard ; fry brown. 



PARSNIP FRITTERS. 

ORPHIA KNIGHT. 

Boil four parsnips, remove skin, mash, add one table- 
spoon butter, one teaspoon salt, a little pepper. Make into 
flat cakes ; fry brown in butter. 



APPLE FRITTERS. 

BESSIE L. GOODNOW. 

Make a batter with one cup of milk, one teaspoon sugar, 
two eggs, two teaspoons baking powder in two cups flour. 
Cut fine four tart apples, mix with batter, fry in spoonfuls 
in hot fat. Serve with maple syrup, or one cup of sugar 
and one-half cup of hot water boiled together. 



CORN FRITTERS. 

MRS. W. F. PARKER. 

One pint of corn, three tablespoons milk, one cup flour, 
one teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon salt, a little 
pepper, one or two eggs. Fry on a hot griddle. 



BANANA FRITTERS. 

MRS. GEORGE DEXTER. 

One cup flour, two level teaspoons baking powder, two 
level teaspoons sugar, one-fourth teaspoon salt, sifted to- 
gether. Add one beaten egg, one-fourth cup milk, one 
tablespoon lemon juice, two bananas cut into dice. Stir 
into batter and drop in spoonfuls into hot fat as for dough- 
nuts. Fry crisp and brown, take up on brown paper to 
drain, and roll in powdered sugar. Sauce: One and one- 
half tablespoons corn starch, one-fourth cup cold water; 
dissolve, and stir into three-fourths cup boiling water. 
Add grating of lemon rind and cook ten minutes, then add 
one tablespoon lemon juice, one-half cup sugar. Let sauce 
boil up once, strain, and pour round fritters. 



Bread and Doughnuts. 



WHEAT BREAD. 



Three quarts sifted flour, one heaping teaspoon salt, one 
heaping teaspoon sugar, one dessert spoonful lard, two- 
thirds cake of yeast, one quart warm water. Soften the 
yeast with a little of the water, mix all the ingredients 
well, and knead with the hands a little. Let it rise over 
night. Knead this well in the morning, put into three 
pans and let it rise till near the top of pans. Bake one 
hour. (Very sure.) 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

MRS. HENRY SPOON ER. 

One cup sour milk, one-half cup molasses, one teaspoon 
soda, salt, one egg. Mix one part flour to two parts gra- 
ham flour. 



GRAHAM BREAD. 

MRS. DODGE. 

One teaspoonful salt, one pint bread sponge, one-half 
cup molasses, one-half cup sweet milk, one : half cup boil- 
ing water poured into the milk, one-half teaspoon soda, 
dissolved. Stir in sufficient graham flour to make it thick 
enough to pour right in the pan for baking. Have your 
pans well greased and pour in the mixture. Let it rise, 
and bake about an hour when light. 



BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. H. L. JOHNSON. 

One and one-half cups rye, one and one-half cups gra- 
ham, one and one-half cups Indian meal, one cup molasses, 
one pint sour milk, three teaspoonfuls soda, one teaspoon- 
ful salt. Beat all together hard, and steam in one-pound 
coffee cans. 



BREAD AND DOUGHNUTS. 43 

BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

One cup molasses, one cup hot water, two cups corn 
meal, one cup flour, saltspoonful soda. Steam in tin pint 
fruit cans two hours. 

OATMEAL BREAD. 

MRS. S. C. BROOKS. 

Pour one and one-half cups boiling water over one cup 
of Quaker oats and let it stand until cool. Add one-fourth 
of a yeast cake, three-fourths cup molasses, salt, a very 
little lard, three cups flour. Rise over night; stir down; 
let rise again, then put in pans, rise, and bake in slow oven. 



BROWN BREAD. 

MRS. KERR. 

Two cups sour milk, one cup molasses, one teaspoon 
ginger, large teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt, two 
cups rye. and one cup of corn meal. Steam four hours. 



ROLLS. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Scald one cup milk, add one cup hot water, one table- 
spoon sugar, one teaspoon salt. When lukewarm, add 
one-fourth yeast cake dissolved in one-fourth cup luke- 
warm water, and flour enough to knead. Knead until 
smooth, let rise, shape into rolls, rise again, and bake in a 
hot oven fifteen minutes. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. LUCY DEXTER. 

Boil and mash two medium-sized potatoes and stir them 
into a pint of boiling milk, a little salt, and three-fourths 
cup of sugar. Set aside till lukewarm. Then add two 
well-beaten eggs and one-half yeast cake dissolved in a 
little water. Let this rise till light, then add one-half cup 
butter and flour to mould. Let this rise in a warm place 
for about four hours and roll out one-half inch thick, cut 
with a small round cutter, and let rise again. Fr3 r in boil- 
ing fat. Roll in sugar when done. This will make about 
fifty. Be sure they rise enough before putting in fat. 



44 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

FLOUR ROLLS. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

One-half cup sugar, one egg, one-half cup sweet milk, one 
cup flour, one rounding teaspoonful baking powder, butter 
size of an egg. 



GRAHAM ROLLS. 

MRS. M. A. BOWLES. 

One egg, one-half cup molasses, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoonful soda, two teaspoonfuls ginger, one-half tea- 
spoonful salt, one and one-half cups graham flour. 



PARKER HOUSE ROLLS. 

MRS. HIBBARD BOWLES. 

One quart of warm milk, two quarts of flour, one large 
tablespoon of lard rubbed into flour, one cup of yeast (or 
one j-east cake), one-half cup of vinegar, one-half teaspoon 
salt. Knead hard ; let it have cold rising ; knead down at 
noon, then again at four o'clock. Roll out, let rise, and 
bake in time for tea. 



OAT MEAL BREAD. 

MRS. L. J. JESSEMAN. 

Pour one and one-fourths cups boiling water over one 
and one-half cups rolled oats, add a large spoonful of lard, 
one-half cup sugar, one teaspoon salt. When cool, add a 
whole yeast cake. Mix very stiff with white flour; in 
morning mould into loaves. 



SOUR MILK BISCUIT. 

MRS. GEO. WELLS. 

One quart thick sour milk, two tablespoons sour cream, 
one heaping teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt, flour. 
Roll, and cut out. 



BAKING POWDER BISCUIT. 

MRS. SROOXER. 

One quart flour, two heaping teaspoons baking powder, 
lard size of an egg worked into flour, salt ; mix with sweet 
milk just hard enough to roll out. Bake in quick oven. 



BREx\D AND DOUGHNUTS. 45 

CREAM BISCUIT. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Two quarts flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one- 
half cup thick, sweet cream mixed with flour, salt, stir up 
with milk. Roll, and bake in hot oven. 



RAISED DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. BEAN. 

One quart light bread sponge, one pint warm water, two 
eggs, one cup sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, three teaspoons 
lard, one teaspoon cinnamon. Mix same as for bread. 
Raise light, roll out, cut and fry in hot lard. If made 
without sugar, nice with coffee. 



DOUGHNUTS. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

One and one-half cups sour milk, one cup sugar, one 
egg } small level teaspoon soda, salt, nutmeg, three table- 
spoons melted lard. Mix soft and roll. 



CRULLERS. 
One pound granulated sugar, four ounces butter, one 
pint milk (good measure), four eggs, three heaping tea- 
spoons baking powder, two and one-half pounds flour. 
You may have to add a little flour in rolling out, but they 
are better if the dough is quite soft. Use about two pounds 
lard to boil them in. Roll, while hot, in pulverized sugar. 

DOUGHNUTS.. 

MRS. IVORY GLOVIER. 

One cup sugar, one cup sour milk, one-half cup sour 
cream, one egg, one level teaspoon soda, pinch of salt, a 
little nutmeg, flour enough to roll nicely. Have the lard 
not smoking hot, but hot enough so the doughnuts will 
rise quickly to the top. Turn as soon as they rise, and 
turn quite frequently till done a light brown. 

GRAHAM ROLLS. 

MRS. SPOONER. 

One cup sour milk, one small spoonful sugar, one egg, 
one-half teaspoon soda, one-half teaspoon salt. Mix with 
graham flour until stiff enough to drop from spoon. 



Corn Cake, Gems, Etc. 



CORN CAKE. 

MRS. FRANK WHITNEY. 

One cup corn meal, one cup flour, one cup milk, two- 
thirds cup butter, one-half cup sugar, two eggs, one tea- 
spoonful cream tartar, one-half teaspoonful soda. 



CORN CAKE. 

MRS. HARRIET B. BOWLES. 

One egg, one cup sugar, one cup Indian meal, one cup 
flour, one cup milk, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
tablespoon melted butter poured in last. 



CORN CAKE. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

One-half cup sugar, one egg, one-half cup corn meal, 
one cup flour, one cup milk, very heaping teaspoon baking 
powder, little salt. 



CORN CAKE. 

MRS. SUE EDSON. 

One cup meal, one cup flour, one-third cup sugar, one- 
half cup butter (scant), one cup milk, two eggs, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 



CORN CAKE. 

MRS. WILL PHILLIPS. 

One tablespoon sugar, one tablespoon butter, one egg, 
one cup sweet milk, one cup granulated meal, one cup 
flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda. 



CORN CAKE, GEMS, Etc. 47 
GRAHAM GEMS. 

MRS. MAUDE PEABODY. 

One egg, one-fourth cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, 
one cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one and one- 
fourth cups graham flour. Bake in gem tins twenty 
minutes. 



POPOVERS. 

MRS. SPOONER. 

One cup sweet milk, one cup flour, one large egg or two 
small ones, salt, heat roll-iron, and bake in a quick oven. 



POPOVERS. 

MRS. MAUDE PEABODY. 

Three cups milk, three cups flour, three eggs. Bake 
half an hour in quick oven in cups. 



MUFFINS. 

MRS. ADDIE MERRILL. 

One and one-half cups sweet milk, one-half cup sugar, 
two eggs, three cups flour, two teaspoons cream tartar, one 
teaspoon soda, butter size of an egg. Beat till light ; bake 
in quick oven. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKE. 

MRS. HIBBARD BOWLES. 

Two eggs, two-thirds cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
one cup thick sour milk, one-half teaspoon soda. Mix 
enough buckwheat flour to make a thick batter, and bake. 



BUCKWHEAT CAKE. 

MRS. ANN QUIMBY. 

One egg, one-half cup molasses, one cup sour milk, four 
tablespoons sour cream, one teaspoon soda. Buckwheat 
flour enough to make a thin batter. Bake in hot oven in 
a bread tin. 



Cake and Cookies. 



Aye, to the leavening, but here's yet in the aw*/ hereafter the 

kneading, the making of the cake, the heating of ike oven, and the 
baking. Nay, yon must stay the cooling, too, or yon may chance to 
burn your month. — Shakespeare. 



WHITE MOUNTAIN CAKE. 

MRS. HATTIE PHILLIPS. 

Whites and yolks of four eggs, beaten separately, two 
cups white sugar, one cup milk, three cups flour, one-hall 
cup butter, two teaspoons cream tartar, one teaspoon soda. 
Flavor to taste. 



BRIDE'S CAKE. 

MRS. MINNIE E. PARKER. 

Cream together one-half cup butter, and one and one- 
half cups sugar, add one-half cup milk, then the beaten 
whites of six eggs ; sift one and one-half teaspoons baking 
powder into one-half cup corn starch mixed with one and 
one-half cups sifted flour, and beat in gradually. Flavor 
to taste. Beat all thoroughly, then put in a deep buttered 
tin lined with letter paper, well buttered. Bake slowly in 
a moderate oven. Ice the top. This makes a beautiful 
as well as a delicious white cake. The recipe can be 
doubled with perfect success. 



A GOOD PLAIN CAKE. 

MAUD CHESLEV. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one level teaspoon cream tartar, one-half 
teaspoon soda, one and one-half cups flour. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 49 

ORANGE CAKE. 

MRS. MAUDE PEABODY. 

One cup sugar, two tablespoons of melted butter, one 
cup milk, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in the milk, 
one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon cream tartar sift- 
ed with the flour. Bake in layer cake tins. 

Filling. — Juice and rind of one orange mixed with one 
cup sugar spread between cake. 



ORANGE CAKE. 

MISS O. KNIGHT. 

Yolks of five eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup water, 
juice and rind of one orange, two cups of flour, two tea- 
spoons baking powder. Whites of four of the eggs beaten 
stiff and folded in. 

Filling and Frosting. — White of one egg, some 
sugar, then rind and juice of one orange, and sugar to 
spread. 



MOTHER'S CREAM CAKE. 

ELIZABETH PARKER. 

Break two eggs in a cup, fill the cup with cream, one 
cup sugar, one and one-half cups flour, one-half teaspoon 
soda, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, a pinch of salt. 
Flavor with lemon or vanilla. Stir until thoroughlv mixed. 



NUT CAKE. 

MRS. DEXTER WOODS. 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup milk, two and one-half cups flour, one 
and one-half teaspoon baking powder, one cup nuts. 



WHITE SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. DAISY COLBV. 

Whites of six eggs beaten stiff, one cup sugar, three- 
fourths cup flour, scant teaspoon cream tartar, a little salt, 
flavor with vanilla. Bake about forty minutes in an angel 
cake tin. Have oven hot when it is put to bake; let cool 
as it bakes. 



5 o OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

NICK CAKE. 

.MRS. AI.VIN GRIMES. 

One pint sour milk or butter milk, one and one-half cups 
sugar, one-half cup molasses or maple sugar, one-half cup 
of lard or butter, one cup of raisins, one rounding teaspoon 
of soda put into milk, flour enough to drop from the spoon. 



NUT FROSTING. 

MRS. JESSEMAN. 
One cup sour cream, one cup sugar, one cup nut meats. 
Boil sugar and cream together till thick and clear, fifteen 
or twenty minutes. Just before taking from the stove boil 
in the nut meats. Stir to keep from sticking. Let it be 
cool before spreading. 



MAPLE SUGAR FROSTING. 
AVIS G. GRIMES. 
One cup maple sugar, add water. Place on stove until 
it is brittle when put into cold water. Have the white of 
one egg beaten very stiff. Slowly add to this the boiling 
syrup, beating all the while. When it thickens spread on 
the cake. 



POUR MAN'S CAKE. 
One cup sugar, one cup flour, one-half cup sweet milk, 
one egg, one spoonful butter, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoon soda. Put all in a dish and beat well. 
Flavor to taste; bake quickly. 



MAPLE SUGAR CAKE. 

ADDIK MERRILL. 

Two cups maple sugar, one and one-half cups butter, 
three and one-half cups flour, one cup sweet milk, three 
eggs, one teaspoon soda, and two of cream tartar. 



CAKE WITHOUT EGGS. 
One cup molasses, one coffee cup raisins, one cup sour 
milk, one cup sugar, one cup butter, one teaspoon each of 
cloves, cassia and nutmeg, one teaspoon soda in little hot 
water, one quart flour. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 51 

VARIETY CAKE. 

MRS. IDA M. BALLARD. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter (scant) , 
two cups flour, one-half cup milk, three eggs, whites and 
yolks beaten separately, one-half teaspoon soda, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar. Take a little more than one-third of 
the mixture, add to it one-half cup seeded raisins, and one 
teaspoon each of all kinds of spice, and one tablespoon 
molasses. Bake the remaining quantity in two layers. 
Put the dark layer between the other two with a thin coat 
of jelly or soft frosting, as preferred. 



MOLASSES DROP CAKE. 

One egg, one cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup boil- 
ing water, one cup butter, five even cups flour, one heap- 
ing teaspoon soda. 



COCOANUT FILLING. 

The whites of two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup of 
cocoanut. 



ONE-HALF CAKE. 

MISS O. KNIGHTS. 

One-half cup butter, (cream), one-half cup sugar, (mix), 
yolk of one egg, (beat,) one-half cup of molasses, one-half 
cup of water, one-half teaspoon soda. Into one and one- 
half cups of flour put one-half teaspoon of ground cloves, 
one-half teaspoon cinnamon. 

Filling. — One cup sugar, one-fourth cup water. Boil 
until it threads. Pour over the beaten white and add one 
cup raisins. 



ROSE CAKE. 

MABEL PARKER. 

Five eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup 

sweet milk, three and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon 

cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Flavor with rose 

water or vanilla. 



52 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

LAYER CAKE. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Beat two cups sugar with one cup sweet cream. Add 
yolks of three eggs, three cups flour mixed with two tea- 
spoons baking powder and one teaspoon salt, then add 
another one-half cup cream, the well-beaten whites of the 
eggs, and flavoring. This makes three layers. 

Orange Filling. — Beat together the juice and rind of 
one orange, one egg and one cup of sugar. Add two 
tablespoons of thick sweet cream. Cook over hot water 
until the mixture thickens, stirring all the time. Cool and 
spread between the layers. Sprinkle top of cake with sugar. 



MARTHA WASHINGTON CAKE. 

MRS. DKXTER WOODS. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one 
egg, two tablespoons butter, one teaspoon cream tartar, 
one-half teaspoon sOda. 



WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. H. L. JOHNSON. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, one-half cup sweet 
milk, whites of three eggs beaten stiff, one and one-half 
cups flour, one teaspoon baking powder, one teaspoon 
vanilla. The more it is beaten the better it is. The whites 
of the eggs are added last. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

.MRS. GEO. KERR. 

One cup sugar, three tablespoons milk, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, one-half cup butter, 
one and one-half cups flour. Add to this six tablespoons 
grated chocolate, one-half cup chopped walnuts. Bake in 
three layers. 

Filling and Frosting. — Eight tablespoons grated 
chocolate, melt; add two cups sugar, eight tablespoons of 
milk, and boil five minutes : then add a cup of chopped 
walnuts. vStir until it begins to thicken. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 53 

OLD-FASHIONED ONE-TWO-THREE-FOUR 
CAKE. 

MRS. S. C. BROOKS. 

One cup butter, two cups sugar, three cups flour, four 
eggs, soda, spices and fruit if desired. 



ANGEL CAKE. 

MRS. HAMLIN PRIEST. 

Beat the whites of five eggs to a stiff froth, add one-half 
cup sugar stirred in gently, one-half cup flour after sifting 
four times ; add one-half teaspoon cream tartar to flour. 
Flavor with vanilla. 



COCOANUT CAKE. 

MRS. DODGE. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup butter, one cup milk, 
three cups flour, four eggs, one teaspoon soda, two tea- 
spoons cream tartar, one cocoanut, grated. This makes 
one large loaf cake. (Very fine.) 



ANGEL CAKE. 

MRS. MARIA CHENEY. 

Whites of twelve eggs, one cup pastry flour, one and 
one-half teacups granulated sugar, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one teaspoon vanilla. Sift flour, sugar and cream 
tartar together, beat whites to a very stiff froth, add flavor- 
ing, then the flour, sugar and cream tartar all together. 
Bake in moderate oven for nearly an hour. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

.MRS. DODGE. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar, two cups flour, one teaspoon 
salt, two teaspoons baking powder, one cup boiling-hot 
water last. 



MILK FROSTING. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Boil together two cups sugar, two-thirds cup milk and 
one tablespoon butter for ten minutes. Remove from stove 
and beat until creamy and thick enough to spread. Add 
one teaspoon vanilla. 



54 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

WALNUT CAKE. 

MRS. MELZOR WATSON. 

One cup sugar, two eggs, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two level teaspoons Royal baking powder, 
one-half pound chopped walnuts. No rule for flour. 



SPONGE CAKK. 

MAUDE CHESLKV. 

Three eggs well beaten, two-thirds cup sugar, two table- 
spoons sweet milk, one cup flour, one level teaspoon 
baking powder, pinch of salt. Flavor with lemon. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. F. G. HATCH. 

One tumbler sugar, four eggs, one teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoon soda, one tablespoon cream, one 
tumbler flour, flavor to taste. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. DEXTER WOODS. 

Three eggs, one and one-fourth cups sugar, one and 
one-half cups flour, one-half cup cold water, one and one- 
half teaspoon baking powder. 

SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Beat the yolks of six eggs until thick and lemon colored, 
add gradually one cup sugar and beat again, add the whites 
of six eggs beaten stiff and dry, and the juice and rind ,of 
one-half lemon. Cut and fold in one cup pastry flour into 
which has been mixed one saltspoon salt. Bake in a slow 
oven one hour. 



BERWICK SPONGE CAKE. 

MRS. FRANCES A. PARKER. 

Beat three eggs two minutes, one and one-half cups 
sugar, beat five minutes, one cup flour with one teaspoon 
cream tartar, beat one minute, one-half cup water with 
one-half teaspoon soda and one teaspoon extract of lemon 
or vanilla, beat one minute, another cup of flour, beat one 
minute. Bake slowly. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 55 

EVERY-DAY CAKE. 

MRS. LOUISE RICH. 

Two-thirds cup sugar, one egg, one-fourth cup butter, 
one cup milk, one teaspoon vanilla or lemon, two and 
one-half cups flour, pinch of salt, and two teaspoons of 
baking powder. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

MRS. E. B. PARKER. 

One cup sugar, creamed with four tablespoons butter, 
(never melt the butter). Add two eggs beaten to a cream 
and one-half cup strong, cold coffee. To one and one-half 
cups sifted flour add two teaspoons baking powder and 
sift all together into the above mixture. Beat well and 
bake. One-half teaspoon vanilla improves the cake. 

Icing for Coffee Cake. — Any white frosting flavored 
with vanilla is good, but if a symphony in color and taste 
is wanted mix powdered sugar with strong, cold coffee and 
a few drops of vanilla. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

MRS. DEXTER WOODS. 

One cup sugar molasses, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup coffee, two cups flour, one cup raisins, one teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon allspice. 



JELLY ROLL CAKE. 

MRS. MAUDE PEABODY. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, one cup flour, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
water, pinch of salt. When baked, spread on jell}' and 
roll. 



COFFEE CAKE. 

MRS. LOUISE RICH. 

One egg, one-half cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, 
one-half cup boiling-hot strong coffee, butter size of an 
egg, one-half teaspoon all kinds of spice, one cup chopped 
raisins, one cup flour, one teaspoon soda. 



56 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

EASY CAKE. 

MRS. DEXTER WOODS. 

One and one-half cups flour put in a dish and add one 
cup of sugar, one teaspoon baking powder, mix together. 
Drop one egg in a cup with three large spoonfuls of melted 
butter, fill the cup with milk and then beat all together. 

MAGIC CAKE. 

MRS. GEORGE KERR. 

One-half cup of butter and one cup of sugar, creamed, 
add three eggs, whites and yolks beaten together, three 
tablespoons of milk, one and one-half cups flour, one tea- 
spoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 

White Frosting. — One cup of sugar, three tablespoons 
of boiling water; boil until it hairs long. White of one egg 
beaten stiff, one-fourth teaspoon cream tartar. Add boiled 
siujar and stir until it is hard. 



SCOTCH CAKES. 

.MRS. HALSEY. 

One pound flour, three-fourths pound sugar, one-half 
pound butter or lard, two eggs, one-half cup molasses, two 
tablespoons ground cinnamon, two teaspoons baking pow- 
der. Mix thoroughly and roll very thin, and bake as you 
would cookies. 



MOTHER HUBBARD CAKE. 

MRS. H. R. PRIEST. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, two cups flour, one teaspoon lemon ex- 
tract, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 
Work butter and sugar to a cream before adding the rest. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

MA MEL PARKER. 

Three eggs, one scant cup sugar, one large cup flour, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-hall 
teaspoon soda. Just before putting into the oven, stir in 
one-fourth cup hot water. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 57 

ANGEL CAKE. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Three-fourths tumbler of sugar, one-half tumbler of flour, 
one-fourth teaspoon salt, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, 
whites of four eggs. Mix salt and cream tartar with flour. 



AURORA CAKE. 

MRS. C. E. NOYES. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup cold water, one and 
one-half cups flour, one cup sugar, two eggs, (whites and 
yolks beaten separately,) one teaspoon cream tartar, one- 
half teaspoon soda. Flavor to taste. 



SNOWBALL CAKE. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet 
milk, two cups flour, whites of three eggs, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda, a little salt. Beat 
the butter and sugar thoroughly together, add the whites 
of eggs beaten to a stiff foam, then the flour, cream tartar, 
milk, and the soda last. 

BLUEBERRY TEA CAKE. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

Two cups flour, one cup sour cream, one cup white 
sugar, one cup blueberries, one egg, one small 'teaspoon 
soda, a little salt. Beat all together in a basin before mix- 
ing. Bake in a biscuit tin. 



VELVET CAKE. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Cream one-half cup of butter, add gradually one and one- 
half cups sugar, the yolks of three eggs beaten well and 
one-half cup cold water. Mix one and one-half cups flour 
and one-half cup corn starch with two teaspoons baking 
powder, add to the first .mixture; add the whites of four 
eggs. Beat thoroughly seven minutes and bake in a sheet 
thirty minutes. Cover with chocolate frosting. 

Chocolate Frosting. — Melt two squares of Baker's 
chocolate, add three-fourths cup sugar and three table- 
spoons milk. Cook in a double boiler until smooth, add 
yolk of one egg. Cook one minute and pour over cake. 



5 8 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. HARRIET BOWLES. 

One-half cup butter, one cup sugar, stir to a cream, add 
two eggs, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup sweet milk, 
one and one-half teaspoon soda, one teaspoons allspice, 
nutmeg and clove, one cup raisins, one cup currants, one- 
half cup citron, two and one-half cups flour. Bake one 
hour. 



EAGLE CAKE. 

MRS. DEXTER WOODS. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one cup raisins, two 
cups flour, one-half teaspoon cloves, one-half nutmeg, one 
teaspoon soda. 



LILY CAKE. 

MRS. HAMLIN R. PRIEST. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sweet milk, 
one cup corn starch, two cups flour, whites of five eggs, 
one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Beat 
the starch, milk, soda and cream tartar together. Flavor 
with lemon. This makes two loaves. 



CHOCOLATE NOUGAT. 

MRS. M. M. RIDEOUT. 

Cream one-fourth cup butter, add slowly one and one- 
half cups powdered sugar, add one egg and beat well. 
Mix three teaspoons baking powder with two cups bread 
flour, add this alternately with two-thirds cup milk to first 
mixture. Melt two squares Baker's chocolate, add three 
tablespoons sugar and one-third cup milk. When cool, 
add to cake mixture. Flavor with one teaspoon vanilla. 
Bake in three sheets, and put together with White Moun- 
tain cream covered with shredded almonds. 

White Mountain Cream Frosting. — Boil one cup 
sugar and one-third cup water until it threads, pour the 
syrup slowly on to the beaten white of one egg, using egg- 
beater. Remove beater and beat with a spoon until cool 
enough to spread. Flavor with one-half teaspoon vanilla 
or one teaspoon lemon juice. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 59 

MOLASSES PUFFS. 

MRS. NETTIE V. STEVENS. 

Two tablespoons butter, one egg, one cup molasses, one- 
half cup sugar, one-half cup water, one teaspoon soda, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon ginger, two and 
one-half cups flour. 



MARBLE CAKE. 

MRS. W. L. SHEPHERD. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, two cups flour, one-half cup 
butter, one-half cup sweet milk, one-half teaspoon salt, 
three teaspoons baking powder, and mix chocolate with 
half of mixture. 

NICE LOAF CAKE. 

MRS. H. R. PRIEST. 

Three eggs, two cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one teaspoon soda, 
two teaspoons cream tartar, flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



BLACK WEDDING CAKE. 

MRS. CHESTER SIMPSON. 

One pound browned flour, one pound butter, one pound 
brown sugar, four pounds raisins, three pounds currants, 
one pound almonds, two pounds citron, one tablespoon 
cloves, one tablespoon cinnamon, one tablespoon allspice, 
two nutmegs, one-half pint brandy, one wine glass wine, 
one cup molasses, one dozen eggs. (Splendid. ) 

FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. NETTIE V. STEVENS. 

Two eggs, one-half cup butter, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, two cups 
raisins, all spices you like. This makes two loaves. 



WHITE CAKE. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Same as yellow cake using the whites of four eggs instead 
of the volks. Bake in hot oven. 



60 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

NEAPOLITAN CAKE. 

MRS. MARIA CHENEY. 

Three-fourths cup butter, two cups fine granulated 
sugar, three one-half cups flour, one cup milk, four eggs 
beaten light and foamy, three and one-half level teaspoons 
baking powder. Do not separate yolks and whites of eggs. 
Cream the butter thoroughly and then add the sugar and 
cream both thoroughly. Now add eggs, not all at a time, 
but keep mixture smooth throughout the mixing. Add a 
little flour to the foregoing, add the milk. Bake in three 
layers, white, red and green, flavor each layer to taste. 



KNEADED PLUM CAKE. 

MRS. HENRY NOYES. 

Two and one-half cups sugar, one-half cup butter, one- 
half cup sour milk, two spoons cream, one teaspoon soda, 
one-half teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon nutmeg, 
one cup chopped raisins, about six cups of flour, or suffi- 
cient to knead. Roll out an inch thick, cut in oblong 
pieces and bake in quick oven. 



CREAM PUFFS. 

MRS. LYDIA BEAN. 

One-half cup butter, one-half cup boiling water. Put on 
stove; when boiling, add gradually one cup dry flour; stir, 
beat and cook for two minutes. When cold add four un- 
beaten eggs, then beat until smooth. Add soda size of a 
pea. Drop on buttered tins and bake one-half hour. This 
makes twelve large puffs. 

Filling. — One cup milk, steamed; when nearly boiling, 
add one egg, well beaten, one-half cup sugar, one table- 
spoon corn starch, pinch of salt, and vanilla. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

DORA E. STANLEY. 
Two cups sugar, one and one-half cups butter, one cup 
molasses, one cup sweet milk, four eggs, one pound stoned 
raisins, (citron, currants, figs and dates as desired,) one 
teaspoon cream tartar, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
each cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg and allspice, seven cups 
flour. Bake in a slow oven. This cake will keep a year 
or two in perfect condition. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 61 

SCOTCH GINGER BREAD CAKE. 

MRS. GEORGE KERR. 

Take one and one-half pounds good molasses, one and 
one-half ounces ground ginger, one-half ounce caraway 
seeds, two ounces allspice, four ounces orange peel, shred- 
ded fine, one-half pound good butter, six ounces blanched 
almonds, one pound honey, one and one-half ounces soda, 
as much flour as makes a dough of moderate consistancy. 
Make a pit in five pounds flour, then pour in molasses and 
other ingredients, creaming butter, then mix well all to- 
gether into a dough, work it well, then put in three-fourths 
ounce tartaric acid, and put dough in a buttered pan and 
bake two hours in a cool oven. 



FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. WILLIAM AULIS. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, one cup molasses, three 
cups flour, four eggs, one-half pound currants, half-pound 
raisins, one-fourth pound citron, one-fourth teaspoon soda, 
one teaspoon all kinds spices. This cake will keep a year. 

ROLL JELLY CAKE. 

MRS. CALVIN BOWLES. 

One cup sugar, one cup flour, three eggs, three table- 
spoons milk, one-half teaspoon cream tartar, flavor to suit 
taste. Spread and roll while warm. 

RAISIN CAKE. 

MRS. CALVIN BOWLES. 

One-half cup butter, one and one-half cups sugar, one 
cup sour milk, three cups flour, one egg, one teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon each all kinds of spice, one cup raisins, 
stoned and chopped fine. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

MRS. DAISY COLBV. 

One cup molasses, one cup boiling water, two and one- 
half cups flour, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sugar, 
one-half teaspoon salt, one teaspoon soda, one-half tea- 
spoon ginger, one-half teaspoon cloves, one well-beaten 
egg added last. 



62 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

DEVIL CAKE. 

MRS. M. A. BOWLES. 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one egg, one- 
fourth cup sour milk, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon 
vanilla, two squares melted chocolate, one and one-half 
cups pastry flour, one-half cup boiling water last. I T se 
any good white frosting. 



RIBBON CAKE. 
MRS. M. A. BOWLES. 
Two cups sugar, three eggs, two-thirds cup butter, one 
cup sweet milk, three cups flour, one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in milk, add a little salt and flavor with essence of 
lemon or almond. Put half of above in two oblong pans, 
to the remainder add one tablespoon molasses, one large 
cup raisins stoned and chopped, and one-fourth pound 
sliced citron. 



NUT CAKE. 

MRS. MARIA CHENEY. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup milk, 
two cups pastry flour, two eggs, one coffee cup chopped 
raisins, one coffee cup English walnuts, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. Cream butter and 
sugar together until light. Add eggs, well beaten, then 
the milk, then the flour in which cream of tartar and soda 
have been thoroughly mixed; add raisins and nuts. Bake 
in moderate oven thirty-five minutes. Frost if you please. 
This makes one large or two small sheets. If baking 
powder is used take a teaspoonful and a half. 



WEDDING CAKE. 
WILL BOWLES. 
Nine cups butter, ten cups sugar, eighteen cups flour, 
four cups molasses, five dozen eggs, seven pounds currants, 
three and one-half pounds citron, seven pounds raisins, 
one and one-half pints brandy, one teacup cinnamon, one- 
half cup cloves, one-fourth cup allspice, one-half cup grat- 
ed nutmeg, one teaspoon vanilla, one teaspoon lemon, dis- 
solve one-half teaspoon soda in a half cup of sweet milk. 
Bake three hours in slow oven. This makes eight loaves. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 63 

YELLOW CAKE. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Yolks of four eggs beaten light, one cup of sugar, one 
cup of sweet cream, two cups of flour sifted with two small 
teaspoons baking powder. Bake in sponge cake tin. 



GOLD CAKE. 

MRS. MARIA CHENEY. 

One cup butter, two cups powdered sugar, (cream to- 
gether,) one cup milk, three cups pastry flour, yolks of six 
and two whole eggs beaten together, two teaspoons baking 
powder, one teaspoon ground mace or nutmeg. Mix thor- 
oughly and bake in moderate oven. 



WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. MARIA CHENEY. 

One-half cup butter, two cups powdered sugar, three 
cups pastry flour, one cup milk, two teaspoons baking 
powder, whites of six eggs. Cream butter and sugar thor- 
oughly, then add milk, flour and baking powder, and 
lastly whites beaten light, and flavor to taste. Bake in 
moderate oven. To be frosted. 

SUPERIOR FRUIT CAKE. 

MRS. M. A. BOWLES. 

Three pounds dry flour, one pound butter, one pound 
sugar, three pounds stoned raisins, two pounds currants, 
three-fourths pound sweet blanched almonds, one pound 
citron, twelve eggs, one tablespoon allspice, one teaspoon 
cloves, two tablespoons cinnamon, two nutmegs, one wine 
glass of wine, one wine glass of brandy, one coffee cup of 
molasses with spices in it. Steep gently thirty minutes, 
not boiling hot; beat eggs very lightly, put fruit in last, 
stirring it gradually, also teaspoon soda dissolved in a little 
water. The fruit should be floured, if necessary add flour 
after fruit is in. Butter a sheet of paper and lay it in pan. 
lay in some slices of citron, then a layer of mixture, then 
citron, etc., till pan is nearly full. Bake three or four 
hours according to thickness of loaves in steady heat. Let 
cool in oven gradually, ice when cold. It improves this 
cake to put in three teaspoons baking powder. A fine 
wedding cake recipe. 



64 OUR ALMA MATER COOK HOOK. 

SOFT GINGER BREAD. 

MRS. A. II. WHIPPLE. 

One cup sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, one teaspoon 
ginger, one teaspoon cinnamon, one cup sour milk, one 
teaspoon soda dissolved in warm water, three cups flour. 



CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

ANNA K. DOW. 

Custard. — One-fourth cake chocolate, one-fourth cup 
milk, yolk of one egg, two tablespoons sugar, one teaspoon 
vanilla. Cook in a double boiler. 

Cake. — One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one-half 
cup milk, one and one-half cups flour, one and one-hall 
teaspoons baking powder. Mix custard with cake and bake. 

CARAMEL CAKE. 

MRS. W. A. BROOKS. 

One cup sugar, one-fourth cup butter, one-half cup sweet 
milk, two eggs, one and one-half cups flour, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 

Filling and Frosting. — One cup sugar, three-fourths 
cup milk, butter size of an egg. Boil fifteen minutes ; stir 
while boiling and beat until cool. Flavor with vanilla. 

GERMAN CHOCOLATE CAKE. 

MRS. KKRR. 

Two ounces chocolate, one-fourth pound butter, four 
eggs, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon vanilla, one and 
one-half cups powdered sugar, one and three- fourths cups 
flour, one heaping teaspoon baking powder. Dissolve 
chocolate in five tablespoons boiling water, beat the butter 
to a cream, add gradually the powdered sugar, (beating 
all the time, ) add yolks, (beat again,) then milk, then 
melted chocolate and flour. Give the whole a vigorous 
beating. Now beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth 
and stir carefully into the mixture, add vanilla, and last- 
ly baking powder. Mix quickly and lightly, turn into 
four greased cake pans and bake fifteen or twenty minutes. 
Spread each layer with melted chocolate or well-beaten 
white of eggs mixed with powdered sugar until stiff. Put 
chopped nuts between layers, also on top. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 



SPONGE DROPS. 

MRS. LYDIA BEAN. 

Beat to a froth three eggs and add one teacup sugar; 
beat five minutes. Stir into this one and one-half cups 
flour in which one teaspoon cream tartar and one-half tea- 
spoon soda are thoroughly mixed, flavor with lemon, but- 
ter tin sheets and drop in spoonfuls three inches apart. 



COOKIES. 

MABEL PARKER. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, four tablespoons 
milk, one egg, one and one-half teaspoons cream tartar, 
two-thirds teaspoon soda, one teaspoon vanilla. Flour 
enough to roll very thin. 

CREAM COOKIES. 

MRS. C. E. WHIPPLE. 

One cup sour cream, one cup sugar, one egg, one tea- 
spoon soda, one teaspoon salt, two and two-thirds cups 
flour. Flavor to taste. 



HERMITS. 

MRS. A. J. BEZANSON. 

One and one-half cups brown sugar, one cup butter, one 
cup currants or raisins, two eggs, two great spoons milk, 
one small teaspoon soda, nutmegs, cinnamon and cloves, 
flour to roll out. 



HARD GINGER BREAD. 

MRS. J. E. HERBERT. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup hot water, 
one cup shortening, (either butter or lard, or half and 
half,) two teaspoons ginger, tw r o teaspoons soda. Roll 
hard and cut out. Will keep a long time. 



GINGER SNAPS. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

One cup molasses, butter size of an egg, one mixing 
spoon vinegar, one teaspoon soda, one teaspoon ginger. 



66 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 



APPLE FROSTING. 

MRS. ARTHUR BOWLES. 

White of one egg, one cup sugar, one apple grated, 
flavor with vanilla, beat fifteen minutes. 



SUGAR GINGER BREAD. 

MRS. NELLIE HARRIS. 

One cup sugar, one egg, one-half cup butter, one-half 
cup sweet milk, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon soda, salt, add ginger and lemon flavoring and cut 
in squares. 



TAYLOR CAKE. 

MRS. NELLIE HARRIS. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, three eggs, one cup 
sour milk, three and one-half cups of flour, one teaspoon 
soda, one teaspoon all kinds spices, one cup currants and 
raisins. 



WHITE CAKE. 

MRS. ESTHER AULIS. 

One cup sugar beaten to a froth, three-fourths cup milk, 
one-half cup butter, two cups flour, one teaspoon cream 
tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 



SPONGE CAKE. 

GERTRUDE KENDALL. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, cup flour, pinch salt, one tea- 
spoon flavoring. Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, 
beat in one-half cup sugar, beat yolks of eggs and beat in 
the remainder of the sugar until very light. Stir the flour 
into the yolks a little at a time, put in salt and flavoring, 
then fold in the whites a spoonful at a time. Do not beat 
after it is mixed. Bake thirtv minutes. 



HOT WATER SPONGE CAKE. 

MAI! EL SMITH. 

Beat two eggs well, beat in cup sugar, one-half cup flour 
(a little at a time) then a half cup flour with one teaspoon 
baking powder, one cup water nearly boiling, pinch of salt. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 67 

SOUR CREAM COOKIES. 

MAUDE CHESLEV. 

One cup sour cream, one cup sugar, one egg, one tea- 
spoon soda, flour to roll. Flavor with nutmeg. 



CLEVELAND COOKIES, 

MRS. MELZOR WATSON. 

Beat in mixing bowl one egg light, adding gradually 
one cup sugar, with an egg beater add one-half cup new 
milk, and before mixing add three and one-half cups flour 
mixed with one heaping teaspoon baking powder. Stir 
well, then add one-half cup melted butter; stir until fine 
and white, then drop in a well-greased dripping pan, pat 
over with the hand, and sprinkle with sugar and bake. 
When cold in pan, cut in little squares and put in a place 
where the)' will keep moist. 

COOKIES. 

MRS. M. A. BOWLES. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, beaten light, add two 
well-beaten eggs, one-half cup milk, small teaspoon soda 
dissolved in milk, five cups flour. Mix stiff and roll thin. 



WANDERING JEWS. 

MRS. S. C. BROOKS. 

One cup raisins, one cup butter, two cups sugar, three 
eggs, two teaspoons baking powder, four cups flour or 
more. Roll out and cut like cookies. 



COOKIES. 

MRS. DEXTER WOODS. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, one-half cup sweet 
milk, two eggs, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half tea- 
spoon soda. Roll soft. 



CREAM COOKIES. 

MRS. L. B. HOWARD. 

Two cups sugar, two eggs, one cup thick sour cream, 
one level teaspoon soda, salt, flour to knead. Flavoring 
or caraway seeds ma}- be added if liked. 



68 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

PEANUT COOKIES. 

MRS. RIDEOl'T. 

Cream one tablespoon butter, add two tablespoons pow- 
dered sugar and one beaten egg; mix one-half teaspoon 
baking powder, one saltspoon salt, and one-half cup flour. 
Add to first mixture with two tablespoons milk. Add one 
pint peanuts shelled and chopped fine. Drop by teaspoon- 
fuls on unbuttered sheets, place one-half nut on top of each 
and bake in slow oven twelve to fifteen minutes. 



NICE SUGAR JUMBLES. 

MRS. S. C. BROOKS. 

Four eggs, two cups sugar. Beat eggs separately, two 
teaspoons baking powder. Mix quite stiff, roll thin, 
sprinkle sugar over and bake. 

JUMBLES. 

MRS. HAMLIN PRIEST. 

Two eggs, one cup sugar, one cup sour cream, one-half 
cup butter, one-half teaspoon soda, flavor with nutmeg or 
lemon. Roll on sugar and cut out. 



GINGER COOKIES. 

MRS. HATTIE PHILLIPS. 

One cup sugar, one cup lard or butter, one cup molasses, 
two-thirds cup hot water, two teaspoons soda dissolved in 
water, two small teaspoons ginger, flour to roll hard. 



JUMBLES. 

MRS. MAUDE PEABODV. 

Two eggs, two cups sugar, one cup butter, one cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda, little nutmeg, flour to roll soft. 



VANILLA WAFERS. 

ORPHIA KNIGHT. 

One cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, four tablespoons 
milk, one tablespoon vanilla, one egg, one and one-half 
teaspoons cream tartar, two- thirds teaspoon soda. Roll 
very thin ; bake quickly. 



CAKE AND COOKIES. 69 

DROP HERMITS. 

MRS. HENRY NOTES. 

One and one-half cups sugar, one-fourth or one-half cup 
butter. Work sugar and butter together, add three eggs, 
scant one-half cup sour milk, (use tin measuring cup) with 
one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in sour milk, one tea- 
spoon each allspice, cassia, cloves, salt, one-half teaspoon 
mace, one teaspoon cream tartar in flour enough to make 
stiff to drop in pan with teaspoon, one cup chopped seeded 
raisins. 



RAISIN PUFFS. 

MINNIE LEIGHTON. 

One cup chopped raisins, one cup sugar, one cup sweet 
milk in which has been dissolved one heaping teaspoon 
soda, (no cream tartar,) seven tablespoons melted butter, 
one teaspoon vanilla, salt, flour to make sufficient thickness 
to drop from teaspoon. Always grease tins with lard and 
bake in hot oven. 



LADY FINGERS. 

WILL BOWLES. 

Four eggs, three-fourths cup pastry flour, one-half cup 
powdered sugar. Beat the yolks and sugar to a froth 
beat the whites to a stiff froth and add to the yolks 
and sugar. Add the flour and stir the mixture 

gently and quickly. Pour the mixture into a paper and 
press into the shape you want. Be sure to have buttered 
note paper, and when all are ready sprinkle powdered 
sugar over them. Bake from twelve to sixteen minutes in 
a slow oven. 



HERMITS. 

MRS. F. G. HATCH. 

Two eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, two thirds cup 
butter, one cup chopped raisins, one teaspoon soda dis- 
solved in two tablespoons sour milk, one teaspoon each of 
cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves. 



70 OUR ALMA MATKR COOK BOOK. 

HERMITS. 

MRS. L. B. HOWARD. 

Two cups sugar, two-thirds cup shortening, butter or 
lard, three eggs, one teaspoon each cloves, allspice and 
cinnamon, one-half nutmeg, one level teaspoon soda, one 
cup chopped raisins, three tablespoons sweet milk. 



HERMITS. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

Two cups sugar, one cup butter, two cups chopped 
raisins, three eggs, one-half teaspoon soda dissolved in 
three tablespoons of milk, one nutmeg, one teaspoon each 
cinnamon and cloves, six cups flour; roll thin, bake quickly. 



HERMITS. 

MRS. W. A. BROOKS. 

One egg, one cup sugar, two-thirds cup butter, two- 
thirds cup sour milk, one cup chopped raisins, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon and nutmeg. 



GINGER COOKIES. 

MRS. CALVIN BOWLES. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, one cup butter or 
lard, one-half cup hot water, one teaspoon soda and one 
of ginger. 



Pies and Puddings. 



"No soil upon earth is so dear to our eyes, 
As the soil we first stirred in terrestrial pies." 

O. W. HOLMES. 

The proof of tlie pudding is in the eating." 



MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

MRS. IVORY GLOVIER. 

One large cup cranberries, chopped, one large cup 
raisins, chopped, three tablespoons flour mixed with large 
cup sugar. Add one large cup boiling water and two tea- 
spoons vanilla. 



LEMON PIE. 

MRS. LOUISE RICH. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, one heaping tablespoon corn 
starch, rind and juice of one lemon, one tablespoon butter. 
Beat eggs, sugar and corn starch together, and pour into 
these ingredients one cup boiling water in which the butter 
has been melted. Save whites of two eggs for frosting. 



LEMON PIE. 

MRS. FRANCES PARKER. 

One cup sugar, one tablespoon flour, two eggs, juice 
and rind of one lemon, one-half cup hot water. 

SQUASH PIE. 

.MRS. W. E. SHEPARD. 

One and one-half cups sifted squash, one cup boiling 
milk, one-half cup sugar, one-half teaspoon salt, one tea- 
spoon cinnamon, one egg slightly beaten. Mix in order 
given. Enough for one pie only. 



72 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

ORANGE PIE. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups sweet milk, four 
tablespoons sugar, one heaping tablespoon flour, juice and 
grated rind of one orange. Reserve whites for frosting. 



LEMON PIE. 
MRS. ALVIN GRIMES. 

One cup sugar, one lemon, butter size of a walnut, one 
cup boiling water poured over a slice of bread from which 
the crust has been removed, yolks of two eggs. Whites 
for frosting. 



MOCK CHERRY PIE. 

MRS. H. L. JOHNSON. 

One cup cranberries, one cup raisins, one-half cup sugar 
in which has been stirred one tablespoon sifted flour, one 
cup boiling water. Boil all together and when cool add 
one teaspoon vanilla. Bake with two crusts. 



MOCK MINCE PIE. 

MRS. LOUISE RICH. 

One cup sugar, one-half cup molasses, one-half cup vin- 
egar and one-half cup water, two eggs, butter size of an 
egg, all kinds of spices to suit taste, one cup chopped 
raisins and three rolled crackers. 



CUSTARD PIE. 

MRS. FRANCES PARKER. 

Three eggs, one-half cup maple sugar, two spoons white 
sugar, one spoon flour, a little nutmeg, pinch of salt, heat 
a pint and a half milk to boiling and pour over the mixture. 
Bake in a deep custard plate. 



CHOCOLATE CUSTARD PIE. 

MRS. DAISY COLBY. 

One coffee cup sweet milk, two spoons grated chocolate 
mixed together, scalded. Yolks two eggs, one whole egg, 
one teaspoon vanilla, two- thirds cup sugar, stir all together. 
Frosting — Whites of two eggs with four tablespoons sugar. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 73 

TARTS. 

One pint flour, one cup lard, white of one egg, one des- 
sertspoon sugar, three spoons water, a little salt. 



APRICOT PIE. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

Take as many dried apricots as you need for the num- 
ber of pies to be made; soak over night. Place on the 
stove and cook in a little water until very soft; mash. 
Season to taste with sugar, fill the pie and bake. Part 
dried apple may be used — makes a very nice pie. 



CRANBERRY PIE. 

MRS. S. C. BROOKS. 

One cup cranberries, one cup sugar, one-half cup raisins 
stoned, one-half cup water. 



DATE PIE. 

MRS. WILLIAM AULIS. 

One quart milk, two eggs, one pound dates. Stew dates 
and strain through colander. It will make two pies. 



TART CRUST. 

MRS. CALVIN BOWLES. 

Work one cup lard into one and one-half pints of flour, 
white of one egg, three tablespoons water, one dessert- 
spoon sugar and a little salt. 



CREAM PIE. 

MRS. GEORGE KERR. 

One-fourth pound butter, cup sugar; bring to a cream. 
Beat three eggs and add three tablespoons of milk with 
one-half teaspoon soda, one and one-half cups pastry flour 
with a teaspoon cream tartar ; flavor with lemon. Fill 
with whipped cream. 

Frosting for Top. — Four tablespoons grated choco- 
late, three tablespoons milk and one of cream, one cup of 
sugar. Boil five minutes, then add one-fourth of a cup of 
chopped walnuts. 



74 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 



WALNUT PIE. 

MRS. LINDA J. JKSSKMAX. 

Rich pie crust. Filling — one pint of milk, three eggs, 
leaving white of one for frosting, two-thirds cup sugar, a 
bit of butter. Chop some walnuts and sift. Add one 
tablespoon sifted meats. Scald the milk, add other ingre- 
dients ; bake as a custard pie, slowly. When cool, beat 
the white of the egg, add a little sugar, cover the pie, 
sprinkle, with the coarser meats; brown. Delicious. 

CocoAnut Pie. — The same as walnut, only add cocoa- 
nut instead of walnuts. 



BANANA PIE. 

MRS. LINDA J. JESSEMAX. 

Fill pie shell with sliced bananas, sprinkle powdered 
sugar over them. Bake a little while. Use whipped 
cream for the top. 



PIE CRUST. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

One quart flour, salt, one cup shortening worked into 
flour, mix with half sour milk and water, a little soda 
mixed with the sour milk. For top crust : Roll out half 
of the dough, spread with lard, flour, roll together, cut 
from the end of the roll, then roll in shape for the pie. 

RAISIN PIE. 

MRS. JESSEMAN. 

Take one and one-half cups of seedless raisins, stew un- 
til soft, sweeten with sugar, fill the pie. Put little pieces 
of butter on top of raisins. Bake with two crusts. 



WASHINGTON OR CREAM PIE. 

MRS. ALVIN GRIMES. 

Three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half cup water. Stir a few minutes, then 
add one cup flour, one-half teaspoon soda, flavor to taste. 
This makes three pies. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 75 



JELLY PIE. 

MRS. JESSEMAN. 

One tumbler of any good jelly, one scant cup butter, one 
cup sugar, six beaten eggs. Mix smoothly, bake slowly. 



SUET PUDDING. 

MRS. T. C. CRAIG. 

One cup chopped suet, one cup raisins, one-half cup 
molasses, one and one-half cups flour, one-half cup sour 
milk, one teaspoon soda. Steam about three hours. Eat 
with any sauce preferred. 



PUFF PUDDING. 

MRS. HENRY XOYES. 

Cream three spoonfuls butter and one-half cup sugar, 
one egg, one teaspoon cream tartar, one-half teaspoon 
soda, two cups flour. Beat a good while ; steam one hour. 
Serve with whipped cream. 



SANDWICH PUDDING. 

EVA M. ALDRICH. 

Butter a quart pudding dish, slice it half full of tart 
apples. Make a batter of one cup sugar, one egg, butter 
size of an egg, one-half cup milk, one teaspoon cream tar- 
tar, one-half teaspoon soda, one and one-half cups flour. 
Pour the batter over the apples and bake thirty or forty 
minutes. Sauce : One cup sugar, one-half cup butter, 
(beaten well together, ) stir one tablespoon corn starch into 
one cup boiling water ; boil one minute and pour over the 
mixture, stirring thoroughly; flavor with lemon or vanilla. 



SUET PUDDING. 

MRS. W. I,. SHEPARD. 

One cup chopped raisins, one cup chopped suet, two- 
thirds cup molasses, two cups flour, one-half cup sweet 
milk, one-half teaspoon soda in the milk, one-half teaspoon 
cinnamon, one-third teaspoon each cloves, nutmeg and salt. 
Steam three hours. Sauce : One cup brown sugar, one 
tablespoon butter, beat together like a cream then add one 
cup boiling watter and cook until clear. Flavor to suit. 



76 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

BOILED CIDER PIE. 

MRS. DAISY COLBY. 

Three eggs, one cup sugar, three tablespoons boiled 
cider, butter size of a walnut. Bake in two crusts. 



PIE CRUST. 

MRS. FRANCES PARKER. 

One quart flour, one teaspoon salt, one teaspoon baking 
powder, one full cup shortening. Mix with water. 

WASHINGTON PIE. 

MRS. CALVIN BOWLES. 

One cup sugar, piece of butter size of an egg, one and 
one-half cups flour, scant half cup milk, one teaspoon 
cream tartar, one-half teaspoon soda. 



MOCK MINCE PIE. 

MRS. L. B. HOWARD. 

Eight crackers, one cup sugar, one cup molasses, one 
cup boiling water, one cup chopped raisins, two-thirds cup 
Yinegar, butter size of an egg, all kinds of spices. 



LEMON PIE. 

MRS. LUCY DEXTER. 

Put into a dish one cup of water and a small piece of 
butter. When it boils stir into it three full teaspoons corn 
starch that has been been dissolved in a little cold water. 
When it boils up once take from fire and stir in one cup 
sugar; when cool add yolks of two eggs, the juice and rind 
of one lemon. Beat up the whites for a meringue for the 
top. If two crusts are used, use one whole egg instead of 
the yolks of two. 



CREAM PIE. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Break two eggs into a cup, fill with not too thick sweet 
cream, one cup sugar, two cups flour, one teaspoon baking 
powder. Bake in hot oven. Bake in round cake tins and 
fill and cover with whipped cream sweetened and flavored 
with vanilla. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 77 



STEAMED FRUIT SNOW-BALL PUDDING. 

MRS. C. E. NOYES. 

One and one-fourth cups butter, one-half cup sugar, one- 
fourth cup milk, one cup flour, one and one-half teaspoons 
baking powder, whites of three eggs. Cream butter and 
sugar and milk, and whites last, fill six small cups, steam 
one-half hour, (be sure water does not stop boiling,) turn 
on plates and serve with jelly or jam. Sauce : One cup 
sugar, two spoonfuls starch, two cups boiling water. 

LEMON PUDDING. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Four eggs, one cup sugar, rind and juice of one lemon. 
Beat the yolks very light, add the sugar gradually then the 
lemon. Salt, and lastly add the whites beaten to a stiff 
froth. Mix well, bake in buttered dish set in a pan of 
boiling water about one-half hour. 

RICE PUDDING. 

MRS. F. G. HATCH. 

One-half cup well washed rice, one quart milk, butter 
size of walnut, nutmeg, sweeten to taste. Stir often while 
baking until rice is swollen. Bake in moderate oven two 
hours. Serve with cream. 



GRAHAM FRUIT PUDDING. 

MRS. JULIA BURT. 

Mix together two cups graham flour, one cup milk, one 
cup molasses, one teaspoon salt and one teaspoon dissolved 
soda, then stir in one cup chopped raisins and one beaten 
egg. Cook steadily three hours in a double boiler, or pour 
it into a pudding pail, leavii g room for it to rise, cover 
tightly, and boil three hours in a covered kettle partly 
filled with water. Serve with hard sauce or with cream 
and suarar. 



STEAMED BLUEBERRY PUDDING. 

MRS. F. G. HATCH. 

One egg, one cup sugar, two and one-half tablespoons 
butter, one teaspoon soda di; solved in one cup sour milk, 
one pint flour, salt. Steam one hour; serve with cream. 



78 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

HONEYCOMB PUDDING. 

MISS. O. KNIGHT. 
Beat together one-half cup sugar, one cup flour, one cup 
molasses, melt one-half cup butter in one-half cup warm 
milk, add one dessertspoon soda. Add to the above four 
eggs beaten very light. Bake one and one-half hours in a 
moderate oven. Cover the dish for perhaps one-half hour, 
when first put in the oven. Sauce : One-fourth cup of 
butter, two tablespoons of brandy, one-half cup of brown 
sugar, two tablespoons of thick sweet cream. Before serv- 
ing place bowl in a dish of boiling water; then beat until 
it becomes light and creamy. 



LEMON PUDDING. 

MRS. ALVIX GRIMES. 
One cup bread crumbs, one pint milk, butter size of wal- 
nut, yolks of three eggs, juice of one lemon. Bake and 
cover with jelly. Make frosting of the whites : brown. 

WHITE. SAUCE. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

One cup sugar, one cup water, one spoonful corn starch 
dissolved in a little milk. Boil up ; flavoring. 

Another. — Piece of butter size of an egg, one heaping 
spoonful flour. Put on stove, stir until it melts, pour one 
cup boiling water, after it thickens add one cup sugar and 
flavor. 



FROZEN PUDDING. 

BESSIE L GOODNOW. 

One quart milk, one pint cream, three eggs, one and 
one-third cups sugar, one teaspoon vanilla, one-half cup 
preserved ginger and a few candied cherries. Cut the 
ginger and cherries fine and soak them in one-half cup 
of wine; add them last. 



FINE STEAMED PUDDING. 

ADDIK MERRILL. 

( >ne cup molasses, one-half cup shortening, one cup hot 
coffee, three cups flour, one teaspoon soda, little salt, one 
cup raisins or currants. Steam three hours. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 79 

COCOANUT PUDDING. 

ADDIE MERRILL. 
One pint milk, one-half cup cocoanut, one-half cup 
rolled cracker or bread crumbs, two tablespoons sugar, 
yolks of two eggs. Bake one-half hour. Use the whites 
with one-half cup powdered sugar for frosting. Brown. 



QUEEN OF PUDDINGS. 

One pint fine bread crumbs, one quart milk, one cup 
sugar, yolks of four eggs, well beaten, grated rind of one 
lemon, butter size of an egg. Mix well and bake. Whip 
the whites of four eggs with one cup sugar and juice of 
one lemon ; spread on the pudding when done ; return to 
the oven and slight lv brown. To be served cold. 



PRUNE PUDDING. 

MRS. T. C. CRAIG. 

Pour boiling water to one pound of prunes, stew till soft, 
then sift them. Beat the whites of four eggs to a stiff 
froth, and add four tablespoons of powdered sugar; add this 
to the sifted prunes. Bake twenty minutes in a slow oven 
and serve cold with cream or a boiled custard. 



ORANGE PUDDING. 

MRS. MABEL WATSON. 

Pare and slice five oranges and pour over them one cup 
of sugar. Put one pint of milk in sauce pan, when it boils 
add the beaten yolks of three eggs and one tablespoon corn 
starch. When done pour over fruit; cool. Beat whites 
very stiff and add a little sugar, sprinkle over pudding and 
brown. Serve cold. 



GRAHAM PUDDING. 

MRS. DAISY COLBY. 

One and one-half cups graham flour, one cup sweet milk, 
one cup molasses, one cup seeded raisins, one teaspoon 
soda, one-half teaspoon salt. Steam three hours. Sauce 
for same: One cup maple sugar, one tablespoon butter, 
one tablespoon flour. Stir together and add one cup boil- 
ing water. Boil a few minutes. 



8o OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

BIRD'S NEST PUDDING. 
MRS. GEORGE KERR. 

Eor a pint of cold milk allow three eggs, five spoons of 
flour, six medium sized fair apples and a small teaspoon 
salt. Pare the apples and take out the cores. Arrange 
in buttered dish that will just receive them. Wet the flour 
smooth in part of the milk, then add the eggs and heat all 
together a few minutes, add salt and rest of milk. Stir 
well and pour into the dish of apples. -Bake an hour and 
make a melted sauce. If double measure is used it re- 
quires two dishes. Very good. 

ICED FRUIT PUDDING. 

MISS O. KNIGHT. 

One box gelatine dissolved in a little cold water, three 
bananas cut in slices, three oranges cut in small pieces, 
one-half pound stoned dates, one-fourth pound figs cut in 
pieces, one quart boiling water mixed with the gelatine, 
one cup of sugar. Cool; serve with whipped cream or 
soft custard. 



CORN STARCH PUDDING. 

MRS. LUCY DEXTER. 

One pint boiling milk, two heaping tablespoons corn 
starch, two eggs, two tablespoons sugar, one-half teaspoon 
salt. Cook three minutes. 

MOULDED SNOW PUDDING. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Scald one quart milk, mix one-half cup corn starch with 
a little cold milk, add to the hot milk with one saltspoon 
salt and two tablespoons sugar. Cook fifteen minutes. 
Add whites of three eggs beaten stiff. Mould and serve 
cold. Chocolate Sauce: Heat one and three-fourths cup 
milk. Dissolve one tablespoon corn starch in one-fourth 
cup cold milk and stir into the hot milk. Melt two ounces 
chocolate with two tablespoons hot water and four table- 
spoons powdered sugar. Cook until smoth then add to the 
milk. Beat the whites of two eggs stiff then add gradually 
two-thirds cup powdered sugar; add to this the unbeaten 
yolks of two eggs and stir into the cooked mixture. Cook 
one minute, stirring constantly. Flavor with one teaspoon 
vanilla. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 81 

LEMON BLANC MANGE. 

Three lemons, three large tablespoons corn starch, one 
cup sugar, one quart boiling water, two eggs. Grate off 
the yellow rind of the lemons and pour on it the quart of 
boiling water, and let it stand over the fire till it boils, then 
take the corn starch and mix with the juice of the lemons 
and a little cold water till perfectly smooth, add the sugar 
and eggs well beaten, then strain the boiling water and 
pour it on the corn starch, stirring briskly. Let it boil 
about five minutes, then pour into moulds to cool. Serve 
with cream and sugar. 



BAKED INDIAN PUDDING. 

MRS. SUE EDSON. 

Scald one quart milk, pour on to five tablespoons corn 
meal, add one cup molasses, a piece of butter size of an 
egg, lastly a beaten egg. Bake three hours. After it has 
baked two hours stir in one cup boiling water. Serve with 
cream. 



INDIAN PUDDING. 

MRS. NELLIE PEABODV. 

One quart boiling milk, one cup Indian meal, two table- 
spoons flour, one spoonful butter, one-half cup molasses, 
add a little salt, flavor with a pinch of ginger and cinna- 
mon. Let it come to a boil, cool half an hour, add one 
egg well beaten, and bake one hour. 

SHORT CAKE. 

MRS. W. F. PARKER. 

One quart of flour, two teaspoons baking powder, one 
cup butter or butter and lard, wet with sweet milk if handy, 
(if not use water,) pinch of salt. Place in tin and bake. 
Put some butter where it will be soft, but not melted, to 
spread on as you take from the oven. Have your berries 
well crushed and sugared. Heat knife and open cake very 
gently, spreading first with butter then with berries. Put 
top layer of cake on and proceed as before. Short cake 
can be of cream instead of butter and is considered by 
some to be better. Any kind of berries may be used. 
Whipped cream is a great addition to any short cake. 



82 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

BLUEBERRY DUMPLING. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

Two teaspoons baking powder mixed well with two enps 
flour, add one cup blueberries, a little salt. Mix with cold 
water to the consistancy of cake and steam two hours. 
Sauce: One cup hot water, one cup sugar boiled together, 
one tablespoon corn starch dissolved in one-fourth cup sweet 
milk, boil one minute. Add butter size of a thimble. 
Flavor with lemon, (be sure to put this in). 



RAISIN PUFF. 

MRS. LUCY DEXTER. 

Two eggs', one-half cup butter, one cup raisins stoned 
and chopped, two cups flour, one cup sweet milk, two table- 
spoons sugar, two teaspoons baking powder. Steam one 
and one-half hours. 

PRUNE PUDDING. 

MRS. NELLIE HARRIS. 

One-half pound prunes stoned and chopped fine. Whites 
of four eggs, beaten light, one cup sugar, beat in lightly, 
chop fruit, beat light and add to sugar and eggs. Beat all 
well and bake fifteen minutes. Make custard of the yolks 
of the eggs and pour over pudding. To be served cold. 



NEW ENGLAND PUDDING. 

MRS. DODGE. 

One pint sweet milk, one and one-half pints bread crumbs, 
one teacup molasses, one teacup raisins, one teacup cur- 
rants, a little ground cinnamon. Mix well and bake about 
half an hour. Serve hot. 



INDIAN PUDDING. 

IDA SPOONER. 

Put one quart milk in double boiler- Put in eleven 
tablespoons of corn meal into milk. Let thicken; put 
eleven tablespoons corn meal into the dish you are to bake 
it in. Teaspoon cinnamon, one-half teaspoon ginger, salt, 
one quart milk, one cup molasses, (more molasses or sugar 
if necessary). Mix all together, add thickened milk. 
Bake two or three hours. Sweet apples added are nice. 



PIES AND PUDDINGS. 83 

FIG PUDDING. 

MRS. MARIA CHENEY. 

Two cups bread crumbs, two cups milk, pinch soda, 
three eggs, three tablespoons sugar, cut up about eighteen 
figs fine, one-half cup butter. When all is put together 
steam in covered dish from two to three hours. To be 
eaten with either hard or cream sauce. Any other fruit 
can be used in place of figs. Cream sauce: One cup pow- 
dered sugar, one pint cream whipped, one egg. Beat white 
of egg to a stiff froth, add yolk and sugar, beat well. 
Flavor with vanilla or wine. 



COTTAGE PUDDING. 

MRS. M. A. BOWLES. 

One cup sugar, one cup sweet milk, one-half cup melted 
butter, one egg, two small teaspoons cream tartar, one tea- 
spoon soda, one pint lightly-sifted flour. Bake forty-five 
minutes. 



ST. JAMES PUDDING. 

MRS. MINNIE E. PARKER. 

With three cups sifted flour mix one teaspoon each soda, 
clove, nutmeg and cinnamon, add one cup molasses, one 
cup sweet milk, one-half cup butter, and one cup chopped 
raisins. Steam three hours. Sauce : Beat two eggs, add 
two cups powdered sugar and one cup butter. Flavor 
with vanilla. 



STEAMED PUDDING. 

MRS. HAMLIN R. PRIEST. 

One pint flour, one-half cup molasses, two tablespoons 
melted butter or one-half cup chopped suet, one-half cup 
raisins, one cup sour milk, one teaspoon each soda, cloves, 
nutmea; and cinnamon. 



GRAHAM PUDDING. 

MRS. LUCY DEXTER. 

One cup chopped raisins, one cup sour milk, one-half 
cup molasses, one and one-half cups graham flour, one- 
half cup (scant) white flour, one teaspoon soda, one-half 
teaspoon salt. Spice to taste. 



Jellies and Relishes. 

"Peter J'iper picked a peck of pickled peppers,. 



CRAB APPLE JELLY. 

MRS. ANN QUIMBY. 

One peck of crab apples, boil with three quarts of water 
until the apples are very soft. Strain through a colander 
then through a cloth, measure, boil again for one hour, 
add cup of sugar to each pint of juice. Test by cooling in 
a spoon and when it is thick pour into jars and seal. 



RASPBERRY JELL. 

MRS. ANN QUIMBY. 

Squeeze five quarts of berries through a cloth and meas- 
ure, boil half an hour, add cup sugar to pint juice. Boil 
till thick. Pour into jars and seal. 



TOMATO KETCHUP. 

ADDIE MERRILL. 

Wipe and slice ripe tomatoes, cook slowly, and when 
well done rub through a fine sieve. To every quart of 
stewed tomatoes add one quart vinegar, four tablespoons 
sugar, four teaspoons each cinnamon and salt, two tea- 
spoons mustard; add one large bell pepper with several 
cuts in it. Cook all down to one-fourth the quantity. 
Bottle while hot. 



MUSTARD PICKLE. 

MRS. HATTIE PHILLIPS. 

One peck green tomatoes, one-half as many onions, four 
cauliflowers; boil until tender. Slice, cover with salt and 
drain over night, add one box mustard, three red peppers. 
Cover with vinegar and simmer four hours. 



JELLIES AND RELISHES. 85 

PICKLED STRING BEANS. 

MRS. CHESTER SIMPSON. 

Place in a jar with alternate layers of salt for twenty- 
four hours; take out and wash, put in a kettle, cover with 
vinegar, add cloves, peppers and a little cinnamon, heat 
through, let stand in vinegar until next day. Eor three 
succeeding mornings boil the vinegar and pour over beans. 



PICKLED CRAB APPLES. 

MRS. GEORGE DEXTER. 

Seven and one-half pounds apples, four pounds sugar, 
one and one-half pints vinegar, one teaspoon each all kinds 
spice. The night before cooking wash apples and insert 
one clove in each. Put vinegar, sugar and spice in kettle 
and let come to boil before putting in the apples. Put in 
as many apples as convenient at first. Cook until soft; 
skim out and put in more, and so on till all are cooked. 
Can be kept in stone or glass jars. 

SPICED CURRANTS. 

MRS. CHAS. MERRILL. 

Seven pounds fruit, four pounds sugar, one pint cider 
vinegar, one tablespoon cinnamon, one teaspoon clove. 
Put in kettle and cook till fruit is soft, skim out and boil 
syrup down till thick. Turn fruit back into syrup till hot, 
then can. 



SLICED PICKLES. 

Two dozen large-sized cucumbers, (large as your wrist,) 
slice and sprinkle with salt and let them stand over night. 
Drain off the liquor and lay in a stone jar, then pour over 
them a cold dressing made of one quart vinegar, one cup 
sweet oil, one-half cup white mustard seed, one cup black 
mustard seed, one large spoon celery seed. It is fit for 
use in three or four weeks. 



HAM PICKLE. 

MRS. LVDIA BEAX. 

One hundred pounds meat, eight pounds salt, two pounds 
brown sugar, two ounces saltpetre. 



86 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

PICCALILLI. 

MRS. HARRIET B. BOWLES. 

One peck green tomatoes chopped. Add one cup salt. 
Let stand over night. Chop four onions, four peppers, 
and put into kettle with five quarts vinegar. Let come to 
a boil, add five cups sugar, cook slowly fifteen minutes. 
Just before taking from fire add one teaspoon cloves, one 
teaspoon cinnamon, one teaspoon allspice, one-half tea- 
spoon ginger, one-half teaspoon mustard. 



TOMATO CATSUP. 

MRS. W. F. PARKER. 

Thirty tomatoes, four onions, four peppers stewed to- 
gether and strained, add six cups vinegar, two cups sugar, 
one-half cup salt, one teaspoon each cloves and cinnamon. 
Boil all together and bottle. 



SPICED APPLE. 

MRS. W. A. BROOKS. 

Seven pounds fruit, three pounds sugar, one pint vin- 
egar, spices of all kinds. 

CHOW CHOW. 

MRS. NELLIE PEABODY. 

Two very large heads of cauliflower, two quarts of small 
white onions, two quarts of cucumbers, six green peppers. 
Put all in a weak brine for twenty-four hours, then scald 
in the same water. Dressing : Eight tablespoons mus- 
tard, two tablespoons tumeric, one cup sugar, one cup 
flour, two and one-half quarts nice vinegar. Wet flour, 
sugar, mustard and tumeric in a little vinegar, then add 
the rest of the vinegar, which should be boiling, and cook 
twenty minutes. 

PEAR PICKLES. 

MRS. CHARLES MERRILL. 

Ten pounds pears, five pounds sugar, one quart vinegar, 
one tablespoon each cloves, allspice and cinnamon. Tie 
the spice in small bags, put in with sugar and vinegar. 
Boil and skim, then put in fruit and cook till tender. 



JELLIES AND RELISHES. 87 

CHILI SAUCE. 

MRS. HARRIET B. BOWLES. 

Nine large ripe tomatoes peeled and cut up, three small 
onions chopped, two small peppers chopped, one table- 
spoon salt, one teaspoon all kinds of spice, one cup brown 
sugar, two cups strong vinegar. Boil together two steady 
hours. This will keep in any jar without sealing. 



HORSE RADISH SAUCE. 

MRS. RIDEOl'T. 

Cook in a double boiler for fifteen minutes one-half cup 
cracker crumbs, one-half cup grated horse radish and one 
pint milk, add one large tablespoon butter, salt and 
pepper to taste. 



SPICED CURRANTS 

MRS. SUE EDSON. 

Five pounds currants, four pounds brown sugar, two 
tablespoons cassia, one pint vinegar, boil thick. To be 
eaten with meat. 



WATERMELON SWEET PICKLE. 

MRS. CHESTER SIMPSON. 

Peel and slice the watermelon rind. Let it stand in salt 
brine nine days; remove and let stand in cold water over 
night, then cook in equal portions of vinegar and water 
until tender — let it remain in this until next morning. 
Remove and let stand in cold water for another twenty- 
four hours, then make a vinegar syrup as for sweet pickle, 
season with ginger root, cinnamon, mace and white 
mustard seed. 



Ices and Creams. 



" An* t please your honor," quoth the Peasant, 
"This same dessert is very pleasant.''' — Pope. 



ITALIAN CREAM. 

MRS. SUE EDSON. 

Yolks of two eggs, one pint sweet milk, one-third box 
gelatine, beat the eggs to froth. Scald milk, put gelatine in 
while hot, add egg and sweeten, flavor to taste. Serve 
with sweet cream. 

SPANISH CREAM. 

MRS. S. C. BROOKS. 

One-half box gelatine, yolks three eggs beaten with one 
and one-half cups sugar, soak gelatine three-fourths of an 
hour in one quart milk. Put on fire, let it come to a boil. 
Stir in yolks and sugar, take off and stir in the whites beat- 
en to a stiff froth. Flavor and mould. 

ICE CREAM. 

MRS. DEXTER WOODS. 

One pint of milk, two eggs, one cup sugar, one-half cup 
flour, beat eggs, sugar and flour together and stir in the 
pint of boiling milk until smooth. When cold add one 
cup sugar, one pint cream, one pint milk, flavoring, and 
freeze. 



LEMON SHERBET. 

MRS. ALVIN GRIMES. 

Three lemons to one quart milk, one cup sugar to a 
lemon and a pinch salt. Sugar and lemon placed in 
freezing can. Never put the milk in until just before 
freezing. 



ICES AND CREAMS. 89 



FROZEN SNOW PUDDING. 
MRS. JESSKMAN. 
Juice of three lemons, one quart water, one-fourth box 
gelatine dissolved in a little cold water; boil in the quart 
of water the dissolved gelatine, sugar, lemon juice, or any 
other kind of juice. Put in freezer; beat whites of three 
eggs to a stiff froth, add to freezer the very last thing; let 
freezer do the mixing. Make a custard of the yolks to 
serve with the pudding. 



ORANGE AND BANANA CUSTARD. 

MRS. BEAN. 

Arrange slices of cake in the bottom of a deep dish and 
slice over them half an orange and one banana. Repeat 
the process till dish is filled. Pour over the whole a custard 
made of one pint of milk, three eggs and one-half cup sugar. 
Pile over the top a quantity of whipped cream and serve 
cold. 



COFFEE JELLY. 

MRS. T. C. CRAIG. 

One pint of boiling coffee, two spoonfuls corn starch, 
sugar to taste. Set on ice to harden. Serve with whipped 
cream. 



MOONSHINE. 

MRS. C. E. NOYES. 

Whites of three eggs beaten to a stiff foam, one-half cup 
sugar, beat one-half hour, one cup of jelly beaten fine, add 
to eggs. Serve with soft custard, whipped cream or snow 
pudding. 



FILLING FOR CREAM PIES. 

Boil one cup granulated sugar with one-third cup orange 
juice without stirring until the syrup will thread, or rope. 
Just before this beat the white of one egg very stiff. Add 
one saltspoon cream tartar to the syrup; pour over the 
beaten egg. Beat until it thickens and is perfectly smooth 
and spread upon the cake. Hot water, other fruit juice, 
dates, raisins, nuts, run through a cutter may be used. 



yo OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

SHERBET. 

MRS. ARTHUR BOWLES. 

One quart milk, two lemons, two cups sugar. Mix the 
lemons and sugar. Do not add the milk until all ready to 
freeze. Put the lemons into can and lastly the milk. Let 
the freezer do the mixing. 



RAISIN CREAM. 

MRS. LINDA J. JESSEMAN. 
(For pies or cakes.) One cup raisins put through a 
chopper, one cup water, two-thirds cup sugar mixed with 
one spoon flour. Add to water and raisins. Let boil un- 
til it thickens; flavor with vanilla. Dates, figs, prunes 
or walnuts may be used. 



LEMON SPONGE. 

MRS. GEO. KERR. 

(For quart mould.) Dissolve two ounces gelatine in 
one and three-fourths pints water, strain, and add three- 
fourths pound sugar, the juice of six lemons and the rind 
of one. Boil the whole a few minutes, strain again, and 
let stand until quite cold and just beginning to stiffen, then 
add beaten whites of two eggs. Beat all until quite white, 
put into a mould which must first be wet with cold water. 



STRAWBERRY SPONGE. 

MINNIE K. PARKER. 

One quart strawberries, one-half package Knox gelatine. 
one and one-half cups water, one cup sugar to the juice of 
one lemon, whites of four eggs. Soak the gelatine two 
minutes in one-half cup of water. Mash the strawberries 
and add half the sugar to them. Boil the remainder of the 
sugar and the water gently for twenty minutes. Put the 
strawberries through a sieve. Add the gelatine to the 
boiling syrup and take from the fire immediately, then add 
the strawberries. Place in a pan of ice water and beat 
five minutes. Add the whites of the eggs and beat until 
the mixture begins to thicken. Pour in moulds and set 
away to harden. Serve with sugar and cream. I have 
made this with strawberries, blackberries and raspberries. 
and with any one it is delicious. 



ICES AND CREAMS. 91 



ICE CREAM. 

MRS. HAESEY. 

One quart cream, one quart milk. Put milk" in kettle to 
scald, put about one-fourth box gelatine in the milk just at 
first, let this dissolve and then take from fire and sweeten 
very sweet. Put this in your freezer and set it in the ice 
till very cold. Whip the cream till very light, add your fla- 
voring and then stir all together. Have your cracked ice 
and salt ready for freezing. Stir while hardening to keep 
grain smooth. Then you can leave it well covered in a very 
cold place. This makes two quarts. 

TAPIOCA CREAM. 

MRS. BEAN. 

Five tablespoons tapioca, one quart milk, yolks of two 
eggs, one cup sugar, (whites of eggs for frosting.) Soak 
tapioca in a little milk until it is soft, scald the milk in a 
double boiler, add beaten yolks and sugar, also tapioca. 
Let thicken and cool. 



COFFEE CREAM. 

DR. MARY SHERBURNE. 

One pint cream, one-third box gelatine, one cup strong 
coffee, one cup sugar. Soak the gelatine in the boiling 
coffee and add the sugar. When thoroughly dissolved set 
aside to cool. Whip the cream until thick. Strain the 
coffee through a linen strainer, pour into the cream and 
beat thoroughly. Wet the moulds in cold water, then pour 
in the cream. Set in ice chest for three or four hours. 



LEMON SHERBET. 

MRS. CHESTER SIMPSON. 

Four lemons, one pint sugar, one quart boiling water. 
Shave off peel from two lemons in thin, wafer-like parings, 
being careful to take some of the lighter-colored rind below 
the oil cells. Put the parings into a bowl, add the boiling 
water and let it stand ten minutes, closely covered. Cut 
the lemons in halves, remove seeds, squeeze out the juice 
and add it with the sugar to the water. When cold, strain 
through a fine strainer into the can and freeze. When 
half frozen, add white of an egg. 



92 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

FRUIT SNOW. 

MRS. JESSEMAN. 

Soak half a box of gelatine in a cup of cold water, boil 
one cup of sugar in same water five minutes, add gelatine 
and one-half cup of fruit pulp. Set aside in cold place, 
stirring occasionally until quite thick, then add whites of 
four eggs beaten to a stiff froth; beat a long time. Set on 
ice till it hardens; serve with cream. 



JELLIED PEACHES. 

MRS. T. C. CRAIG. 

One quart bottle of preserved peaches, one box gelatine 
soaked in one pint cold water one hour, (then dissolve 
with one pint boiling water,) juice of two lemons, two cups 
sugar if the peaches are not sweetened; if sweetened, add 
sugar to taste. Set on ice to harden; serve when hard 
with whipped cream. 



ORANGE JELLY. 

EVA M. ALDRICH. 

Soak one-half box gelatine in one pint cold water one 
hour, then pour one pint boiling water on it, add one cup 
sugar and the juice of two lemons. Cut six oranges into 
small pieces, also one-half pound dates, (remove stones,) 
put them in a glass dish and sprinkle a little sugar on 
them, then pour the gelatine over them and set in a cool 
place to jelly. 



COCOANUT FILLING. 

MRS. JESSEMAN. 

Two cups milk, one egg, two-thirds cup sugar with one 
spoonful flour added. Thicken milk, sugar and "egg in 
double boiler. Add shredded cocoanut. 



JELLIED APPLES. 

MRS. T. C. CRAIG. 

Slice fresh apples and put in a dish with alternate layers 
of sugar. Cover with a plate and put a weight on it; bake 
in a slow oven three hours, turn out when cold; eat with 
cream. Best cooked the day before wanted. 



ICES AND CREAMS. 93 



STRAWBERRY PEACH ICE CREAM. 
One quart of sweet cream, one-half can peaches, finely 
chopped, three eggs, one and one-half cups sugar, (or 
sweeten to taste,) three drops strawberry extract, one pint 
sweet milk, or less milk and more cream. Mix all ingre- 
dients together and freeze. 



TAPIOCA CREAM. 

EVA M. ALDRICH. 

Cover three tablespoons of tapioca over night with water: 
pour off the water, if any, jmd put into one quart of milk 
over the fire; when it boils, stir in the yolks of three eggs, 
two-thirds cup of sugar, little salt, stir till it begins to 
thicken. Make a frosting of the whites of the eggs and 
spread over the top, sprinkle a little sugar over it and 
brown in the oven. 



WINE JELLY. 
Soak a package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in one pint 
cold water thirty minutes; then add one and one-half pints 
hot water. Stir until gelatine dissolves and then add one- 
half pint of wine, one and one-half cups sugar; stir until 
sugar dissolves. Keep on ice to harden and until wanted 
to serve. If more wine is desired use less hot water. 
Excellent with pink gelatine. 

SNOW PUDDING 

Soak a package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in one pint 
of cold water thirty minutes; add one and one-half pints 
hot water to dissolve; one and one-half cups of sugar and 
two teaspoons of lemon or other flavoring extracts. Stir 
until sugar is dissolved; pour into a very shallow dish and 
set on ice until it slightly jells or thickens; beat to a stiff 
froth the whites of three eggs and a pinch of salt, beat in 
the gelatine until light and frothy and set back on ice un- 
til ready to serve. 

SAUCE. — Beat the yolks of the eggs with a cup of sugar 
and two teaspoons corn starch. Scald one quart milk and 
turn it into the yolks, heat until it thickens, stirring all 
the time; add vanilla and a pinch of salt and let it cool. 

Using a little wine or brandy in the Snow pudding makes 
Princess pudding. 



94 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

PINEAPPLE JELLY WITH FRESH FRUIT. 

Take a pint or more of fresh grated pineapple, add hot 
water to make up a quart, add one and one-half cups of 
sugar and boil ten or fifteen minutes. Meanwhile soak a 
package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in a pint of cold water 
thirty minutes or more; then add the quart of hot mixed 
fruit and juice and stir it gently until the gelatine is dis- 
solved. Set on ice to harden and until wanted to serve. 
Large fruit like canned apricots, peaches, etc., may be cut 
in halves or quarters and used as in above recipe. 



JELLIES WITH RIPE, FRESH FRUIT. 

Pare and quarter or slice half a dozen or more ripe 
peaches, or other soft fruit, sprinkle with sugar and set one 
side. Soak a package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in one 
pint of cold water thirty minutes; add one and one-hall 
pints of hot water to dissolve it, then add one and one-half 
cups of sugar, and lastly the fruit. Set on ice to harden 
until ready to serve. Whole raspberries and strawberries 
are very nice this way. 



COFFEE JELLY. 

Soak one package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in one 
and one-half pints cold water thirty minutes; add one and 
one-half pints hot coffee and two cups sugar, and keep on 
ice to harden and until ready to serve. Serve. with sugar 
and cream. 



VELVET CREAM 

Soak a package of Plymouth Rock Gelatine in a mixture 
of one-half pint of sherry wine and one-half pint cold water 
forty minutes; then place the bowl in another of hot water 
until gelatine dissolves; then add one and one-half cups of 
sugar and set away until it begins to thicken; then beat 
into it one pint (cold) cream and beat until stiff enough to 
drop from the spoon; put in a mould or dish and put on 
ice until ready to serve. 



Candy. 



"Sweets to the s-ceet." — Shakespeare. 



MOLASSES CANDY. 

NETTIE V. STEVENS. 
Two cups sugar, one cup molasses, one-half cup hot 
water; stir together before putting on the stove. After it 
begins to boil add one-fourth teaspoon cream tartar, butter 
size of an egg; do not stir. 



ORANGE PASTE. 

MRS. DODGE. 

One and one-half ounces sheet gelatine, soak in a gill of 
water two hours; then take one pound granulated sugar, 
the rind and juice of an orange, the rind and juice of a 
lemon, mix in a gill of water; put on stove and stir until 
dissolved. At the first sign of boiling add the gelatine and 
boil twenty minutes, stirring all the while. Have your 
pans standing with cold water in them; pour this out when 
the mixture has boiled and pour it in. When solid, cut in 
squares and roll in confectioners' sugar. 



PEANUT CANDY. 

MRS LOUISE RICH. 

One cup molasses, one cup sugar, butter size of an egg; 
boil, and when done stir in one teaspoon soda, stir well, 
then put in peanuts and pour on buttered pans. 



CHOCOLATE CARAxMELS. 

MRS. F. G. HATCH. 

Put four ounces chocolate into a saucepan with one-half 
teacup water and dissolve: then add three pounds sugar, 
one-half pint cream, one small teaspoon cream tartar. Stir 
only enough to prevent its burning on to the saucepan. 
Boil until it hardens in water. 



96 OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

PINOOCHK. 

ESTHER M. PARKER. 

Two cups brown sugar, one-half cup sweet milk; boil 
until it hardens in water; take from fire and stir in piece of 
butter size of a walnut, one teaspoon vanilla, and one cup 
English walnuts. Stir until it begins to harden, and pour 
into buttered plates; when cold cut in squares. 

FUDGE. 

ANNA F. PARKER. 

Two cups sugar, one square of chocolate, one-half cup 
sweet milk or cream; boil until it hardens in water, stirring 
constantly; take from fire, let set one minute, add piece of 
butter size of walnut and vanilla. Stir until it begins to 
harden and pour into buttered plates; when cool cut in 
squares. This recipe may be doubled with perfect success 
and walnuts may be added. 



ICE CREAM CANDY. 

MRS. LOUISE RICH. 

Two cups sugar, one cup water, one-fourth teaspoon 
cream tartar; boil until it threads; when done add two- 
thirds teaspoon vanilla. Pull until very white. 



WALNUT CREAMS. 
Take white of egg and stir in powdered sugar until stiff 
enough to mould. Roll into little balls, place on buttered 
tin, and on each put one-half walnut. Cocoanut candy 
may be made by moulding cocoanut in with the sugar. 



MAPLE SUGAR CANDY. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

Two cups maple sugar, one teaspoon vinegar, one tea- 
spoon butter, a little water. Boil until it wires in water, 
pour into buttered tins, and, when cool, pull until white. 



PEANUT BRITTLE. 
Shell peanuts and half them; take two cups white sugar, 
place in fry basin and melt, stirring constantly. When it 
is all a light brown liquid add peanuts and pour into a 
buttered tin to cool. 



CANDY. 97 

MAPLE SUGAR FUDGE. 
One solid cup maple sugar, one-half cup sweet cream, 
(do not use milk,) butter size of a pea; boil until you can 
stir a little in a spoon hard. Take from stove, stir con- 
stantly until it is thick enough to pour into the tin; let 
harden, cut in squares and eat. 

LAYER CANDY. 
Make fudge, and, after it has hardened in plate, make 
more candy the same way only leaving out the chocolate; 
when done pour over the fudge and let cool; cut in squares. 



DATE CANDY. 

Stone three-fourths cup of dates, run through a meat 

chopper; take one-half cups of sugar, add a little water, 

boil until it makes long hairs; take from the stove, add the 

dates, stir until it begins to harden; pour on buttered tins. 



BUTTER SCOTCH. 
Three cups of white sugar, half a cup of water, half a 
cup of vinegar, (or half a teaspoon cream tartar,) one 
tablespoon butter, eight drops extract of lemon; boil with- 
out stirring until it will snap and break. Just before taking 
from the fire add one-fourth teaspoon soda; pour into well- 
buttered tin a quarter inch thick. Mark in squares. 



LEMON DROPS. 
Upon a coffee cup of finely powdered sugar pour just 
enough lemon juice to dissolve it and boil it to the consist- 
ency of thick syrup and so that it appears brittle when 
dropped in cold water. Drop this on buttered plates in 
drops; set away to cool and harden. 



PEPPERMINT DROPS. 
One cupsugar, crushed fine and just moistened with boil- 
ing water, boil five minutes, take from fire and add cream 
tartar size of pea, mix well and add four or five drops oil of 
peppermint. Beat briskly until the mixture whitens then 
drop quickly upon white paper. Have the cream tartar 
and oil of peppermint measured while the sugar is boiling. 
If it sugars before all is dropped add a little water and boil 
a minute or two. 



Miscellaneous. 



CANNING VEGETABLES. 

FLORENCE JKSSKMAN. 

Green Picas. — Fill glass cans with fresh, green peas, 
then pour in as much cold water as they will hold, with a 
teaspoon of salt for each can; adjust the rubbers, which 
should be new, place the covers, slightly fastening them 
on; stand the cans in a wash boiler, the bottom of which 
has been protected by a rack; surround them to the tops 
with cold water, put the lid on the boiler, bring to boiling 
point and boil briskly two hours and a half. When done 
take cans one at a time from the boiler, and without lifting 
the covers fasten them on at once. 

Follow the same method for canning string beans, shell 
beans and Lima beans. Leaving out water and salt, corn 
is canned in the same war. 



FRUIT PUNCH. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Juice of five lemons, juice of five oranges, one pint straw- 
berry syrup, one can grated pineapple, one-half pint Mar- 
aschino cherries, one quart Apollinaris water. Make a 
syrup of one pound sugar and one cup water and add one 
cup strong tea. Add enough water to make one and one- 
half gallons liquid. 



UNFERMENTED GRAPE JUICE 

One large basket of Concord grapes (eight or ten pounds ) 
one pound granulated sugar, one quart cold water. Heat 
the grapes and water gradually to the boiling point. Let 
them cook slowly until the seeds and pulp separate. Pour 
into a jelly bag and drain over night. Then put the juice 
in the kettle again and add the sugar. When it comes to 
the boiling point or begins to simmer take off the fire and 
pour into bottles and seal. 



MISCELLANEOUS. ge 

TO SALT VEGETABLES. 

GEORGE WELLS. 
Two handfuls coarse salt in bottom of jar; fill with veg- 
etables half full; add salt; keep doing this until the tub is 
packed full. Fill with enough cold water to cover. Place 
plate and heavy weight upon it. 



DANDELION WINE. 

MRS. CHESTER SIM I 'SOX. 

One bushel blossoms, four gallons boiling water poured 
over it; let stand till next day, press out the juice and 
strain; add to juice three pounds granulated sugar to each 
gallon, them add to all five cents' worth compressed yeast, 
juice of one-half dozen oranges, and three lemons. Some 
think it better without the \ east. 



NUT SANDWICHES. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 

Butter thin slices of bread, cut into fancy shapes, spread 
with chopped walnuts and grated Swiss cheese, mixed in 
equal parts; salt slightly. 



CURRANT SHRUB. 

Squeeze through a cheese cloth bag six quarts of red 
raspberries and three quarts currants. Put these together 
and let it come to the boiling point. Skim and add not 
(piite a pound of sugar to a pint of the juice. Boil about 
five minutes and bottle at once. Unless you have the 
patent stopper, cork and seal with wax. 



BAKED MACARONI WITH CHEESE. 
MRS. I. M. BALLARD. 
Boil one-half pound macaroni in salted water until soft, 
drain in colander; put in a pudding dish a layer of maca- 
roni, sprinkle over it a little grated cheese, pepper, bits of 
butter and a few cracker crumbs if liked, then another lay- 
er in the same way. Over the top put rather more of the 
cheese and crumbs, and cover with milk. Rake twenty or 
twenty-five minutes on the grate. 
LcfC. 



ioo OUR ALMA MATER COOK BOOK. 

STUFFED EGGS. 

MRS. H. A. I'KAliODV. 

Boil eggs until hard, remove shells, cut off top of eggs 
and remove the yolks; mix the yolks with a little salt, pep- 
per, mustard and melted butter; stir all together until like 
a paste, then fill the whites. Very nice for picnics. 



WELSH RAREBIT. 

ESTHER M. PARKER. 
One cup grated cheese, butter size of an egg, one-half 
cup sweet cream. Cook in double boiler until cheese is 
melted and add an egg well beaten; mustard, pepper and 
salt to taste. Serve on saltines or toasted bread. 



PAINTED LADIES. 

MRS. RIDEOUT. 
Boil six red apples until tender, remove skin carefully; 
add one cup sugar to the water in which they are boiled, a 
little lemon peel, and the juice of one orange; simmer un- 
til reduced one-half, then pour around the apples; there 
should be about one cup of syrup. Garnish with whipped 
cream and serve cold. 



HOW TO KEEP EGGS. 

MRS. HENRY SPOONER. 

Piece of unslaked lime size of lemon, two cups fine salt 
to a gallon of boiling water. Place eggs in a tub and pour 
the mixture over them when it is cold. 



HOW TO HAVE PLENTY OF BREAD CRUMBS. 

MRS. I. M. BALLARD. 

Take all pieces crusts and bits of bread that are unfit for 
toast, put them in a dripping pan in the oven and dry 
slowly until they can be rolled with the rolling pin on the 
cake board. Put them in a paper bag, tie securely and 
they will keep indefinitely. 



SOUP COLORING. 

MRS. CRIMES. 

One small piece of butter and teaspoon sugar cooked in 
sauce pan until very dark. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



i Lynch & Richardson 




Shelf and Heavy Hardware, Agricultural 

Implements, Stoves, Ranges, Crockery, 

Wall Papers, Paints and Oils. 



PLUMBING 

AND 

HOT WATER HEATING. 



Carpet Sweepers, Lamps, Clothes Wringers, Oil Stoves, 

Door and Window Screens, Ice Cream Freezers, 

Refrigerators, Churns, Poultry Netting, &c. 




Save Your 



Eyes! 



DO THEY TROUBLE YOU? 

DR. H. WADE, grad- 
uate optician from four of 
the leading colleges in the 
United States, and with a 
practical experience of 
26 years, guarantees his 
method of treating and fitting the eyes to be perfectly sat- 
isfactory. Examinations Free. Prices Reasonable. 
Consultation Solicited. Telephone Connection. 

DR. H. WADE, OPTICIAN, 

BOYLSTON BLOCK, LITTLETON. 



ADVER'I'ISEM ENTS 



Bailey's Music Kooms 



LITTLETON 



LANCASTER 



BERLIN 



"A fine piano is a work of art 
In which both skill and care must have their part" 




The Knabe, Everett, Fischer, 

-<S ^» elvers <& Pond, McPhail 

Is the concrete result of the maximum degree of skill and 
care. Our catalogue, terms and prices for the asking. 
Drop us a card. 



H. W. GARDNER, GEN. AGT. 



LITTLETON, N. H. 



AD VERTIHKiVI l^IN r r!S 




Spooned parm FRfl N NC H° mfl 

A healthy, homelike place for rest and pleasure. Rates, $5 to $8 per week. 

HARRY F. HOWE, 

Jeuueler and Optician, 

Littleton, IN. H. 

Headquarters for fine Watch Repairing. 

All goods purchased here Engraved Free of charge. 

Drs. H. K. and Mary B. Sherburne, D.O. 

Suites 10 and 12, Quinn Building, 
RUTLAND, VERMONT. 



(Successors to Drs. M. T. and Florence Mayes.) 
—103— 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



JVIRS. I. 1W. BAhLiARD^ 

... Parlor Millinery 



We have a good line of goods 

to select from, and a compe- 
tent trimmer is in attendance 
during the season 



MUCH CARE IS TAKEN TO 
PLEASE ALL OUR CUSTOMERS 



CLARK 0. SMITH, 

Artist Photographer. 



PHOTOGRAPH SUPPLIES. 

Summer Season, Franconia, N. H. Winter Season, Goodall, Fla. 



YOU GANNOT BE SUGGESSfll, 

uuith the recipes furnished by all these 
ladies unless you have the best of mater- 
ials to uuonk tuith. 

We have everything in the line of 

HIGH-GRADE GROCERIES! 

F. H. English, Littleton, N. H. 

— 104 — 



v v i > v io i ? t i ss i <: >i e r\ x ?-; 




The ... 

Franconia Inn 

SUGAR HILL, N. H 



*-^=esg<! 



SEND FOR CIRCULARS. 

—105— 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



L. B. HOWARD 

FRANCONIA, N. H. 



General Store 



Soda, Fruit and Confectionery 
Souvenir Goods. 

FINE STATIONERY A SPECIALTY. 



Old Grist Mill 

Wheat Coffee 

SHAKES YOU 

Vf 




I 



i|JHINK 



WELL 



Littleton Variety Store 

E. E. ELDRIDGE &. CO., Proprietors. 

Crockery, Glass, Tin and Wooden Ware 

DRY AND FANCY GOODS. FIVE AND TEN-CENT COUNTERS. 

— 1 06 — 



ADVERTISEMENT! 



^¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥¥4& 



* 
* 

* 
* 

* 
* 

* 

* 

* 

* 

* 
* 

* 

* 

* 
* 



DAINTY DISHES 



Ma.de from 



Walter Baker <& Co.'s 
Chocolate and Cocoa 




« 
« 

« 

« 
* 

# 

« 

# 
f 

* 

* 

4 

* 

« 

* 
4 

* 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 
4 



A book cf "CHOICE RECIPES," 80 r^ges, sent free cf charge to any address. 

FORTY HIGHEST AWARDS IN EUROPE AND AMERICA. 4' 

Housekeepers, when they order Baker's Cocoa or Chocolate, should make sure that their 4/ 

grocer docs not give them any of the imitations now on the market v < v € v e N e' s < s C v ? x <2 <* 

WALTER. 

Established 



BAKER <& CO. Limited! 

1780 5 DORCHESTER.. MASS. * 

GOLD MEDAL, PARIS, 1300 J 

^ ********* *****************************5>c 



A DVEHTISKM eivts 



WHITE MOUNTAINS, N. H. 

A Standard Resort Hotel. 

PROriLE m HOUSE 

AND NINETEEN COTTAGES. 

r: "' ■■-- - -;-5i 



■"V ' 



V 




Conducted with reference to an unexcelled clientage and 
refinement. GOLF, TKXNIS, and all popular amuse- 
ments. Address 

C. H. GREENLEAF, President. 

Flume Housed 

Five miles from Profile (same ownership). Beautifully 
situated near many points of interest. Open June 10 to 
October 10. S . R. ELLIOTT, MANAGER. 

— 108 



ADVERTISEMENTS 




PHILLIPS HOUSE, 

W. B. PHILLIPS, PROPR. SUGAR HILL, FRANCONIA. 

A Beautiful Summer HesoFt. 

Dexter's Market Farm, 

Wflt^REfl DEXTER, Pt«opl»ietOF. 

Produces and sells Butter, Eggs, Early Vegetables, Pop 

Corn, Choice Seed Potatoes, Barley, Oats and Rye, 

Hay and Straw. 

Also, Horses, Cattle, Swine and Poultry. GARDEN TRUCK A SPECIALTY. 

THE KIND YOU WANT- 
HONEST GOODS AT LOWEST PRICES! 

BOOTS, SHOES, RUBBERS, 

Also, a choice line of 
STATIONERY, CONFECTIONERY, CIGARS, TOBACCO. 



FRED 6. SANBORN, - FRANCONIA, N. H. 

— 109 — 



Ar>VEiirisi:iviTT:]N Tr r!i; 



Back of that 
(delicious dinner! 

STANDS THAT OLD STANDBY 
OF GOOD COOKS, 

Bell's Spiced Seasoning. 

No guesswork about the turkey dressing, 
for Bell has effectively combined the gran- 
ulated leaves of sweet herbs and choice 
selected spices into one composite season- 
ing, delicate and delicious, snappy and 
pungent, appetizing and pleasing to the 
most fastidious taste. 

Your grocer can supply you. If not, send 
six 2-c. stamps for a can containing enough 
to flavor the dressing of 100 lbs. of poultry. 
THE WM. G. BELL CO. 
48-52 Commercial St., 
Boston, Mass. 



... THE ... 



Department Store 



<&>- 






We carry the largest stock of 

DRY RfiD FAHCY GOODS*** 

We intend to keep only the best! 

OUR SUIT DEPARTMENT ALWAYS ATTRACTIVE 

Everything for F^itehen Furnishings is 
found in the Basement. 

OPSpecial attention given to orders by mail. 

F. G. CHUTTER. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



"IF YOU WISH FOR THE BEST" 
...ASK FOR .. 

The WInslow Chop 



Choicest Blended 



Formosa Ooloong Tea 




Packed in § lb. and 1 lb. Cartons 

IMPORTED BY 

WINSLOW, RAND & WAT50N 

BOSTON CHICAGO 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



FAIRBANKS 



STANDARD 




-^-^/CPC^ * 9 



?«'» ,® Bfc) ® ■♦'■ 



... THE... 



Fairbanks Company, 



BOSTON, MASS. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



The Homestead ... 



SIMON BOWLES, 

PROPRIETOR. 

Sugar Hill, N.H. 




W. F. PARKER, 

FRANCONIA, N. H., 



Dealer in 



General Merchandise 



FRUIT AND VEGETABLES 
IN SEASON. 



GOODS DELIVERED WITHIN ONE MILE. 

—113— 



ADVERTISEMENTS 

Bellouus & Balduuin, 

^CLOTHIERS J V— 

LITTLETON, New Hampshire. 



H. L. JOHNSON, 
PHYSICIAN AND SURGEON. 

Office Hours — Until 9 a. 111., 2 to 3 and 7 to 8 p. in. 
Telephone : Franconia, 5. 



Littleton House Livery, 

F. E. & F. M. RICHARDSON, Proprietors. 
* 

Pleasure parties carried to all points around the mountains 
with careful and experienced drivers. Special atten- 
tion to traveling men. Rates reasonable. 



WE KEEP BALED HAY AND STRAW. 



Established 1880. Incorporated 1900. 

J. SMITH BROCKWAY CO., 

MANUFACTURERS, 

213 State Street, Boston, Mass. Telephone 4738 Main 

our specialties: 

The celebrated "Diamond Brand" Cream Tartar, "Star 

Brand" Cream Tartar, Extracts, Saleratus, "Queen 

Quality" and "P A ood Reform" Baking Powders. 

—114— 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



WHITE 

HOUSE 
COFFEE 

AND 

ROYAL SPICES 

are both products of our factories — both as fine 
as we know how to make them — both pure as 
pure can be. 

If it happens that you find difficulty in obtaining 

them, write us, and we will see to it that some dealer 

in your city or town shall supply you. 







DWINELL-WRIGHT CO. 

BOSTON Principal Coffee Roasters CHICAGO 



C. H. COREY 

Manufacturer of and Dealer in 

FINE CARRIAGES. 

Horse Shoeing and General Blacksmith Work, 
Carriage, Sign and Furniture Painting, 

Manufacturer Brush Blocks, Broom Handles, &c. 

FRANCONIA, N. H. 

— 115— 



y 




ADVERTISEMENTS 



FOR 

Ghoice Gonfectionery, Gool Sodas 

SOUVENIRS, 
VIEWS OF THE WHITE MOUNTAINS, ETC.. 

GO TO 

MRS. C. HUNTOON, 

FRANCONIA, N. H. 



S. C. SAWYER, 
DENTIST, 

Littleton, N. h., 

Uses the safest and best local Anaesthetic for the 
painless extraction of teeth. 



BROOKS & WHITNEY, 

Manufacturers of 

BOBBINS, 
QUILLS AND LUMBER. 



Dealers in 



Flour, Grain and Groceries. 



— 116- 



ADVERTISEMEINTS 



A GRE-AT WMB1NATI0M 




Good Cows 

AND A. 

U& Separator 

Fill the 

FARMERS 
Pockets 

WJTH 

HONEY! 

The V. S Separator gets all the cream from the milk, 
The cream makes 'he butter, 

The skiot'-mrlk makes the calf, 
All bring in the cash. 

301 Send for Catalogue 

VERMONT EARM MACHINE CO,, Bellows Palls, Vt. 



-117- 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



V Jt4.4.XXAA4.X4.JI.J>. 4.J>.4. JUJ.J.J.AAJ.JUAJUJ>.J(.4.XJ>J.4.AJ.J|.J.J|.J.J|.JLJ.4. ^ 



1 



FOREST HILLS HOTEL 



COTTAGES 



New Furnishings. 
Careful Attention to all Guests. 



Broad Plateau Overlooking Mt. Lafayette, 
Cannon Range and Franconia Valley. 

CHARMING PLACE TO SPEND A VACATION. 

J^ates $14 to $21 pep LUeek. 



% HERBERT F. HUNT, 



jl PROPRIETOR. 



4 J. 

AND % 



-> 



—in 



ADVERTISEMENTS 




The Echoes^ 



SUGAR HILL, N. H. 

NEAR THE FRANCON1A INN 

Formerly Echo Farm House — A Beautiful Summer Resort. 
A. E. JESSEMAN, PROP'R. 



SMITH & ANTHONY CO., 

Manufacturers of 

Hub Hotel and 

Restaurant 
Specialties 

W AND 

COJVIPLiETE KITCHEN OUTFIT 




48 TO 54 UNION STREET, BOSTON, MASS. 

Tel. 267 Richmond. E. L,. Morandi, Man. Hotel Dept. 

—119— 



ADVE liT 1 6 E M ENTS 



MOUNTED KITCHEN SANDSTONE 




A sharp gritted sandstone mounted in wood case. Just the thing 

for a quick sharpener for butcher knives, kitchen knives, etc. 

Price, 30 cents each, postpaid. 

Natural Grit Carving Knife Hone. 



st ar 



A sharp gritted natural stone mounted in ebony handle. The best 

sharpener on the market for caiving knives, shears, etc. 

Piice, 50 cents each, postpaid. 

SOAPSTONE GRIDDLES. 

FRANCESTOWN 

30APST0NE 
GRi DDLE 





Gr;ddv£ 



Like griddle cakes, don't you? Of 
course you do. Then you will enjoy 
them more when cooked on our Soap- 
stone Griddles. No smoke, no burnt cakes, no odor. 

Prices from $1.00 to #1.50, sizes from 8x 16 to I2x 24. 

LILY WHITE WASHITA OIL STONE 

If in reed of an oil 
stone for general use, 
call for our soft, fast- 
cutting Lily White 
Washita — the best on 
earth! Size 8x2x1 in., 
$1.00 each; 6x2x1 in., 
75 cents each, post- 
paid. 

Our booklet, "Oilstones — How to Select and Use Them," tells all 
about the different brands of oilstones on the market, the work each 
is best adapted to, and gives directions for their use and care. We 
will send you a copy on leceipt of four cents in stamps. 

THE PIKE MANUFACTURING GO,, Pike Station, N. H. 




ADVEKTISKMKIST! 




MT. LAFAYETTE HOUSE, 

FRANCONIA, N. H., 
(Tlrs. Albert Riehardson, Prop't*. 

Furniture and Carpets 

IJTTLETON, N. H. 

Upholstering, Lace Curtains and Portieres, Wall Papers 
and Window Shades. 

PICTURE FRAMES TO ORDER. 

— 121 — 



A r> V K lt r r I is E ML K ]* T S 



SUMMER 
PUBLICATIONS 

ISSUED RY THE 

Boston & Maine Railroad. 

DESCRIPTIVE OF 

NEW ENGLAND SCENERY AND SUMMER RESORTS. 



Fully Illustrated and Containing Valu- 
able Hlaps. 



Fishing and Hunting, All Along Shore. Among the 
Mountains. Lakes and Streams. The Valley of the 
Connecticut and Northern Vermont. Southeast 
New Hampshire. Southwest New Hampshire. 
Central Massachusetts. Merrimack Val- 
ley. Lake Sunapee. Lake Mem- 
phremagog and About There. 
The Monadnock Region. The Hoosac Country and 
Deerfield Valley. Excursion and Summer Hotel 
Book — Free. 

ANY OF THE ABOVE PUBLICATIONS WILL BE SENT ON RECEIPT 
OF TWO CENTS IN STAMPS FOR EACH BOOK. 



... FORTFOLIOS ... 

Comprising a series of Beautiful Half-Tone Reproductions of Photo- 
graphs taken expressly for these works, illustrating New England 
Scenery, have been published under the following titles: — 

Neuu England Liakes. Rivers of New England. mountains 

of NeuJ England. Seashore of Necu England. Picturesque 

Neuu England (Historic and Miscellaneous). The Charles 

J^iver to the Hudson. 

Size of Illustrations 4x6 inches. Will be mailed upon receipt of 
six cents each. Address 

PASSENGER DEPARTMENT BOSTON & MAINE RAILROAD, 

BOSTON, MASS. 

Boston City Ticket Office, 322 Washington St., Cor. Milk St. D. J. FLANDERS, G. P. & T. A. 



ADVERTISEMENTS 




Without first ascertaining what 
you can do on one of the famous 



HENRY F. MILLER 
PIANOS 



(£. 



(Er 





If you write us from territory where we have no 

established agents we will trade 

with you direct. 



HENRY F. MILLER & SONS PIANO CO. 

Warerooms 88 Boylston St., 

BOSTON, MASS. 

—123— 



ADVERTISEMENTS 



JPLYHOUTH ROCKt 






... PHOSPHATED ... 

GELATINE 

The most economical and convenient 
to use as it 



n 



NO LEMONS 
Requires £ NO COOKING 
|' NO STRAINING 



White 




Is perfectly odorless and warranted absolutely pure. 



MANUFACTURED I1V 

PLYMOUTH ROCK GELATINE CO., 
BOSTON, MASS. 






— 124— 



INDEX 



PAGE 

POEM, - - - - 3 

DOW ACADEMY : Its Spirit and Needs, 4 

DOW ACADEMY : Its Standing at Dartmouth, 7 

SOUPS AND CHOWDERS, 9 

FISH AND OYSTERS, - - 19 

MEATS, ... 24 

VEGETABLES, - - 32 

SALADS AND SALAD DRESSING, 37 

GRIDDLE CAKE AND FRITTERS, - 40 

BREAD AND DOUGHNUTS, - - 42 

CORN CAKES, GEMS, Etc., - - 46 

CAKE AND COOKIES, - - 48 

PIES AND PUDDINGS, - - - 71 

JELLIES AND RELISHES, - - - 84 

ICES AND CREAMS, ... 8 8 

CANDY, - 95 

MISCELLANEOUS, - - 98 

ADVERTISEMENTS, - - - - 101 

INDEX, - - 125 



3 



